“Bah! Those were done in a space we controlled, and which wasn’t an absolute void of Script and mana. This is different.”

“… Aye. This is different.” Erick squared his shoulders, and began walking forward, saying, “This is just like with the Anarchy Wizard! I’m sure it’ll be fine.”

Solomon rapidly muttered, “Jesus fucking christ,” as he stepped far away, to hang in the air and surround himself with his sunform. He gripped the gold staff tight, as he watched. “Ah, fuck, here it comes—”

Erick had wasted no time in getting on with it, even though he had really wanted to. Erick’s foot went into the empty space, then his hand, and then the rest of him. It was like stepping into a cold shower, his entire body shivering at the point of contact, until that shower touched his core—

Knives. Hammers to the chest. Scalpels under the fingernails, tracing lines of fire from his extremities to his heart.

And then the floodgates opened.

With what he thought had been firm control over his body, Erick watched as his chest exploded outward, as white light splashed in every direction, his own Benevolence crystallizing upon his fingertips and ossified bones and flayed muscle in a riotous splash of carving color. Power shattered the platform underfoot and crashed against the world overhead—

Erick was larger than himself. He felt the world in that splash of mana all around him, even in the parts of him that expanded past the void-edge, into the other-mana, but those other-mana-parts were like being numbed by a dentist. His teeth extended everywhere, but his feeling was only there, in the center.

It was a little bit of euphoria, but only in the way that one gets when they fly high in the sky, unaided by others.

It lasted forever and a day, and also no time at all.

Erick came back to himself in small ways.

First, in the feeling of pressure around his head, and then more, as he pulled his head back together. His hands appeared next, and then came his left foot, then right foot. Stomach, legs, shoulders. Erick saw himself in multiple ways. The first was in the sea of Benevolence surrounding himself. The second, was through the lens of his own eyes, looking down.

The world was malleable, and so was he. Erick only needed to flick a thought and cause armageddon to appear here or there, but he would not do that, for he knew where he was. He was in a dungeon, in the Dark, near Ascendant Mountain. And there was nothing to fight here.

He was not in the sky above Quintlan. He was not fighting Anarchy. There was no need for an apocalypse.

He was safe as could be.

Erick pulled his chest back together, controlling himself into a person once again.

Amid a crystalline splash of pure Benevolence, Erick stood, grabbing onto a crash of white crystal to lift himself up onto his feet—

The crystal broke and Erick fell to the floor, smashing a bunch of smaller crystals in his fall. He lay there for a moment, simply breathing, simply bleeding. He was human again. Mostly. His black horns were out and his skin was crusted over here and there in white flakes and larger growths, but he was human again. Soon, the bleeding stopped. Soon, he was whole again.

His mana senses were back, too. Solomon had to have taken down the v—

Solomon stood atop the crystal near Erick, saying, “I took down the void. Obviously. So how was it this time? Bad as it looked?”

Erick cracked open an eye and white rock fell away from his sight. He looked up at Solomon. His voice cracked, “Not great.”

Solomon nodded.

“When did you take down the void?”

“About 3 seconds after the explosion. Took a moment for you to reconnect to the Script, but when you did, that’s when you started coming back together.” Solomon said, “Wizards are meant to learn this slower, for sure. Perhaps you can try it without the mana vacuum?”

Erick chuckled, and it hurt to chuckle.

Solomon nodded. “Yeah. Probably wouldn’t matter, vacuum or no. Not like you can tone down your mana generation, anyway.”

A moment passed in silence, and just laying there.

Solomon added, “You were probably numb inside the other mana, anyway, right?”

Erick nodded, there on the ground. The pain was mostly gone, but as he moved the pain came back. Still, he moved, stretching out his legs and breaking a few crystals in the process. And then he sat up. He was feeling a lot better as he looked up at Solomon, and said, “You wanna try?”

“Yes,” Solomon said, as he handed some clothes to Erick.

Erick got up, put on his clothes, and got a good look around as he did so.

He stood in a land of broken crystal, all of it pointed in his direction, as though he had been the center of an explosion, which is exactly what had happened. Some secondary crashes of power, or maybe some turbulence, had caused some white crystals to spike up and out on the edges of the platform, and even further, down on the ground of the dungeon floor, like Erick had cast a shadow of Benevolence upon the land. Which is exactly what he had done.

All of those mana crystals were already all evaporating and turning into thick air, which swirled and drained down the hole in the dungeon floor, near the house. Unaltered mana crystals couldn’t survive under the Script for very long.

Erick stepped into the air, to cast his gaze wider, as Ophiel landed on his shoulder and tweeted in concerned guitar noises. Erick patted him, saying, “I’m okay, Ophiel. Are you okay?”

“Don’t explode, dad.”

Erick smiled softly. “I’ll try not to, but no promises.”

Ophiel twittered in more concerned and slightly angry sounds; this time it was flutes, so he was definitely angry.

Erick cast his gaze outward.

Some slimes were playing on a particularly large Benevolence crystal… Or. No. They were trying to eat the crystal. The slimes of this dungeon came in every color of the rainbow, but the ones near the crystal growths here and there were definitely paler than the ones further away.

“… I’m sure it’s fine,” Erick said to himself.

The slimes of Benevolence Tower were all Benevolence slimes, and they were more docile than normal slimes in almost every case. It was fine if some of the slimes here became Benevolence slimes. Erick turned back toward the platform, where Solomon was using his sunform like a snow shovel, scraping away at the encrusting Benevolence, sweeping the larger hunks off of the platform. The small stuff had almost all evaporated already, but the larger stuff seemed to have some shelf life, with slimes swarming around the larger hunks and getting showered by the snow-like fragmented crystal. Cleaning up the platform took a matter of moments, and then Solomon looked up toward Erick in the distance.

Erick gave a thumbs up.

Solomon spoke something small to the staff in his hands—

The staff appeared next to Erick, to float there gently. To watch.

Solomon stood in the center of the platform, and then he activated the void.

… And nothing really happened.

Erick rushed closer, to stand on the edge, to look.

Solomon gazed at himself and smiled as he said to Erick, “Now this is doable!”

Erick couldn’t mana sense what was happening, but he could still use his eyes, and his All-Seeing Eye. That afforded him all the Sight he needed.

Solomon’s core was located next to his heart, connected to his entire body through an organized mess of shadowy mana arteries and veins that mirrored his natural circulatory system. Inside a normal person, on Veird, this shadowy vein system was functionally useless because the Script allowed aura control without the need for veins and arteries. But within the mana void of this dungeon…

Light trickled out of Solomon’s core, Benevolence and possibility flowing out through the arteries of his body, to reach his flesh, to soak outward, and then flow back to the core, through his veins. Amongst those systems of circulation lay every part of Solomon, from his bones to his brain to his stomach, guts, and all the rest, each with their own sponge-like quality to them, each taking in mana and making themselves slightly more Real among the reality of this shared space.

“That’s what you can do with 2,300 natural mana production?”

“Close to that,” Solomon said, “The measuring device Jane has is only an estimate.”

“Are you meditating right now?”

“Yes. Also aura controlling. I don’t feel like there’s any more body or soul for me to strengthen since we did that to the max a long time ago, but maybe there is? Let’s try dropping control for a moment.”

Solomon dropped control even as he said that’s what he was doing… And his internals continued circling as they usually did. But the circling slowed here and there. Imperfections in the flow multiplied. Benevolence slipped—

Solomon’s aura suddenly shifted, like a heart that stopped beating. Power still wafted out of his core, but it wasn’t controlled. Moving like a disturbing echo, that power broke blood vessels and—

Power cracked through shadowy veins and flexed back into order as Solomon grunted and frowned and took control. In the same moment the mana-void vanished, Solomon likely canceling that effect, and Solomon’s body began to heal from his internal injuries.

With a grunt, and bleeding lungs, he said, “Active control seems necessary to maintain working physicality.”

“Proper accretion is tying off mana flows so that active control is not necessary, and you did that. Except...” Erick frowned at himself. “But even inside Ar’Cosmos they don’t have mana actively pumping out of their cores all the time; the Script is still there, still throttling mana production.”

Solomon smiled. “Yup.” He fixed himself up all the way, as he said, “In the Old Cosmology, people were mana, and now they are more than mana. Having a body made of physical matter and a body made of soul and mana might be inherently incompatible. Maybe that’s why the people of Ar’Cosmos completely forgot about True Wizards, aside from the fact that they couldn’t make any True Wizards in the first place. Also, I imagine it’s hard for a dragon with only 5,000 mana production to fully crystallize when their bodies are that big. I know I couldn’t do it at 2300.” He looked down at himself. “… Probably not at anything less than… I don’t know. 100,000? Just to be safe?”

“Do you actually want to try for that? 100,000 mana production is very reachable.”

Solomon thought. “Yes. I do.” He asked, “Do you want to try again at 100% mana density?”

“I do.”

Solomon set the space up.

Erick exploded again.

Solomon hauled Erick back to his feet and then handed him another set of clothes, but Erick just shook his head at the clothes. They’d get ruined soon enough, anyway.

Solomon said, “Maybe try opening up a direction for the mana to escape, instead of letting it find its own way out.”

“I tried that with aura control. My vent wasn’t large enough... Or physical enough. Probably not physical enough, actually. Mana at this quantity is rather physical.”

“Maybe purposefully open a real hole in your chest?”

“Yeah, that’s the next step.” Erick frowned as he looked down at himself. “I might have to Wizard up a solution to the incompatibility between the physical and mana.”

Solomon said, “A better option might be starting in Benevolence form. Or at least do that for the area around your chest. No need to go changing how you work at a base level just yet.”

Erick smiled. “That’s a better option.”

Solomon added, “And besides that; you can let me go changing myself, first. Once you see the process at 100,000 mana production, adapting that process to 12 million might look more feasible.”

Erick raised an eyebrow at him. “Are you self-sacrificing now, too?”

“Ha! No.” Solomon said, “You can undo whatever Wizardry I might be able to do to myself, but the reverse is not true.”

“Don’t you get sacrificing on me, too. I’m barely able to keep up with Jane’s everything.”

Solomon nodded knowingly. And then he gestured to the space around them. “Try again?”

“Try again.”

- - - -

Rozeta glared at the ‘Erick Might Be Dead’ alarm as it went off for the third time today.

Melemizargo said, “You want some help tuning that alarm to be less intrusive?”

Rozeta glared at her father. “No. Now back to the problem of you having some sort of unknown connection to the Core, as made evident by Erick’s use of the Well to infiltrate this land, and how all of that is against current agreements.”

Melemizargo endured Rozeta’s tirade, only letting out a little sigh at the end. “I still don’t understand why you are blaming me for that. Erick did that.”

Koyabez and Phagar both frowned. Rozeta glared.

Melemizargo exclaimed, “What! It’s the truth!”
