Sarya regarded him seriously. “Questors will acknowledge you now, as a threat if nothing else. You stripped their vault bare?” Her eyes flicked to Stella’s new staff and the other pieces of gear they held. The unstated question seemed to be "how much did you get."

At his nod, she pursed her lips. “That will garner more attention, some of which will be negative. But you have established yourselves as important pieces, and every major grid will at least hear of this. An old grid like Badud’s is not frequently ousted from its seat of power, because every power capable of doing so is balanced by another. But you are outside the balance, and that will earn you notice as a new player in the game.”

“Then what’s next? How do we become more than just noticed?” Nathan prodded. It sounded like Sarya already had their next mission lined up, and he wanted to be convinced that it was a good one.

“I would offer you a task far from here, a favor for a board member of the Ashen Accord. His name is Henrish, and a blight is hemming in his claim of Helmaris. Clearing a blighted Seal is a commitment for any grid, even a vaunted one like the Ashen Accord. You have killed Questors. Now you show that you can challenge the highest tier of challenge that Davrar offers. If you can do it without significant Questor involvement or expended resources, then that will gather more gossip in your wake.”

“Expended resources?” Aarl asked. “What of the weapons we took from Sussu?” He pulled out a thin rod from his pocket and spun it around his fingers. Nathan felt only a fairly small amount of magic in it, some kind of containment field.

Sarya flinched back from the display, reaching out a hand on instinct to snatch the rod before withdrawing it. “Handle that more carefully! The containment is good, but not perfect.” She shot a look towards Nathan. “Any perturbation in the containment, and there will be annihilation.”

Wait, as in antimatter annihilation?

Nathan made very sure that none of his aura was anywhere near Aarl’s rod. “Maybe you should do as she says.” He suggested, trying not to be too alarmed.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 9

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 995

Bottomless Stamina : 91195/100500

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 729

Regenerative Focus: 5583/7390

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 4

Inspiration 8

Impulse 5

Mystical Discernment 7

Forewarning 6

Arcane Insight 9

Evasion 3

Mental Vault 7

Veracity 3

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 9

High-tier Battle Cry 4

Aura Control 8
