Her fingers flickered, and a wand appeared in her hand. She cast a spell—and Valeterisa flicked off the [Silence] spell like it was a gnat. She glowered at Larra and raised her voice to spite her.
“I am not. She is not organized when her job is organizing my affairs. She is not a good spellcaster—she has to borrow my magic. If she is not capable in either area, why do I even bother—?”
Larracel slapped Valeterisa’s arm hard, and the Archmage jumped. She scowled at the [Innkeeper]—then looked over.
Apprentice Montressa du Valeross stood there. Not awash with tears. She was too old for that. She was a [Lady] and a graduate of Wistram.
Ieka Imarris could admire that. Yes, you kept all the tears behind the shimmering eyes. Montressa’s cheeks were red, but she slowly bowed as Valeterisa looked up and hesitated.
“I will apologize to House Sanito myself tomorrow, Archmage. This is all my fault. As you said. I’m sorry I let you down.”
Lady Ieka glanced around at the people now pretending that they were deaf and blind and Valeterisa’s angry face. Barnethei was standing there, face grave, and Larracel was staring pointedly at Valeterisa while holding her knee under the table. But the Archmage of Izril’s face went flat. Her eyes sparked, and she spoke.
“You should be sorry.”
Montressa flinched with her entire body, her head fell, and her messy red locks draped over her cheeks to hide her face. Larracel slapped the table, and the sound cracked across her inn like an explosion.
“Valeterisa Imarris, enough.”
The magic of the Haven’s [Innkeeper] echoed around Ieka and made the [Mage Lady]’s hair stand on end.
Larra’s voice was no less loud.
“Don’t take out your feelings on Montressa right now. She made her mistakes—enough!”
Everyone flinched—everyone except one person. Valeterisa kept speaking.
“My magic was flawless. I made you my apprentice to do the things I cannot be bothered to do. And you failed me. Some factors may have been out of your control, but you are not a good apprentice. Archmage Feor had Teura. She was good at her job. Salii the Secretary was a capable assistant. You are not.”
The blood had already drained from Montressa’s face. But now it seemed as if she were shrinking in place. But Valeterisa was casting no spells. Just talking. She pointed at the [Aegiscaster], and Montressa’s hands were shaking.
Larracel looked between Valeterisa and Montressa, who couldn’t break away from Valeterisa’s furious stare. And the Archmage was only speaking faster and louder with each word.
“I feel as though you are wasting my time and only taking my magic. I thought I could trust you. Apologizing to House Sanito is not enough. I wanted this project to succeed, and you—”
This time, Larracel slapped her. It was quick and fast—and she pierced two barriers with one hand to leave a red handprint on Valeterisa’s cheek. The Haven’s magic was a sea in Larracel’s domain, and it pushed at the Archmage of Izril’s magic to breach it. Even unawares—Ieka doubted she could have stabbed her aunt.
The crack of flesh on flesh wasn’t as loud as the thunder of Larracel’s anger. But it left a longer silence. Ieka was frozen at her table as Valeterisa sat there.
The Archmage’s cheek was red and already swelling. Her face was shocked—and Larracel’s was furious. For a second. Then Larracel’s flooded with guilt and sudden worry—and Valeterisa’s went blank.
The look of anger that had turned to shock, then pain and a deep hurt turned cold and impassive. Like…Cognita’s. Larracel reached for her, but Valeterisa recoiled. The last, instinctive motion she made. Then her face drained of emotion like a punctured vase, feeling like water spilling out the crack.
Without a word, Valeterisa rose.
“Valley—”
Larracel raised her voice, but Valeterisa did not look at her. She did not gaze at Montressa or at Ieka, who stood up.
“Aunt—”
Valeterisa’s angry face and her flashing eyes, usually mild and grey-violet—a bookish academic’s eyes turning to distant stars and magical theory—had been alive with anger and embarrassment and regrets. Now?
They went blank again. But not the blank of suppressed anger that had been bubbling up all week. Just—blank.
As if the emotions were a distraction and the mind who held them was too…diffuse to care. Valeterisa’s thoughts spread out, and her voice, one of many thoughts now racing in different directions, spoke.
“I am going. Goodbye. I will settle my tab later, Innkeeper Larracel.”
“Valley, don’t—”
“[Levitation].”
The Archmage floated up into the air. Larracel drew a wand and aimed it up.
“[Dispel Magic]!”
She tried to stop Valeterisa, but the Archmage of Izril waved a hand, and Larracel’s wand stopped mid-glow.
“Valeterisa! [Hand of the Spectral Giant]!”
This time, the [Wizard] raised her wand, and the guests gasped. A hand made out of viridian light reached up, grasping towards Valeterisa. It shot upwards—but the Archmage just pointed down as she shot higher.
“[Thresk’s Steel Warspears].”
Eight jagged spears shot down, pinning the hand back against the roof of the Haven. Then—she was out of reach. Larracel’s other two spells missed as Tyrion Veltras lowered his shield and stopped covering Sammial and Hethon.
“Valley!”
Larracel kept shouting for minutes more, desperately, but there was no one listening.
Valeterisa flew. Off the Haven as it rolled across the new road passing by the Bloodfields. North, amidst the snow, towards Liscor, angling north further still. She paid no attention to the voices behind her or her niece’s [Message].
 
——
 
Thirty-nine thoughts divided into Valeterisa’s consciousness. She could go up to forty-nine. Thirty-nine…and she stopped thinking about her failed venture in any emotional sense whatsoever.
 
Thought-Process #3 (Navigation): Fly to Liscor. Portal door to Invrisil. Teleportation to ‘home’ mansion will take 6 casts of [Long Range Teleportation] via spell circles. Adding in flying time and casting time. Budgeting mana supply. ETA…6 hours, 12 minutes, 55 seconds.
Thought-Process #11-17 (Magical Studies): Continue research into arcane theory regarding [Valmira’s Comet]. Fascinating spell alteration potential. I should embark on my main project once more. I have several conclusions. Where is the Wind Runner’s hair?
Thought-Process #8 (Acquisitions): Sever more hair from Ryoka Griffin. Do I have a baldness spell? Buy Faerie Flowers. No. Steal Faerie Flowers. Doombearer fur sample. Steal magical flames from Erin Solstice? Buy?
Thought-Process #37 (Budget): Finances have been greatly depleted. Steal.
Thought-Process #36 (Morality-Consequences): This is all acceptable.
Thought-Process #39 (Brooding): I trusted her. I liked her. Why did it fail? I thought it would be beautiful. Magic should be beautiful, but whenever I try to make it for others, it fails. I wanted to make the Teleportarium anew. It would have helped everyone. Why didn’t they see that? Why did Montressa not see it? Why…didn’t I see it? Why is it so difficult? Why—
Thought-Process #1 (Danger): That Antinium with a bow is aiming at me. [Arcane Barrier].
 
That was better. Only one of her thirty-nine thoughts was even remotely unsettled. The rest of her blithely cast a barrier in the air as she floated down towards an inn. No emotions. No stress. Just an acknowledgement she was poorer in terms of gold and a refocusing back on what mattered.
Which was magic. Magic never let you down. Your body, your…family, and your alleged friends and apprentice all did.
It was, as Valeterisa was often reminded, a mistake to try and use her magic in anything other than academic, personal settings. She decided she was going to her mansion. Fissival was worthless. Liscor was a failure on all fronts.
She was going home. And she was not taking Montressa. The Archmage almost smiled in relief as her body executed the actions her mind directed it to. Such as trying to pluck hairs from a screaming and biting Gnoll girl as a [Princess] attacked her with a cutting board and being chased out of an inn while stuffing a bunch of rock-hard grey scones into her bag of holding.
This was how things were most efficient.
This was fine.
Emotions were difficult and painful. Valeterisa realized she might have inadvertently missed the opportunity to use the door. Now, the Antinium was shooting arrows at her, warning shots. She sighed. She had to fly to her teleportation circle instead of skipping four transits. How tedious.
If only…Thought-Process #4 (Optimization) was speculating on how she could do things and have done things better. It opined that so many inefficiencies in the failed Teleportarium project would have been best handled by Valeterisa.
Obviously, she would have had to rely on [Mages] to fuel the spell, and in hindsight, the issues with guarding the circles and the Merchant’s Guild meant it would always fail and had been a waste of time.
But someday…she’d construct every spell circle and have familiars or Golems or Elementals guarding them. An automated mana-capture process. No trusting apprentices whose name she couldn’t even remember. No need to rely on fallible people.
 
Thought-Process #4 (Optimization): Thirteen magical sites at four hours would have still wasted over fifty two of my hours. Let alone creating the network across Izril. Impossible, impossible. I don’t have time to waste. Hence—the project is impossible. 
Thought-Process #39 (Brooding): My apprentice did so much. Maybe I should have checked for her. Compounding errors. Mine. Hers. It’s never easy.
Thought-Process #40 (Realization): Ah. Now I remember. This is why I began my great project to realize a great magic of old. It all ties back to itself. There is never enough of me. I never have enough time.
Thought-Process #40 (Realization): I am unable to perform enough spells, even divided fifty ways. I will die before I even learn how to slow time for myself. I can do nothing for Ieka or anyone else if I must cast every spell one by one by one.
Thought-Process #40 (Realization): I cannot even send a lump of copper a hundred and fifty miles with twenty thousand gold pieces. If I only had the ability to help myself, to automate processes like Earth’s designs. So I tried.
Thought-Process #40 (Realization): I must uncover it. My great life’s project. I am so close…it should be beautiful. I know this now. Another year. Another decade if I must, and I will have it. A key to greater magic. To Wistram’s upper floors and everything else. Just a simple technique from ages past. I wonder if the Death of Magic knows it. Perhaps I should sell my soul to Demons. But all I desire is simply…
Thought-Process #15-31 (Magical Project): Continuing the project. Goal—rediscovery of the spellcasting technique. [Automatic Spellcasting].
 
Her lips quirked into a vacant smile as Valeterisa flew higher towards her hidden spell circle. Ah—what a beautiful light of ambition. She was up to forty different thought processes. Forty-four…fifty-one.
She was advancing. Divide it up, more and more, and devote as much as she could towards grappling with the intangible. Creating a network, a spell that could automate any spell she wanted. Better than a familiar. More reliable than anything.
They had made Golems out of this technique. It was foundational and forgotten. You could fight a battle with it. Create a great edifice with simple spells if you chained this technique. Grow fields of food. All you needed was magic and a plan.
The wind whipped around her, snow falling from the High Passes and the skies overhead. Valeterisa ignored it as she focused. Her body flew north towards the mansion that enabled her to focus by taking away other distractions. As she flew—only one thought kept repeating.
 
Thought-Process #39 (‘Feelings’): I’m cold. I liked having an apprentice.
 
——
 
Terrium Archelis Dorishe was a coward after all. He hung his head as his fake body, Demsleth, trudged towards The Wandering Inn.
He had to. He had agreed to meet with Magnolia Reinhart that night, and he could at least keep that promise.
But nothing else. He could not keep the spark of joy and hope in Rafaema’s eyes. The Lightning Dragon had parted ways with him after he had met with Naunce. But in truth—he had long since disappointed her.
Coward. Lazy. Incompetent.
It was an unspoken accusation, but it roared louder all the more because it was unsaid. He saw how she looked at him. He was old—older than any being in this entire world that still drew breath, he suspected.
But he had not forgotten entirely what it meant to be young and to be let down by those you trusted. He had forgotten Ryoka Griffin. Magnolia Reinhart. So much—but not that.
Demsleth was appropriate after all. The glutton, the old storyteller, the traveller who went from place to place indulging only in delights, small things, and yes, he was also a gift-giver and a kindly man. But he relied on nostalgia. His fire was banked.
He was appropriate as a guise for Teriarch because of failure.
Not his wing. Damn the wing. That was a cascading failure in a sea of failures. The [Mercenary]-to-be, the [Slime Master]…
The Revenant, Tolveilouka Ve’delina Mer. As Demsleth trudged towards the inn, his real body, the body of the Brass Dragon, was elsewhere. Wearily flying back to his cave in the High Passes. A coward, heavy and unexercised and weak.
He couldn’t do it.
 
——
 
The holes in Tolveilouka’s chest hadn’t closed. The Revenant tore around the inner sanctum in the place that mortals called the ‘Village of the Dead’. The inner city was filled with the Putrid One’s spoils of war. It had been the place where countless undead waited, a force to break the world in half, immortal, empowered by their master’s body.
That traitor [Sword Legend] had slain them all! Countless vassals eliminated—and the rest had gone rogue with the Putrid One’s death.
For their treachery, Tolveilouka had murdered them. But the half-Elf Revenant wished there was but one ancient Crypt Worm or a Lich or—a powerful undead.
“It burns. That damn Unicorn’s cleansing horn! Damn him and that forest! If I had a single burning Relic, I would hurl it into the forest and watch it burn.”
Unfortunately—his master had never made a habit of stockpiling great weapons of war. He had used them on his enemies, and for that, a Walled City had crumbled to ash. A great achievement. But Tolveilouka wished he had one.
Or a way to heal the wounds in his body. They wouldn’t heal! He had been created to regenerate from any wound, to survive any foe. But the agony as his cells fought to undo the purifying magic was intense.
