He sat there. Alber thought about it, then re-did the knots on his gloves. He sat in his ring as Demsleth winced. And it seemed like the old man was far away.
 
——
 
A Dragon fanned his wings, wincing. Just…fanned his wings and walked back and forth. No running marathons. He just kept moving, walking first, dragging his tail on the ground as a Wyvern watched him with great amusement.
That was how low he was. And he could sink lower. He could still sink…but if he ever wanted to fly, he had to start somewhere. In fact…he could go lower still. Simpler.
“What’s an old man like you need to train for?”
Demsleth’s eyes snapped open, and he blinked at Alber. He sat up again, wincing.
“I…have a great task ahead of me. And I’m out of shape. I wish I could laze about. But I can’t. I have to be stronger. Is—does that make sense?”
Alber’s eyes sharpened. He punched his fists together, and Demsleth looked at the scarred young man who had boxer’s ears and made his living punching and being punched.
“Yeah. I get that. You want an eighth match—no silver coin. But I’ll come at you as hard as I can.”
Something drove him too. The Dragon sat there, bruised, not wanting to fight. But he refused to run. And he held up a hand as Alber nodded to the bell.
“Wait. Give me…ten minutes.”
“Sure.”
He could go more basic still. Alber watched as Demsleth sat cross-legged. The old man straightened his back—and a Dragon came to a standstill in the High Passes. There he sat.
A Lightning Dragon was flapping around the mountain range, finding a good spot for her ‘camp’, blissfully unaware that Eater Goats had already devoured the field rations she had bought for the first night and that it was going to rain and she really should have found somewhere with an overhang that wouldn’t dribble into her face all night.
She was disguised as a Lightning Wyvern, incidentally, not really getting that there was still a bounty on Wyverns some adventurers had.
But her miseries were that of a young woman finding out who she was. Teriarch, the Dragonlord of Flame, just sat there on his haunches.
And Demsleth, Teriarch…did nothing. He’d exercised, but now he just sat there. And all he did was breathe.
In.
And out.
Alber was watching out of the corner of his eye, expecting the man to repeat his healing trick. But all he saw was Demsleth’s chest rise and fall.
In. And out.
In the High Passes, the Brass Dragon inhaled and exhaled. The bored Wyvern Lord was about to fly off and find something to eat—but he noticed a rather deliberate way the Dragon was inhaling and exhaling.
No one thought about…breathing, did they? The Wyvern Lord turned back, and the more you thought about breath entering and leaving your lungs, the more deliberate it was.
But it seemed to him that the Brass Dragon was taking a big gulp of air, holding it, and then—expelling it fast.
 
——
 
“What’re you doing?”
Alber interrupted Demsleth, and the old man faltered, then replied irritably.
“Practicing my breathing. I regret to say that I don’t even breathe well.”
“You can practice breathing?”
Alber had much the same expression as the Wyvern Lord. The Dragon answered.
“Yes. Breathing is the most fundamental aspect of almost every action. Air gives you the strength to throw a punch. You can practice breathing, and I…I have not practiced for a long time.”
He inhaled, and it seemed to Alber as if Demsleth were trying to suck up all the air in Invrisil. And exhaled—and though the young man could not see it, he sensed the intention behind those lungs.
Inhale the air to give vent to endless flame. Exhale—just air—but with the force of a hurricane.
The Brass Dragon didn’t manage it in his real body. He just inhaled and exhaled noisily. For minutes, more than the ten, as the [Boxer] settled down and copied him.
And so did the Wyvern Lord, experimentally. This was not Dragonbreath or his icy, freezing cold, but it was harder than he thought. It took the Wyvern Lord a long time to realize what the Dragon was concentrating on.
A little leaf was caught on a fallen branch of one of the wiry plants that had survived both the High Passes and winter, two thousand paces from the Dragon.
Every time Teriarch inhaled or exhaled—properly—it would shift. Not always. Sometimes it was just the ambient wind or something else like an Eater Goat farting that made it move. But every now and then, the little leaf moved and danced in a breeze.
A child’s trick. The ability to reach out and touch something with just the force of your lungs. No hurricane would come out of the Dragon’s mouth. No Dragonbreath of the Wind Dragons of old. The leaf would not blow away today. Or even tomorrow or next week.
But if Teriarch’s foes of old, the Dragonlord of Flame’s enemies, could see him—they would have laughed at his fears, his frailty of age, and his ego and mistakes. This, though…the sight of that leaf moving and the Dragon practicing breathing would have caused that laughter to cease and for them to order their assassins and minions to move now, to fall upon that old warrior, that hero of memories, that champion of peoples lost to time.
For he was beginning anew at last. In the High Passes, the cold air warmed. The leaf, attached to a half-formed sprig of a tree, was doomed. The entire tree hadn’t grown old enough to survive this cold winter, and an Eater Goat might chew it down and put it out of its misery any day. It was curled against the cold, more like a root than the beginning of a tree.
It was doomed, but it clung to life in the cold. The Dragon inhaled the same air that he had breathed before the High Passes were here. The breath that had saved countless millions lives and taken just as many.
No violet flame. No earth searing inferno came from his maw, or the rage to humble a Wyrm. That was not…the meaning of fire.
That was not all flame was.
He breathed out after six minutes. And the leaf rustled, alone on a wizened stalk of cold bark. But it seemed like that sapling was brighter now. Did it rise ever so slightly? The bark no longer was frozen over. And the leaf, faintly magenta, a faded saffron from the fall where it had refused to leave the branch—seemed to be returning to its original mint color.
If you didn’t look—you might never see it. But was it catching the light or—burning? Something danced in the air around it, upon the stem and down the base. It did not burn it away, merely illuminated the veins and venules of the brightening leaf.
The little thing was now warm. And—the green looked healthy now, the tree confused but finding something in the cold earth and desperate days.
As if the leaf were drinking in light. Solar brilliance only one person could see. He breathed in—and out—
Thus a Dragon changed the world. Slowly, gently.
As he had ever known how to do. That was his beginning.
So at last. At last—Magnolia Reinhart smiled and laughed when she saw the silly Dragon sitting and breathing next to a [Boxer]. She shook her head and rolled her eyes.
He always had to teach someone. He always had to save something. 
But a young man might be good company for once. Old men had to plant trees.
So the Dragon breathed. He breathed before getting up to have something as simple and inconsequential as a boxing match.
But that was the beginning of everything that followed.
 
 
[Modern-Day Boxer Level 32!]
[Skill – Banked Counterpunch obtained!]
 
[Skill – Deep Breath learned.]
