[Valmira’s Comet]. A powerful spell capable of massive alteration. Famously—a Tier 4 spell that was hideously unoptimized and only useful in showers of hundreds of comets. A battlefield killer—
But also a spell with a lot of actual physics attached to it. A ball of blue-white flames surrounded Valeterisa and the crates, but they didn’t burn her or the cargo. She began to move—and then she felt the force aiming her up, a curving arc through the skies. Only—it wasn’t really [Valmira’s Comet], was it? A contained orb of four hundred pounds of mass—plus one lighter Archmage—was shaking in the air.
And so the Archmage of Izril screamed it at the top of her lungs.
“[Valeterisa’s Comet]! Aaaaa—”
The force of acceleration smashed her against the barrier surrounding her. Only her personal protection spells kept her ribs from compressing into her backbone—as a glowing comet shot out of the clouds. It streaked through the air, and the people looking up on that winter day saw a meteor in the broad daylight. Only—it wasn’t going down, but curving across the sky.
If you had eyes like a hawk, you could see her up there. A woman with her hair being blown behind her like a river, illuminated by the neon glow of a star in motion. A comet trailing a line of evanescent blue through the sky, and the Archmage of Izril—being pressed against one side of the barrier by the force of her descent.
Such a silly sight. But look up—if you were a [Farmer] tilling your fields. A Runner, jogging along the road. A dispirited young [Mercenary], a child dreaming they might become a [Mage]. Across the skies you had always known as mundane was a burning comet. An omen of magic. Proof you could fly if you picked up a wand and practiced.
Thence came down the Archmage of Izril, and the screaming air sounded like her voice, the shriek of magic tearing at the wind—and the laughter of the Winter Sprites flying around her. It sounded almost like music, put together.
A saccharine, energetic orchestra made up of thousands of voices. Gasps of wonders, cries of incredulity, and Valeterisa screaming as she descended upon Invrisil. Even the City of Adventurers came to a standstill. Even a Djinni gazed upwards at something so stupid even she hadn’t seen it before.
They looked up and then at the scrying orb where an excited Drake was standing in the street and pointing upwards as Lady Edere Sanito put her hands over her mouth and Lady Ieka, Montressa, and a certain Vampire girl with a black umbrella were staring up at the sky with their mouths open.
 
——
 
All it took was information. Wistram News Network paid a bounty on intelligence just like anyone else. The juicier the better.
Fierre had sold Drassi some intel on Valeterisa’s plan on the way back to Invrisil. That was the kind of competence Ieka Imarris looked for. Initiative, fiscal responsibility—
And a sense of drama.
“I don’t think the Archmage is flying in like last time, folks. If I’m right—that giant, blue comet coming at us is the Archmage of Izril’s new delivery service! I thought it was a failure!”
Drassi was pointing up at the comet as she screamed into the camera. Then she stared up at the bright blue light coming straight at them. And growing…bigger…
“Um. Does anyone know what she’s aiming at?”
Drassi looked around for cover, and Lord Alman’s slack face turned to the camera.
“I thought the Merchant’s Guild had ruined the—that’s the Archmage’s system? I thought she was teleporting—”
“Master Valeterisa?”
Montressa’s red, puffy eyes opened wide. The comet had been nearly ten minutes in the air, but it was right on top of the City of Adventurers now. Alarms were wailing, and people were taking cover. But as it shot down—almost right on top of the door that led to Erin’s inn—the [Aegiscaster] didn’t move.
She thought she could hear a screaming woman shouting ‘featherfall’ at the top of her lungs. Lady Ieka was dumbstruck as she watched her aunt shooting down towards her.
Larracel the Haven had tears in her eyes as she watched. Mihaela was laughing—
—And Liska slowly closed the door to the inn as she saw comet-Valeterisa coming straight at them.
 
——
 
The comet did not blow half the streets to bits. Valeterisa hung, motionless, as the spell evaporated around her, and four [Mages] lowered their wands.
She hadn’t cast [Featherfall] after all. Lady Ieka, Montressa, Palt, and Bezale—had. Valeterisa landed on the ground and lay on her back.
“I understand why people are afraid of falling to their deaths now.”
She spoke to the air—then got up. Lady Edere and Lord Alman were gazing at the goods in amazement.
“It’s here! I thought—”
“It is not at Liscor. Hah! You see that? She failed!”
A [Merchant] raised his hands in the air in triumph. He didn’t seem to quite understand that all of Invrisil—and most of Izril—had just seen what Drassi had dubbed ‘Valeterisa’s Delivery Service’.
It had a better ring than the ‘Teleportation Guild’. And it was certainly showy. Valeterisa spoke as she brushed at her robes.
“Lord Alman Sanito, Lady Edere…Lord Ranga, and Lord Andel, I regret to inform you that I was unable to complete my teleportation network in time. I encountered setbacks. The fault is mine and mine alone—my apprentice is mistaken if she claims responsibility for any of it.”
She looked at Montressa, and the [Apprentice]-[Aegiscaster] hesitated.
“No, it was my fault—”
Valeterisa shook her head so rapidly she nearly puked.
“I…I am the one who was wrong. I never liked it when my teachers shouted at me. You are a good apprentice. The best one I have ever had. I would like it…if you didn’t quit, Montressa. I am sorry. I do not know how to manage myself. I had no handkerchief, no mana potions. I was hungry and cold and you made mistakes—but so did I. Without you, I wouldn’t have fresh underwear, and—I am sorry.”
She fumbled for the words. Valeterisa didn’t know what else to say. But Montressa’s intake of breath was followed by such a furious flying hug that Valeterisa was unable to say anything else for a minute.
“Master! I was afraid you were going to leave—”
She was full of tears, and Valeterisa’s own eyes were leaking. She almost cast [Calm Emotions]—but she didn’t want to. Valeterisa patted Mons on the head like she remembered Larra doing.
“I’m sorry. I’m sorry. Can I lie down now? I think I may faint. Lady Edere—”
She and Montressa turned, and the [Lord] and [Lady] stared at the goods. A single shipment of goods had taken a week, twenty thousand gold coins, and an Archmage to get here. You really could hire Rhaldon and do the same thing, you know.
How were they going to ever create an entire system? Neither Montressa nor Valeterisa wanted to talk to the two nobles about it—or had the faith they could do it.
“Aunt? Why don’t you treat your apprentice to something at the Haven? With your permission—I shall take over implementing this tricky system. You may not wish for help, but I should insist.”
Lady Ieka turned to Valeterisa, and the Archmage looked at her niece.
“You, Ieka?”
Ieka’s eyes glittered with excitement.
“I do know magic, Aunt. And I have a number of advantages. I think I can publicly shame the Merchant’s Guild with Miss Drassi’s help—”
She nodded at the Drake inspecting the copper ore and getting reactions from people on the street.
“—Nor does House Imarris take kindly to sabotage. Happily, I have a new employee who knows more than I do when it comes to that matter. I can speak to Lord Alman and Lady Edere and organize something. Teleportation or…however you threw yourself here.”
“It may be simpler to just—lift and throw. Or to have a flying contraption. I realized the Teleportarium is so very mana-inefficient. I have ideas…”
“Then why don’t you have your apprentice meet with my manager, Fierre? Later.”
The Vampire girl scribbled down a note, and Montressa blinked at her. But then Valeterisa was leaning on her and they were walking towards the Haven.
“I really am sorry.”
“So am I, Master. I guess neither of us are good at…people.”
Valeterisa smiled gently.
“You’re better at it than I am. But it’s only magic I was ever good at. I think…I need your help to go forwards. Do you still want to be my apprentice?”
Montressa caught her breath. Then she hugged the older woman tightly.
“Yes.”
 
[Apprentice Level 16!]
[Skill – Flawless Magical Analysis obtained!]
[Spell – Valeterisa’s Comet obtained!]
 
——
 
So. A week was eight days in this world, unlike Earth. And in the course of a single week, nine things happened.
They were:
 
The crossing of the Haven into the south of Izril.
A convening of the Blighted Kingdom’s ships as they crossed the oceans to the New Lands of Izril—and some to Baleros.
An accusation by Delanay d’Artien in the ashes of the House of Byres.
The duel between Taletevirion and Tolveilouka.
A fine as Kevin ran over Watch Captain Zevara’s tail in Esthelm.
The assassination of a young [Lord] by masked individuals in the open.
An execution of Drowned Folk in a Drake port city.
The hiring of Fierre by Lady Ieka of House Imarris.
A new delivery service run by Archmage Valeterisa tentatively opening.
 
The last of the ten events occurred that evening. People were still talking about the Archmage’s dramatic delivery from that morning as a [Boxer] plied his trade down one of the side-streets.
The main street got too crowded and became too much of a scene, he’d found. You got wild bets and people egging each other on—what Alber wanted was an income and decent opponents.
He’d put down eight people today. His fists were sharper, and his technique was better. Ryoka Griffin didn’t have much time for someone like him—but she had given him clues.
Alber could fill in the rest with hard work, and he never ran out of opponents in a city like Invrisil. It was just how many punches he could take—and how many bouts.
Plus, some of his regular challengers in the late evening or early morning always paid up, even if one knocked his lights out. More than once he’d woken up to find a man with a hat guarding his money tin for him.
He’d gotten seven silver-challenges, and one person had paid gold for a no-holds-barred punch-down. Very good money, that gold piece.
Alber had considered going to The Wandering Inn to spend it on himself, but a few men who’d lost to him days prior were goading their fellows into trying him.
“This lad’s got a punch like a brick. Go on—get in the ring!”
“I’m not giving up some of my pay to get punched! What kind of fun is this?”
Soon, one of the fellows pushing about would work up the courage. Right now, Alber was ‘shadowboxing’ as Ryoka called it. Sweat ran down his bare chest and arms—but his next opponent wasn’t the one he thought it would be.
Sometimes Fierre came by to complain about her job or to practice jabs. He had no other set friends other than the friendly Brothers, and that was fine. A man who could fit eight eggs in his mouth at once needed little.
He liked his life. But he did want to one day cross fists with a Minotaur and win. Alber tended to size up everyone he met, and he had nicknames for them, like Ryoka—‘Braggart’ was her old name. Fierre was no longer ‘Cougher’.
He didn’t often do it to people he just met, but one look at someone who rapped on his little impromptu ring and deposited a gold coin in the bowl made him instantly come up with a name.
‘Snooty’. Or perhaps ‘Arrogance’.
“I say, you seem to be a young man rather familiar with the bout of fisticuffs. I believe it is one gold coin to ‘try my luck’, as it were?”
“Old man! Don’t do it! He’ll lay you out in a flash. No mercy, that one!”
Half the men tried to stop the newcomer. Because it was one thing to see your friend get taken down a peg—another to see someone punch down an old man in his seventies.
Alber didn’t want to do it either. Even for a gold coin—the man had a good paunch, rosy cheeks, and a white beard—so he might have some good weight, but he was still old.
Then again, he seemed rather too nimble as he assured the others he was ‘quite adept’—and Alber didn’t like his confidence.
You didn’t live to—what, seventy years old?—without being punched in the face at least once. And this old man thought he could knock down Alber?
“I won’t hold back, sir. It’s silver on me if I lose, and I won’t want to lose a gold coin.”
He warned ‘Snooty’, but the man just harrumphed.
“You may keep the gold coin even in the event of my victory, young [Boxer]. I am…simply here to bring myself down to my roots. But if I may, I think I must set a few limitations on this fight.”
Alber liked this less and less.
“You can use any Skills—but you’re not allowed to use magic. I don’t change my rules.”
The interested group watched as the old man waved this off.
“Pish. No magic from me. Rather—allow me.”
Then, to Alber’s amazement, he produced something from his bag of holding. It was…a serving tray. Round, wooden, and he put a cup on it, poured some wine into the cup with a flourish, added a bowl of soup, some bread—then hefted it onto one arm like a practiced [Barmaid] or [Waiter].
“What’s the food for, old man? A break?”
The crowd wasn’t exactly on the somewhat-presumptuous old man’s side. He seemed to think he’d win regardless, but ‘Snooty’, no, ‘Snooter’, that was a good name, just shot back absently.
“It was the custom of the finest pugilists in the Rihal Imperium to demonstrate their coordination by carrying on a conversation in a duel with an opponent. In fact, I recall that some of the most adept ones would carry a serving platter while dodging and weaving. A way to train the body, you see. Superior balance—and footwork. Does anyone have a fiddle or violin? I could use a Terandrian ballroom waltz. Something brisk. One two three, one two three.”
He began to dance in a way that made Alber feel as if Snooter were noble—it was a graceful twist of the hips, flashy steps that looked impressive and showed off his coordination.
“You want music?”
“As I box. Anyone? I’ll pay you—ah, I could produce the music myself.”
He snapped his fingers, and a tune began playing. Some fancy orchestra—Alber just stood there, boxing gloves on. The man gave him an encouraging smile.
“And you do your best, young man.”
“So you’re going to be dancing to the tune while holding that platter on one arm—”
“And engaging you. It’s training, you see.”
By now, the crowd was staring. Was this old man senile or serious? Yet he was performing some test-jabs with his fist and murmuring.
