A screaming half-Elf eventually gave way to a figure sitting cross-legged on a crimson blanket under one of the withered ash-trees of the city. Sipping from a vintage lost to time out of a porcelain saucer as the snow fell. The pain was mitigated not by the alcohol—but by the meditative state he forced himself into. The picturesque moment. He exhaled, his breath misting upwards into the clear night sky, and spoke upwards.
“I have lived nearly two thousand years. Two thousand—for I do not count the eternity I spent by my master’s side. Waiting for a breath of life and a smile is not living. What little elegance I have is surmounted by his grace. I have always been uncouth and rabid, a servant to greatness. But even I will own that the world should turn beautifully. It should pirouette and the seasons glide together. It is an ugly, banal reality that makes existence so tedious. A thousand foes, each one sneering more pitifully than the last, have claimed there is no art in poison, no nuance in death. I am always reminded of that Silver Dragon, Ydergrisel, for he was one of the oldest foes and barked louder than all.”
He paused and took another sip from the clear liquid. The sky was clouded, and the cold did not bother him. His chest burned as it had not since he was alive—a screaming spear of agony that would have left some writhing on the floor. But he refused to twitch.
“—That he is wrong is evident. It is simply another realm my master and I found. How dare anyone else judge what we find worthy? But I saw it then, and I saw it now: it should be beautiful. It should be glorious. It should thrill my bones, even if it is my end, and I should weep at my foe’s skill on the battlefield.”
Lesser undead stood aimlessly in the city below him. The half-Elf sat cross-legged, that curved blade, unsheathed, lying on the blanket in front of him. He did not reach for the handle, but he pointedly looked ahead.
After his long speech, the image of the half-nude, extremely attractive Centaur stamping a hoof and beckoning towards him, bare-chested and trotting left and right in front of zombies aimlessly swiping at him—winked out.
The illusion of the ‘adventurer’ vanished, and a rather embarrassed silence fell over the courtyard below him. Then—the Dragon appeared.
“I know you.”
Tolveilouka’s eyes had been fixed on the spot where he guessed the Dragon would be. He had been off; instead of a roof of one of the shattered buildings, the Dragon had been crouched in the snow, hiding his presence with some skillful illusion.
A Brass Dragon. But as Tolveilouka well knew, Dragons were more than just one thing. You could call him a Fire Dragon and be basically accurate if exceptionally basic. Or you could call him…
“The Dragonlord of Flame. I recall you warning my master to stay away from your domain twice. A great foe we did not need. And once, you saved the ‘Silver Knight’ from being slaughtered after a defeat. I wondered if any of you yet lived. So many lie dead. I thought I sensed someone watching me during my duel with that Unicorn. I thought you would come for me that very night.”
The violet flame escaping from the Dragon’s mouth melted the snow as he spoke. One eye was burning like the shores of a distant island, pale blue waters as to almost become green, lapping against a beautiful beach. The other was the color of the horizon as all faded to blackness. The twisting of magic between dimensions.
What a beautiful foe. Until you noticed how corpulent he was. Tolveilouka drained the last of his drink and tossed the cup aside. Everything was a disappointment. But at least the Dragon seemed to know it.
Unlike other foes, he hadn’t immediately leapt at the illusory bait. For all the Revenant’s arrogance—and he had a full deck of it as well as another deck filled to the brim with his ego—he didn’t flinch when he saw Teriarch.
“I was quite aware your wounds would not heal in a day or week. I confess…I would rather not be here, Servant of the Putrid One. But my companion has given me an opportunity. Strike when your foe lies weakened.”
“Strike them when they sleep. Fine tactics for the great general who shattered Wyrm empire and broke the legion of Truestone upon his claws.”
He flinched at that. Flinched—when he should have embraced his accolades. Tolveilouka grew even more morose. The blanket shifted under him as he leaned his weight upon his right knee. He had his robes on—but the Dragon’s eyes flickered as he noticed the glint of metal.
Tolveilouka had put something on underneath the simple robe. The Dragon bared his teeth.
“I don’t suppose you would swear an oath to forgo your vengeance, to live in peace and carve ten thousand statues of your master as a more fitting legacy?”
The half-Elf laughed.
“I have broken more than ten thousand statues. Don’t mock me. My master is newly dead.”
“One could argue he was slain ten thousand years ago.”
Tolveilouka paused and took a shuddering breath in the cold.
“One could. I will not. So, Dragonlord. Are you going to destroy me or not?”
His face began to bulge. Tolveilouka’s voice distorted—for the Dragonlord of Flame, he wouldn’t stay in his fake body which resembled the half-Elf he had been. He rose as his skin burst and rotted, rippled and warped. Rising ten feet, thirty feet tall.
Some called it monstrous, simply ruined flesh and eternal rot bound to a form. But the hand that grasped a blade hiding under the picnic blanket was still nimble, and the armor he had under his robes shifted, altering to even this foreign shape.
The Dragonlord looked up and—flinched. He had been crouched to spring into the air, ready to exhale brilliant flames. But he looked up and quailed.
“Yes. This weapon has crushed the skulls of Dragons. And this armor is proof against flame.”
A long club of Adamantium spiked with cruel pinpoints hung from Tolveilouka’s grip. It had been made for him—and the weapon began to glow as it sensed its enemy. His armor looked like it had once been made out of wood—and it had. A set of armor grown from a great forest—
Twisted by the Putrid One. It blossomed with fungi and corruption, but it twisted around his body, and it was proof against fire.
“Dragonbane.”
Tolveilouka lifted the club with one hand. He smiled—and his lips split and stretched, a smile across a face that curved up and up, beyond the regular geometry of humanoid faces. He spoke through warped teeth and lips cracked with rot—and still, the Unicorn’s horn burned. Tolveilouka touched at a stretched, gaping hole in his being and grimaced.
“A strange foe. I have never met a Unicorn so dangerous or gifted. You know, Dragonlord. They make no weapons to kill Unicorns. Blades of their horns or armor from their hides, yes. But no weapons tailored to slaughter Unicorns. Why? We who were mortals or those who dream of life eternal do not fear Unicorns. Yet as you know.”
He hefted the club, which seemed to reach for Teriarch. Adamantium—but its curved spines were bone. Dragonbone. He smiled wider until it seemed his face might split in two.
“…We make weapons to kill Dragons. I would not have dared to take on a Dragonlord alone even when my master lived. Now he is dead. Are you prepared to face me?”
He looked down from his vantage point at the Dragonlord’s eyes, fixed upon the Relic that had been designed to kill foes like him.
And the Dragonlord?
Teriarch stared up at Tolveilouka, and the spirit that had laid waste to armies—
Quailed.
And fled.
Tolveilouka pointed, and a rain of rot-infused arrows shot down from the skies, but he sat back down, returning to his original form and grimacing as he realized the bottle of wine had spilled over.
Strange times. The few immortals that lived, it seemed, were dangerous beyond what they had any right to be. Or young and new. Or…
 
——
 
“…A coward.”
Magnolia Reinhart sat in a private room of The Wandering Inn and looked at an old, old man. He seemed lesser when he sat with his shoulders hunched, head bowed, like a pathetic lump of flesh.
He could look brilliant—but this was not exactly austere company for this evening. To be fair, The Wandering Inn didn’t match Magnolia Reinhart.
She seldom did this, even for galas and balls and formal events. It was better, in Magnolia’s eyes, to go without makeup or with the barest amount you could get by with.
Expectation. Young men were rarely so fastidious with their looks or they did it poorly, like Violinist Deniusth’s dyed hair. Sometimes you had some adept makeup that made one stand out, but it was a disparity between genders.
And it was taken for granted. Far better to present a simple, honest appearance—or honest as you chose to be—and let your detractors natter. When it mattered, she could dress up.
Her servants had spent an hour and a half on her hair. There was a treatment with Slime Jelly and other conditioners where you—after cleaning down to the roots—soaked the hair to give it an enduring luster. It wasn’t about artificial dyes to make the hair brighter, but rather to strip away anything that kept the true glow from coming out.
You could do much the same with skin. Washing your face with a towel would do most days. Cleaning your pores was advanced, tedious, and even with spells, costly and difficult. Being so clean that even purified water didn’t improve things was something everyone should be at least once a year.
She wasn’t even wearing all-pink. She had a pink rose pinned to a black lady’s hat, which she had worn over a more businesslike dress than Izrilian fashion normally allowed for. Magnolia quite liked the ‘business attire’ of Earth, which was more mobile than your Terandrian gowns. She thought she would make it a trend.
It looked, if you had more sight than just the normal spectrum, like a river running down a black dress. Most people just saw black, but Jelaqua had done a double-take because the Selphid had seen the ‘black’ dress was actually red, but so subtly tinted the colors revealed themselves the longer you were in their proximity. And the lines in colors beyond the mundane looked like rivers running down to the hem of her dress where it met her ankles, cut on either side for mobility.
Demsleth had a coat. It was one of those coats that might have been brown or blue but had faded so many times in a wash and with wear that it was somehow both. He had a knitted sweater on underneath, which was beige, and it had crumbs and stains from eating.
She knew his appearance reflected his mood. And right now he looked beaten. Nevertheless, Ressa, every time she opened the door to let in a server with food, gave Magnolia a sympathetic look.
Yet the [Lady] smiled. It was not a false smile or a fake one. It just was, and it took no effort to rest on her features.
The people who looked disconcerted were Erin Solstice and Lyonette, who were helping hand-cater the weekly meeting she and Demsleth had agreed on. Well, Lyonette was. Erin was just rolling around and giving commentary.
“Um—um—sorry about the fuss, guys. Valeterisa’s flown off, and she only caused a bit of trouble. I have a fondue—well, it’s actually called a ‘ti’hilo’—and it’s pretty spicy. It’s a spicy fondue. No cheese, actually.”
Lyonette wheeled Erin’s chair to face a wall as the [Princess] glanced between Magnolia Reinhart in style and Demsleth in not.
“Apologies, Lady Reinhart, Sir Demsleth. This is meant to be eaten with specialty cutlery, and Chef Imani has given me basic instructions on how to use them.”
“Oh, fascinating! What are these orbs, please?”
“Barley, Lady Reinhart. We have a selection of wines—and to accompany the dipping sauce and main course, some chicken dijon, courtesy of Chef Calescent, and several fine cheeses.”
“…Is that camembert?”
That was the first thing Demsleth had said after calling himself a coward. He stared at the cheese, which Magnolia fancied would taste heavenly in that sauce. A mix of cultures had gone into this course, and Lyonette assured him it was. He reached for the first slice of cheese as Magnolia Reinhart rose to freshen up a moment.
 
——
 
Magnolia Reinhart had risen to inspect the meal with some delight—as well as faint incredulity that The Wandering Inn was capable of something so far beyond burgers and pizza. Which was hurtful but fair.
She found Erin Solstice wheeling her chair around in the side hallway that exited the common room. The other hallway led to the rec room, workout gym, and Antinium prayer room. This hallway was next to the hidden kill-zone traps that bordered the main entrance and contained all the private dining rooms for birthdays and such.
She peered down the hall and saw a Goblin and Antinium pushing a second course to the wall; they had a rolling cart that allowed them to simply unload a course of dishes. Now, what sensible mind had thought of that? Probably a certain [Mathematician] who had reviewed broken and spilled dishes between new workers or the issues of a short Goblin having to place dishes on a taller table.
Erin Solstice, also on wheels, looked tired. She had been dancing, and Magnolia Reinhart thought she looked healthily tired at this time of day. But the [Innkeeper] tipped her hat, and the [Lady] paused at the door to the dining room.
Ressa was giving Ser Lormel the side-eye as the [Knight] bowed to her. But Magnolia and Erin’s conversation was private. The [Witch] tilted up her head to the [Lady].
“Demsleth’s sort of depressed today. Ryoka said he’s been off. Do you…want some company for dinner?”
Magnolia’s lips quirked.
“Are you inviting yourself in, Miss Solstice?”
The [Innkeeper] waved her hands—then decided this wasn’t the time to be silly. She took a breath.
“I meant after. I appear with dessert, maybe. Flaming ice cream. We hit him with some flames and a Minotaur’s Punch. Or…I have a few interesting gardens. I could make him cry.”
She peered at Demsleth, who didn’t seem to be focusing on anything more than the food and his glum mood. Magnolia half-smiled. Erin looked up at her, trying to be earnest and not as…rude as she could be.
“If you need help…”
It was an odd thing to offer the Lady of House Reinhart. Insulting to some…and at any other time, Magnolia might have welcomed it. But here?
Her smile deepened, and she inclined her head as she touched Erin Solstice’s arm. The [Magical Innkeeper] hadn’t really come because she was invested in serving the meal or giving the guests a personal touch.
“I do appreciate the offer. But in this moment, Miss Erin, I believe I have things quite covered. If I fail—I will throw myself on your capabilities. Please, though. You know more of his past than I can name, and I envy you that. I, though…I would like to believe I know him.”
