“They put out a request for anyone who knows how to decipher the thing. I didn’t know, I swear! That damn ‘Bloody Secrets’ person sent me a tip.”
Valeterisa said nothing. Montressa licked her lips.
“What about the other one?”
 
——
 
The town of Alnas where Valeterisa had drawn the first spell circle for one of the [Mages] was very apologetic.
The Town Council even came out to meet the Archmage of Izril themselves.
“It’s…the Runner’s Guild, Archmage. We do depend on them for deliveries. We had a talk, and if it’s between them and you—we will have to revoke your rights to the storehouse.”
“You can’t do that. You’ve leased it to us.”
Montressa’s voice rose in outrage. Valeterisa just looked at the storehouse. The [Councilmembers] conferred with the Runner’s Guild representative, who whispered back.
“—That’s exactly right, Miss Mage. But you have leased it for a month. So at the end of the month we’ll demand it back.”
Montressa du Valeross was getting angry now. Her red hair rose as she pointed a trembling finger inside.
“Then who broke the spell circle inside?”
The delicate gemstone latticework was smashed to bits. Probably with a hammer. You had to be careful with spell circles—and Valeterisa had obviously planned to have each site properly treated to prevent any accidental damage.
“We have no idea, Archmage, Mage Montressa. Did you hire [Guards]? No one here saw a thing.”
Montressa was staring at the City Runner from the local guild, but Valeterisa lifted a hand. Her face was quite calm as she pointed at the storehouse.
“There is no culprit who smashed the storehouse that anyone knows of.”
“N-no.”
The Council agreed, and while the [Detect Truth] spell said they were not quite telling the truth, they probably didn’t know who exactly had done the deed. It was probably a Runner—or someone who was hired—and her spell circle was gone.
She had one day, not enough time…and this town had just closed its doors to her even if she was going to redraw a circle and protect it.
Two thousand gold coins down. Three spell circles. A wasted week she could have used studying magic…Valeterisa stared at the sky.
And even if I work all day, I will only be able to send some copper from House Sanito to Invrisil. Not all the way to Liscor. Even Mage Bezale can barely do more than one shipment per day. Two if she only receives.
“Ah. I understand it now.”
Valeterisa spoke to the sky. Montressa was shaking with anger and—she looked at Valeterisa as the Council eyed her and the Runner raised their brows. But Valeterisa stared at the winter sky.
“Heorth. The Grand Librarian of Fissival told me stories of being a Djinni before he was sold to the City of Incantations. He knew magical empires on Chandrar where his people were first enslaved. He said, even then, they would make him carry his burdens across the entire continent, a journey of weeks sometimes, to deliver a simple gift. I asked him why in that time of magic there was no faster way. And he told me Djinni were that faster way. I never understood why until now.”
She looked down, and Montressa flinched away from that blank stare in her eyes. Valeterisa stared at the warehouse.
“Council of Alnas.”
“My name, Archmage, is—”
She spoke over the man.
“I am not allowed to keep renting your warehouse after a month. But until then, that is, legally, mine to use as I please, is that so?”
“Yes…for a month, Archmage. But we insist you do not alter it again. You can use it for storage, as agreed.”
The [Councilmember] spoke slowly after conferring with the City Runner. Valeterisa nodded. She lifted a finger, aimed it sideways, and spoke.
“Very good. [Siege Fireball].”
A tiny orb of flames appeared at the tip of her finger—then it engorged, whirling flames expanding until it was twice her height. The entire spell took eight seconds. Montressa was staring open-mouthed, and only the City Runner had dove away.
“What are you—”
Valeterisa fired the spell straight into the warehouse. The flames burned through the iron door, and she saw a glow from within the sturdy building. Then it exploded.
The warehouse did not actually blow up and rain down over the town. The flames exited every window and crevice of the building—then the heat cracked the stones in the cold air, and the warehouse began to crumble inwards as smoke rose. Valeterisa spoke.
“[Levitation]. I am going back. Apprentice Montressa, tell House Sanito that I am not fulfilling my contract. I am done. Goodbye.”
Then she flew off. She flew over to her hidden teleport rune, stepped into it, and thought about teleporting out. She grudgingly waited as Montressa, begging her to wait, ran up and teleported them twice to Invrisil. She said not a word to Montressa. She said not a word to anyone. She just left.
 
——
 
The words spilled out as Lady Ieka was hunting around for [Assassins]. Just one or two that had survived the Circle of Thorn’s destruction. She didn’t even need anyone killed necessarily.
But they could break a few legs. She was snapping at her [Head Maid], who was fumbling slips of paper as she did when she got nervous.
“Give me the list of our—give me the briefcase.”
“I’m sorry, Lady Ieka—”
The [Lady] flicked her fingers through the list of names, seeing how many had been crossed out. [Assassins] really had been a tool of Izril’s flowers. Without [Assassins], they lost their teeth.
And oh—she wanted teeth right now. Her aunt sat in the Adventurer’s Haven, not talking to Larracel, who was patting her knee now and then and making her sip from a cup of honeyed milk.
Not The Wandering Inn. This was Valeterisa’s only real home away from ‘home’…and she sat, blank-faced and tight-lipped.
Ieka had seen that too. It reminded her of how she and her aunt had first met. A rare family gathering of the Imarris family where a branch cousin returned from the south. Something of a controversy. Half of Ieka’s aunts and uncles had claimed she ‘smelled like Drakes’, and she hadn’t said a word as they refused to pay for her Wistram education.
Ieka had found Valeterisa practicing magic in the gardens later. And the [Mage] who had graduated from Fissival had taught her a magic spell.
That had been, oh, close to thirty years ago now. Something was wrong if that face was still there, despite all her achievements and accolades.
“I want the Merchant’s Guild’s newest ‘acquisition’ gone. If we cannot steal it back—break it. They can’t have taken it far. I doubt even a Chest of Holding can fit that much stone.”
She snapped at one of her [Bodyguards], a serious woman who hesitated before murmuring back.
“Lady Imarris, do you have a location for us? If it’s lightly guarded, I could take a group and hide our features, but the Merchant’s Guild employs fairly well-armed guards. How much blood are you willing to shed?”
On our part and theirs? Ieka’s blood was boiling, but even now—she slowly whispered a spell.
“[Calm]. Calm…”
It washed over her. Leaving her icily angry, but no longer boiling mad. A spell that her aunt had taught her for the harsh courts of Izril’s nobility.
“I have no location. An [Assassin], then. Who isn’t dead or in hiding? Estvie, contact each one covertly. Use the cipher and the wording.”
“Which file is…?”
Ieka gave up. She felt sympathy towards Valeterisa, she truly did. Because this was the exact kind of thing Ieka was used to.
You did not plan on success, in her experience. You took risks—and doing anything, from the ventures in the New Lands to this, required expertise. Competent people.
And they were so hard to find. It was one reason why she had thrown caution to the winds to push her hired settlers to get to the New Lands first. If she could not out-bid the other nobles and groups who were snatching up all the talent, she would make a claim first. She did not like doing that—and the cracks were showing.
“Estvie, don’t worry about this. Focus on getting our people out of the Drake cities. Find a passport. No, I don’t know which ones they want. Arrange it. Inquire with Pallass. Sirrah, accompany her.”
Her [Bodyguard Captain], Sirrah, had the presence and authority to get the attention of a number of people. She could at least get Estvie in touch with a…Watch Captain?
Ieka would have focused on that, and she glumly watched her [Head Maid] hesitate, then head off, whispering anxiously with Sirrah.
A Ressa would have a solution—or find one autonomously. But Ieka didn’t have a Ressa. And neither did Valeterisa.
“Where is your apprentice now, Valley? I don’t believe the girl ate all of yesterday.”
“I don’t know. I left her somewhere.”
Larra pursed her lips.
“Where is ‘somewhere’? Here or in the north, miles from Invrisil?”
“…Here.”
Valeterisa was staring at a book. She wasn’t scattering her thoughts. She was very deliberately ignoring Larracel and occasionally taking grudging sips from her drink. It occurred to Ieka that the lack of [Parallel Thoughts] meant her aunt was emotional.
She was angry. She had apparently blown a warehouse to smithereens in a town—which was violent, and they had complained loudly to the Mage’s Guild. But Ieka Imarris almost, almost wished Valeterisa had turned her magical wrath on the Merchant’s Guild.
Yes, she was proposing something that would hurt the Driver’s Guild, Merchant’s Guild, and Runner’s Guild. Ieka had suspected they would try something like this, and her [Bodyguards] had spent three miserable nights doing duty protecting Invrisil’s storage house and Liscor’s.
They’d chased off a number of busybodies, but without teleportation, they’d been unable to safeguard anything else. A word in Lady Edere’s ear had saved House Sanito’s teleportation circle.
I should have forced her to accept help. But part of Ieka had seen Valeterisa lifting Fissival and thought—if she could do that, she could do this.
Unfortunately, every issue here had nothing to do with Valeterisa’s personal ability in magic and all to do with the [Mages] she had hired. The logistics of not having Valeterisa be everywhere. Politics, ensuring basic competence in the people she hired—everything Valeterisa didn’t do.
Montressa du Valeross had…done her best? Ieka wasn’t about to bestow any compliments on the [Aegiscaster] for this debacle, but Larracel did.
“Your apprentice thought any Wistram graduate was as good as her two friends. They both came out with perfect spell circles, and the one in House Sanito managed it with her help. She was teaching [Mages] how to lay the magic out. She should have vetted the candidates better, but I have made her exact mistake in employees. Barnethei does a good job these days.”
“Thank you, Miss Larracel. Talent is hard to find. And the good Gnolls are impossible to entice.”
The two were bantering back and forth lightly, and Valeterisa’s blank look was turning into a scowl. Ieka glanced around. There were some people listening in on the conversation, and she glared at a [Merchant] smiling over a glass of wine at a far table, obviously and ostentatiously listening in while gloating.
He didn’t seem to know the score. Which was that it was a bad idea to offend Larracel’s treasured guests in her Haven. His smug look kept being interrupted by annoyance as he flagged down a passing—and somehow extraordinarily busy—[Barmaid] and demanded his basket of bread.
When the breadbasket arrived, it was late, slightly burnt, and he had been waiting twenty-two minutes for his actual entrée. And it was definitely going to give him food poisoning.
Larracel wielded her hospitality like a dagger in defense of Valeterisa, but the Archmage of Izril was still defeated. She sat there as a young woman with red eyes poked her head up over her menu and extra-rare steak. Ieka had the urge to accost all these unsubtle spies and enemies of her aunt, but her aunt’s wrath was not directed at them.
“I thought she was a good apprentice.”
She finally spoke, like a dam beginning to burst, as Mihaela Godfrey stomped over. She opened her mouth, and Larracel shot her a warning look. Instead, the famous Courier grabbed one of the Runner guests to the Haven and steered them towards one of the guardrails for an intense conversation.
“I thought you liked Mage Montressa, Valeterisa. You said she was quite helpful in Fissival.”
“She was. But she was not here. I trusted her insight.”
Larracel was pursing her lips, staring at Barnethei as he brought over a cache of sweet candies to tempt Valeterisa with. It was normally Mihaela she had to talk down—she had never seen Valeterisa mad, but her tone was gentle as she patted Valeterisa’s arm.
“Yes…she made mistakes. Young women often do. This entire event reminds me of Maviola El’s projects. Remember when she had you making anti-gravity tonics? They worked, but they moved your insides around so everyone would end up sick for three days afterwards, puking their insides out. Sometimes ambition outstrips competency. Montressa is a good girl. Isn’t she? Valley? Have a lemon drop. Erin gave me some.”
The Archmage didn’t affirm the statement. She pressed her lips tighter together, as if to deny the floating yellow candy before she replied.
“She should have realized the [Mages] were inadequate. She assured me they could do the job when they could not.”
Larracel sighed patiently, but she couldn’t keep the exasperation out of her voice.
“It was a mistake. The girl’s beating herself up about it. Are you truly going to have her take the blame for this event in front of all three noble houses? Valley, you once burned down half my library practicing flame spells.”
“And you threatened to spank me and nearly pulled my ear off and made me replace everything. So?”
The [Wizard] gave Valeterisa a pointed look.
“Shouldn’t you be somewhat generous to Montressa now? If you make her go back to drinking or the mess I heard she was before she met you, we will have words.”
Valeterisa flipped a page and took a huge gulp of her drink. She didn’t meet Larracel’s eyes, but her tone grew even more sharp.
“Why? It is her fault. The mistake cost me twenty thousand gold pieces. An apprentice should be at least decent in anything I ask her to do or not do it at all. This was a waste of time. She is a waste of my time. Months I could have put to better use.”
The Archmage of Izril was blinking faster, and her faded blue hair was getting in the way of her face. She brushed at it as Larracel’s head turned, and she raised her voice.
“I think you’re overwrought at the moment, Valeterisa. Sleep on it—”
