Thought-Process #8-9, 51-58 (Analysis-Memories): Montressa is not a net positive. She has cost 20,000 gold pieces and a week of effort. Resolve that deficit or terminate.
Thought-Process #10 (Priority Management): Agreed.
Thought-Process #39-45 (Montressa’s Worth): I like her. She is clumsy and not as adept as I was at spellcasting, but she provides services.
Thought-Process #10 (Priority Management): Elaborate.
Thought-Process #39-45 (Montressa’s Worth): F-free underwear. Also, she spoke for us at Fissival in front of the Scholarium.
Thought-Process #8-9, 51-58 (Analysis-Memories): It changed nothing of value.
Thought-Process #39-45 (Montressa’s Worth): It made me feel better. She fought for us. And her birthday gift idea for our niece made Ieka smile.
Thought-Process #8-9, 51-58 (Analysis-Memories): None of this matters.
Thought-Process #39-45 (Montressa’s Worth): Then why am I sad? Why do I want to go back?
 
For a long time, her thoughts milled and argued. Then…
 
Thought-Process #19-38 (Magical Project, Codename “Automaton”): This is taking effort away from the priority. Self-terminate forever. Self-terminate unless there is a better reason.
Thought-Process #39-45 (Montressa’s Worth): I have gained more outside my mansion in months than my eight years within. Why did Larracel slap me? If I go back, what will happen to Milaw? I promised I would meet them again. Who will cast [Restoration] on Ierythe?
Thought-Process #8-9, 51-58 (Analysis-Memories): None of this matters. Their lives do not matter. It is a waste of magic.
Thought-Process #39-45 (Montressa’s Worth): Then why did I level? When I was in Fissival and we failed a project, my teachers blamed me for everything. Was that fair?
Thought-Process #8-9, 51-58 (Analysis-Memories): No.
Thought-Process #19-38 (Magical Project, Codename “Automaton”): No.
Thought-Process #10 (Priority Management): No.
Thought-Process #39-45 (Montressa’s Worth): Why did I do the same to Montressa?
 
And she stopped. Her body never stopped flying, and her hands still threw spells at the Wind Runner screaming herself hoarse in the wind—but her thoughts stopped.
Then she tried to erase that nagging thought. She tried—but that annoying train of thought fought back, defending itself.
Trying to hold on. Proof, perhaps, that her mental organization was inferior. That it could succumb to nagging thoughts and emotion. She was trying to erase it, that last thought, when Fierre caught up to Ryoka.
 
——
 
Fierre ran through the door a sleepy Liska was manning. The Gnoll was just about to get off-duty, but she reluctantly held the door open.
“Liska! I need to go to—”
“[Predetermined Destination]. Yep, don’t care. See ya. [Collect Fee].”
Fierre charged through the door, and it sent her to the place she wanted to go.
As she did, eight silver coins clattered into a bowl next to Liska, and the young Gnoll woman put her feet up on a stool and leaned back in her armchair. Levelling up sure was nice.
Fierre appeared in the streets of Invrisil and whirled around. She didn’t know exactly where she needed to go, but the building she was looking for was always near the gates. She had been here once for their ride to Riverfarm.
She had promised Lady Ieka to try. If what she was looking for wasn’t here, Fierre was sunk. But she had it on good authority that the person she needed was always around Invrisil because it was such a major hub.
And she was not always on-duty. The rare times she was off…Fierre ran until she saw the familiar sigil hanging over the guild. One of the many guilds of Izril. This one looked like the spokes of a wheel in front of a bag of gold or some other object.
The Driver’s Guild.
 
——
 
It was a rare meeting of legends. In Invrisil, it was the most common, but there they were. Three big names. Three fast-rollers, three all-or-nothing drivers that had the others respectfully crowded around the table, doffing their caps and taking off coats, some freshly wet from the snow.
It smelled of the road, of horses, and it wasn’t the most pleasant odor, but it was an honest one, and the Driver’s Guild did right by its members. In that there was a fiery shot of Firebreath Whiskey in everyone’s cup, no questions asked, and someone had pulled out some loaves from a bakery and the sliced bread was going around with some dried salami.
It was a worse meal than many could buy—but it tasted heavenly because it was damn free. They ate as the three top-tier [Drivers] stood around and chatted, at the center of attention.
Well, one was chatty. Another was surly, had a reputation for kicking the horse crap out of anyone who got on her nerves, and her wagon had steel rims on the wheels and rolled mean, through bandit-infested areas. She was a hellraiser, a huge woman.
That was Chaoisa, the Contempt of Man, who only warmed up slightly as Termin the Omnipresent clapped a hand on his embarrassed apprentice’s shoulders. She was chewing on Dreamleaf as he talked Rhaldon up.
“Fine delivery. Fine delivery! Don’t break anything, you bastards—look at it. Glassware and alchemical items, boxed and not a single break.”
Rhaldon had just come back from his first independent circuit, and Termin was beaming fit to burst. Neither the precious alchemical glassware nor the reagents that Octavia and Xif and a number of [Alchemists] had ordered were in bad shape.
They had been kept in dry containers filled with straw, and Rhaldon had padded the glass, each in its own box, to make sure the bumping didn’t break a thing. He had been on pins and needles and eager to get to Octavia, but it was late and Termin had insisted he show Rhaldon around.
“So he did a good first roll. Did you have to pull us here, Termin?”
“Chaoisa, it’s not bad to have someone take over the alchemical stuff. Or do you want your wagon to explode if it bumps something the wrong way?”
She grunted. Termin was so happy he even nudged the third legend of the Driver’s Guild, who rarely ever appeared.
“And we have three of the old crew in the same place. Come on, Karsy. At least look at Rhaldon. He’ll be a big roller, mark my words.”
There she was. Some of the [Drivers] peered at the third name, who you could only meet on the road. They knew who she was…or rather, knew enough to ‘know’ and know not to ask anything more.
Karsaeu the Unmarked. She had brown skin but pale white hair—though her appearance changed sometimes. She sat, hunched over, chewing on the bread. When Termin nudged her, she glared.
“Leave me to eat, Termin. I care naught for your lad. If he survives a decade on the road, I’ll deign to look.”
And she went back to staring at a wall. She had rolled in with a carriage in the dead of night. A black one—scuffed, but without sigil.
The horses were eerily silent in the stables. And powerfully curious though they might be, no one dared to peek inside that legendary carriage. The doors were locked, and it was said Karsaeu knew if you tampered or pried with anything.
Almost as if horse and rider and carriage were one being. And a solitary one at that. Dangerous, but quiet. Eternally bound to her duties. Escort for Izril’s underworld.
Termin was just about to have Rhaldon report on the road and how he’d sequestered the goods, whether Chaoisa and Karsy liked it or not, when a thunderous rapping came at the door to the back rooms where the [Drivers] sat.
Someone slid a latch back, stared at a non-[Driver], and spoke rather curtly.
“Who’s it? Inquire at the desk for a driver on-duty if you want someone! This is private!”
Even if they were clients—this was sacred ground in the Driver’s Guild.
Everyone listened as a voice rose.
“No time! I’m looking for a [Driver]—”
“No one yanks a man or woman off-duty, Miss! To the front or we’ll have to deny service!”
One of the [Veteran Wagon Drivers] snapped back, sounding well and truly annoyed. Even if it was some hotshot [Merchant]—annoy the [Drivers] and they’d make sure you got your deliveries banged up. It might not be much, but they had their own respect.
But then the girl standing outside put her hand on the doorknob and pushed, and the man with his foot in the way slid. She appeared, and Termin blinked at Fierre. But the Vampire girl was not here for him.
“I am looking for Karsaeu the Unmarked! I have a job for the Unmarked Coach.”
The room fell silent. Slowly, and with a glare that could pierce mithril, Karsaeu’s head turned. Her rare time off—she slowly looked around and, for some reason, recognized Fierre out of her many guests.
“You. You’re not on my list. I have no orders for you. Begone. Take my time up and I’ll teach you a lesson, brat.”
Fierre halted, panting, and the [Drivers] stepped back. Even Chaoisa made a gap as Karsaeu turned—but she looked interested to see a dustup if it happened.
For reply, the Vampire girl reached into her pocket and lifted something. A black piece of metal flashed, and Karsaeu’s eyes locked on it.
“I know the rules. I have a card.”
“She’s got a card? How’s she have—”
Termin and Chaoisa were the only ones who even knew what that meant. Karsaeu’s eyes locked on the card that only a very few people in all of Izril could possess. Gang leaders. Connected people.
Lady Ieka Imarris. She had wondered if the [Lady] was unbound—but no one had taken back the card. Almost as if they’d forgotten. And so Karsaeu spat onto the floor.
“Moving up, are you? Fine. Where’s my destination?”
She was palpably angry, and Fierre understood why. Ryoka had added some context to the legend that Fierre knew, but she had spoken to Karsaeu herself. Seen the immortal being chained to this coach, ferrying mortals around for lifetimes.
Fierre wondered what that was like. An unpleasant attitude sounded downright sanguine after that much.
For some reason, she did not want Karsaeu to think of her as a bad client. Though Fierre was sure she would have trouble sinking that low.
Nevertheless, she hesitated as Karsaeu tossed her snack to one side and stood.
“Where to? You have the Unsigned Card. Fancy name, but it can’t be forged nor can I be fooled. I made it myself. Who gave it to you?”
Did that mean it was part of her? Fierre had thought Ieka was simply on the list of the Unmarked Coach’s clientele, but this was bigger.
“The, um, Spelling Lady.”
“Ah. Good.”
If she had [Dangersense], Fierre was sure it would have been screaming an alarm. Karsaeu’s face never changed, but she looked ever-so-crestfallen at the truthful answer. What would have happened if Fierre hadn’t known who the card came from?
“Where to?”
“I don’t know.”
The two were speaking in the Driver’s Guild, but it might well have been private—Fierre knew the drivers honored their own, even Karsaeu, who was neither mortal nor had levels. Karsaeu paused.
“…You have the right to tell me to drive in a circle. You have a lot of rights so long as you hold that card. Though I’m bound to report on anything you do. Is that your wish?”
Fierre had the same tingle down her spine as she did every time Ryoka said something crazy. She was breathing fast—and dead gods damn it, she felt alive. She gave Karsaeu a toothy smile that made the Djinni pause.
“I don’t know where I’m going. But I know who. I need you to catch the Archmage of Izril, Karsaeu-Dequoa. She’s in the air heading north, and even the Wind Runner of Izril can’t catch up. I need you to get me right to her.”
At this—even the top-level [Drivers] made sounds of disbelief. Karsaeu, though, showed the first signs of interest since Fierre had barged in.
There she stood, looking weather-worn and tired. Her clothing was that unassuming travel-black, not pristine, and it made her look like any other tired [Driver] doing deliveries.
An ordinary woman—the white hair she hid under the brim of her hat was probably as original as she was allowed. But Fierre knew who she was.
Djinni. Karsaeu snorted. But now it seemed like she was speaking carefully to the air just past Fierre’s head.
“You want my little coach to catch a flying [Mage]?”
“No. I want you to catch her. Or can’t you? I thought you were one of the greatest…[Drivers] Izril has ever seen.”
If there was any being in the entire world that could do it…the Djinni’s plain brown eyes flashed a second and whirled with magic. Rhaldon was staring between Karsaeu and Fierre. Perhaps he noticed it.
“The Unmarked Coach is not allowed to draw attention.”
Fierre lifted the square of metal in her hand.
“Card. I am giving you permission to do whatever it takes. Get me right on top of Valeterisa, Karsaeu. I’m playing for all the cards on the table. I need the fastest driver in Izril. Unless you can’t do it.”
Now she smiled with all her teeth. The Djinni’s eyes glowed—and she looked down at Fierre. Had she always been six foot four? She towered over Fierre, who had grown since being cured, and it seemed her clothing was glossier than before. When she smiled—it was the first time Fierre had ever seen Karsaeu smile.
“Stablehands! Ready the horses! Into the coach, passenger. It will be a bumpy ride. But a job is a job.”
She raised her voice, and the room sprang into motion. The helpers of the Driver’s Guild were first out the door, and the [Drivers] ran after them as Fierre followed Karsaeu into the snow. But there most of the [Drivers] stopped, and one of them raised his voice.
“Hold on. I coulda sworn I saw the Unmarked Coach back there. Are those her horses or new ones?”
“She never goes anywhere with replacements. Never. They never throw shoes nor cause trouble either. Don’t touch their feed…I’ve heard they’re Golems.”
Four black horses were being led out of their stables by the [Handlers], but the nervous boys and one girl managing the four didn’t have trouble. They were ready for bites, kicks, or tricks—but the horses just stood there.
Rhaldon stared at the horses too, because he felt dissonance. One of the [Drivers] squinted.
“I thought they were bays. I would have noticed…chargers.”
Four massive horses, each jet black with hooves larger than Rhaldon’s hand, were pawing at the ground. Steam rose from their muzzles. Their eyes were faintly crimson, and where their hooves rested on the ground, the snow had melted away.
Chaiosa, the Contempt of Man, took one look at them and swore.
“Nightmares. Termin, you seeing this? Is this what the Unmarked Coach uses? Have we been seeing illusions?”
Termin’s eyes had lit up. But when everyone saw the wagon, they knew something was off.
Gone was the plain old coach, long and spacious and beaten. In its place was a far smaller vehicle. Still large as hell, but four-wheeled as opposed to the form the Unmarked Coach sometimes took with six or eight wheels.
