This was a stagecoach. Black, sleek, the lines of paint gleaming with gold trim and a padded high seat. But Karsaeu leapt into the front—and she did not sit down.
“Open the gates! Inside, girl! I’ll find her on the roads. Which direction?”
“North! North!”
Fierre flung herself into the seat, and it had no frills. It was hard wood. No appetizer tray, no scrying orb. The entire vessel that was Karsaeu’s being was already moving towards the gates. And Fierre poked her head out the window—because she wanted to see.
 
——
 
Another carriage was headed north from Invrisil. Reynold was swearing at the weaker carriage he was riding, which they had reinforced to carry Magnolia.
“The horses will never catch up, Ressa! We can’t ground her—nor do we have the ability to fly!”
“Magnolia’s orders. Just—ride.”
Ressa had a crossbow with a Bolt of Anchoring in the seat next to her, but she was also cursing the damn wagon. If they had to, maybe they could prevail on Teriarch? But Magnolia had just talked with him—
The [Butler] was glancing over his shoulder. Ressa heard it too and looked back. Something was coming out of the City of Adventurers.
“What’s that?”
“It looks like—wagons. Nearly sixty carts! Is the Driver’s Guild striking or—wait. That’s the Unmarked Coach.”
“Ambush?”
Ressa drew her enchanted dagger instantly. But Reynold wasn’t sure. He looked back—then he saw the Unmarked Coach had changed. His eyes widened.
The Unmarked Coach was not supposed to draw attention. What the hell was going on?
A woman was standing on the front of a stagecoach. Karsaeu the Unmarked wore the same clothing, black on black, a billowing coat blown open by the winds, exposing a white undershirt. She had a tophat on her head that any Brother of Serendipitous Meetings would respect—
And the lads were in the streets, watching. Half of Invrisil had turned out of their beds or the restaurants. Not just because the sight of the four gigantic magical horses thundering ahead was a sight to see.
Half of the Driver’s Guild were riding hell-for-leather, shouting as the Unmarked Coach picked up speed. In the winding streets, it had slowed that the fastest like Termin and Chaoisa could keep up. But as it cleared the city, it began to go faster.
But look at her. The air cracked as the Djinni stood in the front. She had a whip in hand, and she was cracking it overhead. Her voice sounded like thunder—and it was that which Ressa and Reynold had heard.
“Clear the roads, drivers and folk on foot! Karsaeu rides! Make way or be trampled into the dust! Not a thing shall you see that is faster, this or any other night!”
Then her carriage accelerated, and Reynold realized it was coming straight down the road on his rear. The [Butler] looked at his horses—at the Unmarked Coach, and for the first time realized he was going to be passed.
He jerked the reins left—and the Unmarked Coach thundered past him. Ressa caught one glimpse of a terrified, exhilarated girl hanging out the side, and then Reynold slowed. They slowed as Karsaeu passed them, laughing like a storm.
Well. They weren’t going to be able to beat that. Slowly, the two servants of Magnolia Reinhart turned around and began to head back into the city. Reynold muttered after a long moment of silence.
“I miss our old carriage.”
 
——
 
The Djinni rode across Izril like a burning arrow. The braying Nightmares—illusions, but mimicked by her magic—left trails of steam through the snow. The jolting in the stagecoach would have given Fierre bruises if she were Human.
“Do you know—where she is?”
“I can sense the Archmage’s magic! And the wind’s howling! Look yonder!”
Karsaeu was in a good mood. She pointed—and Fierre saw out the window that the sky was flashing. Lightning and fire. Arrows high overhead looked like sparks—sparks chasing Ryoka Griffin.
“We need to get up there! Can you make it?”
“I am a Djinni! I raced my kind through Chandrar’s skies. I’ve beaten Dragons. You want me to get you to the Archmage?”
One eye rolled back as that head turned. Fierre saw the Djinni laugh—and instead of her throat, her mouth was like an entire galaxy of stars and magic as she threw her head back and laughed.
“It has been a long time since I chased anyone down. I’ve caught [Archmages] in the sky. Hold on.”
Then she cracked her whip—and the four horses unfurled black wings. The coach left the ground and headed into the sky.
After all—as every idiot knew—Djinni could fly. Fierre hadn’t been certain, but her stomach dropped, and her mouth fell open wider. Sleeting snow hit her face, and the Unmarked Coach was hurtling up into the black air. After the Archmage. Valeterisa turned—and it seemed even her eyes widened, even her abstract state.
 
——
 
Thought-Process #8-9, 51-58 (Analysis-Memories): Terminate your process. This is not relevant to our st—what is that?
Thought-Process #3 (Danger): Flying coach. Redirect thoughts. Alert. Al—
 
Valeterisa opened her mouth to shout a warning at the flying coach—then she realized it was heading at her too fast. She pointed—and lightning blasted from her fingertips. It struck Karsaeu’s coach in the side—
And the Djinni laughed. She blasted past Ryoka Griffin, who was clinging to her glider, freezing and singed from lightning. The Wind Runner’s eyes were bulging.
“Fierre? What the f—”
Another bolt of lightning flashed from Valeterisa’s fingertips at Karsaeu. Sufficient deterrent for anyone—but a Djinni.
Karsaeu caught the bolt and seemed to toss the lightning into her mouth. Her carriage-body was barely singed. Valeterisa’s eyes flickered as her mind came alive.
 
Thought-Process #3-20 (Imminent Danger): It caught my magic.
Thought-Process #31-35 (Analysis-Memories): That is not a normal coach. Trying to figure out what it is.
Thought-Process #39-45 (Montressa’s Worth): That woman. She reminds me of Heorth. I miss—
Thought-Process #31-35 (Analysis-Memories): SHUT UP.
Thought-Process #3-20 (Imminent Danger): Wait, it’s not stopping. It’s not—
 
——
 
Fierre was screaming at Valeterisa in the cold air.
“Archmage Valeterisa! Your niece needs you to stop!”
She was excited, filled with adrenaline—and only now did she realize she didn’t have a speech prepared. But just getting the Archmage’s attention had worked.
Fierre was about to call to Valeterisa to land—or prepared to shout at her while Karsaeu kept them level—when she realized the Djinni was accelerating in the air.
Not like a bullet. More like…a stagecoach flying as fast as an arrow, lightning bouncing off the sides. A fireball exploded as Karsaeu pointed at it—and the Djinni was aiming straight at Valeterisa.
“Wait, what are you doing?”
The Djinni’s head turned, and her smile was huge. Her master was throwing ten kinds of shit into the air, demanding to know why she was flying. She was alive—free—and the look of dawning horror on the Vampire’s face was the icing on the cake.
“You said, ‘get me to Valeterisa’. ‘Right on top of her’. Be careful what you wish for.”
The Vampire turned dead white and began to scream—but it was too late. Karsaeu aimed straight ahead, and the Archmage of Izril flung up her hands.
The Djinni’s coach hit Valeterisa’s barriers in the sky, and the impact turned everything to thunder. The last thing Fierre heard was Karsaeu’s laughter—
Then she was falling. Valeterisa was tumbling out of the skies as the flashing magic of her broken barriers scattered in every direction. Fierre was screaming. Valeterisa was screaming. And Karsaeu laughed as Ryoka Griffin dove after the two of them.
 
——
 
Thoughts down. Stunned. A Djinni had just punched her. She felt it.
In the flickering moments before they hit the ground, Valeterisa was trying to cast [Featherfall] and failing at the simple magic. Her thoughts were colliding, unable to focus, and they babbled. She was unable to arrest her fall with a simple spell.
Her mind was disoriented, but she should have been able to cast a basic spell, even now. It was her mana. Her mana was rushing around her in a confused mess within her body. Scrambled. She couldn’t order herself, and the Djinni was to blame.
 
Thought-Process #8 (Analysis): Mana disrupted. Djinni know how to fight [Mages]. I can’t cast.
Thought-Process #11 (Uh Oh): [Featherfall]. [Featherfall]. [Levitation]. [Soften Earth]—
Thought-Process #1 (Air): In! Out! In…
Thought-Process #25 (Nostalgia): That wasn’t Heorth. I wonder if he knows her?
Thought-Process #39 (Emotions): I miss him. I want to see him before I die.
Thought-Process #8 (Analysis): Me too, #39.
Thought-Process #3 (Navigation): It’s a long way to Fissival from the island. It’s a pain to leave.
Thought-Process #39 (Emotions): Why are we leaving it all behind?
Thought-Process #17 (Magical Project): Magic? The opportunities there—
Thought-Process #39 (Emotions): But what are we leaving here? Montressa. Larracel. Heorth. Levels and the inn and…
 
The ground was rushing up at her, and her mind calculated that the snow crusting the hard earth would not save her from splattering across the ground. Actually, she would just hit the ground so hard she pulped her brains and her bones snapped, but she’d probably still be a ragdoll. She’d seen that happen.
Bad way to die. Her thoughts snapped together as she fell flailing, and she had one thought. Not fifty.
And it was this:
 
Valeterisa: I regret dying alone. If I never saw Larra again or Milaw and they never found me and I never went back before they passed away. I wanted my magic for them—
 
Still Valeterisa: Ah. That’s right. I learned it for them.
 
Valeterisa, Valley, Archmage Valeterisa: How could I forget?
 
And then—
 
——
 
The Wind Runner caught Fierre and Valeterisa a hundred feet from the earth and tried to pull them up. Her glider of reinforced cloth—
Snapped.
It couldn’t bear the weight of three falling figures at that speed. She tried to deploy her parachute. It tore out of her pack, and the impact jerked her arms out of their sockets. She was left howling, arms dislocated, as Fierre and Valeterisa tumbled down, down—
Until a Djinni caught them and slowed them a foot from the snow.
Karsaeu-Dequoa laughed until she was nearly sick. She dropped Fierre and Valeterisa—gently. The first thing both Vampire and Archmage did was throw up.
“Passengers delivered safely. Though the Wind Runner’s hurt.”
“Gaah. My arms!”
Ryoka landed hard as Valeterisa lurched around.
“I’m alive? I’m—”
“You nearly got us all killed!”
“Nearly. You took all the limits off me. You had a card. Would you like to fill out a survey on your experience?”
The Djinni produced a piece of paper and handed it to Fierre. Ryoka was still howling.
“My arms—”
Fierre reached for her friend, but before she could either reset the bones or break Ryoka’s arm, Valeterisa looked around.
“[Restoration].”
She poked Ryoka in the side of the head, and Ryoka’s arms slammed back into place. That…was not painless.
The Wind Runner’s eyes rolled up, and she collapsed into the snow. Valeterisa pointed a shaking finger at…
“I know you. You tried to burn down my mansion. And you hit me. You’re a Djinni. I can tell. You breathe magic. My favorite librarian is one.”
“Ah. You’ve met Heorth Dorribaum. The book-loving one bound to the City of Incantations. He always had a soft spot for children.”
Karsaeu boomed. She looked—gigantic. Like a half-Giant, though she was slowly returning back to regular shape. The Unmarked Coach appeared as she waved a hand—it seemed to come out of her body.
“Yes.”
Valeterisa was dizzy. She was…back in one piece. Even [Parallel Thoughts] had failed in the face of being hit by a coach at that speed. She looked around, then focused.
“I was going home. I was upset—I am upset. You hit me.”
She began to get angry again until Karsaeu bowed.
“I am merely the vehicle to others’ will, Archmage. She told me to.”
She pointed at Fierre, and the Vampire girl’s smile of relief at being alive turned to fear as Valeterisa pointed a finger.
“Thank you. [Valmira’s Comet—]”
“Wait, wait! Stop! Valeterisa! Please, just—calm down. And come back! Lady Ieka, Larracel, and even Mihaela sent me after you! Please. Just come back and talk things over!”
Ryoka grabbed Valeterisa’s arm. The Archmage of Izril stared at Ryoka and Fierre—and then sat down in the snow.
“They want me to come back? But Larracel slapped me. And I…stole that Gnoll girl’s hair. And I shaved some of your hair. And stole one of the inn’s lanterns and flowers. And I shouted at Montressa. And my project is in ruins.”
Everything was coming back to her now. Including…she peered at Ryoka’s head, and the square of hair she had cut off Ryoka’s head was regrown. Oh, that was good. [Restoration] did a lot.
The Wind Runner didn’t exactly glare, but she stood with the Vampire as Karsaeu produced a book and began to read. Her job was done.
“Valeterisa, just come back. I know you’re upset—but you can’t go off to your mansion.”
Ryoka took a deep breath, wondering if just paralyzing Valeterisa with the Faeblade was an option. She’d worked on this for a long time on the flight here.
“—Your teleportation project isn’t over. Montressa messed up. But—even Tyrion Veltras would invest in your ideas. You have more magic to learn here than in your mansion. Didn’t you level up at Fissival? You have more to gain by being here. Leaving for your mansion isn’t optimal.”
She blurted out her strongest arguments to factually win Valeterisa over in a rush, hoping that the content trumped delivery. And Valeterisa…nodded.
“I know.”
“I’ll give you the Faerie King’s obol if you don’t—wait, what?”
Karsaeu put a bookmark in her book and glanced over as Ryoka floundered. Valeterisa stood there in the snow and shivered. She sneezed and wiped at her nose.
“I know. I miss my apprentice. I feel…bad about what I said to her. It was not factually accurate. It was what I felt, but part of the debacle was my fault. I…”
Her eyes glimmered as they peered at Ryoka and Fierre. She looked around, and Valeterisa, Mage-Student Valeterisa, Valley—murmured.
“—I said the same thing my teachers said to me. It was not fair. I regret it. I used to cry into my pillow at night when I was blamed for a project that went wrong because I was the Human. Or when I did what a teacher said in Fissival and it failed because their magic was flawed. I did it to Montressa. I…I have been her. I never thought I would be a bad teacher.”
She sniffed. Then looked around, lost. Fierre pulled herself out of the snow.
“Then come back! Lady Ieka sent me to bring you back, Valeterisa.”
“I…can’t.”
