“No? Why not?”
Ryoka looked at Valeterisa. It seemed like the Archmage had, on her own, come to some kind of realization. But Valeterisa just traced in the snow with one foot shyly.
“I—said such terrible things. Montressa would never forgive me. Larra is angry. I’m afraid of her wrath.”
She what? Fierre’s mouth opened, and Karsaeu laughed lightly. Ryoka looked at the two—and here she was, standing in the snow with a Djinni and the Archmage. And somehow, she was the voice of reason.
“Valeterisa. I know you screwed up. Montressa made mistakes, but the project…”
“It was not all my fault. The Merchant’s Guild interfered. But I have some—blame. I could calculate how much, approximately. But I shouted at Montressa. I do not know how to apologize.”
She was staring into the snow like a girl. Ryoka Griffin felt that. She spoke from the heart.
“I get it, Archmage. But believe me—the worst thing you could do is run away. The very worst.”
Fierre, Karsaeu, and Valeterisa all looked at Ryoka Griffin, the famous Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Of anything she could have said—
They definitely believed her when she said that.
Archmage Valeterisa stood there, wiping at her nose and really wishing she knew a nose-cleaning spell or someone was there with a helpful handkerchief. Instead, she wiped her nose on her sleeve. Then she exhaled.
“Do you think my apprentice would forgive me?”
“I bet. She’s torn up. She’d be worse if you left. Please, Valeterisa? At least get in the coach.”
Ryoka, barefoot, was currently freezing in the snow, and even Fierre’s Vampiric heritage was not having fun. Valeterisa slowly trudged to the coach.
“Passengers aboard. I am not allowed to fly, but you are allowed to go anywhere you wish. Where am I headed?”
Karsaeu sounded disappointed. Fierre muttered through chattering teeth.
“I-Invrisil.”
Valeterisa sat there, feeling—relieved. An unaccountable sense of relief stole over her suddenly, as if part of her had known flying away was the wrong choice. She was nervous, afraid, and unsure of what to say. But…
She squeezed her eyes shut. Then the Archmage of Izril opened them.
“No.”
“Oh, come on—”
Ryoka reached for the Faeblade, but Valeterisa poked her.
“[Paralysis]. Ah, it does work if I can touch her.”
Fierre froze, but the Archmage addressed Karsaeu, who looked amused.
“Drop me off at my destination—then bring these two to Invrisil. I will hopefully be there soon.”
“Wait, where are you going first?”
Fierre looked at Valeterisa, and the Archmage of Izril was wet with melting snow. She was tired, her nose was dripping, and she was a mess of emotions and guilt. But she did the only thing she knew. It worked last time. So she said:
“House Sanito.”
 
——
 
It was dawn when the Archmage of Izril stepped out of the carriage in House Sanito. Even with the Unmarked Coach’s speed, it had taken hours in the night, and she had slept poorly.
But she had slept…and it was the eighth day, the last in the week, when a small crowd of people came out to meet her in the manor.
“Archmage Valeterisa? We had thought that there was no delivery. Lady Edere messaged us that there were complications. I thought she was meeting with your apprentice in…”
The [Seneschal] of the household was patently confused. The hired [Mage] was trying to hide from Valeterisa’s wrath—but the Archmage just spoke.
“Do you have the delivery of ores?”
“Y-yes, Archmage. It’s too heavy to port off easily.”
Four hundred pounds of coal and copper ore sat in crates in the storehouse. Ready to be loaded onto the teleportation circle. When she saw it, Valeterisa exhaled hard.
“Heavy.”
“As we understand it, there are—complications with the teleportation. Lord Sanito would not wish to lose these goods, Archmage.”
The [Seneschal] was speaking very carefully, as one might to a powerful, eccentric individual who could raze this entire storehouse to the ground if she got annoyed. But he was also representing House Sanito’s interests.
He had heard Valeterisa was a cold, almost Golem-like individual. But when she turned, he saw a woman. Tired, uncertain, but also determined. Valeterisa nodded as she peered at the sky and yawned twice. Huge, jaw-cracking yawns.
“The teleportation grid is down. I cannot fix it. I will apologize to Lord Sanito and Lady Sanito myself. But—I don’t know how to apologize.”
“…I am sure they’d accept your word and effort, Archmage?”
The man ventured. Valeterisa gave him a blank look and shook her head.
“No. This is the only way I know how. I can still deliver the goods. I have one day.”
“How?”
For answer, she pointed at the four hundred pounds of boxed ore and coal and spoke.
“[Mass Levitation].”
The crates and bins of ore and coal began to rise. The staff of House Sanito and the people who had gathered around gasped as the first bin, weighing exactly eighty pounds, left the ground. The other containers slowly left the ground as well, and the entire shipment floated.
Four hundred pounds lifted up like a feather! The [Seneschal] gasped—then he heard a grunt.
“Oof.”
Valeterisa’s face had gone pale. Her hand trembled—as if of someone holding an intense weight just within her ability to lift.
“You—are you intending to fly it to Invrisil? It’s a hundred and fifty miles as the crow flies!”
“I can do it. It’s—heavy.”
One of the crates wobbled. But Valeterisa was already walking towards the doors of the storeroom. The [Seneschal] followed, now worried for completely different reasons.
“This is not a priority delivery, Archmage. It would be far better to let us transport it mundanely, even by Courier!”
Rather than having it fall out of the sky and scatter. But Valeterisa did not call on the Unmarked Coach already speeding away. She could have—but then she would have been making a Djinni carry the weight.
This was her job. The Archmage craned her head towards the lightening sky. Less snow was falling, but it was too damn cold.
“Inform Lord Alman Sanito and Lady Edere Sanito the delivery is in progress. I will see them at the Haven by nightfall. Which—which way is southwest?”
All of her mana was going into keeping the boxes raised. Slowly, the crowd pointed—and Valeterisa nodded.
“Thank you.”
Then her feet left the ground. She slowly flew up—then faster and faster, she rose into the air. House Sanito’s folk on the streets of the town stared up. They pointed at the Archmage of Izril, floating with the crates of hard-mined ore into the sky. She was rising faster now.
 
——
 
This was a mistake! Valeterisa wasn’t dividing her thoughts—but even without, parts of her were screaming that there was no way she’d make it to Invrisil.
[Levitation] was a better spell for carrying lots of weight, but it still scaled to what you were carrying! This much weight? It was far worse than transporting even five half-Giants—you could enchant them and have done with it.
She was doing the equivalent of lifting, balancing, and pushing four hundred pounds in multiple boxes all at once. A [Mage]’s mana wasn’t equivalent to a [Warrior]’s muscles, but it was analogous! Imagine Grimalkin carrying four hundred pounds a hundred and fifty miles on his back!
That might be easier! Valeterisa was already sweating as she left House Sanito, but she was aiming up.
She had to get height. She had seen aircraft from the Earthers’ descriptions of earth, and she knew they flew above the clouds. Valeterisa wasn’t after wind or altitude for safety reasons, though. If she dropped the ore—
No, she was tracing a route. In her mind’s eye, she was calculating with beams of light. [Valeterisa’s Complex Seeker Projectiles]—only she didn’t need the spell.
The most optimal path for her to take to get to Invrisil was a straight line. But only on one axis. In terms of height—she was envisioning a simple geometric shape.
A parabola. Milaw had shown her it as a girl. If she reached the midway point at maximum altitude—in theory—she was no longer exerting lift. All she had to do was get to what she calculated as four thousand and two feet—then she’d just need to supply the force to push herself and the crates and let gravity and momentum do the rest.
To do that, she needed to carry this massive burden up for thirty-three minutes with nothing but pure magical power.
If not for her first lesson lifting Fissival, Valeterisa would have given up after ten minutes. Just the effort of keeping the boxes from tumbling from her ‘grip’ by applying sufficient force to balance and lift them was a challenge only someone of her expertise could do.
The other problem was sheer magical power. She was burning through her mana at an insane rate. Valeterisa was gulping down her second mana potion—and wishing she could use something else.
Like flames or wind to boost her position. But she had no control.
A platform. A magical platform made of light you lifted with heat or wind. Didn’t Earth have something like that? She strained upwards.
A crate wobbled. The lid had been opened—this was the copper ore that the samples had been taken from. Valeterisa caught it—just as it turned upside down.
“No! [Mass Levitation]—”
Now she was lifting dozens of pieces of ore! Juggling them, trying not to drop the rest of the shipment—Valeterisa had to do it.
“[Parallel Thoughts]! Lift! Lift!”
Her thoughts divided. Not fifty ways—just ten ways. Each one caught some of the ore and lifted, piling more into the box. Cast the spell!
[Levitation]. It wasn’t an easy spell, and she had to keep casting it with each damn piece of ore, each box, herself—
This was what auto-spells were for! If she could have cast that, she wouldn’t have to have a thought-process of herself cast the damn spell and keep it maintained. But that lost magic, her great project, was so difficult to realize.
It was ironic that the simple act of casting a [Light] spell was so hard to automate. But that building block was the key to greater magic. Valeterisa knew now that the magic should be beautiful. Elegant, not just functional. She had learned that from Zeladona, but she needed more. She had a great framework of magical theory she had built up. The tools to use the auto-spell.
It was the equivalent to a coding database she had heard the Earthers talk about—and only she and Eldavin had understood how magic could get that complex. But the spell itself?
 
Thought-Process #1 (Lift): [Levitation].
Thought-Process #2 (Lift, for the love of Djinnis!): [Levitation].
Thought-Process #3 (Don’t Drop That): [Levitation].
Thought-Process #4 (Anti-gravity): [Levitation].
Thought-Process #5 (Lift): [Levitation]. Wait. Am I breathing?
 
Valeterisa gasped for air. Sweat rolled down her face. The damn spell! If only she could make someone else do it! But every one of her ten thought-processes was casting the same spell.
And then she had an eleventh thought suddenly.
 
Thought-Process #11 (Eureka): Wait a second. What does it look like when I cast a spell?
 
All of her mental conception—her struggles with the weight—all of her internal magic suddenly divided. And Valeterisa, staring out through her eyes, suddenly wondered what another [Mage] might see if they could trace the mana running through her.
She could see other [Mages] literally forming spells and pick them apart like Eldavin could. But how did the mana move through her body when she cast this spell? Any spell?
Was that…the natural form of casting a spell? And if so—
What did it look like?
She had no idea. In all her studies, in the eight years of struggle and research, Valeterisa had no clue.
…Because there was only one of her. And even with [Parallel Thoughts], she couldn’t stare at herself. Even with a mirror.
“My apprentice! Did I just need an apprentice?”
She was almost crying as she reached the top of her parabola. The crates were stabilized—but Valeterisa reached for her belt and realized something.
Her apprentice made sure she had mana potions to spare. Montressa carried them in her own bag of holding. Valeterisa had used all four on her.
She was out of mana. Or rather, almost out. She was halfway towards her journey at the highest point—and she wasn’t going to have the mana to push it to Invrisil.
“Uh oh. Uh oh.”
Could she land? Land and rest? Valeterisa stared down at the clouds below. Even if she could—she was running out of power so damn fast that she’d have to drop the crates, cast [Featherfall] at the last moment, and hope like heck there was nothing underneath her.
She had to do this. She had to—Valeterisa’s thoughts refocused, and she stared at the mental arc of her flight path.
If only there were a more efficient way! Not just the damn lift—if she had to do this again, she’d make a [Lightbridge] spell and push it up with hot air, not crude [Levitation].
Was there a spell that could impart all the momentum, angle, and just send the boxes to their destination? Yes, of course. If you cast [Levitate] on a person, they could float around—but boxes had no will. She could chuck one, but…
…you could do anything with magic. All that was lacking was your imagination. She had made new spells from Milaw’s math and angles. Valeterisa knew where Invrisil was. She could calculate the exact trajectory she needed and the distance.
She just didn’t have the mana to lift all these crates and push them. But she was this high up.
“I’m going to throw them.”
The Archmage actualized her thoughts in a moment of insight. Yes…yes. She was going to throw these damn boxes to Invrisil. With one spell.
That was what [Teleportation] was. An overly-complex system that traded too much mana for a single jump across the world. Levitation was just as crude—literally carrying something via telekinesis.
What if there was a medium between the two? Faster than levitation—slower than teleportation, but that was relative since [Teleport] was the blink of an eye.
She had it in a moment. Like an [Arcane Discovery]—borne out of her [Arcane Discovery], in fact, and desperation, Valeterisa came to an insane conclusion. Then she began chuckling. And laughing.
“I’ll do it! I am out of mana for more than one great spell—very well!”
She began to cast the magic, and it enveloped her and the boxes. They hovered for a second as she calculated angles—and then added momentum. A lot of momentum. At the last moment, she realized that if she added in the usual heat and searing ball of compressed mana, she would literally vaporize herself and her cargo.
Good catch. But she was treating herself and the boxes like a single entity—just like the basis of this spell. Valeterisa’s eyes opened wide, and she pointed along a new angle in the air.
“Calculations set. To Invrisil. Or possible death. Casting…[Valmira’s…”
