“It’s all in the reflexes. Even in a deferred body—the basics. The basics. Not getting cold feet are you, young man?”
Alber thought about it. He eyed the watching group of a dozen men, the platter and the wine cup—the wine was barely moving as the man punched with his free hand.
So he had balance, could dance, and his punches looked good. Alber punched his gloves together.
He no longer felt bad about taking Snooter’s money.
“…Nope. Someone ring my bell. We start when it rings.”
“Excellent!”
Snooter gave Alber a confident smile. The bell rang, and Alber raised his fists as the music began to play a quick tempo.
 
——
 
The old man was Demsleth. Or rather, Teriarch.
Obviously.
His real body was all the way in the High Passes, but ‘Demsleth’ had gone into Invrisil. He had been looking for a [Weapons Trainer] or a [Monk]—and when he chanced upon Alber, he had reckoned this was as good as any person to approach.
Teriarch had spent the morning after speaking to Magnolia Reinhart thinking quietly. Quietly…and then summoned Rafaema to speak with him.
They had met, Dragon-to-Dragon, outside his cave. She had looked up at him expectantly and with that hope in her eyes that made him so…guilty. But Teriarch had simply bowed his head.
“Rafaema. I regret to say that I cannot accompany you today.”
“Are you busy, Sir Teriarch?”
She was calling him ‘sir’ today. Teriarch nodded.
“With my own affairs. I fear I must apologize.”
“Don’t be. I’ll come back tomorrow and—”
The Lightning Dragon spoke quickly, eyes darting towards his face, the cave’s entrance, as if trying to override what was coming next. What she sensed was coming.
“—I am afraid that would not be appropriate, Rafaema. I am…I am not leaving. But I believe I must halt our travels and time together for a while.”
She looked at him with horror, but no surprise, then blurted out.
“No. Please! You can’t do this! Is it because you’re hurt? Because I didn’t tell Luciva what to do? I won’t go. You can’t make me. I have to—”
He gently interrupted her.
“It is not you, Rafaema. It is I. I am…woefully out of shape. I am unprepared to teach you anything about being a Dragon—because I am not worthy of my reputation.”
She stopped, and he gestured to himself. He didn’t like to say it—he avoided the subject and called Magnolia ill-informed and to stop prescribing what Dragons should look like.
…But the truth was he was out of shape. He felt it. In every line of his body.
“Allow me to explain, Rafaema. I was asleep for millenia. When you found me, I was dead. Magic restored me to my body, but I have not been active for…since the Creler Wars, in truth.”
Six thousand years of inactivity, and he had not been in his finest shape then. She shook her head.
“You’re still the Dragonlord—”
“My wits are dulled.”
He had barely held his own against Rhisveri despite having more tricks than the Wyrm could dream of. He had feared Tolveilouka—and rightly so. Teriarch gestured to his wounded wing.
“I must start anew, Rafaema. I have known it. I have been—fumbling around, impatient. Making a fool of myself in front of you, and for that, I am sorry.”
He bowed his head.
“I…wanted to impress you. It is a bad habit of mine. But the truth is that I must take time, despite the urgency of my quest, despite what I know I must do—time to start over.”
He had always known what he had to do. He just…hadn’t wanted to. And he could not do that with her.
“But I can’t leave. Don’t make me go back. At least tell me…”
Her lips moved. A hundred plus years of unanswered questions and longing was in her, and she looked so hurt—but Teriarch steeled his heart. Something he had not done for a long time.
“I am afraid—I must insist. I cannot train with you. Our journey is separate. I will see you on Nendas, Rafaema.”
He named the fourth day of the eight-day week. Four days from now—and the Lightning Dragon blinked.
“In four days? But—you want me to sit around the inn for four days? Go back and forth? The journey would take—”
She was angry now, and he spoke in a soothing tone. He was trying to lead her into this.
“Not at all. Not at all. I would not be so crass with your time, Rafaema. I will be right here. Outside my cave or in it—and you can see me and come for assistance if you need it, but I hope you will not. You should speak to that [Spearmaster] and assure him you are well, because you won’t be back in Liscor at night.”
“You want me to stay here?”
Rafaema grew excited again, and Teriarch snorted.
“Hereabouts. I would advise you…you know what? You will figure it out. Anywhere you want. Do not go above that peak there—too many dangerous monsters lurk. If you see a Void Eater Goat—run. If you see more than two Bossels—run. Do not fight the Wyverns; they gang up. And if you see something that talks to you but isn’t a person—run.”
Rafaema’s mouth opened and closed. Then she stared around the High Passes.
“Wait. I’m living here?”
“In the open. No artifacts at all. Only magic you yourself can cast. If you must, turn into a Drake to survive. But otherwise, you will do it as a Dragon.”
“Wh—you want me to do survival training? Sir Teriarch—I’ve passed all of Manus’ courses! Even their elite soldier training!”
She laughed at him. She looked amused—right until she saw his concerned face.
“You don’t think I need to practice, do you?”
Then she got angry. Teriarch coughed into one wing. It still hurt.
“Rafaema. It is my understanding that you…struggled to reach my cave. I know you are a Dragon, young and strong. I know you are a Dragon and what you are capable of. But surely you know the High Passes are dangerous, even to us.”
She hesitated, bit her lip, and ducked her head.
“It—wasn’t easy. But I’m no pushover!”
Her cheeks turned red, and she looked around. Both Dragons saw a distant Frost Wyvern, the upstart Wyvern Lord, peering down at them. Teriarch rolled his eyes; the Wyvern Lord was eying the ‘competition’.
Merely Teriarch’s presence had scared most monsters away, but if Rafaema flew about, hunger would eventually drive the ecosystem back into the open. And even Carn Wolves could fight Dragons.
He tried to explain it to her.
“All our kind are born arrogant, young one. But you…you were born and lived your entire life around mortals.”
“So I’m weaker?”
She snapped, and he flapped a wing at her; the wind alone made her flinch as if she were Drake-sized. That was a bad sign.
“No. You need to know your strength as well as weakness, girl! I have seen you fly and move and even fight. You fly with no nuance, like an Oldblood Drake, and they have forgotten nimbleness in the air. You have never needed more than a fraction of your true strength. You lumber around in your Dragon form because you are not used to it! Striving against the monsters here will give that to you.”
He took a breath as she stared at him and then around at the inhospitable landscape. Teriarch spoke to both him and her.
“I think you need to be alone, truly. For at least a month. You have never been alone—once a week, we will meet, and I will tell you stories. If you are in grave peril, call and I will come, but I cannot save you from a sudden accident. You will be…”
He spoke a word that made Rafaema’s head rise.
“Free. And part of that freedom is the freedom to be hurt, to make mistakes. In my turn, I will be rebuilding myself.”
Piece by piece. She stood there, chewing it all over, but when she raised her head and nodded, he saw a light of excitement in her eyes.
 
——
 
That was the easy part, actually. Teriarch stood outside his cave, flapping his wings up and down. Basic exercises. He was working on a full-body regime and groaning.
“I’ll have to run with blocks of lead or Adamantium or something ridiculous like that! It’s not just physical work—reflexes. I had better send Demsleth over. But this time…[Full Body Synchronization]!”
He used a box-spell to do it, feeling Demsleth’s feet and smelling the air—and feeling pain when he stepped on a little rock.
Part of combat was reflexes. He couldn’t exactly haul off and fight most monsters or make Taletevirion play the part of a foe. But some good training in Demsleth’s body would give him a great amount of practice.
Plus, he could exercise his real body here. Divide and conquer. Not a simulacrum—not that mistake again—but [Mages] had invented ways to manage multiple things. They called it [Parallel Thoughts]. Teriarch obviously knew the pitfalls, and so he prepared Demsleth for some good reflex-training with this young [Boxer] he’d found.
He relished the sensation of adrenaline coursing through his veins as the Dragon decided he might have to do some Dragon wing-dances once his wing healed. For now, he’d go for a sixteen mile jog and then—
And then Alber punched Demsleth in the face.
 
——
 
Alber had won a number of fights with one punch, but he had never felt like he’d done that much damage in one go.
Well—the old man had jabbed him six times and was doing a complex circle-step that had somehow made Alber miss—while carrying the damn tray.
That had lasted sixteen seconds of the match. Then Alber had clocked him with a [Flash Punch]. He hit the old man square in the chin.
Snooter went down. To be more precise, he twisted over with an ‘oh’, slammed down—and the tray and all the contents fell on top of him. The wine hit him in the chest. The soup spattered his face, and the bowl clocked him in one eye.
In the High Passes, the Dragon felt the punch, and his head jerked back. He overbalanced, crashed onto his side, and lay there as the Wyvern Lord nearly shat himself laughing.
The audience around Alber laughed until they were sick. The men jeered at Snooter as he lay there on his back, stunned more than knocked out, then cheered Alber and walked off. They had had their fun.
Pride runneth over before the fall. In this case…Demsleth lay on his back.
Even then. Even then…he had still been so proud. Alber adjusted his gloves and went back to shadow-boxing without saying a word as Demsleth lay there.
Balancing a serving tray while doing Terandrian dance-combat and taking on a [Boxer] one-handed. While working out his body.
The Dragon lay there for a good six minutes. How far down? How…he sat up, cold soup running into his beard along with stagnant wine.
He wasn’t sure if it was rock bottom yet.
“You need a [Healer]?”
That was what Alber said awkwardly, unused to talking as Demsleth brushed the tray up. Without a word, the man pointed. The spilled food vanished, and he tucked the objects into his bag of holding. He sat there, and his chin hurt.
It was a good punch.
“No. Thank you, young man. And thank you for not holding back and knocking some sense into me.”
“You fought well.”
He’d fought with Demsleth’s reflexes. Which, in hindsight, were tuned up to the level of a Level 40 [Warrior] without any notable Skills. This young man had been inherently slower and weaker than he was. And still.
Demsleth reduced the body’s performance to the level of a Level 15 [Commoner] and felt slow as he stood, and fragile. The punch hurt more now…and his wings hurt in his real body.
He looked at Alber, then produced another coin. This time, it was silver.
“You…wouldn’t care to hit me again, young man? In another match. Though I fear you might beat me rather badly. No Skills.”
Alber paused. He stared at Demsleth and seemed to sense the old man was frailer now, as if he’d punched the toughness out of him.
“You want to go again? With the tray and everything?”
Demsleth got up.
“No tray. No music. I think I might lose. Just—”
He waved the coin, and Alber raised his brows.
“Put it in the can and ring the bell when you want to go.”
 
——
 
Four minutes later, Alber watched as Demsleth wiped a bloody trail of snot out of his nose. He was…more impressed with Snooter this time.
Something had changed. He had come at Alber a lot slower and weaker—and without the tray and music. But he’d come in hard, tried a few weird punches, but gone down because Alber had faster hands and a harder punch.
He knew how to duck and weave, but he’d slowed after three body shots. It had been fast, bloody, and ended with Snooter taking a big punch to the nose.
“That…hurt.”
“You fought pretty good.”
Rare praise from Alber. He expected the man to get up and walk off, after a handshake or something, or ask for a [Healer]. But Demsleth just groaned.
“That really hurt. I remember why I try not to feel pain. Humans have it rough.”
“…Yeah. I guess we do?”
Alber didn’t follow, but the old man lay on his back.
“Five minutes. In five minutes, I’ll get up. One silver coin per match?”
Alber blinked at him.
“You wanna go again?”
Demsleth produced a bottle and put it to his lips. He drank a ‘healing potion’—though Alber swore he’d seen the nosebleed stop and clot over before the potion touched his lips.
“I happen to have a lot of healing potions despite the drought. If you are fresh—again?”
 
——
 
Alber hadn’t worked this hard for his silver for a while. Six bouts—and evening was growing late as Demsleth groaned.
“I think you punched a tooth loose!”
This time, Alber felt his bruises. He wasn’t sure if the old man had improved noticeably in six tries. But he had gotten inventive.
Some kind of side-long punching style. What Ryoka had termed the ‘peek-a-boo’ style—each time he switched things up and each time seemed more desperate not to get hit.
But Alber was young, fast, and this was his trade. He’d taken down the old man each time. He had wondered if Demsleth was the kind of fellow who liked pain—but he definitely did not.
“Where’d you learn those punches?”
“Everywhere. But I can’t—do them. Especially at this level. If I—no. No cheating.”
Demsleth lay there, wincing—and then looked at Alber.
“You’re a [Boxer] who does this…every day?”
“Yup. I move around a lot.”
Alber was loosening his gloves. Demsleth sat up with a wince.
“What’s your name, young man? Would you object if I visited you—daily?”
The [Boxer] slowed. He looked at Demsleth.
“You want to fight me every day?”
The old man had mismatched eyes. Somehow, Alber had learned his name was ‘Demsleth’ or perhaps ‘Teriarch’ in the third or fourth match. He had given both at different times. Those eyes looked old and pained—but determined.
“I have to. There is no motivation more fierce than—than getting punched in the face. In fact, I would dearly be obliged if you made this an even eighth. Just—give me a few minutes to set myself up mentally?”
