“It’s almost microscopic, Archmage. The complexity of the rune—I am so sorry, and I will redo it, of course! If you have your apprentice re-check the work—or you yourself—”
“Two runes. I can do two runes in two days.”
Valeterisa muttered to herself. She ignored the [Mage]. Thin? Microscopic? Each line of the circle was slightly bigger than the width of her thumb.
Hedault could draw a rune on a grain of wheat. That was runecrafting at a master’s level in the modern age. This was two-dimensional spell circles. Not inlaid in the brick. Just melt the gemstones and pour.
She looked at Montressa as a silence fell over them.
“I want to see all the spell circles, Apprentice. How many had errors?”
“I checked them. All of them had one or two faults, but the [Mages] listened to my instructions—I went to the ones who asked for help first. Should I…?”
The illness of not being able to meet Valeterisa’s gaze seemed to be spreading. The Archmage looked at Montressa, then turned.
“Archmage Valeterisa? Lord Sanito had heard you were here. Do you have a moment to meet with him?”
A bowing [Page] rapped on the door to the storehouse. The Sanito House wanted an update. The [Page] was smiling with excitement. They didn’t think anything was wrong.
Valeterisa turned, and the [Mage] that Alman had hired gulped.
“I’ll—I’ll begin redrawing with what I have left, Archmage—”
She ran off. Valeterisa looked at Montressa.
“Talk to Lord Sanito. I will be back in an hour. I will check on the other spell circles.”
 
——
 
Valeterisa returned in the night to pick Montressa up. Her face was quite blank when Montressa, who had been wracked with guilt speaking with the happy Sanitos, saw her.
That was a bad sign. The Archmage didn’t say anything as they laboriously teleported back to Invrisil. Four teleports—and then they used Erin’s door.
Which was a Skill-based door. Unable to transport goods in bulk if you wanted to also transport people. Limited now to the places Erin Solstice had been. Inferior to the power of magic.
Yes…that’s why they used it. When Valeterisa stepped into the Haven, Barnethei himself served them a meal. It was very late, but he had the remains of a roast he added to some mashed Yellats and served it all with a cranberry gravy.
“Archmage, Mage Montressa. Let me know if you need anything.”
Valeterisa ate in silence, but hungrily. Montressa had no appetite.
“Um. Archmage…how was the…?”
“Seven circles. Two were drawn appropriately.”
Montressa’s head rose. Her stomach churned, but she latched onto the ‘two’.
“That’s good! Then can the two—?”
“One was outlined. A circle. The [Mage] was robbed by a [Thief]. They claimed they suspected the local Merchant’s Guild of hiring the thief. The other was on layer two. After nearly five entire days.”
Valeterisa stabbed her food with a fork.
And the others? The [Apprentice]-[Aegiscaster] was afraid to ask. Valeterisa answered for her.
“I redrew a circle in two cities. I will need gemstones. Tomorrow. Have them ready.”
“The budget—”
“Find the gemstones. Then. I want you to check on Palt. I did not inspect his circle. We have two days. We will send a test item from House Sanito to Invrisil tomorrow.”
The Archmage finished eating and got up. Montressa’s stomach grew worse. And the next day—
The issues grew worse.
 
——
 
If Archmage Valeterisa drew a circle, it took four hours and she did it right. But the gemstones she had to use and all the others had resulted in…
 
Budget: 11,002 gold pieces.
 
“You have literally bought out every gemstone I have that’s not waiting on a client, Archmage. Half the [Mages] who came to me are cursing your name.”
The Dullahan [Stockpiler] remarked as Valeterisa pocketed the last gemstones. She said nothing. She should have spent four thousand gold pieces on the amount she’d bought if she’d shopped around, gone across Izril, paid for caravan delivery.
Instead, she’d spent four times the cost, but she needed the circles done.
It took her the entire day to finish work on the two spell circles and rush-finish the one in House Sanito. But when it was done—she had four.
Beautiful. She convened the [Mages] on the evening of the sixth day, ignoring the fact that there would be seven more to do tomorrow. If she spaced them out a hundred miles each…she’d only have to do three.
She could do three. Montressa had put in effort herself and had gotten to layer three before Valeterisa finished her work in House Sanito.
The test was to send a single lump of copper ore over from House Sanito to Invrisil. Montressa had found a [Mage] to replace the one that had vanished, and the incompetent one—well, one of the two—was standing by to receive the piece of ore.
Valeterisa paced back and forth in front of the circle where Bezale waited. She spoke.
“Send the sample.”
She waited. Montressa wrote on the [Message] scroll. Valeterisa waited…then cast a [Timekeeper] spell. She checked the minutes passing by.
After two minutes, she glanced at Montressa. The [Mage] wrote furiously.
“I—I think the connection between House Sanito and the first waypoint is having problems.”
“How?”
Valeterisa’s voice rose. Montressa’s lips went pale.
“Th-the [Mage] in House Sanito activated their circle! But the other one did not receive. It might not have been—powered?”
“The [Mage] there—”
“Their mana pool must be too small. Maweil’s shores.”
Bezale muttered. Montressa wrote furiously.
“I’m having the [Mage] get backup now. But the one in House Sanito is exhausted. Just wait—”
Forty-one minutes later, the piece of copper transferred from House Sanito to the first teleportation network spot. But the [Mages] on that end were so tired they had to be rotated out again.
To send an item, you needed Bezale, a Level 27 [Spellscribe]’s mana pool. She was not actually indicative of most [Mages] her level; the Minotauress had a smaller mana pool than most, especially if you had a Skill.
But that was above a local [Mage] by far. Because you had to both receive something and send it.
Valeterisa had a sudden thought. Activating the spell circle took a set amount of mana. But to send four hundred pounds of ore, she calculated they might have to activate the spell at least twice. Montressa and Bezale together could do the receiving for Invrisil.
And only Invrisil.
The piece of copper languished in the next town over for nearly two hours. Valeterisa finally went off and had dinner, leaving Montressa to figure out someone to power the spell. When it did arrive, Montressa presented Valeterisa with a lump of copper.
It was eight at night. Valeterisa stared at the copper.
“We can reach Invrisil. Perhaps that will do as a demonstration.”
“Yes, Archmage. That—I will apologize to Lord Alman and Lady Edere myself.”
Montressa’s look of relief almost placated Valeterisa’s feelings. But the Archmage just turned away. One day.
“I will attempt to fix this issue tomorrow. All I need to do is draw three spell circles.”
Three circles. Twelve hours of work. She walked out of the warehouse without saying another word to Montressa and Bezale.
Larracel the Haven was sweeping across her inn when Valeterisa returned to her rooms. The Archmage was relieved that Larracel didn’t want to talk about something mundane. The [Innkeeper] made only one comment before Valeterisa shut the door sharply.
“It’s rare that I see you with a scowl on your face.”
Only afterwards did Valeterisa look in a mirror. She hadn’t been aware that she was glaring. The next day, two things happened.
One—Palt announced he was finished with his work. He had taken six days, twice as long as he had claimed, and the exhausted Centaur had burned up some gemstones he needed reimbursement on. But his spell circle had no flaws. Technically, it had one minor smudge on layer three, but it was correctable with literally five seconds of Valeterisa’s work.
That was the good news. The bad news was one Montressa slowly delivered to Valeterisa in person. She teleported herself to the town of Layyve and saw the problem.
Which was, precisely, a giant crater in the center of the stone warehouse where someone had painstakingly chiseled or cut the entire magic circle out of the ground and run off with it in the middle of the night.
 
——
 
The assassination occurred as Demsleth was waiting to meet someone blessed with another artifact. He heard a scream for the Watch and asked the [Barkeeper] what was going on.
It took the woman a while to come back, and when she did, her face was white.
“Lord Lien is dead! The son of House Bellrui is dead! Murdered in the streets by four [Assassins]!”
“I thought the guild was disbanded.”
Rafaema frowned. People were screaming, and the [Barkeeper]’s face was pale. Demsleth’s frown deepened.
“Did they have any signs? Any—calling cards?”
“No. Nothing. Lord Lien was on horseback—he’s a common sight around town. Then, four figures popped out of a carriage and stabbed him to death! It—it makes no sense. I’m going to be sick. The blood everywhere—and now? Lord Ellas will die of grief!”
The woman sagged against the bar, and the rush of people coming in to talk allowed Demsleth to make sense of it. No one knew who the assailants were—only that they had been quick to the murder. This was planned, and they had left no clues; it had been an unmarked carriage.
But what caught his ear was the way they talked.
“—now of all times? Just when he—”
“Lord Ellas has buried wife and now his son. It’s the end of House Bellrui. Ever since the Sacrifice of Roses—”
Demsleth intruded on a conversation as someone with a hood pushed into the bar and looked around.
“Has something happened between Lord Lien and his father recently?”
One of the townsfolk tried to explain.
“Lord Lien has always been a bit of a—well, a troubled lad. He’d ride around causing mischief as a son without a mother is wont to do. It got bad last year and the year before. His father would row with him in public. But Lord Lien seemed to have a change of heart as young men do! He cleaned up his ways, swore to reform—now this.”
Demsleth’s eyes flickered towards the figure going to his table.
“It sounds like something caught up with him.”
The townsfolk stared at him. Demsleth was tempted to see the scene of the murder to see if he could piece together something himself, but he had a visitor waiting.
 
——
 
“That’s right. It wasn’t something as stupid as buried treasure. It was a vault. A vault with a damn key. Only, you spoke the key, and the words made the key appear. Or the—the key was the words. Dead gods, I don’t know. Then I turned it upon the lock, and the vault was nothing at all. And I just had this.”
The woman had a key. Or rather, a keydagger. The ‘hilt’ looked like the handle of a huge, old-fashioned key, and the blade had teeth reminiscent of a lock on one end—a splendid cutting blade on the other.
“A Keydagger of Samal.”
“Is that what it is?”
The woman was shaken, but her eyes locked on the dagger. Demsleth didn’t quite glower at Rafaema, who had realized what it was.
“It probably unlocks something in Samal. A great journey—but if you were entrusted with it—you have a fortune waiting for you. A great treasure, or perhaps danger. But this is the opportunity of a lifetime. Are you ready?”
An old man, hooded, sat next to an azure Drake in the corner of a bar buzzing with worried talk. Dark tidings. His mismatched eyes flashed as he looked at a key to the paradise of Samal in Terandria. Buried until a ghost had asked this woman to find it.
The woman wiped her mouth after taking a long drink of her ale. She exhaled, burped, and shook her head.
“Not I. You want it? Fifteen thousand gold coins. Since you know so much about it and you haven’t tried to crack me over the head, I reckon I’ll give you the first offer.”
Demsleth’s face went flat. Rafaema shifted as the woman, who was named Naunce, looked at him. She appraised the quality of his clothing.
“Keydagger of Samal, you said?”
“You aren’t—inclined to keep it? You said a ghost came to you—”
Naunce nodded a few times.
“Yep. Babbling about ‘death on Terandria’ and fighting Seamwalkers. Scared me so much I didn’t sleep for two weeks. Told me to take the dagger and fight. Fight what? I’ve been attacked three times carrying this around. I’m selling it—only, no one would offer me more than fifty gold for it. I need to find an auctioneer or…someone who won’t screw me over for it. Maybe the damn Merchant’s Guild. Even if they take a cut—you want it? Last chance.”
She waved it at him, and the old man sat there. Just…staring at her.
“That ghost likely found the nearest person to this vault. This vault she left in desperation, perhaps at the end of her life. That is a Keyblade of Samal, ancient paradise, and she hand picked you out of all people.”
“Right. But I didn’t ask for it. Me? I’m just a [Street Rogue]. I’ll take my fortunes, but that was a stupid choice, eh?”
Naunce poked a tongue into a gap in her teeth. She looked uneasy at Demsleth’s intense stare and rolled her shoulders.
“What, you want to risk your life because some damn ghost appeared?”
“You were chosen. Do you not have dreams or aspirations? Does this blade not stir something in you? It could make you a [Princess] or unlock a great treasure worth far more than a thousand gold pieces. It could be the key to a great adventure. A new life. Do you want any of that?”
Something in the way he spoke was right. This time, his voice seemed to quiet even the people at the bar, and the Drake stared at the dagger. The wording was right…but Naunce’s eyes only flickered once at Demsleth’s words. Then she scowled and spat onto the floor.
“I don’t believe in stories. Gold in hand is worth a lot more than a fake dream—and this sounds entirely fake. Hey, is this expensive? I can’t imagine why you’d uptalk it to me—do you want it or not?”
He stared at her, searching her up and down—then shoved the table back so hard it knocked over Naunce’s drink. She cursed him, but the old man strode out the door so fast he left a breeze.
 
——
 
By the end of the seventh day, Archmage Valeterisa had three working spell circles. One in Liscor. One in Invrisil. One in House Sanito. Even with her magic, she could not connect all three.
She had possessed five at one point.
One had been stolen, and Bezale had glumly reported that was likely the Merchant’s Guild’s doing.
“How do you know that?”
Montressa demanded angrily. The Minotauress just offered her a note.
