The frustration wasn’t in Ryoka Griffin. It might be in Lady Ieka Imarris, sitting white-knuckled, having to rely on Ryoka for help. Her [Bodyguards] had been good enough to take a pickaxe to Valeterisa’s runes—but her staff wasn’t filled with Ressas. She didn’t even have a single Ressaum.
Similarly, if you were here, watching all this unfold, and you had been aware of what was going down the entire time, as, say, one of Invrisil’s newest, most attractive, most deadly, and most well-connected up-and-coming information brokers—
“This sucks.”
Fierre still couldn’t fly. She had one hand balled up in frustration. Because this was huge. She could sell the report on this to many sources, including Archmage Eldavin himself. She suspected she was actually in contact with Teura or someone high-up who bought information from her.
But once sold, the information would be just a fun story, not news. And so what? Even if ‘Bloody Secrets’ broke the story and proved she had known all this from the jump—no one was here to capitalize on the jump.
She was mad. She was pissed. She was also frustrated—because Fierre had realized that her career in Invrisil was stalling.
Oh, she had plenty of contacts. She’d put herself on the map with the Trial of Zeladona incident and with her own reputation. But it was also true that she’d left her business and gone south to find Mrsha for months.
If that happened to a broker, people assumed you were dead. Fierre didn’t regret it. Even if she hadn’t been at work the entire time, she had been rubbing shoulders with the Titan of Baleros and learned a lot there.
…But he had ruined her career aspirations, that damn Fraerling. He’d made her look up and seen what she could aspire to.
Playing letter opener for Runners and discovering a couple cheating on each other or trading secrets for silver wasn’t appealing anymore. Fierre had watched Ryoka Griffin become a Courier. She was in Erin Solstice’s inn, and she was drowning in secrets.
But she had no real way to use them. Ryoka was her friend, and a good one—but Fierre had the opposite problem with her. Anything she could do—Tyrion Veltras could do better. Fierre might be able to pull some strings for Ryoka, but the Wind Runner didn’t need her.
She wanted to be more well-connected. And right now…Fierre’s head swiveled around the inn.
Bezale had an arm around Montressa. Not the moment to put a coin in Bezale’s ear telling her it was definitely the Merchant’s Guild who had orchestrated all the break-ins to the storehouses. They’d even torched one on the way to Invrisil, though the project was well and truly halted.
Some Guildmasters in the Runner’s Guild were in on it—the Driver’s Guild was abstaining but giving tacit blessing to the sabotage as they saw what the Archmage might manage. Fierre also knew where they were keeping the stolen spell circle. A caravan with a Chest of Holding capable of keeping that much stone without needing to break it into pieces was rolling towards Invrisil for study.
Thirty-three [Caravan Guards] rode with it and two [Hireling Mages]—if Fierre had any people she could call on, she could have offered a service to break the stolen stone or maybe even hijack the caravan.
She could not. She had the info—none of the means.
Frustrating. Bezale would buy the info off her…Fierre’s fingernails drummed on the table. She saw Lady Ieka sitting down, snapping left and right.
“Estvie, I want a scrying spell on Ryoka Griffin. Sirrah, if the [Merchants] try anything or know Ryoka is going after my aunt—take your entire squad and everyone and ride after her! Stab anyone trying to get in the way of either of them!”
“She—she’s unscryable, Lady Ieka.”
The [Head Maid] was out of her depth. Ieka hissed as her [Bodyguard Captain] pointed.
“I will leave two with you, Lady Imarris—no arguments. Do not leave the inn. If we had spells, we’d have a chance of catching either.”
“Use my [Speed] scrolls! Just try to keep up! But keep clear of my aunt—have your Spellshields ready. She…she might not appreciate interference, and she’ll cast any spell if she thinks you’re in her way.”
Spellshields, and Lady Ieka could manufacture or had access to [Speed] scrolls? Fierre wrote this down, greatly impressed. The [Lady] was too stressed out to realize she was being spied upon, and her [Maid], Estvie, had forgotten to deploy privacy spells.
Ieka paced around—then sat down and snapped at Estvie.
“Scry Ryoka—if you can’t scry her or my aunt, do a location search on the way north from Invrisil. You pick out coordinates, Estvie. First, you do as high up as you can reasonably do and when you locate—give me the orb, I’ll do it myself!”
She was at the heart of what was happening. Erin Solstice was actually in the background for once, talking to Barnethei.
“Yeah, Ryoka just left. She’s the only flying person I’ve got, sorry. If Peki was here—she’d probably kick Valeterisa out of the skies. Does Larra have a flying spell?”
“No one can match Valeterisa’s speed with [Levitation]. Your Wind Runner might be the only person who can catch her. Guildmistress Mihaela claims she couldn’t find Valeterisa from the ground. She might be hundreds of feet in the sky. Or thousands.”
What a conundrum. It seemed ridiculous that Larra the Haven, Erin Solstice, and Ieka Imarris were all stumped by the simple issue of elevation. Did she have a way to catch Valeterisa short of throwing Ryoka at the problem?
Hmm. Fierre had notes on that. She flipped open her own binder of files. She was sitting at a good table, near enough to hear Ieka Imarris speaking clearly, and she could eavesdrop on other conversations in the inn. It was her favorite place to be aside from her work office.
She just wished she had the ability to twist Erin’s ear or Larracel’s. Could she offer her services to either?
“Let’s see. Flying. Flying…Witch Alevica. Witch Mavika, but you need a really big lure. Maybe a rare bird in one of the menageries she can liberate? I should have bought a flying carpet.”
She needed agents. Trustworthy people she could get to do things. But the Vampire assassin was the only super-competent person she knew, and he had politely told her she wasn’t able to afford his services to put him on retainer. Which hurt, but was fair. If only she had gotten the chance to give the Maestro her card!
No reputation. Fierre sighed. Anti-flying contingencies aside from a [Mage] blasting someone out of the sky or a bowman on the ground? She muttered out loud as Estvie held something up.
“Lady Ieka, I hate to bother you—but your caravans at the city of Lellesk?”
“Not now! What is it?”
Ieka snapped—then realized even Ryoka had to find Valeterisa in the skies. As she manipulated the [Scrying] spell, trying to locate her aunt, she snapped about…Fierre checked her notes.
“Oh, right. Impounded caravans in Drake cities. Classic paperwork issue from Humans in the north meeting southern bureaucracy.”
She chuckled to herself. Estvie was saying much the same thing.
“Apparently the weapons and, um, artifacts you gave them are too dangerous for citizens without a Grade 2 Passport to carry.”
“But they’re not entering the city. They’re going to the new lands!”
“They stopped for feed and supplies, Lady Ieka. Because they were moving so fast—?”
“Reinharts take the Drakes! Have them leave the city!”
Estvie’s voice was a wail of someone failing in her position. Like poor Montressa. But in her defense, Montressa had just made the error of not vetting her [Mages]. Estvie just couldn’t take the pressure.
“They can’t, Lady Ieka. Since they entered, your [Caravan Leader] says he’ll either be impounded or the artifacts will be stripped unless they provide documentation.”
“They cannot—I do not have time for this!”
Ieka’s voice was a rising note of fury. The problem was—the Drakes could and would do anything their legal system allowed. Including stripping ‘dangerous’ artifacts off anyone not holding a Grade 2 passport.
Fierre shook her head as she muttered to herself, making a note in her binder. The Merchant’s Guild would pay a small sum to hear what had gone wrong so they could avoid it. How were you supposed to fix this? She checked her notes. She had gone to Pallass and studied the issue at their local offices. The Drakes were a bit surly and talked down to you, but the documentation was there, and you could even pay for a copy of the laws that most Drake cities adhered to.
“Grade 2 Passports. Normally, that’s a month of waiting as they verify you. What a pain. No wonder it’s so hard to get the caravan out once it’s been stopped. But…let’s see. You apply for a penalty since it’s not exactly weapons of war and they’ll kick you out. You come back and they’ll lock you up as a repeat offense. You can also rush a temporary permit so long as you’re a ‘person of interest’. I bet even a Human [Lady] can get Pallass to issue one for each caravan if you’re willing to breathe gold.”
She was writing all this down in shorthand to slip to Bezale and making a send copy, because she just bet this would happen again to foreigners passing through Drake lands.
Ieka Imarris, sitting at the table with Estvie, was not getting far with her [Maid]. Her head half-turned, and a sparkling opal earring swung around. She hesitated.
“I—what was…?—Estvie, focus. My aunt is flying away. I don’t have time for this! Will it keep? How long until they’re arrested?”
The [Head Maid] was gulping.
“I’ll ask, Lady Imarris.”
“One more day. Assuming they were impounded for two.”
Fierre muttered behind her papers, which were literally surrounding her in multiple binders of information. She could have built a miniature house out of her files; the only person who didn’t give her odd looks was Yelroan, who nodded to her and gave her a salute with his quill. She pointed two fingers back.
Lady Ieka sat oddly still for a second, despite the clear stress of a woman watching her beloved aunt and greatest ally flying off.
“Ryoka Griffin will stop my aunt. There she is!”
She breathed a sigh of relief as she located Valeterisa from above. Then her face went pale.
“She’s—shooting lightning at Miss Griffin?”
Fierre’s head snapped up. She stared over. That wasn’t good. She nibbled at the tip of her quill nervously, listening in.
“Captain Sirrah will never reach them. They’re already twenty miles out of Invrisil and flying so fast—is there any way to reach my aunt in the air? I can barely hover fifteen feet! She is the greatest [Mage] of her generation. If one of the Archmages were here—Magus Grimalkin? If I begged her, would Magnolia Reinhart lend me her coach?”
Ieka’s face twisted at the thought, but she was well and truly desperate. Estvie was silent, just—frozen with inability. But it seemed as if the [Lady] were listening. And this time…the sotto voce comment from the side from the black-haired young woman with crimson eyes and pale skin was clearly audible to Ieka’s hearing spell.
“Hah. Magnolia Reinhart? Her carriages are kaput. No more mobility for her. Even Tyrion Veltras can’t fly. Mind you, I bet Magnolia Reinhart has a flying artifact in storage, but she doesn’t have one on the ground. Magus Grimalkin flies as well as a rock. Alevica’s a bit of a coward, and you can’t move [Witches] without negotiation. No—there’s only one possible chance if you had to stop Valeterisa, but you’d need to be able to lean on the underworld hard. Damn it. Why didn’t I ever get in with the Circle of Thorns? Right, they burned all their brokers. But if I had the connections of a big gang…”
A grumping Vampire girl sat there, picking at one pointed tooth with a quill, giving her background commentary on everything she saw and heard. She actually did it a lot, and the Gnolls had long-since gotten used to Fierre doing it.
Most everyone else ignored Fierre. She was certainly used to being ignored. But the thing was, Fierre seemed to have forgotten she was no longer the short, malnourished, sickly girl always wearing a hood in Mad Madain’s quiet inn.
She was taller, considerably more healthy, and if you were a certain [Lady] with an eye for charm—you had definitely noticed her before. Fierre hadn’t leaned into the brooding style of shadows as hard as Gothica, but the [Goth] Goblin had copied Fierre for a reason.
She swept her slightly spiked, black hair back, looking self-satisfied, frustrated, and urbanely amused by her own understanding of the situation—and then froze as she reached for a cup of wine.
Mostly because Fierre realized Lady Ieka Imarris was staring right at her. The Vampire nearly spat out her drink—gave her an unconvincing look, and tried to slide down below the eye-level of the open folders of notes propped up.
Too late.
“You there. You’ve been listening to everything I just said. You—you were with Ryoka Griffin, weren’t you? Fierre the Opener? From Reizmelt?”
That was how Ieka knew her! She and Salamani had woken her aunt to begin with! Fierre looked completely different from the girl coughing into her sleeve that Ieka had met.
“I, uh—hello, Lady Imarris! What a coincidence! I’m just a guest of this inn. What an exciting, I mean, terrible, I mean, surprising affair!”
The Vampire girl fumbled as she gave Ieka a guilty smile. The [Mage Lady] was not fooled. She had been in the Circle of Thorns. She knew Izril’s underworld. She hesitated for just one second—then strode over.
“You’re the one who was tipping off Miss Bezale about the Merchant’s Guild. You’ve been selling information about my aunt’s activities this entire time! And you know about my impounded caravans and my aunt? You’re Bloody Secrets.”
“No I’m not! I—it’s just business, Lady Imarris! I’ve done nothing to go against you! Truly!”
The Vampire girl sat back in her seat, looking suddenly very nervous. Ieka’s two bodyguards twisted around, but the [Lady] held up a hand. She didn’t go against brokers unless they were in her way. Everyone knew secrets were scavenged, and it was rarely personal. You played the game. But what she had been muttering…
“What did you mean, there’s a way to catch my aunt in the air besides Ryoka Griffin? That’s impossible.”
There were almost no Garuda in Izril, and besides, most did not play games with people who shot lightning from their fingertips. Fierre stuttered.
“I said that out loud? I-I just meant—”
Ieka Imarris seized her wrist and felt a thrill as she realized Fierre was considerably stronger than she appeared as she nearly pulled Ieka off her feet. The Vampire girl steadied the [Lady] before she could tumble onto the floor, and both looked at each other.
