The eyes of Izril’s [Lady] shone—and Erin Solstice met them once with the gaze of Earth and her inn. Then she bowed her head and touched a hand to her head. She tipped her hat.
“Enjoy your food. And good luck.”
Then she rolled away, and Magnolia Reinhart sat back down at the table.
 
—-
 
They began eating as Erin and Lyonette bowed out. There were no spies—even Ressa stood outside the door, and she would allow no one, not snooping little Gnolls, not Shriekblade, nor Erin Solstice, to eavesdrop.
“I rather feel for that poor girl, Mrsha. She is an imp—but I believe Archmage Valeterisa was trying to extract hairs from her?”
“Did that happen? I must have missed it.”
Demsleth ate with his head low to the table. He had an appetite for five—he was a Dragon—but he looked ashamed. He ate with good manners, but every time he looked at her—
“Forgive me. I should have attired myself better. I can do so—but I have spoiled the mood. I am—”
He searched for words, his mismatched eyes lost in a sea of guilt and regret and patheticness. His eyes always mimicked the Dragon’s true gaze. Magnolia had once asked why, if it was so obvious, he did that.
His reply had been that eyes were windows to the soul, and even in his many guises—he should be honest in that.
Magnolia interrupted the Dragon’s lost expression and uncertain words lightly.
“I have seen you dress up in a pure white robe like some pretentious [Monk], oh great and stylistically inhibited Dragonlord of Flame. And you had the gall to claim it was fashionable because you wore it. As for your conduct—I once caught you licking a serving tray after we had eaten the turkey from it. A pig that wears clothing is still a pig if you have ever seen it eating from the trough.”
What a shot. Ressa, standing outside the door, coughed into her sleeve. She debated letting the curious little Drake, witch, and Mrsha creep over to listen. It was probably a good lesson in something.
Teriarch turned bright red as Magnolia smiled at him. She was still as elegant as ever—but her words and directness did not befit the attire.
But it was in line with the last three meetings they’d had.
 
——
 
The Dragon was confused. The [Lady] haunted him. Not in some romantic sense or even with guilt.
He was guilty that he had known this woman and forgotten it all. He was guilty that he had slunk away from the Revenant when Taletevirion had placed his life on the line.
He was ashamed that he had not inspired Rafaema or any of the mortals he had met.
He felt like a fool, a failure, an idiot, and unworthy of the charge placed against him. He…could not understand Naunce. When given the chance of a lifetime, how could you throw it away?
The terror of dying. That was his answer, and he was ashamed because he had no grounds to lecture her at all.
But he was confused by Magnolia Reinhart. Because she was not like how Rafaema treated him.
The Lightning Dragon looked at Teriarch like a legend who constantly disappointed her expectations. Pain.
Ryoka Griffin hovered in uncertainty, begging for stories and guidance and—help. A girl on a quest that neither she nor he could do alone, that they were not ready for. A young woman fighting as he had seen so many brave girls struggle against adversity. Agony.
Magnolia Reinhart called him fat. And old. And she had, apparently, a hundred and one stories, each involving him embarrassing himself in front of her.
…Rude.
“Surely there is one memory you have of our interactions—over the thirty years since you were sixteen—that revolves around me in some good light, Lady Reinhart?”
He muttered, beginning to dig into the sauce with a good appetite. All the spellcasting—he dipped the barley into the fiery sauce with these odd tongs made of wood. Culture from Chef Imani’s world, no doubt, and far different from what Erin Solstice knew.
Magnolia laughed softly.
“I’m afraid I can’t recall a single time.”
“What about in my august home in front of my true being and grandeur?”
He snapped somewhat peevishly. Magnolia tapped a finger to her lips.
“As I recall, you had an infestation of Face-Eater Moths in your food supply. Have you rooted them out?”
He paused—and the Dragon, who had slumped into his cave, suddenly raised his head in alarm and opened his preserved goods and began to rifle through his inventory. Magnolia Reinhart grimaced as she went on.
“I recall this because you were bragging about choice cuts of meat and had to show me some exotic cow that you had a cut of—you teleported a slice to me, and I had the most wonderful grub sitting on my plate. I believe I didn’t eat a steak for eight years after that.”
She had to be lying. But the truth spell he whispered inaudibly provoked nothing but the truth. Maybe she was a [Lady] who could fudge a truth spell—
Magnolia Reinhart raised her voice, sounding more amused. Nanette, Visma, and Mrsha were putting a cup to the door and listening—both Teriarch and Magnolia knew they were there.
“That’s another habit you have when you think you’re losing. You instantly begin to suspect your opponent of cheating. I cannot but play cards with you and win two hands before the truth spells appear. ‘Cheating is an art’ is your excuse, but there’s nothing artful about hovering a mirror behind Ressa to see her hand.”
Giggling and a ‘shush’ came from behind the door, and Demsleth-Teriarch turned redder. And still, he was confused.
Why was she doing this to him? Constantly tearing him down. Was he not torn down enough? Perhaps…and here he became gloomy.
Perhaps she was angry and this was her way of taking it out on him. He didn’t know her personality. He didn’t know her.
Eldavin did. Suddenly, the Dragon’s hunger abated, and he lowered the tongs and put his hands in his lap.
“It is amusing…in a pitiable way…that you mention my follies, Magnolia Reinhart. A foe of mine pointed out my penchant for the dishonorable blow not an hour past. I suppose the previous me would have called it ‘intelligent combat’. But it just reminds me that I, as you see me, am a coward. I am sorry I have not lived up to your expectations.”
To all of theirs. Magnolia Reinhart peered at Demsleth.
“—I fear you have still not understood my position, Demsleth. And you do fly around enough to make it hard to keep up with you. Have you let down poor Rafaema again?”
Again. She said it pointedly, but she wasn’t wrong. Part of him wanted to growl. But he just exhaled.
“I made a fool of myself trying to seek out those touched by ghosts.”
“Predictable.”
“I was barely able to keep ahead of Rafaema physically. I twisted my, er, leg.”
“You are significantly out of shape. She’s in her prime. I can only imagine she was humoring you to begin with. At least you didn’t break your leg.”
He paused a second and tried not to glare. It was all true. He deserved this.
“…And I proved myself a coward. I—I did not fight when I could have. Because I thought I would lose, you see? He had a weapon made to kill me. I cannot take them lightly. Even in my prime I would risk a mortal wound. And I am not…in my prime.”
That was why he hadn’t stepped in with Taletevirion’s duel. He had meant what he said to Rafaema: it was harder to beat Tolveilouka especially when not using his real body. He lacked coordination, and even Eldavin, his other half, was weaker than Teriarch in Dragon form.
But the real truth was that he had been afraid. Taletevirion was one of the world’s greatest duelists and seasoned by war. He had never lost his edge, despite his philanderous ways. In that moment…perhaps even as Unicorn and Dragon, Taletevirion was far more dangerous and far more ready for a war. The same with Rhisveri—for all the arrogant Wyrm had been unskilled in combat against an immortal of his caliber, he had been in fighting trim and unexpectedly good at magic.
Teriarch was not. He could barely fly around, his battle senses had dulled…he looked up, and Magnolia Reinhart gave him a blank look.
“Do…do you mean to say you thought you were in shape? This entire time? Demsleth, please. I have known you to get winded merely breathing.”
She meant breathing fire. And it was true that it was a tiring thing for Dragons…but she knew very well that he of all people should not need to gulp air after basic Dragonbreath.
The Dragon was getting angrier and angrier. He felt like she was putting needles in his hide like the Stitch Witch—who was apparently still knocking about causing trouble. His voice rose in a growl that shook the table and dishes and made Mrsha’s earwax vibrate as she pressed her ear to the door.
“I am—trying to tell you how pitiful I am. How wretched, how cowardly—I ran from a battle I knew I had every advantage in!”
Magnolia lifted a bit of barley dripping with sauce that tasted like tangy fire on the tongue.
“Excellent cooking. I wish I had given Imani a chance, but the dear girl was inconsolable for months. Rightly so. I had [Healers] looking after her until she stopped screaming at the sight of a bug. Demsleth, pitiable? Cowardly? Out of shape? What is new, pray?”
That was enough. He leapt to his feet, crimson with shame and anger. The Dragon pointed a shaking finger at Magnolia. And it did shake because—
“I do not understand it. Ryoka Griffin I understand I had a burgeoning relationship with. Rafaema? One she has every right to ask. But you? You claimed to me that we were great acquaintances for three decades! Yet you needle me, you belittle me—I was dead! I was dead, and at last I could rest until my entire people put a charge on me as heavy as the High Passes! If you know anything about me—if I ever revealed the secrets of my nature and past to you, surely you know what weighs on me. Have you no sympathy, woman?”
 
——
 
Ressa, listening by the door, nearly spat flames herself as she took a gulp of water.
“Get that salamander, Magnolia.”
She hissed, and Visma nodded energetically.
 
——
 
Magnolia Reinhart didn’t move, but she did flick off some sauce that had gotten onto her wrist as Demsleth nearly overturned the table. She looked at Demsleth, and all the wrath of the Dragonlord of Flame was upon him. Even in his false, Human body, he snarled with the flames that had melted Chandrar to glass—
And it bounced off her aura. The sauce in the fondue pot began bubbling, but the air on Magnolia’s side of the table was cool, warmed by two fireplaces in Erin’s inn. She raised a brow.
“I cannot count how many tantrums I have seen the Lord of Flame throw. But you humored a girl who would scream at you, so I suppose I have to weather the same in your senility. Sit down, Demsleth. Or will you ruin this fine meal?”
He sat down. He was so red-faced that he hung his head. He was going to go back to his cave and never come out. But Magnolia Reinhart didn’t give him any room to breathe. Like Captain Todi kicking a man in the gut when he was already on the floor, she kept going.
“I feel bad for Rafaema. And Ryoka…”
She pursed her lips.
“No, not Ryoka. For young Rafaema, I do feel a great degree of sympathy. I feel sorry for her, because she will learn what I learned as a young woman of sixteen when, quite by chance, I happened to meet a surly, cantankerous old man living in a literal cave. But you know, painful as it is, Rafaema must learn the same lesson I did. Which is that you are even more pitiful than you are claiming to be right now.”
He was already dead. Stop! The young audience listening at the door could actually see the old man through the crack sitting there, staring ahead with a face as pale as ash in ruddy cheeks. Magnolia was lecturing him as she took a slice of the chicken and dipped it in the sauce. He whispered.
“Why did you even wait for me, then? You came all the way from Oteslia—if you knew how wretched I was, you should have been glad I was dead—”
She splashed half her winecup at him and drank the other half. He blinked as the liquid hit him in the face. He inhaled to rage at her—and a finger of her will made manifest, her aura, pressed him into his chair.
Pink ire. Enough will to become a physical thing. Her eyes flashed, and he quailed as she raised her voice. It was direly amused, pained, and she was lecturing him, now. With memories.
“Oh, shut up. Demsleth, for a man who once danced Terandria’s Hundred Kingdoms on his thumb without swinging a single sword, you can be more obtuse than a rock when it comes to self-pity. You are everything I expected. In fact, I don’t think you’ve sunk to rock bottom. Rock bottom is falling for Wuvren’s charms and trying to posture all night by one-upping her suitors. She levelled four times that night, she told me. We didn’t speak for two years after that. If I can survive that embarrassment, I can survive anything.”
How low could he go? He wanted to put his head in his hands and vanish. And still—and still—
She haunted him. Magnolia Reinhart. This—this woman. He did not know her as a girl. He wanted to weep because Eldavin had stolen those memories, and if he only could kill his other self to reclaim what he was missing, he would.
Yet she haunted him, because when he peeked up and saw her green eyes dancing there like the Vale Forest blowing in the winds of summer, he saw no contempt. Instead, he finally placed what he saw there.
Laughter. She was laughing, amused, and yes, a bit sad. She was not filled with that—that loss and painful let down of expectations he had seen in Rafaema’s eyes or the hopeful uncertainty that burned in Ryoka’s, of a girl looking for a hero.
Magnolia Reinhart saw him. And her eyes surpassed a Dragon’s in that moment because they saw true. And they had seen it from the start.
Something changed. Just like he had once learned, long ago, to see the truth hidden in things, a young woman staring out of a Drake’s face, the fae in Winter Sprites, the nugget of truth in grand lies and the shape of the world—everything about his strange interactions with Magnolia Reinhart changed.
Consider…consider it another way. All her anecdotes about his embarrassing moments. He had thought it was some kind of powerplay or way to establish familiarity. And it was the latter. But—instead of a way to just put him down, perhaps she was trying to tell him something too.
Which was that she knew him. To be clear, she did not just ‘know him’ like Rafaema who had heard the tales and dug up stories of the Dragonlord of Flame.
She knew Teriarch. She knew Demsleth. She knew his lowest, most disgraceful—and realistically, lazy—sides. She knew the Dragon, who, as she pointed out, had sometimes slept for years at a time and woken up only to ask her what year it was or begrudgingly fix her magical carriage.
