This was the Dragon that Magnolia Reinhart knew, and so even now, at his lowest—she just gave him a familiarly exasperated look. Insulted him to his face, splashed wine on him—but she did not recoil or look disappointed.
Expectation. Slowly, Teriarch’s head rose. Then, at last, he gazed upon Magnolia Reinhart and saw it.
She had known him over thirty years. Thirty-one years exactly. He did not know the scope of it, but if she were like that Harpy girl he had once met crying while lost, the brave warrior who defied Dragons with naught but a dagger on Chandrar’s sands, or any other—
His heart hurt. He wanted to know who the girl had been. For this woman knew him—and knew him too well. Finally, he looked at Magnolia Reinhart and whispered.
“I—I suppose this must be one of my most foolish moments to you. Lady Magnolia of House Reinhart…did I call you Magnolia?”
“You said ‘girl’ quite often. But yes. Magnolia is how you tended to say it.”
She was smiling now, and her eyes seemed to come alive at last. He nodded. Then glanced down.
“What—do you think that I did wrong with the city of Onononno? Horre and…all the others I have met? Speaking as someone who knows me, that is.”
The [Lady] did not have to search for an answer. She drummed her fingers on the table and sighed.
“Frankly? Without being there, I can only guess from your descriptions that you are rushing. I think you’re impatient. Not just in trying to arm a thousand different people and help them with the frankly obtuse gifts and instructions the ghosts gave them—I think you’re rushing to become who you were again. You shouted at Rafaema about the execution. Told her to pull rank on her entire city when they raised her from an egg.”
He had done that, hadn’t he? He had been so angry—but in hindsight, they had raised her. Manus—and if they were anything like the Manus he remembered, military doctrine was in their blood. He should be grateful she wasn’t a [Soldier] saluting him and incapable of leaving a chain of command.
“I just have no time.”
“But you need time. Or do you really think a boy of fifteen can become a [Mercenary Captain] in a year? Perhaps he will not be ready—but you cannot rush him.”
No. He flushed, remembering how he had begun speaking of so much so fast. What a fool. You didn’t push them over the cliff like that.
“I am rushing. But I—I am trying my best. That is what is so painful. I am letting Rafaema down, and Ryoka and you. I am trying to become the one who was chosen for this weight.”
He closed his eyes painfully. That was the mountain. Or he thought it was the mountain until Magnolia Reinhart sighed—and shook her head.
“No you’re not.”
Teriarch cracked one eye open.
“…How am I not? I most assuredly am trying my hardest.”
She put her hands on the table and gave him the flattest and most direct stare he could remember this side of the millennium.
“Terrium Archelis Dorishe—”
His heart jolted because she knew his full name. His jaw, both Demsleth’s and his real one, fell open. Magnolia Reinhart snapped at him.
“—you are not trying your best. You are trying to look good while failing. There is a difference. You are gallivanting around, trying to impress a young woman and letting her down, and that is what you do. I should know, because I was that young woman. And you are shattering poor Rafaema’s dreams of the hero she came to find, and that is fine…because she will realize, she must realize that you are a flawed old man. But please. Don’t pretend with me.”
It rocked him. Demsleth fell out of his seat. A Dragon rolled down his hoard and lay on his side. He lay there like a brass fish, flapping one wing until he realized it was true.
He was not ready.
Of course, he had been saying that from the start.
‘This is too much for me.’ 
‘They should have chosen another Dragon.’ 
‘I’m old.’ 
‘I’m unfit.’ 
‘I’m slightly out of shape.’
And it was true. But what had he done about it? Run around trying to impress a Wyrm, pull the old ‘Dragonlord’ effect on him. Kill his false self, then impress a young Dragon while flying around bestowing wisdom on mortals.
It was…rather pathetic. Because it was a half-hearted attempt. It was a full-hearted attempt in a half-hearted manner, if that made sense.
If he was honest. If he was Teriarch, the Dragon who had been there and seen it, all of it—he had fallen down many times. He looked up at his hoard, up at Magnolia Reinhart, and saw it. She was looking down at him. Expectantly. Expecting him to roll further down and perhaps soil himself along the way…
Or perhaps, in that kind, exasperated look, was the same fragment of hope. Waiting for him to climb.
“I think you know exactly how to redeem yourself, old man. I think you know what you have to do, and it is neither easy nor simple nor short—but you do know. But you can’t do it while trying to show off for Rafaema or for me. Let her be disappointed. She’ll live.”
Just like she had. Teriarch whispered now, a lump in his throat.
“You…you say that with so little rancor. Did I shatter the dreams of a girl, once upon a time?”
 
——
 
Ressa was dabbing at her eye with a handkerchief. At last—at last—she closed the door with a click and activated the privacy spells. Instantly, three children attacked her legs because they wanted to hear, but Ressa shooed them away.
“Finally. It only took thirty-one years, Magnolia.”
 
——
 
The click made neither Dragon nor [Lady] turn, though they heard it.
Magnolia Reinhart took a shallow breath and hesitated. Her eyes flickered, and he knew the answer, but he waited, head hung low with guilt. He was—
His chest was rising and falling, and he was blinking too much. An old man, sitting there, with arms crossed across his stomach—no longer looking beaten.
Now he saw her, and her head was hung lower, her hair glittering like a memory.
There.
A young woman sat there, like the woman who had ridden across Izril to stop an army of invading Antinium. She had sat like that for thirty years.
At first—a girl of sixteen. Lost and awed, with the same glow in her eyes as Rafaema had now. A great expectation that turned to exasperation and anger and a sense of betrayal. A burning, passionate anger against more useless elders interested in only themselves.
Until she heard the stories and saw a dream of a morality she had never learned. A great burden no one had carried for generations sitting at the feet of her house. Then the awestruck hope became fear, and she was tired. And hurt.
Yet she had come back. And the woman…looked at Teriarch gently. His eyes, Demsleth’s eyes seemed red and watery, and they couldn’t look at her exactly. They kept glancing away, ahead, and his fingers were brushing at his eyelids as he covered his mouth.
“You didn’t shatter my dreams, Teriarch. Well—perhaps a girl’s. I think we all expect our elders to be as passionate as we are. To run around as if this is the first war they’ve ever seen. To have the perfect answers. It hurts—to realize they can’t do everything. Even a Dragon. It frightened me, just like I think it scares Rafaema, to see scars and realize what mortality is. Perhaps, the first time I asked you to take up a cause, it hurt. The first time you embarrassed yourself, I pretended that wasn’t you. Because I wanted a hero. But no one is a hero forever, even [Heroes], are they?”
She looked past him, and he was breaking up a bit inside. Pieces shaking like his heart and leaking out of his eyes. His chest was heaving—and still, she continued.
“…But the thing about Dragons is that one learns time is relative. I met an old, crotchety man who collected treasure and talked about his glory days and lectured me endlessly about the weight of the world. That was Regis Reinhart, my cantankerous ghost of a grandfather. Then I met you, and it was much the same.”
She took a breath, and her words were too smooth. She and he were feeling the exact same thing, but she was in a moment, like a performer, unable to break until the end.
“It took me a while to realize the difference. It was not just that you were kinder. You never told me what the final answer was. You told me stories. You showed me the difference between what was given to me and what I earned. The difference was—you had proven it a thousand thousand times, and if you lectured then and prevaricated now, you had proven every word you spoke. You never said it was easy. And it was not easy. When it was my turn and I realized I could do something, it was the hardest thing in the world.”
Her eyes brightened, and she sat there, and he remembered her honors. Hero of the Antinium Wars. She had taken her people south to fight a war that she had never been thanked for. That vision was still upon her, that Skill bestowed by the [Innkeeper] of Liscor and the [Spear of the Drakes].
But he also realized what it had meant. A girl had wrested control of her entire house from her parents. Defied her father and mother, taken on every relative and [Assassin] and stood in front of a conclave of her peers and demanded they ride to the aid of their mortal enemies. She had done it at the age of twenty-six.
Alone. She had no Dragon to follow across the horizon. Only a story an overgrown, fire-breathing lizard had told her in a cave. A true story, but an old one—and he had hid, spouting platitudes and claiming no high ground in another war.
He had not been with her when she stood before the Five Families and dared their honor and courage to follow her to Liscor. But she…she looked at him as he fell to pieces at the table.
“If it were not for you, I would have had no path to walk down. Sometimes we need to find it, behind all your silliness and failings. You are not the man you were, Teriarch. But we can find it.”
She had gone south, bringing the north of Izril at her back. They had never thanked her for it. History had forgotten most of what she’d done. A girl had done it—a woman without a hero of stories at her side. He had slept through it all and only woken and seen her shining across Izril.
Then the Dragonlord of Flames had flown and reduced two armies to ash. Just that. And she still said it was him.
Magnolia Reinhart was taking the Dragonlord of Flames to pieces. His shoulders shook, and water ran down his lined, ruddy cheeks. Still, she spoke, and her voice was low and gentle. Telling her story and perspective like a song.
“At first, I expected everything of you. Then I was hurt and disillusioned. But then I realized that it was not upon you to fulfill my dreams—but myself. Did you shatter my dreams? No. Say rather, Teriarch—the woman’s dreams were only deferred. I have never seen you ‘in your greatness’. Never once over thirty years. I have always known a silly fool reluctant to bestir himself. But I have faith that Dragonlord is in you. I see him when you aren’t trying. He slips out, between all the posturing and the ego. He inspires, well and truly. Believe me in that. I wouldn’t associate with you if there was no true flame behind all the huffing and puffing you do.”
She smiled at him, and it hurt more than being lanced with a Dragonbane spear. Because the trust—
“You are your most heroic when you make no attempt at it, Teriarch. And that is a quote I once heard from you. So please stop trying to live up to our expectations. If I must, I will watch you tumble all the way down your mountain of hubris. However low you go—I will be waiting for that day you recall you have wings.”
So said the [Lady], and she cast down the Brass Dragon from the dinner table and slew him with a lance made of words. Sending him slumping forwards, awash with tears. He lay there, all scars and jumbled memories and disappointment. But the reason Magnolia waited so patiently and the reason he had been chosen was this:
He was not the greatest Dragon of war to ever live. He was not the most cunning or the best to lead or inspire. But he was one of the oldest. And always, always—his daughter and every other person he had ever helped knew that no matter the era, no matter when, no matter how low he sunk—
Teriarch, the Dragonlord of Flames, would always spread his wings and fly.
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn was in a bit of chaos that night as the Dragon slowly walked out of his dinner with Magnolia Reinhart and looked around for Rafaema.
He was just in time to see Ryoka Griffin run past him. But she was too busy to stop and slow down.
The Archmage of Izril was leaving. Or rather, she had left, with this failed venture in her wake. Possibly to return only years later if someone woke her again.
She left her apprentice, the only people she could call friends and family in this world. Larra, Mihaela, the other regulars of The Adventurer’s Haven, Barnethei, and Lady Ieka.
If she left now, at the height of her fame and achievement, her name would fade out of the world, despite all she had done to rekindle it. The memory of her raising Fissival would fade.
Mistakes had been made. Stupid mistakes, and Valeterisa was not innocent in all of it. But her just leaving and letting it all collapse?
Unacceptable.
These were the facts on the ground. If you were reporting in like Drassi—and this was not a story that the world or television was aware of—it was a breaking story where anything could change at a moment.
It was real. An Archmage, even if she wasn’t an [Archmage], possibly taking herself off the board. Her entire project had been rushed, but the idea of it could have changed Izril if it was done right.
But the frustration…the frustration was here, in the air, as someone watched Ryoka Griffin dash towards the door.
“Liska! I need you to take me to Invrisil! I might make it—she has to teleport all the way north, right? I can’t catch her if she’s just—”
“My people destroyed her rune outside of Invrisil. You have a hundred miles. She’ll be in the air by [Levitation]. Go, Ryoka Griffin. Hurry!”
Lady Ieka Imarris was snapping orders, directing her servants and bodyguards around with her fan, her ocean blue hair a mess from raking her fingers through it—and yet her eyes snapped with the same magic Valeterisa wielded.
She would not give her aunt up without a fight. She had sabotaged Valeterisa’s own teleportation runes! There was an amazing irony to it—the same thing the Merchant’s Guild had done that had driven Valeterisa away might now keep her from disappearing.
There was only one Runner in Izril for the job who could catch Valeterisa in the air. Well—two—but Witch Alevica wasn’t reliable, and Ryoka Griffin had done this before. Technically, Salamani could—
The Wind Runner was flying after the Archmage of Izril to stop her. To talk sense into her and bring her back. Just like before—it made your blood thrill, didn’t it?
