Oh my. But for once, Ieka was focused. She looked the Vampire in her amazingly alluring red eyes.
“Do you know how to stop my aunt? Money is no object! And how do you apply for a penalty in a Drake city?”
“I—have an idea if Ryoka fails. It would only work to get close to Archmage Valeterisa. It might not be possible, but you’d need more than gold, Lady Imarris. To get your caravan out of trouble, I can write you a note on what to send to their Mage’s Guild. To apply for a penalty—you just have to second it to their City Hall or body of office. There’s an official byline they use in the subject line.”
That’s why all her [Messages] bounced? Damn Drake organization! Ieka was too busy to snap at Estvie—this was her fault. She was locked onto Fierre.
“Contacts? I have contacts.”
“It’s more than that, Lady Imarris. You—you’d need serious pull in the underworld. The, ah…”
“The Gangs? I have all the pull.”
Fierre’s eyes went round. She didn’t seem to know that Ieka had been in the Circle of Thorns, and highly placed. Ieka was no longer an active member of the group since the literal hunt—but the strange man, Melidore, at the Winter Solstice had absolved or saved her from the consequences of her membership.
So much so that even a broker had no idea of her connections. Now—Lady Ieka’s violet eyes were burning.
“Tell me. No—don’t tell me. Do it! And if you can bring my aunt back or free my caravans, I’ll hire you at double what you’d earn as a broker!”
Fierre’s mouth opened wide before she hid her pointed teeth. Drake ancestry? Ieka didn’t know and didn’t care. It gave her a dangerous look, and if the girl was half as good as her commentary—
The world’s fastest employee interview had one dangling clause. If Fierre had a way—
 
——
 
The Vampire girl stared at Lady Ieka Imarris. Scion of a powerful house. Not the most powerful, but a woman in need of talent.
Fierre the Talented was right here, and Lady Ieka was desperate. Ryoka Griffin, the heroine of the hour—was not doing well. She was dodging bolts of lightning the Archmage was throwing to keep her from getting near. Of course, she’d succeed in the end. Right?
But if she didn’t—if you weren’t putting all your eggs in the Ryoka basket—Fierre’s eyes swiveled to Ieka. If she really did have contacts and authority—Fierre had never considered working for a noble family. It could be dangerous, but she rather sympathized with Lady Ieka from everything she knew of the woman. She liked magic. Fierre liked magic. She was an innovator.
They had similar…tastes. Fierre made up her mind in one flash of sudden decision. She grabbed her papers. Ieka had put to her one task to prove she was worth hiring. Fierre had one question that would decide whether Ieka was worth working for.
“I can catch Archmage Valeterisa in the air. It just depends if you have the right—card.”
Lady Ieka stared at Serafierre val Lischelle-Drakle for one moment of confusion. Then—slowly—she reached into a purse of holding and plucked something out of it. And the Vampire girl’s eyes gleamed like blood.
 
——
 
Archmage Valeterisa was heading home. She was flying through the air to her next teleportation circle. Someone had smashed the relay point near Invrisil.
 
Thought-Process #46 (Side Projects): Repair teleportation circle Invrisil. Reinforce magic. Cloak each.
Thought-Process #56 (Diction): Repair the teleportation circle at Invrisil. Reinforce the magical bindings. Cloak each magical circle.
Thought-Process #11-45, exc. 39 (Magical Project, Codename “Automaton”): Thought-Process #56 is useless. Terminating.
Thought-Process #2 (Navigation): Wind picking up. Adjusting course.
Thought-Process #1 (Breathing): In. Out. In. Out.
Thought-Process #3 (Danger): Something is coming from the rear. [Detect Life] shows it is a Human. Redirecting issue to #8. Me. Analysis?
Thought-Process #8 (Analysis): Human. Female. Black hair. Querying memory. ‘Ryoka Griffin, Courier’. Flying. Spinning off a dialogue process.
Thought-Process #56 (Dialogue): Communicating.
 
The power of [Parallel Thoughts] was not in simply optimizing the power of the mind to multiple tasks. Valeterisa knew this from the warnings she had read in books. Division of a single whole meant each component part was weaker.
The power of [Parallel Thoughts] was, in part, to compartmentalize. To devote energy to small tasks or to focus completely by spinning off yourself until you no longer…felt. Until you no longer cared about hunger because it was being managed by a fiftieth of you that didn’t care if it was eating slop.
The same for pain. A [Mage] could divide off a part of themselves to scream in a battlefield and cast spells while being burned from within by magic. The power of this Skill was in part—to stop being yourself.
She was over fifty thought processes. She had never been this divided. But it was working.
“Hello, approaching (Ryoka Griffin). I am Archmage Valeterisa of Wistram. Please state your business and do not interfere in my progress. Good day to you.”
The woman spoke with a bland smile on her face as the Wind Runner shouted at her.
“Archmage! Come back!”
She didn’t recognize Ryoka Griffin. Oh, the memories were there—but not enough parts of Valeterisa cared. The communications process paused a second.
 
Thought-Process #56 (Communications): Looking for directives.
Thought-Process #8 (Analysis): Request to go back. Unable to ascertain the full scope of the inquiry. Escalating.
Thought-Process #11-45, exc. 39 (Magical Project, Codename “Automaton”): Unhelpful. Continue to mansion. Ignore.
Thought-Process #56 (Communications): Understood.
 
Valeterisa’s smile was blank as Ryoka Griffin labored to keep up. The [Levitation] spell keeping Valeterisa moving through the snowy clouds was fast. She had [Haste], [Rush Spell], and [Windshear Barrier of Air] all speeding her basic [Levitation] spell. At this rate, it would take less than an hour to get to her next teleportation circle, but Ryoka was right there. All she had to do was get Valeterisa’s attention. She’d done it once before.
“Archmage—”
“I am not interested! Thank you. Please desist in future communications or I will lodge a complaint at the (Runner’s Guild). Goodbye.”
Yet the Wind Runner persisted. She flew closer—and here Valeterisa’s scattered thoughts began to take appropriate measures.
 
Thought-Process #56 (Communications): Communications have failed. Requiring further input.
Thought-Process #3 (Danger): Alert. Wind Runner of Reizmelt is approaching via air. Memory indicates she once beheaded Archmage Eldavin, an allied member of Terras faction. We may be in danger. Escalating!
Thought-Process #11-45, exc. 39 (Magical Project, Codename “Automaton”): I am in personal danger? Diverting 9 thoughts. Do not let her near me.
Thought-Process #3, 11-19 (Self Defense): Engaging in self-defensive spellcasting. Allocating mana from magical studies. Mobile, flying Runner. [Paralysis] check—failed. Magical protections. [Chain Lightning].
 
Valeterisa’s eyes began to glow. She spoke.
“Any attempts to near me will be met with lethal force. You have been warned. [Chain Lightning].”
The air crackled, and lightning, slower than the bolts that came from natural clouds, but no less deadly to mere Humans, crackled from her fingertips. She turned her head and pointed a finger.
“Oh sh—”
A bolt nearly blew Ryoka Griffin’s glider apart as she dove with the wind’s help. She snap-rolled up, shouting.
“Valeterisa! I can’t let you go! Please—”
 
Thought-Process #56 (Communications): Ryoka Griffin has indicated she is unwilling to desist. Communications useless at this stage. Self-terminating.
Thought-Process #3, 11-19 (Self Defense): Kaalblade activated. Memory indicates paralysis-mode. Do not let the Wind Runner approach. Deploying mobile [Forcewall] fortifications. Apply seeking magic arrow spells and continue firing lightning. Requesting four more processes—aim.
Thought-Process #20-45, exc. 39 (Magical Project, Codename “Automaton”): Granted.
 
Her aim sharply improved, and this time, Valeterisa winged Ryoka Griffin with a bolt of lightning. It missed, in point of fact, but the charge from the bolt made Ryoka Griffin’s entire body go numb for a second. She peeled away rather than risk staying near Valeterisa, but kept shouting.
But now a cloud of [Arrows of Flame] was streaking from Valeterisa’s other hands, lighting up the wintery sky as Ryoka Griffin dodged and rolled. She kept shouting…but her voice was lost. Valeterisa wasn’t even listening.
That was the thing. There was no way back to the woman unless the part of her focused on the project of creating lost magic, the majority of her, decided it was necessary. Or another subsection of her thoughts required that much of her.
The last time she had ‘woken’ and dissolved the processes, it was because she had assumed she was under attack and had prepared for battle. Currently, though, barely 13 of her thoughts were necessary to keep Ryoka Griffin off her, and the Wind Runner’s glider was already on fire from the flaming arrows, trailing smoke.
Not a part of Valeterisa cared enough to even consider going back. She was now a beautifully dedicated, single-minded individual. Many thoughts, but a single mind, all devoted to the only thing that mattered:
Magic.
Every part of her was united towards the cause, even if that was in the form of something like breathing or self-defense or making sure she wasn’t dying of hypothermia. All except…one.
And that was one little part of her that was spun off to deal with things as pesky as…emotions.
 
Thought-Process #39 (Brooding): That’s Ryoka. I like her. I miss Montressa. Maybe I should go back. Escalating?
Thought-Process #10 (Priority Management): Navigating towards mansion. Defending against Wind Runner. Researching magical project. Aside from life support, these are the only goals. Thought-Process #39 is useless. Terminate.
Thought-Process #39 (Brooding): We had an apprentice. I liked her. Maybe I’m right?
Thought-Process #10 (Priority Management): #8. Analysis?
Thought-Process #8 (Analysis): Incorrect. The apprentice, (Insert Name Here), has cost 20,000 gold pieces and a week of effort. Months of deferred time. Her limited Skills are not useful. Disregard Thought-Process #39. Terminate.
 
And that was that. Valeterisa flew on, occasionally casting spells at the helpless Wind Runner. Invisible sticky webs were working to great effect. Ryoka had crashed out of the sky; a snowdrift had saved her from breaking her bones—but she was wary of getting into range. Valeterisa would soon lose her. The Archmage began spinning more of her thoughts back into her project as the Wind Runner was less of a threat.
Until another process raised an objection.
 
Thought-Process #39 (Brooding Guilt): Is some of this affair my fault? I said horrible things to Montressa. Now I regret it.
Thought-Process #10 (Priority Management): #8?
Thought-Process #8 (Analysis): Guilt is not a useful emotion. Terminate.
Thought-Process #39 (Brooding Guilt): But I—
 
Gone. Valeterisa inhaled. Exhaled. Then—
 
Thought-Process #39 (Brooding Guilt Fact Checking): I am only here to check on some facts regarding our memory. This is highly important for our understanding of reality.
Thought-Process #10 (Priority Management): …#8.
Thought-Process #8 (Analysis): How are any memories in dispute?
Thought-Process #39 (Brooding Guilt Fact Checking): We were incorrect. We lied when we shouted at Montressa. We said that this was her fault.
Thought-Process #8 (Analysis): How would this not be her fault? She hired the [Mages]. She…requesting another process to investigate memories.
Thought-Process #8-9 (Analysis-Memories): It was clearly her fault. She improperly vetted the [Mages]. She should have realized they were incapable.
Thought-Process #39 (Brooding Guilt Fact Checking): Yes. But did we do that? We are superior to Apprentice Montressa. We didn’t double-check anything she did.
Thought-Process #8-9 (Analysis-Memories): Her job as an apprentice is to manage inconsequential tasks.
Thought-Process #39 (Brooding Guilt Fact Checking): So none of the fault is ours? Would this hold up to a [Detect Truth] spell?
Thought-Process #8-9 (Analysis-Memories): …Requesting four more processes.
Thought-Process #10 (Priority Management): Granted.
 
Now, her thoughts were rushing together, replaying relevant facts. Montressa was at fault. She was clearly at fault. She had been so—so—
 
Thought-Process #8-9, 51-54 (Analysis-Memories): Excitable. Flawed. She did not envision any issues. The Merchant’s Guild also interfered. This project was a failure from the inception.
Thought-Process #39 (Brooding Guilt Fact Checking): I was happy about it. Is that worth nothing?
Thought-Process #8-9, 51-54 (Analysis-Memories): It is. Feelings are meaningless.
Thought-Process #39 (Brooding Guilt Fact Checking): I demand a thought-process to clarify my feelings.
Thought-Process #10 (Priority Management): How is this relevant? Feelings are meaningless. Terminate.
 
There. Settled. For two seconds. Until…
 
Thought-Process #39 (Brooding Guilt Fact Checking Level Gains): I levelled up in Fissival for the first time in eight years. That mattered. It matters to magic. Escalating.
Thought-Process #20-45, exc. 39, 40 (Magical Project, Codename “Automaton”): Correct. Spinning off a process.
Thought-Process #39-40 (Level Gains): How I felt matters. Eight years of work gained no levels. I was upset in Fissival. I was glad to start this project. So was Apprentice Montressa.
Thought-Process #8-9, 51-54 (Analysis-Memories): She failed.
Thought-Process #39-40 (Level Gains): I request another thought process for memory. Have I not failed as a younger [Mage]?
Thought-Process #10 (Priority Management): For the sake of resolution, granted.
Thought-Process #39-41 (Level Gains): I recall messing up Milaw’s clock. He had worked so very hard on it. It was beautiful magic. The moonlight shone out of a gem, and I took it apart. The Wall Lady’s clock fell apart, and his reputation was ruined. His gold was wasted. I cried.
Thought-Process #8-9, 51-54 (Analysis-Memories): This is not helpful to magic.
Thought-Process #39-41 (Level Gains): Is this factual or not?
Thought-Process #8-9, 51-54 (Analysis-Memories): It is.
Thought-Process #39-41 (Level Gains): Montressa failed. She made a mistake. I have made a mistake. Why did I blame her for everything? I could have checked on the spell circles. I should have.
Thought-Process #10 (Priority Management): There are not enough thoughts to come to a conclusion. Dividing 8 thoughts off, four to each side.
