On the third day, Valeterisa asked Montressa if she was ready for the trial teleporting. She had just used her new Skill.
[Arcane Discovery]! It was like…a moment of inspiration. A moment of insight that you had when puzzling something out. Every week, a little bubble would pop and Valeterisa would realize how something could be done.
In this case, she had puzzled out some of the mechanics of the famous spell, [Valmira’s Comet]. She had always known it was meant to be used en masse—but she had never realized that the spell itself was configurable.
Of course! You could make it larger, smaller, faster—Feor had mass-produced the spell in the now-famous battle with Eldavin, but he could have vastly altered the spell.
All spells were like that. She wrote down her notes and was glad to see Montressa practicing in the morning. They were still [Mages], after all.
“[Master Spell: Levitation]! Archmage, I’m doing it, I’m doing it!”
Montressa floated out her window, nearly lost control of the spell, and panicked. Arms windmilling, she nearly took a nosedive, but Valeterisa caught her and sent her floating back into her room of the Haven.
“So you are. Be careful not to land on your head, Apprentice.”
She smiled, vaguely pleased. After all, it wasn’t as if Montressa had learned [Levitation] overnight. But she did have a Skill.
[Apprentice] was an odd class to gain at Montressa’s level, but it had unexpected results. One of these was [Master-Apprentice Spell]. Just like how Montressa could borrow some of Valeterisa’s expertise with [Master, Allow Me], she could also ‘copy’ a spell from Valeterisa. It did seem like Valeterisa had to approve it, so she had opted for the spell that would give her apprentice much-needed mobility.
“Very good, Apprentice. Are you learning the spell by casting it?”
“I am—balancing the ‘lifting’ is hard. I nearly threw myself straight down!”
“Levitation and gravity spells are merely a matter of direction. Keep practicing. I would like to test the teleportation from Sanito to Liscor.”
“Oh…”
Montressa hesitated. She checked her [Message] scroll and bit her lip.
“Um—we may have to double-check some of the spell circles. Some of the [Mages] want you to see their work.”
“How many layers are they up to?”
Montressa checked the top of her list.
“Palt just got to three! He says it will take—two more days? Oh. The others—”
She fell silent. And then Valeterisa felt the first familiar sensation she did not like. It was…a memory. It reminded her of her talks with Maviola El where the energetic older woman would be raring to go on a project. And then, after Valeterisa delivered the designs or finished the enchanting work…
Less communication. Less of that bright spark of enthusiasm. But she didn’t see the problem.
Until she began checking the spell circles.
 
——
 
Palt the [Illusionist] didn’t ask for a double-check of his work on the third day. Four [Mages] did—and the seven others were silent. But of the four, only one had no errors.
“You need to redraw your base layer. It is…unfixable.”
“U-u-unfixable, Archmage?”
“Yes. You went straight over the activation rune here. And the connection…”
It was done with a shaky hand. Valeterisa stared at the [Mage] who had painstakingly melted the gems and apparently singed up their hands with molten gemstone.
“Did you not draw it out earlier? You could have made a funnel for the gemstones.”
“Oh. Oh. I just—I thought I could draw it on the stone, but it was harder than it looked.”
Montressa’s face was an entire wince. Two entire layers of the five-layered spell circle were wasted. Valeterisa put on her work-smile.
“It is alright. Simply redraw it. Consider laying the lines out in a blueprint.”
“I will absolutely do this, Archmage. Could I—could I have more gemstones? I’m also out.”
The Archmage paused as she turned away.
“…How are you out of gemstones? You should have had enough to spare.”
“I did! But the purification left less than a third.”
Valeterisa’s head slowly turned to Montressa, and the [Aegiscaster] began speaking quickly.
“I see what the problem is. We should have established how you purify—I think it’s a matter of how you heated it. Can I see your process? And your purification spell? I’ll walk you through parts of the first layer. Archmage, give me—one hour? We will need more gemstones.”
That cost money. And more than Valeterisa thought, because when she sought out the [Gem Merchant] in Invrisil and a [Stockpiler] in Pallass, both revealed their prices were up 50%.
“I’m sorry, Archmage. You bought up our immediate surpluses. Supply and demand.”
 
Budget: 17,534 gold pieces.
 
After all four spell circles were checked, only one could be used without a complete redraw. And Montressa’s query revealed all but Palt and Bezale needed more gemstones. She vanished, promising to correct the issue.
“I’ll run every [Mage] through a basic lesson in purification, Archmage. And check on their spell circles.”
Valeterisa tried to relax after that. She wrote a [Message] to Telim and Sa’la and felt incredibly awkward when both replied with delight within five minutes of her sending. She spent the rest of the day talking to them…and trying not to notice Montressa returning.
It seemed she needed more gold for more—corrections to spell circles. So by the end of the third day, the [Gem Merchant] informed Valeterisa he would be resupplying his stocks as soon as possible. He even advised her she could wait so his prices would go down. As that was not an option—he gladly took her gold.
 
Budget: 14,444 gold pieces.
 
——
 
Valeterisa was making a puzzle in her room. No one wanted to carry her puzzles after she had made one inaccessible without the use of magic, but she liked making puzzles.
It was somewhat of a contradiction. Valeterisa actually liked solving blacksmith’s puzzles. But she had solved every single one she had ever found without exception. Lacking a challenge, she had made challenges and quite enjoyed the process of making puzzles as difficult as possible.
She was making this new one entirely mundane and not thinking about her budget. Or the gemstones. Or this being anyone’s fault.
Montressa’s room was next to hers, and it was past midnight as the Archmage worked until she was tired enough for a [Sleep] spell to take effect without delay. She was glaring at a piece of metal she was bending so that it would lock into place unless you removed it—
—When she heard voices outside her room. She never remembered to close her door properly—then again, her apprentice couldn’t wake her unless she opened the door. Valeterisa would sleep through a thousand knocks.
Up late, probably with her friend. This was why she had forgotten to remind Valeterisa of the ceremony with the Blighted Kingdom.
The Archmage grumped until she heard a voice.
“You’re up late, Miss Montressa.”
Only Larracel and sometimes Barnethei occupied the graveyard shift. The Haven’s [Innkeeper] didn’t seem to need to sleep, and Valeterisa remembered asking her how she did it. She assumed magic, but Larracel claimed it was years of being an adventurer and taking sentry duty.
Montressa’s voice was weary and quiet.
“I was in Celum, Miss Larra.”
“Checking the spell circles?”
“Yes. I—I think we solved the issue. It’s my fault.”
“Mm. The [Mages] didn’t know how to draw them properly.”
It was a statement. Valeterisa nodded, and Montressa paused before replying.
“I’ll make sure they do it right. We’ll definitely have the House Sanito to Invrisil route done. If I could teleport, I’d go over, but…”
Larracel’s voice was quiet, and they sounded like they were moving away.
“Nonsense. You’re nearly mana burnt. Go to your rooms. I will wake you early with a special breakfast. An [Energizing Special Meal]. Nothing silly like Miss Solstice’s scones.”
“Thank you, Innkeeper Larracel.”
“It is Larra, my dear. Keep at it…”
The murmuring turned quiet, and Valeterisa pointed at her head as she put her puzzle aside. There was no market for it anyways. That was for fun.
“[Sleep].”
 
——
 
The fourth day had good news for Valeterisa. Bezale was done with her spell circle, and it was perfect. No flaws, and the sweating Minotauress beamed as Valeterisa checked her work and found nothing to correct.
She had laid it on a splendid foundation, and even better, all three [Mages] along the Sanito line reported they were done with their spell circles.
“So soon?”
Montressa paused over breakfast, looking tired. Valeterisa frowned at her.
“I thought they were behind. Didn’t you give them aid?”
“No—we wanted to test by day three. And I did send them [Messages] regarding the gemstones, but I barely got to Invrisil by midnight teaching the other [Mages]. I—suppose their circles work. Should we send something to House Sanito?”
Valeterisa picked up one of the cups from the Haven.
“Let’s send it circle by circle.”
Bezale herself operated her spell circle, and it glowed as the cup sat in the center of the circle. The [Mage] in the town closest to her confirmed their circle was active—and all they had to do was push mana into it and it would be good to go. Valeterisa had manually written the coordinates of each spell circle down so they were linked to the one ‘ahead’ and ‘behind’ them in the chain.
She waited, smiling, as Bezale’s circle activated. The Minotauress was sweating as she activated the circle. The cup—
Didn’t move.
Bezale gasped as the mana flowed out of her. Something had triggered—Valeterisa’s smile slipped. Montressa was chewing her lip hard as she danced from foot to foot.
“Perhaps the spell circle on the other end wasn’t joined? Can the [Mage] re-check their linkage? We—I can go over there if you teleport me, Archmage.”
“Try one more time.”
Valeterisa hesitated. It should work. Bezale wiped sweat from her brow, and Valeterisa realized something else was wrong.
She’s down to half mana pool already. The Minotauress had a very small mana pool compared to Montressa or Palt. Hence her being a [Spellscribe]. Valeterisa saw Monstressa slowly feeding mana into the spell from the side, giving Bezale a boost. She said nothing—but this time, she watched closely.
The spell circle was functioning perfectly. It activated and—
Nothing connected the link. Valeterisa spoke into the silence as Bezale sat down, face grey from mana exhaustion.
“Something is wrong in the town of Layyve. I will take us there. Tell the other [Mages] to hold.”
This time, Montressa was very quiet as they headed to Valeterisa’s private teleportation rune. It could send the two of them a hundred miles, but it wasn’t optimized for the bulk items. Valeterisa had amended this spell for the project of hauling lots of goods, which even Erin’s door struggled with.
“Um. Archmage…”
“We will inspect the spell circle. I assume it may just be a minor error. A single poorly-written line would short the spell.”
“That’s true.”
 
——
 
The [Mage] in Layyve was self-taught. Which didn’t matter in principle. Great [Mages] could arise from self-study and collaboration. Fissival was built on this first type of magic.
If they had issues drawing the spell circle, they could have said so. Or asked Montressa. Or perhaps…mentioned that they had never drawn a spell circle before.
Valeterisa didn’t understand it and said so. She stood in front of the nervous man.
“If you do not understand how to draw a spell circle, why did you not say anything?”
He said nothing. His lips were pressed together, and sweat rolled down his face. Valeterisa stared at the spell circle.
It looked…almost like her drawing. If you assumed a child had drawn it. Not even the circle in the ‘spell circle’ was perfect. And the gemstones!
Hundreds of gold pieces’ worth hadn’t been melted properly. He had used a [Potter]’s kiln to melt it, and the impurities and gem mixture had already been cooling when he poured it. The last bit—and this was damning—was the dirt.
He hadn’t cleaned the floor of the rented warehouse perfectly. And if you put gemstones on even a smidge of dirt, the gemstone flaked off with the dirt.
“I—”
Montressa stared down at the circle, but there was nothing to salvage. Valeterisa peered at the man.
“I know your name is Mage Monterroc. You were very talkative four days ago. If you could not do this, why didn’t you say so?”
He said nothing. He just—didn’t. She had a sudden urge to lift him up and shake him—but there was no point to doing that. Valeterisa stepped back.
“—If Bezale uses three times her mana supply, she could reach Selic. She could store it up for a transit while we correct—”
She was figuring out a solution, and Montressa began nodding.
“We can do that, Archmage. And we’ll—figure out a solution here. I can come back and write the spell circle. If I take three days, I can have it done.”
“Very well. Very well. But—let us go to Selic first. And then House Sanito.”
Something was dawning on Valeterisa. A cold pit of fear in her stomach. And she was striding off to the teleportation rune to see about those other two ‘completed’ magic circles.
 
——
 
They never found the [Mage] in Selic. No gemstones. No [Mage]. The warehouse had been bought—but the [Mayor] in the town claimed the [Mage] had asked for the deposit back.
The [Mage] that Alman Sanito had vouched for was a Wistram-trained [Mage]. Just not an expert in the enchanting, runecrafting, or scribing spell schools.
“Spell circle? I’ve been working on it for four days! It’s done, right here!”
She proudly led Valeterisa over to a spell circle, and Valeterisa was relieved to see it was in a storeroom, the spell circle was on clean stone—she bent over it, about to congratulate the [Mage] when Montressa spoke in a strangled voice.
“The—there’s an error in the circle.”
“What? No. I copied it perfectly! Where?”
The [Mage] was instantly defensive. But Montressa’s finger rose, and Valeterisa pointed.
“There.”
“There.”
They pointed at different spots. Valeterisa’s finger twitched. She looked at Montressa’s spot in layer two—and the one she had found in layer five. Then she counted.
…Six errors. And the problem with spell circles was this: they were not made in charcoal. You could not just…erase a section and re-do it easily. If you were lucky and it was in a later layer, you could re-draw it.
But one of the errors was in the first layer. That was an almost complete redraw, and the [Mage] kept apologizing for the error and claiming they hadn’t spotted it.
