Jessica hefted her spear with ease, not even needing a skill to intercept her opponent’s attack. The parry didn't sting her hands, or rock through her arms, or put her on her back foot, or anything.

Her opponent, however, growled in frustration as it was like he just hit a wall. Jessica was smaller than him, and back on Earth, where the laws of physics actually meant something, she'd have been thrown onto her back—it wasn't even a matter of talent. But this world was different, and her level was higher.

Undeterred, he gripped his spear and charged in once again, stabbing forward. Jessica dodged to the side and then spun her spear and drove the blunt back end into his side. He instantly hit the ground, breathing heavily and clutching where he was hit.

The training spears had dulled blades, but she knew from experience they still hurt and could break bone, so she whacked him once more with a safer portion of the shaft, sending him sprawling in the dirt.

The other trainees clapped and whispered amongst each other as the battle instructor said, "Well done, Elva."

She walked over to her opponent, Hragaar, and held her hand down to him, offering to help him up. "Good fight," she said.

His true expression was hidden behind the angry one his mask portrayed, but what he did next signaled that the mask wasn't actually too far off. He slapped her hand away as he picked himself up, snatching up his spear.

Laughter and chuckles rose from amongst the other trainees. Jessica looked around, confused. Usually that kind of laughter had been directed at her, but not this time.

“Well done, Jessica,” she heard Iris say into her head. She spotted the pup lounging atop a large boulder that overlooked the practice yard, her tail flicking lazily as her white eyes took in every detail. Jessica insisted that Iris be allowed to shadow her throughout her days, though she wouldn’t involve the Hell Hound in most of the training.

“This means nothing! Stop your laughing!” Hragaar yelled at the others, throwing a tantrum.

"Hragaar!" the instructor yelled, "You dishonor yourself!"

"She's cheating!" he complained. "She was nothing just weeks ago!"

“And you are nothing now if you don't honor the will of the Almighty and the outcome of a duel.”

Jessica canted her head, remembering how this guy was one of her biggest bullies, but she didn't exactly want revenge or anything. She didn't care about that. She was glad she wasn't constantly being picked on anymore.

"I can't deny it's not exactly a fair fight," Jessica said to him. "You are very skilled; it would be difficult without the level differences, I think. My week in the forest has done me well."

She thought her words would reassure him, but they only seemed to anger him further. With a shout, he suddenly lunged at her again.

Jessica’s spear was still lowered at her side, but her reflexes were faster. She brought it up just in time to catch the first strike.

Hragaar pressed forward with a series of powerful two-handed swings, trying to overwhelm her. Jessica held her spear with only one hand as she deflected each blow, making no attempt to counterattack.

“You should stop,” she said calmly, deflecting one attack after another. “The duel was over.”

“It’ll be over when you bleed!” he yelled.

His stance suddenly shifted. Then he slid forward unnaturally, the spear in his hands jabbing again and again with startling speed. The barrage reminded Jessica of watching DBZ with her brother, when Goku or someone else would unleash a blur of punches. Hragaar must have learned some kind of rapid thrust skill.

However, the thrusts were fast, but they were also weak; whatever she couldn't deflect with a quick pivot of her own spear, she easily side-stepped thanks to her Footwork skill.

She considered just letting him hit her once so that he'd feel better. But despite all she'd grown, she still didn't like pain and preferred to avoid it when possible. Besides, this particular classmate of hers was always one of the more ruthless bullies before she had become strong. If it were someone else, perhaps she really would have allowed him a freebie.

Instead, as he drained his own stamina and became sluggish with his movements, she made a sudden forward movement as she slipped away from a thrust and swept his legs out from under him, throwing him into the dirt behind her.

Passive Skill Level Up! Footwork lvl 2 > 3!

+3 dexterity.

Oh… Nice! That’s my second skill up today!

The class erupted in laughter as Hragaar pounded a fist on the dirt.

"Alright, enough Hragaar," the instructor said. "Let someone else have a shot at her."

A few of her classmates eagerly readied their spears and started murmuring amongst each other, discussing who should go first. Hragaar, looking utterly defeated, slinked towards the back of the group, where less attention would be on him.

"Battle Master!" a girl with a smiling mask said, stepping forward and bowing. "If Elva accepts, would it be alright for multiple to face her at once?"

He considered it for a moment, then nodded. "Elva, will you accept a three-on-one challenge?"

"If it's what everyone wants," Jessica answered.

He pointed out three trainees, who quickly stepped into the open area.

"Spread out," the battle master instructed. "There will be times when you face someone stronger than you—someone who can spill your blood and send you to the Almighty. You may not be able to defeat such an opponent alone. But with numbers and sound strategy, even a great warrior—man or beast—can be brought down."

The instructor’s mask turned toward Jessica. "Elva. Use your spear properly this time. Punish them for stepping into your reach."

Jessica only acknowledged him with a glance. She personally didn't particularly like that idea. However...

“Jessica,” Iris's voice spoke in her head. She looked up to where the hellhound lounged on the boulder, watching everything from above. “Dominate this fight. End them quickly.”

Jessica tilted her mask at Iris.

Why is she asking me to do that now? She didn't complain about me taking it easy on Hragaar.

“Impress them with your skills. Show them what it means to have an advanced class, and let them see it is not only levels that set you above them.”

Well, if that's what Iris wanted, Jessica supposed she'd have to listen. Following Iris's lead had allowed her to survive so far, and she didn't want to disappoint her either. She felt she had finally earned the Hell Hound's respect, and that was much more important to her than the tribe.

"Begin," the battle master commanded.

The three students ran at her at once, each closing in from a different direction.

“Break out of their circle by charging the one before you head-on and throw him into one of the others.”

Jessica did as Iris ordered, charging the largest of the three. Instead of attacking, the boy flinched at the last moment and raised his spear to defend himself. Jessica feinted a strike and slipped around his side. He spun with his spear, leading the motion, but by then she was already in position.

She slid forward and launched off the ground, driving a kick into his chest that sent him crashing back into the second boy.

The girl, however, moved quicker than expected and was on Jessica before her feet could touch the ground again.

Jessica’s eyes flicked toward her just in time to see the spear thrust streaking toward her ribs.

Good timing, Jessica thought.

She twisted in the air, barely getting the shaft of her spear up to defend herself.

Then, her Footwork skill turned what should have been an awkward landing into something smooth and controlled. The girl lunged forward for a follow-up attack, but the spear merely grazed Jessica’s side instead of striking cleanly, and the instant her boots touched the dirt, she pivoted.

Her own spear flashed out.

Crack.

The shaft struck the girl’s spear near the midpoint and knocked it wide. Before the girl could recover, Jessica stepped forward and drove the butt of her weapon into the girl’s stomach.

“Oof—!”

The girl folded and dropped to a knee, gasping.

The two boys recovered and were spreading out as they approached her, more defensive this time, and from the way their masks tilted at one another, it was clear they were trying to close in on her and attack from opposite sides at once.

“Let them attack,” Iris ordered. “Defend everything, use your skills, show them you are untouchable before finishing them.”

I'm not untouchable, though… Jessica thought with a sigh.

But her actions proved the thought wrong as the two boys came at her at once. She parried, sidestepped, dodged, and would throw them off balance as she slipped around them. When they lost their pincer attack formation, they would move to reform it, which she allowed, waiting for Iris to tell her to end it.

I guess I am helping them get better as well, so that's kind of a good thing. It’s not like I’m just picking on them, Jessica thought. She knew Iris only told her to fight this way for the sake of showing off how much better she was.

Finally, Iris gave her next command.

“Now, put down one, and finish the fight by using Meteor Dive on the other.”

Meteor Dive!?

Jessica gulped upon hearing that order, and her delay caused the bigger of the two to manage to get a hit on her. The force of the blunt spear knocked through her armor and into her core. She spun after the attack, swinging her spear wide to back them off, then used {Blink Line} and chained it with {Nerve Strike} to drop one of the boys. She then turned—it was one-on-one now, and Meteor Dive would be major overkill to finish this fight with.

“Now, Jessica. Show your superiority.”

Her fists clenched around her spear. She didn’t want to do it. She could actually hurt him with that skill!

No, she wouldn’t do it. She understood the logic and what Iris was trying to accomplish, but she thought the Hell Hound was all wrong in her decision. It was too much overkill.

So instead, Jessica simply charged forward, breaking through the boy's guard easily, attacking once, and then throwing him to the ground and stopping with her spear at his throat.

All of the battle students cheered and pounded their weapons on the ground.

"Well done, Elva!" the battle master said.

Jessica reached down to help the boy up, and this one accepted her aid. Once he was on his feet, he bowed. “Thank you for the battle, Elva Wyrmscar.”

Jessica bowed in return. Oddly enough, bowing as such after a duel is something the tribe never did before. It’s just what she started doing back when she faced the open challenges on the main plateau because it felt respectful to do so, and it's what she’d see in movies and stuff. However, ever since then, she noticed most of the other trainees doing it as well.

"Excellent strategy cornering Elva," the battle master complimented her opponents, taking the center of attention. Jessica took it as a sign she could fall in with the crowd and stop being the center of everything herself. Though as she walked back, she glanced at Iris and saw the unhappy narrowing of Iris's eyes. She did not seem happy about Jessica not obeying her.

It's okay, Jessica thought, I'll smooth things over with her later and explain why I think it was the wrong call.

"You three were not able to overwhelm Elva as you had planned, but this was not a bad strategy. However, next time do not take for granted that your superior numbers will win you a fight. When you corner a stronger opponent, use feints, think about position more than pressing the attack, and wait for an opportune moment to strike. If she were forced to remain defensive by you not allowing her openings of your own, she would eventually make a mistake. Even the greatest of warriors will display an opening at some point when pushed long enough.

"Elva, as for you—excellent work holding them back, but you will not always have such overwhelming strength on your side. You did, in fact, leave several openings on yourself that they did not manage to capitalize on, but against a great opponent, such a falter may cost you your life."

"Understood, battle master," Jessica said, bowing her head.

"Good. Class dismissed for the day. I'll see you all here at the same time tomorrow morning," the battle master said.

All students pounded their fists on their chests. "Thank you, battle master!"

With that, most students began to disperse and crossed the rope bridge, but several came up to Jessica, taking off their masks and holding them under their arms to talk to her.

"That was impressive, Elva Wyrmscar. It was an honor to duel you," one of the boys said.

The girl whom she had downed came over, rubbing her stomach but winking one eye as she held her mask under her arm. "I underestimated how fast you were. I thought I'd be able to get you there."

"You almost did," Jessica answered, turning towards her.

Someone else instantly asked, "What level are you now?"

"Level 10, I haven't had a chance to hunt again."

“Did you really defeat a great monster on your own?”

“Um, Iris helped.”

“What’s it like commanding a Hell Hound?”

“Well, it requires a lot of mutual trust…”

She turned from one to another as everyone tried to talk to her, and she calmly tried to be polite and answer everyone. Most of them had taken their masks off, but Jessica kept hers on. With it on, she hoped people would mistake the awkwardness she felt for being stoic. With it off, she was sure people would see her for what she really was—no great warrior, just someone who got lucky enough to have been granted certain skills.

Then, Iris spoke in her head, cutting through all the questions.

“Excuse yourself,” the Hell Hound ordered. “Tell them you are going to train with me in private, then call me to your side.”

Jessica put up a hand. "My apologies, I should go now. I still wish to get in some training with Iris today."

"Oh, we understand; sorry for keeping you!" the girl said.

"Yeah, I look forward to next class!" another said.

Jessica nodded and began walking away, calling over her shoulder. "Iris! Here, girl."

Iris's Aether Wings bloomed from her back as she shot up and then glided back down, landing in a trot by Jessica's feet. The trainees pointed and whispered in awe as they watched her.

“Show me affection,” Iris ordered.

"That's a good girl, Iris," Jessica said, kneeling down and petting her head briefly. Then they continued to walk across a rope bridge together. It seemed everyone in the tribe was buying the act that Jessica was indeed the master of the Hell Hound, and not the other way around.

“Why did you not use meteor dive?” Iris questioned once they were out of earshot of anyone else.

“Because it would have hurt him, and it was unnecessary.”

“I wanted you to display the difference between your power and theirs.”

