“It was a bad idea, Iris,” Jessica argued. “Everyone would have seen how unnecessary it was, and they would think I was just being cruel. They would have lost respect for me, and they already know I’m strong, so it’s not worth it. They all saw, or at least heard about, how we defeated those older and stronger challengers together.”

“But they listen to strength.”

“No, not just strength. I don’t really know much about being a leader, but I think one who dominates through strength alone will end up having their followers resent them. The moment they don’t think you are strong enough, or they think they can overthrow you, someone might go for it. But if they respect you and believe that you are looking out for their well-being, then they will never betray you. Just look at what almost happened to Valrok; everybody was really close to turning on him, even though he is the strongest.”

“This… is a good point,” Iris conceded. “But you hesitated. You didn’t listen. In battle against stronger opponents, that can get you killed.”

“When we’re fighting monsters or enemies trying to kill us, I’ll listen to you. I trust you with that. You’ve kept me alive until now. But when we’re dealing with tribe members… I think that’s something I need to decide for myself. These people are not like anyone I used to know, but humans still act like humans, and I understand them better than you do.”

“Very well. I will trust your judgement,” Iris said as she trotted ahead, then she added, “Good girl, Jessica.”

Jessica winced behind her mask. Iris had picked that phrase up from her. It was natural to say it to a dog, even if Iris was unlike any dog Jessica had ever known, but having someone say it to her just felt… weird.

Several tribe members and masked warriors acknowledged them as they made their way through town. Her reputation around here was like night and day compared to how things were just a couple of short weeks ago.

As they crossed the final bridge that would lead to their personal plateau, Jessica saw that her aunt was standing there with three other masked warriors. It took a moment for Jessica to realize she recognized two of them.

One with the snarling mask was Korrin, who had been the first of her challengers. The other was Saelin, the girl she had fought who wore a mask with a shocked expression and had two swords sheathed in an X at the small of her back.

Jessica’s tent was folded up where she’d left it this morning near Iris’s kennel, which hadn’t been used since they returned from the forest. Iris was no longer kept caged.

“Elva! How went today’s training?” her aunt asked.

“It went well,” Jessica said, coming before the group, and Iris came to sit on her haunches beside her.

The two male warriors stood at attention, Korrin giving a respectful bow. Saelin, however, kept her posture side-facing and arms folded, her mask looking at Jessica through the corner of its eye. Jessica hoped her aunt didn’t have more combat sparring planned for her today.

“Typically, when a newly integrated warrior is ready,” her aunt began, “they will go on a hunt with a team made up of their class in order to focus on gaining levels. However, you’ve already grown at an exceptionally fast rate and none who are your own age are ready. So, I think it is appropriate to do things a little differently.”

Jessica looked between the three warriors, already having an idea where this was going.

They were all at least a few years older than her, but all except for Saelin seemed to regard her with respect.

“I’ve gathered these three to be your hunting party,” her aunt went on to explain. “With the strength of you four and Iris along with you, I believe heading to the Redmaw Peaks and hunting Drake Wolves would be the perfect place to press your skills even further, and to bring Iris to her next evolution.”

Korrin stepped forward. “It would be an honor to hunt alongside you, Elva Wyrmscar.”

Her aunt nodded at the other boy. “This is Draven. He will be the party leader, as he is the most experienced and has hunted the Redmaw Peaks several times before.”

Draven stepped forward and pounded his chest. “I did not get the honor of dueling you during your open challenge, but I witnessed your strength and would likewise be honored to lend my blade and knowledge on your first Drake Wolf hunt!”

Saelin didn’t seem to match their enthusiasm, but her aunt placed a heavy hand on the older girl’s shoulder. “Saelin here is one of our sharper young warriors. She has a good head for the hunt, and I expect the two of you will learn much from each other.”

It was hard to tell what Saelin was thinking behind that mask. The mask itself looked like a shocked expression with the mouth in an oval, or maybe even a scream, like that one painting that was so famous back on earth. Jessica knew Saelin was unhappy about how her duel with her had gone, as she was clearly skilled with her swords but was completely unable to put them to use, thanks to Iris staying out of her range and helping Jessica control the pace of the fight.

“I look forward to our hunt,” Saelin said.

No pledges of honor or lending her blade like the other two… Yeah, she doesn’t like me… Jessica thought.

“When will we be leaving?” Jessica asked.

“Two days,” her aunt answered. “You’ll spend tomorrow preparing, and then I will lead you four by Direwing to a known camping ground.” She nodded to Draven. “Draven has been there several times before, though this will be his first time acting as party leader.”

Draven straightened a little at that. “I know the route,” he said. “There is a narrow pass where the drake wolves like to move at dawn and dusk. If we make camp before nightfall and keep the wind in our favor, we should be able to track them without drawing a whole pack at once.”

“That would be ideal,” her aunt said. “Do not treat this like a simple leveling hunt. Drake Wolves are cunning, and the mountains belong to them more than they do to us. Your roles will become clearer once you are in the field, but remember this—hunting is not a duel. If one of you sees danger, speak. If one of you is injured, the others adjust. A dead warrior gains nothing from stubbornness.”

Jessica nodded. “Will we be hunting only drake wolves?”

“That depends on what the mountain gives you,” her aunt replied. “If opportunity presents itself, take it. But do not lose sight of the true purpose of this hunt. You need experience, both in terms of levels and working as a unit, and Iris needs prey worthy of helping her evolve.”

At that, both boys glanced at the Hell Hound with renewed interest. Saelin’s mask angled slightly toward Iris as well.

“Well then,” her aunt said. “You all have preparations to make. Check your gear. Rewrap your rations. Make sure your waterskins and medicine pouches are in order. I’ll also provide you each with a healing potion for emergencies. Meet here at first light the day after tomorrow.”

The two boys saluted with fists to their chests.

Saelin only gave a short nod. “I’ll be ready.”

One by one, they turned to go. The boys crossed back toward the bridge together, already beginning to talk in low voices about routes and wind. Saelin lingered half a second longer, her strange mask studying Jessica before walking off.

Once they were gone, Jessica let out a breath. “Was this Val—Father’s idea?”

“No, it was mine,” her aunt answered. “Your father has still not returned. Almighty knows what’s taking him so long.”

“Do you think… that means he found them?” Jessica asked, glancing down towards Iris.

“Perhaps. Or he decided to blow off some steam on a different hunt. It wouldn’t be the first time he got caught up in his own hunting plans.” She then nudged Jessica’s shoulder. “But you continue to impress me. The tribe has certainly turned towards favoring you. I hear rumors and gossip across every plateau.”

“Oh… that’s good.” Jessica still felt very weird about how much attention she was getting. “I’d like to do some one-on-one training with Iris now. If that’s alright.”

“Of course. Come to me if you have any questions about your upcoming hunt.”

With that, her aunt left the plateau, crossing the rope bridge.

“Is that your warband?” Iris asked as soon as they were alone.

“Uh, I don’t think that’s the right word. Just a hunting party.”

“You are not the leader.”

“Yeah, well, it would be crazy to make me the leader at this point,” Jessica said, pacing to the far side of the plateau, where she knew it’d be impossible for her voice to echo towards any ears. She still thought it was a good idea to keep it a secret that Iris could talk. It was much safer for her for everyone to assume she was basically just an animal, albeit a powerful one.

“I suppose this can’t be helped. But if we impress them on this hunt, will you lead the next?”

“Um… maybe? I don’t know.” Then she muttered in a lower voice, “I’m not sure I even want to be leader.”

Iris’s tail flicked. “You should not be content to remain beneath others.”

Jessica took off her mask and set it on the ground as she leaned against one of the posts holding the boundary rope at the far end of the plateau. The cool breeze coming up the mountainside and brushing her face felt nice after being inside a sweaty mask all day. She put her hands behind her head and looked down at Iris. “Why are you so set on gaining power amongst this tribe anyway? You know… once we kill Valrok, there wouldn’t be much reason for us to stay anymore, right? I mean… once you have your revenge, why don’t we just leave? Maybe you could even find your family.”

Iris sat on her haunches, staring off the mountainside. They were so high up that clouds blocked their view of the world below. “I would like to find my family. But I also want strength. I want such strength that nothing can be taken from me again.” She turned her gaze up to Jessica. Those glowing white eyes of hers set in dark fur looked haunting when her expression became so intense. “You should want this as well, Jessica.”

“I mean… yeah, I want to be strong,” she said. “But I don’t want to just think like that.”

“Like what?”

“Like… Like everything in the world is something that can be taken away at any moment. Living like that just sounds exhausting.”

Iris studied her. “Perhaps. But it is the truth of the world.”

Jessica sighed. Everything was taken from both her and Iris, so she couldn’t find the words to argue the thought. In her case, it was a random meteor falling out of the sky. In Iris’s case, it was humans, the very tribe that they now lived and trained amongst. She couldn’t deny Iris’s truth because everything really had been taken from the pup.

“I’d like to think of a future where we can live peacefully,” Jessica said, a little quieter. “Maybe I’m just being naive, but…”

“Naive?” Iris tilted her head.

She let out a breath. “It means, uh… I guess it’s just believing things can be better, even if you don’t really have a good reason to believe it yet. But there’s another word that basically means the same thing. It’s optimistic.”

“Optim… istic…” Iris seemed to mull over the word.

“Yeah. Like, I believe we can find your family, and I believe we can find somewhere to be safe with them! I’m optimistic about that. I want you to be optimistic too.”

Iris let her gaze linger on the clouds below for a long while. She seemed to be mulling over Jessica’s words. Eventually, she said, “Wanting a thing does not make it real.”

“But believing it can be real is the first step to getting there,” Jessica said. “Like, say there is a thousand miles of desert in front of you, but on the other side is paradise. If you didn’t believe in what was on the other side, you would never even take the first step.”

Again, Iris mulled this over for a while before countering, “Becoming strong is the first step.” And with that, apparently done with the philosophical argument, Iris turned and padded towards the center of the plateau. “Let’s train.”

Jessica frowned. She took a moment to just feel the cool breeze against her skin, letting it whip her brown hair over her face. Finally, she put her mask back on, grabbed her spear, and followed Iris.
