"If the wrong people find out," Zach jumped in, speaking quickly like he expected someone to tell him to knock it off. "It would be really, really bad. Just, so bad. Like—" He expanded his hands outward in a kind of exploding motion. "I know the type of people who would want control of what he can do. They wouldn't even kill him and risk not getting his Gift as a skill drop. They would just make him kill others, and that would be way worse."

Thomas made a face.

"I won't tell," Jo said, then quickly added, "although I am seriously peeved that you let me kill all those fish. I thought I was doing something wrong."

"If it helps, I really wanted to kill the fish too," Thomas said. "We left potential crystals behind, and that really bothers me."

"I should be unholy-angry at you right now." Then Jo let out a long sigh. "But the sword I used came from your drops. I kind of owe a lot to you."

"Your hands are the ones still using the sword."

"And my hands are steady whenever I grip a sword because of you," she said. "Both my skills came from you, too."

That was true.

"But you don't owe me anything," Thomas insisted, hoping she would see he absolutely meant it. "And that would still be the case even if you said you didn't want to dungeon dive again. I wanted you to come with me. This was a really tough dungeon even with a guide to walk us through. I don't think we would have made it this far without you."

Zach nodded in agreement. "Yeah, crystals come and go, but the memories are forever."

Jo twitched a smile, and Thomas sensed she was slowly being won over. "It has been fun, though next time I'll skip the almost drowning bit. All right," she added, "I wouldn't have told anyone anyway, and I guess I can see why you didn't tell me about it right away. I'm just glad this wasn't some weird setup."

"Setup?" Thomas asked.

"You know." She tilted her head back and forth. "Two guys, one dungeon."

Thomas opened his mouth, about to object, then saw things from her perspective. Yeah, they'd run through the Grizzly Bear dungeon together, but they barely knew each other. Then he'd asked her to join them on a dangerous dungeon with another stranger out in the woods. He was surprised she'd said yes.

Zach took one look at Thomas's face and started cackling. "Dude, you creeped her out."

“You were the other half of the creep factor,” Thomas told him.

"Anyway," Jo said pointedly, changing the subject. "Let's take a look at the neat things we have here, courtesy of Thomas's unfair Gift."

She took a seat with them and laid out the crystals she'd scavenged from the turtle. The dungeon had rewarded them well. It was a very good haul.

They got another A-grade Air, two smaller B-grade Earths, an A-grade Poison, and two A-grade Healing crystals. Plus, an item drop that seemed to be a fancy bag.

Zach whistled. "No way that's natural, even with your Gift. There's definitely something leaning on the drop table here."

"Well, hopefully they did it for the exit reward too," Thomas said, then glanced at Jo to set expectations in case she got excited for more loot. "My Gift doesn't affect the exit rewards, so they're pretty normal."

"For most people," she said, and sniffed, "that is the best reward of the dungeon."

"I wouldn't know," he replied dryly.

She rolled her eyes, but there was definitely fondness there. It seemed he had conditionally earned her forgiveness. "Okay, Mr. Loot, what's with the bag?" She tossed it to him.

It seemed to be a plate-sized fabric bag: deep blue with a sparkling star design on it and a golden drawstring currently pulled tight to snug up the top. It was also completely flat with no weight to it whatsoever. All indications showed it was empty, but something about it made it feel like there was something more to it.

Thomas showed it to Zach, who shook his head and shrugged. He didn't know what it was either.

He was about to just open it and see what happened when he saw a little tag on the drawstring itself. It had been positioned low against the scattering star design, so he hadn't immediately seen it.

"Bag of Wishes," he read. "Three of three remaining."

"Wish for more wishes," Zach said immediately.

Jo looked hesitant. "Um, do you think it could be one of those monkey's paw wishes? Or an evil genie situation?"

"Well, I didn't think so before," he said. "So thanks for that."

Jo sent him a grin.

"Oh hell, if this goes wrong I can just heal myself," Thomas muttered, then opened up the top. Nothing flew out at his face, so he carefully stuck his hand in.

Something from outside seized his mind. A silent demand that rang through him like a bell tolling. If it had been made of words they would be stark and to the point: What mana do you want?

But even that word "want" was overlaid with wish and crave and desire.

The voice was so strong that he flashed to an answer immediately: Adaptation.

After all, it was what he needed for his final mix to reach level 3.

And just like that, the bag was no longer empty, but filled with three crystals so large that he had to pull them out one by one. He now had three perfect grade A, level 3 Adaptation crystals.

"Whoa," Zach said.

"Are those Adaptation?" Jo asked.

Thomas blinked and felt like he was coming out of a daze. "Yeah, it asked me, and it was kind of like when someone tells you not to think of a pink elephant, then you do." He looked at the tag, and it said 0/3 remaining. "I wish I had known what this was ahead of time so I could have thought of something completely off-the-wall and amazing."

"Next time you see one of these bags, you will," Zach said, then cheered. "But Adaptation mana, dude. Hell yeah!"

He decided to take a cue from Zach and be happy for what he had.

"Level three, here we come. Actually—" Thomas looked around. The fish weren't trying to jump and get at them. The boss was dead and wasn't coming back, and it would probably be a couple of hours before it really started stinking. They didn't seem to be in an area where the tiny mosquitoes were hitting him either, which was good because he was pretty sure both Zach and Jo had lost their personal shields.

They were as safe as they could possibly be right now for being in the dungeon.

"Let's split up the loot," Thomas suggested. And if there was enough healing mana for him, he fully intended to break into level 3.
