Yet I push on because what use were skills if they didn't let you overcome your limits? For example, I might not be able to run, but I can jog, and my jogging was equivalent to most people’s running.

Still, it was weird moving through the forest on my own. Without Tabitha by my side, every shadow stretched that much farther and was more menacing, even though I knew nothing was there. Moreover, the forest was unnaturally still in the wake of the elemental's march, to the point not even an insect could be heard.

But despite all my fears, I make it to the tree unmolested. Of course, it takes entirely too long to scale the tree and grab our bags, and I curse leaving our stuff so high up all the way down, but I successfully retrieve our supplies.

When my feet touch the soft forest ground again, I move to grab my waterskin to take a sip, only to pause at the sloshing sensation I feel when grabbing it.

“Ugg,” I scoff, remembering we no longer have regular water. But then again….

Tabitha did say the toad’s poison was a powerful muscle relaxant; maybe it could help with the pain I'm sure she's feeling.

I make my way back toward Tabitha as fast as possible with renewed purpose. And even though I had faith she would be ok, I cannot help but sigh in relief when I’m once again standing over her sleeping form. I wanted to collapse then and there, but my struggles weren’t over yet.

While balancing all our gear on my back, I bend down and gently pick Tabitha up. I consider taking a sip of toad eggs when all my muscles start screaming from overexertion, but I didn't have the Poison Resistance skill yet, and I couldn't risk both of us being incapacitated at the same time.

The fact that Tabitha didn't immediately wake up upon my touching her was a good indicator of how tired she was. Meaning I was the only thing standing between her and danger, should danger come knocking.

With Tabitha in my arms, I turn towards the direction the elemental departed. If I follow the same path it took, then I should be able to avoid any dangerous beasts. But I needed to hurry, the light was dimming by the second, and we couldn't camp here where it smelled of death.

I would find us a safe place to camp for the night. Tabitha would do the same for me; it was only fitting I return the favor.

"Let the journey continue," I chuckle as I find my legs shuffling forward.
