It had gone quiet, she realized. Callan had stopped his muttering at some point. His silence, though, felt deliberate. At this point she knew the kid well enough that she didn’t need to see him to know when he was thinking about something.

“What?” the demon said bluntly.

“Sorry, it’s just—” Callan stumbled over his words, struggling to voice his thought. “It’s just, do you ever feel, I don’t know, lonely?”

She raised an eyebrow. “What do you mean?”

“I mean, you don’t remember anything. Anyone. Wouldn’t that feel, I don’t know, a little empty? You must’ve had a family back when you were a human. Friends.”

Pyre was silent for a moment, simply continuing to weave through the crowd. She was no longer surprised when no images or flashes of memories rose at Callan’s words. She’d gotten used to the black void of her past by now.

She opened her mouth, ready to tell Callan that no, she was actually doing pretty damn well if she did say so herself, but she paused. For a moment, her mind wandered back to the pit, to that lump with the stuttering voice who’d seemed so desperate to be understood. She pursed her lips.

“I wouldn’t know,” she finally said. “It’s not like I’ve got anything to use as a reference.”

Callan was quiet at that, so she continued. “What about you?” She raised an eyebrow. “I heard those guards talking about your parents back in the forest. You gonna visit them?”

“…I shouldn’t,” the ghost said quietly.

“You could, though.” Pyre’s voice was matter-of-fact. “They wouldn’t even have to know you’re there.”

“I know. But I still shouldn’t.”

The demon shrugged. “Suit yourself.” She turned the next corner at the ghost’s direction, then slowed down as her surroundings suddenly quieted.

The shops and stalls and passersby disappeared. Instead, a row of trees lined the sides of the road, a few ichor lights shining in their branches. On the earth, the ichor streams converged into two larger paths that framed the road on both sides like guiding beacons. The silver lines proceeded forward, disappearing into the solid stone building constructed in the very center of the village.

The first thing Pyre noticed about it was its shape. It was circular, a stark contrast to all the squares making up the rest of Winrow, with a wide arch above its door. The next thing she noticed were the guards. There were at least ten of them that she could see, standing mixed between the decorative (or magic) stone pillars circling the building.

The third thing she noticed was the damage. On the road, deep slashes gouged into the earth like scars. She could see dents in the dirt where rubble or other stones had fallen. One of the tree trunks was cracked, and the building itself had scratches marring its stone exterior. The door, in particular, looked like it had been completely torn apart, then hastily patched together again with an additional two guards posted in front of it for extra security. Hell, if Pyre squinted hard enough, she thought she could see some faint old bloodstains on the stone, too.

Callan sucked in a breath beside her, and the demon didn’t blame the kid for his reaction. It was clear something had happened here.

Still, Pyre strode forward in casual strides, ignoring the wary glances thrown her way by the guards or the way they tightened their grips on their weapons. They really couldn’t be more obvious if they tried.

“The sanctum is closed, sir,” one guard in the front said with a gruff voice. Pyre paused.

“Oh, really?” She gestured at the street behind her. “I’m traveling. I was just at—”

“Morris,” Callan helpfully whispered.

“—Morris’s shop. Was hoping to get a look at the sanctum.” She’d briefly considered mentioning praying or paying respects or something, but considering she didn’t actually know what went on at a magic ichor sanctum, she decided to keep it vague.

Thankfully, the direct mention of the shopkeeper’s name seemed to calm the guard down some. He shook his head.

“You picked a right time to travel,” he muttered.

“Was it the chimera?” At the sharp gazes shot in her direction, she grinned placatingly. “Morris mentioned it.”

“…Yes.”

Pyre nodded. She took a few steps closer to one of the scratches in the earth, bending down as though inspecting it. “Looks like it did a number,” she said casually.

“It was strong.” The guard’s voice was somber. “Far stronger than we were ready for.” He released a shaky breath. “We—We weren’t prepared. It appeared so suddenly.”

Pyre could practically sense Callan hanging on to every word. Clearly this had happened after the kid had left the village. The demon made what she hoped was a sympathetic noise.

“Did you guys take care of it?” she asked, though she could already tell what the answer was from their faces.

The guard shook his head. “No, we… we were unable to follow it. It disappeared into the woods.”

It made sense that the patrol she’d ran into were there, then. They’d been looking for the thing.

Pyre figured it was probably still in the forest somewhere. She was planning on hunting it down eventually, both for her own curiosity and because it probably had interesting subtrait shards. That was on the backburner, though, compared to getting the crystals. If anything, she kind of hoped it got more powerful by the time she faced it. It would make for more subtraits, probably, and a more fun fight.

“Damn, it really just appeared out of the blue like that?” She shook her head. “Hope it doesn’t come back.”

“It shouldn’t,” the guard said. He straightened. “We’ve sent out a few patrols to look for it. One of them confirmed it went north.” Except it was actually her that they’d ran into, so who knew what direction it actually went.

“Winrow itself should be secure for the near future,” the guard continued. “The beast came for the crystals. Now that it’s succeeded, it should have no reason to return.”

That made Pyre pause. She looked up sharply. “The crystals.” Her voice was blunt. “The evolution crystals?”

The guard looked a little confused, but he nodded.

“It took them.”

Another nod.

Pyre stared at the guard for a moment, silent. In her ear, Callan cursed quietly, voicing her own thoughts.

Well, shit.
