A Redfang shouted a warning. The Humans had spotted their tribe, and a few were loosing arrows even now. They fell far short of the approaching Redfang tribe, but it was enough to make Garen eye Esthelm twice. The city was small, but its defenders looked ready for a fight. They must have retaken the city. By the laws of leveling and classes, that meant they would be tougher than before. Not a city he would assault if he had a choice. And he didn’t need to anyways.
“Go around city. Ignore it.”
“Watch out for arrows.”
One of the older Hobs instructed the others. He looked to Garen, his one good eye flashing at his Chieftain out of a scarred face.
“Chieftain, what to do if Humans shoot arrows?”
“Hmm?”
Garen turned his head. He looked for the grizzled Hobgoblin’s face and saw a Drake grinning at him instead.
Her scales were blackened, as if by soot. Many were missing, so her burnt flesh stood out instead. On a Drake, it was a disturbing sight, but her entire body was like that. Burned, ashy. Scarred by her nature. She was of the Oldblood, but cursed by it. Fire burned within her, and unlike the Drakes who could breathe flame, it had ravaged her. She was an outcast among Drakes, a Scorchling, rumored to be cursed or tainted. But those were only rumors. To Garen, she was his friend.
Halassia Evergleam smiled as she thought about his question. She shrugged lightly and tapped the wand at her side.
“Shoot arrows at you? Don’t worry about it. If they try, I’ll block the arrows with a spell.”
“And I’ll swat them down, don’t worry about it!”
Another Drake, also female but broad-shouldered, laughed and slapped her chest. She was a full Drake, but she was an outcast in a different way. For different reasons. Ukrina had been exiled from Drake society for what she was known for, rather than her looks. She was a Turnscale, a word Garen didn’t quite understand. But it qualified her for the Halfseekers, who accepted anyone who was outcast from society.
The two Drakes nodded. Garen turned and saw Jelaqua, riding ahead of them and wearing a Gnoll’s body, turn.
“You still worried, Garen? Relax! You say this every time we visit a new city.”
The others laughed. Garen hunched his shoulders.
“Went to this one before. Got caught.”
“Well, you didn’t kill anyone, did you? No? Then relax. It’s best to relax on trips, yes? Relax, take a nap…do we have to work today?”
A purring voice from Garen’s left made him look. Keilam, the group’s third [Mage] if you counted Moore—who doubled as a front-line fighter—draped himself over his disgruntled mare. He was half-Gnoll, half Cat-tribe Beastkin. He had inherited his feline ancestry, but there was enough Gnoll to make him both sinuous and strong. Too barbarian for the Cat-tribe, and too strange for Gnoll tribes. Wit and laziness came to him in equal measures.
“Could still shoot arrows.”
Garen wasn’t convinced. Seborn shrugged. Moore stroked his chin, looking worried. He had to walk; there wasn’t a horse large enough for him. Garen was walking too, in solidarity. He hated riding horses anyways. They bit.
“I know the feeling. Some villages would shoot arrows at me. They thought I was an Ogre or a Troll. Can you believe it? Me, a Troll?”
“I can believe it.”
An amused voice from Moore’s right made the half-Giant look down, crestfallen. The half-Elf walking with him laughed up at him. Thornst, a half-Elf from Terandria and the newest Halfseeker, grinned up at Moore.
“It’s not an insult, friend Moore. But you must admit, you’re a startling sight to anyone who’s not seen a half-Giant before. They’ll panic, and when they panic, the first monster that fits comes to mind.”
“I suppose so. It’s hurtful, though. But at least they hesitate. I can’t imagine what it would be like to—”
Moore broke off and eyed Garen. The Hobgoblin pretended not to notice. Halassia cleared her throat, shedding an ashy scale.
“Just stay behind us, Garen. Let me do the talking. We’re a Gold-rank team. If they want to start a fight with the Adventurer’s Guilds, let them.”
“That’s right! Here’s to Gold-rank! I knew we’d make it! Let’s have another party!”
Keilam waved a paw. The other Halfseekers grinned. Seborn just sighed.
“Some of us were Gold-ranks before we joined the team. It’s just that we’re a certified team, now. It was going to happen.”
“Yeah, but there’s always time for another drink.”
Jelaqua grinned and slapped Seborn on the back. The Drowned Man glared, but Jelaqua just laughed.
“Come on, everyone! To the city! And if Garen gets shot, we’ll buy him a round. Watch for arrows, now!”
Garen grumbled as the others laughed. But he followed them, not as worried as he normally was. After all, for his team, he’d gladly take an arrow or a dozen—
Reality came back in a moment. Garen stared at the Hobgoblin with the missing eye for a moment and then came to his senses. It was like the Chieftain’s memories, but stronger! He realized he’d been staring too long. The others were looking at him. Garen raised his voice.
“Ignore arrows. Don’t shoot. Keep out of range. Get moving.”
He turned back and kept riding. Why was this happening? It didn’t happen often in the High Passes. But these flashes of memory had been growing stronger day after day. At first, it had just been moments or replayed conversations. But now—
He’d never heard of another Chieftain remembering their own life like this. But he knew some of them, like Rags, had dreams or visions of past Goblins, uncontrollable ones. Sometimes it was need or seeing a familiar scene that brought it on. In Garen’s case…it was nostalgia. Unresolved business.
Some days, he wanted to ask them why. Why it had gone down like it had. But the dead were dead and the living—impossible. Garen had been a Halfseeker once. No more.
Reiss had called him a traitor. So had Greydath. But that was all wrong. What had happened was—Garen closed his eyes.
No. It didn’t matter. It was in the past. He’d left it behind. He’d become a Chieftain, gone back to his kind. He’d leave it behind him. Rags too. And Reiss. Go back to the mountains. Forget. Garen urged his Carn Wolf to go faster. But the memories kept coming back and back. Growing stronger. He didn’t know why.
 
——
 
In the end, three of them went to get Erin. Embria stayed on the walls just in case. Olesm, Zevara, and Ilvriss walked together.
“Getting her to deal with the Goblins will be a hassle. But then again, I’d expect nothing less.”
“Will she be willing to help is my question.”
Zevara muttered. She glanced at Olesm. The [Strategist] shrugged.
“I think—she does care about Liscor. But she cares about the Goblins. So…I don’t know what to say.”
“If she cares about the Goblins, she will tell them to move. Need we do anything else besides release them?”
Ilvriss strode ahead of them, towards Liscor’s dungeon. Olesm coughed and eyed the red cloak on Ilvriss’ back meaningfully.
“We might have to return their possessions, Wall Lord. Weapons and armor at least.”
“What? Oh.”
The Wall Lord of Salazsar took a moment to figure out what Olesm meant. He stopped and put a claw on the flowing cloak.
“But it would be a crime to—you don’t suppose I could provide a different cloak in exchange? No?”
Zevara and Olesm exchanged a glance.
“That cloak’s not that valuable, surely, Wall Lord? It’s one of a few artifacts the Goblins have. That damn bell, the axe that I have never seen before, that cloak—it’s just a liquid cloak, right?”
“Liquid cloak? It’s not a—Great Ancestors. Have neither of you any understanding of what this is? This is a Cloak of Plenty! It’s an incredibly valuable artifact! Far more expensive than an axe!”
Ilvriss brandished the cloak at the two Drakes. Zevara raised her brows, and Olesm restrained the urge to whistle.
“A Cloak of Plenty? Are you serious, Wall Lord?”
He nodded.
“I tested it myself. It can replicate mundane liquids. Nothing magical or complex mixtures, which rules out alchemical liquids, but with it, you could provision a thirsty army with water or create a nourishing broth. Or supply [Mages] with blood or other liquid reagents. Of course, that’s hardly the only function of such a cloak. I would have it for myself.”
“How do you mean?”
Olesm couldn’t see Ilvriss needing a fresh supply of water, which was the standard use for objects of plenty. He’d heard of cornucopias that dispensed free food each day, which was a boon to armies and adventurers alike. Although if you ate too much of the enchanted food alone, you’d eventually grow sick. Ilvriss sighed.
“It’s wine, Swifttail. Wine. There are fine vintages—incredibly fine ones—that have no magical component to them at all. In fact, non-magical wines are preferable to magical ones. When did the custom of adding magic to every dish arise? As if that guarantees better taste—anyways, I digress. With a single drop of a quality vintage, I could serve my guests the most delicate bouquets at my estates each night without it costing a copper coin. Even I would consider that a windfall in saved coin, although of course I’d have to keep the cloak secret…”
He broke off, clearing his throat. Olesm and Zevara exchanged a glance. That was Wall Lords for you. Ilvriss stroked the cloak.
“I suppose I must give it up?”
“I don’t think the Goblins care to trade, Wall Lord. Although I can ask Erin if she’d be willing to intercede—I thought the cloak kept changing properties, though. Wouldn’t that be inconvenient?”
Ilvriss looked mildly insulted.
“Changing properties? Oh, you mean if it comes in contact with another liquid. That isn’t an issue, Olesm. Willpower is enough to fix the cloak into whatever property I wish. In this case, wine.”
He raised a fold of the liquid wine cloak. Olesm blinked.
“Have you been sampling that cloak all day, Wall Lord?”
Ilvriss looked mildly abashed.
“Not me. I’m not drinking—I had my subordinates test the quality of the cloak. Along with the [Innkeeper] in my inn and a number of interested patrons. I believe they’re all asleep at the moment. The changing nature of the cloak was not an issue. I knew what I wanted.”
“Really. In my talk with Erin as, uh, translator, she said the cloak kept changing and the Hob who owned it—Rabbiteater—couldn’t get it to stop.”
“The flaw of being open-minded, one supposes. Curiosity will inevitably lead to change. Ah well, if we must give it to the Goblins…I’ll ask about it later. Dealing with this issue takes priority.”
The Wall Lord ignored the look Zevara and Olesm gave each other and undid the clasps of the cloak. He reluctantly handed it to Olesm and kept walking.
A few [Guards] met them at the prison, along with the rest of the Hobgoblins’ gear. Zevara eyed the collection of weapons and armor.
“Put it in a holding spot. We’re not letting them go just yet. How’s the Human?”
The Drake on duty grimaced.
“Good, Watch Captain. Although we had to shut her up several times last night and this morning. She kept trying to get the other prisoners to sing.”
“And?”
“She succeeded.”
Zevara stared at the Drake. Olesm sighed. That said it all, really.
“Anything else?”
“No, Watch Captain. Nothing from the Hobs. Or the Minotaur. The Gold-ranks are clamoring to be let out, though.”
Zevara grimaced.
“I bet they are. Release the overnight prisoners, then, with a warning. We’ll see to the Human ourselves.”
The [Guardsman] nodded. He handed Zevara a key and followed them into the prison. The three Drakes walked down the line of cells as those with menial offenses were let go, provided they’d paid their fines. They walked down to the major holding cells, and Olesm froze as he saw a tall, horned figure standing silently in his cell. Ilvriss stared at the Minotaur who stared blankly at them and looked away.
“Scum.”
The Drakes turned to a cell just before Calruz. Four Hobs sat or stood in their cells, watching the Drakes warily. A young woman lay on a cot. She’d been standing, talking to the others, but she’d scrambled into her bed. She stared up at the ceiling, hands folded behind her head, as Zevara paused before the cage. She didn’t look up. The Watch Captain eyed Erin Solstice and looked at Olesm. He cleared his throat nervously.
“Erin?”
She didn’t respond. Olesm looked at Zevara. The Watch Captain made a face. Was Erin upset? She hadn’t been here more than a single night. Olesm called out to her.
“Erin, we’re going to let you go. You’ve, uh, served your sentence, and there’s a situation we might need your help with.”
“I can’t go back.”
Erin spoke slowly, not looking away from the ceiling. Olesm paused.
“Excuse me?”
He saw Erin’s head slowly turn towards him. The young woman spoke in a slow, monotone voice.
“I can’t go back, Olesm. I’ve been in here too long. Prison’s changed me, man. I’ve seen things. How can I return to the outside world?”
The Drakes stared at her. Olesm scratched the back of his head.
“This is an act, right? You’re doing something like those plays again.”
Erin stared at the ceiling.
“…No?”
Olesm sighed.
“Erin, this is an emergency. We don’t have time for—any of this!”
Erin blinked. She sat up a bit and eyed Olesm.
“It is? Okay, just a few more.”
To Olesm’s consternation, she lay back down and stared at the ceiling.
“It’s funny. I was an honest [Innkeeper] before all of this. I had to go to prison to become a [Criminal]. [Thug]. Whatever. This is a [Thug]’s life, y’know?”
Zevara slammed the cell door open.
“Get. Out.”
“Aw, fine.”
Erin swung herself up. She walked over, stretching. Then she blinked at Ilvriss.
“Hey, Wall Lord. Hey, Zevara. Olesm. How’s the eye? Are you letting me and the Redfangs out? Or just me?”
The Drakes looked at each other. Ilvriss glanced severely at the watching Hobs.
“That remains to be seen. For now, you will come with us. There’s a situation that has arisen that—strangely—we believe only you can resolve.”
“Really? Me? Well, okay then. Let’s go. Hey guys, I’ll be back soon! Don’t worry, I’ll get you out of here, even if I have to bake a cake! If I do—don’t eat the entire thing, got it?”
Erin waved at the Hobs. They waved back. She smiled at them as she left the prison and then looked at Olesm. She didn’t smile then.
“So what’s the problem?”
Olesm shuffled his feet. He couldn’t look Erin in the eye. He’d been—upset—yesterday. And maybe he’d made some rash decisions. But she had hit him. However, Olesm was certain that he wasn’t going to be receiving an apology any time soon.
“You’ll see. Follow us, and keep up.”
 
——
 
