He gestured obliquely to Garen’s side. Instantly, the chieftain clamped a hand to the small key he carried on him at all times. Spiderslicer sat back on his heels. Garen tried not to glare at him. He trusted Spiderslicer. He was just asking. He forced himself to respond normally.
“Not yet. Other one missing.”
“Okay. We get?”
“Not yet. Later. I—I’ll come up with plan. Later.”
Garen growled. Spiderslicer nodded. He seemed to sense Garen’s patience was at an end and looked back towards the others.
“Okay, Chieftain. Past Liscor. We ride soon?”
“Yes. Get ready.”
Garen watched the Goblin move back. He saw him exchange looks, not quite glance back at him, and begin a rapid and furtive conversation with the others. Garen didn’t need to know what they said. They were probably debating his words.
They could sense it too. Garen didn’t know what he’d do after he got back home. The High Passes always had something to fight, something to do. But he didn’t have any plans beyond surviving there. He just knew he was done. Done with Rags and Reiss and the Humans. Done with betrayal. After all, what reason did he have to stay? It wasn’t his battle. It wasn’t his war. Reiss could die fighting for his master. Garen didn’t care anymore.
He was going home.
 
——
 
Olesm had seen armies passing by Liscor. Human ones, going to battle in the Blood Fields. Recently, he had seen the Goblin Lord’s army, a vast host passing in the darkness. And he had seen Skinner’s undead—the hordes of Face-Eater Moths. Each time he’d been cowed by the numbers, but he had trusted Liscor’s walls to hold.
However, today he felt uneasy for a reason that had nothing to do with numbers. The army of Cave Goblins spread out in front of him, twenty-four thousand strong. Enough Goblins to cover the muddy hills. They were spread out, camped on the wet Floodplains. Some were fishing from the water. Others were milling about, kicking mud at each other. A few were trying to spar. But the rest were motionless.
They were staring at the city. Thousands of Goblins, just standing or sitting. Staring. Olesm recognized the Hobgoblin leading them. Numbtongue.
“What are they doing now, Olesm?”
He turned. Wing Commander Embria was standing on the walls next to him. She was staring at the Cave Goblins. She could see as well as he could, but he stated the obvious for both their sakes.
“Nothing yet, Wing Commander. They’ve stopped chanting, but I expect they’ll start up in a few minutes.”
The Cave Goblins were indeed silent. But that wouldn’t last. For the last thirty minutes, they’d been chanting. A single name.
Redfang. They would shout it as one, scream it at Liscor’s walls, and then go silent. But it would start up again, Olesm knew. He looked around.
The battlements were occupied. Full, in fact. The City Watch manned the walls with bows, Gnolls and Drakes ready to unleash volley after volley. But not just them. Embria’s 4th Company also held the walls, and Olesm saw four of her [Captains] taking posts along the wall. And spread out between the Watch and Liscor’s army were other [Soldiers] in yellow armor. Pallassian troops, the ones brought through the door before it had been sabotaged. And if Olesm looked over his shoulder—
He looked and wished he hadn’t. A crowd of faces, furry and scaled, looked up at him. Liscor’s citizens had gathered by the eastern wall, and they were staring up at Olesm’s back. They’d heard the chanting of course, and you’d have to be blind as a Dropclaw Bat to miss the Goblin army camped outside the walls. There had been panic at first—people had thought it was the Goblin Lord’s army. But Zevara had restored order, and now everyone was watching. Wary and silent.
“Could you take the Hob out with a spell? Would that disperse them, do you think?”
Olesm looked up. Embria was eying the set of key-scrolls that triggered the enchantments on Liscor’s walls. He covered them with one claw.
“I don’t have perfect accuracy, Wing Commander. And I don’t think that would be wise. The Goblins might disperse if Numbtongue dies. Or they might rush the city all at once.”
“Hrmph. I see.”
Embria looked disgruntled, but she dropped it. Privately, Olesm doubted the Cave Goblins would do something as stupid as attack the walls, but he was sure, absolutely sure that blasting Numbtongue was not in Liscor’s interests. He drummed his claws on the stone battlements and then heard a voice.
“Watch Commander on the walls! Wall Lord on the walls!”
He turned. Zevara and Ilvriss were striding up the battlements. The Gnoll who’d called them out, as per military rules, stepped aside. The two made a beeline for Olesm and Embria.
“Wing Commander. Olesm. What’s the situation?”
“Unchanged, Watch Captain.”
Olesm eyed Zevara. She looked tired, grumpy, and sleep-deprived. Not much different than usual, really, but she looked even more stressed than normal. Ilvriss looked better—but even he seemed at a loss as he stared down at the Cave Goblins.
“The citizenry have calmed down. We’re not in danger of a panic any longer. I have also reassured the Walled Cities that were alerted by those scatterbrained idiots in the Mage’s Guild that we were under siege.”
Ilvriss grumbled as he adjusted his armor. He was wearing a blood red cloak made of what appeared to be liquid. Olesm eyed it, but forbore comment. Ilvriss turned to him.
“So. The Cave Goblins have left the dungeon. And there are quite a bit more of them than any of us expected. I take it this is related to the four Hobgoblins in Liscor’s dungeon? And Miss Solstice, no doubt?”
Olesm winced.
“Yes, sir. I, uh, think they’re angry. I didn’t know it would lead to this, I truly didn’t. If I had known—”
Ilvriss shook his head.
“The fact that one of them got away is distressing, but it was the right move to make. We could hardly have Hobgoblins running about, especially in light of the Antinium Queen’s wrath. Not to mention this mysterious bearded one in your report. My only concern now is this situation. How do we resolve it? Thoughts?”
He looked at Zevara and Embria. The two female Drakes were silent. Zevara was thinking. Embria looked at her and then stood straighter.
“Give me command of the Pallassian forces and a thousand of the Watch and I can rout the Goblins, Wall Lord. With fire from the walls and spell artillery, we can easily defeat the Goblins.”
“What? No!”
Olesm’s jaw fell in horror. His tail curled up as Embria glanced sideways at him. If Embria slaughtered the Goblins, Erin would never talk to him again. Ilvriss also looked concerned, but for different reasons.
“You think you could achieve a victory with just two thousand soldiers and your 4th Company, Wing Commander Embria?”
The fiery Drake nodded. She folded her claws behind her back.
“I told you we could take on a regular army twice our size, Wall Lord Ilvriss. These Goblins lack Hobs—fully grown ones at any rate. With archery support and at least two of Liscor’s wall spells, it would be easy to take them down in droves.”
“But that’s not a good idea. Respectfully, Wing Commander, Wall Lord.”
Olesm hopped from one foot to another in his urgency. Ilvriss looked at him.
“How so, Swifttail.”
Embria looked annoyed as well. Perhaps she thought he was disputing her abilities. Olesm tried to explain as fast as he could.
“I have no doubt that Wing Commander Embria could achieve a victory. But it would cost hundreds of casualties, at least. Casualties Liscor cannot afford. Moreover, Wing Commander Embria would rout the enemy. That doesn’t mean the same thing as obliterating the Cave Goblins.”
“True. It would be impossible to slaughter them all.”
Ilvriss stroked his chin with a claw. Olesm nodded frantically.
“—and while that works with regular armies, it just means the Goblins would go to ground and hide. And if they do, then they’ll heal up and pop out when the Goblin Lord’s army gets here. So then we’ll have a bunch of angry Cave Goblins—”
“—as well as the Goblin Lord and the Humans to deal with. Indeed. I don’t suppose you could encircle and obliterate the entire tribe, Wing Commander?”
Ilvriss sighed. Embria looked unhappy.
“No, Wall Lord. That would be impossible, I’m afraid. Or, as Strategist Olesm said, not without excessive casualties. I could take down that Hob in a lightning strike though…”
“Indeed. But that’s not the issue, is it? I doubt the Cave Goblins will disperse from the loss of one Chieftain—if that Goblin even is the Chieftain. There are five of them. We need to drive them off somehow without incurring losses to the city. Perhaps it would be possible to—”
Embria and Ilvriss began to debate. Olesm watched them anxiously. He saw Zevara look up from her study of the Cave Goblins. She glanced at him and lowered her voice.
“That’s the Hob at Erin’s inn, right, Olesm?”
“Yes.”
“The one with the guitar?”
“Numbtongue.”
“What do you think he wants?”
“At a guess? His friends back.”
Zevara grunted. Olesm’s tail twitched nervously. This was all his fault.
“This is all my fault. I shouldn’t have arrested them.”
“I would have. Don’t beat yourself up over it.”
“But maybe if—”
Olesm’s next words were cut off. He saw Numbtongue raise his guitar out of the corner of his eye, and his body was already wincing before the roar of noise came up from the Cave Goblins.
“Redfang!”
It was one word, a roar of sound. Zevara recoiled, and both Ilvriss and Embria reached instinctively for their weapons. The City Watch half-raised their bows, then forced themselves to hold. Numbtongue raised his arms, and the word rolled across the Floodplains again.
“Redfang.”
This time, the cadence was different. Zevara frowned and turned towards the others.
“They’ve been shouting that all this time?”
“Yes, Watch Captain.”
Olesm watched Numbtongue lower his guitar, his stomach churning. Zevara frowned. Her own tail was very still, but Olesm could see it slightly squirming. She had to be holding it still so she wouldn’t alarm anyone else.
“I see. Then it seems to me, Wall Lord, Wing Commander, that the Cave Goblins want a parley.”
“Parley?”
The other Drakes looked astonished. And affronted. Zevara nodded.
“They haven’t assaulted the city, and that isn’t an aggressive formation. They’re out of bow range, and all they’ve been doing is chanting a name. The name of the Redfang Goblins, in fact. We have four Hobs in lockup. They’re the leaders of this tribe. Or allies. Or something.”
“So, what? We should release them under duress? Unacceptable.”
Ilvriss snapped. Olesm hesitated.
“Well…I did arrest them on a technicality. They were Goblins in the city, which is illegal, but they were helping Erin—”
“And they’re Goblins. You’re not suggesting we accede to their demands, surely, Watch Captain?”
Embria stared at Zevara. The older Drake glared at her.
“And what would you propose? An assault? This is an army we do not need right now. The Hobs staying at Erin’s inn are reasonable—for Goblins, or so I’ve been given to understand.”
She shot a quick glance at Olesm, who nodded slowly. Zevara shrugged.
“In that case, what do we have to lose by giving them what they want?”
“But if we return their leaders—”
Zevara brusquely interrupted Embria. She addressed Ilvriss, who was staring down at the Goblins with narrowed eyes.
“Four Hobs won’t make a difference in the battle for Liscor. Twenty thousand Goblins might. I propose we make a deal with them. If we can force them to retreat south, towards the Blood Fields, in exchange for letting the other Hobs go—”
“We’d keep them from reinforcing the Goblin Lord. A sound idea, Watch Captain.”
Ilvriss spoke slowly. He looked up at Olesm, Zevara, and Embria.
“As options go, I think that is the best one in front of us. Unless you have any better suggestions, Wing Commander? Strategist Olesm?”
Neither one did, although Embria looked upset. Ilvriss nodded.
“In that case, I would agree to Watch Captain Zevara’s proposal. It is unprecedented—but it seems precedent is damned around Liscor in any case. I have only one objection, though.”
“Which is?”
Zevara looked sharply at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord frowned.
“We do not negotiate with monsters. It is beneath us as a species.”
Olesm groaned internally. Zevara opened her mouth, but Ilvriss forestalled her. He raised a claw and then looked around.
“Someone get the Human.”
 
——
 
After a few more minutes of rest, Garen ordered his tribe to keep moving. They had to cover ground fast—not because they were afraid of the Goblin Lord or the Humans catching up, but because Garen wanted to outrun his nagging thoughts. So the Redfangs took a different strategy. Rather than gallop on wolf or horseback the entire way, they jumped off their mounts and began running alongside them.
It was a trick mounted units had used throughout the ages. The Redfangs kept up a quick pace, letting the wolves and horses take up a slow gait, for them. And when the Goblins tired, they leapt on the backs of their wolves, resting until they were able to run again. It paced both rider and mount. The only thing faster would be if Garen had multiple Skills that could enhance his tribe’s speed all the time, like Rags. Or if they had enough stamina and healing potions to run at full-sprint all day and night.
They did not. And it didn’t matter anyways, because their progress was lightning-fast compared to the slow pace they’d taken while on the march with the armies on foot. In no time, they were running down the wide pass. Sparse trees and grass mixed with the rugged terrain. There was little of worth here, although there were a few mining spots in the area and space enough for grazing or limited agriculture. Some people had thought it was worth settling, because quick enough, Spiderslicer called out to Garen.
“City approaching!”
The scouts had spotted the sole city in the pass before it opened into the Floodplains and Liscor. Garen saw the distant city as he passed by a bend in the mountainous pass. He spoke a word.
“Esthelm.”
“Thought it got smashed.”
One of the Hobs commented. Garen shrugged. He’d heard the same. But the city was standing and populated. There was damage along its walls, but it looked repaired, and the walls were sturdy. And now that he looked twice, there were a lot of Humans on the walls.
“[Archers]!”
