It wasn’t that Erin resented being in jail for so long. Okay, she resented it a bit. It was already past midday and quickly becoming evening, and she was sick of staring at the stone walls of her cell. Walking through the streets of Liscor did feel great by comparison. Maybe there was something to going to prison after all that gave you a new lease on life.
Anyways, Erin wasn’t about to hold a grudge. At least, not right now. Something was up, and it didn’t take a genius to figure out it had to do with Goblins. Or that it was serious. Drakes and Gnolls were doing that ‘standing in the streets’ thing that meant something was occurring that city life couldn’t work around. And they were coming up to Zevara and Ilvriss, or trying to.
“Keep moving! Watch business! Clear the streets!”
Zevara barked orders, and her [Guardspeople] headed off anyone trying to get to her. The people of Liscor stared at her. And at Ilvriss. And Olesm. And at Erin. She could hear them whispering and caught fragments of what was being said.
“—Watch Captain and Wall Lord. And the Strategist—”
“—the Human. You know, the one who runs The Wandering Inn? The one with—”
“—friends to Goblins. Think she’ll—”
“—Goblin Lord camped right outside—”
Erin looked around nervously.
“So, uh, what exactly is going on?”
“You’ll see.”
Ilvriss glanced impassively back at Erin. The Drakes led her up to the eastern wall, past a large gathering of people. And Erin did see, then. She stared at the Goblins, thousands of Goblins standing on the hilltops. She listened to the roar as they shouted the Redfang’s battle cry. She blinked.
“Huh. That’s a lot of Goblins.”
Erin stared at the Cave Goblins. Her eyes found Numbtongue. She looked around at the grim Drakes, the wary Gnolls.
“So what did you want me to do, again?”
“Get them to leave. Speak to that Goblin. Tell them we will only release the Hobs once they march south. Fifty miles, perhaps. We’ll release the prisoners then.”
Ilvriss folded his arms. Erin stared at him. She looked at Numbtongue, brave Numbtongue holding his guitar aloft like a banner. He still had the manacles attached to his arms, the cuffs at least.
“And then what? They just leave?”
“If they return to the Floodplains, we’ll bombard them. They cannot remain here when the Goblin Lord arrives.”
Zevara’s eyes were hard as she stared at the Goblins. She glanced at Erin.
“You need to make them understand that.”
“I see.”
Erin looked at Olesm. He looked uneasy and kept glancing at her. She gazed at Embria, who was watching her warily, and then looked back at the Goblins.
It can’t be this way forever. Erin had said something like that to Headscratcher in jail. And yet, when she looked at Numbtongue, at the Cave Goblins—her heart hurt. They’d done no wrong. No wrong, if you understood that they had been slaves to the Raskghar before that. And now they were marching on Liscor, peacefully, all for Numbtongue’s friends.
“Okay.”
“You’ll do it? In that case—”
Zevara turned, relieved. Erin shook her head.
“No. Take me back to jail.”
She held out her hands. The Drakes froze.
“Wait, what?”
Erin looked at Olesm.
“I can’t deal with them. And I can’t get them to go. So…take me back to jail. I hear we’re getting beef stew for dinner.”
“You cannot do that.”
Zevara stared at Erin. The young woman smiled a bit mockingly.
“Oh yeah? Why not? I’m not cooperating. What’re you gonna do, arrest me twice?”
“We could kick you off this wall for aiding the enemy.”
Embria offered. Ilvriss quieted her with a look. He stared at Erin and then sighed.
“What do you want, then?”
Erin smiled.
“You’re willing to talk instead of give ultimatums?”
“If there is no other choice…my patience is limited, however. As are the concessions I’m willing to make. The Goblins leaving is paramount. Tell me your demands.”
Ilvriss looked down at Erin. She nodded.
“In that case, give the Redfangs back their gear and get ready to let them go. And let me negotiate with Numbtongue. On my own terms.”
“You’ll get them to leave? Really?”
Olesm looked at Erin. She hesitated.
“I think so. He’s not an idiot. But you have to let the Redfangs go. I’m positive Numbtongue won’t budge unless we do.”
A grinding sound came from Embria. She did not like this plan any more than the others did.
“And if we refuse? If we attack the Goblins or don’t release our hostages?”
Erin shrugged. She stared at Embria without blinking.
“If you kill them or hurt them or refuse to let them go? I guess he’ll stay put. Without hurting anyone or doing much more than this. Horrible, right? He probably won’t hurt me or attack my inn. But I’ll bet you that when the Goblin Lord arrives, Numbtongue will join right up. So there you are.”
She waited. Ilvriss looked disgusted and resigned by turns. Zevara just nodded.
“We’ll get the Hobgoblins out of prison. We have some terms of our own.”
She outlined them succinctly. Erin shrugged.
“I’ll tell him that. Now, if you could let me get back to my inn? And give me a key for Numbtongue’s shackles. Oh, and get me a new guitar. His is broken.”
 
——
 
Erin climbed down a ladder down to the muddy Floodplains. She still couldn’t leave the city via the gates—not because of the water, but because of the Goblin ‘threat’. She grimaced as her feet landed in the mud.
“Ew. Squishy.”
At least the bridge to her inn was still there. The valleys were still flooded, and Erin could make out dark shapes swimming in the murky waters. She crossed her bridge, trying not to slip on the wooden slats as she clung to the damp ropes. Her inn was farther away than she remembered it being—then again, she’d been used to the magic door so she’d forgotten it was a ten minute walk.
For some reason, the magic door hadn’t connected to Liscor no matter how long Erin had waited. So she made the journey on foot, key in hand. Zevara had refused to get Erin a guitar, and she hadn’t let Erin go buy one either. Erin was nearly at her inn when the door flew open and someone rushed out. Several someones, in fact.
“Mrsha, no, don’t jump—”
Erin yelped and nearly tumbled down the hill as Mrsha leapt at her. Her feet skidded in the mud, and Erin nearly fell butt-first into the mud. She was only saved by Lyonette grabbing her. The two girls skidded halfway down the hill, then saved themselves.
“Erin! You’re back! Are you okay?”
“I’m good! Mrsha, you’re covered in mud! Let’s get to the inn!”
Erin shepherded the muddy Mrsha up the hill and entered the inn. Lyonette was speaking rapidly the entire time.
“You’ve seen the Goblins, right? Numbtongue is leading them! And there was an attack on the inn while you were away, Erin! Someone stole the door!”
“I heard. Olesm told me some of it. And we got the door back?”
“Yes! But the mana stone that connects us to Pallass is—”
“—gone. Which puts Liscor up poo creek without a paddle.”
Erin succinctly summarized the situation. She stared around her inn as Mrsha went to roll on some white towels. She saw heads turn.
“Erin?”
Her inn was full. Not of her regular clientele, but adventurers. The Horns, Griffon Hunt, the Silver Swords…even teams like Bevussa’s Wings of Pallass were there, sitting together. It seemed as though all the teams in Liscor had congregated in Erin’s inn—they were the only ones willing to leave the city with the Goblins so nearby.
“Erin! How was jail? Wait—how’s Bird? Lyonette asked at the Hive, and they only said that he was alive!”
Ceria stood up. Pisces sniffed as he passed by Mrsha.
“It seems we’re both fellow victims of incarceration now. Has your sojourn in prison kept you from noticing the obvious, Erin? There are quite a number of Goblins roaming the Floodplains.”
Erin laughed as her friends greeted her.
“Hi Ceria, hi Pisces. Yvlon, Ksmvr. Hey Halrac, Revi—yes, I saw the Goblins, Pisces. I’m actually supposed to do something about them. Bevussa! I just saw you and Keldrass in jail!”
The Garuda raised a mug, and Keldrass nodded to her. Both teams were sitting far apart and giving each other the stink-eye now and then. It had been a brawl between a number of adventuring teams in the guild that had landed them in prison.
“What are you going to do, Erin?”
The young woman paused. She was wiping away some mud with a towel—not that it would matter since she was going right back out in the thick of it. She scratched her head and shrugged.
“Talk to him. That’s all. I think it’ll be fine. But I need to go now, before Zevara burns my inn down. I’ll be back in a moment to talk with you all.”
The adventurers exchanged a glance. Ceria cleared her throat.
“Need an escort? We have some things we need to tell you, Erin.”
“We’d be honored.”
Ylawes sat up. Erin frowned. She glanced around her inn and noticed a conspicuous absence. And Lyonette was giving Erin a meaningful look.
“No…I think I’m good, Ceria, Ylawes. Adventurers make Goblins uneasy. I’ll go and be back soon. Lyonette, can you walk with me part of the way? Just for a few minutes. Not you, Mrsha. You have to stay.”
The Gnoll cub didn’t like that, but Yvlon picked her up, and even squirming as hard as she could, Mrsha couldn’t get free. She whined as Lyonette and Erin left the inn. They walked down the hill, and Erin grimaced.
“Ew. There’s a path, but it’s mud.”
Indeed, to get to where the Goblins were standing, Erin would have to go up and down the hills, which meant walking through the mud and occasionally through knee-deep water. If she slipped, Erin would tumble to the bottom of the hill—which meant a reintroduction to water if the valley was deep.
“There are boots and a special type of stick they use to walk around in. Do you want me to try and get one?”
“No. I’ll walk. It’s a big mess, and I can’t delay.”
Erin sighed. She and Lyonette began to slip their way down a hill and up the first one. As they walked, Erin talked.
“So who stole the door? Any ideas?”
“No one knows. But some people came through it, from Celum. That’s why Olesm confiscated the mana stone leading there. None of the adventurers were happy. Also, this isn’t proof, but the night the door was stolen, that [Magician]—Eltistiman—he vanished.”
“What? But I liked him.”
Erin’s face fell. Lyonette pursed her lips.
“He might be innocent. Or a victim.”
“You think so?”
“No. And neither does Olesm. There’s a bounty on his head.”
“Damn.”
Erin cursed. It felt wholly insufficient to the moment. She glared at nothing, remembering the smiling, charming illusion-mage.
“Eltistiman Verdue. I’m gonna remember his…face. Not the name. If I see that guy again, he’s gonna get what for. Okay, what’s the next problem?”
Lyonette glanced back at the inn.
“The door to Celum’s out. And so is the door to Pallass. All the adventurers are stuck in Liscor, and they want out.”
“Oh, is that why they’re all at my inn?”
“Yes. They won’t say as much to Watch Captain Zevara—much less Wall Lord Ilvriss—but I think that even the Pallassian adventurers don’t want to stay and fight. They all want to leave.”
“Makes sense. But Liscor will be under attack. And my door’s outta juice. So what’s their plan?”
Lyonette glanced around again. But there was no one nearby. Just the watchers on Liscor, the adventurers following their slow progress in the mud—and the Goblins on the nearby hills. They were staring at Erin and Lyonette, although not with hostility. So many watchers. It made Erin’s shoulders itch. The [Princess] whispered to her, keeping a wary eye on the Cave Goblins.
“They still want to use your door. They’re trying to leave Liscor, Erin. They’re going north. Towards Celum.”
“Who is?”
“All of the adventurers!”
“You’re kidding. And Olesm is okay with that?”
“He doesn’t know! They’re taking a door with them with a new mana stone embedded in it. I objected—so did Typhenous and Dawil and Ceria. They wanted you to weigh in before they started this. But the other teams said they had to go now, or at least get started.”
“Oh boy. That’s not good.”
Erin’s stomach, already a bit seasick from all the churning, began to make gastric butter. Lyonette nodded.
“Remember how you got here from Celum? They’re doing the same thing—but in reverse. They’re trading it off, going back through the door so only one team has to carry it each time. They’re going to try and get to Esthelm and hire horses—or a wagon to move faster—by tonight. They think they can get out of the pass before the Goblin Lord’s army arrives.”
“Wonderful. At least it’s a tried and true method. And how far are they?”
“Jelaqua’s team was the first shift, and they left this morning. I think they’re nearing the edge of the Floodplains by foot. It’s slow progress right now, but soon—Erin, what are we going to do?”
“Tell Olesm. Or maybe not. I dunno. Liscor needs to be defended, but the adventurers don’t want to fight. I’ll think about it. Right now, I have to deal with the Cave Goblins. You want to go back?”
“I’ll stick with you.”
Lyonette squared her shoulders. Erin smiled at her. The two climbed a hill. And then they saw the Cave Goblins spread out ahead of them.
It was a strange sight. Goblins sat about on hilltops, twenty odd thousand of them scattered in different spots. Some were cooking or sitting around the fires, others fishing or just…going about the task of living. Erin saw some of them diving around the rift to the dungeon and hauling stuff up. The Cave Goblins were everywhere.
“Holy smokes. I knew there were more than I thought, but this many?”
Erin blinked at the Goblins. Lyonette shook her head in wonder.
“There are so many. How are they feeding themselves? There’s no way the food you were giving them was enough!”
“I think they had food from the dungeon. And—oh wow. Yeah, they have food. Just not good food. Look at that.”
Erin pointed. She’d spotted the Cave Goblins bringing up something from the underwater rift to the dungeon. Lyonette saw what they were lugging across the muddy floodplains to a waiting fire. She put a hand over her mouth.
“Is that—”
“Uh huh. That’s a dead, giant caterpillar. A dead caterpillar with hair. They’re sautéing it.”
Lyonette turned green. Erin felt her stomach lurch.
“Well, I guess monsters from the dungeon are like…half of their food supply. I did wonder what all that salt and oil was being used for. And they’ve got fish here, cooking equipment…”
