At least, Elerlyth tried to punch Ren in the face. Thanks to Teepo's warning and his Lightning Reflexes skill, Ren quickly reached up and blocked the shot with the palm of his hand.

Notice!

The combination of your Hardy and Block Skills has nullified the effect Nerve Shock.

Stat Change!

Hardy Level 3 (Advanced 0%)

Ren grabbed the fist and held on, then looked at who had tried to punch him. “Elerlyth? What's going on?”

“You tell me!” Elerlyth said. She tried to take her hand back, but she couldn't. “Let go!”

Ren eased Frikara aside with his other hand and sat up. “Why did you attack me?”

Elerlyth didn't say anything and pointed to the maids on the bed.

“Why are you attacking me for sleeping in the bed with them?”

“Oh, come on! Look at them!” Elerlyth said. “They're naked and in a pile! You used them and tossed them aside!”

“I did no such thing.” Ren said, and Teepo dropped down onto his shoulder.

“Let my fist go.”

“No.” Ren said and stood up on the bed.

“Don't make me hurt you!” Elerlyth said, and Ren laughed.

“With this?” Ren said and shook her trapped fist. “My Hardy skill is at Advanced Level 3. I didn't even feel it.”

“I meant with this!” Elerlyth said as she generated a tarantula in her other hand, then tossed it at him. Time seemed to slow down as the spider flew through the short distance between them.

Ren's tarantula had sensed the danger when Elerlyth walked into the room, and came out to see what was going on. It saw Elerlyth use her Summon Spider spell, and timed it's leap from the cloak perfectly. Ren's spider flew through the air, pulled a pre-made web from a tiny leather pouch that it had on it's underside, and used all 8 of it's legs to unfurl it and engulf the other spider as they collided in front of Ren's face. The impact deflected them from hitting Ren and the pair of spiders tumbled through the air over Ren's shoulder. They hit the wall behind the bed with a sickening crunch.

Ren felt a familiar sharp pain on his right hand and lifted it up to look at the recalled spider. “Thank you.”

It wiggled a leg at him and crawled up his arm to stand on his shoulder.

Ren looked at Elerlyth. “What the hell is wrong with you?”

“You invited all these women into your bed and you're asking me what's wrong with me?!?”

“You just tried to kill me!” Ren said. “That's twice now!”

“You deserve it!” Elerlyth said. “How could you do this to me?”

“I haven't done anything to you!” Ren said.

“You've been sleeping with 5... no, 6 more people!” Elerlyth said when she remembered the water being from downstairs. “Why would you think I wouldn't be upset about that?”

“You know what?” Ren said and let her fist go. “I'm sick and tired of people jumping to conclusions!” He said. “I haven't had sex with them! Any of them! I haven't even had sex with Railyse, who I assume you met downstairs.” He pointed behind her.

Elerlyth glanced back over her shoulder to see Railyse, who stood behind her with a 2 pronged trident held menacingly at an attack angle.

“I've known her for a lot longer than I've known you, and surprise, surprise! I didn't have sex with her! Do you want to know why?” Ren asked.

Elerlyth didn't say anything, because she couldn't figure out how he could know someone, that she had just met, for longer than she'd known him.

“Because I haven't talked to you yet! I haven't talked to Lara, Elise, or even Stella!” Ren said. “I thought I'd get the chance tomorrow, because I was going to invite you all over for a visit, and we could discuss... together... what was going on and how to deal with it!”

Elerlyth looked at him with wide eyes. “Ren, I...”

“Look at Frikara's breasts!” Ren said and pointed. “Do you see them? Do you see how good they look?”

Frikara's face flushed red, and she thought about covering them up; but she didn't, because she could feel how much Ren wanted to use her as an example.

“I can only imagine how good they taste!” Ren said, and Frikara blushed hard. “I've never tasted them, even though I could have! Right from the moment we met, she wanted me to!”

“Ren, listen...” Elerlyth tried to speak.

“What are you going to tell me?” Ren asked. “That I'm making a mistake? That I should drop everyone and be with you alone? WHAT?”

“I'm sorry.” Elerlyth said.

“I can't believe that you tried to kill me again over a stupid... wait, what?”

“I'm sorry.” Elerlyth said. “You're right. I jumped to conclusions, and I'm sorry.”

“You believe me now?” Ren asked, then frowned. “Why?”

“She blushed.” Elerlyth said and pointed at Frikara. “All I can pick up from you is indignation and anger, but from her... her desire for you to...” She shook her head. “She wouldn't feel that way if she'd already slept with you.”

“Well... then... that's good.” Ren said and sat down on the bed and sighed. “Why did you do that?” He asked. “Why was the first thing you thought of doing was to kill me?” All of his bluster deflated, and it left him a little empty inside. “You couldn't just wake me up and talk?” He never thought he'd feel what righteous indignation felt like; but when it was gone, apparently it hollowed you out afterwards.

“Ren, I...” Elerlyth tried to talk, but she didn't know what question to answer first, and didn't say anything else.

“You came here for a reason.” Ren said. “What was it?”

“It's nothing.” Elerlyth said and turned around and almost walked into the two-pronged trident. “Step aside.”

“You tried to kill the Assistant to the Amabssador.” Railyse said and pointed the trident at her face. “You will state your reason for being here.”

“Railyse...”

“She came in here, uninvited, and tried to murder you over a lover's squabble.” Railyse said. “I will have her reason, or her head.” She said. “Or both. I haven't decided yet.”

“I'm an Adventurer. My reason has nothing to do with any of this.” Elerlyth said, but the catch phrase didn't work.

“I don't believe you.”

“Fine.” Elerlyth said and turned to look at Ren. “I passed, okay? They gave me extra credit for the research grant and I can pick up my diploma tomorrow.”

“No way!” Ren said and stood up. “That's great news!”

“I came here to celebrate with you.” Elerlyth said and looked at the maids and Railyse. “I had no idea that you had all this other stuff going on.”

“I actually can't remember the last time we were together.” Ren said. “It's been so long since then.”

“What are you talking about?” Elerlyth asked. “It's only been a few weeks since we... ah... in here.”

“It's only been that long for you.” Ren said.

“What do you mean?” Elerlyth asked.

“I figured Stella would have told you about it already.”

“Told me what?”

Ren started to tell her about going to the Water Realm and his adventures there, and how long it had been since he'd actually seen her. Elerlyth had a hard time believing the sounds coming into her ears, because they didn't make any sense to her. Not at first. While he talked, she walked over to the bed and sat down next to him. She took his hand and listened to his outrageous story. When he was done, she knew it was all the truth, though.

“Good god, Ren.” Elerlyth said. “You... good god.”

After a few minutes of silence, Elerlyth told him the details of her story, and about what had happened with the professor and the Dean of Sciences the day before.

“So, which news wins this part of our 'who's better' contest?” Ren asked.

“Yours, hands down.” Elerlyth said. “My graduation is pretty insignificant compared to...”

“No, it isn't.” Ren said. “I've heard from you a lot about how much the professor pissed you off, and how much you wanted to have your actual credentials.” He smiled. “I guess we'll have to discuss your pay with the boss, now that you're not a student anymore.”

Elerlyth sighed. “Ren, I... before that misunderstanding, I... I wanted to spend the night with you. I wanted to... to celebrate...”

“Okay.” Ren said and stood up.

“Wait, what?”

“Frikara, Andrela, Verwynn, Navruth, Lusinia, and Railyse.” Ren said. “I'll be gone for a while, but I will be back in the morning to make breakfast.” He equipped his Travelling Clothes and held a hand out to Elerlyth. She took it with a sigh, and he picked her up and hefted her over his shoulder.

“REN!” Elerlyth yelled and he left the bedroom at a jog.

*

“Where do you think he's taking her?” Lusinia asked.

“Not to Anabelle's place.” Navruth said. “There's no way he'd let her have a front row seat and not invite us, too.”

Railyse laughed. “He'll take her where others go for such things.”

Four of the maids started to laugh, then stopped and looked at Frikara. She sat there and cupped her chest and jiggled them a little.

“What are you doing?” Andrela asked her.

“Ren said they looked good.” Frikara said, and let them go. They jiggled more and bounced a bit, then she did it again. “I'm trying to figure out why.”

Railyse stored her two-pronged trident. “Ah, the eternal struggle continues.”

“What's that?” Frikara asked and looked down at herself. Ren, I hope you try to taste them soon. I would really, really like that!

“The struggle to figure out how a man thinks.” Railyse said, and they all laughed.

*

Ren ran down the street as fast as he could.

“Ren!” Elerlyth said. “Put me down!”

“In a minute.” Ren said ran across the city to the Leisure District and stopped at the old inn he stayed in a couple of times, and carried her inside.

“Ren!” Several people said and lifted their tankards to salute him. He gave them a little wave and went to the counter of the Snoozing Bear Inn.

“My old room, please.” Ren said, and the innkeeper nodded. No one said a word about him having Elerlyth over his shoulder. She was surprised by that, and she tasted the feelings they had about it.

They like that he caught me! Elerlyth thought, shocked. They're supposed to be afraid of me, but with Ren here, I'm not getting a touch of Fear from any of them. Not even from the innkeeper!

The innkeeper led them up the stairs to the best room in the place, and Ren gave the innkeeper a handful of silver coins.

“A round of drinks for the men downstairs.” Ren said and gave him a single gold coin. “No breakfast, and we might break a few things.”

The innkeeper looked at Elerlyth's butt by Ren's face, shook his head and chuckled, then shut the door when he left.

“You can put me down now.” Elerlyth said.

Ren stood her up and she swatted him on the head with her open hand.

“What the hell did you carry me like that for?” Elerlyth asked and hit him again. “Even if I was wrong, I'm still mad at you!”

“I know you are.” Ren said and concentrated on his Spider Aura. He tapped her brooch, and she thought about not doing it; then sighed and concentrated on it herself. It was one of the things she had been looking forward to, because her hunger was pretty strong. Their Auras merged and Elerlyth gasped as his feelings hit her.

“Oh my god!” Elerlyth exclaimed. “Ren! You... you...”

“You haven't felt anything yet.” Ren said. “I've got a year and a half of pent-up emotions for you to feast on.”

“Wh-wh-what?” Elerlyth looked at him with wide eyes.

“I hope you're hungry after not logging in for so long.” Ren said.

“I am, but... I don't know if I'm quite that hungry.” Elerlyth said in a soft voice.

“Let's find out.” Ren said and cupped the sides of her face. “Store your clothes and show me paradise.”

“Ren, we just had a fight...”

“I'm pretty sure make-up sex is supposed to be the best thing.” Ren said and stored his clothing. Elerlyth looked at his rippling muscles and reached out to touch them.

“How... how strong are you now?”

“My basic Strength stat is 303.” Ren said, and Elerlyth's mouth dropped open.

“WHAT?!?”

“All that hard labour nearly doubled my Strength while I was in the Water Realm.” Ren said. “With the rings and my armor equipped, it's about double that.”

“God!” Elerlyth said, and sat on the bed. How can he be so far above me?

“Oh, no you don't.” Ren said and stood her up. “Clothes off.”

Elerlyth stored her clothing and revealed that she had on the see-through bodysuit underneath. He turned her around and bent her over, and she braced herself on the side of the bed.

“Look at that.” Ren poured out how much he enjoyed what he saw and knelt on one knee. “At long last.” He said and kissed her there. “Paradise.”

She caught her breath and moaned as his feelings poured into her, and gasped when he used his fingers to tear the thin fabric and exposed her. His breath was hot and cool at the same time, and her flesh burned from the need to be touched.

It took him almost an hour to drive her crazy with desire, but he only used his mouth and fingers. He had fed her with all the sexual frustration he had stored up for the year and a half he had been gone, and by the time he was done pleasing and feeding her that way, she had cried a torrent of tears and mercilessly begged for him. He changed tactics then and fed her all the times he had thought about her, then stood up and started to make love to her.

Elerlyth was frantic in her movements, and he felt that she was trying her best to make up for all the time they had been apart. Even though it had only been a short time for her in comparison, she had missed him quite a lot, too. She poured out her feelings for him, and he poured out his feelings for her. Their shared Aura contained it all and fed it back to them, and Elerlyth's mastered ability gorged itself on everything. The feeling of intimate skin contact, their love, their lust, passion and sorrow, was quite a potent cocktail for her.

Elerlyth had never had a meal quite like it before, and the tears she had cried for Ren changed and became tears she cried for herself. She didn't know if they were tears of joy or sorrow; for her mistake and for leaving him alone for so long, or for their reunion. At the moment, she didn't care amidst everything that they were feeling, and cried them anyways.

Her body had started to glow at some point, and neither of them could tell when it happened. She started to gain XP in a slow trickle as they kept going. After another hour of sharing each other's feelings and bodies, Elerlyth couldn't take any more and collapsed onto his chest. She was both exhausted and energized at the same time, and had actually gained a level.

“Oh... oh my god.” Elerlyth said and kissed Ren. “I... that... oh, god.” She said. “I gained a level!”

“What? We already mastered your ability.”

