“No, Ren.” Elerlyth said. “I gained the level.”

“Oh.” Ren said, then his eyes widened. “Holy crap!”

Elerlyth chuckled and kissed him again, then rolled off to lay beside him. They looked around the room at the shambles they had left. The desk was cracked and on it's side, the chair had been shattered, there were several dents in the walls, and the bed had two broken legs and sat at an angle. The only thing still intact was the unicorn poster. Neither of them had wanted to damage it and had been careful around it.

“I think I need to give the innkeeper another gold coin.” Ren said, and Elerlyth laughed a deep laugh, and Ren joined her.

They equipped their clothes and cleaned up as much of the mess in the room as they could. Ren made a new desk and chair, and even fixed the bed. There wasn't anything he could do about the dents in the walls, not without removing and replacing the planks, so he left them and told the innkeeper about them. He offered another gold coin, but the inkeeper asked for the broken furniture instead. Ren handed the pieces over to him, and he accepted them gratefully.

What Ren didn't know was that the innkeeper had been collecting things Ren had broken or destroyed from all over the city, and had made a kind of show for them. The innkeeper had more people request to stay in the 'Hero Of Aurora Room' or the 'Ren Room' as some of them called it, than any other room he had; which included the best room in the place that Ren and Elerlyth had just wrecked.

Ren and Elerlyth left the Snoozing Bear Inn and ran across the city towards the Housing District. Elerlyth had been surprised that he could run just as fast as her, even though her legs were almost twice as long as his. Ren on the other hand, made sure to match her pace and didn't get ahead of her at all.

“Are you heading to your place?” Ren asked her when they came to a stop just outside the Housing District, before his Aura covered the new house and would have merged it with the shared Aura that the maids had.

“No, the elves might still be stalking me.”

“Even after all this time?” Ren asked. “I've been out of the city a few times now, and I haven't seen or heard anything.”

“They're after me, though.”

“They think I'm a shape-shifted you.” Ren countered.

“You have a point.” Elerlyth said. “But I think I'll stick with staying in the apartment.”

“There's something else I should tell you.” Ren said. “I joined another party.”

“You did?” Elerlyth asked. “What happened to your old party?”

“It's still there.” Ren said. “I have a skill that lets me join another.”

“Well that's just great!” Elerlyth said. “Why didn't you tell me this before? I wanted to add you to my party!”

“How many members do you have?”

“One.”

Ren snorted a laugh. “We'd have been a party of two?”

Elerlyth nodded, and Ren gave her a hug.

“I'd like that, actually.” Ren said. “But, for now... my new party is short a member, and we've got a quest tomorrow night, real-time.”

“Are you inviting me along without asking them first?”

“Better.” Ren said and sent her a party invite. “I want you to join my party.”

“Ren, I... wait, how do you have an extra slot?” Elerlyth asked. “Don't tell me you lost someone!”

“Not how you mean.” Ren said. “Nathalia voluntarily left the party.”

“Oh, Ren.” Elerlyth said and hugged him close. “I'm sorry.”

“It's okay.” Ren said. “She was right. It's for the best.”

Elerlyth nodded and accepted the party invite. “Virtual Survivors?”

“It seemed appropriate.” Ren said. “Hey, I just had a neat idea! Come over to the house tomorrow night and bring your VR headset. We can watch my show, then log in for the quest.”

“I don't know.” Elerlyth said. “I've got a neat set up at home.”

“I've got a really big bed and a bathroom you can play basketball in.” Ren said, and she laughed. Elerlyth wrapped her arms around his neck and gave him a kiss.

“All right. I'll see you tomorrow night.”

“Great!” Ren said when she broke the kiss and let him go. He started to slowly walk backwards down the street. “By the way... don't ever attack me like that again.”

“Ren, I said I was sorry.”

“You said that last time, too.” Ren said. “If it happens again, I might have to rethink what we have between us.” He said. “I don't want to do that.”

“Ren...”

“Bye, Elerlyth.”

“Bye, Re-AH!” Elerlyth gasped as Ren's Aura merged with the shared Aura the maids had. She felt everything the maids felt, and their emotions flooded through her.

“Oops.” Ren smiled. “Sorry about that.” He said and stopped concentrating on the Spider Aura.

Stat Change!

Spider (Aura) Level 5 (Expert 0%)

Cool. Ren thought, then waved to Elerlyth. She waved back, and she watched as he ran down the street and went into his house.

*

Good god. Elerlyth thought. She stumbled over to a nearby building and leaned against it. How can he... he... why isn't he drowning in their emotions?

*

“I'm back.” Ren said as he entered the bedroom. None of the maids had gone back to bed when he had left.

“Like we didn't know that.” Navruth said and laughed.

“We felt her in the Aura.” Andrela said. “Is... is she all right?”

“Yeah.” Ren said. “She's just not used to sharing with multiple people, and I thought I'd give her a bit of a taste.”

“That's what we got from her before she was cut off.” Frikara said. “I think you surprised her again.”

“I sure did.” Ren chuckled, and let out some of the shared feelings he'd had with Elerlyth.

“By the gods.” Frikara almost moaned. “If we ever do anything... anything at all... please let it be what you did to get that reaction!”

Ren laughed and hugged her. “I'll see what I can do.”

“You've got about 6 hours left before morning.” Teepo said and took off to land on the ceiling. Ren picked up the spider that had stayed on his shoulder, and tucked it back into the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak. He stored his clothing and climbed into bed, and the maids all piled in on top of him. He could feel that they were surprised that he didn't complain about it, and he touched each of their faces and let them feel that he didn't mind if they hung all over him. He didn't mind it at all.

A strong feeling of gratefulness entered the shared Aura, and they settled down together. With Ren on the bottom, it was a more ordered pile than usual because they all wanted as much skin contact with him as they could get. The maids all sighed in contentment and Ren felt sleep drag them down, and he closed his eyes. He had a long day ahead of him at his county tomorrow. He gave his word that he would help with the harvest, and that's what he intended to do.

*

“Let me go!” Lylyth said, rattled the chains around her wrists, and stared at her attendant. “I will have him!”

“You need to wait, Your Majesty.” She said. “You've felt what he went through.”

“That's why I need to go to him!” Lylyth said. “I need to ease his suffering!”

“He isn't suffering right now.” The healer said. “He was just remembering...”

“I will taste his emotions for myself!” Lylyth said and strained against the magically-reinforced chains. “Let me GO!”

“She's going to become more and more despondent as his emotional bond to her strengthens.” The healer said.

The attendant looked at the almost fully-formed image of a spider over her Queen's heart. “She should make the final connection soon.”

“I just hope he survives.” The healer said. “He's a remarkable man.”

The attendant chuckled. “Don't tell me that you...”

“I would let him, if he were so inclined, and my Queen would allow it.” The healer said. She took out the Mana potion Ren had given her and recharged herself with it.

“Is that...”

The healer nodded. “He gifted it to me when I healed his arms.”

The attendant laughed. “He doesn't realize it lets you siphon off his Mana, does he?”

“He hasn't noticed.” The healer said. “I draw from his main source, and it refills before I finish taking what I need.”

“Really?” The attendant was surprised. “May I?”

“I'm sorry, but no.” The healer said and stored it. “It needs to be an untouched sample for my ability to work.”

“You could pour some out for me...”

“You know it has to be complete.” The healer said.

“Maybe you can get another one from him.”

“Would you take that chance if it was yours?”

The attendant opened her mouth to say that she would, then sighed. “No.”

The healer looked at her Queen and held a hand out to her. Lylyth was tempted to bite it off, just because she could, then relented and let the healer touch her forehead.

“He's sleeping now, Your Majesty.” The healer said. “He will be yours soon.”

“Yes, he will.” Lylyth said. “Mine to have. Mine to love. Mine to keep!” She said. “Forever!” She laughed maniacally.

“Do you have to act like that?” The attendant asked, and Lylyth looked at her.

“Was that too much?” Lylyth asked. “I know I'm getting more unreasonable, but I didn't think I was pushing things too far.”

“The laugh was a little bit much.” The healer said. “It was quite unpleasant.”

“That's what I was going for.” Lylyth said and smiled. “Now take off these chains.”

“No.” The attendant said. “You really do have to wait.”

“But I don't want to.” Lylyth said and strained against the chains. “What is this enchantment, anyway?”

“The more force you apply, the more it holds you in place.”

“Dammit!” Lylyth said and pushed as hard as she could against them. The chains didn't budge at all, and she sighed. “Why did I agree to let you chain me up again?”

“You're a masochist, Your Majesty.” The healer said. “You love this kind of thing.”

“Oh, right.” Lylyth said and looked down at the chains. “They do bite in nicely, don't they?”

The attendant laughed. “Do you want the whip as well, My Queen?”

“No, not today.” Lylyth said. “I'm not in the mood for it right now.”

“I'll keep it handy, just in case.” The attendant said.

Lylyth nodded and looked down at herself, and saw the image of the spider. The webs on her arms had made their way up her shoulders and across her chest, and almost joined together under the spider.

“I am so close.” Lylyth said. “If you would only let me chew on him just a little bit...”

“My Queen.”

Lylyth sighed. “Yes, yes. I'll wait.” She said. “When this design is done, nothing will stop me from going to him.” She looked at the attendant and the healer. “Nothing.”

“Good.” The healer said. “You need to get this over with, and then you can go back to being our Queen again.”

“I am your Queen.” Lylyth said.

“Our rational Queen.”

“Rational?” Lylyth asked, and then laughed. “Well, okay... I can't argue with that.”

The healer rolled her eyes and the attendant laughed.

*

Ren woke up early the next morning and couldn't stretch like he wanted to. He could feel that his arms were pinned under two of the maids, and his legs had at least one maid on them. When he opened his eyes, he was greeted with a sight he didn't think he would ever wake up to.

One of the maids had somehow turned around so that her head rested on his thigh and her chest was on his abdomen. Her abdomen was on his chest and her thighs were on either side of his head. That position gave Ren a very clear view between her legs, since it was right in front of his face; and if he remembered correctly, Lusinia was the one that wore the blue panties.

“Lusinia?” Ren whispered. “Can you move a little?” He nodded his head, which rubbed against both of her thighs, so she would know what part he wanted her to move.

“O... okay...” Lusinia mumbled. She'd recognized Ren's voice, even though she was still half-asleep, and braced her arms on the bed. She'd felt something touch her on her inner thighs, and figured that she'd gotten her legs wrapped around him somehow and he wanted her to move. She got up onto her knees, which took her private area away from Ren's direct view, and he sighed in relief.

Lusinia pulled her knees forward and over Ren's arms to rest on either side of his chest; but she couldn't lay down with Navruth in her way like she was, so she sat down to figure out where she could move to.

Ren opened his mouth to tell her to stop. “Lusi-” His words were cut off as Lusinia sat on his face.

Lusinia rubbed her eyes to try and wake up a little, and she looked around. I don't see anywhere comfortable. She thought, and sighed. She felt that something was kind of poking her special place, so she sighed again and almost stood up. Ren had been so surprised that she had sat down on him, that he didn't know how to react. He watched as Lusinia crawled over Navruth, sat down on Navruth's back, then laid backwards to rest on top of him. She yawned and closed her eyes. Ren couldn't believe that no one had woken up after all of that moving around, and that Lusinia still had no clue where his face had been.

“Lusinia, you just-.” Ren whispered, and she turned her head to him and kissed him. Her eyes were still closed, and she broke the kiss and sighed.

“If only I could... tell you how much... you mean to me.” Lusinia whispered. Her hand reached up and touched his face and rubbed his chin. “I miss... your beard... but... you're still handsome.” She said. “I want you to... hold me tight.”

Ren's arms were pinned, and he wasn't sure what he was going to do. He could have pulled them out from under the other maids; but, he didn't want to wake them or potentially hurt them if he pulled too hard.

“Hold me.” Lusinia said and reached out. She grabbed two different arms on either side of her. One was from Verwynn, and the other was from Navruth. She pulled them over herself and sighed. “Yes... like that.” She said and hugged them. One arm was across her chest and the hand hung over her shoulder, and the other was across her belly and the hand hung by her hip. She wiggled a little and stretched her legs out, and got them caught underneath Andrela. Lusinia sighed again, now that she was tucked in, then started to snore a little.

You're right, Teepo. Ren thought. How they get tangled up really is like magic.

Teepo chittered in delight, and Ren figured he wasn't going to be getting up early after all.

Wake me up an hour early. I have to head to the ship in the morning. Ren told his friend and closed his eyes. The maids are like a living blanket. He thought, and went to sleep.
