A gator lunges straight for me, jaws open. Deer Form, Pierce the Horizon. Peace enters its mouth, penetrating the soft fleshy roof and into its brain. It's jaws clamp tight, my arm still inside, and an inhuman noise is wrenched from my throat. Shaking violently in its death throes, the gator goes into a frenzy. My arm stuck inside it's mouth, it heaves me from side to side, until I am finally thrown away, my arm torn off from the shoulder. No time to scream as a second gator lunges at me and with adrenaline surging through me, I react. Bull form, Uplift the Sequoia. My remaining palm swings upwards, catching the gator in its lower jaw, throwing the massive head back. My arm is jolted, numbed from the impact, pain lancing through my spine, my muscles in spasms as if I had tried to lift a building.

A hand grabs me, pulling me away. It's Mei Lin, cool as can be. She's such an impressive little lady, to stay calm under pressure. Sumila clears a path for us, killing a gator with a thrust to the head, the blade of her spear piercing through it's hide like butter. Stumbling after her, I clutch my hunting knife in my remaining hand, Mei Lin pulling me along by the sleeve.

A crushing pain shoots up my leg, followed by the world spinning. My face slams against the sandy ground. Agony sears through me, emanating from my foot and I scream again, my voice hoarse and discordant. I look down at my missing foot, blinking sand out of my eyes, a gator chewing voraciously, my boot stuck in its dagger-like teeth. I hear Mei Lin screaming my name. Rage fills me, and a guttural yell erupts from my mouth as I stand and dive onto its large flat face in one motion. My hunting knife in hand, I jam it straight into its yellow, slotted, eyes, over and over again, driving my forearm deeper into it's ruined socket with every thrust. It rolls about, swinging its head, trying to dislodge me, and I hold tightly to the knife, stuck inside its flesh, clinging with all my might.

The flailing finally throws me clear and I land in a heap on the beach. As I lift my head, I watch the gator slump dead.

Well, at least I killed it. I lay staring at my killer, lungs burning, body in agony, head throbbing.

The pain sends me into convulsions, unable to even crawl. I feel myself being dragged away, the sand painfully abrasive, and my eyes close.

At least I had a few good years.
