“Charlotte, what’s going on?!”

“We’re having a meal,” replied the masked man cheerfully.

“Are you in the castle?!”

“Yes, yes we are! Why don’t you come join us?”

Elise regarded the man with suspicion. {Inspect} had failed on him, just as it had on the sealed heroes, which meant he didn’t have the System, which meant he was older than the System, which meant he was dangerous. He seemed friendly… for now. Elise didn’t trust him at all.

One of the things she was most confused about was how the heck Charlotte had even found him. Elise didn’t know what was in the castle, but it wasn’t due to lack of trying. She had gotten as close as she dared, and sat in the safe hanging structure for hours, watching the castle to try and find any sign of whatever resided in the castle, but she never did. Whatever—or apparently, whoever—lived there never left. And yet, Charlotte was inside and having a meal with him, which meant that Charlotte had entered the castle.

Elise was both furious and worried. For now, though, Charlotte seemed to be alright, and she knew that panicking would only make things worse.

“Alright, I’ll be right there,” she replied. “Charlotte, don’t leave. And stop eating that.”

“But–”

“Now.”

Elise did not give Charlotte any more time to protest, immediately exiting the dreamwalking and flying straight toward the castle. She used {Don’t Look At Me, Peasants!}, but soon deactivated it. There was an Abyssal Wyrm flying around, and it had some kind of perception ability that really ate through Elise’s aether to avoid. Fortunately, it was far enough away that by the time it fully acknowledged her and decided to chase, she was already in the no fly zone above the castle, and it had to give up.

When she landed within the wall in front of the front door, Elise felt her heart pounding in her chest. What if the man was lying? What if the whole dreamwalking sequence was an illusion? Was she walking into her death?

She stopped in place in front of the enormous doors. They were at least three times as tall as her, and seemed to be made of solid steel. They also didn’t look like they had been used recently. There was a thin layer of dust and rubble leading up to the door, and there were no footprints or anything leading up to them. Either Charlotte had come through a different entrance, or she hadn’t come here at all.

Wary, she started moving to the side, ready to check for side entrances, but then suddenly ducked, covering her ears. The doors had begun opening, and they had done so with an ear-splitting shriek so loud that she was certain it would have ruptured her ear drums if she was much lower in level. It continued for what felt like a full minute until finally the doors stood still, now wide open and giving her a perfect view into the interior of the castle.

Standing in the middle of the doorway was the masked man, and just a few feet behind him was Charlotte, looking very remorseful as she lowered her head and tapped her index fingers together. Elise shot her a quick glare, then turned her attention back to the man.

The clothes he was wearing were of a completely foreign style, but they reminded her of a variant of a three piece suit. The pants were baggier, though, and the coat went all the way to his knees, and rather than buttons, there were gold chains and clasps. The pants and coat were black, but the waistcoat was luxurious patterned purple, and the turtlenecked shirt beneath that was white. The mask was cream colored, and completely featureless, and it matched his gloves, both of which were resting on a jeweled cane in front of him.

“Charlotte’s friend, hello!” said the man, waving at her. “Welcome to my castle! It’s been so long since I’ve had guests. Don’t be shy. Come on in!”

“Who are you?” asked Elise, not moving.

“I am… I…” The man fell silent for a few seconds. “Oh, yes, I am Lord Shal’Erun! Yes, that’s right… My apologies, I’m afraid that my memory isn’t what it used to be. But I’m still sharp as— sharp as…” he trailed off again. “Well, I’m as sharp as something that’s supposed to be sharp. Now, I don’t suppose I could have your name as well.”

“You can’t have it, but I’ll tell you what it is. It’s Elise.”

“Elise…” he went silent again. “No, that’s… I could have sworn… Ah, nevermind. I’m sure it will come to me. Or if it doesn’t, I’ll forget I ever forgot it! Haha! Now, let’s go in! We wouldn’t want the food to get cold.”

He turned and started walking back inside. Elise hesitated for a moment before following. Seeing that Elise was coming, Charlotte perked up a bit until Elise sent her another withering glare. Seeing Charlotte down didn’t feel good, but Charlotte had broken the only rule Elise had set, and she had done it not even ten days after moving in, and now they had gotten involved with an unfathomably powerful man with dementia living alone in a cursed city. She couldn’t imagine this would end well.

Shal’Erun moved at a brisk pace at first, but at some point slowed down so he could give Elise and Charlotte an unprompted tour. His tour was no better than his introduction, constantly forgetting names and other finer details, but the castle itself was interesting. It was clearly designed for people a bit larger than ordinary humans, or at least ones that preferred more room over their heads. And now that she had thought about it, she realized that Shal’Erun was quite tall as well. Elise was used to most people being taller than her, but Shal’Erun had to be at least six and a half feet.

The castle was not the largest she had ever been in, but it might have been the grandest. Back when it was in populated, at least. It had visibly fallen into a state of disrepair, with dust and broken stone lying around the edges of the hall, and occasional holes or scorch marks. There were even a few dark stains that Elise thought might have been blood. And not the black sludge that the Abyssal monsters had either.

As they walked, Elise got a strong sense of deja vu. She had obviously never been inside the castle before, but for some reason, it also felt familiar. She chalked it up to having spent too much time in ancient underground cities, but the feeling never really went away.

Elise also found herself paying attention to the strange man’s aether. There was something off about it. It almost felt sickly, and it was irregular. Whenever he struggled to remember something, it would flare up, and if he struggled hard enough, it started to get volatile. It made Elise nervous when that happened, but either he knew not to push it too far, or he subconsciously recognized something was wrong, because he never tried to remember anything for too long.

“And down this hall is my bedroom!” said Erun—he had told them to call him that—as they reached the top floor of the castle. “The decorations… Ah yes, they’re gone now sadly, but the architecture is still lovely. It was designed by… Well the designer was certainly a genius. I truly adore the structure. Have I mentioned that yet?”

At least a dozen times…

“And right down here… Wait, hold on…”

Erun suddenly veered off from the centerline and walked up to a wall, brushing his hands along the edge of a crumbling hole. The hole had clearly been there for a long time, based on the layer of dust and cobwebs inside.

Where do the cobwebs down here even come from? Elise idly wondered. I haven’t seen any spiders other than Charlotte. I can’t imagine they’d live long enough to spin webs. Do they just spawn, make webs in random corners, and then die when the next soul storm hits?

Erun stood in front of the hole without moving.

“When…?” he muttered, slowly turning around. “What happened here?”

He turned in almost a full circle, then stopped facing Elise and Charlotte. She could not see his face, but Elise imagined that beneath that mask, he was frowning.

“Who…?” He trailed off. “Ah, right! Charlotte! And Charlotte’s friend. I’m terribly sorry, my dear, but your name is right on the tip of my tongue. Could you give me a reminder?”

“Elise,” said Elise.

“Elise…”

He went silent again, and as he did, Elise felt his aether getting agitated. He studied her face for far longer than he had for anything else, and Elise got goosebumps as his aether rose in intensity. Then, all of a sudden, it stopped, returning to more normal levels.

“Hmmm, I must have been confusing you with someone else,” he said. “Well, where were we?” He looked around. “Ah yes, my bedroom! Right this way!”

He marched off confidently, no longer paying any attention to the damage to the halls. The bedroom in question was as big as Elise’s entire house had been back on Earth, and unlike the rest of the castle, it was relatively undamaged. There was no rubble, and no holes, and there were even some pieces of wooden furniture that hadn’t crumbled to rot and dust somehow. The only strange thing about it was that there was no bed. Instead, where Elise expected the bed might have been, there was a large, stone sarcophagus.

“This is where I sleep,” said Erun.

“A sarcophagus?” asked Elise.

“Yes, I’m afraid I had to replace the bed after the – after…” Erun snapped his fingers a few times. “The ritual! Yes, the ritual. The ritual… It went wrong. So wrong… But that’s a story for another time. Sad stories are best saved for drinking parties, not new friends! Let’s continue! The next room is my favorite.”

Seeing the sarcophagus and hearing Erun talk about a “ritual” had Elise feeling certain that he was some kind of undead. It made sense, in retrospect, since nothing else could have lived for so long down here, but it didn’t make her trust the man any more. At the moment, her plan was to suffer through the tour, and possibly the meal, get Charlotte to leave, and never return.

Erun continued chattering in his usual, forgetful way as they left the room, heading to the far end of the hallway where a pair of double doors stood. He pushed them open, and unlike every other door in the castle, they did not creak. The hinges were unrusted, and there was almost no noise at all. When Elise saw what was inside, she let out an involuntary gasp.

Some of the rooms in the castle had been in better condition than others, but this was the only room she could say was in good condition. There was no dust, and a single glance was enough to tell her that the room was more or less identical to how it had been before the city fell.

“This is my art room,” said Erun proudly.

The room was, indeed, full of art. There were pedestals with vases and sculptures, and paintings and tapestries lined the walls, all as vibrant in color as if they had been made yesterday. Elise’s eyes caught on one particular painting on the right side of the room showing an enormous man in armor, standing on a mountaintop with a sword in his hand. One his shoulder, there was an eagle perched, and when Elise looked at it, it seemed to look right back, its eyes boring into her very soul.

“Is that… Is that Quel’Khulan?” she asked.

“You recognize it?!” asked Erun excitedly. “Yes, yes, that is exactly who it is! Quel’Khulan and Quel’Tyral after their campaign against the demon army in northern Khalzam. They ended that war almost single-handedly, and I had this commissioned in their memory. Did you know that they actually visited once? They stood right here in this very spot! They even said they liked the painting! And look!”

Erun rushed over toward the painting beside the one of Quel’Khulan.

“Do you recognize them as well?”

Elise followed him, squinting. It showed what appeared to be a middle-aged healer couple waiting at the bedside of an injured woman. The man had his hand on her bloodstained stomach, glowing with soft white light, while the woman touched the patient’s forehead, eyes closed and mouth open in what might have been prayer. She didn’t recognize them at a glance, but there was something about their expressions that seemed familiar, and a few seconds later, it came to her.

“Ber’Lanra and Ber’Hana?” she guessed.

“Yes!” said Erun, shaking slightly with excitement. “This was painted by… Ah, I can’t remember the name, but he saw them at work and was so inspired he just had to make sure the world saw. I bought this for… I can’t remember that either, but I nearly went bankrupt that year to afford it. Such a masterpiece! Just look at those brushstrokes! And I have another one of his over here!”

For the next few minutes, Erun ran around the room like a kid in a toy shop, showing off all his favorite pieces. It was obvious that Erun was both a patron of the arts, and a massive fanboy. Elise did not recognize the people in the rest of the paintings, but Erun was able to name them all without hesitation. The memory issues that plagued every sentence of his didn’t seem to affect him at all when it came to describing the subjects of the art pieces. He couldn’t remember the artists’ names, but he could remember the scenes and the people in them clearly, and he demonstrated a deep admiration for all of them.

Elise was still wary of him, but the display went a long way to softening her heart. She didn’t trust him, and she was nervous about whatever was going on with his aether, but her worries about him turning out to be deceptive or sinister were fading.

“And this one right over here is my favorite,” he said, jogging to the back of the room, where the center of the wall was hidden by curtains.

He put his hand on a rope hanging down beside it, then turned back to beckon Elise and Charlotte closer. Once they were standing in front of it, he pulled the rope with a flourish, and the curtains parted.

Elise took an involuntary step back when she saw the painting on the wall. It showed a woman sitting in a chair like a renaissance portrait. She was regal, and dressed in luxurious fabrics, but instead of having a serious expression, she had a light, almost playful smile. Her hair was silver and her eyes were gold, and something about the subtle dimple on her cheek evoked such a strong feeling of familiarity that she was absolutely certain she knew who this woman was. But when she reached for the feeling, it faded as fast as it had arrived.

“Beautiful, isn’t it?” said Erun, looking up at it as he leaned to the side on his cane. “The queen herself, Ber’Isel. This isn’t the original, sadly, but I had the same painter make this for me based on it. An exorbitant expense, of course, but I just had to have it.”

Ber’Isel, thought Elise. I know that name. Why do I know that name?

Erun went on and on about what a kind and benevolent ruler Ber’Isel was, but Elise barely paid him any attention. The face was so familiar, and she knew she had heard the name before. And not just sometime in the past. It was recent.

The dreams! she realized.

Ber’Isel had been the subject of her recent sequence of dreams. Dreams she could only remember snippets of afterward, but Ber’Isel was in all of them. The most recent had an argument. Ber’Isel was trying to convince someone not to leave, and they weren’t listening. She had mentioned another name.

Ur… Who is that?

She racked her brains for the answer, but couldn’t come up with anything. She knew that the name had been mentioned a few other times in the dreams, but she didn’t know what it meant. She glanced over at Erun, who was still going on about Ber’Isel.

Should I ask him? she wondered.

She thought about it, and then decided against it, at least for the time being. Ur seemed to be associated with something negative in regards to Ber’Isel, and she was worried about setting Erun off. She had yet to see him get angry, but if those dreams were anything to go by, he wouldn’t be happy to hear about him, and she didn’t want to bring up bad memories to such an unstable man.

She looked back at the painting, studying the former queen’s face, frowning. Her dreams didn’t have any faces in them. None that she could remember, at least. And yet, it was the face that she had recognized first.

What does it mean?