“You know… You claim not to be me, but only I would do something that irresponsible. Reminds me of the time I tried to make [True Anti-magic] and my blood turned to water and they warned me against ever trying to control the Script like that again.”

Poi held himself back from spitting, as he said, “I thought we were past you doing stupid things outside of proper protections and preparations. I thought we talked about you waiting to see if Erick said okay.”

Erick had said ‘okay’, but he wasn’t going to bring up that point right now.

Bleary eyed, Solomon looked to Poi. “… Shouldn’t you be inside the dungeon?”

“I am panicking right now, yes,” Poi said, “Don’t deflect. You always deflect.”

Solomon blinked a bit, then smiled a little, saying, “Thank you for caring.”

Ah.

Solomon was having a really bad time of it, wasn’t he, if he was saying stuff like that.

Erick softly said, “Of course we care. We care a lot, Solomon. I care.”

Solomon breathed deep, then sat up. “I know you do. But… It’s not ‘caring’ how I’m used to. I don’t like being on the receiving end. I’m used to being the center. Of caring for others… Not… This.”

He went silent.

Erick conjured another bed roll and sat down—

Poi said, “I want to be here for this, but I cannot. I am panicking right now. I have to go into the dungeon.” He said to Solomon, “We will talk later.” He walked back to the dungeon, and—

Erick gave voice to the thought in his head, “Want the other you to be here for this?”

“Yes!” Poi said, and then he rushed back into the crystal copse, into the dungeon.

Erick opened a [Gate] to Poi, sitting at home, in his office.

Poi walked right on through and sat down on another bed roll that Erick had conjured.

Solomon smiled softly the whole time. When Erick closed the [Gate], Solomon looked at both of them, and said, “I have the Worldly Path Quest box again.” He waved a hand.

A blue box appeared.

Special Quest!

The Worldly Path 0/1

OR

10 Points

Reward: The ability to cast Gate

Erick could already imagine Rozeta, sitting in the Core, cursing up a storm.

Poi said, “People care about you, Solomon. Don’t pull shit like this. It is self-destructive and dangerous.”

Solomon sighed. “I had it under control.”

“And now you’re deflecting again,” Poi said.

Erick asked, “How can I help?”

Solomon’s breath hitched again.

Poi said nothing as he sat there, watching Solomon. He waited. Erick waited, too.

Solomon said, “I want to use the Black Gate in the dungeon to find out more about Wizards, and how they happen.” He looked to Erick. “And how they actually ascend to True Wizardry.”

Erick nodded, “Then that need has shot to the top of the list of things to find.”

Solomon added, “And when I ascend to True Wizardry, and completely discard my dungeon master slime origins, I will be treated as an equal. And not this subservient thing we have going right now.”

Erick was a little hurt by that. “I didn’t think I was… doing that.”

“You weren’t. But it was happening, by the very nature of what we’re doing. You are in charge, and I am not in charge. You have no idea how difficult it has been for me to… to be calm about all this, Erick. To accept that this is happening, as it is happening. I have discovered for the several-th time that I don’t like being less than who I was. It’s Storm’s Edge and keeping quiet while Vanya did all that stuff all over again.” Solomon said, “But a lot larger. I have to pretend that I am not here to the entire world.” Without sparing a single moment to let that thought hang out, Solomon got to his feet, saying, “And I’ll pretend for a while longer. So let’s get back to it.”

Erick almost didn’t let Solomon get away with yet another deflection. But then he realized that Solomon simply wasn’t willing to talk about all this right now, because Solomon was without agency, and there was no way to fix that. As soon as Erick had that thought, he thought about his own history, which was also Solomon’s. Was this how Poi felt, when Erick always deflected, when he was having emotional problems with his Wizardly nature and his kingly fate, all those years ago? Probably.

Erick could do one thing to give Solomon some agency, though.

“What item do you want to go after?” Erick asked, as he stood. “Or person? I don’t think we’re quite ready to rescue Avandrasolaro... Actually. Let’s find out.” Erick looked to the sky, and asked, “Koyabez? How is that Avandrasolaro question going?”

Solomon’s face dropped in pure embarrassment and a mix of other emotions. Erick guessed that he was fearful of his situation being called out in such a way, and directly involving the person whom Erick —and therefore he— considered a friend. But Koyabez wasn’t a friend to Solomon, was he? None of the gods were too friendly with repros, and Solomon’s situation had been no different. This direct confrontation was a bridge that Solomon hadn’t managed to make on his own, and for more than normal repro-reasons. He probably just never wanted to actually pray to any of the gods, because that would be fucking weird, because Erick had very much outgrown that, and now, here was Erick, pulling Solomon along in something that Solomon had missed being able to do himself.

But it was too late for Solomon to say anything one way or the other.

The air flickered and a demi man descended. Koyabez wore his normal form of a lithe violet-skinned man with tiny horns and a simple loincloth. He smiled a little, as he said, “Hello, Erick. Avandrasolaro is still being vetted by my mortals, for they would wish to be heavily involved with his potential resurrection. There’s an argument right now about who is actually going to come here to receive that ancient Angel.”

Erick nodded, then said, “Solomon wishes to be involved in this more than he is. Can your people talk with him?”

Solomon was stoic in the face of his own embarrassment.

Koyabez almost said, ‘No’.

That was surprising to Erick. Sure, the gods treated repros as new people, but… Really?

The reaction had been instant, too. But then Koyabez stopped himself. He paused. He looked at Solomon for the first time since his descent, and he still didn’t look at Poi. That’s how it was when gods descended sometimes; they didn’t look upon those who were not directly involved in whatever situation caused them to descend. It wasn’t a hard and fast rule, though Erick had seen it happen like that more often than not. Once, he had believed that that disregard was almost a shunning, but it was more a preservation of the self, and of boundaries. If people wanted to talk to gods, they could talk to them directly; the gods certainly didn’t proselytize themselves, though. They had people do that for them, and then if converts wished to speak with their new gods, then they spoke—

Koyabez looked to Solomon, and in that moment, Erick saw the god of Peace as a God. The effect was likely larger for Solomon. With muted power, Koyabez asked, “You wish to rescue ancient angels from the Dark, and bring about an end to the Quiet War? And the Forever War?”

“I do.”

Solomon’s answer had been quick.

Koyabez demanded more, “Why?”

“Because I stayed out of it for a long time, and now that I’m— Now that I’m not Erick, I can do certain things that I was never able to do, like actually get involved in all of that Forever War business, to try and end it for all time before it spreads out to other worlds. Erick will be busy. I will not be busy.” Solomon said, “And I want a purpose besides regaining my Wizardry. Peace seems like a good one.”

Koyabez stared hard, his silver eyes glittering like his moon, the Silver Star up above, forever separating Hell from Celes. He flicked his gaze to Erick. “Do you trust him with the world?”

“Yes,” Erick said, “As much as I trust anyone, and even more than that.”

Solomon’s heart beat hard. His face showed hope at recapturing some of his old life.

And then Koyabez said, “I will be honest with you, and with all who listen, because it is you asking this of me, Erick.”

Solomon’s face fell a fraction, and no more. He was a rock, and he would endure.

Erick was mad on Solomon’s behalf; he knew a rejection when he heard one.

Koyabez said, “Until Solomon is fully extricated from Melemizargo’s power, then I will not interact with him as I would a normal person. None of the gods will. The same goes for Ezekiel, but he is not center stage right now, asking to be a larger part of the Sundering Search. Ezekiel is not attempting to become a Wizard, either. Solomon is both those things.” He looked to Solomon and said, “I will always hold you at a distance until you are fully cleansed of Melemizargo’s influence, but since you have a goal of becoming a Wizard, two things will happen. Either you will ascend to Wizardry and separate from him fully, becoming your own person. Or you will become a Wizard under his power, which will demand our concerted efforts to destroy you. We still do not trust Melemizargo enough to let him have a Wizard at all.”

The shadows gathered under the morning sun, and Melemizargo’s voice carried in the clearing, “That’s a bit harsh isn’t it, Koyabez?”

“My old friend, you are still not yourself, and it will take many centuries until we believe otherwise. Do not take my unwillingness to fully embrace you as any sort of condemnation, for we are on a good Path right now.”

“Hmm!” Melemizargo’s shadow swirled. “I’m not weak-willed enough to think that. I do find it strange that you wouldn’t allow me a Wizard now and then. They all used to be mine and they come from me, anyway, and you have Erick.”

Koyabez said to Solomon, “This is why no one answers your queries; it was nothing personal.”

“Just personal toward me.” Melemizargo huffed, “Pah! Solomon isn’t anywhere near achieving Wizardry.”

“Which is why I’m stepping halfway toward him,” Koyabez said to Solomon, “I accept your pledge of peace, but I will not ordain you in any way prior to your full escape from Melemizargo’s influence. I have no doubt that this trust I place in you will bear prosperous fruit, and I trust Melemizargo to not endanger his own goals moving forward, but you are a new person, no matter what memories and powers you might have. Trust of the sort you enjoyed as Erick will have to be built again.”

Solomon said, “I accept.”

Erick just watched; this was not his show right now. He was very glad that Solomon accepted, though. If it were him being offered these sets of choices, he would have accepted, too. He had already done so once before, with Rozeta, in order to remain his own person, and that turned out well.

For a brief moment, Erick recalled when Clarice, in the Glittering Depths, had said that they were just playing parts that had already been played before, and for a moment, Erick felt that this was true. But choices were still made, and Paths still forged anew, and different, and bearing superficial resemblances to the old.

Koyabez softened slightly, seeming more like the Koyabez that Erick knew. “You’ll either need a [Reincarnation] of your own to rid yourself of Melemizargo’s influence, or ascension to True Wizard. Both would be fine. Good luck on whatever Worldly Path you choose, Solomon. My priests will be here within a day to meet with you, and to discuss what they have decided with Avandrasolaro.”

Solomon spoke up, “Did you know him? Personally?”

Koyabez smiled softly as he looked into the distance. “I did. Once upon a time.” He looked to Solomon. “Whichever version of him comes back he’ll probably call me a ghost, too. We’re all so changed from who we used to be.”

And then Koyabez faded, gold and silver turning to nothing. Koyabez had always had a bit of a silver tint to his divinity, which was by choice; gold was the color of power and everyone cleaved to that thinking, but silver was the color of Peace, and that was all Koyabez, and his Silver Star.

The shadows in the clearing did not fade at all.

Melemizargo muttered, “They have the nerve to talk to me about putting levers into people, but they do the exact same thing. That’s what gods do. How else are we supposed to communicate with you mortals?”

“Talking, usually,” Erick said.

“Bah! Talk is such a weak form of communication. Look at your man Poi. He knew he needed to get back to the dungeon without any words exchanged at all. That’s the only ‘lever’ I have on dungeon master slimes, I’ll have you know. ‘Guard the dungeon you are tied to’. Simple.” Moving right along, the shadows spoke to Solomon, “Don’t let the angels put anything in you; they’re pretty gross about their implants.”

“Heard and understood,” Solomon said, seeming happier than normal.

Melemizargo’s shadow curled around the glade once more, making sure he was truly heard and understood, and then he vanished.

Erick asked Solomon, “Is that the first time he talked to you?”

“First time for both of them,” Solomon said.

Poi let out a sigh he had been holding, as he said, “[Gate] back home, please. And Solomon; good luck with your new Path. Hopefully it won’t be as world-changing as your original.”

Erick opened a [Gate] back to Poi’s office, as he smiled, saying, “You remember that time when we made the Sighting Mirrors, and you teased about ‘how bad could it be’?”

Poi seemed to puff up a bit as he took the serious-route in his clapback, “I remember that quite clearly, and trying to equate a Mirror in the Dark to a potential Wizard walking a Worldly Path is completely unequivocal.”

Erick couldn't help it; he laughed. Solomon smiled.

And Poi said, “But seriously, though. Let’s not get more Paradox Wizards, changing the worlds at their whim, if possible. I still field complaints about Destiny going this way or that, righting this wrong or that wrong. Yesterday she turned a magistrate into a toad.”

Erick winced.

Solomon said, “But she turned them back, though,” his voice filled with unsure conviction.

“The magistrate was starting to use curses to punish people for their trespasses, and one of those curses was a Curse of Flies.” Poi said, “She had the magistrate-toad eat all the flies around one of his convicts before she turned him back.”

“… Okay that’s kinda funny,” Erick said.

Solomon nodded. “I’d laugh if I were there.”

Poi eyed both of them very seriously, and then he walked away, through the portal. “Don’t make more problems for us, please.”

Solomon smiled, saying, “Only solutions!”

Poi nodded once more, but it was less sure.

