Guile flicked its many golden tails. Its golden eyes went fractionally wider.

Solomon waited.

Guile said, “If you will allow me to eat your arm every day I might stick with you forever.”

Solomon chuckled. “We’ll try the normal contract you’ve proposed, for now.”

“Agreed. Now what’s going on with this power all around me?” the Guile asked. “It’s invisible to me… Hmm. Something weird is happening here.”

“Probably a lot of things. We’re on a manaminer right now, too,” Solomon said. “It was the only way this part of the Old Cosmology survived at all.”

“… That might be it. I’m coming over now. Be ready.” Guile stood up and walked forward, carefully stepping on the bits of stone that were floating in the Dark— And then his foot touched Black and he began to unravel. “Oh slag and shards—”

Solomon ripped forward with Benevolence, grabbing Guile with a lightning grip. He pulled the golden fox out from Beyond—

Something happened when the Enchanter’s Guile crossed the threshold of the Black Gate. Or maybe it was something Solomon did. The golden fox crushed down into a bracelet once again, his bright soul transforming to fit his container.

He did not die. He did not pass on.

… He was fine?

“I guess my Wizardry earlier was enough?” Erick asked, a little concerned.

Solomon held the bracelet in his light, in front of him. “… Are you okay in there, Guile?”

A tinny, metallic voice spoke from the bracelet, “I see this realm has an Elemental Fae lock in effect.”

Well that was bothersome for many different reasons.

“It is not that much of a bother,” Guile said, “But it is annoying. I will amend my meat requirements, for now, and bump up my desire for new worlds even more than it already was. I require full knowledge of my current state, Servant Solomon. The Element you are using to hold me is unknown to me, and I seem to be composed of some sort of material that is quite a lot weaker than I am used to… And unintelligible. This is all very strange. And your reactions to me speaking of Elemental Fae do not bode well for the general state of this reality.”

“… This is gonna take a while, so let’s get started,” Solomon asked, “Where would you like to start?”

“Put me on your wrist.”

Solomon put Guile onto the wrist not already occupied by Wheatly, trusting Erick, or Poi, or even the Janes, to react if something bad happened. But nothing bad happened, at least not overtly. Maybe not even covertly. Erick watched as Guile flickered some sort of sensing magic into Solomon. Solomon noticed the flow of golden light, too, and did nothing to stop it.

Guile hummed, almost in thought. Then the golden bracer fit more cleanly onto Solomon’s wrist, adjusting itself as it added some soft padding, and some decorative scales, like dragon scales. He asked, “Does the Darkness know you look like a Dark Dragon in your true form?” and then he added, “I suppose the Dark must, since we appear to be in the Dark Itself, at the Dark’s behest. What year is it?”

Solomon said, “I have no idea, but we can find out. Poi?”

Poi said, “Conflicting reports. From the main fairy on Veird, she was about a million years old when the Old Cosmology was destroyed, so that might give you a general idea of the current age, but her age might have been an exaggerated telling one way or the other.”

“… OKAY!” Guile said, kinda strained and kinda loud. “If that is what you think is anywhere near relevant then we’re gonna need to start at the very beginning. I would like a full history lesson of wherever the hell we are now.”

Erick said, “I was not expecting to get practice for bringing Avandrasolaro up to speed quite yet, but this works.”

“Him!” Guile said, latching onto that name. “I know of Avandrasolaro! He died ages ago. Maybe 80,000 years. I have been off and on working to heal the Bisection ever since his passing. It is not going well— it was not going well.”

Solomon said, “You might be from 100,000 years prior to the Sundering and the death of your entire Old Cosmology.”

“… Okay.” Guile said, “Back to a full history lesson, and then you can tell me what’s going on with all the weird magical items everyone here is wearing. You have a bracelet filled with godly might —Atunir, I believe— and that Wizard over there has stranger artifacts, and those women have exact copies of the same rings… exact copies. Also! If you can get me a meeting with whoever is running the manaminer of this world then that would be helpful for understanding a lot of this… place. But I understand that those things take time. Manaminer minders are always busy with whatnot and hows-it-ever.”

Solomon started with, “It might not take that much time to get an audience with the Goddess of this particular manaminer because...”

Solomon spoke of various things. Guile showed continual surprise, even though it seemed to gall him every time he showed his own surprise.

And Erick went to the girls, saying, “I guess that’s it for the day. Easy day. Relatively speaking. Guile being fae is obviously concerning, but none of them have been that bad since Rozeta relaxed the bands.”

Jane looked from Erick to Solomon, and then to the bracelet on his wrist, as Guile erupted in surprise at Erick knowing all the gods of this world. ‘He’s not even a True Wizard! … Is he?’ the bracelet exclaimed. Solomon continued his explanations, with the bracer asking deep questions, and Jane frowned at all of that. All the girls did.

Emily asked, “Is this worse, or better, than how it was with the people from the Censer?”

Emily had been the one to ask the question, but most of the girls shared that same concern. How much of a security risk was the Enchanter’s Guile, exactly? No one knew.

Erick said, “Those people were mortals. The Enchanter’s Guile seems… Accomplished, to say the least. None of us expected this level of sapience, but we kinda did, and we’re here now, and it’s good preparation for Avandrasolaro anyway.” Erick looked over to Solomon and Guile talking, and said, “I just hope we haven’t harmed him with all this information so fast. I had to stop answering questions like this with those guys from the Censer because it was harming them.”

Guile spoke up, “I can hear you!”

“I meant for you to overhear me.” Erick asked, “Are you mentally well enough to take all these answers right now?”

“… I am handling it,” Guile said. And then he turned his attentions back to Solomon. “You were saying about the Shades.”

Solomon said, “I was talking about various forces in the world, actually. But if you want to go right to the whole story of the Shades, we can, though that story has affected Veird the most, so perhaps we can leave that for the moment.”

Guile softly demanded, “Tell me of the Shades, Solomon.”

Solomon began, “The Shades were the most malevolent force on Veird for a long time, but never outright killing everyone, like we all knew they could. Instead, they sought to control, because for the longest time, Melemizargo, the current God of Magic, had been insane…”

Jane grabbed Erick’s attention away from Solomon’s history lesson as she said, “I guess we are done.”

Erick gave each of the girls a farewell-for-now hug and sent them on their way, saying he was glad that they didn’t have to risk themselves today. They were kinda looking forward to risking themselves, though, so today had just been boring for them. And concerning. Debby watched Solomon talk to Guile, and was concerned, but she moved on. Jane and the girls went back to searching the Dark through the Well, and the Black Mirrors, and to talking to people they knew, in order to vet the various items that were on the searching docket.

Avandrasolaro would be tomorrow, and they would likely need to be there for that. Finding Guile today, on his own, had been lucky. A powerful angel like Avandrasolaro never went anywhere by himself.

Erick went back to the house with Solomon at his side, to help with answers about the New Cosmology and otherwise, with Poi providing exterior sources of answers when Erick or Solomon didn’t have them.

And then Guile —which was his preferred name; Erick asked— said something about fairies again.

Fairy Moon stepped into the room.
