Erick was grinning as he shut the [Gate]. And then he turned to Solomon. “So you’re actually gonna step into the Forever War mess?”

“I think it’s time to take that bull by the horns, yes.”

“I love it.” Erick said, “You let me know when you need help.”

“Of course, ‘brother’.”

Erick had a sudden urge to hug the guy, and so he did.

Solomon hugged back, then patted Erick on the back and pulled away. “Okay. That was nice, and yes, I wanted a hug, but that was weird.”

Erick laughed. “Yeah. Kinda.”

“But before we get to the angel!” Solomon said, enthusiastically, “I gotta learn Wizardry at the end of this Sundering Search just like you, and we’ve both been slacking on that. So how about we go looking for some helpful Wizard artifacts, like that Enchanter’s Guile? That thing is supposed to help with all sorts of big Quests, right?”

“That’s what I’ve heard, too.” Erick said, “Haven’t vetted it too much, though.”

Solomon waved. “I’m sure it’s fine. Atunir said to get it, and all the other gods looked excited for it. I’ll go tell the girls.” Solomon waved his hand to the left, to open a [Gate]… Nothing happened, because of course it didn’t. Solomon was weirded out for half a moment, but then he surprised Erick. Instead of looking sad, or mad, or any other negative emotion, Solomon grinned, and chuckled. “Ah. Right!” He smiled. “I always loved flying, anyway.”

And then he took off into the air.

Erick watched him go for a moment, and he, too, felt something like joy unfurl inside him. Flying was pretty awesome, and he so rarely got a chance to fly these days. [Gate]s were just faster.

- - - -

The girls, Erick, Solomon, and Poi, all stood on the white stone of the slime dungeon, near the Black Gate. The world beyond the ephemeral wall of the dungeon was vaguely black, but also filled with distant dreams in all sorts of dark, iridescent colors. The Black Gate itself was mostly platinum, but white light hid within each of the runic markings upon its surface.

Jane rhetorically asked, “So we’re really starting up the search again. Even though we haven’t vetted 90% of the requests.”

The girls had voiced some small objections before Solomon had gathered them all to this point, and now Jane was voicing even more. This was probably because she hadn’t gotten a chance to voice those concerns directly to Erick quite as strongly as she wished to voice those objections.

Erick said, “While it is true that House Benevolence is still working on vetting the requests, we’re not starting there. We’re going after the Enchanter’s Guile. It’s one of the few things we don’t have to search or vet more than we already have.” Erick gestured to the Black Mirror, stationed a good forty meters west of the Black Gate. He had used that while Solomon was gathering the girls, to check on the Enchanter’s Guile, and the imagery of that search was still there upon that black surface. The Guile was a bracer that went over the right arm, and it had been upon the arms of many, many different people over the centuries. The Mirror had shown the Guile, for sure, but watching the Guile in the Dark was like watching a stationary object while the world changed all around it, as thousands of different people wielded it toward sometimes good, and sometimes evil ends. “We might have to try a few times because the Guile was used by everyone, and we don’t want to bring back some problematic person. But the Guile itself is known to the gods, and they approve of its return.”

The only one convinced was Solomon.

Poi tried a compromise, “How about we look for it between users? Therefore no one comes with it?”

Debby said, “Maybe we should look at why it changed users so often.”

“It’s because people fought over it,” Solomon said. “Everyone wanted it. That thing passed around so many hands, for it was the inciting incident in enough stories in the Old Cosmology to fill a library.”

“It’s also the start of many other artifacts that we might be searching for.” Erick said, “The Prismatic Key that could take a person anywhere they wanted in the entire Old Cosmology was made by the Enchanter’s Guile.”

Solomon said, “And when it was done being used to solve problems, the user often tried to hide it, like a pirate burying treasure, but it always wanted to be found. It always wanted to make something new.”

“And that’s why it’ll probably come through the gate just fine,” Erick said. “It will want to be returned to life.”

The girls frowned at that; ‘to life’.

“It’s sentient, then,” Jane flatly guessed.

“Almost 100%, yes,” Erick said, as Solomon said, “Probably.”

The girls had more words to say—

But Erick told Solomon, “Line her up!”

Solomon smiled as he looked toward the gate, and the swirling lands beyond. “Show me the Enchanter’s Guile where it had been looking for a new purpose for a while.”

Darkness shifted. A timer appeared, 0s flickering past other numbers and symbols, to land on all 9s, filling up the black box. Shadows lifted beyond the Black Gate.

And then there was a scene. Seemed like a good one, too.

A shaft of sunlight fell upon a rusted anvil in the middle of a forgotten forge that had once been fit for a swordsmith, but which was now empty of all life. There were no embers in any of the hearths. Bellows lay on the ground, some burned and broken, others with cables snapped, to fall to become piles of rust. A few small hammers held on the walls here and there, while a single lonely black ingot held in the back of an empty stockpile, as though it had been forgotten or ignored in the move. Trash was everywhere. Mounds of piles lay here and there, looking like someone had tried to clean up and stopped before they actually took the trash outside, opting to leave it for rats to nest within, but there were no rats.

It looked like a nice place to work, but only for simple things.

Which was why the glittering gold and gem-encrusted bracer sitting in the sunlight, atop the anvil in the center of the walkway, stood out so much. It was a pearl in a mud pit. A laptop in an ancient library.

A trap, perhaps.

But it was also what they had come for.

Maybe.

The stories about the Enchanter’s Guile were all relatively the same, according to Erick’s interactions with Atunir and Rozeta, and even Lapis. When Erick asked the Shade of Enchantment about what appeared to be one of the old histories of the Old Cosmology, Lapis had been excited to talk about it, but also to warn that it was dangerous to people it did not like. So it was alive, for sure.

Which is why Erick did what he did next.

Erick reached through the Black Gate with his aura and hit the absolute wall that existed between him and the other side; the Dark tearing at his aura like an Absolute Void. That was just to make sure that his plan was working. With his aura on that boundary, Erick said, “Hello, Enchanter’s Guile. You are currently inside the Dark. Would you like to come out, back into the real world?”

The barrier between Here and There deepened, becoming something less absolute.

The golden bracelet slipped a little to the left, glittering even brighter in the sunlight.

Good.

He had connected with the other side.

Erick pressed his aura against the barrier inside the Black Gate, and the barrier was weaker, now. His power showed through to the other side, but barely. Lightning flickered in the air, as Erick wrote out ‘Greetings’ in every language he knew, and a lot he did not, filling the wide portal with tens of lines of welcoming.

The portal deepened as Erick added more and more wording, his power soaking through to the other side. His words of welcoming were written in what could only be considered an act of Wizardry. Words written in Inferni, the language of the Demons and dead incani, seemed to crack the barrier between Here and There in a deep sort of way, and then Karstar, the language of the Angels, opened it wider and wider. Those were the two most ancient languages on Veird, aside from Ancient Script, which did nothing, for Ancient Script was the language of the manaminer of Veird. Ancient Script had its roots in Dwarvish, another ancient language, but it was so far removed from that ancient start, and made so unique on Veird, that when Erick posted ‘Greetings’ in Ancient Script on the Black Gate, it did nothing at all. Even Gargantual, the language of the orcols, did more than Ancient Script—

And then Erick said ‘Greetings’ in Dwarvish, or at least what passed for ‘Greetings’ based upon the scant writings of those dead people that Erick had in his various collections.

Cracks formed in reality, and the portal flowed.

The stale air of a forge long gone to pot crept into the slime dungeon, while the air of the slime dungeon, clean as could be and filled with moisture and the sounds of water, flowed into the forge.

Erick switched his aura to [Physical Domain] and spoke through to the other side, “Enchanter’s Guile, I know you’re there. You’re in the Dark, please beware. Embrace reality’s beckoning call, and let’s make miracles for all.”

The edges of reality on the other side began to turn Dark, and filled with nothing. Forges that once lit with fire and light, now overflowed with gloom and black. The Dark Dream was breaking, becoming more real. Dark waters curled down the edges of the forge hall, like seeking tendrils, pushing away dust and disturbing old piles of trash—

There were skeletons in that trash. Bones, carefully hidden until that moment, until dark waters buoyed those bones briefly into the air, and then dragged them down into the Dark.

The light above the anvil flickered and panicked, drawing downward, like a tendril retracting into the anvil, as the entire anvil swallowed the golden bracelet atop its surface, like a tongue pulling inward, slipping between massive teeth. The anvil, once a rusted thing, flashed into an ornate golden fox of ten tails but only a meter in height. The light which had shone down on it now enveloped it, like a protective aura.

Shadows intruded upon the creature, but its brilliant aura flaked away instead of the fox. The fox did not seem to mind this. It had been startled, and now it was not. The fox looked around, almost casually, then it looked to Erick and his family on the other side of the Black Gate.

It spoke, “I appear to be in the Dark.”

“You are,” Erick asked, “And you’re not panicking? … You also appear to not mind it much, except for the first panic when you stopped pretending to be that anvil.”

Something was off. Erick wasn’t sure what it was. But something was off—

“I was asleep,” said the fox. And then he started walking around the floor of his hiding hole, the Dark retreating from him as he walked. Dark destroyed brick and stone reformed under his paws. With his tails, he kept his shield strong. “You try waking up under attack some time.”

“I have done that many times, so I can see where your reaction is warranted.” Erick said, “Pardon me, but it appears that you are a lot more stable than other people we have rescued from the Dark… But we have only done this once before. One successful time, anyway. Would you like to talk more, or come over here, first?”

“I am not sure I can come over there,” said the Guile, for this thing was obviously the Enchanter’s Guile. “I am a shadeling… or something like that. This is most peculiar, actually. I have rescued people from the Dark before, but I have never been rescued myself. I am not sure you have the capability of actually bringing me over there, or else I would jump at the chance.” They said, “Most people lie to me —a lot— in order to get my help.”

As they spoke, the Guile’s Forge was already collapsing, but the collapse seemed way too slow around the Guile itself… ‘Himself’? Herself? Erick would know later.

Erick said, “I try not to lie. Lies break and harm, while Truths affirm and support.” Erick added, “And I already know resurrection and reincarnation magic. So we would be using one or both of those to bring you back. Though… We thought you were an item. Sentient, yes, but not quite… A full person sentient.”

“You’re a Wizard, then?”

“I am.”

“I won’t work with you; you’re too set in your ways.” The fox looked to the others. “Maybe one of the others, I will.”

Erick instantly said, “Solomon here is on his Worldly Path to become a Wizard himself. How about him?”

Solomon stepped forward a little.

The fox narrowed his eyes at Solomon. And then he sat on his haunches, his tails waving back and forth, light spilling out, yet fraying as it touched the Dark and kept the Dark at bay. Almost the entire forge had fallen to black. The Enchanter’s Guile and a thin path of stone between him and the gate was all that remained, and only because Erick was purposefully keeping that pathway open. It was becoming increasingly more difficult to keep that path open because his power was physical, and the mana was not physical at all.

“You have weird powers over there,” Guile said.

“We do,” Solomon answered. “The Old Cosmology is dead. The New Cosmology is all that remains. We’re 1451 years out from the Sundering, and it was only now, through Erick here, that Wizards are finally accepted once again, and only minimally.”

Guile’s foxy eyes went wider, briefly. He hummed. He said, “You and I will enter into a Contract, then.”

“Contract Magic doesn’t exist over here,” Solomon said, “We won’t let it come back, either.”

“Pah! … I suppose…” Guile said, “Tell me your goals, Solomon. I will help you achieve one of them, and depending on what comes after, I will either move on from you, or stay with you. My goals are to build worlds filled with plentiful things to eat. And you will give me tasty meats every single day. One human, or one equivalent-sized magic beast. If you fail to provide food per day, then I will eat whichever of your arms I reside upon and leave you forever.”

The human-eating thing tracked with the skeletons.

Which was concerning.

But the rest of it… Was fine?

Solomon countered, “I wish to build worlds and make this one better. To end the Forever War, to bring peace and prosperity to all. We are already planning on doing everything you wish to have done, but it will take a long time, and this Cosmology is not one you are used to, so don’t get strange ideas about time lines or stuff like that. And I’m fine with giving you good food. We eat great and magical food every day. If you end up eating my arm through inattention, that’s fine, but it won’t be a permanent sort of eating; I expect to be able to regrow it with minimal effort.”

