A spike of fear went through him from his head to his toes, but he forcefully suppressed it. Trying all four of his Concept entries, he found the same held true for all of them.

Fearing rising, he pushed his swordsmanship entry into his Concept, finally breathing again when it worked perfectly.

A moment later, he understood.

He was wholly unable to use his Concept to modify his Concept entries. Far from a bad thing, it was redundant. Now, every time his Concept progressed an entry and earned proficiency, the proficiency of his four Concept entries automatically progressed, thanks to deepening his connection to his Domain.

It was a clever trick he’d have never considered possible, but he also realized that was what people were searching for by creating Concept’s blind.

Tim never would have chosen the ‘weaker’ path if he’d been in conscious control. Chastising himself Tim realized that if he’d continued with his first test a little longer, he’d have saved himself the panic.

Finally feeling in control, he dragged himself back into the bathroom where he emptied the tub and let the hot water run, melting the ice and warming the room. A part of him questioned how he got into this room or the tub, but checking his AI was the last thing on his mind.

He wasn’t ready to face the consequences of previous actions. He’d need to soon enough but not right now. Instead, he focused on cleaning himself up as Image-Tim had already done.

He wasn’t entirely sure if he fixated on that bit of self improvement because he’d seen his Concept Image Tim do it, or if the Image-Tim had done so because it was his own desire. Either way, he felt good after stepping out of the shower, having shaved and styled his own hair.

Wrapping a towel around himself, he stepped into the living room of the hotel and froze as his gaze met the other occupant in the room.

An ordinary looking black cat sat there, its tail wrapped around itself. Except it sat three feet in the air instead of on the ground.

Tim pinched his freshly shaved face, but the cat opened its mouth, proving more than anything else how real it was.

“I can slap you if you want.”

Tim’s mind crashed to a halt as the cat then started counting on its paws. It wasn’t the act itself that surprised him, he’d seen higher Tiers in their bloodline forms. No, what surprised him was that he knew the cat from the Academy.

The cat smirked at him, as the realization and understanding must have shown on his face.

“Thought we abandoned you?”

Tim rubbed his face, shaking his head, then nodding. Stopping, he knew he must look like an idiot.

“I never really considered it. Logically, it makes sense, but it genuinely never crossed my mind. If anything, I’m more surprised you're not just a friendly stray. I never even guessed you were… well, you.”

Luna, because some people needed no introduction, chuffed at him. And now that he heard it, the voice was unmistakable. “You think they just let in strays?”

Tim nodded. “I think the Ascenders would string anyone up who wanted to kick a friendly stray of any type out of one of their buildings. I also never considered someone as famous as you would be hanging out there. Actually, it's really obvious as I say it out loud. I don’t know. I never expect to meet famous people after my first month or two at the academy.”

Tim knew he was rambling, but Luna didn’t rush him.

Finally running out of steam, he asked, “How long? I’m still too afraid to look.”

Luna blinked at him, but he swore she was glaring when she opened her eyes for the second time.

Swallowing, he forced himself to check.

Four years, two months, nine days.

That was… not nearly as bad as he’d feared. Despite that, it felt too short for what he remembered.

He would have sworn eons had passed as he drifted in and out of consciousness.

“Thank you for watching over me and keeping my Concept from falling apart.”

Luna shook her head as he grabbed his clothes and got dressed.

“We can talk about that in a moment. First, I need to know what your intentions are? It's okay not to have an answer, but if you have it, I’d like to hear it. Or we can talk about it.”

Tim paused, still half dressed before shaking his head.

“Go back to the academy. Apologize. Beg for forgiveness then try to live up to it. After that? Make right by the people I hope will still be able to call me a friend? After that… I don’t really know. I want to properly explore my Talent and Domain. I now get why the researchers were always trying to get me to slow down. I wasted a lot of really interesting research opportunities chasing the next improvement. I can learn anything, and I have the time. I want to learn as my interests progress and change. Maybe some days I’ll read a single book. Maybe other days I’ll work all day. I want to advance, but I want to advance in what I want, for whatever reason I want. Even if that's just working at a dead end job. I don’t want to need a reason. I just want to do. Does that make sense?”

Luna nodded. “I understand and can sympathize. I was taking a fantastic nap when an idiot kept bothering me and moving me on the bench.”

Tim tried to explain that he was only trying to keep her in the sun beams, but he understood she was joking with her following words. “You at least had the good grace to bring food, so when you decided to rewrite your Concept, I decided I might as well keep you alive.”

Tim, remembering how he’d nearly drowned, felt indigent. “Hey! You nearly failed on the last one.”

The cat didn’t dignify his retort with a response.

Instead, she said something far more interesting. “Legally, this answer isn't binding, given your recent trauma recovery, but I see no reason to wait the full year period given your own plans.”

Tim straightened attentively, excited to hear what the legendary trainer might have to offer.

He nearly feared he was dreaming as Luna said, “You are more than welcome to return to the academy. You can even leave and break off on your own or even join another group. Your contract was voluntarily voided in your favor when you suffered such an immense psychological break. The children are far too kind for their own good, but you owe them nothing.”

Tim swore he could hear a silent ‘legally’ tacked onto the end of her sentence, but that was his own guilty conscience.

Logically, he knew how little he mattered to people on the Ascender’s level.

Thinking for minutes without interruption, Tim finally shook his head. “I’d like to return to the academy. If I can’t, I’d join the guild if the offers are still available in some form. Part of the reason I was able to push myself so hard was because of how much I appreciated what I was being provided. Besides, where else can I find endless work, other than at Titan’s Torch?"

“What if I offered you an alternative. A better offer? Like I said, not legally binding for at least a year, but I’ll make the offer and you can take it whenever you want, even if that is never.”

Realizing she was waiting for him to ask, he did so. “Said offer is?”

“A retainership on behalf of the Moore duchy. Legally, you’ll be working for them, but you will become my trainee. If you want to listen, you can. But directly working for them will give you full access to both the guild and the academy. You can review the details before signing, but the contracts are no more restrictive than your student one.”

Tim scanned the document sent over and almost snorted as his AI flagged it for reasons of being too generous.

Luna rolled her eyes. “I didn’t write the contract, but it's accurate despite the warnings. You learn with me as much as you want to learn. You can walk away at any time, and I won’t push. I might not even be willing to teach every time you want to learn. It will be a very informal disciple relationship, but I will give you the training you need. It won’t always be pleasant, but I don’t expect you to be another Ascender, and I don’t want to teach that much anymore. As you realized earlier, you have all the time in the world now.”

Tim wasn't too sure about much, but he liked the idea of working more closely with both a famous trainer like Luna and possibly two Ascenders.

It was close enough to an idea he’d been considering while in the shower. Signing himself up for some optional classes to give him something to do while he got himself back on his feet.

Pleasure worlds had many such systems that could teach a craft or other productive job.

They were mainly aimed at Tier 15’s, but Tim knew he’d have been able to find something, he just hadn’t settled on what before getting this new offer. And he had a year to back out with no consequences.

It felt stupid to say anything but yes but he still hesitated. Was he singing himself up for the same troubles once again?

Sure, her training was legendarily brutal, but she’d said she didn’t intend to work too hard. Casual teaching and learning sounded perfect.

“I accept. At least provisionally.” Wanting to crack a joke, he added, “Does that mean you can help me get back to Palustris. I’m pretty sure I’m broke, if my memories are even close to accurate.”

Luna’s voice snapped him out of his daze. “ We can discuss your travel arrangements in a moment. First let us strike while the iron is hot. Explain your understanding of what you went through post Concept breakage.”

Tim shook his head, still distracted by his. “I have no clue.”

The moment the words left his lips, he dropped to his knees as Luna’s cultivation was unveiled the tiniest amount.

Its sudden pressure was like having a mountain dropped on him, and he struggled to breathe, let alone stand.

Standing, the cat padded over and down to stand only inches in front of his face.

Sitting down on the ground in front of him, she stared at him, her tail making small swishing noises with each flick.

Her voice was perfectly neutral as she said, “Tim, I want you to really understand what I say next. Are you listening?”

The pressure lightened until it felt like a heavy bench press, but it was more than enough for Tim to nod as he gave his full attention to the cat.

“I am not your former teacher. You’d have never reached this point because I’d have broken you a year and a half into my tutelage. I’d have done it in controlled measures. Admittedly, that type of training isn’t for everyone. Even then those who can push through rarely reach true heights.”

Tim was starting to consider he might be being told he had untapped potential when the cat poured cold water on his enthusiasm. “I have zero intention of teaching you that way, but seeing that my pupils have failed spectacularly in their job, I will step in.”

The pressure vanished off Tim and he picked himself up to return to a sitting position.

Once he was there, Luna spoke again. “To that end, I will assist. After seeing your rebirth, I don’t think we need to pretend you want to be an Ascender or anything like that. As such, those tactics wouldn’t work on you, so let's not pretend they will. However, if I am to help you, I will not accept such half-assed answers again. If you truly do not know, that is fine. There is no fault in that, but flippant answers meant to deflect or downplay will not be tolerated. I may not be giving you the full Ascender treatment, but don’t think I will accept anything less than your own seriousness. Do you understand?”

Tim nodded, not quite brave enough to speak yet.

Luna smiled down at him. “Good. Now let's go over what you know of the process while it is still fresh on your mind. This information might prove useful later. Then you need to think about your homework. On our way back to Palustris I want a hundred fully fired clay cups. The requirements are as follows…”

Tim almost felt like complaining as he heard the list grow, but he couldn’t help but smile.

***

Luna’s voice was harsh in Tim’s ears, but after decades under her tutelage, he trusted his mentor implicitly. In hindsight, her lessons were always correct or logical, but going through them hadn’t always been fun. And from her tone, he was sure this was going to be bad.

Their relationship was weird to outsiders according to his friends, but it worked for them.

Some days he was too lazy to learn, and other days she was too lazy to teach.

Most of the time, it worked out with their singular task system, but he’d been stumped on her latest assignment. Normally, when he ran into such a roadblock he pivoted and delved into one of his other interests while his Domain slowly worked him through his previous bottleneck. But this time, his Concept couldn’t break him over the threshold from Journeyman to Adept.

Luna, however, disagreed with his approach, and as was her custom, her words were sharp. “You are immortal, Tim. Earlier than expected, but their result is there all the same. That is your largest curse and greatest weapon. You need to learn how to wield both. I’ve let you bounce around between tasks as you choose, but you have begun to treat your Talent like a crutch again. This time you need to do the opposite. I didn’t give you this task out of nowhere. I expect you to work at this for a while.”

“H—”

Luna cut him off with a swish of her tail, never opening her eyes from where she lay on a giant lily pad as it floated in the wind over the villa's pond. “You need to learn this on your own. If you can’t make any progress in a week, ask your gaggle of idiots how they deal with roadblocks. You can only learn how to wear such a roadblock down if you do it. I won't do this often but this time I insist. I—”

From her reclined position, she suddenly sat up, looking into the sky.

