Sensing her displeasure, he spoke up once again, trying to excuse his behavior. “I didn't think about the consequences, only that I wanted to help them. I'm very sorry, but it isn't as bad as it seems, I didn't actually tell them that I have an.. erm … invaluable healing technique, just that I might be able to teach them to heal themselves, without all the book learning that they expected.”

It was not enough that the Central Province reinforcements were all led by Society adherents, but now the boy sought to give other factions a reason to be hostile to the People. “Boy.” The word came out through gritted teeth. “Just the last part of the sentence you spoke, if repeated in educated ears, would be enough to put every person living within the Saint's Tribulation mountains at risk. Warriors from every faction would flock to us, interrogating anyone they find about your healing technique, stopping at nothing to either learn your technique or ensure that no one else is able to.”

His face spoke volumes as her words sunk into his thick skull, his breath coming in panicked gasps, seeming so pitiful that she almost moved around her desk to support him, worried that he would faint where he stood. His amber eyes grew wide and unfocused as he finally fully understood just how serious a matter this had become, he knees wobbling as he struggled beneath the weight of his actions. It did not last long, the boy nothing if not resilient, regaining his poise after a few moments, conscience-stricken and remorseful. Swallowing hard, he asked in a quiet, defeated tone, “So what do we do now?”

“WE will do nothing!” Swallowing her rage as best she could, she threw her wooden table-spoon at him, the utensil bouncing off his chest and landing upon the floor. “Since you seem to have too much free time, you will go dig a new latrine, of regulation size, using only that spoon. Should anyone ask what you are doing, you will respond 'I am digging a latrine with a spoon because I cannot be trusted with anything more dangerous'. I expect you to repeat that exact phrase at the top of your voice to every single person that asks. Any time that you are not sleeping, eating or working with Tokta, you will be digging. Understood?”

“Uh, yes Lieutenant General Chief Provost Sir.”

“I'm not sure you do understand, because you are still standing here, and not Out. There. Digging.” After stammering out a farewell, Rain rushed out of her tent in a panic, before quickly returning for the spoon. If the boy were not so loved by the pup she may have done worse, although she had no idea what. Perhaps a little humiliation would humble the boy and cause him to think twice before defying her again until she could come up with a suitable punishment for him.

The nerve on that one, willfully defying her orders without blinking, only coming to her for help once he realized his mistake. A good thing the boy had come without trying to hide his errors, else she would have washed her hands of him completely, throwing him out of the Sentinels and her life. Letting out a long sigh of frustration, Akanai took a moment to compose herself, organizing her reports while she let her anger fade. It was difficult to find ways to discipline the boy without resorting to or threatening violence, something the pup insisted that she avoid while citing his past as a slave, but she sometimes dreamed of throttling the arrogant child, if only to relieve her frustrations.

Her desk arranged nicely, she picked up a report to peruse and Sent for Mila to bring in the first of Rain's misfits, a soldier who hobbled into her tent on a pair of crude crutches, his leg removed below the knee. Bulat, 23 years old, a soldier for seven and still a private without ranking, an … impressive feat that showed he was capable (or lucky) enough to survive, yet not competent enough to promote, not even to private first class. Allowing him to take a seat, she kept him waiting while she pretended to read the report, leaving the man to sweat before her. Able to smell the alcohol on his breath from across the desk, she noticed his disorderly appearance and covert glances at her bosom, her eyelid twitching at the sight. It was no wonder Rain liked the man, so far, they were almost the same person.

Inwardly grimacing, she put her report down and steepled her fingers once again. “I understand that you attended lessons given by Rain.” Bulat being so similar to Rain was not to his advantage. Having one insubordinate drunken lech was already causing her so much headache, she loathed the idea of adding another to her command.

“Aye indeed, just the one lesson, the little hero was kindly teaching Old Bulat and his friends how to heal, yer Lieutenant General'ship.” His brow and collar was quickly soaking through with sweat, the man's nervousness threatening to overcome him. “I told him that Old Bulat don't know much, with no good book learnings, but the little hero insisted on trying.”

“What did he teach you?” Carefully keeping her expression neutral, she listened as the young man stammered out the day's lesson, a simple matter of inner examination, something every child learned to do at 8 years old in the village. She listened carefully, asking him more questions about his life, a child of the slums, working to support his mother, an admirable goal. It was a travesty how the poor were treated inside the cities, but there was little anyone could do, not even little Hai had enough coin to fix all his problems. A simple matter of too many people living behind the walls, but at the very least, they could survive there without much threat, unlike the harsh life outside the walls.

After a half-hour of questioning, she decided that either the man truly knew nothing about Rain's discovery or he was a masterful liar and actor. Coming to the crux of the matter, she spoke bluntly, without hiding her intentions. “The loss of your leg ensures that you will be dismissed from the army, and I am considering offering you a place among my Sentinels.” She watched the rapid flicker of emotions cross through his eyes, confusion followed by optimism and immediately quashed by cynical skepticism. A pragmatist, this one grew up fighting for scraps of food and affection, he would not believe an offer that was too advantageous to him.

Quickly deciding on her course of action from that tiny glance into his eyes, she smiled and went with her gut. “The boy disclosed a secret that was not his to tell, so I must choose between having you swear an oath to join my Sentinels, or cutting your throat and feeding you to the river.”

She studied his reaction as he went stock still for a heartbeat, before a look of amazement crossed his face. “So the little hero isn't bragging, he really can teach Old Bulat how to heal?”

“If you do not believe him, why join him for the lesson?”

He shrugged his large shoulders, scratching at his scraggly beard, looking every bit the oaf. “Old Bulat got nothin' better to do. So, what sort of pay are we looking at here? What would be my duties? What's the living situation? I'd like to bring me old Ma out to live with me, with me sisters both married out, ain't no one to care for her but Old Bulat.”

Incredulous, Akanai blurted out, “I offer you a choice between service and death, and you want to ask about benefits?”

Shrugging once again, he simply stated, “If I die in the field, me Ma gets the blood money, enough to keep her for years if she's careful.”

Resisting the urge to throttle him, she reluctantly began negotiating with Bulat, hoping that the other six would be more easily managed. It was difficult to threaten a man unconcerned about death, and Bulat seemed as fearless as any. Perhaps he would be well worth the effort, an unpolished piece of jade, but she judged it highly unlikely, even hoping that Bulat would remain mediocre.

She simply did not have it in her to deal with a second talented troublemaker.

Chapter Meme
