The tension is palpable as I wait for Mila to speak, the look on her face physically painful to me, a mixture of disbelief and betrayal, as if I had just confessed to murdering children or some equally unspeakable crime. Standing at her side as always, Li Song looks eager and animated for a change, something I would be delighted by, except for the fact that she seems to be enthused at the chance to spill my blood. The hunger in her eyes sends a slight chill down my spine, her demeanor announcing aggression while she anxiously clutches at her saber.

Keeping an eye on the blood-crazy Song, I try my best to reason with Mila while fighting the urge to back away. You don't retreat from a predator and that is exactly what Song appears to be at the moment, poised for action and ready to explode into violence. “Look, I don't see what the big deal is, I just want to help a few injured soldiers, it's nothing serious.” Mila's expression darkens, her temper visibly flaring as her eyes narrow in annoyance, a crimson tint developing in her cheeks and the audible sound of her teeth grinding making me flinch. Should have kept my mouth shut and denied everything. Stupid.

Turning to the soldiers, Mila draws herself up to her full, dainty height and speaks in a commanding tone. “Soldiers, I will ask that you stay where you are while I speak to Rain in private. Song, please keep an eye on them, and feel free to maim anyone who attempts to leave.” Cringing as her hand reaches out towards me, I follow along unwillingly with Mila's steely grip dragging me away from the soldiers, my heels leaving a small trail of upturned dirt in my wake. Trying to free myself without struggling too much, I wonder in horror at just what sort of adorable monster I've been betrothed to. She's always been stronger than me, beating me in every spar we've ever had without breaking a sweat, but for the first time I've been given a glimpse at her true, prodigious strength, and the realization that she can snap me like a twig sends my stomach into somersaults. Even after all my improvements, I'm barely more than an ant to her.

Abandoning all thoughts of ever trying to push her down, I bluster without thinking, hoping to calm her down. “Uh, look, I know you're angry but do you really think it was necessary to threaten those guys? They're soldiers and while they're good people, I can't imagine that they take threats very well. Maybe we should stick around, just in case there's a misunderstanding or something, you know how Song can be at times. She might actually maim someone.” Plus, I'd like for there to be witnesses, the vibe Mila's giving off is very different from her normal, playfully smug attitude.

Thankfully, we don't go far, just out of sight around a small bend. Stopping in her tracks, Mila forcibly swings me about to face her, subjecting me to the full might of her fearsome glare, her voice lowered to an angry hiss as she asks, “What is the matter with you? You bull-headed, mulish ass, of all the arrogant things you have done, this is the worst. Why would you disobey Mama like this? If word were to spread about your actions, Mama would have no choice but to punish you, and do so harshly!”

Feeling more than a little resentful at her accusations, I answer without thinking. “It's my discovery, why can't I teach anyone I want?” That sounded childish even to me. “Think of all the good it could do, if normal people were able to take care of their injuries easily. Those soldiers over there had all but given up on life just because of a disability, and I have the means to help them. What else should I have done?”

“Ugh, you're an idiot, Rain, a well-meaning idiot, but still an idiot in the end. It doesn't matter what the order was about, you disobeyed a direct order from your commanding officer, in the field, during a time of martial law! That is a capital offense Rain, and if anyone finds out, Mama would lose face by letting you go without reprimand. It would be good enough for you to avoid execution, you dog-shit bird-brain.”

The stark realization of what I've actually done sinks in, and it shows in my face, Mila's expression turning to one of pity and compassion as she silently waits for me to finish processing my thoughts. Taking a deep breath, I express my feelings on the matter at hand in an eloquent, yet succinct manner. “Well fuck.”

“You know, sometimes, with how smart you like to act, it's easy for everyone to forget just how much of a blockhead you really are. What were you even thinking? You can't even teach Tokta how to use your method, why would you try to teach those random soldiers?”

“They aren't random.” Not entirely, at least, I mean they invited me to drink with them, that means we're sort of friends, right? The two of us settle into the grass and she listens patiently as I tell her about the encounter with the cook and why I made my decision. “I couldn't just leave them alone, knowing I could help them, it isn't right how they're treated. I even thought it all through carefully, my method of healing is less technical than what Tokta is used to, so I figured he was having trouble because he was over thinking things. Maybe with a few blank slates, It would be easier to guide them through the process.”

With a weak smile, she leans into me while shaking her head. “Only you could conclude that too much knowledge is a bad thing. I don't know why you are so upset about their treatment, Mama already offered to take care of them after they are discharged.”

“They have their pride, and while it's admirable that Akanai offered to look after them, a life spent at the mercy of another doesn't exactly inspire optimism.”

Her dainty snort brings a small smile to my face despite my current situation. “You really think that's something Mama would do, give charity to useless cripples? She would see them healed and put to work to pay off their debt, the Saint's Tribulation mountains are a hazardous place to live and Mama will always have use for trained soldiers.”

A sinking pit develops where my stomach used to be, all of my righteous indignation draining away into it and leaving me cold and scared. “What? Bulat said that Akanai offered to help them, but I was under the impression that was more of a goodwill sort of thing, food and shelter. They were all adamant about not accepting 'table scraps' or begging, they didn't say anything about healing.”

“That's because Mama didn't announce that she was offering healing, if she did, those soldiers who have their own resources would simply take advantage, since Mama doesn't like having warriors swear oaths of obedience. 'A Sentinel fighting to defend his home is worth five slaves fighting under duress', and 'an oath-bound warrior is little better than a leashed hound', she's always saying things like that.”

Feeling foolish, I brood over the fact that I disobeyed Akanai for nothing, unable to even look at Mila. “Well, then what's the big fuss about me telling people?” God, even I think I sound whiny, but panic is starting to settle in. I don't even have a good reason for my defiance.

“Oh, Rain... A simplified method of regeneration would be heavily coveted by every faction and powerful individual in the Empire. Even if you released the information for free, they would still hunt you down to learn what you are hiding, because no one in their right mind would believe you were so altruistic. Or stupid.” She leans against me, resting her head on my shoulder, a comforting presence in my current predicament. “You mean well and have a big heart, but there is a proverb: the greatest harm comes from good intentions coupled with lack of understanding.”

The blood drains from my face as I consider her words, the thought having never occurred to me. I had envisioned that telling everyone about my discovery would be met with celebration and good cheer, rewards from the Emperor or whoever, with everyone happy and in good cheer about the advance in medical treatment.

I hate this fucking world.

Mentally kicking myself, I resign myself to fate and ask, “So what do I do now?”

My question earns me a small sigh as she settles back down, her arms wrapped around her knees. “That's a good question, but I don't have an answer that you'll like... You should go to Mama, tell her everything, and grovel for forgiveness.”

A panicked laugh escapes from my lips, tinged with a hint of desperation. “When I made my decision to teach those soldiers, I said to myself that it was easier to beg for forgiveness than to ask for permission. Doesn't seem so easy anymore.”

My observation earns me more scorn, her look filled with pity once again. “That's dumb, if you had asked for permission, the worst that could have happened was Mama saying no.”

Taking a moment to imagine the worst in my current situation, I quietly ask, “Any other options?”

Pausing for a moment, she considers her words carefully before speaking again. “We could silence all the soldiers and remove all traces of your wrongdoing. We should probably do that regardless, Mama will be relieved that you took care of your own mistakes, maybe even proud.”

Once again I am reminded of the stark differences in mindset between myself and the people native to this world, sweet little Mila suggesting murder as a matter of course. “You weren't kidding when you said I wouldn't like your suggestions.”

Her freckled face grimaces in a sour look, unhappy at my criticism, and I remind myself to be nicer to her. She's the only person on my side at the moment. “You have a better one?”

“Well.. Couldn't I just ask the soldiers to take an oath to never speak about it?”

Shaking her head, Mila answers in her teaching voice. “Oaths are not so simple, Rain. They need to be carefully worded and taken freely, with very little room for error. If they swear to not divulge your secret, they still might be overheard while chatting to one another or simply break their oath, selling the secret at the cost of their life. No oath short of complete obedience would be enough for Mama, not with something this dangerous, assuming those soldiers even agree to it. You have nothing to offer them Rain, so why would they swear obedience to you?”

There goes that plan. Deciding to risk it, I go for broke, trying out my excuse. “But they don't even know anything specific, I only said that I might be able to teach them how to heal their injuries and that it was easier than they would expect.”

“That's just semantics, you already made the decision to disobey and I can't lie or hide things from Mama, she'll figure it out, she always does.”

Her plaintive whine makes me feel terrible about this, my heart aching in pity for the poor girl. It must have been difficult growing up as Akanai's daughter. “You don't need to lie, just... delay speaking to her until I do, so I can ask for permission. If she says yes, then no harm has been done.”

She pauses for a moment, thinking over my proposal while I wait on the edge of my seat. “Absolutely not.” Her words cause me to slump in place, defeated by her unwavering demeanor. “It's a terrible idea, Mama will just refuse and then, when you actually confess, get angry that you tried to cover it up. Just listen to me Rain, go confess and accept your punishment, you were ignorant of how serious it was, but you cannot delay anymore. It will be worse if you try to hide it.”

The certainty with which she says it leaves no room for debate, and I have no choice but to surrender to her logic. While I imagine the unforeseen consequences of my actions, my body begins to quiver in place, while Mila pats me on the back, trying to comfort me. Letting out a long sigh, I lean over to Mila, resting my head against hers.

Brushing myself off as I stand, I hold my hand out to help Mila up, struggling to lift her deceptively heavy frame. “Well, we should go back and make sure Li Song hasn't mutilated anyone in our absence.” My statement earns me a tiny giggle, but I wasn't entirely joking. I really am concerned about those guys, more than I am for myself.

Things won't be that bad for me, I'm Akanai's grand-Disciple, betrothed to her daughter, and the only one capable of utilizing panacea. She won't have me executed or whipped, that would just be too extreme.

…

Shit, I might be getting whipped.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

“Let me see if I have this right.” Setting aside her stack of reports, Akanai steepled her fingers together, giving Rain her full attention as she watched him quiver before her. Normally, his cowardice would have annoyed her, but in this particular instance he was right to fear for his safety. “Against my direct order, you exposed the existence of your invaluable healing technique to a group of unknown, irresponsible drunkard cripples, in an effort to impart to them said healing technique without remuneration, a technique you have been unable to teach Tokta, the most talented healer under my command. Did I miss anything?”

Withering away with each word, Rain shuffled his feet weakly before her, staring down at the floor of her tent, trying to appear as apologetic and contrite as possible. “Um... Well no, but you framed it rather harshly.” She sat silently, trying to control her breathing, fighting the urge to lift him onto her table for a belting. A spoiled, arrogant child, that is what he was, always believing himself to be in the right, doing as he pleased without a care for the consequences.

