BELLHARBOUR, SALMONT ORPHANAGE, ADMINISTRATIVE ANNEX

Owen sat at his desk, tongue stuck out the side as he manoeuvred the stick topped by a small plank replica into the bottle. His latest airship in a bottle was taking shape nicely.

While it was his true passion, bottled ships sadly did not pay for food and lodging. Thankfully, the job of Orphanage director left him with plenty of time. How much time and attention did a bunch of kids need, anyway?

They were fed and schooled according to Lord Salmont's instructions, and he only had to make certain they were followed. Sure, sometimes a kid whined that they were hungry, but kids always did that; they were getting exactly the right number of calories for their age, from balanced meals prepared with relatively fresh ingredients.

Just keep them healthy and under control until they could be sent out into the world to become productive members of society. That was the Salmont charter.

He flinched when someone shouted outside his door in Miss Yevette's office, his secretary. Narrowing his eyes, he grunted when he noticed that the piece of wood at the end of his stick had fallen off. He shoved the bottle and his tools aside and strained his ears.

“Miss, you can't go in without an appointment.

“I might not have an appointment, but the director does!”

“Wh- with whom?”

“With justice!”

“Miss!”

His door slammed open on an armoured bunnykin with shining eyes and fierce eyebrows. She snapped her focus to him and marched up to him, a man in similar armour staying behind and trying to calm down his secretary.

The bunnykin stopped a few paces from his desk and planted her legs, lifting a hand and pointing an armoured finger at him. “Director Owen, we have questions!”

He blinked. “I... also have questions.”

She stared at him, holding her pose.

He stared back.

Her victorious smile began straining, then exploded into a scowl. “You're supposed to be intimidated!”

“... I am.”

“Oh?! Then you'll answer our questions?”

“It doesn't seem like I have a choice.”

The woman smiled. “Smart man! Let's start with an easy one,” she said as she crossed the last few steps to his desk and planted her hands down on it, leaning toward him. “Why are you starving the children?!”

“I'm... what?”

WAYMAN RESIDENCE, GUEST ROOM.

Samuel closed Owen's file and let it slide onto the table between the three of them. Sybil was doing a starfish on the couch in front of him, while to his right, Anna was reading through documents.

He stared at the folder as he let his thoughts run free. The director hadn't been an evil man, just a blithe idiot, put in place because he'd do what he was told and not bother looking deeper.

“Found anything interesting from the files we brought back?” He asked his girlfriend.

The petite bunnykin looked up from her document. “Maybe. Define interesting?”

He shrugged. “Anything that'll lead to some bad guy getting punched so Ms. Justice over there stops pouting.”

Sybil lifted her head and glared at him. “I'm not pouting! I'm just annoyed! I was certain the director was a bad guy. I mean, he kind of is, but not a bad guy bad guy. He's just an idiot.”

“Yeah, unfortunately, beating up on cogs won't do much.” He turned his head toward Anna. “So, anything to investigate in person, or do we just all start reading?”

She stretched her arm out, handing him the document she had been looking at, leaning back into her chair afterwards. “That's the orphanage finances. Everything looks clean; all the entries are logged.”

Sammie lifted a brow. “Where's the but?”

“I'm looking at him. Anyway, the important part here is the bottom line. The orphanage is operating at a surplus. It's small, but it's consistent.”

Turning his eyes back to the file, he went through the expense and income lines, then frowned. “It's showing a balanced sheet, though.”

“Sure, but look at line 14. It's the 'Health and well-being fund', and it's always exactly the amount that's left over when you tally the other lines, bringing the total down to zero.”

Sybil furrowed her brows. “If it's always zero, then won't the other lines also all equate to exactly the surplus?”

Anna shrugged. “Sure, but the other lines have a history: wages, taxes, receipts. This is the only line that doesn't. According to the orphanage's own charter, that's a fund that should be used for extra activities or festivities.” She pointed out, looking at Sammie pointedly.

He slowly nodded. “...And, according to Marcel, the monastery guy, the actual orphanage never holds any of those.”

His girlfriend gave him a good-job smirk before continuing. “Take that money, plus the funds that the purser assigned to the monastery always finds a reason to hold back, and you're looking at a few princes' worth each seasonal that don't show up anywhere.”

Sammie pursed his lips. “Wouldn't it all be going into the orphanage's bank account?”

“It should, and it might be, but I haven't seen any trace of those transactions, only a line saying it was deposited.”

“So that's your maybe.”

“Yep. I think you should confirm if that money is ending up in that bank account.”

He scratched his chin. “We'd need a warrant or something, but we're more like private investigators. The right thing to do would be to involve the city guards...”

Sybil's lips curved downward. “But big cities always have corruption in the guards, and if this is fund embezzlement, there's bound to be a rat or two who will squeak before the warrant is in our hands, and the evidence will disappear. “

“Right, and eventually they'll hear about our visit at the orphanage too, and if they're smart the same will happen, so we only have a day or two.” He caught his partner's eyes. “So, that means...”

Sybil's face lit up. “That means I get to dress pretty!”

Anna lifted a brow. “Dress pretty?”

The other bunnykin grinned back.

Sammie knew she would never admit it, but Sybil absolutely loved being looked at. He figured it gave her a feeling of power or something to have men ogle and practically salivate at her sight.

And, ok, she was a looker, with natural curves on top of long legs. Mix that with her masterfully toned physique, and you had the proper definition of a babe.

Right now, that babe was entertaining a trio of late-shift bankers who had just come out of work, spreading drinks around and giving subtle signs that she was looking for some fun, and only one of them was going to win the prize.

Sammie sighed, keeping an eye on her while he was enjoying a nice little dinner with Anna, a few tables over. The invitation had surprised her, because weren't they working? Sammie had replied with his signature argument: why deny entertainment when you can join it with duty?

Or something like that.

Anna figured he was going to pass this as work expense, so she would add freeloading to the mix, but she was getting a nice dinner out of it, so who was she to question his methods, really?

Still, it allowed her to observe the duo in action, and that was worth a lot to her. She wasn't jealous of the camaraderie her boyfriend and Sybil enjoyed, not at all. They'd been through thick and thin together for far longer than she'd known Sammie; it only made sense.

But she also couldn't deny that she'd felt a bit of a knot loosen up when they'd invited her along on this assignment. What that knot was, she couldn't tell, but she'd readily accepted, if only because she was curious how her cool boyfriend went around when he wasn't playing the bodyguard.

Now, though, her eyes kept drifting toward the other bunnykin. “...She's really something.” She whispered.

Sammie quirked a brow. “She? Sybil?”

“Yeah. Look at her playing the honeypot like it's second nature. I think I'd be so nervous I'd slip off the chair I was on if I tried that.”

He shrugged. “And she'd fall asleep if she tried to analyze documents as you did. Sybil is good with people, I guess mainly because she has an unshakable belief in herself.”

“I can see that. It's like she doesn't care about what the world wants, and just drags everything her way instead.”

Sammie chuckled. “Yeah, that pretty much describes her.”

Anna gave him a sly smile. “And yet you chose me. Does that mean you prefer small, weak girls?”

He blinked. “You're small, but you're not weak, Anna. Sybil looks strong because she's completely ignorant of her fears. You're entirely aware of yours, and you still step up when it's important.”

Picking up her hand, he brought it to his mouth and put a tender kiss on it, looking up at her from his bent position. “And that makes you the stronger of the two where I'm concerned.”

She found her body frozen in place even as her cheeks warmed up. This man is dangerous, Anna. He attacks you as soon as you let up your defences.

Her stunned stare turned into a warm smile, mirroring his own expression.

I guess that's why I like you, then, Mr. Sammie. Maybe I want to be conquered despite my best efforts.

He let go of her hand and picked up his wine glass, taking a sip. She leaned forward, planting her elbows on the table and resting her hand on her woven fingers. “Then, you like the strong, silent type, is that it? Meek in the street, a freak in the sheets? Is that why you let me tie you up to the bed?”

He choked on his wine.

Much later, past the time reasonable people went to bed, Sybil left the bar with the drunkest of the three men as the other two shot him envious glares.

With a full bottle in hand, and the drunk banker hanging off her shoulder, she let it slip that she'd always wanted to “Do it inside a bank at night.”

The banker kept tripping on his own feet as he tried dragging her toward his workplace. He fumbled with his keys, somehow managing to unlock the worker's entrance. She manoeuvred him around the night-time guard patrols as he pointed the way to the offices.

Once there, she sat him down in an out-of-sight corner, opened the bottle she'd brought, and got him to drink most of it.

A few minutes later, he was passed out.

From there, she took his keys, got her shoes off, and sneaked around the patrols to search the financial records of the orphanage, unlocking the file drawers as needed.

Soon enough, working around the patrol's interruptions, she found the files she was looking for and spread them around on the floor, page by page. Retrieving a specialized recording orb from the tiny cargo cloth she'd hidden in her thigh-sock, she took still images of each sheet, put them all back in, and locked the drawer behind her.

The last thing she did was take a clay cast of the banker's keys, before putting them back into his pocket, taking his pants off, undoing his shirt, and planting a few lipsticked kisses on his face and collar.

Giving him one last look, she ruffled his hair, poured some wine on him, and made her way out, leaving behind a spare pair of panties.

Unworn, of course. She didn't want to make this weird.

Poor guy was already going to have to live with the belief that he'd scored a ten, but was too drunk to remember any of it.

Over a breakfast of pastries and fruits, Sammie and his girlfriend studied the document images that Sybil had brought back while the bunnykin snored on the couch, having gotten up just long enough to move there from the bed.

Anna frowned. “This is strange. The deposits don't match the dates that the orphanage records show, but the amounts are the same, and the sums check out.”

“What about the extra transactions?” He asked.

“Yeah, that's strange too... I'm not an accountant, but it doesn't feel right. Why are the funds being withdrawn and re-deposited over and over?”

Sammie leaned back from the recording orb and put a hand over his chin. “I think we saw that kind of thing before, Sybil and I. Some crooks were using it to launder money; you take out clear funds, and deposit back dirty money.”

Anna's eyes widened. “Oh. That makes sense. The delay in the transactions, then, that's because they're hiding the deposits as if they were the current seasonal's funds.”

He ground out a sigh as he slouched back on the couch.

Anna looked at him. “What's wrong? Isn't this what we were looking for?”

“I guess... but it's not enough.”

“What's not enough?”

He pointed at the document still displayed on the recording orb. “The amounts. It's a few princes each time. Ten, at most. As far as money laundering goes, it's pitiful.”

“Maybe it's... a little illegal business?” she offered.

He shook his head. “No. My guess is that if they're doing it with this institution, then it's happening with others. We should start looking at all of Salmont's records.”

She tilted her head. “The Salmont family is one of the wealthiest in the city. They have their fingers in almost every pot.”

“Yeah, why do you think I sighed so hard?”

“...Couldn't we just... report this to the Allwardens and let them deal with it?” Anna asked, ears twitching.

Instead of answering, he pointed at the drooling bunnykin draped over the couch opposite of them.

“...gnhheeeheee, justice... gnustice for alllll...”

Anna stared for a few seconds before looking at Sammie, realization on her face. “She won't let us leave before we find all the bad guys.”

He gave her a tired nod.

“Is she always like that when investigating crimes?”

His nod turned exhausted.