“Cirediel. You cannot continue to…see her. It’s too dangerous.”
“What? That’s not fair! I like her! She loves me! Besides, nothing’s going to come of it. I mean, babies. She was all worried, and I said—”
The First Gardener stomped her foot. And the room  carved out of the tree shook. Shaerrha was a [Green Mage] who had trained with [Druids]. Her ward looked at her, realizing she really was mad.
“You are incautious. Cirediel. That is exactly what I am talking about. If you must…date…it can only be within Oteslia’s people. There are many Drakes and Gnolls who are interested in you—”
“And I’m not. I’ve hung out with like, a quarter of them already. I’m bored, Mom!”
“No Plains Gnolls. Break up with your friend—politely. You can keep talking with her, but if she sees you when you’re unguarded or you let something slip…again…”
Cire pouted. He glared at his mother.
His…adopted mother? Even that was hard. Shaerrha loved Cire. She truly did. But she knew what he was. And how old he was and…
“Yasy was cooler than you. She let me do what I wanted. Is she still touring the world?”
“…Yes. I’m sorry. She sends her love. I could obtain a letter…”
“I’m cool. It’s not like it matters.”
Cire turned, folding his arms and wings sullenly. Suddenly, Shaerrra felt bad for the young Drake.
He had to know that Yasyiin, the last Grand Gardener of Oteslia—was dead. But as the last five Gardeners of Oteslia had done, she’d gone on vacation in her last years. To die away from her city and spare the Drake—their ward—heartbreak.
Now, Cirediel stood, looking a bit lost as he stared at Shaerrha.
“Sorry, Mom. I didn’t mean it.”
She smiled, and wondered if he would remember her name when she was long gone.
“I know that, Cire. And I am sorry too. It’s just that your friend Eerie—could smell you.”
“I lied. She says I have a cool scent. What if—”
“I’m sorry, Cire.”
The Drake kicked at a rug. He flexed his wings and then shrugged, moodily.
“That’s fine. I’m sort of done with Drakes and Gnolls anyways. You know what would be cool? Humans. What about them?”
The First Gardener had a headache again. Cire was…young. And older than she was.
He was over ninety years old. And naturally—
He was a Dragon.
But oh, what a different sort of Dragon from the one Manus had. Luciva Skybreath had no idea. She had Rafaema, who had decades on Cire. Okay, thirty years, but that was a lot, especially for developmental Dragons.
Cire was in the middle of his adolescence. And it showed. He was…young…for a Dragon. But they were cognizant as fast as other species, even if it took their bodies longer to grow. So, like half-Elves, their puberties lasted a long time.
The Gardeners and people of Oteslia had spent a long time protecting their ward. Not only was Cire under the effect of a transformation spell and multiple tricks, like a scent-destroying tonic he often forgot to apply, he had his own bodyguards.
Unfortunately, Cire was not his counterpart in Manus. Oteslia had a memory-spell budget. They also had a lot of…help. Where in Manus, the secret was kept to the inner council, here…
 
—-
 
A [Shopkeeper] listened as Eerie, a young Plains Gnoll who had begun a relationship with the First Gardener’s wild son, gossiped with her friends.
“He said I couldn’t get pregnant, yes? That he was special?”
“Is that a word for impotent?”
“I have no idea. But he said he was also older than he looked—”
“Excuse me, Miss! Would you like a free sample of our latest product?”
The [Shopkeeper] desperately interrupted the two gossiping Gnolls. He was a Drake, and had lived in Oteslia for a long time. In fact…a lot of Oteslia’s citizens didn’t leave their city. They were very patriotic. And…very hardworking.
Eerie and her friend’s ears perked up. They didn’t see the other [Shopkeepers] carefully closing the street as the Drake warmly beckoned her into the shop. Or the Pegasus Rider flying down and cursing Cire’s name.
The secret was kept another day.
 
—-
 
In her quarters, Shaerrha was very grateful for the growing group of keepers of Oteslia’s great secret. Just another…hundred years…and Cire would be the responsible, adult hope of Izril. She thought she wouldn’t live to see the end of the century with how much stress he gave her.
No wonder the First Gardeners had such short tenures. The young Earth Dragon was a handful. It was just as well he couldn’t get the young women of every species he courted pregnant or Oteslia’s noble circles would have had a lot of children they’d have to explain away.
Cire was reckless, brash—and cooped up. Shaerrha understood, she did. At least it wasn’t Manus; he could fly about with his bodyguards. But he still needed to be protected, especially from himself.
Now the Drake flopped on to the couch. He was a handful and hard to control for anyone but his mother, the First Gardener. He glanced up and gave Shaerrha a casual look that didn’t fool her for one second.
“So…if Eerie’s off-limits now, can I meet the [Strategists]?”
“With an escort. When they arrive.”
“Really?”
“If you watch your tongue, yes! But if you so much as breathe something that will get you in trouble, I’ll ground you for the next two months!”
Cire gulped in the face of that threat.
“I’m fine! I’ll be good! Don’t worry—I’ll be so secretive no one will even know. And wait until I tell Rafaema! When do we get to see each other again?”
“In two months we have a meeting. At Manus this time.”
“I hate Manus. They’re all so—so—and Rafaema’s so uptight these days.”
The Dragon glowered, folding his arms. The First Gardener wondered if she should up the calming tonic in her diet.
“Cire…”
“Hey Mom, if Pallass has television, do you think we can get one? I mean, so I can be on it. Rafaema would flip if she saw that. Or—can I visit Pallass? Please?”
Never in a million years. Shaerrha imagined Cire visiting the City of Inventions and the secret leaking to the world as soon as he walked in front of a scrying orb. It was hard enough in Oteslia—there had been some incidents.
Still…imagine Pallass, or Salazsar giving her the resources she needed to take care of a restless young Dragon? Some nights Shaerrha dreamed of that.
But it was too dangerous. She shook her head. Distract the young Dragon.
“Why don’t you see if the [Strategists] made it into the city, Cire? You know—they might be on the scrying orb—”
“I didn’t think of that! Gotta go, Mom!”
The Dragon raced for the balcony and dove off the walls, flying into his city. Shaerrha sat down.
“Make sure no one uses a scrying orb with Cire.”
She spoke curtly to the [Flight Captain] waiting by the window. The Gnoll saluted. Not all of Oteslia’s secret-keepers were Drakes. They followed their charge.
And the Grand Gardener sat down. Magnolia Reinhart was coming. Ancestors, she had better not find out who Cire was. Or the others! Fortunately, Cire disliked stuffy events. Shaerrha sighed.
It was an honor, a privilege, and a pain to look after her little son. She wanted him to grow up safely. But it was hard…
Rafaema was so well-mannered and thoughtful. Why couldn’t they have switched places? Manus was better for keeping secrets, anyways.
Shaerrha thought that, in the thoughtless way of someone admiring the grass on the other side. If Luciva Skybreath or Ferris could have heard her thoughts, they would have laughed until they puked.
For now—the Dragon of Oteslia waited for something interesting to happen to him. Then he went off to watch television.
