…The city was also poorest of all the Walled Cities. By a lot. People told jokes. Oteslia might have been rich in crops, but that was a bad thing in, well, a world where a single Level 30 [Farmer] could harvest his fields six times more than someone from Erin’s world.
Oteslia grew cash crops, and it did export produce cheap. But it just wasn’t Salazar, with gemstones, or the huge trading and naval power of Zeres, magical or mundane might from Fissival or Manus, or at the cutting edge like Pallass.
That was not to say Oteslia wasn’t nice. It just wasn’t essential. If Pallass fought with other cities, they could stop exporting steel and that would be felt. Manus had a vast army; if Salazsar hired mercenaries, they hired mercenaries.
If Oteslia got into a fight, their enemies just bought food from elsewhere. The City of Growth did buy goodwill; they had saved more than one city from starvation when disaster threatened with free shipments of food.
But those were cities which needed food, so Oteslia was something of a hero among the…smaller cities. Not the kind you wanted to back you in a huge, continent-wide political fight.
And ‘poorest’ of the Walled Cities was still richer than most. Oteslia’s main concerns year by year were ensuring good harvests—and fighting off monsters.
Swarms of locusts, Crelers, hungry birds, predators of every kind loved Oteslia. To that end, the Walled City employed [Druids], [Gardeners], and a lot of specialists in numbers. The Walled City was also famous for its Pegasus population—the largest in the world.
All of that meant that the City of Growth had a rather layered design. Like the vast, central tree that had grown in the center of the city that people now built into, the City of Growth built upwards. Down was hard; the city was surrounded by a vast lake, a defense, source of water, and entertainment for the people.
But the colorful buildings were often shaded by canopies like the branches of the central tree, the Heart of Oteslia. The canopies were beautiful and also prevented accidents involving Pegasi relieving themselves at high altitudes—or the many birds that lived in the city. Oteslia had the largest Gnoll-to-Drake population of any Walled City.
It also had a secret.
 
—-
 
A group of [Strategists] were making for the Walled City. Not on foot; they had rented a wagon, along with horses. The wagon was for Wil Kallinad.
And Yerranola. Any movement disturbed her; the Selphid was fighting the poison eating away at her body. Their progress was slower than they wanted to keep her from being disturbed. But it was also fast as they could make it.
Oteslia had [Druids]. It also had experts in antidotes. It might take them time to synthesize something—but there was hope there.
They were being pursued. Twice now, they’d come under attack. Venaz, Feshi, Peki, and Merrik had fought off the attackers already; the Drowned Folk trying to reclaim the blades and the [Mercenaries]—hired by someone else after the Diamond Swords of Serept the three [Strategists] carried—had failed to take them.
A Minotaur with [Haste] permanently cast on him, Feshi’s ability to summon dangerous undead, and Wil’s three clones all made the group difficult for anyone short of a Gold-rank to take on. But they were coming. The first attacks had only been to test their mettle.
“Feshi, we won’t make it. We’re being tailed. We have to ride faster even if Yerranola is hurting. Peki can fly with her.”
The Minotaur spoke tensely, his expression grim. He was tired; they all were. They hadn’t stopped moving for days, sleeping in the wagon. Wil raised a gaunt face.
“We can’t. I’ve been watching Yerra. She’s…shedding parts of herself. If she doesn’t, the poison will eat her away. She can’t be disturbed. If she’s shaken about—the poison could spread across her entire body.”
Venaz glanced at the covered jar; Yerranola was making a shrill sound from within. He looked ahead.
“Then we need to draw the others off, Wil. They’re coming for the swords.”
“Wait. Help is coming. I sent out the call the moment we arrived.”
That was all Feshi said. The others looked at her. Merrik shook his head. The Dwarf’s usual smile was gone.
“Let’s hope you’re right, Feshi. If a Gold-rank team decides they want to take the blades—”
He said nothing more. The others rode on. Behind them—a group was forming.
Even on land, seafolk stuck together. [Storm Sailors], Drowned Folk—[Pirates]—were forming a coalition. They wanted those damn blades. The [Strategist] students had cost them all too much to turn back now.
The pursuers picked up the pace. They didn’t like fighting on land, with horses. But there were dozens. Nearly a hundred. They saw the Minotaur turning back. He drew the greatsword and the seafolk hesitated.
But a single relic wasn’t enough. Or even three. The [Strategists] were not adventurers, or heroes. They didn’t deserve the relics.
“Peki and I will stall them. We’re the only ones who can break away. Peki, with me. For the honor of Hammerad!”
The Minotaur snorted. The [Martial Artist] flew after him.
“Venaz! Don’t be stupid! Come back!”
The Minotaur turned back. He wasn’t salivating over glory this time. He nodded at the pursuit.
“This is calculated stupidity this time, Wil. I’ll see you at the City of Growth.”
The Human [Lord] called out. Venaz ignored him. He’d drawn the greatsword, but his mount was unaffected. Once he charged, he’d have to dismount. If his horse lived that long.
“Just stall them, Peki.”
The Minotaur looked at her. The Garuda blinked at him, fearless. Then she turned her head.
“We’re being flanked. Something’s coming.”
Venaz turned his head. The Minotaur hesitated.
So did the seafolk. A Selphid [Pirate] eyed something appearing to the left.
“I see something. That’s not natural. Fog’s rising.”
The [Storm Sailors] muttered uneasily. Fog at sea was one thing. But this was the summer, midday.
Yet a large front of grey was coming from the east. It spilled across the ground, moving fast. Venaz halted his advance. Feshi’s head turned. Wil saw her smiling.
“At last.”
The bank of fog was moving forwards, cutting off the [Strategists] from the seafolk. The pursuers sped up cautiously. The mists swept forwards—and then the seafolk heard a sound.
Howling. The Drowned Folk halted their advance. Turned and began to ride away.
“Where are you going—”
One of the [Pirates] called out. Then he saw the fog beginning to lift. And riding out of it came—
Gnolls. They were riding horses. The seafolk, used to sporadic Gnolls on the sea, stared. But there were Gnolls on horseback. Nearly two thousand of them.
“Kraken’s depths!”
A [Pirate] shouted. Their faction broke and whirled. The Gnolls howled again, emerging from the mists.
“Is that the Weatherfur tribe?”
Wil stared at the Gnolls, whose fur was dyed in places like Feshi. The [Shaman] raised her dagger and howled back.
“Not all of them.”
The [Warriors] advanced, as their [Shamans] and the cloud began to encircle the pursuers. Faced with those numbers—the seafolk broke and ran towards the coast. They wouldn’t take the blades by force. Subterfuge was all that remained.
Wil sighed in relief as the Gnolls began to approach the [Strategists]. He looked at Feshi.
“Your tribe came all this way for us? We owe you, Feshi.”
“I have a Diamond Sword of Serept. Of course they’d come. And it wasn’t just for us; the Meeting of Tribes approaches ever faster. Let’s get to Oteslia.”
He nodded. They rode on, towards the distant tree in the lake. They had to hurry. Time…time was running out.
 
—-
 
She was coming. The First Gardener of Oteslia was a female Drake. A fun fact about her was that she was the 6th female Drake to be elected to her position in a row by the lesser caretakers of Oteslia. Each one managed a district and they in turn elected her.
There were actually Gnolls as well—but the First Gardener was always a female Drake. Again, for the last six generations at least.  And she ruled for life.
People assumed that it was some law that demanded that. But it wasn’t. There was a reason the First Gardener always met those two criteria.
Well—even then, she was always the most competent in both administration, diplomacy, and so on that Oteslia could find. This First Gardener was named Shaerrha Brasswing, apt due to the coloration of her family’s scales.
She…was stressed out. She often was, for multiple reasons. But Shaerrha would have gladly traded her job with Luciva Skybreath, or the Sharkcaptain of Zeres. They had easy roles, fighting off [Pirates], combatting the Antinium…
Shaerrha had to manage angry [Druids], spend Oteslia’s limited budget wisely, deal with her ward, and now—prepare for what might be the most politically charged event in Izrilian history for the last century, aside from the Antinium arriving.
“Magnolia Reinhart is prepared to arrive within a month’s time. What’s our guest list looking like?”
“Expanding each day, First Gardener. Wall Lady Navine and her mother are of course coming, and they’ve now expanded the list to nearly thirty dignitaries from Salazsar. And that’s only the arrivals, not their staff…”
“Security. The instant she crosses the border, we’re going to need an escort. Have we coordinated with Reinhart?”
“She claims she has a route planned—”
“Well, get in touch with her! And tell Skybreath that this isn’t under discussion! No—deny that we’ve heard anything. If she objects, I’ll speak to her myself.”
The others were starting to get wind of the event planned. Shaerrha had kept it under wraps with her co-conspirators as much as possible, but it was inevitable. A [Lady] of the Five Families, coming to southern Izril? To…negotiate? Or just socialize?
It had a lot of potential. Shaerrha didn’t deny that; that was why she had offered her city for the gathering. Peace with the Humans appealed to her, especially with the Antinium threat. She had never believed strongly in the conflict; that was why a lot of female Drakes, especially the Wall Ladies of Izril—had convened this event.
Still, it was stressful. And Shaerrha, as mentioned, had a hard job. Not only did she manage her city—she had to keep Oteslia’s great secret.
The City of Growth had a secret. A secret so grand and important that they had guarded it for nearly a century now, and before that—centuries still. But the last century had been much, much harder.
None of the other Walled Cities save for Manus knew Oteslia’s great secret. No other city could know. It was zealously kept.
The First Gardener walked across her balcony, built into the very wood of the Heart of Oteslia, the grand tree planted eons ago. She looked across her city, seeing life.
Life! Not just Drake or Gnoll! Birds, animals, from squirrels climbing the vast trunks of the tree to a myriad of birds hunting for seeds and the fish of the lakes, the insects—
Okay, she hated the insects. The First Gardener was pleased to see that the repellant spells were working on her balcony. And below her—every kind of plant was growing in every area. From terraced rice paddies to arid zones built into the tree or underground, whatever existed Oteslia could grow. The builders of the City of Growth had made the city to provide for all the Walled Cities of Izril. In ages past—the vision had been simple.
Manus to train. Zeres to hold the seas. Pallass to create. Salazsar to mine. Fissival to connect. And Oteslia to provide. There were other Walled Cities of course; but Fissival and Oteslia had been integral to the grand plan.
The teleportation network of Fissival would have connected all the Walled Cities and so even if they were under siege, they would never be starved. Not with reinforcements and Oteslia’s foodstuffs.
Of course, now the Walled Cities were reduced and squabbled amongst themselves when they should be united. Shaerrha sighed. But there was hope. Oteslia had been given a charge. And as First Gardener, her priority over even the safety of her city, the growth of plants and everything else was to tend to her sacred charge. Even if—
“Mom. Mooooom! Guess what I saw? It’s those [Strategists] on the scrying orb! Can I visit them? Can I? Can I?”
—Even if it was hard. The First Gardener sighed. Her headache resumed. A green…Drake…flew up towards her balcony.
Anyone else would have been stopped. But the young Drake, a young man of around…sixteen?…wasn’t stopped. His guards, all Oldbloods or Pegasi riders, strove to catch up as he shot upwards.
The Drake was magnificent. His scales were a blend of green there were few words for, mixed with a brown and purple that ran across his body. His neck-spines were  a pale yellow turning almost to white, and his eyes shone with the bright warmth of the earth.
He had wings and the ability to spit acid, or noxious fumes in the form of fogs of various maladies—or even beneficial substances—and he was faster, stronger than any of his peers. He was her…son.
He was also in trouble. The First Gardener glared as the Drake alighted on the balcony, as nimble as could be.
“Cirediel Anvi’dualln Olic—”
“Mom. I told you to call me Cire. No one calls me by my full name but you. All my friends call me Cire. And my girlfriend.”
The Drake hopped on to the balcony. The First Gardener waved away the guards who’d finally caught up. She should have been annoyed with them but she knew how fast Cirediel was.
“Cirediel—”
“Cire.”
“Cire, you know I’m not to be casually disturbed when I’m at work. I am the First Gardener of Oteslia. And you have to be aware of my station.”
“But Moooooom—”
The young Drake had a whine in his tone which most people would have objected to at his age. But Shaerrha was unusually patient.
“Cire. First of all, if those are the [Strategists]—”
“They are! I saw them! They’re like, miles away, but I’m sure it was them.”
The Drake waved it away breezily. The First Gardener believed him; Cire’s eyes were superior to even most Skills. She changed tactics.
“—I’m sure we could arrange a meeting. As First Gardener, I will of course help them if they are here for their friend. We could even arrange an escort—with the Pegasus Riders. You may visit them once they enter the city. If we come to an understanding.”
She saw the young Drag—Drake close his mouth and scowl. He knew what was coming next. The First Gardener sighed.
“Cire. About your…girlfriend.”
“I can have one. She’s special.”
“You said that about Wusha.”
“Well, I was wrong okay? But F—no, wait. Eerie’s the right one for me!”
“Cire, she’s a Gnoll. A Plains Gnoll.”
“So? I’m okay with that. Besides, she’s hot. Have you seen—”
The Drake broke off, seeing the First Gardener’s expression.
