The sack of flour was nondescript, but marked by a…city with a tree growing out of it? Erin Solstice peered at it.
“What’s this?”
“Oteslia’s symbol. It must be what you ordered, Erin.”
Lyonette du Marquin paid the Street Runner who’d brought it into the inn. Erin Solstice stared at the bag.
Oteslia? She didn’t know much about it. About the other cities, beyond Salazsar and Pallass, really. That dude Ferris kept talking up Manus, but Erin had heard it was called the ‘City of War’, so it wasn’t high on her to-see list.
Yet—here it was. The [Innkeeper] opened the sack and found…flour. But instead of being some shade of white, it was dark as night.
“Whoa.”
The flour was beautifully black, devoid of color. And to look at it—Erin felt, instinctively, that this wasn’t just dyed. It even smelled a tiny bit different than normal flour. And who went around smelling flour?
Erin looked around. It was one of her cooking experts who answered. Palt and Imani had come to investigate the groceries, some of which they’d ordered, like the rice. Long grains, short grains, purple grains…purple rice? Erin shook her head.
“How much did we pay for this?”
The Centaur looked pleased as he and Imani sorted through the shipment.
“Not much. Oteslia does these regular deliveries to all the Walled Cities. It’s pricier of course, but they are the City of Growth.”
“Ooh. That’s what that [Druidess] said. The kidnapping jerk with the spiders.”
Erin frowned. But then she looked at the flour again.
“I thought this was from Terandria?”
“It’s from Noelictus—they export the stuff. Ashwheat, Gloomwren eggs…but Oteslia grows everything, and I mean everything. They must have a few gardens. In Oteslia—everything is available that comes out of the earth, Erin. It’s like your garden actually; they have different biomes. Very beautiful. I’ve never been, but I used to buy, er—supplies from a guy there.”
Erin peered at Palt, narrow-eyed. The Centaur coughed.
“Let’s get this stuff sorted, Imani. What do you want to make tonight?”
“A pilaf? And for sides, maybe…”
Erin let the two walk off with their haul. She was staring at the flour.
“Huh. I guess there’s no excuse, then.”
Numbtongue had wandered over, as he often did when food abounded. Now, the Hobgoblin looked at Erin.
“[Wondrous Fare]?”
Palt’s head slowly turned back. So did Imani’s. Lyonette looked around for Mrsha. The [Innkeeper] nodded slowly.
[Wondrous Fare].
 
—-
 
This time…she had prepared for this. Erin Solstice was a poor chef.
No, she really was. Aside from her penchant to make fast food—she was just not into cooking for the joy of it. Making food for Erin was about people eating it. The process could be annoying. In that sense she might have been a halfway decent [Cook]…
But Numbtongue had prompted her to try. So this time—Erin Solstice dragged the bag of flour into a dark room, a new part of The Wandering Inn she’d asked to be reserved for her purposes alone.
A few people peeked into the room and watched as Erin set up. Octavia, because Erin needed squid ink, other edible dark dyes, black rice, blackberries, black tea leaves, garlic—and yes, it was the dark variety—
There was a lot of food that fit Erin’s theme for the dish in her head. Even potatoes—although they were actually more purple than midnight in color.
“How do you know what you’re making, Erin?”
The young woman had a dark water in hand. Some salt had been mixed with the water to give it an unsettling shade that didn’t make it look edible at all. Even the eggs were dark.
Gloomwren eggs. Erin had never met the birds, but the eggs were large. Like ostrich eggs, not chicken eggs. Even the yolks and ‘whites’ were darker.
“It’s a theme, Palt. I think I figured it out. Before—I just made stuff and experimented. Like Scale Soup.”
“You called that a soup?”
The [Innkeeper] ignored that. She spoke quietly as she lined everything up.
“Experimenting made some things. But the one time I tried to make something—it was for a purpose. No—twice.”
The fae’s banquet. And—the dish she’d served to the two fake adventurers. Erin looked around the room. Then she closed the curtains.
It grew darker. Palt looked around as Numbtongue watched Erin wiping the table down, where she was going to mix her dough.
His eyes glowed in the darkness. The Centaur shivered.
“Uh. Theme. Understood.”
“Not just that. Emotion and intention. I want you to cast a [Darkness] spell, Palt. No light comes in, no light goes out.”
The young woman stood in near-perfect darkness. The [Illusionist] looked at Erin. She wasn’t smiling. He was reminded of the invisible flames.
“You’re quite serious, Erin…”
“Yeah. I’m getting in the mood.”
The [Innkeeper] didn’t smile back. Palt opened his mouth to tell a joke—and stopped. Erin was looking at Numbtongue. The [Bard] waited.
“What are you going to make?”
“Something to hide people. From bad people. Midnight Bread. Something that would hide you even in the brightest sun.”
The [Innkeeper] had spread the flour on the table. Making an indentation to pour water and other ingredients into. But before she made the dough—she took something out.
Palt had yet to cast his spell. So for a moment—he saw something shine. It caught what little light there was and glowed—a color of its own.
Mithril.
The coin sat there and Erin Solstice stared at it. Then—she looked at Palt.
“The spell.”
She drowned the faint light in the darkness as she worked. To make midnight into a substance. A food. A dark loaf that ate sunlight.
Erin Solstice tried. She failed. She threw the first disaster into a bowl and Lyonette took it and baked it into perfectly edible—just non-wondrous—bread. Erin tried again. She failed.
On her fifth attempt, Numbtongue, wandering down the hallway to check on her realized that the shadows hung long here. Despite the sunlight streaming through the windows. The [Bard] looked around, and saw the sunlight losing.
He grinned.
 
—-
 
“I failed!”
Erin Solstice threw the Shadow Loaf at the wall. It halted in midair and Palt, Montressa, and Bezale crowded around it.
“You failed? This is amazing!”
Palt stared at the loaf that literally ate light. It was doing the exact same thing a light bulb did—except with darkness. The shadows lengthened around it. It practically obfuscated in a dark room, and even in the light, it was taking in the brightness.
But Erin Solstice was upset.
“I made it wrong. I forgot the one most important thing!”
“And what was that?”
Montressa took a crumb and chewed it. Instantly—nothing happened. Her mouth was very dark when she opened it, but the bread had no inherent properties upon consumption. It was just really cool. Mrsha wanted it. So did Numbtongue. And Bird. And half of the guests.
“I made it when it was day. I should have done it tonight! With like—no moons in the sky. You’ve gotta be thematic, and I forgot! Gah! Bread-punch!”
Erin punched at the loaf, and it was rescued by Numbtongue. He patted the loaf, sniffing at it.
“Good try, Erin.”
“It’s not good. It’s a disgrace. You hear me? You’re not even worth buttering!”
Erin pointed accusingly at the loaf. Mrsha looked hurt on behalf of the loaf. She thought it was the coolest thing she’d seen.
“And I got really dark too. I was all serious and stuff.”
The young woman put her head on the table. She was tired. Something had gone out of her to make the bread the five times it had taken. But it was a good step.
“You can try again. When’s the next dual new moons event?”
Palt turned to Montressa. They began astronomical calculations to find when both of the moons would be invisible. Erin sighed.
“I’ll try again later. Maybe I should make my other idea—crystalline candies. I just need to figure out the theme. Should they be, like, luminescent? Or do something?”
The concept for that idea was to take the basic rock candy recipe, only make it out of powdered gemstones from Numbtongue’s mining, among other things. The only problem was that Erin had to have a theme and intent—or she’d just make candy you broke your teeth on.
As the others were debating ideas and Numbtongue was trying to persuade Erin to collaborate on lightning lollipops, an idea that Erin was almost halfway sold on—the door to Pallass burst open and a naked Drake ran into the inn.
“Chocolate!”
Saliss of Lights screamed one word. He was out of chocolates. Erin, Palt, and the others barely looked up as the naked Drake stopped and turned around, giving everyone a clear view of his nudity.
“Hey Saliss. How’s it going?”
The Named Alchemist lowered his arms, a bit hurt by the lack of a response. He cleared his throat.
“Chocolate. I need…chocolate.”
Erin’s head rose. She frowned at him.
“I gave you a box of our milk chocolates two days ago.”
“I know. I ate them all.”
Erin opened her mouth. There had been thirty six pieces. She’d even tried a caramel—okay, Imani had made the filling—and a strawberry one.
She eyed Saliss’ thin frame.
“You ate them?”
“Breakfast, lunch, dinner. It was really handy since sometimes I forget to eat. Now. Chocolate. Here.”
Saliss slapped gold on the table. Erin raised her hands.
“We’re out—”
The [Alchemist] slapped another clawful of gold coins down. Erin scowled.
“No, really—”
“How about now?”
The [Alchemist] dumped a small pile of coins on the table. Erin stared at him.
“No, we’re actually out.”
“Oh.”
Saliss sighed. He scooped up his coins into his bag of holding. That generally worked. He noticed the Shadow Loaf and scooted over.
“Ooh, what is this?”
“A failure.”
It was weird how the two could be so much on the same wavelength. Neither blinked at the other’s antics. Lyonette had a pained look as she returned from the kitchen.
“We really are all out of chocolate, Saliss. We’ve got a bit left fermenting but…the tree’s out of pods. And our little gardener can’t make it grow any faster.”
Mrsha sighed despondently as Lyonette turned to her.
 
Lazy tree, my sincerest apologies.
 
She held up a card. Saliss turned around.
“But—how am I supposed to live?”
“Sorry. We replanted some more seeds, but it’s a tree. It’ll take ages to grow, even with help.”
Erin explained. The Drake stomped his foot.
“Unacceptable. Chocolate needs to exist and be in my mouth now. Hire a [Farmer]! No—an [Arborist]!”
“A what?”
“A tree expert, Erin. You know—we could hire Wailant to try and grow the trees. He is a good farmer since he grows Sage’s Grass.”
Lyonette rubbed at her chin. Saliss rolled his eyes.
“Please. Anyone can grow Sage’s Grass. It’s protecting the stuff that’s hard. I want chocolate now, now, now! If you have seeds—send them to Oteslia! Heck, I’ll get my contacts to put a rush on it if it means more chocolate!”
“Oteslia? Why Oteslia?”
“They grow everything faster, Erin. You want the best agricultural experts in the world? Oteslia.”
That made sense. Erin’s eyes lit up.
“You know, that’s not a bad idea! We’re already buying food and stuff like all that rice and other plants. I wonder if they’ve got…coffee? No, I’ve never seen it sold…”
She sighed. Some of the others looked at her. Saliss paused in gesticulating.
“What’s a coffee?”
“Oh, it’s like this little bean you grind up to make into a liquid. I bet Baleros might have it…sort of the same climate. It’s uh, brown when you roast it.”
Erin tried to describe it to the others. Predictably, it was hard for them to understand. Someone came to Erin’s rescue this time, though.
Imani. She sketched a little bean and showed it around. That helped. But even so—even Palt and Montressa shook their heads. Even Saliss.
“Never heard of it. Does it taste good?”
“Nah. It’s bitter. But it wakes you up.”
“I know what that is. Vell had some.”
Every head turned. Erin’s gaze slowly rotated left. She saw a depressed red-scaled Drake day-drinking. Embria Grasstongue had been in the inn since her father had been…reassigned. She drank a lot. Erin had been working on her. Now, the [Wing Commander] waved an unsteady hand.
“Vell bought some. Oteslia. We were around there…a while back. Before we returned to Liscor. She had some. Roasted beans. Tasted bitter. Ask her.”
Erin’s eyes widened. Saliss of Lights rubbed his claws together.
“Excellent. Chocolate and bitter beans! Oh boy! I’ll put in an order once you tell me what they look like! I’m Saliss of Lights. They’ll grow those trees overnight or I’ll burn down their tree! Now, I need a cake.”
He vibrated in place. The [Innkeeper] gave him a concerned look, but she was excited. So was Imani, as it turned out.
“I need coffee. I’ve missed it. Troy will be happy too. If we find coffee—we’ll be rich.”
Palt and Lyonette and Montressa and Beza’s ears all perked up. They clustered around Erin and an unsteady Embria stood up to find Captain Vell.
Half the spies in the inn went running to beat them to it.
So there was chaos. Madness. And Saliss kept up his manic episode for a good few minutes until everyone had left. Then he stopped jittering and looked around.
Chocolate was okay. Nali-sticks had way more sugar, though, if that was what you wanted. The [Alchemist] glanced at the Human he’d sighted from the start.
Rose was…nervous. She was keeping to herself after the incident a few days back. And while she’d glanced at Saliss with that way people had when they didn’t know the [Alchemist]—she hadn’t joined in on the madness. Now, the Drake sashayed over. He grinned at her as Rose gave him a horrified look.
“Hey, Miss Human. I don’t think we’ve properly met. I’m Saliss. I’ve seen you about. What’s your name?”
“I’m Rose. Why are you—you’re Saliss, right?”
He winked at her.
“That’s right. And I’m your best friend, Miss Rose. I think. So what do you do around here and where are you from?”
 
—-
 
Oteslia had coffee. Or rather, the beans. It was an expensive little pick-me-up that they were trialing in stamina potions. Not mass-produced by any means.
Also, the ‘beans’ were actually red berries unless you processed them. When you thought about it, someone making them into a drink was sort of far-fetched. Especially when stamina potions did such an adequate job.
Still—the Walled City of Oteslia grew the stuff. It grew everything. Oteslia was known as the City of Growth. It was Izril’s agricultural giant, a place at the height of green tech.
