“Oh, sort of like how bees and ants both have queens, right? All the workers feeding the big leader?”
Erin glanced over and saw Pisces gaping at her open-mouthed.
“What?”
He shook his head.
“I was unaware you were so familiar with the biology of insects, that’s all.”
“Oh, I know tons of weird animal facts. When I was a kid, I watched Discovery Chann—I mean, I read lots of books.”
“You can read?”
Pisces gave her a look almost bordering on respect. Erin glowered at him.
“Of course I can read. I can also play chess, and I read poetry. Sometimes.”
“You can play chess?”
Erin glared again, but he seemed genuinely curious.
“Oh yeah. I play chess. A tiny bit. You could say it’s a hobby of mine.”
It was sad to see the sly look that crept into his gaze before he turned his head, coughed, and came back with a carefully bland expression. Pisces’ lips twitched as he gestured to the inn over-casually.
“Really? As it happens, I was considered one of the better players in the northern cities. Would you care for a game? Perhaps with a wager or two on the side?”
Pisces smiled innocuously at her. Erin rolled her eyes.
 
——
 
An hour later, Pisces stared at the chess pieces in front of him with desperate concentration. He moved the king piece in front of him left and then right. He turned his head to look at the board another way.
“Perhaps if I—”
“Nope. And even if you try to take the pawn, it’s still checkmate.”
Erin didn’t bother looking up from her meal. She’d made scrambled eggs with sausage on the side. It wasn’t the most exciting of meals to eat, but it was tasty, filling, and better than having to stare at Pisces.
He sat back, put his fingers in his hair, and stared at the board with a look of wild disbelief. He glanced up at Erin, looked at the board, and then gave up and sat back. Pisces stared at the beams in the ceiling overhead, as if uncertain whether this was reality or a fever dream.
“I cannot fathom it. I was—am one of the best players on the continent! I have outplayed [Tacticians] and other mages of similar caliber and skill. How could you defeat me?”
She shrugged.
“Amateurs are still amateurs. By the way, I’ll put the money you bet me on your tab.”
Pisces’ eyes widened. He had made several bets before he realized who he was up against. Erin hadn’t saved him from himself. He lurched upright, a finger desperately raised.
“Ah. That. Clearly, I made a miscalculation. Would you care to waive my debts if I—”
“No. You bet, and I won. No arguing. Eat your eggs.”
Erin heard a loud sniff, but after a moment, she also heard the clink of metal on pottery.
“I must admit, this is better fare than your unfortunate soup of yesterday.”
She looked up. Pisces quickly looked down at his plate.
After she’d glared for a bit, Erin asked a question that had been on her mind for a while.
“What do you do all day, anyways?”
Pisces looked up and swallowed the scrambled eggs.
“I study the mystical realms of the transmundane. To unlock the secrets of the ether and command over supernatural forces, I—”
“You study.”
“Pretty much.”
Pisces shrugged and went back to munching on his dinner.
“Do you need to study that much? I mean, don’t you know spells?”
He sighed.
“For all my magical proficiency, I cannot cast more than a few magics beyond the fourth tier in any field, and I am relegated to first and second-tier magics in most fields outside of my specialization.”
Erin sampled one of her pieces of bacon and nearly burnt her tongue.
“Oh. Um. Magic has tiers?”
Pisces rolled his eyes.
“Indeed. Seven or eight to be exact. There is a speculative ninth tier of magic, but no [Mage] has ever cast or discovered a spell of such magic that I have read of in any history book. Well, Tier 7 spells are a thing of myth in the modern era. In any case, to cast such spells, [Mages] such as I require concentration, time, and effort to unravel the workings of each new incantation.”
Again, Erin had to pause to figure out what Pisces was saying.
“Right. So you study to cast better spells. And I guess that makes you level up as well?”
He began prodding his king-piece moodily, annoyed by her rephrasing all his statements.
“Obviously. It is a taxing affair, especially given that menial affairs such as lodging and sustenance must be taken care of while one attempts to study.”
Erin propped her head on one elbow.
“Almost makes you wish you had a job, huh?”
Pisces eyed her dourly.
“Until recently, I had a quite profitable side business liberating unneeded supplies from the locals in exchange for entertainment. But now, I abstain from such activities to stay within your good graces.”
“Yeah, and because Relc threatened to stab you if you kept doing it. That’s not really a good career path, you know.”
He sniffed loudly.
“I also had a far more lucrative occupation liberating unneeded items from those who were in no position to use them, but apparently, that is considered a grave violation of privacy as well.”
“You rob the dead?”
“I reburied them afterwards.”
Erin opened her mouth, raised a finger, threw up her hands, and gave up. She stared at Pisces as the mage huffily finished his food.
“Why don’t you do something actually useful instead?”
“And what would I do that is so useful?”
“I dunno. What do mages do for a living? Blow up stuff with fireballs? Dispense sage advice? Sell their beards? I found a bunch of magic runes in the kitchen. They kept food fresh for—I dunno, years.”
“Ah. A [Preservation] spell, no doubt. Yes, that is certainly a service some [Mages] skilled in runecraft can provide for plebians.”
“…And? Can you do that?”
“I cannot.”
“Darn.”
Pisces folded his fingers as he sat back, as haughty as a king on a throne. And somehow, a king in rags, waiting for his second helping of bacon.
“I am sorry to betray your high expectations of me, but I fear even a mage of my caliber cannot study every school of the higher arts.”
Erin glanced up at Pisces. The mage was scraping his plate with the knife and fork. She had the distinct impression he would have licked it if she weren’t watching. He really was thin, and so, sighing, she added another egg to the mix as she ladled bacon dripping with grease onto the plate. Amazingly, he had gotten mad when she tried to drain the grease. So had Relc.
“I never had high hopes for you in the first place. I just think it’s too bad, that’s all. You know magic, and you don’t do anything with it.”
Pisces put down his fork.
“Some would say magic is its own reward. I would.”
“I guess.”
Erin sighed. She felt like she was talking to a wall. A particularly annoying wall with bad hygiene.
“You know, if you actually helped people and were a bit nicer, I think you’d actually be fun to hang around with. Why are you so rude to everyone?”
She hadn’t meant it to sting, but clearly it hit Pisces somewhere vulnerable. He sat up straight in his chair, his eyes flashing.
“Thus far, I haven’t found any people worthy of my assistance. Why should I help those who judge me in ignorance and fear?”
Erin blinked up at him. The young mage’s face was pale with indignation, but spots of color flared in each cheek. She thought about asking him another question—but he was in no mood for conversation. His eyes flashed with a kind of actual anger. Not at her—but it was so real she was taken aback.
She could have dropped it. Instead, Erin just shrugged and stood up. She looked Pisces in the eyes and retorted calmly.
“Because you’re a better person than they are.”
He blinked. His eyes were grey and green, not like moss on a rock, more like a dance between the two colors, a nebula of both and perhaps the faintest hint of orange in that distant solar phenomenon. Scornful, aloof normally—and right now, wide with surprise. They did not look like any [Necromancer]’s gaze that Erin would have imagined.
She collected his plate and hers and left the mage sitting at the table. When she came out of the kitchen, he was gone.
 
——
 
The next day, Erin got up and went to check on her fly traps. They’d worked scarily well.
All four glass jars were filled with crawling, wriggling shapes. Erin took one look at the jars, gagged a bit, and then had to go sit down.
“Oh man. Oh wow. That’s the nastiest thing I’ve ever seen.”
It was also, on reflection, the scariest thing she’d ever seen. Erin wondered what would happen if she accidentally knocked the lid off of one of the jars. She recalled Pisces’ comment about melting flesh and shuddered.
Carefully, Erin walked over to the jars. She repeatedly thought about how important it was not to trip.
Her foot caught on a tuft of grass. Erin windmilled her arms wildly and caught herself just before she tripped into one of the jars.
“Not okay. Not okay.”
Before her heart could finish stopping, Erin adjusted the lids of each jar so they firmly covered the openings. Now, the Acid Flies couldn’t get out at all.
“That’s better.”
Erin hefted one of the jars up and felt some of the Acid Flies explode within.
“Oof. That’s heavy.”
She repositioned the jar as the acid and flies shifted inside. For such little insects, they weighed a ton.
“Gotta be all the acid in their backsides. Okay. This could take a while.”
Erin took one step and then another. She adjusted her grip around the glass jar so she wouldn’t drop it. She’d have to watch the ground for potholes, but she was pretty happy with her posture. She took another step and tripped over another of the glass fly traps.
The ground rushed to meet Erin’s face. She realized she was still holding the glass jar and hurled it away from her just in time. She smacked into the ground hard and exhaled hard. Aside from that, she was fine.
Then Erin heard the glass jar shatter as it hit the ground. She rolled to her feet and stood up.
The large glass jar lay in shards on the grass. Green-gray acidic sludge dripped onto the ground, raising steam and hissing where it met the soil. For a moment, all was still among the wreckage. Then, with a horrific buzzing, a swarm of black shapes flew into the air.
Erin felt her heart stop. She looked up at the spiraling cloud of flies. They flew around wildly, looking for whatever had disturbed them. Erin backed away slowly, praying they would ignore her. For a moment, it seemed as if they would fly off, but then the entire direction of the swarm changed. The cloud of flies seemed to recoil and then encircled Erin in an instant.
Her heart had stopped. It wasn’t beating in her chest. Erin looked around desperately, but all she saw were buzzing, buzzing flies. They filled the sky, the ground, everything.
“I—”
They swarmed her. Erin screamed and covered her eyes and mouth.
“[Gust]!”
Erin heard the voice and then a raging gale blew around her. She staggered as the wind blew her around. The effect on the Acid Flies was even more pronounced. They were blasted away from Erin into a funnel of air that whirled them into one spot. They buzzed around angrily, disoriented and confused.
So was Erin. She looked around and saw a familiar young man wearing dirty grey robes. He was pointing a finger in her direction.
“Duck, Erin!”
Erin dove to the ground and hit the dirt hard. She looked up and saw Pisces raise one hand. A pale frost formed at his fingertips, and half-visible gusts of wind blew around the length of his arm. He pointed at the disoriented swarm of Acid Flies.
“[Frozen Wind].”
A gentle breeze blew against the top of Erin’s head. Then, the air crackled and her hair froze in place. Erin could see the faintest trace of whirling air as it blew over her head. Where it passed, snow began to fall from the sky, and she felt an intense freezing cold engulf her.
The swarm of Acid Flies flew into the freezing breeze and fell out of the sky. Erin yelped and ran as they showered down around her, frozen insects that burst as they hit the ground.
She dove into the river and leapt out of it just as quickly in case the flat fish tried to bite her. When she cleared the water out of her eyes, the glowing swarm was gone, and all that was left was a circle of smoking dirt and frozen grass.
When Erin had finished shaking so hard she couldn’t move, she stood up. She was still trembling uncontrollably.
“That was the most amazing thing I’ve ever seen. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.”
She lurched over to Pisces. She wasn’t sure if she should throw her arms around him or start crying. She settled for a brief hug and then doubled down and hugged him fiercely. He didn’t seem to notice the fact that she was dripping with water.
Pisces was breathing hard. He stared at the sizzling patch of earth where the Acid Flies had been, as if mesmerized. She could see the whites of his eyes as they shifted towards her.
“It—that was a beginner’s spell. Not suitable for most combat and downplayed by my instructors. However, it was the best tool for the moment. All magic is worth using, after all.”
“Right.”
Erin nodded. Pisces nodded. His eyes flicked back to the patch of melted earth.
“You saved me. It was incredible, that spell.”
He shook his head and waved a hand weakly in her direction.
“I am—I am a [Mage] of Wistram Academy. As a talented practitioner of the wind elementalist field of magic along with other spells in a generalist’s repertoire, of course such displays are second—second—”
Pisces bent over and threw up in the grass. He retched and then threw up again. Erin patted him on the back and waited for him to stop.
After a while, Pisces wiped his mouth with a corner of his robe. His face was still pale, but he looked better.
“You were lucky I happened to be here. Very lucky.”
Erin nodded.
“I was. I really was.”
Pisces nodded back. Erin felt like they were both bobbleheads, but there was nothing else to do. He pointed a trembling finger at the three glass jars still holding the swarms of Acid Flies.
“If you insist on using such traps, might I suggest you anchor them in the stream?”
Erin looked blank.
“The stream? Why?”
“Several reasons.”
Pisces shakily counted them off on his fingers.
“Firstly, the natural buoyancy of the water would prevent the breakage of glass if the jars were dropped, or at least mitigate the danger of the Acid Flies. Secondly, the effects of wind and other native life would also be mitigated. And thirdly, I would not be at risk of tripping over such traps.”
“Right. I can do that.”
She wasn’t sure if it was shock, but the trembling in her body had nearly vanished. Erin grabbed a rock, tied some long grass to it, and anchored the rock to the glass jar. She dropped the rock in the stream and watched the jar bob and float in the water.
