“I will get a new one and repair this hat.”
He assured Normen, the junior Brother, and adjusted the top hat. Niers was pacing around on top of Bird’s head, muttering something about ‘this is so stupid’. Bird happily adjusted the hat.
“This is a nice thing. I could hide something inside here.”
“What are you doing, you idiot?”
Niers screamed silently, such that only Bird heard him. Normen gave Bird an odd look.
“Fellows have, although it’s a normal place to check for any [Guard]. What would you hide?”
“Birds?”
That checked out. The two Brothers sighed and looked at each other. The rest of the group put it down to ‘more Bird-isms’.
And thus, the lie is doubly a lie because I told the truth and then lied. Bird the [Liar] grew in power every day. He rubbed two of his hands together. Then got to work.
“Numbtongue. Sing.”
The [Bard] gave Bird a look as he sat on the wagon, taking a break and eating lunch with Octavia.
“What?”
“You are a [Bard]. You must sing.”
Someone kicked one of Bird’s antennae and he clarified.
“Play your guitar, that is. A [Bard] has songs. Sing songs. Make us happy or fast or something. You damn idiot.”
The Hobgoblin’s mouth opened. Bird smiled happily at him. Niers slapped his face. Why was this so hard?
Yet Bird was able to communicate Niers’ will, and by that, what Niers knew would work. He was still a [Grandmaster Strategist], and he had observed inefficiencies or simple faults in this group already.
They had a Level 35 [Bard] and he didn’t so much as hum. Numbtongue crossed his arms. However, Bird happily climbed onto the wagon and began poking him, like a Goblin.
“You are a [Bard]. I know you are sad and quiet, but a [Bard] must level by being a [Bard]. Your songs help us. I know you have Skills. Use [Song of Rejuvenation] and we will go even faster.”
“How do you know I have that?”
The Hob blinked. Bird tilted his head.
“I have a good memory?”
The [Soulbard] chewed on a sandwich, glanced at Octavia. She nodded enthusiastically.
“You play really well, Numbtongue. I think we’d all like marching music. Bird…has a point.”
“I have all the points, thank you, Miss Octavia.”
That was how the Goblin was bullied and cajoled into sitting at the top of the wagon. He took a while to get started, harumphing, having to be poked by Octavia, but then he began strumming on his guitar.
He did not sing. But he did strike up a chord that was electric. They weren’t necessarily ‘marching tunes’, but Bird, or rather, Niers, was right.
The group heard the music, and it took something from them. The monotony of the journey. And…their exhaustion. Their steps picked up; not that they’d been flagging, but even the best [Marchers] lost the spring in their steps. With Numbtongue’s music, they accelerated on their long journey, and had something to listen to.
“Damndest music I’ve ever heard. The Bannermare would kill for someone like him in her army. Alright. Keep working.”
Bird nodded to himself and adjusted his top-hat. He rather liked it. If he stood still, would a bird land? Maybe he should have a hat that had one of those bird-houses. It would be…a trap.
His next move was to march over to Ulvama as she rode. Bird poked her leg. She smacked his shoulder.
“Stop that, little Ant-thing.”
She was grumpy; there were no cookies on this journey into the unknown. Mainly because she’d eaten all of them in the first two days. Undeterred, Bird poked her again.
“You are a [Shaman].”
Salkis watched Bird out of the corner of her eye. So did the Goblins and Fierre, jogging ahead with Fals and Garia; everyone did. He was just too entertaining. Sergeant Gna saw Ulvama roll her eyes.
“Yes.”
“You are a bad [Shaman].”
The Hobgoblin’s head snapped around. She glowered at Bird, who returned her gaze innocently.
“You have [Shaman] powers but you do not use them. Fix it. Now. You damn idiot.”
Niers hadn’t even added that last one in, but Bird had repeated it because he liked it. He listened to Ulvama’s choking sounds with a bit of satisfaction. He whispered to Bird, giving him the salient information as the two argued.
A [Strategist] was well-versed in many classes. Niers knew [Shamans]. There were many kinds, and their powers were different from [Mages]. Not weaker like many idiots thought. Just different.
For instance, a straight firefight where two classes meet and attack each other in a vacuum, with no preparation? [Mages] took it three fourths of the time at equal levels. But who fought like that?
[Shamans] prepared. They were generalists who could make medicine, enhance aspects of living; [Mages] had to read spellbooks constantly to learn the next big spell.
If Ulvama were a certain type of [Shaman], she could have been working on a construct, a fighting creation that she could deploy in battle. Another kind who specialized in healing could make poultices, brews.
Niers knew what kind of [Shaman] Ulvama was at first glance. As Bird explained, Ulvama was lazy. Ulvama was incompetent. Ulvama was—
At that point she blew a cloud of dust into his face and he retreated, coughing. The itching dust didn’t do much to Bird, but Ulvama’s secret was out.
She was a shaman of magical paints. That was obvious. Gnolls had their variants. So, what Ulvama should have been doing was applying said magical paints to everyone. She had already repaired most of the damage from her fight with Belavierr, and Niers had seen her mixing and sending the Goblins to gather ingredients—and raiding Octavia’s stores.
What she hadn’t been doing, and Bird now pointed out, was applying said paints to anyone but herself and a few Goblins. He slapped his stomach happily for emphasis, making a dry cracking sound.
“We are a team! An army! You must give us all magic paints! So you can activate them in battle! Not just Goblins! I am angry!”
The [Shaman] folded her arms. She was then poked in the side. She whirled, fist raised, and Badarrow stopped grinning and leaned over.
“Bird has good point. You should do magic paints to them.”
“They are not Goblins!”
“We all go to save Mrsha. Give paints.”
The [Shaman] grumbled. She did not like extra work. Nor did she like giving out her expensive, hard-to-manufacture paints to people, usually Goblins, who tended to die fast. In the Mountain City tribe, her gifts had been a highly sought-after favor. Not here. Not with Niers on the job.
That was how, at their next rest stop, Numbtongue began accepting requests for marching songs, and Ulvama reluctantly stomped over and pointed at the first startled Worker.
“You. Lots of Pears. Sit.”
Infinitypear looked around. Ulvama had chosen him because he reminded her of Raidpear. So she began doodling on his armor, tracing magical paints—until he pulled away.
“Stop moving!”
She snapped. Infinitypear shook his head. He gestured at the sign on his chest and Ulvama realized she’d nearly gone over the symbol of his being with a brush.
She hesitated. The [Shaman] nearly said ‘so what, it’s not magical’. But…she held her tongue. Grumpy as she might be, she looked at Infinitypear’s design.
“I will not touch. This is you, yes?”
She gently reached out and tapped just below it. The [Adventurer] nodded, nervously. Ulvama snorted.
“Fine. Then…like this. See?”
She drew around the Infinitypear symbol, taking great care not to mess with it. The Antinium watched, relaxing. For all the Goblin was mean and sounded annoyed, she respected their symbols far more than anyone else.
Of course, she varied her markings. Sergeant Gna saw Infinitypear adorned with a silver-blue paint, predominantly. Ulvama was an artist of kinds; she had bright spots of yellow around what looked like a connected ‘map’ of inner rings and lines. However, she promptly decorated the Redfang with a crimson addition to her warpaint that made the Goblin look even more fearsome.
“Is she just painting whatever color she feels like?”
Sergeant Gna grumbled around, but no one was her friend to chat with. Bird happily stopped and explained before Snapjaw or Ulvama herself could.
“No. She is assigning different markings because they have different powers. Blue is often a symbol of defense, or warding like silver. I thus deduce because I am smart that Ulvama has given Infinitypear a defensive marking. In the same way, the Redfang Goblin there has one to enhance her strength in battle.”
The [Sergeant] blinked. Ulvama whirled around, nearly dropping her brush. Snapjaw was very impressed. Bird lifted his arms happily.
“I would like paints to make me better at hunting birds!”
“I give you some to make brain better.”
Ulvama grumbled, but she eyed Bird with more respect than before. And confusion.
“What’s the composition of the paints? Is there ah, any inherent magic or is it all shamanic? I’m asking for…me. I want to know if I could sell them and if they’re useful.”
Octavia sidled over to Ulvama. The Goblin waved her away.
“Paints are power. I give more power if I want. All power. But mine.”
“You’re using my ingredients.”
The Stitch-Girl gave Ulvama a big, happy smile that made it clear she was not reaching for the club at her side. Ulvama gave her a toothy grin.
“Yes. So? My paints. Big secret. You pay me, I give.”
She turned back, chortling. Right before someone poked her in the side.
It was a Goblin tradition, but wow was Ulvama getting tired of it. She turned, snarling, and stared at an empty vial. An empty vial…until Octavia gave it to Ulvama and the Goblin felt the weight.
“I’ll trade you how to make one of these for paints.”
The [Shaman]’s eyes went round as she focused on the Invisibility Potion. No Goblin knew how to make that in any of the tribes she’d been in. She and Octavia locked gazes. Then Ulvama waved her over.
“Also how you draw it. See? Like this…”
It was something that Octavia would not have dreamed of doing a year ago. In the same way, it was this point in time that was creating unusual events.
Rasktooth was making a snack. Infinitypear was striding about, feeling good. [Spirit of the Wild] was making the Worker feel…well, excellent. The further they got from Liscor, and especially now, marching without a city in sight, Infinitypear felt alive. More alive than ever before.
He was on an adventure. And he’d level again that night.
 
—-
 
There was another angle to the group, though. One not instigated by Niers, but a product of…well, the species involved. It occurred during the same rest stop.
“Okay. Alright! Okay! We’ve got a break and I’m still full of energy. Let’s do this, Fierre.”
Heads turned from Ulvama happily slapping paint on Sergeant Gna in the most ugly coating possible to see Garia and Fierre relax in a patch of shade. The City Runner grinned.
“Unless you’re too tired in the day? What with being a…”
She mouthed ‘Vampire’. Fierre glowered at her, alarmed. She rolled her shoulders, staying in the shade, and gave Garia a toothy grin. She was wearing all black, and always had a hood on. But she was feeling a lot stronger than she ever had.
So was Garia. So the [Martial Artist] beckoned. And the two began to spar.
It was something they’d begun back at the farm. Now? Fals sat there, watching Garia move into a jumping kick.
“Careful, Garia! Don’t hurt—dead gods.”
His jaw dropped. He had never seen Fierre fight. And while it was true she was not a [Martial Artist]…and had little fighting experience…
She was also a Vampire. She dodged, leaning back with incredible dexterity. Which made Garia instantly go for an axe kick. But Fierre just blurred left and went for a punch.
“Bad form! Fierre, you have to stop punching like that!”
Garia halted her friend, and pointed to Fierre’s terrible posture; she’d tried to throw a big haymaker from the side as she dodged back. Fierre growled.
“Oh, come on! Let me at least fight…”
“Not if you’re going to do it like that.”
Fascinated, some of the other warriors watched. Fist-fighting was alien to Salkis except as a non-lethal way of hurting someone. Sergeant Gna snorted at anyone using their fists in a battle.
However…the Redfangs were approving. Badarrow nudged Numbtongue.
“Not bad, huh? Huh? We better?”
“Nope.”
The [Sniper] glanced at the [Bard], surprised by this lack of bravado.
“Not better? You ever fight?”
He pointed at Garia. Numbtongue nodded. He rubbed at his side.
“Jump kick stupid. Don’t get hit by it. Rib-break death.”
“Ooh. You like her?”
Badarrow’s grin made Numbtongue shove him off the wagon. He was more talkative than Numbtongue remembered. It was probably Snapjaw’s influence.
After all, Goblins were exceptionally social. One of the most social groups in their own community, in fact. Just…not with words all the time. As it happened, they were sharing a space with a similarly insular group that saw everything as new.
Antinium. Fierre and Garia transitioned from sparring to practicing kicks, punches, and even how they stepped. They knew they had an audience; it made Fierre a bit embarrassed, and wary, although she didn’t show off any Vampire-specific powers. Garia clearly revelled in it.
However, one observer became obvious when they saw him imitating them. The two young women turned as they stopped punching to stare at the copycat.
Instantly, the Antinium turned away innocently, as if he hadn’t been doing anything. Garia laughed and called out.
“You can join us if you want! Bird! Bird, tell whoever this is…”
Fierre stared a bit uncertainly, but Garia was at home with the Antinium enough to beckon the Soldier over. Shyly, he walked over. He was unpainted, as of yet, but not unnamed. Pawn had helped name the Soldiers and Workers who had volunteered to join Bird, and while he hadn’t figured out what he wanted to make his sigil…
“Who is this, Bird? He can join us in practicing martial arts, right?”
Pivr had hurried over to reprimand the Soldier for fraternizing with the ‘flesh people’, but Bird happily nodded.
“More classes are good. This is good. Shut up, Pivr. No one likes you. You damn…”
He tilted his head and decided not to say it. Pivr looked hurt.
“No one likes me? I am beloved in my Hive. This is a fallacy, Bird.”
He looked around for support. Everyone was silent or looked the other way. Pivr’s mandibles slowly opened wide—then drooped.
“This…”
Bird peered at the Soldier, realized he had no paint, and turned to the others. He didn’t actually know this Soldier as well, but he remembered the name quickly enough.
“Ah. Yes. This is Touma the Great.”
Fals sat up. He eyed the Soldier, much impressed. Garia also blinked.
“Whoa. What’s so great about him?”
Bird gave her a blank look.
“That is his name.”
The City Runner grinned, thinking he was telling a joke.
