“Stick to the plan! We find a corner and cover! Come on, Yvlon! Come on—”
The woman didn’t move. Rexel slowed, her sprint turning into a walk as she looked back.
“Yvlon? Come on, Silver. Don’t protest now—they’ll throw you into it if you stay inside.”
She and Leprel wavered as Yvlon stood there, head down. Her one good hand opened and closed around the longsword’s hilt.
“I hate this. I did nothing wrong. This nation is corrupt. This is a farce.”
“Yvlon—”
Leprel hissed. This was not the time! She heard the crowd chanting down to the bells, and some of the [Guards] were peering through the doors at the back of the waiting rooms, seeing them standing there.
Did she run and take her chances alone? She waited, trying to push the [Armsmistress]. Yvlon was still talking.
“This isn’t a battle. This isn’t a raid. This is just sport.”
“You’ll die if you fight back. This is the only way.”
Rexel faced Yvlon, licking her lips. The doors were opening and a [Guard] was pointing.
“Get out there!”
“…twenty, nineteen…”
“Yvlon…”
The woman reached out. Or tried to. She stared at her broken arm. She had lost it in the Village of the Dead, a continent away. In a real battle with a monster. She met Rexel’s gaze.
“I know that. But I don’t have to like it. Fine. Fine.”
She walked to the edge of the arena’s portcullis. Yvlon stared out into the silent arena. People were crouched behind pillars, some armed with bows or crossbows; [Mages] were preparing to cast spells.
And there he was. The Champion of Rust, redolent at the back, surrounded by his allies, searching for targets. For her. He spotted her and it seemed they locked gazes even across the vast distance. Rexel groaned. Yet Yvlon was still muttering.
“They want me to fight?”
“Five! Four! Three!”
The roar grew louder. Rexel couldn’t hear Yvlon, but she saw the woman’s lips moving and the faintest of sounds over the thundering of her heart, the rumble in the air. The grimy lips moving. The look…in those sapphire eyes.
“They don’t get it. Fight? Start fighting?”
Yvlon Byres whispered. Her hand locked around her sword. The [Silversteel Armsmistress] stared ahead.
“I never stopped.”
This entire time since the Village of the Dead had been a break. The bell rang and the doors swung open as [Guards] came to shove out the [Gladiators]. But all too late.
Yvlon Byres sprinted out of the waiting room. Rexel and Leprel turned, mouths open as she charged into the rust-red dirt of the arena. The [Gladiators] looked up.
“Begin!”
The clash of metal on metal heralded the battle. The audience roared, pointing as the Human ran out onto the sands. There she was! They recognized her, and gasped. Was that…? From the television…?
The [Arena Master] was talking with a [Mage].
“I don’t know. Broadcasts, yes, but the Champion of Rust is eh, artful. Saved battles might not be as flashy.”
“It’s easy. We just ‘record’ it. It’s storing the damned stuff that’s so hard. Wistram has the jump on that, but for a small fee, we’ll record any match you think is good. Then you get a cut of the profits if we sell them!”
“Not much of a profit! See—”
The roar of the crowd made the [Arena Master]’s eyes perk up. Now that was louder than normal. Had someone just been decapitated? He looked towards the arena and saw her.
A Human woman, storming out of the waiting rooms. The Gold-rank…he looked at the [Mage].
“Well, record that!”
The [Mage] fumbled for a scrying mirror. He held it up just in time; the [Arena Master]’s Skills were tingling.
[Sense for Spectacle]. He hurried to the front of the observation booth.
 
—-
 
“Remember the plan! Silver—Yvlon! The plan!”
She had forgotten the plan. No, she was ignoring the plan. As [Gladiators] began to fight, and the first arrows and figures leapt across the ground to score first blood, the Gold-rank charged forwards.
Straight across the arena. Straight through the rookies fighting with veterans. Rexel and Leprel slowed in horror.
“Ah! There’s the Silver-killer! Look! She’s trying to unseat us, eh? Let’s see how good she is.”
A [Veteran Gladiator] posed, turning, magnifying her voice. The Stitch-Woman grinned as she swung up two hatchets to cheers from her fans. She whirled, placing herself with three [Gladiators] who, by unspoken agreement, had decided to take her on.
“[Power Throw]—”
The woman drew back one axe, ready for a mighty throw. A shame she was Human; a Stitch-Woman would easily take the loss of a limb. But the [Gladiators] did not like unknown quantities who didn’t necessarily know to wound rather than kill. Besides, the Champion had made it known he would be quite happy with anyone who took her out.
So—this really wasn’t personal. They saw the woman raise her sword, fifteen feet out. The [Gladiators] wavered.
[Foresight: Injury]. The screaming alarm went off in all three brains. The [Axe Thrower] stopped her Skill. She yelped.
“Nerrhavia’s tits—”
[Sword Art: Curve of the Moon].
The cheering audience saw a glittering crescent cut across the Arena of Rust. A shining flash of a blade—the roars of approbation faltered.
The [Axe Thrower] tried to pick herself up from the ground. Dead gods. Dead gods, was that her best Skill? That maniac had just used—
A foot kicked her in the face. Not Yvlon; Rexel stopped to give the [Axe Thrower] two more kicks. Another [Gladiator] was scrambling away, bravado forgotten. The last was staring down at his arm.
“My good arm!”
He wailed, tearing out stitches so the bleeding would stop. Yvlon ran past all three, followed by Leprel and Rexel. She had just used one of her best Skills. The rusted longsword in her hand was bent from the force she’d put on it.
“Piece of trash—”
She kept running with it. It kept the other [Gladiators] away. They’d seen her unleash that Skill and scattered rather than fight a maniac who had nearly bisected three of their buddies. Yvlon didn’t care. She wasn’t focusing on them.
The [Armsmistress] was charging at one figure who was watching her, perplexed. The Champion of Rust.
“Are you coming at me? Me, woman?”
He shouted, spreading his arms and trying to gesture to the crowd. But Yvlon didn’t even give him time to mock her; the gleaming Stitch-man with his glorious Silk cloth-skin saw her charging. He lost his smile.
He had an axe and shield. A powerful, crushing combination where he had literally rammed his shield into foes so hard they broke bones, or sundered armor with his weapon. He could be artful; he had a net and spear he used when it wasn’t a killing matter.
He drew the axe and shield now, gleaming with magic. Yvlon had her rusted longsword. People were pointing. This new adventurer was going after the Champion of Rust? Was she mad?
She was angry. [Berserker’s Rage] was driving Yvlon on. But she could see him through the blood-haze. Watching her. The Champion of Rust flicked his shield up.
“[Projection: Shield Ram].”
The [Armsmistress] saw a giant copy of his shield, spectral, glowing, appear as he heaved it at her. She leapt sideways with an oath; the projection hit Rexel and sent her flying. Leprel scrambled after her buddy as Yvlon rolled, picking herself up. She saw the Champion of Rust dart in, axe raised.
He was quick. He had [Longstep] or something—he slashed. Yvlon knew better than to parry, so she went for an exchange as she lowered her stump of an arm.
You stab me? I stab you! The Champion cursed, and flicked left; he avoided being impaled by the rusted longsword; Yvlon was not struck by the falling axe blade. He stepped back as Yvlon slashed, slowed.
Felt at her cheek. Red blood was spattering the ground.
“How…?”
A roar. First blood! The Champion of Rust lifted his axe, grinning. Yvlon’s blood was on it. She hadn’t even seen the blow!
“[Free Cut]. Did you think [Gladiators] didn’t have our own Skills, Silver-Arm?”
He taunted her, circling left with strutting steps. Yvlon felt her blood, warm, trickling down one cheek.
An unstoppable cut? A blood-letting blow, to disconcert and disorient. The kind of thing that looked great.
“Pathetic.”
His brows snapped together as she sneered at him, in an expression worthy of Pisces. The Champion of Rust shrugged.
“I warned you not to take us lightly, Silver. Now—”
He came in fast and low, mid-sentence. [Cleaving Scythe]! The crowd roared as he went for Yvlon’s legs. She?
She brought her sword down as she charged. The Champion caught it on his shield, grunting, as his slash towards her legs was blocked. By—what? He didn’t see, only felt it.
Yvlon had no weapon on her offhand, but dead gods, she was strong! He staggered, but saw what he had wanted.
Her blade bent. The useless iron couldn’t stand up to the first blow! He grinned as Yvlon dropped it. His axe came up to punish her step back.
It never came. Yvlon balled a fist and threw a punch.
The Champion’s [Foresight] Skill went off. He pivoted, and the [Impact Punch] knocked him stumbling backwards. Cursing, the Stitch-man set himself.
“You—”
She ran at him. The man incredulously swung his axe down. This idiot thought she could take him on bare-handed—?
His axe met her arm and sparks flew. Yvlon stared at the notch in her arm. So did the Champion of Rust. The audience stared at the sight. Then Yvlon swung her stump of an arm up. The Champion saw the jagged stump point at him. What was…?
The silver flesh rippled. Then—it morphed, elongating into a stabbing point. It shot towards his cheek.
“Gyaaaaaah!”
He threw himself left, with a shriek that was completely unplanned. The Stitch-man rolled as Yvlon checked her arm.
“No blood.”
She heard shouting. The crowd was on their feet. What was that? Had they seen her arm morph? The [Armsmistress] turned.
“You—what are you—?”
The Champion of Rust realized the danger he was in too late. Yvlon shoulder-charged towards him. He blocked her, and the two rammed into each other desperately. Now, though, he realized what had stopped his strike.
Her arms could transform! He saw a short-blade coming out of her ‘useless stump’ of an arm, a cutting edge made out of her flesh! She slashed at him and he leaned back, sweating.
“Stop—let’s stop this. Let’s—”
She slashed, shouting, and he backed up. The Stitch-Man ducked another telescoping stab of flesh, slashed at it. But he failed to sever it. Yvlon grimaced as if she’d felt the blow, but then she was charging again.
The Champion of Rust had had enough. He was going to net her, back up, and take her down from afar. He just had to knock her back. So he lowered his shield with a roar, swinging his axe down.
“[Dust Bomb]!”
Blind her, and retreat. They’d fill her with arrows or blast her with spells! She was a deadly warrior and could not be allowed to live. That was clear.
[Foresight: Mortal Wound].
The Champion of Rust’s eyes went round. He broke off his Skill and slashed.
Leprel screamed, aborting the two daggers to his back. She saw the huge Stitch-man bellow at her. Then—whirl and slam his shield down on Yvlon’s punching arm. She staggered. His axe rose for a sweep.
[Armform: Telescoping Flesh].
The man stumbled. The audience, on their feet, never saw the Champion’s blade descend. What they did see was him stand there, stunned, and then tear away from Yvlon screaming, dropping his blades, and clutching at his face. His chest. His…
Then they saw her. In the later recordings, from other angles, it would become obvious what happened. The [Arena Master], on his feet, stared in horror as the Champion of Rust clutched at the bloody socket that had been his eye, his body, perforated by…holes.
Yvlon Byres, the Slaughterer of Silver, One-Arm, the Silver-Killer stared at her arm. Or…what had been her arm.
Leprel and Rexel looked at the jagged tips of silver metal. The…spines of it that had shot out of Yvlon’s arm like a porcupine, lancing the former Champion at close-range.
The blood ran onto her silver. Yvlon’s arm slowly morphed back to a hand. She stared at it.
“What am I?”
Rexel didn’t know, but she also knew. She thrust up Yvlon’s arm, gingerly, as the arena shook. In her first match? Rexel shouted as she raised the new Champion of Rust’s arm to the sky.
Yvlon the Silver Arm.
