He didn’t get to see the messages which denoted the trial beginning and the time stasis starting, cut off from the System as he was. But he was certain the System being’s inability to freeze him was causing a stir. He could feel the titanic amounts of System energy flooding into the unit easily enough.

Energy which was no match for his own as he erupted with the power of multiple world cores.

“M-mister Wainwright…! The System tells me that the unit is approaching corruption! What does that mean?!” Luetta protested.

“Worry not about that,” Orodan instructed. “Focus on your trial.”

And focus she did.

The System unit presented a rather complicated set of fates before her, each of them defended by traps and protections. But training with Orodan Wainwright and being exposed to his training methods had a way of turning even someone mediocre into a talent. And Luetta was no slouch in fate reading to begin with.

Traps were dismantled, defenses breached and Orodan had to resist the urge to click his tongue at how easy the trial was in comparison to his own training of her. The System’s lowe standards for Transcendence were a little embarrassing…

“Of course the harsh taskmaster would say that, slave driver that you are,” Zaessythra muttered. “Another Transcendent added to the Collective, and our time to act.”

Indeed it was. For the one nice thing about a trial of ascension was the fact that it gave Orodan a clear line of connection between the material plane and the System’s bowels.

A connection through which he could wreak quite some havoc and cause plenty of misdirection.

The time stasis was released just as Luetta achieved Transcendence, but any thoughts of celebration were cut short as she was immediately teleported away. And just as she left, Orodan’s soul energy erupted and flooded the connection before the System unit could flee.

It erupted outwards and caused great mayhem upon the tapestry of fate.

Enough that one could mistake it for someone else with far greater talent achieving Transcendence.

The pillars of purification trembled as something approached; the power of an Administrator smashed past the vault’s anti-dimensionalism wards. The Prophet had taken notice.

But their foe was a wily one. There were six pillars of purification within the vault, and instead of seeing that zealot come through the rift like he’d expected, it was a horde of Gods which appeared instead.

“The God Slayer! Pin him down while we focus on the pillars!” the leading God of the enemy forces roared as divine energy spilled through the rift.

The leading God’s orders were sharp and brooked no dissent. The Gods who were recipients of the command had grim looks upon their faces, knowing that carrying it out would mean their doom. Immediately, a dozen Gods from the back rank hit Orodan with a plethora of restraining spells while the front wave of another dozen threw themselves at him with suicidal tenacity.

Throughout all this, the leading God set about destroying the pillars while another two worked in dismantling any wards.

The two constructs in the chamber with him were also pinned down.

“We have the boy and the time looper! Our lord will be pleased with our success!” one of the Gods joyously roared in a victory cry.

“The God slayer is not as strong as we feared! Kill him where he stands! Cut off his head!”

Things were going poorly… or so it seemed.

The only one who looked as though they disagreed was a divine eagle with exceptionally sharp eyes next to the leading God. It looked exceptionally nervous at how well things were going for them.

Unfortunately for it, even while restrained, even as multiple Gods tried hacking at his tough flesh… Orodan made sure to meet the gaze of this eagle and target it with Incipience of Infinity.

It froze in terror, unable to move. And that was just enough as the rest of the Gods carried on zealously.

The two life-like constructs were thrown to the ground before the rift, and the enemy Gods roared in victory all while Orodan continued receiving a thrashing.

And soon enough, a familiar book-wielding zealot wearing the skin of a man entered the fray.

“My lord! The vault is secure! Those wicked pillars are destroyed and we have the enemy pinned down for you to finish off!”

It was exceedingly odd, to see an entirely uncorrupted God be so subservient to the Prophet, but as the zealot walked through, the only thing on the Prophet’s face…

…was a sharp frown. Particularly as it gazed upon the replica Mantle draped over the lifelike imitation of Almyra. And next to it, the lifelike imitation of Fenton Penny.

“What… what is this? This is no Mantle… these are mere golems,” the Prophet said, absorbing the replica robes into himself for analysis. “A lie, a falsehood! A pale imitation and grave insult towards the provenance and provider of all!”

“My lord… we did not know…”

Yet, the words did little to calm the anger and sharp suspicion now apparent in the Prophet’s eyes. And as the Administrator turned to look at Orodan, who was still being beaten and clobbered by a horde of angry Gods, its eyes widened.

“You…!”

[Deception 10 → Deception 15]

Orodan flexed his arms, shattering the bindings which restrained him. The first swing of his blade slew his attackers, yet the Prophet did not move as all of its defenses flared to the maximum.

“I’ve been waiting for you, Prophet,” Orodan declared with a predatory smile on his face. “Welcome to Lonvoron.”

The entire citadel shook as world shattering amounts of Eldritch energy began leaving the Prophet’s form in pulses.

“The pillars you fools! The pillars!” the Prophet hissed.

But it was too late.

After all, the six pillars of purification set up inside the vault room were only a false measure, with lifelike replicas of Almyra, Fenton and the Mantle placed within as the accompanying bait. And the catch had just bitten down hard.

The citadel and all of Lonvoron rumbled as a grand array came to life, powered directly by the world core itself.

It was the culmination of what Orodan had been working on for the past week. Something he’d seen used very successfully on his own world, specifically, during the Battle of Novar’s Peak.

How strong of an effect it had been, when wards and enchantments lining the walls of an entire city activated at once back then. But, what if the principles behind the pillars of purification were combined with that? What if all along the walls of the city a gigantic metallic structure was built, one singular, winding pillar of purification?

The Prophet’s deathly roar of pain was the answer.

It didn’t drain the Administrator of Eldritch entirely, Orodan and Fenton had been careful when designing the array to ensure that didn’t occur. But it did begin draining most of the raw Eldritch power within it. An act which caused its pristine human guise to begin grotesquely showing the tell-tale signs of purple-gray corruption.

And just as the Administrator thought to retaliate by shattering all Lonvoron, the next part of the plan came to fruition.

Another rift opened in the chamber, and a titanic beam of System energy shot through, hurling the Prophet deep into the void. Orodan could feel the draw of power from his soul as the Mantle recharged after such an expenditure. The entire citadel and all of Storven were utterly obliterated as the beam carried on parting the clouds and shattering a nearby star as it continued on through the void of space.

“For Lonvoron!” Alstatyn shouted, coming through right after the beam and shooting an enemy God dead.

Dozens of rifts opened up and voidcraft of the Blackworth Collective began sallying through. Fenton and Almyra walked through the rift right after, joining Orodan.

In the boy’s hands was a device, and Fenton looked at it with a frustrated scowl.

“It ain’t workin’ ser! What happened to the replica?” Fenton asked.

“It absorbed it… someplace, I’m not exactly sure. Perhaps into a storage of some sort?” Orodan suggested. “In any case, no plan survives first contact with the enemy. We’ll have to adapt from here and figure things out.”

Almyra however had no words to spare, she stepped forth and engaged in a magical duel against the Prophet. Something that would have ordinarily been impossible.

But, when such a large gap in power was present, what sort of ability could turn the tide? The answer… was the Blessing of Orodan Wainwright.

If Destartes, a Grandmaster mage, could become monstrously powerful upon receipt of his Blessing, then just how far could an Embodiment-level mage with a penchant for maintaining thousands of spells achieve?

The Prophet had been hurled deeper into the void and away from Lonvoron, and the cataclysmic clash of spellfire against holy light was the answer. A clash Almyra should have lost ten times over in the past.

But now, although she was desperately struggling, using her vast array of spells, utilizing the power of the Reject’s Mantle and drawing judiciously upon Orodan’s Blessing…

…she barely held for a moment.

“Keep an eye on the battle!” Orodan instructed Fenton. “My Blessing should give the fleets an advantage but your help will tip the scales just that bit more.”

Orodan had bestowed his unique Blessing upon people a few times in the past loops, but never to the extent that he had now. Hundreds of key individuals, Grandmasters and Transcendents all, bore the Blessing of Orodan Wainwright.

[Incipience of Infinity 141 → Incipience of Infinity 142]

Having so many powerful beings draw upon his power was quite straining, but excellent training. Every level gained in Incipience of Infinity, especially during such a critical battle, helped immensely.

King Alstatyn stepped next to Fenton, and alongside the monarch were a group of powerful Transcendents who Orodan had blessed as well. The message was clear, this elite force would closely guard the lad throughout the battle. After all, in a war between Gods and Transcendents, a mere Elite was likely to face a quick end.

Which of course begged the question of just how could Fenton contribute during such a battle. The lad wasn’t capable of fighting Gods while at the Elite-level like Orodan had been. But there were other ways to contribute to such a battle, even as a non-combatant.

The enchanted bullet which flew from the barrel of one of Alstatyn’s accompanying Transcendents and struck an enemy God in the shoulder was one such method. It wasn’t a fatal wound by any means, the peak-God had a strong regeneration ability too. But none of that mattered as the enchanted projectile released a pre-built enchantment right into the God’s physical form.

“What is this witchcraft?! I cannot use-”

The God’s shock was cut off as a follow-up bullet took off their head and Fenton handed the gunwoman another carefully tailor-made enchanted round. Orodan saw clearly how a weaving enchantment had spread upon impact from the bullet, one tailor-made to prevent regeneration.

Against beings of extreme power who cycled energy often, it might not have worked for long, but against these Gods? Fenton Penny’s aid was instrumental in ridding key enemies from the field.

“Get that glowin’ slime next!” Fenton instructed.

It was Body Enchanting, used not for the benefit but the detriment of the recipient. Transcendent gunfighters backed by enchanted bullets which turned a normally beneficial trade towards a very lethal purpose.

At the sight of that, Orodan felt comfortable leaving the planetside confrontation behind as he swiftly passed into the void via Dimensional Step.

Immediately, he noticed Almyra was on the backfoot and the subtle tells in her posture and movements gave the impression that she was far from confident. His appearance relieved some of that.

Two System energy beams collided with one another, the power threatening to destroy multiple star systems if not for Orodan diverting the energy of the collision into the pores of the dimensional boundary and bleeding it off.

“Not here,” Orodan cautioned. “The planet won’t survive this battle if we remain and I can’t redirect every such clash.”

The previous looper nodded, and a shimmering layer of magic surrounded her, Orodan and the Prophet.

The zealot allowed this, using the brief lull for its own purposes. Orodan could sense it re-strengthening the shields around its mind and eyes at the sight of him. Using Incipience of Infinity to mentally assault it would not work so easily this time.

“Sacrilege most foul, blasphemy which cannot go unpunished. Time looper, even if you were cast aside by our provider, to cavort with agents of invaders? You must be put down,” the Prophet solemnly declared, gazing upon Almyra with a look of utter condemnation. It then turned to Orodan. “I cannot sense which false Boundless you are tied to, invader. Whatever pretender aided you in causing me harm upon the battlefield last time will find no purchase now. My mind has been strengthened, fortified against such esoteric tricks. And soon, that Mantle will be mine and you shall be punished for your sins.”

Given the unique nature of his soul and the lack of a familiar System, even the Warrior had mistaken Orodan for an agent of a foreign Boundless One. And if the Prophet wanted to do the same, Orodan had no interest in correcting it.

“No Prophet, I believe you shall find you aren’t as strong as you think you are,” Orodan declared.

“Pathetic. You are decent… perhaps at the Transcendent-level, but even alongside this treacherous betrayer you cannot hope to stand against me,” the Prophet countered, drawing power into its Mantle. “Pulling me into another dimension will only lead to two very lonely deaths.”

