Orodan agreed with that assessment. He didn’t think he could beat an Administrator yet, neither did Almyra. Even while deprived of a great portion of its Eldritch power, it was a true monster.

Which was why they’d brought reinforcements.

Pulling the Prophet into the mirror dimension wasn’t just to avoid the needless destruction of Lonvoron. But to also give their ‘allies’ a convenient place to show up without any other distractions.

Even the Prophet looked a little surprised when a haughty-looking spider suddenly appeared, the entrance entirely imperceptible. Yet, it was the dimensional rift which tore open behind Talricto that was far more attention-catching.

“That damned thief! Get that spider immediately!”

It was Captain-General Ryzlan and the forces of the Conclave which had marched through the rift. And from the looks of it, the leader of the Conclave was not happy.

“Ah, my favorite student. As you can see your most majestic teacher and benefactor has drawn quite a bit of attention. Normally unplanned, but in this case, quite planned,” Talricto said. “Care to convince these fine folk to leave me be?”

Almyra had made plans for diplomacy, negotiation, subterfuge and more. Yet all that seemed unnecessary as the Captain-General’s face contorted into a rictus of horror.

“A-ancestor… ancestor!” the leader of the Conclave exclaimed. “You… are tainted by the Eldritch? How can… how can this be?”

“Fool! You and your lot are being manipulated, can you not see? Come, work with your ancestor and subjugate these rebels who defy the source of all grace.”

Unfortunately for the Prophet, its persuasion attempts landed more than a little flatly. A natural consequence of being subject to a city-wide array which drained Eldritch power and forced the corruption within it to ramp up in order to compensate.

“Ancestor… worry not, we shall save you! The Eldritch taint can be purged!” the Captain-General righteously declared.

“The ancestor must not be in his right senses. We shall save him!” another holy paladin promised.

And finally, the boundary rippled once more as Talricto opened a passage for one more being.

“I see your thieving ways still persist,” Alagameth lectured as it stepped through. However, at the sight of the Prophet, the spatial spider stilled. “So it is true… the dark whispers I had heard, that our founding ancestor had fallen to the plague.”

Alagameth, Talricto and the military forces of the Conclave, alongside Almyra wielding an Administrator’s Mantle and Orodan himself. The forces now arrayed against the Prophet were not insignificant.

A beam of System energy broke the ceasefire as Almyra used the Mantle to occupy the Administrator’s attention once more. In return the Prophet fired a return beam which clashed against hers and the battle was on.

Talricto stood in place, trembling with exertion as Orodan felt a powerful pull from the spider drawing a lot of energy. His mentor of dimensionalism was preoccupied solely with maintaining the integrity of the mirror dimension’s boundaries amidst these titanic clashes. A task of utmost importance lest the bounds shatter yet again and the battle spill over into Lonvoron.

The Prophet had no intention of leaving these new arrivals untouched however, and beams of light shot forth, splitting into multiple, as they eerily predicted the paths and motions of the paladins. The Administrator was also an excellent fate reader. It was something they’d had to account for as Orodan’s presence in the vault was no random thing. Only Almyra, with her numerous spellcraft protections, or he with his Fate Disconnect, were the two capable of maintaining extended contact with the Prophet without their plans being read or discovered ahead of time.

And even then the previous looper had cast plenty of spells over the tapestry of fate, doing her best to obscure the movements of her forces from this zealot. Unfortunately, against a fate reader of the Prophet’s caliber, such protections were only partially effective.

Numerous paladins were disintegrated and the Captain-General of the Conclave was forced to backpedal as he took a heavy wound. While their plans might be safe, the immediate future movements of their allies were not. And the terrifying accurate beams of light which seemed to strike with unerring accuracy found their marks upon more than two dozen Conclave knights before spatial rifts began appearing.

Alagameth the Silent Oracle refused to remain passive. The spatial spider opened rifts which redirected the beams of light back at the Prophet, and this allowed the knights and paladins of the Conclave time to recover and mount a dedicated assault against the Administrator.

Mere Gods and Transcendents attacking a being stronger than any other Embodier in the cosmos; these assaults were pitiful. But what they did do was distract the target.

And any distraction was critical when the Prophet was tied up with its main fight.

[Candleflame 45 → Candleflame 46]

[Fire Resistance 68 → Fire Resistance 69]

Orodan’s arm blazed with the fury of fires enough to set a solar system aflame. His fist clenched hard, and he threw his all into the next attack as it met the Prophet’s System energy beam in sync with Almyra’s own Mantle empowered attack. Instead of a regular punch, Orodan tried something he hadn’t attempted yet, for fear that he might truly kill himself with the backlash.

But what better time for dangerous experimentation than during the heat of a deadly battle?

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 89 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 90]

[Fire Magic Mastery 61 → Fire Magic Mastery 63]

So mighty was the attack that Orodan was reduced to mere chunks by the blowback of his own strike.

Yet it was undeniably effective. He reformed almost instantly to see Almyra’s beam winning the exchange and scoring a blow upon the Prophet’s passive barrier, shattering it and singing the Administrator’s System-empowered flesh.

The wound was almost unnoticeable… and Orodan had a bad feeling about their odds in this fight.

It frowned, curiosity in its gaze.

“Even with the Mantle, your attacks are pitiful. The difference in power between you and the invader is clear,” the Prophet insulted, glaring at Almyra. “Perhaps you should step back and let him do the fighting?”

“Your attempts at riling my temper shall avail you not, Prophet. You fall here today,” Almyra declared, her voice warping due to the spells concealing her and the System energy coursing through the Mantle she wore.

The Prophet clicked its tongue in annoyance, but a devious smile then emerged onto its face.

“While crushing the lot of you would be entertaining, it would amuse me more to see your supposed allies turned against you,” the Administrator said. “Come, bearers of the light. Witness the truth and embrace the source of provenance.”

The elemental plane of light which the warriors of the Conclave drew power from subtly shifted, as though something dark and wicked was laying beneath the surface all this time and had finally decided to come out. And then, the glowing golden rays turned purple, and with them… their aid.

Captain-General Ryzlan’s eyes began turning white, as did those of the holy paladins accompanying him.

Unfortunately for the Prophet, its smile was cut off as its eyes sharply homed in on Orodan’s broom. A broom which now had a clear pathway to the elemental plane of light.

Eyes blazing with the light of his soul, the empowered broom shot forth and touched the Captain-General of the Conclave… and its power spread far beyond that.

“No!”

However the Prophet’s cry came too late as the holy warriors were cleaned and fortified forevermore against the Eldritch. And the power of Domain of Perfect Cleaning went beyond even that as it entered the elemental plane of light and purged it entirely of all the taint within it.

Close, very close… but not quite enough to push into Embodiment. Orodan had cleansed dimensions of taint before. To truly embody the concept of cleaning he would have to do more than mere brute force.

Yet those thoughts were brought to a jarring halt as he was slammed upon the ground and two burning hands gripped his skull.

“It was you. You were the one who purged the divine dimension of all my work. Millions of years of work… undone in an instant,” the Prophet hissed, its voice breaking with raw rage. “You will die.”

Like a savage monster its hand came down.

The first blow splattered Orodan into a handful of cells. He reformed instantly, quick enough to experience the second and third. Savage strikes, lacking skill, reason or efficiency. His attacker was consumed with rage and had finally found an outlet for it.

But just as he was bludgeoned, so too was his opponent.

[Warrior’s Reciprocity 92 → Warrior’s Reciprocity 93]

Terrible wounds appeared on the Prophet’s body as it smashed Orodan, returned with many times the damage. The damage was healed easily enough due to the tremendous amount of System energy coursing through the Administrator, but it seemed to be one of the few things working to hurt it.

In a sense, Orodan was grateful. If it was smart, it could have simply destroyed him entirely and completely with a singular beam of light. But the sheer anger at having all that work undone was clouding the Prophet’s mind. In its mind, rage and revenge seemed to overtake reason and efficiency.

Which was to Orodan’s benefit as the Prophet also suffered multiple direct strikes from the Mantle-empowered Almyra’s beams, Alagameth’s arrows and Captain-General Ryzlan’s divine lance. Furthermore, so focused on enraged offense it was that its focus on defense was lesser. And with that lapse… the wounds scored upon it were far deeper.

The moment they had been waiting for.

Even as Orodan was pummeled into paste, he felt a sickening source of energy coalesce from Almyra’s direction. The Prophet was enraged and unfocused on the damage it was taking, trusting that its Mantle would empower it with power enough to heal through the wounds.

He felt a deep pull of energy from his soul, and a super-charged beam of power from Almyra came forth. The only thing he saw before he tightly guarded his soul… was a blaze of pink.

He had been on the receiving end of this fell power once.

These were none other than the shards.

Critical components to their plan of attack, sourced by Talricto, pilfered from various factions across the cosmos. Invading pieces of a foreign Boundless One, the one that had destroyed Orodan’s original System and left him without one shortly after he’d empowered the time loops himself. And they’d stolen not one shard, but twenty, and assembled them into a much larger crystal which was in Almyra’s hands.

Unfortunately, the sudden introduction of these fell things was quite noticeable and cut through the Prophet’s red rage like a cold dousing of ice. The Administrator’s bloodlust was instantly cut short as terror and immediate recognition flashed in its eyes. At the last moment it managed to divert all power towards defending against the tremendously charged attack from the shards.

The Prophet got off of him and Talricto barely yanked Orodan away with a dimensional step before the imminent impact.

Doom, terror and madness erupted.

System energy, pushed to its absolute limits, clashed with the power channeled through the crystal. The dimensional boundary was shattered, and the mirror realm was destroyed yet again, undoing Almyra’s work in repairing it since the last fight.

The shockwave sent everyone flying away, and stormy remnants of pink energy fizzled out in the aftermath.

Talricto was out cold. The dimensional spider’s final attempt to limit the destruction had saved Lonvoron from being completely obliterated, but he had failed to prevent the dimensional boundaries of the mirror realm from shattering.

There were consequences all around. Alagameth had shielded the Conclave but looked haggard. And Almyra, the deliverer of that fell strike, wasn’t faring well.

The shards were fell objects originating from a foreign Boundless One who wished naught but ill upon the denizens of the cosmos. Naturally, there was a price to that attack, and his ally didn’t look very good. She looked to be in a daze; using the Mantle to shield herself at the last moment had drawn deeply of her reserves and she had to pull upon the Blessing he’d bestowed.

And Orodan’s Blessing, it had its limits. Not on his end, but in how much power the recipient could draw upon and utilize before they began to strain or damage themselves. And Almyra had evidently found and exceeded that limit as her breathing was shaky and blood was leaking from her mouth and nose.

However, the result of the attack was clear.

The Prophet wasn’t in good shape either. But not in the way they would have liked.

The Administrator’s human guise yet remained, a sign that they hadn’t managed to strike a critical blow by any means. But its breathing was haggard, and while it was bleeding from the nose, a clear sign that it had drawn too freely from the Mantle’s power. And yet, it remained mostly undamaged.

The shard’s beams were utterly deadly towards anything they directly hit. But that was that critical issue… landing that hit. And by the looks of it, while decently exerted and forced to overdraw upon its Mantle, the Prophet remained mostly fine.

The enemy’s gaze swept across its arrayed foe, a contemptuous look in the zealot’s eyes.

“Pathetic.”

It was a single word, a pronouncement. Yet… it was not wrong, and the desired effect was achieved.

