Orodan’s eyes narrowed in concentration, even as his cells sizzled and faced eradication.

[Acid Resistance 84 → Acid Resistance 85]

The challenging part though, was keeping his body infused with the fires of the Candleflame, even as the acid invaded every part of him.

[Candleflame 44 → Candleflame 45]

Yet it wasn’t a method without gains. Dimensionalism was close to hitting the Master-level, he was certain. It was a multi-tasking challenge; cycling an elemental infusion through his body while submerged in a vat of world-devouring acid. Yet fantastic as it was for training, it wasn’t enough to push him past the threshold of the Master-level.

That he felt would come during battle.

His feet landed upon the stone floor and with a quick usage of Domain of Perfect Cleaning he made sure no stray particles of that noxious and exceedingly deadly substance could escape the container it was in.

His ally had all manner of spells, defenses and illusions upon herself, though Orodan got the feeling that number of concurrent spells was far lesser now than prior to him purging the curse from her soul. It added credence to his theory that a good chunk of her attention was devoted to just remaining alive despite that curse’s best efforts to kill her.

She was also wearing the Reject’s Administrator’s Mantle, but that seemed to be a regular fixture of hers; something she almost refused to let out of her sight. And between them, the thrum of a connection; something which had taken her more than one demonstration and much paranoid deliberation before finally accepting.

The other person in the room however, was a familiar face he’d worked with to originally create the acid.

“Mister Wainwright… have your efforts borne any fruit?” Emory Weller asked.

“Unfortunately not. Just one more level in Acid Resistance and another in Candleflame,” Orodan answered. “Perhaps with more time I might see further benefits, but that is a resource we are scant on.”

“We might be short on time, but certainly not this acid. Over the past week we’ve produced quite a prodigious amount of it… enough that if spread unchecked it could destroy whole star systems if airborne,” Emory Weller said. “I understand that Lonvoron might be facing a powerful enemy soon, but is there truly a need for this much?”

“It is just another tool in our arsenal for handling the approaching foe,” Almyra said, her voice echoing and giving away nothing of her identity in front of Emory. “You have done well alchemist, you, your house and family will be justly rewarded when the time comes. That will be all we require of you, you may evacuate with the rest.”

Orodan frowned as he saw the spell over the man which was selectively tampering with parts of his memory and knowledge.

Almyra shook her head and gestured for him to walk with her as they left the laboratory.

“The selective amnesia you induce in others is a bit unsettling,” Orodan remarked. “But I suppose it’s not outright mind control at least.”

Which in truth was the only reason why Orodan hadn’t gone about punching her in the face again. The people her mind tampering spells affected were free to do as they wished, even going so far as refusing her orders or betraying the Collective. But the spells mainly affected their perception of her and the details surrounding her.

How long her loops had gone on for, the establishment of the Collective and any details relevant to her were things nobody knew and were subtly encouraged to forget about via the compulsion effect of the spell. Paranoid and prepared for any possibility, Orodan wondered how his loops would have turned out if he had gone about them the way she did.

“You find my reasonable countermeasures against the Administrators unsettling, yet it is I who find your mad methods of self-improvement eerie,” Almyra said, distorted voice spell deactivating now that they were away from anyone else. “Do you not feel… pain?”

“Ah, I increased my Pain Resistance to the Grandmaster-level before absorbing it into my second Celestial skill, Incipience of Infinity,” Orodan explained. “Pain’s a natural part of being a warrior. Even during basic training for the militia we were conditioned to not panic upon taking a hit. Regular beatings with a club, sparring and the like. Pretty sure the instructor broke my nose on my third day too before the on-duty healer patched it up.”

“You warrior sorts seem base and savage, but the effectiveness of such a regimen cannot be disputed. But Grandmaster-level Pain Resistance? I have never recorded anyone having a Resistance skill at the Grandmaster-level let alone beyond that,” Almyra said. “If you ever do achieve that, let me know what that’s like.”

Orodan grunted his assent.

A Transcendent resistance skill would be quite monstrously strong. But Orodan wondered if Resistance skills beyond Grandmastery weren’t just capable of empowering the user with that particular element. Orodan, during the skill combination where he drew upon Pain Resistance to create Incipience of Infinity certainly recognized that the pain was actively giving him power.

Even now, the harder he churned his soul, the more power it generated, but it came accompanied with pain too. Not that this pain bothered Orodan any longer.

Then, would Transcendent Fire Resistance mean that any flames he was hit with would instead empower him? Would it perhaps help strengthen his elemental infusions of fire even further?

Well, dwelling upon things yet to come wouldn’t serve him now. Not when battle was so close at hand.

“Are our preparations proceeding well?” Orodan asked. “I ordinarily despise such ways of fighting… but with all that’s at stake, it would be irresponsible of me not to work alongside you.”

“Your stubborn pride and warrior mentality have gotten you far, but allow that strength to now be harnessed as part of an alliance. With your power and my strategies… who can stand before us?” she asked.

A number of beings, Orodan thought. He wasn’t yet on their level, but of all the Administrators he’d faced, the Prophet was likely the weakest one. And even then what was to come would be the greatest test he’d faced yet. But what if it was the Warrior who came? Or the Custodian? No plans and tricks would suffice then, but he kept that line of thought to himself.

“Your protege works upon the Mantle as we speak,” she continued. “You’ll have to remind me to recruit him right away from when your next loop starts. If properly harnessed, what terrifying potential he could have.”

“He’s my student first, not a weapon to be molded towards whatever purpose you’re thinking of,” Orodan said.

“You’ve already guided him into becoming a weapon. Do you think your presence here has not affected his destiny?” Almyra asked. “And this is my world, or do you mean to dispute that?”

“A world on the verge of falling to the Eldritch and the man Prophet leading them,” Orodan countered sharply and then soothed his voice. “I will not deny that Fenton is marching into this battle because of me, but never have I trained him for any benefit to myself. He’s free to leave if he pleases.”

“An asset like that cannot simply be allowed to move at leisure. What occurs if the enemy get a hold of him? Can you imagine how much damage a plague-infected enchanter of that talent could do?” she hissed.

“None, because my Domain would cleanse it right out of him,” Orodan reminded. “Enough of this. It’s plain to see that we butt heads on certain topics and I’ve no interest in stoking the flames of animosity if we’re not going to fight. We share a common foe, let’s remember that.”

“You are right… I apologize,” she said. “Let us focus on pertinent matters.”

Though Orodan would not let his guard down around this woman even with that. She’d betrayed him once before, and even now while allied, she acted far too much like a puppetmaster commandeering her pawns on strings. He could respect what she’d achieved in her loops while also disliking her manner of seeing people as assets to be used and directed.

It came with the territory of being a meticulous strategist and planner he supposed. In fact, that she’d told him her name and let him in this deep already suggested a certain level of trust on her end.

“Or having her back pressed against the wall,” Zaessythra suggested. “Her first plan involved beating you and tearing whatever answers she sought from your head. If anything, she remains standing for your mercy alone.”

That was a fair point too. Though Zaessythra’s dislike of Almyra was rather apparent.

“I still vividly recall her original betrayal and the fight we had after she worked with that madman to get you killed.”

“Regardless of how you feel about her, I can’t just duel the Prophet at full power and win. Not yet. And there’s too much at stake in this loop for me to just throw it away on a whim. In my younger days I might have gladly done that, but let’s secure what we came here for first.”

“Those things Talricto ‘acquired’… I trust they have been stored safely?” Orodan asked.

“In the chamber of the Mantle beneath Storven’s citadel,” Almyra answered. “Secure and behind all manner of wards and protections.”

A little too close to where Fenton was working for Orodan’s liking. Those things were far too volatile to be tampered with, even if the lad had all manner protections placed upon him by the previous looper.

“Well… I suppose it remains to be seen how effective they’ll be in our hands. They were certainly good enough against me,” Orodan remarked. “And if I haven’t already drawn the ire of their creator, using them in our upcoming crucible certainly will.”

“Perhaps, but it was always meant to be this way, no? Did you think standing up to an Administrator was something which you could do quietly? If… no, when we succeed, the entirety of the cosmos will know. The Boundless One itself will react to the death of one of its anointed beings,” his ally spoke. “Come, Orodan Wainwright, we have little time remaining and our preparations are coming to a head. Say your farewells and settle your affairs… and once all that is done, I shall come find you in a few hours.”

This would be it then.

“I suppose I should wrap things up with Fenton and his mother and father, Clyburn and Luetta as well,” Orodan said.

“Do that. And then, I have something to show you,” Almyra said, and at the quirk of his brow, elaborated. “You’re not the only one who has methods of personally advancing themselves. It’s nothing major, but it is one more piece to the time loops that you should be aware of.”

#

Orodan frowned as he carefully studied the diagrams on the table.

There was no doubt, these inscriptions were far superior to his own. But even comprehending them took effort. But with this…

“Thank you Fenton.”

“It’s no trouble ser, that’s just my take on it is all. Who knows if that thing’s goin’ to work as intended with these modifications?”

“It’s still work far superior to my own,” Orodan praised. “Who knew the machine could be modified in such a manner? With this… the enchanting part of the device should no longer be an issue.”

Orodan committed the inscriptions and their placement upon the tiny model to memory. There were a bunch of papers outlining instructions, the reasons for choosing particular enchanting methods over others and the like. These too, he memorized down to the letter.

For a long time now, Orodan Wainwright had sought to rebuild the ancient machine beneath Mount Castarian. Of course, at a glance and from his early loops he hadn’t even known that the machine was incomplete to begin with. Yet, a meeting with the Custodian for the first time had revealed the machine’s true purpose.

It wasn’t just capable of travel to the hells, but also into the very heart of the System itself.

Possibly even into the cage which contained the Boundless One itself.

Orodan’s Dimensionalism was at a point where he could travel to the hells if he so chose, but to the very bowels of the System where the Boundless One lay? Not yet. Too much interference all around that place unless he hopped onto an established connection such as a trial of ascendancy or powerful usage of an Administrator’s Mantle. Such a trip would cause massive mayhem if he tried to force the matter at least. But from the designs of this machine and Fenton’s conjectures…

“You’re sure this is meant to allow silent travel to and from anywhere?” Orodan asked. “And I do stress the silent part. Last thing I need is to cause mass mayhem and the deaths of countless people by forcing dimensional travel to the System’s bowels.”

While Orodan in theory could brute force his way there, his understanding of dimensionalism came with the knowledge that such a thing would cause numerous dimensional boundaries to collapse from the force. Elemental planes would flood into their own, the divine dimension might merge with the real world, and this would cause the mass loss of life.

“Far as I can tell. The existing enchantments on it are alright, but it’s like the creator willingly built it short of bein’ able to go anywhere silently. Using their work, it wasn’t difficult to imagine what the completed inscriptions were meant to look like,” Fenton answered. “Whoever made this, I’d like to meet ‘em sometime. They’re good, real good, but I reckon I could learn as much from them as they could from me.”

The mental image of an Arch-Devil wielding hammer and orb came to mind. While not as malicious as the Prophet or as deranged as the Reject… the Custodian wasn’t exactly a benevolent friend either.

