Which made sense. After all, without Almyra explaining the function of this tower he wouldn’t have known that the books were about things which had killed the time loopers. Although, if a non-looper was observant, they might notice the sudden increase in entries at the start of a loop.

“Is that why the planet is entirely lifeless?” Orodan asked.

“I migrated all the local flora and fauna off-world before glassing all of the planet besides the world core. It now survives via connection to the core of other worlds,” she explained. “Before that, the bottom layer would be in constant flux as the cycle of life and nature took place all across the world. Far less clutter now; I like to remain organized.”

They continued upwards as they spoke. The lower shelves were full of Initiates, Apprentices and Adepts, but the upper ones had fewer entries and had stronger creatures.

“A Fallen Void Archon,” Almyra pointed out at an entry in the Grandmaster section. “One of only six direct combat deaths I knowingly walked into. My first one too after I began to learn some magic and thought myself better than I was. Foolish of me to challenge an extraterrestrial being with six arms and a natural talent for magic to a straight spellcasting duel. I stopped engaging in pointless risks after that… though I suppose you’ve proven the benefits I missed out on.”

Indeed, Orodan saw Void Horrors, thousand-headed serpents and all manner of horrific beasts titling the spines of the various books as they rose higher. Many of the previous time loopers must have died often trying to fight such creatures.

“It could have gone quite poorly for me too. There are plenty of creatures and beings out there with mind and soul-affecting abilities. If anything, I survived and acquired benefits despite my lack of caution, not because of it,” Orodan said, looking at the entries. “But this is certainly interesting… there’s no record of anything which killed me. And there was no indication that the divine tower of my world had anything to do with any other time loopers.”

“There are no records of anything which killed you because you are not connected to this one,” Almyra said. “And even if you were, with your claims of empowering the whole loop… I wonder if the Boundless One even remembers anything of what you did in the loops where it was in control of the loop mechanism.”

Likely not. When Orodan had taken over and begun affecting all reality, he had the distinct feeling that even the Boundless One wasn’t unaffected. Time for it, in the metaphysical sense, had reset to before it had begun observing Orodan’s first loop. Little wonder some of the people he’d spoken to said that it was quite panicked at the start of all his loops nowadays.

“As for the divine tower of your world… I doubt it even retains any information about you, if your words are true regarding the loops,” Almyra said. “My theory for why it had no information from other loopers within it is that you’re likely the first time looper keyed to it. Something not out of the ordinary, I assure you. I know of at least three other System Control Spikes within this galaxy, and their divine towers have no evidence of being connected to any past loopers either. Of course, those worlds the towers are situated upon are quite underdeveloped and unlikely to birth any significant talents.”

If Alastaia’s world core heard her words, he had no doubt it would be offended. Yet, it was true. Orodan’s home world was naught but small fry in the grand heirarchy of the cosmos. Not a single native-born Transcendent. And even Eldiron’s civilization was relatively underdeveloped in comparison to powerful cosmic civilizations like the Hegemony and the cultivators.

“Your scathing but honest assessment of my world’s underdeveloped nature aside, is this how you’ve amassed power throughout your loops? With your planning and strategies, this is the ultimate tool for someone like you, isn’t it?”

She smirked, pride showing in a rare display.

“I suppose this has its uses when combined with foresight, preparation and tactical acumen. Hard for most enemies to stand up to you when you have access to their Status, and if not, can just orchestrate a situation where they’re lured to this planet and kill something,” she added. “Foes which were troublesome on one loop often found themselves baffled. To them it must have been eerie, to be countered so perfectly. After all, even if I could not beat some of them directly at the time, nothing prevented me from developing Transcendents who could, or crafting plans tailor-made for them. The Vystaxium Galaxy was not always so unified ten-thousand years ago, at the beginning of my loops everything is a mess and it takes much political maneuvering, military acumen and diplomatic know-how to form the Collective in an optimal state.”

“That… sounds entirely too complicated for me,” Orodan said. “But I suppose developing one’s world has its benefits, if not for you, then for their sake.”

As they spoke, they finally reached the top. And here, the bookshelves had very few entries, less than a dozen.

One of them, Orodan recognized.

“Alagameth. Was it you who fell to him?” he asked. “No wonder you were so hostile during that meeting.”

“I profess… that spider outmaneuvered me by summoning an entire army of bloodthirsty creatures of the void right on top of us once. A trick I was on-guard against when we fought in the next loop,” Almyra said. “But it also refused to vacate its spot right on the border of our territory for the longest of times until I sent it running.”

But really, Orodan’s eye had been caught by the one book which had a strange name. It was different to the rest too.

‘Azrohal Excrodatar (Species: Fallen Void Archon)’

A familiar last name. Perhaps all Fallen Void Archons shared the same? This being wasn’t any regular Embodiment however. And Orodan had a feeling he knew exactly who it was. And the book… the book was empty.

“You died fighting it, didn’t you?” Orodan asked.

“Once. I… do not wish to repeat that again. Its true nature is that of a monster, no matter what false human skin it garbs itself in,” Almyra said, fear evident in her. “Your Celestial skill, can you not just purge it directly?”

“All that would do is remove the corruption upon it and thereby remove one of our key advantages. It would only serve to make it angrier too,” Orodan said. “Much as I detest the Prophet, I will not strip a being of who they are. That zealot embraces the Eldritch, to remove it from them would be an act of defilement. Better instead to kill it outright and preserve our honor.”

“Honor? That’s what concerns you at this critical juncture? Honor will not bring us victory!” she hissed.

“And I shall not use my cleaning in such a manner again,” Orodan declared, standing his ground. “If I see the opportunity to kill it, certainly. But to strip it of its very being? No.”

Using Domain of Perfect Cleaning to purge all Eldritch from the Prophet would be pointless and just serve to make it angrier while rendering Orodan’s Eldritch Resistance moot. Furthermore, he felt he was on the cusp of it, Embodiment. He had erased Almyra’s mighty System-powered beam of energy already. And while the Prophet would need to be severely weakened before he could do the same…

…he felt close to a breakthrough.

She clicked her tongue.

“We face a horrid foe, and my work with the Mantle is nearing its conclusion, but not nearly quick enough. If I had more time I could uncover its secrets, learn to harness it against the Prophet properly. But with such time constraints we can only stand together to make up for the lack of preparation,” Almyra said. “Seventeen years of siege by the Eldritch, and it shall all come to a head today.”

Seventeen years to prepare for an impending fight against an Administrator. Without his unique advantages, Orodan could understand needing a while to truly master the intricacies of the Mantle. After all, it used System energy, which if overused, could lead to corruption by the Eldritch. Something which was far deadly for any sane time looper.

“We’ll win. We have to,” Orodan declared. “Thank you for showing me this. I may not use it as extensively as you have, but as a source of information it will be quite useful. And it’s informative, to know that there are other System Control Spikes.”

In fact, just by studying this, he felt closer to understanding how the System itself worked. Yes, he had made his own for himself, but replacing the System for everyone would require much greater understanding than he had at present.

“Then if that is all…” she trailed off, sounding more than a little anxious and impatient. “Waiting when we could instead act has never sat well with me.”

Orodan smiled.

“For all our differences, on this we can agree.”

The battle for the fate of Lonvoron awaited.

The Prophet and who knew what else was coming for them.

But Orodan and his allies were ready.

#

Lonvoron, prime world of the Blackworth Collective, was an ancient planet.

Its world core, though subservient to Almyra, was among the oldest in the entirety of the Vystaxium Galaxy. Accordingly, the civilization upon it was older than any upon Alastaia, and Storven, the capital of the Collective and King Alstatyn Von Flemethy’s seat of power had over a million years of history to it.

The city had been razed, re-built and obliterated many times throughout Lonvoron’s tumultuous history prior to Almyra’s loops. Yet the one constant was the citadel, which even if destroyed had always been rebuilt in the same place.

And it was at the bottom of this royal citadel that Orodan stood, Almyra behind him, next to her Alstatyn and Fenton.

And in front of him, Luetta Treadway.

“I must admit… I can’t tell the difference at a glance,” Alstatyn remarked.

“Of course, Fenton and I worked on it extensively,” Orodan replied, casting a glance towards a particular construct in the room.

His student had put much effort into it.

“Are the spatiomancers prepared to send her away?” Orodan asked, looking at Luetta.

“They stand ready Mister Wainwright,” King Alstatyn replied. “And so do we.”

“And the citadel’s defenses?”

“Exactly as we’ve planned and prepared,” Almyra spoke up, layer upon layer of spellcraft covering her form, obscuring it from view.

In particular, a colossal number of obscuring spells meant to prevent the emission of any energy whatsoever. Orodan had carefully looked over her to ensure there were zero energy emissions with Vision of Purity.

“And Fenton’s where he should be,” Orodan remarked, verifying the lad’s position with Vision of Purity.

The intricately crafted construct beside him stared on as they spoke.

“I must profess… this is making me quite nervous,” Luetta remarked. “Just what are you going to be fighting?”

“An Administrator, though you might not know what that is,” Orodan answered.

“You’re right, I don’t. And part of me feels I would rather not know, not when I have a trial coming up,” she replied. “Mister Wainwright… I’m ready when you are.”

Orodan nodded and gestured for everyone but him and Luetta to leave. It was an eerie sight, just her, him and two very lifelike constructs with intricate spellcraft covering them. One of whom donned familiar robes.

“Go ahead then… read my fate.”

The tapestry itself shifted to aid her; Luetta’s eyes blazed gold as she was intent on getting past his Fate Disconnect shield and reading his fate. Orodan began resisting as he pulsed the shield around his fate erratically, trying to throw her off. Reaching past level 100 and surpassing Grandmastery, it was a delicate thing.

His resistance wasn’t serious, rather it was a carefully guided thing, meant to draw out her maximal potential and give her a platform to utilize her abilities to the utmost.

[Fate Mastery 37 → Fate Mastery 38]

At key intervals, Orodan even began causing a bit of mayhem in the tapestry of fate, pushing her to work just a bit harder. And soon enough, the efforts were rewarded.

The tapestry was in flux and his Fate Disconnect shield was still up, but despite all this…

…Luetta forcibly took control of the nearby sections of the tapestry, even as her nose bled from the mental strain, and directed it all towards her target.

And Orodan eased up the shield so that it could strike.

His fate was like an open book to her, even with its infinitely cyclical nature. And even in attempting to read such a monstrous thing her comprehension was tested to its limits. In fact, parsing just a hundredth of the mess that was Orodan Wainwright’s fate, was enough.

The tapestry shuddered, and Orodan clearly saw the shift in her soul as level 100 was crossed.

Almost immediately, world and System energy began coalescing around her. The familiar glyphs and symbols of the System began arraying themselves within the chamber. And the humanoid being composed of impossible geometric shapes with System symbols flitting in and out of existence upon the surface of its skin appeared as the dimensional boundary was disturbed.

Everything besides Luetta, the System being and Orodan himself froze. Time was utterly halted for the entire world of Lonvoron and perhaps even beyond.

And as usual, the System and its golem weren’t so easy to accept that state of affairs as Orodan felt the familiar feeling of chronomancy attempting to freeze him in time.

