“Hmm… best if you don’t Fenton. Getting killed would be the least of your concerns against an Administrator,” Orodan replied.

“If you say so Mister Orodan, makes our stand against this Prophet you told me about a little foolish don’t it?” Fenton asked. “Fighting somethin’ like that sounds like bad business, not that I’ll ever turn tail and abandon you ser. Miss Almyra’s real nice and all… but are her problems that deeply connected to our own?

“Not our. Mine. My problems are not your problems Fenton, as grateful as I am for your help. I can still send you, your mother and father someplace safe together,” Orodan reminded. “Why not join them today?”

Orodan had never seen Fenton as mirthful as the lad had been over the past week since his father had been brought to life. He had to pry the lad off of him plenty of times and deliver plenty of strategic head pats and ruffles of the hair in order to get Fenton irritated enough to stop being grateful. Needless to say, the lad was happy.

Of course, Fenton had a conflicted look on his face as Orodan offered a potential way out.

“No.”

“Hah! He even delivers one word responses like you do. Someone’s been a bad influence.”

Orodan sighed.

“While I’m the last person to comment on the uninformative nature of a single-word response… could you elaborate why?” he requested.

“Only if you tell me why you’re so hell bent on fightin’ the Prophet ser,” Fenton challengingly replied.

“Well, I fight because I enjoy it. But that aside, I have people to protect and debts to repay. Someone important to me requires my help.”

“That’s the answer then, isn’t it?” Fenton threw back at him, turning around to walk away after.

Orodan could only blame his own actions for this state of affairs. In helping Fenton, he’d indebted the lad to himself. The young man reminded Orodan much of his early loops self. Hot-headed, defiant and blazing with determination to help those he cared for or owed debts to. The world was big and Orodan was neither the first nor the last person to have a stubborn sense of honor and gratitude.

He wordlessly joined Fenton as the two of them walked out of the vaults beneath Storven’s royal citadel and towards the castle’s throne room. They passed a number of winding hallways, guard checkpoints manned by Grandmasters and finally entered the grand hall which was quite empty save for a handful of people.

“My King, being returned from death and reunited with my family brings me no joy if my only son now marches off to war! My little Fen ain’t even a soldier! Please! I beg you reconsider his participation in whatever operation is to come!”

A Transcendent guard flanking Alstatyn frowned.

“Watch your tone with the King! How dare you speak so challengingly towards his Grace!”

“It’s quite fine. They can speak as they wish when it concerns the fate of their son… I too would be livid if my loved one was at risk,” Alstatyn said, calming and gently chiding the guard into stepping back. “However, that does not change my decision. Or rather, my decision not to interfere with your son’s decision. To dictate what a man does in such a case would be despotic of me. And his help is valuable enough that we cannot simply refuse it when offered so freely.”

“But he’s just a boy! Not even fourteen years of age!” Fanny Penny vehemently protested.

“A ‘boy’ who has repeatedly battled the plague and been instrumental in bringing an end of the enemy’s siege of Lonvoron,” Alstatyn reminded. “He’s no more a boy than your resurrected husband is. And the brave Captain here fell fighting against the very evil his son stopped.”

“You needn’t remind me of that, of my failures towards me wife and son,” Alfred said, voice low. “I know that Fenton’s grown to become a greater man than I’ll ever be… but as a father, how can I look upon the little babe I cradled in my arms as he marches off to die?”

“Just as there’s no certainty of victory, there’s also no certainty of his death, Captain,” Alstatyn said.

“But the odds are high, aren’t they? The signs are evident your Grace, Lonvoron and the surrounding worlds are being quickly evacuated of little folk and non-soldiery. Such a thing’s never happened before.”

“Your Grace, a mere military Captain should not be questioning the proclamations of the Collective’s monarch!” the guard piped up yet again.

“Enough,” the King finally rebuked firmly, quieting the Transcendent guard. “Captain Alfred’s concerns are valid, especially since he gave his life for the Collective once already. If any reserve the right to speak freely and challenge me, it should be him. Captain, my decision to not interfere with your son’s choice is final. That is all I can tell you, but if you do not like to hear that from me… perhaps Fenton himself can tell you the same thing as he doubtlessly has many times already.”

Alfred and Fanny Penny turned to see their son, and their eyes widened for a moment. More importantly though, was Alfred’s look upon Orodan himself, who would be properly meeting him for the first time. He had been busy since the man’s resurrection and hadn’t had a chance to properly liaise.

Of course, given the tight setting of the Captain’s jaw and the clenching of his fists, Orodan didn’t think Fenton’s father was too happy.

“Mum, da, this here’s Mister Orodan, the one I’ve been talkin’ about all this-”

Fenton’s hand shot out to catch Alfred’s fist before it could reach Orodan’s face. Of course, the other hand came up similarly, but Orodan casually brushed his fingers against the in-motion arm, diverting the fist before Alfred broke his arm punching a face far harder than most metals.

“You!”

“Da! Stop! What the bugger are you doin’!?” Fenton demanded, physically moving his father backwards.

Orodan stood in place, a neutral look upon his face.

The man was decently tall, being just half a head shorter than Orodan himself. He bore the characteristic lankiness that Fenton had, though Orodan had painstakingly trained and fed the boy to rectify some of that as best he could.

“You have a good punch. Fenton’s inherited the same, though I’ll have to regretfully inform you that he hasn’t had the opportunity to clock anyone at university yet,” Orodan said, stepping up to Alfred and gesturing Fenton backwards. “Your father’s issue is with me, isn’t it?”

“Why are you draggin’ my boy off to war?!” Alfred angrily demanded. “Yes, you brought me back from the dead with your sorcery, but leave Fenton out of it! Take me instead! Whatever you need, even if it’s me dyin’ again, I’ll do it!”

“No! Not again father! Never again!” Fenton rebuked.

“Mister Wainwright please… is there anything we can say to convince you not to bring Fenton along?” Fanny implored in a gentler manner, contrasting her husband’s hot-headedness. “Surely you don’t need his aid?”

“I do not need his aid. As a matter of fact, I’m here to implore you to say something to this idiot,” Orodan emphasized, ironic coming from him. “That he might get it out of his head to join me in battle.”

“What? You mean you aren’t…”

“No. No I am not. Time and time again have I attempted to dissuade him from joining me, but he has it set in his head that he will,” Orodan revealed. “And I’m not about to knock him out and lock him in a cage till the battle’s done. Knowing him, he’ll find some way out of that too.”

Fenton’s parents now turned to look at the boy, betrayal and anger in their eyes. With all other targets of their anger now off the hook, they turned their grief and sorrow towards the only target they could.

“As I’ve been tellin’ you all this time… it’s not Mister Orodan or the King puttin’ things in me ears… it really is me,” Fenton answered. “Like you said when you left… man’s got to make his own choices in life to provide for his family, right?”

“Clever brat… using my own words against me. Look where that sayin’ got me? I died and left you and your mum behind for so many years,” Alfred said, voice breaking. “Is that what you want? Had me brought back from the dead just so you could make your mother and I grieve?”

“No da… I’ll… I’ll be back, I promise. One way or another,” Fenton said, and Orodan could swear he saw a glint in the lad’s eye. Odd.

“Let me go with you! Father and son, we can fight together! Now, I know I might be a little rusty, but I was an-”

“Even if you wanted to, you’re officially on administrative leave while the matter of your resurrection is resolved. You’re not marked as active-duty,” the King said, stepping in. “And… given how important your son is, if he doesn’t want you on the battlefield, that’s that.”

“What?! That’s unjust! Weren’t you just sayin’ how you won’t interfere in anyone’s choices!?” Alfred protested.

“I did. And I am also a hypocrite,” the King said. “Captain Alfred, your son is the greatest enchanter Lonvoron and the Collective have ever seen. If he says he doesn’t want his father on the battlefield, then it shall be so. I’m not bending the bureucratic red tape to get you onto the voidfleets and consequently make Fenton unhappy.”

“And… if we wanted to stay here anyways?” Fanny asked.

“Then I would have you evacuated by force, if not out of benevolence, then for the strategic benefit of keeping my best enchanter happy,” the King said. “Now, I believe we’ve tarried long enough. Please say your final farewells. That’s what you were brought here for and the only reason we’ve kept you two on Lonvoron longer than any other civilian is because your son wanted to spend time with you.”

It was cruel, Orodan had to admit. To be reunited with his family but to only have a week with them. He felt sorry for Fenton.

The boy and his parents had a tearful final goodbye, with Orodan and the King turning away to give them their privacy.

“To use one so young for battle… it sickens me. Even my words of justification to his mother and father had me feeling ill inside,” Alstatyn admitted. “I suppose you truly cannot put him to sleep and throw him somewhere he can’t get into trouble?”

“I certainly want to… but that would be going against my principles. As a warrior, I could not deny another their due chance to enter battle, no matter what outcome that may lead to,” Orodan replied. “Age is no barrier against the darkness of life. I grew up fighting for scraps and so has he. Having to look after his mother and toil away under a slavish contract turned him into a man earlier than most.”

If Fenton wanted to join him in battle despite his wishes… then Orodan’s honor would allow him to do naught else but stand aside and respect that decision. Better that than knock the boy out and have him suddenly appear in unplanned fashion. At least this way Orodan could try to keep an eye on him.

“Almyra mentioned something like that. She told me of your upbringing too… an orphan, yes? Did you…”

“Ever try to bring my own mother and father back?” Orodan finished and Alstatyn nodded. “Once. The reunion was short-lived when the forces which orchestrated my miserable upbringing were alerted upon their resurrection. A part of why I’m fighting is so that these wrongs can be set right.”

But, whether revenge or forgiveness lay at the end was a matter yet undecided.

“Yes, it seems everyone related to these time loops is destined for misery. For Almyra, the curse which afflicted her, for you, being an orphan, for Fenton, his father’s death and mother’s sickness,” Alstatyn said. “Does the boy know?”

“I told him that the System was responsible for his lot in life. But the true answer for it all? That’s knowledge best not shared too freely lest it bring trouble upon the heads of those who know it.”

But, with everything coming to a head, perhaps now was a good time to reveal certain things.

Fenton finished saying his goodbyes to his parents, and with a thrum of mana and the rippling of space, it was finished. The spatiomancers of the Collective who were on standby then proceeded to disperse. The designated world for evacuation was far off from the Collective’s center, near a secure border with allied factions on the other side too.

As safe as it got… provided the galaxy wasn’t shattered like it had been last time. But, that was what Orodan was here to prevent.

His student walked up to him, eyes misty from the farewell.

“Let’s get our affairs settled, shall we Mister Orodan?”

“Aye. Come, there’s a few things we should discuss before we’re off to do a final inspection on our work,” Orodan said. “And while I think it’s a dangerous thing to become reliant upon and can only foster bad habits if done too early… I’d like to give you a hand.”

“A hand?”

“For what’s coming, you might well need it. And I’m not overly concerned anymore about attracting attention by bestowing it.”

#

Fenton predictably wasn’t happy, being told about the root cause of all his woes. And while Orodan didn’t know exactly where the young enchanter fit into the grand scheme of things regarding the loops, there was no doubt that Fenton was somehow related to them. Or the old loops before Orodan had taken over anyhow.

Yet, despite his unhappiness, the rage Orodan’s revelation had given rise to had manifested in the form of a look of grim determination in the lad’s eyes. Zaessythra didn’t agree with coloring Fenton’s perception with such hatred, but Orodan felt hiding the knowledge would have been far worse. What Fenton chose to do with it was his choice, but Orodan was not the sort to tell lies or half-truths.

