Talricto shrank, Alagameth’s confidence wavered and even Almyra wavered. A mighty assault, and still nothing? Their trump card used and the Prophet still managed to defend against it? Just how powerful was an Administrator?

“Heresy the likes of which I have never seen. Sacrilege of the foulest like… to desecrate the sacred bounds of our cosmos with the tools of that wicked invader… there can be no greater sin,” the Prophet solemnly recited. “It seems I have been underestimating you and your ilk. No longer.”

Its declaration was akin to a death knell for the rest of them.

The crystal they’d assembled had unraveled into twenty separate shards once more, and the Prophet’s gaze immediately went towards these pieces floating in the void, some having sailed off in different directions.

“I thought myself above assistance… but you are not the only one with allies, time looper,” the Prophet said snapping its fingers and opening a rift. “Those foul things can never be allowed to see the light of day again.”

The Prophet immediately set off to retrieve the shards which were scattered and sent flying in different directions, and before Almyra or Orodan could consider going after it, multiple powerful presences came through the rift, halting their advance.

Embodiers.

Orodan’s face took on a grim set as the situation went from bad to worse. The Prophet had Embodiment-level beings ready to aid it?

The first, a familiar presence. One Orodan had sent fleeing at the beginning of this long loop.

Ur-Vah’sahn the Harmonious. The gigantic Living Crystal which sought to assimilate all it encountered. Its two remaining pieces had fused once again, and while it wasn’t corrupted, it did eye Orodan with a palpable desire for revenge.

Yet, it wasn’t the only Embodier present; more came through. A million-headed Embodiment-level hydra. A turtle wielding a staff, an exceptionally serene look upon its face, and a living thunderstorm which was more elemental force of nature than organic being.

Four Embodiment-level enemies, and the Living Crystal wasn’t even the strongest of them. In fact, Ur-Vah’sahn, despite its desire for revenge, trembled with fear at the sight of Orodan. It likely knew that Orodan had grown even stronger since their last fight.

Thus, in a cunning move, it instead swayed to face Alagameth, who it felt itself the better match for. While the turtle turned to face Almyra.

This of course left Orodan facing two Embodiers, as they’d correctly identified him as the most severe threat.

Embodiers occupying their attention while the Prophet was swiftly recovering the shards so that they couldn’t be used against it. And once that happened… there would be no way of besting the Administrator in a straight fight. The noose around their neck was tightening, and Orodan had to wonder if this would be it for this long loop.

At least the fight occurring planetside was going their way, with the Collective’s voidfleets finishing off the remaining Gods loyal to the Prophet. But for how long would that last once they lost up here in the void?

A weak voice next to him interrupted him.

“Orodan…”

“Talricto… this isn’t the time, I’ll move you to safety, just flee. This is my battle,” Orodan said.

“No, no. Just… help me step into the dimensional boundary will you? I can make my way out from there,” the spider said.

“I’ll see you next time my friend, my mentor,” Orodan sincerely said as he helped Talricto phase into the gaps between the boundary.

“That may be sooner than you think,” the dimensional spider muttered before vanishing with Orodan’s aid.

He had little time to reflect on the dimensional spider’s words before it vanished. Especially with two Embodiers sizing him up like prey.

There was no underestimation or arrogance upon the many heads of the hydra or the flashing bolts of the cloud either. They were both taking him very seriously.

“Why aid that zealot?” Orodan asked.

“Silence invader. The Prophet’s methods are… questionable, but it showed us mercy long ago,” the hydra spoke. “If you were not the agent of a foreign Boundless, I might have even said I bear no personal grudge against you. But as it stands… the foreign power whose wicked shards you employ is a blight upon reality.”

“I’m no invader… but if you want to fight, who am I to deny that?” Orodan queried, a positively bloodthirsty smile on his face. “I sent the last Embodier I fought running for the stars. I wonder if you two will prove the same.”

The million headed hydra wasn’t stupid. The moment Orodan began enflaming both his arms with fire, it moved almost immediately and a dozen heads shot in and began attempting to grapple and restrain him.

Orodan roared as his flame-infused arms shot out and grabbed two of the incoming heads, putting them into headlocks under each arm and burning them off. Of course, more came, and attempting to counter the grappling of a million-headed snake was far harder than he’d expected.

[Wrestling 86 → Wrestling 87]

But it wasn’t a challenge without its gains. And Orodan was a skilled enough wrestler himself that he knew how to counter almost all of its attempts to grapple, restrain and pull him apart. Furthermore, his various skills related to raw strength made him far stronger than it, especially in a grapple.

It would be akin to a man attempting to wrestle a solid steel nail the size of his palm. Locally, Orodan was stronger than it and could bring far more of his raw physicality to bear than it could in such tight quarters.

[Wrestling 87 → Wrestling 88]

Another level, until Orodan remembered that he was in a battle against two Embodiers and not just one. The living thunderstorm passed right through where he and the heads were grappling, and the powerful lightning caused the cells of his body to disintegrate on the surface and his muscles to spasm.

[Lightning Resistance 48 → Lightning Resistance 51]

“A resistance towards lightning?” the hydra said in surprise. “The invaders have sent a powerful champion indeed…”

The thunderstorm cloud was surprised and frustrated too; its main form of offense not nearly as effective as it would like. Without the ability to heal, Orodan was certain he would have eventually died, even with Adept-level Lightning Resistance. But with Harmony of Vitality on his side any minor damage was repaired instantly.

“You can heal yourself too?” the hydra asked, incredulous. “No matter. We shall simply pin you in place until the Prophet is ready. And it remains to be seen how many times you can regenerate. I, the second oldest hydra in the universe, shall lose to no one in a battle of attrition.”

“A battle of attrition you say?” Orodan curiously asked, continuing to eradicate its head yet confirming that they did indeed reform quite quickly.

“Yes. Tremble in fear invader, for you face the universe’s only Embodier of… the Eternal Soul Reactor.”

For a moment, Orodan froze.

“…what?”

“Let the enemy Boundless know… your slayer was a Mythical Embodier! With my skill, I can match the full power of a world core! My energy is endless!”

Zaessythra was madly laughing in his head, and Orodan could only be shocked into silence.

This was…

…the saddest thing he’d heard!

“That’s… it?”

Even the hydra stopped grappling him for a moment, the absurdity and unintended disrespect of the words striking its very core.

Orodan wasn’t sure whether he should laugh at the ridiculous downgrade of the skill, or cry at how butchered it was. This was Eternal Soul Reactor?

Orodan looked closely and noticed that indeed the hydra was churning a large amount of soul energy, even at the Embodiment-level. And yet… even at the Elite-level Orodan could have generated far more energy than this. Right away the difference was apparent. The hydra’s technique with Eternal Soul Reactor was too… safe.

Where Orodan was a mindless madman who would push body, soul and mind towards greater and greater heights of pain in order to squeeze more power out of his soul, this hydra was tame and maintained a sustainable pace.

Very safe; wise too. And it answered the question of how other beings without his willpower might use the skill.

But when matched against him, an utter anomaly, the comparison was an unfair one.

And Orodan had had enough of this.

The hydra was a defensive specialist Embodier, excellent at restraining people and wearing them down through attrition. The thunderstorm should have been the offense, but his resistance skill rendered it ineffective. While he was certain he could eventually kill the hydra and the elemental too, he simply didn’t have the time.

And if his foes refused to let him get enough space for a proper strike, then Orodan would make some of his own.

Both his arms were overflowing with fire. And instead of directing them outwards, he launched Smites of Abrupt Deliverance in both fists, smashing his knuckles against each other.

[Fire Magic Mastery 63 → Fire Magic Mastery 64]

The shockwave severely damaged him, but it had the side effect of also obliterating almost a hundred-thousand heads of the hydra grappling him and sending the thundercloud flying as it shrieked in pain.

He was getting close to formulating a new skill, but not yet. He needed just a few more insights, to bring everything together.

With the space cleared, Orodan saw that his allies were all in various degrees of struggle. Alagameth was barely holding on against the Living Crystal, while Almyra was the better of the turtle but unable to get past its incredibly tough and energy resistant shell it was frequently hiding within.

If it was him alone, Orodan might not have done it. But under these circumstances, with others relying on him, fighting dirty was only fair.

[Dimensional Step 37 → Dimensional Step 38]

The boundary was crossed, and a startled Living Crystal could only vibrate in alarm one last time before a flame-infused Smite of Abrupt Deliverance collided with it. It had been too preoccupied with attempting to finish off Alagameth, too trusting in the other two Embodiers to keep Orodan pinned down.

It was at the Embodiment-level, but Orodan had forced it to split at the start of the loops, and one of the three pieces was gone. Naturally, it was weaker than it had been, and Orodan had grown monumentally stronger, having learned how to consistently use the attack he’d defeated it with in the first place.

And preying upon opportunities and distractions mid-battle was the very essence of combat.

[Combat Mastery 117 → Combat Mastery 118]

The collision and subsequent explosion of fire eradicated large chunks of Orodan’s own body, but it killed the Living Crystal instantly as it exploded in a shower of crystalline fragments. The shockwave threatened to level multiple star systems if not for Alagameth redirecting the energy via spatial rifts.

[New Title → Embodiment Slayer]

And with that, his score against Ur-Vah’sahn was settled.

“Can you occupy the thunderstorm?” Orodan asked, giving the spatial spider no time to respond as he immediately moved onto the turtle sage Almyra was futilely slinging spells against. “Move aside and fight the hydra, that one might be a good match for you.”

Indeed, the moment Orodan appeared, the turtle harassing Almyra with spells and its stubborn defense became hyper aware of him and moved to gain distance while firing a plethora of spells. But he refused to allow this.

For starters, it didn’t specialize in spellfire. Its spells were powered by mana and Orodan’s Mana Resistance simply let him power right through the barrage.

The turtle sage was the strongest of the enemy’s group of Embodiment-level beings. Immediately, its spells focused on empowering its defenses, and it hunkered down for a trade of blows against him.

It wasn’t bad at all, and Orodan could see how it would win against most mages with its annoying barrage of weak spells which provided cover for it to close the distance and hammer them with fists. All the while its near impenetrable defense weathered their spells. Even Almyra’s System energy beams produced from the Mantle were evaded or deflected off its shell at odd angles which minimized the damage.

However it wasn’t a true melee specialist. Orodan was a warrior and immediately identified that he was its better in technique. For as they exchanged fists he realized that while it would beat almost any other mage, against someone who knew how to throw a punch, it wasn’t as good as it thought.

Furthermore, Orodan was a shield-user and had a good grasp of the concepts behind defense, which meant that if anyone was well-suited to prying a tough defense apart, it was him.

The turtle’s blows were quick and its fist incredibly tough, but it was more of a defensive specialist than an offensive one. And Orodan had dismantled enough passive warriors who preferred to hide behind their defenses and lacked mobility and adaptability.

He slipped its jab and returned a booming fire-infused punch to its soft head. A move which immediately had it on the defensive as it realized he was the better unarmed fighter. Two more attempts to trade blows left it with bruises on its head and it began turtling up and trying to act even more defensive.

Unfortunately, a turtle shell was much like a heavy suit of armor and a shield. And Orodan knew the techniques for getting past those.

With fingers extended, he delivered precise and devastating knife hand blows to the vulnerable openings of the shell which forced the head further out. And a few more feints and some actual blows later it was vulnerable.

Enough for a flame-infused Smite of Abrupt Deliverance to land upon its head.

[Unarmed Combat Mastery 99 → Unarmed Combat Mastery 100]

[New Title → Unarmed Combat Grandmaster]

