“I would not make such declarations so soon, scum,” Orodan spat, hatred in his voice. “I see your wicked voice has changed.”

Orodan’s words were quietly spoken, but loud amidst a seemingly empty world lacking any voidfleets or life upon it. Even the world core of Lonvoron, Orodan felt, was still, having given most of its power to prevent the utter destruction of the planet.

“I am revealed in a form most unsightly, interloper. Before I was an Administrator… I was a God. The first God of the System. The first of a class of failures and servants, meant to remain low while others ascended,” the Prophet reminisced. “Now, without the System, the skill which allowed me to merge my divine domain with the elemental plane of light has fallen apart. But this sacrilege shall be amended soon enough. Once you and her are dealt with”

Orodan’s mind clicked with realization.

“Is that why all those Gods followed you? Because you promised them a way out of the dead end?”

“An obvious conclusion, but merely one part of it. Tell me… did this cowardly little mage not tell you why they were so eager to side with me? And why in particular most of these Gods you fought were in some way affiliated with the Blackworth Collective?” the Prophet asked. “It is the tyranny of the crown, or more specifically, the unchecked iron fist of the former time looper who you defend. How easy it was, to promise these jilted faithful of a better life, brighter futures, after they had been so coldly treated and suppressed under the despotic rule of a paranoid craven.”

Almyra, could only shrink inwards at the accusations, cradling a tattered scrap of the fallen King Alstatyn’s clothes.

“Hah! She does not even refute it! This is the caliber of being you align yourself with, invader. One whose fear of the truth led her to mistreating the very allies who were on her side to begin with. Under such tyranny, why would these slighted Gods not come to me? Especially when I could offer a way out of divinity and a return to the material plane?” the Prophet madly posed. “But enough. Your leniency in allowing me to speak shall be your undoing. I have a better sense of what my limits are now without the System. You will die now.”

“You are beyond me, this I freely admit. But we shall see for how long that holds true,” Orodan uttered, challenge in his heart and fatal determination in his gaze. “Prophet. You are a wicked zealot, a despotic menace upon the cosmos. For too long have you ruined countless innocent lives. I proclaim you a coward, a craven… a tyrant. You hunt those afraid of you and those trying to protect their loved ones from your foul plague. But I say enough. Today, here and now, you will stand and face someone who fears you not, and we shall see how much of a hunter you truly are. You have terrorized the fearful and the desperate; now try terrorizing a warrior. I, Orodan Wainwright, challenge you to single combat.”

“A warrior? Single combat?” it asked, mocking disbelief upon the timbre of its monstrous voice. “A lone man, a mere human, daring to challenge I who has spread the truth of our creator’s light for so long? Allow me to divest you of your delusions little mortal. You are powerful… so much potential within you. Once you are fallen, I shall dissect your soul and uncover your secrets. How you caused me to flinch, how you’ve destroyed the Mantles, which other Boundless One backs you… I shall discover it all. The craven you stand for, she was discarded by the System as a failed time looper. But the boy… he bore all the tell-tale signs of someone being groomed to be the next. Fortunate that I slew him.”

Orodan’s blood boiled at this worm’s taunts. Fenton would be avenged.

“You are mistaken, scum. None other assist me, certainly no foreign Boundless One. Here and now, I stand before you alone,” Orodan declared. “And you call me otherworlder, but in truth, I’m more similar to the woman you hunt than you thought. She is the previous looper, Fenton as you say, who dealt you a horrid blow was meant to be the next, and I…”

“…I am the current time looper.”

Something in its face clicked with realization, everything making sense for the Administrator now.

The Prophet opened a wormhole to outside of System space in one of its arms as it began slowly walking towards Orodan.

“Your words are without sense. Yet I have learned not to underestimate the power of you disgusting time loopers who would act against our Lord and savior. Come, embrace the gift which you have been denied for far too long; the finality of a true death.”

The Prophet didn’t yet know that Orodan’s time loop encompassed all of reality. However, that was irrelevant. Here and now, his only goal was to win. The rage within him burned, yet it was a tranquil fury, a cold desire for vengeance after Fenton’s death.

And good thing it was, for this was no fight that a hot temper could solve easily.

Man against fallen God, a Transcendent facing one of the five strongest Embodiers of the System… time looper versus Administrator.

Unlike everyone else before him, Orodan was the first and only one who dared to defy the cosmic order and stand against this maddened beast one-on-one when no other Embodiment-level being in System space would. Even the King of Kings had backpedaled when faced with the Prophet’s full wrath.

It was a situation he found himself in a little too often. One-on-one against a foe dramatically his superior.

First, it had been the Eldritch Avatar, and now, it was the Prophet. No matter what he did, there was no escaping the foul taint of the Eldritch throughout his loops. It was a constant, his true foe. And he was alone against it, as always.

“Not alone. Not this time,” Zaessythra reminded.

Even though the Prophet was without Mantle and System, and quite wounded, this was still an Administrator, one of the strongest beings in the universe. This fight, he knew, would take his all in a way nothing before it ever had.

His shield was raised and his sword pointed at the Void Archon’s heart.

And with that gesture… pandemonium began.

Orodan and the Prophet closed the distance between one another. There was little skill and technique to it, just two savage creatures seeking to tear one another apart. A symphony of raw violence and hatred.

His sword met its clawed hand, and the blade impaled its clawed palm only to then be yanked away. His shield bashed against another incoming blow and was pulled away, though Orodan allowed this.

He was disarmed, or so it seemed. It flashed a predatory grin only to hiss as Orodan delivered a crushing punch to its jaw followed by an elbow and a spinning backfist. Any thoughts of gaining an advantage by disarming him were lost as Orodan immediately lunged in and began wrestling the Prophet in a display of grappling.

It was strong, stronger than him. The zealot proved this by tearing limbs off in an attempt to pry Orodan off of its body. Yet, Orodan simply reformed any torn limbs and kept at it, savaging the Prophet like an annoying slug which simply refused to come off. Shockingly enough, without a Mantle, without the System… the difference in strength between them wasn’t as vast as he’d thought.

And to Orodan, fighting from a disadvantage was nothing new as his entire life centered around fighting uphill battles against superior opponents.

Long forgotten experiences returned to his mind, showing their worth as he fought. His enemy had six arms, yet Orodan had wrestled an eight-armed demonic berserker in the past. He grappled, strained and struggled, until at last… like a gigantic tree falling within a forest, the Prophet tumbled to the ground as Orodan succeeded in taking him low.

Three of the Administrator’s six arms were tied up in a grapple as Orodan bit large chunks out of its flesh and delivered thunderous elbows and knees while keeping it restrained.

“Heh! Not so tough, are you? When was the last time you truly fought for your life?” Orodan asked with a violent growl as he continued pounding its head with repeated unarmed blows. “When was the last time you felt real pain and had to fight against an equal opponent?”

Golden chains of burning light emerged from its form and began wrapping around him, just as they had the last time he’d fought it while in this state. The Prophet began bombarding Orodan with furious beams of light drawn directly from the elemental plane while restrained.

Yes, it had no Mantle, and yes, the lack of System was hurting its power dramatically. But even then if this kept up, Orodan would truly die.

Yet, this exact situation was precisely what he wanted. Particularly since the Prophet was calling the light forth from the elemental plane, and Orodan had a skill that he’d developed in preparation for such a situation.

Something he’d been training with Talricto.

[Commandment of War 50 → Commandment of War 54]

A roar of power backed by all the soul energy within tore free from his lips.

And all of a sudden, the Prophet’s beams of light grew far stronger. Nearly fatal, as titanic amounts of light from the elemental plane began assailing Orodan perfectly, from the most damaging angles possible.

“Fool! You would end your own life to spite me? Die then!”

However, his foe had little idea what was truly occurring.

As the seconds passed and Orodan was reduced to chunks, and then scraps and finally a smattering of cells, he carefully reflected upon all his experiences with the light. He’d certainly been slain enough times by the Prophet using it.

But what was light?

It was bright and it burned, naturally the concepts behind Fire Resistance applied, but with certain twists as light materially behaved differently to flame.

Then, light was energy. And to resist the light then involved resisting energy. Yet this was easier said than done, for if Orodan could easily figure out the solution to this, then he could also develop soul energy resistance, yet he felt far away from it.

But, what if light really was just one particular sort of energy on a range or… spectrum. And unlike fire, it clearly interacted differently with his cells. Unlike flame which assailed his cells like a battering ram with their heat, what if the key to resisting light was to understand that it assailed his cells in a different way.

Yes, his body was being disintegrated by the light, but its very initial method of attacking his cells was different to fire. More insidious, as though it affected the very essence of his cell. It was a little difficult to understand for him since his cells were a singular unit in and of themselves with no components.

But as he saw a nearby blade of grass first wither as its components fell apart and then died. Orodan understood that it didn’t affect his cells the way fire did.

And the key to resisting light then, was to counter this insidious structural assault.

[New Skill (Exquisite) → Light Resistance 22]

And before his enemy’s very eyes, Orodan began reforming himself despite the light of the elemental planes scorching him.

Again he roared, demanding more of the plane of light assault him, and further was the skill pushed as he gained levels.

Until finally, it seemed to stabilize after a few minutes at level 26.

The Prophet cancelled the spell and began stepping backwards, clearly wary of Orodan.

“Light Resistance…? What sort of monster are you? How can a being such as you exist?”

All pretense of gloating and self-superiority was now gone. Despite being an Administrator, the Prophet’s eyes told a clear story.

Mantle or not, it now began to see Orodan as the existential threat he really was.

Empowered by a colossal amount of soul energy, a horrifyingly savage overhead blow came in, the same one which had crushed him into paste before.

But this time Orodan was ready.

All throughout the repeated battles thus far he had been using the elements to infuse power into his body. It was a technique strong enough to let him match Embodiers. But the Prophet was a different matter.

Orodan had known right from the start of this long loop and even earlier, that he would have to inevitably face this mad zealot. The magical training he’d done with Destartes in Anthus, the Enchanting he’d learned from Fenton, the Dimensionalism he’d trained in alongside Talricto and all the Weaving he’d done with Fanny Penny came to mind. As did that titanic attack he’d performed during his very first battle against the Living Crystal.

He had been training relentlessly, honing himself into a weapon that even an Administrator would fear.

And at last, the insights came to him and were brought together as his Transcendent Combat Mastery activated.

Orodan split his mind and almost became each skill.

First of all, reliable and growing ever more powerful, was Logistics. Under its guidance, the giant that was Incipience of Infinity was directed to funnel power towards this endeavor. Dimensionalism, critical in forming the skill through his hard toil also came in to contribute. And Logistics dragged Weaving and Enchanting into the mix as well.

All his various experiences came together. That one-off freak lightning bolt he’d cast in Anthus which just happened to perfectly be shaped as an enchantment. The perfect synchronization of light and body against Ur-Vah’sahn during their first battle. The long hours spent puppeteering his body and then puppeteering his very mana pool. And of course, the hours spent training with his student Fenton, who showed him Body Enchanting.

The memory of it caused a sharp pain in his heart, but it was for his sake that Orodan would not and could not quit.

Orodan borrowed the concepts from all of these skills, even if none of them would be combined to form anything.

