He had been the teacher to many, but a good teacher was also a dedicated student, and Orodan had had many teachers of his own. All of their lessons, their memories, the time, faith and belief they’d had in him. It all came together to form something new.

An Elemental Living Enchantment.

[New Skill (Mythical) → Elemental Living Enchantment 9]

[Combat Mastery 119 → Combat Mastery 120]

Under the effects of the new skill, everything became crystal clear and the slight clumsiness vanished.

If Orodan could be so utterly destructive when combining his Smite of Abrupt Deliverance with a mere Candleflame… then what if he infused his attack with the strongest elemental spell he had?

The power of Draconic Fireball filled his very being to the brim, and the flames within him arm were almost alive as they infused his body. Yet, it didn’t stop there. These flames were no mere force of energy, but living, with a mind of their own. And they formed not randomly, but into the specific inscription for an enchantment of explosion within his veins.

Almyra had a singular moment to transport the two of them elsewhere lest the world her fallen lover cherished so much was obliterated.

And as Orodan and the Prophet were thrown into an unknown part of the void by the last vestiges of a grieving woman’s power, the two attacks collided.

Three. Thankfully they were uninhabited. But three entire star systems vanished. Not shattered, shaken or destroyed, but outright erased as though they had never existed in the first place. And Orodan?

He was reduced to a single cell.

[Draconic Fireball 76 → Draconic Fireball 79]

[Elemental Living Enchantment 9 → Elemental Living Enchantment 12]

[Fire Magic Mastery 64 → Fire Magic Mastery 66]

[Fire Resistance 69 → Fire Resistance 71]

But he came to instantly enough.

Which was more than could be said about his opponent who was floating amid the void, utterly charred, reduced to a near-husk. But surprisingly enough, still alive.

Orodan floated over.

“E-end me… that I might be free of my suffering and the destruction of all my life’s work and loyalties. You have won… time looper. Your plans were devious, your power, greater than anything I could have ever imagined.”

“I detest you, Prophet. Perhaps it’s the negative association with the Goddess of Fate of my world, or perhaps it’s your Eldritch nature, but if we fought a thousand times, I would gladly slay you every one of those times. But here and now… I can only feel an emptiness,” Orodan said. “This victory… it was worth nothing.” There is no joy to be had here. I’m the last one left standing, as always.”

In the distance, many star systems away, Orodan could see Lonvoron. And a lonely woman grieving over a scrap of cloth.

What had all this been worth? Two broken time loopers left all alone in the end.

“The Reject, Xia… he would speak as you do, soon before he began to go mad and turn against our savior…” the Prophet rasped. “But I have strength no longer. I can sense… Orodan Wainwright, that you’ve held one particular thing back all this time. Polite of you, to handicap yourself so, but know that if we meet at my full power what meagre might you’ve shown here will not be enough without your plans, schemes and allies.”

“You speak true. I ordinarily do not subscribe to such schemes. When next we meet… there will be no tricks. Just you and I, one-on-one. And I have no intention of claiming anything less than an honest victory earned in sweat and blood,” Orodan said. “And you are right… I did not want to achieve Embodiment just yet. But on the eve of such a joyless triumph, what else can I do?”

“I see… that pulse I felt a week ago then. It was you, was it not?” the Administrator asked, and Orodan grunted in affirmation. “Then know this… yours is a power that will never grant you peace. Once you cross the threshold there is no coming back. From your next loop… the cosmos will come for you.”

“I welcome it. Now then… I suppose it’s time to move onto embodying the concept I’ve pursued for so long, isn’t it?”

He wasn’t in the middle of combat, so it was a gentle gathering of power. Yet, all the same the very fabric of reality rippled, as though expectant of what was to come.

Truly, there was no greater cleaning talent in the universe than he.

And as his broom touched down upon the Prophet’s charred husk…

…the Administrator vanished. Wiped from existence.

And the universe trembled and descended into chaos.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 150 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 151]

[New Title → Celestial Embodier]

[New Title → Embodiment of Perfect Cleaning]

[New Title → Embodiment of Cleaning]

[New Title → Administrator Slayer]

Orodan descended unto Lonvoron with a Dimensional Step.

Almyra was still silent, her spirit utterly crushed. Her voice was quiet, far too quiet as she spoke.

“I did not think it possible… but you kept your word,” she solemnly declared. “The book, take it. It has what you seek. All I’ve ever uncovered about true soul genesis. It should be a madman’s quest, an impossibility. And yet… you’re nearer to becoming the only sort of being that can achieve it, aren’t you? A mortal becoming a Boundless One… the crowning twist to this nightmare I’m in. Such a hollow victory this is…”

Orodan asked her nothing else, simply tucking the book away in his soul space alongside the bloodstained orb Fenton had handed him which he guarded closely. He couldn’t carry too much more in there anyhow.

“They are coming,” Orodan informed her.

“I know… the very fabric of reality trembled when you achieved Embodiment,” she quietly replied. “Orodan Wainwright… could… could you…”

“Aye. I will… as long as it doesn’t go against what he asked of me.”

“You… have not even heard what I want.”

“Does it matter? I assume it cannot be too far off from ensuring you and Alstatyn remain happy in the end,” Orodan said.

“It… does not. Thank you…”

Her head lowered after that, too consumed by grief she was.

Orodan too, could only remain quiet no matter how much warmth and comfort Zaessythra was trying to provide.

Fenton was dead.

And he was very, very angry.

So when the skies finally rumbled, and four Administrators from four separate parts of the cosmos congregated… Orodan decided he had had enough of their meddling.

“Orodan Wainwright, the time looper. And that is Fenton Penny, meant to have been the next, and over there the previous. What are all three doing together?” the Custodian asked, utterly confused. “And I have lost track of two of the Mantles. How can this be? Where is the Prophet?”

“Is this related to the recent troubles regarding the time loop mechanism that you spoke of?” the Warrior queried. “And your power has suddenly weakened, Custodian. Perhaps the new Embodiment we sensed is related to your concept of purity?”

Any further conversation between them was cut off with a singular warning.

“I shall give the four of you one warning. Leave me be for my mood is dark,” he quietly said.

“Your mood is dark? How can the little Wainwright’s mood be so soured? Has he perhaps learned things he was not meant to? Has the-”

The cosmos trembled as rage and sorrow flew into one singular overpowered usage of Domain of Perfect Cleaning.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 151 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 155]

The Reject never knew what hit him. The madman shrieked in terror as the majority of his body was cleansed from existence. Xia barely escaped with his life, caught off-guard as he was.

The other Administrators immediately used their Mantles to defend, yet all but the Warrior were struggling against the unfathomable power of cleaning that Orodan now possessed.

Finally, something Orodan never had happen before occurred, and he felt the very shackles at the bowels of the System come loose.

His power surged even higher, threatening to challenge even the Boundless One itself. Around him, all of the cosmos began unraveling at the seams as the Boundless One began appearing in-person responding to put down the mad, raging dog that was Orodan Wainwright.

And the last thing he saw despite his wave of cleaning going out…

…was a Boundless well of Eldritch subsuming him. And when he passed a critical threshold of soul energy generation, Orodan didn’t even notice his last cell dying from energy overload.

#

A keening wail ringing in the night sky awoke him.

And Orodan Wainwright’s mind was clouded by rage and sorrow.

He needed an outlet. He needed some short loops just collecting skills.

Quite important considering the sudden and unavoidable rumbling in the tapestry of fate that he could feel all around him. The universe, it seemed, wasn’t willing to let an Embodier lay low. Especially not one as dangerous as he.

Who knew what was coming from the stars for him? He estimated he had less than two weeks before the rumbling calmed enough that things could start finding him.

But now, Orodan had a direction. The book he’d acquired from Almyra, and most importantly… the bloodstained orb he clutched close to his chest.

Perhaps it was time to see about the value of bringing other peoples’ memories along.
