At this point Talricto was prepared to hop off the Prophet’s shoulder, ready to flee as the dwarven King of King’s approached, happy to carve into the Prophet’s shoulder just to reach the thieving spider.

However, Talricto’s final words before departing were quite ominous.

“Dimensional rings... none of their owners seem take securing them seriously.”

And with those words, Talricto reached a spindly leg in and brought something out.

A set of robes, specifically, the replica Mantle Fenton and he had painstakingly worked upon.

It looked like any ordinary set of cultivator robes, which was how the real Mantle in Orodan’s hands looked. However, the only difference was what was within it.

A lake’s worth of world-devouring acid.

Still, the robe remained inactivated and Talricto fled as the dwarf followed him. Orodan admitted to being slightly worried, especially since the dimensional spider was in such poor shape from all the fighting. But he supposed he should be grateful that Talricto hadn’t died at least.

He was now perilously close to the Prophet, on the verge of disarming the Mantle, but it still wasn’t enough. The Prophet was managing to hold him back and they were at a standstill. Yet King Alstatyn was still hanging on.

“Sinner! Heathen! Do not dare approach any closer! If you think of purging the truth from me… I shall torment you for eternity!”

The Prophet’s voice was full of panic and fear. Yet Orodan didn’t care about the Administrator as much as he did the man practically hanging off its arm, trying to loosen its grip upon the book the zealot held.

“Alstatyn, let go and flee!” Orodan roared.

“I’m sorry Mister Wainwright… if I do, I fear it shall gain the advantage. You must promise me good ser… that you shall ensure Almyra and I are married upon your final loop.”

And then, against all expectations, the King let go of the Prophet’s arm…

…and activated the replica robe with copious amounts of terrifying empowered acid within it.

It was the single stupidest thing he’d ever seen, and that was rich coming from an idiot like him. And yet it worked, for even as King Alstatyn Von Flemethy disintegrated and Almyra’s mournful wail of denial echoed through the void… the distraction was priceless. Even if it was one Orodan would never have wanted.

The Prophet shrieked in agony. The acid was severely painful, even for it. And with the Mantle versus Mantle duel going on, it had no energy to spare towards healing. It was a critical distraction as the Administrator wasn’t very used to pain.

When was the last time it engaged in a serious fight against an equal?

This caused it to slip up, and using this opportunity, Orodan’s hand shot forth and the Mantle in his hand touched the Mantle in the Prophet’s.

This was a unique opening. As now, with the two objects physically touching, Orodan had access to not one Mantle, but two.

And a direct avenue to the Prophet’s mind.

The mental battle was immediate and utterly violent. Orodan spared no expense, to do anything less would have been a spit in the face of the King’s brave sacrifice.

The Prophet was scared, terrified. Orodan pressed this advantage hard, with characteristic violence. He flared Incipience of Infinity to its maximal and then past even that as his mind began to take on the terrifying aspect of Infinity itself, and he nearly hesitated, feeling fear for what might become of him if he delved too deeply.

Yet, the warm tendrils of reassurance from Zaessythra gave him strength. A light in the darkness, should he lose himself to that maddening abyss.

And with those thoughts out of the way…

…Orodan Wainwright descended unto Infinity once more.

[Incipience of Infinity 143 → Incipience of Infinity 144]

Orodan, no… Infinity. Infinity was endless, and it would show this sycophantic worshiper what true Boundlessness was.

Infinity channeled its raw power, the physical form and the skills it had acquired were now far stronger than the last time it had been awakened. This in turn allowed for the generation of an acceptable amount of power.

The false prophet before Infinity trembled with exertion, unwilling to meet the gaze but still fighting to hold onto its control over that book.

A futile effort, as there was no besting what was endless. A message from the needless System came by, denoting another level of infinity, but it was a gratuitous message. For adding to endlessness was a pointless endeavor.

Infinity would take over both of these so-called Mantles, and then it would ascend, conquering all other compatriots of the false prophet and then subsuming the mediocre Boundless One at the center of it all. And from there… it would expand infinitely, boundlessly and all of reality would become part of it.

But… what was this voice, this terrifying scream?

Infinity grew… anxious?

Impossible.

Yet, the volume of the voice continued increasing. A roar… of pain? No… of defiance.

What was this?

Who was this being known as Orodan Wainwright?

And what was with this visceral reaction to seeing a young boy flying up from behind this false prophet with a pink shard in hand?

[Incipience of Infinity 145 → Incipience of Infinity 146]

Orodan came to, wrestling that horrid aspect of his will down with brute force.

“Fenton!” Orodan roared in fury. “Do not!”

But it was too late. Fenton Penny, his student… had already plunged the shard deep into the back of the terrified Prophet whose attention was solely focused upon the terror in front of him.

The Prophet buckled, screaming in agony as foreign power ravaged its soul. And Orodan, he still felt Infinity attempting to regain control. His own will demanding he run rampant and truly tap into it.

He would not lie… he was terrified of it. Of the power of his own soul.

But he refused to bow before it.

And in a final act of defiance before it could think of regaining control…

…he yanked the book from the Prophet’s hand and smashed both Mantles together as hard as he could.

The cycling of energy between two Mantles was too much. These were objects meant to channel System energy, the most powerful items in System space. But even they had their limits as Orodan threw all of Infinity’s remaining power into them.

And with a horrific explosion…

…Orodan knew only darkness.

Or so he thought.

They’d been fighting in the void, but he was now upon the ground, somehow.

A handful of cells had survived the cataclysm and he began reforming. But it was a slow thing as his very System was mangled and he had to repair it. Thankfully, he’d already built his from the ground up and knew just how to set it right.

And as he did and the grogginess of his mind cleared, he heard a foul voice, different to what he remembered.

“You dare! The grace! The provenance! It is gone! Gone! How could you? How could you?!” a mutilated voice boomed, sounding very much like a God. “The false provenance did not even pay me heed when I saw it… you, you shall die for what you have done.”

Orodan wanted to move, but he was too late. He felt, saw and heard a tearing noise.

His blood ran cold at the sight as Fenton was thrown towards him, a gaping wound in his chest.

The boy landed near him, his breathing shallow.

“Damn… guess me mum’s coat wasn’t enough to protect me from that…”

Fenton had a gaping hole through his chest, the protective magical quilts sewn in by Fanny Penny having done little to stop the attack. The only thing keeping the boy alive was the various enchantments and artifacts he had on, working overtime to patch the damage. Yet, for some odd reason they weren’t working as efficiently.

“I can heal-

“No ser, no. I know how this goes… I’m certain you’ll give that ugly git a good beatin’, but what then? You’ll be right back in bed once the rest of its fellows arrive won’t you? I don’t want to watch that… I don’t want to see everything I’ve worked for over the past few months vanish,” Fenton said. “I’ve turned the enchantments off. Let me go so I don’t have to see it.”

Orodan shook his head in denial of what was happening. His fists clenched hard enough that worlds could shatter

“Fenton…! Why? Why have you done this?” Orodan angrily demanded.

Not again. This horrid sting… why should he have to suffer it yet again?

“You walk around like the world’s on your shoulders ser. Lendin’ everyone a hand… but when’s the last time someone did that for you?” Fenton asked, coughing weakly in-between his words. “I just thought… that since you go around solvin’ everyone else’s problems, for once somebody ought to try solving yours. Seems I wasn’t quite up to that task… sorry Mister Orodan.”

“You idiot… you damned fool…” Orodan muttered, his voice threatening to lose its steady nature. Ironic, that he of all people would be referring to someone else with those words. “I don’t need anyone to solve my issues. My battles are my own! There was no need for this, I come back, you do not.”

“I know that ser… just didn’t want to go back to bein’ little Fen the scrap town assistant whose mum was dyin’. Thought I’d try my hand at bein’ a hero like you…” his student trailed off, his voice getting fainter. But unexpectedly, he produced something from the pocket of his mother’s coat. “Here… take this ser, you told me that you can take somethin’ small back with you, right?”

“Yes, but, what is this Fenton?”

“Somethin’ to help people remember,” the lad said.

To remember? Orodan’s eyes widened at the implication as he held the small but intricately enchanted orb. Just at the sight of it he could tell that it was meant to hold thoughts, feelings… memories. And within was a bank holding one set already.

Fenton’s.

“Hold onto that, and when you see me again… rap me over the head with it won’t you ser?” the boy asked, the last of his lifeblood draining out. “I’ll see you next time Mister Orodan… thanks for everything. Hmm… bleedin’ to death’s awfully slow, hate to ask it of you, but would you mind moving this along?”

Every bit of Orodan’s mind protested the decision. He didn’t want to do it. And yet, the honor within him, stubborn that he respect the decision of another, would not relent. And so, as he’d done once for Balastion Novar, Orodan Wainwright gently drained the last of Fenton Penny’s vitality.

Fenton’s breathing stopped, and Orodan looked skyward, taking a deep breath and letting it out. His trembling hand closed the lad’s eyes and he then lowered his head in silence. A moment of respect.

“Be at peace Fenton Penny… a warrior, a hero,” Orodan proclaimed quietly.

Just one more person added to the list of those who’d given their lives for him.

Was this fate? First upon Guzuhar, then in Novar’s Peak and now upon Lonvoron. Every time Orodan fought the Eldritch it always ended like this… with him being the last one standing.

Almyra was down, having spent the last of her power protecting Lonvoron from the catastrophic destruction of the two Mantles. And the only thing left standing was that grotesque and savage-looking Fallen Void Archon, golden chains surrounding its form as it flickered in and out of remaining a regular being of flesh versus a glowing being of fell power. It had no Mantle, no System and was grievously wounded by the acid assault they’d carried out.

His hands clenched around his faithful blade and trusty shield as he got to his feet.

This wasn’t over.

If Fenton had wanted to be a hero like him… then perhaps it was time Orodan lived up to that moniker. He’d lectured his first mentor Adeltaj Simarji once, that rhetoric and plucky speeches made not a hero, victory did.

And it was time to claim it.

To the side, Almyra was weeping over the fallen body of King Alstatyn, her features etched with terror at the thought of permanently losing him now that she was no longer a time looper. The tapestry of fate was broken, the river of time shattered. The explosion of the Mantles had been so catastrophic that even the metaphysical and esoteric parts of the cosmos had suffered irreparable harm. Even if Orodan wanted to bring everyone back, it would require repairing at least the flow of time first, and the crazed beast looming over the dispirited previous looper certainly wouldn’t allow that. And past that… its fellow Administrators who were certainly en route wouldn’t leave him be either.

Not after what he’d done.

“Pitiful worm… all those plans, all those schemes, and an entire time loop to gain power and yet you fail all the same. Little wonder you were discarded,” the Prophet said with a guttural growl, looming over Almyra. Its form was no longer human, but that of a savage and feral-looking Fallen Void Archon. “I shall enjoy slowly spreading the truth to your veins, whether I have a System or not.”

Orodan put the orb Fenton gave within the space inside his soul.

Three sharp raps of metal on metal tore through the air.

His sword clanged against the metal umbo of his shield, announcing Orodan’s presence.

“No you shall not,” he declared with absolute finality. “All this time you’ve fought those who’ve either fled from you, were defending their homes or were simply caught up in this mess. For too long, Prophet… have you been used to holding the role of hunter, predator. But no more.”

“Invader. I know not from where this pest has secured your aid, but you shall fall all the same. Do not presume yourself a match for me. Even without the Mantle, even without a System, I am beyond you, and you no longer have a Mantle yourself. I am an Administrator anointed by the provider itself, you shall never win.”

