“Young master Penny! Here to see the sewer project are you? How’ve you-”

“We’ve got little time, move aside please” Fenton sharply said, the anger from what Orodan had told him still lingering.

The guard dutifully stepped aside with a look of concern.

“He’s received bad news, don’t mind him,” Orodan said as he followed.

He remembered the feeling of betrayal, upon learning that the System had caused his parents’ demise. The resolution that he would see the grudge settled one way or another. Fenton’s sour mood was only understandable.

Fenton had gone on ahead, head down in deep anger and introspection and almost pushing past Clyburn and someone else who was waiting for them at a crossroads.

“Well… he’s certainly not the gentle boy I remember. Infected him with your brutish and unchivalric mannerisms have you? Mister Wainwright?” the woman asked.

In response, Orodan flicked a pebble at her knee.

This time, her eyes briefly flashed gold as her fan intercepted it.

“I see you’ve learned,” Orodan remarked with a smile. “Could still stand to eat a bit more in my opinion. What good’s that fan if the wrist wielding it is frail like a dry twig?”

“And I see your barbaric fixation on assaulting people in the name of training still remains,” Luetta shot back.

“If it works, it’s not barbaric,” Orodan said. “You’re in no position to complain when the benefits are rather apparent.”

“Your constant assaults have their uses I’ll admit.”

“Ready to achieve Transcendence?” Orodan asked. “Won’t be long now.”

“After all the bullying you put me through, how could I not be? I’ve been waiting for over a month now,” Luetta said. “I hope you don’t intend for me to wait any longer?”

“Just a few more hours. I have one more bit of business to resolve before we go through with this,” Orodan said. “Meet me at the top of the royal citadel of Storven and in a few hours we’ll be ready to start. And you’d best be ready to run.”

“I still can’t believe you’ve secured my freedom only for me to have to flee off-world regardless,” Luetta said. “Will whatever’s happening truly be so cataclysmic?”

“We’ll be fighting something that can potentially destroy a galaxy.”

She stuttered a bit, but was shocked silent at that revelation.

“To make Luetta shut up… I never thought I’d see it in my lifetime Mister Wainwright,” Clyburn said with an amused laugh.

“Clyburn… are you part of this madness too? Don’t tell me you intend to help them in fighting whatever this is that can destroy a galaxy!” Luetta protested.

“Heavens no, but I do intend to perform one final quality inspection before I depart,” Clyburn answered. “Even though the battle will be Mister Wainwright’s, I shall help however I can before then. I owe him and young Fenton too much not to.”

The answer seemed to pacify the woman and she departed soon after. Orodan had caught her in the middle of catching up with Clyburn anyhow, and while she’d wanted to speak to Fenton, the lad clearly wasn’t in the right headspace for it.

Orodan and Clyburn then began walking along the underground pathways, inspecting the metallic casing laid along the path with enchantments upon it.

“Your output of work never ceases to amaze me Mister Wainwright… to think all this was done in just a few days,” Clyburn muttered as he closely inspected everything as they walked,

“Wouldn’t have worked without your engineering acumen,” Orodan said. “And your professional opinion on the machine diagram I showed you, it’s much appreciated as well.”

“Right, that device from your world? The construction’s a little odd, but with your time here and the adjustments I recommended, I’m certain you can take a better crack at it when you return,” Clyburn remarked. “A world of pegasi and dragons… creatures I’ve only read about in myths and legends. How quaint!”

“Compared to the invasion Lonvoron is under, my world must seem idyllic,” Orodan remarked. “Still has its dangers though.”

Although Orodan did wonder if he’d have the same level of success if he started as a time looper here. Deadlier enemies to face, and it’d certainly take him many, many more loops to bridge the gap. But that too came with the opportunity to acquire skills faster via plenty of short loops.

“Now, I don’t mean to pry… but what’s the matter with young Fenton?”

“I told him the truth regarding something important to him,” Orodan answered.

“On the eve of battle? Would that not cloud his mind?” Clyburn asked.

“Or it might firm his resolve,” Orodan said. “Not until I was certain he would stand with us did I reveal it. Lest I influence his decision.”

“And if he had decided he wanted no part in fighting the approaching calamity? Would you have told him then?” Clyburn asked.

Orodan paused a moment, and then a frown appeared upon his face.

“…yes. And that answer displeases me, but yes I would have. Even if it leads to his death,” Orodan answered. His honor demanded he remain honest with his allies, even if it led to their doom. “But this conjecture is pointless. Come, we have inspections to make and an entire length of wall to traverse.”

The inspection continued for an hour as they traversed the underground workways. All was well, and Orodan was certain this thing would work.

Finally, near the conclusion of their inspection it was Clyburn who broke the quiet silence of the underground passageways and the oddly muted city above which had been almost entirely evacuated.

“I feel your lot in life would be far easier if you were a little more uncaring, Mister Wainwright.”

“Perhaps my foes would have a harder time of it if I employed underhanded tricks, but that’s not my way.”

“While your proclivity for daring frontal assaults is admirable and amusing in equal measure, that’s not what I refer to. No, what I mean is your conscience,” Clyburn emphasized. “If you cared only about yourself then whether Fenton learned the truth or whether he lived or died would not trouble you. But instead you’re possesses of a stern sense of honor which demands you follow it, even to the detriment of yourself and sometimes your allies.”

“Not always,” Orodan clarified. “This thing we’re doing, it’s quite far removed from how I usually operate. If left to my own devices, I’d be confronting the approaching foe and their assembled forces by myself.”

“And getting killed no doubt. How is it that you’ve survived all this time?” Clyburn asked.

“I haven’t.”

“Pardon?”

Orodan shook his head.

“Telling you the full story would take far too long. To keep it short, every time I die, I revert back in time. I’ve been abusing this to engage in battle after battle against enemies of growing strength,” he explained.

“That is…”

“Outrageous? Unbelievable? Nonsensical?” Orodan suggested. “Or should I say what most do: stupid?”

“Yes to all of those,” Clyburn agreed, causing Orodan to laugh. “But mainly, it’s no concern of mine. Yes, that does explain a number of discrepancies about you Mister Wainwright, and I can certainly see the story adding up. And while I’m no village yokel you might be telling this story to… I’m also a non-combatant engineer, even if I am a Grandmaster who’s two-hundred years old. While it’s great that you’re caught in a cycle of time reversion, what does that have to do with me?”

“Hmm… you’re an awfully level-headed fellow I must admit,” Orodan noted. “No greed? No desire to ask me for favors?”

“In light of your revelation, the fixation you have with repaying your debts makes quite some sense now. I’m sure you shall not forget me even if I want not a thing from you,” Clyburn replied. “I suppose being able to actually complete the pillars of purification would be nice, but er… spare me the whole trip to the capital next time will you?”

“You don’t like operating a guild branch in the capital itself?” Orodan asked.

“Gods no… though I suppose invoking their name is a bit awkward when you’ve butchered many of them…” Clyburn muttered, going off on a tangent before refocusing. “I’m but a simple man who enjoys pushing the boundaries of Engineering and creating new devices. If I were to ask any favors of you, the first would be to keep Lonvoron and the Collective safe from the plague. And the second… to just let me tinker away in peace. If you can see that I’m not dragged into the capital next time, I would appreciate that Mister Wainwright.”

Truly, Clyburn Anderthorn was an eccentric fellow, not a bad one at all though.

“You’re an odd one, Clyburn Anderthorn, I can acquiesce to that request.”

“And you’re a good man Orodan Wainwright, I pity whoever put a steadfast warrior of honor and conscience into your position,” Clyburn said. “Now, I see our young friend about to complete the loop and meet us in the middle.”

Orodan wasn’t sure if he agreed with the assessment that he was a good man, but his self-critical dwelling upon his character flaws could wait.

“It’s lookin’ alright ser,” Fenton said.

“Then we’re as prepared as we shall be,” Orodan declared. “Clyburn, this is where we part ways. Fenton, I’ll see you at the top of the citadel.”

And as Almyra winked into existence before him, he knew that there was one more place to be.

#

It wasn’t anyplace special that she’d taken him. Allowing himself to be taken along for dimensional travel, they’d crossed more than a few dimensional boundaries before arriving at their destination.

A world core. And while Orodan had seen plenty of these throughout his travels, it wasn’t the core itself, but what protruded from it that caught his eye.

“A System Control Spike…” he muttered, awe in his voice.

But it didn’t have any additional features etched upon it like the one on Alastaia did. Proof that the Custodian had truly tried his best to experiment and give Orodan an edge.

“It required more than a few loops of searching and directing the Collective’s armies towards militaristic action before I was able to find it,” Almyra added. “Unlike yours, which just so happened to be on the exact planet you start your loops upon, this is quite far from Lonvoron.”

“It’s not located upon your world? I had thought each one unique to a looper, but it appears I was mistaken,” Orodan admitted.

“Given the thousands of time loopers who have come before us the cosmos would be a little packed with these unsightly structures if that were the case, no?” she posed. “As you told me about the one upon your world, this too is disguised as a divine artifact from the top.”

“I can see that, but the structure of it’s different to mine. Mine is a divine tower filled with creatures I’ve battled throughout the loops. But this is…”

“A library. A vast repository of knowledge acquired throughout all of my loops,” Almyra explained, opening a rift which led to the upper floors which he stepped through. “Every time I fell, that which last slew me would have an entry dedicated to it added to the shelves. Strengths, weaknesses, abilities, Bloodlines and more. But mainly with this… I can see their entire Status.”

What a monstrous advantage for a scheming time looper like her.

The bookshelves reached high into the sky and there were thousands upon thousands of entries. Of course, that made little sense.

“You haven’t died all that often, how are there so many?” Orodan asked.

“It lists the past slayers of not just me, but previous time loopers who were selected by this structure as well,” Almyra said, taking a set of stairs to walk upwards. “The history of our universe is long, Orodan Wainwright. There were many before me who were also brought into the time loops. From what I can glean, the System was not initially good at bestowing this power. Many of the candidates were… lacking.”

“Lacking?”

“Farmers, villagers, drunks with nary a care for bettering themselves with the situation in their hands. What the System does not tell you is that it is always watching the time looper… or before you did what you did, it used to,” the previous looper said. “Within a few loops of some of these fools’ attempts, the System moved onto the next. I suspect… that after a particularly bad experience with a talented time looper, the Boundless One and its servant were trying other avenues. Failed experiments in the end.”

Indeed, as Orodan ascended the steps he could see the written titles on the book spines showing increasingly stronger creatures and beings. But on the lower parts of the gigantic tower, the shelves were full of common beasts. Some of them, even Orodan before the time loops could kill dozens of.

Who had died thirty times to an Initiate-level rabbit? Was there some killer rabbit going around murdering things?

“If this isn’t Collective territory, the locals must be aware of the tower’s existence,” Orodan said.

“It is Collective territory, just bargained for during one of the many wars of border expansion I led after its founding,” Almyra said. “It originally used to belong to a rather warlike orc horde. Yet despite their savagery even they venerated this place as a fountain of knowledge, though they knew not what it truly was. Mind you, even without the time loopers, this tower is connected to the world itself. Anything which performs a kill within this planet will have its entry added to the tower. Naturally, the orcs thought it was a tower venerating their kills without realizing that it was tied to the time loop as well.”

