[Combat Mastery 118 → Combat Mastery 119]

An Embodier focusing purely on defense was no joke. Even the bruises upon its head turned into a form of armor which further added to its defense. Whatever concept it embodied came out in full force; he was far from killing it.

But he had struck it a decent wound and sent it flying away from the battle, cracking its defense and teaching it a lesson in fisticuffs.

Nearby, his ally the previous looper was doing a far better job fighting the hydra. And Alagameth was utilizing spatial rifts to separate and tear off parts of the living thunderstorm.

The battle almost looked like it was going well.

Which was why the cruel reminder that their main enemy had temporarily left the field hit him.

And it hit in the form of a vile pink beam of horrifying magic.

Pink energy subsumed his vision at the direct hit. And once more, Orodan returned to that other place, far, far away… the seat of power of a universal horror which reveled in sadism, in suffering.

A Boundless One. Not the one within the bowels of the System empowering it all, but something foreign to their universe, something far worse.

Within the familiar dimension of terror, of pink, red and yellow flesh and grotesque growths everywhere, two terrible galaxies, lost to this fell terror opened like eyelids, staring at him.

Last time, Orodan’s soul which was made of the old System, was terrified. This time, with a System of his own and a will forged of iron and quenched in the well of Infinity, he stared back.

Unafraid, undaunted.

The foreign Boundless was baffled, surprised.

“What… what is this? Mortal, but Boundless…? Short-sighted folly!” it declared loudly as the force of a universe slammed into his mind.

And yet, he held.

“How is it folly?” Orodan asked in turn.

“That concept… none have embodied it… none have become it. Only madness and the loss of self await you, little thing.”

“Perhaps it does… but I have faith in my will. My mind has never broken before, and it certainly will not now. After all… I have a grand ambition to achieve.”

And unlike last time where he’d been at its mercy for an unimaginable amount of time. Now, he simply shook off its fell influence and opened his eyes. And as he entered the real world, he could still feel its shock, that he’d exited the mental space so easily. Zaessythra, whose reactions and feelings he could normally track, seemed entirely unaware of what had occurred in that mental confrontation.

But that thing wasn’t his target in this loop. The wicked book-wielding zealot in front of him was.

In the real world, a blast of white soul energy emanated outwards as the shard’s beam was utterly useless.

The Prophet could only frown at what it saw.

“I knew it. You are a servant of that fell power, are you not? Yet even it’s servants should not be able to ignore the power of these shards…” the Prophet muttered. “Still, you can be slain through mundane means, invader.”

It now possessed the shards, and it still held its Mantle. The situation was bleak, even if the planetside battle had been won and the voidfleets of the Collective were coming to reinforce them.

Almyra was exhausted, as were Alagameth and the forces of the Conclave. Nobody was in any shape to fight an Administrator besides Orodan, and he certainly couldn’t win one-on-one when it had been toying with them the entire time thus far.

By all reason, it seemed that they were doomed and he would be back in Ogdenborough shortly.

Though, the trembling of the dimensional fabric did not go unnoticed to anyone present.

Something was coming. Something big.

The boundary rippled and a ragged-looking thing came forth.

“…Talricto? I thought I told you to get away,” Orodan angrily scolded.

“I did… but then I somehow found myself inside a nice dwarven throne room, and before I knew it this shiny crown was practically calling for me to come take it.”

Orodan looked at Talricto.

Talricto looked back at Orodan.

“Who have you drawn here?”

“Oh don’t look so glum. They already weren’t happy about me stealing those dreadful shards of theirs,” Talricto replied. “What sort of King hides at the center of a galaxy and refuses to leave his throne room?”

And with the rupturing of space and the dimensional boundary, the question was answered.

He was short, that much was obvious enough, but in the way a dwarf was. Which meant that he was twice as wide as a bulky human. Clad in resplendent armor which Orodan felt was even tougher than the shell of the turtle he’d just fought and wielding an ominous battleaxe, was a dwarf who was the very picture of regal.

Very regal, though missing one critical thing to complete the aura of kingliness. A crown. And very, very angry about it.

“I’ll have each of your legs slowly plucked off and roasted,” the dwarf said, glaring at Talricto. “My crown, return it and I may kill you on the spot as mercy.”

The Prophet itself frowned at the newcomer.

“King of Kings… before these pests rope you into joining their escapade, how about we come to an agreement? I slay the pest and return your crown, and you leave. How simple is that?” the Prophet suggested.

This dwarf, who was at the Embodiment-level and far stronger than any other Embodier Orodan had seen, looked almost agreeable to that. That was, until he caught sight of the shards in the Prophet’s hand.

“The shards, return them to me. They were stolen from my abode recently,” the Embodier dwarf demanded.

The Prophet’s eyes narrowed in challenge.

“Carrying the artifacts of a false Boundless is a grave sin… do you intend to commit sacrilege here today?”

For a moment the tension was palpable.

And then, the dwarf’s battleaxe moved.

It wasn’t quite on the same level of the Warrior, but it was damned close. And the Prophet similarly channeled a monstrous amount of power into its book and met the strike.

[Spatial Fold 90 → Spatial Fold 92]

It took all Orodan had to divert the shockwaves of that meeting so that it went outside the galaxy and not within. And even then his Spatial Fold nearly ruptured as he almost lost control over the spell.

“Eventually, one of these is going to slip free and destroy your entire galaxy,” Orodan said, looking at an exhausted and battered Almyra who came up from behind. “If there was ever a time to capitalize on it being distracted, that would be now.”

Alagameth and Almyra had forced the two enemy Embodiers to retreat, and the turtle Orodan had punched was also nowhere to be found. Perhaps what should have been an easy victory turning so hard-fought had scared them. And Embodiers by nature, hadn’t made it to such a high level by being too reckless and death seeking.

Furthermore, the voidfleets of the Collective had won on the ground and had finally arrived to reinforce them in the void. Not that it mattered much in this context.

“But how?” Alstatyn asked, stepping out of the crown voidship on a floating platform, Fenton alongside. “The Prophet is simply too strong. Do you think people fear the Administrators for no reason? Even the King of Kings of the dwarven race is merely trading blows to present a tough image. Eventually, he shall be overpowered too if he does not retreat.”

Certainly, strong as the dwarf was, the Prophet still looked to have the edge. Though credit where it was due, he was forcing the Administrator to fight seriously all throughout, which was more than could be said for their motley band.

Plans, schemes, stratagems… what use were they without power?

“There’s only one way,” Almyra began. “The Mantle. If we can separate him from it…”

“Easier said than done,” Alstatyn said.

“No… not necessarily. We just need someone capable of getting close to its Mantle with the one we have,” the previous looper clarified. “With enough power, a Mantle wielder can disarm another one. There are historical records of it occurring in battles between the Mage and the Custodian. And the latest battle between Administrators a million years ago was between the Prophet and the Warrior, and it was disarmed and wounded. It can be done. Just… not by me.”

Orodan gave her a knowing look.

“I do not crave the power of the Mantle, if that’s what concerns you. To me, it’s but a trinket I need to study,” he honestly said.

“I do not think you do, though I did think you wanted it initially,” Almyra admitted and then her fists clenched. “All this time, all these loops… was I never meant to be enough? Even with all these schemes and stratagems, what good am I? Maybe you were meant to be the time looper after all… your power has become evident enough during all this fighting.”

“And we would not be anywhere near this point without your plans. My headlong charges into danger would have reset the loop a thousand times over,” Orodan countered. “Come, we cannot tarry any longer.”

She wore it like an overcoat, so slipping the cultivator-style robes off and handing them to him was done without any awkwardness. He had worn them once before, when he was but a disembodied soul warring to return and exact vengeance upon the Reject.

Yet, it hadn’t felt right. Not natural, even now as he thought of donning them.

Then, inspiration struck, and he chose not to wear them like clothes… but to instead bundle the robes up in his hand…

…and treat them like a rag.

What could be more natural for him, who started every loop using the rag to clean his bedside table?

The King of Kings backpedaled after another clash against the Prophet which Alagameth prevented from shattering Lonvoron. And with the distance between them, both the dwarf and the Prophet noticed the titanic gathering of soul energy nearby.

“You would hand a Mantle to an invader? Sacrilege! If the borders of our universe were not under constant assault, the others would come to exact retribution as well,” the Administrator said, charging up its own Mantle for a confrontation.

“I’m not an invader,” Orodan stated. “And the only one who shall receive retribution today is you.”

The void was meant to be dark, a contrast which helped illuminate the innumerable stars spanning its inky blackness. What it was not meant to be, was bright. Bright enough that most people watching were blinded as everything was subsumed with a white glow.

Orodan’s soul burned with ferocity as he poured soul energy into the bundled up rag in his hands. Power enough to destroy multiple star systems, all funneled into the Reject’s Mantle.

[Incipience of Infinity 142 → Incipience of Infinity 143]

And it responded in kind, granting incredible amounts of System energy in turn. Unlike most connections to the System, the Mantle’s was incredibly strong and durable. Capable of receiving titanic amounts of energy. The standard way of accessing the Mantle involved pulling System energy from it, but Orodan took that a step further and supplied it with energy of his own in tandem.

Double the power.

The Prophet’s eyes widened in alarm at the display. Mighty as the Administrator was, even it couldn’t draw so much power from its Mantle at once, not without causing harm to itself.

Orodan however cared not for such things. His threshold of too much energy was higher than most others. Even the Prophet it seemed, could not match him in this.

The Administrator didn’t stand idle. It fired beams of System energy towards him, yet Orodan stood his ground and slowly advanced, letting the Mantle in his hands absorb the power.

Hells, he even began cleaning the opposing beams right out of existence as they were mid-flight towards him.

“What fell power is this…? Does the false Boundless supply its champion so endlessly? How can your body tolerate so much energy?!”

There it was…

…fear.

The psychological crack he was looking for.

Orodan roared, a war cry of defiance and the determination to do the impossible. The rag in his hand was held like a shield as he advanced through tumultuous barrages of the Prophet’s beams.

Light, System energy, raw Eldritch power, the Prophet threw caution to the wind and began throwing it all towards him at full power. And for a moment, he slowed.

But then…

…a spider appeared on his foe’s shoulder. As did another person from behind, desperately holding onto the Prophet’s arm, pushing it just a bit further towards Orodan’s own Mantle and attempting to cause a distraction.

“Alstatyn! No!”

Almyra rushed towards them desperately, but it was too late.

The Prophet was rooted in place. Talricto’s spindly legs tinkering with something from atop its shoulder. A ring upon the Prophet’s finger? And Alstatyn’s death grip upon its arm attempting to pry the book from its grasp was also a contributing to hasten Orodan’s advance.

It was the height of ridiculousness, for a mere peak-Transcendent to even cause a distraction for an Administrator. But for the Prophet it was a deathly serious matter. Even the slightest lapse in its concentration, a singular muscular twitch to rid itself of these pests, and Orodan would disarm it of its Mantle.

It was a battle of energy generation, and while Orodan had no experience in using a Mantle, he made up for it with sheer power and endless energy. The tyrant three on Alastaia, the Eldritch Avatar on Guzuhar, and even the time loop mechanism itself… all these had tried besting him in a contest of energy generation and every time Orodan had come out on top.

It was the sort of battle Orodan Wainwright would never lose.

Finally, Orodan got to a point where he was right in front of the Prophet, System energy clashing against System energy. Yet his side had the added advantage of his own bottomless soul energy.

