His voice carried easily over the remaining buzz, silencing the last few speakers. “We go to war tomorrow. The terms are a full elimination battle in a large wilderness area. You should be getting the invitation soon.” A ripple passed through the assembled Questors, some excited, others displeased. A few hecklers called out, but Kaelis ignored them and kept speaking. “This war won’t go as anybody projects. It will also be broadcast to every Questor and stored for future review. Know that it will be reviewed in the future. This isn’t just another play in the game of Questors. This is the first act of a long-laid plan that will shift the balance of Davrar.” He delivered the words with impressive gravitas, even accounting for the skill that probably boosted it.

The hundreds of Questors were quiet now, hanging on Kaelis’s words. “Accept the invitation and become part of real events that will echo through history. Your actions carry a new weight as of this tick. As a result, I must give some unfortunate orders. For tonight, you are ordered to be boring. Eat well, soak in baths, and see a healer if needed. No nightlife, no experimental Insights, no duels. In the morning, we assign formations and contingencies, and then we teleport straight to the battlefield. The eyes of Davrar will be on us tomorrow, and the Ashen Accord will look like professionals, not survivors of our own bad ideas.”

A round of chuckles rolled across the audience at that, and Kaelis seemed ready to dismiss them all. But Sarya leaned forward, cocky and sure. “You heard the man. Lazy luxury tonight, glorious carnage tomorrow. We’ll fight, we’ll win, and then we’ll be heaped with glory everlasting.” The assembled crowd cheered at that, and Sarya clapped her hands together in a gesture that was unquestionably a dismissal.

Kaelis gave her an annoyed look, but didn’t say anything as the crowd of Questors broke up. He sighed, then tapped at the air in front of him. A blue box popped up in front of Nathan.

This is a formal Questor conflict with special rules. Participation is optional. You are not a Questor: If you die in this War, your death will be permanent. Term Summary:

Additional condition: if you accept, you agree not to share your new antimagic Insight with any other being until the War is concluded.

Do you wish to join this Polite War on the side of the Ashen Accord?

Permanent Talent 1: Magical Destruction 4

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 7

Permanent Talent 3: Skystride 4

Class: End of Magic level 1281

Bottomless Stamina : 129100/129100

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Death of Legends level 891

Limitless Focus: 9010/9010

Legendary Blows

Out of Sight

Magical Mimicry

Antimemetic

The Hidden Strike

Nondetection

Mana Control

Lethality Prediction

Wizardly Immunity

Communication Countermeasures

Sorcerous Sabotage

Legendkiller

Bane of Myth

To the Ends of Davrar

Utility skills:

Tranquility 9

Inspiration 10

Impulse 6

The Sense of Magic 4

Forewarning 8

The Truth of Magic 4

Evasion 3

Wizard’s Palace 3

Veracity 4

Whiplash 4

Visibility Control 7

High-tier Disguise 10

High-tier Battle Cry 5

Aura Mastery 4
