eahagans fell to the ground, their bones exploding outwards.He reached into his satchel and produced something that made the demon pause. It was a cracked piece of something that looked like glass, but pitch black."Oh, you wouldn't," the creature said as it dropped two more of his people by causing their skin to burst out in disease and flesh-eating magic."A core given to Fetormare returned as a servant of our god. I offer myself as a vessel!" he crowed as he stabbed the shard into his chest, feeling it pour into his seed, the thing mutating inside his own body and causing unimaginable pain.He screamed as dark energy filled his body, but soon the scream became a dark laugh as he grew and grew. His scales turned to hard gems, his once slimy body now was dry and rigid, his mana which had been of the sea now turned to the land.The shattered core of the earth Dungeon filled him, and he became a massive golem of power and shadows. It was a pathetic Dungeon, if it had far more floors, then he could have gained far more power."You will suffer for a long time before you end. I will ensure it," he rasped between obsidian teeth at the creature who… looked unimpressed."Ash to ash, and this next bit is important for you," she stressed.He swung at her with his mighty fists, his arm jutting out with crystals now.But before it could touch the demon, his mighty rock and gems began to break and crack, turning to a gray, lifeless dust before his eyes.He was confused, even as he fell to his knees and his new armor collapsed before his eyes."Dust to dust," the shadow of the stronger Echo said and loomed over him somehow."I was earth eternal," he said as he collapsed."If you had given yourself to the power fully? Perhaps," she admitted, then clutched his chin, and the contact burned him."But you cling to self. You remain Seahagan at core. You're not devoted… you are loyal for a price. You are no Cult of the Silence, you are parasites siding with a stronger force," she hissed."What are you, then?" he rasped as he began to fall to the side.The answer was the last thing he heard."A lich, a friend, a fairy, a guide, a Silence member… a Dungeon creature. More importantly, done with you," she said, and his vision went black.To his horror, the Reaper of the Sea did not come for him… his soul fell into a fathomless silence.---"And that's Mharia when she's bored," Nu explained calmly as Trinity was stunned into absolute silence."How does one get a 'Mharia'? Herb asked, and there was a moment of infighting before they waited for a response.Embellishment, or truth? Making himself look good, or being honest?"You must allow death to take a part in your Dungeon. Also, when you meet a human, you can contract them and merge Death with them to make a Mharia. It's best to do this with an adult, as they are closer to death than anyone younger. Children resist death greatly," he educated."Isn't Mharia a child in form?" Carnage asked dubiously."She cost three times the normal amount to work. Adults are cheap," Nu insisted. This was accepted by all three facets of Trinity.Dungeons; they love a good deal."Absorbing corpses!" Florida cried, and the core went inert as it feasted on the biggest meal it had ever had."You're welcome?" Nu said, and when there was no response, let out a sigh."Where's my praise?" Mharia asked as she appeared in a spark of death magic."You didn't mess up, well done," Nu said sarcastically, and Mharia fawned at the fake words."Murder today, genocide tomorrow!" she declared, and Nu shot her a look, but she was already humming ways to 'poison the sea, boil them alive,' so he left her to it.Their work here wasn't done, but he didn't want to leave Delta alone for too long.There was something he told Mharia to collect and bring back. The shard of the corrupted Dungeon.Was it corrupted? He didn't know exactly, but he felt it was co----"Another corrupted one. She wasn't lying," a gruff voice said."How can this be… they used to be so filled with life and magic," a softer voice."We need to stop this, and we need to figure out who these people are."---"Nu? This stopped being funny ten minutes ago," Mhaira said crossly as she smacked his avatar."I… we need to go back and get Delta to study this," Nu said, shaking himself out of standing absolutely still.Those memories… they had come from Delta in some form, but why had they flowed to him now? Was the shard upsetting the connection?He felt unsettled and hoped Delta wasn't feeling this too.---"Go! Go!" Delta cried in sheer joy as Deo showed the boy, Lim, how to fish in the giant lake room, snagging the catfish deep within the waters."Go. Go…" Poppy waved one hand with a yawn, but her eyes never left Deo's straininback.At her side was that talking book, and she had meant to listen in to its tales, but she kept getting so distracted."This reminds me of the haunted vessel that sails around the Crown on misty nights," the book told Poppy, its pages turning to show the map of the world that was surprisingly accurate."A god was summoned forth on a ship to give it power, but it was a dark being with a voice that echoed across the storm. It merged with the ship and is said to claim the souls of all that pass it!" the book said."All the more reason to never leave my room," Poppy pointed out."Where's your sense of excitement?" the book asked with a sigh."In my closet somewhere, nyeh," Poppy managed a small smile as she was glued to Deo's arms as he reeled in his catch."Perhaps I should tell tales of love and how to catch a prince's eye?" the book muttered, making Delta cover her mouth, hiding a large grin.Poppy closed him and then sat on him, muffling his voice."What is that?!" Lim screamed as the Moon-eating Catfish appeared in the air."Dinner, or an adventure! Maybe both!" Deo cried as he pulled with pure light in his voice and eyes. Oh, Delta could just keep them all!Their parents would understand eventually!---"We should be going," Alpha said after a while, staring down into the pit as movement filled every inch with it."But! No! There's a whole society here!" Yattina cried out as the Pygmies tied her to their small altar."Think of the anthropological revelations of this culture!" she went on excitedly. The chief of the Pygmies gave the order, and the Priest raised a sacrificial dagger."I'm in the thick of it! This is world changing!" Yattina went on.The dagger fell, and a chunk of her hair was cut loose."Simply marvelous!" she gushed.Alpha supposed he could do some sit-ups or practice magic. There were five more lines of Pygmies wanting their shot at getting some 'threads' off Yattina.If she was having fun, who was he to spoil it?---
