I hate being a leader.

I have many reasons, like managing the endless stream of trivial and not so trivial details. Even a small, hundred-person retinue has too many things to keep track of, break schedules, rations, ammunition, camp details and more. While I try to delegate most things, it’s still my ass on the line if things go poorly, so my apprehensive nature forces me to micromanage things to a ridiculous degree.

Then there’s the heavy responsibility and soul crushing guilt which comes with making life and death decisions for other people. I’ve lost many from my retinue, more than half my former cripples and a handful of Sentinels, mostly impressionable youngsters who looked up to me. Survivor’s guilt is shitty enough on its own, but it’s possible my mistakes actually cost people their lives. Every time I close my eyes, I’m haunted by crippling doubt and self-recrimination, wondering if I could have done things differently. Though I’m no longer plagued by the Spectres, I still have my own ghosts to deal with, and all the coin in the world won't help me sleep better at night.

If I had to pick something to hate the most, it wouldn’t be any of the above, nor would it be the meagre rewards of honour and glory, or the staggering bills for medicine for soldiers and food for quins. What I hate most about being a leader is the barrier between me and everyone above or below me. Forget the people who outrank me, I don’t care about climbing the ladder, but in front of my retinue, I always have to be careful how I act. Gone are the days of sitting around dicing and drinking with Bulat and the gang, or complaining to Yan about the crappy food or weather. Every second of every day, I need to be aware of my status as commander and keep up appearances as the representative of my retinue. I don’t get to be Rain, transmigrated mountain villager anymore. Every minute of every day, I play the part of Warrant Officer Falling Rain, Khishig of the Bekhai, The Undying Savage and so on and so forth.

Being that guy is exhausting. Just saying the whole name makes me tired.

I miss complaining the most. It’s one of my guilty little pleasures, pointing out flaws with no intention to fix them. No one wants to follow a grumpy whiner and it’s been tough keeping all my bitching and moaning internalized. I miss having someone like Yan to vent to, unloading all my worries and insecurities to another human being even if they can’t do anything about it. With Baledagh out of action, I’m left with precious few options. Mila, Huu and Fung wouldn’t understand and I can’t burden sweet, innocent Lin with any of this, so here I am voicing all my complaints to an amorphous blob of water, only barely sentient enough to convey its complete and utter lack of concern or sympathy.

My new roommate is kind of an asshole. I’ll name him Blobby. Or her. Or it. Whatever, this isn’t about Blobby. This is about me.

Spectre devouring and Demonic blood neutralizing aside, there are upsides to keeping Blobby around, like its willingness to listen, or rather, it's unwillingness to escape. Taking full advantage of my captive audience, I unleash a torrent of grievances while riding towards the Defiled army with Major Yimu and Senior Captain XinYue. I didn’t even get to take a nap. What’s the point of working so hard to retake a strong defensive position if we’re not gonna use it? Why not let your tired soldiers take a break and send those fresh, well-rested mercenaries to clean up? It’d be the logical thing to do, but Magistrate Chu Tongzu wants all the glory for the brave heroes of Sanshu, giving the nice cushy job to the schmucks who showed up late to the job. We don’t even get to try out any of XiaoGong’s lovely little catapults, the stingy fatty unwilling to lend us the weapons.

It’s cool, sleeping can wait, it’s no big deal. I’ve only been drowned, starved, beaten, traumatized, and denied sleep over the past few weeks, but yea, I can keep fighting. Who needs sleep?

I’m so exhausted I could cry.

Oh right, another thing to complain about, lucky you Blobby. Usually, channelling the Energy of the Heavens helps keep me alert, but today meditation has been about as useful as nipples on a breastplate. I don’t know what it is, I used to run on four hours of sleep while living in the village, but lately I feel tired all the time. It could be the long hours and heavy abuse, but it could also be a vitamin deficiency or plain old depression. Nothing a nice, long nap won't help, but I’d settle for a hot cup of coffee. I miss it so much, the sweet, delicious nectar of the gods, far more useful than any other celestial fluids I’ve come across. Oh man, the Blessing of Coffee would be awesome. I could keep an entire army alert, energized, regular, and well hydrated, all while tempting my foes with its sweet, intoxicating aroma. Then, when they come close for a sniff, BAM, scalding hot coffee to the face.

Can you top that Blobby? If not, then maybe I should put up ads for new tenants.

In response to my needling, my new friend emanates a sense of smug superiority and vague dismissal, wholly confident in its supremacy to coffee yet too lazy to bother proving it. It’s only been a few hours since our ‘reunion’, but I’m making great strides in understanding my deific excrement compatriot. A whimsical, arrogant entity, it refuses to act with no benefit to itself, happy to camp out and bask in my Chi without a care in the world. Normal conversation with it goes unanswered, only responding with vague emotions to thoughts and queries which threaten its comfortable existence. I’m guessing it likes to eat Demonic energy, but it seems happy sucking down on my Chi, which raises several uncomfortable questions.

Why is Blobby here with me? If I’m Baledagh’s Demon, why didn’t it try to eat me like it did the Spectres? Why does it want to eat Baledagh? Is it the reason I’m so tired? So many questions, all ignored without explanation, though I don’t think it’s out of malice. Blobby doesn’t know why, acting out of instinct for lack of a better word, unable to explain its reasoning or logic because it lacks both. Like a white blood cell devouring harmful cells, Blobby merely fulfills its purpose, which seems to be glomping onto me and any Demonic energies in my vicinity, the parallels of which I’m choosing to ignore for now.

Hopefully it has other redeeming attributes, but so far I’m mildly disappointed. I would’ve thought having Heavenly Water in my... pocket? Would be more useful, but it doesn’t seem to want to do anything. Water bullets, shields, blades, or even condensing a tiny droplet on my finger, Blobby ignores all my efforts to bring it out for show and tell, though everyone in the know takes my word at face value. I haven’t had time to explain things to Mila, but Tenjin explained things to Tursinai, Mila, and Song on the off-chance one of them knew something he didn’t.

My beaming bride-to-be rides at my side, her bandaged face doing nothing to mar her adorable expression of pure bliss. Though she doesn’t know what Blobby's presence means, she’s thrilled by my ‘great fortune’ and our current circumstances. I’ve got Heavenly Water hanging out in my body cavities and we’ve got front-line tickets to the final battle in the War on Sanshu, so to her, everything is going perfectly.

“Warrant Officer Falling Rain, your presence is requested at the front lines.” XinYue’s Sending echos in my mind, eliciting an annoyed tch. I hate having people intrude on my thoughts. I wonder it there’s any way to turn down Sendings, or set up call waiting or an answering machine. Something with a fun tune, like “Believe it or not, Rain isn’t at home. Please leave a message, at the beep”. Hmm... I wonder if I can weaponize Sendings. Mila’s Sendings might be an asset, making enemies flinch though sheer volume. Hearing ‘Surprise Motherfucker’ thundering through your skull could have interesting results.

Pondering over catchy tunes for an answering machine and catchphrases to Send in the midst of battle, I guide Mafu through our tired force of soldiers and Sentinels. They're all parked in the middle of an alley with walls on either side, a massive pathway nestled between two manors. In front of us is an intersection where XinYue, Yimu, and their respective command squads stand just out of sight from anyone keeping watch on the intersection. Motioning for silence, XinYue Sends, “Come, the Major has orders for you.”

Fun. Dismounting to salute, I stand before Chun Yimu who spares me the briefest of nods before handing me a map. “The Defiled have sent a force to guard their flanks, two thousand strong waiting here and here,” he Sends, pointing at the markings. “I am granting you battlefield command of a thousand Sanshu soldiers. Leave your elites behind and break through the Defiled position with all haste. We will follow in your wake, but expect little to no aid. Sanshu is counting on your success.”

Fuck.

...

Fuck!

Sensing my displeasure as Yimu dismisses me, XinYue quickly guides me away before I can speak, explaining the bigger picture. “You only need to tie them up long enough for the army to pass, then hold them in place until the main battle ends. Major Yimu is not exaggerating, if you are victorious here, then 80% of our force will arrive somewhat rested for the final battle against Yo Ling. The Mother watch over you, Falling Rain.”

His piece said, XinYue introduces me to my troop leaders, an assembly of three captains and seven Lieutenants, field promoted for this engagement. Not a single Aura user among them, they’re not exactly the cream of the crop, but it's what I've got. Glancing at the map and then at my soldiers, a heavy knot of despair forms in my stomach, my mission analysis downgrading from daunting to near impossible. One thousand of my soldiers against two thousand Defiled, separated into two groups. The main group stands at fifteen-hundred strong, camped on the main avenue ahead. Running perpendicular to our current position, the avenue is the only path our five-thousand soldiers can reasonably use to reach the market together.

A second group waits in an alleyway parallel to ours, separated by the sizable Manor to the west. Five hundred strong, it stands ready to flank anyone attacking the main group, mostly meant to slow or stop any advance and delay our arrival. Even smaller than the alley I’m standing in, this second force is dug in and will be difficult to extract, a thorn in the side of our army. We can’t march the entire army through the main group and ignore this side group. Five hundred Defiled at our rear is enough to swing the tide of battle, and the small force is likely full of elites to keep people like Tursinai from running rampant among their lines.

Arrows won’t solve this problem, even the basic heavy armour impenetrable to all but the luckiest of shots. The Monstrosity can pierce through without too many issues, but there are only a half-dozen steel bolts left, better left for bigger targets like a Demon or something. Regardless of which group I attack first, once battle begins, the other group will advance and hit me from behind, an unpleasant prospect. I’ll have maybe ten to fifteen minutes to clean up before fighting a battle on two fronts, penned in between twice my number of heavily armoured Defiled with none of my elites beside me.

Those catapults would’ve come in real handy right about now.

After a few minutes of deliberation with my captains, I pick Bulat, Ravil, and their respective squads to join me. Flashing Mila a feigned smile, I can’t help teasing her before I go. “Don’t be so grumpy, your time to shine will come. I’ll sweep the way clear for you to stand on the stage, love.”

Pouting, Mila huffs in reply. “At least take Jochi and Argot with you. They’re hardly elites, but they’ll keep you safe.”

“Sorry, they’re elite enough. Let them rest and support you in the final battle. Don’t worry, I’ve got a plan.” Not a great one, but good enough. Finishing what I hope won’t be my final farewells, I leave Bulat in command of half my forces and set out with five hundred soldiers, leading the way on foot with Ravil at my side. Mafu deserves a break and if things go south, I want him safe and sound, my happy little fatty quin.

Pushing aside my melancholic thoughts, I turn my attention to the battle ahead. The thump of a thousand boots marching on stone echoes through the silent city streets, my soldiers taking no measures to hide their approach. Cutting through a second alley between another pair of manors, we emerge before the five-hundred strong flanking force, waiting behind makeshift fortifications of wood and stone. They’re sitting just far enough to lure my force away from the junction, allowing the main group to close in and cut off my retreat.

Five hundred against five hundred, not a bad fight, while the second half of my forces lies in wait behind us, waiting to cover our possible retreat. Although the main force is in position to attack from our rear, the alley is only wide enough for twenty-five people to stand and fight, severely limiting the Defiled advantage of numbers. Ideally, I’d have Bulat in place to block the main force, but an Aura-wielding Champion would make short work of anyone outside of my Aura range. I’m not sure how far it stretches, but it’s definitely too far to cover Bulat while I’m fighting the secondary force. Sheltering the twenty-five on the front lines is easy enough, which I won’t even need if things go right.

Calling my troops to halt about fifty meters from the Defiled, I move towards the Enemy lines alone as Ravil whispers, “Good luck boss.” Peace drawn and Tranquility in hand, I unleash my Aura on the Defiled and immediately sense three separate forces rising to clash with me, foul, Defiled Auras pushing back against my attack. Diverting all my Chi to the assault, I ignore Blobby’s indignation over the interruption of its lounging and follow each opposing Aura back to the source.

Fighting back my fear, I glare at each Champion, waiting for them to step out to duel. This is the best plan I could come up with, kill anyone capable of using an Aura in successive duels, then slaughter the helpless Defiled mooks. Finish quickly as possible, then turn to face the Main force, where I hopefully rinse and repeat. The plan has many flaws. If I take too long to win, then the superior Defiled numbers will grind my soldiers to meat paste. If I die, my soldiers will be pinned between the Defiled with no Aura to protect them, suffering a fate worse than death.

No pressure. Easy game.

