Seconds pass in silence as the Defiled stand in wait, the three Champions not budging from their positions. What the fuck? Do I really have to do the whole spiel? Inwardly sighing, I announce my name with as much authority I can muster. “I am Falling Rain, the Undying Savage...” Yadda Yadda.

Oddly enough, when my introduction comes to an end, no one steps forward to greet me. This isn’t how I’d envisioned things going. Why aren’t they coming out to duel? C'mon, I'm a weak, helpless little runt and you're all big, strong Defiled. Come out and fight. Time is of the essence, I need to kill all three Aura-capable Champions and their five-hundred friends before the reinforcements arrive.

Fuck. I didn’t think they’d be so cautious. I guess they’re being prudent, why risk it? Their reinforcements are probably already on the way, and I’m a dead man walking. I’ve never heard of a Defiled turning down a challenge, but now when I'm banking on it, I run into the only three spineless Champions in all of Sanshu. I'm never lucky.

While I struggle with indecision and confusion, Blobby continues to express its displeasure, giving off a sensation of animation without movement, saying ‘cut it out before I do something about it’. It’s not thrilled about the lack of Chi, but there’s nothing I can do. I need all my Chi, there are three Auras to contend with and I’m straining to keep up.

Wait... I'm not straining, this is surprisingly easy. Relaxing the pressure of my Aura, Blobby immediate settles down while my enemies’ Auras slacken, no longer pushing against mine but still resisting, like a table for my arm to rest on. Weird, did all three Champions just sigh with relief? With three Auras, shouldn’t they be able to put more pressure on me, or does it not work like that? Can I crush their Auras like Lin’s Guard tried to crush mine? If they won’t come out to fight, this is my only option short of attacking head on.

I’ll call that plan D, as in ‘Don’t wanna do it’, or 'We're all gonna Die'.

Focusing on the closest Champion, I amp up the pressure, wrapping my Aura around my chosen foe and directing all my righteous anger, steadfast conviction, gut-wrenching anxiety, and heart-stopping terror towards him. Sweat drips down my neck as I channel the Energy of the Heavens directly into my Aura, slamming my opponent with a bevy of emotions. Fingers bruising as I grip my weapons, my Aura mimics my actions, squeezing around my opponent’s Aura in an attempt to pop it like a balloon.

Tense moments pass as the Champion struggles against me, my efforts failing despite giving it my all. As I’m about to give up and call a retreat, Blobby figuratively rolls its non-existent eyes, moving through my body similar to how Chi moves, a warm, familiar feeling, but also foreign and strange. It does nothing to help in my Aura struggle, only flowing through Peace like I would Hone my blade, the energy turning into a thin chain made of sharp, interconnected links, the entire chain revolving even as the links spin like blades on a chainsaw. In a moment of clarity, I realize what Blobby is trying to say, but it takes a few seconds to figure out how. Randomly giving it a try, I picture my Aura as a swirling whirlpool made up of jagged edges, rotating around my opponent in a storm of motion.

The results are immediate as I shred the Defiled Champion’s Aura to pieces, his body stiffening in shock as my Aura takes hold. Riding the momentum of my first victory, I target the other two Champions in succession, tearing their Auras to pieces with my own in a matter of heartbeats. My Chi reserves drain away but it doesn’t matter. With their Auras defeated, it only takes a modicum of effort to keep them from condensing again, allowing me to replenish my Chi reserves with ease. Pleased by the restoration of Chi flow, Blobby returns to wherever it normally stays, radiating pompous conceit and self-satisfaction.

Almost like its saying, ‘Let’s see coffee do that’.

Raising Peace in the air, I yell, “Soldiers of Sanshu. Charge!”

Roaring with delight, I lead my soldiers and crash into the Defiled line, cutting down quasi-defenceless Butchers with ease as they struggle beneath my Aura, drowning beneath the same fear and desperation I constantly struggle with. Their limbs chained by terror and desperation, the Butchers are no match for our fiery fury, the dark-armoured warriors overrun by the stalwart defenders of Sanshu. Scything through them like chopping wood, there’s no finesse or skill involved here, no Forms to display or elegant maneuvers, only overwhelming power in the form of Aura and muscle. When the dust settles, five hundred enemies of the Empire lie dead without a single loss, our voices rising in cheers of victory.

Grinning through the fatigue, I turn towards the alley entrance, darkened by the oncoming Defiled reinforcements. Stopped in their tracks, they gaze upon my triumphant army, their hesitation and uncertainty thick in the air, expecting to come upon a struggling foe but finding their friends crushed into oblivion. My orders echo off the alley walls. “Ravil stand down. Bulat, with me!” Joined by the second half of my forces, I charge these new foes, unleashing the raging blades of my Aura to tear apart all opposition. One Aura falls, followed by another, but the third gives me pause, resisting the storm of Chi. While fighting on the front lines, I struggle against my unseen foe in a metaphysical battle, setting upon him from all sides like a ravenous wolf.

Taking chunk after chunk out of my opponent’s aura, it’s only a matter of time before it too crumbles before my savage might. Letting loose with an exultant howl, my Aura crashes into the Defiled Butchers, their last line of defence crushed and their Champions vanquished. My Aura is light and unable to wholly restrain them, but still we hold the upper hand, with no quarter asked and no quarter given. Pushing them back step by step, my soldiers ravage through the Defiled forces with me leading from the front, each of us covered in the blood of our enemies. My world dissolves into a repetitive trance of hack and slash, killing any who stand against me without mercy.

Stepping out of the alleyway and onto the avenue, I watch the Defiled remnants flee before me, panting with effort and coursing with adrenaline. Unable to believe it’s finally over, I glance at my tired, bloodied soldiers, triumphant disbelief etched on every face. Laughter cuts through the silence as Bulat grins back at me, sporting a multitude of minor injuries but otherwise in one piece. Snapping to attention, he salutes and shouts, “The Undying Savage, Unrivalled Beneath Heaven!”

The soldiers take up the cheer, almost a thousand voices shouting “Unrivalled Beneath Heaven,” in unison. Mouth dry and head light, I fight to stay on my feet and look suitably heroic, hoping Bulat’s stupid title doesn’t bite me in the ass. I’m starting to understand why everyone craves honour and glory. It’s not too shabby, but Unrivalled Beneath Heaven? No thank you.

That’s just asking to be challenged.

Chapter Meme
