Noted. Glaive in use. He aimed it like a divining rod, pointing it at a far wall. He felt the energy beginning to crest inside of him as he attempted to focus his Shock Mana, then, as his neurons fired with power and his chest thrummed like a generator, he finally began to recite the words he’d been taught.

“Marel soare, sandeo, shoffth’ca, ha—”

The lightning shot from his glaive before he’d even finished speaking, messily smashing into the far wall and dissipating before long, the shock of seeing the lightning in action too sudden for him to maintain proper focus on the spell.

He turned to Lexi as he finished, hairs on his arms bristled, heart thumping. “So… how’d I do?”

She looked somewhere between awestruck and gobsmacked. Her mouth hung open. Her ears were raised to a higher point than usual, and her eyes all but sparkled with something between confusion and wonder.

“Hey,” Markus said, waving a hand in front of her face. “You good?”

“You… you butchered that pronunciation.” She blinked. “Like. Horribly. Like the most horribly I think you possibly could.”

“Well, shit. It still worked though, right?”

“I mean, it shouldn’t have!” Lexi shouted, smiling in spite of herself, staring at him as if he were a total enigma. “How the hell do you work…”

With that, she sat back down on the ground.

“Do it again. Keep using the glaive.”

“Do you wanna tell me how to say the spell again?”

“No. Just try it again.”

“Alright…” Markus aimed at the far wall once more, gathering his energy. “Marel, soree, sandel, shotfca…” he lowered his glaive a touch. “I think I’m saying it wrong.”

“You’re not! Just do it!”

“Alright, alright. Loreal, sorro, sando, sho—”

Lightning shot from the tip of Markus’ glaive again, sparking along his arms as he sent the energy flying out, though it dissipated just as quickly.

[Lightning Mastery: 0 >> 2.]

Wow. He was really fucking good at this already, somehow. Who’d have known?

Markus tried it once more, shooting the lightning out for just barely longer than he had previously. He smiled at the result.

How’s that, Mrs. Kensington? I habla magic now. That worth a passing grade?

“You’re… butchering the pronunciation, but the spell’s firing anyway, even briefly.”

Markus’ smile immediately faded. “Wait, I’m butchering it?”

“Horribly.”

“Shit.”

Sorry, Mrs. Kensington. Turns out I still suck.

“Buttt… you shouldn’t be able to do that and get those results. That’s absolutely insane.”

A glimmer of hope. “It is?”

She patted the spot beside her. “Sit, and tell me everything that’s going through your mind as you cast. I really wanna try and understand this.”

“Uhh… I just say the words and think where I want it to go. I don’t think there’s much else going on up there.” He considered it for a moment. “I guess I think about separating the energy types in my body. That too.”

“You might just be a freak of nature,” Lexi admitted. “Let’s try playing with your lightning powers. Focus, intensity, aim…”

She once again fired her own beam, twisting and moving it even as she did so, increasing the power of the lightning and how often it forked and bounced and then reducing it just as easily. “I want you to have control over your ability. Let’s figure out if using the incatations helps with that.”

“Okay…”

“And then after that, if you still have the energy, we can practice some more. But don’t burn yourself out. You need to keep your energy for the fight.”

Oh right, the fight. The fire breathing monster. Somehow, Markus had been too preoccupied shooting lightning from his body like some kind of ancient Eastern deity to concern himself too much with reality.

It was one of the only times he’d ever really gotten lost in the feeling of mana and power outside of combat. He could scarcely blame himself, though, this was fun. He almost wished he had bottles to aim at.

Then again, aiming the lightning was the only thing he was good at. It was all well and good being able to snipe someone, but when the spell you were sniping them with equated to like five volts, big fucking deal.

Markus got to work on firing up his lightning once more, trying to focus more intently on intensity and duration. He didn’t mess with Dark Knight yet, knowing there was some deal of amplifier sat within that class but not wanting to resort to using it in practice until he’d gotten as much juice as he could the regular way. Only then would he bolster it.

Still, this was an incredibly difficult thing to do. He found it rather easy to aim a small beam for a short time, but the more in pressure and duration he stacked onto the ability’s cast, the more he began to feel his thoughts wanting to tear away from the task, his arms begin to grow tired, his  glaive moving to the side of its own volition or at one point even flying out of his static, sizzling hand.

It was almost like recoil, only if that recoil was on a minigun. To say that it was difficult to use or aim such a spell was a vast understatement, but with the amount of Shock Mana he’d been charged with and the ticking time counting down until he had to fight once more, Markus was going to keep repeating the process, even if he was tired, determined to get the spell right.

Markus kept practicing until he finally brought Lightning Mastery to level 4, high enough that he felt he’d made some actual progress, and while he was eager to keep grinding it all the way to 10 and unlock a specialisation, he knew he had to get moving.

“Is there anything you can teach me that protects against fire?” Markus asked.

“Teach you?” Lexi shook her head. “Nothing you could actually learn in this short of a time. A flame barrier’s way too advanced. However… you should go to the smithy. Ask about some protection. You’ve been running around in robes for the last few days. You could probably use some proper gear.”

Markus nodded. It’d already been his next planned stop. He didn’t have time to wait for anything to be made for him, but he decided he’d take the metals and gems he’d found anyways, hoping to get them appraised.

Maybe, with the coins he’d found and a bit of luck, he’d be able to fashion together something that afforded him some proper protection from all of the bullshit this world continually threw at him.

Or at least some of the bullshit. Some would do.
