The female dwarf stood up and grinned. “You don't think I'd let you touch these books without my supervision, did you?”

“No, Ma'am.” Ren said. “I was hoping you'd tell me where to start, since I don't know your filing system; but I don't expect you to help build anything.”

“Why?” She said and scowled. “Because I'm a woman?”

“No, Ma'am.” Ren said. “Some of the best workers I know are women.”

“Then what...”

“You have to tell me what books are going where, how high to make the shelves, if you want them floor to ceiling, which way to point the freestanding shelves so you can see them, and then sort the books to put on the shelves. You won't have the time to help build anything.”

“Oh.” She said and smiled. “Then that's okay.”

Ren smiled, too. “So, where does the filing system start?”

The female dwarf walked to the right and Ren followed her over to the wall. “Right here.” She said and pointed to the book on the very bottom of the floor to ceiling stack. “It's alphabetized and catagorized.”

“How do you reach the books at the top?” Ren asked and looked up the 8 feet to the ceiling.

She smiled, went back to her desk, and came back carrying the chair she was sitting in. “The most versatile piece of furniture ever invented.” She put it down on the floor in front of the stack and Ren climbed up onto it.

“I'd like to try something, if I may?” Ren reached up and touched the top book, then stored it. He stored each book in the stack until he got down to about 4 feet. He looked into his inventory and saw that they'd all stacked into the same slot.

That could be good or bad. Ren thought and pulled out a book from the slot and put it on the stack, then again and again.

“They're in the right order.” The female dwarf said and smiled. Ren didn't tell her they were actually in reverse order of how they were stored. First in, last out. Ren stored enough stacks to clear a 10 foot section, then the female dwarf told him how high to make the shelves. Ren modified his cabinet recipe and took off the doors, and was fortunate that there was enough room for a cabinet with 7 shelves at 8 feet long, and there was 7 stacks of books that were almost 8 feet high. Ren didn't have to cut the wood at all and assembled the cabinet. He took the books from his inventory and put them on the shelves, starting with the bottom shelf and working his way up until he'd filled the shelves.

“That's perfect!” The female dwarf exclaimed. Ren kept repeating this process, only taking enough stacks of books to fill the next cabinet of shelves. He heard banging and saws and things happening outside, but the female dwarf didn't mention hearing anything, so Ren finished the whole row of cabinets along the length of the building, and turned to the female dwarf.

“Six cabinets fill the length of the room.” Ren said. “That's one row done.” He turned to the next stack. “Where does your filing system go to now?”

“Back down the end.”

“Really?” Ren said. “I thought it would be right here.” He said and pointed to the stack they stood next to. The female dwarf shook her head.

“I couldn't keep track if I alternated them.”

Ren nodded. “No problem.” He said. “I'll keep everything single sided.”

They walked down the aisle and to the next row of stacks. Ren kept working and finished that row of cabinets, and then another. He ran out of wood and told the female dwarf he'd be back in a little while when he picked up more wood. She waved at him and marveled at all the nice shelves she had. Ren went outside the small building, and when he turned around, saw that it wasn't so small anymore. The frame was already up and half of the second floor was already covered. The foreman walked over to him.

“Where did you want the stairs?” The foreman asked and showed Ren the basic plans.

“Right here. 4 feet wide, at the back of the building.” Ren took out a piece of charcoal and drew what he wanted, and drew in the small bedroom at the back. The stairs would only fit where the female dwarf's desk was, and would end above her bedroom. “Put the stairs to the next level beside that in the other direction.” Ren drew in where to put them. “Hold off on the main floor for now. I've got to clear it out before you can add them.”

“Thanks for letting us know.” The foreman said and turned back to supervise the crew. Ren took off running and ran all the way back to House Neram. He ignored the stares from everyone he passed and ran up the road he'd made, and to his workshop. The pile of lumber on the side was still there, and Ren stored piles and piles of lumber, filling 10 slots in his inventory to their modified capacity of 199 items. With almost 2000 planks he felt that would be enough to make the shelves, assuming his count of 7 stacks per 10 feet was accurate. Ren looked around and noticed that the tent was gone.

“Someone took my tent!” Ren said, surprised.

One of the women that was on break from shoveling silt came over. “Your highness? The guards are using it.”

“What guards?”

“The House Neram guards.” She said. “It's on the other side of the house.”

“Oh.” Ren said. “Thank you for telling me.” He started to walk away, then turned back to her. “How did you know about the tent?”

“My husband is one of the guards.”

“I thought Wohrum wasn't married.”

The woman chuckled. “He's not. I'm married to his best friend, Golir.”

Ren looked at her in surprise. “Will you be moving here?”

She nodded her head slightly. “As soon as the loan is approved.”

Ren's face lost all of it's expression. He took in a deep breath and stepped over to her. “How much is the loan for?”

“I-it's for 40 gold.” She said and dropped her head.

“Don't do that.” Ren said. “Look at me, please.”

She looked up with surprise on her face.

“Where are you getting the loan from?” Ren asked.

“H-House Lodur.” She said. “I-it's the only place to get loans.”

Ren frowned at her words. “Please cancel your petition for a loan.” He said. “I will not have people going into debt to move here, then have to work for months somewhere else, just to have a basic living requirement!” Ren handed her 40 gold as several other women came over. “I'll try and get a crew out here tomorrow to build houses.” He said and turned away from her. Ren ran down the road and then towards the city.

*

“By the gods!” “Did he just...” “I can't believe...” “He's really generous.”

The other women kept talking, but Golir's wife just stood there in shock, and didn't say a word as she stared at the pile of gold in her hands.

*

Ren turned around and ran back up the road and towards the group of women that had gathered around Golir's wife. He slowed down and walked over to her. She held the money out towards him.

“Sorry, I nearly forgot...” Ren said and took the money back, and heard several gasps from the other women. He pulled out a coin pouch. “You're going to need this.” He handed it to her and told her to equip it. When she did, he gave her the 40 gold coins back, and she put it in the coin pouch without saying a word. Ren smiled and stepped away, gave her a nod, then turned and ran down the road again.

*

“I thought he was taking it back!” “I thought that, too.” “I can't believe he gave it to her again, like the shock from the first time wasn't enough.”

Golir's wife stood there in shock, and watched Ren's figure run down the road until he disappeared from sight.

*

Ren went to the tables and took out the 3 bolts of basic cloth and dyed them red, measured and then cut it to the proper length to cover the tables. Once that was done, Ren ran back to the main part of town, and stopped at the Stonemason's Guild. The guard opened the door for him without asking him what he wanted or where he was going. Ren went inside and up to the floor where the office of the dwarf that Narhilda had arranged for him to see the first time. He knocked on the door and the dwarf told him to come in. When he saw Ren's armor, he nearly choked on the piece of bread he was eating. Ren saw that the ugly chair was still in front of his desk, but saw a blue tint on the one behind the desk.

“Y-y-yes, yes” *cough* “Please come in.” *cough* The dwarf said and wiped the crumbs off of his desk. “What can I do for you?”

Ren took out the piece of parchment and held it out. “I've got that delivery for you.”

The dwarf sat up straight in the chair. “Really?” He said. “Excellent. Excellent.” He looked at Ren expectantly. “How much?”

Ren's Haggle skill kicked in, he smiled, then looked at the ugly chair. “That one was 10 gold, wasn't it?”

The dwarf looked at the offending chair. “Yes, the piece of trash was 10 gold.”

“The chair I lost around here somwhere would be much better, if someone had found it.”

“Yes, much better.”

“Then wouldn't double that...” Ren motioned to the chair. “...be fair?”

“Double?” The dwarf shook his head. “No, no... not that much. It's a nice chair... assuming someone found it.” He said. “Perhaps... it's worth the same as that one.”

Ren chuckled. “Surely you jest. I sat in that once. I can still feel it.”

The dwarf laughed. “I do, too!”

“How about we split the difference.” Ren said. “15 gold per chair.”

The dwarf squinted his eyes, looked back at the offending chair, and smiled. “Deal.”

Ren took the 30 chairs out from inventory and the dwarf handed him 450 gold.

“A pleasure doing business with you.” Ren said and opened the office door. He turned around and the dwarf was already laying aross the chairs. Ren grinned, shut the door, and walked downstairs. He left the Stonemason's Guild and ran over to the Library. The second floor was completely closed in and Ren nodded slightly to the foreman, who nodded slightly back. Ren worked the rest of the day storing books and building cabinet shelves. He was running out of room and had to push the shelves together. He'd made it about halfway across the room when he saw the female dwarf yawn.

“Ma'am? Why don't you head to bed.” Ren said. “I'll finish this row and then come back tomorrow to keep working.”

“That's a good idea, young man.” She said and stood up. “Goodnight.” She went around several stacks and Ren walked out to the workmen that were starting to pack up.

“I've got the room for the stairs now.” Ren told the foreman.

“Sorry, but the day's over. We're all heading home.” He said. “We can come back tomorrow and finish them.”

Ren shook his head. “Dont worry about it. I'll finish them myself.”

“Are you sure? It's no trouble to come back.”

“Actually, it might be.”

“Why?”

“I'd like to hire you and your crew to build a house or two out at House Neram.”

“A house or two?” The foreman asked, squinting a little. He'd detected a slight lie.

“Okay, a dozen or so.” Ren said.

“You're crazy.” The foreman said and smiled.

“That's what everyone says.” Ren said and chuckled.

“Alright, we'll head out there tomorrow.” The foreman said. “Do you want them all to be the same house?”

Ren shook his head. “Different, if possible.”

“Oh, it's possible, but it'll cost ya.”

Ren grinned and pulled out a couple of platinum coins to show the foreman. “I'm good for it.”

The foreman whistled and then grinned himself. “I'll bring 2 crews.”
