Ren lifted off the VR headset and Barbara took it from him. “Barbara? What are you... oh, crap.”

Barbara chuckled. “Yes, Ren. You spent the night working in the game and missed supper. It's 10pm right now.”

“I'm sorry.” Ren said. “When I logged in after lunch, I spent the day sleeping. It's messed up my timing.”

“Sleep does that, sometimes.” Barbara said. “I've kept the food warm for you, though.”

“Thanks, Barbara.” Ren said and Barbara went to get it. He watched television until she returned with the tray and he ate supper quietly.

“I'd suggest you sleep tonight in the game, though.” Barbara looked at Ren sternly. “You've got therapy in the morning, and Doctor Hobbard won't let you skip it twice in a row.”

Ren nodded. “I'll be there.”

Barbara smiled. “I like your new metal suit.”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, it's pretty cool.” He said. “I'm going to change the enchantments on some of the pieces, or modify them at least.”

“Why's that?”

Ren shrugged. “I think the Protection it has now isn't versatile enough, and I need something else.”

Barbara nodded. “It's always good to be prepared.”

Ren smiled. “I try to plan for everything I can think of, but...”

She sat down next to the bed. “You shouldn't worry too much about things.” Barbara said. “Go in there and have fun playing the game. That's what it's for.” She smiled. “I'm having almost as much fun watching you, as you are playing it.”

“Then be prepared to be amazed!” Ren chuckled. “Like the Librarian is going to be.”

“Ooo, what do you have planned?” Barbara asked.

“You'll see.” Ren said and motioned for the VR headset. “So will everyone else.”

“Go get 'em, tiger.” Barbara said and put it on him.

Ren laughed. “See you in the morning.”

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren woke up in the bed alone and rolled off the side to stand up. “Coming, Teepo?”

“Always.” Teepo said and hopped into the cloak's hood. Ren opened the bedroom door and walked out through the hallway, then into the main room and into the kitchen.

“Whoa.” Ren said as he saw all of the plates, bowls, platters, and cooking pans that covered every available space in the kitchen.

“Hi, darling.” Nathalia said and came over to him. Ren leaned down and gave her a quick kiss.

“You've both been busy.” Ren said.

“This?” Nathalia said. “We're about half-way done.”

“Half-way?!?” Ren said, surprised.

“Ren. The giant boar was bigger than a full-sized horse.” Nathalia said and chuckled. “There's a lot of meat.”

Her mother Narhilda opened the oven and pulled out another cooking pan, dumped out the contents onto a platter piled high with meat already, and filled it with raw meat to put back in the oven.

“I didn't think...” Ren shook his head and smiled. “I'll be right back.” He went out into the courtyard and built a new icebox. It was nearly 4 times the size of the old one, with a lot more shelves and several more enchanted stones with both Ice and Wind runes. It was dyed to match the kitchen table, and Ren went back inside the house and moved the old one aside, and put the new one in it's place. He loaded all of the plates of cooked meat into it, then the bowls and platters. The icebox was now half full.

“Did you send someone to buy more plates?” Ren asked.

“Better.” Narhilda said. “We sent word to the farm that we had a pile of extra meat, and let the workers out there know that supper would be served here, and they could bring their families.”

“Are you serious?” Ren's eyes widened as he looked at her. “Everyone will be eating in here?”

Narhilda laughed. “Not in here.” She said and waved at the kitchen. “We need a big strapping man, who's handy with a hammer and nails, to make a bunch of tables out in the field across the road.”

Ren chuckled. “I'll do it right away, My Lady.” He said and left the kitchen, walked outside, and gathered up the pile of wood that was there. He unlocked the gate and went across the road, and examined the ground. “It's a little uneven.” Ren took out his hammerpick and did his lot clearing technique to make a space 100 feet by 100 feet, then cleaned it with his shovel.

“Much better.” Ren said as he took out a pile of wood and made 40 tables, 8 feet long and 4 feet wide. They were put in 5 rows of 8 tables at a right angle to the road, leaving a good amount of walking space around them. If they had 8 people per table, 4 per side, that was enough seating for 320 people. Ren then made 320 chairs and leveled up Woodworking twice, and Saw once.

Since he was making chairs anyway, he finally got the chance to make the 30 comfy chairs that the Stonemason's Guild tried to order, and stored them. He put the normal chairs in the right spots around the arranged tables. Once that was done, Ren made one long table that was 64 feet long and put it parallel to the road, so food could be placed on one side and then taken buffet style from the other. Ren looked at the tables and frowned. He'd dyed them all dark brown, but they looked plain without tablecloths. He ran back across the road and into the kitchen.

“I've got to run to town and buy some more cloth.” Ren said.

“There's quite a bit left in the closet.” Narhilda said and put another pile of meat in the oven.

Ren shook his head. “I won't use such great fabric for simple tablecloths. It should be saved for something important.”

Narhilda looked at Ren and smiled. “You're right, of course.”

Ren smiled back. “My Lady, do you still have that request from the Stonemason's Guild?”

Narhilda nodded slightly and took off her apron. “I'll go and get it.” She said and left the kitchen.

“How's the table building coming along?” Nathalia asked as she put another platter into the icebox.

“It's not.” Ren said, then laughed at her surprised expression. “It's already done. That's why I need the tablecloths.” He smiled. “The chairs are done, too.”

“Chairs?” Narhilda asked as she came back into the kitchen and handed Ren the piece of parchment.

“Once I started making tables, I figured people would want somewhere to sit while they ate.” He said and stored the parchment.

“That makes sense.” She said. “I was just going to put the food out for people to get it themselves.”

Ren grinned. “There's a long table for that, too.”

“There is?”

“You can go look if you want.” Ren said and turned around. “I'll be back soon.” He left the kitchen and the house, then closed the gate behind him to lock it.

Ready, Teepo? Ren thought.

“Am I ever!” Teepo said, and Ren ran as hard as he could down the road.

“Wheee!” Teepo chittered in delight as the hood bounced him up and down. The small crowd around the statue watched Ren as he ran by, quick as a flash.

“Was that?” “Did you see?” “He's pretty fast.” “He's in full plate armor!” “How can he run like that?”

Some of the carts passing the other way to go to House Neram slowed down to watch Ren run by, and he chuckled. He made it back to the main part of the city a few minutes later and slowed down. He avoided the street with all the market stalls, as he didn't want to deal with haggling at the moment. Ren went several blocks over and stopped at the end of the street.

Teepo, same deal. The main lobby, and anything that can be seen from there.

“Give me a couple of minutes.” Teepo said and hopped out of the hood. He skittered down the street and past the guard. Ren stood there on the corner and waited patiently. After several minutes, Teepo spoke.

“It's the same setup as House Longore. Main lobby and desk, offices off the hallway behind. 2 guards this time. One inside, one out.”

Excellent. Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought and walked down the street to the House and up the steps. The guard opened the door for him and nodded. Ren dismissed the Honor gain popup and stepped inside. He walked over to the reception desk and asked to see some of the fabric they had for sale.

“Of course, sir.” The female dwarf said and pulled out several different kinds of colors and weaves. “We have basic cloth, strong weave for toughness, thin weave for breathability...”

“How much is a bolt of basic cloth?”

“3 silver.”

“Do you have a tight weave, that can hold something like sand?”

“We do. It's 6 silver.”

“I'll take 3 bolts of the basic cloth, and 100 bolts of the tight weave.” Ren said. “White, please.”

“Did... did you just say... a hundred?”

Ren nodded slightly. “It should be enough for my immediate needs, but I might be back for more.”

“M-m-more?”

“Do you have that many in stock?” Ren asked.

“I'll have to check.” She said and stood. “Please wait here.”

Teepo, can you follow her?

“I can.” Teepo said and Ren saw him skitter across the ceiling after the female dwarf's retreating figure. Several minutes passed and then Teepo spoke.

“She's talking to the textile foreman.” Teepo said. “They've only got 20 in stock... and they're arguing over putting a rush on tight weave over the normal cloth.”

Damn. Ren thought. I had hoped they'd have more.

“It's not like you can sit there and sew the sacks yourself.”

Not exclusively, no. Ren thought. I can do it while waiting for other things to be done, though.

“The foreman's going to task 2 of the 10 looms they have to the tight weave you want. It'll take 2 days for the full order.”

Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought. Come on back.

The female dwarf came back to the reception desk and Teepo was on her shoulder. He hopped off and landed on the desk. Ren put his hand on the desk's top and Teepo crawled up his arm.

“We don't have that many, sir.” She said. “We'll have that many in a couple of days, though.”

“That's fine.” Ren said. “I'll take the 3 basic, and any tight weave that you do have in stock, and you can deliver the remainder to House Neram in a couple of days, when you get them made.”

The female dwarf smiled and reached into a drawer. Ren pulled out 6 gold and 9 silver and put it on the desk. She took out the order form, and Ren signed it as she took the money. She left the desk again and went in the back. Ren waited about 10 minutes and she came back with a worker that pushed a small cart filled with bolts of cloth.

“Do you have a cart outside, sir?” She asked.

“No, I'm an Adventurer. I'll carry them.” Ren said, and then stored the 20 bolts of tight weave cloth, and 3 bolts of basic cloth.

“Thank you for your order, sir.”

Ren nodded slightly and left. He walked over several blocks to the lumberyard and walked inside. The female dwarf there recognized him right away and stood.

“Is there a problem with your order, sir?”

Ren smiled. “Of course not.” He said and approached the desk. “In fact, you've delivered more than the promised amount for this week.”

She smiled. “When we sent the end of week delivery, the workers noticed all the contruction and we rushed the next delivery.”

“That won't put you behind, will it?” Ren asked.

“No, sir. We've brought in extra workers to handle the demand.”

“Can you bring in more?” Ren asked. “I've got a big project that needs taking care of immediately.”

The female dwarf put a hand on her chin. “What kind of project?”

“I've got a 1 storey building, about 50 feet by 50 feet, that needs another level built on top of it.” Ren thought about how many books there were at the Library, and changed his mind. “Better make that 2 levels, and possibly a third, depending on how things turn out.”

“When would you like a crew sent?”

“Is now too soon?” Ren asked.

“Now?” She asked.

“I said I'd have it done as soon as possible.”

“Let me go and talk to the foreman.”

“I'd appreciate that, thank you.” Ren said. Teepo.

Teepo hopped out of the hood and followed the female dwarf out the back. “She's talking to him, and asking if there's a crew available for heavy construction.” Teepo said. “He's nodding and pointing to several people.”

Ren smiled and waited patiently.

“They're gathering together materials and loading some carts.” Teepo said. “I'm coming back.”

The female dwarf came back with Teepo on her shoulder and smiled. “It seems we do have a crew.” She said and sat down at the desk. “It's a big job you've requested, and on short notice.” She pulled out an order form and looked at Ren. “Is there a limit to how many workers you want?”

Ren shook his head. “If more hands will get it done faster, and without getting in each other's way...”

She nodded.

“Then I'll hire them.” Ren said. “How much for all the materials and extra labor?”

“We have 10 people available right now, and it's a gold each per day.” She said. “Heavy labor is more expensive than basic labor.”

“That's understandable.” Ren said. “What about the materials?”

“It's another 15 gold.” She said. “The extra long supports for crossing the distance are more expensive.”

“That's fine.” Ren said, handed her 25 gold, and signed the work order. “Can I ride with them? I need to show them where to go.”

“Of course, sir.” She stood up and walked down the hallway again. The female dwarf came back a minute later and smiled. “They'll meet you out front.”

Ren reached a hand out to her and she took it. “Thank you very much for your help.” He said and bent over it. Teepo crawled across and up into the hood.

“Y-you're welcome.” She said, a little flustered.

Ren left the building and waited a few minutes for the line of carts to come around to the front. They pulled over and Ren climbed onto the seat next to the driver. He gave the driver directions and the driver took him to where he wanted to go, then shook his head then they arrived at the alley.

“We can just go around.” He said.

“You'd just be coming up the other end of the alley to get to the building.” Ren said and smiled.

“Okay.” The driver flicked the reins and led the train of carts down the alley and came to a stop in front of the small building. “Hey, there is a building here!”

Ren chuckled and hopped off the cart. “No one comes down here, so you can set up what you need right here.”

The driver nodded and the couple of workers in the back hopped out as well and started to unload everything. The other 4 carts started to do the same thing and Ren went into the building. He made his way though the stacks of books to the desk at the back of the room.

“Why, hello there!” The female dwarf said and smiled at Ren. “How are you going to work while wearing your fancy armor?”

“The same way I do while not wearing it.” Ren said and smiled. “Carefully.”

She chuckled. “Alright, let's get to work.”

“Ma'am?”

