Dull red light mixed with the hazy purple and almost pink hues coming from this place. There were no windows and the door was shut but a table stood outside with two people having a quiet conversation over drinks. The roof extended forward slightly, with hazy light shining down from lamps affixed below. Above the entrance and embedded in the wall was a metal crescent moon.

A doorman wearing a black leather duster and armed with a longsword hanging from his belt leaned against the wall with arms crossed and in a way that slightly blocked the entrance. He had a clean shaven head and the dark complexion that Veron had started to associate with people from the southern lands of Sor. The doorman glanced at them with casual interest.

“What's your business here?” he asked, in a calm and measured voice, like someone remarking on the weather.

“Is this the Luna Inn?” Veron asked.

“It is the one. And what are you looking to do at our establishment?”

Veron turned slightly to let the doorman see the chest on his back. “We may have something to sell.”

Veron thought as if he spotted a slight smile on the man's face before he stepped aside slightly and opened the door for them.

“Welcome to the inn.”

Veron gave him a glance and then looked at the others. He saw that the two patrons talking at the table were watching on with some measure of curiosity, just before he stepped into the purple light. A long square room extended inside and to the left, a bar straight ahead with several doors behind. Left of the counter were stairwells leading up and down.

Some patrons sat at dark tables, having drinks or food. Only a few glanced their way and quickly lost interest. Behind them and near the left wall was a small dais where a woman in a white dress played the harp, some of the guests sitting close and listening to her play. The tune was soft but carried all the way to the entrance, mixing with the soft murmur of quiet conversation.

They went to the bar where Veron saw a pale woman writing something in a book. She looked to be in her late twenties, wearing a dark blue overall that almost looked purple in the magical light of the inn. She wore red lipstick and her black hair in a bun, smiling at the newcomers when she noticed them. “Welcome. Haven’t seen you here before. I’m Chloe, what would you like to drink?”

“I’m Veron. Good to meet you, Chloe.” He glanced at the others and then turned to show the chest on his back. “We’re not here to drink.”

“Oh! Well, straight to business. We can do that too. Congratulations on your find.” She smiled and stepped out from behind the bar, gesturing to the stairwell. “Come then, we’ll get a room upstairs.”
