Since Hod gave such poor feedback, I took matters into my own hands. I used origin mana to create a thin block of metal. With two durable gravitational panels, I squeezed and heated the ore into a flat plate. This created a smeared mirror panel I hovered in the air, thin as aluminum foil.

I was surprised by my reflection. I changed a bit from last time. My skin was still grayish, the metal infesting me down to my cells. My hair was still raven-colored and rough. Eh, it was what it was. I found a few more scars on my face, a few of my earlier ones fading with time. I didn't know what made the scars, in all honesty. If I got scars from every wound, I'd be walking ball of scarred tissue by this point.

I was glad I kept my hair short, at least. Letting it grow out got my helmet stuffy, and I hated having to twitch my neck to get it out of my face. Combine that with a sort-of sharp jawline, and I sort-of looked good. Out of place, but good. The suit did the majority of the weightlifting in that department. Florence wasn't kidding when he said he knew the best either. This suit fit my proportions to a T, and it was still comfortable.

Satisfied after a few seconds of looking, I crumbled the metal as we stepped out, Florence and Helios waited on us, each of them already finished. The more talkative of the two brothers chose a flowing garment, similar to his previous one. It left more of him shown, which was a surprise. It was still classy somehow, and he whispered to himself about something as we waited. Helios was already finished before we even got here.

A few minutes later, and the ladies stepped out of their rooms. Ophelia was already prepared, but she helped out Victoria, Althea, and Kessiah with getting ready. The albony beautician honed in on her work, making miracles happen with all of them. Despite that, I hardly noticed anyone but Althea. She took my breath away as she walked out in a blue dress that accentuated her hair. I could hardly stand as she walked up to me.

She grinned while putting her hands on her hips, "How do I look?"

"I...I...you look really, really good. Like, wow good."

She blushed but powered through, offering me her hand. Florence turned towards us, "Does anyone want a prep in etiquette on how to handle themselves? I just rehearsed a lecture for it."

So that's what he was whispering about. I pulled Althea to me, "I think we've spent enough time on it already. Let's go."

Althea raised her eyebrows, "Let's."

Everyone stepped out while Florence looked devastated. Torix of all people walked up to him and grabbed his shoulder,

"If it should keep me from this party but for a moment longer, I shall sit here and listen to what you have to say. Aside from that, I am a complete sap for lectures in any and all forms, even those revolving around the most trite, pathetic, and useless of disciplines."

I raised an eyebrow at the lich, "You know, you didn't have to come if you didn't want to, right?"

Torix shook his head, "I'm one of your most important allies. Leaving you to fight this war on your own would be heresy if I say so myself...Though spending my time listening to a lecture sounds far less dry than attending to others chattiness."

Florence perked up and began his long speech. We left in a hurry, passing more corridors before entering another elevator. Helios turned to us,

"Do try to keep yourselves civil. That is all the advice you will need."

Once we rose through several floors, we entered into another entryway, much like the other space station. Unlike the previous one, this specific room carried many entrances. Albony and other races walked in and out of these entryways, almost like it was a giant stadium.

I turned to Helios, "How large is this place?"

"Larger than Mt. Verner."

Althea whispered, "Woah. In space?"

Helios grinned, "In space."

We walked through the doorway, leading to a set of stairs. Stepping up and out into a room, I gawked at the sights around us.

Man, Obolis really outdid himself here.
