Despite that, the sheer novelty of earthen food made it a fun experience for them, and even Helios perked up. I wasn't the only one that could tell either. The albony kept their masks on, using a sliding compartment to let themselves eat. This exposed their teeth, and even with my sharp senses, I never noticed the compartment's outline before. The albony had perfected their visors centuries ago, so their excellence in mask-making made sense.

Once the meal was completed, I made my way towards Chrona and Krog. There was no way in hell I was about to send them an invitation to view Giess's glassing, at least not by status message. Instead, I chose to let them know in person so they didn't get the wrong idea. I found them on the outskirts of Mt. Verner's forests. Chrona sparred another gialgathen while Krog watched as both the battlers glided through the air with succinct, graceful movements. Chrona kept the edge throughout, though she scrambled at times when pressured.

As I neared them, they settled down, landing onto the ground to meet me. They bowed before I raised my hands, "Don't worry about the bowing thing, guys. We're still friends, even if I'm your guildleader."

Krog's eyes showed the strain of sleepless nights, as did Chrona. It left me somber and almost afraid to ask them if they wanted to come to the glassing. I wanted them to know they were a core part of my guild, however, so I raised a hand,

"So, uhm, our guild has been invited to watch the glassing of Giess. I didn't actually want to go, but Obolis insisted. Neither of you has to go through with this invitation I'm giving you, and I know you're both tired. I...I just wanted to make sure you both felt included."

I scratched the back of my head, "Man, this sounded better in my head than when I said it out loud. Jesus Christ, just forget I asked."

Chrona gave me a gentle smile, "Do not doubt yourself. I...thank you for this invitation, but I would rather stay here. This is my new home, and I wish to get myself situated."

Krog sighed, "Our planet's demise is something the powerful views for pleasure, hmm?" He peered down, "At the very least, it shall bring someone some joy."

He winced, "I shall not partake in that joy. Of that, I'm resolute.

I bit my tongue before saying,

"So I'm guessing that's a hard no. So, er, I hope you guys are enjoying Earth so far."

Chrona nodded, "It is different, though beautiful in its own way. I think of it as a muted version of Giess, one lacking the same vibrance in mana and life. Perhaps that is simply me showing a bias for my home."

I tapped my legs, "It's good to hear you don't hate Earth at least." A thought popped in my head,

"Did you ever meet with Torix to talk about him learning primordial mana? I can't remember if I ever mentioned it."

Chrona tilted her head, "I have, and we decided it wasn't worth pursuing. He is headstrong and overwhelmingly favored towards dominion mana. This gives him a range of skills that he's suited for. Primordial mana is simply not one of those skills."

Krog whipped his tail behind him, "I was a part of the talks. Torix is a prodigy in regard to his chosen domains. That potential is a result of his sacrifices in other areas. I believe he will go far with his own mana and chosen path. You need not worry about him nor his progress. That wily mage will succeed even when given hardship and struggle. It is in his nature."

I gave them a thumbs up, "I'll trust you guys on that. Anyways, it's good seeing you're both doing well. When things settle down, we should talk again."

They perked up, and Chrona snapped her tail against the ground,

"We would like that, leader. Stay well, and stay strong."

I left them to their sparring, each of them blowing off steam. Other gialgathens flew around the skies of Mt. Verner, enjoying the clouds and wind on their wings. It made our base much less secure, but it didn't really matter in the end. We would eventually be forced out of hiding in our mountain. It was up to me to be ready for whatever was coming when they discovered where we were.

Those thoughts raced in my head as I bolted back up to Mt. Verner, meeting up with the others. Ophelia and Helios were already prepped, Ophelia garbed in a luxurious dress while Helios stuck to a new cape. Helios must have brought Ophelia over since she didn't rest here.

It might have been an exchange for hooking him up with his new attire if you could call it that. It could've been a favor for me. Regardless, I wasn't about to waste this moment. As I stepped up, I gestured at Helios to break the ice,

"I don't know how to say this, but I thought you'd make a bigger effort to look different."

Ophelia frowned, "He has. It's in the subtleties of his wares."

Usually, I'd chop that up to useless frivolity, but these guys took this as a matter of life and death. Well, at least compared to me. I looked Helios over with more care, and a few changes cropped up. He groomed his fur for once, and he added a few bands like Florence. His cape lacked the same holes and scrapes that his previous one had, and he polished his armor. He even took several pieces of crystallized mana as practical jewelry.

I peered at Ophelia, "I didn't think that would be enough from what Florence said."

She propped her weight onto one foot while crossing her arms,

"Looking good is more about owning your own style rather than sticking to trends."

Helios rolled his eyes, "And what are you, aside from the master of trends?"

Ophelia tilted her head at Helios, "I like riding those waves. They're fun, and that's how I like to dress. That means I'm sticking to my style by following the trends. I think of myself as a fashion surfer that way."

I turned a hand to her, "Speaking of styles, Florence and Helios mentioned you're a living mana expert. I was wondering if you could help me with a project?"

Helios winced as I asked, the guy turning away. If he thought I was shameless, then he was right. I also didn't give too many fucks about it either, though. Ophelia raised her eyebrows,

"So the big man needs my help? Sorry, I'm a little too busy making sure I'm ready for the next battle. I don't have time for anything else."

Welp, I had this one coming.

"I'm willing to offer compensation."

She gave me a small grin, "Like what? From what I can see around here, there isn't much that's valuable."

I stopped myself from rolling my eyes.

"I'm a runic carving expert. I can carve into any jewelry you give me, power it with mana, and you can keep whatever I make."

Her eyes widened under her mask, "Oh, really now?"

I nodded, "That's what I plan on working for with the project. It wouldn't be too out of the way for me to make a few extra enchantments for you."

"So, what kind of inscriptions can you make?"

"It would depend on what you need. I'm best at configurations that revolve around survivability. I can also help with gravitation, telekinesis, temperature manipulation, and matter generation. If you also need it, I can power a blue core in just under an hour. I mean, I can kill some monsters too, but you already know that."

She leaned back, "You can power a blue core that quickly?"

Helios turned to her, "His natural mana generation is likely the highest of anyone I've ever seen. It is comparable to an elemental furnace user."

She lifted her chin, "There aren't many people that can utilize elemental furnaces to any degree of proficiency. Hmmm, I have a city that's running low on power. If you power that up to full, give me a gravitational ring that lets me float, and give me a ring with matter generation properties, you have a deal. What do you say?"

She looked dubious during her offering as if she was trying to bite off more than she could chew. The thing was, all of that would take about an hour to finish if I layered my tasks. I'd be having her help me out for months in return. I reached out my hand,

"Alright. You'll need to teach me how to do the living magic thing, and help me with my golems. You're okay with that?"

She looked at my hand before grabbing my top two fingers with her petite grasp,

"Oh, that won't be a problem. Know this - I won't help you until you give me everything I asked for. You understand?"

I smiled, "Then it's a deal."

Helios shook his head before walking off. Ophelia grinned under her mask before hopping away with light steps. She might think she duped me there, but from my experience, none of those tasks were at all difficult. As Helios walked into his apartment, I shouted,

"We'll be leaving soon, suits or no suits."

He raised a hand before entering his apartment. As he did, Florence walked out of his own place, stepping up to me,

"I handled the suits and dresses. I called three different outlets I frequent, and I've almost got them finished. One of my contacts acquaintances is going to the party, and they'll bring us the coats and dresses."

"Hell yeah. Cool."

Florence spread out his hands, "It will be a lavish night of entertainment. Gagh, you'll love it."

I frowned, "That's usually not my thing."

Florence pressed his fingers together while leaning forward,

"This is different. It's about devising strategies and forming relationships. You'll meet many people from many guilds. This is your chance to set up alliances, show off the strength of your guild, and maybe even make a few business deals. It's fun, certainly, but it's also a golden opportunity if used wisely."

"Eh, if you say so."

Over the next fifteen minutes, everyone got ready and met back up here. Florence took the initiative in that regard, making sure everyone showed up. Torix was the only person late, and he stared around with a dreadful aura that saturated the very fiber of his being. He wailed,

"I cannot believe we're actually going to a party of all things. It would seem to me that we're all wasting our valuable time, and utterly so. It's shameful, truly shameful."

I nudged him with an elbow, "Come now, you'll enjoy it."

"Bagh, it will take more than a smile to convince me otherwise. I've never owned a sociable persona, and my sensibilities tend to misalign with those that frequent various social circles. It would seem most fail to see the value in any of my interests. That is why I often work alone."

I scoffed, "Heh, me too. Maybe it'll be more fun than we're expecting."

Torix grumbled, "If only that were the case, disciple."

Once everyone was collected, Helios opened a portal for us. He glanced at us,

"We'll be arriving on the Nebula Drifter soon. It's a space station that the Emperor created for his various trips into the nether regions beyond Schema's influence. Any violence will not be tolerated as it could breach the hull and result in the death of everyone present."

I shook my head, "Just most."

"Huh, well, let's avoid that if at all possible. We want to make great first impressions."

Florence looked everyone over, making sure we listened. Without waiting any longer, we stepped over the divide, finding ourselves in the living quarters. It was a standard barracks for soldiers, a tight series of bunks interspersed by tiny storage units. It was made of orichalcum and a gray, dull material layered between the green metal. The same plasma linings offered lighting and heating, keeping the space comfortable and visible.

Helios pointed forward. We followed him, everyone squeezing their way through the compacted space. After walking through a long corridor full of other bedding areas, we neared a storage unit for supplies and food. We waited for Florence's friend, all of us packed in like sardines. A few minutes later, and an avant-garde looking albony in an orange mask waltzed up to us.

He wore a sleek, showy dress covered in various kinds of crystalized mana. They weren't like Helios's gemstones which were tailor-made to prevent tampering. These mana bombs were just that - mana bombs. To me, this guy was wearing a vest covered in dynamite since anyone with any sense for mana could use the crystals to destructive effect.

Either way, he wore it with confidence before stepping up to Florence,

"Hello, darling. It's wonderful to see you again."

Florence grabbed his hand before bowing to it. He grinned under his mask,

"It's good to see you're thriving, Evan. Sorry to get down to business so quickly, but we're pressed for time. Did you bring us the attire?"

"Of course, of course. Here, take them."

Evan opened his dimensional storage ring, pulling out a sea's worth of clothing. He propped them over Florence's arm before waving at us,

"I'll see you all at the party. Stay healthy and beautiful, darlings."

Florence passed the clothes out as needed, and we went into the bunks, using them as changing rooms. With me, Hod struggled to get his new clothes on. That made sense since I'd never seen him wear clothes before outside of rags. I helped him out, using a bit of gravity.

After finagling them on, he looked like a new bird. Honestly, it was just a red pirate looking suit with white, weird-looking pants. It fit well and contrasted his feathering, however, so it made him look dark and mysterious. Well, if you didn't think of him as a pirate or he didn't open his mouth.

I couldn't criticize him much since someone could say the same thing about me too. To fit my clothing, I molded my armor into a thin, even layering over my skin. After that, I wrestled with my clothes until they were finally on. Fitting on a suit was a more arduous process than I imagined it'd be, everything requiring a bit of finesse. With it all put on, I turned towards Hod,

"How do I look?"

"Not like Harbinger. Different person. Strange person. Not normal. How Hod look?"

I grinned despite his vague description,

"Like a million bucks."

Hod stared at his hands, "Why Hod look like money?"

I gave him a pat on his back, "Don't worry about it."

