It seemed like a lot for the golem project, but I trusted his judgment. He worked on large scale projects before, and I sure as hell hadn't, not like this at least. I let him handle it as we made our way back to Mt. Verner. Once inside, we made our way to the residential district at the lowest part of the mountain. I hovered him to save some time since he helped out so much. That, and the guy was about as athletic as a cheetah with four broken legs.

We reached Diesel's home, a nicely carved out section of granite nestled along an upper part of a cavern wall. It was on the bottom floor, but it still had a unique flair from a few design choices. After walking through the stairs, a girl walked out of his room, sliding a metal door along a hinge. She was pretty in a quiet sort of way, not needing to broadcast it. She saw me and froze up before Diesel waved his arms,

"Woah, wait a minute. It's our guildleader, Daniel. Daniel, this is Melissa. Melissa, this is Daniel. Honey, I know he looks ugly, but don't take it to heart. He doesn't act as bad as he looks."

I rolled my eyes before nudging him with my elbow, "Come on now, you didn't tell me you had a lady friend."

I raised my eyebrows a few times. Out of her earshot, Diesel leaned over and murmured,

"Stop all that...but yes, she's a keeper."

"I thought you were crushing for Althea?"

Diesel shrugged, "I was, I was. After a while, it became obvious you two were going to stick around. I had to move on, and that's when I found Melissa. She's amazing, and I'm lucky I found her. It's crazy how everything seems to work out in the end."

Diesel smiled, a content kind of smile like he'd found something he never wanted to let go. I gave him a pat on his back,

"You're doing better than I thought."

He scratched his nose, "Heh, thanks bud."

I saw him off before taking a mental note of where Diesel lived. Coming back would save us some transitionary time between work sessions. After leaving the guy to his devices, I rode our main elevator back to the top floor. People were waking up, getting ready to begin the day's work.

Along the top floor, a strip of stores opened for wealthier residents. Of course, anyone could come, but they kept to the middle of the highest level since it gave easy access for serving the top floor residents.

I gave a few waves and nods to civilians as I walked by, enjoying the newfound luxury shops. Exciting places popped up near here from alchemy to herbal stores. They carried ointments and lotions lining their shelves, ready to beautify and comfort customers. In other stores, they stocked animal goods or metalware, focusing on sturdy, everyday tools like silverware or arm braces.

They even opened a spa, a fire mage heating the water by hand to ensure it was kept at just the right temperature. He partnered with an origin mage who created scented salts and water to spruce up the experience. People's ingenuity always surprised me, and by the time I reached my team, I was in a good mood.

I found Helios and Victoria already up, each of them standing in the middle of a culdesac of guest homes. These rooms were initially made for Amara and Hod, but they preferred sleeping in other places, like the floor. Because of that, we had the rooms free. Besides those houses, Helios and Victoria spoke with one another, each of them catching up after yesterday's battling.

"It's so refreshing to actually be outpaced for once," Victoria said while spreading her hands.

"I can't tell if you're being serious or sarcastic," Helios murmured.

"You know what I mean. I always lead the charges. Having someone else do it is nice. It's better than always taking the brunt of every exchange."

I stepped up to them, and Victoria gave me a wave. Helios raised an eyebrow,

"Where were you last night?"

I pointed up, "Under the stars, working on golems."

Victoria shook her head, "What? You work on golems?"

"Eh, it's just something I do for fun. I'm having a guy help me out with making the new designs, and I think they'll be damn good at clearing out dungeons. We're running into a few problems with making multiple consciousnesses, however."

Victoria raised a hand, "You do know that there are eldritch that can eat black iron, right?"

I pinched the bridge of my nose, "Yes. Yes I do."

Helios turned to Victoria, and they exchanged a silent conversation. Victoria raised a hand, "Well, if that's the case, Helios and I know a very competent primordial mage that specializes in consciousness generation."

I crossed my arms, "Is it Obolis? I think he's too busy to teach me."

Helios scoffed, "Perhaps, but Ophelia, the woman you chastised in front of everyone as if she were a child, isn't all that preoccupied. She could help you if she wished to do so."

Helios cackled as I furrowed my brow. I shrugged, "If that's how she took what I did, then that's fine. She's a part of my team, so it's my responsibility to keep her safe. I did that, even if she doesn't like me for it."

Helios raised his eyebrows, "And perhaps there's wisdom in that. Convincing her that your intentions were pure will be hell, however. That is if my own experiences are at all applicable. Perhaps you might want to enlist the help of the resident beggar, Florence. His experience in groveling should help you."

I rolled my eyes, "If groveling is all it takes to get what I want, then that's easy. I'm not here to save my pride. I'm here to save people."

Victoria narrowed her eyes under her mask, "You would throw your pride away for something so simple? Lives are made every day. A reputation is built over a lifetime."

That was a strange perspective. I frowned, "Is there a misunderstanding here? I don't go around trying to convince everyone I'm some bigshot. Other people got that idea without my intervention whatsoever. All I've done is what I've needed to do to get shit done. I'll keep doing that until there's nothing more I need to finish."

Victoria tilted her head,

"I, personally, value my pride and esteem highly. For others to do the same, you will need to demonstrate to them that your reputation matters. I've shown many that there are consequences for besmirching my standing. That is why I have risen in the ranks so quickly. I shall continue to do so, and I would recommend you do the same."

I raised a hand, "Maybe in the Empire because it's set up that way. Outside the Empire, results are all that matter. If you begin to sacrifice results for something intangible like notoriety, you end up accomplishing much less in the long run."

I peered between them, "That's why I've risen through the ranks, and I didn't have a ladder already made for me. I built a ladder on my own as I climbed."

Victoria nodded at me, "It's fascinating hearing your perspective. To me, an excellent reputation allows one to avoid fights, make better deals, and tolerate less misbehavior. My troops obey me because of my report. Without it, I command them through fear, which clouds the mind. Are you still not convinced?"

I shook my head, "Not at all."

She gave me a thin smile, "We shall have to agree to disagree. Right, Helios?"

Helios stood there in a state of deep in contemplation before turning to Victoria,

"What I will say is that my reputation fell apart with one misdeed. You treat me well, Victoria, but I know there are others that laugh behind my back. They think of me as a pair with Florence, both of us failures. All of my actions have amounted to no shift in what others believe of me."

Helios stared at his hands, "What I have left behind are the actions and impacts I've had on people. Those cannot be taken away, no matter what others believe to be true."

Helios shook his head, "Yet they grant me nothing. In the end, I...I don't know what matters anymore."

He squeezed his clawed hands into fists. Victoria put a hand on his shoulder, "Helios, you're a Novas. Hold faith in that position and standing. You'll rise up once more someday. I know this."

He peered at her, a soft smile on his lips,

"Yes...Perhaps I might."

To me, these guys seemed crazy. They could think what they wanted to think, as long they followed my orders. It wasn't like I needed them to agree with me about everything anyway. Otherwise, I wouldn't have anyone following me.

Interrupting our philosophical musings, Hod molded from their shadows. Being shorter than them, he reached his bird arms over their shoulders,

"Hod welcome fur people. Fur people fluffy, and Hod like fluffy things."

I smiled at Hod, "Good-natured, as always."

Hod's chin lifted straight up into the air as he gloated,

"Hod is good. Good is Hod. Hod look up words in book. Big book show good means Hod."

"You mean a dictionary?"

"Hod think...maybe. Hod not good at read."

Helios rubbed his temples with the knuckles of his hands while Victoria laughed. Hod pulled himself off the floor, using both of them as supports. He swung back and forth while moving his legs.

"Hod fake fly."

Althea stepped out of our suite, our fancy-schmancy apartment bigger than the other homes here. She walked with light, graceful steps, her casual clothing always a sight for sore eyes. I grinned before walking up with excitement. We hugged, and I spun her around before leaning my forehead against hers,

"Hey beautiful."

She smiled back, "Hey, handsome."

Victoria tilted her head, "Ahh, how sweet."

Helios walked off, leaving the situation, "Disgusting. Tell me when we are to leave for Blegara. I am ready and waiting."

I shook my head, "We're actually taking a short break today. Obolis invited us to the glass viewing. You guys can come if you want."

Victoria raised her hands, "What? Really?"

Florence peeped his head out of a window in one of the apartments,

"What? Are you really sure?"

Victoria turned to Florence, "Were you listening to us the entire time?"

"What? Of course not. My ears are simply highly trained to pickup when parties are mentioned."

The party goer closed his window before rushing down the stairs and running out his door. Slamming it behind him, he took wide steps to us before spreading his arms,

"A soiree? By Schema, it's been too long. We have to get ready right now. I'll get everyone something to wear that's more suitable. I know a guy that knows a guy that knows a girl. She's the best, and I have a few favors I can call in."

I raised an eyebrow, "You're assuming we don't have something fancy to wear?"

Florence raised a hand, "But of course not. Your guild is all about getting the job done when it needs to be done, right?"

"So, you were listening the entire time, huh? Well, Yeah, we are about that."

"And you've yet to attend a ball or gala, right?"

"What are you getting at?"

Florence had a cheeky smile on under his mask,

"So it goes without saying that you've yet to address your wardrobe. Don't worry, I'll handle it for you. Just give me some measurements, and I'll have it handled."

I looked at my arms, "I wonder if I could just shift my armor into a suit."

Florence cupped his chin, "Hmmm, are those the unique fashion to your species? Would you mind showing them to me?"

I molded my armor into the rough approximation of a suit. It was sleek and sharp, too sharp, in fact. Some of the edges and corners might as well have been blades, and mimicking the texture of the fabric was outright impossible for me. This left it smooth and glossy, giving me a cheesy look.

Florence leaned close, inspecting all the intricacies of the garment, "Ah, a three-piece ensemble that accentuates shoulder width and downplays issues with your midsection. Interesting. In your case, a less structured approach would result in a softer appearance, making you more approachable. I think a bit less sheen would contrast your gruffness, making you appear more rustic. What do you think?"

Man, I didn't think Florence would be this fascinated with fashion. I looked down, "Wouldn't this be fine?"

Florence scoffed, "Oh yes, so would a burlap sack, yet most wouldn't go to a galactic ball wearing one."

"I don't know, man. I don't think I can pull off a suit like that."

Althea looked up at me, "I...I think you'd look nice."

My heart melted. Fuck.

"Okay, I'll do it."

Florence raised a fist, "We'll show them a more refined side of the Harbinger, one that isn't unkept or uncouth...At least in his appearance."

I deadpanned, "Really now?"

Florence turned towards the rest of my guildsmen, "I can have it handled for everyone here, in fact. I've got a lot of favors to cash in."

I rolled my shoulders, "Well, it will definitely be new. That's for sure."

Florence pulled out his obelisk, a fancier model. It began scanning me from head to toe. On Florence's left, a 3-d model popped up of me, though it lacked any real detail. Florence looked at it then back to me,

"Can you take the armor off?"

"It's my skin, bones, and in my blood...So no."

Florence raised his eyebrows, "By Schema, do you bleed metal?"

"Yes."

Florence shrugged, "I'll make sure these limitations are taken into account. We'll do our best."

He went to scanning everyone here outside of Helios and Victoria. After finishing up with us, he skulked off towards the other members not present. As he did, I remembered to extend the invitation to other people. I sent a message to my top guildsmen, along with the new albony that were a part of my team.

After finishing that conversation, I left towards breakfast at a cafe. I  hadn't had eggs and toast in years. The others followed, and the nostalgic flavor brought me back to different times. The albony enjoyed most of our food, though they preferred the meats. Their species evolved off a diet of mainly cured or dried foods like bacon or jerkies. This gave them a vast variety of meats they shopped from.

