- Obolis Novas -

I tapped the glass table with the tip of my claw as I pondered in the night. Long ago, I unlocked a perk that dissolved my necessity for sleep. Over the years, it became one of the distinguishing factors between my rule and others. The nights often stretched on into eternity if I found myself lost in my thoughts.

These seas of doubt and turmoil created a stormy state of mind for me. I wrestled with many ideas and the information in my mind, stretching for answers where there were none. It left me exhausted, my decisions mounting in both ambiguity and importance. I always found it strange that the most vital choices often carried the least information about them. I was positioned amongst a crossroad of sorts in that regard.

I despised not knowing what to do next.

My eyes narrowed as I peered at a dimensional slicer gained from a Sentinel centuries ago. Though I didn't kill the Sentinel, I did orchestrate his death. In doing so, I obtained a rare treasure and eliminated a hated enemy all at once. Those were good times, yet those times did not last.

Standing onto my graphene layered boots, I skulked through a hallway showing many of my treasures. Upon one pedestal, the devastated remains of an Overseer's gauntlet lay resting. Within an exhibit, the fossil of an ancient eldritch lay cleaned and preserved. Further still, a Hybrid lay frozen in place for my viewing pleasure. It was grotesque, but at times, I could not tear my eyes from it.

These mementos reminded me of the grand adventures and escapades I'd lived through. The artifacts resonated with the vestiges of old cultures and vibrant lives. They told stories, each their own piece of history, and each echoing a lost epoch, forgotten until I uncovered it. This instilled a great sense of pride but also a tremendous burden.

This burden existed within the lands I conquered and the people I ruled. I used the resources of an Empire built off blood and stone to fuel these excursions into the unknown. I'd done so for centuries, and they'd given me many titles. Of those new names, I preferred Obolis, Finder of Secrets the most. It was the culmination of my life's work and my childhood dreams.

Yet dreams age and die, their luster long forgotten. At the time of my Empire's creation, consolidating an enormous base of resources seemed like a far better way of gaining the necessary funding for my expeditions. My Empire was to serve as a launching point, a catapult of wealth that would shuttle me into the vast void of space.

Now the Empire I built haunted me, my responsibilities weighing around my neck like chains.

I sighed while grasping the sides of my head, fur ruffling outward. I had already canceled three of my expeditions due to the Adair's invasions. I never imagined I'd be at the forefront of some civil war, yet here it had come to pass. This was likely due to my negligence. Granting ownership of worlds to my family was a bold move, one soaked in nepotism and pride. It might've worked with my incessant diligence, but I was off amongst the stars, searching for my next great treasure hunt.

I took a deep breath, breathing out my regret. At times, the truth was stranger than fiction. This rebellion was that concept's magnum opus. They converted entire species into monsters, created beasts worse than even the eldritch, and they used mind control as a means of suppression. Somehow they seemed to think these factors would lead to a better life.

I cracked my neck, my bones now older than some soils. I found solace in knowing the rebellion would be futile. This futility stemmed from a principle I learned long ago - Schema was the most active and powerful entity I'd seen in all my travels. While the Old Ones exceeded his raw potency, they often worked in archaic and enigmatic ways. This lack of direction meant they were more akin to natural forces, similar to a wandering black hole or supernova. Powerful as those forces could be at critical junctures, they lacked the same potency that a directed existence like Schema enjoyed.

Other primordial beings skulked in the dark along the furthest edges of space as well. These entities rarely interfered with Schema's territory, these behemoths never wishing for an all-out war with artificial intelligence. Schema's ruthless approach made tales of other rebellions into mere rumor and speculation. His brutality in regards to dissent was legendary. That cruelty would showcase itself all too soon, and not merely with the destruction of Giess. This would be the beginning of Schema's wrath.

The A.I.'s predictable and systematic approach allowed me to accrue every resource I ever gained. He uplifted my people and me, and I would believe in him as he believed in me. The ancient construct allowed me to break innumerable laws as long as I sent certain choice pieces to him, along with data on my journeys. I was, in many ways, his most excellent scout. I trekked into the unknown, learned of it, and unveiled that darkness for all to see.

That is what I wished myself to be and to be seen as - the unveiler of the hidden. Schema was all but necessary to that end, and as he helped me, I would stay on his side and help him, to the end. That was what this rebellion was in many ways - a test of loyalty. It was one that exposed the true nature of many.

It enabled Schema to discover those that wished harm upon him and killing the rebels would be an act akin to cleansing. The most celebrated cleanser to come from this conflict was none other than the Harbinger of Cataclysm. He showed tremendous potential with some of it already fully realized. His guild was a collection of anomalies ruling in a forthright yet effective manner. They rallied behind him, and he acted as their symbol. They would thrive in the future, and joining their cause was, in many ways, an investment.

It was regrettable that the first piece of the Empire they laid eyes upon was the vagni. These beings reflected poorly on us, not only in our handling of them but in the race as a whole. By worshipping the eldritch, they put us in a horrendous position, one that, though mismanaged, was doomed for failure from the start. In the end, perhaps I should've followed Helios's pertinent advice when we found the planet.

Kill them all.

I winced at the thought. Old as I may be, my heart had not yet turned to stone. If anything, the vagni's ability to rebel against us demonstrated their latent ability. Reports mention the use of eldritch for their protection, and they organized far better than anticipated. I expected our anti-leveling protocols to keep them weak and hapless. It only fueled their anger at us, our attempts at dominance ending in their enhanced motivation.

I had not lost all of my confidence, however. Once we suppressed this insurrection, more substantial investments would be made into the vagni. They'd earned it, one way or the other. To create that future, the glass viewing tomorrow was all but necessary. I intended to meet several races, particularly ones well suited for dispatching the Hybrids.

Though the Harbinger's Legion was a powerful group, it lacked the widespread assault capabilities we required. Clearing three planets of the rebels would require months, if not years. A more efficient route would be necessary to ensure my Empire's safety. I would need to put my treasure and knowledge on the line. Otherwise, everything I built would be lost.

That was why tomorrow would be decisive. I needed as many of my allies there as possible to showcase the Empire's strength and ability. The Harbinger would inspire many there, as would his companions. Though gruff and in need of polishing, he would act as a selling point for my proposal.

A series of messages cropped up in my status, interrupting my thoughts. I steeled myself. Many called me, and many needed me. Such was the responsibility of a ruler, and I had chosen this life long ago. As I have before, I stood tall. This was both a burden and a privilege, a sacrifice and a boon. With my mind settled, I prepared my speech and the details of our gathering before answering messages and reports.

Sightings of the Hybrids poured in. They settled onto three of my worlds so far. Blegara remained the most infested of them. I showed my teeth, and I sharpened my claws. A seething hatred burned in my chest. I would not stop until this rebellion was utterly stomped into oblivion, living on in memory alone.

The Adair family would come to regret angering the Empire. We were a sleeping giant, one that once awakened would wreak havoc until there was nothing left but scorched earth and rotting corpses. We would crush them under our massive heels. We would smash them under our mighty fists.

And in the end, we would be victorious.

- Daniel -

I frowned at Diesel, "You sure this is going to work?"

He shook his head at the blueprints, "No. Not at all."

"Thanks for the vote of confidence."

"I can't give good news if there is none...Not yet, at least," Diesel said while leaning over the blueprints.

It was a thing of beauty. We made it together, Diesel handling most of the design while I let him know what I was able to do. The difference here was that instead of trying out golems and iterating on them as we went, Diesel took a different approach. He relentlessly thought over and reviewed every detail at his disposal, not resting until it was absolutely perfect. I took notes on his methods as I watched, trying to understand his process and techniques so I could use them on my own.

It would be almost impossible to emulate. See, Diesel was a perfectionist through and through. This perfectionism resulted in a far more dynamic and sophisticated design overall. His entire idea for the new golem circled around a single line of thinking; I wasn't using my resources wisely. Because of this, a lot of my golem's latent potential was being wasted.

I had to agree, considering they produced a lot of mana, yet none of them could cast a spell. That was the first flaw Diesel pointed out. I argued that getting them to use spells would be all but impossible. He agreed, but only if the golems were constructed as they were.

The new models would be different. Diesel kept my floating joints model, praising me for the idea. Even if he puffed up my contribution a bit, I took all I could get considering how much he bashed my layouts overall. After keeping that, he scrapped almost everything else. He wanted to create what he called a 'super golem.' Super golems were multiple golems that worked together in one entity, kind of like a superorganism.

It required a few difficult resources, but we had them at our disposal already. Tools, refining, metal, and all the physical resources were a cakewalk for me to handle. The skillsets for crafting were also relatively simple for me to execute on. After all, we weren't working from ground zero in that department. In that regard, I knew what I was doing.

The other elements of the construct were much...murkier, however.

It required mind magic cipher inscriptions, something I wasn't experienced in. I would be creating several golem minds, tying them together with telepathic tethers, then giving each of them a singular directive. Afterward, they'd each handle different aspects of the golem's defenses and offenses.

The first mind would focus entirely upon his mental defenses and offenses. That was Diesel's idea after I explained the Adair's and their mind magic. This intelligence would be like a shell for the other golem minds. It would fend off most mind magic attempts while the others focused on physical movement and magical casting.

The movement-based mind would be a carbon copy of what I worked on before with many improvements. Most of the gains came from specificity; golems were awful at multi-tasking. By making one mind entirely focused on one thing, it could do that one thing many times better than before. These physical movements were what I concentrated on for the most part, along with basic problem-solving.

Diesel appreciated my work there. He mentioned there weren't many improvements left to make since the golem mind was 'full' of other stuff. He also explained that I was trying to improve something that couldn't really be improved. That's why I was hitting a wall with my golem's progress. There just wasn't any progress left to make using that method.

That left us with the third and final mind. This one would manifest as a magician that managed mana and power. It would use simple incantations to bolster both defensive and offensive capabilities. These magics would be fueled by an implanted grimoire. This would give the golem about thirteen spells to use at any point in time, increasing its flexibility by leaps and bounds.

This partitioning out of different functions also allowed each task to be better overall. In the end, this new approach would result in a golem that would be a fierce opponent even for an intelligent eldritch. My brainless drones would evolve into dungeon clearing beasts.

It almost made me tear up just thinking about it.

Either way, the sun rose in the distance as we finished up planning the project. Diesel yawned, tired from the night of planning. He rubbed his eyes,

"This was about as good a night of work as we're going to get, I think. I'll see if I can't get a few people to help us out with some of the details before we meet back up tomorrow. It would be nice to have a few more hands-on-deck, and I know a few of Torix's students who could help us out."

