It sent the [Message] spell far, far west from where Pisces actually was, and he saw it enter his conversation on the scroll.
 
Ceria: Just assuming you’re kidnapped still.
Pisces, Lost: What caravan? I’m in Sha-shoba, the City of Spiced Delicacies? The carriage dropped me off somewhere entirely different. I fear it may have been someone else’s. A Merchant Hoben’s? I have been trying to secure transport to Tyrant’s Rest, but my money pouch was pickpocketed, and I was chasing down the perpetrator to regrettable results. And I believe I was taken to be an imposter at the Merchant’s Guild? Highly unfortunate, and securing these dratted carriages is proving to be a conundrum.
 
A pause, and Pisces waited. He didn’t know quite how [Message] spells worked, but he had a good understanding that you could backtrace most of them if you were good at magic.
He wasn’t, but he had anti-scrying and anti-location wards on him. So the only way to tell where he was would be via backtracking where a [Message] spell was sent from.
His thought was that if he had calculated correctly, it would look like he was around that very city. Or at least, in the general region.
Flimsy as cover-stories went, but…after a second, Pisces received another [Message] spell.
 
Ceria: Hah, classic Pisces. Get your butt over here, pronto. I’ll tell Yisame. And bring some spices!
 
She probably didn’t believe him. But that would do.
He rode.
 
——
 
What Pisces didn’t know was that by the end of the first day, the other caravans were well aware…something was going on.
He had guessed, of course. The Slaver’s Guild of Chandrar was directly funded and organized through Lailight Scintillation. Roshal.
It was one of, if not the, most effective organizations in the world. Emir Yazdil’s talent could be said to be reflected here; he had ensured the caravans ran smoothly and reformed them from more lax standards in generations past. The other Slave Lords had made numerous changes to Roshal; in this, they had ceded to him.
For instance, the Slaver’s Guild had a number of departments devoted to various crises. Such as the Kidnapping and Ransoms department. Small, but nearly twenty members of the Guild were on-call to just…answer kidnappings of their membership.
Often, a lot of it was inter-Guild politics, but there were always thugs, bandits, and so on. They didn’t guarantee a member was freed unless they were in good standing. Business was business. But if someone actually answered the ransom note, did some negotiating, or even said, ‘we can’t pay that’, the odds of survival went up by at least 30%.
In the same vein, a substantially larger wing of the Guild was Caravan Crisis—a catchall term for obstacles or attacks on caravans. It monitored the Leashed Trails across all of Chandrar and issued alerts for weather, monster attacks, war, and so on.
It was so vast and important that it had regional headquarters, which in turn coordinated with nations, petitioning them to send out their law enforcement or hire adventurers—if needed, the Slaver’s Guild would do it themselves, but they preferred not to waste coin.
‘Never do what someone else can do for you’ was one of the quotes written in a faded gold plaque above the main headquarters’ doors. Naturally, the operators had [Slaves] for menial tasks, but this was a rare job that required freefolk workers exclusively.
Freeman Chilt was a [Remote Operator], Level 23, in charge of the day-crew for his sub-region in the South Eastern Leashed Trails division of the Caravan Crisis headquarters. One of over a thousand such employees.
It was not a prestigious job, though it paid decently. He had dreams of promotion to Lailight Scintillation, not having to live in the small headquarters in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. He enjoyed the two office [Slaves], but resented not having his own. He was a man with plenty of complaints about life, who would consider himself a normal man, like a Drake or Gnoll or anyone else around the world.
Until yesterday, he had never had a crisis too large for his job. Yes, the caravans had trouble all the time. [Slave Masters] were arrogant, touchy, and loved to send [Messages] to complain about things the Guild didn’t have to help them with.
Other [Slave Masters] stealing their earmarked [Slaves]—a matter for another department. Getting in trouble for collaring someone with the Watch? Another department.
The cheap speaking stones and [Message] spells from Wistram just made it worse. Now he was deluged with trivial complaints, and they had an entire person whose job it was to just respond nicely to the pampered idiots. However, Chilt’s job was to monitor the roads, and it had not been hugely stressful.
Sometimes, there were monsters. Sometimes, there were bandits. He’d had entire caravans wiped out from monster attacks. One time, Sand Worms had eaten a caravan of over two thousand.
Tragic, and he’d had to scramble alerts across the entire region. A Named-rank team had been called to hunt them down, but this did not distress Chilt. It was onerous at times, yes, but…he was still sitting in a padded chair as a [Slave] handed him drinks. At worst, he was reporting to a supervisor and sweating before he took out his frustrations on one of the [Slaves]. If the idiots on the Leashed Trails died, well, it looked bad if he hadn’t done his job, but that was their life. All risk, all reward, eh?
Today was different. Today, Chilt hadn’t slept. Grime from greasy food had left a patina across his unshaven face. His eyes were sleep-deprived and wanted to close, but the stamina potion mixed into his tea had given him the runs and nervous energy.
“Hello? Hello to Honored Slave Master Kitre? This is Operator Chilt of the Guild. Caravan Crisis—checking in.”
He was rasping into a speaking stone as an upset woman snapped back.
“Blessed sands, I have been on hold for twenty minutes! You incompetents, what is going on? And it is Slave Mistress, fool!”
He bit back a short reply; he’d done this for the last four hours.
“Standby, Slave Mistress. We pray your indulgence in this most-stressful of times. Please report your caravan’s condition and any notable incidents on the road—”
“Standby? You have had us standing by all night and into the dawn! If there is a monster, say so! But I have had to halt while—”
He didn’t have time for this. There were four other caravans in the area near the city marked in red on a map, and more would be headed along the road. That was caravans, mind you. There were other interests of Roshal that weren’t even part of this list, and Chilt snapped.
“Slave Mistress, we have declared an all-halt to caravans until we know the fate of two that have vanished, all presumed dead! The Blessed Chains and The Speedy Servant have both vanished close to the city of Halqued! We presume monster attacks or—or a creation of the Mad Ones or something else!”
One caravan was bad enough, but both had been decently large, and neither one had sent out a distress call. There had been no survivors. This was not in itself odd.
The scary part was that there had been no bodies. Halqued was not exactly filled with ultra-efficient members of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. When the Guild had finally cajoled the local garrison to check, they’d found the wagons only after hours of searching. The first caravan not reaching the city had been enough for Chilt to issue one of these warnings to others in the area.
He hadn’t thought much of it other than being annoyed at the delay of The Blessed Chains and expecting the Slave Mistress in charge to give him an explanation in an hour and having to do paperwork.
Then the second caravan, The Speedy Servant, had gone missing. Undead had been spotted near them, but not enough to…
The Guild’s internal systems had ways to deal with unexpected events like these. In this situation, Chilt had to call an all-halt to every caravan on the road headed into a dangerous region and find out what was going on.
The problem was…the local garrison had found nothing. No bodies, again. No wagons. They had been delayed hacking up some zombies, and when they’d gotten there, they’d discovered nothing.
Well, there had been [Slaves], but those didn’t count. The useless things had all given mixed accounts of what had happened, so Chilt had tossed those out as contradictory—unreliable. Given how many had run off, they were probably lying to protect any runaway [Slaves], but it meant that until one was interrogated properly, he wasn’t allowed to use their testimony.
And Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s stupid [Soldiers] had just claimed them as their property! The Guild was having an advocate deal with that, but it might be days of negotiating for them. What it meant was that there were two caravans, both wiped out in short periods of time with no reliable witnesses.
Nor had Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s garrison thought to bring [Trackers]; it had been lazy Hemp [Soldiers] searching for a fight and nothing else. The flaw in relying on local governance. So the Slaver’s Guild had Chilt arranging for adventurers to cover the shortfall…
Hence him being up; it was his head on the line if he didn’t figure out what was going on. Chilt snarled as the [Slave Mistress] gave him a lashing with her tongue. He thrust out a cup at a frightened [Slave], who took it and rushed off. The lazy idiots got rotated through his headquarters, and they were never high-level or attractive…
“Slave Mistress, Slave Mistress, I have other caravans to check on! Please report your status.”
He took some satisfaction in cutting her off. Chilt stared at the board as a weary co-worker tacked something onto it. It was scrawled notes in messy ink as the team put down conclusions.
 
Caravans missing. Undead attack?
No confirmed hordes. Horde spotted? Possibility of rogue [Necromancer].
Bane? Confirmed to be heading for Tyrant’s Rest. Idiot.
Theories: Sandworms, [Rebels], [Bandits]—Merr the Storm in region? Mad Ones?
 
Slave Mistress Kitre was a Fox Beastwoman, a rarity in Chandrar. Chilt was lowly compared to her, but he took his revenge as he pleased. Mostly by finding a glamorous headshot of her and unlacing his trousers to touch himself while he worked.
A female co-worker at another desk gave him a disgusted look he ignored. Certain standards in the Guild were made lax because of who they were.
The woman’s voice was waspish as Chilt closed his eyes, imagining putting a collar on her.
“As requested by the Guild, I have halted my caravan. We are dug in along the road; I have selected a small hill and formed a barricade here. We have sentries watching for miles. No hazards detected save for road traffic.”
He had a list of things she was supposed to do and sighed.
“Fortifications? The Guild recommends—”
“Do not talk to me about my job, little man. I have, with my [Slave Mages], deployed [Sand Wall] spells. My wagons are ready to roll if an attack comes. I have posted expendable [Guards] on watch duty, and I am armed with no less than fifty snap-fire crossbows. My wagons have enchanted hulls with Tier 3 [Incendiary Burst] spells.”
That was better than most caravans her size. Chilt had to admit, most caravans wouldn’t have fortified nearly that well. Much less had enchanted wagons.
“If you encounter trouble, Slave Mistress—”
“If I encounter trouble, I will hit them with magic and leave. I can outrun most threats, but I demand to know what is out there! Give me your name, you lazy scut!”
She was really making it hard for him to attain climax. Chilt glared as he bit off a reply.
“Potentially undead, Slave Mistress. I am Operator Chilt, and I am dutifully serving as best I may. If you have complaints—”
“What kind of undead? How many?”
“Standby, Slave Mistress. I shall contact you in a few minutes—”
“You little—”
He hung up on her and knew he might pay for that. But Chilt was angry and stressed. Something was out there, and no one had answers. He peered around to find a [Slave] to finish the job his hand wasn’t doing, but the one with his tea had vanished.
So he dialed another [Slave Master] up and had a variant of the same conversation. This time, the nervous man had a theory.
“Is it…the Bane? Have there been attacks? I’d know if there were, but I heard he was in the city.”
Chilt glanced at the map again and tried to be soothing, though his erection was really bothering him since this fellow was not doing it for him.
“Sir, the Bane has already left! And such things are usually loud and noticeable, are they not? Standby, and I will contact you—”
He was noting this all down on a piece of paper that was going to his superiors. The regional office had noted the two caravans likely missing, and so Manager Labrito was demanding results. He was not a fun man to report to, and Chilt was worried about that.
He was almost done with the report and hoping he could clock out to let someone, anyone, deal with this until he realized he hadn’t gotten a vital piece of information from Slave Mistress Kitre. It was an empty box noting ‘outstanding grudges’ you had to get information on.
They cast [Detect Truth] on every report he filed, so if he left it blank, Labrito would kill him. Chilt fondled himself as he waited for her to pick up and lambast him again. At least he could…
“Slave Mistress Kitre? Hello? This is—hello?”
He tried three times, growing more and more frustrated each time. It had barely been eleven minutes and the damned woman was ignoring him? He hesitated, then hit a specific command spell that force-activated her speaking stone from the Guild.
He wasn’t supposed to do it except in emergencies, but he loved the power over the [Slave Masters] who in turn did not like having a window into their private affairs. Chilt spoke briskly.
“Apologies, Slave Mistress, but I—”
Then he heard something that made his annoyance, his sleep-deprived state all vanish from his mind. It was…a wet sound.
A gurgling gasp. Scuffling. A cry—and then the thump of something. Wet. That was the only word for it. Chilt spoke.
“Hello? Slave M—”
Gasping. Quiet, terrified gasping. Someone breathing in and out, then—
“Quiet.”
Her voice. He hesitated. His co-worker looked up from her desk, and Chilt realized something was off.
“Slave Mistress, wh—”
“They’re invisible. They’re—”
Her voice was so quiet he could barely hear it. Then there were other sounds. Someone choking. A scream filled the air, and Chilt dropped the speaking stone. It clattered on his desk, and he heard, then, another voice.
“Help me! Help me! H—”
“No! Not—”
The sounds cut off, but not before an agonized scream filled the air, and then there was a ripping sound. The crack of—
