But the eleven had come in swinging so hard that the one with the greatsword had nearly cut a [Guard] in half, chainmail or not. Their blows were as heavy as Yvlon’s—for two or three swings. Then they grew weaker.
[Bonerattler Charge]. It was enough—there weren’t that many. The guards on horseback were racing around, trying to aim. Where was he…?
Gone. The [Necromancer] had vanished. The Skeleton Champions were pressing against the wagons, fighting individually. But where…?
The circle of wagons had [Guards] on the inside, screaming for enchanted munitions, for help against the champions—but some were fighting near the wagons holding the [Slaves].
“Get out! Get out and fight or die! Merchant, the kill-collars! Stop laughing! Stop—”
Six of them were trying to yank out the [Slaves] of one wagon and arm them. One of the [Guards] glanced around and saw the dust rising in the air swirl. She turned.
“Behind—”
Pisces stabbed her through the eye. Five [Guards] were in front of him. Two on the ground, one climbing into the wagon, two inside. He stepped back.
[Quick Reset]. Then lunged forwards in a fencer’s attack. Just like his father had shown him.
But the impact of his rapier punching through cheek and bone…Padurn had never described that. He didn’t know it. The second [Slaver] went down. Pisces saw the third moving, swinging a shield up—
His rapier sprayed blood, gore, and brain across the face as he withdrew it and slashed across the throat. So fast that the Stitch-man reached up and choked on his own blood as he tried to inhale. And Pisces’ rapier was already hamstringing the fourth [Slaver], who fell, screaming. Then Pisces ran him through.
All of this in the span of three seconds. He moved faster than they could dream, a blur.
[Manacharged Reflexes]. The two [Guards] in the wagon cried out, and one shouted.
“[Quick Stab]!”
A fast blow to Pisces as he was turning from the fourth [Slaver]. His blade came up.
[Flash Parry]. The other [Guard] lifted a bow, fired. Pisces stepped left, and the arrow punched into the dirt. His [Flash Step] carried him back, and the [Slaver] with a bow fumbled for an arrow.
He dropped it, and it clattered to the floor. He reached for another as his companion with the sword backed up.
“Jotec, help! Draw your blade and h—”
The terrified archer saw Pisces’ blade rise. It seemed to glow as he swept the blade up in a stab. The swordsman shouted.
“[Deft G—]”
He did block the blow, but his sword wasn’t strong enough. Pisces’ Skill punched upwards. His rapier extended and ran the Stitch-man through the chest.
[Rising Spearthrust]. The [Slaver Archer] was fumbling for a dropped arrow on the ground as the body of his comrade rose, then fell back, blood coating the wagon’s floor. Then he looked down. Five dead guards—the [Necromancer] was standing there.
“Help—”
The other wagons where his comrades were fighting hadn’t even seen. One of them turned their head and saw Pisces at last. They stared. The [Archer] backed up—the [Necromancer] was pointing at him.
He ran into something. Bodies. The [Slaves] were all bunched up inside. There was an impact on his back. Then he was stumbling forwards.
They’d kicked him. Kicked—he went over the wagon’s edge, screaming. Pisces stabbed up as the final [Guard] came down. Then he heaved the body off his rapier.
“Behind us! He is inside the—”
The [Necromancer] rose, blood coating his white robes and sword. But he shook the blood off his enchanted robes, and his blade gleamed as he stepped backwards. He strode away, [Flash Stepping] out of the circle of wagons before the [Guards] could surround him. He had only said one word to the six dead men and women. A whisper.
“Arise.”
The dead man he had impaled opened his eyes. They glowed. Slowly, he got up as the other [Guards] rushed past him. They thought he’d made it. One turned—and the zombie grabbed a shoulder. Opened his mouth wide, unhinging his jaw, and bit—
 
——
 
He felt like he was too slow. Pisces emerged from the brief skirmish in the wagons and was aware that every second, the [Guards] would overwhelm his Skeleton Champions. Six were damaged. Two down.
How many of the [Guards] were left…? He spotted the ones on horses circling and firing arrows. Pisces’ instinct was to attack them, but then he realized they were switching weapons.
Arrows were useless on Skeleton Champions without Skills or magic. He was panting. Did he have magic for [Invisibility]…?
Not in quick succession. He leaned against a wagon, then saw the riders charge the Skeleton Champions from behind. One was clubbing down at the Skeleton Champion who had a rapier—Pisces charged.
[Flash Step] three times, then—he stabbed up into a stomach, wrenched the blade around, and heaved it out. Not dead, but the Skeleton Champion dragged the screaming figure down. The other [Riders]—Pisces didn’t want to kill the horses, but he slashed their legs. They kicked, screaming, and one bucked a [Rider]. He saw a Skeleton Champion seize the [Rider] and grapple on the ground.
“[Deathbolt]. [Deathbolt].”
Mana running lower. Skills—he had used a lot of them. Pisces spoke.
“Keep them boxed in. Archer, don’t let the ones with bows shoot me.”
The Skeleton Champion with a bow began loosing arrows rapidly, forcing the [Slavers] to keep their heads down. Pisces saw the remaining riders turning to scatter. Eight.
They fled, and he ran them down. No spells save for [Flash Step]. Just his sword. If they turned, they left an opening while they were presenting their sides to him to stab, when the horse was at its slowest. If they gave him no opening, he cut the horse on the legs, and the animal would try to kick or buck its rider and give him that opening.
Three went down, and he took his first wound. An arrow punching through his guard and striking him on the chest.
His underarmor meant he barely felt it.
I might be dead without armor. If it hit me in the face—foolish. He turned, and the remaining five…
Were running. Pisces chased them down. He could beat the horses, and they’d all tried to go for the road to the city. By the time they thought to split up…
Half his Skeleton Champions were down. Pisces was panting as he drank a mana potion. He was running, now. And he saw…
Most of the [Slavers] were dead. Barely a dozen were left, clinging to a carriage they were trying to get moving. One was running, trying to jump on it, when a spear ran him through. Pisces glanced around. Were there any…?
The six Skeleton Champions charged, but the wagon was picking up speed; the wheels were enchanted. One of the [Guards] took an arrow to the chest and fell off the roof. Another was thrown off the roof at a Skeleton Champion, sacrificed to slow it down. Pisces saw the pair of stallions running and whispered.
“Sorry.”
He exploded a [Flashbang] in their faces; they reared, cut the leads as they halted, trying to tear free of their tethers. Then he swung himself up—
The dagger nearly shot through his face. Pisces recoiled as a woman slashed at him, screaming. The [Slavers] were fighting as their leader came out. Pisces [Flash Stepped] back. There was a moment when both pointed at each other.
[Deathbolt].
“Die!”
His [Deathbolt] hit the wall of the wagon, and she recoiled; her spell would have gone through his chest but for his [Flash Step]. Pisces took aim again—she fired wildly from inside the carriage, and he, panting, missed his second shot; it must have gone over her head.
He was standing on the balls of his feet, tensed, prepared to lunge forwards and leap into the wagon. But that dagger. [Invisibility]? Could she see him? She’d feel him on the floorboards of the wagon or see him moving if he got too close. [Acid Orb] the entire thing? What spell was—
He was locked on the wagon when it jostled, and he leapt sideways. But no spell came from inside—there was a scream, a flash of muddy brown light. Then…silence.
Pisces wavered. Then a Skeleton Champion pushed the wagon’s curtains aside. It had two daggers in its hands. Bloodied. It pushed the [Merchant]’s corpse out and onto the ground, then its head swivelled. Searching for foes. It leapt down and strode towards the other wagons. And then—and then—
He realized all the [Slavers] were dead.
 
——
 
In the aftermath, as the adrenaline left Pisces’ body and he felt shaky and emptier, he did come to his senses and count his mistakes.
A number of them. The first was not properly ambushing the caravan. He’d just thought…
If the skeletons had emerged around the caravan, they’d have been in a better position. Even with the anti-ambush Skill—no, he should have known they’d had that.
Second, he should have never attacked the [Merchant] at the end. He’d nearly gotten himself killed when his Skeleton Champions had been able to deal with her. Whatever that spell was, it looked highly poisonous and had scarred the ground black.
Third was not taking her out at the start. She had been the leader, and her Skills had empowered the caravan. In fact, she had killed two Skeleton Champions herself; holes in their skulls showed where that dagger of hers had punched through their bones, and another had a fully-melted ribcage. If she’d had a wand suited for killing undead instead of people, she might have torn through the lot.
Fourth, his aim…he was sure there were more mistakes, but Pisces realized he was distracted. He drank more water. Poured some over his face. Then got to work.
“Grab the dead Skeleton Champions. Get all the bodies you can. No—load them up into the wagons. Grab the horses if they’re around. Get them moving off the road, now!”
Dispose of the evidence. It was lucky no one had come down the road. Perhaps they had…perhaps the [Slavers] had sent a distress call. He had to move fast.
Pisces didn’t know this part. He went to the dead Stitch-woman and searched her corpse. What he was looking for he didn’t know. Keys? He knew some [Slavers] could kill their [Slaves] with a spell. If it was keyed to her survival…
His heart began to pound in horror. But then he heard faint laughter from the wagons. He didn’t find keys on the woman. So where…?
At his instruction, the Skeleton Champions collecting bodies searched, and one finally jangled something. One of the [Guards] had a keyring. Actually, several did.
Pisces snatched one and swung into the wagons. They were already moving as terrified horses trotted away from the skeletons herding them and making vague shooing motions. For a moment, when he pulled the coverings back, there was silence. He stared into the darkness and saw faces squinting at him. Blinded by the light…uncertain. Afraid—
Until they saw him. Then he heard a sigh and saw a mix of Humans, Stitch-folk, a pair of Garudas blinking up at him. Some recoiled. Flinching back from the man covered in blood and gore. Others just smiled politely.
“Ah, there he is. Don’t wake me from my dream another moment, please, friends.”
A Stitch-man spoke up, leaning back against the tiny bench where he was jammed shoulder-to-shoulder with the others. They were chained to the benches. Unable to move more than a foot from the berths. Pisces wavered.
He didn’t know what to say. It was the nearest [Slave] who spoke next. A Garuda with brown feathers that turned slowly to orange lifted his head. He gazed up and rasped with a throat parched for moisture.
“Bane of Roshal. Are we free?”
As if he knew Pisces. As if this moment hadn’t been luck, improvisation, an arrow’s trajectory from Pisces’ death. He spoke the words with such trust. Pisces stared at him, and for a moment, he was sitting there.
In chains, staring up at a falling rainbow. Hearing a booming voice in his ears as the Death of Chains turned the dark night into magic and freedom.
He was not Czautha’qshe. He had no grand words. He had failed so many on his journey here. But…Pisces fumbled for the keyring, then handed the Garuda it. The man almost dropped the keyring and saw Pisces fish out another copy.
“Yes. Hurry. Free yourselves and then the others. Never let yourselves be chained again.”
It was such a damned silly thing to say. They were not even out of chains, but he said it, because the words were hot in his chest. Hotter than the brand on his skin.
Someone had to say them.
The Garuda tried to sort the keys, but his wing-talons were shaky. Pisces found the right key first. He slotted it into the lock, and it clicked. He yanked the manacles off and realized there was another set for the Garuda’s wrists.
The same key fit both locks. The heavy iron fell, and the Garuda stood. He spread his wings—then glanced at the keys. Fumbled to find the same one Pisces did as the [Necromancer] turned to the next person in line. A Stitch-woman who was crying. Silently—
The wagon had gone so quiet. Like people trying not to wake up. Waiting…Pisces realized that the wagon was so full.
How many bodies were crammed in here? He’d counted at least five other wagons—he began to call for the Skeleton Champions, but realized they might not know how this worked.
“I’ll free someone in the other wagons. Just keep unlocking—I’m sorry, I’ll be back.”
The Garuda half-turned as he strode for the wagon’s lip. He blinked at Pisces, then spoke.
“You returned to Chandrar and freed us. Some claim yours is just a face that [Rebels] wear. But you’re him. The first one called the Bane of Roshal. The actual [Necromancer].”
“Yes. I am.”
Pisces spoke to the Garuda, and it did feel like the two men were in a dream. One reliving his, the other…but the Garuda felt at his wrists, at the bruised flesh under his feathers, then peered up at the sky.
“Are you sure?”
What a question to ask. But they all regarded the filthy adventurer covered in blood. It had splashed his skin, but slid off his robes enchanted for cleanliness. He was covered in sweat and grime, but his robes were pristine. Just like the rapier. The Bell of Challenges didn’t ring as it swung from the rapier’s hilt. Pisces turned and nodded.
“My friend…the [Slave] who was chained up next to me was a Garuda. Cawe. It’s not just because you’re a Garuda. I wish I had been able to free her. You’re all free. I just can’t kill them all, so you’ll have to run. I’m sorry. I’ll try my best.”
Then he leapt out of the wagon. The [Slaves] regarded each other. The promise hung in the air.
I’ll try my best.
Then…the freed [Slave] turned the key and listened to it click. He waited until he’d unlatched every single chain—and they were leaving the wagon. Crying out. Weeping. Asking what happened next. Afraid or relieved or…the Garuda just walked to the edge of the wagon and looked up.
Then he spread his wings and flew into the blue sky.
 
——
 
