Chilt had once seen a man break bones when a piece of masonry on a house landed on him. That horrific sound was echoed here. Then—more gouging sounds. The snap of a crossbow firing. Then silence.
He didn’t say a word as he finally picked up the speaking stone. Chilt heard heavy breathing. Then there was the sound of ripping fabric. A strange sound—a spell firing? A scream.
“You! Y—”
Then nothing. Chilt whispered.
“Slave Mistress…?”
His penis was a limp thing. He sat there, shivering, and heard…footsteps. Then, perhaps, breathing. Chilt whispered.
“Is someone there?”
Abruptly, the speaking stone went dead. He recoiled at the blip of sound that marked the spell being cut. Chilt’s back bounced into his chair, and he was shivering. Gooseflesh rising across his body.
The office had gone dead quiet. Eventually, Chilt’s co-worker spoke.
“That was Kitre’s Kinfolk. The location…where was the location, Chilt?”
He was fumbling with cold fingers. Trying to find where she had reported. Now, that information was vital. Chilt had to warn the other caravans. Protocol was to keep them stationary. But if an attack was coming at them—
He forgot what the manual said. Suddenly, he needed it. He had to tell his manager. He—
Chilt began to fumble for all these things at once as the spell broke and the office lurched into motion. Operators picked up speaking stones and began to speak urgently. Chilt himself had a glowing scrying orb thrust at him by the [Slave].
“Manager Labrito. Lace up your pants, fool.”
One of his co-workers hissed at him. Chilt stumbled into a side-room to explain. Then he almost ran back to his desk. But he didn’t have answers. Just…
That was the third caravan. When the fourth one went dead, they knew. Then, Chilt was being told to re-direct all calls to the regional office. That Manager Labrito and a team of specialists were headed in to see their work via flying carpet.
And when the fifth one vanished—
Then, Chilt was shivering like a man with a cold.
 
——
 
The third caravan was waiting for him. So Pisces once again changed tactics. It seemed too alert, but it was the smallest yet, so he did the most expeditious thing he could: he cast [Invisibility] on the Skeleton Champions and sent them in.
[Invisibility] was a tough spell. It had always been known as a tough spell, even for Tier 4. Plenty of [Mages] never learned it because it had so much nuance to it.
For instance, you had to concentrate a bit to keep it up. Getting hit almost always knocked it out of you. Dust or clouds revealed you, and plenty of [Mages] could only keep invisible until they touched something.
Pisces could do four Skeleton Champions plus himself, and the four would lose it the moment they attacked. Not exactly ideal. If he’d had [Darkness Cloud] or the ability to raise a sandstorm he could have used that.
But what he did have was a unique trick. [Drain Death Mana] and a horde of undead. So, Pisces did this.
He and the Skeleton Champions moved past the [Slavers]’ defenses. They got close as they could to a group of the [Guards], then Pisces cast two spells.
[Muffle] and [Lesser Illusion]. He fixed an image of the camp in place and attacked with the Skeleton Champions. Then, once the fighting was done, recast the spell and advanced.
The trick was he was draining zombies of their mana to fuel this much spellcasting. It was hard. His head hurt, and he got a nosebleed the fourth time he did it. But it worked.
By the time they advanced past the walls, the [Guards] knew they were under attack. This is where it got—harder.
Unlike the other two caravans, this one knew something had been out there. They’d lacked for anti-invisibility spells, but they came out of their defenses and fought—hard.
The first Skeleton Champion went down as a [Power Strike] smashed a skull in. Another exploded, silently, as a Potion of Blast detonated. It overloaded the [Muffle] spell, but the only sound was a brief ‘clap’ as loud as someone smacking their hands together.
Then—silence. By the time other [Guards] were turning, two more Skeleton Champions were moving up, and the onslaught continued.
Pisces had to fight with the Skeleton Champions. He was higher-level, a Silver-bell [Duelist] with his Ring of Shatterbolt versus low-level [Guards] during a surprise attack. They still tagged him.
A blade slashing across his chest. An arrow striking him in the back—twice, the [Necromancer] staggered, then, to the horror of the [Slavers], turned and ran his attacker through. Stalker’s armor. That broke what nerve they had left. They had already been speaking his title like a curse, trying to run.
Three minutes of fighting did not go unnoticed, despite the muffling spells. The magic-users detected the foreign magic, but by that point…
It was too late; Skeleton Champions were marching between the wagons along with the rest of the undead who’d walked past the undefended walls. Then the caravan was trapped.
The [Slavers] had the horses hitched up, ready to go, but the Skeleton Champions had been smashing the wagon tongues, setting them free, and any time a [Slaver] appeared, they had died in seconds.
The [Slavers] had been trying to hide, thinking it was ‘just’ invisible monsters.
Hoping, perhaps, they’d be ignored or the undead would kill the [Slaves] and they could get away. Pisces had gone after the [Slave Master] when he’d heard the speaking stone, worried she’d report…
Well, he didn’t know. He stood in the wagons and told the [Slaves] the same thing. Left before they could argue long because he still had nothing for them. At least this group could take the wagons after re-tying the leads and just…drive.
He’d taken a few items from the Fox Beastkin’s carriage. Pisces stared down at the dead woman and remembered Zirre, Yvlon’s friend, and Etrikah. Strange to see a Fox Beastkin wearing Roshal’s seal on her clothing.
It corrupted everything. He ignored her gold and artifacts and picked up two things from her personal, neat wagon. A healing potion. She’d had two of the now-precious vials; he left the other for them.
The second was a map.
 
——
 
[Slavers] kept tabs on each other as well as on business. The map that Lareceina had gotten for Pisces was rapidly growing out of date as the caravans moved. Only them stopping had kept them even in roughly the same location. Without the myna bird’s eyes from above, Pisces wouldn’t have even found them.
The map helped a lot. This [Slave Mistress] had been very punctilious and clearly had spent a lot on her caravan. The map was another sign of her attitude; it was magical, and the ink reflected, in real-time, weather like rain or sandstorms. Some was blowing across the western cities, but the real value of this map was that it seemed to be synced up to the Slaver’s Guild.
As in, when Pisces stared down at it, he saw, very clearly, another caravan that was a bit south from where Lareceina’s map indicated they might be. And, in fact, the woman’s own caravan was marked here; only, someone had drawn a huge red haze across this entire region and marked it as ‘Potential Danger’.
So the Guild was aware her caravan had been hit and was letting the other caravans know. They, in turn, were reporting their positions to the Guild. The flaw being that the Guild was handily updating the other [Slavers] on where everyone was.
Very useful. Pisces suspected no one had used this potential loophole in the Slaver’s Guild’s systems for a while. He started riding.
 
——
 
The fourth caravan had lots of camels. It seemed to have come from the north. It had war prisoners from Reim, no less. The King of Destruction’s fighting…the [Slavers] were the best fighters yet.
They were dicing up the zombies and calling alarms as they watched the Ghouls and Skeleton Champions closing in. Their nerves were frayed already, though; they knew they were in jeopardy, but they were—prepared.
One of them beheaded a Ghoul trying to sneak up on the back lines. Anti-invisibility spells. And they had [Slaves] being forced to fight in front of their masters…the undead had to hold still as they were run through. All the while, the shouting caravan kept trying to break free, ride on through the undead.
They’d known he was coming. Pisces was chasing down riders who broke away from the fighting, fleeing into the distance. He had to let them go and focus on the [Slaves]. The entire caravan was pushing at the zombies, and he saw they were almost out—
Then the Bone Horror ran into their camp on eight horse legs, the three-headed monstrosity braying as it reached down and began to slash with bone claws at everything it saw. It trampled three of them, refused to die when they blasted it with magic and enchanted arrows, and bit an [Archer]’s head off.
The camels had been willing to kick and bite the undead, but the sight of the Bone Horror made them fall into a terrified retreat, trying to flee rather than run forwards. The [Slavers] turned with cries of horror, attacking the huge monstrosity galloping through their lines. They were so focused on that they didn’t see Pisces amidst them until he’d killed eleven of them.
Then their nerve broke. Not just because Pisces attacked them with the new Bone Horror he’d made; he’d found a bunch of bones belonging to a pack of Needlehounds and used them for this.
No, this was the first time the [Slaves] fought too. Several [Soldiers] had grabbed one of the [Slavers] who’d run into them and killed the guard, then unshackled themselves. He’d nearly killed them when he’d seen them—
“We will take these folks back to Reim, Necromancer. The way is long, but we’ll strip this lot for armor. Rest assured, the King of Destruction will remember this.”
This was the easiest of meetings. A scarred [Lieutenant] had saluted Pisces, one-eyed, a grinning Dullahan. The [Necromancer] hadn’t asked how she’d joined Flos Reimarch’s war, only nodded.
“If you’d keep it secret, I would be obliged. As for your passage, I regret I cannot help. I owe His Majesty a debt.”
The Reim [Soldiers] were arming themselves rapidly, organizing the other [Slaves]. Some, Pisces realized, weren’t even from Reim. Half were Nerrhavia Fallen’s own [Soldiers], but they were…Hemp. The [Lieutenant] glanced back at them.
“Is that so? Then you’ve paid some of it. Here I thought your team was all at odds with ours. Rest assured if we make it, we’ll tell the story of it to the King of Destruction. And the Rustängmarder.”
They knew of how the Horns had left the King of Destruction’s camp. Pisces just nodded. This caravan hadn’t reported their attack yet. But—
“Slave Master Clomb checking in. Are you here?”
The speaking stone rattled on a dead man’s corpse, and Pisces cursed. But the [Lieutenant] nodded sideways, and one of Reim’s soldiers swept it up.
“This is Head Guard Jecks. The Slave Master, he is resting, yes? I shall report—”
He spoke as Pisces breathed out. That was good. The [Lieutenant] grinned.
“That may serve. We’ll lead them astray as long as we might, though we’ll toss that when they’re onto us. We ride, then. And I shall speak less harshly of Trey Atwood, eh? Perhaps I’ll join his camp if I survive.”
She offered a scarred forearm to clasp, and Pisces hesitated.
“The soldiers of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. What will you do with them?”
He was worried that when he turned his back, there would be a bloodbath, but the woman just glanced over her shoulder.
“We’ll offer them a chance to join us in Reim. It’s been done many a time the last war we fought with Nerrhavia’s Fallen. They know their kingdom’s left them. Some might risk returning home or hiding. No blood while we’re all fugitives, I swear that on Drevish’s honor.”
She clasped a fist to her chest, and Pisces believed her, because he’d cast [Detect Truth]. So he nodded.
Rode.
 
——
 
He hit three more caravans on the second day before they realized he was using the map against them. They’d been oh, so clever.
Each one had been moving erratically, going off-road; he’d have never found them without the map. Even the Myna bird had missed one under a [Mass Camouflage] spell of some kind.
They had to know it was him. They’d been checking for [Invisibility] spells, pushing their animals to the brink to get to the city or just away…then he hit them with everything he had.
It didn’t get—easier. Despite the growing horde of undead, he kept running into problems.
 
——
 
Adventuring team. Bronze-ranks? Silver? He wasn’t sure, but they’d engaged the Skeleton Champions and been fighting equally until he hit two of them with [Deathbolts]. The team of six had fled, and he wasn’t sure if he’d killed…
 
——
 
Had there been an [Assassin] in the next caravan? He wasn’t sure. Something had shot the young man wearing white robes in the neck with a dart. Right before the hail of arrows hit Pisces, fifty-six shots. The young man had fallen over, and they’d cheered…
Right up until they realized the white robes were just that; white robes, unenchanted. And the ‘young man’ was a dead zombie staring skywards.
Then he’d fought. Pisces had never run into the figure who’d shot the dart. He was drinking a second healing potion, ordering the undead to search for more. His underarmor covered his vital parts, chest to waist, but it wasn’t complete. Little scratches bled him. A glancing blow, shrapnel from one of the wagons which had exploded as the undead came near…
Traps.
He didn’t know if there were [Slaves] amidst the dead. He raised all he could and moved on as the ones he’d freed fled.
 
——
 
Someone must have figured out Pisces’ map-trick after the third caravan, because all the icons of the other caravans vanished.
That was okay; Pisces had two more birds in the air, and he’d marked the positions of the other caravans on his maps already and had tagged one from the air. There weren’t that many…around. At least of size.
Which was good. He needed a break.
He was failing the [Slaves]. Not that he’d helped them but this time he saw one wagon escape him. Screaming people inside as a pair of [Slavers] fired frantically from the rear. They tore a Ghoul clinging to the side off and it got away. He would have stopped them but he’d been getting sloppy. He needed to rest a second.
Pisces sat there, staring down at the spear in his leg. It hurt quite a lot, but he was drinking from the healing potion. Forcing the tip out of his bones as he pulled at it. Skeleton Champions were hacking up the [Javelineer] who’d tossed it at him.
“It’s the Scourge! The Sc—”
A screaming man was holding a speaking stone up. The [Caravan Master]? Pisces flicked his wrist. Missed the [Shatterbolt].
