“Outcast?”
“For murder, yes. I was with the main tribe when we heard what had happened in the Great Plains. I disagreed with Torishi’s choice during the Meeting of Tribes and fought against my kin. It went to blood. I was exiled, then got into trouble in a Drake city for petty crimes. Funny. It all seems petty, now. Pointless.”
He stared up, at the sky, and the entire story of the man’s life to here was spelled out to Pisces. A single, crimson trail that snaked into Izril’s cities. Where it could, and then it brought them across the sea to this vast kingdom.
Roshal.
Now there was a crowd. Some of the [Guards] standing at the gates were glancing over, and Stitch-folk were lined up—but far away. Watching Pisces. Fear in their eyes, or perhaps an expectation, but most were just afraid.
They knew him. Hexata and her brothers were the only ones who dared stand close.
“Scourge…mark me, for I hold no chains, and I respect your team and wish you no ill will. Should you free them, you are a dead man within ten minutes. Even if you gained the gates, where would you go? If you had horses? They would ride you down within the hour. If you escaped them, their blades would be in your back by night.”
She was, of course, right. He had no idea where they were on a map, and crossing this vast nation—even if you got to sea, you’d need a crew who could outrun Roshal’s ships, and they were everywhere. You couldn’t hide. You’d have to take their collars off and know where…
Verg nodded.
“She’s right. Leave us, Adventurer.”
“But, Verg—”
“Tell the girl to shut up or we’ll all be whipped for it, again. Not her since she’s too young, but I’d prefer not to be lashed bloody before we get to the auctions.”
A caustic voice in line. A Drake who met Pisces’ gaze. He jerked his head.
“Interested in life stories? I’m a failed [Merchant]. There. Now, kindly, begone.”
“I’m sorry.”
Pisces felt like he was dreaming. That moment of surreality where he walked and almost saw himself from above. Yet he was also aware of each passing second. The thrumming of his heart. He stood there, and Hexata’s reasoning matched his mind perfectly.
Yet the girl was waiting. Mrsha’s age. She whispered.
“Please?”
“Necromancer—”
Verg was motioning him back; someone was hurrying through the crowd, shouting for them to make way. Pisces saw [Guards] coming from the gates. Some had bows, and they were aiming them down. Not quite at him. He looked up, and one flinched back and made a sign on her chest.
What were they afraid of? He wasn’t sure, and glanced around. Then he felt an arm on his shoulders.
“Hey, Pisces, c’mon! I think we owe you a drink.”
Someone strong finally shifted him; Hexata and her two brothers lurched as Leo pulled Pisces back. The [Tennis Champion] was grinning with all his teeth.
Wildcard? They’d returned, and Pisces saw Lareceina, Kusal—the [Rogue] grabbed his other arm.
“Let’s get him out of here. Hey, move it!”
“Adventurer! Wait! Wait!”
Lleta was shouting, trying to twist free of the ropes. Verg was holding her, but she was kicking him, screaming. Pisces saw Lareceina between him and—Leonardo was swearing.
“Fuck, Kusal, pull—”
“He’s strong—”
He was just standing there. Then came a sweating figure, who pushed through the crowd, wearing a turban, travelling clothes with that symbol burned onto them. And Pisces stared.
A Drake.
The [Slave Merchant] cast around, and when he saw Pisces, he recoiled. [Slave Guards] rushed forwards, studying him, and there was shouting.
“Back, back! Protect us by the authority of Nerrhavia’s Fallen!”
“No one is to draw blades! There is no affront! None!”
The Watch Captain was shouting, waving his hands as he looked around. Eyes flicking to Pisces. But he just heard Lleta shouting.
“Adventurer! Wait! You’re a Gold-rank adventurer! Come back! Please?”
He wanted to say something. Then Lareceina blocked his view, and they finally pulled him off his feet and then—
He woke up. But like his memory of Igheriz, of those days—
The nightmare was simply reality.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet didn’t kill anyone. There was no incident that need involve the Watch or the garrison, and even Roshal’s merchants agreed it was best put behind all present.
The [Watch Captain], [Garrison Commander], and the [Mayor] all appeared to say that. Though it was Hexata and Leo that did the talking. Pisces only sat there.
For a moment. He didn’t talk. He just…
Re-articulated everything they were telling him. Of course there was no way to rescue them. Suicide. His team would be in jeopardy. It was one thing to join the fighting out in the straits—another to participate here.
Lareceina pointed it out at increasing volume to Kusal.
“This city is Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Not the wilds. His team are independent adventurers, and he can claim justifiably he was falsely imprisoned. Here is where the crown’s authority lies. If he draws blade unprovoked in this city, it is a blade drawn against Queen Yisame and her kingdom. If it were outside the city—”
“God damnit, Lare!”
They split up, both of them red-faced, and Pisces went over the conversation again, as if Ceria were talking with him. It was, of course, correct. Colth would say the same thing. We cannot save them all.
Eventually, he did get up. It was evening, and Wildcard were arguing whether they should leave via magical carriage to get to Tyrant’s Rest now or later.
“I’m going for a walk.”
They all turned to him, and he clarified.
“Just around the city. I’m not going to the…I’m quite aware, thank you, of the situation. There’s no further trouble?”
Leo, Kusal, and Lareceina glanced at each other and shook their heads.
“None.”
Pisces walked out of the rooms they’d rented. He didn’t know where Hexata and her brothers had gone, but it was late. The sun was setting on the city, and it was orange, casting long, lurid shadows.
Like sins. His shadow stretched behind him as the [Necromancer] saw people in the inn turn and stop talking. His name felt like it had been whispered throughout until they saw him. Then the voices died, and there was only silence.
In the street, people stopped and turned to him. Eyes filled with fear, incomprehension, or worse, a painful expectation.
He could meet no eyes. He couldn’t stand the gazes.
So he vanished.
 
——
 
Lareceina de Verteuil was correct. She had studied Nerrhavia’s Fallen and grown to know it for the year plus that she and her team had been here. They knew it too.
But despite her pointing out that fact, Kusal and Leo didn’t want to hear it. In the end, Leo told her to ‘drop it because you’re not helping, even if you are right’. Which made her so angry she stormed out of the inn.
Someone had to believe in rules. Being Gold-ranked didn’t mean you had an excuse to break laws. She, at least, was a respected Gold-ranker now.
Even if the Ice Squirrel was more popular despite being chaotic, a murderer, and rude. That annoyed Lareceina. But today had also been upsetting on multiple fronts.
In times such as these…she glanced around the streets filled with gossip, the Horns of Hammerad’s name being everywhere.
Their fight with Itkisa and their visit to the Mad Ones, their deeds, had utterly eclipsed Wildcard’s. True, the events at the Tomb of Yad’thuv had been covered up as part of their agreement, but that was fame.
She stared around as she projected mana from her body, like a pulse-wave, then condensed more in her hand. Like she stored feelings, bottling them up and compressing them.
She made the ‘mana marbles’ constantly, replenishing her stocks, concentrating the ones she had, and it gave her clarity. In such moments, Lareceina would prefer to be left alone.
—Which is why she found it intolerable for Leo and Kusal to follow her.
“I want to be left alone right now.”
“C’mon, Lare. Don’t—”
Her glare made Leo throw up his hands, but he did follow her as she walked to her destination. Which made them all the more upset.
“I’m going to hit her. What the—”
That was followed by some Sinhala swearing, but Lareceina was smiling.
“Hello, I am a Gold-rank adventurer and [Mage] inquiring about your services. May I ask if this is the only ‘stock’ you have in today?”
The person in charge of the Slaver’s Guild in the city was a Stitch-woman, Cotton, skin done up beautifully. She appeared a bit—shaken.
Everyone did. Word from the encounter on the streets had the more resplendent members in the Guild muttering and keeping to the backrooms, while prospective buyers were thin. Even so, there was traffic.
People coming to sell and buy. Though this place was not where you sold—they had a less luxurious lounge than this for that transaction.
The word ‘adventurer’ made the woman tense and everyone glance around, but Lareceina clarified.
“I am part of Wildcard, who battled the Horns of Hammerad, an adventurer in good repute with all Guilds.”
Leo gave the woman an unconvincing smile; Kusal hadn’t entered. But the woman brightened up and checked something via a magical ledger.
“Adventurer Lareceina, of course! I see you’re not a member here, but you do have a very good record with other Guilds—hello! Are you here to buy or sell?”
She was suddenly very friendly, and Lareceina got plenty of smiles and nods around the room, which made her predisposed to think she was welcomed here. She smiled back.
“Just to browse. Do you have anyone capable of acting as a Slave Adventurer?”
“Oh, no one like that—it’s a highly qualified role, but we could have a catalogue written up for you? There would be a delivery fee—our current roster is being written up.”
Lareceina nodded.
“That’s very reasonable. Hm. In that case, I’d just like to look around.”
“Absolutely, Miss! Let me issue you with a little token if you’d like to sit and have refreshments; a sign of goodwill. And if you’d choose to register with us, we would upgrade your membership—”
At this point, Leonardo’s foot was pressing down on Lareceina’s toes so painfully she shifted. But she accepted the little badges and promised to give them back once she left. Lareceina began to walk towards the VIP guest area when she had a thought and walked back to the counter.
“Excuse me, I have another question if I may? I don’t know if we can buy now, because we’re moving. But I am curious—we might be in the area. Do you have any more caravans coming to the city?”
The [Receptionist] had to check, humming as Lareceina waited patiently.
“A number—this is a decent stop along the Leashed Trails—it goes all the way to Lailight Scintillation itself, you know. East to west, across all of Chandrar.”
“Could I ask you to give me a copy of them? In case I wanted to wait for one or two. I’m trying to convince my team—do you have any attractive female [Slaves]? Garudas?”
Another smile, and the [Receptionist] laughed as she whispered to Lareceina.
“For you or your team?”
“My [Captain].”
“Well, I suppose since you are a prospective Gold-card member—we use ranks like your Adventurer’s Guild, but we go above Gold-ranks. Give me five minutes?”
It took less time than that for the [Receptionist] to get a list printed for Lareceina. Well, a [Slave] actually did the scribing onto a copy of a map, and there was no fee. So Lareceina left a gold-coin as a tip. At this point, Leo almost dragged her out of the Guild, and she protested they hadn’t looked around, to which he told her they had to go to get on the magical carriage.
When they left the Guild, Kusal appeared and spoke.
“I can’t find Pisces, but he’s not here. What did she do in there?”
“She was asking about buying—c’mon.”
They almost dragged her off. Lareceina shifted.
“Don’t grab me. Look at this.”
She flourished the little piece of paper at them. It was amazing work and spoke to Roshal’s wealth.
Not only did they have a map of the ‘Leashed Trails’, which highlighted their caravans’ travel routes across cities of this region of the kingdom, but they could make copies and they’d annotated them with each caravan. Which meant they regularly checked in and monitored their people.
It was highly impressive, and the Merchant’s Guild might not have such impressive data. Kusal stared at Lareceina.
“Leo, I’m going to punch her.”
“Cool it, Kusal. Lare, we’re not happy right now. So let’s all go back to the inn or get in the carriage and find Pisces—”
“Let’s rent two carriages, and she can ride in the other or walk back.”
They bickered in the street. Lareceina glowered at Kusal and offered him the catalogue. He tried to rip it up—she flicked a miniature gravity marble into his chest and knocked him down. Leo put Kusal in a headlock and then grabbed the map.
He crumpled it up and tossed it aside. Lareceina turned around, crossed her arms, and spoke as she stared down the street.
“Leo, I am very unhappy with you at this moment. I would like to go now.”
“Fine by me.”
They stormed off and found the magical carriage waiting for them at the inn. Adventurer Pisces still hadn’t appeared, and since he had his own magical carriage, they got in theirs. Lareceina insisted they take a specific route through the city on their way out.
“Okay, Lare. Explain exactly what that was before one of us starts shouting—”
“Shush.”
Leo made a sound, but Lareceina stared out the one-way glass of the Wistram Carriage. They were in the street right outside the Slaver’s Guild, and she stared, and Kusal nearly shouted—then saw the finger she’d put to her lips.
They had put a cloth over the scrying orb in the center of the carriage, but it was reasonable to assume that Wistram could still hear through it, potentially. Lareceina had asked, and the ability to cast a spell that let them see through cloth via the scrying orb was remote; she’d gotten some and sewn a lead lining into it anyways just in case.
Leo and Kusal stared into the street. They were right where they’d had the fight. Lareceina peered down, and there was nothing there.
Of course, the ball of paper might have moved with the wind or been swept up. But if you followed a magical signature you’d attached to it…
She saw nothing. So the carriage rolled on after a moment, and then her team sat back. And they were no longer angry.
Language was so imprecise. Lareceina hated it. So she sat back and began to flex her fingers. Her fingertips glowed in the gathering darkness, leaving little trails.
Just light magic. Words, if you squinted at the aftertrails. Wildcard sat in silence as they drove off, and that was that. They were respectable adventurers. Unlike the Horns of Hammerad.
That was, for the moment, how you had to be.
 
——
 
