The first caravan was hard. Hard in how it was fought, but hardest in saying goodbye. Pisces was a flurry of motion the moment he realized they were on a time limit.
“Roshal checks its caravans. This one was nearly at the city. Grab the horses. Grab every weapon you can, and—I don’t know which way to go.”
Then he felt like a murderer, for he had no escape route planned. He’d been so focused on this—but the Garuda whom he’d freed first had a thought.
“The Ekhot Straits. No one lives there. Or perhaps the Devilt Foothills. Even a city, should we get far enough.”
“They’ll ask if we are escaped [Slaves] at the gates—”
“Only on entry. And if you were taken before they reached a full Guild, you won’t be on the registers, perhaps. If we leave Nerrhavia’s Fallen, only Roshal will have us on lists.”
“Those are too far. We’ll never make it—”
That despairing comment came from a Stitch-man. But a chorus of voices silenced him.
“We must try. At worst, we split up after this. If we pose as travellers, with clothing, coin—”
There was a chance. But for the moment, the irony was that the [Slaves] had to get in the same wagons they had been freed from.
No longer chained, but they had no other conveyance. Pisces ordered his skeletons to strip the [Slavers]. The work was simple; he scavenged armor and weapons off the dead for the Skeleton Champions to re-arm.
Not the best gear. He took several enchanted swords off the Skeleton Champions and handed them to the freed [Slaves]. They needed them more.
“Divide it amongst yourselves. Coin—the [Merchant] had some, surely.”
“Her chest. It’s trapped. But I saw how she used the key.”
One of the other [Slaves] volunteered. Pisces saw the Garuda standing on the wagon.
“If you fly, you can keep away from pursuers. Split up if you must; I don’t know if they’ll scry you…”
“Perhaps, but there are Skills and scrolls against it. You’re warded from scrying?”
Pisces had a ring that Ceria had insisted the team get, but the thought of each [Slave] being hunted down—
“I’m sorry. I don’t have anything else prepared.”
It was the tenth time he said it, and the Garuda smiled down at him.
“You freed us.”
“Won’t you come with us, Scourge? If you did and brought us to the straits or to your people—”
One of the former [Slaves] began, but Pisces was glancing over his shoulder. He hesitated, and his face twisted up, but he shook his head.
“I can’t. I am so sorry, but—I have to go.”
He was staring at something only he could see. One of his mice…the [Slaves] saw him point.
“Another caravan is headed towards the city.”
It took them a moment to realize what he meant. Then they all sat forwards.
“You mean to strike Roshal again?”
Pisces turned and realized they had no notion of his plans. He gestured, aimlessly, as the Skeleton Champions finished repairing themselves. More bodies were arising, now. Naked, mostly. Eyes glowing. Zombies. A few Ghouls.
“I cannot free the [Slaves] in the city.”
Again, the massed people glanced at each other to try and divine what he meant. One spoke.
“…Halqued?”
“Yes.”
Lareceina was right. Hexata was correct. In that city, Yisame’s people kept law and order. An attack on the city was an attack on her. Outside the city…
There were no witnesses. And if there were, so what? The Scourge of Roshal wore Pisces’ face. Everyone knew that, but Pisces was also sure it was a face that Bearig had adopted. A way to disguise the [Rebels].
The ‘Scourge’ has simply hit another caravan. That was the flimsiest pretext he had, but…it was a madman’s plan. Pisces half-turned.
“I have to go to intercept it. If you need other places to go, north…east would be good. Though help would be at least a hundred miles away, likely more. Tiqr is even further, and I do not know this region. Again, I’m…”
A skeleton horse was rising as the undead began to move. First shuffling steps—then he pointed, and the zombies began to jog. Then run, arms pumping, organs glistening. The [Slaves] saw him turning, and then there was a feeling.
Not just them. Not just one act and desperation. If he meant more—
“They’d send out riders after us instantly. Scry us and post bounties on each one. But hundreds? Thousands?”
“He’s mad. Mad as they say. Was it just one of him versus every [Guard] and Throsa herself?”
Whispers. The Garuda saw Pisces getting on the horse with the curious saddle. He called out.
“Scourge!”
Pisces turned, and the Garuda lifted a wing-arm.
“Luck. If I return to Qualvekkaras, I will speak your name and Cawe’s to the winds themselves. Or any Garuda I meet.”
The [Necromancer] called back.
“Your name. What is it?”
“Josiever.”
The connected gaze lingered as Pisces began to ride. Then it broke. When he turned and rode ahead, he didn’t look back, at least, not until he was a distant speck. As if he were ashamed, perhaps. Embarrassed.
Free, in a moment. The [Slaves] gazed down at the blood in the wagons. Their captors ran, a shambling horde, dead—and there might have been that anger. Hot and bright for the way it was too easy.
Like a Djinni coming down a minute too late to break chains so easily. After so long, for some of them. Too easy. Why had no one done it?
Then they turned and saw him riding now, a speck. Just one man. No Djinni of Demons, no legend.
“I’ll try my best.”
Gooseflesh rose on Josiever’s arms, under his feathers. He spread his wings and leapt into the air, hesitating until he realized those chains were gone.
Never again. Then he was flying up—up—every cell in his body screaming in relief. But craning his head to see that figure moving. And if he had a regret…
It was that Pisces hadn’t asked Josiever to join him. But then, the Garuda wondered…who could keep up with the Bane of Roshal? The original had come back to Chandrar, and now he was free of his team, of his obligations. He had been a fine figure on the scrying orb, in the palace; they had all seen broadcasts of him despite their master’s dislike of him.
Now, though…
He appeared truly passionate.
 
——
 
His plan was insane. It was only working right now because they didn’t know what he was doing. The element of surprise was going to run out by the second caravan—let alone the third.
But they were on the roads. Unless they turned around—and even if they did—it was hard to hide that many people. Going off-road was nigh-impossible unless the [Slavers] had enchanted wheels. They’d run into monsters or just get lost.
And he had a map detailing where each one was. He just needed to kill them all. Hundreds of [Slave Guards]…
Yes, a madman’s plan. But Pisces had to do it. If he did, no one could buy or sell that girl. There was no…ending to this that went well. He knew that too. It didn’t matter.
He rode, and the horde of undead he’d summoned was the first, the largest—when he looked back and saw them running after him, he had an image in his head.
Feren. Gewilena. Ama. His first coven of [Necromancers], cheering a group of zombies led by a Ghoul. He saw in the undead the same horde attacking Liscor and Erin’s inn.
All the evils of my class. Then he blinked and saw the dead [Slavers]. He didn’t know what Erin would say. But he knew what he needed.
He had never summoned a horde of undead and controlled them himself. It was…unsettlingly easy. And alarming. Pisces didn’t have individual control over the undead. That was the worrying part. They might well revert back to their natural instincts and attack anything living. Twice, when he stopped to orient himself, he saw a zombie try to dig up a snake or something in the ground. But Pisces could easily correct one undead.
It was like a herd of sheep. He could move them around in a mass. And then just send them at, well, a target. Terrifyingly dangerous.
He kept a firm grip on the Skeleton Champions. They were now fully armored and armed, albeit with unenchanted gear. Pisces wished he’d kept some enchanted weapons—but the [Slaves] needed them.
Do without. Now that he had sixty-odd undead, he had a fighting force, albeit a naked one to back up the Skeleton Champions. But Pisces had a problem. He considered it as he rode; the undead horse didn’t need to slow, and it rode flawlessly for him.
I need to hit the other caravan fast. If I can ambush them the same way, I will, but word may have spread. I’ll see. I wish I could intercept spells like Az’kerash did for me. 
Either way, he’d flood forwards with the zombies and Ghouls—let the Skeleton Champions pick out targets. Go for the leadership and high-level [Guards]. He’d also play it safer; one blow to the head and he was dead.
He should have gotten a damn helmet. Personal barrier spells like Yvlon’s ring! He’d keep invisible and minimize risk.
That was the benefit of the undead horde as well; Pisces realized they were generating death-mana. He was recharging rapidly.
[Drain Death Mana]. He tried it on a zombie, and it collapsed and actually turned to ash as he yanked out enough mana for a half-dozen [Deathbolts]. From one zombie?
The rest seemed to run faster in response. Not from fear; the death magic was invigorating them. So Pisces might be able to cast even more spells, despite having used a mana potion in the previous battle. And his Skills would have recharged…
His problem was singular. He could adjust his strategy. Plan on the fly when he saw the second caravan’s numbers and disposition, though he was no Colth—but he had a crippling weakness.
“Aim.”
During the last battle, Pisces had missed several spells. Especially at the final moment when he’d been duelling the [Caravan Leader]. Deathbolt was a Tier 4 spell; it wasn’t as costly as some, but he couldn’t afford to miss with it.
The problem was that Pisces was no Ceria Springwalker, who’d been trained for the better part of a year by a known sharpshooter spellcaster, Illphres. He remembered laughing at her having to get up daily to practice shooting targets by the surf.
Now Pisces would have given anything for that practice. He was a decent shot when stationary, but when moving? Ceria was an actual deadeye given how little she missed.
Pisces flexed his left hand’s finger. Could he correct that aim somehow? He tried. He reduced the mana in his finger and conjured a spell he’d deemed useless for the first battle.
Lighted Arrow. Not [Light Arrow], but the freeform casting version of it. Functionally the same spell, but customizable. In this case, he reduced the amount of light magic in it to almost nothing. He kept it bright, fast—and fired it from his finger.
It shot into the dirt and didn’t even shift the sand. Pisces wondered if it could kill a fly. Well, perfect. He fired five and guessed it was five per one [Light Arrow], already a Tier 1 spell.
Perfect; he could breathe and almost regenerate mana faster. He rode and began shooting the arrow nonstop at everything he could see.
Rocks, cacti, a bounding rabbit, more rocks—his Skeleton Champions—
Pisces started shooting one of his Skeleton Champions in the skull nonstop, or trying to. It kept pace with his horse, so it was actually the best target. He ignored its reproachful stare and cursed after about ten minutes of practice.
“This isn’t ideal.”
He was missing about 60% of the time! The skeleton horse wasn’t that smooth, but at even twenty paces, Pisces had terrible aim. True, they were both moving targets…but Pisces quickly realized the issue wasn’t just his aim. It was more technical still.
There were a lot of good reasons for Pisces to free-cast with his bare hands. It was adaptive, surprised foes, he was used to it—but the reason Ceria favored a wand was because it was a non-flexible rod. Even if not all wands were straight, she knew exactly how long it was and the trajectory it formed.
Pisces had a finger. He liked his forefinger, he thought he knew it well, but it was a finger.
Each section of bone moved with his muscles. If he pointed it straight, it would vary slightly in position each time he did it, despite his best efforts. If he were some kind of supreme…[Monk] he might be able to control it so finely, but that variance meant that he was inevitably going to miss.
Especially when a slight wavering would lead to a lot of error over distance. Pisces hunted around.
“Where is it? Delitandra just had me practicing with…aha!”
He finally yanked out the wand that was a replacement for Mrsha’s favorite chew toy and tried some spellcasting with it. His aim improved…but Pisces felt weird holding it. And he still missed three in ten shots. Nor was it calibrated to amplify death magic, just a cheaper wand some [Mage] in the Coliseum of Monarchs had owned.
He didn’t have time for this. By his calculations, he was already halfway towards intercepting the second caravan. Pisces cursed. But for the Heromakers of Hraace—! If ever he needed Delitandra to come running over with a suggestion, it was now.
Defeat spurs one towards training. She was right about that, only his motivation was failing to do what he had to. Pisces’ mind raced.
How do I correct my aim? If I miss, I could hit a [Slave]. I don’t know how to curve my magic, even if I thought I could correct a [Deathbolt] mid-flight. Colth could do it if he were here…
Think, fool! He closed his eyes and tried to remember the other [Mages] he’d seen. Eldavin came back to him. He’d told Pisces to concentrate his magic, and he’d been right. But he’d had superb casting.
Montressa hadn’t been that accurate, nor Palt, to his memory. The [Illusionist] had preferred to just fill the air with [Light Arrows]. Courier Salamani did the same thing. It was hard to make sure a spell landed on target; that was why other kinds of magic like [Fireball] were so appealing. Pisces’ aim with his rapier was a million times better at range, but he couldn’t rely on it.
…Or could he? Pisces remembered he could bind spells to the tip of the rapier. He imagined him shooting spells with the rapier as an extended wand. It almost sounded viable to him until he remembered the point of his free hand was to do the casting.
“It has to be free-handed. So how…?”
He thought of another [Mage] and hesitated. Wait a second. Viceria had great aim from practicing with Wailant, allegedly naked. Larracel used homing spells, but you know who didn’t have great aim?
Archmage Valeterisa. And she was a seasoned Wistram duelist. In fact, in fact, he recalled Montressa talking about her famous trip to Fissival with Valeterisa. Dead gods, he’d seen her casting magic. Not her fighting, but there was that recording of that Mage Lord Ascoden…using a spell Valeterisa had invented.
