The magical carriage rolled away, and Pisces wondered if Wildcard had been inside of it. He suspected they had been, but he didn’t drop his [Invisibility] spell.
Perhaps they knew he was there, the Slaver’s Guild. They had magic too, but he didn’t approach. In the end, he walked off, tucking a piece of paper into his bag of holding.
He was late for his magical carriage back to Tyrant’s Rest, but the [Mage] on duty told him there would be no fee. Pisces thanked him, then got in it.
“Welcome, guest. Please state your destination and enjoy Wistram’s Carriage Services! Please note our updated policy about use in situations of conflict—”
Pisces ignored the familiar voice of Mage Rievan speaking and spoke.
“Tyrant’s Rest, palace.”
“Please enjoy our complimentary—”
He ignored the scrying orb, then opened a window. The city moved past him as the magical carriage navigated the now-dark streets at slow speed, heading towards the nearest gate.
 
——
 
The [Guards] at the gates didn’t exactly like the annoying Wistram Carriages, which would loudly request entry and priority passage at increasing volumes, or the fact that they weren’t allowed to always search them.
Wistram was negotiating with each nation for this kind of access, but in this case, they were glad to see the carriage go. For everyone knew it held the Bane, and the sooner he was out of the city…
Disagree, agree with him—his name was famous, and his team, perhaps rightfully so, the talk of Chandrar and the world. But an honest or dishonest Stitch-person did not long to see the legend of the [Necromancer], Pisces, told in their city.
By the Threadmakers, no. So each tensed spine straightened as the carriage left, pausing only before the gates to be waved past all those in line, and even the Watch Captain on duty was said to have gone to the nearest [Stitchmistress] to have her spine and shoulders replaced, so knotted were they.
The carriage sped out into the darkness, glowing faintly blue, made of magic and light and carrying a legend off, and leaving only this city to smaller stories, like the Mad Ones. Funny to now think of them as the lesser of great tales, but theirs was a contained thing, unlike the match which might blaze brightly, then fade away just as quick.
Who were they to say? Let it only be a story, then, for all to brag about or speak of when drinks were spilled. They had seen a legend, but not any more than that. Lucky, then! Ah, yes…
 
——
 
Trader Hexata was shaken herself from the events of the day. She thought it was worth something in coin; spinning the tale of her brief encounter with the Horns would attract some customers, surely, and the Mad Ones always had curios.
Still, had it not twisted at the heartstrings to see that girl begging to be freed? For a second, she had thought…well, her brothers had remonstrated with her on her madness, but she had truly liked Necromancer Pisces. At first, she had thought him so much more mild than his reputation.
But at the end, there…
Well, all things were mended with thread and time. She was packing up her caravan; they’d leave at dawn for new cities and profits. She was wondering if she could sell the table and chairs where Pisces had sat—a shame they were not marked, but if she got it certified on truth spell?
As the magical carriage rolled towards the gates, perhaps only Trader Hexata, cleaning her caravan, saw the dust swirl oddly in the street next to the open window. For a second, the carriage slowed, then a bright voice spoke from within.
“Window closing. Please note, Wistram is not responsible for passengers l—”
The [Trader] straightened. Perhaps that had only been her mishearing or a trick of the wind. Likely, likely…but the [Guards] waved the carriage through, and who could see through the glass that did not reveal the occupants?
Of course, it would be silly of her to think otherwise. A fool’s madness, perhaps.
“Brothers? Mind the wagon. I’m just going for a walk…”
“At this hour? Sister, is your head stuffed with wool? Here, wait a second—you’ll have a [Brigand] or [Footpad] on you—”
Her eldest brother peered up from the wagon and leapt down, but Hexata was walking towards the gates. The [Guards] let her out but warned her the gates would close within the hour, and she walked further.
Further, as the dust swirled across the ground. Then her eyes narrowed. They passed beyond the sight of the gates as the terrain changed slightly, leading them over a slope. And then the wind blew a storm of dust across her, and she shielded her face.
“Sister! Have you taken leave of your—”
Grulive followed her at a run, cursing, with Xomet behind. They halted in their tracks as the wind died down, and the [Trader] sighed.
There he was.
Pisces Jealnet was walking across the ground. He had found a hood and bought it, and the cloak hid his iconic white robes. Even if the wind had revealed him in sight of the walls, what of it?
It was dark, and at a distance, he looked like any other traveller or vagrant. Only one who had been standing right there…
He turned as she called out.
“Adventurer. I meant every warning. You are a famous Gold-rank adventurer, and if I do not mistake your level, it is over 40. But Nerrhavia’s Fallen eats such individuals up. Our greatest [Mage] is one that not even Archmage Amerys challenges. Our coliseums made the likes of Mars. You are one man, and the nation of Roshal is vast.”
He turned back, and his face was calm. So oddly calm, not like he was reading his spellbook. She had stolen glances at him, wondering if he might look up and their eyes meet. Though he had charmed the Arbiter Queen, it was said, and she was a humble [Trader]—
But he had been so engrossed in reading, smiling, musing, eyes glowing with a passion that she had just watched him for hours. Nor was it the calmness of the man who had come to meet the Mad Ones, peaceable, in good humor with his team for all he might grimace or quibble at times.
This was a different man, unlike the one she’d wrestled on the street. Just…
Confident. Yes, that was the word. A confidence she had known a few times when she had the perfect deal, when she knew herself to be poised and all things seemed to be balanced. Not luck, but surety. Nor was he utterly happy, but he was sure. Now, he bowed, a [Duelist]’s graceful motion.
“Trader Hexata. Thank you for your help in all the ways you have aided me today. I hope you will aid me in one last way by keeping our encounter private.”
She didn’t say anything; her throat was tight, so it was her eldest brother, Grulive, who croaked.
“That—you have our word on it, by coin and honest means, Adventurer. May we never take a copper if we lie. But you have no team.”
They pointed this reasonable thing out, and he nodded like it was meaningful. But then Pisces just brushed at his hair and looked around. His shoulders seemed to lighten at their very words.
“Yes. That’s true. I would prefer their company, but some things…I have always aspired to be a good teammate, you see. I have been a poor friend and led my first team astray by my presence. I would hate to bring them more trouble, even if I hope they’d support me.”
He stopped a moment and smiled at something only he could see.
“Surely, they would. This, though, is something I can do. In my spare time. I’ll find my team in a moment. I’m just…restless.”
Then he turned, as if that said it all rather than left a thousand thousand words unspoken, and walked away. Darkness claimed him in moments, or perhaps he became invisible again. It left Hexata and her brothers to stand there until they knew the gates would close and had to turn. But it lingered in their ears, each and every one. And they said nothing as they returned to their wagon or over their late repast, but it was in their eyes. An echo unsaid.
In my spare time. Restless.
They were not grand words, but Hexata approached the sleepy [Barmaid] at night and paid for a week’s worth of rooms on instinct. Then she went to her rooms and tossed and turned for so many hours that a weary guest below her had to bang on the door and demand she be quiet. But she could not sleep.
Hexata waited—not knowing when or where. But knowing nonetheless. Like a team of Gold-rank adventurers headed back to Tyrant’s Rest. As a girl cried herself to sleep in cells—
Six people in this world could not sleep.
They waited.
 
——
 
Pisces Jealnet awoke after a satisfactory five hours of sleep. He needed his rest, and he rolled out of his bedroll. He’d created a little bone bivouac, but failed to account for the winds. They’d blown sand all over him until he’d had to enclose himself entirely in the improvised tent. For air, he’d built a breathing tube.
He’d still been buried and realized this location had to border the Great Desert. The Glass Straits too; it was a famous natural road across Chandrar and part of these Leashed Trails. Exactly the place you’d put the Mad Ones in case something blew up too big.
Sparse cover meant it was harder for [Bandits] to lie in wait, he supposed. Plus, his knowledge of history and the town’s museum had said that the roads that the Immortal Tyrant had built intersected with the ones the King of Destruction had laid down the eastern coast. Ideal for caravans.
Getting out of bed was Pisces’ first challenge and surprisingly hard. He nearly buried himself trying to get out of the sand. Then he slapped his forehead.
“I am such a fool. Out of practice. Arise.”
Bones flew up out of his breathing tube, then formed Skeleton Champions who began to dig with their bare hands. Then bone shovels. Pisces finally excavated himself and shook his head.
In a way, he felt like a sleepwalker, much like the King of Destruction had been said to be. He felt more focused today. Hraace, even the coliseum, felt like another man’s memories.
Pisces was no smarter today, but he was aware when he was being a fool. And he could not be—so he regarded the Skeleton Champions, who were currently naked.
He’d have to armor them up with Colth’s gear. Several had ‘perished’ at sea, and Pisces had not thoroughly replaced their armor and weapons.
“I should have done that the moment we reached land.”
Bones too. He had Nekhret’s bones, but if he had more space in his bag of holding, he could double his supply, and it was a finite resource. Gargoyle bones…Ama was right.
Pisces got moving as he ate the sweet jerky that Hexata had sold him. And again, he caught himself.
He had been moving with [Flash Step], trying to time each footfall so he was able to run with the spell. It was making good progress, but Pisces felt too noticeable; he couldn’t keep up [Invisibility] and [Flash Step]. Plus, each cast burned magic, however efficient the spell was.
So he stopped and thought. He needed transport…this was a vast region. But he had no handy camel like Ksmvr had claimed he’d had, his arch nemesis Spitty. But…
“Is it here? Please let me have taken it, not Colth. Aha.”
Pisces smiled when he pulled an object out of his bag of holding. He truly didn’t make use of his gifts, but this, at least…
The curious saddle lay on the ground as Pisces animated a horse, and he had to adjust the bones, but the saddle made for undead horses from the King of Duels himself had been created for just this purpose.
Then he was riding. And the undead horse…he poured death mana into it until the blue eyes were glowing bright.
Pisces cast an illusion on himself and the horse. At a distance, they seemed like an ordinary horse and rider. It’d fall apart the moment someone got close since he was no great caster, but he didn’t take the main roads. He was reading the map that Lareceina’s team had tossed aside, doing calculations.
The nearest caravan would be…it was a lot of guesswork, but Pisces had other advantages. He galloped over to a section of the road after a few minutes, tossed something down, and moved off the road again. He then found another stretch of road about twenty miles north and did the same. If he saw anyone on the path, he’d either get off his horse and jog over, pretending to be a traveller, or wait until they were gone. Or just toss down the object and let it make its way over.
He lost three of his undead mice to casualties; two were snatched up by birds who mistook them for actual mice. The last ran into something from underground; a scorpion or snake he bet. But the rest surveyed the road.
The more he tossed down, the more he had to concentrate, of course. Pisces had always felt Ivery and Bearbones, the Skeleton Lord and Skeleton Warbear duo, as distant foci he had to ‘upkeep’ with mana, but they had been largely self-sufficient.
Now, each mouse plus the skeleton horse was a little amount of death magic he had to expend—and he was counting how much he had. He did have a [Ashen Mana Well], but he wished he was stocked up on mana potions; he only had six.
Ceria’s circlet or Lareceina’s stored magic would be invaluable. But he had been lax. Lazy. So Pisces did what he could.
He went to the bathroom in the sand, and his second crisis was a lack of toilet paper. That one was highly distressing. In the end, Pisces, cursing, had to cut up some spare clothing and use the strips…
“Colth and Ksmvr always had the supply.”
Highly embarrassing. He’d need his own. At least he’d had a sleeping bag. But one had to do one’s business. Ahem. Pisces buried the waste, then finished his work.
The Skeleton Champions stared accusingly at Pisces as he assembled them. He’d forgotten to make them turn around. They felt weirdly judgemental, and he hoped this wasn’t a Toren scenario. Or maybe it was just how he’d react.
He had them put on the rest of his gear; they seemed to fight for gear such that instead of three or four fully-geared ones, he ended up with all of them having a piece of armor, but none of them being fully kitted out.
A bit…well, less impressive. Some didn’t even have weapons, so he made weapons out of bone for them.
Pisces recalled Colth’s comments in the Meeting of Tribes and made sure that each Skeleton Champion had a weapon that Pisces had at least basic competency with. All rapiers seemed like a bad idea; they needed to mix weaponry.
He also had a choice to make at this moment when he reviewed his remaining bones and remembered—there had been two Manticores in the Coliseum of Monarchs. He briefly toyed with animating a full Manticore…but ruled it out for two reasons.
