Pisces to Ceria: Are we hiding or securing Yvlon and fleeing?
Pisces to Ceria: Hello? Do you need a distraction?
Pisces to Ceria: I can’t tell what’s going on. I presume you’ve all vanished; I can hear them searching around me.
Pisces to Ceria: Reducing spellcasting in case they’re using [Detect Magic].
Pisces to Ceria: I think they’re gone. Where are you?
Ceria to Pisces: Hey, you’re a genius, idiot. They got all of us. How the heck did you escape? Will be out of range soon—head back to Tyrant’s Rest.
Pisces to Ceria: Clarification?
 
He never received a response. Which made him think their personal, secret communication spell from Wistram was out of range. Pisces eventually did emerge from his hiding place. He sat up with a gasp, and the sand covering him fell away.
Quite a lot of it, actually. He’d buried himself in the sand to avoid them spotting him. He had it in his hair, in his robes.
“What do you mean they got you all?”
He’d assumed they were hiding in case it wasn’t Yisame’s people after all. Or just because they didn’t want to obey—Pisces looked around and saw the Mad Ones’ camp in the distance. No chariots.
No magical Wistram carriage.
Nothing.
“…Tree rot.”
It sounded awkward when he said it. He got up, shaking sand out of his robes, and stood.
How did he escape the charioteers when Colth and Ceria failed to? Well, he knew how he’d done it, but he’d assumed Colth with his nigh-infinite Skills and Ceria’s magic…Pisces felt his stomach sink.
Now he had to go back by himself? He’d been so sure—
He rubbed at his face. Once again, it seemed to him that his team was out-of-sync with each other. He’d just assumed…
Here was the trick. As Pisces gloomily began walking back to the Mad Ones’ camp, he did congratulate himself on his new levels of artifice. He, Ceria, and Colth all had access to some form of [Invisibility], clearly. But the charioteers had been ready for them, and Pisces had known the instant that mask appeared they’d see him.
He was hardly a strong illusionist, so he couldn’t disguise himself with magic that way. Which left another trick: burying oneself in the sand. Classic to Chandrar, he’d read.
However, any fool could intuit that. The [Charioteers] weren’t stupid. They’d begun casting [Detect Life] spells—even [Detect Death] once they’d realized he was hiding. Pisces, covered in the sand as they rolled around him, had panicked, then come up with an interesting idea.
He was a [Necromancer]. He’d show up on a [Detect Life] spell, but what if he projected death magic such that he looked a bit more dead than usual? Not enough to register as undead, but just enough to ‘cloak’ his signature.
It had been a fun challenge to balance his magical essence, and he’d assumed Ceria’s circlet would do that for her, and Colth would use his helm. Then they’d link up, get Yvlon once she woke up, and…
…And it turned out he’d been way too clever. Pisces scuffed at the dirt.
“Do I rent a Wistram carriage? Maybe the Heromakers of Hraace can help me. What is ailing Yvlon?”
She’d just keeled over in battle. And she’d been yawning all day…
Ever since that kiss in the parade. Colth had said that. But he’d also ruled out poison at that instant, so what…?
A lot of questions, and not a lot of answers. However, Pisces did at least make it to the Mad Ones’ camp, and they didn’t murder him.
Indeed, some of the Mad Ones were trying to invent new shovels or ways to repair the wall. When they saw him, a few jumped.
“Dead gods, where were you? We were searching with the charioteers, and no one found you, Adventurer!”
That did cheer Pisces up a bit. He sniffed, sneezed because he had sand in his nose, and coughed.
“I appear to have done my job, ah, too well. They’ve all left, haven’t they?”
“A good thirty minutes ago. Hold on, let me get Yerelia—”
 
——
 
The Mad One was hugely amused to see Pisces. When he told her how he’d evaded them, she laughed.
“How inventive! That makes me want to look into spells that could deal with this unique case. You’re on par with a Level 30 [Rogue]; fools upon the Silks for thinking they could bring a few artifacts to catch you. Well—unless you want to buy anything, we’ll call it even. You paid us enough for the food and dropped enough gold to make up for the wall. I’m glad I didn’t kill you all with that round. Did you like how it spread out?”
“It was utterly terrifying, Inventor Yerelia. May I apologize for my, ah, team?”
She eyed him as she stopped laughing.
“Now I know you’re no Chandrarian adventurer. That sort of thing is part and parcel around here. Adventurers brawl and kill each other; now I’m glad I didn’t fire a second shot. Be on your way, then.”
No ill will nor questions. Pisces hesitated. He cast around.
“Er…thank you.”
Did he just go back to the city or something? He awkwardly walked off as the sand blew around him. This was so uncomfortable.
He hadn’t been by himself for a while. This was the first time he’d been alone since coming to Chandrar, really. Certainly in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
It felt odd. And guiltily, Pisces realized—a bit freeing.
 
——
 
Too freeing, Pisces knew, when he got to the mansion where he and the Horns had been staying. When he entered, he nearly scared a team of Cotton-folk [Cleaners] to death. They stammered that his entourage had left twenty minutes ago. He realized the Heromakers of Hraace were gone too.
Delitandra and the others had heard the Horns were going back to the capital and done the obvious thing. He groaned.
Alone.
It wasn’t like he was unused to the feeling. He had been alone for years after Wistram, and before that as well. But of late…Pisces had to think back to the Horns’ last few adventures.
Ever since Chandrar, they’d been together. Even if he’d gone out by himself, the team had been, well, a team. From going south to the Meeting of Tribes to the Crossroads, they’d stuck by each others’ sides. Colth had joined them and until the battle at sea…
Even after, he’d been in Colth’s company. Or if they’d been split up like at Jecrass, he’d been talking with Jecaina. The closest to alone he’d gotten was, what, being in Hraace and sitting in a pool with Nawalishifra?
Or the five minutes he’d followed the coliseum master while Yvlon was fighting? Truly, Pisces hadn’t been by himself for ages. He wished he didn’t feel like it was a relief.
“But why is it a relief, per se?”
The [Necromancer] went for a walk in the city, which was named Halqued, apparently. Funny, he hadn’t even known where the Mad Ones lived by name. That was how fast his team had zoomed across Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
True, they were busy. But would it kill them to at least stop and appreciate the local cuisine or customs? Pisces Jealnet was the sort of fellow who would make it a point to stop at every museum in a city he came across. Of course, his team was not that sort; Yvlon did it out of obligation, but only Ksmvr really appreciated history. Ceria and Colth were more the types to hit up the local market or go out and see the nightlife…he had no idea what Vofea was like.
Which was fine. Pisces could enjoy himself plenty at a restaurant, and he imagined Ceria would be a hoot, perhaps even a holler, in any museum. She could appreciate such things.
Funny. He just couldn’t imagine it all working out right now. Because, as he had observed, his team was fractured. Their teamwork was shot, and it was…
“It’s not all because of Ksmvr, is it?”
The young man stood in the local museum of Halqued, inspecting, well, pottery and old relics as the Stitch-folk eyed him. He knew he stood out because of his dusty robes, his fair skin, and probably the rapier on his side. He couldn’t help it; he had no place to change clothes, and Elena wasn’t around to put on makeup.
Pisces half-concentrated on the displays, which were fascinating. But he was just thinking to himself.
Maybe they were laying too much of the blame on Ksmvr not being here. Maybe…even if the Antinium were here, they’d still be like this. In which case, better that Ksmvr weren’t here because he’d be worrying himself sick.
Nor was it all Ceria’s fault. True, she was one of the issues with the circlet, but Colth was being sort of, well, an adventurer. The kind that existed at The Adventurer’s Haven, not The Wandering Inn. Yvlon was Yvlon—Pisces felt like he and she were on the same page.
He hoped she was okay. What had happened to her? He bent over a faded bit of pottery where little figures made of different pieces of cloth were joining hands. Not the most…intricate of designs. An amateur potter’s work, but fascinating.
At least, he thought so. The museum was fairly empty, and it wasn’t a rich place; no enchantments on the cases or cooling runes in the air. But authentic pottery from ages past! Museums weren’t big in Izril; you tended to get less memorabilia because Drakes would use anything worthwhile or hoarded the rest. But Chandrar was known as one of the ‘oldest’ continents because of all the buried kingdoms. Arid climates preserved things wonderfully, you see.
However, some people had no taste. Pisces heard a loud, and slightly exasperated, voice down the hallway.
“Look, I love pottery—no, I’m lying. I don’t love pottery. I’d rather use a chamberpot than look at this stuff for another hour. Can we go?”
Pisces closed his eyes. He could just imagine Ceria saying that or trying to use one of these pots for said purpose. Was it her new [Trickster] class? Was she that much less like the Ceria he had met after so long?
Yes and no. She’d gotten crazier. Had fame done that? Their travels? Was he different? He gazed at his reflection in the glass and thought he looked the same. But he had a brand on his chest. He had been a [Slave]…he carried a rapier again. He was an adventurer, not a lost [Necromancer].
Yes, I am different. In mostly better ways, I hope. Pisces thought of Erin. He wondered if she would be proud of his latest adventurers. He hoped she was alright. Wherever she was. The imposter in Baleros…
His hand was gripping his rapier’s hilt. Pisces let go as a wide-eyed Stitch-girl hurried past him, staring at her. He smiled; she began to run.
I am an armed stranger in these lands with a reputation for being a murderer. I should be more discreet. Can I buy some skin-paint and…no, that’s a terrible idea without Elena. But maybe some different clothing? 
He could dye his hair? Pisces had an image of Lyonette going around with black hair and snorted, then sighed. He doubted it would work on Stitch-folk given how adept they were at changing appearances. Then he heard the second voice.
“I vote to leave. My feet hurt, and I have [Lightfoot].”
A third, impatient voice argued with the two male ones.
“We agreed to do my thing today!”
“It’s been two hours, Lare.”
“But it’s so fascinating—how can you not see it?”
“It’s pottery.”
“Broken pottery. Listen, what if Kusal and I just met up with you later? Lare, c’mon—”
“Shit, she’s getting mad, Leo.”
“No, I’m not. I’m just upset you’re changing the rules we agreed to.”
“C’mon, Lare—”
A trio of Humans were coming down the corridor. Pisces, by now, had identified them by their names. He was unlikely to forget them so soon. He debated leaving—but he didn’t need to fight the trio of adventurers, did he?
Wildcard, the Gold-ranked team of Earthers, halted when they saw the young man standing there. Instantly, Leonardo reached for his tennis racket, and Kusal pivoted.
“Pukka, it’s them—”
“Hold on, hold on, we’re not fighting!”
Leonardo put out an arm, and the third member of their team, Lareceina the [Mage], put a hand to her belt. Where she kept the glowing orbs…Pisces held up a hand.
“I’m by myself, and we’re not adventuring. Truce?”
He maybe shouldn’t have said he was alone, but it worked. Wildcard relaxed, and Leo nodded.
“Truce. Hey—did your team go fighting the Mad Ones or something north of here? Everyone was talking about it.”
News spread fast. Pisces grimaced.
“It was Itkisa, though the Mad Ones did participate.”
“Torreb’s daughter? Wow, your team fights nonstop.”
The slightly accented common came from Kusal, their [Rogue]. He glanced at Lareceina, who was glowering and looking around. Likely for Ceria. The Horns had not left a good impression. Pisces exhaled.
“We would prefer not to. I, ah, apologize for my teammate’s actions earlier today, Adventurer Lareceina.”
“You didn’t harass me. I accept on behalf of your team, not Ceria Springwalker.”
Lareceina folded her arms and instantly got a nudge from Kusal and Leonardo. She glared at them harder.
“What? I accepted his apology.”
Her captain sighed at her.
“C’mon, Lare, play nice—sorry, Pisces. She’s, uh, stubborn. No harm, no foul. Sorry about the Tomb—it was a quest for both sides.”
He shifted from sandaled foot to foot warily, but Pisces waved this off too.
“We didn’t realize there was a group with an actual claim on the Tomb. If we had known, I doubt my team would have taken the contract. I would have objected to robbing the Hemp of their ancestral spirits. I assume they did receive the summons?”
Again, Wildcard seemed surprised by his response, and Lareceina raised her brows as Kusal nodded.
“We got them to the Hemp. Did you get in trouble for not doing your job?”
“Not to any great degree. We’ll see. I simply appreciate that no one was hurt badly. The same with Itkisa. She is a rather…fearsome woman.”
“Is she strong? Everyone says she’s strong.”
Pisces found himself standing with the Gold-rankers in the now-empty corridor. He indicated his sorry state of apparel.
“She was strong enough to break a wall with a single swing, and her method of attack was swinging her club—or just kicking the ground hard enough to make it explode.”
The Earthers had a fine appreciation of how strong that was. Kusal began nudging Leonardo.
“Told you. She’s one of your, uh, what’s it called? Dragonball people.”
“Saiyans. Shut up, Kusal.”
“All we have to do is find a magical girl too, like the transforming Gnoll. For Justine.”
A grin from the [Rogue], then it faltered, and all three of them glanced down, and Pisces was reminded. He coughed.
“Ah. That would be the teammate of yours who passed away?”
“We fought an Adult Creler, yeah. Just last month.”
“My condolences. I’m…very sorry to hear that. I also lost friends fighting an Adult Creler.”
They blinked at him, and it was like a strange connection. Lareceina stopped fiddling with her belt and focused on him. Leonardo’s head rose.
“That’s right, you’re also Hell’s Wardens. You—was it one Adult Creler, or more?”
