He began arcing lightning bolts, firing them from his scimitars over the hill. They would have blown Pisces to bits—if he were anywhere near there.
He’d already [Flash Stepped] away, and Seemutor tried to follow him, frowning. A bolt of lightning passed in front of Pisces, and the [Necromancer] halted.
Seemutor’s aim was as good as Pisces’. Which was to say, he had trouble aiming at range too. Thinking of that, Pisces pointed.
He shot a ray of death-magic at Seemutor, straight at the Djinni’s chest.
[Deathbolt]—!
Before he even cast it, he saw Seemutor twist around nimbly at the waist, dodging the—Pisces never fired the spell. The Djinni recovered, fired four lightning bolts at Pisces—the [Necromancer] was running again.
Into the center of the fighting with the [Slavers] and undead. He leapt towards the wagons, the only place where Seemutor couldn’t hit him.
Because of the [Slavers]. Seemutor laughed and rose upwards.
“Ah, adventurers. The cunning of rats, and the pride of Crelers! Bravi, bravi, avventurieri! It saves you naught.”
Then he swept down with scimitars raised, firing lightning at the undead before beheading the first Skeleton Champion with a sweep of four of his blades.
 
——
 
Monster.
Pisces had encountered many foes. Horrifying ones he wasn’t sure he could hurt like Tolveilouka, the horde of Crelers who might kill in moments, the overwhelming might of Gazi when he’d been low-level, Bograms who was invisible, lurking—
Djinni were the most adaptive foe he’d ever met. For one thing?
Seemutor flew. There was no getting around that single dreadful aspect. He was fast, hard to hit in the air, and able to attack in more dimensions than Pisces was familiar with. It reminded him of Valeterisa. Or worse, Amerys.
The Djinni lounged on the air, pretending to rest on a cloud he conjured as he hurled down lightning bolts that blew apart undead. He was only pretending to be so relaxed; when a Skeleton Champion rolled out of the undead to aim a bow up at him, he came down and slashed the champion to bits.
“Djinni, stop playing around and save us! The Guild commands it!”
The [Slave Master] with the Wand of [Fireballs] was screaming, firing at the undead and even hitting his own [Guards]. The Slaver’s Guild must have given him the artifact; he was blowing through charges.
And Pisces’ horde. The [Necromancer] was mixing with his undead, sweating as he tried to think. Ambush! Fool, fool—
His saving grace was that there weren’t many [Slavers], and but for the two artifacts, they would have been slaughtered by his undead. However, the two armed with magical wands had to die if Pisces wanted backup against the Djinni. He knew the Djinni was waiting for him, though; Seemutor flew back upwards and, again, stretched like a cat. He had cat’s paws, now, and a feline coat of black fur he licked with a long tongue. Slitted pupils roaming…
He kept watching the [Caravan Master] with the Wand of [Fireballs]. He knew Pisces had to go for the man. As luck had it, though—the problem solved itself. The screaming [Slave Master] was firing [Fireballs] at the zombies.
“Die, die, all of you! [Fireball], [Fireball], [Fireb—]”
His wand had been glowing red-hot, actually smoking as the ruby tip cast the powerful spell over and over. It had been made for that one purpose, charged up with magic, but Pisces saw the wand glow brighter, brighter—
Then the [Fireball] detonated inside the wand. Seemutor winced and clapped a hand to his forehead.
“Fools.”
That…took out a chunk of the defenders. But the one with the [Lightning Bolt] wand was still firing and targeting the Skeleton Champions. Pisces cursed, aimed—fired.
He took the woman out with a single spell; she turned grey, waxy, toppled over. She wasn’t dead, but one of the zombies grabbed her, and that was that. Seemutor saw, though.
“There you are.”
He came down, and the undead vanished around the Djinni as he threw a lightning bolt, landed in the impact, and swept around.
Six arms, whirling blades, each one slashing with grace and form—nothing.
The Djinni had diced the zombies, but when he swung around, his eyes narrowed.
Where is that [Necromancer]—?
The [Shatterbolt] hit one of Seemutor’s scimitars as he blocked it, and he cried out in mortal pain as it exploded. He turned, leapt, and slashed—
The Skeleton Champion grinned at Seemutor as the Djinni cut it to ribbons. The Djinni’s eyes widened, and he spun—but no attack came from his back.
Gone, again. He flew upwards, cursing. He did not remake the shattered blade but just pointed a finger crackling with lightning.
“I sense you, little mage. Where are you?”
He stared down, then grinned. Below, Pisces cursed. He’d been sneaking through the undead, but now—
 
——
 
Impact. He bounced off a wagon, gasped, and grabbed the lip of the roof. Heaved himself backwards and over on top of it with strength and dexterity he didn’t know he had.
[Manacharged Reflexes].
Seemutor blew apart the wagon’s walls. He aimed up—the [Barrier of Light] absorbed a lightning bolt and blew up. Pisces was already flying downwards.
He could not engage this Djinni in a spellcasting duel! Nor hide! How was he seeing Pisces, even amongst the undead?
Djinni were made of magic, Azam had said. If anyone could see Pisces’ magical signature…
The battle with the [Slavers] was going Pisces’ way. The [Slavers] were trying to drive the wagons northwards, and annoyed, Seemutor boomed.
“Stand and fight, worthless wretches!”
He scythed the zombies down from the waist, targeting Skeleton Champions. A few could block one lightning bolt or survive a single shot—but they were glowing ash in seconds. The Bone Horror charged Seemutor next. He grabbed it, four hands grappling with it as it clawed, bit, gouged at his body…
It didn’t do any damage. The Bone Horror was scraping at—at—a cloud. Seemutor’s flesh just vanished under it, and the dismayed undead realized the laughing Djinni was ripping it apart.
Pisces took the opening and emerged out of cover.
“[Fireball]!”
He fired one of the two spells he’d prepped at Seemutor. The Djinni spun and began to twirl away from the Bone Horror, letting the fireball flash past him—
It blew up in midair, and the Djinni staggered.
“Hm.”
That…had been Pisces’ hope, that if he burst it in midair the shockwave would at least hurt—the Djinni raised his fingers, pointed.
Five lightning bolts hit a [Bone Wall] and exploded. Seemutor hesitated. Took aim again.
The second volley blew up on impact too, and Pisces was running up a dome. Seemutor hummed.
Then he fired two lightning bolts from his left hands, three from the other. The last one was scratching at his side.
The first volley blew apart the [Bone Wall] that Pisces had conjured a third time. The other three hit the second [Bone Wall], which was thin, paper-thick—but caused the magic to detonate.
“Nice trick, [Mage]. But you’ve run out of undead.”
So saying, Seemutor swept around and began slashing the last undead to pieces. He dispatched the final Skeleton Champions with flourishes of his blades, but only used two of them—his other four hands were making finger guns.
Waiting.
Seemutor was disappointed that the [Necromancer] didn’t rise to the bait. Still, he’d sacrificed all of his minions for that, and that was a [Necromancer]’s strength. The last of the powerful undead fell, and he dismissed the zombies as threatless; he floated past them, swinging his swords carelessly.
They couldn’t harm his body, not with their clawing hands. Now, Seemutor rose once more and saw the wagons of Roshal fleeing towards the city.
Their little distraction was done; the Slaver’s Guild had sprung its trap, and Seemutor, the agent of their rage, had his foe. He had marked the ways in which the one called ‘Scourge of Roshal’ could hurt him and was disappointed.
Orjin of Pomle had been more martially powerful, if limited. The King of Destruction and his vassals far more fearsome. This was just a middling adventurer, a nemesis to other small, low-level foes. Not to a Djinni of Seemutor’s caliber, and he was far from Drenirkessun.
Ah, Seemutor wearied of this battle already, for all it might be that of fame. What did he care for fame? If anything, he was slightly bitter to rid Roshal of another of its foes, even one undeserving of his reputation.
He peered around, his cat eyes focusing, hunting down the magic cast through the battle. The [Necromancer] used [Invisibility], as he had been told.
“That does not work on me.”
He’d dive and take the Human out in close-quarters combat. Seemutor’s ability to manipulate magic was actually fairly limited; there were others of his kin who could do far more than throwing parts of their body out like lightning. But in hand-to-hand combat, he was very experienced. The man could not outrun him. So…
…Where was he?
At first, Seemutor thought he’d just missed the [Necromancer] from his altitude, but then he realized he couldn’t spot…
But that was impossible. He could see [Invisibility] spells, which were just another form of magic, like a cloud. Yet the [Necromancer] was well and truly—
Dead? No, his corpse would be—
Seemutor began to fly closer to the ground. He swept left and right, staring around. But how? He searched for life magic, the energy of all beings. Then death magic, and saw plenty in the remaining zombies, the broken bones. But no vast signature like he’d identified in Pisces.
Then he remembered an old trick he’d heard [Necromancers] had used. One of the Djinni he’d served with in the Great Desert had once said—
He twisted around when he felt the death magic too late. Pisces nailed the Djinni in the chest with two [Deathbolts] and emerged out of the sand, rapier drawn. And Seemutor paused—
Then he laughed.
 
——
 
Pisces had hoped to hide, but he’d seen Seemutor start glancing his way. So he’d done it. He’d fired both [Deathbolts] dead on, without the deathmagic laser. He’d noticed Seemutor had been able to see even that.
Which meant that he’d probably used the same trick as everyone else. Seeing magic. Pisces’ ability to equalize magic had let him hide and land the first major spell of the battle. Two, straight through the Djinni’s chest.
The fur on Seemutor’s chest rippled and went dead white, as if scarred by the spells. His cloud-like lower half also paled, like someone had injected pale white in the whirling cloud. The Djinni did not stagger. He didn’t appear pained, just surprised.
Then he laughed.
“Ah, [Necromancer]. It would work on the living, empower the dead. I am more of a mystery than both. Now die.”
He swept at Pisces, swords drawn, and Pisces backstepped. The swords cleaved through the air, and Pisces saw them cross where he had been standing.
No way to parry that. Seemutor’s five arms were—Pisces saw the sixth hand pointing.
[Barrier of Light]. The explosion of lightning was blinding. He rocked backwards—
Three blades coming at him through the explosion! Pisces jumped.
[High Jump]. The blow carried him over the Djinni’s head. He slashed as he landed—his blade cut across Seemutor’s face and did…nothing.
Even the contact felt like cutting a hard sponge. The Djinni twisted, rueful.
“Sloppy, I’ve become. Now, [Mage]—”
He lunged, four blades spearing forwards, the last sweeping around. Pisces shouted.
“[Flash Parry]! [Joveln’s Parry]!”
He parried both the lunge and other blade, flicking his rapier up as his hand rang. The Djinni was grinning as he pointed that sixth finger at Pisces, charging up—and Pisces activated the [Bound Spell] in his rapier.
The Djinni’s eyes widened, and the [Light Spear] slashed outwards, into his chest. He howled, then. A cat’s howl which became roaring, echoing, and he sprang away, clutching at—
Steam? His chest was radiating crazy magic, and Pisces saw a hole had appeared there. Seemutor hissed.
“You—”
Pisces fired [Flame Swathe] from one hand, then [Ice Dart] from the tip of his rapier. Seemutor dodged both with ease. He closed on Pisces, four handed; two were holding his chest, swinging. Pisces ducked a slash, blocked another—the blow tossed him across the ground. Seemutor dropped a rapier, grabbed—
Pisces fired a [Deathbolt] three times into Seemutor’s chest and grabbed the glowing essence as Seemutor’s hand closed around his arm with crushing strength. A scimitar froze, glittering, above Pisces’ head as the [Necromancer] held his rapier up.
Both men froze. Seemutor was panting, steam still rising, and Pisces was gasping for air. He saw the white stain coating Seemutor’s fur, shifting particles, and Seemutor breathed.
“I have you, [Necromancer]. Submit and be bound by Roshal and I will not destroy you.”
“I have you, Djinni. Strike me and I’ll unleash all the mana I have left.”
A laugh. Seemutor’s eyes flicked around, but the zombies had collapsed; Pisces had pulled the death mana from them. He was filled with magic.
“You could hit me a thousand times with [Deathbolt] and nary trouble me.”
Pisces bared his teeth.
“Then I’ll cast [Light Nova].”
Then Seemutor’s smile vanished, and Pisces confirmed the theory he’d been working on in the fight. They stood there, gripping each other, and Pisces stared at the glittering scimitar. It was beautifully ornate, steel etched with decorative inlays. Impractical, perhaps, too gaudy. It looked to have golden hilts; a show-weapon.
…If it were even real. He nodded at it.
“My [Shatterbolt] destroyed that blade. But that’s just part of your body. Djinni fight with what they are in most cases. You couldn’t resist that.”
“You dropped your ring. Want it back?”
Seemutor had it in one of his hands. He dangled it casually, but Pisces didn’t glance away from the Djinni’s smiling face. The Djinni was all projected confidence, but he’d halted.
Why? Well, Pisces nodded at it.
“If it had more magic, perhaps I could hurt you that way. It’s a Tier 5 spell.”
“Tier 4. It’s simply…made well. By a better [Mage] from a better era. You have no magic even close to it.”
Pisces smiled.
“But I hurt you.”
“Not with [Deathbolt], and you lack for another spell as strong.”
“I did hurt you, Seemutor the Djinni. Not from [Deathbolt] alone, it’s true. But when I used [Light Spear], you took damage. Your fur’s gone white.”
Seemutor’s face was blank as he casually shifted, and he was imposingly huge. No smell of sweat, though, no sense of a body radiating heat. If anything, cool air seemed to come from him along with the faint feel of static electricity. A being of magic. Pisces glanced at the white stain in his body.
