“I knew Djinni were old. But how can one live so long…?”
“Because we are bred, when they can. Because we are so valuable we are not wasted. And because we used to dot all of Chandrar, and the last of us are a dying breed.”
Seemutor rumbled with a sigh. Pisces licked his lips.
“Then you remember the end of the Creler Wars. All these ancient nations—”
Then Seemutor grew grumpy again. He shifted, mustering more power to his hands. He was a proud Djinni; he refused to be humiliated, either in combat or wordplay. He fancied himself a scholar, more intelligent than any short-lived being, but even a scholar grew tired of hearing the same question a million times. He’d once counted and it was over a million by now.
“Aye, perhaps. What of it? Would you want me to furnish you with stories? Even when I was young, I learned not to care who held my lamp. Kingdoms rose, and kingdoms fell. Have you a Djinni, you would do well to ask them another question than that.”
Pisces blinked at Seemutor, then nodded.
“Tell me how you met, Erin, then. I care more about that.”
This was…fair. So, Seemutor had to relate the encounter that had seen him fighting Orjin of Pomle. Erin Solstice had tried to save the [Martial Artist] and failed, but the conversation had made him speak of her to other Djinni.
But he hadn’t put that together with other modern events; Djinni didn’t watch the scrying orbs much. Maybe they should, because Pisces pointed out that there was only one woman who’d come back from the dead of late. Seemutor scoffed.
“Bah, that is a common thing amongst you mortals. You die, get to come back—I would have put good money on there being at least two at any given time. Had I money. Well, well. So you came to Chandrar for her. There are worse beings to put your life behind. But again: you have erred. Roshal is not a foe that the Death of Chains can stand against in open battle. What made you think you could do this?”
Pisces was staring across the desert.
“Madness. I know it was a fool’s errand, but I had to try.”
Ah, Seemutor wished those words could inspire his soul. If he were thousands years younger, he might have conceived of a great affection for this man of principle. Instead, he just felt a vague sadness, even a hint of contempt for the foolishness.
“Because you know two beings I hold in some esteem, a rarity in any age, I shall speak to you with a Djinni’s kindness. It is thought to be a joke, but now listen, Pisces Jealnet.”
The [Necromancer] glanced at him suspiciously, but in this, Seemutor was honest. He spoke quickly.
“If, by some unimaginable miracle, you should survive the next hour, flee this continent. For I am but one weapon, and Roshal shall hurl them until the continent cracks. That is how their authority is maintained. They cannot let a single challenge exist. And next time shall not be a falling Djinni, but a blade in the dark. I am mighty, but far from the most dangerous of my kind. Enough to hunt rebels—they shall send a true Face of the Assassin’s Guild after you.”
Pisces exhaled.
“So noted. But I have heard others claiming my name. I know my friends are alive. So it doesn’t follow that rebellion is instant death—”
“They are [Rebels] with Skills designed to be free. You are known. Roshal can tolerate the nibbling of flies, but not you, who stand openly against them. You will die.”
Now, the Djinni was angry. His voice was flat.
“You cannot best me. Nor, from your story, could you triumph against Azam’du. You have no right to call yourself Scourge of Roshal if you cannot even slay us.”
Pisces head bowed.
“I know that. I know it, and I never wanted that title. But I had…to try. This continent is strange to me, and we are fumbling around in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. I have a friend who knows this place, but I can’t fully trust him. I want to, but—”
His teeth ground together, and Seemutor spoke.
“Ah, if you are the guests of the [Queen], then you would be better served leaving twice quick. Nerrhavia’s Fallen is not so strong as it appears. Unwise wars. The Oresect plague. And the Hemp are gathering. As they do. They are usually torn to pieces, but perhaps this time, it will be different. Or are you blind to all that?”
Pisces eyed Seemutor.
“I—had noticed some hints. By organizing, do you mean rebelling?”
“What are [Slaves] by a different name to do? Not that they think of themselves wholly as such. Roshal has sold [Slaves] to them; in this way, no matter which cloth reigns, they win. But I am the Djinni sent to spy, deliver, and go about many tasks. I care nothing for great events, but I do observe empires falling with amusement.”
It was a hobby for him to guess which year they’d implode. Pisces nodded slowly and glanced over Seemutor’s shoulder.
The sun was rising. And the Djinni felt [Message] spells buzzing in his essence. The Guild was coming. The [Necromancer] seemed to know it too, for their truce was ending. Both were regarding the other, waiting for a chink in their poise.
If I simply get clear, I will not be caught by that magic again. If he sneezes—
Seemutor had a cunning idea. So he gave Pisces a sultry smile and shapechanged. The [Necromancer] had hold of Seemutor’s chest and blinked. He was suddenly holding an ample bosom as Seemutor took on the appearance of a female cat-lady. Pisces turned so red he might have been a Djinni—
He didn’t let go. But Seemutor was grinning. She leaned forwards.
“You are a funny one. Enough to make my kindred laugh. Some would weep and cheer you just for what you represent, doomed as you are. Not I. You are a dead man, blushing [Necromancer]. Your one hope was your undead. But those Skeleton Champions, that Bone Horror, could not slay me, only delay. You do not know how to fight Djinni.”
Her body was absorbing the death mana faster and faster now. She had finally configured her essence to absorb it easily. The stain of white on her chest-fur was fading, and the [Necromancer] saw it.
He tried to pour more death-mana into Seemutor’s body, but it was now a futile gesture. The Djinni tensed. She was ready to strike until she heard him rasp.
“That’s true. I don’t know how to fight Djinni. I have never wanted to, before.”
The Djinni’s scimitar lifted, and her magical arm tensed.
Then Seemutor gazed into Pisces’ eyes and saw fear. A mortal man’s fear of death. Uncertainty. All the flaws of his nature.
But not despair. 
The hands gripping the Djinni suddenly felt…
Cold.
A kind of cold that Seemutor didn’t know. Startled, she changed back to her regular form. A thicker coat of fur growing over his chest. As if he were…
Cold? But he was a being of magic. He didn’t feel cold except from the most chilling of spells, and even that was a kind of magic. Not this.
It felt like growing numb. A shivering of the being. Loneliness made sensation. A dreadful pull.
It felt like…
Death.
Then the Djinni glanced down and saw the death magic the [Necromancer] had been infusing his body with pooling. It was…leaving Seemutor?
Concentrating in his hands. At first, it was just the intensity of two [Deathbolts]. Then it gathered. And it felt like a Tier 4 spell.
Then a Tier 5 spell.
All the power of a [Mage] of his level. Drawing together. Seemutor’s eyes rolled around. The zombies. The undead he had destroyed. All their mana—
It was right here. And now…the magic was becoming visible to even the naked eye. Still, Pisces held Seemutor, and the Djinni hesitated.
Swallowed. He had faced [Mages] across his thousands of years, casting all manner of spells. Their boxed magic they were so proud of.
Few…had ever cast magic that did not have a name, a meaning outlined in their classes. But this—
Who is this? 
 
——
 
The Djinni did not attack. Pisces had thought Seemutor might. But the ruse worked.
Djinni were beings of magic and susceptible to its fluctuations. When the stalemate had seemed to end, and he’d realized Seemutor had become immune to his death mana, Pisces had done the only thing he could think of: copy Lareceina.
He was concentrating all the death mana he could into his hands. He didn’t have a spell to channel it; he didn’t have a spell that could contain this mana. But it probably appeared dangerous.
A bluff.
He was blinking sweat out of his eyes as he gazed up at Seemutor.
“I do not want to kill you, Seemutor. Can you not pretend you are in danger and flee to your masters?”
“A good joke, [Necromancer].”
Seemutor had gone alarmingly still. Pisces thought he saw lights crossing the road in the distance. The Guild? He smiled up at the Djinni. He was afraid, but…
“You’re not my foe. Please…”
The Djinni was shifting, and now, Pisces saw bobbing torches. There were [Riders]. The sun had risen, he realized, and it played off Seemutor’s fur. The Djinni’s head turned, and he murmured.
“You cannot stand against both them and I.”
“Move and die.”
The Djinni appeared to hesitate, but he held his ground. Pisces was counting.
At least a hundred, all mounted. Roshal’s own guards? There was nothing he could do; the moment he moved, the Djinni and he would fight, and he could not outrun Seemutor. So Pisces did the only thing he could think of.
“Once more. One last time. You have never been my salvation, as many times as I begged for it. But just once—I need your help. So, please…arise.”
He poured some of the magic in his hands outwards, and Seemutor’s fur rose. Pisces felt the ground around him stir as he poured magic into it.
[Death’s Ground]. He let it flow to each broken corpse, charred bone, dead [Guards]—and then he saw it.
Rising as bones swirled around it, armor cut to ribbons by Seemutor’s blades, but grinning, that being he loved and hated.
A Skeleton Champion saluted Pisces as it arose, then another. Zombies rising upwards, save for the String-folk corpses. And if only he could animate cloth.
Maybe…
But all Pisces did was stand there, and Seemutor’s head turned. The undead gathered around Pisces, and walls of bone arose. Shields from arrows. Protection. A maze…
“Who taught you this magic, [Necromancer]? This is no spell of labyrinths.”
“I like architecture. I walked this place. My best friend is an ice mage. These are her walls. Do I need a spell for everything?”
They were such simple answers, but the Djinni blinked down his bespectacled face at Pisces. They stood together, waiting, as the [Slavers] shouted, and the Skeleton Champions’ jaws clattered. Pisces stood there.
Waiting.
 
——
 
Undead fought the living.
Outnumbered, defending a maze of bones as the ground itself turned dead. When they were slain, the magic animated them in seconds—but the undead did fall, and their bodies were hacked down, bones ground to dust.
The [Slavers] were coming. Pushing for the two figures who stood together. Waiting for someone to break their stalemate. They cursed Seemutor. Ordering him to battle, but his eyes were on the [Necromancer].
Waiting…waiting for the young man to look away. Pisces Jealnet refused to, even as arrows cracked on the wall between him and the attackers. He saw the Skeleton Champions falling back, fighting frantically to defend him. Dying…
The moment was coming. He was smiling, feeling his strength running out. He was holding the last of his magic tighter and tighter, compressing it down like Lareceina had shown him. He knew, now, Seemutor was a bit kind, as Djinni could be.
He was playing up the danger to give Pisces a few last moments. He acted well; he even appeared a bit afraid. But then the [Slavers] were staring at Pisces, separated by that wall of bone.
“Scourge, we have you. Come out and be shackled or die.”
One called, and Pisces whispered.
“You do have me. Give me one moment. I’ll see you shortly. But you will never put chains on me again. Not even my corpse.”
They shuddered as his head turned, and those pupils were glowing. Glowing a color no one here had ever seen but the Djinni, who held still.
The eyes of a [Necromancer]. It was then that Seemutor’s hands grasped a blade in each palm, and they would have been sweaty if they had any to give. For this was the kind of story Djinni told Djinni. They did tell stories, if the mortal was worthy enough.
This man who came so much by chance, connected to other beings that Seemutor had met…
Perhaps something favored him after all. For his hands glowed with a magic that made Seemutor’s essence shrink against it. And a fell wind was blowing, as if conjured by his words.
It blew hard across the [Slavers], who shielded their faces against the blasting sand. Crouched against their horses as the ones who had taken the maze of bone walls backed up. Backed out of the ivory-white walls, despite their leader’s cursing and their numbers.
The Scourge was coming out, and they waited for the Djinni to do its job. But it stood silent, and the wind blew harder until it was a howl. The sand was odd and clinging. Softer than one thought…one of the [Veteran Slave Takers] spat and cursed.
“Djinni, do your job! The [Necromancer] is at his weakest—finish this by blade or chain!”
He coughed as more sand got into his mouth, but it didn’t taste like the usual grit. He hacked, coughed, and swiped at the damn powdery…white stuff?
The [Slave Taker] blinked at the odd material on one glove. Finer than even sand grains. He rubbed his fingers and a few other [Slavers] turned. That wasn’t sand. It looked like…
“Flour?”
Then he heard a ringing—his [Dangersense]. But it had rung the moment they’d approached the [Necromancer]. This was a second bell, though. Loud and urgent. The [Slave Taker] whirled.
“Flour? It’s a storm. Take c—”
He threw himself down as he saw the storm whirling around them—and it should have been a clear day—blowing harder. As if someone had called it. Powder in the air, so fine it was choking everyone. A storm of particles. And then—blooming in the storm, ignited, spreading as the dust itself caught—
Fire.
 
——
 
The explosion blew up the flour dust and didn’t kill as much as you thought. Dust explosions were a known phenomenon around grain silos, and flour was a good combustible.
Against [Warriors], in the open, it couldn’t kill them. Deafen? Absolutely. Knock flat, disorient, burn, and concuss?
Not kill—which was why the shrieking [Bandits] came down on the [Slavers] mere seconds later, riding through the smoke with practice. They stabbed down with long spears, leapt off their saddles to impale the [Slavers].
The band was only eighty-strong. But they rode and fought like their namesake, who led the charge in with an enchanted sword raised high.
Merr the Storm, one of the [Bandit Ladies] of Chandrar. She was howling.
“Don’t let a single one leave alive! Pisces! Pisces, m’boy, you’d better be alive or I’ll kill you twice!”
