She and her brothers had a little table and chair that Pisces thought would be splendid—and secluded—and he accepted, buying a snack of some sweet jerky to eat while he read.
…He was not a fan of sweet jerky. But he left it on the table as he went back to reading. He could skip lessons in the spellbook if he wanted to. He was still on Lighted Arrow, believe it or not, because there was so much supplemental material.
How to upscale the magic. How to make it spin or track. Weight, density—he felt like the book was trying to politely ground him in all the magic theory he didn’t have, but Pisces did sort of need to advance. So he tried to look up a more advanced spell. The book flickered as it did the same trick as when he’d first opened it.
A spell flashed across his mind; burning motes of fire hanging in the air, not flames as he knew them but…swirls in the air? Purple? He saw a woman with nine tails waving behind her, a fox’s features. Beastkin? Something else? She pointed, and the strange flames flashed past her.
Do you understand this?
He did not. Not the nature of the fire, nor how it was held—so the book’s pages flipped. Another one appeared.
A struggling figure in the deeps of the sea. Drowning, dying. Lungs bursting. Pisces could feel the terrifying pain, and he knew it from when he and Colth had—but magic glowed, and the lungs inflated with air. A spell for breathing water.
Do you understand this?
He did—but he didn’t need the spell. He needed…what did he need? An attack? Something like necromancy, perhaps?
The pages flickered again.
The green land was dying. A stain was spreading from the clawed hand pressed to the earth. The Drake had put his palm down, and now the wave of death was killing it all. Plants, soil, animals—
No. Pisces recoiled from the magic. Not that. Too indiscriminate. The pages flickered—
 
——
 
Was he being picky? After nine spells, Pisces had to take a break. He’d gone from spell to spell and hadn’t found one—yet—he could devote time to. The book had showed him spells he’d been trying to classify as if they were traditional magic. He’d cribbed some notes and his thoughts.
 
[Fox Fire]?
[Breathe Water]. No—[Create Breathable Air]—no, [Create Oxygen], yes, that was what it was!
[Ritual: Death Wave].
[Animate Bone Ogre]. He could do [Skeletal Champion], and he needed something more immediate for combat.
[Summon Animated Bone Axe]? A floating, hacking axe was appealing, but it seemed to require concentration.
[Death Orb]. A higher-grade version of [Deathbolt]? Again, not quite like the spell and fairly powerful—the example had it animating a corpse pile and attacking an oncoming Troll, but it looked slow.
[Flash Phoenix]? Okay, he didn’t know what this was. A more powerful version of Ceria’s [Firefly] spell that looked very fast, but he wasn’t sure about the pyromancy…
[River of Bone Water]. Again, he didn’t know what you’d call it, but it looked like a wave of putrid water filled with bones and death magic. Highly effective against crowds, but what if his opponents jumped?
[Flock of the Carrion Crow]. Blood magic where you slit your veins and red ravens flew up and killed everything, very fast, very efficiently—Pisces sort of suspected the book had been getting annoyed with him at this point.
 
The problem was…Pisces glanced down at the Djinni’s spellbook as he massaged his aching temples and came to a reluctant conclusion.
“I don’t believe this book is replete with death magic.”
A common problem. Sort of ironic given it had belonged to the Putrid One, but if this really was a book that Djinni had written, as Azam had claimed…he’d never heard of a Djinni whose entire thing was death magic.
It wasn’t like he had to know death magic, but he was specialized in it! Plus, Pisces appreciated a big spell, but he kept thinking of all the fast foes he’d fought. He needed a quick, heavy-hitting spell useful against Level 40+ foes…
“I might as well wish for [Flight] while I’m at it.”
He grumbled. In truth, [Deathbolt] might do…but was he going to be like Ceria? Just throwing out her signature spell nonstop? What about his rapier? He did want to be able to fight in melee range. Maybe binding that [Light Spear] spell to his rapier tip was the way to go after all.
Then again, Lareceina’s method of throwing magic arguably beat even Ceria. She could flick those marbles as fast as her thumbs, and she had a slingshot and her teammates. It was almost like Saliss’ attacks.
So powerful. Pisces paged through the book, thinking idly about how it was a tad bit unfair Lareceina’s spells were so useful. Was compression magic the route to success? True, she perceived a hard limit on her powers without training, which was why she was into combining magic…
The book’s pages flickered. Pisces jumped—then stared at the page. And this time, the spell wasn’t—
A [Druid] was sitting under a tree, next to a Unicorn, who was resting with one eye open. Apprentice? Master? The [Druid] was in his fifties, hair unshorn, covered in moss, and his clothing made of bark and natural elements. He was the apprentice, then. 
He sat cross-legged, holding his hands together over something he was working on. It came from every leaf and bit of dew around him. From himself, condensing. Magic, forming the foundation of a spell he might cast or just store. More and more until it exceeded the mana he could store in his person, until it became visible. He was concentrating, not sweating because this was not a sprint, but a slow work. Refining it—you had to refine it and make it deeper, until it was like a jewel—
Pisces blinked, and there it was. The book’s pages flipped before him as he seized on the same technique Lareceina had taught herself. Compression magic?
No, refining mana. Gathering it. Storing it. Yes, that was worth something. He had never wondered about the quality of his mana. Did he have good mana? Suddenly he had questions, and the book obliged him. The pages moved and moved and—
Pisces saw the book’s pages stop flickering. Trader Hexata and her brothers, who had been peeking at him from around their caravan, saw him stop on a page glowing with mystical spell knowledge. He stared at it. Then flipped the cover of the book up, and the little mirror-thing blinded one of the brothers as it caught the sun peeking through the shade of the wagon. Pisces stared at his page. Checked the book again.
He was on…Page 2. He put his palms together and pressed them against his lips. After a few moments, Pisces began reading with a sigh.
 
——
 
Okay, maybe he should have just read the book from the start, but he’d assumed it had known what it was doing when it assigned him magic. It…had…started him at Lighted Arrow. Worse, this introduction to magic was, uh—
Sort of easy to get. Pisces quickly realized you could intensify mana, and the book even gave him a primer on how to condense it, Lareceina-style. Only, instead of holding it in your hand and having to manually contain it…
After six minutes of scribbling on the table with a bit of sand, Pisces swore. He stared at the book. He stared at the containment circle and death mana inside. It wasn’t forming a sphere, but it was condensing without any real strain. The spell circle had a hard limit based on the materials, and if the sand shifted, it’d instantly unleash the magic, but…
He put his head down on the table so hard the sand shifted, and the death magic released with the sound of a Grand Elephant farting. He colored as people walking down the street turned; Hexata was hawking to people entering the city of Halqued.
“Perhaps I need to find Wildcard.”
If he showed Lareceina this, the team might let him hitch a ride back to Tyrant’s Rest if they were headed that way. He thought she was pretty advanced, but she could scribe a container and make a super-orb with this technique. Plus, he felt like it was time for his own carriage to arrive…though, what was this about refining mana?
“You can make a crucible and there’s higher tiers of mana? If I were to make some…put it into a [Fireball]? Ah, wait, you can literally overload a poorly made matrix. So the very spell you cast can be a poor container. Is—what grade of container do I use for spells?”
Reading was fun, especially reading and studying magic. Pisces had never asked these questions of himself before! He was drawn back to the book like a fly to honey. He’d go find Wildcards in…five minutes. One more page.
By that logic, Pisces might have spent the next five days in his seat but for a sound which eventually broke through his concentration. At first, he didn’t register it, despite the high-pitched shouting, until there was a cry desperate enough that he heard it.
“—turer! Scourge! Adventurer Pisces!”
He looked up. And there, standing behind a camel hitched to a post, was someone calling his name. He blinked and saw a familiar sight he hadn’t seen often in this faraway land.
Scales. A Drake girl was standing in a line of dusty figures. Her hands were tied together with a bit of rope, but her feet were not; she was too small, and presumably, it was too easy to catch her even if she got free of the simple tie to the slave-line. Besides—a metal collar was around her neck, and the line of men, women, and children were already marked.
[Slaves].
Pisces dropped the book. He stared as the Drake girl shouted again.
“Adventurer! Over here!”
She was dancing in line, and it was she who’d been shouting. At him. The other [Slaves] were staring at him or at the ground. Some were looking anywhere but him, but all were watching him, even out of the corner of their eyes.
“What—”
But he knew as he arose from his seat. He knew in a moment what this was—it was just that it had not hit him in the face so directly. No, he’d seen this.
As the Horns had moved across Chandrar, he’d seen [Slavers]. When they’d gone north to Hraace, and he’d seen them in Tyrant’s Rest. But he’d been with Gazi and the soldiers of Reim, or there had been no time.
The last time had been with Yvlon, and she’d distracted him. Everyone had. Or tried to keep him away from this reminder. Yisame had done so well, but she was not here.
[Slaves]. It was a caravan headed to market, and they had stopped by Hexata’s stall as the owners went to do something. If there were [Guards], they’d relaxed or were at the gates; they were inside the city. Who’d rob them here? None of them had seen the [Necromancer] sitting there; who would think to look for him when the Horns of Hammerad were known to be headed back to Tyrant’s Rest?
But the girl had. Now, she danced from foot to foot as he stood, color drained from his skin.
“Adventurer, Adventurer Pisces! Over here!”
He didn’t hear anything. Pisces saw the girl, and she was a Drake.
Kidnapped? Or did someone sell her? [Slavers] were banned across most of Izril, but—
He was in the city’s limits. Try to free her and the local Watch and Nerrhavia’s Fallen itself would be on him. Yisame might be [Queen], but this was a bad idea.
Roshal’s hand was everywhere, and they had [Assassins]. The girl was probably, what, nine? Mrsha’s age. She’d never get anywhere in a foreign land. Were the collars death-spelled?
…They looked like location and durability enchantments. But he had no idea how to cut them. If he—
“Scourge, Scourge, stop!”
Someone tackled him. He was halfway across the street when Trader Hexata and one of her older brothers slammed into Pisces. He went sprawling and nearly stabbed them.
“What are you—”
“Stop! Stop, Scourge—you are within the city, and the Golden Hordes will be on you in moments. There is already a garrison of soldiers who were here to tamp down on Hemps—a thousand will be on you in no time. You cannot attack. Even the Queen cannot shield you from this!”
The [Trader] was babbling in his ears. Pisces saw her brother let go of him, fast. Both were pale as well, sweating—
“I wasn’t going to—I was just—”
He sat up. Hexata scrambled up.
“Scourge—”
“I know.”
He knew that. But they flinched back from him, and the girl…Pisces saw her dancing in place. Someone had put a hand over her mouth. A Gnoll? He was watching Pisces.
“I—hello.”
What did you say to someone like that? Pisces stopped, and the Gnoll let go as the girl cried out.
“Adventurer Pisces, here I am! Help, help! No one’s here!”
She gazed up at him, eyes huge and earnest, and he stared at her. At the Gnoll, who whispered.
“Lleta, be silent. If they see you—”
“He’s going to let us go! Everyone knows! He’ll kill the [Slavers], right, Verg?”
The Gnoll man said nothing. He had—slashes on his fur. Black stripes that seemed not like normal fur, but some kind of dye? His fur was brown like Krshia’s, but he was thinner. Pisces’ ears…he rubbed them.
“What are a Drake girl and Gnoll doing in here? Izril doesn’t allow [Slavers].”
He said that, but remembered that caravan he and Colth had found. There was a derisive laugh at Pisces words. Just one, down the line. Pisces saw another Drake standing there. He turned his head away when Pisces peered at him, but it was the Gnoll who replied.
“Not in most Drake cities, no. But they sail the coasts. We came by harbor, from Zeres.”
“From Zeres? But—”
“The City of Waves allows [Slavers]. Just not business. That’s changing.”
So much was contained in these words that Hexata and the other Stitch-folk now watching couldn’t pick up on. Pisces and Verg traded looks, and the Drake girl interrupted.
“Adventurer Pisces, you’re the Gold-ranker who went to Albez, right? Here.”
She tried to twist and hold out her wrists. Verg closed his eyes.
“Lleta, he can’t do anything.”
“But he’s the Scourge. The television said. They beat up everyone for watching it.”
The girl informed Pisces as he stood there. And now there was something wrong with Pisces. Perhaps he was the one poisoned, not Yvlon, because he was in pain.
Not nausea, but a kind of agony that was eating him out from the inside. It made him want to scream, and it was clawing at him as he whispered.
“How did you get here? You two?”
Her face twisted up, and the Drake girl fell still. Then spoke.
“They said my parents owed a lot of money, and—and there was a mistake because Mom said it’d all be fixed, but then someone came and took me. And I told them all it was a mistake, including the Watch, and the [Guardsman] said he’d fix it, but then they took us and—”
She started gulping, then went silent. She didn’t cry. She just stared up at him, and he had to turn to Verg. The Gnoll’s reply was easier. He nodded at his stripes.
“I was bought from Drake prison cells. Not that they would have dared sell me if I had been in my tribe. I was Weatherfur.”
