“I see. Then may I just ask how you came to this style of magic? It’s so novel, compressing mana.”
“Well, I just…experimented. When I saw a [Fireball], I wondered how it was cast since I didn’t know the spell. I learned, later, it was ‘woven flames’, but I thought I could make a version just based on compressing heat.”
“Ah, that’s actually an older style of [Fireball] that fell out of fashion. The modern spell is more explosive and harder to dispel or prematurely detonate.”
Lareceina’s eyes lit up.
“That’s what I was told! But I still thought it was worth a shot. If you could compress even just water into a thin jet, you’d create something that cuts through steel. I knew that, and the Siren of Savere does it. So when I started experimenting…”
They got to talking more as Leo and Kusal tried to keep up with the magical discourse. Pisces wondered if it was Lareceina’s background from Earth, but it was so refreshing. Lareceina didn’t understand any rules of magic–so she had tried anything she wanted and found what worked. She spoke like someone who might have written the Djinni’s spellbook. Magic without needing a spell for everything.
She really was self-taught, and Pisces knew he had been considered something of a genius for his magical acumen, but he really was astonished by her lack of grounding in any formal training. They were discussing magic and realized that a lot of advanced topics were a mystery to both of them.
“Linked magic is really hard. I keep trying since I can store different mana types in orbs, but I can’t make them work aside from elemental reactions.”
“I doubt any modern [Mage] except maybe Valeterisa or Eldavin could do the same. Ceria can, but it’s her circlet which enables the feat. It’s quite powerful—we do have a combined spell, actually. Frostmarrow Behemoth.”
“We saw that! It was awesome!”
Kusal loved the giant undead Frostmarrow Behemoth which he termed ‘heavy metal’, and Pisces was reminded that not all Earthers feared necromancy. Lareceina was insistent, though.
“I want to learn combination magic. Is that the term for it? Mixing elements and spells together. That’s how my spellcasting improves to the next level. There are many ways, clearly. That one is mine. Compression magic will only go so far. But if I create combined spells…”
“I am also trying to break through the ceiling of my magical studies. I have a spellbook, actually, which has some fascinating magical shaping tips…”
He was all set to even break out his Djinni spellbook, but to his perplexment, Lareceina turned.
“If you have time, I’d like to read it. However, I have thirty minutes left at the museum, and I’m not done looking around.”
“Oh come on.”
Leo and Kusal had already been dying to leave, and Lareceina’s insistence on finishing her museum tour instead of chatting with another Gold-ranker who knew other Earthers nearly made them drag her off. Unfortunately, she had an ally in none other than Pisces.
“I was fascinated by this museum myself. For such antiquities, it’s rather underfunded.”
“This is interesting to you?”
Kusal had a variety of electronics he’d altered, and he was opening one up to tune it; he had even made some primitive batteries with Lareceina’s help. He had zero interest in pottery, as did Leonardo. However, Pisces was only too happy to explain as an amateur historian.
“Yes, actually. This isn’t just pottery, but pottery that dates back to the Immortal Empire of Nerrhavia. Highly controversial in many places, but it does reflect a period of Stitch-folk power that even Nerrhavia’s Fallen couldn’t equal. And a different society. See how all the Stitch-folk here are represented equally? They aren’t based on the same Hemp, Cotton, Silk caste system. I was just reading a book on that, actually.”
One of the enduring ironies from the time of the Immortal Tyrant was that Stitch-folk had won freedom from her, but created a system where the most numerous cloth type was distinctly subservient to the rest. Not that Pisces was going to vouchsafe that anywhere Stitch-folk could hear…
Leonardo and Kusal grew more interested as Pisces pointed this out. The two Humans saw Pisces point out a map that even showed that this particular city had endured since the Immortal Tyrant’s era; many modern buildings were built on the foundations of old ones worn away.
“The reason such mundane pottery exists when magic itself wore out in the intervening periods is twofold. Firstly, magic would have been used until the items broke. Secondly, when magic fades, it does tend to damage what the enchantment was bound to. So you get some mundane, simple pieces of pottery that are the only relics of truly ancient eras.”
“Huh, that’s actually pretty interesting. Lare, why didn’t you say anything about that?”
Her expression was so utterly outraged when she turned that Leo and Kusal decided to beat a hasty retreat and find lunch. That left her and Pisces standing together in dead silence. A bit awkwardly now…Pisces wondered if Lareceina was potentially bad at conversation. She did break the silence abruptly.
“I maintain my position that we were in the right both morally and legally, despite the crown’s actions at the Tomb of Yad’thuv, Adventurer Pisces.”
“Er, Pisces will do, Lareceina. And I quite understand.”
She nodded, abruptly.
“I also don’t like the actions of Yvlon Byres or Ceria Springwalker. There are customs and rules in Nerrhavia’s Fallen your team ignores to their peril. You will provoke hostile responses, such as Yvlon has already encountered.”
That made Pisces turn.
“You know what happened to her?”
She hesitated.
“I…suspect she was poisoned or something was done to her when she was kissed in that parade. You didn’t see it, nor did anyone else, but the girl who kissed Yvlon went away, and some people helped her lie down. She appeared to fall asleep or pass out moments afterwards, and they spirited her away.”
Pisces really didn’t like that. He hoped Yisame’s people could help—and he coughed.
“I understand, Lareceina. Yvlon is a bit of a rulebreaker, but her friends had been improperly accused and were in mortal peril.”
She frowned at him.
“I wasn’t referring to that. I am going to be more precise: I objected to the killing of the Champion of Monarchs in cold blood after he surrendered. There is a cultural precedent for Yvlon Byres’ actions, especially if her friends were accused and she had been challenged as well. The murder was where your captain crossed the line.”
That was harder for Pisces to argue with. He closed his mouth hard. Ceria had murdered Lenxiol, and it was true he might have come back for vengeance…but they hadn’t discussed it. He wasn’t sure he could let Ceria just be besmirched by Lareceina without some pushback, so he replied after a moment, gently.
“This is fair. But my team also attacked [Slavers] of Roshal, unprovoked. And I am the famous Scourge of Roshal. Do you hold a grudge against me?”
The [Mage] went very still as she peered at an old illustration of the Immortal Tyrant’s city in her time, and then she turned. She spoke as she met Pisces’ eyes.
“My understanding is that you were illegally taken as a [Slave]. By that logic, all your actions were that of an innocent person held under false pretenses. There is no legal system in Chandrar that can hold Roshal to account; nothing you did was wrong.”
He felt relieved at that, but she took a hurried breath before he could reply and held up a finger urgently.
“Furthermore—there are some laws and cultural norms in Chandrar that go against universal rights and basic morality. Which I do not respect.”
She peered around, and he felt a curious emanation from her. A pulse—her way of scanning for detection spells? She leaned forwards and whispered to him in the empty corridor.
“But I am also aware of how dangerous and how far such an institution’s authority spreads. For the sake of my team, I do not interfere with such rules because we will not survive being made targets. You might. But I would be very careful how much you do and leave quickly if you go further.”
Lareceina whispered in his ear then stepped back abruptly. She went back to studying the illustration, and after a moment, Pisces saw the [Curator] peek at them then hurry off. He stood there and took her warning seriously. There it was again, that shadow he could sometimes ignore, but never forget was in this nation, in this continent.
Roshal.
“Have you ever thought about leaving Chandrar?”
She half-turned.
“Perhaps. But Justine died here. Our reputations are built here. We will see the world, but we have just reached Gold-rank. We are not ready. Your team proved that. Someday, I will go to Wistram, to the Walled Cities, to Rhir, and see it all. But not before I make sure I won’t lose my teammates. They’re all I have.”
She glanced back down at the displays. Pisces nodded to her.
“I understand that quite well.”
“Then we understand each other. Good. You do know I don’t hold you in contempt.”
“I believed that was the case, but thank you for clarifying.”
“Good.”
After a moment Lareceina looked up and added.
“I can never tell what people understand. Language is so imprecise; even when it seems like I’m speaking clearly, mistakes seem to occur. I wish you’d met Justine. She was our captain before she died. She should have survived.”
He didn’t know what to say to that. After a moment, Pisces fished around in his bag of holding and handed her a handkerchief so she could wipe her tears. It transpired that Lareceina didn’t trust anyone else’s handkerchiefs, which was very fair. And he did have to mention an unfortunate fact he’d learned about [Cleanse]…
But it was a good meeting to have, truly.
 
——
 
Pisces felt like it was worth being left behind just for that one meeting. Mending the bridge with Wildcard felt right. Moreover, the team was a highly interesting one who might be valuable allies.
Certainly, they seemed trustworthy and knew Nerrhavia’s Fallen a lot better than Pisces himself did. When Leo and Kusal came back with some skewers of meat, they even had news Pisces had wanted to find out.
“Oh, you’re a famous name on the borders. Not a month goes by without ‘the Scourge of Roshal’ striking a [Slaver] caravan. They don’t normally report strikes this far inland, but it happens. It’s sort of common knowledge that Roshal will call any attack an attack by you, but people say they’ve seen you.”
Pisces stopped chewing on the meat skewer outside the museum. He looked up sharply.
“Truly? I had wanted to, ah, investigate that.”
Lareceina’s face was utterly smooth and gave nothing away, but Kusal raised his brows.
“Well, if you go further east…there’s [Rebels] who free [Slaves]. But Roshal and Nerrhavia’s Fallen send hunting parties after them. Or even Djinni.”
“Against people?”
“They don’t do it against normal people, but [Bandits] and the like are free game. You, uh—we saw you taking down that caravan on the scrying orb. That was pretty m—”
Lareceina stomped on Kusal’s foot, and his eyes watered up as she turned to Pisces.
“Utterly lawless, which my team is against, Scourge. I trust you will behave yourself under the laws, unlike your team.”
He would have taken some offense to that—Leonardo frowned at Lareceina—but for the conversation they’d just had. Pisces smiled blandly at Lareceina.
“I would hate to make an enemy of Wildcard twice! Perhaps I’ll just collect locations…”
It wasn’t like he could set out that far even with a magical carriage. He’d have to get information on a few places, go to the capital, persuade the others to come all the way back…well, it would only be a day or two of that dratted carriage. Pisces sighed.
“Well, uh, we’re going to the Mad Ones’ camp to see if they have anything Kusal wants to buy. Do you want to come with us…?”
Pisces rather suspected he’d worn out his welcome there and said so, and Wildcard waved as they departed. He would have liked to talk more, but Pisces realized it was already midday—he’d need to charter a magical carriage.
 
——
 
If the Mage’s Guild even had one around here. Another issue that Pisces realized might be more of a problem, especially when he entered and was told there was none in fifty miles of the city.
“I’m terribly sorry, Adventurer, but between the one chartered for Adventurer Itkisa by order of the Crown and others in use—there is one reserved for the team of Wildcard, but we have no more.”
“May I request one from further abroad, then?”
“Absolutely, sir! Please inform the crown we are working to accommodate you at full speed, but it is a matter for the academy, not—”
The very nervous [Receptionist] quoted him as having to wait three hours and twelve minutes, which was reasonable, all things considered. Just…
Pisces wished he’d asked for the carriage before the museum because he’d just passed all the time he cared to, and now he was bored. He had even had lunch.
“Drat.”
He was only mildly put out by the situation. Pisces reflected that now would be a splendid time to read his book and do some studying in peace. He had to think on the last two engagements as well.
Even if I wasn’t fighting to kill, I did let down the others. Lareceina’s magic is quite useful. I doubt I could store death mana so easily, but perhaps…?
He was hunting around for a nice place to sit and read. Such places seemed to be attached to cafes though, and he didn’t see a lovely park, the kind of which he’d expect in Izrilian cities.
Oh, there was a fountain, a plaza—all too full of people who started to stare at the odd Izrilian Human or, worse, recognize him. Probably from Yvlon’s actions—or the Tomb of Yad’thuv—or his father being on television.
Even now, the man made Pisces’ life worse. But who should appear on the streets as Pisces was wandering than another familiar face!
“Adventurer Pisces?”
He blinked at the trio of Stitch-folk setting up their wagon and smiled.
“Trader…Hexata! Good to see you again. I trust you weren’t, ah, hurt by the fighting?”
She gave him a wide-eyed look.
“We saw you fighting Itkisa, then the Mad Ones firing at you. Truly, the actions of real Gold-rankers! I would not wish to take up your time—weren’t you carried back to Tyrant’s Rest?”
He had to explain his situation, and outmaneuvering the charioteers impressed Hexata more. Pisces felt bad about how Colth had rushed him off, but Hexata waved it all away.
“If you’d like to rest, Adventurer, may I offer my wagon for shade?”
