She was racing around, swearing, heart pounding. Was she too late? They’d ridden hell-for-leather the moment they’d heard about the attacks and realized it wasn’t…
The madness of it. She saw bones scattered everywhere. The glowing flames in a skeleton’s head going out. Then—she heard a boom. Laughter.
Bones exploded as a Djinni burst upwards, shattering a dome made out of ivory. Merr swore, and there were screams.
“Oh shit, Djinni, Djinni—we have to run!”
“Belay that, hold! We have to get—”
They were all damned dead if that thing was powerful. Merr had an enchanted blade, but Djinni were not something anyone fought—she was looking around. If he was dead, then…
Her storm was dying down, but her eyes could pierce past the dust and wind as if it were calm. So that was how she saw him.
Pisces Jealnet stood in the shattered dome of bones, staring upwards as Seemutor the Djinni rode a cloud higher. He was laughing, lightning booming around him, but he didn’t fire down at the [Necromancer]. He was fleeing—westwards. Fast as he could fly.
Away from the young man who stood there with a rapier in hand. As the storm subsided, light shone down around him. He was brushing flour from his hair. Blinking.
Were his eyes glowing? Merr rubbed her own eyes and got some of the flour dust in it and cursed. When she blinked, it was just him.
Pisces lifted a hand as he stumbled towards her. He had blood on his skin, and he was covered in dirt. His face was fuller from the privation she remembered, and he seemed…steadier. An air of magic hung about him that she didn’t remember.
But he was the same. She halted, then swung herself off her saddle.
“You crazy [Necromancer]. What are you doing, taking on all of Roshal by yourself? Where’s that damn team you kept whining about, eh?”
“Merr? I thought I was dead. How did you find me?”
“Your face, fool.”
She strode over. As her [Bandits] turned, she threw her arms around him in a hug and picked him up. He hadn’t gained much weight, and he blinked. Almost protested. Then, as she put him down, he smiled at her.
“Merr.”
“That’s my name.”
She’d forgotten what she was going to say to him. The [Bandit Lady] was just smiling, at the figure she’d escaped her chains with. An adventurer come a continent away, just like he’d promised.
Silly man. They’d troubled him with his false reputation. But when she glanced around, remembered the glow, and saw the Djinni, still laughing as he fled—she wondered if they had exaggerated it, truly.
All of it could wait. Pisces rasped as he became, for a moment, that awkwardly gallant figure she remembered. He stumbled, nearly tripped on his robes, and gazed at her.
“I’m glad you found me, Merr. I missed you all.”
A smile broke across his weary, bloodstained face, and his eyes shone a second under the rising sun.
 
 
[Necromancer of Reclaimed Grandeur Level 46!]
 
 
 
 
Author’s Note:
Hey, it’s me. I did it. I finished another chapter just in time and am writing the Author’s Note less than an hour before posting.
I know it’s often said that I write ‘am tired’ in these post-chapter notes, but I do think it has been a lot better this year. With that said, this is a chapter I’m genuinely gratified I finished, because it’s been rough.
My Grandfather passed away, and the book launch is done; I wrote a blog post about it where I share more thoughts, but it’s made this week a very, very difficult one to write in, for personal reasons.
Yet I finished the chapter because writing does give me something back, and because writing about dead [Slavers] can’t be a bad thing. There was catharsis? I dunno, I hope this chapter encapsulates the part of the Pisces-arc of the Horns arc I wanted. I don’t have a Rickel or other chapter in me right now; I’m sure you understand.
And I am still pushing a bit because ideally, I finish the next chapter which should be the last in this arc and then I take my break. An extended break, perhaps. I just want to leave things on a narratively good part and give you a heads up; I’ll write a blog post with any plan next week.
A bit more and then I’ll rest. But I do want to take a break after this part because it matters to me. Even so, if I need more time I’ll delay the chapter or just start my break. Things are in flux and I’ll do what I need to. Just flagging for you all. Thank you all for the kind comments and support, and see you whenever the next chapter lands. I do like Pisces.
—pirateaba