Firstly—he didn’t know how they were assembled. He’d have to puzzle together their anatomy, and that took time he didn’t have. He could get one working in a day or two, but he’d have to make sure they moved right—you could swift-animate the bones, and they’d more or less work, but you ‘strengthened’ undead so they swung harder and were more durable at the joints.
The difference between a Skeleton Knight and a mere skeleton. Instead, he re-purposed the bones and added three Skeleton Champions, spreading out the Manticore’s bones across the rest.
That gave him eleven who looked markedly more sturdy, if a bit lopsided due to having to fit Manticore bones in their frames. Hulking. They stared ahead, eyes glowing…then shuffled around as Pisces went to pee again.
He couldn’t help it. He was nervous. But then Pisces led the Skeleton Champions over to a patch of ground and let them work. He sat on the flattest section of the ground; on an ancient block of stone cracked in a few places, but forty paces by forty paces across.
And here was history. The Immortal Tyrant’s roads. Many places had been covered by dirt or broken at the edges, but these roads had endured long past her laws. He stared up at the sky, and it was blue. The air was dry, hot, even, but his white robes held the heat off, and he drank water sparingly. Cast a little cooling spell.
Pisces took this moment to reflect. He appreciated what Hexata had done for him, and Wildcard. He wished them well, and he knew he was selfish. He made trouble for his team, even if he’d tried often to be…
“A better person. But I suppose I am selfish. I wonder if I would recognize myself. The Pisces who came from Ailendamus.”
Would he be impressed? Uncomprehending of how his road had taken him so far? Proud? Pisces wondered what Ceria would say. He tried to predict the future. There were plenty of dire outcomes. Outcomes that stemmed from his actions. If they came and his team suffered…
“Taking responsibility isn’t enough. I never took responsibility for Wistram. How could I? I can only hope it doesn’t come to that. Utterly selfish.”
But he kept sitting there and thought of her. He didn’t think of her every day. But that refrain was always in his mind at moments like this.
Because you’re better than they are. Was he? It was the doubt that kept him guessing. Trying. But—he was putting their chances of getting to Ksmvr and her in jeopardy, he knew. Yet he still couldn’t get up and leave.
He had no profound insights as he sat there in silence, with only the undead for company, and they didn’t talk much in Pisces’ experience. Just that odd sense of calm.
At last, he saw movement and half-stood. But then he sat back with a sigh.
“Silly me.”
The figure that came pounding the road was the most common sight in the wilds. Reassuring, somehow. A Runner.
Down the road he came, feet pounding the pavement. Bare feet, Pisces noted; the swearing Stitch-man did a double-take when he saw Pisces.
“Here, are you hurt? Lost?”
He looked around for an ambush before hurrying over. Perhaps the fellow was snake-bit or delirious? But Pisces just waved at him.
“Just resting.”
“Well, get up if you’re in the path of a cart or they’re like to run you over! Got any deliveries? I’m bound for Halqued, then beyond!”
Something about the young man sitting there was vaguely familiar, but the City Runner was hopping from foot to foot, and Pisces saw.
“Are you alright? Your feet—”
“I’m trying to run like the Wind Runner! Argh! But however she does it, it is not on the sunbaked sands of Chandrar, or may my stitching rot and fall out! If I gain the class, may it all be worth it! I’m sorry, I cannot stay.”
“No, no, best of luck!”
Pisces shouted after the City Runner, who went pounding off across the road, cursing. Pisces shook his head, smiling. Ryoka Griffin, truly an inspiration.
That actually cheered him up, so he was lying on his back, gazing at the sky empty of clouds, when he felt the faint rumble and sat up. Ah.
There they were. He stretched and was glad he’d used the bathroom. As it so happened, something reached Pisces at that moment. Fate? Funny coincidence? Then again, it was about, what, ten in the morning? Right when a half-Elf might rise after a long day.
A [Message] spell.
 
Ceria, Exalted Captain: Hey, are you almost back yet? Yisame mentioned some kind of fracas, but we’ll sort it out later. Yvlon’s sick. Magical sleeping sickness. Pretty nasty. What’s your estimated time of arrival-thing on the carriage? (It’s a display on the scrying orb.)
 
He blinked at the sky. Then raised a finger to his temples.
 
Pisces: With apologies, Ceria, I might be a bit late.
 
Then he waited.
 
——
 
The caravan was known as the Blessed Chains of Hotq. Their owner wasn’t Hotq; he’d retired two decades back, and his best apprentice, Slave Merchant Throsa, had succeeded him. They were known for throwing open their covered wagons to pour thick, black tea in cups for any visitors.
Fine hospitality, and finer flesh. But only when they had visitors. Right now, Throsa was pushing everyone to more speed. Horses strained as they moved at a fast clip, and the [Guards] were thinking of making the merchandise get out and run to reduce weight.
That would soil them a bit for the markets, and they were a day out from their next stop, but they were also cautious of going too fast. The reason Throsa was so upset was because of her Skill.
[Forewarned Attack]. A useful Skill for a woman in her business. She did not know where or exactly when, only that one was coming in the next few days. Sometimes, the attack never came; the Skill was imprecise, but let you know if the possibility arose.
If they got to the city and unloaded some of their merchandise, she’d be happier. She could add more [Guards] for the next leg of the journey, even hire adventurers or mercenaries. That let her cut losses and sacrifice wagons if it was a monster attack…
Her nightmare, which was unspoken, was that it was the [Rebels], but they were far east of here according to the Guild’s networks, and she paid her dues for knowledge, damnit! But perhaps it was that name that had come down the road with oncoming traffic.
It was a forbidden name in her caravan; she insisted the scrying orb be turned off and had petitioned every notable in the cities she had visited to see it her way. Such actions, such deeds against Roshal, who was so rich and an ally of Nerrhavia’s Fallen—!
But she had it on good authority that he’d gone to the capital, so it was [Bandits] she feared. Throsa had a spyglass out as she rode on one of her wagons and kept peering at the sky. She had it in her head that the attack would be from the sky. A Garuda flight of raiders. The damned pests might try to carry off a prize slave if they knew it was her wagon, despite the weight…
But her caravan was no small one, for all it prized quality over quantity. She had no less than six holding wagons and three-score [Slave Guards]. A score was twenty. It was a good rule of thumb to carry one [Guard] per every eight [Slaves]. You could go up to twenty, but only a fool exceeded that.
Sixty [Guards], some of whom were above Level 30, and herself. More than enough for the short transit between cities in this section of the Leashed Trails. If she were to go across the Glass Straits, she’d double or triple the guard…
They were barely ten miles from the city. With all her scanning around, she actually missed the figure sitting on the road until he stood. Even then…Throsa didn’t register him until there was a call from the lead [Slave Guards] riding.
“Exalted Merchant, ahead of us…”
Something about the woman’s tone was caught between amusement and uncertainty. Like someone assuming a prank was being played on her, if only her mind. Because…it was a joke, right?
Throsa’s spyglass fixed on the Human who was standing in front of the caravan. She heard a few voices shouting.
“You on the road! You’re finally awake, eh? Out of the way before we run you over!”
“We’re of Roshal! We’ll ride you down for impeding us or take you as merchandise!”
That came from another [Guard]—it was mostly just a threat. Throsa nearly snapped at him to mind his tongue; it was frowned upon to remind people how many tricks Roshal had. Then again, there was the prestige of—
Her gaze slowly swung back to the young man. He was just standing there as the wind blew his white robes and hair. Just…a Human.
His skin was not as fair as all that; he had a slight sunburn, actually. And he was shaking his head. The images she had seen on bounty posters had him on horseback, in motion. Surrounded by others. Even with breasts—his was a face that every man or woman on these trails knew.
But this one…there was something about him that fit more than the others. As if…
It was him. Her tongue locked in her mouth before she could stutter.
“S-stop! [Caravan, Halt]!”
The horses screamed, and the riders of each wagon cried out as the animals and the riders were forced to slow. Glowing chains of authority whipped between Throsa and even her guards. Her will. Her burgeoning aura, a sign of her promise.
“Exalted Merchant, what—”
“That—”
She pointed, and her [Head of Chattel Guarding] turned. He stared across the road, and then his eyes widened. He turned his head right and left.
“Ambush? But there are no dunes—they ride over dunes or out of cover—or the sandstorms from the [Bandit Lady]—”
“It’s him. Get—get the—”
She was drawing a wand with shaky hands. It could kill even a Gold-ranker in a single shot, or so the [Mage] in Lailight Scintillation had claimed. [Scaied Venombolt]—it had never failed in killing anyone she’d struck. With her other hand, she drew a magical dagger that could extend and stab through a foe in a moment, like a lance.
The [Guards] had gone silent. Half were pointing, glancing at their fellows to grin and say, ‘look at this mistake I have made’. The others, like their leader, were protesting.
“We had word he was going to—”
“Get the wagons in a circle!”
She shouted. Her Skills. She was frozen up, but she knew her trade. But there was no [Rebel] wave riding at them. No sandstorm. Just…
Pisces Jealnet. He moved at last. He was walking forwards. Now, she saw him reach for something at his side. Part of her had wondered if this was a dream, hoped it would be.
But when she saw that curious rapier, Throsa knew. It was metal and bone, two gleaming colors. And a little bell hung from it; her spyglass picked it out. He was striding, now. Long-legged, moving faster. She shouted.
“[All To Arms: Protect the Merchandise]! [Caravan: Pricklethorn Flesh]—”
Her defensive Skills. The [Head of Chattel Guarding] was still denying it. Throsa didn’t see anyone else. He was one man. One versus sixty—
A Gold-rank adventurer. Scourge. Bane of—
Then the sand moved next to the road. Ahead of Pisces, Throsa heard a cry.
“Ambush! Ambush—”
Someone’s Skill went off belatedly. Giving them, what, ten seconds? A low-level fool’s Skill, which was sometimes all that you needed—
Bows sang as the [Guards] fired, some reflexively, others with Skills like [Opening Shot]. But even the ones that landed just…
A Skeleton Champion dug itself out of the earth where it had been waiting and caught an arrow. It shook dirt and sand off its body as it lifted a greatsword. Eleven undead figures rose, like a ghastly honor-guard. Then they were running. Bones clattering as they charged the caravan—and now a cry was going up from the [Slavers]. Horror, fear.
“Necromancer! Undead! It’s him!”
They took aim at the [Necromancer], but he was running. Running…and he vanished as the first arrows loosed. One of his steps took him a dozen paces forwards.
[Flash Step]. And his second step just as far—
He was running, vanishing and reappearing across the ground so fast Throsa could barely track him. Curving, dodging arrows and spells. But coming at the caravan—
Then she pulled her head behind her enchanted wagon’s fabric. For she had seen his finger rise. There was light filtering through the thin canopy of her wagon. Shouting voices. Throsa shivered—then saw the light flicker out as something passed by her wagon’s walls.
Silence, for a moment. Then a figure fell from their saddle. They landed with a dull thump on the ground. A quiet voice. Someone calling out for a friend, a comrade.
Then—the scream of horses. A cry of agony as a Skeleton Champion shot a mortal woman in the stomach. The clash of metal on metal—
Chaos and battle. Throsa waited by the driver’s seat, hands shaking and sweating. She closed her eyes. Battle she knew; she had faced this before. But this time—
This time, she could hear them. Curse them. She’d brand them all for this. She’d make them scream. But it didn’t stop them.
The [Slaves] in the wagons.
They were laughing.
 
——
 
His first [Deathbolt] took a [Slave Guard] out of the saddle. Then he was amidst them. No time to circle; there were too many. His Skeleton Champions hit the caravan a moment later, and he was fighting up.
They were all mounted. It wasn’t an advantage; they were trying to form a circle with the wagons, and if they’d split up and rode, he’d have been attacked from all angles.
Instead, they were at the mercy of their horses. Pisces spoke.
“[Flashbang].”
The explosion of sound and light sent horses rearing. The [Guards] clung to their saddles or fell off. One tumbled to the ground, crying out as she broke an arm. She looked up, and Pisces stared down into terrified, blue eyes. A Human’s face. She opened her mouth.
“P—”
He drove the rapier through her mouth. Turned and pointed. [Flame Swathe]. It coated a Stitch-man, but the flames didn’t take on his skin at first. Pisces kept his finger pointing for six seconds. Eight…
Too slow. The screaming figure was writhing as their horses galloped away, and the others were getting up. One was already on his feet. A Skill—he hadn’t attacked. Fear? He raised a shield.
Pisces’s [Shatterbolt] hit the shield. The unenchanted metal exploded, and the [Guard]’s flesh-and-blood arm cracked. Blood ran out of the broken skin, and he screamed, clutching at the bone.
Pisces beheaded him, then saw another [Guard] riding. He stabbed through a chest, wrenched the blade out, and heard a scream. Still alive—
A Skeleton Champion brought down a shortsword into the [Guard]’s guts. It turned, caught a blow from one of the mounted [Guards] on a shield—Pisces spoke again.
“[Flashbang].”
If it worked once—the horses went stampeding away this time. And the others were taking cover behind the wagons. Trying to stop the Skeleton Champions—
