One man even told the [Labormaster] off for flicking the whip a bit too close to his son; he might hurt someone! The [Labormaster] was hurling an expletive, telling the man to deal with Hemp for an hour and then he’d see, when someone walked out of the stream of people headed for the gates.
It was a figure to draw the eyes. Not because of his attire; he was wearing a wanderer’s clothing, dusky, sun-bleached fabric, mostly grey or brown, wrapped around his arms and legs. Cheap protection against sun, insect, and sand. If he smelled at all in this heat, it was of sweat and unwashed linen. His feet made no sound on the dry ground.
Nor did he speak as the babble of voices, the crack of that whip, filled the morning air. But what marked him and had faces turning, people stepping side and pointing covertly, was the mask.
It was a bone white mask that only had room for his eyes, which were between grey and green, perhaps with a hint of orange. They were wide, unblinking, and people took him at once to be an [Assassin].
Or an odd adventurer, a bounty hunter? Perhaps just someone hiding his face, a criminal, but not one you wished to be drawn into the proximity of. The [Guards] at the gates bestirred themselves as one marked the figure. More work. They hoped he was not some trouble…they began to argue who had to interrogate the fellow.
The [Labormaster] saw the stranger with the mask last. He was raising his whip for another blow when his head turned and he saw the figure. Instead of lifting the lash further, he lowered it, politely giving the person a wary nod.
“Watch the Hemp, stranger. They’ll hurt you if one should fall with all that weight.”
A conscientious man’s concern for a fellow traveller on the roads. The stranger with the mask said nothing, but he stopped on the road. Accordingly, the [Labormaster] did too. Then he saw the stranger had a sword. A long rapier, a thin blade with a strange coating to the sword’s edge halfway up. Or was it some odd…
He drew it. Every eye had already been focused on him, but now the people halted. The [Labormaster]’s mouth opened, and he half-glanced behind him, as if thinking…he raised the whip uncertainly, but it was no weapon to block a strike with.
“Sir, what is—”
The masked stranger’s blade went across the Stitch-man’s neck, and the head landed on the ground. It kept speaking, in that way only Stitch-folk could do, as his body crumpled.
“—going on? I’m just bringing…I’m…ah.”
He gazed up as blood spurted up from his corpse. It did not turn to cloth; too much of it had been connected to the Stitch-man’s body. It fell, and there was a scream. Someone covered her mouth. The father with his son backed away, fumbling for—
The masked stranger turned, and the Hemp-folk had frozen. They gazed at him, and he looked to them. To the walls. Then down at the head.
“You’re him.”
The [Labormaster] was dying. His eyes glazing over without blood or oxygen, but he gazed up, almost dreamily at the figure who shook blood off his blade. There was no response.
Then a call from the wall. A shout. The people didn’t panic or run—they were frozen for a man with a blade was among them. But he didn’t cut into the Hemp [Slave]. He just turned…and walked.
Down the road, away from the city of Halqued. A slow walk that stopped only once. At first, it was nonsensical to the travellers who flinched away from him, hoping to hear the Watch coming to their rescues. Then they saw the second figure he had stopped next to.
It was an older man. Human, the other common species wherever you went. He was far richer, dressed well, and less…well, one might never associate with his kind. Because he was taking a [Slave] for a walk.
Some beautiful Stitch-girl who had to crawl like an animal. Not far from the city since who could move like that? A [Master] taking a [Slave] for a walk, the kind of which…
Then it was like a little click ran through all’s minds, and they took in the mask. White as bone. And that rapier was the bigger clue. The old man trembled then.
“I—”
The second swing didn’t take his head off but halted against his spine. Even so, when the old man fell, he did not get up nor gasp for air. Dead.
The [Slave] on her hands and knees stared up at the figure as he halted. She whispered.
“My collar’s deathmarked if I run. If I—”
He didn’t pick up the fallen leash. The masked figure just bent down, and she flinched; blood was on his clothing and mask. Did he whisper something to her?
If so, no one heard it. Her eyes were round as he walked down the road. Then…the horns were sounding from the gates. There was shouting, and someone began running for Halqued. A scream—and people began to flood towards the gates, but they looked back.
That masked figure was on the roads. Walking away from the city mobilizing—slowly—too slowly—and there was suddenly that calm dread. Even excitement, however perverse.
He was walking down the road. Then the people asked the horrifying question—how many on this road might have one of them with them? Servant, company, labor?
[Slaves].
 
——
 
By morning, the babble of what had happened at the northern gates was the rage of the city. People were talking, speculating.
It had to be. But he had left! All had seen it! He had—
Someone should tell Wistram, surely. There had been horn calls all morning. A [Guard] had gone off-duty and was gossiping loudly with everyone else at the wells.
“We never found him. Not that it is a ‘he’ we know for certain, and the Watch Captain bid us all quiet—but we rode down the road, and there were but six dead for the span of three miles.”
“Six!”
“Less than you might think? Then the [Soldiers] took over, but you know the Hemp; slow to move, slow to march. Each deathblow was a single cut, but for one fellow who seemed to have tried to dodge; he was stabbed ere he lay.”
She was peering around, perhaps thinking to report this to a newspaper or the Mage’s Guild. The folk of Halqued were mostly excited, those who hadn’t seen the killings.
“Do you think I might get an autograph? It’s worth good gold, and I had not the chance earlier…”
An enterprising man spoke up, excited. Another licked his lips.
“You’d be a fool to ask. Hush a madman’s wishes or a Djinni will answer you with laughter. If it is so—”
“Bah, I’ve nothing to fear. I’m not rich enough to be a target!”
The autograph-wisher laughed, and there was agreement, an excitement in the air until there was, abruptly, a horncall again. Everyone turned, expecting it to be from the north, but it was not. It came…from the east.
Silence fell, and all turned to Guard Lortina, who fell silent, gulping water from a waterflask. She spilled her drink slightly, then smiled.
“Probably a monster or some other—”
Then the horn blew again. And again, urgently. And they did not know, of course. They stood in sudden silence until they heard shouting—and then the silence was broken by a City Runner.
Her name was Loqe the Lethargic for she often overslept. She was quick, though, and ran…
She was running now, pale-faced, and blood was on her tunic. She came to a halt in the square around the well and gasped.
“It—it—they’re all dead.”
“Who is?”
Someone peered north, but Loqe pointed back with a trembling finger.
“The—the road east. A masked figure’s appeared and is killing everyone on the road! There was a [Slave Trader] and eleven—he’s hacked them up. A [Swordsman]—”
She was stuttering, in shock. Then the smiles left everyone, and they turned.
A masked man? Surely one would not be so mad unless…
“It’s him after all.”
The fellow who coveted an autograph was smiling now. Hesitantly, forcing it a bit. Because he was safe. He was—
Loqe the Lethargic needed soothing, and they asked her what she had seen. She was mid-recounting the tale of violence where one man had taken out eleven so fast…someone was running to see what the Watch and garrison were doing for they had seen [Riders] streaming eastwards.
Then they heard more horncalls to the south. And west. Then there was a twisting in the stomach.
“One man cannot be in three places at once. It’s like the other times, I’ve heard, on the borders. Anyone can wear a face—”
The comment hung in the air, like the suspended bucket of water shedding droplets into the well. Right up until there was a scream.
“Undead on the road! Skeletons are slaughtering people! Help!”
Now a ringing. Summoning the Watch to arms. A [Rider] galloped into the square.
“It’s some kind of Skeleton Knight—six of them! They ignored me, but they’re butchering—”
Guard Lortina paled and backed up as every eye turned towards her. She protested she was off-duty, tired, sick—before the same thought hit her as everyone else.
Loqe the Lethargic swallowed and looked up.
“Undead, you said?”
“Yes! I’ve never seen one fight like that. Each had weapons and armor—are you mad?”
The terrified [Rider] was afraid until they saw how everyone eyed each other and marked this fact. Then it was like a fell wind blowing across the city.
“I hold no chains.”
The autograph-seeker said it slowly, as if to declare himself innocent of something. A few people in the crowd stared at him, and someone called out.
“We’re all citizens of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, man!”
“Yes. But in case anyone were listening, I wish to say that I hold no chains nor have held any. Nor would I be leaving the city if…”
The voice trailed off. Then Loqe muttered.
“How far up the road north did you say he went? Three miles?”
Silence. The city listened as horns blew and blew, and now [Soldiers] were marching left, right, shouting for citizens to clear the way, but they appeared—disconcerted. They started running, but never seemed to fight or find anything.
Then the bodies started coming into the city. Stained red. And the citizens of Halqued—yes, they woke up from that amusing dream they’d had. Adventurers doing adventurer things. Some had wished for more interest, more drama, more excitement worthy of the legend.
Djinnis laugh at you. Fool, for what you wish.
The first day of it had the city in uproar. The [Mayor] and three of her lovers standing behind her giving a speech assuring everyone the gates were solid, the garrison full of thousands of Nerrhavia Fallen’s finest. The Slaver’s Guild loudly calling for adventurers, for protection!
—After three days, someone said that a [Slave Trader] had been found dead on the road, fifty miles north of the city. Entrails spilt after being taken off his horse. Half his [Slaves] had fled into the city, the other half vanished.
By then, it was one of a hundred tales from the road. An unease that gripped much of the city. Anyone who had even so much as held a collar, or who had a friend, family who owned [Slaves] felt a great trepidation upon them. Of course, they knew they were safe behind the walls, but they demanded reassurances that were given. This would end, this would be the last time. And then another report came in, and another.
The Scourge had come to Halqued.
Now, they knew what it meant.
 
——
 
He knew time was passing. That he had to get back to his team, but he just thought of that girl, and he didn’t stop.
He was out of caravans, obviously. So he just…took to the roads. Walked up and down them and found them.
There were so many. At times, it was one in a thousand. Other times, there were so many he wondered what percentage of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, of Chandrar, held chains.
The disguise might not have done much. He still carried his rapier since he needed the weapon he knew. But it was deniability. Just a shred.
Pisces had had the vague thought, when he was feverish, to come up with an alibi for not reaching Tyrant’s Rest. He’d worked on a long ruse and been organizing a second bird with a [Message] scroll when he’d checked and realized he and Ceria shared the same single brain cell.
 
Pisces: Ahem, to my esteemed Captain Ceria (and team), I regret to inform you that my sojourn abroad has hit something of a snag. I was accosted on the road by a rather objectionable fellow who insisted I duel him. When I naturally refused, he claimed it was over an illicit relationship I had with his bride-to-be?
Whom I did not know. Whereupon I did clarify the issue, and it turned out I was the object of admiration—suffice it to say I have been at a wedding of some length.
They go on for days, allegedly, and I have been trying to excuse myself, but I may be delayed.
Ceria: You idiot, what? Are they eating cake?
Pisces: As a matter of fact, yes. And I have been propositioned, in rather scandalous terms, by several ladies—
Colth: You’d better take them up on their offer.
Pisces: I shall not respond to that. Rest assured I will be headed back as soon as I find out—
Pisces: I believe I am in the wrong city. Excuse me while I clarify.
Ceria: Hilarious. Yisame’s laughing her butt off. Get over here, dumbass.
 
To be clear, Pisces hadn’t written any of that. It was clearly a conversation she’d written up in his voice. If he logicked out what she was doing, she was probably arranging the same trick he had, albeit with perhaps one of Yisame’s people casting the other [Message].
It was all obfuscation, deniability. He felt guilty but…well.
He continued. He knew it was dangerous and that each day ran the risk higher, that Roshal had to know. But he could not enter the city; he’d seen how many [Soldiers] were there, and the gates were now watched by a small army.
But there was a madness in him, a kind of thought in his head.
If no one enters or exits the city from Roshal, they can’t sell her or anyone else.
All he had to do was…kill any of them he found. Birds flying the skies. Undead mice on the ground.
It was just madness. The darkness of his class. He’d always known, deep down, he was probably like this.
He was glad no one from home could see him.
For he didn’t stop.
 
——
 
He was not freeing [Slaves]. He was killing [Slavers].
There was a distinction. Most of the time, Pisces just walked past the [Slaves]. Many had magicked collars. They were on the road, with witnesses. They could not run.
They recognized him, of course, but most said not a word. Not one. They would stare at the ground, wide-eyed, or shrink away from him. Some even covered their masters with their bodies, weeping.
Was it real? He couldn’t tell, though at times he would see one glance up at him or smile, give the slightest nod. They were tiny signs, and the most common, from the [Slaves] who looked oldest, was this.
They would put forefingers or pinkies together, linking like two fishhooks in a simple gesture, then pull them apart. A quick motion while feigning fear or pretending to be mute or silent.
