Was it shrinking? Ever so slightly, perhaps. He pushed more death magic into his hands, and Seemutor’s grip tightened on his shoulder, but Pisces glanced up. Now he was certain.
“Djinni are beings of magic. You live off of it. Generate it. Your bodies become what you desire—within limits. Each Djinni has an element, or so I read. Multiple ones, it’s true, but there must be limits to what you can absorb. You cannot absorb two conflicting types. If I hit you with light magic now, you’ll die.”
For answer, the Djinni exhaled with a huge sigh and relaxed his grip a bit.
“Wrong. I’ll be wounded, perhaps sorely, but I won’t die. And you will be dead.”
“Then why haven’t you killed me?”
“Perhaps I don’t wish to ruin my health for my master’s benefit.”
“Then we’re stalemated.”
Pisces concluded. They were locked together, and if he cast magic, Seemutor would take a lot of damage. Potentially die if he was bluffing how tough he was—but Pisces wouldn’t survive Seemutor’s counterattack.
The Djinni grinned, baring his teeth.
“Well then, shall we agree to a draw? I swear upon my honor and name, Seemutor the Bespectacled, the Wisdom of Sage’s Clouds, that I shall allow you safe passage if you do the same.”
Pisces blinked up at him, then frowned.
“What good is your word? You told me you have orders from Roshal. You’re a [Slave]; you’ve been ordered to kill me.”
The Djinni puffed up his chest, and Pisces dug his fingers warningly into his flesh. Seemutor relaxed, but he gave Pisces an arch look.
“Am I not a Djinni? My word is my bond.”
“That is, I believe, a common myth. You are not bound by any magic unless it comes from your container, and most were not given such safeguards. Anyone would be wise to trust your word only after enforcement magic is activated.”
This time, the cat-Djinni lost his proud expression and eyed Pisces sourly.
“Fancied yourself a Djinni, did you, [Necromancer]?”
Pisces shifted, glancing around for something, anything. But the ruined stretch of road was deserted. It was night.
He was in trouble, but he kept talking.
“No, I did my research for a friend who wanted to know about Djinni and her preconceptions of them. Then out of my own curiosity. I have met your kind before.”
“Everyone born on Chandrar has met my kind.”
Seemutor rolled his eyes, and Pisces saw two of his hands fold behind his head. One kept hold of Pisces, another holding the scimitar casually. Pisces spoke warningly.
“Hands where I can see them. I met one of your kind when I was a [Slave]. Azam’du. And Czautha’qshe, the Death of Chains.”
For the first time, Seemutor seemed to actually perk up and pay attention to Pisces. He lost the bored expression he’d been wearing and slowly, slowly lifted his hands. Each paw was holding an orb of a different color. Magic. It vanished as he opened his paws, then his four additional arms vanished.
“…Now that’s interesting. You aren’t lying, are you, little [Necromancer]? For I’d owe you a truly unpleasant death if you were. No…mine eyes see magic, and yours doesn’t waver. Did I hear…? Let’s speak then, in earnestness, for a moment.”
They stood in the cold desert as Pisces shivered. After a pause, he felt Seemutor’s fur under him warm, and the chill ended. He blinked as Seemutor’s fur turned orange from within his body, like there was a light inside him, and the Djinni grinned like a mischievous cat.
Pisces almost smiled, but never let go of the Djinni. They had nothing else to do. So they stood and talked a while.
 
——
 
“I do not follow the lives of adventurers. Nor do most of my kindred. Scourge, they called you, and I laughed for I thought it a joke. They were so serious. You are no Scourge, Adventurer Pisces.”
After some clarification, Seemutor was pleasant, if not actually friendly. But for the standoff, Pisces suspected they’d kill each other in a heartbeat. He kept putting death magic into Seemutor, preventing the Djinni from absorbing the already present mana. Seemutor didn’t mention that, but his eyes twinkled.
Dangerous indeed. He was everything Pisces had imagined when he’d read of Djinni. Clever, elegant liars by omission, and magically powerful. But the Djinni was also, well, convivial.
Especially when he heard Pisces had not only met another Djinni but been saved by Czautha.
“Truly? Truly, you saw her? Our sister who broke all chains? Prove it. How did she come?”
“By…rainbow?”
“Ach, anyone would know that. How else?”
“With Silvenia, the Death of Magic? She was a falling comet, and she claimed she only had a moment before she could leave. She freed as many Djinni as she could before attacking Lailight Scintillation.”
Seemutor rotated his neck around in amazing displays that would have broken even a cat’s neck. He screwed up his face.
“Ah, but anyone could claim that. You have it right, but if you had done any research…nor do I know Azam’du. He sounds young. Weaker than I.”
“He was, apparently. Still frighteningly powerful.”
“How many centuries?”
“I don’t know.  He was born in captivity. A few?”
Seemutor’s face fell, and his whiskers drooped.
“Hm. Being born in captivity means nothing; we have been captive for ages. But mere centuries old? So young. A rarity. This is not proof, nor did you meet them recently enough that I can sense their magic on you. Did they say any word that would make me know it was her? Likely not.”
Pisces wasn’t sure how to vouchsafe his bona fides to Seemutor, but he felt like this was his only chance, even if the Djinni had orders to kill. He thought, then spoke.
“My bag of holding, on my right side, had something Czautha thought to take back with her. But she didn’t, because she said I might need it. It’s a spellbook written by a Djinni. Can you see it?”
The Djinni blinked, then laughed.
“Hah! A good one. There are no such things written by my kin that—buried kingdoms, it is a spellbook!”
He stared at Pisces’ bag of holding and did a double-take. Then he seemed to believe, and his eyes rose slowly.
“Your chest. Is that the brand of your master?”
“Former master. He’s dead, and I’m no longer a [Slave].”
Pisces felt Igheriz’s brand on his skin, and the Djinni nodded. Then he smiled, once.
“Congratulations on your freedom, Adventurer. You have won what Czautha’qshe fights for and what all we Djinni dream of.”
The [Necromancer] began to smile back, and then Seemutor lost his smile, leaned in, and whispered.
“You should have never come back to Chandrar and stayed free. What possessed you?”
For answer, Pisces sighed.
“I left my friends here.”
He thought it needed explanation, the long story of the Horns and all the coincidences along the way, but Seemutor gazed at him, and his cat-ears dropped. He closed his eyes, and his touch became light as a feather.
“Oh. The trap of all Djinni. I am guilty of this, truly. The King of Destruction was easier than this. Orjin of Pomle was amusing. I wish I had not met you, [Necromancer] who knows my chains. You are a dead man, now.”
Infinite regrets were in his eyes when they opened, but he did not let go of Pisces. And now the [Necromancer] was staring across the horizon. Towards the city. He knew…
He was running out of time.
 
——
 
Seemutor did not desire this man’s death anymore. He never had, insofar as he had any choice. But he had orders.
The orders were not to risk his life, so he had taken this stalemate to spite his masters as he always did, but also out of pragmatism. The damage this man might cause to him in close-quarters was immense.
Plus, [Necromancers] always came back from the dead when slain, and grappling with a Skeleton Mage or worse was not appealing.
Now that he knew Czautha’qshe had freed this boy, it made it all the harder. But Seemutor was a slave, and so he just stood there.
All he had to do was hold Pisces Jealnet. Because the Guild did not bet its victory on just the Djinni. Seemutor was only the quick-response force assigned to odd jobs the Guild needed. There were other killers.
This was a dead man, but Seemutor still humored him. He owed one freed this little courtesy. All the while, though, he knew a force was coming to slay the [Necromancer], and when they arrived, Seemutor would join them.
Kinder to kill him than collar him, though. The Djinni would do that. Thus, he spoke, wishing the conversation were not so…amusing.
“So, you came by a Djinni’s spellbook, rarest of the rare, when raiding the tomb of one of the greatest [Necromancers] in existence to save a friend who came back from the dead.”
“Yes. Erin Solstice. Surely you’ve heard of her?”
Again, Seemutor threw his head back and laughed. He emoted grandly, but the [Necromancer] never lost his grip or stopped paying attention. Too clever. This was a dance, so Seemutor began to insult him, to see if the mortal had a temper to play on. He threw his head back and spoke honestly his contempt for this woman…whose name stuck in his mind.
“Pisces, adventurer. I have said it again and again: we do not pay attention! Some of my kin did not even know this King of Destruction except as a random king they had served until they heard of Drenirkessun being freed by him. Masters come and go, and we are old—wait, Erin Solstice? HER?”
His attempt at arrogant disregard fell to pieces in a moment when that name hit him in a heartbeat. It could not be. But of all the mortals Seemutor knew, and he knew so few—
Her? Seemutor remembered her, belatedly! He had met the woman who claimed to have met one of the great Djinni in death itself!
“You met her?”
It was Pisces’ turn to be shocked, and in that moment when he wavered, there might have been the scorpion’s chance to strike. But it was a risk, and Seemutor himself was so caught by this that he held still. Remembering his superior nature, he feigned indifference.
“I…yes. Some mortals do stick in the memory, and I had cause to meet her, in person. But it is a coincidence, my point remains. To ask a Djinni any mortal’s name, even one who was legend in their time, is pointless. Like as to ask what Nerrhavia’s true name was.”
That was another lie, actually. Some Djinni knew the true name of the Immortal Tyrant, but they feared to say it, even now. Seemutor omitted the part where he had told every Djinni he’d met about his encounter with the mysterious young woman who’d encountered a ghost of his people. It was a weakness, and he did not want to give the man he was about to kill any opening.
Pisces ducked his head slowly.
“I apologize. It must be a banal question. I am glad that you have met Erin, though. Of all mortals, hers is a name to remember, if I may offer that opinion.”
He was courtly enough, so Seemutor grew embarrassed, and his body developed a slight chill as his mana changed. He was the being of age, for all he was young and not like his greater cousins. So he shrugged.
“Eh. Que sera, sera. It is not your fault you have the same question as so many before you. The mountain should not rage at the chipmunk which digs the same holes again and again, just smile at the forests it plants.”
He quoted a Giant’s saying, and the [Necromancer]’s eyes brightened.
“That’s…a quote from Atvecius, the last of the Giant Kings. That other phrase. What does ‘que sera, sera’ mean? I think I’ve heard it.”
Two surprises. But Seemutor grinned with his cat’s sharp teeth. He liked cats, which is why he took this form.
“You have some knowledge, but you have never heard such language as that. It is more dead than the Mage’s Language. The kind of thing only Djinni carry. And Giants, I suppose.”
“You shouted something at me. ‘Bravi?’ It sounded like ‘adventurer’—”
“You noticed that? Yes, I learned it from a Djinni over twenty thousand years old, who had it from another—these are phrases. Quotes. So, you see, unless Czautha’qshe said that to you, you do not know ‘que sera, sera’. And even she would have been taught it, just as I was.”
He was quite tickled by the thought she used the same phrase he had learned, but Pisces tilted his head. Closed his eyes in an unguarded moment.
“No…I think I’ve heard her saying it. ‘What will be, will be.’ Is it a song?”
Seemutor nearly lost his grip on Pisces. The shock—
“How do you know that?”
For answer, Pisces just smirked up at Seemutor and then sneezed as he got some of the Djinni’s essence in his body.
“That’s from—achoo—a being of great mystery whom I was acquainted with. Erin Solstice.”
Twice, now, Seemutor was struck silent in conversation. A rarity. She knew one of the lost languages from before the First Goblin King’s rampage? He saw the [Necromancer]’s eyes brighten and feared this conversation was giving him strength.
Time to end this. Yet his biding of time was to a point, so the Djinni weighed his options. Which gave Pisces the chance to hit the Djinni with his final attack.
“I did not, in fact, hear Czautha say ‘que sera, sera’ either time I met her.”
“…You met her twice?”
“In a location I cannot disclose, a grand Skill where we encountered each other—very briefly. My team fled, but I saw her, the Death of Magic, and the Death of Wings.”
Pisces shivered, and Seemutor stared at him, wishing he could read the [Mage]’s aura perfectly because this had to be madness. But he was an adventurer, and the Death of Magic could go anywhere if she were truly healed…the words came out of him too fast, a rush.
“How did she look? Was she healthy? Happy? Have her wounds healed?”
He had to know. Pisces blinked and didn’t know—Seemutor pressed, asking about the color of Czautha’s magic, the elements in her body.
“I don’t…she was under a kind of illusion that let her appear like a different species. She appeared decent? Better than the Death of Magic.”
Seemutor let out a huge breath, and then he had something else to blab about to every Djinni, young or old.
“You do me a service, then, Necromancer. I shall remember it, even if I am bound to your death like an arrow. I regret it, now. But know that even this gives all her kin hope. She is our dream, young though she is. Barely older than I.”
“Young?”
That surprised Pisces, and Seemutor tossed his head, nodding prouder still.
“She was born after the Creler Wars. It is rare for a Djinni of her caliber to ever be created, let alone in these eras as Djinni die. That she freed herself, and has not stopped her war, makes her the greatest of our people, to me. I am younger than she by a thousand years, give or take.”
“So you are five thousand years old?”
Seemutor grew embarrassed at how astonished Pisces sounded.
“But five thousand and some, yes. I am young.”
Very young by some Djinni’s standards. It impressed Pisces to no end, though.
