“Just one. Though one is…too much. And thousands of small ones.”
“Thousands? How did you survive? We barely had sixty, and they—it—the entire village was nearly wiped out.”
Kusal stared at Pisces, so the [Necromancer] had to clarify.
“There were over a dozen Silver-ranking teams present. My team was one of many, and we all nearly died. It was luck we managed to defeat it—we even had [Mages] from Wistram, and we barely won. Barely. How did you…?”
A pause, but the words spilled out of Lareceina as she fiddled with her belt. She had those compressed marbles of mana, Pisces realized, and she was rotating them around in her fingers. Playing with them like, well, marbles. He glanced at them as she spoke.
“It was immune to my magic. Leonardo and Justine engaged it while I killed the smaller Crelers. She—cracked the armor, and Kusal delivered the final blow. But it got her. Even with her Skills, it bit her almost in half, and there was no healing her. If I’d known more magic…”
Tears in her eyes. She blinked them away, and Kusal squeezed her shoulder. Leonardo stared at his feet, and Pisces’ own eyes stung a bit.
“I’m sorry. I saw many good adventurers die. Captain Stan, friends—it was a close run thing with my team as well. My magic was useless. Even a fine [Mage] couldn’t even harm it with his best spells.”
It was easier to say that after Isceil was dead. Leonardo smiled, then held out a hand.
“Well, one less Adult Creler in the world is a good thing. Can we be friends? Or at least, not enemies?”
“Of course.”
Pisces shook his hand and got a firm grip. He then shook Kusal’s and got a cautious one; Lare’s was like a wet noodle, and she let go fast. Each member of Wildcard was different.
Leonardo had the palest skin, and Kusal was—Drathian would have been Pisces’ guess, or Balerosian. Darker skinned, but different from Chandrarian natives, he felt. His accent was like none that Pisces had ever heard, and Lareceina was black-skinned and shortest. Leonardo was taller than Pisces and Kusal shorter and slimmest of the lot.
[Warrior], [Mage], [Rogue]. But an odd variant on the archetype if that made sense.
For instance, Leonardo had that tennis racket on his hip, and his armor—sporty cloth—was far too light compared to Yvlon’s. Kusal was armored heavier with metal incorporated into leather and lots of pockets built into his armor, containing gadgets like the strange weapon he’d used on Yvlon.
Lareceina wore a long-sleeved tunic and skirt with a twist; Pisces glanced down and realized there was metal underneath her skirt. An armored skirt? He’d never seen the like.
Their gear was substantially worse than his team’s, at least by the quality of Stalker’s armor. Nevertheless, he knew their levels were at least competitive with his team’s, and he could tell they were eying him too; Lareceina pointed.
“That rapier. It’s magic, but it’s not enchanted. May I see it?”
“Of course. Er—”
Pisces looked around, but the [Curator] of the museum had fled. No one else was near, so he showed them his bone-metal rapier. Leonardo exclaimed over it.
“That’s so cool.”
“Heavy metal.”
Kusal agreed. Lareceina just frowned.
“It’s the ivory that was fused to the steel. There’s trace magic in it probably because it’s bone you used, but it’s not enchanted. An ordinary rapier would be just as good, or better.”
“Lare, be nice!”
Another nudge. This time, she jabbed Leonardo in the side with two fingers so hard he yelped. Pisces wasn’t offended though.
“That’s entirely true, Miss Lareceina. It was improvised after I broke it in battle—I could very well upgrade it. I just haven’t found a good replacement.”
Rapiers were not exactly big in Chandrar, so the market for enchanted rapiers wasn’t high. Plus, he liked this weapon. Lareceina nodded, unsmiling.
“Don’t call me Miss, please. Lareceina is fine.”
“I’m sorry about her.”
Leonardo whispered and got another poke. Pisces smiled.
“I’m not offended, Captain. Did I hear you talking about—what was that word? Saiyans? Dragon’s…balls?”
This time, the man flushed so red it went up to his ears, and Kusal and Lareceina cackled at his expense.
“That’s, uh, a story. Just a story—Justine loved transforming heroes. Magical girls. Which is, um—it’s when someone has a weapon and transforms. There’s this Named-ranker who does it!”
“You mean Lehra Ruinstrider? I have met her, and she does do that.”
“She does?”
Instantly the other two Wildcards stopped laughing, and Pisces described the iconic Lehra.
“So she has to say that each time? That’s hilariously stupid.”
Kusal laughed, and Leonardo’s eyes lit up.
“Just like home.”
Here was the moment Pisces had waited for. He glanced at the three members of Wildcard and coughed.
“Ah, which nation would that be? I presume you are all from different countries. Spain, perhaps? Er, Poland? Canada?”
He threw out the names he’d heard mentioned a few times, and he was rewarded with stunned looks. Kusal instantly backed up a step, face wary, but Lareceina interrupted.
“He knows about Earth. I told you his team knew. It was that [Innkeeper] who contacted us. Erin Solstice. They stay at her inn. It was obvious.”
She appeared so smug that Leonardo and Kusal lost their stunned expressions and rolled their eyes. Pisces? He smiled wider.
 
——
 
“I’m from Portugal, Kusal’s from Sri Lanka, and Lareceina’s from Trinidad. So was Justine. We all found each other in the first month we were in Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”
“So you all, independently, became adventurers?”
Pisces had never heard other Earthers talk about their first days in this world. Leonardo smiled ruefully.
“Hardly. Lareceina found work in the Mage’s Guild. Kusal was scavenging for a living, and I got everyone’s attention by teaching people tennis and doing tricks. It’s a game from home, and it’s the only thing I can do. Justine was the adventurer who got us together.”
“He’s not just good at tennis, he was a champion back home.”
Lareceina interrupted, and Leo grew more embarrassed and waved a hand.
“I’m just a challengers champion. I won once by luck—”
“He’s one of the best in the world. Just not the top player. No one in this world can beat him.”
Pisces believed that, having met Erin who also ‘wasn’t the best’ and was able to play with Niers Astoragon himself regularly. He was telling them about his team, though they’d all apparently seen Ksmvr’s famous Chandrarian documentary. And they knew of the Horns from the Village of the Dead Raid. It was all very embarrassing, but this was convivial. Fun, even.
“I observed that in many Earthers, they tend to have a talent in one field or another. Does that hold true with you?”
Wildcard eyed each other, and Kusal raised a hand.
“I won an award for robotics. I made, eh, how do you say it?”
He whispered to the others and came up with the closest analogy for Pisces.
“Like making Golems that run on electricity. They fight to the death in this little arena, and mine was the best. I also made this.”
He pulled out the long tube-like device he’d hit Yvlon with and hit a button. The zap of electricity made Pisces recoil, and Leo swore.
“That’s a stun gun. Don’t touch the ends!”
“What does it do?”
“Zap people. Kusal had one on him, and he altered it.”
Kusal let Pisces examine it; it was a weird casing of some substance he called ‘plastic’ that had been taken apart then melted back together. The [Rogue of Tricks] had even added a telescoping handle of wood painted black.
“I had two. This is my Double Stun Gun. It has all the safeties taken off, and it can stop even a Manticore. I don’t know how the Silver Killer didn’t fall over when I hit her with it. I even have [Electronics: Triple Charge] and more Skills!”
His class had apparently advanced to let him perform all kinds of weird attacks. Ksmvr would have loved Kusal; the young man was able to carry two bags of holding, and one was filled with stuff to toss at an enemy.
Including just…a twelve hundred-pound piece of stone. A true boulder that only Kushal’s Skills let his bag of holding carry. He solemnly patted it.
“That’s how we killed the Adult Creler. I had to get Lareceina to boost me, and I just hit it with this.”
Dead gods, they might have been lucky not to fight him in the open. Leo’s weapon of choice made more sense to Pisces; the tennis racket was upgraded as well, but his entire ability revolved around the sport he played.
“I can block arrows with this and reflect almost anything as long as I’m strong enough. It’s pretty silly in combat, but we have that combination Skill.”
“The one where you hurl those orbs at us? It was very potent.”
The captain was pleased and ducked his head.
“Well, we had to work on a really good team attack together or we’d have been dead when we took on our first dungeon way back when. Justine used to be part of it…what’s your team attack?”
He changed subjects hurriedly as their fallen teammate kept popping up, but Pisces hesitated.
“Us? We don’t, ah, have one. We tend to just attack.”
It had never occurred to him to practice some kind of combination attack, but that was twice now a foe had needed one; first Bograms, then the Coliseum of Monarchs. Leo hesitated, but Lareceina broke in.
“I’m a [Magus of Compression]. You’re a [Mage] who studied at Wistram, correct? Will you discuss magic with me? I haven’t had a proper education; I’m self-taught. I’d like to, if we’re being friendly. I still dislike your Captain, Ceria, and I think breaking into the Coliseum of Monarchs was dangerous and against Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s laws.”
She was quite insistent on that point. Leo winced, but Pisces had really wanted to ask about her magic. She offered him one of the marbles she’d used to such deadly effect. He gingerly, gingerly took it.
“This is…just compressed mana after all?”
It was an insane technique. Lareceina built up mana, then gave it an element and put it in the orbs she carried on her belt and in a small sack. He could imagine doing it, and there was some genius to it; she could store mana instead of having only what was in her mana well in a fight.
It was also highly potent as he’d learned, and she could use it in all kinds of tricks like traps or letting Leonardo hit the marbles at a foe. Except Pisces had to point out two things.
“If the compression spell failed in any way, it would explode, and if all the ones on your belt detonated—”
The museum would be gone. His skin itched just being near her. And he wondered how good those compression spells were.
From the way Leonardo and Kusal shifted, they were aware of this fact and uneasy themselves, but Lareceina simply frowned.
“I’m aware of that. I’ve altered the compression spells so they just vent magic if they’re damaged. The possibility of explosion remains, but my class gave me Skills to mitigate the risk and compress more mana.”
“There’s still a risk that someone like Ceria could remotely dispel the bindings.”
“Maybe. That’s why I want consultation on how to prevent that.”
“Of course, I think I know some of that—it’s akin to tying a knot on a spell. But, ah, may I ask how you’re doing it?”
It was still crazy magic to Pisces. Because…none of this was a spell. It was literally just mana-shaping, and it reminded him of the Mad Ones’ camp. Lareceina’s answer was to sigh.
“I had to teach myself magic. I had no spellbooks, and the Mage’s Guild only taught me basic spells to help out, so I experimented with mana flows. I was told it was stupid and that spells were the only acceptable way to cast magic. Do you agree with that?”
“I would be a fool to ascribe to that philosophy. Many [Mages] are hidebound—this would never have been accepted at Wistram, but it clearly works. I just…”
Pisces could imagine making a mana orb of death magic. He gave it a try now and condensed the mana around a finger. He could easily do that, and Kusal shivered and moved back from the odd, clammy feeling around Pisces. Death magic wasn’t cold—it just felt that way because your body started to stop working around it. But Pisces only managed a vague orb of death.
Nothing compressed. Let alone binding it…he began to sweat as Lareceina nodded.
“That’s how you do it. My first orbs were Tier 0 in force. You simply lock it into place after that. You can hold it, but it’s a strain…you have to create a containment sphere around it in your head.”
“I…understand. But it’s so damned finicky!”
Magic did not want to compress. It wanted to go to natural sources of itself. Like how death mana concentrated around dead bodies. It was not happy about just existing in a cheerful orb. Lareceina nodded.
“My orbs deplete. I have a Skill—[Mana: Reduced Drain], but I still need to upkeep them. Actually, until recently I spent a lot of mana upkeeping them, but it’s worth the effort. There. Now, just close the circuit. See?”
She demonstrated and compressed fire magic in on itself, and Pisces saw her locking it down, creating a perfect sphere by which it could not escape. The problem was—you had to mentally hold a sphere in your head and cut off each point it wanted to escape from. You had to also account for the variance in elemental types! Fire magic didn’t behave like, say, water magic. Ice magic would freeze over and become inert…
“Whoa, so this is really tough magic? Lare, how do you do all that?”
Leo and Kusal realized their companion was a bit more magically adept than they’d known as Pisces struggled to figure out her technique. She smiled.
“It’s my special power. Autism.”
Kusal spat out some water all over a display and laughed at her until she went to poke him again. Pisces just gave up on his death orb; it was going to take a lot of practice if he wanted to master this trick, and he was considering it.
“I’m not familiar with the word. What is this…?”
“It means my mental processes are wired a bit differently than normal. I sometimes overfocus on things. I don’t like being touched.”
“And she’s not a fan of breaking rules, which is why she hates your Captain. And because she rubbed Lare’s hair.”
Leo put in. Pisces scratched at his head.
“Intriguing. I’ve met a number of [Mages] who fit that descriptor.”
He wondered if Master Hedault qualified under that. Or Watch Captain Zevara given how much she was a stickler for rules…
“I take it this gives you some advantage in magic?”
Lareceina hesitated, then shook her head.
“Um, not really. It’s just a joke.”
Pisces decided not to press her because she looked a bit embarrassed, now. He nodded.
