[Valeterisa’s Overly Complicated Seekers]. Pisces had heard it maligned as difficult, but the Drake had used it to fire off a lot of spells at targets even hiding behind walls. The problem was…it was very hard to cast. It had a windup time, which meant you couldn’t use it in a fight.
Also, he didn’t know the spell, and he wasn’t going to learn it in less than an hour on horseback without a spellbook teaching it. However, the concept stuck with him.
Valeterisa’s spell isn’t an attack spell. You can’t hurt anyone with it. It’s light magic that bounces around until it finds what you want. Like a guide. Now, he didn’t know it, but a thought occurred to him as he eyed the Skeleton Champion he’d used as target practice.
It was the faintest bit sooty on its forehead where he’d hit it with the weak Lighted Arrow spell. But Pisces didn’t even feel the strain of hitting it, what, three hundred times? He could alter the Lighted Arrow spell as much as he wanted.
It was not a useful spell in a life-or-death fight. Unless he could fire about fifty in one go, [Deathbolt] was far, far stronger. Even at ‘max strength’, Pisces’ Lighted Arrow was pretty much like Ceria putting a wooden box on her hand and punching you as hard as she could in the face with it. Surprisingly painful, but compared to, say, [Deathbolt]…no.
But he could alter the spell. What if…Pisces aimed his finger back at the Skeleton Champion. It sighed. He shot it in the head with a glowing arrow of light.
Yeah, yeah. Doesn’t h—
“[Deathbolt].”
Pisces shot the Skeleton Champion through the head, and its green eyes blazed. It actually sped up like it was under a [Speed] spell for a second, then slowed down. It gave him a second look as the other Skeleton Champions’ jaws dropped.
Do me, do me! They saw Pisces eye his finger, then smile.
 
——
 
Five more [Deathbolts] later, three Skeleton Champions were happy. Pisces…not.
“It’s still not working.”
His idea was simple—fire a guiding arrow to see where his [Deathbolt] was going to land, then follow it up when he saw the ‘guide’ arrow land.
It was a good idea, right?
Wrong. In the time it took for him to fire the guide-arrow, his target could still move or he could shift. The [Necromancer] was almost about to give up on the concept—he had to prepare for battle. Then he had one more thought.
Hm. Here was a question for you: his spell. Lighted Arrow. Why did it have to be…an arrow? A projectile?
For the purposes of being an arrow, sure, it was essential to compress the mana and fire it out. A ray spell was far more mana-intensive and required shaping of magic he wasn’t up to in his book. But if he just projected light-mana constantly, narrowed the focal point from his finger…
He’d seen Ryoka Griffin cast a variant of this spell herself. She had made the [Flashlight] and [Flashbang] spells with her own rudimentary knowledge of magic that he still used in combat. Lareceina had been self-taught, and she was more deadly than most Wistram [Mages] he could name.
There was no spell for what Pisces wanted. It was a Tier 0 magic…he concentrated, frowning. Just enough to see by. Reduce the force to zero. Yes, otherwise he’d burn out all the mana trying to make the projection solid…
Something flashed from the tip of his finger. He blinked at it—then pointed. The Skeleton Champions eyed their master’s new magic.
They didn’t get it. They might have Pisces’ [Duelist Instincts], but all they saw was…a thin ray of light. The width of a piece of chalk, really. Then even thinner. It shot from Pisces’ finger, straight as, well, a beam.
He pointed it at the ground. Shone it on a Skeleton Champion’s forehead.
For reasons they didn’t get, he started laughing. Laughing like a madman. Then he combed his hair, and his face still had some dried blood on it. His eyes focused, and they felt it too.
A kind of…sharpness. Like the blades they carried. He hadn’t felt this sharp except when he’d called them to kill those other [Slavers]. Except at sea.
They liked it. Because Pisces took this spell, which Lareceina might have invented if she’d needed to—something Earthers would come up with because their world had done it all, seen it all, invented every damn thing—
And then he improved it again because he needed to.
 
——
 
The second caravan was known as ‘The Speedy Servant’. It was less…trendy than the Blessed Chains. Not as high-class. Nor did it have fancy, painted wagons to carry its slaves.
Their master had them march along in lines. Why bother pampering them when they needed to get toughened up? It increased their [Slave] class. To that end, Master Khormez actually gave them ropes and connected them only by the manacled hands. They had to run, and if one tripped, it was a damned problem.
Naturally, that meant more risk. But he chained them up at night, and to prevent problems, he ran with a far heavier guard than the Blessed Chains’ caravan had.
About a hundred [Guards] to watch what could be up to a thousand [Slaves] when times were flush.
Times were not that flush, and he had only six hundred, despite having gone all the way to the coast and back. Khormez was highly annoyed, but one of the kingdoms he liked to frequent, Alka dez Vrent, a former Terandrian colony gone to ruin and corruption, wasn’t open for business.
It was a poor nation with a lax monarchy and governance, ideal for him to pick up deals and mass-cargo. However, word was that Alka dez Vrent was no longer safe. It had a new ruler no one dared speak of, who murdered everyone who crossed him.
Even [Slavers], potentially. The Guild had marked it as a no-go zone while they investigated and saw what the new rules were. So Khormez had lost profits.
First that, then the sightings of the Scourge on the eastern edge of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, so he’d avoided that—then the actual Horns of Hammerad flying in on a damn carpet! He’d almost spit blood when he heard they were ahead of him, but other adventurers had chased them off.
He’d light incense for Wildcard and Torreb’s daughter at the Guild, see if he didn’t! Even if he was a notorious [Skinflint Slavemaster]—what was good for business mattered. What had Khormez’s teeth on edge was a [Message] he’d received from the Guild.
At cost. They had burnt up one of his [Message] scrolls, and they never apologized, even when it was just an update about weather or traffic. But he tolerated it because this had been an update.
The Blessed Chains hadn’t appeared at their destination, the same city he was bound for. He forgot the name; it was a Hemp-forsaken place, this run. Were the Mad Ones around here? Bah, he would just unload whatever was profitable, take whatever wasn’t broken, and head on.
That was how he made a living. But the Guild monitored every caravan and their business. Often, they pried too much, but if the Blessed Chains hadn’t made it…?
Perhaps they’d thrown an axle. Perhaps they’d found someone and were doing business. But perhaps it was trouble. The Guild had sent someone to check it out. So Khormez was wary.
He didn’t have a Skill to detect attacks. But his [Guards] were used to fights. Khormez himself was a big man whose whip was coated with venom that could put any man down. He liked to let new [Slaves] think they had an advantage, unchain them, then hit them with the whip. Once he had them pliable, he chose his favorites among the lot. In time, he’d upgrade his caravan. He didn’t see the need to stop making the [Slaves] run, but if he had a Djinni—the Guild sold them at extortionate rates, but they’d go cheaper if you were high-ranking or had a patron.
Then he’d be a true Master of Roshal.
Khormez rode his tired camel, head on a swivel. Foot traffic was clearing out as they passed a crossroads. He took note of such things…this was a trade road. But suddenly, even single riders weren’t appearing on the road ahead of him.
That often meant trouble. Khormez spat and snapped at a guard.
“Look sharp. Someone ride ahead and figure out why no one’s about!”
They rode ahead and, after a few tense minutes, came galloping back.
“Master Khormez—I caught a man on horseback. Here, here!”
He was tugging a fellow over. The reluctant rider protested.
“I have to be going—”
“Just tell him what you told me!”
The Stitch-man pointed over his shoulder.
“There’s a damned horde of undead coming this way! Dozens of zombies! Everyone ahead is moving away from it! You’ll want to ride fast; I got around it, but you won’t! There’s Ghouls amongst them!”
Khormez’s skin tingled, and he shuddered.
“Damned undead! First the Oresects, now this! What good is Nerrhavia’s Fallen if it can’t even upkeep the trade roads?”
The man was a native of the kingdom and frowned mightily, so Khormez adopted an insincere smile.
“That is…I am sure the Golden Hordes will deal with it. In time.”
Perhaps that was the reason for the Blessed Chain’s delay. Khormez halted the caravan as the rider nodded at him and rode on fast.
A few dozen undead versus his guards weren’t that dangerous…though Ghouls would be threats. But each hurt guard was money from his pocket, let alone the helpless merchandise.
“We’ll head down the road. Find some other fools and travel together; if we need to, they’ll bear the brunt of the fighting. The local garrison should sally out to deal with them. We’re close enough.”
The [Guards] were all in agreement. They were turning the [Slaves] when Khormez was struck by two thoughts.
One—the Guild hadn’t harassed him about undead on the road. They always did for the slightest monster attacks, even Sand Slimes. Perhaps the horde had just appeared.
Perhaps, but wasn’t a certain [Necromancer] said to have been around here? He had left, though…the Guild had sent him a message to that effect. 
But that was two oddities. Khormez didn’t fear the so-called Scourge of Roshal. He’d had it on good authority from other [Slavers] who’d run into the legend that it was just a face the [Rebels] sewed onto their leaders to instill fear. Though the real man…
Khormez felt his shoulders prickle, hard. He hunched his body up, glancing around, and saw, suddenly, how empty this road was.
Utterly.
It made sense from one direction…but someone should have outridden Khormez’s slower caravan from behind. Yet that [Rider] was first to come down the road from the other direction.
Why, then, was his caravan alone? It was almost as if…something was scaring traffic away from behind Khormez. Like, say, the sighting of more undead.
Ping! Khormez jumped and slapped a hand to his side. Another disposable [Message] scroll. He’d save a fortune if he invested in a permanent one, not bled for each expendable—
He read the note slowly.
 
Guild Update: Monster sightings. Skeletons sighted on the road behind The Speedy Servant. Numbers reported as less than a dozen. Potentially armed. Updates forthcoming; the local garrison has been alerted.
 
Behind. Skeletons. Khormez’s head snapped up. He wheeled his horse around, stood up in the stirrups, and began to bellow.
“All hear me and obey! Prepare to ride north at speed! We are cutting through the undead and reaching the city! Lash the slaves; they will run or suffer! [Run, Worthless Slaves]!”
His guards began to protest. Khormez pointed down the road, trying to explain his sudden intuition.
“It’s an ambush! I th—”
He swore he saw something flash at him in the fading light. Khormez blinked, twist—
The [Deathbolt] hit him in the chest. He went white. Swayed in his saddle, and his vision greyed out. The [Guards] stared at him. They half-turned.
“Spell—that was a sp—”
He felt like throwing up. Khormez was falling. He felt his heart stopping. And then…he saw it. He looked down at his chest as he began to topple over.
Oh.
There was a beam of light on his chest. A beautiful, pale one of a color he had no words for. Why had he not—
The second [Deathbolt] hit him, and the [Slave Master] struck the ground. Then, when he rose, already a Ghoul, he could see it clearly.
 
——
 
The final aspect to Pisces’ laser-trick was this: death magic. A beam of light was noticeable. Anyone who saw it on them would guess what Pisces was doing. So…why let them see it? He’d practically heard Colth muttering that.
Pisces couldn’t make a light he couldn’t see; Ksmvr might have been able to. But he’d given it some thought and realized there was a way to create a light most people couldn’t see if they weren’t [Mages].
Magic. And if you were going to go that far, why not death magic, which was a unique element few non-[Necromancers] were familiar with?
He’d still had to wait for the man he assumed was the leader to stop moving. The [Deathbolt] wasn’t as fast as he wanted it to be; it was actually slower than Ceria’s [Ice Lance], even. But it was now…very accurate.
Though the [Deathbolt]’s speed was an issue. Which meant the [Slavers] still could avoid the projectile. He’d work on making it invisible and faster—later.
“Charge. Skeleton Champions—wait for the zombies to hit them before entering the fray.”
Pisces whispered. He was lying on his stomach on a dune, and he watched the battle begin without exposing himself instantly. This time…he used strategy.
The [Slavers] were already panicking with the death of their leader. No sooner had they hacked down the newly-animated Ghoul than the zombies and Ghouls appeared. And they were outnumbered by the hundred-some [Guards], who had Skills and weapons.
The zombies were naked. But here was a factor the [Slavers] hadn’t been prepared for:
The zombies were running.
Most people didn’t know zombies ran. It took more death mana—or the presence of a Crypt Lord—to make them sprint. Pisces didn’t work with flesh-based undead normally.
He made an exception. The zombies ran at the [Slavers], who again tried to form a defensive formation around the [Slaves]. Pisces directed the onslaught from above as he watched the Skeleton Champions running towards the rear.
“Ghouls—the riders. Don’t kill the horses, spook them.”
He made the zombies split; instead of coming in a rough wedge towards the center of the living, which they wanted to do, they began to encircle the [Slavers]. They were just there to get in the way. A [Rider] trying to break around the horde was watching the running zombies and never saw the tensed figure until the Ghoul jumped and took them off the saddle. Then the Skeleton Champions moved into the fighting.
That’s when the [Slavers] started dying.
Pisces’ Skeleton Champions had never been made to fight multiple foes at once. His Skill was [Undead: Duelist Instincts]. They were specialized at one-on-one combat where even a Level 30 [Warrior] might sweat to see one coming at them.
