The screaming man ran three steps, and a Ghoul tackled him. Good enough. Pisces took a sip of healing potion.
Heaved on the spear and told the Skeleton Champions to get it out of h—
Woke up when one of the [Slaves] poured the rest of the healing potion on him. Pisces stared at the bloody piece of metal. Tried to get up.
“We have to go. They’re coming. Run…”
 
——
 
—Woke up on a sled. The skeleton horse was trotting and kicking sand in his face, but it was pulling an improvised sled. Had he made it? The [Slaves]?
Not sure where…he saw a Skeleton Champion staring down at him. For a second, Pisces wondered if he’d lost control of his mana. Then he saw something gleaming along its face. A patch of ivory unlike the rest.
It gleamed under the moonlight. Beautiful, pale.
Stellar Ivory. He gazed up at it and then slept.
 
[Necromancer of Reclaimed Grandeur Level 45!]
[Skill – Advanced Undead Shaping Obtained!]
[Spell – Mend Undead Obtained!]
 
——
 
Pisces dreamed oddly in his sleep.
He dreamed of…
Ivery.
He was the Skeleton Champion. For a second, he was Bearbones, the two-headed warbear, ‘sleeping’ next to a bunch of oddly-sanguine animals, camels and horses, even a zorse. And Ivery, sitting cross-legged in a tent as people spoke around him.
Both. And a bunch of undead marching around a sleeping [Necromancer] glowing with undeath. Pisces was split between all these perspectives…
He was even in a bar with wiggling slime-breasts, serving drinks to—
…
His mind fuzzed, and the Skeleton Lord’s viewpoint snapped him into Ivery’s eyes. Then he was Ivery.
Bones scarred from combat. A bit stronger than before? Yes. It was his animating spell. He was quicker, more adept, but most importantly, his bones were stronger.
Different bones than the poor [Slavers]. Better bones. See here, this had been one of the [Slavetaker Champions]. And this was a bone from a dead [Slave Master] who’d nearly killed Bearig with a sword—
One bone per corpse. Lessons learned. Ivery knew this, of course. It was Pisces’ mind which absorbed it all.
Stronger, faster, better with a blade—but not as good as some. Frustration. The Skeleton Lord was frustrated. Too many Djinni. Too weak. It had eaten a [Lightning Bolt] the other day, and true, no one had died but…
“Good job, Ivery.”
The words echoed in its skull. The Skeleton Lord stopped picking at the sandy ground in the tent. Smiled. It glanced up, with Pisces, as someone spoke.
“—has to be him. No one else could do it, eh?”
“Why now? He’s too far inland to get there. We’ll never make it.”
“Someone must try. If it is him, he’s fighting alone. So are we cowards?”
The voices were familiar. To Pisces. Ivery knew them all, of course. There was Nathpe, the [Rebel] that the Horns of Hammerad had helped when she led a raid on a caravan along the Ekhot Straits. She was fiercely arguing with the other leaders, who’d ridden through the night to be here.
Risky, risky. But everyone was aflutter with the news. They’d heard it through their own sources and Roshal’s Guild. She was remonstrating with a huge Human man, a solid bloke named Amprel, over six and a half feet tall. He didn’t run fast, but he didn’t get into trouble like she did.
“Not cowards but, I think, practical. Merr’s closer. If we go this far into Nerrhavia’s Fallen, we may never come out.”
“If it’s him—”
“Let’s ask Bearig.”
That came from Qshom, of course. The [Tailor of Freed Thread] was working on an arm; he always was. So every head turned, and a man heaved himself up. Pisces, dreaming, felt a shock.
Of course, he hadn’t seen how much weight the [Cook] had lost. Or how he’d rebuilt his arms for more muscle. They were still thick, but he had a warrior’s trim in more than just body. It was a confidence, both in tone and how he held himself.
“We ride. Ivery’s gazed that way nonstop.”
“Even in battle, eh? Maybe we’ll get him upgraded, at least. Then we’re with you, Bearig.”
Nathpe leapt up, but Bearig held up a hand.
“Not every group. We have to be fast. Qshom, you stay with Nathpe. Amprel, if you run interference…”
She began arguing as the other man nodded, relieved.
“This I can do.”
“I’m going with you. We’re all going. If only Eloque were here…”
Qshom stood, and Bearig began to argue, then nodded. They were all talking, then, and Ivery’s head was turning. He got up to pace around the camp. Guard duty in case a Djinni attacked—not that he could do much. He’d ‘died’ sixty-eight times, but they kept putting him together.
Weaker than he should be for a Skeleton Lord. If a certain [Necromancer] were doing upgrades, Ivery could use something better than a crummy piece of glass, eh?
At this point, Pisces realized the Skeleton Lord was talking to him. In a way. He was stirring and trying to ask.
Eloque? Merr was elsewhere, but what had happened to Eloque? He saw Ivery pass by a temporary tent, and his reflection caught in the light from a glass lantern. A skeleton with glowing blue flames for eyes.
A camp of [Rebels].
Bearig, stepping out to call for Ivery.
“Ivery, we need to know where—”
A little figure was by his side. Ivery strode over, and Rophir pointed up. The half-Elf boy looked broadly the same, but his skin was sun-tanned now, and he seemed different. His eyes more focused. He had a turban on his head and he spoke.
“He’s in his eyes.”
Bearig jerked and stared at Pisces, and the [Necromancer]—
—woke—
—up.
 
——
 
He was feverish when he woke up. Head spinning, clouded. Pisces lay there until a Skeleton Champion unhooked a water flask and gave it to him. He drank thirstily.
“Bearig? Where’s Eloque. Ivery…”
He’d known the Skeleton Lord was still around, but—Pisces had no idea you could do that. He was learning a lot.
He hoped he wasn’t infected by the spear wound. He lay there until he was well enough to rise and pass water. Then he sat and thought.
 
——
 
It had been a Skill from the [Javelineer] which had gotten Pisces on the fifth caravan attack. The Stitch-woman had played dead.
Foolish of himself to go in like that, but the undead had needed backup. Pisces needed more bones. But the Stitch-folk attrition rate meant he was barely growing the horde.
…Well. It’d do. The Bone Horror and Skeleton Champions were the first beneficiaries of Pisces’ [Mend Undead] spell. He could fuse bones and fix them, but this was like a [Repair] spell. Far more convenient.
Pisces wished he’d gotten a new undead or attack spell, but life was not so convenient. If he’d been able to animate that Bone Behemoth…
No. Too big. Same with Crypt Lords if he could make them; too slow, and they thought.
He had a mix of zombies, over two hundred; Skeleton Champions, thirteen; a Bone Horror; and about twenty Ghouls. More than enough to wipe out an average caravan alone. And Pisces’ scouts told him the other caravans were going evasive. The one he’d tagged was deep offroad and trying to bury themselves under tarps in the sand.
Very clever, actually. They’d decided to hide rather than go for the city. There were, what, two more in the area he could hit? That he knew of. This one would have been all-but-invisible to Pisces.
Since he knew it was there, Pisces had a thought. He was immobilized while he healed. It was dark, and he was exhausted.
He glanced up, and a Skeleton Champion winked a yellow eyeflame at him.
We do overtime, boss.
Pisces was probably still a bit sick because he imagined the Skeleton Champion talking like Colth. Either way, it was a good idea. The Skeleton Champions took point and led the Ghouls and Zombies into the night, followed by the galloping Bone Horror. Pisces drifted off and dreamed of undead falling upon screaming [Slavers].
No, wait, that wasn’t a dream.
 
——
 
Attrition was decently high for the undead during the night battle, but they actually animated the rest of the corpses as zombies and came back. More importantly, Pisces had realized two things as he slept.
One: the Skeleton Champions were generating Stellar Ivory, that resource he still lacked much of. He had not yet made anything permanent out of it…
Two: a period of two full moons was approaching. The [Ritual of the Lord of Bones] could be cast, and at last, Pisces was close enough to bind something to Ivery again.
He’d slept on both things, especially Ivery. But the thought of the Skeleton Lord made Pisces resolve to do the ritual.
Anything’s better than a glass rock. He seems far more powerful, but I could potentially just remake him entirely. That…made Pisces feel guilty, but Ivery was like a hodgepodge of bones. If Pisces used the Manticore bones, he could make a Manticore Skeleton Lord.
Imagine one of those coming at you. With a bound [Fireball] in the mouth? Az’kerash had said that the ritual allowed for any spell Pisces knew—though the Skeleton Lord would need to use its personal mana reserves if Pisces didn’t help.
Bound [Fireball] at will?
No, no, bound [Invisibility] at will. Invisible Manticore Skeleton Lord.
He put that one in as ‘acceptable’. Pisces was more worried in the interim about the Stellar Ivory thing.
He was aware the Skeleton Champions were developing a bit of a personality. A bit of autonomy. Any undead of sufficient power could think; even Ghouls were a bit tactical. The Skeleton Champions might not be full leadership types, but he had to watch them. Make sure they didn’t think he would be better as a Skeleton Lich or go rogue.
The Stellar Ivory was a powerful piece of necromantic material. Would they want to hang onto it? He still didn’t fully know what it did aside from knowing it could partially-animate an undead even without a complete frame and was stronger and could generate mana…
As it turned out, the issue was a moot one. When the Skeleton Champions came tromping back, blades freshly blooded, they had a surprise for Pisces. He stared at the roughly femur-sized pile of bone scraps, each one pale and starlight bright.
The Stellar Ivory. They’d pulled it out of their bodies! Pisces saw a replacement finger on the Skeleton Champion with the bow, a missing piece from one’s head, a chunk carved out of another’s forearms—
“For me? Why?”
He croaked at them. For answer, the Skeleton Champions knelt while the one holding the bones presented it to Pisces like a [Knight] offering a great item to a [King]. It had that same feel.
Perhaps it was their growing autonomy. Or his lesson in seeing through Ivery’s eyes. But Pisces felt it, this time. A sense from the undead.
They weren’t able to think, let alone in concrete terms like Ivery. They were dimmer in intelligence. But there was a…feeling from them. Even the Ghouls and zombies. They gazed at the Stellar Ivory, at Pisces, and recognized him.
Necromancer.
The glowing ivory was valuable. Each undead wanted it, like a flower craved good soil or sunlight. But they recognized Pisces was the creator of it. That he could make greater undead.
They had…
Great expectations of him.
He shivered and realized they had always been waiting for him to level.
 
——
 
Pisces never found the 7th caravan. He suspected, like the 6th, it had gone to ground because he had multiple undead birds in the sky, and they saw nothing like it.
That was okay. He spent all of the third day resting. He was a bit feverish, but he thought he hadn’t been infected or he’d have been dead with that healing potion; he was good enough to rise on the 4th day and do what had to be done.
 
——
 
The city of Halqued wasn’t noticeably different after a few days since the Horns of Hammerad had fought Itkisa at the Mad Ones’ encampment. Life was back to normal.
Oh, it had been crazy for a moment there. There had been scrying spells, people had been going to see and then being told they might be inside a Gold-rank adventurer fight—it had been exciting!
Everyone had hoped for a bunch of cameras to come through so they could be on Nerrhavia’s Wonders—alas, only the Mad Ones got interviewed. And, reminded of that, people had visited their encampment and bragged to relatives and friends they’d been close to this news story, but it really hadn’t been A Thing.
There had been that incident with the Bane afterwards, but it hadn’t been much to hear tales of it. The Bane of Roshal hates slavery, shocking, more at eleven.
Even in the days after the Horns had left, things were fine.
Oh, sure, there had been that weird undead attack on the road, but they’d been killed. And maybe some [Soldiers] kept heading out on patrol; well, good, they might as well do something around here!
On the third day, perhaps you could see some agitation around the local Slaver’s Guild. It was oddly quiet without a regular shipment of [Slaves]. Everyone there seemed grumpy, but you could walk the city and never come across the Guild or its members.
So the city truly was placid, with its usual corruption or scandals unique to it. Was [Mayor] Heresha truly still sleeping with eleven different suitors? Yes. Had Master Dromet really bought some object from the Mad Ones which was allowing him to out-carpenter every other competitor, and had he been murdered by his son for said object? Investigations were still ongoing.
People entered and exited the city, local towns feeding the ore markets always hungry for more. In fact, a band of fifty were on the roads transporting a rather huge haul of ore from one of said local towns.
Copper, the good stuff. Every metal was useful, and fifty huge loads of copper in massive baskets as big as the carriers were headed towards the gates.
Ore was hard to transport because Bags and even Chests of Holding had hard limits to volume and weight. Even if it was only 40%, filling a Chest of Holding with copper ore was a good way to get an object impossible to move that would smash through any vehicle.
There were ways around the issue. Spells for lightening the weight, Djinni, or, and here was a Chandrarian method: [Slaves].
Fifty Hemp [Slaves] with [Laborer] classes was cheaper than other solutions. True, it wore down their bodies fast, but Hemp was cheap. It was just one of those things where Roshal had become part of the economy of Chandrar; they often sold [Slaves] cheap for first-time buyers because when you had one, you tended to get more.
They were in sight of the walls as a somewhat-harried Cotton Stitch-man with a whip chivvied the Hemps forwards. If he was impatient, well, it was damned hot, and the flies were biting. The Hemps ignored the whips on their backs as they plodded along, and pedestrians kept wide of the ore train.
