A gesture without equivocation. He wanted to free them the most, but he could not. Even when they begged, he just told them he couldn’t do anything. Walked on as guilt ate at him.
Some ran for it. Others offered to join him, and again, it was hard.
Once, a Stitch-boy who couldn’t have been more than sixteen had bent down to pick up a cane that had been lashing his back. He’d put it on one shoulder and asked Pisces who he was killing next. Pisces had almost let him tag along—but the Stitch-boy couldn’t cast spells. He was too young, too low-level.
Garuda were easiest because they could fly off, and he could believe that was that. One time, he ambushed a bunch of Slave-Adventurers, three Garuda and a Stitch-girl with a painted face who called herself a [Clown].
She wanted to join him; the Garuda all flew off, each in a different direction. They’d all been adventurers who’d been in debt and enslaved. The Stitch-girl had nowhere to go, and he’d hesitated—turned her down as she cried out they’d capture her on the road. She’d tried to follow him, but when she saw the horde of undead he used to screen his retreat as they fled backwards into the wilderness, she’d given up.
It ate at him, but he didn’t even know where safety was.
So he walked or ran, vanishing with [Invisibility] when the garrison rode out to get him. Pisces’ trick that had foiled the charioteers worked again and again.
They could defeat invisibility.
They could detect life. They could detect death, and sometimes, his undead got sighted.
They could not find someone who was invisible to death or life, a man who just lay down in the sand and waited for them to pass by. Perhaps there were [Trackers] or [Hunters] who could find him.
Pisces assumed they did not want to find him or he was getting lucky. He lost track of how many days it was; he would wake up at random, multiple times in the night, sleep in the day.
Not long, he assumed.
Not long. Just a while of waking up and walking down the roads, [Flash Stepping] along from town to village to the city’s gates. He kept finding people, and so he told himself after a day when he found no one, no one—he’d stop. Then he’d have done his best, right? Then…
Then he ran into the family.
 
——
 
There were five of them. Father, mother, young. Early thirties? Children, ten and nine? [Slave], mid-twenties, a Garuda.
They’d hidden her collar with a hood. Been hurrying towards Halqued, within three miles, when he’d reached them. By now, it was easy for Pisces to tell the signature of Roshal’s magic.
He appeared and drew his sword, and they screamed.
All of them—the father tried to make the horse pulling the little cart go faster. Pisces walked around it, cut the leads, and it galloped away. He saw the two Stitch-children frozen as their mother grabbed at them, and the man drew a belt-knife.
Pisces took slow aim and hesitated. The two children were staring at him, at the faded blood on the mask he hadn’t bothered to clean, and then the man lunged.
“[Quick St—]”
He missed. Pisces had seen Skills go off, and it was obvious. He leaned away, slashed the arm down to the bone, and the man screamed and fell onto the ground. Pisces raised the rapier to stab as they yelled at him, and someone threw herself on top of him.
The Garuda [Slave].
“Tirth! Master Tirth! Help! Help—”
She was shielding him. Then the mother leapt forwards, another shield, and Pisces stared down.
“Move.”
He was speaking to the Garuda, but she turned up huge eyes at him and shrieked back.
“Leave! Please! I don’t want to be free! He’s done nothing to you!”
Pisces had been—not calm. Not tranquil, but a steady thrum of intensity that had passed hours by without the strain of more than concentration. This shattered his focus. He blinked. Peered down at her.
“Bane, spare us! Chire, Doit, run!”
The two children were scrambling off the wagon, and Pisces just gazed down at the man, who was groaning, holding his arm.
“We’ve done nothing to you. You—you butcher. Spare my family! Take Yive. Yive, just go and—”
“Don’t hurt him!”
That was directed at Pisces. He was circling around. Then the mother rose.
“You’re trying to kill an innocent man!”
Pisces stared at the Garuda and the collar exposed from her hood. The young Garuda was named Yive? She rasped.
“They took me in when I was young. I’m family—if you want to stab him, you’ll have to stab me!”
“And me! Get back!”
The mother was swinging the fallen knife at Pisces. He was thinking as he held still.
His goal had been to kill the father. The children were innocent. Killing both parents…
No. He couldn’t do that.
He glanced down at Yive, and she paled.
“Shie, run! Run! He’s going to kill all of you—”
She threw herself up, arms spread, and the mother turned white. She tried for a slash—Pisces cut the dagger out of her hands, and red blood showered the ground.
“Mummy!”
Her daughter screamed in horror. The boy—Doit—ran at Pisces and tried to punch his leg. His previously-wounded one, which twinged. He punched Pisces in the stomach, hitting the Stalker underarmor, screaming.
“Stop it! Stop it, I’ll kill you! I’ll—”
Pisces almost kicked him, then the man, Tirth, tore his son back. He backed away, one armed, and the four Stitch-folk hid behind the Garuda. Pisces eyed Yive, and she was shaking.
“Bane or Scourge—it is you, isn’t it? We were just going home. We had been on holiday when you—if you have any reason, let us go. I don’t wish to be freed.”
They had done a lot of talking. Pisces felt like his own throat was filled with sand. He croaked.
“Why?”
The Garuda gave him a blank look, then earnestly turned her head towards the family. They were backing up towards the city, leaving her, but they were calling for her to run, to fly.
“They’re my family.”
“You’re in chains.”
“So? Not all of us are treated poorly! Where would I go without them? You—do you think everyone you killed is a monster? Let us go.”
Pisces stared past Yive, at the Stitch-folk. Tirth shouted at Pisces.
“You’re no Gold-rank hero worthy of Hraace! You cold-blooded killer—touch Yive and I’ll have every bounty hunter and assassin in Chandrar on you!”
He sounded so self-righteously passionate. He flinched, and Yive blocked Pisces. Perhaps thinking to stop a spell.
Like [Deathbolt]. She was panting, and Pisces spoke directly to her.
“If they loved you, they’d free you.”
Another blank gaze, then an incredulous laugh. She shook her head.
“And do what, employ me? I like my class. I’m a [Happy Slave]. You’ve only known poor slavemasters. They’re not all like that.”
His hand—twitched. She flinched and backed away, tensing to leap into the air. Pisces inhaled and exhaled slowly.
The Watch would be coming. He addressed Yive shortly.
“Not everyone is treated like you.”
“And? Are you going to free me against my wishes? Are you going to butcher everyone who has a [Slave] for the sins of a few?”
She flapped upwards and grew more confident, calling down at him as she circled. Pisces’ head turned, and he was cold.
“Yes.”
She faltered, and Pisces glanced at the family now running for the gates. He could hit the father with a [Deathbolt]…maybe. But it might go through him and hit a child. He lowered his finger as Yive swooped at him. She had talons outstretched.
“[Defend the Master]!”
He dodged her. She hit the ground hard and cried out. Then flapped around awkwardly. She stared down at him, and he imagined Cawe in her place.
He didn’t stab her. Pisces just felt at his hair.
“I didn’t think about killing parents in front of children.”
It was more of a statement to himself. He turned and began to stride away; he could sense figures racing out the gates. Yive called after him, a shrieking, angry note in her voice; she might have broken her own foot in trying to attack.
“Do you understand what you nearly did? What you’ve done, Bane? Are you regretting any of it?”
He turned back. Glanced at her. Then it came out of him.
Laughter.
Bitter laughter he hadn’t heard in a long, long time. The same kind of laughter he’d felt bubbling inside of him when Relc and Klbkch had nearly executed him. When he’d been taken captive by Montressa’s team. A dark, mirthless laughter bordering on hysteria. She flinched, and he walked off.
Laughing his head off until he cast [Invisibility]. He supposed, later, he should have reflected on that. Had a moment of conscience or doubt.
Instead, he just thought that it would have left a bad taste in his mouth, either way.
Cast [Sleep] first. He’d be more careful the second time.
He supposed he was going mad, then. Sinking deeper, but he didn’t hear the red class, if he had one. Just…
Silence.
That silence was an answer of its own. He murmured to himself as he continued his walk.
“Ah. So this is what it was like. When Perril Chandler became the Necromancer who destroyed Silvaria, the Kingdom of Paintings.”
He gazed down at his hands, flexing them.
“It doesn’t hurt at all. It’s too easy. I cannot feel myself falling. Just climbing a mountain I must carve out of their blood and flesh.”
Longing to breathe the air at the top, as if he could end the nightmare. He felt like a man in a dark sea, underwater, climbing the dark mountain of corpses he was building. Ever higher, that he might one day breach the surface and find a better world where he could be normal and happy, again.
Pisces turned back and stared at the city blaring alarms. His eyes shone in the darkness, and he feared they shone black and white. But all he said as he vanished was—
“I’m sorry, Erin. It appears you were wrong about me.”
 
——
 
Pisces didn’t sleep well that night. The sight of that Garuda chased him around, and he kept sitting up with things to tell her or say.
‘Did it ever occur to you that you should have been born in a world without being a slave?’
‘When they take off their mask, then you’ll see.’
‘You haven’t looked around at the others, you hypocritical—’
Stuff like that. Then he’d done some calculations. If you weren’t willing to kill the parents, you could put a hole through both knees. Though that might mean the children were without caregivers. How about one eye per person? And they were Stitch-folk, so any damage was healable…
How could she look him in the eye with that self-righteous fury? [Happy Slave]. Happy—was it a redline class? Delusion, like that [Guard] who’d thought all the [Slaves] were smiling at him?
Toss, turn. Toss—he was glad when he realized the 7th caravan had appeared.
They were making a break for it. Away from the city. They must have been hiding however long it had been. How much food did they have? Days? Not for weeks unless they’d overbought for whatever reason.
Time or desperation had forced their hands. Pisces sat bolt upright; he sensed eight open wagons racing northwards. He leapt up. Jumped in the saddle as the undead stirred.
Rode.
 
——
 
The undead were out of position, and the wagons were moving fast. He had to slow them down, so Pisces cast the one spell he could.
“[Stone Stalagmite]!”
The Tier 2 version of [Earthen Spire] wasn’t powerful. Nor was Pisces a good [Geomancer]; the piece of stone rose fast enough to hit you hard in the groin, and it was pointy-ish. But the resultant piece of stone was hard.
Hard enough to hit a wagon wheel and shatter the axle. Two of the eight wagons slammed into the ones already skidding out of line, and the frantic [Guards] leapt down to try to replace the wheel.
Sadly, even without the locking nut that made Izrilian wagons more secure—most other continents didn’t have screws—changing a wagon wheel was hard enough in the dark.
Harder still with a [Necromancer] firing [Deathbolts] at you and Ghouls leaping down from a ridge. Twenty Ghouls versus maybe twice that number? A bit more?
He might win with the Ghouls alone. But Pisces didn’t like the ambush; he felt like there was some powerful magic around him, but he couldn’t locate it. So he [Flash Stepped] away, went invisible and silent, and waited.
The [Caravan Master] soon proved his instincts to be accurate. The man emerged, waving a Wand of [Fireballs], and Pisces saw a [Lightning Bolt] from another [Guard].
Wand spells. He grunted as the Ghouls went down. Now the wagons were being frantically repaired, but here came…
“U-undead! More of them! Dead gods! Lailight Scintillation, protect us!”
The [Slave Guards] were waving at the air, screaming, perhaps under [Scrying] spells? Pisces hoped his personal protections shorted it out. He sat up, taking aim with his death-mana laser as the leader fired [Fireballs] frantically at the incoming horde. The Skeleton Champions dodged, but zombies were going down. Pisces murmured.
“[Death—]”
Then he felt the mana around him surge and looked up. He saw lightning and dove.
The Djinni came to earth riding a real lightning bolt. He had the head of a cat, the body Human, bronzed skin crackling with magic, and his lower half was that of a cloud that turned into a glowing nimbus of blue particles sparkling with magic.
He was bare-chested, naked, in his way, save for a pair of golden spectacles on his face with a link of metal looped around one ear. He had more magic in him than any being Pisces had met save for the most dangerous of monsters or people like Larracel.
More magic than Azam’du.
The impact knocked Pisces sprawling. Seemutor cursed as he arose, and he drew six scimitars with six arms.
“Scourge of Roshal, your hour comes for you are marked. I am Seemutor, who has battled the King of Destruction and Orjin of Pomle! As my previous master, the Greatly Foolish Merchant Almon bids, who was sold into servitude and now is in chains alongside me—all enemies of Roshal shall die.”
His address was long, carrying, and he stretched his body upwards, growing until he was eight feet tall. Then he stretched his back out like a cat, yawned—
“Djinni, kill the undead!”
The [Slave Master] was howling at him. Seemutor glanced down at the embattled caravan, which was outnumbered by the undead.
“My task is to kill the assailant, not protect you. As so—”
He pointed, and Pisces realized the Djinni could see him. The [Invisibility] spell did noth—
The lightning bolt was fast, and Pisces had no idea how to handle it. He had never learned barrier spells like Ceria and Montressa had. He could have used Ksmvr’s Forceshield…
Pisces ducked down behind the dune he’d been crouching behind, and the impact kicked him backwards and onto his feet, but aside from the ringing in his ears and feeling that the air had punched him all over, the lightning didn’t do much. He scuttled away as Seemutor laughed.
“A fine trick. And now, mine. This is real lightning, not your [Mage]’s kind!”
