The average Level 30 [Warrior] might triumph in a duel, but how many of the [Slavers] below were Level 30? Nor were the Skeleton Champions fighting fair. The one with a greatsword was trading cuts with a huge [Slaver], who was matching him with a lead club taking chips across the weapon. They were swinging on each other, going blow for blow, when the club-wielding [Slaver] gasped and half-turned.
One of the Skeleton Champions with daggers had buried its blades in his back. Then the greatsword fell.
No honor. No etiquette. Not for these foes. The Skeleton Champions went hunting for stronger foes. One raised a shield as a [Fireball] blew every zombie around it to pieces. It staggered as a [Mage] pointed at the skeleton still on its feet—
Pisces landed behind the [Mage] and beheaded the caster. His [Invisibility] spell failed as he lost concentration, and there was a cry.
“The—the—”
He was in the center of the [Slavers]’ defensive lines. The [Necromancer] went running at a wall of [Guards] who panicked. Half turned themselves up, and one went down as a Ghoul took them from behind and dragged them into the clutches of the hungry zombies. But the rest were aiming Skills at him—the [Necromancer] ran, and then something rose upwards.
A…slope? He ran up the ramp of bones, which carried him over the heads of the fighting [Slavers] and undead. The [Slaves] saw the [Necromancer] leap—that was how he’d bypassed their lines the first time.
He’d never performed this move on a chaotic battlefield. But Pisces had learned to animate structures in the Trials of Shields. He was a [Necromancer of Reclaimed Grandeur]—and he had needed to get that [Mage].
Necessity. Pisces turned in the air. He saw a cluster of [Archers] aiming at him and pointed at them.
“[Fireball].”
His aim was spot on. Two saw the roiling ball of fire shooting at them and dove away in time to survive the blast. They lay on the ground, stunned, as the undead pressed forwards without their support. And then the [Necromancer] was gone again.
“Yield! We surrender!”
A cry went up as the undead pressed the narrowing lines of [Slavers] back against the [Slaves]. The [Slaves] were clumped together—they were afraid of the undead, even if some of them were smiling. But the zombies did fall back. A pair of snarling Ghouls loped back a step—and the [Slavers] hesitated. A few tossed down their weapons and raised their hands, but then a figure shouldered aside the shorter zombies.
A Skeleton Champion, bones reinforced with Manticore ivory, stepped into place. Thirteen formed a circle around the [Slavers]. The two Ghouls joined their ranks, and the guards realized the zombies were falling back only because the [Necromancer] couldn’t control them if they got past them.
The Skeleton Champions waited. Then a [Deathbolt] flashed out of the fading light and hit one of the [Guards] in the chest. The [Necromancer] reappeared, and the Skeleton Champions advanced.
 
——
 
Easier the second time. All but eighteen zombies had been hacked down, but not a single Skeleton Champion had fallen. This caravan felt weaker than the other one—or maybe it was the lower-level undead.
The [Slaves] were still hard. Freeing them? He just cut the ropes free. But they asked him the same question.
“I…freed a caravan northwest of you. They were headed—”
Pisces hesitated. He didn’t know if he should say.
“I cannot escort you. I’m sorry.”
“But—we’re on foot. This is a trade road. We’ll be caught.”
This group wasn’t nearly as fit as the other. They hadn’t been in great condition, but neither had they been malnourished or visibly injured. Khormez hadn’t bought valuable [Slaves], though. Pisces saw open wounds or odd scars on the Stitch-folk.
It took him a moment to realize it was frayed skin that had been knotted off, leaving warped, puckered scar-tissue. A way to close damaged cloth-flesh if you had no fabric. Worse were the missing limbs, usually arms, or digits. He knew they could sew their limbs back on, but these people…
It did not make him angrier. He didn’t feel…angry. Rather, as he looked over a hundred dead men and women, some of whom he had killed, he felt—
Ah. He wiped at the dried blood on his cheeks, shook some off his robes and rapier, then got to work. He’d think of that later, later.
Just another connection between him and the man he’d used to think was a goal. Az’kerash.
So be it. If he was falling, then today he was diving. So this is what it was like, then…he pushed the thought away. He had dealt with the [Slavers].
But the [Slaves]—
“Sir, we will never make it. Is there no one else? No…route?”
“No.”
He stood there, and the hundreds of men and women moaned.
“You’ve doomed us. They’ll have us killed for betraying our masters.”
One shook his chains at Pisces, and the [Necromancer] looked at a Stitch-man. The figure shrank back behind the others. He looked noticeably better than the others, and he hadn’t been attached to the main slave-lines. Pisces remembered the [Slaves] who had taken Igheriz’s and Hrome’s sides…
His rapier was heavy as he addressed the group.
“You are free, now. I cannot escort you to safety. There are horses, and if you split up, disguise yourselves, you have a chance. Loot the dead for clothing. If you are Stitch-folk, you could change your face. I am sorry. But I can only halt the caravans. There may be help northeast of here or if you go to Tiqr, Pomle.”
Too far. They stood there until he pointed at random. A woman jumped.
“You. Gather what you need. If there’s anyone you trust, form a group. If—”
He almost didn’t say it, but he had let these people out.
“If you wish to remain [Slaves], the city is not far. Go there, but this is your chance. Your only chance, perhaps.”
Uncertainty. The woman Pisces had pointed at was glancing around—but then someone bent down and grabbed the [Slavemaster]’s whip. A young man who bore lash marks on his back. He began to check the man’s bag of holding, and that provoked a flurry of motion.
People began grabbing magical items like bags of holding, fighting over coins. Pisces stopped them from brawling and divided items up, but he was turning. Watching the road.
The undead were keeping travellers away, but after twenty minutes, he thought he could see a cloud of dust headed towards them from the city. He stood on the hilltop and told them to run.
Not all of them did. The [Slaves] scattered, most headed away from the city. Some stood there, waiting to be re-captured.
Well, they’d slow the garrison. Pisces saw more than one figure gazing up at him. Gold-rank adventurer with undead. He wasn’t helping them.
If it were me…
Most have no levels for combat or survival.
It’s a chance.
That was all he told himself. He could not…the [Necromancer] was busy. As the stripped [Slavers] lay there, he spoke one word that made all who heard it shiver.
“Arise.”
 
——
 
Ceria, Ice Squirrel: Heeeey, Pisces. Haven’t heard from you, assuming you’re just enjoying the endless dust. Don’t eat too much. Update on Yv. Etrikah is pretty good—she says Yvlon’s balances are off. Looks like a cure’s not known. Pretty interesting actually; to create it, they take some poor kid and load ‘em up with curatives but keep getting them sick. So whatever magical disease they’ve got is nasty. Bright side? Less Yvlon. Downside? Less Yvlon. She’s under maximum security rest.
Ceria, Ruler of Medain NOT MARRIED: Itkisa’s gotten off with a slap on the wrist. Keep mum about the fights and Tomb. Bit tricky over here. We want to do strategy and planning given circumstances. Thinking we should hit Tiqr…might be a possibility to tie up my stuff and do politics while we’re there. And Zenol. Lots to do.
Ceria, Archmage of Frost: Funny story, Pisces. Your carriage just pulled up. It’s empty. You okay? Obviously, if you’re kidnapped and someone’s reading this [Message] now we’re into hostage negotiations, and I’ve got a Relic-class circlet that makes me smart. Just let me know.
Ceria: Did you hit a caravan outside of that city we were in? I need you to get out of there right now if that is the case, and we can cover it. Answer, Pisces.
Colth: This isn’t a good idea, Pisces. Answer Ceria and meet us at Tyrant’s Rest, pronto.
 
He got all of that when he woke up. He assumed she’d been messaging him throughout the night. [Messages] didn’t have timestamps…at least not the ones he could cast.
He’d forgotten to answer them. Pisces sat up, and he’d been sleeping in another buried bivouac. This time, the sand hadn’t really gotten him, but he’d been safe.
…Mostly because of the undead around him. He was sore, his mana reserves were high, and he felt that mental strain from casting repeatedly—but despite it all, he got up almost trembling with energy.
Nerves, too.
He sent Ceria nothing at first. Pisces was thinking. He hadn’t been clever enough…but it was before dawn, and he was fresher after last night. He’d seen the [Slaves] off in the evening, used some of the zombies to slow down the garrison, and then taken the rest of the undead as far away from the roads as he could.
He’d gotten maybe eight hours of sleep since he’d actually gone to bed early—now he estimated it might be 3 AM. A good time. He got to work fast.
The Skeleton Champions stripped his meager camp as he chewed on some food he’d taken from the dead [Slaver] caravans. Pisces wrote fast on a scroll, then adjusted the spell and handed it to a Ghoul. He concentrated and took firm mental control of it. Then sent it sprinting westwards.
He took quick stock of the rest of the undead as he consulted a map. Pisces had trouble orienting himself in the darkness, but that was what the [Compass] cantrip was for; it pointed you at Wistram, at least, the version he’d learned. Wistram wasn’t north, but with the map that Lareceina had been given, he could orient. So he was going north…he wished he’d tossed down more mice on the roads in prep for today.
Or that he could animate flying creatures. How the hell did you make flying undead? If Pisces killed a bird, he doubted he’d get one flying properly, even if it was left in pristine condition. He had done Face-Eater Moths, but birds were totally different. Skeletons and muscle. He had no practice was the point.
“Another flaw in my studies.”
He was on the skeleton horse’s back and riding fast with the undead running after him within eight minutes of waking. Travel took a long damn time even with the skeleton horse. He had none to waste.
 
——
 
Pisces winged a myna bird after six misses and reanimated it, trying to figure out how to get it to fly. It actually managed a few flaps before it crashed and he had to get another.
He felt bad about that. Flying was very hard. But the nature of zombies meant that birds could fly just like zombies could run; you had the body’s natural muscle memory to draw on. It was then only a matter of giving the bird enough mana and direct control to keep it ‘active’.
Otherwise, it’d just crash. Pisces sent it flying up and lost track of it almost at once.
Keeping a mana-link in the skies was also a lot harder than on the ground. Pisces had once commanded a single bug at range, but that had been with his full focus, and it hadn’t gone nearly as quickly.
The fast-moving bird needed something…he didn’t know what until he read some of the books that Az’kerash had given him.
The answer turned out to be a simple rune you drew in the flesh that acted as a marker for your magic. A dagger would do, and he could trace it under the feathers, then send the bird up.
Scout acquired. Pisces killed two more birds, mainly by having the undead bird chase other flocks of birds up for him to shoot [Deathbolts] at. Other birds reacted to the undead ones like most animals: they either fought or ran, spooked. Mind you, they couldn’t tell another bird was a zombie until they got close…
That left three birds to work on. Two of which Pisces managed to animate to the level of Ghouls. This trick wasn’t even new.
“[Invigorate Corpse].”
That was a spell from when he’d been back in Ailendamus. Pisces hadn’t used it then since Feren had been making Ghouls. Back then, he’d had to cast it with six others to reliably get one. Today?
His first Ghoul-bird couldn’t withstand the death mana he pumped into it and exploded. After he’d wiped the bits off him, he did it more carefully.
A Ghoul myna bird was not a deadly creature, but it flew fast. Very fast. He used one to scout ahead of him. The other one he sent west, after the Ghoul.
This allowed Pisces to expedite the Ghoul-trick. He had it hand off the scroll to the Myna bird, then pulled the death mana from it, killing the regular Ghoul. It was a waste of undead, but it would have gone rogue or attracted attention otherwise.
Pisces had less undead to work with than he wanted. He’d lost almost all the original zombies, but replenished their ranks with about seventy-some zombies and a few Ghouls. No more skeletons; he hadn’t had time to process the bones.
He’d lost nearly a third of the corpses due to a phenomenon he was starting to realize was unique to Chandrar: Stitch-folk didn’t become corpses in the same way.
Oh, they turned into regular dead bodies when they died. They’d rise, dead flesh and stitching rotting—assuming you hadn’t hacked a limb off, in which case it would be cloth.
But there was the problem. If they lost a limb, it was cloth when you animated them. And when a zombie Stitch-person died, something odd happened.
They turned to cloth entirely. So unlike, say, a Human corpse, which you could animate, let ‘die’, then recycle by adding more death magic to it—unless it was completely destroyed—Stitch-folk would turn into shredded and tattered cloth.
…And bits of faintly glowing string.
Lifethread. Pisces had seen the other Stitch-folk [Slaves] blanching when he’d observed the phenomenon, and he didn’t have any idea what to do with the dust or Lifethread. But it meant that his undead force was far less renewable. Smaller, too.
Again, he had no solution here. Just observations. The undead bird was a win enough for the morning.
After three hours of riding, dawn was already breaking, but Pisces felt it was time. He had the distant Ghoul myna bird land, then, with great effort, pull the string he’d attached to the scroll. It finally got the damn thing open, and the [Message] scroll activated.
He did have a few of them, from before he’d known how to cast the spell. Even after, he’d hung onto them in case he was in a situation where he didn’t have the mana to waste. Always be prepared.
“Thank you for buying these, Ksmvr.”
