Only when he’d drawn close enough to get directly involved if need be did Ra’Klid peer through a barrier of dense, withered foliage. His eyes didn’t zero in on the three combatants first, but rather the blindingly radiant seed just two miles away. It was the size of a watermelon and emitted such extraordinary light that his whole body came alive.

It was only a moment later that Ra’Klid noticed the hundreds of ominous-looking spikes surrounding the seed. Brows furrowed in thought, Ra’Klid realized that the emergence of a C-grade starseed indeed wasn’t natural. It seemed more likely that someone had found a Peak D-grade seed close to maturity and forced it to evolve by extracting the lifeforce of the surrounding plants.

Ra’Klid quickly figured out the situation. One party had come up with the plan to create a C-grade starseed, and their enemy had ambushed them the moment they enacted their plan. However, the ambush wasn’t entirely successful.

On one side was an embattled human who sparked a vague recollection. She was fighting tooth and nail against two Late D-grade opponents, one of whom sported grievous wounds. Dozens of weapons were strewn across the battlefield. Occasionally, one would fly into the woman’s hand to unleash an almost suicidal attack full of power.

Witnessing her all-out assault sparked one of Ra’Klid’s core memories: when Zachary Atwood descended on Ensolus and ended the war with a swing of his axe. She lacked the absolute domination of Emperor Atwood back then, but she carried that same unbreakable conviction in herself. Despite the wounds covering her body, there was not a hint of retreat in her eyes.

‘Pretty Peak!’ Ra’Klid exclaimed in his mind as the dots finally connected.

This fierce tigress was one of the rising stars of the Allbright Empire, at least until her ancestor fell in battle. More importantly, she was an old friend of Zachary Atwood, though Ra’Klid wasn’t exactly sure how close this bond was. Ra’Klid didn’t recall hearing anything from her side toward the end of the war. He figured she’d slunk away from the frontlines with the rest of the noblemen when the Zecia Alliance collapsed.

Then again, it was hard to imagine this woman willingly putting her safety over the chance to strike down more Kan’Tanu. Even now, she was fighting the good fight. After all, it was two cultists whom she’d ambushed.

‘I should have known a few of those bastards would find their way here,’ Ra’Klid thought with gritted teeth, the faces of tribesmen who’d fallen to their hands flashing through his mind.

Despite a primal urge to mete out justice, or at least retribution, Ra’Klid didn’t immediately join the fray. Bastards or not, Kan’Tanu elites were tough nuts to crack. Worse, these two more felt like the scarier cultists they’d encountered in the depths of the Imperial Graveyard. There was a high chance they were actually cultists of the Black Heart Cult.

That might not make any difference to someone like Zac, but their mere identity was enough to make drops of sweat run down Ra’Klid’s back. He would already have been running for the hills if not for the wretched state of one of the cultists. Half his body had already been replaced by withering tendrils of a Heart Curse, indicating he was close to losing control.

‘Even half the merit of a C-grade fruit will rack up a pretty penny. And sowing some good karma with the big boss back home can’t hurt.’ Ra’Klid thought to himself as waves of Life churned through his body. His body had already grown to four meters by the time he shot out from the bushes, his target the still-unscathed cultist. ‘Provided I survive, that is.’
