“That’s also an option. Likely the one I’m gonna take, too.” Ezekiel said, “Honestly, I should spend some time learning chemistry on my own. But who has the time! I certainly don’t— Oh!” He had an idea, and said, “I have an idea. I could hand out Intelligence rings and the Periodic table to the top ten alchemists in the world. Make a Quest of it. Put some parameters out there to weed out the worst ones. Now there’s some scientific advancement for you.”

Julia stopped wrestling with her emotions and solidly said, “Don’t do that. For sure, do not do that.”

“Yeah…” Ezekiel considered; he’d likely want to give the Periodic Table to some people in Spur, or Candlepoint, or…

Maybe he should talk to Rozeta about that, first? Maybe… Maybe not.

He could at least seek Phagar’s opinion.

“Anyway! Want to see the spells I made?” Ezekiel handed out his new spells, saying, “They’re pretty great. You should make a Rift, too, Julia.”

Julia, Tiffany, and to a much lesser extent, Paul, each read, and each disbelieved.

Julia exclaimed, “Willpower damage per second ‘For each opposed active magic’?!” She looked at her father. “For each? Is that what I was seeing? Back in that room?”

Tiffany joked, “If you weren’t already on a watch-list, you would be now!”

Paul just smirked.

Julia said, “I only got a few ticks for 150, but then I put up a [Defend] and was still taking 150! This is why!” She deadpanned, “This seems like cheating, dad.”

“You haven’t turned those notifications off?” Ezekiel said, “I did that a long time ago.”

Julia barreled past his question, saying, “This means that Kaffi likely knows your Willpower.”

“Eh.” Ezekiel asked, “So what? There’s no way they didn’t know my Stats already.”

- - - -

Sister Kaffi walked up the spiraling staircase, crossing the paths of the occasional acolyte who shuffled to the side and bowed. Kaffi continued upward.

Eventually, she reached the office of the Grand Elder. The stately white-stone door stood at the end of a short reception area. Kaffi nodded to the senior acolyte on desk today while walking to the door; she did not need an invitation and thus she did not need to speak to the boy. The acolyte noticed, then returned to his paperwork; today was a normal day, after all.

Nothing special happening here.

Kaffi knocked on the door, then went in. She closed the door behind her.

Grand Elder Lingxing Void Song sat on a large purple pillow in the bright sun, her eyes glittering with the power of the black Void. Her stare reached across the Highlands to somewhere important, no doubt. Her skin was as white as Kaffi’s own, but a lot more wrinkled. No horns, either. Both white skin and lack of horns was a true sign of High Clan breeding, kept intact ever since the Compact of Songli all those centuries ago. Lingxing was lucky enough to be born with zero need for blood editing, which was one of the many reasons why she had risen so far in Void Song.

Kaffi was also one of those reasons that Lingxing had risen so far. A small, but important one. All the rest was Lingxing, herself. The woman was exactly who you’d want as a Grand Elder. Strict, but compassionate, exceedingly brilliant in matters of state, and not afraid to get her hands dirty to make her world a better place. She wasn’t a slouch on the power scale, either, but power wasn’t strictly necessary when it came to being a leader. Kaffi had power, but she was definitely no leader. Not at all.

Lingxing remained in her pillow, and did not react to Kaffi’s presence as quickly as she could have. Oh, sure, she was aware Kaffi was here, but this was her place of power, and Kaffi would do well to act like it. After ten seconds, Lixgxing raised a hand, a single finger, while she continued to stare out into the Void.

Kaffi waited.

Everything to keep up appearances.

Lingxing blinked, her purple eyes returning to her as the Void pulled back. She turned to Kaffi, then she cast the Void into the space around the room. The sky in the windows vanished, replaced with endless black. The world went away, and it was just the two of them.

Lingxing relaxed out of her pillow to stand, composing herself by quick increments, considering her age. She looked to Kaffi with a slight disappointment in her purple eyes. Kaffi waited.

Lingxing sighed, and said, “Give me the bad news.”

“There is none.” Kaffi said, “Ezekiel is Erick Flatt.”

For a moment the Void flickered; surprise and distress interrupting Lingxing’s control, but only barely.

Lingxing narrowed her now-violent eyes. “You’re fucking with me.” She started to huff, saying, “Don’t do this to me, grandma! I mean it! Is he a dragon? Some ploy by the Clans? Some body snatcher? Is Erick Flatt dead and we have an impostor in our—”

Kaffi burst out laughing. Great lungfuls of joyful guffaws. Sudden tears ran down her face for she could not contain her happiness at her trick, and at the truth of her news.

Lingxing’s frown deepened.

And then Kaffi said, “You should have seen the look on your face!”

Lingxing seemed to lose twenty years from her face as she realized that, No; Kaffi wasn’t fucking with her at all. Her purple eyes relaxed and her angry mouth turned into something much brighter. Then she went back the other way, back to calculating anger. “You’re truly serious.”

Kaffi was still laughing but she had controlled it down to small chuckles. “Serious as Soul Magic! Ezekiel is Erick Flatt.” She handed out the Rift magics the world’s maybe-strongest (non-wrought, non-dragon, non-immortal) archmage had just made, saying, “Look at this shit! He’s as good as Tixi or Erizod. You remember Erizod, don’t you?”

“Bah! I know who Erizod was, grandmother.” Lingxing read the blue boxes quickly, then looked up and said, “This Sun Rift. This does multiplying damage based on all active opposing spellwork?”

“Yes.” Kaffi said, “It’s a rare manifestation of that particular Element and it’s exactly as dangerous as it reads.”

“This makes me even more mad.” Lingxing was suddenly deeply disappointed. “Blast it all. I was hoping he was just another Scion.”

“Oh don’t be like that.” Kaffi said, “I know you’re disappointed that we didn’t get a new resource, but no one else is going to get him, either. He’s tied to Spur. We don’t even have to calculate around that mess anymore.” She said, “Though Star Song is getting some deep claws into him. Might want to step in there.”

“Our Tixi can probably do this Sun Rift if he wanted to. Have you met Nirzir yet? She could do this, too.”

“Oh? Who’s Nirzir?”

“Still young. Matriculated this year. Daughter to Erizod’s daughter.”

Kaffi’s eyes widened in genuine surprise. “Living in Holorulo?”

“Yes, of course.”

“I must go see them, then.” Kaffi rapidly added, “Some other time.”

“Yes. Some other time.” Lingxing paused in thought, then said, “He is doing well with Star Song, isn’t he? Hmmm.” She decided, “I want a meeting with Ezekiel. Make it happen.”

“As you wish. I will inform him tomorrow at our next session.”

“What else happened in the training?” Lingxing said, “You’ll have to tell me all about it. I shall make us tea, grandmother.”

Kaffi took a seat on a pillow in the sun, opposite Lingxing’s, and started talking. Soon, the scents of plum tea filled the air, as words painted ever more interesting pictures.
