Kaffi picked up on his thoughts, through his actions, saying, “That’s going to be a problem for delicate spell creation. Your rings, [Personal Ward], and every active spell on your person is also going to be a problem when learning aura control. Especially your [Greater Lightwalk], as that is using your aura, and you can’t be using your aura when learning aura control.

“We could always turn the privacy functions back on for this spell creation part, but for the aura control part, you would have to be a lot more trusting than you are, and I’m not going to ask you to do that. The most I am going to do is inform you now of what will hold you back.” She considered, then added, “I might inform you a few more times, in the future, if it looks like we’re not gaining any ground.”

Ezekiel considered for a moment. Then he had an Odin flit to the door and turn the privacy on.

The world beyond the amphitheater disappeared to Erick’s mana sense. He breathed, as his nearby Ophiel fluttered into their many-eyed forms. Then he stood up, shook his arms out, and held a hand up. He channeled mana through [Force Wall], producing a white flare; a solid spot in Reality. It was prevention and fortification; a demarcation between here and there and the power to keep separate.

Altering that idea was rather simple.

In his other hand, he Altered mana for openness. Instead of a demarcation, there was a door. Instead of here and there, he had flow from one to the other. An exchange. A breakdown of barriers, but not just that. A cascade of breakdowns that started in one location, but spread throughout, touching upon all the lives therein, empowering the possibility of Force to higher, purer magnitude.

He broke a Wall, and let loose a Rift.

He cast.

A white glow took hold of the center of the amphitheater, sending out flowing glows of magic, singing a soundless song of Force into the world.

A blue box appeared.

Major Force Rift, instant, long range, 100 mana

Conjure a large rift to empower most magic in a large area. Greatly empowers Force magic. Lasts 10 minutes + exposure.

Kaffi’s eyes were wide as she took in the spell hovering before her. Erick handed her the blue box, and she began to smile as she read. She laughed, twice, then quieted to a small grin. Upon dismissing the box, she said, “If you weren’t such a well-documented Planar then even I would suspect you a secret, long-lost member of the High Clans. Especially after that display.”

Erick smiled at the compliment, then said, “What I don’t understand, though, is the wording between Shifts and Rifts. They read so similar, and yet they’re different.” He dismissed the [Major Force Rift] and handed her another box. “I got the ‘plus exposure’ on [Major Force Rift], so that’s different, but. Well. You see?”

Firelight Shift, instant, long range, 190 MP

Drastically empower your fire and light aspect magic in a large area. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark and water aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 1 minute.

Kaffi read the second spell then she dismissed it, turning professional as she said, “The answer as to why many magics read similar or improperly indicative of what they are, is a difficult question to answer. The shallow answer is this: Shift, Rifts, and Domains exist on an axis that is muddled. The deeper answer necessitates a bit of philosophy.

“Here is a truth: Magic, the binding of mana into myriad forms, is more multitudinous than what we living beings are ever capable of truly, fully grasping. So we divide the indivisible into Elements, with simple names like ‘Fire’ or ‘Air’.

“But magic does happen, and we can divide it however we please.

“And yet, here is another truth: Magic should not come easy. Not anymore. Wizards ruined an entire universe when they had easy access to unlimited spellwork and the whispers of Darkness in their ears.

“And if the story ended there, if we lived in a world without mana, then that would be a different world than the one we have.

“But in this world full of mana, the Darkness is an endless threat. Rozeta knows that we still need mages and archmages in the world, and so we have the Script. That is why she hands out tiny Truths in exchange for levels we gain from victory over the Darkness. This is why she hides the True nature of magic in the basic wording of smaller spells, but the larger, better, Truer magics are either so minutely worded that you would never understand anything from them, or they’re just not in the Script at all. Mana sense. Aura control. Manual spell casting. Enchanting! Gods above, enchanting. Darker and brighter magics of which there are no names, only Truth and Possibility. These are not covered by the Script, at all.

“No one gets free answers anymore.

“So when you see that Rifts and Shifts have similar wordings, what you are seeing is a base representation; the first page of two novels that are the same on their surface, but different in their depths. It is in the using and the understanding of these spells that one comes to understand more of mana itself, and what we have wrought out of it. It is through personal trial and tribulation we learn personal Truths, so that we can reach the heights of magic and power that are necessary to keep this world safe from those who would see it harmed.

“Because ‘those who would see it harmed’ are all too often the people who live here, twisted by the Darkness, just as he has twisted other life into monsters.

“So, to put it less charitably, and simply, most people shouldn’t have access to most magic. And those who can’t understand it? Even less. Thus the obfuscation.”

Ezekiel hummed once, as he considered Kaffi’s words. Then he said, “I can see that perspective.”

Kaffi acknowledged, “Not everyone thinks the same, this is true. Very few people can combine a Force Rift like you just did, either, so whatever your perspective is, it works. Will you be making the next Rift, now?”

“I believe I will.”

Ezekiel channeled [Firelight Shift] through one hand, producing a flickering handful of bright white flames. It sounded like a bright summer’s day. A time spent by a bonfire, celebrating something transient and important, while also sounding like pure radiant power.

Huh.

There seemed to be an option, here. He could shift the spell toward a bright, bonfire day. Or, he could go for radiant power.

… There was a third option, which he should have already considered. He could just Mana Alter for Firelight, instead of using the [Firelight Shift] spell he already had.

There were a lot of ways to go about this. The only real reason to include a [Prime Area] derivative spell would be to heighten his own spellwork, and not the spellwork of others; to give only him a benefit and everyone else the disadvantage.

Prime Area, instant, long range, 70 MP

Designate a large area as under your influence. For 1 minute, your spells are heightened and others are lessened.

Did it work that way?

He asked Kaffi, “Normal Rifts are universally empowering or depowering depending on what spellwork you choose to use. Am I to understand that to include [Prime Area] derivatives would restrict the buffing to myself, and debuffing to others?”

“Ah?” Kaff said, “Yes. Apologies. I thought you knew. Rifts which include a Shift in the working do exactly as you say. Otherwise, you can buff and debuff everyone the same, for cheaper. Rifts are universally affecting spells. Shifts are about control. Domains are about utmost control.” She added, “But a larger Truth is that the spectrum between Rift and Shift and Domain is not just a single line.”

Ezekiel nodded, then turned his attention back to his spellwork. He checked another spell he had.

Light Shift, instant, long range, 120 MP

Drastically empower your light aspect magic in a large area. Shadow aspect magic turns solid. Dark aspect magic is greatly weakened. Lasts 1 minute.

He decided to make two Rifts. The first was with [Firelight Shift]’s bonfire day, stretched out into an overflowing warmth that touched all, and yet empowered only him.

A thought clicked.

The joy of the day vanished from Ezekiel’s mind, for it wasn’t just hot outside, it was oppressive. It was forest fires starting without warning. Lakes drying. Mud cracking. Frogs baking in the light of day. The sun brought down to Veird. Ezekiel smiled, as another thought occurred.

A [Gate] that reached the sun would do the same.

But wasn’t the ‘Sun’ element part Air? Yes, it was.

He cast.

The manasphere ripped open the center of the room. Pure sunlight poured into the space; a heat and brightness that burned away as much as it blinded. Ezekiel stared at the brilliance before him for a mome—

The sun vanished as a Void Song tore it apart like waves crashing against a sunlit shore, drowning out that small part of the world. In seconds, tides of nothing surged over the sun, drowning it out.

… Huh.

Ezekiel turned to Kaffi like a man coming out of a daze.

And then he saw the ground. Stone smoked. Kaffi’s dress was singed on the edges. Odin fluttered on his shoulder, shedding burned feathers that turned into motes of magenta mana, drifting away on the Void Song in the air.

Here and there, smoke filled the room, hovering on steaming air. It was pretty darn hot in here.

Across the room, Paul, Julia, and Tiffany, were each standing, looking like they were defending themselves from a nonexistent enemy. Kaffi flicked a hand and thick air tore through the space. Paul, Julia, and Tiffany, each did the same, coughing briefly while [Cleanse]s turned smoke back into breathable air. The air conditioning [Ward]s in the room came back, plunging the space into cooler temperatures.

A stone bench on the other side of the room fractured under the rapid temperature change. A bit of rubble fell off of the ledge, crashing down into the silence of the amphitheater.

… Ezekiel had an Odin flutter over there and [Mend] it back together.

Ezekiel said, “Whoops! Sorry about that. Sometimes it gets away from me, Kaffi.”

Kaffi sighed at him while a blue box appeared.

Major Sunlight Rift, instant, super long range, 500 mana.

Drastically empower your fire and light and air magics. Oppress all magics of all others, dealing WIL damage per second for each opposed active magic.

Lasts 10 minutes + Exposure.

“… Were you trying to make a damaging Rift?” Kaffi asked.

“Uh…” Ezekiel considered. “Not at first. But the ideas and sounds came together rather well and then I went for it. The only unexpected thing there was exactly how much damage it does.” And the size and the duration and the multiplier from ‘each opposed active magic’. He gestured out to the empty air of the amphitheater, and said, “This next one won’t be damaging, I think.”

He cast again, this time using [Light Shift].

The air tore.

Pure Light came through, to fill the world with glory.

Major Pure Light Rift, instant, super long range, 500 mana.

Imbue all who witness your glory with the power of Light, drastically empowering your own light magic while shifting to Light and possibly hindering the spellwork of all others.

Lasts 10 minutes + Exposure.

He dismissed his new [Major Pure Light Rift] and threw out a good dozen [Healing Word]s to each person as fast as he could think to heal. It wasn’t true healing magic like [Greater Treat Wounds] was true healing magic, but it would restore Health quick enough.

“That one was better, right!” Ezekiel asked, smiling.

Kaffi blinked to clear her eyes.

Ezekiel said, “Thank you for your assistance.”

Kaffi breathed deep, and with professional mien, asked, “Could I see both of these new spells?”

“Sure.” Ezekiel didn’t hesitate because he had already decided that if she asked to see them, he would show her. Later, he’d get the opinions of his own people. He handed her the spells, asking, “What do you think?”

Kaffi frowned, but as she read the spells, her frown vanished, replaced by respect. She said, “It is as I suspected; Super Long Range, and no listed spell size on either. These Rifts will have diminishing effects depending on how far you’re from them, but you could put them high in the sky and no one would be able to reach them to [Dispel] them, and you’d still gain their benefits.” She bowed in her seat, saying, “It is humbling to be in the presence of a true archmage. Thank you for this demonstration.” She rose, adding, “Shall we turn the privacy off, and begin to work on your aura control, Ezekiel?”

Ezekiel said, “Yes. Also… Sorry about the burning. That was… unintentional.”

Kaffi smirked, slightly, saying, “This happens a lot when dealing with competent casters like yourself. Hence, the Void Song, to disrupt any damaging spellwork before it has a chance to actually harm.”

Ezekiel nodded.

With a bit of telekinetic control, Kaffi reached over and opened the room, dispelling the privacy. Ezekiel glanced outward with his mana sense, and saw nothing untoward. There had been no trap; there had been no subterfuge. Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye reappeared, and Ezekiel felt better about his time with Kaffi, even if they hadn’t even had a full session yet.

Kaffi began, “Aura control is the skill by which mages are able to manually cast spellwork, but everyone’s aura starts off small, in the same way that low levels of Light Essence gives you a low level Elemental Body skill.

“We can skip the small stuff for now, like [Light] or [Light Step], for while they are useful, there is no equivalent aura control skill. The only time you actually get any aura control is when you’re at the [Lightwalk] or [Greater Lightwalk] stage.

“Knowing this, you can likely guess why not many people have skill at controlling their aura.

