“Anyway, with [Lightwalk], you are unable to manually cast most spells, for you need a large enough aura to actually manifest the movement of mana in the space in which your spell will then take place. One can cast [Force Bolt] with a [Lightwalk], or any of the other spells which originate from your person.

“But manually casting a [Force Wall] is different. You need range to be able to cast that spell ten meters away from yourself, and [Lightwalk] simply doesn’t have the range. [Greater Lightwalk] has the range.

“To gain control of the aura, first you must unlock or understand your aura, and then you must grow it to a suitable size for magic work.”

Ezekiel knew most of what Kaffi was saying, but every time he had tried to learn to control his aura he had never had the theory behind the skill presented in quite this way. He knew that the Headmaster didn’t teach proper magic in Arcanaeum, or about the Remake Quests and stuff like that, but he would have liked to have heard at least some of what Kaffi was saying in a traditional classroom setting.

Maybe other people got that teaching? Ezekiel never saw a single hint of it, though. But, he was only there for two months.

Eh. If he had been there for ten years, would he have learned all of what he had learned in this past year, alone? Maybe he would have. Maybe not.

Likely not. You don’t meet other archmages in classrooms at college, after all.

Kaffi’s lesson was definitely higher-level than the aura control lessons he had already known, for sure.

Kaffi continued, “To say it another way: Learning proper aura control is first about finding your aura and then expanding your aura. You must discover a limb you didn’t know you had, and then you must lift heavy weights to grow those ethereal muscles. Have you discovered your aura, yet?”

Ezekiel wasn’t exactly sure what she was asking, so he said, “I have used Aurify. I have used [Greater Lightwalk]. I have experience with controlling what I think is my aura, but, when I don’t use a spell I already have, I do not have any ability to move the mana around me, which is what I think I should be able to do if I had aura control.

“I have a fantastic mana sense, and all of the Sight spells, so I feel I would know if I was screwing up somewhere. I’m not sure what the problem is.” He added, “There’s not even an [Aura Sight] spell to help out, either. I have no idea why not.”

“There is no [Aura Sight] for there are no easy answers in magic.” Kaffi continued right along, saying, “Your problems with aura control are normal problems that every mage experiences, the world over; you are just in a better position than most to see your problem than most.” She made a small joke, “Even if you can’t see it.”

Ezekiel allowed himself a smile; it was a good pun.

Kaffi nodded. “Aurify is fantastic. But it is a crutch. Also, your [Personal Ward] directly interferes with your ability to see and feel your aura, and almost all mages end up in the practice of casting a [Personal Ward] at the start of every day, thus locking in their weakness and hampering their ability to ever overcome that weakness. Your magical items have a lesser, but just as injurious effect against learning to control your aura.”

“… Why is that, though?”

Kaffi said, “A [Personal Ward] is exactly the same as sealing yourself in a barrier. This barrier is an impediment to aura control for the aura is a naturally wispy thing that sits atop your soul, usually doing nothing. Maybe I should explain:

“The soul is the base of a person. The bedrock. But it is not a person.

“And then we have a trio of expressions of the soul, which come together to form a person. The first expression of the soul is the body, which allows the soul to control the physical. The second is the mind, which allows a person to understand themselves. The third is the aura, which exists in the mana and allows a person to control the mana around them.”

Not the usual mind-body-soul triumvirate that Ezekiel knew of, but it was interesting to hear of a different philosophy.

Kaffi continued, “By already controlling the magic around you, you are shackling your aura down to its barest self.

“You overcome this limitation every time you use Aurify, for the Script is a great boon and allows you to skip a large step toward learning proper aura control.” Kaffi said, “Now, I know you cannot do this around me or around anyone but your most trusted people, but the best way to learn aura control is to divest yourself of absolutely every magical protection you have and then sit out somewhere, preferably with as few clothes as possible, trying to feel the mana. Bugs, wind, sensory experiences of any kind can disrupt your ability to control your aura.”

Ezekiel frowned.

Kaffi said, “So unless you manage an unusual breakthrough while I am helping you to feel out your aura, I suspect you will have to do that naked search on your own. I will teach you all the best techniques for feeling the mana, though. One of those techniques is to use Aurify to make a decimeter-or-less radius aura spell, and then you switch the spell on and off, seeing if you can understand the aura by watching it in the spaces between the transformation from active spell to inactive rest. This is the primary technique that I will be assisting you with today. I have more than a few methods to help with this.

“The next method is to take a piece of Essence armor and wear it, absorbing it, to see where the essence becomes part of your aura. This is wildly expensive, and a great waste of resources, but it does work. You can even make tiny rings of Water Essence, for example, and even though you cannot gain [Water Body] through constant absorption of the same piece of ‘armor’, you might be able to get a feel for your aura in this manner.” Kaffi said, “A different application of this same method is to gain a water slime Familiar Form and eat the Essence that way. You would need to have a good mana sense to make up for the lack of senses of a slime, but you have that, and in this method, you could even eat enough Water Essence to gain [Water Body]. Either way, this method runs out of usability once you gain all six main Elemental Bodies.”

Across the amphitheater, Julia near-silently cursed. Tiffany grinned.

Kaffi continued, “A third method is to ask the gods for help. Most people can’t make use of this option, but it is a possibility. Aloethag, the orcol goddess of Beauty and Brutality, helps many learn how to control their aura, and all she asks for is millions of health in monsters reaped for her honor.”

Tiffany near-silently cursed. Julia had the good sense to remain completely silent.

Kaffi said, “A fourth method is to naturally awaken in the heat of the battle, when all your defenses are down and you’re about to die and you need more Script Seconds than you have. This is a terrible method. I only mention it for completeness.”

Ezekiel asked, “Any spell recommendations for the first option?”

“Something invisible, and small.” Kaffi said, “[Invisibility] is not a good choice, though, since it tends to make everything invisible; even your aura.”

“How about an aura that is large but I can make it smaller, and keep it that way even through flipping it on or off?”

“This is also an option.”

“Good.”

Ezekiel turned on [Physical Domain], keeping it small, barely larger than a layer that extended out from his skin to beyond his clothes.

Kaffi leaned backward, breathing in air, suddenly worried— She paused.

She narrowed her eyes. “What… Is that?”

“Would a Domain not work?”

“… What does it do? It seems— I’m not sure. Excessively violent? I wasn’t sure if you were—” Kaffi cut herself off, then said, “I would not recommend this spellwork. It is too… strange and powerful. You want something that is invisible and benign.”

Ezekiel turned off his [Physical Domain] and turned on [Normalize Aura]. “How about this one?”

Kaffi frowned at him. She narrowed her eyes in thought, then whispered, “And you’re sure you’re not actually some long lost member of a High Clan? Some branch family from somewhere?”

He was teasing her and she knew it.

Ezekiel grinned, politely, then said, “Pretty sure I am not.”

Kaffi looked at him while she thought, in silence.

Ezekiel began to practice ‘feeling his aura out’, flicking his [Normalize Aura] on and off a few times to see where the boundary lay between his real aura, and the aura granted to him by Aurify. Nothing. He moved on to inspecting with his mana sense active. Still nothing. And then he did it again with his hand held up to his eyes, staring at the back of his fingers.

He saw his active magic. He saw the edge of his [Personal Ward]. It was less like a layered defense, and more like a magenta sheen to his skin, but this was a deceptive look. The [Ward] fully extended inward, covering all of his interior in its magenta protection. It was like he was walking around in a personal-sized and constantly adjusting [Ward].

Which. Well.

That was why it was called a [Personal Ward].

… He did not see his aura. He flickered his aura active and inactive, and watched the ‘process’ of activation. The transition between active and inactive was—

Ah. He saw… something. It was like a wisp in the mana that curled active or inactive as he cast his aura, and turned it off. Or.

No.

That’s just mana becoming his aura. Not his actual aura. When he dropped his aura, the mana that had been under control and a part of his aura while his aura was active, went out of his control, completely. He tried again a few times, but got the same results.

Kaffi interrupted, saying, “Attend to me, and watch as I flex my natural aura. It might help. You cannot see it normally, so I will make it visible to you.”

Ezekiel dropped his hand and looked to Kaffi.

Kaffi was sitting with her hands crossed, atop her lap, and her back straight. And then she started to chime, invisibly, here and there. Tiny ripples from her shoulder, or from her left pinky finger, or from her toes, and then her nose. She said, “This is the flexing of my aura. In order to cast larger spells, I must stretch it out from my body, gathering the aura of the whole, in order to get the range to cast at a distance. Like so.”

Without moving her physical self, her aura stretched and molded, but the only reason Ezekiel could see it at all was because she was controlling her mana inside her aura, somehow, allowing him to see the movement.

Ah. She was showing him her intent. But it was thinner than the intent in other magics. Thinner than the intent-filled tendrils that Paul usually had around his head, for instance.

The intent-filled fog on her body shuffled around her body, to form a three-meter long tendril to the right, where she then flexed her aura, and cast a red [Force Bolt] into the ground of the amphitheater. The spell kicked up a tiny spack of dust.

She relaxed and her aura snapped back to her body.

She said, “The size of my aura is small, but it is more than enough to do everything I need to do. It has taken me decades to get this far, but it took me a year to awaken my aura in the first place. Awakening your own aura will likely take a lot less time considering your current success with mana, but I would not get your hopes up, yet. Continue with your attempts. I will observe.”

Ezekiel continued.

Kaffi let this continue for another ten minutes, then she asked, “Do you know the rules of aura interaction?”

Ezekiel said, “Yes. Two auras from opposing casters, brought into proximity with one another, will press against each other, deforming each other in a manner based upon the proximity of the casters to where the auras intersect, and on the power of the two auras. Assuming the same power of auras, if one person has a large aura and the other has a small aura, then the smaller aura will not be pressed in as much as the larger aura is pressed, until the same percentage of aura deformation would occur for both casters.” He added, “But auras imbued with magic cut through all natural resistance, and in most cases, auras just mingle.”

“Correct, but also, in the mingling of auras one person might naturally feel out another.” Kaffi said, “I will attempt to touch you with my aura. See if you can feel your own aura in the mingling.”

“… Sure.”

Kaffi touched Ezekiel’s skin with her aura. He felt nothing, except a bit weirded out. It wasn’t the most comfortable position to be in; having someone able to cast touch-based magic without ever knowing they were touching you.

But, by that same measure, with her aura touching him he was ‘touching’ her, too. This ‘touch based’ vulnerability wasn’t a one-way street. Ezekiel supposed that made this a bit less worrying.

“Can you feel that?” Kaffi asked.

“… Nooo. Hold on.” Ezekiel flipped through his various Sight spells and his mana sense. He almost expected his [Soul Sight] to show him something, but Kaffi’s red soul was perfectly contained just under her skin, her Shroud appearing to be perfectly normal, and unmoving. “Nope. Don’t see anything.”

She retracted her aura, saying, “Continue using your aurified spell. Ask questions if you have them.”

Time passed.

He had questions. He asked them.

Kaffi had some answers, but all of her important answers had already been given. She mostly reworded what she had already said. Some of the rewordings were helpful, but…

