It doesn’t help that Luo-Luo is so god-damned gorgeous. Don’t get me wrong, Mila and Yan are both beautiful beyond belief, and Lin-Lin is so adorable I could die, but Luo-Luo goes even further through the magic of makeup and fashion, which makes her beauty so... intimidating. I don’t get how she does it, or know what it is she even does, but there’s something about the way she simply exists that makes it hard to believe she truly enjoys my company. Like why would she love me? At least with Yan, Mila, and Lin-Lin, I can inwardly cringe at how I might’ve inadvertently or unconsciously groomed them from their youth, but Luo-Luo was a grown ass woman when I first met her, and she should most definitely know better.

...Okay, so maybe this isn’t entirely Luo-Luo’s fault, and my issues with self-esteem and fear of intimacy may have something to do with my inability to accept Luo-Luo. Gimme a break brain, I’m working on it, but in case you haven’t noticed, I’ve got a pretty full plate here. Not only do I need to navigate through the obstacles in my marriage with Yan and Mila, I’ve also been managing a pretty big project with War Bonds, property flipping, and the introduction of concrete, all while researching Taiyi ZhuShen’s notes on body strengthening, Zhen Shi’s notes on Demonification, and Broken Blade Pichai’s scant words on Core repair in hopes of discovering some way to fix my Core before I’m old and grey, so excuse me if I’ve let a few things slip through the cracks, like my love life with Luo-Luo and my growing cattle herd...

God, the cattle. I really need to figure out what I’m going to do with them, or else I’m going to end up having to slaughter some of them. People think, ‘Oh, they’re just cattle, those are slaughtered for food all the time’, but they’re my cattle and I want them to live full and happy lives...

One thing at a time, Rain. One thing at a time. First, knock on Luo-Luo’s door and invite her to breakfast and sightseeing. Then ask Mila about letting Grandpa Du stay with us when we get back home. Next... well, I’ll figure it out as I go. It’s mostly worked for me thus far, so why sweat the small stuff? I see no reason why Grandpa Du can’t come live with us, and if Mom, Dad, Akanai, and Husolt want to come too, then the more the merrier. What’s important is how to subtly suggest Mila and Yan deepen their friendship by taking things to the next level and making a Rain sandwich. Yea, yea, disgusting, chauvinistic, perverted desires, blah blah blah. Whatever. I’m over all that guilt. We married now. They agreed to this, and we all knew where this was going, and I for one am not ashamed of my desires.

Scratch that, I am deeply ashamed, but I can’t help it. This is who I am: a paranoid, neurotic, perverted, old man in a younger man’s body, and I’ve mostly come to terms with this. What’s the point of being reborn if all I’m gonna do is wallow in angst? Might as well enjoy life where I can, and if I die wrapped in the arms and legs of two beautiful women, then I will have lived a life worth living.

For I am Falling Rain, husband to Mila and Yan, which is just all kinds of awesome.

– End of Volume 32 –

Chapter Meme
