“Yes, but he’ll be happier living with us, which means you’ll be happier too.” Tweaking her nose, I smile at the memory of her bursting into tears while telling her beloved grandpa that nothing would change and that she’d always be his granddaughter. It was so emotional and out of character for the calm and stoic Yan, who usually struts through life without a care in the world, I couldn’t help but fall even deeper in love. “He’s family,” I say, instead of poking fun at her emotional vulnerabilities. “That’s all that matters. So for now, let’s just say he’ll be staying with us as a temporary measure, since it doesn’t make sense for Grandpa Du to stay with Teacher when we have extra rooms at our house.” I’ll have to hire servants to care for Lin-Lin and Taduk, but that’s easily done, and if Akanai, Husolt, Song, Mom, and Dad all want to move in, then that’s fine too.

And hey, if that happens, then Alsantset and Charok can bring the twins back to live in Mom and Dad’s manor, and the whole family will be back together again. There’s nothing better than sitting around a giant table and sharing a meal with all your loved ones, and that’s a fact.

My thoughtful efforts earn me a tender, grateful look from Yan, which is rare to say the least. “You’re too good to me,” she whispers, though honestly, it doesn’t seem like all that much. I’m inviting her aged grandfather to come live with us, not really a big deal or anything. “But have you talked to Mila about this yet?”

“...No, and now that you mention it, I probably should, on account of marriage being a partnership and all that.” In my defence, I’ve only been married for like, forty days, and I spent half that time away from my wife, so I’m still getting used to the whole thing. What’s more, I’m not the most adaptable person in the world, considering it took about seven years for me to acclimate to the local customs, so I suppose I’m in for a rough ride. Sitting up in bed, I say, “If you’re not in any rush, why don’t we go see if Mila is up? She normally sleeps in, but considering she doesn’t remember anything from her last trip here, she might’ve asked Song to wake her early so they could go sightseeing together.”

“...I’m not so sure this is such a great idea.”

“Don’t worry.” Throwing on a fashionable robe, I look around for a matching sash to bind it. This is why I hate the local fashions, it takes so much effort to get dressed. “She’s not that grouchy in the mornings, and so long as you’re careful, there’s almost no risk of injury.”

...Almost.

“I don’t mean going to wake Mila,” Yan says, producing my sash from under the bed and helping me tie it around my waist. “I mean bringing me to go see her, first thing in the morning. This morning in particular.”

Something about her tone and expression raises alarms in my exhausted brain, and Yan’s message finally makes it through. “Is something wrong? Is she upset because of our wedding?” If so, she never said anything, and believe me, I asked. Repeatedly. Mostly because I couldn’t believe that she was okay with this, but I suppose I should’ve gone with my gut instinct. “Are you two okay?”

“We’re fine.” Smiling to soothe my worries, Yan straightens my collar and runs a hand through my hair, distracting herself from this difficult conversation. “Or rather, she claims we’re fine. Better than fine, in fact, she says we’ll be the best of friends and sister-wives, but the whole time, I felt like she wasn’t being honest with herself.” Sighing as she loops her arms loosely around my neck, Yan leans back and purses her lips. “She tried her best to hide it, but I could tell Mila wasn’t very happy at the wedding banquet last night, and Lin-Lin was doing her best to cheer her up.”

Ain’t that a punch in the gut. I didn’t even notice, though I was surprised by how little she ate and thought she was being especially indulgent with Song, who happily claimed all of Mila’s leftovers. “So... you think you should avoid her?”

“Well, she is your first wife, after all,” Yan jokes, though this time, I spot the hurt she hides so well. “Gotta keep her happy.”

“Wrong. Well, you’re right about keeping her happy, but not at the expense of your happiness.” Shaking my head, I pull Yan close and lead her out of the room. “C’mon. We’re gonna have ourselves a talk with Mila.”

God, I am the worst. I didn’t even consider the fact that Mila was staying in the same manor, not to mention my sister, nephew, niece, parents, grandparents, future wives, and in-laws. Oh gods above, they must have heard everything, every last moan, groan, creak, squeak, pant, and wheeze. Well, now I’m having second thoughts about having Grandpa Du come live with us, especially if it means everyone else will come live with us too. No, what I need is an estate, with several separate homes inside the same perimeter. Almost the same thing as living together, but with more than enough room between buildings to preserve a semblance of privacy...

Or I need to learn how to Conceal, put up Sound Barriers, and block Scrying so I never feel self-conscious again.

As we step out into the familiar surroundings of the same borrowed manor we stayed in last time, I stop cold in my tracks and look around, unsure of where I’m supposed to go next. “Err... you wouldn’t happen to know which room Mila is staying in?”

“Not a clue.” With repressed laughter seeping out of every pore, Yan coughs and says, “I was a little too distracted last night to take note.”

Thankfully, the mystery is solved as Song steps out of her room, with Princess, Aurie, Mama Bun, and Tawny One all hot on her heels. Stopping briefly to greet all my darling floofs, I head inside with Yan and find Mila lying prone in bed, with blankets haphazardly covering her lower half. With arms clutched tight around her pillow and eyes screwed shut in obvious effort, it’s clear deception is not listed amongst Mila’s many skills, as she’s doing a poor job of pretending to sleep. “Morning, beloved,” I begin, pulling a reluctant Yan with me to take a seat on the bed. “Did you sleep well?”

“No...”

The stifling silence echoes through the air as a forceful, unspoken utterance of ‘idiot’ sounds in our minds, and it’s all I can do not to run out of the room to escape from this awkward embarrassment. For too long, I sit and stew in the discomfort, and Yan and Mila are all too happy to let me, with one stifling her nervous, involuntary laughter while the other struggles to keep her anger in check. “So,” I begin, clutching Yan’s hand for support while gently stroking Mila’s hair, “I think it’s long past time we all had a chat.”

To my surprise, Mila doesn’t put up a fight and sits up without prompting, fussing with her messy bed hair while trying not to glower. Naturally, my first instinct is to wrap my arm around her, since she neglected to bring her blanket with her and looks so exposed and vulnerable in her silken pyjamas. It isn’t until after I’ve pulled her into my arms that I realize Yan has pulled away, untangling her hand from mine in some sort of automatic, anti-intimacy response, as if she is somehow secondary to Mila. Pointedly shooting Yan a look, I throw my arm back and invite her to come cuddle as well, without hiding any of this from Mila. “This is my fault,” I begin, and they both shoot me a look which I am all too familiar with. They think I’m an idiot for only noticing this now, and to be fair, they’re right. I was too focused on making this happen and all too happy to ignore what were clearly warning signs.

Since Yan seems adamant to sit apart and there’s no point arguing with her when her mind’s made up, I consider my words carefully before speaking. “Yan and I were talking just now, and she said something which I felt needed to be addressed. Yan, you are not my second wife.” Feeling Mila tense up in my arms, I meet her eyes and say, “Nor are you my second wife. There will be no first, second or third wife. Well, chronologically, there will, but what I’m trying to say is I don’t want any of you to concern yourselves with any type of hierarchy.” Pulling the still reluctant Yan into my embrace, I squeeze them both tight to reinforce my point. “You are my wives, and that’s it. No primary and secondary, no legal or mistress, just Wife Mila and Wife Yan, or Wife Yan and Wife Mila. Same difference.”

Neither one cares to respond, which is unsettling to say the least, so I loosen my embrace to look them both in the eyes. “I want this to work, and I want you both to be happy, but I’m not entirely sure how to go about it. To this end, I need you to be honest and tell me when something is bothering you, so I can do my best to make the problem go away.”

Yan and Mila share a glance and roll their eyes before elbowing me away. “Typical man,” Mila declares, crossing her arms with a huff.

Lips pursed like a disappointed schoolteacher who thinks I should know better, Yan shakes her head and glowers. “Always trying to fix the problem, instead of just leaving it be.”

“There’s no fixing this,” Mila says, with a delightful pout. “We’re upset over having to share you, and that’s not likely to change.”

“But we accept this,” Yan continues, drawing attention back to her and making me feel like I’m in the middle of a tennis match. “So the least you could do is accept that we will be upset.”

“...I’m confused.” Leaning back so I can watch them both glare at the same time, I ask, “So... you want me to do nothing while you stew in discontent?”

“Yes,” they reply, still glaring in muted anger.

“Even though you’re unhappy because of me?”

“Yes.”

The human body is a complex creation, but it has nothing on the minds of women. Tentatively nodding my head, I say, “Alright, but I still want you both to be happy.”

“We know,” Mila says, while Yan contents herself with snuggling in beside me. “And I am, else I would never have agreed to marry you, but you need to accept that not everything is within your control, and you can’t fix everything.” Wrinkling her nose ever so adorably, she adds, “And that doesn’t just apply to our marriage either.”

Interjecting before this becomes all about my flaws, I pull Mila in for a group hug and say, “Fine, but I won’t let you stay here and sulk. Come out and have breakfast with us, and then I’ll take you sightseeing around Central’s Citadel. Defensively, it’s pretty terrible, but it has some very pretty architecture.”

Though she does her best to look grumpy, Mila visibly cheers up at the invitation, while Yan deflates in my arms, no doubt thinking that I am favouring the first wife over the second. Thus, when Mila gets up to wash her face, I whisper, “I know you planned to stay in bed all day, but I would literally shrivel up and die. Gimme a few hours to rest, and then we’ll steal away for a bath, okay?”

Yan relents, and Mila is pleased, but as we step outside, they trade yet another look and ask, “What about Lin-Lin and Luo-Luo?”

I guess the downside of a harem is I’ll always be outnumbered in arguments, but I can live with that. “They’re still asleep.”

“But they’ll feel left out if you don’t at least invite them,” Yan says, gently shoving me away before linking arms with Mila.

“Yan’s right. You usually make it up to Lin-Lin, but you always neglect poor Luo-Luo.” Disapproving of my dismissive eye roll, Mila huffs and says, “A fine husband you are, talking about how it pains you to see us hurt while ignoring your concubine. She works so hard to please and impress you, yet you never take the time to get to know her.” Holding up a hand to forestall my arguments, Mila adds, “And don’t even claim to have tried. Yes, you invited her on your trip here and to the Southern Citadel, but you knew she wouldn’t be able to make it.”

“Plus, she’s gorgeous,” Yan unhelpfully supplies, though the dreamy glint in her eyes makes me hopeful for the future.

“I don’t understand.” The familiar phrase comes all too easily these days, and I pretend not to notice my wives’ hidden smirks. “You’re upset because you have to share me with each other, but you’re also upset because you don’t have to share me with Luo-Luo?”

“This is this,” Mila declares, “And that is that. The two have nothing to do with one another.”

“...Okay.” I don’t think I’ll ever understand, but then again, I don’t think I’m equipped to do so. “I’ll go wake Luo-Luo and Lin-Lin to see if they want to come with.”

Aggrieved and frustrated as I am, I can’t deny that Mila’s right. I haven’t really been giving Luo-Luo a fair chance, despite saying I would many, many, many times, but deep-seated trust issues don’t go away just because you tell them to, and I’m not entirely sure they’re not warranted. Like, why is Luo-Luo even interested in me? Yes, she didn’t choose to become my concubine, but that didn’t stop her from throwing herself at me before bothering to get to know me, so it raises the question: does she actually like me and enjoy my company, or is she just trying to make the best of a bad situation?

