“Yah, don’t worry. This close to the city there should only be low tier beasts.”

Well, he wasn’t wrong. I had to fly quite a way to find that rat. But low tier here meant level thirty, not below. Just what is he thinking?

Nevertheless, I followed them. I had no plans on helping them if they got themselves into trouble, of course. You reap what you sow, and if you’re stupid enough to wander into this forest willingly, then you could only blame yourself.

Not to mention they were grown men, well, one of them was, at least.

“But the elder said-”

“The elder wants to see his prodigy do the best and earn a spot in the Four Corner Sword Realm. If we want to have a chance at challenging him, we need to get stronger.

They were right, since they were barely at the Foundation Establishment Realm. Still, the fact that they were was impressive. I wondered what sort of trees they grew inside their dantians…

Well not that I could find out.

What they spoke about was really interesting though. Four Corner Sword Realm… A sealed realm? I was very interested.

I would need to ask Meng Mao about it.

The boy nodded to his senior’s, I assumed, words. Oh, you poor child.

He wasn’t a child by this world’s standards, and was quite strong in his own right, but still.

Following them, I grabbed snippets of their conversations, though they didn’t speak much. As it turned out, they didn’t fancy attracting the attention of this and that Spirit Beast. They had a target in mind, something that senior had seen when out scouting with the elders.

Apparently it was a sort of mole monster that came out at night, and it was blind as a bat. Its power was rather low as well, and I couldn’t lie, I was curious.

If there really was such an easy pray, I may bother hunting it, if its level was decent.

Finally, they stopped and went completely quiet. Both of them must have activated some form of sealth skill, as not even their breathing could be heard anymore.

They were looking toward a small place in the forest between a few trees where there was no grass. It seemed that it was the place where the mole monster would come out from when it was coming out to feed.

Sure enough, not even five minutes later, the Spirit Beast appeared.

The moment I saw it, though, I knew that these two humans would surely die.

[Blacksoil Tunneler, Level 34]
