Ren stepped out of the portal, and looked around. He really was in the old living room. The couch and comfy chairs were there and Ren stepped away from the portal entrance. He built a crate around the portal that was big enough to step into without stepping into the portal. He didn't want anyone to accidentally hit the portal edge and be killed.

“I have to remember to do the same thing back on the other side.” Ren said and walked out of the living room and down the stairs. When he got about halfway down to the first floor, he heard a gasp and ran the rest of the way.

“You really came!” Elerlyth said as she collapsed to her knees. “You really came.”

Ren went over to her and held out a hand. She took it and sighed.

“Good god, that's... thank you, Ren.” She said and smiled at him.

“Is there any particular flavor you want?” Ren said as he saw her skin flush to a darker color. “Or is my personal Aura good enough?”

“Um... Fear, please.” She said, a bit sheepishly.

Ren concentrated on the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak's Fear Aura, and Elerlyth sighed.

“Mmm... yeah, that's the spot...” She closed her eyes.

Ren grinned as he used his Connection ability, and activated his Screaming Terror ring to boost the Fear Aura. He dismissed the 2 minute time limit popup.

“OH MY GOD!” Elerlyth yelled and opened her eyes to stare at Ren. “What the hell is that?!?”

Ren chuckled. “It's just a little something I came up with while I've been away.”

“You needed to produce Fear?” Elerlyth asked, surprised. “Why?”

“To scare people, of course.” Ren said. “It works most of the time.”

“I'd love to have something like that.” She said and stood up.

“It wouldn't do you any good.” Ren shook his head. “You told me that feeding on others wasn't doing anything for you.”

Elerlyth sighed. “Yeah, I don't know why. No matter how much fear I cause, I can't enjoy it anymore.”

“Maybe you're just getting tired of having everyone be afraid of you.” Ren suggested.

Elerlyth looked down at him. Ren was a foot shorter than her, and he had to look up.

“We're both going to get sore necks if we just stand here.” Ren said. “I'll be right back.” He let her hand go, and she took in a sharp breath. “Are you okay?”

Elerlyth nodded but didn't speak.

“I'm just going up to the living room to grab the couch. 20 seconds, tops.” Ren ran as fast as he could up to the apartment, stored the couch and was back in just over 10 seconds. He noticed her color had drained a little bit. He took out the couch and set it on the floor, between the stairs and the door. He sat in the corner of the couch and put his arm on the back. Elerlyth looked at him with raised eyebrows.

“I'm just getting comfortable.” Ren said, then pat the seat next to him. “No teasing or hanky panky, I promise.”

Elerlyth walked over to the couch and sat down right beside him, and held out a hand. Ren took it and she sighed. The Connection cut out soon afterwards, and her eyes widened. He smiled and made another Connection and she sat back.

“Just snuggle in.” Ren said. “Contact makes it better, doesn't it?”

She nodded and shifted a bit to the side.

“Elerlyth, why are you being so reluctant?”

“I'm trying my best to fight how much I want you, okay!” Elerlyth said and turned to glare at him. “You don't know what it's been like to eat so much and starve at the same time!”

“Yes, I do.” Ren said, and his eyes turned dark.

“W-what?”

“I don't really like to talk about it.” Ren sighed. “One of the reasons I'm so thin in real life, is because I have that problem. No matter how much I eat, my body doesn't metabolize food like it's supposed to.”

“I... I didn't know.” Elerlyth said in a soft voice.

“I drink specially designed supplements all the time, just to get the nutrients my body needs.” Ren said. “It's not perfect, and the food plan I'm on uses supplements, too... but, I'm always hungry.”

“Ren... I...”

“When you told me that's what was wrong with you, I came as fast as I could.”

Elerlyth took his hand in both of hers and held on. “Thank you.” She said and snuggled into the crook of his arm. Ren hugged her with his other arm, and they sat there for several minutes in silence.

“So...” Ren said. “...do you want to tell me what you've been up to all this time?”

Elerlyth chuckled. “I was going to ask you that.”

They sat like that for about 2 hours, telling stories about what had happened to them. Of course, once it started, Ren would tell her about one incident, then Elerlyth would tell one to try and be better than his. This continued until Ren got to the giant boar, Deathgore.

“Okay, you win.” Elerlyth laughed. “You win!”

Ren smiled. “I'd say it's more degrees of winning.”

“We've both survived some crazy things, sure...” Elerlyth turned and looked at him. “...but a legendary giant boar, the size of a freaking horse?” She shook her head. “That takes the cake!”

Ren grinned. “Yeah, it was pretty neat.”

“Neat?” Elerlyth looked at Ren like he was crazy. “It was drawn to Fear!”

“Now that I think about it, that kind of reminds me...”

“Don't you dare say it!” She glared at him, but Ren saw the twinkle in her eyes.

“...of you.” Ren started to laugh as Elerlyth slapped him several times on the parts of his arms and legs that she could reach with her hand, and her other hand held onto his the whole time.

“You...” *slap* “...did not...” *slap* “...just compare me...” *slap* “...to a...” *slap* “...giant PIG!” *slap*

Ren had tears in his eyes as he laughed, and his Fear Aura faded as he lost his concentration. Elerlyth could clearly feel his amusement and enjoyment of her company, so she ceased her relentless attack and leaned back against him.

“I hope you learned your lesson.” Elerlyth said and smiled.

“I sure did.” Ren said as he snorted laugh. “You hit like a girl.”

“Excuse me?” Elerlyth said and cupped a hand close to her chest. “What did you just say, mister?”

“I was saying that you were taking it easy on me.” Ren grinned. “I expected...”

Elerlyth opened her hand and a palm-sized spider hopped out of it and onto Ren's chest. Elerlyth's eyes widened as not a trace of fear escaped Ren at the spider's sudden appearance. All she felt was curiosity and caring.

“Hey, little guy.” Ren said and put a hand on his chest for the spider to crawl onto. “Did you kill Tristan for me?” The spider crawled onto his hand and he picked it up to look at it. “You did, didn't you?”

Elerlyth stared at Ren as he let the spider crawl onto his face and then up into his hair. “Ren... how are you doing that?”

“Doing what?”

“My spiders always attack.”

“Were you trying to kill me?” Ren asked.

“No.”

“Then I had nothing to worry about.” He said and smiled. “I spent a lot of time hiding in places with spiders. If you leave them alone, they leave you alone.”

“It's crawling all over you!” Elerlyth said. “Doesn't that bother you?”

“If it gets into my clothing, yeah.” Ren said. “There's a danger I might hurt it when I move.”

She stared at Ren like she'd never see him before. “You're crazy.”

“I've been told that.” Ren said and chuckled. “It seems to be a popular opinion.”

Elerlyth snorted a laugh.

“I saw you generate it.” Ren said. “Does it have a time limit before it dissolves?”

“About 5 minutes.” She said and smiled. “It usually gets squished long before that, though.”

“That's a neat ability.”

“It's a spell, actually.”

“No way!” He said, surprised.

Elerlyth nodded. “I got it when I hit level 50.” She smiled. “It was only the size of my thumb then, though.”

“What level are you now?” Ren asked.

“85.”

“Nice.”

“What about you?” She asked, curious.

“I hit Level 6, not that long ago.” He said, to her shocked expression. “I'll be leveling up faster, now that my Fame bonus is a lot bigger.”

Elerlyth stared at him with an open mouth.

“What?”

“After all this time, and the things you've done...” Elerlyth shook her head. “...and you're still only Level 6.”

“Honestly, my level doesn't bother me.” Ren chuckled. “The things I can do far surpasses my level.”

“Like what?”

Ren eased her off of his chest and took out his blacksmith's hammer and held it against her breastplate.

Elerlyth turned slightly towards him. “What are you-”

“Repair.” Ren said, and the breastplate was engulfed in a glow for a moment. The dent in the front popped out and the breastplate's Durability was restored. Elerlyth's took in a deep breath and it didn't dig in anymore. She ran her free hand over the spot where it was, and frowned.

“I kinda wanted to keep that.” She said.

“Elerlyth, you don't need the constant reminder of what happened.” Ren said and smiled. “It's bad enough it happened in the first place, but you don't have to suffer all the time because of it.” He looked at the breastplate and put his hammer away. “I might as well replace the enchantment, too.” Ren reached out a hand to her chest.

Elerlyth's eyes widened and she caught her breath.

“Can you take it off? I don't want my enchantment to affect anything else you might be wearing.”

“O-okay.” Elerlyth said, unequipped it, and took it out from inventory. Her breasts dropped down some, as most of the support and push-up effect they had was from the breastplate. She only wore a thin fabric top underneath, dark blue in color, and it had a scoop neck low enough that Ren got quite a good look. He tried to not stare at her breasts in their natural state; but since she was right there beside him, he had a close up view of them, and couldn't help himself.

“My face is up here, Ren.” Elerlyth said and grinned.

“Hmm? Oh, sorry!” Ren said, and took the breastplate. “You're very distracting.” He put the breastplate on his lap, looked down at it, and put his free hand on it.

“You just like the color of my skin.” She said and rolled her eyes. “Everyone that's not too afraid to speak, tells me it's 'exotic'.”

“The color?” Ren frowned as he concentrated on the breastplate, and absorbed the enchantment. “I was staring at the wonderful shapes, actually.”

Since Elerlyth had a firm grip on his hand, she felt everything he felt. She got the confusion, and then admiration, and started to blush from the truth in Ren's words. He enchanted it with a double glyph of Protection (8 runes total) and the double glyph etched itself into the metal.

“There you go.” Ren said, as happiness filled him, and he passed it back to her.

“T-thank you.” Elerlyth said and stored the breastplate into inventory. She didn't equip it again, however.

Ren raised his eyebrow and she smiled.

“I've been wearing it constantly since it was damaged. I need a bit of a break from it.”

Ren chuckled. “I'm not going to argue for putting it on... until you want to go outside.”

“That's good.” Elerlyth said and pushed Ren back into the corner of the couch. “Because you'd lose.” She said, turned slightly around, and snuggled down into the crook of his arm. She rested her head on his shoulder, and it gave Ren a clear view all the way down her top. He could actually count how many muscles she had on her abdomen.

“Um, Elerlyth...”

She crossed her free arm underneath her chest to grab his hand. It lifted her breasts and pushed them together.

“Yes, Ren?” She said and looked at his face. It was flushing a little red, and she smiled.

Ren swallowed audibly. “I'm engaged to be married.”

“You told me that already.” She said, and shifted slightly, making herself jiggle a little. “That's 2 years away, game-time.”

“But...”

“You're allowed to do anything you want before then, right?”

“But...”

“I'm right here, Ren.”

“But...”

“You can't use having a girlfriend in real life as an excuse anymore.”

“But...”

“Ren, I can feel how much you want me.” Elerlyth said. “Both here...” She took one of her hands off of his and put it over her heart. “...and here.” She moved her elbow slightly, and nudged Ren's prominent bulge.

“But...”

Elerlyth looked at him longingly. “You're like a giant buffet for me, Ren.” She said and turned towards him. “All these strong emotions you're feeling... fear, wanting, worry, excitement, happiness, nervousness... even love.”

“You... you can feel that?” Ren said, surprised.

“I know you love her...” Elerlyth said. “...and that you don't care if she's real or not.”

“But...”

“I'm not asking to replace her, Ren.”

“What are you asking me, Elerlyth?”

“I want you to feed me.”

“I'm doing that.” Ren said, then his eyes widened. “Dammit, sorry.” He made the Connection with his Screaming Terror ring and his cloak's Fear Aura.

Elerlyth sighed and snuggled down farther, resting the back of her arm across his bulge. “Good god, that's...” She licked her lips seductively. “...scrumptious.” She purred as she writhed back and forth, and rubbed him with her arm.

“Elerlyth...” Ren said, and caught his breath as she wiggled her arm. “I...” He looked at her. “I... need to give you a new sword.” He said, and slipped out from underneath her. Elerlyth still held his hand, however. “To replace the one you lost.”

“Okay.” She said, and sat up. “Do you have it on you?”

Ren shook his head. “I have to make it.”

Elerlyth got a worried look on her face. “You have to let my hand go, don't you?”

“Yes.” Ren said. “It'll only be for a short while.”

Elerlyth felt the truth in his words and she sighed. “I'll wait right here, then.”

“Hey.” Ren said and stepped close. “I'm not going to let you starve, but I can't be here all the time for you, either.”

“I know... it's just...”

Ren smiled. “I'm so irresistible, you can't help yourself.”

Elerlyth snorted. “Don't get full of yourself, mister.” She said. She felt his self-mockery and pulled him close. “Don't sell yourself short, either.”

“Was that a shot at making fun of my height?” Ren asked and smiled.

She shook her head and looked him in the eye. “You're trying really hard to distract me.”

“I have to.” Ren said. “I'm having just as much trouble as you were at first.” He smiled. “I'm trying to keep my hands to myself.”

