“Ren.” Elerlyth slid forward on the couch so she sat right in front of him, and his face was only a few inches higher than hers. “You don't have to keep your hands to yourself.” She lifted the hand she held, and tried to put it on her chest. Ren stopped letting her move his hand, just short of touching her, and her grip slipped off and she looked at him in surprise.

“I'll make you that sword now.” Ren said, and the forge across the room lit up with a whoosh. “I can't wear the cloak while I work.” He unequipped the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak and her eyes lost a bit of their shine. “I should move the couch closer, as my Aura only goes out 10 feet.”

Elerlyth nodded and stood up. Ren stored the couch and moved it over closer to the forge, but away from the openings. He put the couch down and faced it towards the forge and anvil, so Elerlyth could watch him work. She sat down on the edge of the couch and watched as Ren put several high quality iron bricks into the large smelter. They melted pretty fast and Ren added more. He stirred it up quickly, and walked over to the couch.

“How do you feel?” Ren asked, concerned.

“I'm okay.” Elerlyth said.

“Are you still all horny and willing to throw yourself on me?”

Elerlyth snorted a laugh. “Not really.”

Ren smiled and held out a hand to her. “I'm glad.”

She took it and smiled. He sat down and she looked at him in appreciation. “How did you know?”

“That you were drunk?” Ren asked.

Elerlyth nodded.

“You were acting like an alcoholic that had just gone on a bender.” Ren said. “I'd hoped that removing the source, you'd sober up a little.”

Elerlyth squeezed his hand. “You could have taken advantage of me so easily there.” She smiled. “I really, really wanted you to.”

“I never would have guessed that.” Ren said and laughed. “You're so hard to read sometimes.”

She snorted a laugh. “What did I tell you about being a dick?”

“That if you don't use it well, it's a waste?” Ren said and grinned.

Elerlyth laughed. “Okay, that's true.” She said. “But... since you didn't use yours...”

Ren leaned into her. “If anything did happen, the last thing I'd want is for you to be too drunk to enjoy it.”

Elerlyth's eyes widened as Ren spoke the truth. “I thought...” She started to say, and Ren interrupted her.

“I'm engaged, yeah.” He said. “But... I've been told by several people, that there can be all kinds of love. When Lucy and I broke up, I thought I was losing everything, then Nathalia was there to save me.”

“Ren...”

“It's okay. I know what you think about it.” Ren said and smiled. “If it is a logic loop, it's a damn good one.”

“But...”

“I'm living an entire different life in here, Elerlyth. In the Dwarven Kingdom, I'm the tall one. Everyone is starting to look up to me, both literally and figuratively. I'm becoming the example to set for change.”

“Ren...”

“Please, let me finish.”

Elerlyth nodded and he continued.

“I can do things in here that I couldn't even dream of doing in real life. I meet new people, I make friends...”

She winced slightly and Ren smiled.

“I make friends, Elerlyth... and not just NPCs.” He looked at her. “People I never would have met if I wasn't playing this game.” Ren smiled. “Like you.”

Elerlyth looked at him.

“Even after how we met, you found out I was in trouble in here, and came to visit me in the real world to warn me.” Ren said and gripped her hand. “If that's not friendship, I don't know what is.”

Elerlyth felt a trickle of the appreciation flooding into her, and she smiled crookedly.

“You're not getting it all, are you?” Ren said.

“What?”

“Without my cloak, you're only getting a little bit from me.”

“How...”

“Your skin is starting to lose it's dark color.”

Elerlyth looked down and saw the same thing Ren did. “I guess I've been hungry for so long, I need bigger meals.”

“I'd offer to let you inject me; but I've had enough of that in real life and I don't want it in here, either.” Ren stood up and equipped the cloak, concentrating on the Fear Aura. “Is that better?”

Elerlyth nodded and Ren sat down again.

“I won't do the boost, though.”

“Now that we know the effects...” She said. “...we can be careful.”

“We'll have to go slow, and see how things turn out.” Ren said. “What's that saying? Everything is good in moderation?”

Elerlyth smiled. “Something like that.”

“I don't want to spend time with you here, and have you drunk all the time.” Ren said. “I think you're a fantastic person, and I'd like to get to know you for who you are.” He grinned. “Not what you'd be willing to do when you're drunk.”

Elerlyth licked her lips and let a grin spread across her face. “Who said I wanted you only when I was drunk?”

“What-” Ren started to say, and Elerlyth kissed him passionately and took him into a hug.

Ren reacted automatically, and hugged then kissed her back. Elerlyth felt intense excitement from Ren, and a bit of naughtiness, then regret, and remorse, then excitement again. She fed on everything he felt, because he wasn't holding anything back, or trying to hide anything. Elerlyth felt Ren offering all of his emotions up for her to consume, and her heart leaped. Of course, it made her very excited and her body responded in kind. Ren felt the tips of her breasts poke him in the chest, and he let the surprise and pleasure of the feel of her touching him flood into her. Elerlyth drank it all in and she moaned in pleasure and satisfaction. This lasted for several minutes, and Ren almost forgot what he was supposed to be doing.

Elerlyth felt his indecision and she broke the kiss, but kept the hug. “The metal's ready, isn't it?”

Ren smiled. “Unfortunately.”

She chuckled and let her arms slide down his chest. “You'd better tend to it, then.”

“How do you feel?” Ren said, and she felt concern.

“I...” She took a breath. “I feel good, actually.”

Ren looked at her, and smiled. “Your skin color's back in full force, too.”

Elerlyth looked at her hands in surprise. “Hey, it is!”

Ren stood up and walked over to the forge. “You're not drunk, either.”

“What?”

He took out several stone bricks and made a mold on the floor. “You're not writhing around like a cat with cream.”

Elerlyth snorted a laugh. “Is that how you see yourself?”

Ren laughed. “I seem to remember someone telling me that I was 'delicious'.”

She smiled. “Yeah, in a moment of weakness.”

He shrugged as he looked at the mold. “How big of a sword do you want?”

“Hm?”

“I have to pour the metal for the sword, and depending on how big you want it, I need to add more for the folding process.”

“Oh... um... my old one was about this long.” Elerlyth said and held her arms out about 4 feet apart. “It was this wide.” She said and held her fingertips about 3 inches wide.

“Do you want a similar one?”

“Sure.”

Ren raised a single eyebrow and she chuckled.

“Just make one you think I'd like.” Elerlyth said. “You're the blacksmith.”

He nodded and poured some of the molten metal into the mold. Once it was up to the point he needed, he stopped pouring and let it cool a little.

Stat Change!

Smelting Level 3 (Advanced 0%)

It took a couple of minutes for the metal to cool, and once it was safe to pick up with his tongs, he opened up the side of the forge and put the blank inside. Once it was hot enough, he took it out and went to the anvil. He hammered it enough to fold it in half and put it back in the forge. He took it out and hammered it flat, and put it back in. Once it was hot enough, he took it out and hammered it enough to fold it again. He repeated this about a dozen times, and Elerlyth watched him in fascination the entire time.

He's not taking any breaks! He just keeps going! Elerlyth thought as Ren hammered out the final shape, and stuck it back in the forge. Once it was hot enough, he quenched the blade in the barrel of oil. Ren took it out and smiled when it didn't light on fire. He took it to the workbench, added a hilt, then sharpened it to a fine edge. After a good polishing, he walked back over to Elerlyth and saw her shocked expression.

“What is it?” Ren asked, concerned. “Are you okay?”

“You just... for an hour...”

Ren chuckled. “Yeah, I'm pretty good at metal forging.”

“I know you're a blacksmith.” Elerlyth said and rolled her eyes. “I'm just amazed you didn't take any breaks.”

Ren smiled. “It needed my undivided attention. If I'd stopped at any point, this might not have turned out so well.” He held up the blade, and it gleamed.

“Oh... my...” Elerlyth's eyes shone as she stared at the blade.

“You just have to decide what you want it enchanted with.” Ren said.

“What?”

“Easy, there.” Ren said and put a hand on her shoulder. “Take a breath. Do you want Earth, Lightning, Fire, Ice, Wind, or Water?” He asked. “I could make it lighter or heavier, too.”

Elerlyth looked at him with a blank stare. “What were the options again?”

Ren laughed. “Hold this for a minute.” He said and passed it to her.

She took it by the hilt and it dropped to the floor, and dragged her hand with it.

“Lighter it is.” Ren said and took it back, and enchanted it with a double glyph of Antidark (8 runes total) and it made the blade 32% lighter. He handed to back to her and smiled. “It's lighter, but when you swing it, it'll still have the same force as if it was still heavy.”

Elerlyth lifted it and held it out. “It's still pretty heavy.”

Ren grinned. “You'll get stronger.”

She walked over to the middle of the open floor area and started swinging. Ren turned back to the forge and changed the mold on the floor to more of a square shape, then poured more molten metal into it. He let it cool for a minute and used the forge to fold it a few times. Ren poured the mold several times and made a pair of boots, a pair of gauntlets, and shoulder pieces, all with the same pattern he'd put on her breastplate. When he was done of them all, he dyed the pieces dark blue just like the breastplate, and then used his small crucible to smelt a bit of actual gold and covered the details in it. He then enchanted the pieces with double glyphs of Protection, and polished everything. What Elerlyth currently wore wouldn't be suitable for the armor pieces to fit, and would replace what she had on. Ren modified the bodysuit pattern he had and put strategic cutouts in certain areas, to highlight the parts that he thought Elerlyth would want to showcase.

“You were right!” Elerlyth exclaimed. “It took over 3 hours and I'm exhausted...” She said and grinned. “...but, I just gained a point of Strength!”

“Try lifting a house sometime.” Ren said under his breath, and chuckled.

“What did you say?” Elerlyth came over to the workbench. “You lifted a HOUSE!”

Ren looked at her and smiled. “I forgot you can hear just as well as I can.”

“Okay, mister. Spill it!” She said and held her sword at the ready.

“Sure.” Ren said. “I'll tell you all about it while you put this on.”

“What is that?”

“It's the bodysuit for your set of armor.”

“My WHAT?”

“I can't have my Head Guard walk around with just a breastplate and a sword.” Ren explained.

“But...”

“Just put this on.” Ren said. “Please.”

Elerlyth looked at it, and sighed. “Fine.” She took it and equipped it. It replaced her thin fabric top but not her pants. The cloth was a tight weave and she ran a hand over it. “Is that a pattern of...”

“Webs.” Ren said and smiled. “I've left the top open the same as your old one so it doesn't interfere with the breastplate, and there's cutouts at your hips.”

Elerlyth looked at Ren with raised eyebrows.

“What?” He asked.

“Are they necessary?”

Ren grinned. “You'll see.” He said, and handed her the gauntlets, the thigh-high boots, and the shoulder pieces. She saw the missing piece and equipped her breastplate from inventory.

“Oh my god.” Elerlyth said as she looked down at herself. “Please tell me you have a mirror!”

Ren grinned and went upstairs, stored the sitting table from the bedroom, and came back downstairs. He placed it at the bottom of the stairs and Elerlyth stared at herself in the mirror. She turned side to side, and the cutouts highlighted her hips perfectly. The boots stopped at the top of her thighs and the gauntlets covered her forearms, elbows, and part of her upper arms. The shoulder pieces accented the breastplate perfectly, and the gold traced along the details made it look like it was floating above the armor. The web pattern in the bodysuit let her skin show through just enough to be suggestive, but covered everything more than her normal clothes did.

“So, do you like it?” Ren asked, and Elerlyth could feel his satisfaction, because he knew she loved it. She turned around to face him, and stepped in close.

“I was going to joke about it being the worst piece of junk I've ever seen...” Elerlyth said. “...but it's honestly the most wonderful thing I've ever seen.” She unequipped her gauntlets and ran her hands along the sides of his face, then gave him a gentle kiss on the lips. Her fingers tingled with the intensity that tiny touch sent through her, and she felt a similar reaction from Ren. “Thank you so much.”

“It was my pleasure.” Ren said and smiled.

“Not yet it isn't...” Elerlyth smiled. “...but it will be.” She said and gently kissed him again.
