Sitnakov came back together, chuckling. He reached for his swords, but his swords were way too far away, and yet the air rippled with resons. Suddenly, his swords were in his hands again, and he was woundless, saying, “It’s a lot different than fighting Melemizargo.”

Killzone barked out a laugh—

Neither Sitnakov or Killzone had recognized that Sitnakov had instinctively used resons. They were joking just a bit too much.

Erick went in with his tail to clip Killzone, to get his head back in the game, but the guy reacted without reacting. The very fabric of reality warped around the big black man as Killzone slipped out of the way of the strike, moving in the air like a leaf on the wind. Suddenly, he was on the other side of the sky.

Killzone’s smile was wide. “That’s how you do it!”

Huh!

Good for them.

Erick only had 5% of his focus on the two of them, but he spared a bit more because they were getting cocky. His next claw grab shoved Killzone right into a tail slap, but even then Erick only managed to clip his legs. Of course, a simple clip of a kilometer long tail with 30-meter-long sharp spikes was still enough to remove Killzone’s lower half. It took Killzone a moment to put himself back together, and he had to retreat to do that.

Sitnakov laughed at him, saying, “That’s the fastest you can heal yourself, eh!”

All around Erick, the Valkyries fought to strip him of his power, Erick solidified his own aura and Domain to prevent that, and he plucked at anyone who got too close, or who managed to draw too hard upon him and actually take some Mana, or Resons, or Psyche. Different Valkyries were better at taking different resources from him, and though that sort of theft wasn’t something that should be encouraged —because to focus on Erick’s resources was the wrong sort of focus, for Nothanganathor would certainly have different powers— it was still nice to see them all finding their places, and finding their power.

Erick guided their efforts with his Lightning Path, focusing on whoever needed the focus. Killzone and Sitnakov had demanded his focus for a brief period, but now they were back to the background, for Erick had helped them as much as he should.

A few hours of training later and the entire assault of Valkyries was able to get into his inner defenses, and actually take mana from him. Erick called out another Big Killing Claw and wiped the board.

As people regathered themselves, Erick called for a switch.

A different series of 250 Valkyries came forward…

Along with Jane and Candice.

Erick’s stomach dropped.

And then Jane said, “Just watching, dad.”

“Oh, good!” Erick said, “That’s good!”

Candice said, “Just watching you beat up her boyfriend, she means.”

If Sitnakov was capable of showing a blush, he might have done so.

Jane just laughed, and said, “The big guy needs a beat down every now and then.”

Sitnakov improved much faster with Jane watching.

Killzone was doing a lot more improvement than Sitnakov, though, and though Erick knew that Killzone was not interested in Jane, and Jane was not interested in him, Killzone entered some sort of reson-trance zone for about an hour of battle, just by having Jane there, cheering on Sitnakov. There was some sort of forlorn-ness in Killzone’s eyes sometimes. The [Bracelet of Memory and History] he had embedded into his left wrist even showed on his black, adamantium wrist now and then, like a thin tangle of a silver tattoo.

Erick had some probably-correct guesses as to what was happening between Killzone and Sitnakov and the absent and obviously-Sundered Third Prince of Stratagold, Chernom. The fact that Erick was shaped like Melemizargo, and Killzone and Sitnakov were both fighting him at the same time, was obviously a powerful part of a memory for both of them. Erick was pretty sure he saw a shadowy, silvery Memory flitting around the battlefield right alongside both of them, when they both truly got into the flow.

Whatever was happening between the ‘Stratagold-royalty-shaped’ wrought, and the ‘actual Stratagold royalty’ wrought, was something for them to figure out—

Killzone flashed platinum, his eyes focused on Erick’s face, and then he barreled through five of Erick’s gripping attacks, ignoring them all in a way he had not been able to ignore before. His punch took Erick in the jaw, like a gnat striking a giant, but this gnat went right through Erick’s scales and bone and body, and then out of the bottom of his face.

It was rather superficial damage, even if it did look bad.

When Killzone came out the other side of Erick’s dragon face Killzone had a silver aura around him, and he continued in a straight line like an unstoppable meteor, right into the ground, like a line of light.

The fight stopped because everyone had seen that happen. Erick fixed his jaw and turned back into a person.

Floating above Killzone’s crater, Erick waited for Killzone to pull himself out of the ground.

When the man unearthed himself, he was still the same big black adamantium orcol-shaped man as always, but his eyes were platinum, and a ghost of himself came out of the ground with him. Killzone blinked at the copy of himself, and the copy smiled.

“Oh,” Killzone said, to the copy. “Hello.”

The copy silently said something.

Killzone said, “Okay.” And then Killzone looked up at Erick, floating a few tens of meters away. “Thanks for the training, Erick and all y’all. I’ll be back.” And then he stepped away in a platinum flash, that was clearly not any sort of normal Elemental Stepping magic.

The ethereal copy went with him.

Erick smiled at that.

Sitnakov frowned as he floated next to Erick. “What just happened?”

Erick saw his Lightning Path connect rather strongly to the moment, so he let it guide his next words, “Looks like Killzone just ignited as a Wizard. That’s the first wizard wrought ever, right?”

Sitnakov breathed deep, shuddering. “… I need to go. Thanks for the… uh. Thanks.”

Erick nodded.

Jane came over to Erick, asking, “So Killzone is a Wizard?”

“Genesis Wizard, I think,” Erick said, “Yup.”

Jane and Candice both went, “Huh.”

Erick turned to Jane, and directly asked, “Are you dating Sitnakov, now? For real?”

Candice laughed loud.

Jane blushed. She didn’t lie this time. “… Maybe.”
