Solomon rose. “Good luck. When you put on the bracelet it will be difficult. When you’re ready, come on out. We’ll be monitoring you from afar after that. Use your mana senses on the illusionary person you see, and keep them real in your heart, Leeanne. That is the only way this works. When you doubt, when you falter, you will lose them. You will have to start over, and you might not be able to make yourself start over.”

Solomon left.

He shut the door behind him and did not mana sense whatever Leeanne did in the room. Soon, soft crying filtered out from beyond the door. Leeanne came out minutes later. Pretty fast, really.

Killzone had taken a full week to come out of that room.

- - - -

Erick held onto a [Shackle of Memory and History] in his left hand as he reclined in his chair in his office at the House.

In his right hand he held his Lightning Path.

In his mind, he held an image of a Fate he desired.

He thought of Guildmaster Mogarithag Moggargal; Mog. She was a tall, muscular orcol. Some would call her overly muscular. She had short black hair and brown eyes, and she liked her magic to be colored grey, or clear, but it was red when she was too busy to Alter her mana signature. She had been flirty when Erick had first met her, and she maintained that disposition long after Erick had sort of… not gone that way. She had even implied one time that she would like a three-way with Al, but only because her words had been clumsy.

Erick recalled that time.

Mog had been wearing a bright red dress and Erick had been on a ‘date’ with Al, at some tournament games that Spur would hold north of the city, in temporary tournament grounds that Al had helped [Stoneshape] out of the sands. Mog had blushed when Erick had implied her implication, and then she blipped away.

Erick smiled at that—

His Lightning Path flickered.

His Path bade him not to put on the bracelet, but to instead…

Erick took his Lightning-filled hand, and gently pulled at the shadows of the room, the light of brilliant white claws easily finding purchase on his target.

From the shadows, Erick dragged Al into the world.

Al almost fought against the dragging, but then he steeled himself and stood before Erick, his eyes glittering white. He said nothing. He looked as he used to look, but different. Same black-and-pinstripe sultan/gangster suit. Same dad bod. Same massive arms and lower fangs jutting up from his jaw.

His countenance was full of shadows, though.

Erick placed the [Shackle of Memory and History] on his desk, closer to Al. “Hello, Al. I have a present for you. I’m not sure who it will work on, though. On Mog, the woman you loved, but refused to be with because you had already had a bad experience with someone just like her, years ago. Or on Savral, your son given to you by the woman who came before Mog, who was killed by Dragon Stalkers when she gave birth to a dragonkin. I don’t know of any other people in your life who were Erased, but the attack on Spur was extensive. Maybe someone else will come out of Memory.”

A long moment passed.

Al breathed, and then he sat down in a chair. “I have come to understand that you believe we used to be friends. This is not how I remember it at all. My life before the Claw attack on Spur and the life afterward was vastly different, according to my comrades in the Church.”

It was anyone’s guess where this particular Al came from, but Erick was pretty sure he was still the Al who first taught Erick about magic. He didn’t seem to think so, but that was fine. His memories were pretty faulty.

Erick nodded. “I heard something about that. A lot of people have memories that aren’t wholly true, because a lot of people who are here aren’t from here. Others were affected by the Red. Some, like you, were a confluence of both, with the full story lost to the Red.” Erick said, “Sorry, Al. If I could have come back sooner, I would have.”

Al let some of his mask drop, huffing a disbelieving huff. “In my mind, Mog was my wife. She was Savral’s stepmother, too. We were a loving family, and yes, we had lies, but… It was a good life. I have learned a few different stories about this world I exist within since that attack. The world I remember, though, is me taking you into my home and you getting Savral killed in that Red Dot attack. You spoke to Messalina about that, and I got Savral back for a time... Things devolved from there. I haven’t actually heard from you since you Benevolence’d me, trying to make things right.” Al stopped. There was more story there, but he stopped talking.

Erick said, “And now you’re a Shade, and you’ve been avoiding me.”

Al sighed. “I’m not avoiding you now.”

Erick asked, “Want a beer? We can talk about getting you set up with this [Shackle of Memory and History]. It might not work if you try it too hard. It will work better if Silverite will let you back into the city, into the Sewerhouse. I will talk to her about that, if you wish.”

Al’s eyes glittered with a little bit of hope. “… Sure. I’ll take a beer.”

They talked for a while.

It was tense.

It was nice.

- - - -

Erick stepped into the fractal Hall of Gods again.

Phagar stood there, like a shadowy mirror of himself. “Have you made a decision about Fate?”

“I have,” Erick said. And then he made a vow, “I’m going to get back absolutely everything, Phagar; for me, for others, for Veird. Let us bend Fate to that ultimate goal. Let us fully populate that Grand Wizard’s Tower.”

- - - -

Erick was a 3.5 kilometer big black dragon, sitting on the empty lands of Sphere One, above Candlepoint. The land up here was rather untamed and wild with only a few outposts from House Benevolence here and there, just because they needed to know what was happening in the Sphere above the city.

Today was training day.

A few of the previous days had been training days, too, so this was all going rather well.

Valkyries swarmed, and Erick attempted to catch them with aura-made claws. It was a simple training system which had taken a while to actually happen, because no one wanted to actually ‘spar’ with Erick at all. And yet, they all needed the practice. Even Erick was getting some use out of this.

Shivraa was a speck of ice-blue gold-black, dancing on the wind around Erick, swords flashing at Erick’s small attempts to grab her with his aura. Erick wasn’t doing much right now, and Shivraa wasn’t doing much to attack, either, but to an outside observer, it might look that way.

She was in her full valkyrie form, which Rozeta had kindly turned into an Ability and Class. ‘Valkyrie’ was based on Polymage, but with one key magic that would unlock whenever a Valkyrie was outside of the Script, or facing the Red; a built-in ability to link to a [Spellsurge Weaver] that Rozeta had also set up, which would allow a Valkyrie to connect to all other Valkyries connected to the same squad. Rozeta could even supply them all with mana from Veird, and they could Siphon mana back to Veird, for [Benevolent Cleanse]ing, to make sure it wasn’t Red—

Shivraa blinked from one side of the sky to the other, her swords and wings slicing at phantom images of Erick’s claws that tried to surround and contain her.

Erick grabbed her with his aura and held her, using maybe a single percent of his concentration. Even that much was too much for her; she could not escape.

Which is when Killzone barreled through the space like a black meteor and punched Erick’s phantom claws to pieces. Shivraa instantly repositioned, moving fast, and Killzone mostly dodged a trio of claws reaching through the sky, trying to pin him between them.

Killzone was taking up maybe 2% of his concentration.

Erick wasn’t trying very hard. If he actually tried, he would just lock down the space all around them with a Domain and a smidgen of Authority, and then he would sort of… flex. The only ones who were somewhat able to escape that incredible amount of destruction were Killzone, and the other black orcol wrought in the area.

Twenty other valkyries, taking up another 8% of Erick’s collective concentration, worked their Siphons against Erick’s aura, trying as hard as they could to suck away his power. They weren’t doing very well. Erick pinned every single one of them between claws, one right after the other.

That’s when Sitnakov came in and broke Erick’s Domain in tiny ways, to free the trapped Valkyries.

With a broken smile full of hate, Sitnakov yelled out at Killzone, “What’s the matter! Can only save one comrade at a time?!”

Erick didn’t appreciate the distraction to the work, so he said, “Killing Claw,” and worked his auric claws to grab and trap four Valkyries, ripping them to—

Killzone, Sitnakov, and Shivraa, all three came to the rescue of their comrades, moving much faster than before, each of them scanning the area to see where Erick was attacking, and then rushing to the aid of their comrades. Sitnakov’s dual swords cleaved apart Erick’s claws to save one Valkyrie. Shivraa saved one person by freezing Erick’s auric claws. Killzone saved another by punching a pair of claws apart.

And the last Valkyrie knew they weren’t getting saved, so he did exactly what Erick wanted him to do; he saw Erick’s claws forming in the air around him, coming in for the kill, and he turned soft and slippery. With a twist of power and a bit of resonwork, the Valkyrie slipped out of Erick’s grasp, becoming a leaf on the wind.

Erick smiled, and said, “Very good! Just like that.”

The Valkyrie grinned, their massive red body flexing and twisting from Erick’s secondary grab. The guy was a minotaur from the minotaur lands, from those who had come from the House Benevolence of another Veird. A lot of those minotaurs —and even some of the minotaurs that Hollowsaur had made— had signed up for this Valkyrie program in the last few months. Those people were all remarkably adaptable to physical alterations, and easily able to take to the Valkyrie Class and power.

Erick had about 56,000 Valkyries.

Erick was only working with 250 of them right now… And also Killzone and Sitnakov.

The Valkyries tried to dart in, to stab at his scales while attempting to Siphon off his magic all the while. It was good training for everyone all around, really, and occasionally some of the Valks figured out how to instinctively use resons to escape Erick’s grasp. Every single one of these 250 had Domains, and every single one of them was an extremely powerful warrior in their own right.

But even after living here on Veird for 9 months, and with the Un-Sundering project working well, and with all the plans and ideas they had all put forth… Would it be enough?

Erick softly said, “Big Killing Claw.”

People tried to react.

It didn’t save them.

Erick turned every single Valkyrie into mush and pierced Killzone and Sitnakov through ten times over, from ten different directions. Killzone and Sitnakov gasped and tried to reform, to get out of the pin, but Erick had pinned them well, using resons to do it.

Erick had billions of resources to spare for this sort of thing; there was no danger of ever running out in these sorts of trainings.

The Valkyries rapidly reformed from pools of blood scattered all over the area. Only Shivraa managed to reform in any quick amount of time.

Erick let Killzone and Sitnakov go, pulling his auric claws back, dropping their mangled bodies onto the ground with some big thunks, and then he cast healing magics on them. Soon, they were right as rain, though they were still gasping heavily. That much deep damage caused a lot of pain, and that pain lingered well past the wounds healing.

And yet, Killzone soon rolled over onto his back, to stare at the sky. He was in pain, but it was distant.

Sitnakov dry-heaved onto the ground while his broken swords lay around him in pieces. He was in pain, and it was all-consuming.

Erick turned back into a person and stood with the General of Spur’s Army, and the Second Prince Stratagold. “Take ten and let’s go again.”

Killzone breathed out, his black eyes staring at the false sky overhead. And then he rose to his feet. He huffed, and then he laughed once, and spoke in his characteristic ‘southern’ twang, “That was a good scuffle. Seems I gotta do a mighty lot of moving to shake off the slag.”

Erick smiled at that. Killzone looked better than he had in years.

Sitnakov heaved again, and then he got up, though he wasn’t moving easily at all. He tried. His swords melted into his body and then reformed in his hands. He glared at Killzone for a moment, and then he said to Erick, “You’re holding back too much and striking too fast and deep. I’m getting no experience learning how to break your Domain.”

Killzone said, “Again.”

Erick nodded, then said, “Then I’ll go slower and we can try some of that.” He said to everyone, “We’re going again! Any Valkyries who want to switch out, raise a hand!” When no one raised a hand because they were all too stubborn to realize they were tired as fuck, Erick commanded, “Then I guess I gotta beat some sense into you.”

And then he was a giant dragon again.

The training resumed.

Erick went slower with his attacks, but sometimes he simply splatted the most tired Valkyries with his tail, telling them that they needed to go rest. People rotated in and out of the battlezone. Gradually, and then in rapid improvements now and again, the Valkyries improved, because when one of them improved in a meaningful way, all of them seemed to understand how to better escape Erick’s grasp. Individuals still fell to a tail whip when Erick saw them lagging, though.

Killzone and Sitnakov rapidly got better and better, and they even teamed up to ‘fight’ Erick now and then, when the opportunity presented itself. Erick was surprised to see that, but he didn’t say anything. Killzone and Sitnakov were ‘fighting’ with each other right now, and Erick didn’t want to disturb that.

Killzone wasn’t anywhere near Igniting his Wizardry, and no one talked about that at all, but he was improving fast. Very fast. Killzone’s entire kit was all about punching harder and moving faster, and he seemed to be casually speeding up with every hour of work. His seriousness had already dropped away, showing himself as the unserious-serious danger that Erick had recognized him for when Erick first got to Veird, and saw the giant black orcol as the General of Spur’s Army in Ar’Kendrithyst.

And then Sitnakov got splatted by Erick’s tail, his swords flying away through the air—

Killzone slowed down enough to tease the man, “I reckon you lost sight of the giant tail, eh, Sitty!”

