He’d be done quickly and then go to the funeral.

Big numbers kept getting thrown around, though, which had Alden a little worried. I mean if they want to give me lots more money than I asked for, that’s okay. But why would they?

Maybe they’re trying to pay me off instead of going through with the part where they convince everyone I was totally ignorant and not someone who directly contacted them.

He…could live with that. He might have to. Things were moving really fast. As long as he got the class he wanted.

“You could involve me in the conversation, you know?” he said to Aimi. “I’m right here.”

“How are we going to do that, Mr. Anonymous?” she said. “They’re all talking through System communications right now. We don’t even know how to call you. If you have demands or something, make them known.”

Right. That was reasonable. For someone who’d almost pulled his face off a few minutes ago.

“Well, how many of you are there? Talking about me right now, I mean. Can’t I just give my name to you and Corin and Aulia Velra? I don’t have to communicate with the whole family, do I?”

“Not that many. Only fifteen or so.”

“Oh so just a small group,” Alden said sarcastically.

“Hey, I’ve got eight siblings. We do things big in this family.”

Alden was about to tell her they couldn’t just invite the whole city to make hasty decisions without his input. But before he could get that out, his interface flashed.

Ms. Zhao? he wondered, glancing at the notification.

He stared at it, and a text message appeared:

[Hi, Alden. This is Keiko Velra. Sorry about my family. I’m about to video call you. Answer it if you want to sort things out calmly. No need to explain anything to Aimi.]

What was this? Keiko was the Chainer superhero he’d read about. She was in Tokyo. How was she in on this?

And how did she know Alden’s name if the rest of the family didn’t?

What the hell was with that mailbox? Do they work completely different here? Are they psychic? Is there some superpostman who busts the sound barrier to deliver packages?

An instant later, the incoming call notice came in. Alden accepted it with a quickly muttered “Yes” that had Aimi giving him a curious look.

A woman in pajamas appeared. She was visible from the waist up, and she was centered on a circular “screen” that floated in the top half of Alden’s line of sight.

Keiko looked a lot like Aimi, but with a bob haircut and the beginnings of crow’s feet around her eyes.

“Hi,” she said, leaning back against the kitchen island behind her. “You can talk if you want. Or just go with ‘one blink for yes, two for no’ if you don’t want Aimi butting in. Like I said, I’m Keiko. I’m Aimi’s younger sister. You were on your way to Hannah Elber’s memorial service when they ambushed you, right?”

Alden blinked once.

“I’m sorry. I was Hannah’s classmate. She was an admirable person. We didn’t really mesh, but I had lots of respect for her. Also, I know who you are. The boy from the Body Drainer incident.”

Alden froze. Oh. It felt uncomfortable to have a stranger bring that up unexpectedly. It was something that used to happen all the time when he was a kid, but it had been a long while.

“So, about my family…they’re not terrible. For the most part. But they’re so insulated by the Anesidoran bubble that they’re completely out of synch with normal people.” Keiko took a sip from her coffee mug.  “You know how many of us have ever lived off the island? Me. And the really old folks, too, but that was before the island was even built. That’s it. And the last time a Velra died during a summons? It was never.”

Alden frowned at her, trying to figure out what she was getting at.

“Most of their friends are people exactly like them. They’re talented, rich, and powerful. But they don’t do the superhero thing. They’re all crazy deep in Avowed politics, but they probably know more Artonans personally than they do non-Avowed humans.”

She stared into the distance. “Anyway, I’m only making excuses for them at this point. I’m really just calling to facilitate so that they don’t steamroll you with their assumptions. I’m betting Hannah’s memorial service is first on your priority list, and delivering Chainer to my niece is a distant second?”

“Isn’t that obvious?” It was a funeral.

“You’d think so. But no. It’s not to them. They were just going to install you on a sofa beside Hazel for hours while they background searched you and tried to fix things with the current Rabbit-holder.”

Alden shook his head.

“Got it. Now, I’m also assuming, given your personal history, that you must have very strong opinions about what kind of Avowed you want to be. So are you willing to take something other than Rabbit? Like a giant mountain of cash? Or no?”

Alden kind of wanted to ask just how mountainous the cash would be, but there was no reason to tempt himself. “Only Rabbit,” he said firmly.

“Who are you talking to, kid?” Aimi asked suddenly. She sounded baffled. “Me? Use more words, okay.”

Alden ignored her and focused on her saner sister.

Keiko’s face had softened. “Yeah, I understand,” she said in a sympathetic voice.

You definitely don’t, Alden thought. She probably guessed he was latching on to one of the safest classes because of his childhood trauma. Or maybe even Hannah’s recent death. It rankled, but it wasn’t like he could correct her without an hour-long explanation.

“All right. Rabbit. Is there anything else you would need to make the deal?” she said.

“I’d like…”

How to put this? It was there in the letter. Maybe she didn’t have access to it, though.

“I’d like some assurance that I’m not going to be embroiled in political stuff. I’d rather not be some kind of outcast because I gave the class to your family?”

“Ha!” cried Aimi, apparently still under the impression that Alden was talking to her. “Good luck with that! But don’t sweat it. We’ll like you. Beyond that, who cares?”

Keiko gnawed her lip. “Well, you won’t be ‘embroiled in political stuff’ anyway. You’re what, sixteen? And all of your political value will evaporate the minute you hand Chainer over. But if you mean it in a more…age-relevant…way, are you saying you want to give us the class but have nobody be mad at you for it?”

That sounds childish now. But I don’t care.

“Yes,” Alden said stubbornly.

“Okay.” Keiko looked a little strained. “First of all…it won’t be that bad. There are a few unpleasant individuals who will blame you for it no matter what you do, but most people will assume you’re an ignorant nobody. Also, the Gloss—ask Aimi about it if she hasn’t told you—isn’t common knowledge yet. But it will be by the time you have to move to the island. Using that particular wordchain is going to buy us tons of shit and you tons of forgiveness by extension. The majority will think unavoidable weirdness happened to you and give you a pass.”

Well that wasn’t even a lie. It felt a lot like unavoidable weirdness was happening to him right now.

“So you’re saying I’m good?”

“More or less…”

“Why are you hesitating?” Alden asked, tightening his grip on his seatbelt.

Keiko sighed. “Grandma Aulia has this thing. It’s part of her personal religion almost.”

Alden didn’t like the sound of what was coming.

“She’ll want to keep ties with you even if you don’t want that. She believes people brought into the family’s orbit by powerful wordchains are significant. For us. Like…cosmically ordained friends. Or enemies. Or assets. Or spouses.”

“No,” said Alden. “Especially to the last one.”

“It’s fine really,” she said in a placating tone. “The rest of us know it’s nuts. We mitigate. Uncle Corin is probably already planning to steer his mother into ignoring you. It hardly ever gets out of hand.”

“Hard pass.”

“You can’t pass on something that’s already swept you up,” she said gently. “Trust me. Grandma will already think you’re important. So you want to land on her dance card, not her hit list.”

Alden glared at her.

“Hey, don’t look at me that way. I moved to the other side of the planet to get away from them. Just…be boring for a few years, and you’re golden.”

Be boring?

“One last thing, and then I’ll make my sister let you go.”

Alden sat up straighter. Really? Right now. He hadn’t known that was on the table.

“Would you be very offended if Hazel attended the memorial service?”

“What? So we can trade right there? Absolutely not. That’s so—”

Keiko held her hands up. “Before you lose it, let me clarify. Hazel’s affixation timer will be running out in just a few hours. Given the kind of service it will likely be, it might very well be a race to see which ends first. Once my family has managed to cut a deal with the Rabbit, she can trade with Hazel. Hazel will come to the funeral. You can swap person to person. It’ll take like two text messages and half a minute. I swear.”

Alden stared out the windshield, thinking. It was stupid to feel like the suggestion was inappropriate. Especially if it was a necessity because of an alien time limit. But he still did feel that way.

Hannah wouldn’t have cared. She liked practical, simple solutions.

“Fine,” he said. “But what about witnesses?”

“Hazel’s an authorized witness. She can vouch for both of you herself.”

Alden stared at her. “That’s the sketchiest thing I’ve ever heard.”

“I told you my family knew more Artonans than they did regular humans. Wordchains are a big deal on the Triplanets, so someone who reaches a certain proficiency level with them is automatically considered worthy for some unique privileges. Hazel’s…a genius.”

The last words were said with something like grudging admiration.

“Yeah.” Keiko sighed. “Anyway, I’ll take care of everything we just discussed and send you the details. I’ll get them to throw in some bonuses. Do you like wordchains? Want a couple of freebies?”

Alden felt like that might be a trick question. “Does saying yes mean your grandmother will pay closer attention to me?”

Keiko’s face said it all.

“I’m fine with Rabbit. And as much privacy as you can manage. And the money I asked for in my letter.”

“I understand. Go to the funeral. Hazel will show up. She’ll be discreet. Nice to meet you, by the way.”

“You too. I think. Thanks for helping to sort it all out.”

###

Three minutes later, after arguing with the air for a while, Aimi pulled her car over beside a bookstore.

“Okay,” she said, pointing at Alden. “If you run away, get lost, or get taken into custody by the police, the Gloss might not get you back for us since Keiko has interfered. So do not do any of those things. She’ll be in big trouble.”

“Did she really interfere? I feel like she was actually helping your cause,” Alden retorted as he unbuckled his seatbelt.

“Hard to tell. I’m not one of those people who can feel fluctuations in the chain’s spheres of influence and various balances. That’s mumbo-jumbo for prodigies and Artonans. I’m just saying if you get my sister in trouble I’ll give you trouble. Got me?”

He wanted to tell her she was exhausting. But there was no reason to stir things up when he was so close to getting back to the day he’d had planned for himself. He wanted to be alone and think. And maybe take a minute to appreciate the fact that he was getting Rabbit squared away far more quickly than he’d thought would be possible.

“I got you,” he said. “Thanks for the ride.”

“Hey! You’re welcome!” she said. “Anytime. No hard feelings?”

She smiled and held her hand out for him to shake. With a mental sigh, Alden reached for it.

Only to freeze when his fingers were a couple of inches away from hers.

She’s uneven.

With a feeling of shock, Alden recognized the foreignness of the thought. It had come from that new gremlin part of his brain that had strong opinions about burgers.

What? Hello? What does that even mean?

Then Aimi leaned forward to complete the handshake on her own. Their fingers touched.

She’s uneven! the gremlin screeched.

In his hand, Aimi’s felt…odd. Uneven wasn’t a bad word for it. It was like it weighed too much. Or it was too far to the right or left of where Alden knew it should be.

But though it was an uncomfortable sensation, it wasn’t like the hard limit he was met with when he tried to eat meat. Shaking hands with Aimi Velra wasn’t forbidden, it was just not right.

“Are we going to shake forever?” Aimi asked, still pumping Alden’s arm up and down. “Because it’s getting weird.”

Alden realized he’d been clinging to her despite the feeling of wrongness, trying to figure out what was going on.

He jerked away. “Sorry,” he said, flustered. “Got distracted.”

After he watched her drive away, he spun and marched right into the bookstore. Maybe it’s an Avowed thing? I haven’t shaken hands with one since the mysterious blood ritual.

Channeling his non-existent inner extrovert, he walked up to the guy shelving books and stuck out his hand. “Hi, I’m new in town!”

The handshake he received was awkward. But it was not uneven.

Gorgon, thought Alden, staring down at his own fingers like they belonged to a stranger, what did you do to me?
