Jerric raised a hand and Reeves nodded. "You... somehow linked your aura with some people, then... formed an impulse to stand?" Jerric's answer scrawled itself across the blackboard, and this time somehow just looking at it conveyed his own hesitance and uncertainty even though it was just words.

"And how did I link my aura with some people?" Reeves pressed.

"Glyphs working sympathetically, planted under our seats?" This was added beneath his first reply.

"Well, check under your seats and you'll know, won't you?"

I didn't bother checking. Reeves seemed to be pushing at something else. Those who did check came up with nothing, which led to more whispered speculations.

"Caden," Reeves said, looking directly at me. "You're thinking hard. Care to refine your original response?"

I started thinking aloud, and the blackboard recorded my words. "You didn't plant any glyphs... it can be done, but that'd take time. More time than you want to spend. It's not efficient for you to do that just to make this point. You didn't use your own auric arcana to connect directly with ours, because affecting a hundred of us takes too much of it. So you... connected your auric arcana to the ambient arcana, and used it as a channel to influence our own auric arcana?"

"Very good. Thank you for using the precise terms for auric and ambient arcana. Precision is important." Reeves turned to look at my response on the board and he cleaned it up, completely erasing most parts, re-ordering some things, and adding others. In just two seconds, all that remained was a few simple lines.

'Planting glyphs is not always an efficient use of time.''Auric arcana alone is insufficient for most significant tasks.''Ambient arcana is both medium and power source.'

He turned to address the entire hall. "Glyphs are important and have their place but we are studying the fundamentals in this class, and so we must go to the source - arcana itself. What we call 'aura' is our common shorthand for 'auric arcana', and we should remember that term because it reminds us that there is a commonality in the arcana inside us and the arcana outside us, even though we often think of them as separate, and that commonality can be utilised in specific ways. That brings us to the final point - ambient arcana can be used as a channel for your auric arcana as long as you exercise enough mental discipline and precision."

Reeves walked around his massive desk to stand in front of it. "In my lectures, you'll learn about the principles of arcanophany from the ground up. We'll delve into the leading theories about what arcana itself is, where it comes from, how it works. In our practicals, my colleagues and I will run you through a battery of exercises to help you with your fine control over both auric and ambient arcana. There are many things that can go wrong, so I expect everyone to maintain the highest standards of discipline and safety - you should all be familiar enough with the procedures since you've all made it through our enrollment tests."

"And finally," he leaned forward and the air seemed to grow heavier. His level of control over the ambient arcana was unbelievable. "By the end of the semester, if any of you are still forced to stand against your will in my lectures, you will be expelled from the Academy."
