“Are you serious?”

She smiled at him from her place on the couch. Today, she was shoeless and wearing rings on her toes like Healer Yenu. That was new.

“All right,” he said. “I agree.”

She launched into her answer right away.

“One of the reasons I advised you to take a more artistic approach to thinking about your affixation was so that you’d find beauty within yourself instead of picturing chains holding you back. Another reason was to mix you up a little so that you wouldn’t get too comfortable turning your powers off and on like light switches. As you’ve learned, there are fewer limits than you thought during your darkest days on Thegund. And now that you’ve come this far, I’ll ask you…isn’t deciding you’ve found the true form of something just another way of limiting it?”

Alden frowned at her. “Limits are very real. I can feel them.”

“I know.”

“And there are a lot of limits. I definitely noticed everything that was being torn away when…affixation is about limits.”

“So it is,” she said calmly. “Which is why you should be cautious not to add ones of your own to the way you think of yourself.”

“Entrustment is such a massive, unfair, real limit. I had to wash it down with two glasses of water a minute ago. Is that why you’re answering this way?”

“I’m answering this way because it’s true. And also because you’ll feel a little more like yourself now that you’ve said that to me. You’d feel even better if you said it to Stu-art’h.”

“Oh my God. No. He doesn’t deserve that. He almost cried when I confessed I was disappointed in my stupid pest control spell. He’s already worried I hate myself. And I don’t, by the way. You know that. It’s just… ”

Such a long time passed, and both of them let it.

“Hey,” said Alden, gazing across the room toward the wevvi and water dispenser, “how do you like my new clothes and my new nightmares? I think they were both great things to choose.”

“Yenu-pezth has mastered her art,” she replied. “You’ve begun to rid yourself of burdens you didn’t want to bear. Which is well within your limits. The description of your skill that I showed you even says so, doesn’t it?”

That which I have will to bear. The one I choose to serve.

He remembered.

“It does.”

“And your new clothes are so handsome!” she said, her warm voice brightening. “Not the most handsome options available to you—”

“I know which ones you think are most handsome, and they’re the ones most likely to end up in the stomach of a demon on the backside of reality.”

“No. If you were on the backside of reality, no clothes I could give you would hold up.”

“What?”

“Your pezyvas are gorgeous! And Stu complimented them so thoughtfully that I dare not compete. What do you think of my Emban, my Ryada, and my Bithe?”

Alden leaned into the couch. The first time they’d spoken there had been a couch. It had been softer than this one. “It relieves me that they seem like me and people I know in so many ways, and at the same time, it scares me.”

She waited.

“Is Bithe all right?” he asked. “If I said something that hurt him…I really didn’t mean to.”

“I’m afraid I won’t tell you how Bithe is feeling or why, but rest assured that I know how pure your intentions were.”

Alden was a little surprised. “You’ll pry Stuart open like an oyster and feed me one of the worst moments of his life, but you won’t tell me how to be nicer to Bithe?”

“That’s correct.”

But you’re the one who brought them all up!

“How’s Emban doing?” he asked.

“Her business.”

“Ryada?”

“The same.” She was giving him a look of mischief he decided not to engage with.

He thought of that little tock sound Emban had made and her squadmates’ quick responses to it. And then of Ryada’s insistence on cleanly killing the toy koobas and respectfully folding up their bodies. Then there was Bithe and his ability to attract vatha…which should not be called a sign.

“They’ve been through something hard that I’ve been through, too,” he said. “They’ve dealt with serious troubles I know nothing about. And they chose to follow a more difficult path than they had to. I admire them all. Naturally. I’m glad your knights have you and every single benefit the Triplanetary Government grants them. They deserve so much.”

But it’s difficult not to compare everything they have with everything I don’t. And it’s not getting easier as I learn more.

“Nobody can hear what I’m saying in here, right?”

It had just occurred to him that he was saying an awful lot out loud in a place that wasn’t the usual private mind space they used for conversations, unless she’d moved him there without him knowing. This room was supposed to be an area set aside for wizards to say wizardy things to one another while maintaining proper discretion from the regular folk on the train, but…

“It’s only us, Quiet Rabbit.”

He crossed his arms over his stomach and looked toward the ceiling. Nothing to see but wood panels and inset lights that were turned off.

“Please, won’t you just tell me what Stuart would think of me if he knew? If you tell me that he’ll respect the situation I’m in enough to let me stay quiet, I’ll call him here and tell him right now.”

She didn’t answer.

He had an ache in his chest like a pit was opening up in it.

“Really?” he said. “I want to be a good friend to him. I want to tell him so he’ll have support from someone who knows. What you do to us and how helpless…I just want to tell him I believe he’s going to be a great knight and have those words matter more than they would coming from the person he thinks I am. He deserves that. But I’ve lost a lot, and this secret touches absolutely everything I have left. It’s my whole life.”

“If you only needed to know how Stu-art’h would react this very moment, and that would be enough for you to make your choice, what an easy gift that would be for me to give you,” she said. “I’m sorry it’s not like that. Stu-art’h will live a long life, I hope, and if you tell him, your secret might belong to him for many years to come. I can’t predict what he will think in a year or ten or a hundred.”

“I already know that,” Alden said quietly.

“I know you do.”

Could you really not find a better friend for him than me?

He wanted to get away from this conversation.

“I’ll sleep now.”

“You should. May your nightmares be the ones you chose.”

He pressed the injector to his skin and said, “Pierce.”

******

******
