“Only the weight numbers. The charge of an atom determines what element it is. The weight numbers on the table are the most common versions of each element. But these other versions exist and are important for fusion. What’s happening in Dalo’s spell is that a deuterium is combining with a normal hydrogen to make a helium with a weight of 3, instead of the normal weight of 4.”

She was following, but still uncertain. “Why can’t two normal hydrogens form a helium of weight 2?”

Nathan shrugged. “That doesn’t exist. There are rules that define what atoms can exist, and I don't understand them. I could talk about what causes the charge and weight - we call them protons and neutrons - but I don’t understand why only some versions of each element are stable and others aren’t. But helium-3 and helium-4 are stable, and none of the other variants of helium are.”

“And if you combine two helium-4, you make...” She squinted down at the table. “Beryllium-8?”

“I don’t think that’s one of the stable ones,” Nathan replied uncertainly. “But you can fuse three heliums together into carbon-12, which is definitely stable. But I think it’s hard to make that happen because then you need three nuclei to run into each other at the same time. It will happen less frequently, so the plasma needs to be hotter and at higher pressure.”

Her brows knitted together, scanning over the periodic table for other good combinations. Then she looked up at Nathan. “Why does making bigger elements make power?”

His lip quirked at the question. “That’s the second half of the Insight.” He paused, trying to figure out how to explain the next part. “One of the greatest truths of the universe is that matter and energy are interchangeable. They’re the same fundamental thing, just in different states.”

Stella squinted at him, the rest of the Heirs similarly confused by the non-sequitur. “What does that mean?”

“That means that you can interconvert energy and matter.” Nathan waved the periodic table. “We can get there from the equations of light. We'll go through the math later, but the short version is that photons have momentum but not mass. The only way that works is if energy can stand in for mass, and it does. The higher the energy of a photon, the higher the momentum, and we can calculate out the exact amount."

“How is that the same Insight as fusing atoms?” Stella asked.

“Because,” Nathan replied, stroking his chin and holding back a grin. “The conversion is incredibly unequal. When we were talking about lasers, I told you that light has a speed, but it’s ridiculously fast. Each piece of matter contains a ridiculous amount of energy. To calculate how much, you square the speed of light and multiply it by the mass.”

Stella frowned for a moment, then grabbed the pencil and drew out one of the most famous equations on earth, though she didn’t use the same letters that would be familiar to somebody from Earth. “This?”

Nathan felt a moment of nostalgia for his time on Earth, where this kind of knowledge was a birthright to catalyze excitement, and not a dangerous secret that could unleash mass destruction.

Well, it can still release mass destruction back on Earth, but there are a lot more steps involved and protections that mean a single person has a much harder time causing nuclear explosions.

Instead, he simply replied. “Yes, and I'll show you the simple derivation later from light momentum. The final piece of the puzzle is that the true mass of the elements doesn’t scale exactly. We write the mass out as whole numbers because it’s close to correct, but it’s not precisely true. A helium-4 atom weighs less than two deuterium atoms, and a carbon-12 atom weighs less than three helium-4’s. The reason behind it is complicated and not something I understand; it has to do with things called the weak and strong nuclear forces, but that's the general idea."

Stella waved aside the explanation, focusing on what she could understand. “When you fuse atoms, you destroy mass.” She pointed to the E=MC-squared equation. “And that produces energy. A lot of energy.”

“Yes!” He replied triumphantly. "The change is minuscule, but even a tiny change in mass produces incredible energy."

“Does it go on forever? You can keep fusing atoms?” She traced the periodic table, finger sliding towards the heavier elements.

Nathan shook his head and tapped a specific spot on the table. “No. Iron is the center. Everything above iron starts to increase in weight again. You can tell if a nuclear reaction produces energy by whether it moves towards iron or away from it.”

Stella’s eyebrows went up. “Oh. And what’s it called to make a big atom smaller, to go towards iron that way?” She slid her finger from the heavier elements back towards iron.

“Fission. It’s easier than fusion in most cases, but the ingredients for it are less abundant. That’s the spell the Esebus soldiers were casting. It was making small amounts of fission happen with rare heavy metals in the rocks the spell hit.”

The mage traced the table back, landing on iron. “Let’s talk about how to kindle that flame.”

Congratulations, you have developed the [Tutoring] utility skill into [Veracity].

Utility skill: [Veracity]

Your explanations now carry the weight of truth. Listeners will understand your explanations and feel that what you say must be accurate, even when they would normally not be persuaded.

I don’t think I like how that’s worded. It seems like a more devious skill than [Tutoring] was. I wonder if it's because I skipped so many details in explaining the nuclear insight.

Permanent Talent 1: Arcane Nullfield 8

Permanent Talent 2: Immortal Body 6

Permanent Talent 3: Airwalking 8

Class: End of Magic level 834

Bottomless Stamina : 84400/84400

Indomitable

The Undeniable Strike of the Antimage

Stamina Burn

Momentum Mastery

Stoneflesh

Arcane Nullification

Galefoot

Close Quarters Mastery

Boundless Aura

Denial of Mysticism

The Ending of Magic

Aura Projection

Selective Dispel

The Living World

Class: Spellslayer level 572

Regenerative Focus: 5721/5740

Catastrophic Blows

Battle Stealth

Mage Infiltration

Forgettable

Sneaky Blow

Antimagic Stealth

Magical Manipulation

Lethal Index

Wizard Resistance

Magic Jammer

Controlled Failure

Utility skills:

Tranquility 3

Inspiration 8

Impulse 4

Mystical Discernment 4

Forewarning 4

Arcane Insight 6

Evasion 2

Mental Vault 5

Veracity 1

Parkour 10

Visibility Control 6

High-tier Disguise 7

High-tier Battle Cry 3

Aura Control 5
