

Realizing that his hands were trembling, Rain clenched his fists.

We’ve got this. We don’t have time to be pussyfooting around.

Rain’s eyes latched onto the time.

07:59:43 PM

Silently, he watched the seconds count up.

Here we go.

Unlike in the Ashen Jungle, there was no visible change to herald the coming of true dusk. The seconds displayed on Rain’s HUD simply rolled over, then kept counting.

One minute passed, with not even a blip from Detection.

Two minutes.

Three.

“Okay then,” Ameliah said.

Rain was proud of himself for not letting his panicked shriek escape his mouth. He took a second to recover, raising a hand to his chest before rounding on her. “Don’t do that!”

“Nervous?” Ameliah asked, amused. She looked back at the crack, then yelled, making full use of her awakened lungs. “Hey! Fish, fish, fish! Come and get us!”

“Ameliah!” Rain gasped, his ears ringing as he gaped at her in horror.

“Oh, relax,” she said, glancing at him. “This was always the plan. If we can thin them out tonight, the hive won’t be as defended tomorrow. Assuming we can find it.”

“Yes, but…” Rain gestured, half-expecting to be interrupted by a monstrous roar.

Instead, all he heard was a low, rumbling chuckle.

“I am going to sleep,” Tallheart said, turning away and heading back for the alcove. “Wake me if—“

He was interrupted by the thrum of Ameliah’s bow, then an explosion.

Your party has defeated [Sparkscale Scavenger Drone], Level 16

Your Contribution: 3%

Light flared beside Rain as Ameliah drew a fresh arrow. The burning corpse of the Drone lay in the narrow passage, having entered silently while Rain had been looking away.

Two seconds too late, Detection fired, and dozens of signals appeared in Rain’s mind. “More coming,” he said, his tension replaced by resolve as adrenaline flooded his system. “Full pack of Scavengers.” There was no place for fear once the fighting started. Fear kept you alive, but it could just as easily get you killed.

Ameliah fired again, and another detonation rocked the cavern.

Your party has defeated [Sparkscale Scavenger Drone]x3, Level 16

Your Contribution: 4%

“Three for one!” she shouted in satisfaction. “They’re all grouping up in there. This is going to be ea—“

“Don’t you DARE say it!” Rain shouted, stopping her before she could doom them all.
