I tore through a few packs of the phoenixes, and it didn't take long to uncover the mystery. Unlike their brethren, these flaming birds had no mouths or openings for their beaks. They lived by subsuming the mist of dying eldritch. Combined with their insane battle lust, and the phoenixes kept the mountain clear of would-be thieves.

I gestured to the setup.

"This is way cleaner than Ghelid. I'm actually willing to negotiate with whatever's ruling this place."

Opal shook a hand at the eldritch.

"Those things aren't natural. They were bred for this purpose."

I shrugged.

"Yeah, but they're not in constant pain or agony. These things are just doing what they were designed for."

Opal shivered.

"Yeah, designed being the keyword. Someone made these things for this. Who's to say they didn't make other eldritch for other purposes?"

I generated a singularity in the distance, a pack of phoenixes obliterating.

"Is that really so bad? Sentient species have been breeding and domesticating animals since well before Schema."

Opal peered at he destruction.

"I...I've been to planets where someone took advantage of the eldritch's rapid evolutionary cycles. They made them into all kinds of freakish shapes and sizes. Bottle eldritch, purifying water eldritch, even knitting eldritch. They made them for everything, and I do mean everything. Yeesh. It was all so creepy."

I winced.

"Point taken."

After crossing many miles and harvesting thousands of leylines, we reached the peak of this realm, perhaps the world. At the apex, a vast cylindrical corridor extended downward. For thousands of kilometers, the depths continued in an endless drop-off. Along the cliffsides, thousands of magma streams flowed down.

The phoenixes guarded this area, all of them nesting on the edges of the cliffside. They protected their eggs, each of their children glowing within their protective shells. Those coverings vibrated, each ringing out with a sound that resonated. The note built into a hauntingly beautiful melody of life and death, one that filled me with energy.

I gazed down, awestruck by the size, scale, and otherworldly majesty.

"This is incredible."

Opal took a deep breath. Her voice was full of joy.

"This. This is why I want to keep being a Fringe Walker. We get to see things that others only dream of. Things that other people can hardly imagine. Tell me this wasn't worth it just to see this?"

A begrudging grin ran up my lips.

"It's pretty ok, I guess."

She gestured with her hands.

"I live for these 'pretty ok' sights. Ah. Love it."

We watched on for a while before the vanguard got impatient. It dove down while screaming at the top of its lungs.

"For our lord and savior Daniel and the legion!"

I slapped my face a few times, trying to cleanse my brain as the phoenixes watched the vanguard. The flaming birds carried no ill intent, only observing the vanguard's suicidal dive. The anticlimax left me curious, so I followed downward. Opal kept close as we tread into yet another world.

The heat mounted to a blistering degree. Pressure caved onto us as we traveled kilometers down. After a while, I shouted.

"Yo, vanguard. Come back."

Opal peered at me.

"I was wondering, but why don't you give them names?"

I frowned, remembering the loss of my first golem, Alpha.

"It's harder to let them go if I do."

She floated away, grabbing her arm behind herself.

"Oh. Sorry."

"It's not a problem. You asked a question and I answered. No harm done."

The vanguard surged up, magma falling off of it and its body glowing from the heat.

"What is it, oh mighty and illustrious-"

I raised my palm.

"I need you to take Opal out of here."

She sighed.

"Yeah. This is out of my league. I can't even tolerate the heat or pressure, let alone help in a fight."

I frowned.

"Sorry I didn't help you with your class upgrade."

She waved my concern off.

"You showed me a lot, honestly. Even if a bit daunting, I am a bit more inspired after seeing all this. I'll try to convert that into a different kind of victory further down the line."

"Good," I said. I put a hand on the vanguard's shoulder.

"Protect her with your life."

It put its hand on my shoulder.

"Creator. I have dreamed of this day."

It hugged me close and squeezed tight.

"I want you to know that I am now complete. A death mission? The other vanguards are going to be so jealous whenever I get back. Oooh, even better if I don't. Then, they'll have to recite my legend and remember me forever as they tell stories to one another of our grandest members."

I gave his back a pat.

"That's great."

It kept holding me for a while. I gave it an awkward look.

"Uhm, are you going to let me go or?"

"I had no plans to do such until you told me to or forced me off of you."

Opal let out a burst of loud laughter.

"This is ridiculous."

The vanguard met her gaze. It spoke with absolute solemnity.

"Ridiculously awesome, if that's what you mean."

I pointed up.

"Go."

It let out an exaggerated and long sigh. It dragged the sigh out for at least five seconds too long before finally letting me go. It went and picked Opal up in its arms before flying up. It yelled.

"I completely understand that you're fully capable of carrying yourself, but I am simply fulfilling a childish fantasy of mine in an entirely selfish wayyyyy!"

It reached the peak of the mountain before an explosion of telekinetic force rocketed it away. A tiny dot fell from him, and I snatched it out of the air. In my palm radiated the blue core the vanguard carried and charged up. I let the moment pass.

"Well, that just happened."

I gazed down.

"Alright then. Let's see what's in the pits of hell besides beauty."
