I gave her a thumbs up.

"Sure thing. For you, Opal, I think if we get the right circumstances, we can even get you that class unlock."

Opal peered down.

"I wouldn't bet on it. Fringe Walkers are notoriously difficult to upgrade, and I haven't been able to push for that even after thousands of years."

I gripped my hands into fists.

"Then let's change that."

Chapter Begin

After a few hours of prep work, Opal and I bid the others adieu. We had a conversation about the caliber of enemies we'd face, and Opal began to get cold feet. Before she could give up, I took a few precautions. I enlisted a vanguard golem to protect her, and I explained the Rise of Eden. I even saturated the city in the aura to leave a lingering buff.

While we flew out of the city, Opal marveled at the enormous increase in stats.

"How is this even possible?"

I made a serious expression, and I shifted my gaze around unnecessarily.

"I have a very particular set of skills."

Opal squeezed her hands together at her sides like an excited valley girl.

"I suppose so. Heh, it feels like I could do anything...But what's this for?"

She pointed at the vanguard golem. The vanguard turned to her, and it answered for itself.

"I am here to surge ahead and clear a path. You'll find spoils of war in my wake and blood under your feet. It will lubricate your heels so that you may slide across the terrain, should it slow you."

Opal's cross frowned.

"Uhm. Ok."

The vanguard raised a hand and roared out.

"For the Harbinger."

I sighed.

"They're still a work in progress."

The vanguard ignored any dissuading opinion, charging forward with quintessence and ascendant mana flooding its entire frame. After about an hour of travel, we stopped for a quick charting session. I graphed and mapped out nearby landmarks, including lakes, mountains, and other notable features.

Opal watched on.

"What are you doing?"

I held a status screen over my minimap, drawing in more details by zooming in.

"I'm trying to preemptively scout out a few details so that my guild isn't treading into unknown waters. I want them to know the currents of this sea, so to speak."

Opal watched me continue my mapping before she pointed at what I marked on.

"There was a dungeon there. A red one, and it had a few time-based monsters."

I frowned.

"Ah, they were, weren't they? Hm. They almost felt too weak to mention."

She scoffed.

"That's why they're worthy of note. They're well below the baseline level of other occupants here. That lets people have a training ground for the time-based area in the future. My inspections mentioned a few solid items from the estimated loot pools as well, and that's exactly what you want from a dungeon. Isn't it?"

I peered at the dungeon in distaste.

"For weak loot bags?"

She guffawed.

"Well, yeah. That is literally the goal."

The vanguard stamped its spear onto the ground.

"FOOLISH. These are grounds for the evolution of the universe's most elite, powerful, and capable warriors - the Harbinger's legion. An undefeatable, surging tide. There are no forces we have that meet the definition of weakness. They are either strong or becoming strong. That is the only acceptable path."

Opal scratched the side of her head.

"Doesn't becoming strong just mean they're currently weak?"

The vanguard tilted its hand to her and shook it around.

"Transient states are difficult to judge, and oftentimes, they are the subjects of vast philosophical debates. These kinds of discussions can enlighten all who hear them, and they offer enormous insight into the vast arrays of various thought patterns available to us sentients. To me, this transient state of strength's absence is merely a reflection of inner strength."

It was spouting word salad. The vanguard held its hand to its chest. A tear of mana leaked from its eye.

"It's a showing of inner strength and the perseverance to overcome one's limits. It's beautiful."

Opal leaned toward me.

"These things are, uh, supportive, huh?"

I stared forward.

"Honestly, I haven't actually talked to these golems that much."

The vanguard stuck its fist out, shaking it with eagerness.

"By Daniel, what are we waiting for? Let us tread forth into the unknown!"

Opal burst into laughter.

"By Daniel? You mean by Schema, right?"

The vanguard swiped its hand to its side.

"Absolutely not. There is only one god to me, and he's floating right there."

I leaned back, horror spreading over my face. Opal turned to me, and she cackled.

"Oh, I'm going to enjoy this trip a lot."

I dragged my hands down my face.

"Oh, it's going to be a blast."

Several hours passed, and we continued our travel to the Southern Firelands. My incredible naming sense was once again verified as overwhelmingly astute - the Firelands were, in fact, fiery. We passed the threshold of its encroaching barrier, entering a domain dominated by heat and animism alike.

With it came a notification.

Quest: The Death of the Firelands Ruler | Rank: S- | Description: There exists a solar-tier threat that has ruled over this area of [Rebirth] for millennia. Showcase the courage and bravery of a Sovereign by slaying the ruler of the Firelands. In doing so, you will be awarded!

It was a pleasant verification that kept me on task. That was difficult to do as I peered around at the strange territory. The sky above the land dimmed to an absolute darkness which defied all conventions. Neither the sun nor the moons shone here. Instead, sunlight came from below. The soil itself glowed like walking on a star with a planet's gravity. The air blurred near the ground, and it left the entire expanse mirroring a mirage.

We passed over it all, and as we did, I let the heated mana soak into my body. It carried something deeper than just heat, and the concepts laden in the energy clashed with the cold, frigid laws of the Northern Frostlands. This power held many ideas, from desire to fervor to love. It was intensity incarnated as mana, and it reminded me of ascendant energy. Unlike ascendance, this mana wasn't about hunger or conquering.

It revolved around burning passion and sacrifice. It bled through my health and stamina, though I still hadn't experienced even an ounce of exhaustion from the siphoned stamina yet. It reminded me that the resource existed, and that was novel in its own right. In fact, stamina was the most important stat here.

Every creature burned through it as they shifted and molded with the heat. Wyverns floated through the dark skies, their black belly scales making them invisible in the perpetual night. They found floating blobs of plasma leaking into the air from the ground. Their snapping jaws opened wide, and finned jaws siphoned the clouds before zapping bolts of red lightning struck the wyverns from the ground.

Below, resonating fire elementals wielded electricity in their palms, each of them like some angry Zeus. Cracks spread over their bodies by the second, and a few regenerated their crumbling bodies all the time. They gathered on the shores of magma lakes. Within the bubbling, molten rock, fire mana crystallized in floating batches, and the weaker fire elementals swirled out over the ponds to get them.

The elementals' bodies were like fire spouts, but they radiated fear. An unasked question was answered as a hulking magma koi rose from the enormous ponds, swallowing an elemental whole. These colossal koi had shining scales and were sheened with violence. They left trails of obsidian in their wake as they swallowed the heat of the lava lake.

Even larger, kilometer-spanning fire sharks followed those trails of obsidian, and they snapped at these fish. When they collided, enormous eruptions plumed into the sky. Those explosions killed vast swaths of creatures, eliminating all that lived near them. From the corpses, babies of each race erupted before eating their parents' corpses.

This all culminated in a volatile, ever-changing ecosystem where every animal fed on the other. I took a breath.

"Damn. Baldowah would probably love this."

Opal crossed her arms.

"Was he one of the Old Ones you met?"

I nodded.

"Yeah. It loved war, finality, and consequence. This place lacks the factional interplay of war or the finality of death. However-"

Eight different eldritch died in my vision.

"It definitely has plenty of consequences."

The vanguard swooped down while howling and diving into the magma. Seconds later, one of the shark leviathans arose from the depths. It carried the vanguard in its mouth. The golem kept the monster's jaws open, and it bellowed.

"Don't worry, Opal. I will kill this place until it is dead."

I let out a sigh before bolting up and attacking a pack of wyverns above us. Opal followed. Diving into the center of the pack, I tackled through one of them, turning the monster into a ball of fiery mist. The kill notification sounded before the mist siphoned into the other wyverns. They grew extra size and glowed brighter.

That process continued, each death filling the remaining wyverns with energy and animism. By the time I killed the last wyvern, the level 20,000 eldritch had evolved into a single level 30,000 monster. I tore it in half and evaporated the rived halves with Event Horizon. Its mist flowed into me, and my eyes opened wide.

The mana carried emotion, and it surged into my head like a poorly considered impulse. At that moment, I was battle. I was hate. I was love and fury. I turned to the monsters below me, diving into a pack of elementals. They wielded lightning strong enough to split the sky and tear the land.

Each enemy could lift a mountain and dry a lake with a single breath. They launched electricity from their hands that held enough mana to vaporize an entire city. I crashed into them as carnage manifested, and I wrenched them into corpses in seconds. These beings didn't run or strategize as the ice creatures had.

They dive-bombed me the moment I landed in their midst, and I ripped and tore them asunder by the thousand in minutes. Their odd mist kept pooling into my body, and it gave me a hastened, empowered form. With each kill, I strengthened. With each death, I burned. My body glowed, achieving a transcendent splendor, and I carved a path of desolation like a living star.

All of my strength was used against these feasting monsters, and I carried immense potential. As I soaked in more and more of the heat, I gained more awareness of what it was. This energy was the embodied power of sacrifice. Every creature here didn't fight with their lives on the line. They lived while actively churning through their life force, mana, stamina, and health.

The berserker state wasn't a kind of battle fervor. It was fervor for life and to live it to the fullest at all costs. Instead of masking my perception in a small, narrow field of bloodlust, my vision expanded. My silver blood thumped through my chest with a heavy pounding. It raged in my veins as my body demanded more life force.

I honed in on what I was doing, and I computed and controlled my every action. That is, until I passed a tipping point for the mana. Eventually, it pooled into my frame to such a degree that I could hardly think anymore. I was my will. I was my animus, and I desired an outlet for all of my surging resolve. Thoughts jetted across my mind well before I digested them, one errant desire or emotion crashing into the next.

I entered a mania, my many psyches surging into action. They doubled and then tripled my efforts on my runes, mana channeling, and studying the library Torix left me. The leading Daniel tore and gnashed at the enemy. I carved them into pieces, relishing in their superheated blood. It was like a warm shower, the sensation peaceful and cleansing.

At the same time, I pulled fire leylines into the dimensions I carried. Why leave anything? Why allow this bounty to fester here in this realm of fire?

I would bring this home. I would turn Mt. Verner into the largest volcano to ever exis-

I shredded my commanding mind, the battle lust and general insanity dissipating. Unlike the stasis of the ice energy, this heat energy made me burn through my resources. All doubt and hesitation had left my psyches, and in many ways, that came with incomparable strengths. I had accomplished a lot in a short period.

However, this approach also held many weaknesses. Behind me, Opal trembled in fear while my vanguard golem lost all semblance of sanity. It let out haunting metallic laughs that echoed far into the horizon, and its body bathed in the blood of enemies as well. It was looking like the first golem I would have to decommission, and a pang of sadness welled in my chest.

The vanguard golem then played out a guitar solo with his air guitar. I had to help it survive. Charging over, I grasped it from behind by wrapping my arms around the combatant. Event Horizon eroded the charged mana in the golem over the next hour, and it regained its sanity. The golem turned back and forth,

"Where am I? Who am I?"

I let him go, and the vanguard turned to me. It bowed.

"Creator, I'm...I'm so sorry."

I raised a palm.

"Hey, that's what I'm here for, right? Just don't absorb so much of the mana."

It gazed at its hands before clasping them into fists.

"I shall heed your words, Harbinger."

From then on, it never allowed more than a small amount of the red mist to enter its body, and it carried an extra blue core in its hand to store the extra mana for later inspection. It did all of this, and I marveled at how efficiently it tore the monsters apart, its might rivaling my own as it generated devastating waves of gravitation and telekinesis.

Opal gawked at it before I flew over. I gestured to the golem as it ripped a wyvern in half.

"So, what do you think of the journey so far?"

She quivered.

"This isn't my cup of tea."

I blinked in confusion.

"Of course, it isn't. Tea would just evaporate here."

She peered at me, and I grinned back. She let out a sigh.

