"So, fair enough...My point is that this isn't what I expected. I thought there would be some impressive heat magic that carried immense depth. Instead, this is more like a cesspool of insanity. Everything here is using some kind of boosting skill all the time, from birth till death. I've never seen so much overkill."

I waved my hand over it all.

"Personally, I think there's a lot to learn from their approach."

Opal leaned back and sneered with her cross. It was a strange expression.

"Are you kidding me? They're all just rushing headlong into death. They're not focused on anything but the current moment, and that leaves them with no future. They're rushing forward with no plan."

I squeezed one of my hands into a fist.

"And yet they thrive. If you think about it, we're all on a slow march to death in some form or another. These creatures have abandoned that drudgery in favor of a vibrant fanaticism. They want to go at it with everything on the line."

Opal hugged herself.

"It's morbid. They don't care if they live or die."

I raised a brow.

"It's inspiring. They're refusing to wait and be idle. We could all use an impetus in our lives."

Opal watched several eldritch die. Many of the monsters created children in an instant, and they sacrificed themselves to empower their young and skip their childhood. They went into the vast Firelands, forging ahead despite the odds. Opal let out a long sigh.

"It's not my path. I want nothing to do with this."

I raised a hand.

"I'm sorry this isn't working for you. I thought you'd get a ton of inspiration from this as a light and heat-oriented fighter."

Opal let her hands flop against her sides.

"Light gives life. It builds a planet up over time, and that creates all the ecosystems you've ever seen. This isn't like that. Actually, it's the total opposite, even conceptually. Everything here acts like it's trying to die as soon as possible. It has nothing to do with momentum or purpose. It's an unthinking present."

Opal leaned back.

"I never wanted that. I'd rather live a long, wholesome life. Is that too much to ask?"

I opened my minimap.

"Definitely not, and feel free to head back anytime you want. The vanguard can escort you back. I know it seems unfocused, but they follow orders whenever I mention them."

Opal shrugged.

"Hm...I-I can help you chart as we go. It isn't like you're getting much of that done with how you've been progressing, and honestly, you suck at picking up meaningful resources, exploitable dungeons, or stable areas."

I crossed my arms.

"And what exactly makes you think that?"

Opal pointed behind us. A ten-kilometer-wide patch of slaughter carved across the terrain all the way to the horizon in the distance. Magma spilled from corpses, their glowing blood pooling into a glistening stream. It flowed forward as if omening a terrorizing beast. I coughed into a hand.

"Point taken."

Opal stared at me.

"So, how did you clear your mind from all that pooled energy? It looked like mana poisoning."

I shrugged.

"I reset myself."

Opal let out a light laugh.

"Reset?"

"Yeah. I killed the mind and had another replace it."

Opal's laugh deepened.

"Yeah, sure. You don't have to tell me about your mental cleansing ability if you don't want to. I won't pry."

I shrugged.

"Sure."

Opal sent me several messages, each of them containing the updated maps and charts for our cleared areas. As was the case with The Frostlands, the leyline density increased as we marched South. We had already pierced through the majority of this region, and I frowned at how far we had traveled.

I"How long was I tearing them apart?"

Opal took a breath.

"Three days."

I took a sharp breath.

"Well then. Ahem. We need to find the leader of this place. I may need to go back and get the cores before-"

Opal tossed me one of the fire cores leftover from one of the enormous, kilometer-spanning fore sharks.

"I harvested them. I also took obvious clumps of fire mana or valuable pieces off the eldritch corpses. In particular, the fire scales looked valuable since they could be fashioned into cold-resistant armor. They were easy to get to since you were killing such a wide area, and I'll charge you the standard scavenging rate that's expected from people."

I raised a brow.

"And here I thought you looked petrified."

Opal waved a hand.

"Hah, I totally was. It wasn't from the monsters, though. It was you that I was terrified of. For instance, like, why were you laughing maniacally?"

I furrowed my brow. Maybe the mana didn't help with my focus as much as I had thought.

"That was my armor, not me."

"Aren't you and that armor bonded?"

"Well, yes."

Opal moved a hand over the torn-apart terrain.

"So when it does something, you do it too. Anyways, it was crazy. You'd move forward, and ascendant mana radiated out from around you. It would soak into the eldritch, driving them into a bloodthirsty frenzy. They searched for the food source, found you, and died in droves. It was an extremely effective wiping strategy for an area. It also didn't destroy the territory itself, which is rare for Fringe Walkers in general."

I side-eyed her.

"So, it's not like I don't already know, but can you give me a refresher on how far we travelled?"

She shook her head.

"We crossed about 30,000 kilometers, so you covered 300,000 kilometers. Ergo, 100k a day. For your home planet, that means about eleven years to actually wipe the planet clean. It would be an immaculate cleansing as well since the eldritch ran out of dungeons, and you got rid of a few viral eldritch in the vicinity."

My eyes widened.

"Viral?"

Opal scoffed.

"Of course. They're all over the place. It's actually one of the most important aspects of Fringe Walking. We have to be able to isolate different strands, identify the dangerous ones, and eliminate them. Usually, that's done in the years following a clear via vaccines or other system-enforced methods. You know, like unlocking a tree that stops a certain strand of virus or bacteria."

I gawked.

"I've never noticed them. Huh. Weird."

She gestured to me like her hand was a sweeping broom.

"You'll never feel them since your armor absorbs them on contact. Your aura also cleanses them from an area, according to my readings, at least. Actually, that aura is such a profoundly effective sterilizing agent that I can hardly believe it. Other Fringe Walkers I know would kill for that ability since it saves so much time."

Opal peered up.

"And this would be a true solo clear. I've never done that before, and I've never heard of anyone doing it either."

Her cross made a smirk as she puffed out her chest.

"But that's nowhere near the year timeline you had mentioned."

I smiled back.

"What if you include the vanguard golem?"

She waved her hand.

"It barely cleared just over a tenth of what you did."

My smile brightened.

"Ah, then ten would clear this planet in eleven years as I would, a hundred would clear it in less than two, and a thousand golems would clear a planet in two months. That's not too bad."

Opal stepped back while hovering in the air.

"You can make that many? I thought you were limited to only a few every now and again. Maybe a special system skill or tree unlock or something."

I shook my head.

"I can make as many as I like, given enough time, that is. Anyways, let's head out to the boss of the area. I want to see what they have to offer. And of course, you'll need to stay back with the vanguard golem."

Opal nodded before we headed out. While passing the terrain, I took out portions of the eldritch while harvesting nearby leylines. I kept them in a different world slice than the icy leylines since their elements clashed. Another interesting tidbit involved the pocket dimensions I left the icy leylines in.

It had been a barren world of endless plains, and they lacked any stars in the distance. It was dying, and the leylines brought life once more. The channeling stones transformed the entire dungeon into an icy tundra. They took the energies from the collapsing subspace and honed them into something the eldritch could actually ingest, causing them to rapidly evolve to the ice-attuned energy.

While it didn't restore the subspace into an actual universe, it did revitalize the eldritch there. Even after only a week, the eldritch gained an average of six hundred levels from the mana exposure alone, and they lost some of their innate volatility. While not immediately useful, the experiment granted a far better understanding of how the leylines would operate on Earth.

From this experiment, I learned the leylines would rapidly empower the eldritch but make them less virulent. It was a trade-off and not necessarily a good one. Earth's average levels were somewhere in the 600-700 range for a normal person. Larger factions created stronger averages, like my guild, where individuals sat around the 2,000 mark. This meant they would get squashed by a leyline-saturated landscape.

Also, Schema retiring the leylines made more sense. They were potent long-term tools, but they offered intense demerits in the short term. I'd also imagine any mage or warrior attuned to the elements within the affected domain would be far stronger. Either way, plopping them down on Earth would result in disastrous consequences, so it couldn't be done.

At least not on its surface and not yet.

What about the rifts within the Infinity Plaza? That was a different story since the upper dungeons held pretty airtight defenses, preventing the eldritch from slipping out. Perhaps I could even store my portable dungeons within Mt. Verner and attune them to these different manas.

They could offer a variety of resources at a convenient, local location, and we could even cultivate rare plants and animals there. My mind danced with those possibilities as we all carved a path through the heated terrain. I enjoyed it quite a bit, the blazing mirage being stunning and gorgeous.

Unlike the icy domain, I harmonized with the approach of this entire space. It reflected my first advanced mana type, ascendance, and it also took full advantage of the stats and strategies I had neglected. In this case, my lack of boosting skills that burned through my resources.

It was such an obvious idea, yet I never even thought of it after all this time. My regeneration stats could handle immense amounts of strain, and I had abused that regarding my mana. On the other hand, my stamina stat had been left idle for a long time, even becoming a running joke in my head. The infinite plus plus stuff was like a victory lap after checking the other real numbers in my status.

Instead of having my stamina act as a hollow victory, I could use it to help achieve real triumphs instead. To make that happen, I would have to generate the mana of this place and actually learn it inside and out. It would be an obvious skill to use and a powerful dimensional wake, assuming these types of mana could even be one.

All that was left was channeling the mana through me to burn through my resources. Those thoughts swirled in my mind as we approached a collossal mountain in the distance. The peak bled into the fathomless darkness over our heads, the obsidian stone blending into the black sky. Strips of magma outlined the volcano's shape, exposing a structure as large as the Earth's moon.

It defied all expectations, and I gasped.

"How is this planet so damn huge?"

Opal gestured around us.

"You're talking about the gravity, right?"

I nodded.

"This place should've turned into a brown dwarf or small star since it has so much mass, yet it exists with a gravity that isn't overwhelmingly larger than the Earth's. It defies physics."

Opal scoffed.

"Yeah, physics without magic, maybe. Then again, what is physics without magic? It's like studying medicine without anatomy or math without logic. You end up missing a lot of what's capable of happening. You'd have to be a fool to assume that everything would work the same once you inject mana into an equation that complicated."

She pointed into the distance.

"For planets like this, the dungeons have all busted out of their pocket spaces. They're like rifts that opened all the way. Unlike in the current era, Schema used to integrate these spaces into the actual fabric of the world, and that's resulted in some wonkiness with the densities of different matters."

She pointed below.

"It's a dimensional patchwork down there, and because of that, the unity required for a huge gravity well never actually happens. They all fight like a bunch of planets orbiting each other. By the time that fight reaches the surface of the world, you get relative harmony."

I frowned.

"That sounds convenient."

Opal pointed at the mountain.

"So is a thousand-kilometer tall mountain, but there it is. We can question the hows all day, but we know it works this way. We can see and feel it. Instead of wondering about the details, how about we explore the huge volcano?"

I smiled at that thought.

"Alright. Sure."

We flew up the side of the immense peak. Unlike Ghelid's territory, the eldritch leader here didn't have breeding camps or torturous facilities. I hoped that was for some ethical cause, but I doubted it. The mountain itself fed the ruling eldritch with its magma flows. See, unlike a normal mountain, lava flows didn't stream down the sides of this place.

They ran up instead.

That resulted in literal mountains of fire crystals and cores coming up the sides of this volcano. Eldritch fought on the sides of the peak, trying to steal the loot of the leader. However, packs of phoenixes fought them off. They made no caws or squawks; the only sound emanating from them was the screams of burning eldritch.

