There’s still a lot to puzzle through and issues to deal with, like the minor fact that I have a possible army of Spectres chilling inside me and I have no idea what they’re up to, but this is the first real, tangible sign of metaphysical recovery I’ve seen, and I’ll be damned if it doesn’t feel good to have hope again. I spent the last three months believing I would recover to full strength given time, but now I actually have an actual, credible lead to follow as opposed to just promising options to pursue. A difference almost without distinction, but faith feels so much better when backed by fact.

Seventeen Tainted warriors later, my feet are sore and my knees ready to give out, but the worst part is I only have the monks’ word that something is happening. I don’t feel a process, I don’t feel better, I don’t feel more murderous, and there’s been no change whatsoever, but Happy and the Abbot are unrelenting. When they bring in the next patient, my stomach somersaults in protest as I greet the newcomer with a strained smile. “Hi Huu.”

“Uhn.” Responding with a non-committal grunt, my old friend glances around the yurt with a wary gaze, his wolfish eyes noting every detail and obstruction. There’s no smile or nod, no proffered hand or opened arms, just an inarticulate noise made to acknowledge my greeting, a far cry from the happy reunion I’d hoped to have. Bigger than I remember, Huu stands head, shoulders, and chest above me, a towering Sentinel who has to hunch over so not as to bump into the ceiling, and wide enough that he has to turn sideways to get through the door. Poking out from over his shoulder, Huu’s massive saber almost looks too dainty for him to use, but he still has yet to bind a second weapon despite my standing offer to supply one ever since we got back from Sanshu. Probably so he wouldn’t owe the Tainted foundling anything, which is... a reason, but it feels like forever ago when we sat together in the same room and shared a drink or three.

In his defence, ever since he lost his Uncle Kalil and his quin Jaga, Huu hasn’t really been the same, and finding out I was almost Defiled probably didn’t help things much, so I can understand why he ghosted me, even though I’m not particularly happy about it.

Finished taking in his surroundings, Huu’s gaze finally meets mine as he asks, “So? The monks said you needed to see me.”

...Do I tell him? Or should I just ask him to play along and keep quiet about his Spectres? Gotta say, I’m tempted to spill the beans, but not for the right reasons. I want him to realize he made a mistake and feel bad about abandoning our friendship over something I had no control over, and I’d be lying if I said I wouldn’t feel good about throwing this in his face, but that won’t change things. I’m still bitter and he probably still won’t want to be my friend, so telling him would just be unnecessary cruelty.

Clearing my throat, I just shake my head and say, “Please follow the Abbot’s instructions and we’ll be done soon enough.”

A tired yawn clues me in to an unseen guest, but after looking around the yurt three times for signs of Concealment, I realize the hidden party was brought in by Huu. Literally brought in, as the smelly old half-wolf geezer pokes his head out from behind Huu’s other shoulder, lounging in his adult-sized sling without a care in the world. “Answer the question boy,” he says, scratching at his scraggly white beard with an irritated grimace. “What you need the pup fer?”

Happy and the Abbot are no help, leaving the decision to me. Asking the Abbot to explain through Sending feels like too much of a cop out, so I choose my words carefully and explain, “We’re... conducting an experiment regarding my... rehabilitation and Huu might be able to help. It won’t take long, just a minute of his time and then we’re done.”

“Hmph.” Eyeing me with undisguised suspicion, the old half-wolf geezer asks, “This have to do with yer Talent? What do ye call it? Suckin’?”

Oh for fucks sake... “Devouring.” How many other people know about it? Is he another one of the mysterious bigwigs behind the People like Guard Leader? I mean, he’s old enough for the job, but he doesn’t strike me as management material. Dirty and dishevelled, I’d pegged him for the village slacker due to his favoured means of transportation and love of sleeping, unwilling to even ride a quin and preferring to be piggybacked like a child. To be fair, it looks kinda fun, and since I’m only a little taller than the old wolf is, I could probably get away with doing the same. Strap a harness on Huu’s back and we could go into war together, with him sweeping away the chaff while I fire spring-powered bullets at Defiled leadership, an unstoppable duo for the history books.

...Except Unity wouldn’t have survived the trip to Sinuji, much less an attempt to fire it, not to mention how Huu and I aren’t that close anymore. Reality sucks.

“Well?”

Well what? Oh right, I didn’t answer his question, but if I do, it’s giving Huu’s Tainted status away. Instead of answering, I ask Huu, “How much do you trust him?”

“Unconditionally.”

My old friend answers without hesitation, so after studying him for a moment longer, I sigh and nod. “Yea, it has to do with Devouring.”

“Okay then.” Patting Huu on the head, the old geezer says, “Let’s go pup.”

“...Good sir, if you would please wait.” Polite as can be, the Abbot blocks the doorway and offers a half bow in apology. “Perhaps you are unclear, but this experiment can only be beneficial to Khishig Huushal here.”

“Says you.” With Huu’s back turned to, I get to see the old geezer tuck himself back into his sling, which looks oh so snug and comfy. “Sure, maybe the boy can handle any Spectres the pup’s got on him now, but what happens after the boy dies? With luck on his side, the pup’ll outlive the boy a few hundred years, and them Spectres ain’t going nowhere, so it’s best he learn to deal with the Father’s whisperers now before the pup’s too old and set in his ways. Lose an uncle and a mount and the boy goes to pieces, Pei. Too fragile, these young’uns, but we work with what we’ve got.”

“You knew about the Spectres already?”

“Yes.” Turning around to face me, I can see the shame and regret in Huu’s eyes, his pain and fury lurking just beneath the surface and burning to be unleashed, but he reins it in tight with his iron will. “It has been difficult, but I am managing my affliction. I ask that you leave my Spectres alone, for this is the path I’ve chosen, to use them as a forge wherein I can temper my mettle. I will endure, or I will break, such is life. No need to worry, because if the latter should take place, then Great, Great, Great... Great Grand-Mentor here will put me down before I hurt anyone.”

Without waiting for an answer, Huu shoulders his way past the Abbot and leaves Song’s yurt, his head raised high and shoulders squared as he carries his burden with grace. I don’t mean the old half-wolf, because I know first-hand how difficult life with the Spectres can be, but Huu is facing them head-on despite knowing there’s an easier way out. Is this why he’s been avoiding me? Why I haven’t seen hide nor hair of him since he left Sanshu? Because he knew I could Devour Spectres and didn’t want me to mess up his ‘training’?

...

Or has he been avoiding everyone because he doesn’t want to infect them with his Spectres? I mean... I heard he was often out in the wilderness training with Ghurda, so maybe it wasn’t just me...

“Hmm.” Intruding upon my revelation, the Abbot says, “What he said is not without reason. Perhaps this is why Junior Brother’s retinue holds so many susceptible individuals, because their willpower has no chance to be tested.” Lips pursed in thought, he sighs and says, “This monk will ponder on this during meditation, but for now, perhaps Junior Brother should get some rest; the night is late and your health is of the utmost importance.” Before I can point out he’s the reason I’m not asleep yet, the Abbot makes his escape with Happy close behind, leaving Lin, Song, and Luo-Luo and myself to clean up the dirt and mud splattered across Song’s floor.

Many hands make light work, so soon enough, I crawl into my tent and find Mama Bun already fast asleep beneath the covers. Tucked in her arms is sweet baby Blackjack, and the sight of them snuggling together is almost enough to make up for Mama Bun’s unwillingness to move aside and make room. Such are the sacrifices we make for the ones we love, so I crawl into bed and lay at a bent angle while doing my best not to think about the horrific nightmares to come.

I don’t mean actual nightmares, or the horrors of war either. Collecting Spectres is the first step to get better, but since my Devour range has been nerfed to ‘touch’ only, this means that if I want to go about Cleansing Sinuji and collecting Spectres, then I’ll need to be proactive about it, which means using ‘celebrity’ status to set up a meet and greet with various strangers so I can make small talk and shake their hands.

Ugh. I would rather march out to fight the Defiled with only a rusty knife. Meeting new people is the worst...

Chapter Meme
