"As appealing as that sounds, and as understandable as your mockery is, this is simply what must be done," Cripple replied, no hint of shame in its voice. "There is no room for mercy or weakness in a struggle between nations. The Yellowstone Republic is stable because we make it so. Because we, the Ascendants, guard this land against all corners, against all adversaries. Through our power and our Prismatic Guard, this nation is maintained. Prosperity rises, and there is a future, rather than an eternal struggle for base survival."

Shiv wanted to argue, but he decided to consider Cripple’s points. The Ascendants were the glue that kept the Republic together. Of that, he was sure. Without them... Well, without them, Shiv wasn't sure what would happen to the Republic. Some cities might break off, but if he had to make a guess, he suspected that the larger ones, such as Fortress-City Diego, might just actually start annexing territory. And soon there would be another Republic, Empire, or Faith where Yellowstone was. Ruled by a Legend or a god, or someone stronger than all the others. Because that's the way it worked everywhere.

Even in Weave, where life was truly gentle, and there was a sense of innocence and stability in the atmosphere thanks to the Composer's presence, there were problems. And the Composer was the one with the final say.

That realization made Shiv frown a bit. The System loved the individual. It empowered those who triumphed against impossible odds. But there was something wrong with that. Just because someone was an incredible warrior or an overwhelming mage, it didn't make them a good leader.

Shiv thought about Sullain.

The Vicar was an Omnimancer. He was easily the single greatest mage Shiv had ever faced. Yet he betrayed himself. He let himself be killed by Shiv and a small army of orcs when he could have just used his workings from afar or simply left the battlefield, even assisted the Tarrasque. If Sullain continued working with the Tarrasque, then perhaps everyone would be dead. But he was blind, and he was wounded at the heart. And so he fell.

At that, Shiv's mind trailed off. How the hells did Sullain get to Legendary? he thought to himself. How the hells did he beat himself in the Delve? But then, as Shiv considered it more, he came up with a theory. If Sullain was this emotional, then perhaps his clone was equally emotional. Maybe they traded barbs, and the clone broke down first, and after a few or a lot of tries, Sullain eventually won. That sounds pretty stupid, Shiv thought. But maybe it's actually how it went? No way to know, I guess.

"No," Cripple said once more. "So long as you are within this cage, I must—"

And then the cage rumbled. Everything rumbled. A loud noise followed that sounded like a scream, but it reverberated through the air, detonating as if a thunderstorm had been unleashed within the prison. The Avatar froze and looked upward. Shiv did as well. A second thereafter, a loud broadcast filled the room. A broadcast unleashed telepathically, drenching the prison in a loud, orcish voice.

"Good evening, Pathbearers. If you heard that roar, that means that every single monstrosity you have caged within level 900 section 7 just got released. I don't know much about these mana controls you have here, but I do know enough about how to break them. Now, I'm going to go through every other mana control I can access and unleash everything you have caged in this prison. My name, for those of you who wish to know it, is Bonk. I'm an orc. I'm of the Challenger. And on this day, I will be offering you your in-prison entertainment. To the guards, I strongly suggest you band together and try to hold the prisoners at bay. This breakout will be rather brutal. I have taken a peek at some of the denizens in your cells. They are quite substantial. You comparatively… Well, let's just hope your Ascendant here comes to save you."

And with every word Bonk said, Shiv's grin grew wider. I’m starting to love that orc.

The Avatar turned to stare at him, and Shiv cracked his neck. "All right, Cripple, let's come to another deal. You let me out of this cage, and I'll help you contain the breakout. Keep some of the guards safe. Or you can go yourself, and I'll try to break out in the meantime. You know I will, I'm not going to lie to you." Before Cripple could say anything, Shiv added a final suggestion. "Or we could both sit here and do nothing. But then all the deaths will be on your conscience. Can you take that?"

Cripple glared at Shiv for a long moment and then shook its head. "You will remain here. Attempt escape if you must, but understand that I will find you, and I will place you back within the cell. It is for your own safety."

"No," Shiv said, his voice turning harsh. "It's just for your security. Because you can’t control me, and you don’t want to risk someone else getting the reward on my head. And when I do break out the cell, I'm going to crush it. I'm going to crush it like a can, and I'm going to vanish. You will not find me. You will try, and it might take me a little bit to figure out this prison, but I'm going to get out. And when I do, I hope you get to Stormhalt before I do, because I have a few questions to ask him. And I won’t be as nice as I was with you.”

Just then, a piercing scream came from above. It was not a monstrous scream. No, it was a scream of a female Pathbearer, and it was accompanied by the sound of ripping flesh. A growl of frustration escaped Cripple, and it vanished in a puff of incandescent ashes. As soon as it did, Shiv enacted his plan. A tide of force exploded out from his body, rushing along the chains through his Orichalcum bonds.

They slashed into the mana infusing his Orichalcum cell and against the spell patterns present, and the mana began to rip and spill. Patterns broke like rusted cages or severed tendons. Several of the spells tried to trigger. A blast of Psychomancy hit Shiv, and he felt his mind collapse in on itself only momentarily before another innate pulse of might was generated. With that, he pushed it back. He held it at bay and tore through the spell patterns present.

A blast of heat struck Shiv in the chest. Lightning lashed into his bonds, trying to overwhelm his body. Lightning infused with Biomancy that was meant to compromise his nervous system. Shiv pushed back with more than his Legendary Skill. He used his Biomancy to keep himself stable, resisting the adversarial effects until he ripped that spell asunder as well.

Soon, Shiv's overflowing vectors were circulating through the Orichalcum prison. He unleashed more and more. Those he couldn't focus on detonated in slashes of surging force. But Shiv practiced his mind, practiced his Multi-Tasking skill, as the Orichalcum chamber rattled, screamed, and finally began to crack. Fissures spread along its length. It continued drawing from his willpower to sustain its toughness.

In vain.

Shiv's might far exceeded the durability of this cage. With a final ripple of strength, he channeled his might and pried at the cracks, bending it open as if a tin can rather than a cylinder of Orichalcum. The red-gold alloy of unmatched hardness shrieked as it endured enough kinetic energy to displace mountains and tear the earth down to the very foundations of the world. But soon Shiv’s strength went beyond that, and the Orichalcum just couldn't keep up anymore. There was enough power leaking from him that it could turn unwarded cities to dust, could flatten mountain ranges. And all that force tore a ten-centimeter-wide gap into the Orichalcum.

The Deathless let out a wheeze as he shook off the burning feeling in his muscles. As another ripple of strength thundered out from inside him, he felt his vigor return—and turned his innate force on himself. He crushed his heart, pulping it in an instant. And as his body went slack, his Vitae burst out from his corpse, and he began to slither through the crack.

Multi-Tasking 24 > 26

Aegis of Assimilation 112 > 114

Just as Shiv started squeezing his way out, Cripple returned in a blast of incandescent ash. But the moment it rematerialized, Shiv shifted out of context. He slithered into the gap and disappeared.

Shiv couldn't help but laugh. Outside Context Problem was a wonderful skill to have. "Now," Shiv said to himself, "let's find Bonk so I can give him a hug. And also so that I can figure out where the rest of my equipment went." Despite all the dangers and threats looming on the horizon, he was feeling excited. “I always wanted to break out of a prison.”

Outside Context Problem 87 > 88

***

The Ascendant stared at the corpse and looked up at the large spiderweb of fractures left in the structure. Cripple’s core filled with dread as it considered what kind of creature was strong enough to tear a fissure like this into Orichalcum. That was a Legendary-Tier act of strength.

At least.

But then…

"Who are you?" Cripple asked aloud, staring at the dead, musclebound man hanging from his Orichalcum bonds. "And who did this to you?”
