Hundreds of tendrils burrowed into each imperfection, triggering a fluctuation that Zac immediately recognized: uncertainty. The very real problems with his Cosmic Core had somehow come into question. What was real became uncertain, and what was uncertain became illusory. Zac soon saw unblemished patches appearing beneath the “illusions.” The illusion disappeared when enough shavings had entered an imperfection, leaving a pristine section seamlessly integrated with its surroundings.

The process seemed very similar to how Descartes recovered from lethal blows, except something deeper had been added to the [Peregrine Almond]’s illusory Dao. Zac could somewhat tell that Idiche’s augmentation didn’t just boost the almond’s efficacy, it made adjustments that aligned with a higher order.

Zac didn’t need to do anything but keep his body from competing for the delectable treasure. The threads knew exactly what they needed to do, as if they’d already been provided with a blueprint surpassing Zac’s own understanding. The threads found problematic sections that Zac was completely unaware of until they were pointed out, and they removed the inescapable heterodoxy of a mortal’s Cosmic Core.

They even navigated his Quantum Core without issue, passing into the life-attuned section that should be hidden in the Void. Layer by layer, Zac’s Cosmic Core was reborn. The outer shell of his core was arguably the least important part compared to the nucleus, but the almond was far from spent.

Zac became engrossed in the process even though he was a spectator observing from the outside. The level of detail added brought important revelations to his future cultivation, and Zac unhesitantly drew on the refined insights he’d gathered in the lake of corruption. As the threads of Dao-transcending illusions delved deeper, so did his manic search for truth.

There was nothing else, only enlightenment hidden behind falsehoods. His perception eventually reached the utmost depths, and everything clicked into place. A storm of elusive patterns danced in Zac’s mind, connecting and evolving at a frantic pace. They were exactly what Zac needed, but they weren’t his yet. The winds dwindled, taking the patterns with them. Zac frantically memorized as much as he could until every drop of Ultom’s enlightenment was squeezed dry.

Zac exhaled as he slowly opened his eyes, left with only the bittersweet taste of a concluded epiphany. Sweet because he’d crossed the most difficult hurdle in creating his Peak D-grade blueprint, and the resulting core would exceed his previous estimates. Bitter because he’d barely scratched a corner of the extraordinary power hidden within Idiche’s gift.

He shook his head, reminding himself not to be too greedy. The free insights were only a bonus to the real reward. Zac turned his vision inward once more. The [Peregrine Almond] and all traces of its existence were gone, like his previous experience was yet another dream. Zac went deeper, past his Duplicity Core and into his Quantum Space. There it waited; the proof it was all real.

A perfect Cosmic Core.
