Ali sat at the broad walnut table in the library with ‘The Fundamentals of Arcane Magic’ lying open in front of her, but her eyes were not seeing the pages. It was still too early for her friends; Mato and Malika were still sleeping. Calen and Ryn, of course, were still off in Ciradyl.

Shaking her head, she tried to refocus on her task – she had been studying this book, searching for new magic for making better traps, but she was far too distracted, and her heart was simply not in it.

It’s today.

Today was the scheduled class advancement for the guild. Today was the day she would be screaming to the world that she was a dungeon.

I already have enough people coming down here to kill me. As if in response to that thought, her notification chimed.

Your minions have defeated Warrior – Zombie – level 3.

Thanks, she told it. That’s not exactly what I meant.

“Deep thoughts, child?” Lira asked, her body twisting a little as her mana rippled through the heavy branch and she stepped out onto the deep-pile rug Ryn had bought for the area.

“Am I making a huge mistake, Aunt Lira?” Ali asked, putting voice to the question weighing on her heart. Malika was quite invested in helping the guild recruits and had been the one asking if she could help out with her shrine. Well, her friend probably cared more about helping the poor and disenfranchised and saw the guild as a means to an end – but was it really smart to be doing something as public as this? It was a noble goal, but every time Ali had drawn attention to herself and her abilities, it had just heaped problems upon her head. Serious problems, like Roderik and his murderous intentions. She barely had enough mana to make a passable defense for her domain – sometimes she wished she had claimed a far smaller, more defensible area far from civilization and the prying eyes and grasping ambitions that came with people.

“What mistake?” Lira asked, trickling a little mana into the pot to summon water for tea.

“Obviously, it will be good for the recruits to get better class choices,” Ali said. “And probably good for the town in the long run, but is it smart to draw that much attention to myself and my class? I just wish people would leave me alone. I know the Guildmaster really wants it, and so does Malika, but …”

“What does your heart tell you?” Lira asked. “I think everyone in the town already knows what your class is, but they don’t necessarily know who you are. Perhaps this is a way to show them?”

My heart? How is that relevant? “You think it’s a good idea to show them I’m a dungeon?”

“Everybody knows what a dungeon is,” Lira said, looking up from the tea set to regard her closely for a moment. “Who is Aliandra? I suspect they do not know who you are – you are not just some evil monster-spouting dungeon, right?”

Show them who I am? Ali paused in the middle of making a face as Lira’s meaning became clearer. It was an unexpected perspective, and one of the things she appreciated most about her aunt – with so much experience, she had a unique perspective that sometimes shone such clarity onto problems that unexpected solutions might simply leap out of the confusion.

“I guess they’re already attacking me,” Ali said, letting a little of her frustration color her voice. “I may as well be open about it.” But that was not exactly what Lira was getting at. People were afraid of dungeons and, without anything else to go on, they would be likely to support the people trying to kill her. If she stood up and showed them who she was, maybe some of them would want to help her? Would that be better? How closely does ‘help’ align with ‘take advantage of?’

So, who am I?

When she put it like that, it was a remarkably difficult question to answer.

“I don’t know…” Ali said, looking to Lira for help.

“What were you thinking when you saved that dear Goblin from the Ice Mage? Or rescued the necromancer boy, Seth?” Lira asked, pouring the tea and bringing it to the table for her.

“I…” Ali stopped as an easy answer failed to materialize. She hadn’t really been thinking at all; those things had just happened. She had done the only thing that seemed right at the time. Like jumping off the city ring to save Calen, sometimes things just had to be done. But then there were other times when she had needed to decide; saving Mato after he had savaged her, choosing to let her friends use the shrine to unlock their classes before she even knew them, or even trying to save Lira. In each case, there was an easier way out, but there had never been any doubt in her heart, so she had simply followed it without necessarily giving it much thought.

What does my heart say? I’m basically good?

Simplistic as it sounds, that’s what she means… and more. Yes. Suddenly, understanding flooded in. She wanted to help the novices get good classes because in her heart she knew it was the right thing to do. As to the rest, she would just have to figure it out along the way.

But she suddenly found herself wishing she could sit with her father in his Grove and talk it over with him like she always had when she was younger, and the comforting warmth of the idea that she might do good splintered under the weight of her grief. She was afraid of him – the Blind Lich. Afraid of his power. Afraid of his overwhelming presence, and the specter of his returning to finish the job. And yet… somewhere deep within her, that defiant rage leaked through the cracks. Perhaps she had… other reasons to want to offer her shrine.

“My heart says it’s the right thing,” Ali said, her stomach still churning with apprehension. Such idealism did not make the problems any less real, though – she was really going to need to get her defenses shored up. There was no number of low-level adventurers with combat classes like Aiden and Havok that could save her. She – a dungeon – needed strong allies.

“Your father would have been proud of you,” Lira smiled, joining her at the table and sipping on her tea. “He made the same choices. Occasionally, the paths he chose did cause him some big problems, but in the long run, he made an enormous difference to many people’s lives.”

“Why did he do it?” Ali asked, wrestling with the specter of the mountain of problems she might be about to create.

“He lived his life according to his values,” Lira said. “Everything else, he said, would take care of itself. He was strong and had your mother, powerful friends, and allies in the three kings, but he always stood firm for what he believed was right. He didn’t talk too much about it, but I think it gave his heart a deep, abiding peace – at least, that’s what I always sensed and observed about his Grove and the life he made here.”

“I wish it wasn’t so hard,” Ali said, but she had always gone to him when her world had been shaken. She would have given anything for the steady rock of his comfort and calm assurance right now.

Sabri stepped down off the last rung of the rusty iron ladder bolted into the side of the crumbling brick wall and found herself in a dimly lit chamber. She huddled back against the wall, slipping a little on the slick moss that carpeted the ground, trying to avoid the press of all the strangers chatting excitedly around her. Threaded through the hubbub was the sound of trickling water and the faint foul odor of sewage. Sabri pulled her eyes away from the small circle of sunlight confined to the top of the brick shaft, briefly wondering if she’d ever see it again. Firmly, she pushed the unwanted thought out of her mind.

“Welcome to the Myrin’s Keep sewer, where those of you seeking to unlock combat classes can conduct your trial. I’ve made the monsters back off for now so that we can pass through uninterrupted, but usually there are up to level five kobolds, goblins, or slimes in this area.”

The musical voice had an unusual accent and came from the Fae perched upon a small glowing magical disk, levitated to a height that everyone might see.

Aliandra. The dungeon.

She continued explaining, pointing out notable sights as she led the group deeper into the sewer, but Sabri anxiously searched the crowd. Somehow, she had managed to become separated from Rezan, Hala, and Basir, finding herself entirely surrounded by strangers. She hung back a little, giving herself a little more room by being at the back of the group. She shrunk back further and then yelped as she bumped into a hairy giant of a man who seemed to be all muscle and power.

Druid – Beastkin – level ??

Sabri bounced off him, but he might as well not have noticed given how little the inadvertent collision affected him. Her eyes snapped up to his face at the sound of a sharp crunch and the sudden scent of sweetness. He glanced down at her with smiling eyes and bit into a shiny red apple.

Her stomach grumbled audibly, and she looked away as a burning flush filled her cheeks.

“Catch.”

The voice and a flicker of motion triggered her reflexes and, with a slapping noise, she suddenly found a second apple caught in the palm of her hand. She stared at the beautiful thing while her stomach clenched with hunger. But she had nothing to offer in exchange.

“I can’t afford it,” she said. It took all her willpower to stretch her hand out to return the apple to him. But he just took another bite of his own apple, conspicuously ignoring her hand.

“You remind me a little of Malika. She didn’t like gifts either.”

He knows Malika?

“Ali has a few apple trees down in her forest, and I help cultivate them with my mana. I’d bet anything you’ve never tasted anything as good as a dungeon-grown apple,” the hulking Beastkin added, seemingly not minding carrying the conversation.

Feeling stupid holding the apple out to him, Sabri withdrew her hand, glancing at his face trying to discern if he was being serious or making fun of her. He just smiled and continued munching his apple with great relish while they followed along behind the group. Her eyes returned to her hand and the shiny fruit so large she struggled to get her fingers around it. The last time her mother had been able to afford an apple they had split it as a treat – it must have been the summer before last, and she still remembered the sweetness. A sweetness she could still smell as the Beastkin bit into the apple again, already almost finished with his snack.

Without her even being conscious of moving, Sabri found herself holding the apple to her mouth, the faint scent of it filling her nostrils. The crisp fresh crunch of her teeth biting into it was followed by a rush of sweetness in her mouth as the juice sprayed everywhere. She gasped and reached up to catch the drops running down her chin, not wanting to waste even a tiny bit of the heavenly nectar.

He chuckled beside her. “Good, aren’t they?”

But she barely heard him in her rush to devour it.

***

“… and this chamber is where I made my first boss. It is a raid threat, so do not engage it until you’re prepared and have reached high enough levels.”

Sabri tuned into the words of Aliandra floating way up at the front of the group as they all filed into a dank chamber lit by the mystical-looking glowing mushrooms that dotted the entire sewer. It was a strange place with plants growing up the walls, moss on the ground, and surprisingly clear and fresh water flowing through the channels in the ground. Entirely unlike the dirty, smelly place she had expected when they had told her it was a sewer.

As she entered the large chamber, her eyes widened, and her heart began to thump behind her breastbone. Standing up against the far wall, silhouetted by the rising glow emanating from a jagged hole in the floor, were four of the largest, meanest Kobolds she had ever seen. The muscular green-scaled one at the front bared its teeth, brandishing a well-honed shortsword and rattling a solid-looking shield of polished gray bone.

None could be Identified which meant they were higher than level five, but Sabri did not need her skill to tell they were powerful. She could feel it. The sheer presence they emitted and the intense looks in their reptilian eyes sent shivers up her spine.

This is a dungeon.

Aliandra barked words in a guttural harsh language, and all four Kobolds stepped aside.

“I have instructed them not to attack without provocation for today, so you can complete your trials. I don’t suggest you test them.” A whisper and murmuring swept through the crowd as the powerful monsters responded to her commands.

Even with the reassurance from the dungeon herself, Sabri still hung back, battling with a surge of fear triggered by the sight of sharp fangs and the powerful aura emanating from the monsters in the back. She briefly shut her eyes and used her Meditation to try to calm herself down, wondering why she was the only one who was afraid.

The monsters bowed to the small Fae floating by as she led the way to the hole in the floor and the stairwell below.

“How are you doing?”

Sabri jumped at the sound of the familiar voice from right beside her, and when she turned, she found Malika standing beside her. Her heart still thumped in her throat, but she knew it was not entirely due to being startled. The first time she had seen Malika, it had been in the ring facing Basir. She had been curious, knowing most people who faced him tapped out after mere seconds, but Malika had gone head-to-head with him for ages, never giving an inch, facing down his rock and stones with a shocking resilience. Sabri yearned to be that strong. If she could only be as powerful as Malika, she would have no trouble earning money to help her mother. They wouldn’t have to work the fields all spring and summer, and still have to beg for food in the winter.

“I… I’m scared,” Sabri blurted out. Immediately she blushed and covered her mouth with a hand. How could she betray herself to someone so strong?

“I was scared the first time I came down here, back when it was a dungeon of bone and death magic,” Malika said softly. “I see you’ve already met Mato. We all unlocked our classes at Ali’s shrine. Come, let’s walk together.”

She stared at Malika’s back as she led the way forward.

She was scared, too? Malika?

It somehow seemed impossible, but Malika had sounded honest and genuine, and she acted like being scared was nothing special. She glanced up at the huge Beastkin, Mato, but he just gestured for her to go first. Sabri scrambled to catch up to Malika and walk beside her, glancing nervously as they approached the four terrifying Kobolds but, while she felt their stares on her the whole way, the scaled and fanged creatures stood aside and let them pass.

