She put a foot on the golden magical stair, finding the floating step unexpectedly unyielding and then she rushed down, following Malika. It seemed to be made from the same stuff that Aliandra was using to fly on. She was so preoccupied with the stairs that she only looked up when Malika spoke.

“Impressive, isn’t it?”

She froze on the last stair, gaping at the sight. The ground below fell away, drawing her eyes to a vast cavern that stretched out into the distance. A vast lake nestled among huge trees emitting a soft blue magical light and the entire space was filled with constellations of golden glowing plants and mushrooms. As their group wound its way between the trees and along the moss and grass, monstrous black wolves stood aside watching their progress with intense green eyes.

A green light darted by, nearly bumping into her face as it zipped off into the trees. “What…” she yelped, startled.

“A wisp,” Mato said, chuckling. “Pretty, aren’t they?”

“Y… yes.” Neither he nor Malika seemed even slightly perturbed by the strange creature. Searching the trees, Sabri found dozens of them, darting back and forth, filling the air with the ethereal glow of their mana.

The hike through the forest took quite some time, but Sabri spent all of it staring, trying to take it all in, taking comfort in the fact that someone as powerful as Malika was beside her the entire way. Eventually, she emerged from the forest into a mossy grove dotted with fairy rings of glowing mushrooms and she saw it. The shrine! She had never seen a shrine before, but there was no mistaking it. The giant obelisk of polished black stone towered above her – above everyone – nestled in the center of the grove with a small stone pathway inviting them to approach. Vast power emanated from the artifact, a palpable hum that was felt in her bones rather than heard, and it positively shone with magical runic inscriptions etched all over its surface.

The ground beneath her feet shuddered. And then again, and Sabri snapped her head to the side to follow the loud creaking and grinding noise. Gasps and yelps echoed from the recruits. Slowly approaching the shrine was a monster of wood and bark large enough to crush them all, and heavy enough to make the ground shake with every step of the four gnarled trunks it used for legs. Trailing along in its wake were smaller monsters of various kinds, wood and mushrooms, and as they swept past, they left flowers dotted across the ground.

“Stop.” The monster instantly ground to a halt at Aliandra’s command. “This is my second boss, made to protect the shrine.”

Sabri shivered at the sheer power of the monster. She stared, finally understanding how a deer felt gazing at a wolf. The Kobolds had been powerful, but this thing made her feel insignificant. Like a speck of dust in a storm. It was only when Malika touched her on the shoulder that she realized Aliandra was gazing at her waiting for a response.

“I can unlock your class experience before the trial,” she repeated.

“I… mine is already unlocked. I have only one day left,” Sabri said, her gaze dropping to her feet worried that, somehow, she would not be eligible for the shrine because of it.

“Oh. Would you like to choose your class now?” Aliandra asked. “Or did you want to attempt the trial first to try to earn more experience and improve your chances?”

“I can choose?” Sabri had not expected that she could simply walk in and pick her class immediately.

“If you’re happy with the direction of your natural class and just want to look at a few other options, we can take care of it now. The trial is necessarily risky; just because the monsters are mine doesn’t mean they can’t kill you. If I interfere in any way, you won’t earn experience for the trial. But if you really want to improve the chances of getting a good class, the actions you take during the trial matter a lot.”

Laborer.

The whole reason she was here was because her natural class committed her to the same life of poverty her mother had endured. Unlocking something like her natural class was the last thing she wanted.

“I would like to do the trial?” she said. “Um… if that’s ok?”

“Of course,” Aliandra said with a disarmingly pretty smile. “Malika, can you give her some armor and a sword while I unlock everyone else?”

“Sure. Here, this should fit you,” Malika said as Aliandra turned to the next candidate. She turned to find Malika holding out a sword, not unlike the one wielded by the Kobold warrior in the sewer above, a small buckler, and a set of leather armor. She stared at the items, a flush rising in her neck and reaching her cheeks.

Everyone will see how poor I am. As if her dirt-stained bare feet and torn shirt hadn’t already given it away.

“Take them,” Malika insisted. “You will need protection for the trial. Unless you’re interested in an unarmed monk class? I can get you different weapons if you have a preference. You’re not the only one who needs equipment, I’m not singling you out.” The last part was said much softer, pitched so that only she could hear.

Reluctantly, Sabri took the sword and let Malika strap her into the uncomfortably stiff leather jerkin. She hated the attention of all the people watching her, but Malika had been truthful, and after she was done, she went to help several other people.

“Sabri, why don’t you join this group?” It was the Guildmaster who led her to a group of several other applicants, all of which were standing around in varying states of excitement or her own dazed bewilderment.

***

Elder Rezan was gone. Basir and Hala were gone too, and so was Malika. Sabri would have been happy even to have Aliandra, or the Beastkin who had given her the delicious apple. She stood and stared down the dark sewer tunnel with four complete strangers, most of them wielding borrowed weapons and armor without the classes and skills to give them true power. Sabri was terrified. The unfamiliar sword she held trembled lightly in her grasp.

Come on. I’ve trained for this. Elder Rezan says this is right. He must think I’m ready.

“Let’s get this done,” the tiny Gnomish girl with the shock of blue hair said, waving an expensive-looking wand around in the air. “I want to get my Lightning Mage class today.”

They had all introduced themselves before setting out, but she had been so nervous about the trial that she hadn’t had the presence of mind to remember any of their names. The Gnomish girl seemed to be a little impatient and somewhat arrogant. Still, she was comfortable leading, so Sabri simply followed along at the back of their group, trying to be vigilant to everything, squinting in the dim light cast by the mushrooms.

The tunnels twisted and turned haphazardly and before she knew it, Sabri was lost in the endless enchanted sewer tunnels. She turned a corner and heard a strange sloshing sound followed by a plop. Another splat followed close behind and something wobbly and mottled-brown crawled its way across the mossy ground.

Toxic Slime – Ooze – level 1Toxic Slime – Ooze – level 2

Monsters! Even though they were explicitly searching for them, she had irrationally hoped they wouldn’t find any. Her heart thumped loudly in her throat and her sword shook as her grip tightened on the hilt. The creatures sloshed closer, their forms stretching and oozing along the ground as they pulled themselves forward with protrusions formed from their bodies. She wanted desperately to run, but her feet seemed glued to the mossy ground.

Panicky yells echoed from the tunnel walls as the others charged the slimes, but Sabri stood there, unable to even move. Three of her companions attacked the first slime, leaving just the tiny Gnome to face the higher-level one on her own. Amid the frenzy of yelling and awkward clanging of swords, the Gnome leveled her wand, and a bright spark shot out, hitting the slime. But the monster hardly budged, flowing forward undeterred as the Gnome scrambled backward until she was pressed up against the wall. She fired again, her eyes growing wide with terror as the monster flowed up against her, enveloping her legs.

Sabri stared in horror as the Gnome began to scream, battering the squelchy monster as it slowly enveloped her body. It covered her legs and then flowed up her chest while she thrashed ineffectively, arms making pitiful splatting sounds against the greenish sludge. The screaming cut off abruptly as slime flowed over the girl’s head.

She’s going to die. It was a certainty. But the thought floated around in Sabri’s head, unattached to any perception of meaning. The Gnome was going to suffocate and die, or drown, or be dissolved. Suddenly, time seemed to freeze between one panicked thud of her heart and the next. Everything became clear, extraordinarily clear, and it seemed she had entered a waking dream.

I shouldn’t be here. She could have just chosen her class, she should have. She should have avoided the danger, but she had the arrogance, the temerity, to want a better class, and now she was going to have to watch someone die.

Will I be next? She still couldn’t move a muscle. Her gaze locked with the terrified eyes of the Gnome, seen through the transparent murky membrane of the muddy green slime’s body.

Malika wouldn’t let her die.

Sabri had no idea where the thought had come from, but the idea of Malika standing rooted in fear while someone was eaten by a monster was so unimaginable that it snapped her mind right out of its fear with a sharp jolt of clarity.

I can’t let her die! Without a second thought, Sabri rushed forward, waving her shaking sword at the monster that was trying to eat a Gnome. She screamed as her wayward slash connected and toxic fluid splashed against her skin and the poison burned into her flesh.

You have been afflicted with Poison.+0.15 Poison damage per second.Poison – Duration: 10 minutes. Count: 1

She slashed again, and again and again.

I have to get her out. Sabri tore into the monster with a single-minded fury, slashing with the bone sword and battering it with her fists, letting the endless hours of practicing forms take over her body, reacting to her will to tear the monster from the weakly struggling Gnome.

Your Poison has increased to 2.

Her sword pierced the slime’s membrane tearing a hole in its jelly-flesh. She dropped her buckler and thrust her hand into the hole, ignoring the searing pain, and pulled with all her strength, ripping it wider to free the Gnome’s head.

Your Poison has increased to 3.

The blue-haired Gnome sucked in a ragged breath, coughing and spluttering, while the monster tried to reform its body, but Sabri kept ripping and slashing, not letting up until the slime slid off the Gnome and collapsed into a foul-smelling, gooey puddle on the ground and a chime sounded in her mind.

Your group has defeated Toxic Slime – Ooze – level 2

Sabri sank to the ground panting from the exertion, fear, and pain, trying desperately to keep the apple inside her churning stomach. The sword slipped out of her nerveless fingers. She would need a healer after this, her skin was severely burnt, but the Gnome was far worse off than she was.

She looked over to find the Gnome on all fours beside her, coughing and retching, her blue hair slicked down by the remains of the slime.

Brena. Her name is Brena.

“Thank you,” Brena said weakly. “You… you saved me.”

Sabri sat stunned for a while. She had never imagined those words would be spoken to her. Saving people was for the heroes of the stories her mother told her when she was a child.

“Here,” Brena said, producing two small vials of red liquid and offering one to her. “For the poison.”

“Thanks,” Sabri said, taking it, but before she could examine it, a sloshing splash from the water interrupted her and a new slime loomed up behind Brena. Leaping to her feet, Sabri scooped up her shield and slammed it into the slime an instant before it reached the other girl. Brena yelped and scrambled backward, leaving Sabri alone to contend with the monster.

Desperately, she fended it off with her shield but, right at that moment, something bright flashed past her shoulder, crackling as it impacted the slime. Sabri glanced back, locking eyes with the grim-faced Gnome who leveled her wand at the monster and fired again.

“Let’s do this!” the Gnome screeched, sounding almost… happy? “Potion!”

Dumping the potion down the back of her throat, Sabri discarded the vial and scrambled to snatch up her sword from where it had fallen. She slashed upward, knocking the Toxic Slime backward. A soft glowing warmth pulsed from within her as the potion began to do its work. She might be outmatched, but she was not alone.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
