Heya Samurai,I know, I know, it's not a chapter, or really important news, but still, I wanted to make a thank-you post, and it's 2:27AM, and I'm a little emotional, so you're going to have to endure my enthusiasm for a moment!Stray Cat Strut has hit 10,000 followers!That's... that's kind of insane!SCS started a pretty long time ago, but I remember taking several long walks while I hashed out the details of the story. It was relatively soon after I started Cinnamon Bun, and I wanted to write something special.It took some time, but I eventually decided that I wanted to write a story that was written in a way that it was easy for people to want to project themselves into the story. So I looked to stories where that's easy and took notes and inspiration from them.It probably doesn't show too much, but the main inspirations for Stray Cat Strut's system are Worm by Wildbow, RWBY, and Harry Potter. Stories that have a large fanbase and avid readers. I wanted that, a world that people could project themselves, or a cooler version of themselves, into.This tale has been pilfered from Royal Road. If found on Amazon, kindly file a report.As far as stylistic and genre influences, Stray Cat Strut mostly has its roots in classic Cyberpunk. Neuromancer and Snow Crash are some of my faves. There's also a heavy dash of BAHHSSCQ in there! (If you can find that one, give it a read, and all hail Bread-chan!)Anyway, I'm rambling a little. I've had a lot of cool ideas, and some less-cool ones, and most of the time they only end up being a little novel that I write mostly for myself, with few readers and fewer fans.I'm really happy that Stray Cat Strut was one of the exceptions, and that so many people have come to enjoy it this much!I still have a lot of ideas to explore, and stories to tell within this world, so don't worry! I'll only end when my heart finally give out <3Thank you, sincerely, for being here and for reading and commenting and just being part of this!Keep warm; stay cool,RavensDagger
