The variant that evolved from the sheer amount of mana he'd poured into it was astonishingly expensive but had similar problems, though it did seem to have a better rate of success. It had created exactly fifty-six loaves of bread.

"Why are there cats?" Leo asked, horrified.

Fifty-six loaves of bread and three cats, Cale amended mentally. The cats were probably where most of that mana went; conjuring or summoning life was tricky. Hopefully it was the latter.

"I wouldn't say any of this is really baking magic, mind you," Cale said, tearing up a loaf and offering half of it to the serpent. "Conjuration is much easier than the intricacies of real baking magic. But it's a good introduction to why baking magic is great!"

"You're procrastinating," Leo told him flatly.

"True," Cale agreed without a hint of shame. "It's a coping mechanism."

"We need to report this to the Haelforge professors."

"Not before we figure out where Blood and Echo are going," Cale said. "Which is... home, I assume?"

Blood-That-Crawls stared at him blankly. "You are letting us go?"

"I'm not going to save your life and then turn you over to the battle-maniac academy that will most definitely use you as training," Cale said, snorting. "Unless you want that, I mean."

"I do not."

"I'm also not going to let you wander into the Bitter Path, either, considering your friend died in there." Cale was a little more somber when he said those words. "He wasn't weak, was he?"

"Ravalos was a wyldfire aberration," Blood-That-Crawls said quietly. "Orange. He should have been strong enough."

"I agree," Cale said, glancing in the direction of the Bitter Path. The dungeon felt strange to him, even as far away as they were; it was open now, which meant there was nothing stopping him or any of his apprentices from delving it, but... he was admittedly starting to reconsider the latter.

The Bitter Path wasn't deadly, though. It was difficult, and experiencing it was apparently some sort of nightmare so terrible even the Haelforge professors would not subject their students to it—but it wasn't deadly. Ravalos's death was only another example of how differently the realms treated aberrations.

"Why were you here?" Cale asked. "What did you need?"

Blood-That-Crawls hesitated, clearly conflicted about giving him information, but eventually answered reluctantly. "We were told... we needed a mana channeler of a quality only achievable in this dungeon. That it would help us free our lord."

"Free, huh?" Cale's brows furrowed slightly. "Is he trapped by something?"

"Fate."

Cale snorted. "Yeah, I know a thing or two about that," he said. "Alright. Look. Tell your lord I'll meet with him... somewhere in the Corrupted Lands, a week from now. I'll have mana channelers by then and if he's as good as you say he is, I'll let him have one, no questions asked."

He paused. "Well, some questions asked. Kind of need that for the 'as good as you say he is' part. You know what I mean."

"Cale," Leo hissed, alarmed.

"I do not know if he will agree," the serpent said, flicking its tail and looking uncertain. "But... I will try this. And your Echo will deliver the message, if he accepts."

"Sure! Always wanted to be a messenger," Echo said cheerfully.

"I meant if my lord accepts." Blood-That-Crawls looked uncomfortable. "But I suppose you are included. I am unused to having a subordinate with free will."

"This is the guy we're helping?" Leo muttered.

"Oh, relax," Cale whispered back. "It's doing great as a new dad! Or mom. Or simultaneously gendered parental swarm."

"Is that what I am?" Blood-That-Crawls turned to Echo with an odd sense of pensive, bewildered embarrassment. "Am I a parent?"

"And on that note, I think I'm going to let you two hash that out while Leo and I have a quick but existential conversation on the nature of the Named and the impact of war," Cale said, grabbing Leo by the wrist and dragging him off. "Have fun!"

"I'm really going to need to write that paper," Leo grumbled, letting Cale lead the way.
