Rain and Tallheart stood beside a high table strewn with chunks of metal and containers of various dangerous substances, along with a notebook and a few other pieces of equipment. The centerpiece was a wire rack holding a line of what Reason called ‘number one potion bottles.’ Those looked like stubby, flat-bottomed test tubes, which was appropriate, as that was how they were being used at the moment. Each contained a small piece of impure aluminum and a trial solvent, denoted by the label on the tube.

Rain had been watching the experiment closely but looked up as he sensed someone approaching. It was Ellis, using both hands to carry a scabbarded sword in front of him.

Ellis was a thatch-haired man—a teen, really, being barely older than Kettel—with a strong nose and a freckled face. Unlike Kettel, he’d had a formal job in Fel Sadanis before the Shift as an apprentice to his father, a farrier. Unfortunately, Ellis’s family hadn’t survived, which had led to him joining Ascension. It was a depressingly common story among the company’s members.

“Excuse me, Tallheart?” Ellis said as he reached the table.

“Hmm?” Tallheart rumbled, not looking up.

“I’m done,” Ellis said, holding out the sword.

“Hmm,” Tallheart rumbled, not as a question this time. He took a step back from the table and turned to face Ellis, then accepted the offered weapon.

Rain tilted his head. What’s this about?

Tallheart drew the sword, revealing it to be an Ascension standard-issue longsword, though that had already been obvious from the rough, monster-hide scabbard. Tallheart sighted down the blade, his face unreadable, then he ran a gauntleted finger along the sharpened edge. His gauntlets were enchanted to transmit physical sensation, something Rain was incredibly envious of, though the enchantment was broken in one of them.

“Hmm,” Tallheart said, twisting the blade to check it in the other direction. He then rapped the sword against the table, striking hard with the flat of the tip and watching as the metal vibrated.

“Acceptable,” he finally said. He resheathed the sword, then instead of offering it to Ellis—who was beaming like a child praised by a stern father—held it out to Rain. “Here.”

Rain tilted his head, then took the weapon. He drew the blade a few centimeters from its scabbard, closely inspecting the symbol etched into the metal: a stylized arrow above an arc meant to be the curve of the planet. Sweeping lines spiraled around the arrow, representing mana in motion.

The symbol of Ascension.

Jamus had designed it, and Tallheart had been etching it into all of their important gear so it could be identified if it ever fell into the wrong hands.

Rain looked at Ellis questioningly, trying to keep the disbelief from his voice. “You made this?”

“I didn’t,” Ellis said quickly, glancing at Tallheart. “I only repaired it.”

“Oh,” Rain said, letting the sword slide back into its scabbard. “This is totally my sword, isn’t it?”

“Mmm,” Tallheart said.

Rain smiled sheepishly. “Sorry again about that, Tallheart. I’ll treat it better next time.”

“Do not apologize to me,” Tallheart said, face impassive. “Apologize to Samson.”

Rain chuckled. “Yeah, I probably should.” He turned to Ellis, raising the sword slightly. “Great work. It looks as good as new.”

“Thanks,” Ellis said, still smiling.

“So, Tallheart’s teaching you?” Rain asked.

“No,” Tallheart rumbled, even as Ellis simultaneously said, “Yes.”

Rain raised an eyebrow, looking between them. Tallheart blinked slowly, then turned away without giving an answer, returning his attention to the table.

Ellis laughed. “Teaching might not be the right word. He gave me the sword and told me to fix it. No instructions beyond that. Still, he could have done it himself with a simple touch, thanks to those skills of his, so the only reason for him to give it to me would be so I could get the experience.”

“Sounds like teaching to me,” Rain said, grinning as he slipped the scabbard through a loop meant for it on his belt. He looked to the side, having noticed Staavo rapidly approaching. Myth and Reason weren’t with him.

Tallheart suddenly grunted, pulling one of the bottles from its frame. He capped it with his finger, then shook it vigorously and held it up to the light. “This one,” he said after a moment.

“Oh?” Staavo said, having reached the table. He grabbed for the bottle, but Rain’s shout brought him up short.

“Gloves!”

Staavo rolled his eyes but paused to don one of Reason’s insulated chemistry gloves before taking the bottle from Tallheart. He frowned, peering at the charcoal-colored liquid inside. “Looks like cloudy ink.”

“The metal is in the liquid,” Tallheart said, wiping his thumb on a rag and leaving a dark smear. “Get it out.”

Staavo snorted. “Did I start speaking in rhyme and wearing a high-collared coat when I wasn’t paying attention? And why is this warm? Did you heat it?”

“Reason is not here,” Tallheart said, ignoring the question.

“Yeah, because he’s actually packing like you’re supposed to be!” Staavo said. He turned grumpily to Rain. “The mayor is here again. Vanna says he’s being an officious bung and that she needs you to put the fear of the depths into him.” He looked back at Tallheart. “She also said to get the great antlered snail moving!”

Rain opened his mouth, but Ellis, surprisingly, spoke first.

“I highly doubt she said it like that,” he said to Staavo, then turned to Rain. “If you’ll excuse me, I need to go pack as well. I just wanted to finish fixing your sword before I put away my tools. Let me know if you damage it again, and I’ll try to set it right for you. Now that Tallheart has given me permission to use his forge, I can deal with the small stuff.”

“Thanks, Ellis,” Rain said. “I’m happy to hear that.”

The young man nodded respectfully to him, then bowed formally to Tallheart before departing.

Rain gestured to the cluttered table. “I guess I’ll help you two pack this up.” He edged over to the notebook sitting there, then spun it to face him. “Which one is that, Staavo?”

“Potassium hydroxide, 50%,” Staavo answered, reading the label. “That means caustic potash, right?”

Rain nodded as he jotted it down. “Looks like Reason was right, so that’s one more point for Chemical Intuition. I could have sworn we’d need an acid, not a base.”

“We shall see,” Tallheart said, carefully taking the bottle back from Staavo. “This may be yet another false path.” He shook his head. “You should go help Vanna, Rain. The goat and I will deal with this.”

“Baa-aa-aa-ah,” Staavo said, mimicking the animal.

Rain smiled. Staavo really did look a bit goat-like with the white goatee he’d started wearing recently. He’d fully adopted his nickname, rather than trying to fight it. Rain laid a friendly hand on the old man’s shoulder as he spoke to Tallheart. “You’re probably right. I should go do Captain-y things. I’ll catch you two later.” He took his hand away and gestured to the test tubes. “I don’t think I need to tell you this, but be careful. Without Reason and me, there’s no Purify and no Fume Control. There’ll be nobody here to save you if you accidentally make chlorine gas or something.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled.

“Give us a little credit, Rain,” Staavo grumped. “We’ll be careful.”

Rain snorted, prepping an ‘I told you so’ for later, then left them to it. He wasn’t truly worried, not with them both being awakened and with healers on standby.

Vanna and the mayor were standing near the storeroom, so Rain turned his steps in that direction. Before he got too close, he paused to remove his helmet from the cord at his waist and slipped it onto his head. Then, he deactivated Winter and triggered his training overview.

Doing that helped slightly with his people problems, he’d found. With all of his pending experience purged, his presence was reduced from terror-inducing to merely smothering. It also helped if he kept his emotions neutral, so Rain closed his eyes and took a few deep breaths, centering himself. If Staavo was to be believed, then the mayor was in for a good looming, but there was no need to get carried away. Satisfied, he opened his eyes and walked forward.

The mayor flinched as Rain’s presence washed over him, but the round-faced man quickly hid any further reaction. He pivoted away from Vanna, then fractionally inclined his head. “Ah, Captain. I was hoping to speak with you.”

Rain tilted his head, matching the mayor’s nod to the millimeter. “Mayor Graymond. Quartermaster.”

Vanna nodded to him, then spoke, sounding uncharacteristically vexed. “Captain. The mayor wishes to renegotiate our arrangement for the monster corpses.”

“I see,” Rain said. He pivoted his helmet so he was staring directly at Mayor Graymond, saying nothing. He let the silence stretch.

“Well,” the mayor said, struggling to meet his gaze. “We didn’t expect you to gather so much in such a short time. When I made that deal, it was reflective of how dire our situation had become. I’ve got the rest of the council screaming at me now, saying that I’m paying ten times as much as the food is worth.”

Rain frowned. Something about the man’s tone seemed off. What’s his game? He shifted his gaze to Vanna. “We’re only asking them for what they find inside the monsters we’re providing them, right?”

Vanna nodded. “So far, they’ve given us three Cold, one Force, one Chem, and eighteen Tel.”

“That’s it?” Rain asked, mentally running the numbers. That’s not even close to what I was expecting. He shifted his gaze back to the mayor.

“There’s more to come, of course,” the mayor said, trying to seem outwardly unconcerned, though he was beginning to sweat. “We’re not quite done processing it all yet.”

Rain nodded, though his eyes were narrowed behind his visor. “Understood. What exactly are you proposing, Mayor?”

“Well,” the mayor said, glancing at Vanna, who was still scowling at him. He cleared his throat. “As Vestvall is granting you access to the crack and all of the riches therein, the council feels that it is only reasonable for you to give us half of whatever we extract, including the Tel and Crysts within the monsters you are providing.”

Vanna slashed her hand down sharply. “You asked us to deal with the crack because you couldn’t. You can’t suddenly change that and try to charge us for the privilege of protecting you. That’s not how it works! And half?! That’s insane!”

Rain held up a hand, motioning her to back down. Damn, she’s pissed. Just what happened here before I showed up?

He pivoted his helmet back to the mayor and let the silence work.

“Perhaps…four in ten?” The mayor said after a long hesitation. “Three?”

Rain kept staring, watching the man sweat. Finally, he shook his head slowly and spoke. “Ascension is here to help, Mayor Graymond, but we are not going to let you take advantage of us. An organization such as ours requires Crysts and Tel, just as you require food and protection. It is a mutually beneficial relationship, and the deal is more than fair as-is. It stands.”

The mayor heaved a resigned sigh. He suddenly seemed to relax, as if he’d been pretending to be more afraid than he was. “Well, it was worth a try.”

“See?” Vanna signed in hand-code, then gestured to the mayor. “Noble. Asshole. Fake.”

Rain allowed himself a smile behind his visor. “Since you are here, Mayor Graymond, we should discuss the evacuation of the city.”

“Evacuation?” The mayor said, suddenly incredulous. “Are you serious?”

“Yes,” Rain said.

A stubborn note entered the man’s voice. “We’re not evacuating. Not if that crack leads to the depths. Vestvall is poised to become the next City of Lights!”

Rain shook his head. “That isn’t going to happen. Aren't your people still dying in their beds?”

“Some,” the mayor said, waving a hand. “People die every day in winter. It is no worse now than it has ever been. We have the situation under control. We appreciate your help, but we don’t need it.”

Rain scowled, releasing his hold on his emotions. The mayor quailed, taking a step back, the reaction seeming more authentic this time.

“You do not have the situation under control,” Rain said, his voice sharp like ice. “Tell me, what will happen when your woodcutters have cleared the entire forest?”

“I…well… I thought your light bulbs…” The mayor licked his lips, looking to Vanna for help and finding none.

“We don’t have that many,” Rain said. The agreed-upon fiction was that the bulbs had been purchased, not made. “Even if we did, they would not work for an entire city. They have limitations.” For now.

The mayor was opening his mouth to protest, but Rain cut him off. “Xiugaaraa has a teleportation platform and easy access to Light Crysts. It is a hub of trade, and it is full of awakened. Vestvall, on the other hand, is isolated, especially now that Fel Sadanis is closed off. I’m sorry, Mayor, but your city is in the middle of nowhere, and the only awakened you have to rely on other than us are a handful of weak nobles and the Crimson Swords. I just don’t see a way for your dream to become a reality, not as things stand.”

“I…” the mayor began, then glanced away. “I will discuss it with the council.”

“Very good,” Rain said. “Do you require an escort back to the city?”

The mayor shook his head, then hesitated as if he wanted to say something, but thought better of it. He nodded to them, slightly more deeply this time, then spun and walked briskly for the exit.

“Thanks,” Vanna said watching the retreating form of the mayor.

“I wasn’t too hard on him, was I?” Rain asked.

“Not at all,” Vanna said. “I just wish you could have heard him before you got here. Between yesterday and today, he went from desperate mayor concerned for his city to greedy noble asshole, just like that.” She snapped her fingers. “The fucker fooled me. I don’t think he really cares about his people, other than the fact that they’re his people, if you know what I’m saying.”

“Mmm,” Rain said.

Vanna laughed. “That soul of yours comes in handy. I wish I had something like it.”

Rain smiled, shaking his head slowly. “You really don’t.”

He looked over at Ameliah, who was still speaking with Lana, the latter woman all wrapped up in a blanket.

I just wish I could turn it off.

Almost as if she had felt his gaze, Ameliah swiveled her head to look at him. She smiled, then waved, beckoning.

