Rain blinked, then pointed to himself. Ameliah nodded. She spoke into Lana’s ear briefly, then the younger woman looked at Rain and nodded as well.

Huh.

“Looks like the girl wants to talk to you after all,” Vanna said. “What are you going to do with her, anyway?”

Rain shrugged. “I’m not planning to do anything with her. It matters what she wants, not what I want.”

“Naturally,” Vanna said. “Well, if you’re going to ask her to join Ascension, let me know first. Romer and I are due to have a discussion tonight about the admittance section of the codes. It needs work, and some of the townsfolk have been asking.”

“Really?”

“Yup.”

“Huh.” Rain removed his helmet. I suppose I should have expected that. He shook his head. “I wasn’t planning on recruiting her, but if she asks, well…. Anyway, I’d better go over.”

Vanna nodded, then walked away as Rain began heading in Ameliah’s direction. After tying his helmet to his belt, he took a deep breath and ran his hands through his hair to straighten it. He hadn’t used any magic since he’d purged his soul, but he purged it again anyway, just in case. Here we go.

He could tell the moment his influence brushed against the two women waiting for him. There was a flash of connection between him and Ameliah as a party formed, or more accurately, as Rain became aware of it existing. Linksight had the same range as the effect of his damaged soul, more or less, while parties had no range limit as far as he knew.

It was a subtle feeling, Linksight, but he was so used to it by now that he was treating it like just any other sense—hearing, sight, smell, and so forth. Any revelations about the correlation between the new sense and the damage to his soul were old-hat at this point.

Unfortunately, Rain was also well used to the sudden, forced expression that formed on Lana’s face. There was no flash of Linksight from the young woman’s direction, but that wasn’t because she was unawakened or anything. It merely meant that Rain and Ameliah’s party didn’t include her based on everyone’s currently defined intentions.

She isn’t panicking this time, at least.

Lana’s expression grew even more strained as he continued his approach, and she shifted marginally closer to Ameliah, almost as if she wanted to hide behind her. Then, to his surprise, she deliberately stepped back away. As Rain came to a stop, she bowed to him, deeply.

“Captain Rain,” she said, not rising from the bow. “I am honored.”

Rain blinked, then looked at Ameliah, who seemed amused. A line from a movie ran through his head, and he smiled and raised his hands. “We don’t do that here.”

The woman peeked up at him from her bow, unease creeping back into her expression along with uncertainty.

“Bowing,” Ameliah said. “He means bowing. You don’t need to treat him any special way if you don’t want to, or any of us, for that matter. The only one you bow to is Tallheart. It’s a cervidian thing, and even then, it’s overly formal in most situations.”

“Oh,” Lana said, still looking nervous as she straightened.

Rain inclined his head to her, smiling. “It’s nice to meet you properly, Lana. Once again, my name is Rain.”

“Lana,” Lana said, glancing at Ameliah as if seeking reassurance.

Ameliah smiled back at her, then looked at Rain. “Lana and I had a little chat. Go on, Lana, say what you wanted to say.”

Lana flinched, looking away, clearly embarrassed on top of still being unsettled by Rain’s presence. “I, uh…”

Rain looked at Ameliah quizzically, but she motioned for him to wait.

Lana took a deep breath, then looked up and met Rain’s eyes. “I’m sorry.”

Rain blinked, honestly surprised. “For what?”

“For reacting to you…like I did. Like I am.” Lana said, glancing at Ameliah. “I was… It’s just that you…” she looked away. “Ameliah says it really bothers you when people…” She forced herself to meet his gaze. “I wasn’t calling you a monster before. When I felt…whatever this is, it made me think of the night of the Shift, and it just sort of slipped out. You’re not a monster, so… Sorry.”

Rain closed his eyes, feeling as if a weight was leaving his chest. He smiled at her genuinely. “Thank you, Lana. That means a lot to me.”

“See?” Ameliah said, rubbing Lana’s back. “I told you he doesn’t bite.”

Lana nodded. “You were right. It’s already getting better. I think I’m getting used to it.”

Rain breathed deeply, smiling as he watched the pair of them. Or it could be because I’m in a better mood. Thank you, Ameliah. Even if you put her up to it, I needed that.

Lana took a steadying breath, looking between the two of them before her eyes settled on Rain. “So, I guess you want me to tell you about Hegar?”

Rain nodded. “Please. If you can.”

“Hegar is…” Lana hesitated, then smirked and shook her head. “Hegar is an idiot.”

Rain blinked. “Well. I’m not sure what I expected you to say, but that wasn’t it.”

“He has no idea how women work, like, at all! He treats me like I’m his doll or something.” She shrugged aside the blanket, revealing the rough dress she was wearing. She gestured to it. “At first it was just jewelry and fancy clothes, not like this, of course. This came later. Anyway, he gave them to me and asked…told me to wear them for him.” She shook her head. “He had me dance and said that if he liked what he saw, he’d let me keep all of it so I…” She glanced at Ameliah, blushing. “I don’t need to give him all the details, do I?”

Ameliah shook her head, then looked at Rain. “I’ll cut right to it. Yes, Rain, it was basically what you thought. Hegar was using her for sex, but he didn’t force her physically. He used money and his status as an adventurer. She might have been able to say no, but she felt like she couldn’t.”

Lana wrapped the blanket back around her shoulders, looking down at her feet. Rain realized he was scowling and quickly clamped down on his emotions as Lana began to edge toward Ameliah again. Damn soul. He shook his head. “Do you want to get away from him?”

Lana hesitated, looking first at him, then at Ameliah. “You’re stronger than they are, right? Hegar and his friends.”

Ameliah nodded. “We are.”

Rain glanced at her. She sounds so certain.

“Then…” Lana said, bringing his attention back to her. She hesitated, then forced herself to meet his eyes again. “Please protect me from him!” she said in a rush. “I don’t know how he’ll react, but the other one, Skinner, he scares me. Hegar sees me as a bird in a cage, but that one…” She shuddered. “It’s like I’m even less than that. Like I’m just…meat. Hegar might…send him after me or something. To get me back, or…”

Rain clenched his fists, straining to keep his emotions under control. “We’ll protect you,” he said, looking at Ameliah. “There’s no question about that.”

“That’s right,” Ameliah said, wrapping an arm around Lana’s shoulders.

“Did the others do anything to you, or was it just Hegar?” Rain asked.

Lana shook her head. “Just him.”

“And did any of them do something like this to anyone else?”

Lana shook her head. “No.” She hesitated. “At least, I don’t think so. Not at the inn. Not while I was there.”

Rain nodded, then straightened himself up. “You can stay with us for as long as you’d like. You’re right, though. It will likely cause an incident when Hegar finds out.”

“You’re sure you can protect me?” Lana said. “If it’s going to cause a problem…”

Rain scoffed. “If it causes a problem, we’ll solve it. Who do you think we are?”

“You’re with the Guild, right?” Lana asked.

“Some of us,” Ameliah said, taking her arm from the woman’s shoulder. “But who we are has nothing to do with that.” She gestured at the line of sleds being tended by the white-cloaked members of the company. “We’re Ascension. It’s its own thing.”

“Okay…” Lana said. She took a deep breath. “I won’t get in the way, I promise. I’ll even make myself useful. It must take a lot of work to keep your cloaks so white. I can help you wash—”

Rain raised his hands again, cutting her off. “We don’t do that here.”

“I…what?” Lana asked.

“Wash,” Rain said, smiling softly. “Amongst other things.”

According to Jamus, Vestvall had been a mining town, back when it had been founded. The hills in the area had been rich in iron, leading to the growth of the settlement. Gradually, the nascent city had switched to a more agrarian focus as the easily-accessible iron was depleted and they were forced to support themselves in other ways. Amazingly, the city had survived this transition, rather than falling apart. There was no large river nearby, but there were a number of small streams and a stable aquifer, which combined were reliable enough to support the city’s population and the surrounding farms.

It was about an hour’s hike north from Vestvall to where the crack had opened. The chasm was in a rocky area scattered with the abandoned mines of the city’s youth. The aquifer didn’t extend below the hills, which was fortunate in one way, as it meant the crack hadn’t filled with water, but it also meant there was little point in digging a well at the site of their new camp. Mlem would have to arrange for barrels to be brought in from Vestvall.

Rain wasn’t that concerned about it. Melted snow would be sufficient for tonight, at least. Water was just one of many things that he needed to think about when planning out their new camp. After all, they might be here for a while.

At the moment, he was standing at the edge of the crack, looking down. The bottom was perhaps a hundred meters below him at this particular spot, and it was shaded from the afternoon sun by the steep walls. Shapes could easily be seen, moving in the darkness.

“Didn’t you just put more torches down there?” he asked, glancing at Ameliah, who was standing beside him.

“Yes,” Ameliah said.

“Damn Fire Eater,” Rain said. He rubbed at his chin, considering.

The company had already put in a reasonable amount of work at the bottom of the fissure, at first with picks, and then with Geomancy thanks to Ameliah and Corrin. The floor of the chasm had been clogged with large boulders and shards of rock that had tumbled down from above. Now, some of that had been broken up, revealing flat stone in some places and loose gravel or tumbled rocks in others. The crack was far too large for them to just fill it in, even if they’d wanted to. The only significant improvement so far had been digging out the ramp of scree that had been allowing even the least dexterous of monsters to escape. Now, you’d need a rope if you wanted to get down there.

“What are you thinking?” Ameliah asked as Rain continued staring into the abyss. “You aren’t going to jump, are you?”

“What?” Rain asked, looking at her. “Why would I…oh, you don’t mean that. You mean a superhero landing and a massive fireball to deal with all the stuff crawling down there.” He laughed. “No, that would be stupid. We can deal with them later.”

Ameliah smiled at him.

“You know,” Rain said, looking back at the chasm. “I’m not even afraid of heights anymore. I was for a little while, after…” he glanced at her, then back at the chasm. “After I almost died in that darkness lair. Now, though, with Force Ward, my fancy underwear, and Tallheart’s wonder ring, I’m pretty sure I could survive dropping from, like, orbit. Terminal velocity isn’t that fast.”

Ameliah nodded. “You might be right. Warn me if you’re going to test it. Somebody will have to dig you out of the crater.”

Rain snorted. “Ha.” He spun away from the crack, walking toward where the sleds were huddled together in a line. The whole company could be seen there, busily unpacking, with the exceptions of Jamus, Val, Lago, and Tahir.

Rain had asked those four to stay the night in Vestvall to assist with the defense and any injuries that occurred—and to keep a discreet eye on the Crimson Swords, of course. They were in range—barely—of one of their few emergency message scrolls if there was an issue on that front.

He was still uncertain that the four of them were really needed for the defense of the city. With Ascension camping right on the source of the strongest monsters, Vestvall would be having a much easier time of things. Still, stationing a healer there made too much sense to ignore, and he wasn’t about to strand someone back in the city all on their own.

Rain shoved aside his worry, knowing that there was no end to it, then rubbed his hands together. “Okay, so I was thinking we should just make camp up here rather than down below. Do you think you could even out the edges of the crack and fortify them somehow? Like battlements, maybe?”

“I can try,” Ameliah said, Rain hearing the crunching of her footsteps as she moved away from the edge to join him. “Melding stone takes time. You’re thinking about farming the crack, aren’t you?”

Rain snorted, looking at her. “We seriously need to stop calling it the crack.”

“Why?” Ameliah asked, smiling innocently.

“Because until we do, Carten isn’t going to stop telling fart jokes. That’s why. The man is like a child trapped inside a gorilla.”

“That’s a kind of monkey, right?”

Rain nodded. Technically an ape, but common only has one word for both, so whatever. “Staavo says he saw one in the jungle around Xiugaaraa, once.”

Ameliah nodded. “Right. Anyway, we’re farming it, right? The orifice?”

Rain snorted as Ameliah tried to keep a straight face. “That’s even worse,” he said. “Please don’t use that word around Carten unless you want him to start using it too. And yes, we’re farming it. The higher-level monsters will drop more Crysts, and if we really dig in up here, it will be like hunting sheep in the farmer’s barn.”

“Not shooting fish in a barrel?” Ameliah asked.

“It’s the same idiom, might as well use your version,” Rain said smiling. “Besides, it’s just you and me. Staavo’s the one who’s the most fun to annoy.”

Ameliah snorted. “You’re such a troll.”

Rain laughed and gave her a thumbs up. “Anyway, during the night, we’ll let stuff build up down there, then just clear it all out before morning. Once it’s day, we can work on flattening out the bottom more and digging through to the next layer. I’d like to send a party exploring down the mineshaft where we found the Crimson Swords to see where it goes. They must have been in there for a reason. There are a lot of other mines around that we should check out too, and collapse as needed.”

