Ameliah nodded, then knelt to fiddle with the laces of one of her boots.

Rain walked back toward the chasm behind them and looked across it, considering. It isn't THAT wide. If we’re here long enough, maybe we can try to see if we can rig up a way to cover it with something. With the sun blocked, we could use the light bulbs to control monster spawning. Really optimize the hell out of it.

Reaching into a pouch, he pulled out the depth gauge and flicked it open. In Vestvall, the needle had been pointing steadily to three, and it had dropped to two as they climbed up into the hills. When he held it out over the edge, however, the needle immediately jumped up to five. At the bottom, he knew, it would get up to ten in some places. I wonder how deep it goes. He flicked the gauge closed and slipped it back into his pouch. He’d have to ask Mlem to hunt around Vestvall and see if he could find another one. The one he had only went up to twenty, and the needle tended to get stuck.

Stepping back from the edge, he took another look around at the snowy hills. “How long do you think we’ll be here, Ameliah? Do you think we’ll be able to get everyone out, or should we wait until spring?”

“It’s hard to say,” Ameliah said, joining him again. “While I’m dealing with this, you and Vanna have to deal with the mayor. Of course, everything changes if this really does reach all the way to the depths.” She gestured down to the bottom of the chasm. “Just so you’re aware, Geomancy gets harder the deeper you go. Apart from the fact that there’s more iron than usual in the rock around here, if we actually get to the point of finding deepstone, it could become really slow going, even for me.”

“Yeah, I know,” Rain said, nodding.

“I was thinking of using Tallheart’s smelter to filter out as much pure glass as I can,” Ameliah said. She nudged a rock over the edge, watching as it tumbled into the darkness. “Or quartz. It depends on what the rocks around here are made of. I’m not good enough with precision Geomancy to tell.”

“What do you want the glass for? Light bulbs? We can’t make too many without giving away the secret.”

“I want a ceiling for our camp this time,” Ameliah said. “I’m tired of getting snowed on. As long as it’s molten, I can shape either glass or quartz with Earthmolding easily enough. Some flat panels shouldn’t be too much trouble, and during the day, a ceiling made of glass would trap heat. You know about greenhouses, right?”

“That is an amazing idea!” Rain said. “Tallheart can use all the iron around here to make some steel rods to hold it all up—or aluminum, if he and the others figure it out. Say, do you think you could make walls out of quartz too?”

“Why?” Ameliah asked. “I was thinking of giving people more privacy this time, not less.”

“The outer walls, I mean,” Rain said. “One, it would be really cool, and two, it would let us see anything coming without having to hang out on top of the walls all the time. Quartz should be strong enough to hold back most monsters, though maybe not a Stumper.” Rain gestured extravagantly. “Ascension would have its very own crystal castle.”

Ameliah snorted. “Don’t get carried away. The walls are just going to be dirt or gravel like always. Melding stone takes a lot more mana than just breaking it or moving it around, especially without melting it first.” She held up a hand. “Yes, I know, the smelter. A few hundred panes of glass are one thing; thousands and thousands of solid bricks are another. It only works so fast.”

“Way to kill my dreams,” Rain said, smiling at her. “It’s okay. I wasn’t being serious. A crystal castle would be way too ostentatious.”

Ameliah smiled back. “Just a bit.” She looked around, then cracked her knuckles. “Okay, I’m going to get started. I was thinking of making two big rooms this time, one for the company’s general use, and one to host anyone from the city who comes out here to trade with us. I’m going big, and I’ll have to break some of this rock, so I’ll actually need a bit of mana from you, I think.” She paused, then grinned at him. “First things first, where do you want our room to be?”
