Dipping my toes into the lake’s blue-green waters, I lean back on both elbows and crane my neck to stare at the towering skyscraper behind me.

This is my Natal Palace. I know this even though I cannot see into the familiar topmost room, where my comfy bed, scuffed desk, worn chair, and expensive PC all sit, overlooking this concrete pier which I am currently resting on as well as the lake stretching out before me. I was a little surprised at first upon seeing so many unfamiliar changes, but then awareness settled in and I remembered I was the one who made these changes, except I somehow forgot. Even forgetting and remembering feels routine now, the surprise quickly fading as other such instances come to mind, which leads me to believe that this happens every time I visit. Of course, this isn’t the first time I’ve come to this conclusion, and it feels like it won’t be the last, as forgetting everything that takes place within my Natal Palace is but another symptom of the disconnect between my mind, body, and soul.

Why does this happen? I have no idea. I can only guess that it might have something to do with the fact that I formed this Natal Palace when my soul was severed from my mind and body. It’s the Call Centre of the Void, only repurposed into my Natal Palace, or perhaps it was my Natal Palace from the beginning and I just tricked myself into believing otherwise. Putting the specifics aside for now, the question is: how do I fix this? I know one way, through the use of Panacea, but I also know that this wouldn’t be the best way, though I have no idea why. Thus, I decided to come visit the Brotherhood, in hopes that they have answers or information that can guide me in the right direction. So far, we’ve gotten off to a rocky start when I tried to kill their domesticated Defiled, but thankfully the monks didn’t hold this against me and are working hard to understand the problem, which is difficult when I can’t really communicate all that well.

Hopefully, they’ll figure it out anyways and I can be reunited with the rest of my loved ones within the week. These monks spend their whole lives studying the Dao in its entirety, so if they can’t or won’t help me, then my only alternatives would be to seek aid from the Imperial Clan or Zhen Shi, neither of which would provide answers without expecting something in return.

Something tells me I should head back to my room, take a seat in my throne, and try to figure this all out, but I obviously don’t feel like it, else I’d be up there rather than down here. Out in the real world, I operate on Intent and nothing else, but here in my Natal Palace, I am not subject to the whims of my subconscious and can do whatever the hell I please, even if leaving my chair empty feels… wrong. No idea why, but I do know that upon returning to my mind and body, I’m fairly certain I won’t remember the thoughts and events that take place in my Natal Palace, but the same is not true in reverse. My attempt to kill the wayward Defiled left me overcome with guilt, not just because they had children with them, but also because I failed to notice the presence of my Natal Souls. They were there in the background, convincing the Defiled that they should trust in the Brotherhood and stay true to this new path while the Spectres urged them to take up arms to defend themselves. Thankfully, my Natal Souls were more convincing than their foes and my Intent-driven self is very straightforward in how I attack, but this struggle will never end, for the Spectres are so ingrained in the psyche of these Defiled, I don’t think the ghosties will ever let their vessels go.

Or maybe it’s the other way around. Maybe the Defiled accepted the Spectres so completely that their souls merged. Whole souls of Defiled patched by the soul fragments of Spectres filled with hate, anger, misery, anguish and worse. No wonder so many Defiled seem absolutely insane...

That being said, I might well be the reason these particular Defiled are even open to the idea of a peaceful existence, though that’s probably giving myself too much credit. I might also be the reason they end up giving up on their new Path, because now they’ve seen how Imperial Warriors will react, with violence and hatred. That said, while I don’t know what their end goal is or how they’ll fare in their search for peace, I hope redemption is in the cards for them, even though I don’t know how heavy their crimes actually are. Either way, what are the odds that I would run into them here? I have no idea how they even got all the way here from the battle at Castle JiangHu or what led them to this decision, because I decided not to Devour those Natal Souls and learn what they’d all been up to.

When I sent them out into the world, I wanted my Natal Souls to do good, and from the looks of things, they’re doing exactly that, so who am I to interfere?

Besides, I just spent an inordinate amount of time (that could have actually only been a few seconds, but I’m not entirely sure) agonizing over how I did exactly what I was worried I would do and leapt in headfirst without thinking. Something drew me over to the Defiled village, probably the presence of my Natal Souls, but once I identified the inhabitants as the Enemy, I didn’t stop to wonder what brought me there or ask what their purposes or intentions were, I just drew Peace and went in for the kill. I’m grateful Monk Happy was there to stop me, because Defiled or not, I don’t think I could ever forgive myself if I’d followed through with my Intent and killed every last Defiled in the area, women and children included. For a twofer, I’m pretty sure there was a pregnant woman too, standing at the head of the crowd and ready to fight me off with a basket of wet clothes and a fistful of clothespins, her brutal demeanor somehow utterly in sync with her domestic countenance. The woman was clearly the leader of these Defiled, standing at the forefront and giving orders to the rest while readying to defend them to her last, and though I overlooked it in my initial rage, on reflection, I find it oddly soothing to see how well she’s acclimated to this new lifestyle without losing much of the old.

All this brings up an interesting dilemma, in that these Defiled are undoubtedly Warriors who fought against the Imperial Army at Castle JiangHu, else they wouldn’t have my Natal Souls to guide them. This means that in the eyes of the Empire, they are all murderers and war criminals, which is a crime punishable by death even if they weren’t Defiled. They fought and likely killed Imperial soldiers, men and women who died defending their families and loved ones from fierce and violent invaders. These Defiled need to pay for the deaths of those soldiers, but seeing them trying to eke out a peaceful existence under the Brotherhood’s guidance, I cannot bring myself to condemn them to death. Morally, is this right? Do I let these killers, cannibals, and possibly worse go free just because they appear to have changed their ways? Then what about the families of the soldiers these Defiled killed? Don’t they deserve justice?

Yes, of course they do, but what about redemption? Do sinners not deserve a chance to repent and make up for the errors of their ways? Do all Defiled truly deserve death without exception? I don’t think I can say ‘yes’ in good conscience, not honestly at least. The Defiled are responsible for countless atrocities throughout the history of the Empire, but to say that they must be eradicated down to the last is too much. Genocide is never the answer, especially considering the numerous atrocities committed by the Empire itself. The Purge is a great example of this, a hateful and horrendous practice which many people in power know does nothing to contain homegrown Defiled, but it does wonders to keep the common people fearful of the Father’s lies. Thus the practice continues, with who knows how many innocents suffering through a cruel and unjust end just so nobles and politicians can say, “See? We’re doing something. We’re fighting the Enemy, but you can’t make an omelet without cracking a few eggs.”

Yea, ‘both sides are equally bad’ reeks of a bad faith argument, but in this instance, judging a group as a whole can only lead to bloodshed. I should only judge each individual by their own actions, but I worry the Brotherhood is supporting these Defiled for all the wrong reasons. Are these tribesmen here because they regret their actions and seek to atone and change their ways? Or are they here because they no longer believe in their Uniter and lack the stomach to fight anymore? Having seen their reaction, I have an inkling it’s the former, but I’m not entirely sure it’s not the latter either.

Then again, what business is it of mine? What gives me the right to sit in judgment of anyone? If these Defiled wish to live out the rest of their lives in peace, then who am I to say otherwise? I miss the days when I wholeheartedly believed the Defiled were evil incarnate, but I’ve been lying to myself about that for long enough. They’re not born evil, not anymore than Imperial citizens are born good. They’re human, and just like me, they are capable of all manner of magnificent or abhorrent things. Simple as that, which makes things complicated, because now I don’t know where to stand anymore. As Legate of the Outer Provinces, do I side firmly with the Empire and advocate for the eradication of the Defiled, or should I stay true to my morals and argue for second chances all around before cleaning house of everyone who won’t play nice? Oddly enough, I feel like the first option would actually be easier and probably less bloody, because it’s obvious by now that the Imperial Clan has much to answer for. I can’t say for certain they’re responsible for the Defiled, but I wholeheartedly believe they would rather keep the status quo and have the Outer Provinces in eternal conflict with savage, murderous tribesmen.

Without an Enemy to focus on, the people of the Empire might turn their attention towards the Imperial Clan and wonder why they must answer to an Emperor who cares so little for them.

None of this matters if I don’t get better though, because as things stand, if I see Defiled, I will kill Defiled. A while back, I wouldn’t have taken too much issue with this outlook, because I saw them as the Enemy, people to kill or be killed by. Now I see this is no longer the case, because while I can’t cleanse the Defiled of their Spectres, this doesn’t mean they are all inherently evil and deserving of death. Some are, maybe even most, but not all, because almost everything in life is neither black nor white, but varying shades of mottled gray.

Putting my moral quandaries aside, I take a moment to admire my skyscraper and the world it resides in, for no longer do the windows stare out into the void. The scenic lake would look weird without a sky to sit overtop it, complete with drifting clouds and shifting sun and moon to create a day/night cycle. It’s not affixed to time, but rather my mood, and my inner dilemma has the weather set to overcast skies. I don’t mind so much, because at least it’s not dark nothingness that stretches out into eternity, nor is it the stormy darkess it will be whenever I’m at my lowest. Gotta stay optimistic, else this world will eat me alive, as I have enough issues without adding to them myself.

A burst of joy, love, and happiness stirs me from my thoughts as I welcome Mama Bun into my Natal Palace. Ping Ping and Pong Pong follow in hot on her heels, all three happy to be back here again. After a round of hugs and kisses, Ping Ping sets out into the lake with a happy little squeak while Mama Bun follows after her on her magic raft, a little inflatable float I conjured up for her that lets her hop anywhere she pleases without falling into the water. Truth be told, she could probably swim here, but the problem is she doesn’t believe she can, so she’ll start to ‘drown’ if she’s ever submerged inside the lake. We had a bit of an incident on our first trip out to the lake, when I just threw her in expecting her to figure it out for herself, but the sweet silly bunny just doesn’t understand that my Natal Palace runs on different rules than out there in the real world. At least she’s consistent though, because now I don’t have to worry about her trying to go swimming out in the real world, and it was adorable watching her learn how to use her little raft. Hop, hop, hopping along, she directs her raft to chase after Ping Ping, which is a novel experience for her to try her paw at being the predator. Of course, when Mama Bun catches Ping Ping, she just hugs and kisses the sweet turtle, which means that even though the big turtle can swim circles around her all day, Ping Ping will invariably ‘lose’ and snuggle up with Mama Bun, resulting in a win-win for both parties involved.

Being older and wiser than the other two, Pong Pong takes a moment to check up on my mental health, sending concern and good vibes my way as a means of encouragement. “I am here for you,” is what he’s trying to say, and I reciprocate the sentiment, but he gives it to me straight and tells me, “No need to worry. I am fine. You are not.”

