Animals don’t do subtlety, but he’s not wrong. In fact, Pong Pong is the reason why I made this lake in the first place, one which is modeled after a lake shore I hold in distant memory. It didn’t have to be a lake, it could’ve been anything, even a sink or footbath if I really wanted to, because the lake is merely a representation of the forces at work. The waters ebb and flow due to the tides and currents, and as they wash over my feet, they soak up my worries and carry them away into the dark abyss beneath the lake and out into the void. This is how Pong Pong deals with his depressive moods, by keeping his deepest, darkest emotions stuffed into a deep cave which he never visits because it leads out into the Void. It’s like the anus of the Natal Palace, pooping out all those negative emotions to keep them from overwhelming us through sheer volume of strength. I still feel and am affected by them, but I don’t cling onto them forever and never let go. That being said, I feel like this isn’t the best idea, as I am a little concerned that I’ve created an automated Spectre manufacturing Keystone, but if the alternative is holding onto all that guilt and misery for the rest of eternity, then I don’t see how I have any other option.

It raises a good question about the Spectres, who are seen as the Father’s foul minions, except now I know this isn’t exactly true. They’re simply the result of Heavenly Energy responding to negative emotions, and they have no notable counterpart because humans are quick to divest the worst of their emotions, but cling tightly to the best. The solution? Put more good vibes out into the world, but I am but one man, and I fear I have precious few good vibes to spare. That’s partially why I’m in so much trouble now, because while the love of friends, family, and beloved wives is great and all, I’m still working on a deficit of positive emotions because I am a literal font of negative vibes. If I could figure out a way to harness energy by being gloomy, I could power the whole goddamned world like some sort of crazy efficient power plant. Cold fusion would have nothing on me, because my free energy only needs me to exist.

Radiating more concern, Pong Pong interrupts my brooding with mild disapproval, as he thinks I am a slow learner. “Stupid soft skin,” he would probably say, if he could actually speak. “How hard can this be to understand? Just stop being sad and be happy, dumbass.”

Hehe. Actual talking animals would be weird, but I love giving them little voices and personalities. Mama Bun is the sweet, innocent girl who laughs and screams with excitement, while Pong Pong is the tough, gruff, swift kick in the ass father figure who’s had enough of my shit. At least he is until I leap to my feet and dive off the pier, plunging into the cool, refreshing water and before surfacing seconds later. “Better,” Pong Pong’s emotions say, tacit approval laced with cautious optimism and barely contained excitement. “Play?”

And we do, zipping off into the waters on our merry game of chase, so similar to Mama Bun and Ping Ping only cranked up to eleven. We take turns being predator and prey with neither one of us keeping score, as regardless of who wins or loses, we both have fun anyways. Mama Bun and Ping Ping can’t really keep up, but after pushing ourselves to the limit for a little bit, we slow things down and play in teams, going through every combination of pairs possible. After a little while, we even play three against one for a bit, with all three doing their best to chase me down as a team, and while their coordination is terrible, I eventually give the win over to Mama Bun who leaps into my arms in excitement. The other two join in on the cuddle puddle and we all share in the healing energy of love and affection for some time, until I decide a bit more fun is in order and I carry all four us away on a veritable tidal wave that hurtles use about like a theme park roller coaster, but one for children as I’m not sure if Mama Bun’s heart could take anything faster.

The joy and satisfaction, thrill and excitement, wonder and adoration, some of it also seeps into the lake water to be carried away into the Void, because I can’t just dump my negative emotions out there. Gotta put some good in too, and I’m doing so with the help of Mama Bun, Ping Ping, and Pong Pong. Not without cost though, as it is draining on all of us, as we are in essence siphoning off a tiny portion of our souls every time we cast some emotion into the Void, but the thing about souls is that they are not finite. They say love is a balm for the soul, but I would say fertilizer is more apt, considering we are ‘cultivators’ of a sort, and love begets love, just as hate begets hate.

Hmm... I was making a joke, but that actually seems to fit really well, though I’m not entirely sure why. Something about souls and growth just… I dunno… it just feels right. My head is clearer in the Natal Palace than it otherwise might be out in the real world, which is weird because I believe that technically, I’m no longer using my physical brain to think, but rather running wholly on my Soul, which is somehow a thing. I mean, I always figured it existed, but it’s still weird to think that my soul works even when detached from my body and mind. This might even be the reason why Insight is so readily available in this state. While we all grow up learning to use our minds and bodies, I think Martial Warriors are individuals who are firmly in touch with their souls, the very core of their existence. The body is temporary, but the soul is eternal, and it is through our souls we harness the Energy of the Heavens. This would explain why Martial Warriors can oftentimes fall into a fugue state similar to what I’m experiencing now, like Mila when she was designing her patented Spiritual Spring Guns. Everyone else, myself included, believes this to be a form of deeper Insight by one of many names, but now I know that this Insight is accessed through the Soul. How do I know this? Because I’ve experienced it first-hand through limited omniscience, and what is limited omniscience besides Insight, Inspiration, or an Awakening by yet another name and on a much larger scale?

Again, I feel close to an answer, but even though the clues I have all fit together, too many pieces are still missing and I cannot make out what the final product is supposed to be, or even what it might be. One with the Sword, One with the Self, One with the World, and One with the Heavens, but where does One with the Soul fit in?

Instead of agonizing over this, I focus on the fun and merriment to be had until I sense Mama Bun tiring out. Being the youngest and weakest of the bunch, it makes sense for her to be unable to keep up with the rest, so I bring her up to my room to cuddle and nap, but not before crafting a temporary watery amusement park for Ping Ping and Pong Pong to play in. Not the best use of my err… not mental, but soul strength, I suppose, as it is not without limit, though honestly, I don’t really know what I’m supposed to use it for if not this. I remember Shen ZhenWu talking about how I seemed ‘diminished’ after remodeling my Natal Palace, but I don’t entirely understand what he meant by that. Did he think I was weaker because my Natal Palace was smaller, or was there some other metric he was measuring by? What is the purpose of building up one’s Natal Palace? More questions for the Abbot and the Brotherhood, though I have no idea when I’ll regain the ability to even ask them.

Worries for another time though, as this line of thought brings me to another, of what my Natal Palace used to look like and how much I miss those scenic views. Seated on the bed with a snoring Mama Bun in my arms, I stare out over the lake and watch Ping Ping and Pong Pong play to their heart’s content while lamenting just how bare and empty my Natal Palace looks and feels. I would love to turn the water park into a permanent feature, but there’s still so much more I need to add. Creating the lake and skyscraper alone wasn’t easy, I know this the same way I know how to breathe, but I also know that my Natal Palace is not yet complete. The modern room, concrete pier, and beautiful lake all represent my past life, what of my current one?

As I reflect upon my experiences since coming to this world, trees begin to sprout all around the skyscraper while mountain peaks rise up upon the horizon. The light strikes these new creations and configuring all their shadows confound me, until I realize I don’t need to think about it too hard and just let the sun do its work, as natural law will take over and fill in the rest. This is all done without much conscious thought, but that does not mean it was without effort, nor is my work complete, because while RTX shadows are nice, its just an extra feature that’s nice to have, rather than the main attraction. My Natal Palace needs more trees, more grass, more plants, and more buildings, not modern ones of steel and concrete, but courtyard manors made of wood and brick with curved roofs covered in fired-clay tiles and large gates facing south to best take advantage of the sun’s light, as well a thousand other minor details to make it a proper reflection of reality.

Yea, that’s how it should be, because it just feels right. Why? I don’t know, but I do know this was the direction I went when I first Formed my Natal Palace, with my bedroom sitting high above the People’s mountain village. Then I destroyed it all in a fit of pique, which I now see was where I made my first and most costly mistake. I tried to focus only the good memories and erase all the bad, but that’s not a healthy way to deal with the anger and resentment I felt from my near exile. What I need to do is accept that it happened and move on, because holding onto unspoken grudges does me no good. I love the village, and while they tried to exile me, my family stood together and convinced them otherwise. I can hardly fault the People as a whole for being worried, and I shouldn’t hate them for wanting to keep themselves safe, nor should I allow this one incident to taint all my memories of a home I genuinely love and cherish.

I should write all these thoughts down, because who knows if I’ll remember them the next time I’m here?

Heading over to the PC, the monitors flicker on as I take a seat in my chair, and for a moment, I’m overwhelmed with a sensation of calm and safety. I don’t think my soul is ever supposed to leave the throne, but only because every other soul I’ve seen was initially seated on their respective thrones, unless they’d already surrendered or were being directed to do so. Yo Ling taking audience on his literal throne, Pong Pong sleeping on his coral bed, Ping Ping buried in the riverside mud, and sitting in a courtyard modeled after the one outside, they were all seated in their respective thrones and only the turtles were trusting enough to come off them. There’s a reason for that, but before I can delve too deeply in it, I notice an icon in the middle of the center screen, one depicting a tiny blue notepad and labeled: journal.txt.

Guess I’ve already come up with the idea of writing down my thoughts. Though there are more thoughts in there than I expected, it only takes a moment to parse through them as they are my own memories, and adding to it takes even less time, leaving me confident that I will eventually arrive at the right answer even if the Brotherhood cannot help me as I hope they will.

And so, sensing the turtles are nearing their limits for the night, I call them both to me and we all settle into bed, man, turtle, turtle, and rabbit all snuggled up together. Closing my eyes, I sink into a deep sleep filled with calm assurance and hopeful optimism for the future, because despite the rough start, I’ve taken another step forward on my journey to recovery, which is better than no steps at all. That’s all I can really hope for, to move forward rather than backwards as I so often do. That being said, the Path was never about the destination, I see this now.

It’s all about the journey, the steps we take and the people we meet along the way, and in this, I am undoubtedly blessed.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

“Errrk-uh-erk-eh-errrrrrrrr!”

With a rousing cry that sounds nothing like ‘cock-a-doodle-doo’, Kukku greets the morning sun and interrupts my pleasant dreams, and the memories slip away like water pouring out of a sieve. The more I try to hold onto those fond recollections, the quicker they drain away, leaving me with the memory of a memory of something warm and safe, though the monastery bedroom isn’t that much worse. Granted, the bed is a little harder than I’d like, being a slab of wood and nothing else, but the company makes it much more bearable, and not just because it includes two bears. Three if you count Guai-Guai as a variation of bear, which I suppose I would since the direct translation of ‘red panda’ is actually ‘bear cat’. Rubbing his eyes in grumpy discontent, Guai-Guai buries his face into my chest and under Mama Bun’s belly, who also stirs awake with an enormous yawn. The rest of my animals are all soon up and about, while several laughing birds try to mimic Kukku’s call with mercifully no effect, and I can only hope they don’t retain this habit after we leave. The big rooster is adorably fluffy and a sweetheart to boot, but I could really do without the whole… waking up at the butt-crack of dawn thing.

Hehe. Buttcracks. Buttholes. Anus of the Void.

…

What the fuck is wrong with my brain? Why did I just go there?

…

Where did all my floofs go?

