Glancing down, I find Mama Bun snoring away in my arms, which feels like the most natural thing in the world, especially since she’s clutching Pong Pong in between her paws, while Ping Ping snoozes in my lap to make three. They’ve all been sleeping a lot more lately, which should worry me, but doesn’t, because somehow, I know there’s a good reason for their slumber, except I can’t quite place my finger on what said reason might be. Guai-Guai is also here, sleeping on top of Ping Ping’s shell, because Kukku keeps waking him up early every day, and the poor red panda doesn’t sleep as well when there are other people in the room.

Hang on.

Every day?

Didn’t I just arrive?

Glancing about in confusion, I find myself sitting in the courtyard outside, awash in the orange-red glow of the rising sun. When I first laid eyes here, I immediately recognized it as Mahakala’s Natal Palace, or rather the area he modeled his Natal Palace after. No idea why he made it so small compared to his giant massive soul, but everything in the monastery is exactly the same right down to the placement of the benches and the carvings on they columns. The monks even chant the same sutras when they gather together for their morning meditation, with one monk leading things from where Mahakala sat, and as I ready to sit in and listen to the droning chants, I spy Jorani shuffling out to join them. Though he has yet to shave his head again, he fits right in with the monks as he settles into a cross-legged posture and begins chanting the Sutras to the beat of Monk Happy’s fish drum. A regular wooden fish drum and drumstick, unlike the Abbot’s two Spiritual Weapons fashioned in the same shape, one he used to no small effect way back in Sinuji before his injury. I want to talk to him again, but I have a faint recollection of someone telling me he was still recovering, and was in no shape to meet with visitors just yet.

It isn’t until morning meditation ends that I realize I’ve been chanting along, though the meaning of the Sutras is completely lost on me. Gazing about in utter confusion, I find Song seated nearby with Sarankho and Princess. A soft smile stretches across her lovely lips, so beautiful and captivating I barely notice Blackjack’s adorable antics as he leaps high into the air with Jimjam beside him, the hare and wildcat competing to see who can jump higher. Surprisingly, it looks like the little hare is winning, but neither one of them care, as they just like jumping for the sake of it, and don’t really have any stake in the victory.

Or maybe they’re trying to figure out how to Cloud-Step. Wouldn’t that be something?

Song’s smile slips away as she notices my attention, and I curse myself for making things weird with my gawking stare. It doesn’t help that I was probably leaking all my emotions through Aura too, but she responds with a casual burst of inquiry and curiosity. “Is something wrong?”

There are no words spoken, but I hear them all the same, and I respond in the same manner, radiating confused disorientation. That’s really all the nuance I can squeeze out using Aura alone, but a single word accompanies it, even though I meant to ask a question using a whole sentence. “Long?”

Me Rain. Me Smort. Speak real gud.

Thankfully, Song understands almost immediately, leaving me to believe I’ve asked this question before. Of course, her answer is verbal and therefore the meaning escapes me until I buckle down to figure it out. Eventually, I piece together that today marks the ninth day since we’ve arrived, even though I feel like it’s been less than twenty-four hours. No wait, I remember now… Taduk came to visit, a few times now already. He stayed for dinner too, not every night, but more than once, because the food is so delicious. It’s not all made from Spiritual Plants, though the dishes that are have been prepared properly, which shows just how much the Penitent Brotherhood is sitting on and refuses to share with the world at large. They know how to cook Spiritual Plants, how to radiate Emotional Aura, how to turn regular animals into Spiritual Beasts, and who knows what else?

I especially wanna know the last thing, because I want all my floofs to be long-lived Spiritual Beasts. Animals can live a long time even without forming a Spiritual Heart, but it’s really a crap-shoot as to how long they’ll actually live. It’s weird and I don’t understand it, but I’ve added it to the list of questions I’d like answered someday.

I bet the Brotherhood knows. That’s one bone I have to pick with these monks; they keep their secrets close, just like the Imperial Clan, and I don’t like that. Knowledge should be shared, so that each generation can all build upon the last and progress further along into the future. Instead, everyone hoards their knowledge in order to hold some advantage over their foes, though I suppose the Brotherhood might have what they believe is an acceptable reason to do. Maybe they’re worried about the bloodshed their knowledge might cause if it comes into the wrong hands, or maybe they’re left in peace by the powers that be because they’ve no interest in the power struggles of the mortal world. Either way, I personally feel knowledge should be shared, but thus far, I have yet to really learn anything I can really quantify and pass down.

I can guide others to a sort of understanding, but my actions are in turn guided by Insight, so if you think about it, I’m really just a glorified middleman.

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Praise to the Heavens, and all the mysteries within.

My head bows in response without even needing to think, an acknowledgment of the truth to Monk Happy’s greeting. With a wide, welcoming smile, the large monk says a few other words as he seats himself across from me, joined by two older monks who seem familiar, but I cannot name. Probably because they haven’t shared their names yet, as they keep those in-house and they have yet to accept me as a fellow brother, much less their Wisdom who stands first among equals, whatever that means.

The meaning of Happy’s words elude me, but somehow, I can guess at what he’s saying, probably because he’s said the same thing eighteen times already. “Good morning Junior Brother.” The other monks are tight-lipped as one readies parchment and ink while the other brings out a set of thin wooden cards. Monk Happy also has a set of cards, and he shows me the first one which has my symbol carved into it, the side profile of a bow-tie wearing bunny. The other monk shows me a card as well, this one with a carving of a sword. My sword, in fact, now that I look a little closer, Peace which I left back in my room because the monks asked me to.

Oh hey, I know what comes next. I’ve done this before.

Even as the monks radiate their Auras of contentment, I raise my hand to touch Happy’s card. The bunny brings me contentment, not just because it’s a bunny, but because it amuses me that my joke of a symbol has become so widely known. I try to explain this through Aura, but the meaning gets lost in translation, so Happy merely nods and draws his next card, while the other monk keeps holding the sword card and the third monk notes everything down.

I think they’re trying to communicate with me, or maybe they’re trying to understand my mindset better. Either way, the next card has an approximation of a busty, scantily clad lady on it, which is clearly the winner. After that, the cards are turtle, house, a wok spatula, a dumpling, and several more symbols that represent things I enjoy more than the sword, so the second monk is left hanging as Monk Happy keeps showing me new cards. Eventually, he holds up what I note is the last card, and it takes me a moment to understand what I’m looking at, but when I do, I am paralyzed by indecision.

For on Happy’s last card is a shield. My shield in fact, Tranquility, with its twin blades affixed to the front. How am I supposed to choose between Peace and Tranquility? I might as well choose between my left and right nut, I just can’t do it. I want them both and hope to never part with either one, but Monk Happy wants me to make a choice. After an indeterminate amount of time, Monk Happy radiates curiosity as he places his card face down, then confusion which I understand is not genuine, but rather his way of asking me a question.

“If you cannot choose between them, why have you not reforged your shield?”

A good question really, and before I know it, I have Peace in hand, drawn from its scabbard after somehow making its way to my side. No, not somehow, I Guided it over here from my room where I left it, because Ping Ping and Guai-Guai are both still asleep on my lap and I can’t get up without waking them. Only they aren’t in my lap, as Song has them both in her arms, while my sleepy wifey beams prettily beside her. Lin-Lin has Mama Bun and Pong Pong, and I cannot for the life of me remember when she came to take them, but now I am free to do what needs to be done, what I know Monk Happy and the others want me to do.

I must reforge Tranquility.

Peace bites deep into the meat of my palm as I carve the flesh from my bones, the pain an afterthought to which I pay no mind. This was what I did to reforge Peace, but once the injury has been dealt, I find myself unable to proceed forward, as I cannot figure out what I do next. Focus on my memories of Tranquility and what the weapon represents, but what does it represent? For the longest time, I saw Tranquility as Baledagh’s weapon, but while I have come to terms with what he represented, the part of me that so yearned to belong in this world, I still have not reconciled where Tranquility fits in.

Sword and shield, one to attack and the other to defend, but this is not always the case. Even without the added blades, anyone can use a shield to attack, and a sword can most certainly be used to defend. No, Tranquility is about more than just defending me from external attacks, but also internal ones. During my binding ceremony, I defeated a copy of myself, which was the Heavens telling me what I must do long before Mahakala forced me to confront the truth. Tranquility is not just a shield, but also a reminder. Yan gifted this weapon to me, as thanks for conceding the shield she still uses now, but it’s about more than just one person. Tranquility is a reminder of all my friends, floof, and family, a reminder that I have so many loved ones I can always count on, and a reminder to always take a moment to think things through before leaping into the fray. That’s what the shield means to me, as well as a last resort for those times when I get in too deep and need to fight my way out tooth and nail. Better if I didn’t have to, but if need be, the twin blades are affixed to the shield for good reason.

Because sometimes, blood must be spilled if one desires lasting peace and tranquility.

When I come to again, I am back in my room, with my sword and shield laid out on the table and Mama Bun nestled in my embrace. Ping Ping and Pong Pong are also here, but the other animals are absent, no doubt because the sun is shining high in the sky and brightly illuminating this tiny yet functional room. Exhausted despite having just woken up, I stare at my sword and shield in muted satisfaction, for I am once again another step closer to my recovery. Unity comes next, but I am not yet ready for that, because it is a complex weapon in more ways than one and will require far more strength than I currently possess. How do I know this? Insight once again, but we all know how I feel about that.

One more step towards recovery. Not bad for a day’s work. I’ll get through this and back to the people I love eventually, but I only hope that I’m not too late.

Then again, it might just be my hero complex acting up again, since I have no reason to believe I can single-handedly turn the tides of war against the Defiled all on my lonesome. I’m sure Dad, Akanai, Nian Zu, Grandpa Du, and so many other grand heroes of the Empire have everything well in hand, and I’ll return to find the Defiled and Zhen Shi running for the hills.

…

...Ah shit. I jinxed it didn’t I?

Chapter Meme
