Unlike the other two though, Elise found this test somewhat less interesting. Many students performed poorly, and a few performed outstandingly, but somehow, none really stood out. Movement skills were rarely flashy, so all the successful students just looked like they were moving quickly, and the unsuccessful students looked clumsy. There were a few of note, but nothing that really caught her eye.

She was surprised to see that Attalaya wasn’t actually at the top of the class this time. She was certainly agile, but it was the kind of agility that came from practice and quick reaction time, rather than the kind that came from raw stats. She was able to just barely avoid the smaller and quicker projectiles, but there were two larger, explosive ones that she failed to avoid entirely, simply because she could not move quickly enough.

Sophie actually performed fairly well on this test. Elise attributed it to her experience as an Apprentice Mana Dancer. While it was not a combat Class, it made Sophie very adept at controlling her body, and her reaction time was definitely above average. She suffered from having relatively low Agility as well, so the explosive attacks still hit her, but she performed much better than any of the other pure mages, and many of the heavy warriors.

Elise’s own attempt wasn’t much different. {Move} was certainly a powerful Skill, but it scaled with Agility, and since she was landbound at the moment, her mobility options were quite limited. She outperformed both Sophie and Attalaya, but even so, she still got clipped by one of the explosive rounds when {Move} didn’t quite take her far enough away. Her report card for the test wasn’t anything particularly surprising either.

Speed: 4

Reaction Time: 8

Efficiency: 5

Consistency: 5

Notes: Calm reactions. Good judgment. Low stats. Sloppy movements. Avoid direct combat when possible.

Elise was a bit surprised to see her Efficiency and Consistency so low, but then again, {Move} wasn’t really a Skill she excelled at. She had grinded it up to the level cap, but she hadn’t delved deeply into how it worked. No doubt there were ways to get better with it, but she hadn’t really thought too hard about it.

The Skill aside though, once again, she was made aware of a weakness of hers. It was another facet of the same weakness, actually. When it came to fighting living opponents, she didn’t really need to dodge. She could just make the enemy miss. Inanimate attackers like this, though, were unfortunately immune to {Suggest}. Well, not entirely. She could sense that there was aether involved in how the pillars functioned, but it was still not a valid {Suggest} target. Perhaps when she evolved once more and got {Aether Manipulation}, even these would no longer pose any trouble to her.

Until then though, she had a severe weakness against non-living enemies, and while they were rare, completely artificial monsters such as golems did exist, so even outside of simple tests like these, there were things that could give her a lot of trouble. And that wasn’t even mentioning the beings that were simply too powerful to be susceptible to her manipulation. Beings like Freddy, or Oberon, who could simply shrug off any of her attempts to distract them, or like Rayna, who could create mental defenses that even her absurd aether couldn’t break down.

As an aether specialist, the solution to those issues for her was to simply get more powerful with her aether, but she didn’t want to neglect her other skills. They had served her well until this point, and would continue to do so, even if her main efforts were directed elsewhere. For that reason, as she returned to the changing room to switch her clothes back, she was extremely glad that she and Sophie had signed up for this class. With her evenings taken up by her soul practice, it was good to have a designated time of day when she could train her other abilities.

Sophie was in a much better mood after the third test, and when they walked down the road away from the lecture hall, she was happily talking about how she was going to train super hard in the next few weeks. She wanted to both not embarrass herself at the next evaluation in Basic Magical Combat, and also to make sure she qualified for the rookie Dungeon Competition. Elise had not realized that Sophie was such a competitive person, but Attalaya’s words seemed to have lit a fire in her.

Elise had to admit that even she was a bit inspired by Attalaya. The skill she had and the absolute confidence with which she wielded it was impressive, but more than that, something about her conviction resonated with Elise. Unlike herself, Attalaya was absolutely sure of who she wanted to be, and was putting everything she had into making that a reality. Elise envied her sense of purpose, and wanted to emulate it.

Elise and Sophie walked down the road away from the building, and when Sophie made a right turn to head home, Elise made a left to head to the center of the campus.

“Eleanor?” called Sophie, looking back in confusion.

“Jessie is coming over tonight, remember?” she said. “She’s waiting for us by the fountain.”

Sophie blinked, then smiled.

“Oh yeah! Let’s go!”
