The Red Commander fought primarily with blood magic and a monstrous ability to shape his own flesh. Torment's Shadow suspected he would heal from nearly any physical injury, and so most of the spells it could evolve were useless; it would need something that granted it not only physical but spiritual advantage, something it could use to suppress the Commander's ability to heal and sever his soul from his vessel.

For that, it would need to transcend the same barrier it needed to to transcend whenever it needed to kill a Monolith. Normally, the process was simple: it would simply fold its mana into itself until reality began to buckle under the pressure. It was what it used to destroy souls, and it was similarly what it needed to kill any transcendent being.

The Red Commander could disrupt its mana manipulation and steal its mana, however, which meant a different tack was necessary.

And that, Torment's Shadow knew, would have to come from the ladder that defined spells of physical enhancement.

Cale had been unwilling to evolve [Blistering Physique] beyond the sixth tier before. Physical enhancement spells like that one stopped existing after that tier; any mage that wanted to enhance themselves physically with higher tiers of magic turned to spells of physical transformation, even when the spell construct or ritual was largely the same.

Scholars of such spells thought of this as the transformational ladder, and Cale was rightfully hesitant to ascend it. Spells of that nature were difficult to reverse, and did not always expire naturally.

Cale Cadwell Cobbs liked who he was.

Torment's Shadow had no such attachments.

It knew the Red Commander was descending furiously. He was a smear of blood magic and corruption in its mana sense. A transformation spell would take time, but even with the speed at which the Commander was descending, it was certain it had the time for this.

There was an instinct to this, really. A rhythm to spell evolution it was beginning to understand, one that had been inaccessible to Cale but felt far more obvious to Torment's Shadow.

A simple mana blast might have done the trick, of course. It might have been sensible to make the attempt first, to see if the Red Commander had a counter. That was what Cale might have done—hoped for a simple, easy victory.

But Torment's Shadow was not a creature of hope. It was blind to even the possibility, because all it saw was the rhythm of a war it had never left.

Mana overload detected! Attempting to compensate...

Adjusting spell construct...

[Blistering Physique] has evolved into [Twilight Gate of Potential (Flesh)]!

[Twilight Gate of Potential (Flesh), Level 1] [Twelfth Tier (Unique), Active] [1.0e30 Mana]

Unlock the Twilight Gate of Potential that lurks within organic flesh, transforming your physical body into a mana-matter composite for the duration of the spell.

For the duration of the spell, acquire physical attributes in proportion with the mana contained within your vessel. Sufficient mana will unlock the power of flight.

For the duration of the spell, acquire spiritual attributes in proportion with the mana contained within your vessel. Sufficient mana will unlock the ability to use spiritual suppression.

Cautionary note: The primary benefit of a non-gestalt body is the capacity for change. The Twilight Gate is one of the final steps toward becoming a true divinity. By accessing and unlocking it out of order, the caster gains great power, but must embody the will imparted to them at the time of casting.

Cautionary note: Be careful, Cale Cadwell Cobbs. You are not that which haunts your soul.

Prismatic mana began to burn and fuse with its flesh. The pain was excruciating.

Or it should have been. Despite it, Torment's Shadow did not look away from where its mana senses told it the Red Commander awaited.

Only a small part of it wondered what Cale's apprentices would think.
