My fist hits his face, and he staggers back. Boosting myself ahead, I catch a punch he throws my way, punch his face again, and then, with a burst of speed, I do it a third time.

Melek staggers back, releasing his mana in a wave of pressure that blows away tons of sand and cuts into my barrier, but I step through it. I strengthen my body further, punching him multiple times over. He sways and plants his feet, letting out a battle cry as he charges at me.

After letting one of his hits land against my barrier, uselessly rippling against it, I punch back at him again. His jawbone tears away from his face with the force of the punch as he staggers and falls to the ground, trying to keep himself conscious. Even now, he is chuckling and pressing himself to stand up. Not for a moment does his mana stop moving, still trying to attack me as it rages around us.

Looking down at my bloodied fists, I say, "I’m sorry, I thought you would be stronger."

A glow of mana appears on the tip of his finger as if he means to write something, but then he just stops, holding his finger there. Instead, he turns to the camera drone in the distance and bows.

Then he explodes, releasing all the mana he’s been gathering for who knows how long in a fraction of a second. It is an explosion destined to spread for miles and miles across the area.

I grab it all, usurping the flood of mana and pressing it into a compact space. It vibrates and fights to be released, but I keep pressing and pulling it toward me. I move my hands together with my palms facing each other, and between them, I hold all of that mana in the stable form of a tricolored orb.

Then I break it apart, pulling it into the whirlpool that is the crown over my head, and boost myself toward the pillar where the Fragment of Starless Sky rests. There is no one else left to fight me for it. Even the remaining spectators move closer, some on the ground, others floating nearby.

Stopping there, I don't reach out to touch it, choosing to wait instead.

“Take it. Give the fragment to me, Nathaniel,” Yvaine says, and just from her speech, I know it’s Ruby talking through her.

She moves closer, but even she refuses to grab the fragment.

The sound of soft steps echoes on the sand as Victoria makes her way toward me, holding the glowing red dagger Euris once owned. She taps my shoulder and gives it a soft squeeze that means more to me than a minute-long hug from anyone else.

“Nathaniel!” Ruby calls to me.

I look her in the eyes, and whatever is in mine instantly silences her.

Victoria then places her hand on the fragment and takes it, but she doesn't take it for herself.

My sister stabs her hand into the middle of her chest and pulls out a small, tiny orb that gives off no energy signature at all. All of the figures remaining here move closer, but they wait for the victor's decision as Victoria squeezes the orb and throws it to the ground.

In the next moment, a tear appears in space, and two figures step out from it.

A replica of the Last Elf smiles brightly as he looks over everyone present and moves his red hair out of his face. The other figure is entirely covered in a cloak.

"As per our deal," Victoria says.

"As per our deal," the elf confirms, nonchalantly taking the fragment from her.

His body then moves as quickly as a striking snake as he stabs his hand through the chest of the cloaked figure, burying the fragment within its torso.

The figure's cloak falls away, revealing an old man, and all my attention is pulled to the blood flowing from his chest. Then I notice the dozens of Fragments of Starless Sky embedded all throughout his body alongside dense inscriptions, and blood flowing from fresh wounds around the fragments. And that blood is Empyrean Ichor, incomparably purer than mine.

At that moment, the Last Elf declares, "By the power of the Empyrean bloodline bound within this system-defying vessel, with every shattered fragment finally unified in one frame, and through the culmination of millennia of labor, I awaken he who once stood among the mightiest."

The dawning sky turns a shade darker, as if the stars are being drained of their radiance.

"Awaken, Godking. Awaken Starless Sky."
