How could a non-Shade work with the Shades? How could one of them be ‘named’ like a Shade, too? Was this truly the ‘Caretaker’? What the fuck.

Erick felt a spike of anger. “If you’re not a Shade, how can you work with them?”

“By refusing to work with them, of course. It’s all about neutrality, for me,” Quilatalap said, definitively. “I don’t take sides. I never get involved in disputes or problems. Everyone is treated equally. All I do is guard the Armory and ensure that only the skilled and the correct get the artifacts they need to help them with their problems.”

Erick looked past the man, to where the yawning gates of the northern bastion waited, and darkness held within, like a trap ready to spring shut and devour all it touched. For that’s what it was; a trapped area, set up for adventurers to test their skill against, and die in the process. Erick said, “This Armory? Where you kill people who step inside?”

Quilatalap said, “It’s a protected space, Erick. Would you expect having an easy time robbing the Grand Bank in Eidolon? No! Of course not. I’m fully within my rights as a defensive sentry to dissuade anyone who comes inside these walls, but besides that, no one dies on the easy route. Most people go away when they can’t even get past the first bastion.” He added, “You don’t need to save anyone here; they’re all in there on their own volition.”

Erick frowned a little. “If they come here for items to solve problems in the outside world, then they’re not here of their own volition.”

“That is a good point.” Quilatalap happily said, “We don’t get many who are directly forced to come here by the will of others, but those people who are in those situations generally go through the thresher and come out better for it, usually gifted items that will help them overthrow whatever powers forced them to risk this land.” He said, “It’s all very above board— Ah. You wouldn’t know, but I’ve got presentations on all of this year’s successes and failures and the various outcomes of all of the trials. All of that will happen at the Feast. Those presentations will take place on the third day, or maybe the fourth.” He thumbed back to the yawning black building behind him, saying, “I understand you detected some people inside, so that’s why you’re here. But you can’t save them. This is their journey; not yours. And they've almost succeeded. Just a few more kilometers to go and they’ll get what they came for.”

Erick considered what he wanted to do, here. Saving these people would be saving them from their own choices, and that was fine and okay, but it was the height of arrogance to think that he could save everyone, and especially in this location, where his own Domain was already negated by another.

… He really wanted to learn more about Domains, now. They seemed like a special form of magic that didn’t follow normal rules. But that could come later. There were other people to save besides ones that were undertaking a trial they expected to take.

Erick asked, “Know any people who need saving?”

“You, for one.” Quilatalap said, “Pick your battles, Erick. You’ve been lucky so far, but if Dorofiend was at the top of his game, or if you had been slower about that decisive Domain and Lightning Aura, you would have died. He was a lot less crazy back when we had hundreds of Shades living in the city, and he was the overlord for a good thirty of them.” He added, “Aside from that, if you get to the Palace District early, Queen might be a good ally for at least the next ten days.”

“… I’ll take that under advisement.” Erick looked beyond the orcol, to the darkness. He looked away.

“You don’t want to come in, then? There’s always the easy course.”

“I don’t think I do.” Erick thumbed backward, toward the north, where the Central Lane of Ar’Kendrithyst lay, and hundreds of people were either camping out or fighting for their lives in the middle layer. Erick wasn’t sure of either possibility, right now, but this dilemma was a simple matter of numbers, and a hundred people outweighed ten. “I’m going to check out those people.”

Quilatalap said, “Good luck!” before vanishing into the darkness behind him.

- - - -

Erick stood in front of a trio of dudes who had tried to attack him with ice and fire and failed to penetrate the surface of his sunform. Theirs wasn’t an unexpected reaction. Erick had stepped down out of the red light above, and given them more than ample room to see his entrance, but they were wrapped in invisible magics and they didn’t respond to Erick’s entrance until he poked their covers. And then they attacked him. He weathered the spells just fine, of course. They stopped when they couldn’t break the dome around him, no matter what they tried.

One of them even tried a [Dispel]. That dark magic simply rolled across against Erick’s tiny Domain like water off a window. They stopped their attacks after that. The one that [Dispel]ed must have used all his mana; he slumped a little after that cast.

“Uh….” mumbled the first guy; a bog standard human adventurer in leathers and wearing swords. “Sorry. Can we go now?”

The one who overcast his [Dispel], mumbled, “Who the fuck ever heard of a Light Shade. Shit.”

“I’m not a Light Shade.” Erick said, “I’m Erick Flatt, from Spur.”

The three humans suddenly stood straighter. The dispeller looked to Ophiel, then paused, then smacked his head.

“Why are you here?” asked a guy who could be the brother to the first. He added. “Uh. Archmage Flatt, sir.”

“What I want to know,” Erick asked, “Is why are you three here? Weren’t you warned about Shadow’s Feast?”

The dispeller said, “The Shades leave their places empty while the Feast is going on, so we can hunt without worry.”

“Everyone knows that,” said Guy.

“Yeah. Everyone know that,” said Other Guy.

“We’re here to kill monsters,” said Dispeller. “Shit. And now I have to use a potion.”

… Erick covertly [Duplicate]d some canteens of water inside the [Prismatic Ward] he was carrying around. Six was enough, for three people, for now. Fallopolis had said it would act as a minor mana potion, after all.

Erick floated the canteens from out of sight, and toward the men, saying, “It’s no mana potion, but it should help a little with your regeneration.”

All three of them snatched a canteen. The dispeller cast a [Cleanse] over the three of them, then when no thick air spilled from the container, he eagerly drank it down. The other two instantly drank theirs, too.

That was not the behavior of people who were ‘okay’.

Erick asked, “Are you guys okay?”

“Yeah.” “Yes.” “Perfectly fine.”

“… If you’re not, then you can go to the bend in the North River, where the river widens out to a few kilometers wide. I killed Dorofiend and saved some others who have taken refuge up there. It’s still dangerous, but you wouldn’t be in Ar’Kendrithyst if you weren’t able to handle some danger.”

The three men looked to each other.

The lead man said, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt. The shadows despoiled our water supply, but we might take you up on that offer.”

Erick nodded, then left them, and moved on to the next group.

- - - -

Erick called out to whoever might be listening, well before he got close to his next target.

This continued for a minute, or two.

A yellowscale woman stepped out of the shadows as Erick stepped within a hundred meters of the next group. She was tall and thin, and held a sword to match. She said, “Hello, Archmage Flatt. How can I help you?”

“I sensed there were people here, and I was wondering if you needed help.”

“No.” She said, “But if you sensed us, this is enough for us to know that we need to make ourselves less visible. Thank you for your time.”

“Did you get stuck in here for Shadow’s Feast, or did you choose to be in here?” He said, “There’s ten more groups like yours, all around the Central Lane, and I don’t understand it.”

“We did not choose to remain, but it happened, and we are making the most of it. The Lower Reaches are ripe for the picking now that some of the wandering Shades are gone to the Feast, and we are here to pick.”

“You’re sure you’re okay?”

“We have everything we need.” The woman said, “Thank you for your concern.”

“I already directed some others to the bend in the North River, where Dorofiend used to be. That Shade is dead, and his space is full of survivors.”

The yellowscale eyed Erick. Her voice took on a hopeful, dangerous tone. “Did you kill him?”

“… Yes.”

“Can I see the box?”

Erick produced the box.

The yellowscale blinked out a single tear, as she read the box. “I’m going to keep this, if you don’t mind.”

“Go ahead.”

The yellowscale nodded, then said, “I may visit the bend in the river. But we are fine. Thank you for your concern, sir.”

- - - -

He checked three more groups of people, and found them all perfectly happy camping out in deathtraps, setting watches against the darkness and the monsters, and employing strong spells to negate most detection magics. Or at least that’s what they told him. His presence started a few small fights amongst the casters that Erick was not privy to, but he caught some of their words before they switched to [Telepathy]. They were angry at their mages that their anti-detection magics failed.

He directed a few groups to the bend in the North River, and he even checked on that place with [Scry]. They were doing fine. They had just killed a giant centipede and were butchering the half of it that laid on the shore. Ravenous fish were devouring the parts of the monster that had fallen into the deeper waters.

These people didn’t need his help.

Obviously.

The only thing he had managed to accomplish in his quick runs around the Central Lane, was learning how to [Greater Lightwalk] much faster. One step covered ten meters, and though he wasn’t using the pseudo-[Teleport] option of the spell, the effects of his fast walking mirrored blipping, but were decidedly not a blip. Erick knew this because it cost the normal amount of mana to simply maintain the spell and to ‘walk’ ten meters as it did to ‘walk’ one meter. Blipping cost considerably more than that, depending on distance; anywhere from 25 mana, to 250 mana, actually. For not the first time, Erick felt that there was so much more depth to the Elemental Body spells than what was taught in Arcanaeum, or known by the general public.

Literacy was widespread on Veird, but knowledge was not.

Was that because of the Headmaster? Or for some other reason?

Erick put those thoughts away. Those thoughts were too deep, too difficult to deal with when there was danger all around.

… But he was safe as could be in his sunform, actually.

So he took those thoughts right back out.

The problems with education were that there were too many problems. Too many monsters. Too many dangers. Was the Headmaster just putting out fires, all the time? Or was he purposefully keeping the world in the dark, both figuratively, and literally? All nations and people in power had to keep hold of that power in various ways, or else their personal worlds would fall apart, either through inaction, or through outside forces trying to take the power of people like the Headmaster for themselves.

What would it be like to be immortal, and always scrambling to keep up with forces outside of your control? Young people were always scrambling to make their marks on the world, and that fact was as true back on Earth, as it was on Veird. But on Veird, there were immortal beings that controlled certain parts of the world. They never got to rest if they wanted to keep that power.

For dragons, and for the Headmaster in particular, this way-of-things must be especially bad, considering that everyone knows he’s a dragon, and other dragons probably go after him all the time. That curse of theirs keeps them at each others’ throats. Never able to relax, and never able to let go, or else they fall to outsiders.

And those were the good guys.

The bad guys, the Shades and the Ancients, they could do whatever they wanted, if all they wanted to do was cause harm. Causing harm was always easier than building something.

Erick almost laughed, as a thought occurred: In the Script, it was always easier to harm than it was to protect. His newly-named ‘sunform’ was an oddity in that it was rather good defense. But even then, that defense only came from his tiny Domain, where his intent was in charge, and all others were censored.

There had to be more to a ‘Domain’ than that. Erick’s [Domain of Light] was considerably different from his [Domain of the Withering Slime]. What did they have in common, though? Almost nothing, except they were both named as Domains.

Domain of Light, instant, super long range, 5000 mana

Harken unto the Truth of Light. Let no authority diminish your brilliance.

Undispellable. Uncorruptible.

Lasts 1 hour. Effects last longer.

Domain of the Withering Slime, instant, super long range, aura, 2 MP per second

Provide an anchor for the Withering Slime to exist on your world.

Particle Mage Only.

[Domain of Light] was based around the idea of the supremacy of Light, and Erick’s light in particular. [Domain of Light] boosted all of his Light based effects, and, discounting the Shades, it probably was truly ‘undispellable’ in all normal circumstances. [Domain of the Withering Slime], though…

Ah. Erick was just providing the anchor for another being to exist? Was the difference that simple? Did Withering Slimes exist somewhere else? They existed in the mana, for sure, since mana was possibility. When he cast [Domain of the Withering Slime] for the first time, it caused the sky to open, and for another force to come into being…

Erick had never truly considered that he had created a being, in that moment. But maybe he had? Or maybe, he had created the idea of a being, and imbued that idea into the manaphere. Erick thought for a moment, and decided that the second was more likely.

A new arrival shocked Erick out of his meandering thoughts. He had been standing beside his map, in the Upper Reaches of the Center Lane, thinking, and staring at blue dots. But then a shadow to the east resolved into a strong-looking human girl. She wore well-cared leathers and carried a bare, white-metal sword at her hip. This time, she had a small bag on her back. She waved, as she walked through the sky, toward Erick, her steps flashing darkness.

“Hello, Erick!”

“Hello, Librarian,” Erick asked, “What brings you here?”

