Elise glanced at Sophie, who was fidgeting with her fingers, and realized that the other girl had never actually gone hunting. It felt strange that someone as high level as Sophie could have never hunted, but Elise reminded herself that unlike her, Sophie was a humanoid. She didn’t need to hunt to level.

“It is at first,” said Elise. “But once you figure out what you’re doing, it gets way easier.”

“Do you think the monsters in the Dungeon will be scary?”

“Maybe?” said Elise. “I don’t know. I probably should have done more research on it, so I don’t know much about it. But I know that the ones on the upper levels are supposed to be weak, so they shouldn’t be a problem. You’re strong. You’ll be fine. And if you’re not fine, I’ll protect you. I’ve fought lots of monsters.”

“How many?”

“I don’t know,” said Elise, trying to think back and count. “A few hundred at least.”

That didn’t actually sound like much for a 5th tier monster, but she had the benefit of cheating her way through a couple dozen levels by helping to kill monsters far above her own level.

“When did it get easy?”

“I think it depends on the monster,” said Elise. “Slimes were barely scary, even at the beginning. There were these cow things with ranged attacks that I fought that I took a while to figure out though. I had to hunt a few dozen before I got totally comfortable with how they worked. I think after that, it was easier overall. I was able to fight better and even when I was facing monsters for the first time, I could be more clear-headed. So a few dozen monsters in then?”

“I see,” said Sophie, nodding seriously.

Elise smiled and ruffled her hair.

“You’ll be fine,” she said with {Whisper}. “Your teacher is literally a dragon. I doubt there’s anything in that Dungeon that can threaten you.”

Sophie pushed Elise’s hand away, but smiled in response, and a few seconds later, she was back to her usual cheerful, energetic self, chattering away about random experiences in the classes that she took without Elise. When they reached the meeting place for the club, she was in the middle of telling Elise a story about a boy in one of her Academy classes who claimed to have met a dragon before, and was telling the class very authoritatively about what dragons were like while Sophie had to hold in her laughter.

They were greeted at the door by an older student that Elise didn’t recognize. It was a thin young man with light brown hair and glasses. Elise thought he looked pretty handsome, but {Sense Emotions} told her that Sophie’s opinion of him was a bit more extreme.

“Oh, you must be Eleanor and Sophie,” he said with a smile. “Professor Sucri said you would be here. Come on in. Make yourselves comfortable. My name is Shawn, by the way. Nice to meet you.”

“N-nice to meet you!” said Sophie, her cheeks a bit pink.

“Nice to meet you,” said Elise, holding back laughter as she grabbed Sophie’s hand and pulled her inside.
