“The bed…yes. I will be under the covers. Please read that book for several human hours.”

“Why are you being so—?”

Stuart ran at the bed like he thought it was going to try to get away from him and threw himself into it with all his clothes on. Five seconds later, Alden couldn’t see anything but a person-shaped lump beneath the covers.

What? he wondered. Is this some kind of normal behavior I’ve never seen before or heard about in xenobiology? That seems…not impossible but pretty unlikely. Stuart-specific weirdness?

“Was your trip to LeafSong stressful or something?” he asked.

“I am close to perfection,” said the lump. “I will soon be asleep.”

At least he took off his shoes.

“Make sure to read!” the lump ordered. “Since it’s my personal tablet your time with it is more limited!”

“I will.”

This was a little disappointing. Alden had been looking forward to learning the rock-heating spell and cooking meat petal.

There will be other days for it. He smiled. Plenty of other days.

He sat down at the table again and brushed a finger over the tablet.

It rewarded him with something much better than dinner.

******

Alden,

You’ve asked several times today for spell recommendations and have said you would like to learn things to supplement gaps in my knowledge.

Perhaps I didn’t answer you as well as I should have.

On our early missions together, my own casting ability and my knowledge of common practical spells may make you feel like you can’t help much with your unbound authority.

But knights do have one casting advantage over wizards, even over wizards who are equally powerful. We find it easier to perform spells that are similar to our main skills. This means that one day you will be able to cast some powerful and complex spells that very few wizards are capable of, even if those spells would normally require anatomical features you don’t possess.

With that future in mind, I give you access to this text. It presents a collection of spells that are considered masterpieces of contemporary magic.

These are the kinds of spells wizards my age daydream about being able to cast when they are renowned figures in their fields of expertise.

If you pick one of these, and it aligns well conceptually with the skill you will eventually choose to be your main one as a knight, you may be able to cast it before my classmates graduate from LeafSong. And I can give you a list of beginner spells that will lead you to gain the knowledge you need to achieve that goal more quickly.

In this way, your wizardry can benefit anyone you share a battlefield with, even when your bound authority is exhausted.

I think picking a masterpiece to work toward is a good place for you to start.

And of course you may choose whatever you want.

******

You sneaky dork, thought Alden. This is so obviously a sideways approach to make me tell you what kind of skill I want!

He looked over at the lump regretfully.

He must have decided I have some kind of mental block that he can bypass by telling me to pick a masterpiece spell I want to learn that aligns with concepts I value. Instead of insisting we talk directly about skills.

Unfortunately, when Stuart woke up, Alden didn’t think he would be able to point to whatever spell in here was most similar to Bearer of All Burdens. His contract tattoo probably wouldn’t allow it.

But I can sure as heck find that spell for myself and read about it.

He turned the page eagerly and discovered a table of contents.

“The Nine Flying Messengers Against Any Storm,” “Cutting Circles for the Dream Worm and Its Children,” “Three Lovers and Three Enemies Forever Parted,” …these spells all have names that go on for miles.

He was into it.

Is there an index that sorts them by concept or…I don’t know, college major?

After poking around, he discovered that the book included something similar to both.

This would be massive if it were printed. More like a set of books than a single one.

He could organize it by looking for spells that made shields, spells that had significant self-sacrificial elements, spells that required partners, ones related to transporting large weights…

Cool. So cool. And he really thinks I can learn to cast some of these if they’re close enough to my skill?

That’s even cooler.

He dug in.

******

******

Under the bed covers, scarcely breathing and so purple he was afraid it might become an eternal feature written upon his existence, Stu viewed what was happening on his tablet screen through his eye rings.

This was a common way of using both devices together. Alden simply hadn’t thought of it.

Or he expects his friend and future brother on the path of highest onus to have morals that would prevent me from spying on him like this.

But the question Stu needed the answer to was such a serious one.

If Alden had shared a contract tattoo with a decent person, maybe Stu could have risked a more direct approach to his question. With Ro-den however…

It’s preventing Alden from telling me about his very self! I think. What good reason could there possibly be for him to be stopped from saying whatever he likes about his own skill and requesting whatever kind of skill he might need in the future? And what else has he agreed to without understanding the consequences properly?

What kind of cruel things might that contract make him do or say if I try to force answers he’s not allowed to give?

Alden would probably enjoy browsing through the advanced spells. If he kept searching through a wide variety, Stu would consider it an indication that Alden wasn’t yet sure what powers he wanted in the future. But if he knew what kind of skill he wanted to have as a knight, he should quickly begin to narrow in on spells that shared similar qualities.

Stu would see him narrowing in.

If I see that he knows what he wants, but he can’t tell me so…

Stu would hide under these covers until he understood. And when he was sure he understood, he would act.

Alden had already figured out how to search the spells.

And while it might be a coincidence, and Stu was determined not to be too hasty with his conclusions, his friend seemed to be searching like someone who knew, more or less, what he was looking for.

******
