“Because Echoes don’t care whom they twist or why. Many of them do it unconsciously. When a ‘hero’ or a ‘murder enthusiast’ creates a Self-Echo, it only bounces between itself and the host. One goes, the echo just fades away since it can’t bounce off the ‘material’ it needs to make that particular echo,” Mharia said, sounding bored. “I suppose a person could infect others, but they would have to naturally want to control or subjugate people and then become powerful enough to Self-Echo, which I haven’t seen yet,” she added.

“So, Self-Echoes are really rare,” Delta mused.

“Emphatically so. You’ve actually had quite a few Self-Echoes moving through your halls over time,” Mharia admitted.

“I have?” Delta blinked, not sure she’d notice amazing weapons of legendary status.

“Delta, Self-Echoes aren’t just physical weapons. Some are, but your little friend Deo? His mother has a Self-Echo that was once Silenced and is now only returning,” Mhaira pointed out.

“Wait, how did you know about Isanella? You weren’t here,” Delta asked, eyes narrowed.

“I know what to look for. The Silence are very interested in those with Self-Echoes. For if they can be offered to include an Echo, the harmony they produce is multiplicative, not additive,” Mhaira said with a shrug.

“You sound well versed,” Nu interjected. Mharia’s face half-melted.

“I discovered my own dreadful Echo so many years ago. My hatred of life and the divine made me destroy life ever so effectively. My Sun explained so much, but he never did harmonize with me. He said we were ‘incompatible’” Mharia shrugged and floated around to another shelf.

“So, all powerful people Self-Echo?” Delta asked slowly, taking this all in.

“Echoes need compatibility?” Nu asked quickly after.

“I should be getting paid per question...” Mharia grumbled as she pulled out a medical textbook on unicorn dissection.

“Why are you just telling us this?” Delta asked before Mharia could speak again. The young fairy beamed.

“Because it doesn’t matter. The end is what it will be. You win, happy ending. I win, new world order. Either way, something changes and I do love change,” Mharia said brightly.

“As for your other questions. No, not all power is Self-Echoes. Some people naturally just infused themselves with the power inside. Some Self-Echo to grant them tangible strength. Some do it as a response to pain or trauma. Some Self-Echo because they understand the world is wrong. But in general, for every five naturally powerful people, there is one that Self-Echoes. Seed Weapons, as you call them, are effective against Silence. Less so on other things, but power and seed weapons? Hm delicious power,” Mharia grinned as she eyed a depiction artwork of a gray unicorn being robbed of one of its kidneys by two demonic leering shadows in a forest.

“And yes, compatibility is everything. An Echo that rages and has fire to its name will ill-suit a shy maiden who earnestly seeks truth and justice,” Mharia told Nu who listened quietly.

“Echoes can cheat, of course. Use a tool of theirs long enough, being around them for a time, or even just allow them close to your heart... and then they can bend you just enough to be compatible. Then you can never be unbent,” Mhaira finished with a calm voice.

“The knife, it was bending that gun lady,” Delta said and Mharia nodded.

“It’s a method. Not one I would personally use. It’s chaotic and without control. The Echo is depending on remaining undetected or having all his little toys not fall to the bottom of a swamp,” she explained.

Echoes, bending, shapes, self, and experience. Delta felt the words were heavier than she was understanding them to be.

“Close to the heart, what does that mean?” Delta asked and Mhaira blinked then for the first time, considered her words carefully.

“When you love someone. Truly love someone, be it a lover or your family, your shape will bend for them. Not cruelly or unnaturally, but as if trying to fit together in harmony. If you let an Echo shape this ‘love’. You can be changed beyond reckoning. When you radiate love, your shape is the most malleable. The most insidious and cruel Echoes do this,” Mharia said and for the first time, Delta heard disapproval in her tone.

“I can be affected by it. Golems and spirits can. Dungeons can. Love is a weakness and I do not mean that in a villainous monologue manner,” Mhaira said and floated off.

“So, maybe Durence’s shield survived because of love?” Delta called out after her.

“The man would have to be adored for that to happen. He was just some weirdo adventurer in the end,” Mharia called back with a laugh.

She had no idea...

Still, this talk of weapons made Delta curious about something.

“I wonder how Gamma handles Self-Echoes?” she mused, knowing that Gamma was a weapon shifter.

“That’s not who I’m worried about,” Nu said darkly.

---

“I don’t think I need it,” Alpha admitted as the strangely calm group invited him to sit at their table as they bartered between themselves using knives, gloves, and amulets that all made his skin tingle.

“A +3 protection puts you above most,” a woman said with a detached voice. Alpha could understand that, his shield magic skill was quite high.

“You should always be upgrading. Stagnation implies weakness,” another man interjected and Alpha didn’t want to stagnate, not just when he found Delta.

“You should get twinked out so you can raid early. Better drops make you a more valuable teammate. DPS only get selected if they’re really good,” someone pointed out. Alpha had a moment of panic, thinking that maybe he would get ditched if Delta found a stronger mage or hero unit.

“No.” someone interjected and Alpha leaned back in surprise as two sets of hands dragged him back.

“Begone with your unholy number talk!” Amenstar warned and Poppy at his side huffed out smoke.

“Dad said Calcs deal in absolutes which can wear you down,” Amenstar said as he put himself between Alpha and the people at the table who were offering amulets and coins.

Alpha watched as the boy in mostly black glowed with a dark cool aura.

“You all follow guides to live your life. I make my own way,” he said and a cool breeze made Amenstar’s hair shift. Alpha had never seen these two without Deo, but the boy was oddly absent.

“Nothing wrong with... being content,” Poppy said with disdain at the group.

“Join our group, healers and mage welcome,” the group stood up and Alpha finally saw past his own panic to see a haze over them all. A dark oozing haze of someone who enjoyed winning, even at the cost of enjoyment.

It was so familiar.

So painfully familiar.

“Come on,” Amenstar insisted and Alpha let himself be dragged away.

Alpha had questions and he didn’t know who had the answers.
