A dozen windows opened and closed in rapid succession as earth began to give way. The small hole rapidly caved outwards, revealing a round tunnel that was barely big enough for a child to move through. About ten meters deeper, the process suddenly halted and Delta found herself pushing against the boundaries of her Dungeon; an unyielding wall of metaphysical no-man’s land where everything in her screamed she couldn’t exist there.

She shed her Dungeon mentality entirely to Nu who formed a full avatar as she used her near-formless human side to do what a Dungeon could not. Pushing, the tunnel gave way to a void of twisting mana that looked to be a furious sea of her own mana and the world’s, Brother’s. The violent tides pushed and pulled, tearing apart anything but the most determined of forces or the ones with nothing to lose.

She focused, watching as all around her Dungeon, the mana was merging and directed to sustain a growing world. Delta’s Dungeon was like a giant nail pointing down, pinning a particularly violent current, but entwined with that flow. The Brother’s mana was dark threads and bulging tumors of Silence.

“Can’t do anything about them right now,” she yelled to Nu who couldn’t follow her this far out. She focused on Durence, seeing how it was...

“That’s not a town,” she said stupidly as the massive creature allowed some of its tiny limbs to be moved this way or that to soak up the sunlight while newer tendrils were coaxed to the surface for purposes. A very fresh growth looked to be very near her Dungeon and she even thought she could see familiar strands of her mana inside the building that the tendril was connected to.

The thing noticed her and the ‘body’ was a massive box with a sleepy eye.

“The town is a mimic. The town is a mimic!” she screamed as it moved a few buildings around when it seemed no one was looking. A tendril moved in the mana-space which the creature seemed to exist in mostly while it ‘pierced’ into the physical world. The tendril had a small glinting tarnished round piece of metal on it tied to a scruffy collar. Delta squinted and managed to read it.

‘Mimi- If lost, return to Durence’

Delta could only stare as it seemed to be juggling a dozen self-contained pocket dimensions, bubbles of containment, and security features that only seemed to be coming online now that it was feeding.

Feeding off Delta’s ambient mana.

In fact, her mana seemed to be having a constant state of warfare with the mimic who didn’t even seem to notice. It just inhaled and swallowed without much thinking.

Delta vaguely recalled once that Ruli mentioned that Durence the town started out with a few huts but grew quickly but she never explained why...

Or how.

Swallowing back her panic, she looked around the thousands of tendrils that turned mana into things like light or heat, making near perfect homes for the people above. Some tendrils had different glows to it, like a tendril that was very like Wyin that connected to a massive subterranean cavern hiding under a modest house garden or something that looked like intelligent brain nerves connected to a small store that communicated intent and purpose.

There were dozens more, but the most complex and dense tendril that had all the pieces of the others and more connected to a rather large building that Delta could only sort of see had magical drinks forming out of mana, heat for food, and a fair amount of people in it.

A... tavern?

The nerves connected directly to an avatar even, a man working the counter.

The mimic saw her curious stare and seemed to show her without really moving.

The man was named ‘Nibs’ which confused her for a moment until the mimic pulled another tendril close, showing a little napkin or bib one would have for a child, crudely made by hand with wonky stitching.

‘My littler nibbler’

Delta just had to step back and repeat that all her surface friends, the children, the groups, and more were all currently inside a massive mimic.

Something that could at any moment compress its tendrils like a bear trap. However, Mimi radiated no malice or even hunger that Delta might expect from a mimic. It was old, very old, and content to lay and bask in the sunlight like an old dog on the porch.

“Break the rules, learn things,” Delta summed up as she tried to communicate with the being but it was hard since Mimi spoke with intent, but there was the massive mana stream between them. Mimi fed on it, but she was mostly in a dry riverbed, only a few puddles around her. It looked huge to Delta because she had been hidden from it, protected in her space, but to Mimi? This was still very much a withered land.

The mana vein had been very drained and it wasn’t coming back anytime soon other than the small stream known as Delta pouring into it. Mimi slowly reached over an unused tendril that had once been used to support the land above it, scars and old wounds showing how the effort to do so had been costly.

Delta frowned, looking to where the tendril had been, finding it almost parallel to her third floor... Mharia’s old castle. Once the tendril got close, Delta felt an acute pressure in her kidneys like a giant finger slowly pressing into her. She weathered the sensation and knew why Mimi could have caused her serious pain if she latched on to Delta’s Dungeon beforehand.

The tendril came close and Delta reached out to it.

They connected and pressure filled her existence. Mimi was under so much pressure but she didn’t begrudge or resent it. She wore it like pride as she balanced dozens of magical and other forces that didn’t want to play nice together.

Mimi shifted her existence in a dozen places, being so many things as needed it was amazing Mimi could retain her sense of self.

“Why?” Delta managed to get out.

‘Love’

The single word was all encompassing, all consuming, and pure.

“Durence?” she asked and Mimi flooded the area with warmth and light.

‘Protect him.’

Delta sniffed, overwhelmed by the sheer giant that was so gentle.

“I... Mimi, I need to get to the Echo. I need to stop him,” she said and Mimi seemed to feel unsure suddenly.

‘Durence went away to stop Echo. You might go away too’ Mimi pointed out.

“I won’t die,” Delta said firmly, “but we can’t let innocent people be corrupted if we can stop it” she spoke to the tendril.

‘Die... die... I do not know this word. To stop. To lose life? Death has no shape inside me. I can understand not being here. Not being definable as a shape? That will happen to you’

“I’m already without a shape,” Delta said warmly as she moved her faint outline.

‘The shape. The shape that is you. Not something you touch or own, but something you fill, become. Echoes twist shapes, twist you until you must fit them’

“Thousands are being twisted right now. I can’t sit back and do nothing,” Delta insisted. Mimi was quiet.

‘You are Durence a little in shape. Just enough that makes me miss him. I will let you do this if you can find Durence’s outside shape’ Mimi decided and tendrils covered the hollow mess of tubes that acted as a prison to the Echo.

“His what?” Delta blinked, still holding the tendril.

‘His outside shape. The ones here on our land, the blank and dull ones, they have outside shapes but they bleed and cry. Those are bad outside shapes’

It took Delta a minute to translate Mimi’s terminology.

“Blanks... you mean Fairplay? Their Seed weapons? Durence had a Seed Weapon?” Delta asked, sounding surprised.

‘Durence and friends had them. Haldurence, Milaurence, and Picurence have outside shapes. Seed...Weapons’

Mimi seemed to show a vision of a strange friendly old man with a gap tooth holding up a strange golden wheel of cheese as he glowed with a yellow aura.

A woman that looked a lot like Ruli held up a glove or gauntlet that made her radiate utter bloodlust.

Pic snapped his jaw and the sound crunched the air.

“So, these are weapons, proper seed weapons that hurt the Echoes?” Delta asked excitedly. Maybe she could ask these old people to help out?

‘Used to. They gave up themselves. No self, no shape. Their shapes denied Echo twists, even if they no longer remember. Without shape, you leak’

Okay, maybe Delta wouldn’t arm the senior folks just yet.

“What about Durence? What was his Seed Weapon, his Shape?” she called out and Mimi sent an image of a bright shield that looked to be reflecting the blue sky with the sun like a seal.

Delta hadn’t absorbed anything like that from Mharia’s castle.

“I don’t even know where to start looking for it,” Delta admitted as their contact seemed to be tiring Mimi and parts of her Dungeon edge were flaking off into the mana stream.

‘You are close. Like I was. Love. Protect him’

“I’ll look!” Delta promised as Mimi began to pull back.

‘Delta. Durence finds you. That’s how it works. He finds people and changes them. You needn’t look’ Mimi said gently and her massive eye closed. With a snap, Delta flew back as a chunk of her mana floated into the mana stream and vein.

---

Jenia Visp looked up as alarms went over as powerful disturbances spread out and affected every monitored mana vein that Fairplay could find. The tallest point of the headquarters slid into emergency mode as it tracked the signs of corruption to the Dungeon that had produced it.

When a Dungeon pierced its space, it produced clots in the nearby mana veins that were some of the earliest signs to predict a Dungeon turning into an Abomination. Jenia barked orders as Dungeons were quickly eliminated.

No invaders to the Silver Dungeon, that was the first thing to be checked as new Dungeons could slide into that husk like hermit crabs.

“Ruby Dungeon stable.”

“Royal Dungeon beyond stable.”

“Queen Dungeon relatively stable.”

Jenia continued to listen to the incoming reports from the workers at their desks, tracking mana veins and tracing the nearby Dungeons using tools that would cost them dearly to recharge, but it was important that it was done.

“Twin Dungeon stable, not stable, stable, normal response.”

“Diseased Right arm Penta-Dungeons currently in smog cloud, results pending!”

“Forge Dungeon stable.”

The tension built inside her jaw as she followed the map along, coming closer to the west portion.

“Shroom Dungeon... results uncertain. Waves indicate this is the source of the debris but no infection of the nearby dead Mana Vein detected. I don’t... understand,” the worker called over and Jenia focused the map over that area.

“Records should be ‘Delta’. It named itself. I don’t want records out of date again. It can get someone killed if they don’t know the Dungeon’s name in future negotiations,” Jenia said and the worker shrank under her gaze.

She read the signs, double checked the mana measurements, and came to one conclusion.

The Dungeon had resisted going Abomination meaning that someone had tried to force it or an outside influence had strained it. No matter how Jenia cut it, it was illegal and immoral for all that was concerned.

Still, data and numbers would mean little.

“Report.”

Jenia hid her wince and turned to the leader of Fairplay who stared at her impassively.

“Director Ripdoy,” she began, trying to figure out how best to tell the man his child may be in the blast radius of a second Dungeon going Abomination.

She could have guessed his reaction, honestly.

---

Delta waved her hands in a daze.

“Find Durance... find shield...” she mumbled as she stared up at the cave ceiling behind the waterfall. A rectangular blob of blue came close and in her confusion, Delta presumed she had done just that.

“I am so good at this,” she mumbled as she grabbed the shield on both sides victoriously.

“Release me before I find a way to remove your hands violently,” Nu warned.

“You're not a shield,” Delta sighed as she sat up. Nu, having returned to his menu form, huffed.

“I am the tool to bludgeon fools with. Not a flimsy piece of metal to protect idiots,” he agreed.

“Have we ever found a magic shield?” she asked as her head began to clear and the hole in her Dungeon cleared up.

“Not unless you count Estal who is a shield on impractical heels,” Nu admitted. An idea suddenly hit Delta.

“Mharia!” she called out and found the fairy reading a murder mystery novel in the library with rather vivid descriptions.

“You rang?” Mhaira asked without looking up.

“Did a man named Durence ever beat the stuffing out of you with a magic shield?” she asked and Mhaira snapped the book closed, face so expressionless that it looked like a corpse.

“Try that again,” Mhaira said and her voice radiated death. Even if Mharia was a forced contract, Delta still felt a shiver down her spine.

“Uh, did you ever do deadly mortal combat with a powerful warrior wielding a legendary shield of power and the outcome was undecided?” Delta said slowly. Mharia blew out a sigh.

“The damage to my ego is already done. Yes, I recall Durence. The heroic man of the hour. His shield more so. You don’t often see Seeds bloom into a Self-Echo of the person,” she admitted and put the book back on the shelf.

“So, you know where the shield is?” Delta said excitedly. Mhaira gave her an odd look.

“It’s gone. No Durence... no shield,” Mhaira said slowly as if Delta had issues understanding simple concepts.

“But Echoes spread and live on if their other selves die,” Delta argued, feeling like she had all the wrong pieces to this puzzle.

