“I like them,” Delta said as the unconscious woman who had just lost to Jellagon was carried out by the Guardgoyles. The rest just trailed behind with intense Mana Poison.

Jellagon, already shrinking now that the offenders had been punished, gurgled.

“Not the worst,” was his verdict. Delta hummed as she turned to see Nu appear once the adventurers had left the floor. He was staring at the innocuous knife on the floor left behind by the Gun woman. Delta was already upgrading the woman’s gun since the lingering essence of Wyin still let her mess with the weapon before it became ‘set’.

“What even is that thing?” Delta asked but she was answered by someone not Nu.

“A gift, or... you could say a transfer,” Mharia said as she appeared from the shadows, her green eyes glowing.

“You know this knife?” Delta asked, trying not to frown. Mhaira was her only potent source on the Silence but what she chose to reveal and what she didn’t reveal, always seemed to be a balance of playful and misleading.

“That knife? No. The idea? Yes,” Mhaira admitted as she floated around the knife but didn’t seem to get any closer to it.

“It’s filth!” Nu said and sounded upset as well. Delta was beginning to feel like a third wheel that had no idea it was attached to a bicycle.

“Why do you say that?” Mhaira asked Nu who seemed to consider the question for a moment.

“It’s the opposite of us, the Dungeon,” he said and turned away as if the knife was painful to look at for too long.

Delta frowned and peered at the weapon, trying to recall what she saw of the gun lady. The knife had a pulsing ‘not Mana’ inside. It was hard to really describe it other than it was either the utter absence of a soul or such a concentration of life that no details could be made out.

That didn’t help Delta at all since the idea that something was either nothing or absolutely everything was a strange idea to consider.

The knife had been reaching into the gun lady, riding the entry Delta’s mana had made, until it found her seed. Delta had seen the knife not convert the seed, but make it blossom. It directed its tendrils into her soul this way and that. It was horrifying but also very revealing that the knife made the seed grow a certain way, the thickest changes around the brain and eyes. Delta finally intervened when the seed was going to start changing the woman. It was altering her brain to be shaped differently, as if it was trying to make her into someone else. The process would have taken years. Even in Delta’s Dungeon but Delta put a stop to it then and there.

Frowning even harder, Delta focused on her mirror Dungeons, finding there was a group of stoic people fighting Fran in one of them. They wore a mix of strange outfits, some clashing horribly, while moving in almost predetermined paths to lead Fran this way and that way. They didn’t have the same sort of weapons as the gun lady, but Delta peered into them, trying to examine them as beings. Delta tended not to do this as looking into people let her see everything at a glance. Shapes, marks, scars, internal organ status, and process occurring. Delta liked to respect boundaries but this was a medical and/or eldritch emergency.

After a few seconds, Delta stared at the group fighting. It was in a different state of progressions, but all their brains were slowly being changed into the exact same shape. Some seemed to be stuck in the change while the ‘leader’ and most outlandish one was well on his way to be converted.

“Kite. Proc slow traps in 10 seconds. Back up buffs in 20,” the man ordered, his eyes glued to Bacon, Fran’s pig mount, as if deeply wanting it for himself. Just to have it. To own it.

The speed of 10% movement and the bulk would be great tanking potential. The thing could be used for a suicide charge and opening trap hallways. If it was subpar, Delta could make ten more with better armor rating.

“Focus,” Mhaira said, slapping Delta’s face with a harsh smack and Delta blinked as the world stopped looking like a toy store.

“What was that?” she muttered.

“You let it echo in your head. You’re more vulnerable than mortals. They have fleshy bits that can mitigate the Echo, but you’re pure energy,” Mhaira chided Delta like she was an old woman, not a child. Wait... Mharia was actually an old lady.

“Can you explain? Anything?” Delta asked, giving the fairy lich her full attention, which for a Dungeon was pretty heavy. Mhaira winced but relaxed a moment later.

“Of course I can. Anything for Delta,” she said sweetly and focused her magic, lifting the knife up in a coil of green magic.

“Echoes, the manifestation of the Lost Brother, are potentially infinite in number but at any given time they’re cannibalizing each other, devouring the weaker to form a large current. Once they gain enough strength, they emerge into this world. Even with a physical form, their nature doesn’t change. They find each other, grow, and search for more. However,” Mhaira said slowly and before Delta’s eyes, the knife began to vibrate.

“Echoes can be clever or lucky, just like people. After all, everyone carries a little bit of the Lost Brother in them, converted or mutilated, it’s always there to a degree. Echoes can even use people as hosts to manifest. An Echo that manifests with power or lack of care can use the seeds too, they find people and make the seed vibrate on their particular... ‘wave’. An Echo is just a reflection really. Why can’t they make the Echo, themselves, repeat over and over?” Mharia asked intently as the knife began to break down into two smaller knives, then five dart-like tools.

“But it should lose power,” Nu interrupted.

“If it was only the seeds, yes. Infinite growth with limited supplies is a fool’s dream, but people aren’t just their seeds, no?” Mhaira smiled darkly as she used her own magic to feed into two of the darts, turning them back into slightly large knives.

“Dreams, hopes, love, hate, fear, courage, heroes, villains, gods, and demons. Fertile soil in which the truth can sprout,” the fairy said and the knives glowed with her dark mana now instead of that weird aura from before.

“How did yours spread? Your Sun?” Delta asked and Mharia paused then looked a little bothered.

“He never needed to. He was formed so strong, so powerful. He knew what he wanted and had a dream. He only needed to lead and others naturally followed,” Mhaira said with her arms crossed.

“I’m sure all fanatics say the same about their idol,” Nu said nastily. Mharia turned and her face began to melt.

“Sun is different. He has the power to even suppress his own nature. He conquered another Echo and didn’t even consume him, that wretched Echo serves my Sun,” Mhaira said hotly and then inhaled to calm herself. Delta opened her mouth when a sudden memory hit her. It was almost like a flash of a dream, but she grabbed it, pulled at it and soon it came tobe a shared memory of what Renny had shown her when she contracted him.

‘My dear ringmaster! How very rude of me! Let me formally welcome you to the Tunnel of the World. Grand title but this homely little home is mine so I dare say I do own some proper manners fitting the Lord of the path of Ending Light’

That man that trapped Renny’s circus in the ground. The man who had something in his head, wriggling and moving...

“His name is Felcore. You may have some beef with him in time,” Mharia commented, as if sensing Delta’s thoughts.

“The One of the Ending Light, She of Settled Darkness and He of the Broken Silence,” Delta recited, remembering the words of Runilac the demon smith.

“Indeed, but to sum up what this knife represents?” Mhaira returned to the object as it began to burn from her magic.

“It’s an infection. It’s a ringing cry from a trapped Echo. Desperate to escape a prison, but in return it cannot escape its guise. A pitiful thing,” she declared.

“I agree with her,” Nu spoke up, “if this Echo needs so many avatars to even exist, it's sad,” he said and Mhaira shot him a strange smile.

“A single avatar does tend to be more dramatic,” she responded.

“There must be some way to stop this? This Echo infection,” Delta asked with concern that these Echo people might be all over the world and beyond Delta’s ability to help.

“Infect them all first. You are the anti-virus of the soul,” Mhaira said with a shrug, her wings fluttering once as she got ready to leave.

“Please!” Delta said, moving closer and Mhaira halted.

“All Echoes have a prime avatar or form. If it is consumed or destroyed with rare tools, such as Soul Fire, then it can perish. It might only make room for other Echoes but they’ll be spread out and prone to fighting,” Nu said and Delta stared at him. Nu looked almost lost at his own words.

“How do you know that?” Delta asked as Jellagon watched this entire exchange silently.

“I...” Nu trailed off.

“I told him before, when we went to the Trinity Dungeon,” Mhaira interjected with a casual tone.

“Y-Yes, I believe that was it,” Nu said and looked shaken. Delta couldn’t quite blame him. This Echo stuff was insidious on all levels.

“But how can I stop the avatar if I can’t leave my Dungeon?” Delta mused as she began to pace.

“We could ask Ruli or Quiss,” Nu stated.

“I could, but they might get infected or swayed. I don’t want them getting hurt,” Delta said then shook her head. “No, that way lies the loner anti-villain route,” she told herself.

“How are you even going to find the Echo?” Mhaira asked dryly as if this was an issue.

“Oh, I already know where he is,” Delta said without looking at her.

“What? How?!” Mhaira blurted out as if she was ready to tease and bargain for the info. Delta brought them into her map and showed the ‘mana’ she borrowed from the group in her Mirror Dungeon. Tons of tiny dots appeared on the map but there was a massive glowing blip right next to the Dungeon.

“All of them are becoming the same person, so their mana is too. I just needed a sample from any of them,” she explained.

“This map is cheating,” Mhaira muttered darkly.

“Memetic Hazard infection is cheating,” Delta countered.

She focused on the map, bringing into focus as she focused on Durence, turning the map until the 3D model rose into the air, the massive dot under the village. There were another two dots around the village, but they kept moving rapidly, fading in and out of focus as if they weren’t entirely in this dimension.

Delta labeled them ‘Sun’ and ‘Felcore’ mentally.

“The Sewers?” Delta said slowly and made some mental estimations.

“We could send Alpha, Ruli, and Quiss to check it out. We know Quiss has Soul Fire... somehow,” Nu said and Delta was beginning to notice he was slipping terms and facts that seemed to come from nowhere more and more these days.

“We could or maybe we could just handle it ourselves nice and quietly?” Delta said brightly as she formed a map of the Dungeon, finding the closest point of the Dungeon to the town of Durence. It was a little tricky since Dungeon Space worked on a sub-dimension which let it fit a crazy amount of stuff in the space of a farmer’s field.

However, there were some points of her outer walls that were closer to Durence than others because of that bending of space.

“Objection!” Prim interjected with an alarm.

“Yes, Prim, sweetie?” Delta asked kindly. The primal system that she accidentally gave sentience formed a bunch of windows, all of which proclaimed the security issues of breaching Delta’s space and escaping into the world.

“Abomination! You will become twisted! You will change! You will cause panic!” Prim insisted.

“Or I could save the world from a munchkin infection!” Delta said gently.

“I will not aid you.” Prim said stubbornly and Delta wasn’t too worried, she could handle this by herself easily enough.

“Your art proves otherwise.”

Delta’s eyes twitched before she smiled, becoming serene again.

“I got this,” she said.

“And again, we can just ask Quiss to burn it,” Nu said and Mhaira coughed, drawing attention.

“They’re imprisoned for a reason,” she said and waited, getting no response. She sighed as if her talents weren’t appreciated.

“Echoes ring the loudest when their forms perish. That’s how they consume each other by fighting. So, if someone is standing feet away when they die, they get the full force of that death rattle,” Mhaira said with a wave of her hand.

“I haven’t even gotten close to cleaning Quiss’ seed. It’s really developed,” Delta muttered, thinking of the fire mage.

“The Echo is sealed away and these followers only seem able to harm themselves and a slight number. Why not accept the victory where you can get it?” Prim asked, sounding so frustrated.

“Because I don’t accept outcomes that are either ‘bad’ or ‘worse’. I want a damn happy ending,” Delta insisted. She looked down at the ground.

“I don’t want to live with ‘I had no choice’ or ‘It was for the best’. I want to try,” she said quietly.

There was silence before Mhaira gagged.

“You are cringe,” she declared and left to the shadows.

“I AM AN ADULT THAT WORKS WITH CHILDREN. IT’S MY RIGHT TO BE HIP AND COOL!” Delta yelled after her.

“Nu, let’s mosey and jive into breaking quantum physics!” she ordered with her finger pointed down the hall.

“Can’t you just do insane things without sounding insane?” Nu asked with pain.

“No.”

---

Delta floated behind the waterfall on the second floor, the ‘hidden’ rest space for those curious to explore. It was here that her Dungeon leaned the most towards the sewers of Durence. She focused and began to push with her mana.

