e him down like vermin and entangle him,” Poppy hissed like a weird snake.Grim didn’t exactly get a say in the matter as Poppy dropped him like a dragonrider dropping explosive potions on foes.He assumed Billy didn’t exactly respect Grim more for it when he landed on him with a heavy thump mid-jump and they both fell back to the Grove’s floor, mushrooms acting like springy pillows.“Oi, gedoff!” Billy grumbled and with a swift double kick to his stomach, Grim was pushed over. Grim knew his role and charged, throwing all respect out the window and grabbing Billy’s legs, making the goblin trip and drop his hook thing.Their eyes met and a primal understanding passed between them.This was no fight for tools or fancy skills.They were beasts. Claws and teeth were good enough! It was to be a battle between man and goblin, between dungeon and free, between Grim and Billy.But the wrench in the plan came when a squid monster fell from the trees and both of them screamed, holding each other.“Purple style: Brain-sucking MahnDi Squid!” The beast growled.---“Did we win or did we draw?” Kemy asked, looking disturbed at the half girl, half squid monster.“Go with ‘win’, why blemish our record?” Amenster asked with an amused smile. Deo looked in awe.“POPPY IS SO COOL!” He almost squealed.Kemy closed her eyes, and put the image into her ‘mid-life crisis’ compartment and simply nodded, smiling and humming.Squid girls were cute now. They had to be or Kemy would cry.---Quiss frowned.Why was he in the middle?“Quiss never really mentioned you,” Ruli said smoothly from his left. Zane, of all people, was on his right sipping a drink.“I don’t expect Quiss to mention me. Not much to write about,” Zane said simply looking right back at Ruli with amused eyes. The bar they sat it had a wide space around them as people avoided getting close.He tried to get up, but their auras were like weights on his shoulders.He was all that was holding them back from fighting.“Zane, you tried to kill me, then pestered me with letters asking for one-night stands, but instead of the usual crap, you wanted to kill me and leave me. Ruli, you did sleep with me and I’ve hated you ever since. Can we move on? Like… why are you here, Zane?” Quiss gritted his teeth.“Dungeon, taxes, something. Wasn’t paying attention,” Zane admitted, scratching his chin.“I wasn’t that bad in bed. You just got my horses going,” Ruli frowned.“It was the scariest sexual encounter I have ever had. I have slept with people who could kill me, people that have tried to kill me, and people I’m sure did kill me before bringing me back. You… were the scariest,” Quiss said flatly.“Quiss says you were painting of joy and pinching circled into single and then set on flame. Life shifting, but soul snapping,” Seth said as he walked past.Zane looked at him with a confused expression.“Who the hell are you?” The man grunted. Seth eyed him with a long look.“Beyond your reach and your night pictures,” Seth said coolly.“Seth, why don’t your sleep with me and see if Quiss is being a drama queen?” Ruli offered. Seth blinked.“I do not feel good about putting you to the end to make Quiss a royal. I like you,” Seth frowned.Ruli made an obscene gesture that made Seth’s eyes light up.“Ah you wish to mingle bodies! I must advance you. I am a master of affectionate bed sheets,” Seth winked.“The dirty talk is going to be so amazing, I might actually die,” Ruli grinned.“Oh no… be careful, Seth,” Quiss said bored before turning to Zane.“Can you maybe kill me quickly?” He asked. Zane was unimpressed.“I don’t do quickies,” he said, offended.“Neither does Ruli. Right, whatever. I’m going to stop a druid and a glutton knight from fighting. It’s easier than… this,” Quiss stood, leaving the bar with his large staff and hat.Zane shrugged and ordered another five pints.He might as well get plastered before he actually had to work. Less chance of him either killing someone or pissing off someone strong enough to kill him instantly.Zane didn’t like quickies. So impersonal.---I'll be starting 110 tonight. you guys rock!
