Sipping her tea once, making no signs of enjoyment, she sat in comfortable silence as he patted his robes, coming up with a broken pipe, his face forlorn and slack, playing at being a doddering fool. “Kyung! My spare pipe.” A small victory, he had spoken, albeit not to her. Already she held a position of power, having saved his life and he knew it, unable to face her, deflecting and turned to the side. He fiddled with his pipe and soon puffed away contentedly, the sweet scent of Dream Smoke rising from his pipe. An addictive substance, used to numb pain in the elderly, she felt a twinge of pity for the human warrior. So powerful, but near the end of his natural life, it was a shame.

She waited patiently for him to gather his thoughts and speak, and after a short time, he stood and changed the incense, before sitting back down without another word. Twice more this occurred, the time passing quickly as she continued to heal her injuries. No major injuries, but it could easily have gone badly. His attacks had all landed on her thick armor, likely deliberately pushing her to attack him, so that he could place all blame on her. A wily bastard.

Her ears perked up as she listened to Mila's whispers to Song. “So, that guard Kyung is your brother? Why didn't you say anything earlier? I didn't even realize you knew the old man.” That Mila referred to him as an 'old man' made Akanai cringe a little. He was barely over 100 years old from the looks of things, hardly old.

“Sorry Master, this slave has failed you, she did not think.” Her words were often repeated in her monotone voice, but at least she was not trying to slap herself anymore. “Teacher Du purchased me and instructed me for several years before gifting me to old Master. According to the merchant who sold me, I am descended from the same maternal lineage as Boss Kyung.”

Interesting. Akanai had been impressed with Song's strength, as well as the strength of Min Gyu's other slaves. A shame he was such a prickly bastard. “That's wonderful! You should go talk to him, catch up. I'm sure you missed him. Were you two close?”

Suddenly turning towards them and spitting into the grass, Du Min Gyu made a sound of disgust. “Foolish child. Stop trying to ruin my disciple's slave, putting nonsense of games and family in her head. She is a tool, a weapon, not a toy for little girls to make friends with. I demand that you return her chain to me. Was my disciple's corpse even cold before you lifted it from him? Disgraceful!” His aura surrounded Mila, his words infused with his chi, menacing her with his Killing Intent, and Akanai almost leaned forward to rip out his throat before calming herself. It was only a minor threat, nothing Mila could not handle.

She watched proudly as Mila circulated her chi and smashed through the Intent, her eyes wide with indignation as she talked back, “I didn't take anything from his corpse you stupid old man, she was given to us by the Society as part of the reparations for troubles we met due to match fixing, carried out by your disciple's brother. It was a legal seizure and exchange and if you have issue, then you can take it up with the Society.”

“Daughter, this man is a Lieutenant General, and will be spoken to with respect.” Akanai's voice was calm, with little fire in the reprimand, but the last thing she wanted was for someone to aggravate him. With an Oath made, it would make things difficult to settle. “And you, Du Min Gyu, will not assault my daughter again.” This time, the threat was clear. Some things were just not done.

“Hmph. So, the little aide is your daughter.” He paused a little, his mind in reflection before looking at Mila once more. “You will swear to the validity of your words?”

“The Justicar can demand oaths, you can eat ...” Akanai caught her eye, and Mila swallowed her next words, grumbling beneath her breath. Something would need to be done about her language, Rain and Adujan had so sullied her precious daughter with their foul talk.

After a few minutes of silence, punctuated only by the tapping of the pipe, Du Min Gyu spoke to Akanai once again. “Well trained for her age, foul mouthed, but impressive. A good daughter you have raised.”

Nodding in agreement, Akanai returned with a compliment. “Any relation to Colonel Du Kang Bing?”

“Grandson of a second cousin. Owed the cousin a favor and took the boy in as a student after it became known that I was teaching. Teach one, teach ten, teach a hundred, no difference in everyone's eyes but the teacher. Bothersome.”

“Good soldier, gave him my commendations. He's northeast of us, at one of the side fortresses. Had to leave him behind to stand guard, cavalry is no good in these forests.” They both lapsed into silence once more and Akanai had to fight the urge to tap her fingers as she waited for Min Gyu to empty his pipe of ashes, before once again lighting new sticks of incense.

Once he was seated again, he held out his hand to Mila. “Hand me the slave's chain. If she corroborates your story, she will be returned to you immediately and the matter dropped. I will leave in six days after observing the proper funeral rituals.” He sighed, as if he were making some great concession.

“Li Song is my friend and I won't give her back to you animals. Tell him Mama.”

Sitting quietly, Akanai thought his proposition through. “And the matter of your Disciple's death?”

“Not your fault. War took his life, but he was a soldier. Lost my temper at seeing the slave.” That seemed to be the closest thing to an apology that his pride would allow, and Akanai turned to Li Song, studying the timid little girl, her ears plastered against her skull.

This would be the best outcome, neither friend nor enemy of Du Min Gyu, and it would be foolish not to try. “Li Song, are you willing? If not, then say so and I will defend you with my life.”

Song continued to sit there, gnawing on her lip as she stared at the ground. “This slave is to be given to Teacher Du?”

“Only for questioning, and then you will be returned to Mila.” Akanai tried to sound gentle, but it came out tired. The girl simply nodded, and after a glance, Mila moved forward, holding hands with Song as she handed over the necklace to Du Min Gyu, who began to question Li Song, a grimace on his face as he listened to her recite her version of events, beginning with their first meeting in the restaurant and ending with her delivery to Alsantset at the Society Headquarters.

The rendition finished, he sat in his seat, slouched and angry, his hand tapping against the table. “This boy, Rain. I would like to meet him.” His eyes promised violence should they meet, and Akanai tried to come up with an excuse.

“Teacher Du has already met him.” Song answered without pause before Akanai could interject. “He guided you to Senior Captain Alsantset this morning.”

“... The one armed child?” Du Min Gyu seemed in shock for a moment, before scowling and unceremoniously throwing the necklace back to Mila. He took a deep breath as if about to erupt, but he held his words in and sighed sadly. “Foolish disciple, feuding with a child. Teach that one some proper manners or keep him away from civilized folk.” Chuckling, he looked Akanai in the eye. “I spent twenty minutes with him and he almost insulted me as well.” Turning back to the incense burner, he waved her away, effectively dismissing her.

Unable to simply leave at his behest, Akanai slowly sipped her cup of tea, helping herself to a second cup and drinking that slowly as well, before she finally stood and left with Mila and Li Song. As soon as they were out of sight, she let out a long sigh. She could only hope that Du Min Gyu kept to his word, he was a difficult opponent out here, with only twenty guards. A stubborn, obstinate man with little to lose, she worried that he would attack regardless of the circumstances. It seemed that she would have to send Alsantset to deal with the Defiled, while Du Min Gyu remained, she could not leave the camp. The man was insane enough to contemplate assaulting a Justicar, he was unstable.

Exhausted, she shuffled off to her tent, annoyed that she would have to listen to his advice. Rain would truly need to learn some manners or be kept home. She simply could not afford more enemies, especially not of this caliber.

Truly bothersome.
