“Fortunes are relative, but flavors delight in memories,” Velly declared. “That is the true wealth. Bad is what people will remember.”

Psycho-Cartography: He's playing up a sense of bravado. He's trying to perform for us. Listen carefully to his words. It's all reflex, rote.

Shiv noticed that he still wondered what the hells Velly even was. Before today, he had never seen any lizard men before, not in Blackedge, the Abyss, or the Yellowstone Rubix Well. And now, at Monster Mystery Meat, he'd seen two on the outside, but they sported wings and wore bronze harnesses. Velly seemed lizard-like too, but he was of a different kind altogether. He had clawed talons, digitigrade legs, and his face had more of a bird-like look to it. He even sported a fang-filled beak and colorful feathers along certain sections of his body instead of pure scales.

The tunnel curved, and soon, Shiv found himself walking past a set of colossal doors. They were carved in the shape of a dragon's roaring, humanoid face, and on the other side, he saw two life force signatures glimmering in wait. They were far along the path, but Shiv smelled cooking oil lingering in the air. Billowing waves of coldness struck him, and the Deathless realized he was in some kind of freezer. As they passed through into the next room, he looked to his left and right, where he saw vaults containing specific ingredients running up along the walls, slotted in place along massive belts that seemed capable of movement.

Holy shit, how much money do these people have? This place is some kind of… food dungeon.

"Cryogenically frozen incubi?" Shiv muttered, reading one of the plates detailing the contents of a see-through vault.

"It is the best way to preserve and contain an incubus," Velly declared. "For even sedated, an incubus can dream, and a dreaming incubus is a dangerous adversary."

Right next to that vault was one titled cave biters. It was large enough to fit an adult-sized specimen, but the one currently inside wasn't quite fully grown. But even then, Shiv wondered how they'd managed to shove such a massive beast like that into a place like this. "These vaults come out of the walls?" Shiv asked, looking up. He counted five vaults going vertical and approximately 15 horizontal.

The head chef didn't pause once as he continued walking past the massive containers. "The larger ones are dimensional, and many creatures require proper preservative measures. No two things are stored the same, and the more exotic the meat, the more stringent the demands."

As Shiv looked about, his smile grew wider and wider.

"What even is this place?" Adam said. "I heard that Monster Mystery Meat was absurd, but well, I just assumed those were rumors."

Shiv chuckled. "Yeah, well, seems like some rumors don't live up to the truth."

Finally, his eyes fell on a specific vault, and as he read what it contained, his smile vanished altogether. “Weaveress eggs…” Shiv muttered.

Adam gasped.

And just then, Shiv felt the faintest presence of the Composer draw near in the back of his mind, crawling out from the Blessing she'd bestowed upon him. "No, how? How could they..." Lady Arachnae went through a series of emotions and finally settled on anger. “Cherished Hero of Weave, I have a demand. I know it might present you with difficulties, but I must see an injustice righted. This cannot be. That vault must be removed from this place. My children, my weavers and Weaveresses, are not to be food—not for the Bloodspawn, and not for the degenerate flavor-seekers of the surface.”

Shiv kept his gaze locked on the Weaveress egg vault. “See what I can do,” he replied, his giddy fascination with the space more than doused.
