That’s to say, the two inside definitely knew Jake and Artemis were right on their doorsteps, and Jake found it a bit endearing how they were both practically teleporting around to make sure everything was as it should be.

Solana had already made her way to the door, but Keerla was still looking at the table with laser focus as the dryad silently yelled toward the elf to come to the door. Being nice, Jake gave the two a few more seconds before he knocked, giving Keerla time to get to the door. As expected, with the door locked, no sound could escape the building, courtesy of more regular builder formation magic.

Raising his hand, Jake knocked a few times. On the other side, he saw the two take a deep breath in unison before Solana opened it with a big smile on her face.

“We welcome the Chosen of the Malefic One and his honored companion to our humble home,” Solana said as she bowed down deeply, Keerla doing the same thing behind her.

“Thank you for having me, and please relax,” Jake said in a calm tone, wanting to make things more casual as quickly as possible. “I’m visiting you as a fellow hunter and not in any official capacity. Just treat me as any other guest of equal standing you may receive, and do the same to my lovely company.”

Yeah, Jake had rehearsed that a lot, hoping it could help calm the two. It seemed to somewhat work, at least on Keerla, as he saw the elf visibly relax a little. Solana still seemed on guard, as she nevertheless stood up straight.

Keerla did the same thing, and with their eyes raised, they finally properly saw Artemis, who stood beside Jake. The Godqueen, disguised, took the opportunity to introduce herself as well.

“It’s a pleasure to meet you two. I’m Diana, a simple hunter and a faithful of Artemis,” the god introduced herself. Technically, she didn’t even lie, as Artemis did have a lot of faith in herself.

Keerla perked up a bit at hearing this as she bowed. “It’s an honor to meet another faithful of the Mistress of the Hunt.”

“Meeting kin is always pleasant,” Artemis smiled, and Jake already felt the tension get a lot better as the two elves formed an instant connection through their shared faith.

Good start so far... now let’s hope the food is actually good.
