“Yup. There’s five times as many gluttons out there than the eyes you can see.” Tiffany spoke up, “We should decide if we’re moving or staying—”

Paul rapidly spoke, “Fully scare them away, now, or we need to move. They’re preparing to swarm through this spell.”

Ezekiel didn’t even gesture. He just willed the magic to flow, targeting various clumps of gluttons.

With every passing second a new [Firelight Shift] blossomed on the mountainside, driving back the mists with large impressions of hot summer bonfires. Gluttons screamed as they raced to get away from the heat and the light, though this level of spellwork was not truly dangerous to those beasts. The spell wasn’t even hurting them. But it was greatly weakening water magics, which was apparently more than enough to disperse the horde.

With the passing of seconds upon seconds, the mountainside was soon awash in imaginary summer heat.

Mists dispersed. Gluttons raced away.

And the mountainside looked different under the light.

This area had to have been an abandoned mountain village. Ezekiel and his people were likely standing in what had once been a main square. The air smelled of summer bonfires, and it reminded him of roasting marshmallows by the fire, and having Julia burn hers and then toss the still-burning treat at the neighbor’s kid.

Ezekiel smiled at the memory.

Tiffany asked, “So [Prime Area] is just any two Force spells? Because this [Firelight Shift] looks damn effective against elementals. Or at least these elementals.” She gestured at the frightened gluttons, saying, “This is great crowd control.”

“The spell isn’t even hurting them; they’ll attack soon, I’m sure. Rifts are better and still I need to make this one.” Ezekiel said, “But yeah, Tiffany, I’ll help you make [Prime Area], too, if you want.”

Julia frowned at the world, her eyes firmly fixed on the mists that remained. “Did that chase them off?”

Tiffany said, “They’re out there. They’re staying far away, too.”

A wind blew from the northeast, flowing through the valley. The remaining mist kicked up into the sky, vanishing through the mountain passes in the south. There was still an ocean of mist out there, though. Ezekiel had only banished the barest bit.

And then Ezekiel eyed the north. He decided to have some fun.

An Odin fluttered into the northern passage into the valley, where mists flowed through a kilometer’s wide passage like it was a connection between two oceans. Ezekiel threw a few [Firelight Shift]s into the ‘mist-intake’, creating a dissipating blockage in the flow. Air came through, and so did mist, but a lot of it did not. As the wind kicked up, mist vanished into the south, uncovering more of the valley with each constant gust. Gluttons appeared out of the mist like dropped leaves, briefly piling up before they vanished down, into the mountains, or they raced with the mist toward the south, or they gathered near the river, so far down, where the mist never left.

Julia watched her dad throw out orbs of magenta heat.

When it was done, and the village foundation around them was clear, she asked, “What was that for?”

Tiffany put one hand on her hips and gestured across the valley with the other, saying, “For the view! Obviously.”

Ezekiel chuckled. “Yes! For the view.” He renewed several patches of pink fires on the nearby mountainside, and said, “And magic is fun! You know? What do you say? We could take some time and each try to make a Rift—”

A strange gorge appeared on the other side of the valley, nearly three kilometers away, as the mist peeled further out of the valley. The hole into the mountain looked man-made, in the way that it would look if someone had cast a great magic and carved a great furrow straight and deep into the stone; with chipped edges where the attack exited, or maybe entered the space beyond, breaking reality under the violence of the attack, but with defined edges in the center of the slice.

Ah. So.

He should have expected this? He should have expected something when he cleared the mist from the valley. So Ezekiel prepared several contingencies right now, that he hoped he would not have to use, which mainly involved having Odin buff himself, out of sight—

And, yup! There were people over there. Lights, too. They eyed Ezekiel, Julia, Tiffany, and Paul, from the edge of that break in the mountain. They did not look friendly.

Ezekiel waved, anyway.

One of the people, a man in red who held a sword the same color, waved back, with his sword.

Ezekiel said, “In my defense of not spotting them, they were covered by mists.”

“I didn’t say anything,” Julia said. “I can’t see five damn meters in that soup.” She looked to Tiffany. “What’s your excuse?” She turned to Paul, and with more enthusiasm, asked, “What’s your excuse?”

Tiffany waved at the likely-not-friendly people, saying, “Out of range.”

Paul did not wave. “Same, though I am now focusing...”

“So.” Julia sent, ‘I am now accepting bets on if its the lost alchemist’s kidnappers, or not. I think it is them and I am betting 10 gold.’

The red guy on the other side was joined by four others in variously colored [Conjure Armor]. He had stopped waving for thirty seconds, now.

The two parties stared at each other from across the valley.

Paul sent, ‘No one is taking that bet. We are now in deadly territory. Our experiment with me not helping with fights is over, for now.’

‘Agreed.’ ‘Yeah.’ ‘So no takers on my bet? You might make some easy money!’

Paul sent, ‘I’m picking up some heavy thoughts… One of them is thinking about killing a man named Tadashi in their camp.’

Ezekiel floundered for half a second, then scoffed, ‘No way. Too much of a coincidence. Maybe ‘Tadashi’ is the name of their lookout?’

Julia laughed.

Paul elaborated, ‘Nope.’

Julia asked, ‘Are we fighting, or are we—’

The air blipped red a hundred meters away. The red man and a few of his people appeared on the empty foundation of a former home. They all looked human.

“Hello!” the Red Man called, in a cheerful voice.

Ezekiel recognized in the man’s voice an undercurrent of joyful violence; that he was happy he had some new butterflies with fresh wings to pluck. Ezekiel didn’t know how he knew this, but he did, with every fibre of his being.

Ezekiel responded politely, anyway, “Hello? How can I help you? And pardon me for refreshing this spell I just put up.”

The first of the magenta [Firelight Shift]s had started to fall apart. Ezekiel recast one toward the north, Mana Shaping it into the absolute for another 500 mana, going the full distance through the actual pass, stretching his spell absolutely wide, and thin, like a curtain of magenta fire. It would block out all that was opposed, which would be the mist and thus the gluttons, and—

A blue box appeared.

Firelight Curtain, instant, super long range, 690 MP

A shimmering curtain greatly strengthens all passing fire and light magic, while greatly weakening all passing water and shadow magic. Blocks dark magic. Lasts 1 hour.

Ezekiel was surprised at the new spell, but he tried not to betray that surprise. He said to the people around him, “That one should last an hour. So! Hello. Who are you? Are we intruding?” As he also sent to his people, ‘We’re doing this, and Odins will arrive with your shields when this goes south, but I’m going to try to talk them out of it, first.’

‘Yes, sir.’ ‘You got it, Boss.’ ‘Ready.’

For a nice, calm moment, Ezekiel felt great about his people. He was delighted that they chose to follow him halfway across the world, even if they ended up in situations like this.

The Red Man lifted his eyes toward the spell in the distance. “Soon our valley will be fully without mist and our protector gluttons do not like that. Could you cancel that spell?”

“I would rather not.”

The Red Man innocently asked, “Why?”

“Because,” Ezekiel said, “It appears you have a captured Tadashi Diligent Scribe in your hideout back there, and I would like him back.”

The Red Man went stock still. His people froze. Cheer vanished, and calculation came forward. The Red Man nodded, once, then asked, “Tell me: Did you make that spell over there at this very moment?”

“Yes.”

Breezes flowed through the valley, clearing out mists. With the even-better curtain spell standing in the distance, cutting off the flow, even the deep mists were starting to dissipate. The river appeared far below, like a winding blue snake at the bottom of a green world.

The Red man said, “I saw you reading, so— Of course you made it as I was watching. Not a liar! I appreciate that.” He paused. He said, “Okay. Sure. You can have Tadashi. We’re not going to die to a Scion, and especially not one so accomplished in the arcane.” He declared, “Pack it up, boys! We’re out of here in half an hour.” He asked Ezekiel, “Will you give us this much time?”

“… Sure,” Ezekiel said, knowing that he was being buttered up, yet unsure why the Red Man thought that his buttering would work.

The Red Man resumed wearing his easy smile from before, as he teased, “Let us go, and Tadashi gets to live.”

And then he blipped away, followed instantly by his people, before Ezekiel could say another word. The Red Man reappeared across the valley, and then rushed down the inward path, into the crack in the mountain. In moments, every visible person had vacated the entrance.

Ezekiel sent to his people, ‘He’s lying out of his ass about everything, right? Should we have jumped him right there?’

Paul blurted, ‘He didn’t lie. If it was up to him, he would leave. But he’s not in charge, and the guy in charge—’

A speck of a spell flowed across the canyon, traveling kilometers in moments, headed straight at Ezekiel.

Something was happening, and there would be fighting, apparently.

This was fine.

Ezekiel resolved himself to the situation. He was already running [Hunter’s Instincts], anyway.

With a flick of mana sense, he understood the spell flying their way. It was packed with magic and it would have exploded the second it touched anything at all; Reflection was not an option. But it was elemental-based, so the solution was easy enough.

[Prismatic Breaker].

A speck of rainbow impacted the approaching spell. They annihilated each other, with zero explosions, or fires, or waves of shadow, or anything else. Both spells simply vanished, like they had never been. [Prismatic Breaker] was a good spell. Probably too good for the situation, but whatever. Ezekiel wasn’t about to let some strange spell hit them.

Instead, he called out, “That wasn’t very nice!”

His voice took a second to reach the other side of the valley. The response came quick enough.

The Red Man’s voice boomed, “I know! Which is why I just killed my boss! Good luck getting Tadashi out alive, Scion!”

Ezekiel prepared to annihilate another attack while he listened to the Red Man speak. But...

Nothing.

Thirty seconds passed.

“So.” Julia asked, “We going in?”

‘Not yet.’ Paul sent, ‘There are sound blockers beyond that crack in the mountain. You can’t hear it, but I can. They’re fighting. The red guy and a few others are trouncing the rest… Hard to tell.’ He held a hand against his temple. Lines of intent flowed out of his head and into the manasphere. ‘I can’t tell much. There’s a fight. That’s all I know—’ Paul stopped. He sent, ‘It’s over. The last mind just died.’

Ezekiel instantly sent four Odins into the crack in the mountain, feeling odd about not doing so earlier. Would it have been his place to stop this disagreement between the bandits? If they hurt Tadashi, that would have been on him—

Beyond the gorge and several active [Ward]s that layered the tunnel-like canyon, was a land of small houses, nestled under tall cliffs. Between them all was a wide open space at the bottom. Sunlight poured into the hideout at an angle, striking a garden with several fruiting trees, all of which were on fire. The entire place was on fire. Red fire, blue fire, gold fire. Harmful magic glowed in every part of the former bandit hideout, sometimes on stone or grove, but also on all the bodies laying around.

Odin began putting the flames out with [Fire Breaker]; deleting the fire from existence.

Within moments Odin had scouted the whole hideout with several different Sights. Everyone was dead, except for one person; an absolutely emaciated man with pale pink skin and tiny nubs for horns. He was in a hut near the bottom of the stacked houses, slumped against a wall, ass to the ground. He looked barely able to move, as if he was drugged, or poisoned, or something. As soon as Odin went to touch him, to [Teleport Other] him directly to Julia—

Odin vanished. Popped. Not even [Dispel]ed; just pure negation. He was alive, though!

Ezekiel came back to himself, saying, “Coast is clear. We’re going in. No traps found. I found Tadashi.”

With a lightstep, the four of them stepped right into the hideout. A third scan with [True Sight] and the mana sense of all his nearby Odin reconfirmed what he had seen before. The hideout was empty, except for the man in the hut over there. Ezekiel rushed that way—

Tiffany rushed ahead of Ezekiel, glaring at him like he was putting himself in too much danger—

‘Which you are.’ Paul sent, ‘Antirhine is deadly. Let us do our jobs, please.’

… Ezekiel followed Tiffany. In seconds, the two of them stood in the room with Tadashi. Tiffany had to crouch down a little, but she was in there, with her eyes fixed on the alchemist. She sighed, and shook her head.

The man looked worse in person. They had him in a loincloth, and nothing else. He didn’t even have a bed; likely, because everyone around here used conjured beds, and this man could not. Another quick scan with various Sight spells returned a whole mess of oddness. To [True Sight], the man was exactly as he appeared to be; this much was not that odd. [Blood Sight] and [Soul Sight] returned nothing, though; Ezekiel could not see the man’s life or his soul. Mana sense gave him a better idea of what was going on, but an even greater oddity occurred. Ezekiel could not see inside of the man, at all.

Stepping a few seconds back in time revealed nothing; the mana where Tadashi had been was just static to the manasphere.

