His instincts screamed and his right hand raised to shield himself, intercepting a thrust which would have ended his life. Even then, the thrust sent him tumbling head over heels, scrambling to his feet in time to deflect a powerful chop. Recoiling from the impact, Gen's arms shook as he took in his opponent. Standing with shield in hand, Baledagh stared impassively at him, as if uninterested in battle.

Cackling with delight, Gen released his flames to consume the bandit, eagerly anticipating the sight of his blackening skin. Raising his shield, Baledagh slowly strode into the fire, the blaze swirling around him, parting to let him through untouched. “Impossible!” Screaming in denial, Gen poured all the power he could muster into the fire, the air turning to searing steam and igniting nearby trees, but even then, Baledagh continued forward, one slow step after the other.

Backing away, Gen's nerve broke and he fled into the forest. An arm encircled his waist to lift him up, carried away in Bei's arms and watching as Baledagh faded into the distance. Turning to his wife, he held back his rebuke after seeing her fractured and shattered skin, flawless beauty marred by injury. “That damned grandfather, how dare he break your skin? Not to worry my love, you did well. A temporary retreat while we acclimate to our powers.” Shifting in her arms, Gen rested in her bosom, tired from the days events. “The people around here are too weak to join us, we'll go north to find others who know the truth, join with our comrades from beyond the wall. It'll be fine Bei, we'll balance the scales upon our return.”

Drifting off to sleep, Gen smiled as he dreamt of a world consumed by blood and fire.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Fuck...

Everything hurts.

Everything.

Between the recent battles against Defiled and Demons, and the still unhealed injuries from my time in the water, my body is a mass of bruises and breaks, not to mention the gaping hole in my stomach. With every movement, I discover a new pain, those fucking spectres not bothering to heal my body, not entirely. They fixed it just enough so Baledagh could move, masking the pain so he didn't notice, hoping to force him into dire straits and take over.

I'll fix the injuries later and figure out what to do with Baledagh. There's only so much I can handle after spending weeks caught in a torrent of screaming spirits without a moment's rest, each one ready to devour me whole and take my place.

Not exactly what I'd call a fun vacation.

“Ye injured?” Cautiously approaching with weapon lowered, the old beggar pats his charred, smoking clothes, his wild hair smouldering. “This old warrior's name is Lei Gong.”

“... Azure Ascendant, Lord of Thunder Lei Gong?” Well fuck.

“That'd be me.” Swelling with pride, he runs his fingers through his scraggly beard, sending a cloud of ashes into the air. “A young man with amber eyes and a bladed shield, seems I found the missing Warrant Officer eh? For once, the rumours weren't overstated. Impressive.”

“... Yea, nice to meet you.” Please don't be hostile, I'm too tired for this shit.

“Care to explain why yer out here fighting Defiled and Demons alone?”

Wish I could, you wouldn't believe me. “Not really. I don't mean to be rude but I'm exhausted, so I'm gonna go lie down. I'd appreciate it if you didn't kill me in my sleep. Oh, if you find a horse with two bears in the saddlebags, they're mine, so... yea.” Ignoring his incredulous stare, I stumble away, prop myself against a tree, and close my eyes to rest for the first time in weeks. If the old bandit kills me, well then at least I won't be tired anymore.

It was one hell of an experience and I hope to never go through anything like it again.

Time passes and I find myself in the void, standing at Baledagh's side as I study my alter-ego. No, that's not exactly true anymore, is it? I'd always thought he was my split personality, my darker side, the 'warrior' persona within me. It made sense in a weird way, my mind adapting to this crazy, chaotic world by birthing a persona better suited for it. Happens all the time in stories, and he even chose the name 'Warrior'.

Listening to him talk while I was trapped and hearing how he sees the world, I realized how wrong I really was. He doesn't have my experience or fragmented memories, and he's so naive and impulsive, acting without even considering the consequences, it's maddening. He's like a child seeing the world through new eyes, thinking everything will work out as he expects. We're so different, I don't know why I never saw it before. We're not brothers, or split personalities. We're different people, brought together by a bizarre twist of fate.

He's Baledagh, the original owner of this body, and I'm Rayne, a parasite taking over his life.

My hand twitches as the thought of killing him flashes through my mind. Why not? It'd be easy, and I deserve a life of my own. I worked hard for it, suffered for it, so why should I lie down and give everything up? Shaking my head, I let go of the thought, kneeling to stare at Baledagh's sleeping face and contemplate my future.

I can't kill him, this is his life. I'm in the wrong here. I don't want to die or give up everything I worked for, nor do I want to be a spectator in his life, but there are other questions to consider. Most prominent among them being: If he's the original soul, then what am I?

Well the simple answer is: a spiritual entity who entered his mind and took over his body.

So how am I any different from a Demon?

...

Fuck my life.

Chapter Meme

- End of Volume 8 -
