It took nearly a dozen adventurers to half-drag, half-carry Moore past the barricades. The Gold-rank teams had set up in the area below the dungeon’s rift. They hadn’t put much there—just a few crates of healing potions, a spot for adventurers to rest before attempting the journey to the surface—and a table where a Gold-rank Gnoll with levels in [Cartographer] was trying to make sense of the adventurer’s reports.
Jelaqua saw Moore to the rest site and made sure he was being looked over. Then she forced her stiff body over to where Bevussa was conferring with Keldrass. The Drake was sitting—he looked like he’d run out of energy to stand.
“They’re down the tunnel. My team caught up—but we can’t get them to come back.”
“Damn. We need to get them to return! Jelaqua, is it?”
Bevussa turned to Jelaqua. The Selphid nodded. The Garuda stretched out her arm wings.
“Your friends, Griffon Hunt, are going in way too far. There’s no one guarding their backs and we’re too tired to fight. You need to recall them.”
“We can try. But the Raskghar—”
Keldrass coughed a bit of smoke out.
“Another team’s on that. A group of teams. The Horns, Gemhammer, Kelia’s Pride—”
“The Horns?”
Ylawes strode over. He looked shocked.
“You let the Horns enter the dungeon? Are you insane? We have to go after them!”
“They were already down here when I returned! We didn’t stop them because they were ready to fight to get past us! There’s six Silver-rank teams plus the Horns heading towards the spot the Halfseekers mentioned. Plus, that [Necromancer] had…things with him. Bone Horrors. They’re not who I’m worried about.”
Keldrass snapped at Ylawes. The [Knight] opened his mouth and Bevussa cut him off.
“Both Griffon Hunt and the Horns are in the same spot. I’m taking one of my team and a few other Gold-ranks who can still move. We need to grab both teams.”
“But the Raskghar…”
Jelaqua feebly protested. Bevussa turned and looked at her seriously. Her eyes were bright green. Bird’s eyes.
“Miss Jelaqua, they’re too far. We can barely hold the tunnels around here. We’ll pursue the Raskghar—tomorrow. But right now we’re looking at the very real possibility those teams will be ambushed. We have to pull back.”
Jelaqua knew she was right. The Selphid looked around for her flail and remembered that she’d left it buried in a Raskghar’s skull. She reached for her bag of holding.
“Let me grab a spare flail. I’m going with you.”
In the end, eight Gold-rank adventurers headed out to retrieve the Griffon Hunt. Jelaqua, Issa, Seborn, Bevussa, Ylawes, Dawil, Keldrass, and Essa moved down the corridor, following the direction Griffon Hunt had taken. They didn’t know their exact location, but it wasn’t hard to catch up. All they had to do was follow the bodies.
 
——
 
“Undead ahead!”
Halrac spotted the undead a moment before the others. The ranks of glowing Stitch-Warriors raised their weapons and Typhenous breathed heavily. He raised his staff and fired a glowing red-and-black orb into the crowd of ghouls and zombies and the Crypt Lord leading them. The orb burned a hole through a Ghoul’s chest and then detonated.
“[Black Burst]!”
Typhenous turned his staff and shot another ball of magic at the undead. Halrac raised his bow and calmly shot a charging Ghoul through the head. He saw Revi’s summoned warriors and her Corusdeer fighting the zombies who lurched forwards and drew another arrow.
“Left!”
Revi called out in alarm, pointing. Halrac turned. The wall had opened up, revealing another tunnel hidden by an illusion spell or hidden mechanism. Another wave of undead poured through. Halrac’s eyes narrowed. He loosed an arrow as Revi’s summoned warriors shot spells and arrows in the same direction.
A Crypt Lord staggered as the first arrow struck it. Halrac grabbed for an arrow. This one was enchanted. The undead exploded as the fiery arrow penetrated its chest and then blew apart in a fireball.
“Fall back!”
Halrac’s team retreated as the undead flowed towards them from two directions. They let the undead bunch up and then Typhenous blew them apart and Halrac loosed another flaming arrow. Revi bent over and panted when the battle ended.
“Another group. Another…hold on, you two. I’m running out of mana. I can’t keep up this many summons.”
She shakily pulled a mana potion from her belt and gulped at it. Typhenous did the same. The old man’s face was drawn. Halrac glanced at both of them, not reaching for the stamina potion at his belt. His callused fingers burned, and his arm was fatigued, but he was unharmed.
“Can you still fight?”
“Another corridor.”
Typhenous leaned on his staff. Revi wiped the mana potion’s bright orange liquid from her mouth and nodded.
“I can…I can do that.”
“Move on, then. Through the illusory tunnel.”
Halrac led the way. He had another arrow ready and as he walked, he reached for something at his side. Very carefully, he opened a small wooden container and dipped the head of his arrow into the mixture, coating it with a dark substance. Halrac raised his hand and his group slowed.
“Raskghar?”
“Yes.”
Halrac had heard the distant barking sound. He raised his bow and Typhenous lifted his staff. The Raskghar team was heading their way. Griffon Hunt moved stealthily ahead, Revi keeping her summoned creatures back lest their glow give the team away. Halrac’s eyes pierced the darkness ahead. The instant he saw movement he held up his hand. Typhenous raised his staff.
The Raskghar approached, sniffing the air warily. They were a group of archers, probably on reconnaissance. They didn’t smell Griffon Hunt in time. Halrac waited until he could see one of the Raskghar perfectly and then spoke.
“Now.”
He loosed the arrow at the same time Typhenous cast his spell. The arrow flew and caught a Raskghar in the shoulder. Typhenous’ staff spat black liquid which spattered across the corridor and hit two Raskghar. Not perfect, but it would do. The Raskghar howled in surprise and the one struck grabbed the arrow in his shoulder and tore it out.
“Revi!”
Halrac snapped. Revi charged forwards and her summoned warriors and Corusdeer filled the hallway. The Raskghar spotted the Gold-rank team and hesitated. There were ten of them, but Revi’s summons evened the odds. They yipped loudly and howled before fleeing. Halrac drew another arrow and aimed high. The Raskghar fled as his arrow flew past them. Halrac didn’t bother drawing another arrow.
“Got them.”
He turned to the others. Revi nodded. She was looking paler than before. The Stitch-Woman’s dark skin looked far too light, and Halrac recognized it as the first symptom of mana exhaustion. Typhenous looked worse. The [Mage] seemed to lurch, and then he spat out a stream of liquid. It took Halrac a moment to realize that Typhenous had thrown up.
“Are you alright?”
“I’m—”
Typhenous wavered before saying ‘fine’. Halrac stared at him and then at Revi. He knew they should fall back. But his mind refused to say it.
“One more corridor. If we can ambush another group…”
Revi and Typhenous didn’t protest. Griffon Hunt made their way back down the corridor rather than pursue this group of Raskghar. Revi kept stumbling as she walked, though she refused help from anyone, even her summoned warriors. Halrac found his gaze unfocusing and he had to remind himself to watch ahead.
They were exhausted. Griffon Hunt had pushed further and farther than any team. Enough so that they’d began running into the Raskghar. But now they were in a dangerous situation. Halrac wanted to keep going. He knew that finding the Raskghar again would be difficult. But his team—
“Who goes there?”
Someone shouted the words up ahead. Halrac’s head snapped up. He grabbed for the arrow, realized he hadn’t poisoned it, and cursed. He shouted.
“Griffon Hunt!”
“At last! Don’t fire!”
Halrac saw a group appear in the darkness. He should have spotted them—the dim glow of their lanterns and [Light] spells gave them away. Eight adventurers appeared. He recognized Jelaqua, Ylawes in his stupid reflective armor, Dawil, Bevussa…the adventurers looked relieved to see him.
“Dead gods, Halrac! We thought we’d never catch up! You must have cleared twenty corridors!”
“What are you doing here?”
Halrac snapped at them. He felt uneasy. If they’d been Raskghar, they would have ambushed his team. He shifted as Jelaqua strode towards him.
“We spotted the bastard that got Ceria.”
Griffon Hunt immediately jerked to attention. Halrac focused on Jelaqua.
“Where?”
“A few corridors back. But no one’s going after them. We need to leave the dungeon. And get that damn group of Silver-ranks!”
Bevussa interrupted Jelaqua. The Garuda eyed Typhenous and Revi and turned to Halrac.
“You need to come with us.”
“No. We’ll go after the Raskghar.”
“You’ll do no such thing. Your [Mages] are nearly dead and you’re tired. If you go after the Raskghar they’ll ambush you. There’s too many of them. We had to fight through a group of twenty. And if they’re sending out scouting teams that big, there must be hundreds or thousands of them, just like that Cave Goblin claimed.”
Bevussa folded her feathery arms. Halrac knew she was right. He bit his lip hard enough to draw blood and looked at Revi. She swayed.
“I can go.”
“No.”
Halrac said it and felt the energy leave his arms. He looked at Bevussa and the other adventurers.
“We’ll go back. What’s this about Silver-rank teams?”
“The Horns entered the dungeon. This idiot—”
Ylawes turned towards Keldrass. The Drake gave him an affronted look.
“—didn’t stop them. They went after the Raskghar that Jelaqua saw. We need to go after Yv—after them!”
Jelaqua nodded wearily.
“They can’t have gone far. There’s monsters everywhere. We’ll run after them, pull them out.”
Keldrass growled, eying Ylawes.
“They might have gone farther than you think. I told you, that [Necromancer] had Bone Horrors. At least six of them!”
Halrac’s face twisted. Bevussa nodded.
“All the more reason to grab them. They’ll be a huge target.”
“We need to get them fast.”
Revi bent as the others looked at her. She straightened, still looking pale.
“Bone Horrors probably suck mana way more than lesser undead. I can barely summon that many spirits and I’m an expert. Pisces won’t be able to maintain that many undead for long. He’s probably pushed himself too far. Idiot.”
No one paused to dwell on the hypocrisy of her statement. The Gold-rank adventurers turned. Bevussa looked at Halrac.
“Can your old [Mage] move or do we have to split our team?”
Typhenous frowned at her slightly cross-eyed.
“I…am quite able to keep up, you feathery young lady. Lead on!”
Halrac nodded. Bevussa hesitated, and then turned.
“Okay. We’re searching for the Horns! Follow me!”
They set off at a jog through the dungeon.
 
——
 
“Dead gods.”
Issa muttered as she passed by another group of dead monsters. This one was a cluster of worms—ordinary earthworms, really—except that they were twice as long as she was and had barbs along their body. It was another group of monsters that Griffon Hunt had slain. She thought of the six corridors her team had killed and felt a bit embarrassed. The Oldblood Drake chanced a glance back at Halrac, Typhenous, and Revi. They were lagging behind the brisk pace the others had set, but they were still keeping up.
“They killed that many monsters? Are you sure they’re only a Gold-rank team, Bevussa?”
She leaned towards her Captain, Bevussa. The Garuda was someone Issa looked up to and admired greatly. Ironically, it was Issa who was tasked with pretending to be the captain of the Wings of Pallass in public. It just wouldn’t do for a Garuda to lead a team of Oldblood Drakes, no matter how much more qualified she was. Bevussa turned her head and regarded Halrac.
“They’re good. I’ll give them that. If there’s any team ideally suited for this dungeon, it’s probably theirs. That [Scout] especially. I’ve heard of his name. They call him Halrac the Grim.”
“He’s even got a title? He must be a Named Adventurer, or nearabouts!”
Bevussa nodded as she glanced ahead down the corridor.
“And apparently they lost a team member. One of the better Gold-rank teams. But it doesn’t surprise me they’re not Named Adventurers yet, or that Halrac isn’t.”
“Why’s that?”
“Look at the monsters they killed. That group.”
Bevussa pointed. Issa stared at several crumpled forms they passed.
“Face-Eater Moths. Not too big.”
Not compared to the ones attacking Liscor. These ones were ‘only’ the size of ponies. Bevussa nodded and eyed them.
“Right. But that’s not the important bit. Look at how they died. No spells, only an arrow to their abdomens—they were poisoned.”
“Poison?”
Issa looked back at Halrac. Bevussa nodded.
“They said they were using a tactic they employed against Griffins. I asked about it at the Adventurer’s Guild. One of the [Receptionists] looked up what that might be.”
“And?”
Bevussa shrugged her feathery shoulders.
“Around three years ago, there was a massive Griffin colony plaguing the Nameless Heights—that’s a group of hills and valleys in the north eastern part of the Human lands. Hundreds of Griffins. Apparently a group migrated across from Terandria and they had a massive mating season the year before. Well, they began destroying farms and villages and even attacking cities. Griffon Hunt was one of the teams called in to kill them. They managed to wipe out over two hundred Griffins by themselves, but they were fined and nearly lost their Gold-rank status.”
Issa gaped at her Captain.
“How?”
“Plague and poison.”
Both Drake and Garuda jumped. Typhenous had caught up with them. The [Mage] looked weary, but true to his word he’d caught up with the group. He raised one grey eyebrow at the two adventurers.
“If you wish to know about the event in question, why not ask us?”
Issa’s scales turned bright red and her wings quivered in embarrassment. Bevussa ducked her head.
“My apologies, Mister…Typhenous, is it? We were curious.”
The [Mage] bared his teeth in a very Drakeish smile. Issa had to remind herself that Humans didn’t smile like that to be friendly.
“Many are. The truth is simple. Our team was called upon to deal with this crisis. As experts in Griffin hunting, Halrac and Ulrien contracted my services and Revi’s. We dealt with the Griffins as we felt we had to when it became clear that the adventurers and local armies couldn’t handle the Griffins.”
“So you poisoned them. And spread diseases. I take it that there were consequences?”
Typhenous nodded.
