“We’ll get you up. Can you walk, Bird?”
“…Maybe?”
Bird stood up with the help of two adventurers. He hobbled a bit.
“I can walk. Yes, this is good. I will not die like everyone. That would make Erin very sad and I would not like to make her sad again. All the others died and she cried, you know.”
He looked brightly around at the adventurers. Yvlon frowned, but it was Ksmvr who opened his mandibles.
“What do you mean, ‘everyone’, Bird?”
The Antinium Worker tilted his head.
“Everyone, former Prognugator Ksmvr. They are over there. Everyone died. Or most of everyone. I did not see Revalantor Klbkch die, but many others did.”
He pointed down the corridor. The adventurers gazed into the darkness. They looked at each other. Yvlon walked forwards carefully, and then her breath caught. She stared at the first shape lying on the ground, another smashed against the wall like a—an insect, and the dead Crypt Lord. And then she saw more shapes, lying still, motionless. She whispered as the other adventurers came forwards and gasped.
“Antinium.”
They lay where they had fallen. Broken, some in pieces, others melted or scorched or…the Antinium had died hard. None of them had less than a dozen wounds on their bodies and the monsters that lay around them were a testament to the battle that had taken place.
No, not a battle. A war had gone on in the dungeon. And by the looks of it, the Antinium had lost. Or at least, they’d paid the price.
Hallway after hallway was filled with Antinium corpses. Usually it wasn’t more than a handful, but there were places in which a trap had wiped out dozens. And as the adventurers moved forwards, the numbers of the dead Soldiers and Workers kept increasing.
“There have to be at least a thousand dead Antinium here. At least!”
Bevussa had no skin or scales that could turn pale, but her feathers all fluffed out as she stared at the dead Antinium in shock and horror. Bird reached out and tried to touch her feathers, but the Garuda was too agitated. She whirled and turned to Keldrass and Ylawes.
“This is—the Antinium must have attacked the dungeon at the same time we did. Did they send their entire Hive down here?”
Halrac shook his head grimly.
“There are thousands of Antinium in a Hive. This was just a wave. But it was destroyed. And look—they met Raskghar as well.”
Over a hundred Raskghar were dead in one corridor, and three times as many Soldiers and Workers. It looked like they’d slaughtered each other in the narrow space. Halrac inspected one dead Raskghar and rose, shaking his head.
“We should report this when we return. And…make plans. If the dungeon can handle a thousand Soldiers, if the Raskghar can—we can’t find Ceria or the Gnolls today. We’re heading back.”
No one argued with him. Nevertheless, Yvlon couldn’t help but stare back at the dead Antinium. She gripped her sword’s hilt helplessly. Halrac was right. And yet—
“We’re so close. We must be.”
No one answered her. Yvlon walked back through the dungeon. She felt as though Ceria were just around the corridor. But there was nothing she could do. She walked back, head hung low. All they’d done, all they’d accomplished—it hadn’t been enough. Adventurers, Pisces, the Antinium…the dungeon had swallowed all their efforts.
They’d failed.
 
——
 
“You see? Do you see?”
Calruz laughed as he stood over his war table. It was a slab of stone and the crude parchment and drawings he’d made were a mockery of the detailed plans Ceria remembered him poring over before. But there was something familiar about it. Something close to what she remembered the Minotaur being. She stood by his side, her ears drooping, quiet. Defeated.
The Minotaur turned towards her, his eyes alight with triumph. He had overseen the invasion of both the Antinium and adventurers, moving most of his Raskghar out of the way, sending kill teams to take out vulnerable groups like the Halfseekers. Their failure had sent him into a rage, but now he was triumphant.
“Thousands of Antinium! Gold-rank teams—even undead led by that [Necromancer]! All failed to come close to my outermost camps! And by tomorrow we’ll have repositioned. Send the order to the forward camps! I want them moving by nightfall! Baskel!”
He barked an order at the Raskghar who growled and loped off. Ceria watched it go. Calruz looked at her, grinning through his yellow teeth.
“You see? They’ll never make it this far into the dungeon. It assails them at every turn. It hunts them. It…thinks.”
“I see that. But why doesn’t it hunt you?”
Calruz paused.
“Because I—I know it. No. I’m alone. Yes, that’s what it is. You and I are a small group. We don’t attract attention. And the Raskghar are part of the dungeon. But adventurers? They disturb it. So do the Antinium. The dungeon resists them. But my warriors will be able to conquer it. I told you, Ceria.”
“You did.”
Calruz didn’t notice the half-Elf’s tone. He grinned elatedly.
“You and I have work to do. Tonight, we will assail a part of the dungeon. I’ve considered how to use your [Ice Walls] to the best advantage. We’ll begin our work and then—the adventurers will be months reaching us, if they even manage to clear out enough space to get here. And by that time we’ll have penetrated the heart of the dungeon. We’ll come out covered in treasure and glory!”
The Minotaur paced back and forth, talking excitedly. He didn’t seem to care how many Raskghar had died to the adventurers, or how many Goblins had perished as the monsters had fled the adventurer’s approach and clashed with his warriors. Ceria saw the Raskghar pacing in the background behind Calruz, eying the Gnolls, their Chieftain. Her. The Raskghar who’d performed the ritual was sitting among the largest Raskghar, clearly above the rest. She stared at Ceria. The half-Elf met her gaze and then looked at Calruz.
“I think…you might be making a mistake, Calruz. Everything might not go your way.”
“Nonsense.”
The Minotaur’s face twisted into a scowl. He stared at his map, his eyes too wide.
“They’ll never reach here. Never. My plans are flawless. No foreign presence can enter the dungeon. Only I…only I have the Skill. Everything else is hunted. Except for you. You will be part of my tribe. Yes, that’s how it is. That is how it will be. Nothing is wrong. You are incorrect, Ceria.”
“Whatever you say, Calruz.”
The Minotaur looked up sharply. Ceria looked away. He grunted and rolled up his maps.
“Come. We have work to do.”
 
——
 
In some respects, Calruz was correct. The dungeon was aware, in some sense of the word. And he was right that it hunted. Or things in it hunted. All foreign presences were accounted for. They were…of notice. Not Calruz, but others. Including Ceria.
But what the Minotaur hadn’t accounted for, what he hadn’t thought of was that the dungeon was in some ways, stupid. It only looked at the base nature of things and didn’t account for exceptions. To the dungeon, a Human was a Human. A half-Elf was a half-Elf and a Selphid was a Selphid, dead body or not.
And a Goblin was a Goblin. After all, what was the difference? The adventurers retreated from the dungeon, battered, exhausted. Not beaten, but stalemated. The Antinium survivors returned to their Hive. Pisces left the dungeon unconscious, slipping into dreams where Ceria’s corpse stood in front of him, grinning and asking if this was what he had wanted all along. But one group remained.
On the same day, the Redfang Warriors descended into the dungeon. They had a far, far different experience than the adventurers.
