Yvlon Byres woke up and realized two things. Firstly, that Falene had hit her with a sleep spell. And secondly, that she’d been tied to her bed. With a spell. The magical bindings looked like they were barely more than strips of glowing cloth, but no matter how hard Yvlon struggled and cursed, she couldn’t make the crisscrossing bands of light shift at all. They were webbing her to her bed.
In armor. With the blankets covering her up to her neck. Someone had even put a pillow under her head. Ylawes, probably. Damn him. It was sweltering with both armor and blankets on—it was that heat and the unpleasant sweat that had woken Yvlon up. She struggled, cursed, and then noticed something right in front of her.
Someone else had put a sandwich right on her chest, so that Yvlon could tilt her head forwards and bite it if she was hungry. That was probably Dawil. Yvlon stared at it, and then swore.
“YLAWES!”
Her scream of frustration went unanswered. Yvlon craned her head, trying to look around. The Silver Swords had put her in her room and judging by the three chairs, they’d been present for a good while. But they weren’t here now and Yvlon could see the sky was brighter. Rain was pattering against the window as always, but she would have bet anything it was morning.
“That damn half-Elf put me to sleep until morning? Falene! Take this spell off me! Ylawes! Where are you?”
Normally Yvlon would have expected her brother to be about. He always had thought of himself as her guardian, whether she liked it or not. But he didn’t arrive. And neither did anyone else.
Yvlon strained against the magical ropes holding her down. What was this spell? She hadn’t journeyed with many [Mages]—the Silver Spears hadn’t had any—and neither Ceria nor Pisces were on Falene’s level. Then again, maybe this was just a Tier 3 spell. The only problem was that the ropes bound Yvlon’s arms and legs so she couldn’t exert any real kind of force.
“Is anyone there? Let me out! Hello?”
Yvlon bellowed, but she couldn’t hear anyone. Where was Erin? Lyonette? …Bird? Had the Silver Swords convinced them not to let Yvlon go?
“I have to find Ceria! Let me go! She’s my teammate! If you can hear me—I really need to visit the outhouse!”
That last admission made Yvlon flush, but it was a real and growing concern. Yvlon screamed as loud as she could and, at last, the door opened.
“Hello Comrade Yvlon.”
Ksmvr walked into the room. He looked down at his feet and he was hunched over, appearing smaller than normal. Yvlon stared at him in surprise, then relief.
“Ksmvr! Help me break this enchantment!”
“Miss Falene told me not to. So did Mister Ylawes. They told me you would get yourself injured or killed if I did.”
“What? That arrogant pointy-eared—ignore them. Ceria’s down below, Ksmvr! We need to save her!”
“But the Gold-rank teams are already in the dungeon.”
Yvlon swore. It was later than she’d thought. She twisted as hard as she could and succeeded in knocking the sandwich off her chest.
“Ksmvr, we need to enter the dungeon too.”
“We will not make a difference. We will only get hurt.”
“That’s a risk I’m willing to take. Ksmvr, come on.”
Yvlon frowned at Ksmvr. Agitated as she was, she could still tell that something was wrong with him. Normally the Antinium would be jumping to follow her slightest suggestions. She’d expected him to be trying to enter the dungeon on his own. But Ksmvr looked deflated.
“I cannot be a good part of the team, Yvlon. I will not be able to protect you or function as an adequate member of the Horns of Hammerad. I have failed our group twice now. I have no place here. I have been writing my letter of resignation.”
He looked down at his feet. Yvlon stared at him.
“Ksmvr, what are you talking about? You’re not a failure.”
The Antinium shook his head.
“I am. I am worthless. I went to Revalantor Klbkch for help, but I was unable to scratch him or persuade him to help me find Ceria. And it was my failure to stop the Raskghar that led to Captain Ceria’s abduction.”
“Don’t be ridiculous!”
Yvlon shouted. Ksmvr started. Yvlon’s face turned red as she heaved. She heard the bed crack, but the magical bindings did not.
“You—did—nothing—wrong! We were all there and we—failed—too! Damn! You went to see Klbkch? I got knocked out from a single spell by Falene! If you’re a failure, what does that make me? We both made mistakes, Ksmvr. But are you going to let Ceria die if no one else can find her? Are you her friend? Are you my teammate or not?”
Ksmvr stared at Yvlon. He looked down at his three hands, and then his shoulders straightened.
“Of course!”
He shook his entire body as Yvlon smiled in relief. Ksmvr strode over to the bed and paused.
“What should I do, Yvlon?”
“Uh…pull this magic rope stuff off me!”
Ksmvr obediently reached for one of the shining streamers of magic. He pulled at it, but it was so tightly wrapped around Yvlon that he could barely get a grip on it. And when he did pull, he only dragged the bed and Yvlon a few feet across the room with a dull screeching sound. Yvlon grimaced.
“This isn’t working. Break the bed.”
“But the bed is Miss Erin’s property.”
“I’ll pay for it! Just break the bed, Ksmvr! Hit me! Jump on top of the bed! Give it a good kick, I don’t care! I’ve got armor on!”
Ksmvr hesitated, but he eventually clambered on top of the bed and began leaping on it. Yvlon heard the wooden frame creak and groan and then snap. She yelped and Ksmvr waved his arms and fell backwards as the bed collapsed in a heap. Yvlon heard the wood snap and tried to sit up—only to find that the magical bands had constricted even tighter around her.
“Silver and steel! You have got to be kidding me!”
She wriggled and tried to move, only to find that now she was stuck to part of the broken bed and the mattress. And the infernal covers! Ksmvr crawled into Yvlon’s line of sight, shaking his head.
“I have hit my head. It appears that the spell still remains in effect, Comrade Yvlon.”
She glared at him. Ksmvr reached out and grabbed her with three arms.
“I will attempt to pull you up.”
The Antinium heaved and Yvlon felt her body rise. She was impressed—Ksmvr was lifting her, her armor, and the bed. He grunted and she stumbled. She was on her feet! Wrapped up like a caterpillar, true, but she was upright! She tried to walk and found her feet were tied together. She could only hop.
“Dead gods, I am going to murder Falene and my brother.”
Yvlon gritted her teeth. Ksmvr tilted his head.
“I believe you are in no shape to take offensive action whatsoever, Yvlon. How will we dispel this magic?”
The Human woman took a deep breath.
“There’s only one way we can do it. Where’s Pisces?”
“In his room. He has not left. Nor has he responded to anyone’s attempts to open the door. It is locked.”
“Help me get there.”
It was hard for Yvlon to say whether she was angry at Pisces or not. Last night she’d been in a panic, and he’d been—what? After he’d threatened the Goblin, he’d gone up to his room. And his face! Yvlon remembered the blank expression. What was that about? She didn’t know.
Yvlon was still angry. She was still filled with panic and dread and confusion with everything she’d learned. Calruz was leading the Raskghar? And he had Ceria? If she stopped to think about it all she’d go mad. So she clung to her fury as the only thing keeping her going. But even she felt quite, quite stupid as she hopped out of her room and down the hall with Ksmvr guiding her. The broken bed and mattress kept falling apart with each hop, and Yvlon left a trail of broken wood and feathers in her wake.
“Pisces! Open up!”
The [Wounded Warrior] shouted as she reached Pisces’ door. Ksmvr knocked politely. There was no response. Yvlon growled and raised her voice even louder.
“Pisces! I know you’re in there! What are you doing? Ceria is down there! Calruz is down there! Open the damn door!”
No response. Ksmvr knocked politely again.
“I am here too, Comrade Pisces. Please open the door.”
“He’s not answering. ”
Yvlon tried to kick the door, but she couldn’t. Instead, she tilted forwards and head-butted the door with all of her weight behind it. The thump left her seeing stars. Yvlon fell onto the floor and stared up at the ceiling, still bound, as Ksmvr tried to get her up.
“Damn it, Pisces! I trusted you! Why the hell are you hiding away? We’re teammates! If we can’t rely on you, then what—”
The door opened. Pisces stepped forwards, his white robes swirling around him. He stared at Yvlon and Ksmvr. His eyes were bloodshot and he was unsteady on his feet. Dust swirled around him, white, as if he’d been baking with flour. He paused.
“What are you doing?”
Yvlon glared at Pisces. She heaved again, but she was still trussed up. The mattress spat out some feathers as Ksmvr tried to pull her up and failed.
“Falene bound me with a magic spell. I can’t get it off.”
“Ah. That would explain things.”
Pisces rubbed at one eye. He blinked down at Yvlon. He looked like he hadn’t slept one bit since last night. She stared up at him.
“Well? Where the hell have you been?”
“Preparing.”
“For what?”
Pisces looked at Yvlon as if she were an idiot.
“To rescue Ceria, of course. What have you been doing? Sleeping? Ksmvr, stop attempting to lift Yvlon. Let’s dispel her enchantment and enter the dungeon. Ceria is alive. She’s contacted me twice. Calruz has her. He’s leading the Raskghar, just as the Cave Goblin said.”
Yvlon and Ksmvr gaped at Pisces. He didn’t pay them any attention as he squatted to inspect the bindings on Yvlon. She spluttered and tried to form a coherent question.
“Wait, how do you know that, Pisces? You spoke to Ceria?”
“Not in words. She sent me a coded message via a spell we know. She only described her location as a large, domed room and told me that she was a captive. And that Calruz killed a Gnoll. Mrsha is alive. Beyond that, we must find her.”
He reached out and touched the magic bindings with one hand, frowning. Yvlon tried to digest all of that and then gave up.
“Okay. Get this off me and let’s go! Dispel the enchantment!”
“I don’t know [Dispel Magic].”
“Are you serious?”
Yvlon began to thrash about, screaming furiously. Pisces raised his voice.
“Stop shouting, Yvlon! The bindings should be easy to break. Just have Ksmvr use your sword.”
Ksmvr and Yvlon stared at Pisces. Yvlon protested indignantly.
“That won’t work!”
“Why not?”
The woman faltered.
“Because…they’re magic bindings?”
Pisces raised one eyebrow at Yvlon.
“Your sword is enchanted. The bonds shouldn’t be able to hold up to that much force. It’s only a Tier 4 spell, I believe.”
“But my sword has a weight enchantment on it. Not one that cuts magic!”
“And this magic is very physical. You’re wearing armor beneath all this, aren’t you? Then let Ksmvr cut at the bindings. Every enchantment has a limit to how much force it can take before breaking. I cannot imagine that Falene put that much energy into this spell.”
Pisces rose, dusting a feather off his robes. He stared disapprovingly at Ksmvr and Yvlon.
“Why didn’t you try that to begin with?”
Yvlon turned red. Ksmvr opened his mandibles and then decided not to speak. Silently, he went into Yvlon’s room and grabbed her sword. Pisces yawned as he listened to the dialogue between the two.
“Okay, cut right there.”
“Right here?”
“I can’t see. Cut right by my side. Can you hit me there? Do it gently, gently—gah!”
He heard a thump, and then the sound of a compressed mattress unspringing all at once. Clattering wood as it hit the ground—and then two solid footsteps. Pisces turned. Yvlon lifted her sword. She looked angry.
“I really need to visit the outhouse. Give me five minutes and then we go. I hope you spent last night well?”
“I was not tied to a bed and magically asleep if that’s what you are asking.”
Yvlon stared at Pisces and then walked past him. Ksmvr followed. Pisces brought up the rear. The three said only a few words as they trooped down the stairs, but they were the right words.
“The Gold-ranks won’t be happy to see us in the dungeon.”
“I couldn’t care less about their opinion. Actually, let me rephrase that statement. I do not care about their opinion whatsoever.”
“Captain Ceria is alive?”
“For now.”
“There’s lots of monsters in the dungeon. Traps.”
“I have a plan. And you?”
“I am ready to die to rescue Captain Ceria.”
“I think she’d rather you live instead. I’ll risk anything. We’re a team. And we’re not losing anyone else to the dungeon. Pisces?”
“I concur. Ksmvr?”
“This team is the reason for my life. Let’s go.”
They walked down the stairs. Pisces in front, Yvlon behind and Ksmvr bringing up the rear. Pisces stepped into the common room and looked around.
Several dozen heads turned. Adventurers were sitting around at their tables, many nursing drinks. Few looked like they were willing to talk—many were progressively getting drunk. They looked defeated.
Lyonette was serving tables. She looked lost. A Drake [Barmaid] was helping her—not Drassi—but she was more keeping an eye on Lyonette. The [Barmaid] looked like a ghost, as if she were dreaming.
A Drake stood as Pisces strode across the room. He had black scales and was short. Insill of Vuliel Drae gulped when Pisces stared at him. Other adventurers got to their feet. Anith, Dasha, Insill, Larr, Pekona—the five members of Vuliel Drae blocked Pisces’ way. Earlia of Gemhammer and Nailren of the Pride of Kelia and a few other Silver-rank Captains stood to one side, not with Vuliel Drae, but watching.
“Move aside.”
Pisces didn’t stop walking. He raised a hand to push Insill out of the way, but he stopped when Larr’s arm shot out. The Gnoll stared down at Pisces.
“You’re not leaving.”
“You’re going to stop us?”
Anith nodded.
“It’s nothing personal, Horns. But the Silver Swords charged us with keeping you here.”
His eyes flicked to Pisces and Ksmvr, making it obvious that they’d assumed it would only be Yvlon they’d have to stop. Yvlon grimaced and put a hand on her sword hilt.
“Our Captain is kidnapped. We’re going in after her. Move or we’ll make you move.”
Dasha crossed her arms.
“Oh yeah? We’re Silver-ranks just like you, tall legs. And every Silver-rank team here got the same order.”
The Horns looked around. Earlia looked away and Nailren shook his head. The other Silver-rank adventurers looked at the Horns and then away. Yvlon counted heads.
“How many people are going to follow orders, then?”
Vuliel Drae glanced around for support. None came. Earlia leaned on a table.
