Shiv stopped channeling his Pyromancy, and he descended in an instant. Barely able to believe his senses, he came to a stop beside a partially cooked potsticker that stood taller than him by twice over, and knelt down atop a patch of altered metal that was now something else—something edible.

“Deathless, what happened? Have you burned through the tray?” Marikos called out from behind his shield.

“Impossible!” Poverty bellowed. “That tray was also forged in a higher Dimension of Fire. No heat constrained by the Legendary Mana Threshold can—”

Shiv interrupted Poverty by using his Last Morsel to cut and scoop a portion of the cooked tray out from the ground. It parted like supple rib-meat ready to fall off the bone. So close, he was drowning in all the smells, and something inside him watered with hunger and true curiosity.

Shiv resurrected himself from his Severed Shadow, producing a new body of flesh and blood.

“Shiv,” Uva said, urging caution.

But the allure was beyond Shiv’s ability to resist. He bit into the tray. He expected his teeth to greet something metallic—to gag on the taste.

Instead, the texture felt… perfect. It was seared through but not overcooked. And the flavor itself… the flavor itself…

“Holy fucking shit,” Shiv gasped. “This might be the best tray I’ve ever eaten.” Slowly, he pivoted and stared at his gathered guests. “You guys take a break. I’ll see you fed in a moment. You and everyone else.” He looked at the gray, scintillating fires dancing upon his hands as a smile dawned on his face. “And I think we’ll be having more than potstickers today. A lot more. I think… I think…” Shiv then widened his senses and felt the urge to experiment take hold. “I think I want to figure out how many things I can actually cook.”

And in the background, Tallowine coughed aloud. “Did he truly just take a bite out of that tray?”

***

The scent of this new, novel flavor coiled through the air on curling fingers of smoke, and it traveled across the Gate, staining every nose and tongue, and sinking through walls and wards alike.

One such place it found itself in was the bunker down at the Gate’s center—now layered and guarded by new protections to hold back any attacks from the Tutorial, and also hosting a very specific guest of its own.

It was here that the Culturist lay aslumber in a barren room, under constant watch by Trapdoor Operatives Liquid Serpent and Spark Ripper.

“I still think we should electro-torture him!” Liquid Serpent snickered while leering at the orc Legend. “That wakes anyone up. Even a Delving Legend.”

“You just think it's fun,” Spark Ripper mumbled glumly.

“It's fun because it works.”

“Because you like hearing people scream. You also make me do all the electrocuting."

“And it works. Or they die! Which also works!” Liquid Serpent tilted her head. “Say… What’s that smell? Are you leaking, Ripper?”

“W-what? No.”

“Hm. Show me your oil ports.”

Spark Ripper shuffled and looked around nervously. “Liquid, we’re on assignment…”

“I’m not sticking my palps in this time: just show me.” She leaned far down and ran a clawed hand through his white hair and another two along his back. Being designed after a male Umbral rather than an industrial machine brought many positives, such as fitting into just about any space designed for humanoids without issue, but it also came with disadvantages, such as being two-thirds of Liquid Serpent’s height. “Come on,” she urged. “I'll even get on my knees for you. It'll be quick.”

“Not h-here!”

“Don’t make me remind you of the basics of CQB, Ripper…” she breathed tauntingly into his right ear, making a shiver run up his titanium spine, which doubled in intensity as she ran another hand down his chest.

But then the very real possibility of Still Water being in the room without either of them knowing came to his mind, and Spark Ripper ducked out from under Liquid Serpent’s hands and took a step back in the same motion he drew his single-edged sword with, electricity jumping across the length of the blade. “Stay back, Liquid.”

The Weaveress let out a cackle and produced six tactical knives from her combat garments. “Defend yourself, Ripper!”

As a highly workplace inappropriate impromptu grappling match took hold outside the warded vault in which the Culturist lay, the mana-charged smell born of a cooked tray leaked through the protections little by little. The unattuned mana of Philosophy and Cooking were aspects unprotected against, and the flavor, like the skill that made it, was totally unique. It found its way to the Delving orc, and as he lay there, a blissful expression on his face, his nose responsively drew in a breath—and then he sniffed.

He sniffed again. And with a third sniff, his stomach began to grumble with vicious need. “Food…”
