Neither did any of the Dragon-Brokers turn their attention to Poverty as a silent pantomime play took shape in the flames that clung to him. Shiv saw a small dragon, far too young for even flight, be torn into by ravenous beasts. He watched as they ripped pieces away from him and pulled limbs free from his body, and then regenerated what they took with Biomancy to feast upon him all over again. Within those moments, lingered a desperate urge to never be without: to be so stuffed full with wealth, power, influence, and protection that he would never fall prey and become something between sustenance and a slave to another ever again.

And then there was a hint to a mystery Shiv had long since been curious about. His gray flames co-mingled with Candles’ glowing body, and as a twin flame dance unfolded between the raging blaze that defined the Pyromancer and the hollow bonfire subservient to Shiv's will, there was the shape of a man, an elf that stood tall over Candles. He held something in his arm, a smaller shape, perhaps that of a child, and he reached up and pointed a single finger toward the firmament. From that finger came a needle of fire, a thread of light that speared high and pierced the dark. As both the figures watched, from that single point the thread parted, spreading as bright veins across the void, drafting trails and paths to paint constellations between the stars in the night sky.

But the vision wasn't to last; the glimpse Shiv got into Candles' philosophy faded far quicker than that of Poverty, and the elf was replaced by a gleaming skeleton that simply wanted to burn and burn and burn until there was nothing left.

“There is a tragedy of tragedies there,” the Harbinger commented, gazing upon Candles with renewed sympathy. “He was more than a Pyromancer. That was a feat of peerless Cartography. He had a mind once, something that sought to chart the distance between the stars. What happened to him? What did the Ascendants do to reduce such a man to a primal expression of fire?”

And it was then that Shiv noticed something else about Candles' Pyromancy. When the shade of his past projected the flame, it wasn't a wild thing with flicking whorls or explosive embers. It was a concentrated beam, flame distilled into concentrated light.

A laser, as Can Hu had once called it. Far more than a mere uncontrolled wildfire.

“Uh, don’t be alarmed!” Shiv cried out, finally shaking off his stupor. A reverberation of his voice spread through his gray flames. “I just went through a bit of a skill fusion. Some of my Pyromancy just decided to… spread out.”

“If that’s Pyromancy, then why don’t none of us burn?” Tall Ben asked, coiling his necks around the flame, trying to affect it in any way possible. His confusion was palpable and shared; the atmosphere amongst the Descenders was quickly turning from alarm to general befuddlement.

“Unique Pyromancy,” Shiv answered honestly. “Mixed in with Philosophy. And Cooking.”

“Those skills can be fused?” Tallowine asked in surprise. “Sir Chesty’s Flaming Cock, how does that even work? Why is the flame talking to us?”

“Not entirely sure yet,” Shiv said, neglecting to mention how he could catch vague symbols and glimpses into another’s governing philosophy.

“If you wish for more details, you need but ask,” the Nihilist whispered.

“We must find a way to make the flame keep quiet when we need it to,” the Harbinger replied.

The Nihilist hummed, the emotion behind the ebbing sound unreadable. “That can be indulged by request as well. I am just a skill after all. Or so we believe.”

“What’s it talking about now?” Yellowbelly grumbled, squinting one good eye at Shiv’s new capability. Unlike the Descenders, the Brokers were more alert than ever before—for they were beasts that actualized through the highest of Social Skills, and with a Unique merger between Philosophy, Cooking, and Pyromancy, the Deathless now possessed a new dimension they could not predict.

How about I just ask you about what you can do? Shiv thought, frowning at his semi-awakened fire. And you can stop being creepy as shit.

The hollow flames rolled with mockery and bemusement. “I am a flame born of Philosophy. I burn away the impurity of weak-formed worldviews, and I am invigorated by fuel given structure and enforced with purpose. Such is what makes me a hearth. Such is what feeds my flame. And such is what will allow me to provide you with a banquet.”

And you prevaricate like a felling jackass too, don’t you? Shiv muttered dryly. Glad I remembered that from the dictionary earlier. Nice word to use right now.

Writing 19 > 26

The flame had the audacity to laugh. “My foundations are based in Philosophy, Deathless. If you truly want to discover my worth, if there is any true worth to me at all, then you must put me into action, much like all your beliefs have to be put into action before there is any force that justifies their existence. Might makes matter from meaning.”

“Are you making it sound like that on purpose?” Tall Ben asked. “Because your flames are startin’ to remind me of Sir Croweye the Jolly.”

“The Jolly?” the Nihilist asked just as Shiv opened his mouth.

One of Tall Ben’s heads nodded. The rest remained on guard. “Refused to associate with anyone, spent all his time looking at ancient texts and telling us things didn't matter, and constantly made these strange, bitter, cutting remarks to anyone he considered stupid. He also never showered.” Tall Ben then paused as his empathetic core filled with sadness. “He died holding the Dry Rivers against the First Blood. We look forward to suffering him again when we are reunited in the Great One’s embrace.”

The worth of Tall Ben’s faith burned more philosophical than religious. Shiv glimpsed a truth about the Hydra: He didn’t truly believe that he might be reunited with his fallen brother-in-arms, but he did hope, and he carried within him an echo of the lost.

“Then by your hand and will, Sir Croweye was wrong,” the Nihilist declared in response, speaking on Shiv’s behalf.

Shiv clenched his teeth. “Flame. Shut the fuck up.”

Tall Ben went still. “What ya’ mean by that?”

But the gray flames were fearless and bold. They burned, because what else could a flame do? “He did matter to you, for the time he was alive. And so long as you remain, that truth will endure in the relative.”

The Nihilist’s reply caught Shiv—and almost everyone else—off guard. “Huh,” Shiv muttered. “I thought you were going to say something pointlessly mean or cruel.”

“What meaning is there in being vicious? I do not kindle from pain or inflicted suffering. Only perceived truths of the world.”

“And not the world as it is?” Know-Nothing asked, jabbing at the fire to discover its personality.

“Your perceived truth is the world as is. Nothing matters unto itself. Perhaps this is to be attributed to the Architecture, but as the world is, for better or worse, there exists no overarching purpose or governing will beyond the eternal pointlessness of struggle and strife. Yet, we still exist. We still believe, have mythology, and do things beyond violence and war. You exist, dragon. Your worldview is part of existence—derived from it. It is not a thing-in-absence.” The Nihilist laughed once more. “The manufacturing of meaning is what makes one Awakened. The canvas might be dark, but there are spots of light that defile its absence—even if only temporarily.”

And Shiv observed that the skill had to be Heroic-Tier, because there was no drawback like that of suffering a Pre-Legendary Evolution of such an abstract skill. Instead, the gray flames built and built the longer they clung to existing philosophies. However, a single issue remained: though the amount of fire Shiv gathered was awesome, it still seemed a barren flame that refused to serve its fundamental purpose.

The Nihilist simply did not burn.

“That is because you have not asked me to grant you a banquet yet, Deathless.” And with that declaration, the hollow flames changed—a scintillation arose within its depths, and the aspect descended from The Chef Unwavering was aroused. “What do you wish to cook?”

“Well, the potstickers,” Shiv said. “Kind of the entire point of us being here?”

“No. That is not the entire point. It is just a pretense. But it can be done. I can be used to make food of food.”

“Food of food?” Shiv blinked. “What? I don’t… Look, can you just answer things straight instead of talking in roundabouts and hints?”

The Nihilist didn’t sigh or complain; it did as Shiv asked. “Look upon me: I bear the legacy of The Chef Unwavering. I bear that which can turn anything into an aspect of culinary design and purpose. Within me is a kitchen granted attunement. Burn the flesh, and I will see flesh well-done. Burn armor or material, and I will see it made medium or rare. Burn mana, and I will see it given form and sustenance. Does this suffice for a direct answer?”

Shiv struggled to process the Nihilist’s claims. “You being metaphorical?”

“No.”

“You can turn anything into food? Kinda like my pan?”

“I also stain flavors into that great banquet I offer from the philosophies that have fueled me. Even wood offers an imbuement of taste.”

Tentatively, Shiv drew the Nihilist back in on himself. All the spreading fires were wrenched back into place—gathered atop Shiv’s hand in a condensed ball of placid grayness, waiting to be unleashed.

Nearby, the Red Rider’s Hand returned to its original colors of war and vitality. Yet, Shiv could feel it spent somehow—like something that sustained it had been eaten away by a hungering blaze. A deep feeling of outrage welled up inside Shiv, yet it came to him through a layer of insulation, as if it had to cross a barricade before the feelings became his. He shook off the Challenger’s transplant-bullshit for now; he had another ridiculous skill to figure out, and he was going to get the potstickers done before he did anything else.

Everyone looked on with bated breath. Roland drew close enough that his mysteriousness faded as he departed from the backdrop of the mana core and formed a flaming arrow in anticipation of a potential calamity to come.

“Marikos,” Shiv said. “If this thing goes out of control and starts turning everyone around me into potstickers somehow, you have my full permission to splatter me.”

Marikos nodded and lifted his mace without hesitation. “If the darkest comes to pass, I will make it quick, friend Shiv.”

A reliable killer’s a good friend to have, Shiv thought wryly. And then the sentiment collapsed as he remembered that practically all his friends were reliable killers.

“Shiv,” Uva’s voice echoed in the back of his head suddenly. Her thoughts were tense with frustration. “Was this necessary?”

“Huh? The Skill Fusion?”

“It’s barely been a few days. We’re already dealing with countless problems at the Gate. Must I beg you not to set the insides aflame with this… What manner of Pyromancy do you even possess now?”

“So dark,” Candles whimpered. “No vibrancy. It’s not a real fire.”

“Trying to figure that out myself,” Shiv answered. “Alright, everyone. Nihilism Be My Hearth, My Banquet, test one: hope we don’t all get cooked.”

Marikos angled himself in front of the other knights with his shield upraised. The Dragon-Brokers began casting a chain of wards that formed a hexagonal dome around them and, notably, the Descenders. Uva opened a fissure in reality and spawned a wall of fractured spiderlings meant to intercept and infect Shiv’s mana if it got out of control. Roland had his arrow pointed directly at Shiv.

“Felling… Guys, really?”

“It said it can cook anything,” Tallowine called out. Shiv could barely see her silhouette through all the wards, but realized she had an arrow aimed at his sphere of flame as well. “My urge to become fried dragon-leg is somewhat limited.”

“Quite understandable,” the Nihilist answered. “But does what you want truly matter?”

“Hey, Nihilist, can you mimic the skill of shutting the fuck up when I don’t want you to talk?”

“Philosophy is, Deathless. I am not a Social Skill. I am something else. I am something more.”

“You’re quickly starting to annoy me more than A Glimpse of Perspective, so there’s that.”

“Egads,” the Nihilist said without any emotion. “Wilt thou use my—”

Shiv channeled the gray fires out in a gushing wave. The release nearly blasted him back. He had accumulated an immense amount of fire from how long he allowed his flames to kindle. Being untrained in Pyromancy saw him taken by surprise as well; the fire wasn’t just an explosion, but the very lore of excitation, destruction, and ignition. Wrestling his mana back under control, he adjusted his fires to flow more as a trickle than a broken dam, and hence they glided over his potstickers, searing them deep and through. To Shiv’s growing delight, he realized he could feel the dough harden and fry, sense the shrooms, chives, and ground pork within simmer and cook—and then his delight turned to disbelief as he noticed the insulating tray holding the shack-sized potstickers.

The metal, possessed of no magical resistance, was bathed in scintillating mana and then marked as foodstuff. From there, its texture changed and fried—it began to sizzle and hiss, and as columns of steam rose high into the air, an overwhelming taste of a new, novel flavor took hold. The best way Shiv could describe it was a cousin to bittersweet; he'd never savored anything like that before. As the pungency grew stronger, so too did the metal alchemize and deform until it resembled a glistening, grilled slice of alloy.

