Transcendent-Heretic Udraal Thann has entered Synchronized Integration

Udraal Thann: “Mana operates in defiance of entropy. Magic is the expression of belief, codified belief perhaps, but still belief, that which shapes the material from metaphysical meaning. Ex Nihilo, in other words. Often, when one gets a Unique Skill that is the purest expression of ex Nihilo, you are giving birth to something that has never existed before, simply from the novel trail you blazed. And more than giving you an edge in battle, it offers something more: insight into the System itself. You get a glimpse at what it deems to be truly novel and thus worthy of being a Unique Skill. My success in creating the Deathless is that he alone stands apart from all other Pathbearers, as consequence fuels his strength, and death is merely the lubricant of his progression. As such, his expression of ex Nihilo is further mirrored upon me, for as he gains his evolutions, so do I and my insights grow ever more. But the true beauty of ex Nilhilo is the fact that you are experiencing a new horizon within yourself. Even if the System is a tyrant, it is one that must slowly adapt to you, and every Unique Skill is an edge, a card no one else can play. Even if you are of a lower Tier or find yourself outmatched by an adversary who should be your better, possessing something that no one else does can grant you the most miraculous of victories, which further feeds into your growth. Should your Unique Skill be born from an attuned magical lore, then what follows is a new extension built upon the existing infrastructure of a mana type. And so, my peers and rivals, I am here to taunt you. I am here to proclaim that I have evolved a new Unique Skill from the study of vitality and the merging of Necromancy. I have gone against the System's rules through the evolution of the Deathless. I now possess Entromancy, the act of conceptual withering. The art and lore of decay that came before. In me, the shape of the elder realm still lingers. A time before the System, the shape of magic before magic. A paradox unto itself: Nihilism Echoes.”

Mythic-Intelligencer MuValk: “Apologies, Transcendent Udraal, my Unique Deafness Skill self-activated the moment you teleported through our wards. Can you repeat all that?”

Udraal Thann: “I’m going to hurt you someday, MuValk.”

Mythic-Intelligencer MuValk: “Apologies, Transcendent Udraal, my Unique Deafness Skill self-activated the moment you teleported through our wards. Can you repeat all that?”

Udraal Thann: “None of you hold any interest in truly advancing our struggle against the System. A shame, a pity, and a disgrace, but someday you will see that all I have talked about will bear fruit, and you will come to me begging for a taste of it. I will deny it to you until the last second, until I see that you have truly understood.”

Transcendent-Heretic Udraal Thann has left Synchronized Integration.

Mythic-Intelligencer MuValk: “Finally. He’s gone. I think that’s a new record. How someone like him ever got to Transcendent, I’ll never know.”

Udraal Thann: “That would be due to my near-unparalleled, determined genius.”

Transcendent-Heretic Udraal Thann has entered Synchronized Integration

Mythic-Intelligencer MuValk: “I motion to ignore Transcendent-Heretic Thann. Let’s talk trade taxes.”

Udraal Thann: “Alas, you cannot ignore me forever.”

—Transcript of Transcendent-Heretic Udraal Thann breaking into Chorus Highmoot and boasting of the “Deathless” (First recorded instance)

382

Ex Nihilo

The Skill Fusion took hold inside Shiv like a spark setting fire to kindling, a clash of stone on stone from which a flame was spawned. Yet it wasn't he who combusted first, but rather the Red Rider's Hand looming behind him.

It came ablaze in a burst of mana, but rather than being of that harsh glow which signaled the presence of Pyromancy, it was barren, utterly devoid of all coloration beyond a strange and ominous grayness. The very same magic formed an aura around Shiv, billowing out from him in undulating waves, like a misted flame dancing to the caress of passing winds. Yet the grayness remained, even for him, its coloration the embodiment of ambivalence and indifference.

The hollow flame stood as a paradox, for as it burned, Shiv felt a coldness settle over him. It was not the kind of cold that chilled the air and alchemized one's breath into fog, but rather an empty coldness. It burned away one's will, sapped the spirit, and drained any notions of purpose and poignancy.

“For ever treacherous are the hearts of men and monsters alike.” Shiv heard his own voice tremble forth from the hand that loomed behind him. “For though we impose meaning on the world, meaning in turn is burned away and stripped down to the hollow delusion. For faith is a fickle fuel, and men and gods are bound toward the same oblivion regardless of character and struggle. For philosophy is no true salvation, but only a higher lie spoken by shivering sophists.”

As the Red Rider's Hand spoke on, Shiv realized he wasn't the only one who could hear it. Its voice hammered the world and sent blast waves of gray flame spreading through existence. It licked at Marikos. It swept through Candles, and both of them combusted, their insides burning just like their outsides were, but their skin did not wither or scald. Still, they were ablaze, caught within Shiv's grasp. He could feel them as his mana licked at them. He could sense their intentions boiling, their sense of self withering along the outside.

As his skill took hold, another revelation was delivered unto him, one he had never sensed before. There was an exterior to one's ego: the false husk you constructed from your beliefs, ideals, understandings, and culture. Philosophy in action was the vehicle of your life, and most did not build it well. Shiv could feel how fragile both Marikos and Candles were. The former was too simplistic and unwilling to grapple with the hard aspects of his psychology and his environment. The latter was broken, madness gripping him in its stifling grasp, but there was something else: the ruins of something grand, a marvel of architecture that now lay in scattered pieces around the outer shell that once comprised his sense of self.

“And there is no difference between them,” the hand proclaimed. “There is no difference in the absolute, but perhaps there might be every difference to the individual and the relative. For who can say one thing is false, even though it is fleeting, even though it is frail, even though it is hollow and devoid of an empirical self?”

“Deathless… is your hand speaking to us?” Marikos looked more stunned than Shiv could ever recall seeing him, but his astonishment was second only to Shiv's own.

Before Shiv came a new notification, and it dubbed the rider's right hand with a new moniker, an assigned title given to the entity that now embodied the limb, an extension of Shiv born of his new skill.

Nihilist: “Give unto me faith, belief, a glimpse of how another sees the world, your understanding of philosophy, your conviction, your purpose and that of those around you, the invisible hand which propels mortals, delusion or not, deception or otherwise, that fabric of ephemeral fabrics, that elusive facsimile of meaning which is forged by mortals yet unfound in the greater architecture of the System. Give this unto me so that I might burn them like fuel and so that I might be able to deglaze flesh, bone, metal, or even magic within the hearth of my absolute unmeaning. For if you feed my flame, so too will I see your glory undiminished in return, O devourer of death and meaning.”

As the Nihilist spoke, its ashen voice spread, no longer thundering from within the Red Rider's Hand, but instead echoing from every bit of gray fire which clung to the world surrounding Shiv. It kept spreading and kept spreading until a massive conflagration was sweeping through Gate Piety. Bodies were consumed, the hollow flames clinging to them like tar and refusing to let go. They did not clash directly against Magical Resistance, though Shiv could still feel the trembling counter-mana come alive at the touch of his new, aberrant Pyromancy.

Instead, it continued latching onto something that felt social, but higher: philosophy. Meaning. The very notions that one projected upon the world, the way one perceived the world. The way Shiv believed the world to be.

The dragons and Hydra present were speechless, gawking at Shiv's sudden evolution. Their hearts filled with terror and confusion. Marikos, meanwhile, found himself trying to put out the hollow flames, to no avail.

A translucent arrow splashed against Shiv's mind, Roland's voice carried upon a telepathic hiss. “Shiv, what's happening? Do you need my help? What's spreading out from you?”

Shiv didn't reply, for he had no good answer to give. He was as lost by his own skill as everyone else. The only thing he could do was reassure them that he didn't intend to cause any harm.

But with that thought, the fire around him began laughing once more, the hollowness filled with a cold, almost scornful mirth, if not for how uncaring the flame was. “But why does what you intend matter? In the end, it is the material harm you do that has weight upon another. Your impulses, your feelings, your beliefs: those are meaning to you, but not meaning to another. I am your flame. I cannot burn from their perspective. Take hold of your responsibilities if that is what you truly believe at all.”

And for the first time, Shiv felt something gnaw at his belief. It was an insidious feeling, so subtle that the damage almost went unnoticed, but he found himself questioning why he felt so beholden to others. Why he thought their lives mattered. Why he did all he could now to keep collateral damage to a minimum. The hollow flames grew grander and wilder, crackling and whipping until they were skybound, licking toward the very heights of the dimension. Yet still, nothing was reduced to ash, for it seemed an aspect of the flames remained in slumber.

But already it exerted a portion of its power upon Shiv, making his Philosophy wither and weaken, and it felt like something was burning through his way of perceiving the world. Then memories came back to him. Of the slave child he couldn't save from 811. Of Guardshead Leu. And of all the people he wanted to protect but couldn't.

Shiv's fists clenched, and the resolve within him grew ever harder. At the same time, his hollow flame calmed but continued to grow. “We should be responsible for the world,” Shiv began, sensing the Skill’s intent. “We should be responsible for the people in it, for the ones we feed and the ones we will end up fighting for. For the people we try to protect and the people we try to kill. We should be responsible for all of them because we're not alone here. I don't fully get what you're talking about in this abstract philosophy stuff, but it matters. It matters because I believe it matters, and I'll act on that belief. And in the end, I don't really want people to die because…” Shiv paused, and the Harbinger bade him to consider his words carefully.

In the meantime, the gray flames were silent and stable but burned with a greater intensity than ever before. All eyes were on him: The Descenders, the Dragon-Brokers, the people in the distance along the surface gateway, the Arachnae Order, Roland, and more were all watching. And with how widespread the flames were crashing through the gateway like a wildfire—consuming the ground, avoiding the Perch before reaching the surface district and wrapping that in its shivering embrace—everyone could hear the Nihilist’s voice.

“Because life seems to be everything,” Shiv finally said. “All those experiences, all that memory, everything someone can be… It's too much to be worth nothing in the end.”

Nihilist: “So you say. Yet all of them are only waiting to be swallowed by that nothing which awaits. All except you, perhaps.”

And with that, the Nihilist stopped speaking. The flames were fed. Shiv felt his Pyromancy mana climb to astronomical heights. As he composed himself and took hold of his mana field, he realized what had happened. It had spread, creeping and building as it savored and drew succor from every bit of internalised philosophy surrounding him. It found fuel in his own beliefs, in how he perceived the world and how strong he felt his convictions to be, but it also absorbed other people's perceptions like an uncontrolled hearth fed more firewood.

In summation, philosophy became its kindling, and from that it arrived at a power. What kind of power? Shiv wasn't sure, but as he delved into his Pyromancy, he began catching glimpses—flickers of dancing flames wrapped around the surrounding Dragon-Knights that played silhouettes in motion, displaying formative moments from their pasts. Shiv flinched back. The insight his new skill gave him was invasive and astounding. It made the flames effectively a canvas, a stage to portray how one believed and witnessed the world.

But while Shiv could see into the others, could read the ripples of philosophy from the fires that shrouded those caught in his inferno, they seemed utterly ignorant. Never once did Tallowine lift her head and stare at the mirage taking shape over Tall Ben, depicting the Hydra in days long past, sweeping and slashing out with twelve heads and two arms, protecting what seemed like a small house filled with terrified figures against unseen invaders.

