Eagerly waiting for his anger to surface as she watched him jerk at her words, she knew she’d wounded his pride. Now for him to grab her by the arms and shake her, maybe ripping her clothes as he yells and calls her names. He’d been too relaxed and comfortable around her of late, and though she enjoyed his company, she missed the fiery passion and ardour of their early relationship. Now for a small, token struggle before giving in to his primal lust, devolving into a passionate lovemaking session as he worked to mend his pride, to dominate her and make her his.

Instead, she was treated to Gerel’s stony silence and saddened gaze as he stared hurtfully at her, her heart twisting at the sight. Where was his anger? Where was his lust? She’d told this same joke many times before using the stuck up brats at the Bridge and his response was always the same, so what was different today? Had he tired of her, believing it no longer worth his efforts? Awkward silence hung between them as they sat still, the sole candle choosing this inopportune time to extinguish. The darkness helped ease things, but not by much; she could still make out his eyes in the moonlight. His voice drawled out, heavy and pained. “Do you truly feel that way?”

“No.” Her answer was instantaneous, and she felt the tension disperse as he audible sighed. What was happening? Things were supposed to be light and fun between them, two adults enjoying each others company without strings to bind them. This was getting... serious.

The mood was dead and beyond saving, so after an awkward farewell, Gerel slipped out the window unseen. Confused and scared, she lit another candle and returned to work. What she needed was a distraction, in more ways than one. Something to draw attention away from the lack of scarcity at the Bridge. Perhaps it was time to call off the Militia and allow Council shipments to make their way to Shen Yun unmolested, for a short time at least. In the meantime, she could chase the Militia through the forest for a few weeks, maybe even hang the ‘Hangman’ Jorani and a few of his lieutenants, like ‘Mongrel’ Kabi, ‘Light-Fingered’ Yu and Ulfsaar the Voracious. How that last one ended up working under Jorani was a mystery, an upstart, Aura-capable bandit with a twenty gold bounty, he’d terrorized Sanshu for the past two years with his band of capable warriors. A few dead bandits to hang on her belt, and she’d come out of the situation a hero of the citizens, though not much would change for her, politically speaking.

Drawing up her plans, she worked until exhaustion and alcohol overcame her, waking alone and frustrated the next morning. Barely taking the time to fix her appearance, she strode out of her tent and found Gerel waiting for her. Inwardly panicking, she prayed to the Mother that he didn’t make a scene in full view of her command and cursed her laziness. Hoping he would take the hint, she frowned and spoke in a cordial, yet distant tone. “How can I help you Senior Captain Gerel?”

Showing no emotion as he saluted, Gerel answered, “We should speak in private.”

Stepping back inside her tent, she stood still as her stomach flopped about and motioned for him to speak. “Is this a personal meeting?”

“No.” The instantaneous reply left her both relieved and annoyed. Why didn’t he want to talk about their private matters? “I received word from Rain. He’s alive and with our friends in the west.” Thank the Mother he’d been found, that was one burden off her shoulders. Just as she relaxed, his next words sent her into shock. “Unfortunately, he sends news of a Defiled outbreak on the western shores of Treasures Lake, including first-hand confirmation of a newly turned Demon.”

All thoughts of personal relationships disappeared as her insides twisted into a knot. Staggering to find a seat, she spent the next hour going over every detail with Gerel before sending him away to prepare. She’d asked for a distraction but this was too much. After a month of steady sailing, the troubles were piling on with a vengeance. Her first command, already rife with contrived plots and political intrigue, had now become a thing of nightmares. Her hands trembled as she wrote the coded message, reading each copy time and time again to ensure there was no mistake before sealing it with her stamp. So few words, yet so heavy a message.

“With a heavy heart and by the power granted to me by Shing Du Yi, Marshal of the North, I, Major Shing Yuzhen of the Society, declare a state of emergency in the cities of Sanshu, Jiu Lang, Shen Yun, and Ping Yao. Each city is to send no less than three thousand soldiers capable of proving their purity before the eyes of the Mother. Secrecy is of the utmost importance, disobedience punishable by summary execution, without trial.”

After sealing the last copy, she handed them to her aide with instructions to deliver them to the nearest outpost himself. Recalling all her forces, including the Warrant Officers to the Northeast, she gave orders for them to march west and set a perimeter. Returning to her tent to wait, she sat in her chair and cupped her face, bracing herself for the slaughter to come.

A Purge.

Over ten-thousand innocent souls to be butchered at her command, all for the greater good.

Forgive me my sins Mother and have mercy on my soul.

Chapter Meme
