<Watcher, Apology Tutorial #486 Control and Observation Room>

The Watcher held her face in a neutral expression as her supervisor’s expression went from civil to confused to angry and on to livid. “What, by all the gods, are they doing?”

The Watcher shrugged. “Killing undead.”

He gave her an unamused look. “They seem to be moving to assault the core of the scenario.”

“I can see that.”

“Why?” His eyebrow was twitching.

“It’s the only source of good experience available to them at the moment.”

His face went still, showing that his anger had reached an entirely new level. “You will explain. Now.”

The Watcher sighed and shrugged, launching into her prepared response. “They were doing training loops after the last wave showed them their need for more power, and came across the origin point of the plague within this scenario, whether they know that or not. The presence of the more powerful undead likely made its importance obvious. Now, they are attacking the greatest source of experience in the city. I don’t know if they have enough power to actually punch through, let alone kill the Plague Lord, but I suppose we’ll see. Per standard protocol, I’ve prepared options for if they succeed, either fully or in part. Does that answer your question?”

“Did you do this?”

She tilted her head to one side, frowning precisely. “I am afraid I don’t understand. The System is very particular about outside interference. I couldn’t have made this happen… whatever part of ‘this’ you are referring to.”

He growled, pulling forward a screen and thrusting a finger at it angrily. “The Initiate Alex logged a formal complaint, and it shows you were the respondent."

“I am the Watcher for his Tutorial scenario, yes.”

After a long moment, the Supervisor’s growl deepened. “What was the complaint? What did you say in response?”

She sighed. “You know the System does not allow me to disclose that information, but the complaint should be obvious based on the context.”

The Supervisor frowned, eyes unfocusing for a moment as he clearly reviewed the tutorial scenario in brief. “The lack of leveling speed.” His eyes refocused and narrowed. “You told him where more powerful monsters were.”

She huffed a laugh at that. “Do I look obliterated to you? The System does not tolerate such interference, sir. I must operate within the bounds of the System’s strictures.”

“But you are helping him.”

“I aim to help all Initiates achieve their goals in my assigned tutorials, no matter if their wish is to succeed or to die in some specific manner.”

“You want me to believe that this Alex continues to find the edge cases and ways to get around obstacles all on his own? Really?”

She needed to change tactics, or things were going to become… uncertain. “Sir… have you seen the designations for their world?”

“What?” He frowned, his anger fading slightly at the seeming change in topic. “What are you talking about? Are there either a dearth or glut of sapient life? Will it be made a feral reserve?”

She shook her head. “Please take a look if you will.”

It was her turn to move a screen over for his inspection. He looked it over, growing pale as he read. “A Cradle of Potential? What could have…?”

His eyes drifted back to the readout about Alex and his companions. The Watcher shook her head. “No singular person is worth that designation. If you look at the logs, this strain of humanity is… odd. More adaptable than even System standard. There are a few exceptional individuals including Alex, but the standout is here.” She tapped the screen. “One of the world spirits from the combined planets has already overcome and subsumed one of the other six. She did so before the regular tutorial even began.”

“Impossible.” The Supervisor manifested a chair and sat in it, pulling over a different screen and changing the readouts, using his greater access privileges to delve deeper than she could go.

She didn’t mind as this was her console, and she’d long ago set it to record everything done on it. That wouldn’t give her his authority or access—that was tied to his being, not something he input into the console—but it would allow her to review the data he pulled up at a later time.

Wonderful. She kept herself from smiling.

Five minutes later—a near eternity at the mental and operational speeds the Supervisor and console could achieve—the man leaned back, eyes slightly glazed over. “A sapient world spirit at initiation… it has never happened before, at least the System has no record of it that I’m allowed to access. The other spirits might work together to oppose it out of sheer instinct… will the System interfere? No…” He continued to ramble as he reeled under the revelation. Finally, he wound down. “I… I need to go speak with Lord Ares.” He stood and absently patted her shoulder on the way out. “Keep up the good work.”

She stared after him, her mouth agape in genuine shock at his parting remarks. Maybe, just maybe, this was an even bigger deal than she’d realized.

A pregnant moment later, she spun, diving into the records of what her supervisor had looked up.

She had to know what was going on.

Alex would be fine, or he wouldn’t.

That was the nature of the Apology Tutorial after all.

She’d check in on him after.

<Alex, Real - Endure, Door-Buster College>

Alex sometimes questioned his own sanity, as any sane person is wont to do.

He’d done so a bit more since the System had been imposed into his life, but never more than he was at that very moment.

He was the point of the spear as the Initiates charged the main gates of the undead stronghold in this city, and he wasn’t wearing his greatcoat… because he was going to be taking so many hits, the garment would be ruined with no real gain.

Yeah… insane just might be accurate…

He was flanked on each side by three spear wielders, each with magics building within them. More melee fighters were outside of those. Behind the front V-formation, most of the ranged damage dealers ran, the only exception being Grant and one other hammer wielder, who flanked Alex just behind Natasha on his left and Jacob on his right.

The remainder of the close-in fighters were a ‘plug’ at the back of the V, ready to drive outward once they were through the gates, the movement planned in order to both protect their flanks and enter killing range with their portion of the horde.

Their plan was a simple one: Kill the undead.

Alex felt a smile tug at his lips. In truth, their plan was a little more complex than just that, but not too much.

Partly, this was because they honestly had no idea what they were going to find within, save the undead. So ‘Kill the undead’ was actually a reasonable plan outline until they learned more.

They were going to be driving toward the central building on the campus, but only if the entire grounds weren’t as packed as the area just inside the gate.

The undead saw them coming. It was impossible for them to miss the onrushing Initiates, but stealth had never really been an option. Even the weakest undead had a life-sense of some kind that would have let the enemy know as soon as the attackers got close.

Regardless, their plan required an aggressive approach, and Alex’s part could really only be accomplished by him.

The first portion—and the least necessary—was the fact that he’d changed how he would appear to Analyze type skills.

Tasty TreatHelpless, Harmless, Level 10

The hardest part was making his level one higher. He’d wanted it to be even higher, but his resistance didn’t seem to be able to do so at the moment.

That said, they had no idea if the undead could interface with this type of attribute, and as he charged forward, he realized that it might have been smarter to mark himself ‘Undead’ and hope that let him just walk in. Viability of other ideas aside, the die was cast, and he had to charge.

He had to charge, because the crux of this plan was him grabbing and holding the attention of the two Flesh Golems of the Plague Guard who were flanking the open front gates.

So far, so good.

The two massive flesh golems were clearly oriented on their group, and the fact that Alex was a bit out in front made him an obvious target.

Oh, let this work. Please let this work.

He began to spin up his Shaped Force Burst… He probably should have started earlier.

The few archers or gun wielders began firing, not at the flesh golems, no, that might mess up the plan. Instead, they were targeting the Death Squires who had taken note of their approach from their stations in the guard posts in the nearby walls, specifically, those that were also moving their way.

They could mess up the plan royally.

Come on, Alex. Get it together! His Shaped Force Burst spell felt slippery due to his angst and growing concern.

It didn’t want to take on the shape he was trying to make.

It wasn’t going to work.

He was going to be out of position.

The last dozen yards flashed by, and he—

The symbol set clicked in place, and he duplicated the runes, jumping forward and up as he triggered the magic almost instantly.

Twin force bursts slammed into the bottoms of his feet, throwing him forward even as his companions skidded to a halt.

Alex felt the insane sights and sounds flicker at the periphery, but just as he’d been able to throw off the delusions before, the added magical resistance allowed him to outright ignore them this time.

The spear wielders lanced out with their magics, again, not at the flesh golems. Instead, they scythed through the front ranks of undead, clearing the way for his leap and landing.

The flesh golems tracked him, exactly as planned.

He slashed at one of the faster tendrils, blocking a second with his new shield, then he was through, gaining distance from the two once more.

They tracked him regardless. Their attacks slapped the ground, always just behind him in a cascading wave as he landed and rolled, coming up surrounded by the undead, all lunging, leaping, or flying at him from practically every direction.

And this was the final part of the plan that only he could do, because there was no way he was coming out of this without getting bit, scratched, slashed, and otherwise infected in a thousand different ways.

Yes, sometimes Alex truly did doubt that he remained sane.

The real trick, however, would be to remain alive.

<John, Real - Endure, Door-Buster College>

John had seen a lot of crazy stunts in his life—everything from jumping a jeep onto a moving barge to drunkenly shooting silver dollars out of a partner’s hand, and those were just two of the things he’d done—and yet, he couldn’t say he’d seen something quite as crazy as Alex acting as bait and distraction for an uncounted number of high level, high rarity undead.

Madman.

Still, the plan was already going quite well. He added his own shots into Grant’s back, only briefly pulling his steady fire from the oncoming Death Squires.

Grant’s odd attack skill required him to take a ton of damage, and John and a few others had been selected for their ability to do a lot of HP damage with minimal wounds.

They had all been warned about—and most had experience with—the flesh golem’s horrific visions. As such, the Initiates fought through the illusions of creeping madness that they knew would vanish as soon as these things were dead.

Stephen’s use of death magic was the final piece, sending a black ripple over Grant’s skin just before he slammed his sledge hammer into the distracted flesh golem on the left.

The other hammer wielder—Bret, if John remembered right—had a similar skill, slamming his own, smaller hammer into the flesh golem on the right.

Grant’s attack let out a pulse of power, and the sound of shattering bones was audible even over the rising chittering screeches of the undead assaulting Alex.

Though, that was likely because both Bret and his target had similar shattering happening within them at the same time.

Apparently, Bret could inflict great injury, bypassing practically all defenses, with the cost being that he took on the same wounds himself.

Either way, the magically marked bones would be well and truly broken. Good, that will remove most of the flesh golem’s magical resistance.

Both Bret and Grant fell in agony, unable to maintain their feet despite the dire situation. Thankfully, Brianne was already there, going to a knee between them and flooding their bodies with her golden mana.

Pilar—his always lovely and increasingly hot wife—ashed the flesh golems before they could even begin to recover, thereby removing the greatest known threat to their assault. With them gone, the undead returned to their normal level of horrifying.

WIth that done, John’s eyes were only on two things… his wife didn’t count… Fine, his eyes were only on three things… four… five? No, he’d count her as one.

Three it was, then.

Besides his wife, he was tracking his incoming targets, placing round after round into eyes and foreheads, slowing the advance of the all-too-fast Death Squires, and allowing the ranged Initiates with slower methods of delivery to rain damage upon those deadly foes.

The final thing he was watching was Alex as the crazy man fought like a wild animal.

Alex bashed outward with his shield, spinning with the powerful movement to slash twice—too fast to be an unskilled attack—with his short, heavy weapon.

He lashed out with feet and elbows as well, even headbutting one ravager who got in too close. Though the man seemed to regret it the next moment, staggering backward, seeming slightly dazed but only for an eyeblink.

Pulses of force left him at semi-regular intervals, and John was able to occasionally see him intercept attacks with the odd defensive skill that had let Alex catch a bullet when John first met the man.

Even still, Alex had already taken more than a dozen wounds that John could see from here.

His clothing was shredded from near-misses as much as the hits that landed, and John assumed that Alex would be left in boxers and shoes all too soon. Hopefully, it wouldn’t be less.

The man had been right to leave his coat off, as even that impressive item would have been ruined in the blender he was dancing through.

The man’s flesh was pulsing from hale to spiderwebbed with black veins and back to healthy once more like the world’s most horrifying strobe-light… if only slightly slower than the analogy implied.

John added a bit of extra power and blew off a Death Squire’s head that had been getting a bit too close. That wouldn’t kill it, but it would slow it down for the moment.

Alex had been right.

No one else could have done what he was doing, and it had gained them a foothold.

The question, now, was if they could turn that foothold into a successful assault.