Lines of shadeling orcols stretched down the muddy street, while rain fell all around. They waited for their turns at the paperwork stations, or for the Mind Mage on duty. Poi’s line was the quickest by far, but very few of the 327 remaining shadelings of the commune wanted to go to him. His line was only thirty two deep.

Poi’s line was still gaining members, though, for the main lines had complications.

A little ways away, those main lines sat underneath [Domain of Light]. There were six desks, each manned by four different people. Only one of those people actually engaged with the shadeling standing in front of them. The other three were a mix between backup for any violent situation that might occur, and clerking staff. They occasionally blipped away to come back with more paperwork, before rapidly taking their position back at the side of the person actually conducting the exit interview.

Erick looked upon one of those interviews from far away, checking up on them as was his power, while he kept eyes and ears out in all directions, and watched as more and more shadelings came out of the depths of the commune, to either try their luck at running the blockades all around the broken housing development, or to try their luck at the desks. No one made it through the blockades of light and stone and ice all around the commune, though. Either Erick bumped them back into the commune area himself, taking personal control of his Domain to lock down the shadeling trying to sneak through, or the minor mountains of ice-stone golems did the same, but with much more violence.

Erick watched, as a man approached a desk.

The shadeling stepped into the Light, becoming something more solid and shivering, like every other shadeling before him. Another step took him under the [Weather Ward] cast over the desk and the people in front of him. He wore rags and dripped rainwater, but he wiped his arms and hands off as best he could; they wanted him to sign paperwork, after all.

The woman behind the desk indicated the gently-glowing green truthstone sitting just to the side. It glowed green, as she said, “All of this interaction will be conducted under truthstone. If you disagree, then you won’t be leaving Treehome today and perhaps not even tomorrow. Your ability to leave tomorrow might be greatly diminished if you choose not to continue, for who knows what will happen if you don’t get out of here while you can. Do you wish to continue?” It was a phrase she had said many times already. The stone remained green all throughout.

“Yes, ma’am.”

“Very well.” She said, “State your name, date of birth, tribe and Treehome tribe, if applicable, and affiliation, if you have one, and if anyone will vouch for you.”

“Deckari Sideril-Nosier. 1, 5, 1407. Tribe Sideril of Nosier, Adventurer’s Guild. Uh. My team was Rapple Leaf Four. The team goes back about four years. They’re still out there, last I heard. They won’t vouch for me, though.”

The woman listened to Deckari and watched the truthstone out of the corner of her eyes. It had never varied from green. She took a paper from a stack to the side and slid it across the desk to him, then indicated the cup of pens, saying, “Write all that down.”

Deckari did so.

When he was nearing completion, the woman asked, “Why won’t your team vouch for you?”

Deckari finished his end of the paperwork, then prepared himself. He said, “Shadeling Cultist.”

Erick had been about to move on, but instead he watched the interaction a bit closer. The people beside the woman at the desk stood a bit straighter, their eyes focusing a bit more.

The woman kept a calm voice, as she grabbed another form from a different pile. With a small spell, her own pen began to float in the air, hovering over the new sheet of paper, ready to fill out the worksheet on her own. She asked, “And how did that happen?”

The pen moved, waiting for the answer.

Deckari paused. He said, “We did the Candlepoint thing, getting dark chips and all that. We got one New Stat fruit apiece, and then I was the first to get their second New Stat. First was Intelligence. Then came Constitution. That was when I turned shadeling. That led to some… hard conversations. They took me here.” He choked up, briefly, then fought on, saying, “I was in here. I looked to the gods for help, but when I called their names, they didn’t respond and I bled when I continued to call out. But Melemizargo answered me.” He spoke stronger, saying, “And he helped me through this really tough time. More than Aloethag ever—” He winced. Blood dripped from his nose. “It’s more than the Red Woman ever did for me.”

The truthstone stayed green.

The pen had written down most of what Deckari had said, but not exactly as he had said it. Looking over her shoulder, Erick saw that nothing was too off about her account of his account. But the woman had written down in a separate part of the form regarding the weaknesses that Deckari had displayed. ‘Can’t speak about other gods without bleeding’ and ‘Melemizargo targets shadelings for conversion’ were among the notes in that second box.

The woman said, “Since you’re a Cultist, you have extra requirements for leaving Treehome.” Her pen waited as she got out more paperwork. She set that down and moved the pen over it, as she started, “First: Your contacts in the Cult.”

“A lot of them are dead.” Deckari said, “A lot of us are like that.”

The truthstone stayed green. The woman wrote down Deckari’s answer. It was not the first time that someone had given Deckari’s answer, and it wouldn’t be the last.

And his answer was not good enough.

“I still need names.”

“Omaz, though I didn’t know him as Omaz. I knew him as Light. That’s what he went by when he spoke to others in the city, who I also tried to stay away from. I don’t know those people’s names either. There were also a few of the guards on the other side of the wall.” Deckari said, “I tried to stay away from them, too.” He maintained his calm facade, but Erick, and everyone else, could tell he was angry at those nameless, faceless guards.

“Which shadelings in the commune? Which guards?”

“I don’t know their names. Initiate Cultists don’t get to see the faces of their compatriots.”

The truthstone stayed green.

“Typical,” said the woman. “Every fuckin’ time. Look. Give me something, or you ain’t getting out of here today.”

The implication that he would never get out, at all, ever, was left unsaid.

Deckari said, “I did know the guards were from Block 6 and 7. I never knew their names, either, but I knew their faces.”

“Only halfway useless, with a better chance of making us second guess our own people than actually helping. Just like a fucking Cultist.” She asked, “Tell me straight: Did you participate in the day’s battles?”

“I shot some spells at the guards who tried to kill me last week; yes.”

The woman narrowed her eyes. “What spells? Did you kill anyone?”

“[Chain Lightning]. Yes. I killed the guards— the Cultists from Block 6 and 7. The ones I was talking about. You won’t have to worry about watching your back, because I killed them for trying to kill me.”

The woman’s pen stilled. Erick stilled, too. The truthstone flickered pink.

The man rapidly added, “I mean. I don’t know if you have to worry about watching your back. I only knew about the ones who tried to get me.” Somewhat repeating himself, he said, “I killed the Cultist guards who were planning on harming me. The ones from block 6 and 7.”

The truthstone stayed green.

The pen resumed writing, as the woman asked, “Is the Cult big on murdering itself?”

“When other parts of the Cult get out of line with Melemizargo’s goals, yes.”

The woman almost sighed. She didn’t want to ask this next question, but she did, anyway. “Did Melemizargo put you up to killing those other Cultists?”

“No.” Deckari said, “I just saw the chance to kill the people who had promised to kill my old team if they ever came to visit, and I took it.”

“… So you still harbor some love for your old adventuring team?” She glanced at the paperwork. “Rapple Leaf Four?”

“Of course I do.” Deckari was hurt at the woman’s insinuation, whatever she could have been insinuating with those words, but he let it go. “I told them to stay away. They only stayed away after I converted, though.” He said, “I am truly a Cultist. You can’t fake that. Melemizargo doesn’t like that.”

“… Okay.” The woman said, “If you were not a Cultist, I could offer you a third choice of getting your paperwork vetted that would be that. But since you’re a Cultist, and you have admitted to killing some guards… Who were also Cultists, according to you, you have two choices.” She pointed with both her finger and the floating pen at Poi, across the street, saying, “Archmage Flatt’s Mind Mage is the fast way. He’s over there. I suggest you forget about all of this paperwork and just go to him.” Then she and her pen pointed to the right. “They’re the start of the slower way.”

She had indicated a circle of stone and glass and crystal, sitting out of the [Domain of Light], under the rain, where four people stood to the four corners of the magic circle and held their hands high, as a shadeling stood in the center. Magic flashed. The four casters and the shadeling began to glow. The casters glowed white, with a bit of grey and a bit of red. The shadeling glowed grey with a lot of black, and a little bit of red.

According to what Erick had seen before, that meant that everyone in that circle was guilty of killing someone, but it wasn’t outright murder.

Deckari frowned. He glanced at Poi, then turned toward the circle of casters.

The shadeling in the center of the circle was directed to the right, to another desk. They had passed their test. They got to continue onto the next set of paperwork.

Another shadeling walked into the magic circle. The casters raised their arms. The shadeling glowed bright red this time, almost instantly. That brightness barely had a chance to get out, and the shadeling barely had a chance to plead for mercy, before the air flexed and the shadeling imploded into a head-sized ball of gore.

Someone cast a [Cleanse] on the gore, vanishing it into thick air.

Deckari turned back to the woman behind the desk, pleading, “I know I killed those guards and I’m sorry but they deserved it. They were Cultists, too. Can I please have leniency for these facts?”

The truthstone stayed green.

Without remorse, the woman said, “If you leave the line now and fail to go to the indicated options, you will be hunted and killed where you stand.” She said, “We want this commune emptied today. You have two avenues open to you. Pick one.” She briefly gestured toward Poi again, saying, “The monsters the Mind Mage finds aren’t getting instantly killed, but all us normal people can do is summary judge your sins with a Seeker. So I suggest you go to the Mind Mage, and try your luck there, monster.”

The truthstone stayed green.

Deckari had hoped for a different outcome than what the woman had given him. He had hoped that his circumstances would have given him that third option, that the woman had taken away. He only had two choices before him. One was certain death. The other was less certain.

To be sure, he said, “If I hadn’t have told you about the Cultist thing and the killing thing you would have judged me as a person, and not as what you see before you.”

The woman said, “Correct. And then we would have found out later and executed you upon the reveal of your lie.”

Deckari reluctantly got in line for Poi.

It would be a while before he got to the front of that line, so Erick mentally marked Deckari and moved his sight elsewhere.

- - - -

A woman tried to kill a desk clerk. She was executed where she stood, with spells and attacks coming from seven different directions, all at once. Erick’s contribution to the fight was the deflection of the woman’s heart-piercing magic, saving the desk clerk’s life.

A hundred shadelings passed their investigations. Erick helped them on their way to Candlepoint.

A trio of men tried to murder the Sin Seekers at the magic circle. Erick intervened, faster than anyone else, saving the lives of the Sin Seekers. The trio failed in their attempt. They died.

- - - -

Erick watched as Deckari watched as Ophiel took a woman away in a flash of light.

Deckari stepped up to Poi, looking grim, and resigned.

Poi asked his questions.

Deckari reluctantly gave his consent.

The scan happened, and then finished.

Poi said, “Deckari Sideril-Nosier. Cultist. Mostly solo. Tried to get others involved in the Cult. He has murdered in a calculating and purposeful manner, but the guards he murdered were purposefully inciting the war of the day. According to other people I have scanned, and Deckari himself, those guards were also Cultists, so if we were to overlook the fact that Deckari is a Cultist himself, and that the targets were technically part of Treehome’s forces, he would have been given honors in any other situation.” He narrowed his eyes at Deckari, and said, “The vigilantism is frowned upon but your circumstances were valid. When you get to Candlepoint, join the guard or the adventuring guild there. It is not a true Guild, but they’re trying to get that approval. For now, and if you wish, you could be helping to feed yourself and others the rads you need to survive.”

To Poi’s side, a clerk and their floating pen wrote down everything then filed that paperwork away in the appropriate wooden box.

