Ophiel descended upon the man with bloody countermagics while soldiers to the sides descended with restrictive spells of capture and containment. The entire event was over in a moment, though the man was still alive, and still struggling. The bloody spells kept locking down the shadeling’s magics, as soldiers took him away, out of the line and out of sight.

Jane watched the whole thing happen, knowing that it was not her place to get involved, and so she didn’t.

Kiri, though, went pale at what she had seen. She hadn’t been ready for that.

Poi spoke to a scribe to the side, saying, “Name of Saldrock Waterammer. Cultist. His main offense was that he plotted the murders of an entire noble family over the course of the last three years in Portal, and that he is not done with that vendetta. He plans to keep killing everyone that was involved in a certain event in his life. You will have to give him to Portal, or the Pearl King, or coordinate with them for further action. They would know him as the Belt Killer, and the people he killed as House Harathin. He saw those murders as justice. And they might have been.” He said, “Either way, Portal would want that man. He is not our problem and we cannot harbor people like him.”

The scribe wrote everything down in the appropriate boxes, their eyes going a little wide at Poi’s proclamation. Jane’s eyes had gone a little wide, too, as had Kiri and Teressa’s and several other people both in line, and all around.

“Holy gods… First time for that. Waiting all day long for that to happen—” Erick sighed, saying, “Bound to happen eventually.” He asked, “Why did he think he could come through this line and not get caught?”

“I will not say.” Poi said, “If they don’t kill him right away, then all of that will likely come out at his trial, but it will not come out here, or from me. He did not consent to that when he consented to this Scan.”

The scribe asked, “Cultist connections?”

“Many, and varied. He knew Omaz and several others.”

The scribe said, “Then they probably won’t kill him right away.”

Erick said, “I want to see him delivered to Portal, eventually. He must face justice, and if he thought that he was doing justice, then I must ensure his trial isn’t a farce.”

Poi said, “I will inform Silverite, if you wish.”

Erick said, “Thank you, Poi.”

The scribe said, “I will mark down your wishes, Archmage.”

Jane silently watched as the next person came up to Poi, and Poi gave a tiny speech, asking for consent.

The woman in line said, “I give my consent.”

- - - -

Hours passed.

People died for deaths that they had caused and for which they desired to continue to commit. That desire to continue killing was the only thing that Poi called out, but the Sin Seekers of Treehome judged against all murder, and all Cult connection, no matter the situation or the circumstance. But at the end of the day, only thirty nine people were executed for their crimes.

All the rest went to Candlepoint.

Some of those people just sat under trees and listened to the wind and the sounds of freedom all around, contained in the voices of the people, flowing on the desert wind. They relaxed, unwound, consoled each other, and then moved on. Some did not move on until they got hungry, or had some other necessity. Others went right to talking with the residents of Candlepoint, asking questions and finding answers. Some Cultists met other Cultists, and Erick informed Slip of those meetings, but Slip already knew all of them. He had kept his eyes open and his guard on point, tracking movements and keeping tabs almost better than Ophiel.

The Cult was already there, in Candlepoint, but at this, there would be a small surge in practice. Erick had no doubt that some people would chance open worship. He hoped that Melemizargo’s Clergy would not revive under his watch.

There were no Shades in Candlepoint, according to a [Cascade Imaging] of the area.

Hopefully it would stay that way for a while longer.

- - - -

The muddy roads of the commune were empty of all shadelings. Light no longer hung in the air. Golems of ice and stone were returned to the land and Tenebrae had sent his rock man forward to speak to the guards on that side of the commune, before the rock man left, too, having never made his way over to Erick to speak any further.

Which was understandable. Erick didn’t feel like talking to the rock guy, or Tenebrae, either.

Koropo ordered the soldiers and guards on duty to begin taking down the commune. They readily obeyed, moving in groups of five throughout the dark place. They systematically took down houses and otherwise, first removing the anti-[Stoneshape] runes embedded in the stone, before turning stone to sand, and vibrating out all the stuff that had been inside the houses. Furniture, rags, clothes, brushes, soaps… All the accoutrements of life floated to the top of the sand, while the sand itself was shoved back into the ground. Most of the stuff was burned in great big piles.

Erick watched as another pile went up in flames, to the north. Then he turned his attention back to the stairs before him, which led up to a flat meeting area that had been made for this moment. With his daughter, his apprentice, and his guards following him, Erick stepped up onto that platform, where the people there had been watching him approach for the last ten seconds. Three chieftains had decided to come to the commune, to see the end of the commune, and to speak to him, personally.

Chieftain Peron Wyrmrest, in his diamond-studded green robes, took a place of importance in the center of a half-circle of seats. He was flanked to the left by Chieftain Yura O’kabil, an ancient woman with white hair and lines on her face unlike every other old orcol Erick had ever seen before. She wore silver robes. To his right was Chieftain Bloodwoo Nosier, who had to be the thinnest orcol Erick had ever seen. He looked almost emaciated in his plain tan clothes, but he was also rather tall, at almost four meters tall, so maybe he was a perfectly normal weight for an orcol of his size.

Warchief Koropo sat to Bloodwoo’s right.

And, unexpectedly, Archmage Tenebrae sat to Yura’s left. The human man looked exactly the same as the last time Erick had seen him, all the way back at Oceanside all those months ago; tan skin, white hair and beard, and with a hateful scowl on his face that let you know he did not want to be here.

Erick said to the man, “I thought you had left.”

“Aye. And then they called me back for this.” Tenebrae frowned. “What the fuck are you doing stepping into shit that isn’t your concern? You’re getting tricked by Melemizargo, for sure. You know that, right? He tries to get to all of us, all the time, but you seem to like being in his claws.”

“It’s a matter of principle to help where I can, and to solve problems when I can. It’s not my fault you seem to ascribe this perfectly normal desire to help in perfectly normal ways into being somehow working for the Darkness.” Erick looked to the Chieftains, as he said, “This single problem is now removed from your city. I am sorry for how I went about helping the shadelings and stepping over your authority, but everything happened rather fast. So. Apologies for that.”

Bloodwoo spoke, “You will assist us in a large scale culling of specific monsters from the Forest, and we will call it even. You will not be paid for this. It will be expected of you. Further disruptions to the law and further trampling of Treehome’s authority will be met with extreme anger and a deterioration of goodwill. Do you agree?”

No one else said anything else. They all waited for Erick’s decision.

Erick, meanwhile, took a moment to catch up. They weren’t yelling at him? It was right to business? This had to be a trap of some sort.

Erick asked, “Which monsters?”

“Moon Reachers, Deathsoul Shrooms. Just those two, for now.” Bloodwoo said, “We also ask that you be open to completely obliterating the entire Forest and helping to regrow it all afterward. We would, of course, leave certain patches of it alone, so that the proper biologics can take hold of the land once it is regrown. But our prognosticators have not fully vetted this idea. Once they do, we will proceed to the next phase of the plan. If we do end up obliterating the whole Forest with your assistance, you will not be allowed to harvest those rads yourself, but you will instead be granted 10% of the rads we will harvest.” He added, “It is just an idea at the moment, but these are the numbers we are looking at.”

Erick breathed out. He said, “Okay. I agree to the first part, and agree to keep an open mind about the second part.”

Bloodwoo Nosier leaned back, satisfied.

Yura O’kabil asked, “Will you give up the location of the traitor Omaz?”

“No.” Erick said, “He’s soul-shackled. I will not get between you and him, but I have a responsibility to let that play out. I highly doubt that he will be harming anyone except himself anytime soon.”

Yura sighed, then sat back in her chair.

“I am not satisfied with this solution.” Peron eyed Erick. “Neither is Wyrmrest. Omaz has pertinent knowledge regarding the Cult of Treehome, going back decades. We have no doubt that he lived and worked and undermined us since the day he first Matriculated. He stole from our archmages to use that stolen knowledge and power against the whole of our people. Just today, the actions of the Cult and Omaz have killed over a thousand people, with more numbers pouring in each minute!”

Erick steeled away his own emotions, as he said, “And Omaz feels every one of those deaths, more deeply than any pain you could possibly put him through.” Slightly incensed, but trying to keep a cool head, Erick added, “Besides! We all knew what was going to happen when we all decided to pursue this action against the Cult today, Chieftain Peron. The only thing I will be accepting fault for is for taking the shadelings from this place, and for not asking for your permission to do so.”

Peron narrowed his eyes, and said nothing.

Yura said, “It is a cruel punishment you deal in, Archmage Flatt. It is one thing to mutilate the soul of a Shade in order to enact justice, but it is another to do the same to a person. We do not like this outcome, and so, for our own part, we will also seek Omaz. We are not done with him. Not by a long ways.”

Peron added, “We will still seek him out; Yes. We will still deliver our own justice unto his head, after we extract everything useful out of that rotten skull of his.”

Bloodwoo said, “Nosier wants nothing to do with this hunt. We have other, more important targets in mind for the near future. He and I both wish to add that we do not like that Omaz was soul-shackled. We would have preferred the cleaner solution of the executioner’s pyre. As he is, he is an unknown, much like Shade Treant. Much like the shadelings let go today. Much like Candlepoint.” He looked to Erick with deep-set eyes, saying, “Much like you, Archmage Flatt. If anyone else would have done what you have done here today, we would already be trying to string you up above the pyre, as well.”

Erick did not respond to that.

They seemed to want him to, but what wrong had he done that he had not already apologized for? The only truly wrong thing he had done was to enforce his will upon the situation, trampling over the authority of the people who lived here, but because of that, a lot of people who would have died, had lived. Though there were collateral deaths of the innocent kind, and those were unfortunate, but ripping out a tumor does have consequences. There was not a single person on this stage that was not guilty of ‘poking the dragon’, as it were.

… He really should bring that up again, shouldn’t he? But then again, they didn’t seem that angry with him, and if he poked this dragon sitting before him, they would try to poke back. Were they purposefully egging him on to say something that he didn’t need to say? It was quite possible. Highly likely, even.

After a long moment of Erick standing there, and the Chieftains and Warchief sitting in judgment, there was yet another long moment of waiting for something else to happen.

Ophiel whistled a gentle nonsense tune from his spot on Erick’s shoulder.

Yura broke the tense air, saying, “The day’s war is over, but there is much to be done going forward. Archmage Flatt. I will call upon you tonight, in your room. I wish to have a personal discussion with you regarding certain subjects that have no bearing on this here.”

Erick blinked in surprise. “You’re not kicking me out?”

“No.” Yura said—

As Peron said, “Unfortunately not.”

Yura continued, “We are not kicking you out of Treehome. Or anywhere else, for that matter.”

“You are the sovereign of a nation of your own making, Archmage Flatt.” Bloodwoo said, “Therefore we are considering today as a diplomatic problem with a diplomatic solution. To us, you are the new ruler of all shadelings and you merely took your people back.”

“Oh… No...” The weight of Bloodwoo’s words came crashing down on Erick. He said, “That is untrue. I will not accept that designation.”

“Then we will say you are their jailer, for the truth is what we make of it, for we are a much larger nation than yours and all you have power over is a few thousand monsters. We have this prerogative, and this power, and so we will use it.” Bloodwoo said, “Please do not countermand us when we say that you took your people back today, while giving us the ones who sought to harm our nation. It will enable you to enjoy a higher level of political power going forward if we are to speak nicely of you.”

