“Well that’s the oddest way anyone has ever asked to fuck me before,” Erick said, “But sure. Why not.”

“Be warned.” Peron said, “If you die or lose control of that city to the Cult then we will turn that land and all the monsters therein to ash and glass.”

Erick put on the best political facade that he could at that tense moment. He said, “Then I will be sure to neither die, nor to let a destructive Cult take over Candlepoint.”

Peron huffed.

Bloodwoo said, “Then, for now, we will be sure to paint you in a better light than we could have in both our official responses to our constituents regarding the day’s events, and in future dealings between our peoples and yourself. Do not make us regret this decision.”

For a little while now, Tenebrae had been smiling, ever so slightly.

And Erick couldn’t take it any longer. He asked, “Why are you smiling?”

“Because!” Archmage Tenebrae answered, “This is how my relationship with Treehome started, too. Though my fuckup wasn’t nearly as large as yours, there are a lot of similarities.”

Erick blinked a few times. He almost pursued that conversation, but then he did not.

Yura answered Erick’s unasked question, saying, “We like to keep the archmages who swing through Treehome as happy as possible, and with as large of a working relationship as possible. If our relationships sour, we attempt to fix them. If our relationships turn to poison, then we will kick you out, and then ban you from all interactions with Treehome. We prefer to never take the steps beyond that one, but we are a nation of millions, and archmages are never as defended as they think. We are a long way from those final steps, Archmage Flatt. I don’t want to see that day ever come, because you are ever so useful to us, and to the rest of the world.”

Peron frowned at no one in particular, but also directly at Erick.

Bloodwoo said, “Even if your murder of all the Shades is but another act of Melemizargo, we do not believe that you are his man—”

Peron interrupted him, saying, “They might not believe what I see before me; that you are, in Truth, the High Priest of Melemizargo. But they will see, in time. We will all see, soon enough.”

Bloodwoo continued, again, “Unlike the minority of my colleagues, we believe you are just a convenient tool for Melemizargo at the moment. But we also believe that you are a convenient tool of Koyabez and Phagar. A pull of deific proportions weighs upon your life, Archmage Flatt, as has happened for many archmages before you.”

Tenebrae smirked.

“Today, the casualties of your blood-soaked Worldly Path have been those who would call themselves the enemies of all.” With pointed words, Chieftain Bloodwoo-Nosier said, “Do what you can to ensure that this Fate of your Truth remains true tomorrow, and on the days which are yet to come.”

A chill wind blew.

Ah. So they knew of his Worldly Path? For how long?

Had Erick been wrong to try for a Worldly Path vacation?

With a dozen unasked questions weighing on his mind, and too many eyes staring at him, waiting, Erick spoke the only words that anyone on that platform wanted to hear, “I will.”
