Ignoring his partner’s dour nature, George excitedly said, “Look at my screen, Quince!”

Quince looked over the screen. “… So what? He’s a high level adventurer and the Drain hasn’t gotten to him yet. Probably has good aura control and he obviously has a mana sense since he seems to be carving— crushing through the… eels...” Quince narrowed his eyes at the screen. “What’s that he got? A [Murky]? That thing is useless.” Quince narrowed his eyes at George. “What’s a [Murky] doing there?”

George rattled off, “It’s that thing I put in there for the eels to use to make more of them a year ago. Good growth environment.”

“I know that. But what’s it doing in the delve zone? None of those monsters are real. They don’t actually give birth. That’s the part I don’t understand.”

“That’s what I’ve been telling you, Quince! This guy is weird. The dungeon is spawning stuff for him that it shouldn’t normally spawn!”

Quince wasn’t convinced. “… We’ll look into it if it spawns something truly odd, but [Murky] is useless so I don’t care. We’ve got ten thousand delves to watch over and you’re spending too much time on that one.”

“Most people don’t get past floor 2, but this one is different.” George smiled as he said, “He’s going to make it all the way here.”

Quince scowled. “Do something useful and go get me a coffee. Sugar and cream.”

George got up from his chair. “If you add that much sugar and cream, is it even coffee anymore?”

“Yes it is, now go get me one.”

“Watch that guy, Quince!” George said, walking out of the room. “He’s gonna hit floor five in under a week!”

“Yeah yeah yeah…” Quince studied the screen, mumbling, “Maybe if he stops trying to play with [Murky] and goes kills some more fakes… Great aura control, though… Yeah.” Quince had to admit, “He’s gonna make it all the way here.”

- - - -

Playing around with his bracelet and with Healing Magic would have been a bad idea for too many reasons to list, so Erick had not done that.

But [Murky] wasn’t Healing Magic.

On the third, dry floor of the abandoned house, he tested out [Murky]. Mostly, he failed to do anything with it at all. He tried pushing the gem into his bracelet. He tried pushing the gem into his mace. Neither metiron would accept the metamond, and he didn’t get any dungeon messages asking if he wanted to join the items either.

So he asked the air, “Make [Murky] join to Rod of the Guardian.”

You cannot do that here.

… Well okay then.

The next thing to do was to try to activate [Murky] on its own, without a metiron interface.

Erick almost wanted to channel mana from his core into the thing, but normal people didn’t have cores, and therefore Erick would pretend to not have a core. People were probably watching him right now, so he wanted to play at being normal for a while longer.

He did manage to touch the metamond with his aura, though.

Suddenly, his body turned cold as dungeon mana flowed across his aura, into the gem.

… And then splashed away like so much broken mana. So that didn’t work, and now he was chilly again. At least it wasn’t a real sort of chill; it was more like an emotional feeling, than a sensation. A melancholy, like ‘Ashes’ in the [Witness] had described.

So Erick tried something else.

If a metiron was necessary to interface with a metamond...

Erick gripped his mace, and like he was perpetually ‘holding onto’ his bracelet, he interfaced with the rod, funneling a bit of his aura into the weapon. His aura wisped away once it broke contact with his skin, but since his mace was right there in his grip, his aura latched on. This was completely different from his attempt to directly interface with the [Murky].

Because his mace spilled forth iridescent white mana.

The color of that released mana was concerning, since it revealed his Benevolence coloring, but… Whatever.

Erick cut his aura, and the mace’s glow died down. He spoke out, “Status. Rod of the guardian.”

Rod of the Guardian (depleted), 294/300

So he had successfully tapped into the mana pool of the rod and released some mana, just like he figured. Why was the mana Benevolence-colored? Eh. That didn’t matter right now. What mattered was that Erick had access to some mana.

Erick held the [Murky] gem between his thumb and forefinger as he gripped the rod with the rest of his hand, holding the gem to the side of the rod. And then he used his aura again, but this time in a more controlled manner. White light burst forth from the rod, and Erick funneled that dungeon mana into the gem—

[Murky] promptly spurted black sludge everywhere and launched out of his grip.

Erick spent a moment just standing there on the third floor of the house, covered in what appeared to be dead plant matter and some mix of Elemental Shadow, Water, and Stone, that all began to fade away, leaving just muck behind. Maybe even some Elemental Ooze, if he wasn’t mistaken. The metamond [Murky], unlike the sludge it produced, rolled across the floor, fell off the edge of the broken half of the house, and plonked down into the waters below.

Erick dove back into the nasty water and retrieved the gem, while also washing off most of the gunk. Not all of it, though, this shit was sticky—

Which gave him an idea.

Maybe he could turn [Murky] into a touch-based spell that caused constriction on a target? Like with his [Tangled Bloody Ooze Bolt] spell? Could he even do that with an already-created metamond? Or would he have to make that spell himself, using one of the spell creation tomes that the Dungeon Guide Blacksmith had spoken of?

Either way, maybe he could slot that spell into the Rod of the Guardian, and make a real crowd control magical weapon. He could strike a target and wrap it in ooze! All of that seemed beyond him, for now, but it was a fun little goal. And hey! Maybe he’d run across a better magic to put into the rod of the guardian? Always possible.

He was headed toward a school, and he’d learn how to do that there, for sure. But for now—

Erick held up the barely-glowing [Murky] and asked the air, “Can I use my storage to store this?”

Storage unlocks at the completion of level 5.

Not right now, then.

Time to move on.

Erick put the gem into his pocket, hefted his mace, and made his way over to a crumbled wall. Soon, he was back on the rooftop, and facing the path ahead.

As he leapt across from rooftop to rooftop, occasionally killing roof-dolph gators, Erick wondered how much of this whole experience was being witnessed by the people in charge of the dungeon, and how many other people there were on floor one. Most people never made it past floor 2, according to everyone upstairs, so where was everyone else? Were there thousands of flooded Ibens layered upon each other, like in Ar’Cosmos, in Fairie? And observers watched each one?

Probably not too many observers, though. Quilatalap didn’t oversee all the people running through his dungeons all the time; he had, like, two or three people watching, and then again only if the dungeon core alerted them to a problem.

The dungeon core probably did most of the work around this place, too.

Erick probably wasn’t being watched all the time, but some of the time? Yes, some of the time, for sure. Maybe all of the time, actually, if Atunir told people to watch for him, but Blacksmith didn’t act like he was talking to the Apparent King, so if Atunir had told people about him, then she hadn’t spilled that secret to Blacksmith. Atunir wanted him to have the real experience of her Second Script, after all.

And he was having a pretty good time so far.

Erick murdered thirty seven more roof gators and cleared out one uneventful attic of spiders, netting him another +10 MP per day, all before he managed to make it anywhere near the university. A suspiciously-nice belt had been his reward for clearing out the spider horde hoard. The thing fit his rod of the guardian well, so he didn’t need to carry the rod in his hands at all times anymore. The rod held at his left side like one would sheath a sword, but it was clipped into his belt on a tension spring that could be unlatched for easy use.

So he was definitely being observed by someone. These drops were tailored for him.

… Hmm. His long sleeve shirt and pants had become a t-shirt and shorts somewhere in all that fighting, so maybe the dungeon would replace those, soon enough? That’d be neat.

All in all, Erick’s Status was looking rather healthy… Maybe? He wasn’t quite sure how to judge these things. He was certainly feeling great, even with all of his Veirdly Stats slowly fading, so there was no stopping this rod-wielding Wizard dragon ‘guardian’. Not yet, anyway.

Not until the monsters got a lot bigger.

This was kinda fun.

Erick smiled as he imagined Jane doing stuff like this all the time—

Ohh! Maybe Jane had delved the Gem Dungeon before! Maybe maybe! He wouldn’t put it past her. Jane had visited all of these Grand Dungeons, and a lot more besides. Erick chuckled to himself as he imagined having that fun conversation with her in a few days.

He was almost at the university’s gates.

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

MP per day: 265

Meta-Irons: 400, 0 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 1/10, 0 in storage

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 99/100

Rod of the Guardian (depleted), 274/300

Unused Meta-Diamonds: [Murky]

- -
