Darkness slipped away from Erick like the popping of a foggy bubble.

Two sensations happened fast.

The first was the cold; the chill of something solid escaping him, instantly followed by an inner bloating from his core, that threatened core fracture. Erick rarely felt uncomfortable these days, but his core began to leak mana as though it was overfull, and that mana flickered through his body like sparking lightning. That leak didn’t do anything at the moment, except to drain away Erick’s Script-granted mana pool. But it didn’t have to do more than that. Taking away his mana was more than enough of an existential threat to raise his hackles.

Theoretically, Erick could empty himself of all his mana and become, temporarily, a creature with an empty core in his chest. That would cause a whole lot of problems, though, from preventing him from casting anything at all, to making his body weak. Dragons were not mundane creatures, after all; everything about them was magical, and Erick was no exception. Remove that magic, and he was just a person. If enough magic was removed, then Erick would even lose his Constitution and other Script-given Stats, and be locked into this current body.

Erick was almost 100% sure that this dungeon wouldn’t actually disconnect him from the Script, though, so his Wizardly mana production wouldn’t start flooding the place. That had almost happened when he went past the Edge of the Script all those years ago, when he fought Holo...

Erick shivered.

And then Erick instinctively shored up his internal defenses, and the drain stopped; his core-held mana remained inside of him, underneath his [Illusionary Soul]… Hmm. Which he would need to manually cast and keep cast, unless he wanted to be found out as a person with a core. But he could, and would, do that, so that wasn’t too big of a deal… Probably.

The second sensation Erick felt after stepping through the darkness was emptiness of an emotional sort, for Erick found himself at the top of a flat-roof tower, watching over a night-cloaked city that sprawled out at the base of the tower. The sky held few stars, and the city below held even fewer, for the city was dead, and filled with monsters.

This land had been a metropolitan area long ago, but now the spires and close-quarters businesses and apartments were broken here and there, as though they had been shelled for months, or years. Maybe just weeks, though, for war had a way of reducing things to rubble pretty damned fast.

Scorch marks and wild-churned stone walls, as though from mutative [Stoneshape]s, were all hallmarks of that unknown war, not too long ago. The streets and the first floors of every building were fully covered by dark water, too, so much of the destruction was hidden below that darkness. Maybe a river had been diverted into the city, or maybe some Water Mages had called down liquid horrors and flooded the place. Maybe both had happened, for slippery things swam in those waters, almost unseen, save for Erick’s enhanced perceptions.

He had to blink a little bit to focus on the further things out there in the water, for Perception was a Script-granted gift, and it was starting to fail here in this place. Erick estimated that the mana density was about 80% normal, and that his eyesight would become baseline-human further down in the depths. Fortunately, he had made this body rather perfect already, so while he would lose his supernatural senses, his natural ones would remain.

And he already knew that the dungeon had sense-enhancing and body-enhancing capabilities, so he would just need to find those, wherever they might be—

Oh.

That’s not a moon.

Erick looked up at the black sky and saw countless stars, but he also saw something unexpected.

Far, far in the distance, there was a moon that was not a moon; it was green and blue and had a great big chunk missing from the southern half. That exposed core of the world was not a core, either. It was more of a world, located below the surface of the rest of the planet.

Erick suspected it wasn’t a planet at all. But a plane of existence.

Goosebumps raised from his skin as he began to suspect something about this place. This dungeon was already special because it had a Second Script, but it probably also had some intrinsic connection to Atunir’s history, and maybe to other people of the Old Cosmology—

A message appeared, confirming some of Erick’s thoughts.

Welcome to Floor 1, the destroyed city.

This is a city in the drained world of Insten, of the Old Cosmology.

This is a true story, turned into a learning experience.

Insten was always at war with itself and in particular, with Riam, located across the Mana Ocean up there in the sky. Mana might be impossible to destroy but it could certainly be contained; drawn away from one location, and sequestered in another.

In this way, Riam ruled over Insten.

In this time and space, Atunir and her people eventually came to Insten and delivered unto them a grand bounty. They helped Insten overthrow their oppressors and eventually bring Insten itself back from the edge of destruction you see before you. That would not happen for centuries more.

This, here, was at the start of the ever-war; the Emptying.

You are alone in this world.

Everything else will try to kill you, so kill it first.

Seek remnants of power located on this ancient battlefield and make for yourself a weapon with which to fight against The Emptying.

Make some magic, and make your way to the next floor.

“… Ahhh,” Erick said to himself, realizing the depth of Atunir’s commitment to this dungeon. “This is a historical reenactment, based on facts of Atunir’s life back in the Old Cosmology.”

The similarities between ‘the Emptying’ and the mana voids of the New Cosmology… There was something there. Perhaps just coincidence, though. Coincidence enough to build a teaching experience upon? Sure.

It shouldn’t have surprised Erick that there were similarities between the emptiness of the New Cosmology and the vagaries of the mana ocean back in the Old Cosmology. Nor should it have surprised him that there were direct examples that Atunir could draw upon in order to guide her people into making this dungeon.

What did surprise him, though, was that anyone would want to make a dungeon with anything at all approaching the facts of the Sundering, where the mana ocean emptied out into the New Cosmology and almost killed everyone. But then again, this wasn’t the Sundering, this was the Emptying; this place was steeped in the history of the Old Cosmology…

And people (and gods) liked to keep their history, and teach it to others. So this made sense?

The Core of Veird was filled with places that the gods remembered from the Old Cosmology, after all, so this sort of reconstruction was not unheard of. Of the Core, Erick only really visited that peninsula-island kingdom and Wizards’ Tower, and that small village beforehand, but there were hundreds of thousands of places down there in the center of Veird, where the Core hung in the ‘sky’ like a blue world all its own. Millions of places were filled with memories down there.

Of course Atunir would want to see one of her triumphs recorded for all to see, even if it was only in a reenactment in a place just on the other side of Darkness. Erick had no idea how important Insten was to Atunir, but it had to be somewhat important. This story could be apocryphal, but Erick doubted that most severely…

Probably.

The first floor message began to vanish from Erick’s sight, leaving him with an unobstructed view of the dark world ahead.

There were several paths to choose from.

The tower Erick stood upon had been a watchtower (?) in the center of the city, but it had lost all of its top floor in some magical strike that melted the upper floors and the walls all around into a low, wax-like stone obstruction. But the staircase leading down into the guardhouse (?) below still remained. The mana here was kinda thin, so Erick could only mana sense a hundred meters down, but that path, though dark, was rather unobstructed. There were odd holes in the manasphere here and there inside the building, which Erick suspected might be monsters lying in ambush… Could be something else.

Going into the guardhouse was only one option.

The other option was to leap off the tower, onto a slanted roof down below, and then onto the roof of another building across the road. Aside from the ten meter fall to the roof below, the other jumps were a lot more manageable for a ‘baseline’ human; between 2 and 4 meters between roofs.

A few lights held here and there in the gloom of the destroyed city, and Erick might check out those things, whatever they were. Maybe they were ‘angler-fish’ monsters luring people to their deaths, as those types often did; one should never trust a light in a dark place, for it was often a trap.

But traps often contained treasure, so… He’d get to those lights soon enough—

Splashes echoed across the cavernous, empty canals down below. Something long and slithering moved in those depths of stagnant water, dragging a struggling meal down into the dark. That splashing sound passed across the city, and various things in the dark responded. Chitters called out from a decrepit structure that might have been a church, down the road. One of the lights on a roof over there fell off that roof, off the opposite side of the building and did not make a sound; it did not splash down into the water which was surely there.

A few more rooftop-lights vanished here and there, going back into hiding.

Definitely monsters.

Whatever had fallen off that roof had been the size of a boulder, and now that Erick was looking, the roofs of several buildings were missing more than the lights that had been there until that noise had been made.

Erick considered the need for a weapon of some sort, to conserve his mana for emergencies.

Well. This was a watchtower, which meant that the place underneath his feet should be some sort of weapon’s house. There might be some weapons down there, in that dearth of mana sensing.

Putting one foot in front of the other, Erick descended into the partially-melted watchtower.

It was dark down here, but the light of Erick’s cerulean metamond was enough to see the insides of the tower. There had been a massacre here, long ago, and something had made this place a rats nest shortly thereafter, with bones scattered here and there and a pile of partially burned wood and blankets and trash forming something of a bed in one forgotten corner. Whatever had moved in and claimed this place as a home was dead and gone, though; the bones were white and dusty. The air smelled more of mold and water, than of anything living.

Erick spied a rusted mace in the nest.

… It would serve, so Erick went digging and pried the weapon out of the former monster’s bed. The length of steel was still good, and the rust appeared surface-only. Erick instinctively tried to shift his senses and activate his Class Ability of Metal Sense, to truly figure out if the metal was good or not, but the Script was blocked here. All he got for his effort was a wispy bit of white glows tumbling below his skin; ineffectual, yet disturbed enough along its path into the metal to produce broken magic.

He could force the issue through his Domain magic, but… Nah.

Whatever. Erick slapped the mace into his hand a few times, feeling the weight of it, then he gripped it in two hands and swung it like he was hitting a home run. That wasn’t the proper way to wield a mace, but the weapon had good heft and balance. It would serve.

Erick continued down the stairs, further into the dark, his tiny bracelet forming enough light to see—

A head-sized spider right before it detached from the ceiling, to try and face-hugger him.

Whip-crack went the mace. A splatter of green-grey spider guts rained over Erick and the staircase, while the remains of the spider struck a wall and rolled down into the dark below. The spider was very dead.

Its friends were not dead.

“Ah,” Erick said, as the various invisible parts of the mana all around began to make sense. “Spiders in the building; gotta burn it all down.”

Or rather, smash it all down; Erick had no Fire Magics right now.

The spiders screamed as they ran at Erick from odd angles; on the walls, on the ceiling. Five at first, and then twenty. Erick did not relent. Down came the mace, over and over and over. Out went his fist a few times, when the mace wouldn’t have reached the jumping spider fast enough. A quick punch to the face, right at the fangs, earned Erick no injuries at all, and killed a spider each time. He probably could have let the things crawl over him and they wouldn’t have been able to injure him.

But there was no fucking way that he was letting spiders crawl over him.

Spider #37 was the last of them.

Erick did his best not to slip on the slick staircase as he descended into the tower—

He slipped.

He did not fall, though! He instantly righted himself, his heart suddenly pumping hard at the unexpected action. When he was solid, he paused. And then he laughed. He laughed and laughed at the sheer absurdity of it all. When was the last time he had slipped? Not since before he started running his Benevolence full time, and that was years and years ago; two decades, if he counted by subjective time spent in [Hasted Shelter]s.

When Erick stopped laughing, he resumed his walk down the stairs.

He eventually made it to the point in the staircase where water lay below, and an open archway to an office space held to the side. He chose to go to the side room, on the third floor, just to see if he could find anything informative about this place, on this third floor, the first floor above the waterline.

The first thing he found was a tangle of desks and hat racks and a pile of debris, all webbed together with a wide hole in the center, forming a nest. Two large eyes, set into a collection of smaller eyes, turned a little bit blue as the spider eyed Erick, and more specifically his bracelet. The monstrous spider chittered, flexing its fangs; drips of venomous green power collecting on the tips of those weapons.

The spider crawled out of its nest like an accordion expanding, rapidly transforming from human-sized, to orcol-sized. It came at Erick with all of its legs and all of its fangs, trying to attack, grapple, and wrap him in webs, all in one fluid action.

Erick smashed the spider in the face, his mace passing halfway through the creature’s head, sending the monster flying. The spider crashed against its own nest, and the nest held firm. The spider’s construction fared fine in the confrontation. The spider did not. Green-grey ichor pumped out of the beast, onto the ground, and soon, the bleeding ended. It was dead.

Erick looked at his mace. It was bent.

