“I can take some damned eels. This is too much babying.”

To illustrate his point, Erick glanced around to see which eel was closest to the surface, and then he smashed his mace down on that one. His mace cracked through the water but struck the blue magic surrounding the frozen eel, and bounced.

Are you sure?

The words had appeared above the [Pause]d eel.

“Yes,” Erick said.

Safety protocols temporarily removed.

All five eels unfroze. All of them attacked his legs and lower body at once.

Erick knew that a rod of the guardian wasn’t a very good weapon against enemies in the water, but with enough Strength and with enough Constitution, he figured he could get out of the scrape just fine. His clothes might be damaged, but that was fine, too. His clothes were going to get absolutely ruined by the end of this adventure, anyway.

And Erick was right. Mostly.

As the eels attacked, he smashed down with his mace, fountaining water everywhere, managing to strike the eel closest to the surface well enough. That eel was down for the count. The others all managed to nip a piece of him, even as he twirled a fraction to deny their attacks on his center. The rest of the melee went about as expected.

Erick won. Eels died.

Erick had to exit the water, though, because he was bleeding everywhere.

Two nips out of his left thigh. A bigger bite out of his right calf. Most of the eels went for his center mass with each strike, and he was able to protect that well enough, but eventually, as the eels had begun to realize that Erick wasn’t an easy mark, they had changed their fighting style to more of a wearing-down; that was when they managed to take flesh.

And now, Erick sat on the stairs, in the dark, looking at his wounds.

His innate absolute damage reduction was already gone, wasn’t it? Mostly, anyway. The [Self Rejuvenation] of his bracelet seemed to be doing something good, though. The bracelet glowed cerulean, and his bleeding had already stopped, his body scabbed over where flesh had been taken. Erick hadn’t activated the active form of his bracelet yet, but… He went ahead and did that now.

… Nothing happened.

“Right,” Erick said, “I need to say— [Rejuvenation].”

It was so weird to have to say the words.

Warmth spread throughout his body. His scabs began to itch as flesh knitted at a ‘rapidly’ increased pace. It was ‘natural’ healing, for sure, so it would leave scars, and this sort of healing was a lot damned slower than anything he was used to, but this body was made to be healthy, and even with his usual spellwork inactive, the dungeon’s form of [Rejuvenation] seemed to be working more than Erick expected it to work. In ten minutes, his wounds were reduced to barely-visible scars. Perhaps the scars would vanish too, in the future.

No messages from the dungeon had graced his sight while he waited, because, Erick suspected, he hadn’t actually gotten to the treasure yet, and that’s when the previous message had appeared. There was something down there, for sure, now that the monsters were clear and Erick had taken some time to truly sense what lay below. Whatever was down there felt like a dull beacon in the dark.

Back on Veird, if Erick had sensed something like he was sensing now, he would have called that something a minor magical item. Like one of his rings, back when he was first making them. Or like a wand of [Mend]. Something small, yet useful.

There was a very good chance that everything there had been ‘looted’ before Erick had come along, if he was going by the story that the dungeon was setting up for him. That crack in the floor looked like side-effect damage from some sort of magical attack, but the vault door downstairs had clearly been blasted open, if that twisted metal down there was anything to go by.

Someone had tried to go in through the floor, too, which was why there was a crack in the floor at all.

Had other people come through this floor before him? Or was this all ‘battle damage’ from the war? Eh. Erick would talk to others about all that and see what they said.

Erick proceeded with his initial plan to break the floor and get to the treasure. There was a chance that he would break the floor and the falling stone would break whatever lay in the storage room below, but that was a chance he was willing to take.

So he got back into the water and went to the crack in the floor, directly above the storage room. With his metal rod gripped by both hands, Erick aimed down, and with all his force, he smashed. Water went flying. A loud crack filled the air. The break in the ground collapsed, falling down into the storage room—

Right onto whatever magical thing was down there.

A flicker of red mana filled the waters and then vanished, dispersing out into the world like so much broken magic. A simultaneous and partially-recognizable warmth filled Erick, and then even more warmth filled him, for the red mana of the broken thing below had filled the area, its glow briefly illuminating patches of weeds and algae and other dark things growing in the water, before fading fast.

Words appeared.

You have cleared the flooded guardhouse (Special)!

MP up! +100 mana production per day!

+2 saves (Save protocol is now lowered. Say aloud ‘resume save protocol’ if you wish to reinstate normal parameters)

+950 temporary mana (overflow discarded)

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

MP per day: 120

Meta-Irons: 400, 0 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 1/10, 0 in storage

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 100/100

Rod of the Guardian (depleted), 300/300

- -

So there was a lot there to digest, but it was all rather self-explanatory.

The only part that Erick truly considered was how all the mana in this dungeon worked nicely with all the other mana of this dungeon. Normal mana from one caster did not usually play nicely with mana from another caster, so, in a normal situation, the mana of the artifact down below should not be ‘absorbable’ by him and his currently equipped meta-iron weapons. So what the dungeon was doing instead, was overlaying a new mana system on top of his body, giving him a ‘secondary mana pool’ that was usable by the various artifacts of the dungeon, like the rod in his hands, or the bracelet on his wrist. All the mana in the dungeon was the same. Even the mana from creatures and otherwise was the same; it all played nice with each other.

But that’s what the Script did, anyway, right? The fact that mana didn’t play nice with each other was an edge case that almost no one actually knew or cared about, but which Erick had overcome with his creation of Benevolence and [Renew].

Erick hesitated to say that this Second Script would have mana compatibility issues if this system were exported to a new world, because that problem was already solved by Benevolence (And by pure volume; if one were to consider grand rads and the automatic charging of magical items). The meta-irons would just have to incorporate some actual [Renew] methodology in order to work properly…

Erick held up his wrist, and looked at the cerulean gem, and the sparkling bracelet. Then Erick hefted his weapon. The rod of the guardian looked rather pristine, now that it was topped off with mana; like a silver length of steel. It also seemed to weigh a bit more. Maybe 15 kilos? 16? A rather weighty weapon, but small compared to some of the weapons people walked around with back on Veird. Both his meta-iron objects looked pristine, and well made.

… Perhaps the dungeon was simply warping physics so that his [Renew] methodology was present inside all meta-iron? Like how the Script had designated lead as antirhine, the anti-magic metal—

Oh.

That’s exactly what the dungeon had done. Other people had already explained that to him.

Meta-iron was like the exact opposite of antirhine; it absorbed intent and made it whole, instead of scattering intent, and thus erasing magic.

Interesting!

All the mana currently inside Erick and in the environment seemed to be playing nice with itself, for his bracelet was working fine, and he had no wounds.

Erick smiled to himself as he began to trudge through the waters, back to the stairs. This was quite fun, actually. Lotta different systems coming together into a shifted world that was both simpler, and easier to keep safe, than the world of Veird. All you had to do was ensure that criminals didn’t have access to meta-iron…

But then again, restricting access to magic would lead to problems of a different sort. A lessening of learning, for one, but maybe there could be schools with a proper mana density, to allow for a student to learn how to properly cast magic? … Oh. Now there’s an idea.

As a plan of attack for Erick’s current situation formed in his head, he also considered the far future, as he made his way to the top of the watchtower.

Once again looking out across the city of Iben, but with a solid weapon in his hand this time, Erick spread his senses wide… And when that failed to produce good results, he simply looked out across the land.

Now... Erick wasn’t absolutely sure. But he was pretty sure that the building in the distance over there, on the other side of the city, looked important. It had towers and a walled yard and a half-shelled clock tower. Hard to tell exactly what it was, but it seemed important.

It looked like a campus. A university, perhaps. Maybe even an arcanaeum.

A student campus seemed like a great place to go for revolutionary thoughts. Maybe ‘the resistance’ was there. If not there, then somewhere nearby. And if not there, then in any of the other important-looking places all across the city.

There were mansions over there, sitting a bit above the water line and looking like they had survived the worst of the shelling. A church to some forgotten god stood over there, with its broken spires and missing bells. Some sort of castle stood in the far distance, ringed in walls and only half visible; surely something important lay inside there. But that campus called to Erick, if, indeed, that’s what it was.

Erick hopped off the side of the watchtower, crashed into the roof, slid down the angle, and then launched himself across the road well before he reached the last moment, for he didn’t trust the edge of the roof of a war-torn building to remain solid. He easily made the five meter jump and landed in a controlled tumble on the apartment building across the way, his rod of the guardian still in his hand. He rose to his feet, just in time to intercept a gator-sized grey lizard that had darted up from the other side of the roof, its nose-light flickering soft white.

Erick was almost tempted to call it Rudolph, but he refrained.

Whip-crack went the rod of the guardian, heavy in Erick’s hand. The ball-end of the weapon smashed the roof gator’s skull and splattered brains out into the open air. The monster never had a chance.

MP up! +1 mana production per day!

“Well whadda ya know,” Erick said, winding up to strike the next roof gator that should show. “Random monsters might be worth 1 mana per day.”

Another roof gator slipped over the edge of the other side of the building, its eyes trained on Erick, its nose flickering with a white glow. All of its body except for its nose was barely visible in the night gloom all around, and it barely made a sound; nothing more than a slithering of scales and claws on stone.

It attacked. Erick countered.

The roof-dolph gator died.

MP up! +1 mana production per day!

Erick began hopping across roofs, killing everything that attacked him, keeping his mana senses opened the whole way, as he tried to find more challenges on his way to the university. Five roof gators and seven buildings later, Erick found a deep shadow in his senses, laying at the bottom of a blown-out business. He was one roof over from that location, and the place wasn’t exactly in his path, but he detoured anyway.

It was another eel-house.

Erick crashed down into the waters, slamming his rod right into the head of the largest eel. Water went everywhere and the largest eel slipped away, but it was mortally wounded. Three smaller eels, each of them still two meters long, tried to eat Erick.

They failed to do much besides cut into his clothes, for Erick knew how they fought now. His clothes were absolutely wrecked by the end of it, with his left pant leg barely hanging on around mid-thigh, so Erick grabbed the fabric and ripped the dangling pant leg away. To even himself out, he did the same to his other pant leg.

And then he dove into the waters, down into the basement. A chair blocked the way further down, having lodged itself in the middle of the stairwell, but Erick grabbed and pulled, and the chair came apart in his grip. Erick smiled underwater at that, and the taste of the murk all around wasn’t too unpleasant, for he was having fun. Erick rarely ever got a chance to use his strength, and there was something about the action of it all that felt nice.

Still holding his breath, Erick swam down into the basement and went right for the prize; a pale grey dot of magic laying among a bunch of chicken-egg-shaped eggs, all of them buried in the black muck upon the floor. Erick grabbed the meta-diamond and made his way back to the surface, all the while wondering what magic the metamond held inside, and if eels back on Earth laid eggs. Perhaps they did? He… Honestly did not know.

Most fish laid eggs, and eels were fish, so eels probably laid eggs back on Earth, too.

So his Intelligence was clearly fading a bit. Intelligence was just having access to memories, though. Erick wouldn’t lose himself by going into a mana void, but things would become simpler for him. Less distractions, probably.

He hoped there would be a way to fix that, too, through some buffing gems courtesy of the dungeon, or something similar. There was clearly buffing magic available, but Erick hadn’t seen any of it yet. Probably. This new gem in his hand probably was not an Intelligence buff spell.

Erick breached the surface and words appeared.

You have cleared the flooded house (Special)!

MP up! +100 mana production per day!

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

MP per day: 227

Meta-Irons: 400, 0 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 1/10, 0 in storage

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 100/100

Rod of the Guardian (depleted), 300/300

Unused Meta-Diamonds: [Murky]

- -

“… What the fuck is a [Murky]?”

- - - -

“Look at this [Self Rejuvenation] weirdo!” George said with a bit of laughter. “He dives right into an eel house and then proceeds to kill them all with a mace! A mace! In the water. And now he’s playing with a metamond!”

On the other side of the viewing screen room, Quince sighed. “For the millionth time: you’re way too excited for this job, George. Take it down like… Four pegs.”

