Erick tried to bend it back into shape, but the head broke off and now all he had was a slightly bent length of metal that was too short to do anything with at all.

Well that was fine.

Erick had already mana sensed a good two and maybe three possible replacements inside the spider’s lair. With a few grabs and tugs, Erick pried apart the thick webbing that created the nest, disturbing dozens of small spiders along the way. The smallest ones ran from him, opting to flee the disturbance rather than fight. The hand-sized ones tried to bite, but he shook his hands, and the spiders went flying. With his hands held strong around the top of an ancient desk, Erick heaved the wooden barrier away—

A good hundred spiders scattered—

Oh. Three of the spiders on him were not trying to eat him, actually. Erick watched as several spiders tried to eat his blue metamond. Apparently they could actually do that, too, because the blue light faded a fraction, and two of the spiders grew bigger, pulsing larger like the beating of hearts. Erick slapped them dead, then made sure all the spiders on him were gone.

It took a bit.

Manavores.

Didn’t surprise Erick too much. Shadelings ate rads to keep their core stable, and other monsters did the same. Usually when a monster ‘ate mana’ it was more subtle than a spider sitting on a magical bracelet, consuming mana from that bracelet.

The monsters here were weird. Weren’t they supposed to vanish after being killed, like the slimezards upstairs? None of the spiders he had killed had faded, or turned into mana. What was up with that? Eh. He’d figure it out later, probably.

For now, Erick rooted around for the weapons tangled up deep in the trash heap of the spider’s nest.

Two of the three were like the mace he had procured on the upper floor; a sword and another mace, both rusted to shit, but generally serviceable. The replacement mace would be a good replacement, but the sword should just go back into the pile, for it was a thinner sort of weapon, made more for fencing, perhaps, than for beating up beasts. The sword would break the first time he tried to use it, for sure. It was missing a handle, anyway, and a bare tang made for a bad grip.

The third weapon was different in almost every way.

It was a wrist-thick rod, a meter long. Erick had almost mistaken it for the bar of a cage or a cell, or some similar enclosure. It was not a simple bar, though. It had ridges on one end, for a better grip, and a fist-sized sphere on the other, and the whole thing was an even, iron-grey color, though the exact color was hard to tell in this inadequate light. What set it apart from every other option was its singular-material, and the fact that it was the same color that his metiron bracelet had been, back when the bracelet had been at zero-mana.

“So a baton of some sort. A caster weapon?” Erick asked himself, as he swung the rod around a little... He changed his mind about it being a caster weapon rather quickly. “You’re for melee, for sure.”

Erick went to the body of the large spider and brought the metal rod down on the corpse.

The corpse buckled under the strike, exoskeleton shattering.

… And the weapon bent a little—

Erick shivered as several things happened at once.

His body filled with warmth, and then rapidly faded, a chill setting in as his bracelet drained him dry, and a secondary drain joined the first. The baton. And then Erick’s newest weapon straightened, every single little defect or problem of age vanishing as the metal righted itself to a pristine state. Physically, anyway. It was still pretty damned dull-looking. It looked like soft iron, rather than like the silver shininess of his bracelet.

Finally, some messages appeared, laying out what had just happened to him, but without telling him directly; the tutorial was over, and robust messaging was done.

You have cleared the infested guardhouse!

MP up! +10 mana production per day!

- -

Ashes Woodfield (9 saves remaining)

MP per day: 20

Meta-Irons: 400, 0 in storage

Meta-Diamonds: 1/10, 0 in storage

Bracelet of [Self Rejuvenation], 92/100

Rod of the Guardian (depleted), 7/300

- -

“Rod of the guardian, eh?” Erick hefted the weapon and almost made a rude joke to himself, but he decided not to. “How’s about we look for a way to make you non-depleted…” He paused. “But maybe there’s another concern about being in this dungeon that must be addressed.” He looked himself over, and felt, perhaps, a little bit uncomfortable being dressed in spider-guts muck. Rapidly after he had that thought, a realization came to him. “… Ah. There’s no [Cleanse] down here… Shit.”

He looked down at all the spiders.

“I was really hoping the muck would vanish like the slimezards upstairs.”

But that didn’t seem to be happening.

Erick brushed his hands on his shirt, ensuring that his grip on the rod was good, and played over in his mind all the various ways in which magic was different outside of the Script’s assistance. From [Cleanse], to Healing Magic, to all the other ways...

Erick thought of magic as he splatted a few more hand-sized aggressive spiders on his way toward the guardhouse’s third-story balcony, which had been blasted open by some old explosions, and which looked to be the only way out of this place that wasn’t through eel or snake-infested waters, or whatever those things in the water down there happened to be called. They were probably eels. Erick stepped over webbed rubble, out into the open night, onto a balcony positioned above open waters. It hadn’t always been a balcony over open waters, for there were buildings all around the space, and all buildings to the sides had large windows. Or at least they had had large windows. Now they just had holes where water barely flowed…

It was probably a town square. Erick’s mana sense was a little fuzzy and it would be getting worse soon enough, but below the dark waters, in the center of the space, lay an inactive fountain, while all around the town square lay areas cordoned off by tiles. Each tile-cordoned space looked to be about three meters square. Market stall space? Probably.

Made sense to have the market right next to the guardhouse.

On a lark, Erick cast his mana sense back as far as he could go, to see if this place had any [Witness]able history—

The shadows shifted.

The world flexed as though through a dozen soap bubbles.

Erick felt an unreality settle within his eyesight as his mana sense tripped into the distant past. As some kinda shift began to solidify, Erick felt, almost, as though he were standing beside the ghost of a guard, looking down at a familiar sight that was changed forever by the war—

- - - -

Ashes Woodfield stood upon the balcony outside his office, gazing down at the farmer’s market below.

It wasn’t the marketplace that he was used to seeing. Three years ago, the market here used to be packed with all manner of offerings, and Ashes would have needed to be down there, in the thick of it, ensuring that no damned mages snuck in and tried to pilfer goods or currency from the non-warded vendor stalls. The permanent businesses around here had good wards so they could keep tele-finger mages out of their business, but the Emptying made securing a temporary vendor stall near impossible.

So it was Ashes’ job to keep tabs on the rare mage that came through, and make sure they didn’t step out of line.

His job was almost obsolete these days.

The mages didn’t come to Iben much anymore. Not since Riam deepened the Emptying, calling it a ‘tax’ for all the ‘good they did’. Pah! It was a slow murder, that’s what it was.

Half of the people of Iben had fled over the last two years. Some went to the larger cities that remained on Insten, which was fine, but some people went to Riam in the sky, like the fucking traitors they were—

Ashes sighed, his brief anger at the world rapidly subsumed by a melancholy, and then he almost laughed, for melancholy was yet another symptom of the Emptying. As his emotions evened, he gazed down at the scattered stalls below, and then to the empty spaces between those stalls. Used to be, there were no empty spaces here in the market. Now, everything was turning to shit. As people left his city, the mana went with them, and now… This place would be dead in five years if this didn’t change.

Markie’s wife had given birth to a malformation last week, and she wasn’t the only one to suffer that horror. Markie, Ashes’ oldest friend, had even been talking about leaving after that happened. Markie of all people! Ashes would have counted Markie among the never-leavers, like Ashes, but a malformation in the family changed things.

Some people would always remain here in Iben, and Ashes would be one of them. The never-leavers.

It would be tough, but he could stick it out.

Ashes glanced over the market again and spotted specific problems that he could do nothing about.

From their goods on display, it looked like the Emptying had finally gotten to O’Ley’s farm; they only had whiteroot and leafies, and all of the leafies looked wilted. The O’Leys were only a few kilometers out of town and they should have been fine for another full season of growing, but their farm was failing, too. All the distant farmers were already gone, and the O’Leys would be next. Would they get bought out by Riam, too, once they couldn’t grow shit on their land anymore?

Once they couldn’t pay their taxes?

Probably.

“How long do we even have left,” Ashes whispered to himself.

He gripped the hilt of his baton and hated that he couldn’t fight Riam; that he couldn’t bash in a skull and end all of the problems of his home. That thought, that feeling, managed to cut all the way through his melancholy, for he had too many thoughts on the resistance to fully categorize most of them.

If the resistance came here, to Iben…

He might join them this time.

… Maybe he might go looking for the resistance in the city, already. The resistance was everywhere, after all. Ashes had purposefully not looked too hard into all that because if he found those lawbreakers then he would have to do something about them, and he didn’t want to do that. The resistance was where the term ‘never leaver’ came from, and Ashes shared more in common with them than with most people, except for when it came to following the law.

But now…

Seeing those wilted leafies on O’Ley’s market stall… That had been the last stalk.

Maybe it was time for him to become a law unto himself.

- - - -

Erick yanked back from the past that wasn’t the past at all.

A moment of panic passed quick enough as he analyzed what had just happened. It was like a [Witness], but stronger. A lot stronger. He had become ‘Ashes Woodfield’, guard and guardian of Iben, the city that lay ruined all around. But it hadn’t been ruined in the vision. It had been on the decline.

Erick could still smell the faint memory of the market on the air; the freshness of the ‘leafies’, which were cabbage, the dirt of the whiteroot, the crispness of apples...

And then that memory faded, and all Erick could smell was spider guts, stagnant water, and decay.

He knew the name of this city now. ‘Iben’, of the world Insten, of the Old Cosmology.

Erick gripped the rod of the guardian and considered ‘Ashes’s decision to go to the resistance. Seemed like a good idea to Erick, too. They probably had magical options for him to plunder, if they didn’t get used in the war itself. Either way, they probably had caches here and there filled with the contraband that should have been in the guardhouse…

Maybe there was still some contraband here, though? Maybe the manavore spiders hadn’t eaten it all?

Erick glanced back at the guardhouse, sending his mana sense into the depths. He looked again at a storage room down below the first floor, down below the water. Something lurked down there in the basement, beyond a large metal door that had been blown apart, where the upper floor had partially caved in. Erick could go rooting around in the contraband room for trinkets, and there was probably something in there…

Erick turned around and went into the guardhouse, to the stairs. He was on the third floor, but a few steps later, and he stood above the waterline on the second floor, a step above where bad things swirled in the murk below. It was not clean water. Desks held tight to the left side of the office space, where the slow flow of the water had pushed them to pile up before a hallway. He would need to go through that hallway to get to a separate stairwell that led down, into a storage area on the first floor, where a lot of different things obscured his mana sense.

Going that way would require him to swim through the water, though, and Erick did not want to do that at all.

Another option held on the far side of the office space, where something had cracked the floor, creating an opening directly above the storage room on the first floor below. Either way, he would have to go swimming, and he’d have to clear away some sort of obstruction. Going through the wooden detritus would likely be physically easier, since getting proper leverage on that crack in the ground would be a problem without having access to his real magic.

But he didn’t want to swim.

Eh. He could go swimming. That was fine.

He was going to get down there, one way or another, but there was a question: Would he be cleaner, or dirtier, if he kept his clothes on?

It’d probably be a wash.

… Erick opted to keep his clothes on.

He stepped into the cold water, sighed as he shivered, and then he stepped down onto the next step, then the next. Soon, water swirled around his stomach and he began to swim a little, wondering when the monsters would come out to eat him.

Didn’t take long.

Leg-thick eels slipped out of their hiding places among the detritus and up from the crack in the ground. Five of them converged on Erick—

The world flashed blue and paused—

The eels froze, but Erick could move just fine—

A part of Erick’s status appeared.

- -

Ashes Woodfield (8 saves remaining)

- -

He had lost another save.

“… The fuck?”

That didn’t seem fair. Erick was rather sure he could take some eels, even if they were in their element, and he was not. Erick pressed forward, toward the crack in the floor. He was going to try and break it open while the eels were frozen—

The eels flickered as blue magic washed away from them like so much broken spellwork. Whatever ‘pause’ had affected them was gone, and they advanced on Erick as though on fast forward. All five of them got within a meter of Erick when the world flashed blue again, the eels froze again, and his status reappeared.

- -

Ashes Woodfield (7 saves remaining)

- -

Erick frowned.

