As she was effectively lost, she decided that she'd rather be lost somewhere else and attempted to tear open the fabric of reality again. But as she used her Dreamtaker's Gaze upon the eldritch wilderness that characterized the Stranger's domain, she found her power rebuffed, found the very atmosphere defiant, nullifying her colors like a splash of water washing away oil.

“Ignore it,” the Starhawk said, his voice echoing from within her. “I will keep it at bay. Whatever it is.”

But she knew that Starhawk had limits as well. He didn’t know her skills or soul as well as he did Roland’s. And she was already compromised through the Dreamtaker, who couldn’t even perceive her parent, no matter how much Uva tried to tell her.

The Eldest was spreading. Like a cancer. And Uva didn’t have time to attend to them, for another voice spoke to her in taunting whispers as well.

"You will not leave my grasp. You are mine, Seeker. You have fallen to me. The System has delivered you to me. You have given yourself to me."

Such was the Stranger's declaration in the aftermath of her attempt to reach back across to Integrated space from the Outside. She tried several more times, but even with her magnified powers, she found herself unable to rip through, probably because she was, in an abstract sense, within the very body of the Stranger, who seemed nigh omnipotent here.

But not quite omniscient, however.

There was a flaw in the Stranger's offspring. All of them loathed the Stranger. All of them wished to break free, to become their own eldritch god, or whatever they viewed themselves as. Effectively, the realm itself was at war with its own nature, trying to divide, attempting to undergo its own metamorphosis. But the Stranger was a tyrant, and he held all these smaller monstrosities in sway. He was effectively a rageful father, a brutal and cold patriarch that refused to let any of its young go. If the System had driven the Stranger to become this way, or if the System had simply categorized him as something he'd always been, she didn't know, and she didn't care.

The fact of the matter was that the Stranger’s uncountable spawn remained limbs to his body, hands for him to wield.

But the urge to break free always remained, and the Stranger had to exert a considerable portion of his own cognitive capacity to keep his so-called body under control, or at least undivided.

And that was how Uva began exploiting their separated perception. The offspring still had their own minds, even though those minds were tied to the Stranger himself. It was like being your own independent being, but also having most of your consciousness broadcast from a source beyond worlds, a source that guaranteed your existence without fully sculpting it.

And that was the Stranger's ultimate flaw. For he was characterized by their own name, as given by the System. He was estranged from himself, estranged from the world. Every single one of his skills was invasive, forceful, deviant; they twisted the rules, they broke existing notions, and flayed patterns. And more than anything, the Stranger flayed himself. He was a destructive entity. But he was also a self-mutilating one.

She experimented on the captured offspring first, learning the ways their minds flowed. But despite her best efforts, it was hard to acclimate to them. Though her mind was accelerated, though they were practically slow compared to her, she wasn't eldritch. She was capable of sustaining a connection with them now, but it still hurt her; it still damaged her psyche. She drew on her wounds to fuel her Feat, and her vulnerability was turned to a strength. But even so, that didn't allow her to mantle them as she would an animal or an individual. They were, in effect, more impenetrable than even an automaton.

"And so you need to change," the Eldest said. "Stop fighting. Stop resisting. Stop trying to use the Starhawk's Divinity to burn me away. You must change. You are no longer in your own environment. This is not Earth. You are trapped with my offspring, with my children. They will devour you. The Dreamtaker is already dipping herself into you, drinking from you. You must decide: Birth something new, or be reborn. There is no survival otherwise."
