What? I got levels for this ridiculous charade? Ali had never expected to gain class levels for the strange puzzle Cael and Gage had forced upon her. There were many accounts of dungeons providing puzzles as challenges in place of monsters, but she had never considered the implications. Yet again, she found herself wishing she could find an experienced dungeon to talk to about how everything worked – the best reference she had was Nevyn Eld’s book – and as she had discovered, not even the genius scholar and Lich had fully understood the subtleties of how dungeons worked.

She paused to consider her attributes. She had vowed to invest in strength while she had been hanging from the barrier, but that was before she had discovered she could gain strength from empowering herself from Tol’brekk. The paltry few points she might spend now were nothing compared to the boost he provided. I should keep his boost while I’m here, she decided. She couldn’t know what was coming next, though, so she instead spent a point on dexterity and two on vitality. One further point went to endurance. It was not much, but she hoped she wouldn’t need it. She spent six points on perception and split the remaining twenty evenly between wisdom and intelligence. I wish I could do more.

As she considered the revelation about the nature of a puzzle dungeon, her mind began to fill with ideas for her own dungeon. Puzzles that could be used to train adventurers and better ways to construct her challenge arenas. This could even be used to level non-combat classes, she realized – except for the giant leap at the end, there was no reason someone like Ryn or Mieriel couldn’t have completed the Multiple Paths of Time puzzle.

But what makes it a proper dungeon puzzle? she wondered. Was it the lack of hostile monsters, or was there more to it? As she glanced around the new room she found herself in, her mind filled with unanswered and unanswerable, questions.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
