Erin looks sadly down at Mrsha. She’s crying, and clinging to me. I feel her claws piercing my skin, but I just hold her. Krshia looks sadly at us, her eyes lingering on Mrsha’s white fur.
White as snow. A pure color. White, the color of purity, innocence.
And also death.
 
—-
 
It’s a slow procession home. I carry Mrsha, even though she’s heavy. She’s still crying. I have to stop twice for her to throw up. All the food she ate comes up and she just clings to me harder.
Another failure of mine. I’m not worthy of even staying around her. But if Krshia can’t protect her, somehow I have to.
Somehow.
Erin and I don’t talk much on the way back, just slog through the deep snow. It looks like it will snow more tonight.
 
“Aha! I see the mortal fool has met the one who serves food! ‘Tis good!”
“But they move so slowly! Like ants! Like bugs!”
“Should we drop more snow on them? An avalanche? Hail?”
 
Frost Faeries fly down out of the air. I stare up at them. Now’s not the time, but they laugh and grin as if nothing’s wrong.
 
“Ho, travelers! Give us your coin or we shall bury you!”
“Brigands, we! Victims, thee!”
 
Erin winces, but she doesn’t respond to the faerie’s provocations. I have no such inhibitions.
“Get lost, you lot. Now’s not the time.”
“Ryoka!”
Erin hisses at me, but I just stare at the faeries. They pause.
 
“Ooh, the mortal has teeth! Are we disturbing you?”
 
I point to Mrsha. She’s buried her face in my clothes and hasn’t moved. I feel her tears soaking through my layers of clothes.
“You’re bothering her. Go away.”
The frost faeries hesitate. They stare at Mrsha and seem to confer. Then, without a word they fly away.
Erin gapes at me.
“How did you do that? They never listen to me!”
I shrug, adjusting my hold on Mrsha.
“Hit them where it hurts. They like children.”
As if to spite me, I feel something gently smack me in the back of the head. Erin wipes away the snow as I grit my teeth.
“Little freaks.”
Another snowball taps me on the back lightly. Erin shakes her head.
“I think they like you.”
“I’ve reached an…understanding with them.”
“That’s so…uh, well, it’s good, right?”
“Who knows?”
We walk on. In a few minutes we can see the door of Erin’s inn at the top of the hill, and something else.
“There’s a crowd at your inn.”
“Oh! I guess everyone thought I’d be in!”
Erin darts forwards, and I hear her calling to people ahead of me. I barely recognize any of the people who’re standing in front of the inn. A female Drake…Selys? And the Antinium’s either Pawn or Klbkch—no, Klbkch is the only one with two arms, so it must be him. And there’s an older guy in his thirties who I know I’ve never seen. He’s wearing leather armor and he looks like a fighter. And…
Goblins. My footsteps stop and my heart freezes in my chest. The small Goblin—Rags is standing next to a Hobgoblin in the snow, apart from the rest. I quickly look down at Mrsha, but she’s still oblivious to the world, clutching my chest.
Erin returns, beaming at me.
“Everyone’s here! Looks like I’ve got a full inn—what’s wrong?”
Only now does she see the expression on my face. I point with one hand to the Goblins.
“Them. Get them the hell out of here.”
“Who?”
Erin turns. Then she looks back at me, troubled.
“Ryoka. They’re guests. I—”
“I’m not asking you!”
I point at Mrsha and Erin’s face changes. Reluctantly, she goes up the hill. I see her talking to the two Goblins and pointing back at me and Mrsha. I don’t know what she says, and I don’t care. I walk up the hill, away from the Goblins. By the time I reach the top, they’re gone.
Erin had that disappointed look on her face, but I don’t care. I push into the inn, ignoring the others who greet me. Only when I’ve put Mrsha down do I look around.
“Hello! You’re…Ryoka, right?”
I hear a friendly voice and look around. Selys, the female Drake, is smiling at me. She looks down at Mrsha. She’s curled into a ball in one of the chairs.
“Aw! Who is this?”
“Mrsha. She’s had a bad day.”
Selys nods and walks quietly away from Mrsha so she can speak to me.
“I know we barely got to talk, but I heard a bit of what happened from Erin.”
“Oh, really?”
Inwardly, I curse as I hear the words come out. I’m still really hostile from seeing the Goblins, but Selys just gives me a smile.
“Don’t worry. I get it. Erin is a little oblivious, but if you ever want to talk, I’m willing to listen.”
I stare at her. Well.
“I guess [Receptionists] have to deal with a lot of crap, huh?”
She chuckles.
“It’s part of the job. And after hearing about that Goblin Lord—Ancestors, I’d hate to imagine that. Is that Gnoll child—?”
“She’s the only one who’s left, yeah.”
Selys’s eyes are full of pity.
“Poor girl. Let me know if I can help, okay?”
Is it really that easy? Can you really just offer to help like that? I hesitate, and then nod awkwardly.
“Thanks.”
“Just let me know. And I think what she—what’s her name? Mrsha?—what she really needs right now is some sleep and quiet.”
But when Selys and I try to bring Mrsha upstairs, she starts slashing at both of us the instant we get near. She bites at me even when I try to sit next to her. And it turns out that claws hurt even if you have scales. We have to leave her alone. Selys and I retreat as Erin bustles around us, chattering to Klbkch and the Human.
“Oh, Ryoka! Have you met Halrac? No? This is Halrac. Um, he’s a Gold-rank adventurer.”
I nod at the grizzled man. He nods back. Unfriendly guy*. His eyes flick to Mrsha as he sits at a table.
 
*Wait, what the hell did Erin say about him being Gold-rank?
 
“Ryoka Griffin. You have my condolences.”
I turn. Klbkch, one of the damn Antinium—no. He’s one of Erin’s friends and he died once to save her. I nod to him.
“Klbkch?”
“Yes. Allow me to reassure you that I will conduct patrols of the area south of Liscor when possible to ensure the safety of Mrsha and this inn.”
“Really?”
That’s…suspicious. Why would Klbkch take so much interest in Erin? It must have to do with the individual Antinium thing and Pawn. Damn it, Erin.
But any help is welcome, so I nod. Klbkch looks at Mrsha. She’s crying again. Her small body shakes, and I feel my heart ache.
“I regret what has occurred. Rest assured, if the Goblin Lord’s army passes near one of the Hives, it will be destroyed.”
There’s nothing to say to that. I just nod. But Mrsha’s crying puts a damper even on Erin’s good cheer. She does her best, cooking up food and insisting we all sit together at a table, but she can’t get Mrsha to move and so Lyonette brings us our drinks—hot water for me and Klbkch and ale for Selys—in silence.
I glance over at Halrac. He’s sitting alone, but he keeps staring at Mrsha. Is he bothered by her? Well, of course he would be. He stops Erin as she passes a table and points to Mrsha. And then, for some reason, I see him point to a bunch of flowers on a table near one of the windows.
“Flowers? Why the hell are there flowers in here?”
Selys looks over as she bites into some spaghetti with meatballs.
“Oh, those? I think they came from the faeries. That’s what Erin says, anyways.”
Klbkch and I stare at her.
“The Frost Faeries gave them to her? Why?”
“I dunno. For some meal she cooked them. Erin was pretty mad about it at the time.”
Oh my god. She didn’t. They didn’t. I stare in horror at the flowers as Erin goes over to them. Golden flowers. Is it too much of a leap of logic to assume…?
“Did she think they were golden coins?”
Klbkch stares at me as if I’m crazy, but Selys nods. She slurps down a noodle.
“That’s right! That’s what Erin said! How did you know?”
I put my face in my hands and groan. Did Erin just not remember those old stories about faeries? I hope she didn’t waste that much food on those bastards*.
 
*Is bastard the right word, here? Bitches might be more gender specific, but it doesn’t really encapsulate how much I sometimes hate those damn faeries.
 
“Pardon me. Am I to understand these flowers were enchanted to look like coins?”
I nod at Klbkch. It feels really odd to be sitting and chatting to an Antinium, much less Klbkch the Slayer. I want to talk with him, but not with Selys around.
“It’s something the faeries do. They trick people into accepting gold that turns to flowers or disappears the next day. Erin got taken for a ride.”
“I see. This is unfortunate.”
“Yeah, but Erin says the flowers are actually useful.”
“What?”
All three of us look over to the flowers. Erin is picking some and…squeezing them? Yes, she’s adding them to a mug and Halrac’s watching her with an intense expression. What the hell is going on?
But then Erin walks over to Mrsha with a mug full of ale and a few drops of that flower nectar mixed in. I frown as she gently touches Mrsha.
“Mrsha? You okay, honey?”
Mrsha swipes at Erin, but the other girl is out of arm’s reach. Erin touches Mrsha again.
“Hey, I don’t want to bother you sweetie, but I’ve got a drink. It’ll help you relax, okay?”
“The hell is she doing?”
Is Erin trying to get Mrsha drunk? I stand up, frowning, but Klbkch tugs on my arm.
“Please wait, Ryoka Griffin. I believe Erin Solstice may be attempting to do something beneficial.”
I hesitate. But then, this is Erin. I look back at the flowers, and then at the way Halrac’s staring at the mug. Flowers. Illusions.
Hallucinogens? Not the craziest thing I’ve heard of.
Even as I watch, Erin coaxes Mrsha out of her ball. The Gnoll sniffs at the mug, but curious as ever, she tastes some. I watch her gulp a few mouthfuls of the drink down with butterflies in my stomach. Mrsha’s eyes go wide, and then she sighs. She closes her eyes, and then goes limp.
“Mrsha?”
Erin turns towards me as I approach. She lets me take Mrsha. I feel at her anxiously.
“She’s just asleep, Ryoka. Or…in a trance. Halrac says the drink helps. I’ve tried it before, and it does make you feel better.”
“It will.”
I turn. Halrac, the Gold-rank adventurer is standing behind us. He nods to me.
“Miss Griffin? Erin Solstice has a unique drink. It’s liquid memory.”
“Memory? You mean it’s some kind of drug?”
I glare at Erin. She raises her hands defensively.
“It’s just the flowers and some alcohol! It’s part of one of the skills I learned, Ryoka! It’s called [Wondrous Fare] and Halrac says it makes you feel better! He’s had lots!”
Erin looks over at him and the adventurer nods. He stares at the drink on the table.
“It…brings back happy memories. For a time. I imagine the Gnoll child will sleep after drinking it, in any case.”
I stare at Erin. Faerie flowers can be made into a magical drink? Why did I not think of that? No—is Erin a genius or just insane?
“Are you sure it’s safe?”
“Why don’t you try some?”
Erin offers me the drink. I accept the mug and stare into it. Halrac looks at the piss-colored liquid as if it’s liquid gold, but I’m not so sure.
“It’s not bad?”
“The alcohol is swill, but I’ll vouch for its effects. I’ll have one myself, and pay what you want for it.”
“Really? Ooh, what should I charge?”
“Is that drink for everyone? I’d like to try some too if we’re having samples.”
Selys stands up and stares at the mug, as does Klbkch. Erin picks some more flowers as I stare at the liquid.
It’s not like I haven’t tried…certain medicinal herbs…before. But that was just once, and I’ve never smoked or taken any hard drugs. I love to run, not mess up my body. But if Erin was confident enough to give it to Mrsha—
At the very least I should see what effect it has. I hesitate, but Erin’s already mixing up another three mugs. Cautiously, I down the drink.
Yep. That’s some crap. Did Erin buy the cheapest alcohol available? I frown as I swallow. I don’t sense any other taste, but it was just a few drops. How long does the effect l—
 
The world dissolves around me. Into rushing air. Into mist and smoke that drifts up from the fire.
I stare at Urksh as Mrsha sits next to me, staring up at me. The Gnolls in the camp bustle around, laughing, talking, as I stare at him. He looks up from a bit of hot fish and grins at me.
“You look shocked, Ryoka Griffin. Is this not what you wished to see?”
“No. No, I—”
I falter. Mrsha looked up inquiringly, her brown fur shining in the firelight. Urksh laughs.
“It is well. Rest here a while before continuing on your journey.”
“I will. I just—”
A piece of hot fish—mackerel, maybe, is resting in my hand. Hot enough to nearly burn my skin, but not quite. So warm and tender that I can bite into it and banish the cold of the night air. The fire in front of me warms my skin, and Mrsha sighs as she snuggles into my side.
I look at Urksh. He smiles as he sits in the cold winter air. The Gnolls laugh as they prepare to sleep for the night.
“I just wanted to say I’m sorry. I’m so sorry.”
He nods.
“I know. But it is not you who must apologize, yes? We paid the price as we wished.”
“Yeah. It’s just—”
He shakes his head.
“Eat, Ryoka Griffin. And then, perhaps, tell us another story. The one about the [King] with the sword was particularly good, I thought.”
Mrsha nods. She sits up eagerly, and I raise the fish to my lips. The scent makes my mouth water, and I see Gnolls drifting over. They sit together, warm, happy, full. The cold air blows, but it is banished by the warmth here. I open my mouth, and my teeth sink into the hot food—
 
“Ryoka? You’re doing the same staring thing. Are you okay?”
“Oh.”
The vision fades. I stare at Erin. She smiles nervously at me.
“No good? Everyone’s gone silent. I tried the drink, but I only had a bit and I just felt happy when I remembered playing chess against Pawn. Is it too strong or good like that?”
I stare at the drink. It’s still half full. I put it to my lips and drink the rest down. The world spins, and the last thing I feel is myself falling backwards. And then, for a few moments, I’m sitting around a camp fire again. Laughing. Happy. And I ask for their forgiveness and know peace.
Until I wake.
 
—-
 
Outside the inn, the Frost Faeries watched as Ryoka Griffin collapsed backwards and Erin scrambled to catch her. They hovered outside in the cold, staring through one of the windows. It wasn’t that they couldn’t enter; it was just that they didn’t mind the cold and they didn’t want their conversation to be heard.
 
“The drink is made from the flowers. The innkeeper made it.”
“That’s not supposed to happen. Mortals don’t use the flowers we give them! They’re supposed to throw them away!”
 
