Both girls watched as Mrsha scooted closer. Lyon hesitated, but then she gently patted Mrsha on the head. She began to scratch Mrsha behind the ears and the Gnoll child leaned into Lyon’s side. For once, Lyonette wasn’t scowling.
“That’s odd. Normally she runs away from anyone with fur or scales. Or dirty hands.”
Ryoka nodded. Then she spoke the thought that had coalesced in her mind ever since Erin had described meeting Lyonette.
“She’s a princess.”
Erin paused. Then she turned and stared at Ryoka.
“What?”
Ryoka nodded at Lyonette.
“She’s a runaway princess. She has to be.”
“Well, I know she says she’s noble, but a princess?”
The incredulous look Ryoka received did nothing to faze her. She shook her head.
“She is a princess. How can you not see that?”
“How are you seeing that?”
The other girl began to tick points off on her fingers.
“Running away from a royal family, calling other people peons, countless powerful magical artifacts, haughty attitude.”
She looked at Erin.
“How many stories do you know of where the princess runs away? Look at the way she acts—not to mention the fact that she seems to think Magnolia would just take her in. We’re in a world that has dragons and magic, Erin. Lyonette is a princess from Terandria. They have several royal families there.”
It was a lesson in facial expressions to watch Erin’s face. Incredulity turned to thoughtful contemplation, and then uneasy suspicion which became shock and realization, which finally merged into reluctant acceptance and deep regret.
“Oh my god.”
Ryoka patted Erin on the shoulder as the girl slumped to the table.
“She might not be a princess. But she’s probably among the high nobility, at least.”
“How could I not have seen it?”
“The important thing is what happens next.”
Erin looked up.
“Like what? Send her home? How would I even…? You said she’s probably from Terandria? That’s another continent. I can’t send her back there!”
“I’m not suggesting you do. But you have to do something about her. She’s a danger to you if she stays here.”
“Because someone will come looking for her?”
Ryoka nodded. Her mind was already racing with possibilities.
“To bring her back—or kill her. Or use her as a hostage. Either way, you’ll be a loose end to tie up. Maybe she’s not that important if Magnolia isn’t interested in her, but she’s clearly some rich person’s daughter.”
“Noooooooooooo…”
Erin moaned as she covered her face in her hands.
“Why is my life so hard? What do I do? I don’t need this!”
She lowered her hands and stared at Ryoka.
“What do I do? What can we do?”
“Think.”
“What?”
Ryoka tapped the table.
“Calm down. Just think. Lyonette is a problem, but from what you’ve told me, she’s not the only thing on your plate. You’ve got lots of problems.”
Erin looked down.
“I know.”
“And I’ll help you with them.”
There was a pause, and then Erin looked up. Ryoka didn’t exactly meet her eyes. She cleared her throat awkwardly. Her face was hot, but she knew what she had to say. It was just hard.
“I…said a lot of things I shouldn’t have last night, Erin. I’m sorry.”
“What? No, Ryoka, I know it was really tough. I’m sorry for hitting you.”
Ryoka rubbed at her chest. Her ribs still hurt.
“No, it was my fault. It’s just—a lot of things have happened. That army of Goblins is a real threat. But from what Magnolia told you, that might be the least of the things that’s about to hit the continent. And we’re about to be caught in all of it.”
Erin caught her breath. When Ryoka said it like that, everything seemed so much more overwhelming. She had no idea what to do, and said so.
“What should we do, then? I mean all these problems—what are you going to do, Ryoka? Do you have a plan?”
She had nothing like a plan. Ryoka stared at her hand. She had nothing. She didn’t know what to do. But now Erin was counting on her too. She had to keep going. She couldn’t falter. Not now.
“Next? I guess the next thing I have to do is collect my reward from Teriarch. Once I do that, I need to deal with Lady Magnolia. Then…I don’t know.”
Ryoka stared down at her maimed hand.
“I’ve got to finish this delivery. When I do, I’ll come back and help you.”
She looked at Mrsha. But then felt something. Erin touched Ryoka’s good fingers gently.
“Don’t go. Stay here for a while.”
The taller girl shook her head. Her legs felt like lead and her mind was still heavy. But she had to see this through. She had not told Erin who Teriarch really was. A Dragon. Maybe he would have the answers to all of this. Maybe—
“I have to go. I have a job, Erin.”
“Yeah, but you don’t have to go today. Or even tomorrow. Ryoka, you looked half dead when you came in! And then there’s Mrsha and all this stuff that’s happening here…stay here.”
Ryoka hesitated. She looked at Mrsha again. The Gnoll was leaning against the table where Lyon sat, eyes closed. Could she just leave Mrsha here and run on?
No. Of course not. Ryoka closed her eyes and nodded.
“That was stupid of me. I’ll stay. At least for a day.”
“Good! Then we can do something together!”
Ryoka opened one eye and stared at Erin.
“Like what?”
“Something. Anything!”
Erin looked at Ryoka. She smiled in excitement.
“We’ve never actually done anything together. I mean, we went into the city that one time and I sang on the inn’s roof, but besides that…”
Ryoka nodded slowly. She looked at Mrsha, and then at the inn. This inn. This place where she felt safe. Somewhere to go home to. Slowly, she began to realize what she had to do.
“Okay. Let’s do something.”
The [Innkeeper] smiled.
“Great! What should we do? We could get a bath. You and Mrsha, uh, sort of smell. Or we can visit the city. Or—”
“Let’s go see Krshia.”
Erin froze.
“What, now? But—”
“As long as Lyonette’s here, she’s a problem. Those Gnolls won’t give up after just one attempt. At least, that Brunkr might not. I want to be sure you’re safe. And I…need to tell them what happened.”
Erin nodded slowly. Ryoka stood up, and stared out the window. The sky was clear, but snow had fallen heavily. Her body was tired, but she kept moving. She had to keep moving.
She had a duty now. A mission.
Ryoka stood, and shouldered the debt she carried. It weighed her down and gave her a purpose. She looked at Mrsha and knew what she had to do.
 
—-
 
Erin walked down Market Street in Liscor and felt like nothing had changed. And yet, the feeling in her bones was like that of a traveller coming home after many years.
How long had it been since she’d walked down these stalls looking for that familiar brown fur and calling voice? Too long. Just a week or two had passed and yet—
She missed her friend.
It took Erin a while to spot Krshia’s shop. That was also because she was walking with Ryoka and Mrsha; while Ryoka could easily keep pace, Mrsha was not so quick. The Gnoll child kept pausing to stare around the market or dart off after some interesting sight or smell, and Ryoka and Erin kept having to go after her. Eventually, Ryoka ended up dragging a reluctant Mrsha along by the paw.
But at last, they were through the market and nearing the intersection when Erin saw two familiar figures. Krshia stood behind her shop’s counter, arguing with her nephew Brunkr.
It was all the same. And yet, it wasn’t. Not nearly.
Erin remembered Krshia had always been in the center of Market Street, with one of the biggest shops and many customers. But now—
Now she had a small stand, with a few items on display. It was so far from the bountiful shop she’d kept stocked that it hurt Erin’s heart. And neither was the Gnoll smiling and laughing with her customers. Her ears were flat against her skull and she was snapping at Brunkr.
“—go back if you are so impatient! Tell them, yes, tell them of my failure! But here I am still the leader, am I not? If you go against my wishes, you defy the Chieftain!”
“You are not the sole leader here, Aunt!”
Brunkr wasn’t wearing his sword and shield, but he was still taller than Krshia. His fists were clenched, and both Drakes and Gnolls were walking wide of him. Erin stopped as she saw the two, uncertain.
Someone bumped into her. Ryoka cursed under her breath as Mrsha tried to tug her into a queue of people lined up to buy some grilled meat that smelled wonderful in the cold air.
“Mrsha, no! You can’t—Erin! Can you hold her?”
Ryoka looked over and saw Krshia and Brunkr. She paused, but didn’t let go of Mrsha who was practically drooling.
“That’s Brunkr?”
Krshia was growling at Brunkr, and he was making the same noise. It looked as if they were about to attack each other at any second. In short, not the atmosphere Erin wanted to have a reunion in.
“Yeah. Should we—?”
Ryoka hesitated for a second. Then she thrust Mrsha’s paw into Erin’s hand. Erin lifted the Gnoll into her arms and watched Ryoka. The young woman walked straight into the argument between the two Gnolls.
“Krshia Silverfang? My name is Ryoka Griffin. We need to speak.”
Both Gnolls shut up and stared at Ryoka. Erin held her breath and Mrsha stared as Ryoka faced both Gnolls down without a hint of fear. Tall as Ryoka was, both Gnolls were taller and bigger than she was.
Brunkr glared at Ryoka.
“Another Human? Go away. We are busy. This is a matter between me and my Aunt.”
“I’m a friend of Erin Solstice’s.”
Ryoka jerked a thumb over her shoulder at Erin. Krshia’s eyes widened when she saw Erin and Mrsha, but Brunkr just growled.
“I do not care. Go away.”
He tried to loom over Ryoka, but she didn’t even bat an eyelid.
“And who are you supposed to be?”
“I am Brunkr, warrior of the Silverfang tribe. And I—”
“Okay. Piss off. I need to talk to someone important.”
Erin’s mouth fell open. Mrsha’s ears flattened and suddenly she was the one clinging to Erin. Brunkr’s eyes narrowed and he opened his mouth.
“You dare? You dare to insult me? You?”
Cold sweat ran down Erin’s back. She’d thought Ryoka had gotten better—or at least she wasn’t crazily angry anymore. But she wasn’t showing many signs of sanity at the moment. What should Erin do?
But Ryoka seemed to have a plan of her own. She calmly stared at Brunkr as the Gnoll drew back his lips and bared his teeth.
“I dare. I dare because there are more important things than you, little Gnoll. Krshia Silverfang. The Stone Spears tribe is gone.”
The street went silent. Ryoka’s raised voice caused a hush and a pause as every single Gnoll on the street within hearing—and that was quite a radius—stopped and stared at her. Brunkr had drawn in his breath to roar, but now he froze, eyes wide.
Krshia stared at Ryoka. Her eyes flicked to Erin, and only now seemed to notice Mrsha. She took a step back, and for a second her eyes were filled with fear.
Then the moment passed. She looked at Ryoka, and shook her head.
“You speak the truth?”
“To the best of my knowledge. I witnessed their end.”
Krshia nodded. She looked at Brunkr.
“Close the store. I must hear this.”
He didn’t argue. The street was full of silence as Krshia gestured. Ryoka walked after her, silent. Erin hesitated, but hurried after the two, Mrsha in her arms. She sensed Gnolls following her. And now that all eyes were on her and Ryoka, they saw Mrsha too. She heard muttering, and felt a twinge of unease in her heart.
They were all Gnolls, and Krshia was her friend, even after Lyonette. She didn’t seem angry at Erin, even if Brunkr was a jerk. But then why were all the Gnolls staring at Mrsha? And why was she holding on to Erin so tightly? And why—
Why did they all look so afraid?
 
—-
 
I think I have it figured out. I’m Ryoka Griffin. I’m a Runner, and an arrogant young woman who thought she was better than she actually is. Because I was a fool, people died.
Maybe I couldn’t have saved them anyways. But I could have been stronger, and maybe that would have made a difference. Regardless though, they died. The people who helped me died. It may not be my fault, but I still have a debt.
A debt to the dead.
One person still lives. A kid, a child. I will keep her safe. But I will also pay off my debt. And the first part of that is confession.
I sit in Krshia Silverfang’s apartment, a cup of weirdly bitter tea in my hands. There’s a bowl of chopped meat on the table, but I’m not sure if it’s raw so I don’t take any. Erin and Mrsha have already eaten several cubes.
Krshia sits across from me, with Brunkr by her side. She’s clearly in charge; she was the only person to ask questions as I told her what happened. Whatever their beef, Brunkr is clearly subordinate to her in this matter.
And there are Gnolls outside. I look towards one of the windows and see a bit of fur disappear. Gnolls are standing outside the apartment, maybe even on the roofs. I doubt it’s an ambush. I think they’re listening in on our conversation.
Small wonder. The news I have is bad, as bad as it gets. I can tell that just from the look on Krshia and Brunkr’s face.
“A Goblin Lord.”
That’s what Krshia says after I finish. She stares down into her cup of tea, untouched, as her nephew clenches his fist. She looks up at me gravely, and I nod.
“A Goblin Lord. And he’s got an army.”
“An army strong enough to defeat Zel Shivertail. It is an ill thing. Worse, he has slain the Stone Spears tribe to the last.”
Krshia’s eyes flick to Mrsha. Mrsha’s sitting next to Erin, but she seems uneasy around Krshia. No more than Krshia and Brunkr seem uneasy around her, though. They keep looking at her.
Because of the fur?
“These are dark tidings you bring us, Ryoka Griffin. But I am grateful you speak to us of what has passed instead of letting others spread the news.”
I nod, my attention back on Krshia. In truth, I have no idea what this Gnoll is like. I knew Urksh, fairly well for someone who’d only spent four days in his company. But Krshia is a stranger, for all Erin says she’s ‘nice’. I have to watch her, and at the same time, I have to help. A good start is being honest.
“I owe them. The Stone Spears tribe saved my life. Their Chieftain was kind to me.”
Krshia nods. She closes her eyes for a second, and I see a bit of pain cross her features.
“I knew Urksh. He was not the strongest Chieftain, not as a warrior, but he was wise. That he is gone is a true loss.”
“That the tribe is gone is a disaster.”
Brunkr growls as he clenches his fist. No tea for him. He looks at me, eyes full of passion and fury.
“What of the mining expedition? They may yet live. Gnolls will not die to Goblins so easily.”
I shift in my seat and shake my head.
