[Primeval Path of Malefic Origins (Unique)] – A unique path between the Primordial known as the Malefic Viper and his Chosen, Jake Thayne. Allows you to experience Records related to the Path of the Malefic Viper, relying on your current insights and direct connection as a Chosen of the Malefic Viper. Focusing on any Malefic Viper Legacy skill, event, or people related to the Malefic Viper’s Origin will allow you to peer into the True Records of the past as you journey through time, space, and reality to experience history firsthand. Limitations on Record Fragment selection may apply. Be warned that gains are not guaranteed, and while the journey cannot harm you directly, the journey may cause harm or have lasting effects – a risk you willingly take as you seek to uncover mysteries of the past. May you walk with confidence as you unwind the threads of the unknown, seeking power through discovery and enlightenment. Gains 1 use every 20 levels. Any skill, event, or person can be chosen only once. Current uses remaining: 0

Here, the difference between before and after was far more noteworthy. The flavor text had changed a lot, removing references to Jake being a heretic and instead switching to more Origin-related stuff. Of course, Jake didn’t care much about that, as what truly mattered was its effects.

Before, it allowed him to experience the Records related to the Legacy of the Malefic Viper, while now it allowed him to experience Records related to the Path of the Malefic Viper. The difference between the two didn’t seem significant, but Jake had a strong feeling he would come to realize it was.

Besides that, his new Primeval Path of Malefic Origins allowed him to choose far more subjects for the skill, and he also noted how it had changed from Jake being able to focus on “an individual” to “people,” making him consider if he could choose more than one person at once. Perhaps a scenario where two people interacted.

What he could see also seemed to have expanded, as what he would experience was related to the Malefic Viper’s Origin. At least to Jake, that seemed a lot broader.

Overall, Primeval Path, as he was just going to call it from now on, was much of the same, just better than before. Jake was definitely looking forward to experiencing what he could do with it after its upgrade. Sadly, he had no charges and would have to wait, well, a little less time than he initially thought he would, as he was already halfway to the next charge. Yay, free unexpected levels.

With these two skills covered, Jake finally got to the new skill he’d gained alongside his Primeval Alchemist of Malefic Origins. Jake didn’t know what to expect, especially not after seeing that it was yet another unique rarity skill.

[Lesser Primeval Energy Manipulation (Unique)] – The Path of a Primeval Alchemist is one never walked before, not because no one has ever wanted to, but because no one ever had the qualifications. You uniquely do, having access to Primeval Origin Energy. Allows the Primeval Alchemist to create and control an inferior version of Primeval Origin Energy known as Lesser Primeval Energy. This energy is far less potent than Primeval Origin Energy, but also significantly easier to control and manipulate, at a fraction of the cost. Using this energy in alchemical creations has unknown effects, allowing you to explore and uncover aspects of your innate abilities. Creating items using Lesser Primeval Energy has an extremely high chance of making them Soulbound. Adds a noticeable increase to the potency of Lesser Primeval Energy based on all stats. Adds a noticeable increase to the effectiveness of Willpower, Perception, and Wisdom when using Leser Primeval Energy Manipulation.

So, if Jake was reading this directly, it was the system giving him a safer, more efficient way to use his Primeval Origin Energy by providing him with a lesser version of it. Using Primeval Origin Energy was extremely risky, as shown by him fucking up Palate, but the cost was also pretty damn high, with it taking a long time to restore used Primeval Origin Energy. Experimenting with it seemed incredibly unwise and overly risky, but now the system had come in and given him so many options by providing a type of energy to experiment with while wearing safety wheels.

Rather than using a bazooka, he now had a handgun to teach him how to shoot. It was no doubt still a dangerous tool that Jake had to be careful about using, but he could definitely start trying new things he’d always written off before.

He had always been curious to see what would happen if he mixed Primeval Origin Energy into a poison, and now he had the chance to find out by using the Lesser Primeval Energy instead. Jake was filled with thoughts of how to use it, though he instantly knew that, unlike real Primeval Origin Energy, he shouldn’t expect amazing results when trying to affect the evolutions of other creatures.

Raising his hand, Jake tried to condense a bit of this Lesser Primeval Energy. He faintly felt himself do so, as the air above his hand shimmered, but he quickly frowned. Jake knew he had just produced some, but it had dispersed into nothingness instantly. After a few seconds, Jake seemed to realize the problem.

Like with Primeval Origin Energy, he needed a medium to infuse this energy into. Jake was tempted to start taking items out here and now to get experimenting, but, for the umpteenth time that day, he held himself back and exercised patience.

Jake smiled a little, knowing he was going to be one busy alchemist in B-grade with his newfound alchemical Path, and he couldn’t wait to find out what this new type of energy was capable of. However, there was one thing he wanted to find out more than anything else right now.

It was time to find out what kind of hunter Jake was going to be in B-grade as he prepared himself for his class evolution.
