Ashlock felt a foreboding breeze rustle his leaves as Maple was awoken from his slumber and stared down at Vincent.

He hadn't wanted it to come to this, but he'd been left with no choice but to manipulate Maple into helping him. When he had summoned the Worldwalker confined to the body of a mere squirrel many moons ago, his cultivation had been far too pathetic to have control over such a being. But Maple had offered a pact, one of peaceful coexistence.

They wouldn't interfere in each other's business, and when the time came, they were supposed to protect one another.

While mutually beneficial on the surface, it actually heavily favored Ashlock because of a simple fact: Maple wasn't allowed to be here. It was only due to this pact that the Worldwalker could treat the realm as his personal buffet. However, if Ashlock or Stella were to die, the pact would be invalidated, and his system would banish Maple back into the void—and Maple knew this all too well.

The squirrel liked Stella and tolerated Ashlock, but at the end of the day, he was a Worldwalker with his own agenda. While Maple was considered a child by Worldwalker standards, he was an eldritch being who was far above Ashlock's prowess. So, unlike Larry and maybe Nyxalia in the future, Maple was not easily controlled or ordered around. He was incredibly lazy and preferred to conserve his cultivation rather than help them eliminate their foes. But Ashlock needed help from a heavy hitter to finally butcher Vincent Nightrose. He had already tried almost every trump card he had, and Vincent had highlighted a significant weakness in Ashlock's arsenal against stronger foes—the ability to fight against insane regeneration.

While his Abyssal Devourer skill had recently gained a corrosive aura that allowed him to sap Qi and life force from those wrapped up in his vines and void tendrils, it wasn't good enough if the person in question had as much regeneration as a blood cultivator like Vincent. Especially since that skill required the enemy to stay still near his trunk or offspring, which was unlikely to happen when the foe had a higher cultivation level than him. Also, Vincent's regeneration countered his desolation Qi, which was supposed to destroy matter at a high cost. Even Abyssal Whispers did little as Vincent had illusion Qi and had managed to split his soul, so his consciousness was far more resistant to any mind-altering effects.

Vincent had also flattened Ashlock's Bastions as if they had been toys. His Ents had no hope of fighting the 8th stage Nascent Soul cultivator except maybe Anubis, but he wanted to preserve them for the beast tide, especially after what had happened to Hades.

This led to the current situation. Ashlock had taken a risk and let Vincent inflict a large, painful cut in his trunk that was oozing cursed sap and Qi, which forced Maple to finally awaken from his long slumber and honor the pact they had made.

Vincent, in Valandor's body, was utterly frozen in fear, as if his soul was held in Maple's gaze. The mythical white squirrel let out a small snort before hopping off Stella's head, causing Vincent to step back slowly. The cultivator's eyes narrowed as he studied the small white squirrel. Clearing his throat, Vincent spoke cautiously, "Ancient being, I don't believe there is any malice between us."

"You're right, there isn't."

Maple's form shimmered, expanding upwards like a puff of smoke until it coalesced into an androgynous figure standing a head shorter than Stella and Vincent. Silken white hair cascaded down his shoulders, crowned by large, tufted ears. He looked up at Vincent, clutching a lush, snow-white squirrel's tail coiled around him like an expensive coat.

Despite the height difference and Maple's childlike appearance, he radiated the aura of a dangerous being. His golden eyes gleamed with a predatory glint, shrouded by a tranquil, timeless power.

Vincent didn't dare move a muscle, captivated by Maple's gaze, as if looking away would spell his death.

Maple's face was utterly emotionless as he reached forward with his slender hand and gently placed the tips of his fingers on Vincent's chest. "I didn't plan to deal with you personally, as I don't like to interfere with the threads of fate," Maple said, his voice smooth yet edged with irritation. "But you just won't give it up." He pushed forward, and his fingers sunk impossibly through Vincent's flesh as if he were made of nothing but blood.

"How are you doing that—AH! Stop!" Vincent gasped as he looked down. For the first time, Ashlock saw genuine fear in Vincent's eyes. An emotion he didn't know the cultivator could feel as Maple reached into his chest.

"I can't." Maple said emotionlessly, as if talking about the weather, "Stopping here would invalidate my pact with this spirit tree. You hurt the one being you shouldn't have, and you also have the desire to kill another that I cannot let you hurt. You were always doomed to die here by my hand."

"But the threads of fate. They told me if I killed Stella Crestfallen and bathed in her blood, I could live. I never saw your presence—"

"That's because the threads of fate don't include me."

Vincent's eyes widened in utter terror as Maple ripped his hand back.

There was a drawn-out silence as everyone was mesmerized by the soft pounding of the still-beating spiritual heart held tightly in his fingers. He then broke his gaze with Vincent and looked up into Ashlock's Evil Eye.

"You used me, Ashlock. But I forgive you. This is a worthwhile snack to wake up for." His jaw widened, showing off many rows of teeth, and he bit into Vincent's spiritual heart. It squished before popping in his mouth.

Vincent silently screamed as he collapsed to his knees in utter despair as life seemed to drain from his face, and he slowly took on an ethereal appearance.

Maple licked his bloody lips and yawned. "I'm going back to sleep. I assume you can handle the rest." Transforming back into a squirrel, Maple leaped up and found a thick branch to curl up and sleep on.

"Seriously. Thank you, Maple," Ashlock said, and the squirrel's ear twitched as if acknowledging his words.

While his gamble with getting Maple involved paid off, he paid the price of Maple devouring one of Vincent's spiritual hearts. However, if the pounding coming from the kneeling man was any indication, he still had one left to go. Vincent was not yet dead, just reduced to his infant soul. A state where Ashlock could finally deal with him personally. Until now, he had been unable to use Spatial Lock to secure Vincent in place as there had been two frequencies to match due to the two spiritual hearts and the fact that Vincent's cultivation far surpassed his own.

But that had now changed. With the removal of one heart and Vincent being reduced to his weaker Nascent Soul state, it was time to finally put this enemy to rest.

Until now, he had been holding back to bait Vincent into attacking him to get Maple involved, but now there was no need to hide.

His Inner World, which was supposed to be a privilege of Monarch Realm cultivators, began radiating waves of power that he aimed at Vincent. The kneeling man who was fading into a spirit seemed to feel the sudden soul pressure bearing down on him as his head snapped backward, and he stared into Ashlock's Evil Eye in disbelief.

As the waves of power matched the frequency of Vincent's spiritual heartbeat, he was now locked in place. He couldn't use any techniques to escape Ashlock's clutches.

"You're in the Monarch Realm?" Vincent muttered, but then he seemed to realize something even more horrifying. "No, your Qi is weaker than mine. How do you possess such soul pressure?"

"I formed an Inner World early."

"How?!" Vincent rose to his feet despite the pressure bearing down on him in rage. "I have been stuck in the Nascent Soul Realm for as long as there have been some stars in the sky. I have searched every corner of the realm for answers. Only a few known beings have formed Inner Worlds on this layer of creation! The World Tree and its Council and the Frostbound Monarch of the Frozen Star Sect. None of them were willing to give their secrets to me. So how could some random tree like you do it? I demand to know!"

Ashlock had no plans of telling this fool about his system, so he decided to send the man to the afterlife with as much regret as possible. "The Crestfallen bloodline has all the answers." He activated his Abyssal Devourer skill. The void crept out of his trunk, and thorn-covered vines and void tendrils emerged from the darkness and impaled Vincent's enraged spirit as if anchoring him to the mortal world. "Unfortunately, your story ends here."

"I refuse." Vincent snarled as his soul body shuddered, and his presence rose tenfold as he stood despite the vines and tendrils impaling him. Twisting around, causing some of them to snap, he faced Stella. Lunging forward, he gripped her neck and grinned while throttling her. "The arrogance to stand so close to me thinking you could live while watching me die. I'm the one who let you live and prosper in my sect. I practically raised you, yet this is how you repay me? Die for me, you bitch—!"

"You didn't raise shit."

Vincent coughed up a mouthful of blood as the tip of a sword wreathed in aether Qi poked out of his chest. "What...?" he looked over his shoulder at Stella standing there, then back at the Stella he was throttling. "Did you trick me?"

"You have been playing into our hands since the beginning. It's almost too easy, as you're a slave to your own nature," Stella said as she placed a foot on his back and brutally withdrew her sword in a shower of blood.

Vincent let out a startled grunt as he kneeled over.

"You're so arrogant you don't even bother to remember the faces of those you deem weaker. All you follow is your sense of smell despite already being tricked once in Tartarus. I've been in front of you many times, yet you overlooked me. Just like now."

It was strange. Ashlock knew Stella well. He could tell she seemed angry, but not so much about his comment about raising her. No, she seemed infuriated that the man who had caused such grief throughout her entire life didn't even acknowledge her existence. It was as if Vincent was looking past her.

"You lie." Vincent cursed her, "You're nothing but an illusion." He looked up and gestured with his chin to the one he still had his hands around, "I know this is the real you. I can smell it—"

Bob the slime, who had taken on the vague shape of Stella and absorbed some of her blood and Qi, collapsed into a puddle at Vincent's feet. The real Stella standing behind Vincent still had her Phantom Veil Pendant hanging from her neck, making her appear as nothing but a mortal without a bloodline.

"No, this isn't possible... I'm one of the strongest cultivators in all of the wilderness..." Vincent hissed as he clutched the hole in his chest that had gone cleanly through his soul. "I refuse to fall for such a cheap trick. There's no way I was slain by a weak girl like you. Swords can't even cut souls."

"Is that so? I'm going to have to disagree. A while ago, after failing to kill Nox, I vowed to be able to cut anything, whether that be savage monsters, scheming cultivators, lost souls, or reality itself." Stella slowly raised her sword overhead like an executioner. As the world darkened with the coming of night, her anger faded and was replaced with a genuine smile. "Vincent Nightrose, I hate you with all my heart. But in a twisted way, you pushed me to become stronger all for this moment—where I can finally kill you."

"To treat someone like me as a mere stepping stone?!" Vincent glared at Stella with an indescribable hatred that could transcend realms, "Does your unearned pride know no bounds?!"

"Fate is funny like that sometimes." Stella closed her eyes and took a deep breath. Letting it out in a relaxed manner, her eyes slowly opened, and she met Vincent's rage calmly. "This is goodbye, Vincent. Thank you for everything."

"You dare—" Before he could finish replying, Stella's sword, wreathed in ghostly white flames, descended upon him in a blinding arc like a reaper's scythe. The blade met Vincent's skull, and for a fleeting instant, Vincent seemed to finally face reality as he sensed the finality of death quickly approaching. But that realization was all too late.

The blade phased through his flesh as though the very fabric of his being was being sliced. White flames surged along the sword's path as it carved a merciless line down his body. Bone cracked, flesh parted, and reality was split. The cut was flawless, the two halves of Vincent separating like pages of a book. His split face contorted into a grotesque expression of hatred, his mouth frozen in an unfinished scream.

For a single heartbeat, Vincent stood in defiance as two halves. But then, as his spiritual heart let off one final beat, his sundered body fell apart. The left half toppled to the ground, followed by the right, a pool of steaming blood mixing with the void beneath him. The white flames of Stella's strike flickered briefly in the air before the cut through the aether faded, leaving only silence... and the finality of Vincent's death.

Stella fell to her knees as if all the strength had left her body. "It's... over."

"It's over," Ashlock mirrored, almost in disbelief himself. It had taken nearly everything he had to kill this bastard, but they had done it.

Vincent Nightrose, a threat that had loomed over them since the start, was dead.

As if having waited for this final moment, golden words crawled through the air, and his sign-in system notified him that a day had passed. But this time, it was special.

Idletree Daily Sign-In System

Day: 3653

Daily Credit: 10

Sacrifice Credit: 3970

[Sign in?]

[Congratulations, Ashlock. You have survived 10 years as a tree. Updating status screen.]

[Demonic Demi-Divine Tree (Age: 10)]

