[Nascent Soul Realm: 5th Stage]

[Soul Type: Nine Moons(Desolation)]

"I've spent a whole decade as a tree." Ashlock couldn't believe it as he looked down at Stella, his adopted daughter. They had first met when she had been a terrified seven-year-old, abandoned by her parents and surrounded by servants who had wanted to kill her. He had tried his best to help, but at the time, he had been nothing but a two-year-old demonic spirit sapling with {Devour [C]}, {Basic Spirit Sight [F]} and {Basic Meditation [F]} as his only skills.

Despite all the enemies and tribulations they had faced in the last decade, they had stuck through it together and made it to this point. So much had changed since they were a half-blind sapling and a terrified little girl fighting for survival on a half-forgotten mountain peak.

Ashlock had transformed Red Vine Peak into the land of a Divine Level sect, overseen by a god that was worshiped by millions. He had exploded in power, reaching the mid-stages of the Nascent Soul Realm, forming an Inner World, and comprehending many daos while expanding his reach across the realm.

Meanwhile, Stella was nearing the Nascent Soul Realm herself, and she'd gained a new affinity and understood her bloodline on a deeper level.

But more importantly than any of that—under his ever-expanding canopy, he had worked hard to create a place for the both of them. Now, Stella finally had people she could depend on and a safe place she could call home.

"Tree, are you still there."

"Yes, Stella. I'm here."

"Thank you for letting me have the final blow." She looked at him, her bright smile stained by a tear rolling down her cheek. "You hurt yourself to force Maple to take out one of Vincent's hearts, right? And then you restrained him and drained him so he would be weak enough for me to kill."

Ashlock sighed, "Figured me out, huh."

In truth, it would have been a struggle and a massive waste of the Qi he was using to try and hold back the beast tide right now to kill Vincent all by himself. But if it had come down to it, he could have killed Vincent without the help of Maple.

But Vincent wasn't his demon to be slain.

It was Stella's.

"Thank you, Tree." She wiped the tears of relief flowing down her face, "For raising me, feeding me, protecting me... everything." Stella reached into the pool of blood at her feet and pulled out the Bloodiron sword. Holding it up with both hands, she presented it to him, "And happy birthday."

Ashlock reached forward with an ethereal root and gently wrapped it around her hands and the sword's handle.

"A more gruesome birthday celebration than I was expecting," Ashlock chuckled, "But I wouldn't trade it for the world."

To his surprise, his system chimed in when he held the sword.

[This Bloodiron sword has absorbed the lingering vengeful spirit of Vincent Nightrose. If fostered, the sword will gain an ego and be able to grow in power alongside its owner. Do you wish to name this soul sword?]

Ashlock found it rather amusing that Vincent had felt so enraged during his death, he had refused to move on. Repeating what his system had told him to Stella, she thought for a second before suggesting, "The sword of new beginnings?"

"I like that," Ashlock said. It sure fit the occasion, as while the beast tide was bearing down on them, the slaying of Vincent felt like the end of an era.

[Name recorded. A new section has been added to your status screen]

[Soul Weapons…]

{The Sword of New Beginnings [?]}

[Since the sword's ego is yet to manifest, its current grade and potential are unknown]

Ashlock acknowledged the system messages before dismissing them. There was something he needed to say.

"I'm sorry this is our first time doing this, but happy 17th birthday, Stella." Ashlock paused, "I would give you your present, but Elder Mo is still making it."

Stella smirked as she withdrew her hand from his sword handle. With a flash of silver, she brought out the sword she had just used to kill Vincent from her spatial ring. That was when Ashlock realized he had shattered her sword a week ago, so she could not still possess it. Unless this was a new one.

"The sword you used to kill Vincent..."

"Yep," Stella beamed. "It was your birthday gift. I couldn't wait, so I paid Elder Mo a visit and got it early." She balanced it on her shoulder and did a twirl, her short hair lifting briefly and showing off the maple leaf earrings he had gifted her all those years ago. "How do I look?"

"Like a daughter I can be proud of."

Stella groaned, "That's such a lame dad answer."

Ashlock chuckled as she dismissed the sword and wandered over to the bench under his canopy. She looked at the rather unremarkable bench for a few seconds before slothfully lying on it and stretching out like a satisfied cat. She let off one of the longest yawns he had ever heard.

"Goodnight Tree." She murmured.

"Sleep well," Ashlock replied as she drifted off to sleep with a blissful smile. As much as he wanted to sleep as well under the nine moons, there was much cleanup to be done.

His void tendrils and vines wrapped around what was left of Vincent's body, devouring it for credits and Qi, which he both desperately needed. As the credits and Qi flooded in, he looked to the distant horizon. While it was seemingly safe and peaceful now with Vincent dead. The raging storm all around was a constant reminder of the impending doom.

"I will need to upgrade a few skills to ensure this beast tide is an opportunity rather than the end of the Ashfallen Sect." Ashlock mused but then paused as he heard a rustling in his leaves.

[Harbinger of the Eternal Ash: Larry [SS] has completed his evolution]

"Master! You're hurt," the voice of his guardian beast roared out like an angered god. "Who did it? Where is Vincent? This servant shall reduce that vermin to ash!"

"Hush, Larry. You'll wake up Stella." Ashlock sighed, "The battle... it's already over. You missed it."

"It's over?" His faithful guardian said in disbelief.

"Yeah," Ashlock replied with a hint of pride, "We won the battle..." He looked to the heavens, "But not the war. There's still much to be done until we can relax in true peace. Larry, I hope you're hungry because there's an all-you-can-eat buffet on the way. The only question is whether we are the devourers or the helpless prey."

Larry fully emerged from Ashlock's canopy in all his radiant glory and hung his head low. "I failed you today, Master. But on my life, I swear," his voice was low and foreboding as he spoke in the ancient tongue and raised his head to look at him. His eyes glowed with a divine power, and his halo of ash spun with certainty. "Even if the heavens were to fall upon us, I would defend you and Stella until my last ash."

Ashlock swiveled his eye to look at Stella. Her chest rose and fell, and her light breath played with a strand of hair as she blissfully slept, unaware of Larry's conviction. Raising an ethereal root, he moved the strand away from her mouth.

"Thanks, Larry. Your loyalty has been boundless since the day the system united us," Ashlock said as he looked at his most loyal guardian, "It's not easy, but it's for brief moments of peace like this that are worth fighting for."
