A bone-white glint flickered through the air, and something long and sharp struck Galeth in the back. A deafening crack split the darkness as the huge tank was slammed into the ground with so much force that his plate armor dented and rock fragments burst into the air, leaving his body spraying blood at the bottom of a wide crater.

“Hells!” someone swore.

A tall, shadowy figure turned to regard Aiden, grinning from tusk to tusk. It had skin of pitch black, indistinct and blurred as it grasped deeper shadows about its form. Its face was painted with a stylized white skull that matched the two-foot-long bone dagger in its hand, its white, spiky mohawk, and white, gleaming tusks. The stench of undead rolled off it in waves, making Aiden gag.

Fetish-Painted Assassin – Undead Troll – level 132.

“Undead!”

“Fuck me!” Belmar yelled, burning his recharges to try to save Galeth, but the assassin spun about, raising the dagger, and with uncanny speed and power, it stabbed downward at the stricken tank lying broken and bleeding at his feet.

It felt like slow motion, and yet it was over in an instant. The dagger fell as Galeth struggled to raise his shield in time, but at the last instant, a flash of green skin shot past, and brilliant yellow-white magic shone out, pushing back the shadows as the bone dagger struck against a holy shield with a loud, gong-like ringing crash.

“Havok!” Havok yelled, incongruously using his own name as a battle cry. Then he stabbed the undead troll with the brilliant holy light of his Smite skill wreathing his sword, drawing a howl of pain from the undead monster. Havok backed up, drawing the troll away from the stricken tank, giving the healers time to finish their strongest spells.

“Holy shit,” Kaitlyn exclaimed. “That was Overpowering Strike and Human Slayer combined with Ambush!”

“And Backstab,” the visiting rogue added. “And Adrenaline. Galeth is lucky to be alive.”

As Galeth shakily got to his feet, Aiden could see the smaller hole punched through the back of his breastplate, and the much larger exit wound of bent fragments of enchanted steel ripped out of the front where the force of the blade-strike had exited, crushing the very ground beneath him. Even as he watched, the tortured metal bent outward, pressed by the tank’s rapidly healing body, his sheer endurance, and his affinity for metal.

“Havok has him,” Aiden said. “Attack. Don’t let him re-stealth.”

He took a deep breath, relieved that it had just been a very close call, and not a death he would need to report to the guild. Danger levels just spiked…

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
