The main road was filled with independent street vendors.

We walked for about 10 minutes in the direction of the city's center.

It became very clear to me that most of the shops around the train station were mostly for tourists and small time hunters.

It was filled with scammers and con men. What can you really expect? Business is business. That's the way the world works.

As we walked further in, there were less people out on the streets. The buildings became much taller, it looked like they were mostly allocated for office space.

We turned a street corner and I saw a massive mall. There were escalators that connected at least 10 floors of shopping areas. The floors were a smooth white color and the walls connecting each new floor were made of a thick clear glass. The curved silver steel beams that held everything together were incorporated into the building design. It looked very futuristic.

We took an escalator up to the 6th floor. Maria and I were fascinated by the scenery.

The shops sold mana crystals, swords, armor, shields, and much more.

People here were a lot more civilized and dressed much nicer than the town market. This must be the designer district. Higher class items are sold here. Makes sense.

As we arrived to the 6th floor Rei motioned for us to get off the moving stairs and to follow her.

We walked along a balcony with a clear glass barrier. There was an open hole in the center of the mall, it was doughnut shaped. Looking up there was a blue sky, looking downwards we could see the bottom floor. It's an incredible building.

We kept walking along the balcony until a large storefront came into view. It seemed to be a separate shopping area closed off by a white wall, I couldn't see inside.

Rei talked to a security guard outside and showed him a card. The guard nodded and opened the door.

We walked in.

It was a large shopping center with organized gear on each wall and display tables. Rei spoke up.

"Alright, give me about 30 minutes. Im going to stock up on gear for the guild."

Maria and I nodded.

I overheard a few employees and some of Rei's previous conversation.

This seems to be a high end magical item store, but its customer base is exclusively bulk buyers from guilds.

They must offer good deals.

Maria and I wandered around the store looking at all the equipment.

There were display tables full of potions and interesting looking stones and items.

I saw a wall completely covered in glistening silver swords.

There was even an accessory table that had all kinds of rings, bracelets, and necklaces with a variety of attributes.

There is nothing like this back home. The capital is amazing!

Maria's was mesmerized as well.

It all seemed to be high grade E and D Class gear. There wasn't much here that was mind blowing. It was just the fact that there was so much of it in one place. I assume there are other shops with higher grade gear, but it wouldn't be worth the guild's money to buy those in bulk.

"Alright. That didn't take too long did it?"

Rei came over to us while tightening a large leather pouch around her waist.

I raised an eyebrow.

"That's an item box right? It looks a lot bigger than mine? How much can it carry?"

She grinned.

"You're right. It's a lower grade C Class item box. Holds up to 100 items. I filled it to the brim. We have enough swords and potions to last a few months."

I nodded.

"Wow. Good to know."

Maria interrupted.

"Hey! Now that we got the guild's shopping out of the way where can we go to that shop? I want to get that sword you told me about. It's here right??"

Rei nodded.

I looked to Maria with a bit of confusion.

"A Sword? You're able to handle a sword now? I remember the last time you tried to carry mine, the floor nearly broke!"

Maria went a bit red in the face.

"I can actually! Rei said there are light weight swords here, they will be perfect with my ice magic."

"Oh yeah? A special sword shop? Let's go check it out. I need to find something new as well."

Rei interjected.

"Okay. Follow me, its on the 8th floor."

We followed.

After 2 escalator rides that took about 5 minutes we made it to floor 8.

There were quite a few people on this floor. All the shops were open to the public and many items were out on display.

We walked over to a shop with tall glass doors and were greeted by a woman in a suit and tie. An odd sight, but it wasn't too out of place here I guess.

"Welcome to Apollo's Sword Shop. May I see your Hunter's Licenses."

We handed her our cards and she escorted us to a counter with dozens of silver swords behind it.

"We have an E, D, and a C Class here. Get them what they need."

She spoke to a man behind the counter wearing a suit identical to hers. His eyes perked up.

"Who needs a sword? What can I do for you?"

Maria and I both raised a hand. I spoke up.

"Both of us, but take care of her first. I'll look around the shop."

He nodded and started asking Maria a ton of questions. I zoned out of the conversation and started eyeing a few swords in the nearby display cases.

I needed a good replacement sword, but I don't have the money to get anything too crazy. I reached in my item box and counted what I had, the total was 43 silver. I left a good amount at home, I didn't want to blow my whole savings.

This can get me a good sword. I remembered back to the auction, I can probably get something with a 100-150 strength stat. That's all I'm looking for. It'll be a good upgrade from my last sword, but its better that I don't get too attached to my weapons. They do break...

There were clear markings on the walls showing what the range of stats on different items in display cases held. I could tell there were private rooms in the back too, that must be where their VIP customers make expensive deals. Interesting.

I came upon a D Rank Long Sword display case.

A shining silver sword with a black handle caught my eye.

A younger man caught me eyeing it.

"Hey! My name's Marco! That's a nice sword you're looking at. It has a 125 strength boost, I can sell it to you for 30 silver.

"Can I hold it?"

"Yeah sure. Just know, if ya break it ya buy it."

I chucked.

"Yeah, yeah."

The man handed me the sword off the wall and I gave it a good feel.

It was heavier than my last sword, but I could instantly feel the strength upgrade surging through me. This sword has some strong magic. I like it.

"Give me it for 25, it's a decent sword."

The man grinned. He knew I was hooked.

"Ahhh so you're the bartering type. You from out of town or what?"

"Yeah, came in this morning. It's my first time in the city. Well, at least first time in a while. So, 25?"

The man shook his head.

"28. I can bring it down 2 sliver that's it."

"Come on, i need it closer to 25. How about 26? That's all I have on me. I need to get lunch later ya know."

Clearly a lie, but that's how you barter. He knows it too.

"27. That's the lowest I can go. With a sword like this you can kill your own lunch."

"Fine. 27, but I want a nice sheath with it too. Black to match the handle."

"Deal."

"Great."

We shook on it and the man went over to a nearby display case to find a sheath. I counted out 27 silver and had it out on the table before he got back.

We completed the deal just like that. I nodded to the man again and put my new sword on my back.

That was easy, didn't need to search around too much. I got what I needed.

I walked back over to where I left Maria. There were about half a dozen sword laid out on the tabled.

Maria had a look of concentration on her face. She was clearly having trouble deciding which one to get.

This is the difference between men and women shopping. It makes me go crazy sometimes.

I watched Maria pick up each of the 6 swords at least 10 more times and swing them around.

Almost 20 minutes went by. I was just happy to be out and about, it didn't bug me too much today. She can take all the take she wants.

"Alright. I think I like this one. I'll take it!"

Maria finally picked out a sword. She stood holding a long and thin silver sword. When she swung it, there wasn't even the slightest sound. It seems to be a custom made sword.

"That will be 10 silver."

The salesman looked at her and smiled. Maria reached into her small bag and pulled out a few silver coins.

"There you go! Thanks!"

She purchased a white sheath as well. With an agile movement she slung the sword over her back. The three of us started walking out of the store.

She didn't even try to haggle the price down. Whatever works for her I guess. There was one thing I was curious about.

"Hey Maria! Where do you make your money? That's an expensive sword for an E Class."

She smiled.

"Pace has been paying me for dungeon diving lately. I've been saving up!"

"Pace pays you???"

She looked confused.

"Y-Yeah. I have an exclusive student contract. They're obligated to pay me."

I thought for a moment. I guess exclusive contracts with a salary would make sense. I don't get paid because I never even asked to...

"Ahhh okay. Makes sense."

We walked out the front door of the store and Rei stopped in front of us.

"Do you two want to test out those new weapons?"

Maria and I looked at each other. We shrugged and nodded eagerly.

Rei grinned.

"Follow me. I know just the place to put those blades to use. This is going to be fun."

I looked at her with curiosity.

"Are there dungeons nearby?"

Rei kept a smug grin on her face.

"There are, but that's not exactly where we're going. Trust me, you'll like this place."

She hopped on an escalator moving downwards and we followed.

I wonder where we're going to test out our new weapons in the capital?

Wherever it is, Im looking forward to it. I'll get to see Maria in action for the first time too. This day is about to get even more exciting!
