Murmurs spread across the group. In the background, a portal opened before Helios stepped out with Florence. The albony both brushed themselves off before Florence spread his hands wide.

"Ah, it's so good to be back among friends. What did we miss?"

Plazia tapped the side of his head.

"Everything. As usual."

Helios stared down at Plazia.

"We were busy uplifting our entire species from enslavement and purgatory. Excuse the lateness. Speaking of, we need several cities erected across the moon if there's time for it."

Helios spread his arms to me and bowed. Sarcasm dripped from his words.

"But of course, when your lordship can give us a moment, that is."

I weighed my hand back and forth.

"I can give you guys a couple cities before heading back out. Before that, let's catch you up on the meet-up."

I got them back up to speed. As I finished, Helios crossed his arms. He shook his head.

"You're all demanding Daniel take a safe route to success? Have you all lost your minds? Need I remind you that he is insane. He's been insane since we've met. Before then, as well, from what I've gathered."

Helios looked at everyone like lost children.

"Why would any of you think he'll listen to reason? He's a lunatic. A madman. A raving deviant."

Everybody looked at each other and nodded. I was taken aback. Helios shook his head in exasperation.

"So stop being fools and help the idiot. He needs it. Desperately. To begin, someone will create a branch dedicated to testing these runes on his dimensional fabric. Pieces that get out of hand can be lobbed into his dimensional storage or destroyed. Promising pieces can then be used on his golems. So on and so forth until we reach the genuine article."

Torix nodded.

"Hm. That sounds far more reasonable."

Helios pointed at Amara.

"You understand the sigils better than anyone here. Use that strength on something that actually matters rather than your playpen with the eldritch."

Plazia let out a long cackle while Amara steamed. Helios turned to Plazia.

"We all know you were too afraid to face down the Spatial Fortress-"

I raised a hand.

"Ahem. Hybrid Star."

Helios rolled his eyes.

"Whatever. Plazia, you have no room to criticize others when your weaknesses are so glaring. Krog, Chrona, you should've already offered to help Daniel with terraforming the planet you and the gialgathens will likely be colonizing. Get your kind more involved and moving. Remember this. You can rely on slaves no longer. We are the same."

The retired generals stared at each other before giving him a nod. Helios turned his palm to Diesel.

"You've been hard at work with the infrastructure project. I've seen multiple cities connected, and it's built so that it can handle much larger scales. We'll need your assistance on the moon once you've established the larger pieces here."

Diesel gave him a salute.

"Now that's something I can actually do. In a spacesuit, of course. And with golem guards."

Helios gave him a rare smile before glaring at me in disgust.

"And you. You're the leader of this guild. It is fine to accept counsel, but there's no reason to beg these people for permission. They, despite their abilities and merits, haven't achieved what you have. It is insane to watch you stand here like some trembling cub when all of us may be killed by you at any time."

Plazia let out a dark, echoing chuckle while Shalahora's body rippled for a moment. Helios put a fist against my chest.

"There are times and places to listen. This isn't one of them."

At that moment, something dawned on me. Helios had ruled a planet with a developed society, and he'd done it to a high standard. He had over a decade of experience in the task, and that confidence shined through in meetings like this. From understanding what needed to be done to who needed to do it, he broke down a task into slices and allocated the jobs to who could handle it best.

It left me with little to say but a lot to learn, so I lifted a fist in response. Helios gave me a nod before Florence clapped his hands.

"Good. With the business side of our endeavors handled, let's enjoy the moment we have together after all this time."

Plazia leaned to him.

"We are no family. We are not even friends."

Tension passed over everyone. Florence stepped up to the hivemind.

"You are exactly right. We're more than blood ties or relationships built on casual moments. We're brothers and sisters of the legion, and we're here to turn the path of this entire universe, aren't we?"

Plazia said nothing. Florence put a hand on the eldritch's shoulder.

"That's what weaves our paths together. A singular purpose to change the status quo. It stops your hunger. It stops my decadence. It has forged us, and it still makes us. Even now."

Florence turned to everyone. A glass formed in his hand.

"To friends who are closer than family."

His voice trembled at his last word, the absence of his people like an open wound. His vulnerability disarmed Plazia, leaving the hivemind with nothing to add. Florence snapped his fingers, and glasses formed in everyone's palms. We raised our glasses, even Plazia. We spoke as a unit.

"To the legion."

Over the next few hours, I had conversations with everybody. Catching up breathed life into me, and it gave me a renewed sense of purpose. Diesel had spent the last few months building up the grid we erected, my golems turning a decades-long process into something done in months. He kept the guild busy tearing down the old world powerlines and replacing them with the new world tech run by magic.

To my surprise, the aesthetic element held a high priority. From Diesel's perspective, the long-term utility of the project was so evident that only complete zealots would fight against it. Convincing those people required a different angle than mere obvious facts, and Diesel found the project's beautification acted as that angle. It wasn't as if we lacked the resources for it, either.

With his compass, Diesel owned a mobile Architect golem at his fingertips. He collaborated with designers who used the overwhelming manufacturing capacity of his artifact. Lavish layouts turned from exorbitant luxuries to obvious expectations, given how easily they could be sourced and maintained. This allowed him to construct power lines that mirrored the designs of craftsmen from the old world.

Power grids turned from wooden poles and plastic lines to embroidered steel and copper cables. From the copper wires, ivies hung like green curtains and moss coated gaps in the engraved metal pillars. They incorporated the histories of local areas, trying to tie in well-known figures and heroes from past eras.

Local heroes who helped elevate the towns were memorialized, and Diesel blended the local fauna of an area with the pragmatic framework. Spanish moss and palm trees embroidered the South East. Western columbine and Oregon grape covered the lines of the North West. Merry bells and maidenhair ferns adorned our cities in the North East, and Firecracker Penstemon grew on the projects alongside yucca and Texas Mountain Laurels in the South West.

It was an incredible fact about conquering a territory - a bit of botanical work and historical respect made it a lot easier to win people over. That's why flowers and trees were bent and molded around everything, giving the new infrastructure an ancient and natural feel. Diesel even kept the local area's aesthetic, using the older, more differentiated versions of a place than their more modern counterparts.

It sounded incredible, but I had questions. I put my hands on my hips as he finished describing the process.

"Doesn't that slow everything down? These people need power and water now."

Diesel shook his head with a smile teasing his lips.

"Will people use these utilities if we just make them? Maybe. Maybe not. It's based on how much they trust us. Where do we get that kind of trust? By making everything beautiful. It helps mitigate one of the biggest problems with this project - the people we're saving don't think of our takeover as helping."

I took a breath.

"They don't. How?"

"We're a heavily armored and well-stocked invasion force. Even when we build them wells and give them back electricity, the golems you've sent are still silent messengers of what happens should they resist. It's threatening no matter how you slice it."

I grimaced.

"Damn. Maybe I can redesign-"

Diesel hit my side by swinging his compass on its chain.

"No. You've got a lot on your plate. Let us handle it."

I raised a hand.

"But it wouldn't be-"

He hit me again. Diesel rolled his eyes.

"I can tell you've never worked in management. You actually remind me of one of my old managers at my waterworks company. He was a guy who excelled at every position and was extremely productive. He could do five people's jobs all at once. You know, if he was willing to drag himself through the mud to make it happen."

Diesel swung the compass, and it wrapped around his arm like a set of keys on a lanyard.

"What do you think happened to him?"

A shadow went over me.

"He probably died during the culling."

Diesel scoffed.

"He joined us in the fight against Yawm and survived. He's a prolific dungeon clearer now, and he does a lot of solo missions. I'm talking about his time at the water company."

I smiled; the story was one full of more redemption than I expected.

"I'm happy to hear he's doing fine now."

"Me too, but it's worth mentioning that history repeats itself in all kinds of different forms. That's why I'm bringing this up."

I smiled at Diesel. His growing confidence exposed the internal competence hidden under his shyness. I shrugged.

"I don't know. Was he moved into upper management?"

"Nope. He was demoted after being a manager for six months. He kept micromanaging everyone and trying to take over projects that were being handled well enough. The same drive that got him promoted lost him his position and by no genuine, ill-willed fault of his own. I think you match his energy."

I shrugged.

"Eh, you're probably right about that."

Diesel turned to everyone, but he kept our conversation between us.

"I don't mean to be critical here either. What you do is incredible. You're giving everyone a reason to work hard, and sincerely, your work ethic is one of the best parts of this guild. It's hard to come up with excuses when your boss is grinding himself down to the bone all the time."

He met my eye.

"You know what I mean, right? This guild...It gives us all a reason to wake up and get through the hard bits of life. We've really been needing that for a while since the system arrived. Now look at you going off and trying to take that all away. Tsk tsk."

He pointed at me.

"We have a future now. You have to let us buy in on it, so yeah, you don't get to have all the work just to yourself. We all get a piece of that pie."

I swarmed with thought, and my initial reaction was to defend myself. I thought better of it and nodded.

"I'll keep that in mind. Thank you for letting me know."

"Anytime, chief. And uh, I know I said all that, but I'm still terrified of Amara and Plazia. Please keep my squishy body away from them."

I scoffed.

"Actually, I think this is a great opportunity to apply what you just said. You're their new manager. Boom. Duties delegated."

As horror cropped up on Diesel's face, I gave him a satisfied smile.

"Ah, I love listening to my guildmates. I've really got this figured out, huh?"

Diesel gave me a salute.

"It was an honor to serve, sir, but my time here has come to a close."

He and I laughed before Diesel walked off. He wasn't the only one busy.

Althea's orphanage came together during my time away. She connected with several other individuals driven by her purpose, and that expanded her growing network. Those contacts let her spread her reach to more cities, ensuring that more children received reasonable upbringings.

She established training programs for their future Schematization alongside education on everything magical or system-related. Torix helped iron out a holistic curriculum, though Althea had to tone it down by more than a few notches. I added a few tidbits to their studies, mainly bits about leveling certain skills and abusing certain trees.

From what I gathered, that was a key difference between my guild and most forces. We aimed to spread knowledge about the system far and wide. It's what humanity did with the internet, and we weren't stopping anytime soon. Still, even with Althea's intervention in local communities, her schools weren't as extensive as what she and Torix developed on Mt. Verner.

For now, these new institutes far exceeded anything Earth had mustered up. Well, that we'd seen so far. From a few of the scouting reports, our guildmates found pocketed communities grounded by powerful warriors, and they were spread throughout the continents. The more benevolent warlords received our assistance for free, while the more spiteful tyrants were conquered by my legion.

We didn't need to fight often, at least anywhere near New York. After tearing down the guild Marcella Meyer left behind after her obliteration, my guild gained a reputation across the Northeast of North America. Our dominance avoided a lot of fights we'd otherwise have slugged out, but further out from that sphere of influence, the sheer strength of my golems deterred most attacks and assaults from anyone sane.

On the other hand, we experienced quite a bit of resistance near major population centers. I had expected as much. The strongest individuals gathered there. In that regard, cities operated as a filter and as a magnet. In those population centers, the strongest of millions rose to the top, and they surrounded themselves with the same millions to stand on.

