My eyes went distant.

"They're worse than evil."

Hod raised a wing with tremendous confidence.

"Hod think old people not that bad. Hod will say, Hod see old people in dark sometimes. Old people kind of scary, but Hod see their smile the next morning. Hod think them not so bad then."

Hod nodded as if he said something deeply profound. Torix gazed at the sky as if staring at infinity.

"You will survive this, Torix. You must."

Chapter Begin

Chrona tilted her head, her amphibious skin glossy in the light.

"The Old Ones. I've heard you speak of them with our guildmates, and yet, I've never seen nor felt their presence. What are they, exactly?"

I spent a few minutes catching everyone up to speed. As I did, I injected details and my perspective, though I tried to keep myself from being biased. That was a difficult proposition, given my mind-scalping experiences, but I did my best. Chrona gave me a wise nod as I finished.

"That's fascinating. Elysium believes that the mana we rely on is derived from those archaic beings, and that reliance is why Schema's society is as degenerate as it is. In essence, we are tools for the Old Ones' amusement, and they wish to break that cycle."

I sighed.

"They wouldn't be the only ones. I want to as well, but I'm not seeing many outs for our current situation."

Torix paced back and forth in a slow trot.

"This is revolutionary, isn't it?"

I frowned.

"That we're they're puppets?"

Torix spread his arms.

"Oh, come now. We're getting closer to the truth of this universe. That isn't something to be afraid of. It's worthy of celebration."

Althea crossed her arms.

"Yeah, but something we rely on for literally everything comes from things we really don't want to be in contact with."

She shivered.

"Trust me. You don't want them to get in you. Anything they do tends to stick, and I think the Old Ones created a problem before giving us a solution that caused another problem. So yeah, we're stuck, and that sucks."

Torix swiped a hand.

"The problem existed whether we were aware of it or not. The difference lies in our awareness, so instead of perusing through a thick darkness, we now traverse a dense fog. Though the differences seem subtle, we can plan and pursue alternatives to our previous arrangements using this information."

Diesel rubbed his temples.

"Like throwing out all of our technology and going back to the Stone Ages?"

Torix brushed his hand as if getting rid of some rubbish.

"What? No, far from it. We're now able to achieve a level of independence from the Old Ones that few within Schema's system can enjoy. It allows us to filter its obstructions and augment our abilities in a real way, assuming the information is reliable."

I leaned back.

"That's true. We've been using mana this entire time. Knowing its source should help us keep it in check."

Plazia's voice rumbled from the ground.

"You've seen what the Old Ones have done to anyone they can impale their claws through. To assume we will be better off from mere information is mere arrogance."

Torix locked his hands behind himself.

"It's arrogance to assume we know the result of these facts until we've verified them and tested their outcomes. Aside from that, advancement is always something that arrives with risk. However, in our situation, it presents a startling opportunity - we can further filter our mana until it lacks the Old Ones' harmful influence. This is a gift we shouldn't take lightly."

Krog lounged in a sunbathing area above us.

"You speak of opportunity. It reminds me of our story. When Schema first arrived on Giess, we believed it would be a boon for us. The espens were augmented into superior beings. They were able to wield magic and fight monsters. We no longer needed to protect them at all times, and they could be given freedom once they were able to defend themselves."

I raised my brow.

"You guys were defending them? That's a positive spin on what was happening, isn't it?"

Krog's eyes turned to slits.

"My point is that you've seen what happened to our homeworld as a result of Schema's gift. We were turned into cattle, and the espens were assimilated into Elysium before they could develop their own culture. In the end, it did us no favors, and I believe we should be cautious of letting this monster into our home."

Hod raised a hand.

"Hod think monsters already here."

Torix stared at Hod in disbelief.

"For once, I concur with the bird."

Hod made a pose with his wings spread wide.

"Dry man know that Hod smarter than dry man. Hod think it long time coming."

Torix shrugged.

"And as quickly as it came, the moment of agreeance has faded into nothing but a memory. C'est la vi."

Althea kicked her feet from my shoulder.

"You've been reading some pre-Schema books?"

Torix brushed one of his robes.

"It's a part of being cultured, of which I make a point in being regardless of where I am."

Amara hissed her words.

"Pointless dribble. How would we uncover the validity of this information, and who will be the tortured people to unravel the Old Ones' secrets? I will be no test subject for these discoveries, and the eldritch we've captured and experimented on don't deserve this either."

Plazia tilted his head.

"Beyond the ethics involved, it's in our nature to consume and convert. If we unleash the latent potential of mana within an eldritch, it will evolve into an evergrowing mass that may consume all that is and will be. It is a risk not worth taking."

Shalahora murmured over all present.

"You all wear shackles, but your prison contains you. It walls off that which encroaches from outside your comfort. To break these chains is to escape, but it comes alongside an omen of greater dangers. That is why you must all proceed with caution."

Plazia glowered at Shalahora.

"Cryptic as always, hm? You sound as though you understood the truth of this from what you've said. Did you enjoy watching us writhe around in our ignorance? Oh, but you'd rather put it as a kind of darkness, wouldn't you? It would suit the magic you so revel in using."

Shalahora's form rippled.

"It isn't something so simply unveiled. I am privy to knowledge that I cannot share. That is not a metaphor or alliteration. I cannot share it."

The shadows around us crawled in different shapes. I raised my hands.

"You guys are fully grown apocalypses. Act like it and calm the hell down. I, for one, think that if there's anything we can test all this on, it would be me."

Several guildmates yelled out in tandem.

"That is simply foolish, disciple."

"Hod not agree."

"Holy moly, this is above my pay grade. Man, I was supposed to be an engineer after college."

I sighed.

"I have carved the cipher into my skin and channeled mana into my body for years. No one here can boast my level of resilience around this stuff, and that's why I can also test the situation without as many consequences."

Torix snapped.

"You are the center of this guild and the light of your world. If you die, your entire species will be washed into obscurity. The future you've promised them will fall into nothing. This makes you the absolute worst possible test subject with the highest risks involved."

I leaned back as he stepped toward me with an accusing hand. Torix simmered his words.

"I've seen the results of someone with talent believing they may shoulder everything. Someone close to me also believed he would overcome the forces of this universe and be above it all. That's how he was turned into the Lord of Worms instead of fully realizing the potential he held."

Althea flipped off of my shoulder, landing light on her feet.

"I'm not exactly a mana scientist, but I agree with Torix. This is just like you to try and take everything on."

I raised a hand, more than one mind coming together in the conversation.

"Every passing moment, I am channeling billions of mana a second into my body. Despite that, I haven't become some slobbering beast. This body, I think Baldag-Ruhl designed it so that it could assimilate energy without affecting his psyche and soul. It was a way of setting aside his eldritch nature."

Plazia's swarm thudded against the walls of his armor.

"Hm. Baldag was trying to rise above the primal outcome of our kind."

I turned a hand to him.

"And that's why I can take far greater risks than a normal person. My armor has been a mana filter."

Althea furrowed her brow.

"Would you like to watch us do this to ourselves?"

I squeezed one of my hands.

"If you had chosen that path, I would walk it with you. Whether I agreed or not, I wouldn't leave you walking it alone."

Althea took a step back. I turned to the others here.

"I'm dealing with levels of mana that are nearly continental in scale. They'll soon be planetary, then celestial. If I'm going to contain that kind of force, I'm going to need more than the mind and perspective of a human. To protect my guild, I'll be changed into something else. That isn't a choice. It is inevitable. To any that have felt what my mind has become, you know I'm far from a normal mortal now."

A sobering weight settled over us. I frowned.

"Whether you all support me or not, I'll need to make the power I have easier to handle. Filtering the mana would make it so much simpler since I wouldn't need to wrestle the Old Ones' influence all the time. I could lean into getting more mana instead of always trying to contain it."

Torix cupped his chin.

"So you'll effectively be trying to gauge whether or not the influence of the Old Ones can be mitigated and by how much, correct?"

My runes glowed white.

"Yes. I know I don't complain about it much, but I'm working with enough mana to flood a human's mind a hundred times over. Even subtle adjustments to make that easier will take most of my perpetual burden away. It lets me be more human than I am now."

Althea took a breath.

"Ok, these tests will be about making mana easier to handle, not getting you more mana?"

I gave her a smile.

"Yes. In the meantime, we won't turn an eldritch into some super monster with a direct line to an Old One, like Lehesion."

Amara raised a palm to us. Her bloodshot eye glared.

"That is not our failing. Even if we wish for something else, our bodies will rob us of our autonomy if we feast for too long. I have stalled my own growth for that reason."

She glared at Plazia.

"It dims our mind to feed."

Plazia cackled.

"For some of us."

As they kept going at each other, I remembered the mind of the Hybrid Star before it was fully Hybridized. A thousand minds screamed for release, yet the body's urge to survive overwhelmed them all. I peered down.

"It's a haunting life. If you can call it that."

Kessiah rolled her eyes.

"Look, eldritch aren't all things worth saving. Some of the time, you just have to put the suckers down. Also I've known Daniel long enough to know that making the mana easier to manage isn't going to change anything. It just means he'll use more of it until you're right back where you are now."

She pursed her lips.

"No offense."

I raised my palms.

"None taken."

Kessiah threw her hands up and let them slap against her sides.

"Then let me add some stuff to what I said. You tread too close to your edge all the time. One day, you're going to break, and we'll have some immortal, monstrous metal man running around destroying everybody. But you know what's worse? We'll lose a friend. A good one."

My eyes stared into an unseen future.

"That nearly happened on L-7 already, and there's no reason to think someone else isn't going to try and rob me of my body again at some point. It's already happened twice. Well, counting the serious attempts."

A silence passed over the group. Shalahora's voice whispered with force.

"The Old Ones will find a way to claw into Daniel's mind. He is too tantalizing a prospect for many reasons."

Plazia manifested a throne from a pit of magma. He sat with a lazy dominance.

"Such as?"

Shalahora's shadows thrummed in the distance.

"I cannot disclose more than this. Daniel holds mana far too well, and his psyche and will are strong. He will be worn as a puppet, one way or another, should we continue down this path."

Shalahora walked towards the center of the group, his eyes meeting different guildmates.

"Where you all see caution, I see a predestined outcome that leads to a grim demise. There is nowhere we may escape or path to take that avoids our obsequence to them. The Old Ones will find a way to separate the soul and the body, and we will be the ones to suffer."

Shalahora raised an oversized hand.

"We will all live for millennia. How many times will we escape them? Escape Elysium? Even Schema has plans for us all, yet you all think there is a path where you may take to avoid risk. Your dominion over your souls is at risk whether you face it boldly or cower like beaten dogs."

Dread pooled over everyone. Shalahora drew from a vast well of experience dwarfing all those present combined.

"How many times can we survive against these forces? You must all remember that one loss will be the loss of your will for eternity. I guarantee you that once your will is taken, your soul will never be given back again. Once it is done, it is done."

His voice shook as he spoke; pain nested in his words like internal wounds under the skin.

"It is your selfish desire to demand your loved ones to walk a safe, concerted path. Daniel wishes to be bold. We may fight him like some shadow made of sludge, or we can support his cause. He wishes to be given a chance to rise above the Old Ones. We can fight that or embrace his choice. Either way, he will fight."

Shalahora gazed into a past unseen.

"I will not force him to walk upon glass and embers alone. As a shadow of who I was, I will tread behind his path and do what I may to keep him in the light. What will you all do?"

