To many, they needed dominion over a population, and these tyrants tried to rule what was left of the world. Tearing them down wasn't difficult, but they kept crawling out of the woodwork like flies from a bloated corpse.

That was the most challenging part of taking Earth so far - arresting control without slaughter.

In all honesty, I owned the planet already. I had system perks and titles to prove it, but this wasn't what I wanted Earth to be. I wanted a place drenched in harmony and prosperity. I could ensure that happened over the long term, but it would take far more work than what I put in already.

The sheer magnitude of the task weighed on me, and those thoughts swirled through my mind as Torix finished his report. We sat near the edge of Chrona's home, viewing the sunset and glowing lights of the city proper. After having heard Diesel's explanation, I searched for what he talked about.

And I found signs of the beautification project.

Blazing stars reached from under the power lines while honeysuckle vines crept up around them. Enchantments lined the electrical grid, giving them an otherworldly glow that traced lines of light across their outreach. A few forest critter spirits lined each set, the mana constructs singing and flying near their power sources.

I smiled at the sight, and the improving view was something I was getting used to. More skyscrapers were etched into the sky, and they carried the greenery and growth our guild chose as its aesthetic. Flowering virgin's bower crossed the window panes and fruit trees rose from the soil at the tops of buildings.

It helped give the air a sweeter scent, and that gave me solace as Torix handed me a list of twenty warlords ruling over old-world cities. From Rome to Tokyo, they dug their hands deep into this world to try and take as much control as they could. Torix leaned in and whispered.

"We can finish them off if you'd like. It would be so simple. Easy. Final."

I let out a long sigh.

"Murder. Torix. We've been over this."

Torix raised a finger.

"They're warlords. Though some carry a certain amount of benevolence, they lack any real substance. Any goodwill they present is either a political tool they've used to manipulate their image or a means of unspoken control."

I tapped my chin with a knuckle.

"That's conjecture. By that logic, you could say the same about us."

Torix's eyes flared green.

"But of course. That's what we're doing, isn't it?"

Before I could answer, Althea stepped up to us.

"It's not why I'm setting up schools."

Torix waved a dismissive hand.

"That's in honor of a higher ideal. Education is a worthy end in and of itself. I'm discussing power and influence, two factors that are expressly gained with a singular purpose - to impose our will."

Althea put her weight on one leg, her hip sticking out a bit.

"But we're imposing our will for those higher principles like education."

Torix's eyes flared bright.

"And that could be out of benevolence or a self-serving desire to feel like a savior. Regardless of our aims, I believe that most people aim to influence for a primal pleasure that comes from enacting their will."

Althea crossed her arms.

"That hasn't been the case for the educators I've worked with. I think some people feel content with simply helping people as best they can."

I smiled at her.

"I would say the majority, actually."

Torix interlocked his hands behind himself.

"My personal ideas differ. By my estimation, the character failings of successful individuals are an unfortunate reality of Schema's system. Whenever you dictate strength and influence on the ability to kill monsters, the most violent individuals rise to prominence. That much is inevitable."

I raised my brow.

"So violent rulers are a feature, not a bug?"

"Ahem...Perhaps. I'm not well versed in that adage."

I rolled a hand.

"It's an old-world phrase. It means something that looks like a flaw in a system is actually something baked in. I don't think that's true in this case, though. I've met a couple of emperors and the like. They aren't these scathing, hateful warriors who thirst for blood, as far as I could tell."

Torix raised a finger.

"Apt observation, but from what you've described, you've never seen a rising ruler. You've either met an established one or one without a backbone. This has allowed you to skip most originating rulers' brutal ascensions. By comparison, you've seen their educated, spoiled offspring."

Torix raised a hand.

"From my research, there are few rulers that lie between those two extremes. Considering Earth's current historical era, we'll only meet these would-be rulers striving for dominance. Thus, violence permeates to an extreme within them. Since it is their chosen language, we may speak it back in turn."

I peered at Hod as he had an eating contest with Krog and Chrona. With ease, our birdman decimated them in the competition. I sighed.

"I'm hoping we can skip the bloodthirsty part of all that."

Torix coughed into a hand. I crossed my arms.

"I know you think that's a subtle gesture, but you're a metal skeleton. You don't even breathe."

"I don't know what you're talking about."

I rolled my fingertips across my forearm.

"Oh, come on, man. Out with it."

Torix turned around.

"My my, is that Hod in an eating competition? Perhaps some telekinesis may make his body burst. Hm. Wouldn't that be fun?"

He paced over before Althea put a hand on my arm. She tightened her squeeze.

"Hey, don't take what he said too seriously. I know you. I think you enjoy fighting, but being bloodthirsty? That's a bit much."

I gave her a beaming smile. She took a breath.

"Because, you know, it's pretty rare I see you in your berzerker mode. Usually. It kind of depends on where we are, actually. You know what? Forget I said anything."

I furrowed my brow.

"I don't have a berzerker mode."

She scoffed.

"Uhm...Ok. Then a rampaging warrior mode."

I leaned back.

"Wow. Really? Come on now. I'm not like that."

She stared at me in disbelief.

"Uhm, then a cookie monster mode? Look, I don't know what you want from me here."

"I don't want you to act like I'm some evil eldritch."

"You're not...You just look like it sometimes."

I raised my brow.

"Does everybody think I'm like that?"

Althea scratched the back of her head.

"Uhm...Yes, probably. I can't see how they wouldn't if they saw you in war or a hard battle."

I took a step back as if struck.

"Augh, my chest. That's a blow, and from you, no less. I'm affronted. Vexed. Some might even say indignant."

She smiled.

"Hey, I know you worry about your humanity, but it's not like animosity and wrath are never warranted. Taking yourself to that place is important sometimes. Besides, it's nice seeing you angry. I don't like it when you're always nice."

"I wouldn't imagine that coming from you. I mean, you run an orphanage. You're the definition of nice."

She leaned against me.

"So that's why I like someone spicy for my sweet. It keeps things fresh."

My armor rippled over my skin.

"Like that choker?"

She rubbed the bracelet over her neck, her smile soft.

"Just like it, actually."

Shalahora assimilated from the surrounding shadows and darkness.

"Am I interrupting something?"

Althea put a hand on Shalahora's arm.

"Definitely not. You should both talk. Daniel and I will catch up later."

As she stepped away, Shalahora shook his head.

"None are worthy of her."

I scratched the back of my head.

"I couldn't agree more. So anyways, what's up?"

My peripheral vision sank inward, the world closing in around me and Shalahora. Without disrupting anyone, Shalahora masked our presence. As everyone lost track of us, the shadow murmured.

"I've been rummaging through the minds of people during my psionic assessments. In memory, I've walked every inch of this world through the visions and sights of others. It's a beautiful realm, one we will fight hard for."

I kept my eyes on Althea.

"Definitely. It's home, at the very least."

Shalahora raised a hand.

"I say that with reason...I've uncovered vital information on the largest factions pressing against us."

"I'm guessing Elysium and Schema, then?"

"Not entirely. It stems Elysium but also something from between dimensions."

My stomach sank as I turned my gaze to him.

"Between dimensions? Sounds like it's from Kryyah, then."

Shalahora's form shifted in and out of existence.

"It is. Something is lurking in that interdimensional space, and they've built some kind of interdimensional horror."

I dragged a hand down my face.

"Haven't they all?"

"I would say no. Few beings can access that realm, even in terms as large as galactic ones. However, no matter their origin, these entities have existed on the other side of the galaxy and haven't pressed into this portion of Schema-owned space yet. From what I've gathered from my sources, this enemy's arrival is inevitable, and we must be ready."

My eyes sharpened.

"These huge, galaxy-warping threats just pop out of the ether. How in the hell haven't we heard of these guys?"

Shalahora tilted his head.

"There are many reasons. The most obvious cause is Schema's informational lockdown. Without an infrastructure to spread information, every empire becomes an isolated space without any substantial reach. Certain empires fight against this and proliferate their influence, but many remain in relative obscurity."

"Like us."

"We exist within the shadow of Schema, something shown to many, yet we know of little beyond our borders. That stems from a lack of scouting or further operations outside of internal affairs. This is to be expected, given the age of your empire."

I frowned.

"Really, it's a guild."

"My point is that our emphasis on what happens upon your planets allows for insulation from the wider galactic world. Taking time and traversing a few galactic capitals and spending time within them would season your approach and broaden your perspective."

I shook my head.

"Hah. It sure would, but I doubt I'll get time for something like that for a while."

Shalahora's shadow let out several scouts that traversed through the shadows of the room.

"Once more, this is to be expected, but you will be alive for a long time. That gives you the ability to have many stages of your life. One will be a season of learning and culture. Others will be the seasons of war, their shades painted in blood and their scents effused in death. Preparing for them all shall make you into the force you wish to become."

"Poetic, but it feels like the seasons are all war with tiny gaps between them."

Shalahora whispered with force.

"I've seen the memories of the dying, and many of the shortest lived have the fullest lives. In many ways, a ceaseless struggle stretches one's life while comfortable times pass quickly, almost as if temporality has hastened itself."

"Interesting perspective, but we've gotten way, way off topic. What about these interdimensional things? What are they bringing here?"

"They are shearing space. In doing so, this enemy force wishes to widen the gaps that are spreading across the many realms availed to us."

I bit my lip.

"Ahhhh. Then they ripped a third of the oceans off of Blegara by feeding that eldritch?"

"In essence, they have. They caused the initial opening the Hybrid Star fed on."

My armor formed spines across my back.

"Then we have debts to settle with them."

Shalahora's form became corporeal, solidifying.

"They have little to offer aside from war and destruction."

A silence passed over us. It soaked into the air, strangling it of its levity and leaving it like lead. I took a breath of that intensity, two parts of me fighting the other. One part wished for war, for a place to stretch my limbs and test my limits. The other wanted wonder and time to explore. For now, my desires were irrelevant.

All that seemed to matter were the circumstances I found myself in. It was this way every damn time, and I bit my inner cheek.

"You know, I just want peace and time to establish myself, my territory, and my planet. Every time I think a situation has calmed down, I get dragged into some interdimensional, galactic-scale conflict that reaks of ethical horror, gods beyond space and time, and evil organizations hell-bent on eliminating free will."

I squeezed a hand into a fist.

"It can't be like this everywhere, can it?"

Another quiet passed over us. Shalahora murmured, and yet his voice quaked over our surroundings.

"If there exists a sanctum free of this, my journey hasn't uncovered where that is."

I gave him a weak smile.

"To be fair, you do tend to find the shadow in any light. Eh? Eh? Puns?"

"Awful jokes or not, you're right. It is my nature to find the gloom."

I raised a hand.

"Shalahora, I know you've done plenty you're not proud of. We all have. That being said, I also know you haven't had many good options to pick from, and so far, you've been doing your best with what you have. You should know there's honor in doing the best you can, whether you feel otherwise or not."

Shalahora let out a laugh.

"There is much that honor finds itself in. The plight of a lone mother carrying her child from danger. The worry of a philosopher ready to unleash his ideas on an unready world. Even in the falling of a leaf, its flight downward waving back and forth, fighting for its last piece of existence."

Shalahora murmured,

"Honor is in most things, but what I've done with my life...It doesn't fall in honor's purview. The more you learn of me, the more you will know that as an immutable fact."

A quiet encompassed us once more. After soaking his words in, I smiled and shrugged.

"Eh, we'll see. You've still got plenty of time to make amends for whatever you've done."

Shalahora's voice rumbled like a far-off storm.

"Or spread my poison further. Time will tell whether my path changed when I aligned myself with you."

