"Let's hope so. Now, if this interdimensional faction succeeds, then I'm guessing they'll destroy all life? Maybe eliminate all matter? Perhaps it's both?"

"Whoever leads them is going to create an enormous dimensional disturbance. So yes, they will likely do both."

I remembered the name, but I dared not speak it aloud. Cygna the Silent. It was fitting given how even Sovereigns spoke around their name.

Shalahora murmured,

"They're creating holes in spacetime to ravage entire celestial bodies. Earth is a prime target as it lies on a dimensional fault line. It could be the center of what they wish to create. Whatever that may be."

"I'm guessing Kryya was one of their agents?"

"There is little doubt in my mind. From what you've described, Kryya was something that leaked out of the ether, and it intercepted one of these dimensional rips as a scout. That falls in line with what I've learned from my patron."

I pivoted to the side, turning on one heel.

"Any ideas on what we'll be doing about it?"

"I've psionically assimilated important memories from unscrupulous individuals. They will inform you."

My gaze sharpened.

"Stealing memories? From whom?"

"I've taken the bulk of these data points from Elysium agents across the many species under your protection. The other bits and pieces were snippets garnered from passing wanderers from other empires or parts I obtained during my own travels. Aside from that, stolen isn't correct. They still have their memories. I simply have them as well."

I raised a hand.

"So you copied them?"

Shalahora raised a hand.

"Yes, that's right. I...I can give portions of the memories to you, and they shall grant you an assessment of the situation, should you want them."

"Depends on what they're about. I'm guessing it's only the most relevant stuff?"

"Of course. I would never willingly waste your time."

I took a breath.

"Then let'em rip."

Shalahora placed a fingertip on his forehead before pulling a strand of mana from his head. It swirled as if alive, reminding me of a glowing jellyfish. He pulled it towards me before tapping my forehead. As it flowed into my head, I blinked, and a series of images flashed through my mind.

"This...This is-" I gasped before my shoulders dropped. "This is a bunch of animated series from Batman and Spiderman. Wait...It's especially about Venom and Inque. Honestly, any blurry and dark character in general."

A silence passed over us, heavy like a lie on the tongue. Shalahora's body condensed into a smaller shape.

"This...Is the wrong batch of memories."
