"We were making plans to trade with you once you took the city; how is it our fault if you fall through? I don't think you forgot how dangerous it is for us to be talking to you. If it ever gets out that we didn't report your whereabouts or General Pitz's location, many would be labeled traitors and killed as an example. I came here to tell you Silver Herd has no problem working with Scholl, but to do that, we need a guarantee that our people won't be labeled traitors in the near future. It shouldn't be hard for the great Master Pacore the Deathless to conquer a city, is it?"

To think such a small merchant company would put up such terms fully knowing who they’re dealing with. “And my new apprentice, where does Aaliyah fall into your plans?” I ask with a grin.

The robed figure takes a step back, not expecting my relaxed attitude. Do they believe this is the first time I'm negotiating with deserters? Turncoats, spies, I've encountered countless individuals trying to negotiate during war. It's usually impossible to trust anyone who would sell out their own people. The only reason I'm entertaining this deal is that we need their connections and carts. But if they try to use Aaliyah against me, I'll destroy them just like I'll do to Blaiton. After all, I mostly just need their carts.

“She is not a part of this deal,” the robed person briskly answers. “Silver Herd recognizes her potential and won’t jeopardize our relationship with her. The reason we are meeting early like this is because we value our business with her. Silver Herd is betting on Aaliyah’s  future growth after all."

“She won’t be here for much longer,” I point out.

It's hard to notice, but the figure nods in understanding. "That may be true, but we are aware of Aaliyah's personality. We might lose her business in the short run, but my boss is confident she would choose to do business with us in the future. That's the kind of person she is."

She's only fifteen, and yet she's drawn in so many people betting on her success. It almost sounds like they're more interested in maintaining their relationship with Aaliyah than they are working with me.

I can’t help but laugh heartily at the situation. I’ve just taken Aaliyah as my apprentice, and thanks to her connections, I already have an in with the local trading company.

“What’s so funny?” My shady friend asks, nervously taking another step back.

"Life in general," I joke. "Sometimes, it feels like the gods are moving things in my favor."

“Does that mean you accept our deal?”

"Yes, it does," I answer with a smile. "But just to be clear, if you answered any differently regarding Aaliyah or threatened me with her, I would've dismantled your company by myself."

“Then we should get along fine,” the figure retorts. "I'll let my boss know that you agreed." The hooded person slinks back into the forest and quickly disappears.

“Not even a handshake?” I complain out loud.

“Maybe next time,” a man’s voice whispers in my ear.

I don’t wait long to start walking back to my waiting men. I’m still ready to defend myself should this be an elaborate trap, but I doubt it.

As soon as I reemerge on the forest trail, I'm assaulted by young Jason and the unit commander's questions. I wave them both away and demand we make way for Drey at double speed.

I need to hurry back and prepare.

Thanks to Aaliyah and my deal with Silver Herd, I have more incentive than ever to finish my campaign.

Blaiton won’t know what hit them!

**********

Aaliyah’s Point of View:

“198!” I bring my axe down in front of me again. My arms are screaming for me to stop while the sweat is pouring from my face.

“199!” I swing again, letting the pain in my hands distract me from thinking about my family.

“200!” I finish my set, and it didn't help. I'm still thinking over all the options my family has been discussing. I don't want to uproot my family while they insist they follow me to Scholl.

“I thought we were supposed to be working together on the engraving ink today?” Sandra complains from over by the forge, pulling me out of my thoughts.

"It's no use; she's been practicing like this ever since Pacore left," Master comments from his bench.

“Damn,” Sandra swears.

“And what’s wrong with my practicing?” I hiss in frustration.

"Nothing," Master remarks in a fake tone of voice. "Just the fact you've been straining yourself for four days straight. I know how you feel, but you need to take a break soon."

"Do you?!" I snap. "Because we got our asses handed to us without leaving a scratch on that old bastard, and I'm the only one who seems bothered by it!"

Master sits up and frowns at me, and I immediately start to feel bad. I know master isn’t happy about the result of our fight either. Expecting a tongue lashing, I close my eyes, waiting for Master to yell at me.

It isn’t until I hear a deep sigh that I open my eyes to see Master leaning forward with his head down. "You're right," he admits. Master looks up with a sad expression. "If only I were stronger."

"No," I say, putting my axe down and grabbing a nearby clean rag to wipe my face. "As soon as Pacore got serious, we were doomed. Even if we were both stronger, I doubt we would've done much damage to him."

"It was that bad?" Sandra asks us in disbelief. "My dad told me you guys lost, but he didn't mention it being so one-sided."

“We caught him off guard in the beginning, but after that, he moved like he knew what we were going to do before even we did,” I tell Sandra. I try to clench my fists in frustration, but they're sore from excessively practicing my weapon skills.

“And now you have to leave the village?” Sandra hesitantly asks.

"Not at the moment… but eventually, yes, I'll have to leave the village with Pacore." The three of us brood in silence, with only the crackling of the forge's fire in the background.

I break the silence by growling in frustration. “I’m just so mad!” I yell.

Sandra moves over and hugs me. "It's ok to be mad," she tells me.

The hug doesn't douse my anger, but it does smother it a bit. "You know that batch of ink is ruined now," I whisper to her.

"It's your fault," Sandra playfully pushes away from me and moves to remove the beaker of black sludge from the fire. “This wouldn’t have happened if you were helping me,” she jokingly complains.

"Yeah, yeah, I hear you. Give me a second to go over my status page, and I'll help you with the next batch."

“You better,” Sandra threatens me through her mask.

Shaking my head, I pull up my Status Page:

LV: 73 Experience: 518,017/ 956,780

Health: 2,430/2,430

Stamina 1,431.66/1,650

Mana: 827.42/1,020

Vitality: 243.00

Endurance: 100.04

Strength: 152.01

Dexterity: 150.02

Senses: 62.42

Mind: 65.25

Magic: 102.82

Clarity: 78.80

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV78), Running (LV77), Blacksmithing (LV72), Hammer Skills (LV60), Axe Skills (LV60), Cleaning (LV53), Chanting (LV50), Mining (LV50), Drawing (LV46), Trading (LV45), Cooking (LV41), Sword Skills (LV39), Dagger Skills (LV34), Acting (LV33), Wood Carving (LV31), Sewing (LV30), Alchemy (LV7), Pugilist Skills (LV7), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV79), Double Step (LV63), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV47), Hammer Arts (LV43), Axe Arts (LV39), Writing (LV32), Intimidating Shout (LV31), Mathematics (LV30), Steady Hands (LV23), Increase Price (LV21), Lower Price (LV20), Sword Arts (LV17), Dagger Arts (LV13), Gourmet (LV7), Marching (LV5), Shout of Valor (LV3),

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV62), Mana Manipulation (LV61), Precise Strike (LV40), Double Strike (LV40), Weighted Strike (LV40), Flash Step (LV25), Contract (LV14)

Tier 4:

Mana Skin (LV55), Mental Resistance (LV55), Inject Mana (LV53), Extract Mana (LV34), Magic Blacksmithing (LV28), Empowered Spell (LV14), Air Walk (LV11), Magic Threads (LV9)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV40), Soul Manipulation (LV10)

Tier 6:

Soul Devourer (LV2)

Increased Skill Levels

Hammer Skills (LV60) 3,000exp

Axe Skills (LV59-60) 5,950exp

Sword Skills (LV35-39) 9,250exp

Dagger Skills (LV34) 1,700exp

Acting (LV33) 1,650exp

Sewing (LV30) 1,500exp

Double Step (LV63) 6,300exp

Axe Arts (LV39) 3,900exp

Steady Hands (LV23) 2,300exp

Sword Arts (LV16-17) 3,300exp

Mana Manipulation (LV61) 9,150exp

Flash Step (LV25) 3,750exp

Contract (LV8-14) 7,700exp

Mental Resistance (LV55) 13,750exp

Empowered Spell (LV13-14) 6,750exp

Air Walk (LV10-11) 5,250exp

Magic Threads (LV1-9) 11,250exp

Soul Manipulation (LV9-10) 9,500exp

Skill Experience: 105,950exp

Crafting Experience: 9,225exp

Fighting Experience: 1,001exp

Total-experience Gained: 116,176exp

It's been over a week and a half since I checked my status page, and I know I should be proud of earning so much experience in such a short time, but after my defeat, it feels hollow.

My weapon skills have only leveled because of the fight with Pacore and the subsequent training I’ve been forcing myself to do the last few days.

I've been practicing Mana Threads constantly since I unlocked it, but now that it's about to hit level 10, its growth has started to slow down. The levels I gained from the contracts with Pacore are bittersweet, and each night since my defeat, I've been trying to raise my soul skills.

I crafted another two kaglese spears, one kaglese sword, and four steel spears before Pacore showed up in the village, and since then, I haven't had time to forge anything else.

I don't even want to think about the experience I got from fighting Pacore. Master and I treated it like a life-or-death battle, but the amount of experience shows just how little effect we had against him.

Sighing, I close out my Status Page.

“Stop being gloomy and get over here and help me,” Sandra waves me over. She really knows how to cheer a girl up. While I was going over my Status Page, Sandra was mixing a new batch of engraving ink and putting it into the forge.

Step 1 was mixing the herbs together, step two is heating the solution, and step three was adding in crushed magicite. It took us almost a full month just to get the third step correct. Grabbing my notebook from the nearby bench, I review the exact details of the three steps we’ve deciphered so far.

Step 1: First, mash the eathrosse into a paste. Then mix 2 ounces of eathrosse paste with 16 ounces of purified water. Dice 5 ounces of devil's poke and add it to the mixture. Lastly, stir the entire mixture until it becomes a purplish-black color.

Step 2: The mixture must be heated from the bottom and sides evenly, using a fire around 600°F. The mixture starts binding after seven minutes and finishes after eleven.

Step 3: While the heated mixture is still in the forge, add 43 ounces of crushed Magicite to the mixture. Stir rapidly while increasing the temperature to 850°F. Maintain that temperature for five minutes while continuing to stir before removing the mixture and letting it cool.

Sandra has already stirred in the magicite, and it should only be a few more minutes before we pull out the beaker.

Step 3 was the most challenging step yet because the first half of the step lured us into a false sense of security. It was easy to figure out the mixture needed to remain heated while adding the magicite, and we figured out the quantity needed in only a single day. All we had to do was add small amounts of magicite to the mixture until we put in too much and ruined it.

We thought we would have step 3 down after a week, but we were sadly mistaken. The two of us burned through probably a dozen mixtures before we figured out we needed to up the heat in the forge. Then we wasted even more time trying to figure out how long it needed to remain at that temperature, along with the fact that we need to continually stir it along the way.

The last part of step 3 was only solved because Sandra was mad after a day of failures and removed the mixture, thinking we were done for the day. Needless to say, we were pissed when the mixture settled properly after we had given up. I have no idea how alchemists figured these steps out from scratch.

And because Sandra and I like to torture ourselves, we can’t just give up after all the work we’ve put into everything.

I watch Sandra grab the beaker with a pair of tongs and move it over to a metal stand we have waiting nearby.

We were supposed to start step 4 five days ago, but that was the day Pacore kicked our asses around the quarry.

“What should we try first?” Sandra turns and asks me.

"I don't know," I half-heartedly reply. In the instructions Reel brought me, step 4 simply said add mithril, and after the last step, those two words are like a punch in the gut.

“If you’re not going to help me, go mope over by your master,” Sandra narrows her eyes. I can’t read her expression under her mask, but I'm sure she's frowning.

“I’m fine,” I groan.

"No, you're not," Sandra rebukes me. "And the quicker you realize that, the faster I'll get my friend back."

“This is the first time I failed,” I whisper dejectedly.

“You’re overexaggerating,” Sandra huffs.

“She really isn’t,” Master comments from his bench.

Sandra’s eyes widen. “You’ve never failed at something before?”

I almost absentmindedly say ‘not in this life’, but catch myself before I do.

“You have to have given up on something!?” Sandra drills me.

I shake my head no. "I've always powered through until I eventually succeeded. There were a few close calls, but everything turned out alright in the end. I always managed to grow stronger to meet the challenges at hand, but not this time," I hang my head.

"That's honestly a little scary," Sandra tries to poke my side playfully, but she doesn't have the Strength to get through Mana Skin. "But I think I figured out what has you so bothered," her cheery voice gets me to raise my head again.

