Master Pacore the Deathless’ Point of View:

It's hard not to skip down the road. If I weren't surrounded by my men, I'd be dancing with joy.

“Sir, you’re smiling like that again,” young Jason points out to me.

“I can’t help it,” I chuckle.

“You’re worrying the men,” Jason reminds me with a strained look on his face.

I ignore him and continue to strut down the road with a pep in my step. It isn’t my problem he’s feeling embarrassed walking next to me. Why should I contain myself any more than I already am? I'm keeping up a somewhat respectable appearance, aren't I? When was the last time I was this happy?

Was it when I took the fort from General Pitz?

No, even that fight didn’t fill me with such delight.

Fighting the dragon would probably be the best comparison, but that joy faded quickly after realizing we couldn't best the beast.

If we beat the mythical creature like I did General Pitz, it might feel something like the bliss I'm feeling right now. Of course, I can't in good conscience compare the two, but after the dragon, everyone felt helpless while the fight with General Pitz left me… underwhelmed? That's the best way I can describe it. If only she were adequately equipped, now that would've been a good fight.

I cock my head to the side and glance up at the woman riding the jelen. Leaning back, I dodge a well-placed kick that would've caught me under my chin. "I told you not to look at me with that disgusting smile!" She hisses down at me.

We left the village days ago, and the general's mood has only worsened the closer we get to Drey. I can't in good faith tease her anymore. Maybe my bragging over obtaining young Aaliyah as an apprentice was a touch too far. Anyone would be mad if they found such a gem lying around only to have someone else swoop in at the last second and snatch it before you could pick it up. Wars in Scholl have been started for less, so it's only right I let her vent her anger, but how long will that take?

The trip back to Drey feels like it’s taking longer than it should. Seeing how young Jason is trying to distance himself from me, and General Pitz is actively trying to hit me despite the strain it must be putting on her sealed body, my conversation partners have sadly dwindled to zero.

I tried to pull the commander into a conversation, but he politely refused me too, stating it was his job to make sure I stay safe. I would've believed that excuse if he didn't take one look at my smiling face and scurry back into formation like he'd seen a ghost.

Why must I contain my joy!? What's the point in being the strongest if you can't enjoy the little things in life? Usually, I'd be able to vent this frustration by talking to one of my apprentices, but I'm practically alone with no one to brag to about my recent windfall.

Oh, gods!

I’ve turned into a young girl in my old age!

I bring my hand up, pretending to cough, hiding the grin on my face. It's so much trouble being a pillar of a kingdom, but I wouldn't have it any other way.

As we move forward, the trees slowly start to thin out. And once we exit the forest, it shouldn't take us long to reach Drey. I'll have to explain to Lord Bullok why we were late to return. News of Aaliyah will need to be kept to a minimum as not to endanger her. Luckily for me, his highness sent Kellor to run these lands. The Bullok house are like me and support the young prince in succeeding his father. I can trust Kellor to keep an eye on the village without raising suspicion.

I’ll only have a day to get everything in order before we start marching on Blaiton. “Jason, as soon as we make it to Drey, I need you to go to the courier guild and send word for Tabitha.”

"Is she the apprentice you were talking about?" Young Jason questions me. "Isn't she one of the people leading your forces in Teeburn?"

I smile at Jason; he's been paying attention. Even though Lord Bullok arrived with the other nobles to run everything, young Jason has continued to watch their movements and has inserted himself into the day-to-day operations. When Kellor arrived, I vouched for the young man, but I'm sure his talents haven't gone unnoticed.

I recently even debated whether I should offer Jason a position working directly under me when I return to Drey. I'm already bringing one talented child back with me; I might as well make it two. I've truly benefited from this assignment.

“She is, and it’s not that big of a deal,” I tell him. “As long as we have the general as a hostage, Olebert won’t risk her unless we push them too far.  Our reinforcements continue to further secure Teeburn, and other than a few light skirmishes here and there, the fighting has basically turned into a standstill. Tabitha will have a much more fun time with Aaliyah, rather than standing around doing nothing. She’s like me in that way.”

“Is there anything else you need?” Young Jason curiously asks me.

“Yes,” my smile turns more savage. “Send word to Grey, tell him I have business to discuss with him.”

Jason trembles under my gaze. "Are you going to kill him?" He asks.

"I haven't decided yet," I continue to grin. "It depends if he's willing to agree to cancel the contract with Aaliyah or not."

"But he runs almost all the trading in the area. You can't just kill him," Jason stresses. “You even said so yourself.”

"Then he'll just need to be replaced," I casually reply. Jason groans, probably imagining the chaos that will ensue once we reach Drey.

“Might I make a suggestion?” An ethereal voice whispers in my ear. Every soldier stops and draws his weapon. As they've been trained, my men close ranks around me.

“No need to fret; I mean you no harm,” the voice continues to resonate in my ears like someone is whispering right into them. I can think of a few spells and skill combinations that would produce such an effect, all of them favored by assassins and spies.

I scan the surrounding tree line, but I can't spot our guest. And seeing how my two scouts are still looking around, they haven't found the person either. "If that's true, then you can reveal yourself," I shout.

"That wouldn't be smart on my part; your men appear to be a little jumpy." The voice continues to change tone and pitch every few words, making it impossible to tell whether a man or woman is speaking. “I can’t afford to make a mistake in front of Pacore the Deathless.”

“You know who I am.”

“I wouldn’t be good at my job if I didn’t,” the voice laughs in my ear.

So, whoever they are, they're aware of who I am, and they still approached us. If they were here to kill me, they wouldn't have called out to us before attacking. Are they here for General Pitz? It doesn't feel like that, which can only mean one thing. "What is it you wish to discuss?"

The disembodied voice giggles. “I knew you would catch on quick. I’m here to discuss some business with you, Master Pacore, pillar of Scholl.”

"Then get on with it," I growl. "I'm already behind schedule."

“I would, but there are too many people around. Why don’t you step into the forest so we can have a private chat?” I have to smile at their nerve. To ask someone of my position to leave their guards behind willingly is a haughty demand.

"How dare you! Come out and die, wretch!" The commander shouts into the trees. The only thing he receives from his challenge is a mocking laugh in return that sounds eerily like a dozen children giggling.

I have to admit; I find myself curious. "Fine," I agree to the astonishment of my men.

“Master Pacore, you can’t!” The commander quickly objects.

“It’s fine,” I tell him as I make my way towards the trees.

“But sir, what if something happens to you!?” He tries to stop me.

I stop and turn on the man. “Are you questioning my authority or my abilities?” Releasing a bit of my pressure, the commander immediately closes his mouth and takes a knee.

“I meant no disrespect, Master Pacore,” he bows his head in submission.

“Good, then wait here for my return. This shouldn’t take long,” I walk into the forest and leave my men behind.

If this is truly a trap for me, I hope it doesn’t disappoint. It would be the first time an assassin asked me to make their job easier, after all.

Walking twenty or so feet into the forest, I can no longer see my men in the distance. "This is far enough; come out," I demand.

“As you wish.” My hand moves to my sword as a robed figure appears directly to my left, just out of my sword’s range. Their face and entire body are hidden under the large cloak to the point I can’t distinguish any of their features. “Scary, you didn’t even flinch,” the robed figure remarks. It no longer sounds like they’re talking into my ear, but the voice still sounds different every time they speak.

Well, it looks like they really are here to talk, and here I was hoping for a bit of excitement. "Who are you?" I ask, ignoring their comment.

“You can call me One. I’m sure that is enough for you to guess why I’m here.”

"You work for Silver Herd; it's no wonder you didn't want to talk in front of General Pitz." It appears Silver Herd is trying to play both sides of the conflict; how typical for a merchant company. It makes sense why they wouldn't want to talk to me while General Pitz is around; if word of this gets out, the company would be considered traitors.

“That’s right, so my boss would appreciate it if you kept this meeting between the two of us,” the robed figure starts circling me, making sure to keep me on my toes.

“If you’re here now, I venture a guess, it can only be related to Aaliyah.”

"Right again, I guess I don't need to tell you anything," the cloaked figure laughs again.

I can't help but find this meeting amusing myself. "I told Aaliyah to tell her friends about me, but I wasn't expecting such a quick response."

“Little Aaliyah’s ability is highly valued in the company. Of course, we would respond quickly when she tells us she became your disciple.”

“You’re saying I can’t take her as my disciple?” I ask in a challenging voice.

“You overestimate us, Master Pacore. Silver Herd doesn’t have the power to disagree with you.” I wasn’t expecting the switch to flattery.

"Then why contact me now?" I narrow my eyes at the circling figure. Their steps are light and well placed. No matter which obstacle they move around, they always keep an exact distance away from me.

"We were informed you were planning to deal with Lenard Grey. Is that true?"

"I can't have my new student chained down by such a malicious contract, now can I," I grin. "What kind of master would that make me?"

The hooded figure pauses mid-step for a moment before continuing to circle me, laughing like they heard the funniest joke ever. It’s grating on my ears for the laughter to quickly shift between a child’s giggle to an old man’s laugh. "You underestimate your new apprentice. She has already stated she would help us if we asked her to, but she ultimately left us to deal with Grey on our own terms."

My eyes widen at the revelation. I thought it was strange how she didn't seem that concerned with the contract she signed; now I know why. Even if I didn't say I would take care of Grey, Aaliyah already had a backup plan. "Then you're coming here to thank me for doing your dirty work for you?"

"Under any normal circumstances, that would be the case. However, now is not a good time for Grey to die." Even with the voice shifting, I can hear a bit of disappointment leak through. I guess my hooded friend isn't a fan of sparing Grey either. “Grey waited for your invasion to corner Aaliyah. If you kill him now, our branches in your cities will fall apart. That isn’t good for either of us.”

"What makes you think I can't solve a simple supply chain issue?" I emptily boast. The local supply chains are of great importance to our plans. With each hiccup we encounter, less food will be sent back to Scholl, and more innocents will die.

“Then I guess I no longer need to stay,” the robed figure comments with a young girl's voice. The figure starts to slowly inch away, calling me on my bluff.

"Wait," I finally call out once they're about to disappear amongst the trees entirely. "You're quite informed," I dryly remark when the figure returns to where they were standing.

“Just as you have spies in Blaiton, we have people in Drey. We’re quite aware of your situation. That’s why I was set to negotiate on behalf of the company.” The figure's artificial smug voice fits perfectly.

“You’re planning to betray Olebert?” I raise a curious eyebrow.

"Not exactly; the stipulation for us helping you is that you need to take Blaiton first. Silver Herd can't be seen as traitors; I'm sure you understand. Once the city is under your control, Silver Herd will 'reluctantly' agree to help you. Once we're reconnected with the Drey and Teeburn branches, Grey's value drops to zero."

I hum in thought and stroke my beard. I’m not one to let threats linger nearby, but I’m painfully aware of the current situation. Still, I see how this deal is necessary, even if it favors Silver Herd. “You won’t help me until I take Blaiton? What if we don't plan on attacking the city? We can dig in and hold Drey; what would you do then?" If push comes to shove, I need to know what they will do. My people informed me Silver Herd only operates in four cities. With the battle lines drawn, their market is cut in half; no merchant company could sustain itself after such a reduction.

My questions give the robed figure pause. “That would be unfortunate,” they finally answer. "It would make all the trouble we've gone to storing extra foodstuffs pointless. I suppose it will go bad long before we ever sell it all."

“That’s low,” I grit through my teeth.

