“I’m bothered because I lost.”

"Nope, that's not it," Sandra shakes her head. "The reason you're having such a hard time accepting your loss is that you think you'll never manage to beat Pacore."

"What?" I ask, dumbfounded.

Sandra patiently explains herself.  "You've already told yourself you'll never beat Pacore. Usually, you never give up until you succeed, but now that you have, you feel terrible."

“I haven’t given up!” I protest.

“Oh yeah?” Sandra challenges me with her eyes.

“I’ll punch him the next time I see him,” I tell her.

Sandra just shakes her head again. "That's not what I'm talking about. Tell me 100% honestly, can you see yourself beating Pacore in a fight, ever?"

I want to shout yes, but the word doesn't come out.

“See,” Sandra moves in and gives me another quick hug.

Holy crap, she’s right! Sandra just Dr. Phill’d me.

But when did I tell myself I would never beat Pacore? I told myself I would kick his ass, but that was more of a way for me to rebel against him. I’m not even sure if I meant it.

I try to imagine fighting Pacore again, and the first thing that comes to my mind is me lying on my back with his sword pointed at me while I'm weak and helpless. I don't want to feel this way, but like I said after I finished my practice swings, I can't help but feel that any chance I have at fighting him is doomed to fail.

“I think you’re right,” I finally squeak out in a quiet voice.

“That’s ok,” Sandra consoles me. “Now you can move past it.”

I wish it were as easy as she said. "I'm not sure if I can," I admit. "You didn't see him fighting us; we outnumbered him, we were faster, stronger, it didn't matter. He was covered in magic items!"

“And what about your magic items?” Sandra questions me.

I frown, “We don’t have stuff like that.”

“But if you did, would you have lasted longer?” Sandra grins at me. “If you had a few years of training, would he still be able to dodge all your strikes?”

“Pacore sounds like a legend,” Sandra continues. "I know you're strong, but did you really consider it a fair fight between the three of you? I bet he had an emergency magic item that could've saved his life even if you managed to hurt him. How many years do you think he's spent fighting? If you had all of that…, do you think you would've stood a chance?"

“Maybe,” I answer.

"That's a start!" Sandra exclaims. "Now help me figure out step 4, so you can make your own crazy awesome magic armor.”

"Alright," I agree, with a smile starting to return to my face.

I'm not ignorant to what Sandra just did, but sometimes you need people to spell something out for you to understand properly. She's right; if I feel inadequate when I compare myself to Pacore, I just need to continue to grow stronger until that feeling disappears. And when it does, I'll rechallenge Pacore, and when I do, I'll win.

“Let’s figure out step 4,” I smile at Sandra.

“Now you’re talking!” She exclaims.

Sandra is going to make a great mom; I know it.

And I’ll grow stronger too and be the best aunt I can be.
