Elemental Shapeshifter has reached level 208 (+12).+120 attribute points.Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 84 (+4).Swipe has reached level 111 (+4).Brutal Restoration has reached level 105 (+4).Bear Form has reached level 100 (+3).Rampant Growth has reached level 58 (+5).Bestial Combat has reached level 98 (+5).Natural Prowess has reached level 83 (+4).Survival Instinct has reached level 97 (+3).Battle Trance has reached level 77 (+2).Last Stand has reached level 42 (+2).Cooking has reached level 30.Herb Gathering has reached level 33.Brutal Restoration has reached a base skill level of 100.Brutal Restoration has advanced to tier two.Bear Form has reached a base skill level of 100.Bear Form has advanced to tier two.

“Now that’s what I’m talking about,” Mato said, grinning at his notifications.

“Get something nice?” Calen asked.

“Brutal Restoration and Bear Form just reached tier two,” he said. Two of his most important skills, at that. Not to mention, he had just passed level two hundred, and in many cities, he would now be considered a mithril-rank adventurer – not that this guild had that rank yet, but it was certainly a satisfying milestone in his journey of improving his strength.

“Good bonuses?” Calen asked.

“Hopefully, I can transform faster,” he chuckled. “Looks like more armor in Bear Form and more range and damage for the Brutal Restoration nova on critical damage.”

“That’s going to come in handy,” Calen said, grinning.

“Sure is. Time for a rematch!” He fell silent for a bit, considering his points. A couple this way or that isn’t going to make too much difference in the long run, he decided. He spent twenty-six points on vitality, twenty-five on strength, twenty-four on endurance, and twenty-seven on wisdom. The remainder he divvied up: four each into intelligence and dexterity, with the remaining ten going to perception.

Ok, bring it on, stupid wraith!

Malika pushed open the door to Pretty Powerful Potions and stepped inside. A sleek, modern lab, all chrome and glass, greeted her surprised gaze. The last time she had stopped by to visit, the store had been far smaller, much dingier, and filled with swearing, explosions, and smoke.

As if on cue, a muffled bang echoed off the hard, gleaming surfaces. An angry gnome flew past at high speed, trailing colorful streamers of smoke and equally colorful swearwords, some of which Malika recognized as particularly potent Trollish.

At least some things never change, she thought, teleporting across the room and catching Morwynne before she smashed a delicate array of extremely expensive-looking bubbling glassware balanced on a table near the wall.

“Aah, thanks, Malika,” Morwynne said, briefly pausing her multi-lingual tirade to acknowledge her before continuing.

“Is that Demonic?” Malika asked after the pink-haired gnomish alchemist’s voice shifted to a deeper register and cursed with words that sounded like they might actually do something.

“Yes!” Morwynne said, beaming excitedly. “I took some lessons with Aliandra. Isn’t it such a fantastic language for expression?”

“It’s certainly something,” Malika offered diplomatically, putting the gnome down carefully, only half-jokingly wondering if she was possessed.

“Well, what can I do for you today?” Morwynne asked brightly as she snapped her fingers sharply. Several small, animated constructs scurried out from an alcove at the back of the store, zipping around with tiny brooms and dustpans to collect the broken shards, and rags to wipe up the sizzling fluids that were rapidly eating through glass tabletops and spilling onto the polished floor.

That’s new, Malika thought. Morwynne must be doing very well if she could afford mana constructs of such sophistication, but she decided not to comment on it.

“Would you mind taking a look at this? I have no idea what it might be worth, nor could I figure out what it’s used for,” Malika asked. Neither Basil nor Eliyen had had any ideas – but that was hardly surprising, given it wasn’t some sort of plant or herb. At least as far as she could tell.

She retrieved Nendir’s crystallized soul fragment from her storage, preemptively channeling her healing magic into a glowing aura about her body. The tiny cuts and scratches left over from the earlier explosion on Morwynne’s face and arms vanished instantly, and her magic began its showdown against the corrupting sizzle of the strange, purple crystal, trying its level best to consume her flesh.

“Oh!” Morwynne exclaimed, immediately poking it with a finger. Dark smoke and sizzling greeted her touch, but the gnome ignored the burn damage to her finger, apparently unaware that she had nearly lost it, only to have it restored moments later by Malika’s magic.

“You know what it is?”

“Now this… this is something!” A flurry of magic whirled about the gnome as dozens of lenses and devices were produced, used, and then discarded. Constructs buzzed, clicked, or glowed briefly as Morwynne’s excitement visibly mounted. Naturally, she completely ignored Malika’s question.

“What is it for?” Malika asked. It was hard not to notice the growing excitement and progressively more expressive animation.

“I… I have no idea!” Morwynne exclaimed as if caught in the throes of some grand revelation.

Malika sighed. It would seem that a legendary reagent was beyond even the best minds in Myrin’s Keep. Not that Myrin’s Keep was some center for cutting-edge magical research and alchemy, but she had hoped the eccentric gnome would have at least had some thoughts on the subject. She was about to store it away again when Morwynne continued.

“I suggest we go talk to that resourceful girl in the library. Ryn. She has helped me out with tons of tricky things.” Morwynne was already busy shoveling stuff back into her storage ring, and then she produced a neon-green scarf, which she wrapped around her neck. “Ok, I’m ready, let’s go. Quickly now, don’t you want to find out?”

Malika resisted rolling her eyes. Fortunately, the guild was virtually next door, and it took simply stepping into the runic circle with her guild ring to teleport both of them into the ground floor of the Grand Library Arcana.

The two of them flew up to the top level, Malika stepping on the air as if it were solid ground, and Morwynne, unsurprisingly, downing an airy Potion of Elegant Flight. The giant oak reaching up through the center of the atrium positively shone with vast constellations of wisps and magical insects that it drew to itself through the sheer density of the mana rushing upward through the trunk to be expelled from the branches and leaves into the cavern far above. Darting in and out of the swarms of glowing insects like tiny apex predators were dozens of golden dragonets, breathing motes of brilliant light and trailing sparkling golden glitter behind their wings as lures for their prey. Malika very nearly bumped into several on her way to the top, and the two of them caused a wake of shrieking annoyance from the dragons for having disturbed their dinner.

“Hi, Ali. Do you know where Ryn is?” Malika asked. Ali was perched on top of the table, surrounded by haphazardly teetering piles of books. Her Grimoire floated beside her, wide open, and an enormous torrent of her mana seemed to be channeled right into the pages as she worked on duplicating the tome in her hand.

“She’s over there, behind the second row of bookshelves,” Ali answered without even looking up. Absently, the Fae picked up a blue, squishy ball and tossed it over the railing and out into the atrium. A flash of pages and golden light shot off after it at breakneck speed.

“Thanks,” Malika said, and led Morwynne onward into the bowels of the library.

“Hi, Malika, what do you need?” Ryn popped her head up over the top of a tall set of shelves, hovering on her butterfly wings while a host of books circled her, floating in the air.

“Morwynne said you might be able to unravel a mystery for us,” Malika said. “An Alchemy one.”

“Oh, alchemy! That sounds like fun,” Ryn said, flying down to join them.

“Here, what is this for?” Malika asked, producing the soul fragment again. It sizzled softly in her hands, but it was no match for her healing magic.

“Ooh! What is that?” Ryn asked, reaching out to touch it. “Ow!” she exclaimed, snatching back her hand. Her fingers had barely brushed the crystal surface, and it had instantly burned the skin off. She stuck her finger in her mouth.

“Why does everyone insist on touching the corrupted legendary artifact?” Malika asked, healing Ryn quickly.

“It’s shiny,” Morwynne said with a note of finality that discouraged any further discussion on the subject.

Ryn nodded. “Right.”

“You realize this thing was found impaled through the heart of a third-tier Wight?” Malika said, trying and failing to restrain her sarcasm. Even sticking her finger in her mouth after touching it did not seem particularly healthy, but after her healing magic had fixed Ryn, she could see nothing obviously wrong with her health or energy.

“Isn’t it awesome?” Morwynne exclaimed.

This time, Malika did roll her eyes.

“Thanks,” Ryn said, examining her healed finger for a moment before bracing her shoulders. “My magic will work better if I can touch it,” she explained.

“It will hurt, but I can heal you.”

Ryn nodded, reaching out her hand once again.

Malika laid her own hand on Ryn’s, infusing her with healing magic before she could touch the dangerous artifact.

The sizzle of meat cooking on a red-hot stove accompanied Ryn’s hiss at the sudden pain. Smoke rose from her hand, but it stank of undeath and corruption rather than cooking. Ryn gritted her teeth against the pain and closed her eyes, and within her, threads of numinous, otherworldly mana began to stir.

Malika had seen Ryn’s unique magic many times, and it never failed to amaze her. Being able to see her rare divination and arcane combination directly had simply increased her awe. A vast formation bloomed within her; a strange flower of mana that unfurled from deep within her heart. From the center, infinitely branching purple lightning arced outward, tracing the bookshelves and the tomes, ever seeking. The tendrils branched again and again, filling the entire library with the delicate touch of her divination brushing delicately across the books.

Suddenly, a soft chime rang out through the library, and one of the branches of purple lightning ignited with golden luminance, briefly shining a piercing radiance across the entire expanse of the library, but the path ended with it fading out in midair.

Did it fail? Malika couldn’t tell, but every other time she had seen this extraordinary spell at work, it ended with the golden light touching something important for the search.

“Oh, that’s interesting!” Ryn said, her eyes snapping open. And she promptly vanished.

“Well, that’s –” Morwynne said, fists on her hips.

Ryn returned a moment later, bearing a heavy tome cradled in her arms.

“– rude,” Morwynne finished. Then she blinked at the librarian. “Um…”

Malika stared at the book. It was entirely see-through, like a ghost. As she studied it, the book flickered, suddenly appearing open at a chapter in the middle somewhere. Then another flicker, followed by another, as if the book couldn’t decide if it were open or closed, or which chapter was being read.

“A spirit realm book?” she asked.

“Yes,” Ryn answered, nodding gleefully. “I got an advancement that allows me a lot of freedom to move knowledge within the domain of my library. I can even retrieve echoes from the Spirit Realm now! Hey, Ali? Can you copy this one quickly, before it goes back?”

“Sure,” Ali said, glancing up and taking the ghostly book, which was comically large in her lap. She riffled through the pages quickly and then handed it back. “Oh, this is interesting!” she said, and a few seconds later, a new book popped into existence, dropping into her lap. It was identical to the echo, save for being actually real and substantial.

“Here you go,” Ali said, handing the heavy tome, perfectly finished in fine leather with gold trim, to Morwynne, who snatched it up with eagerness.

“Chapter seventeen, page three hundred and fourteen,” Ryn directed.

Pages flipped with a rapid shuffling sound until the proper place had been found.

Malika craned her neck over the gnome to see.

Chapter 17: Soul Alchemy.

“Um, this might take a while,” Morwynne said, dragging out one of the taller chairs Ali preferred and hopping up onto it with the oversized book, but her eyes remained wide and were glued to the pages before her like a child who had just discovered a brand-new favorite toy.

“Thanks, Ali. Ryn,” Malika said, settling in to wait for Morwynne’s verdict.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrphttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
