Mato’s body twisted and warped as he shifted from his Bear Form, leaving him lying on his back in the middle of the clearing, panting and drenched in sweat and worse. The cool touch of the early morning breeze felt invigorating as it gently cleared the stench of burnt flesh and wood, and the sharp pungent ozone of lightning magic.

As he lay staring up at the clear blue sky, he smiled. It had been an intense fight, and he had even come very close to dying from the combination of the lightning and the Bugbears’ leap attacks. But thanks to Malika’s healing magic and incredible timing, he had survived.

“Hey, thanks for healing me,” Mato said.

“No problem. Thanks yourself,” Malika replied.

Malika lay on the ground just like he was, a scant few feet away. She had been unconscious and broken when he had joined the fight. She looked perfectly fine now, one of the perks of a healing class, he supposed. Only she was probably even more exhausted than he was. Not for the first time, he wondered at the mental toll battles like this must take on a person. Is she truly ok, after so much damage?

“You know,” she reflected, “I had those Bugbears right where I wanted them. But I still appreciate your assistance.”

Mato chuckled at Malika’s dry humor.

Well, her sense of humor survived, so it can’t be that bad. Without a doubt, Malika would have died if he and Ali hadn’t shown up when they did. Likely Calen, too. He had had to go all out, even going so far as to take double damage from the Lightning Bolt to save Malika.

With Primal Rage he would have turned into a mindless force of destruction, likely killing everyone if he didn’t die first. But Bestial Combat was incredible. At no point during the fight had he been afraid of hurting his friends. The combination of his two new skills was nowhere near as spectacularly direct as Primal Rage, but he had vastly more options to play with, and most importantly, he could fight smarter. What, use my alleged brain? Revolutionary. Mato scratched his chin, thinking it over. Yes. One thing was certain, under the influence of his old Berserker skill, he wouldn’t have been able to conceive of his plan to draw the ire of the rock-slinging Goblins and free up Calen. Additionally, he now had a block, more health and strength, and even a subtle proficiency with his Bear Form that he was certain would eventually surpass even the best potential of his old skill.

For a few moments, he simply lay on the dirt savoring the feeling of having been useful. Then he summoned his stats. Got to have been worth something …

Druidic Shapeshifter has reached level 14 (+3).+30 attribute points.Arboreal Sanctuary has reached level 8.Swipe has reached level 9 (+2).Brutal Restoration has reached level 10.Bear Form has reached level 9.Wolf Form has reached level 4 (+2).Bestial Combat has reached level 5 (+4).Natural Prowess has reached level 4 (+3).Wilderness Lore has reached level 6.

He clenched his fists and smacked them against his thighs, suppressing a roar of delight. Yes!

The list of notifications was a rollup, a summary of the last few days hunting through the woods and tracking Calen and Malika. Wolf Form had leveled well from the tracking – and no doubt his Wilderness Lore had grown due to his work finding trees for Ali or perhaps explaining the forest to her. Everything else had come from the battle against the Goblin warband, including three class levels.

Sweet. I guess the system thinks this was just as risky as that Swordmaster Kobold? Now, no point earning if I don’t spend. Mato pursed his lips. Where to start this time?

Bestial Combat was based on strength, so he spent ten points on that immediately, and then, deciding he needed a little more survivability, he spent ten each on vitality and endurance. Quickly in, even more quickly spent.

Finally, he sat up and looked around, checking on the others. Malika sat nearby with her eyes closed and her legs crossed, breathing slowly and deliberately. Calen seemed to be darting in and out of the trees, firing his bow occasionally. He could still hear Ali’s wolves chasing down the last remnants of the Goblin Warband, and he assumed Calen was just making sure none of them came back to ambush them. Or worse, as Goblins were notorious for doing, ran away to find some friends, returning later with ten times the numbers. They bred faster than rabbits: if you didn’t stomp them out completely, you were just buying yourself far bigger problems.

Where’s Ali? He scanned the clearing, but then he caught sight of her limping slowly down the grassy hillock from the trees, supported by her battered, black-scaled Kobold rogue. The left side of her body and face were so badly charred that smoke still curled up from the blackened skin and burnt flesh.

And here I was messing with my stats and having a sunny nap. “Malika!” he yelled. “Ali’s injured!”

Mato sprang to his feet, all his exhaustion forgotten in an instant, and ran to help her. Malika easily overtook him, reaching the tiny limping Fae first and using her healing magic.

“Are you ok? What happened to you?” He quickly offered a hand to help support her, but the burnt flesh regrew with incredible speed, making her injuries vanish before his very eyes.

Ali sighed. “Thanks guys. That stupid Storm Shaman hit me with a Lightning Bolt. I have half my maximum health because of Domain Withdrawal, and she had a ridiculous Lightning Vulnerability curse too. I think I lost over two-thirds of my health instantly.”

“I got hit by that curse too, it hurt like the kiss of an angry Hell Hornet,” Mato said, wincing in sympathy.

“Why don’t you sit down for a bit,” Malika suggested, and Mato could see Ali still trembling and shaking from the aftermath of the shock. “We probably all have a bunch of notifications to go through.”

“I should have a few skills to choose,” Calen chipped in, emerging from the forest and walking up to join them. “I could use some help.”

Satisfied that Ali was healing up nicely and would be ok, Mato left them to their animated discussion of all the theory and instead, decided to make himself useful by collecting corpses for Ali to dispose of. It was becoming a habit, just like they had done in the ruins. Only this time, there were gigantic Bugbears to move, and he doubted any of the others had enough strength – but leaving them was out of the question. Their corpses would only feed the horde. As he cleaned up the forest clearing, he spotted a couple of good trees that Ali might be able to use for her magic; an old oak and a pair of maple trees that could be safely removed to promote new growth – and a few burnt by the battle magic, unlikely to recover.

***

Name: Mato BahrRace: BeastkinActive Buffs: Bear Form, Natural ProwessClass: Druidic Shapeshifter – level 14- Arboreal Sanctuary – level 8- Swipe – level 9- Brutal Restoration – level 10- Bear Form – level 9- Wolf Form – level 4- Bestial Combat – level 5- Natural Prowess – level 4- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Identify – level 6- Cooking – level 4- Wilderness Lore – level 6Aptitudes- Languages: Common, Beast- Mana (Affinity): Nature- Strong (Racial): +7 to Strength- Tough (Racial): +10 to EnduranceAttributes- Vitality: 102 (+32)- Strength: 76 (+24)- Endurance: 77 (+24)- Dexterity: 8- Perception: 7- Intelligence: 9- Wisdom: 28Armor: 353Physical Damage Reduction: 47.38%Health: 1020/1020Stamina: 616/770 (154 Reserved)Mana: 280/280

Calen still couldn’t believe Mato and Ali’s timing. If they had arrived but a minute or two later, the battle would have ended … poorly. Being an archer was great but, several times, the Goblin swarm had threatened to overwhelm him. Just the one pair of hands and one bow, he fretted. I could do with a better rate of fire, haste, or something.

Thinking over the battle, he sorted through all the arrows he had collected from the battlefield and the undergrowth, discarding almost a third of them as beyond repair, even with his Bowcraft skill.

Goblin arrows. What he wouldn’t give for even a basic apprentice-level crafted arrow. He discarded one more wonky arrow that was little more than a branch with a stone tied to the end. It’s barely even useful for firewood. He had not been able to afford to be fussy, but he had missed everything he aimed at using this particular ‘arrow’.

Returning to the others, he said, “We should get moving soon. I couldn’t chase down two of the Goblins that ran early – they will alert the others, and we will have the whole dungeon-break on our trail.”

“Dungeon-break?” Ali asked, her voice cracking with surprise.

Calen shared what he and Malika had learned about the Goblins and the plot to provoke a dungeon-break – drawing gasps from Ali and an angry growl from Mato – bringing it all down upon Myrin’s Keep for some nefarious purpose. No doubt Kieran Mori and the Town Watch intended to profit greatly from the disaster.

“I brought Recall Potions for everyone,” Mato said, dragging the corpse of the shaman and dumping it on top of the Bugbears.

“Aren’t those stupidly expensive?” Malika asked.

They sure are, Calen thought, glancing at his friend in surprise. Mato was not exactly rolling in money, and he was typically quite frugal. Such an extravagance was just not like him.

“I didn’t want to be stuck somewhere without being able to get to safety again,” he muttered, sharing a significant look with Ali, before handing him and Malika a potion each.

Something bad must have happened to them. Worse than just falling down that hole. Calen resolved to ask Mato about it later when they were all safe.

Come to think of it, I didn’t see his red mist…

“Hey, Mato, what happened to your rage skill?” he asked.

“I removed it,” he answered in an unexpectedly subdued tone.

Ah. Calen had an idea of what might have happened but found he could not quite roll the words off his tongue, not with Ali’s wide amber eyes on him just then, and the momentary flicker of – is that fear? – that appeared within them.

The awkward silence was broken by Ali, “What skill choices did you get for reaching ten, Calen?”

It was an obvious subject change, but he let it go. Mato looked about as happy as if he were sitting neck-deep in a Goblin stewpot. Calen knew he would talk when he was ready. Calling up the unreasonably cheerful shining, pulsating light of dozens of notifications, he perused them thoughtfully before sharing with his friends:

Archer of Light has reached level 10 (+3).+30 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 9 (+2).Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 8.Explorer has reached level 9 (+3).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 7.Eclipse has reached level 7 (+3).Bowcraft has reached level 6 (+2).

Three class levels and a long list of skills gaining levels seemed a little ridiculous, but when he remembered the Bugbears approaching using their stealth and leaping across the entire clearing, he revised his assessment. He had been out in the wilds with Malika for days, fighting Goblins that outnumbered and outleveled them both continuously – with a barely adequate bow, no gear, and the worst arrows imaginable. His skills had improved dramatically but, when he saw the next notification, it captured his entire attention.

Class skill slot unlocked.

My seventh skill… Eagerly, he examined the options his class had for him to choose from.

New skills are available for Archer of Light.New skill unlocked.Class level has reached 10.Intelligence has surpassed 40.Fought five or more enemies simultaneously and survived.Rain of ArrowsMana: Fire a shot into the air which splits into magical copies that rain down over an area. Range: 20 feet.Light, Ranged, Area, Intelligence

His throat suddenly felt dry. Oh heck that would have been useful… A single attack that could have swept the bushes clear of those pesky Scavengers.

New skill unlocked.Class level has reached 10.Intelligence has surpassed 40.Has used light magic to break stealth.Sparkling BeaconMana: Conjure a magical arrow of light that curses your target on hit with sparkling motes, preventing stealth or invisibility, and making the target easier to hit. Duration: 1 minute.Light, Curse, Intelligence

Hmm, reasonable… but does it have to sparkle?

New skill unlocked.Class level has reached 10.Perception has surpassed 50.Has defeated multiple enemies in the dark or underground.Eyes of the ArchonGreatly enhanced visual acuity, able to see in extremely low light.Light, Perception

Trying not to grin too much at the impressive choices he had been offered, he instead shared them with Ali and Malika. Mato still seemed busy collecting corpses strewn across the battlefield and stripping them of gear, and he would be much more interested in the final choice than working through the tradeoffs anyway.

“An area attack, a curse that helps everyone in the group hit a monster, and a vision skill to help you scout or aim?” Malika noted.

Calen nodded, appreciating the efficiency of her summary. The skills offered all seemed quite good, and he could see uses for all of them. The problem was they were so different that it would be challenging to decide which was really the best.

“The Rain of Arrows would have been quite useful against all those Goblin patrols we fought, but I don’t think I could have used it much in this fight except for clearing the weaker Goblins at the back.”

“You would have hit me and Mato just as much as the Bugbears,” Malika agreed.

“What about the beacon?” Ali asked. “The shaman had a curse and that was quite effective.”

“It does seem like a good option,” he answered, weighing the skills against the battles he had fought over the past couple of days. “But I think I prefer the eyes skill.”

Many of his fights had been underground in the cavern, or the dimly lit forest. And a perception skill would help him with every arrow he fired. Being able to see better would help so many things.

“You’re an archer,” Malika said. “A good perception skill can’t be a bad choice. It should help with both your tracking and shooting.”

“I just picked a perception skill,” Ali said, “and I can’t imagine going back.”

“Ok.” Calen confirmed his decision, adding Eyes of the Archon for his seventh class skill.

You have gained the class skill Eyes of the Archon.

Instantly, the clearing and the forest brightened dramatically. He stopped and blinked in astonishment.

I can see everything!

He could easily make out the detail of the dew on the tree leaves – across on the other side of the clearing. He could see through the dark shadows easily, revealing bugs that crawled about in the damp dirt under the bushes. It was like he had been blind before and simply didn’t know any better.

