“Boil the water! Savages! I told you, boil it first!”
He yanked one of the Raskghar back. Ceria, staring at the water, decided she wasn’t thirsty after all. She stepped back as the Raskghar filled their waterskins with the bloody water and took a few deep breaths.
“Dead gods. What was that about?”
“I told you. Invisible monsters. They are a plague. But it seems you can see them. Incredible. This is a huge advantage.”
Calruz leaned on his axe, looking pleased. Ceria glanced at him.
“Say what? I have no idea why I could see those things and you couldn’t.”
“Why not? It must be your heritage as a half-Elf. You must be able to see through the [Invisibility] spells.”
The half-Elf frowned, doubting very much that was the case.
“I’ve never seen Pisces when he’s been invisible.”
“Well, maybe it’s a lesser invisibility spell.”
“A lesser invisibility spell? That would be [Chameleon Skin] or something like that. And I wouldn’t be able to see through that either. I told you, Calruz. Half-Elves resist enchantments placed on us. We don’t get magical eyes. That’s Gazers you’re thinking about.”
The Minotaur frowned as he cleaned his axe head in the water.
“Huh. But you clearly have some ability the Raskghar and I don’t. I’ve fought invisible monsters before. I never saw one.”
“I’ve never seen an invisible monster in the dungeon.”
“True.”
Ceria opened her mouth and flushed.
“Wait, I meant—I mean, my team haven’t even encountered one! Neither have any of the other adventurers, as far as I know.”
Calruz shook his head.
“You must have been lucky. They’re everywhere. They attack on sound—or if you run into them. It’s one of the reasons why an active guard has to be maintained on the camps at all times.”
“Wait, so there are lots of invisible monsters. But those insect-things didn’t spot you at all. They were only looking at me.”
That had been curious. Ceria frowned. So did Calruz. He glanced at the dead insects. Ceria did too.
“You can see them?”
“When they’re dead. These things are…ah, the changing maggots. They’re deadly when they reach maturity. But they seldom do in the dungeon. I’ve seen non-invisible groups of this kind of monster, come to think of it. The monsters that are invisible can be anything. Shield Spiders, Flesh Worms, Stone Starers…anything.”
“Wait, Shield Spiders? And you don’t think that’s weird?”
“No. Maybe it’s an enchantment. Some room in the dungeon. Maybe it’s a curse.”
“Or maybe something’s up.”
Ceria’s mind raced as she stared at the insects. She looked at one and realized it was still alive. The Raskghar jumped as it oozed over and grabbed their weapons. The insect-creature flailed weakly with one of its remaining legs. Ceria held up a hand as Calruz turned with his axe.
“Hold on, I think I might know of a way to test this.”
 
——
 
The Raskghar were blind to the invisible monsters, but they weren’t stupid. They could hear and smell and touch the creatures, and so when Calruz and Ceria and the water-gathering expedition returned, the Raskghar were already ready. Dozens of Raskghar aimed bows at the entrance and several Raskghar holding magical artifacts were standing at the ready—until they saw the Raskghar and Calruz. They stopped, sniffing the air, confused.
“Move aside. We have a monster.”
Calruz ordered the Raskghar. They made way, staring at the invisible, bloodied thing in the air. To them it must have looked like some strange ripple in the light, perhaps only visible through the bloodstains and the way the Raskghar held it. But Ceria could see the injured maggot-insect quite clearly.
It was nearly dead. The Raskghar would have happily beaten it the rest of the way to death, but as Ceria had pointed out to Calruz, the monster had to be alive for this to work. The instant it died, the corpse would be visible to everyone. But in life—
“There. Do you see it?”
Ceria approached the Gnolls for the first time. They recoiled as Calruz and the other Raskghar approached. Several stared with hatred and hostility at Ceria, but the rest glanced over her shoulder and gasped.
“Monster!”
They cried out in horror. The other Gnolls stared wildly at the thing the Raskghar held.
“What is it? Invisible?”
“No—it’s some kind of maggot and insect! Can you not see it?”
Astonished, the Gnolls looked at each other. Half—and Ceria noted it was the ones in the cages who’d arrived first—stared wide-eyed at the invisible monster. The rest could see it clearly.
“There. You see?”
Ceria turned to Calruz. The Minotaur snorted incredulously.
“They see it. But how?”
“I don’t know. But it’s not just me. There’s something different to the Gnolls in those cages, the ones who can’t see. Something’s happened to them. But what?”
“I will find out. You—dispose of that thing. And you—”
Calruz took one of the Raskghar to one side as the warriors happily dropped the dying maggot and kicked it to death. The Cave Goblins scurried forwards with butchering knives and Ceria’s stomach roiled as she imagined eating the thing. She glanced at the Gnolls in cages.
“I’m sorry. I’ll try to get you out.”
They stared at her, confused, angry. Ceria looked for Mrsha and saw her huddled in her cage. The poor little Gnoll couldn’t move, shackled as she was. One of the Gnolls edged up to the side of his cage and spoke urgently to Ceria.
“How do you know that monster? That Minotaur. Why is he doing this?”
Ceria wavered. She bent and whispered urgently.
“He’s my former team captain. He was lost on the expedition to Liscor’s crypt. He…took command of the Raskghar. He’s…lost it.”
The Gnolls’ ears quivered. The Gnoll in the cage stared at Ceria.
“Can you make him let us go?”
“I can try. What was that ritual?”
The Gnoll lowered her voice.
“Something dark. Something evil. We do not know. A [Shaman] from one of the plains tribes might. Get us out of here before it happens again.”
“I’ll—”
“Ceria!”
The half-Elf straightened. The Gnoll edged back as Calruz marched towards her. The Minotaur was smiling. He ignored the Gnolls completely and beckoned her over.
“We know the difference now. The Gnolls have been fed. But those Gnolls have been watered as well.”
“Watered?”
Ceria stared at Calruz. He nodded, triumphant and furious.
“Water. There’s something in the water! It has to be that. The Raskghar can’t think of anything else that separates the two and they’re certain those Gnolls drank water while the others were waiting for our expedition to return.”
The half-Elf blinked in surprise. Water? It sounded so insane, but it made sense. She wavered.
“We were just at the pool—do you think—”
“Naturally. Faugh! It’s just like these damned dungeon creators to put something in the water! Or enchant it! And that’s what’s kept this dungeon populated; the monsters don’t fight if they can’t see each other! And I’ve been drinking the stuff!”
The Minotaur cursed, paced past Ceria, and whirled.
“This is good to know. From now on, I will drink only rationed water. As will you.”
He turned and beckoned Ceria over to a pile of equipment, mostly untouched. It was all gear that the Raskghar couldn’t use or had no interest in. Calruz pawed through it and came up with a few flasks. He opened the cap, sniffed, poured some clear liquid out, and nodded.
“This was taken from dead adventurers. They should have—hrr. Yes. Water flasks. The Raskghar prefer their hide bags. Here.”
He tossed one at Ceria. She tried it cautiously, and found the water flask held only stale water. Ceria grimaced as she drank a bit.
“What about the Gnolls?”
“What about them? They can drink the dungeon’s water. If I had more supplies, I’d make some of the Raskghar drink clean water, but we’ll have to be the only ones who can see. I hope the effects on me will wear off soon.”
Calruz shook his head, drinking deeply. Ceria hesitated.
“About the Gnolls—”
She quailed as Calruz stared at her. Then she straightened.
“Look, Calruz. If you let a few go—”
“No.”
And that was it. Ceria tried to speak, but Calruz’s Skill crushed her voice. The Minotaur glared at her, and then tossed his head. He sprayed a bit of water at Ceria and looked around.
“This has all been useful. But that is not the reason why I need you. Warriors! Assemble five companies! We fight in the city!”
Ceria kept her head bowed until Calruz turned away. Then she could move and think. She followed Calruz, conscious of the Gnolls’ eyes on her back.
“The city? You don’t mean Liscor?”
The Minotaur turned and grinned.
“Oh no. You haven’t seen it yet, have you? Follow me. Your adventurers, the Antinium—they’ve only entered the dungeon. But there’s a final part of the dungeon yet to be uncovered. The city. And beyond it—the end. Come and see.”
 
——
 
The city lay at the heart of the dungeon. The path to it was long, crossing through rooms with traps, past monsters both visible and invisible to the Raskghar. But Calruz had set up his camps so that he and his warriors—nearly four hundred Raskghar—could move from safe space to safe space. They marched fast, but it was still hours before they reached it.
The city in the dungeon. Calruz paused at a staircase. Ceria stared up it. A huge pair of double doors waited above. They were closed. And writing was etched into the wall above it. The letters glowed faintly. They looked like the same words that had been written on the crypt’s walls. She couldn’t translate them without using a time-consuming spell, but they made her afraid.
“Calruz. What is this?”
The Minotaur turned. He stood at the head of the ranks of Raskghar. They were armed with stone weapons, most of them. A few had coveted blades made of steel or iron. Calruz hadn’t taken any of the Raskghar with artifacts. The Minotaur gestured up towards the doors. His eyes were wide with excitement. Madness or anticipation, Ceria couldn’t tell.
“This is the gateway. There are eight. Eight places where the labyrinth ends. Places where you can enter the heart of the dungeon. All of this?”
He gestured around at the stone corridors, the winding passages he and the Raskghar had traversed.
“This is the labyrinth. But it is not all of the dungeon. There is a center. But no Raskghar has ever come close to it. The city is the last protection before the heart of the dungeon. It is a world unlike this closed space. But dangerous. Do you wish to see it?”
“Do I have a choice?”
Ceria regretted her flippant answer. The Minotaur glared at her and she felt herself shrinking. The Raskghar waited impatiently, glancing between her and Calruz.
“Yes, Calruz. I do want to see it. But those doors—the words. They’re like Skinner’s warning.”
The Minotaur glanced up. His good hand tightened on the haft of his axe.
“I know. And they are not without reason. But this place makes sense. It is safer than the dungeon in some ways. Now. Open the doors. Ikeld! Advance!”
The first rank of Raskghar ascended the stairs. They hauled on the metal doors and heaved them open. Ceria saw red light, almost blinding in the dungeon’s darkness. She saw the Raskghar stream through one rank, then a horde of bodies. Calruz beckoned. Ceria was afraid. For once she didn’t curse the Skill that made her run after Calruz. She climbed the stairs, charged through the door—
And looked up. A ceiling greeted her. Only, it was a ceiling two, maybe three hundred feet above her. Ceria gaped. Red lichen hung from the rocky ceiling overhead, gently glowing. It provided a bright, almost too-bright crimson glow that illuminated the entire cavern. Only, it wasn’t a cavern.
It was like stepping out of the dungeon and into a castle. Or a palace. Or—Ceria’s breath caught as she saw the tunnel open wider, wider—
A city.
The rocky floor opened out past the metal doors. The ground became flat. For a few hundred feet there was only rock and dirt. And then a pair of walls rose. The rock was reddish, tinted by the light from above. Red lichen grew on the stones, but the walls were largely intact. They weren’t tall—not by the standards of Drake cities, barely thirty feet high. But they stretched around the city.
The city in the dungeon. Ceria could see it past the walls. Tall buildings made of crumbling stone, roofed houses, and, as she stepped forwards wonderingly, she could see how vast the city was. The Raskghar streamed towards the walls, barking warily at each other. There was an open gate meant to allow hundreds of people in every second. Ceria jumped and whirled as Calruz came up behind her. The Minotaur stared towards the city, a fierce light in his eyes.
“You see it? This is the true nature of the dungeon. The city in the dungeon.”
“I can’t believe it. This is the center of the dungeon? People? A city?”
The Minotaur shook his head.
“No people. Just the city. And the death lurking here.”
“Death?”
Ceria looked around. The open space between the city’s walls and the metal door was empty. Disturbingly empty, in fact. Ceria felt her skin crawl as she realized how vacant the city seemed. Where were all the monsters? Calruz nodded towards the Raskghar.
“They’re securing the entrance. Follow me.”
He set a quick pace after the Raskghar. They were waiting at the gates. Calruz jogged towards them, speaking over his shoulder.
“This was once a place where people dwelt. Now it is infested. What is not infested is guarded by the enchanted suits of armor. An entire legion patrols constantly and occasionally sends smaller raiding parties out into the labyrinth.”
“The enchanted armor?”
Ceria blinked at Calruz. She’d seen and fought the metal suits of armor. They were the one oddity in a dungeon full of organic monsters. Calruz nodded.
“They have guarded this dungeon for ages, according to the Raskghar.”
“But how could they still be around? Those things break. If they’re fighting monsters or getting damaged—”
“I imagine there were hundreds of thousands of them. Or tens of thousands at the least.”
“Tens of—do you have any idea how much that would cost?”
“Yes.”
Calruz turned calmly. He was too calm. The city’s gates loomed over Ceria, red, the bricks covered in lichen. The half-elf stared around, panicked for the first time. The city was too quiet. This entire room, this cavernous place was too vast! She was being watched. She could feel it.
“It makes sense, Ceria. For a city of this size, and given that they could build a dungeon of this quality, it makes sense they would have a force that strong. Look at this city.”
