The pain didn’t relent. Rain still felt as if he was on fire, and, after a moment, he realized that he literally was. His cloak, which should have been protected by the influence of his soul, had been ignited, likely from contact with the flaming Dissolver. He rolled, batting at the flames and managing to snuff them out before he took any more damage. He fell onto his back, staring up at the sky as he gasped for air.

The Razorspine’s shriek was the only warning he had before a flaming blade slammed down onto his chest, like an icepick coated in burning gasoline. The impact compressed his lungs, driving him into the ground. The Forceweave stopped him from taking any serious damage, but his armor wasn’t so lucky. The durability had dropped down below fifty percent with the strike.

The Razorspine reared back, raising its blade from the divot it had pounded into his breastplate. The monster’s health bar was visible through his visor, still showing as over half full. Rain didn’t even have time to process the futility of his situation before the Razorspine opened its mouth, spraying him with a torrent of acid that rivaled the outflow from a fire hose. The green fluid didn’t ignite as it passed through the flames, which was only a small comfort.

His armor’s saturation, which had been slowly recovering, shot up to full in an instant. There was a plume of dark smoke and a loud hiss, which cut off abruptly as the metal swallowed the majority of the acid’s magic. The Dissolver sprung away, shrieking angrily as it reacted to something that Rain couldn’t see. A crack of thunder followed, marking Tilson as his savior.

Rain wasted no time, activating Purify to deal with the acid before it could get in through the joints of his armor. The green liquid vanished, offering little resistance without its magic to sustain it. Rain gave it a moment, then switched back to Winter. Without Aura Focus, he had little hope of recovering enough mana for it to matter, but it was better than nothing.

A screech shook him out of his daze, and he pushed himself up to hands and knees, searching for the monster. He spotted it a short distance away, flailing wildly and trying to extinguish the flames that still covered it. As he watched, it crashed into a building, burying itself in a shower of rubble. Cries of terror rose from within the structure.

“Fuck!” Rain swore, lurching to his feet. There’re people in there. He only had around two hundred mana left, but he wasn’t about to let the Razorspine just run wild.

“You okay?” Tilson shouted. He’d moved away, standing a few meters to Rain’s left. He had an arrow drawn to his cheek, and it was crackling with flames as he waited for the monster to free itself from the rubble.

“I’m alive,” Rain shouted back. “Low on mana. Can’t take much more of this.”

Tilson’s reply was cut off as the Dissolver freed itself from the building, the flames extinguished. Tilson loosed his arrow, the bolt blazing as it flew toward the monster and struck it in the abdomen. The arrow penetrated the chitin this time, remaining lodged there, still burning. The Dissolver lost another sliver of health, but other than that, the hit only made it even angrier. It raised its blades as it launched itself toward Tilson, its six legs propelling it rapidly across the shattered cobblestones.

“Hey!” Rain shouted urgently, intending to place himself between the archer and the onrushing beast. He realized he wasn’t going to make it before he’d even taken a single step. Shit. He activated Force Ward instead, making sure that the spell would reach far enough to cover Tilson. It was the best he could do, and with his low mana, it wouldn’t be nearly enough unless the Watch officer had some serious defenses of his own.

Tilson cursed and dove, rolling out of the way, dodging the Razorspine’s blades by centimeters. Rain rushed toward the monster, which whirled at the sound of his footsteps. It slashed at him, fast, but not faster than he’d been expecting. Rain copied Tilson’s technique, rolling under the strike. His tattered cloak, already shredded and weakened by the acid and fire, tore away completely. Coming back to his feet, Rain joined Tilson in flight. A green crescent of acid struck him in the back, pushing his armor’s saturation back to full and cutting into its durability with a sizzling hiss. The Dissolver roared. Rain glanced over his shoulder, seeing it charging after him. He broke left, heading away from Tilson.

“Where are you going!” Tilson shouted, but Rain ignored him, charging straight for a stone wall. He could hear the monster hot on his heels, gaining quickly. He had no hope of outrunning it, even with Velocity, but that didn’t mean the aura couldn’t save him.

Moments before he reached the wall, he threw himself to the ground, then activated the speed-boosting aura, targeting not himself, but the monster.

Velocity (10/10)

468% boost to speed for all entities

Range: 3 meters

Cost: 20 mp/s

Unfortunately, the spell didn’t have the effect that he’d hoped for. If the aura affected the monster at all, it didn’t show it, coming to an abrupt stop before it crashed into the wall and scything down at him with its blades. Rain rolled, scrambling to get out of the way, but he wasn’t fast enough. He was again smashed into the ground, his armor taking the strike on one of his pauldrons. The metal plate crumpled under the blow, jamming into Rain’s shoulder before it ripped away with a tortured screech of metal.

Dropping Velocity, Rain switched to Force Ward as the monster readied its next strike.

Force Ward (10/10)

Increase physical resistance by 62.42% for all entities

Range: 0 meters

Cost: 0.85 mp/dmg mitigated

Numbers flashed through his mind like lightning as the blade descended toward his face. Two thousand damage from the strike, times the 37.5% not mitigated, makes seven-fifty left over, which should be handled by my armor and the charm. Blocking the twelve-fifty will cost me 1062 mana, which I don’t have. Should I lower it further, or—

Out of nowhere, a colossal, shaggy shape crashed into the Razorspine Dissolver like a freight train, smashing it through the stone wall before its blade could make contact with Rain’s chest. He gasped as he recognized the shape for what it was.

Wolf!

A grumbling, basso roar, like that of a lion, vibrated through the air. Rain felt the sound in his chest, and as the dust settled, he saw the colossal form of Wolf facing off against the reeling Dissolver, her teeth bared. Almost faster than he could follow, Wolf exploded into motion. The bug-like monster swung its blades defensively, the razor-sharp chitin biting into the shaggy fur of Wolf’s back as she crashed into it.

Rain’s heart leapt into his mouth, but Wolf just shrugged off the hits. She had moved too quickly, blasting the monster back and robbing the power from its strikes. Her teeth found its throat, wedging its head up and back as she forced her jaws around its neck. The Dissolver flailed, mandibles clicking angrily as it slashed at Wolf’s back again and again.

Wolf snarled, then twisted her whole body, pulling the monster down to smash against the ruins of the courtyard beyond the wall. Tilson took the opportunity to send a Fire Arrow into its more lightly armored underside.

The Dissolver’s six legs scrabbled against the stones as it tried to free itself from Wolf’s death grip on its neck. As powerful as the transformed Watch officer’s attack seemed, it hadn’t done much in terms of damage. The monster’s health was still just under half, Wolf’s teeth unable to crack the chitin.

Rain pushed himself back to his feet, staring as the two titans waged their vicious battle. The Dissolver made one last ineffectual attempt to dislodge Wolf with its blades, then shrieked and changed tactics. Instead of trying to break free, it wrapped its arms around Wolf in a razor-sharp hug, squeezing tight. Blood was already flowing freely from Wolf’s back, matting her fur, and the blades looked to be cutting deeper by the moment.

Rain clenched his fists, watching helplessly. I need to do something. I need to save her, but there’s nothing…

Crimson light flickered, cloaking the Musk Wolf in a cowl of bloody light. The Dissolver keened in surprise and pain as Wolf’s teeth punched through its armor at last, sinking deep into its neck. It immediately released her, but Wolf didn’t let go, savaging the monster viciously with her claws as its health started to drop. This didn’t last for long, as with a pained yelp, Wolf released the creature, her snout covered with its green blood. The telltale smell of dissolving flesh filled the air as Wolf scrambled away, smoke rising from her fur.

Rain knew what he had to do. He sprinted for Wolf as she backed through the destroyed wall, flinging himself toward her neck. “Hold still!” he yelled, then forced his armored hand into her mouth as he triggered a Purify Nova. Two seconds passed, and the spell flickered and died as Rain’s mana dropped to zero. Rain didn’t have time to see if it had worked; Wolf had clamped down onto his arm with her teeth and jerked her head, flinging him through the air and wrenching his shoulder horribly. He had a good view of why she’d done that as he flew through the air. The Dissolver barreled into Wolf scarcely a second after she’d gotten him out of the way, sending her tumbling to the ground.

Wolf and the Dissolver spun out of view as Rain spun through the air. He knew he was out of mana, but he tried to activate Force Ward anyway. Unsurprisingly, it did nothing, and he hit the ground hard, his arms collapsing in a feeble attempt to stop his face from slamming into the cobblestones.

He felt his nose break as his head slammed against the inside of his helmet. The Forceweave padding that he’d added didn’t extend under the visor, a design flaw he resolved to fix if he somehow managed to survive this fight. He gasped in pain, flailing wildly as he skidded along the ground. His neck felt as if it would snap from the force, but his momentum soon carried his legs up and over, relieving the pressure and somersaulting him onto his back.

Dazedly, Rain waved his arms like an upturned bug, pain and adrenaline barely keeping him conscious. In the agonizing minute that it took him to recover, the battle raged on without him, Wolf’s roars and the angry tea-kettle noises of the Dissolver cutting the haze and stirring him to action. I have to get up.

Rain growled, fighting to raise himself off the ground. The discomfort from his twisted shoulder barely rated, not when compared to his broken nose and horribly burned skin. Blood was filling his mouth, and he spat, shaking his head. There was a screech from the monster, and he looked up to see Wolf crash into the ground, landing hard after a flight not dissimilar from his own. The Dissolver had sunk one of its blades deep into her back leg like a meat hook and sent her soaring through the air.

“Wolf!” Tilson shouted, his voice coming from immediately to Rain’s left. A Fire Arrow followed his cry, striking the back of the Dissolver’s head and sticking there. The monster’s health, now down to a quarter, dropped further.

Rain’s eyes widened as the Dissolver whirled, whipping an Acid Crescent at the archer. His body almost moved by itself as he rushed to intercept the strike. His armor had bled off some of the magic that it had absorbed, but the saturation bar quickly filled again as strike after strike splashed over him. The Dissolver, furious at being wounded, was stalking toward them menacingly, not letting up its rapid-fire assault. Tilson returned fire, his burning arrows sinking deep into the monster’s chest, but not stopping it. There was a flash of amber light as he slipped in a Pinning Shot, but Rain’s sudden hope died as the Dissolver skittered to the side, dodging the arrow.

“Depths!” Tilson cursed from somewhere behind Rain. “Run for it!”

Rain didn’t need to be told twice, as the monster was practically on top of him. He abandoned his defensive position, diving to the side, but he was too slow. The Dissolver’s slash caught him under the arm, cutting deeply into the weakened armor and sending him tumbling once more through the air. His flight was brought to a rapid halt by an inconveniently placed building.

Wood splintered as he rebounded from the impact with the second story. Rain flailed as he fell the four meters to the ground, landing in a graceless belly flop against the cobblestones. He almost blacked out as his broken nose struck the inside of his helmet again, his health dropping to around three hundred. A normal human would likely have been dead. Even with the advantage of his greater health and the protection of the Forceweave, the impact was devastating. The world swam, and colors flashed in his vision as he fought to lift himself from the ground, his heart pounding loud in his ears.

Rain gasped, gulping for air. His chest felt restricted by the dent in his breastplate, and several of his armor’s joints had been warped by the forces that they’d been subjected to, further hindering him. The armor’s durability showed as a quarter full, but it looked even worse than that. There was a huge gash in the left side of the breastplate, revealing the sliced Forceweave below, crimson with his blood.

The Dissolver stalked toward him as he feebly rolled himself over and pushed himself to his knees. He grasped frantically for his magic, willing something, anything, to activate. Immolate flickered for a second, consuming the three points of mana that he’d managed to regenerate, but the feeble spell barely even warmed the air.

“Hey!” a high-pitched voice shouted unexpectedly. A bolt of fire impacted the monster’s head, and it whipped around, searching for the source.

Rain blinked in disbelief as his eyes locked on to Ava. The seven-year-old girl was standing atop a building, pointing her finger at the monster. As Rain stared, another Firebolt flickered into existence at the tip of her finger. The Dissolver hissed and slashed the magical projectile apart with a contemptuous flick. It turned its head back to Rain, alien eyes filled with rage.

It took a single step, but then, there was a pop of teleportation, and Mlem’s scimitar slammed down onto its back. The metal blade bit deep into the monster’s carapace, the edge shining with azure light.

