“Good work, Ava!” Mlem shouted over the hiss of the monster. “Nice distraction!” He dodged backward as an arrow from Tilson speared through the Dissolver’s open mouth. The head of the bolt had pierced through the back of the monster’s neck and was still burning. The arrow shaft was black, Rain noticed, just before the fire caught and the Razorspine burst alight for the second time in the fight. It still had some health left, but its bar rapidly crashed to zero as it gagged on the bolt lodged in its throat.

It gave one last hiss, then fell to the ground with a clatter. Green blood began pooling around it, burning like gasoline, and Mlem stepped back quickly, hiking up the hem of his orange robe.

Relief washed over Rain like a wave as the system’s chime sounded, informing him of the monster’s death. He let his trembling arms collapse, rolling onto his back as he fell to the ground.

Your party has defeated [Razorspine Dissolver], Level 15

Your Contribution: 71%

0 Experience Earned

Straining against the pain, he opened the settings for the Malleable Ring and dropped his strength boost to zero, sacrificing just over a hundred health in the process. There was a sickening crack as his nose snapped back into place, and he shouted in surprise at the sudden spike of pain. It didn’t last, fading away and leaving him with the continuing agony of his other wounds. The overhealth had only taken the edge off, however, and the colors had cleared from his vision.

Rain rolled his head to the side weakly, panting for a moment, then forced himself to his feet. He knew that if he lay down, he’d probably pass out, and there was still work to do. He took one unsteady step, then another, straightening his shoulders. The world spun, and he staggered, barely catching himself before he fell.

“Woah there, Rain, are you okay?” Mlem’s voice buzzed in his ear, distant, like the humming of a fly. Rain wasn’t listening. Through a gap in the buildings and over the still dark surface of the river, he had seen the first light of dawn, glowing warmly in the distance. Wolf was sitting propped against a building, back in human form and cradling her leg, but clearly alive.

Rain closed his eyes, tears of pain and relief mixing with the blood on his face as he took a shuddering breath. Wearily, and with great pain in his shoulder, he raised both arms above his head, turning to face the light.

“Praise the sun.”
