Rain reached to his belt, extending the Quickstaff and raising it defensively. He had no illusions whatsoever about being able to hurt the Razorspine with the weapon, but having a solid piece of metal between him and the onrushing mountain of nope seemed better than nothing. He could already tell that running would be pointless, given the speed at which the creature was moving. Perhaps he could escape with Velocity, but the others wouldn’t be able to handle the disorientation.

A blast of light from Val caught the monster right in its insectile face, doing no noticeable damage. Its health bar was still full, meaning that neither Val nor Tilson had done enough damage to punch through its resistance. Or Tilson missed. Or it has so much damn health that the damage doesn’t even show up on the bar.

The creature didn’t slow, and Rain realized that he was shouting as he slashed at it with the Quickstaff. To his amazement, the Dissolver dodged away from his strike, skittering backward and responding with two slashes of its blades that sent a pair of Acid Crescents straight into his chest. As before, the projectiles were consumed by his armor, the acid not even damaging his cloak, at least as far as he could tell. Somehow, the magic was getting broken down and absorbed harmlessly, though his saturation bar told him that it wouldn’t last forever.

“Stay behind Rain!” Tilson shouted, drawing three regular-looking arrows in one motion. Endless Quiver made conserving ammunition less of a concern, though it took a little stamina for each arrow duplicated. Tilson nocked all three, and they burst into flames in sequence before he loosed. The Dissolver slashed the trio of flaming arrows from the air with a single swipe, making the motion look casual.

Val didn’t listen to Tilson’s command, of course. Instead of staying in the shelter provided by Rain’s armor, he dashed off to the left, blasting away at the Razorspine with magic from both of his hands.

“Val!” Rain shouted, reaching out after him. You fucking lemming!

The Dissolver pivoted to face the overconfident Light Mage, its chitinous legs cracking the ground as it launched an Acid Crescent at his head.

Val laughed as the magic flew through the air toward him, summoning one of his Hard Light shields as he vanished, using that invisibility spell of his. The Chemical magic shattered the barrier of light in an explosion of luminous crystalline shards and sizzling acid. Val gasped as he was struck by the shrapnel, though Rain couldn’t see how badly he’d been hit.

After a moment, that gasp morphed into a tortured cry of agony as Val flickered back into view. He fell to the ground, writhing in pain as the monster stalked toward him.

“Go!” Tilson shouted, drawing an arrow with a jet black shaft. After a moment, there was a sharp snap and the arrowhead took on the appearance of stone. “I’ll pin it.”

Rain was already moving, sprinting to place himself between Val and the monster before it could launch another bolt of magic. Tilson took his shot, the arrow, wrapped by an amber light that speared straight through the creature, nailing it to the ground. The arrow itself had bounced off, but the larger ethereal afterimage remained. Pinning Shot: roots an enemy for a set duration. Stone Arrow would have added Force damage, and that arrow looked special to begin with.

“Got it!” Tilson shouted over Val’s howls. “Sixty seconds at most! No promises!”

Rain didn’t respond. He was already kneeling beside Val, Purify rolling off him like fog as he fumbled to retrieve a potion from his bandoleer. Purify’s light seemed to be drawn to the splattered droplets of acid that were burning into Val’s face. There was also a good deal of blood on his skin, leaking from the lacerations left by the shards of light magic. Purify was too focused on the acid to deal with that, it seemed. The acid itself wasn’t vanishing, to Rain’s horror. Dark smoke was rising from the wounds as the Dissolver’s magic resisted the influence of his spell.

Val clamped his teeth together, strangling his screams as the acid continued burning deeper into his flesh. Tilson arrived, moving to stand behind Rain as he kept up his assault on the monster. He’d been launching arrow after arrow, the shots flicking through elements. Fire, Ice, Shock, Stone, Poison, then Fire, Fire, Fire. Thanks to Endless Quiver, the Elemental Archer didn’t need to worry about anything other than stamina and mana as he spammed mercilessly.

The pinned Dissolver couldn’t dodge, but it could retaliate. Another bolt of green magic caught Rain in the back, but he barely noticed, too concerned with the horror unfolding in front of him. “Here, Val! Healing!” he gasped, tearing out the cork from the potion bottle. Wordlessly, Val grabbed the potion from him and downed it. Then, he screamed again, his wounds still not closing.

Shit shit shit. Rain activated Aura Focus, flaring Purify as high as it would go using all of his modifiers. Simultaneously, he pressed his armored hand against Val’s face, hoping that the metal of his gauntlet would draw out some of the magic from the acid. Four seconds was as long as he dared to wait, after which he dropped Aura Focus and took his hand away. To his immense relief, the sizzling had stopped, and the dark smoke had vanished. Val’s face, however, was a bloody ruin. The burns from the acid were barely bleeding compared to the gashes from the shattered light magic. Rain fumbled for another healing potion, but Val stopped him with a strangled croak.

“No, save it.”

“Val, don’t be an idiot,” Rain said, practically pouring the potion down Val’s throat. These potions won’t save anyone that takes a direct hit. They’re not strong enough. He reached back to his bandoleer, removing a small wooden disk, carved with the common rune for the Chemical aspect.

“Acid…Crescent…hurts,” Val said, letting his head thump to the ground.

“No shit?” Rain said, readying the disk. The Dissolver screeched behind them, but Rain ignored it. “Maybe don’t catch one with your face next time. Why the hell did you run out?”

Val shook his head weakly, struggling with the pain.

Rain hesitated, his hand holding the wooden disk hovering above Val’s chest. He grimaced and pulled it back, pressing the disk against his own chest instead, then activated it with a puff of mana.

The disk was a Chemical resistance ward-charm, one that he’d purchased before delving into the Fells, but that he’d never had an occasion to use. The fifty Chemical resistance that it granted wouldn’t do diddly-squat for Val if he got hit again; thus, it made more sense to use it on himself, insignificant as the buff seemed in the face of the Dissolver. Rain took his hand away, the charm remaining stuck to his armor as the shopkeeper had promised it would. The magic-absorbing metal didn’t seem to bother it, for whatever reason.

Rain didn’t question it. He had more important things to worry about. He looked up at Tilson, shaking his head. “Don’t get hit. Those Acid Crescents do fifteen hundred damage each.”

“Fuck,” Val croaked. He coughed weakly. “Why didn’t you tell me that?”

“He shouldn’t have needed to,” Tilson said curtly, blasting the Dissolver with another Fire Arrow. “Fucking Guilders. It’s a reaper. What did you think would happen? Use fire if you can. Seems weakest to that, but not by much.”

Val just groaned, clutching at his injured face. Rain pushed aside his concern, forcing himself back to his feet and turning to face the monster. The Elemental Archer’s barrage had made an impact, though a small one. The Razorspine’s health had dropped by a bare tenth. It was shrieking in rage as it tore at the ground with its blades, trying to break free from the magic holding it in place.

“It will escape soon,” Tilson warned as he readied another Fire Arrow. “I’m surprised it hasn’t already. Rain, can you turtle it once it does?”

“Not for long,” Rain said as another blast of caustic magic struck him in the chest. “Five or six more hits and my armor will be saturated. I’m not sure how I’ll do in melee.”

“Run,” Val coughed. Rain glanced at him, then he blinked as the man vanished before his eyes. “Leave…me.”

There was a sudden screech of triumph from the Dissolver, and Rain whirled to see that the ethereal arrow that had been pinning it to the ground had vanished in a cloud of amber motes.

“Shit,” Tilson swore, grimacing as he drew another black arrow. “Using too much mana.” The arrowhead again flashed to stone as he loosed, but the Razorspine hissed and dodged out of the way. Tilson swore again, much more explosively this time.

“Going in!” Rain shouted, pushing off hard from the ground, sprinting straight for the monster. We can’t run; it will catch us, and I can’t keep tanking its magic forever. Force Ward should be able to block those blades, though, at least for a little while.

He did the math as he ran. As he came into range, he jabbed at the Dissolver using one of the basic staff strikes that Val had taught him ages ago. He grinned as the overgrown bug hissed and retreated, dodging the blow. It’s afraid of getting hit. Joke’s on you, bub. You wouldn’t even feel it, but you don’t know that, do you?

“Yaaaaah!” Rain shouted, chasing after the retreating Razorspine. He used a quick blast of Velocity to hasten his next strike, the staff whipping through the air. The Dissolver skittered back again, dodging. Then, to Rain’s horror, it retaliated. The swipe of its claw came faster than he could react, not even to activate Force Ward. The monster’s blade crashed down on his shoulder, slicing effortlessly through his cloak and severing his leather bandoleer. The razor-sharp chitin ground against his armor but didn’t cut through.

Rain was pushed back by the force of the blow, his knees bending with the impact, though the Forceweave underlayer distributed it well enough that he didn’t take any damage. His armor wasn’t so lucky. The durability had dropped, the metal of his pauldron now bearing a deep scratch. Rain quickly crunched the numbers based on what his HUD was telling him.

“Two thousand damage from the blades!” he shouted. My armor took twelve hundred ish, but it has eight hundred and four hardness. That means it can take around nine more hits.

He pulled his staff back defensively, retreating before the monster could follow up with another strike. Luckily, it was distracted by catching another Fire Arrow in the chest. The burning arrowhead didn’t penetrate, but it did make the Razorspine hiss in anger.

“I’m going to run out of mana before we kill it!” Tilson shouted. Rain grimaced, quickly freeing himself from the remains of his bandoleer. He planted his feet, waited a beat for the monster to approach, then stepped forward, lunging with the end of the staff. He fully expected to take another hit from the creature as a consequence, but he couldn’t show fear. Its wariness of him was the only hope he had. As he struck, he also let loose with Immolate, compressing it to one meter and boosting it to two hundred percent intensity with Channel Mastery.

Immolate (10/10)

355-405 heat (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 1 meter

Cost: 100 mp/s

The staff struck the monster in the torso, the tip skittering off its chitin exoskeleton ineffectually. The aura was slightly more effective, burning away the tiniest sliver of health. The sudden magic, visible as a flash of crimson light from Rain’s armor, startled the Dissolver, and it aborted its strike, retreating again. Rain likewise backed away, sucking in a lungful of scalding air.

That did damage, but nowhere near enough. I can’t kill it this way.

The Razorspine paused, tilting its triangular head. It looked down at its chest where the staff had struck, clearly confused about something. It touched the spot lightly with one of its blades. The motion looked at once alien, and also disturbingly human.

It slashed one of Tilson’s Fire Arrows from the air with a contemptuous flick of its other arm. Then, without warning, it hissed and lunged forward, lightning-fast. Its blades rose, then screamed down toward Rain in an X.

Rain’s eyes widened, and he instinctively raised the Quickstaff to block. Too late, he realized that he hadn’t activated Force Ward. The monster’s blades sheared neatly through the Quickstaff with a jolt, then continued, crashing against his neck, one on either side. His armor saved him from losing his head, but he could feel the force of the impact, even muted by the Forceweave. There was a tortured screech of metal as the Dissolver pulled him in close, its blades scraping against his back. It opened its mouth, hissing loudly, mandibles dripping acid.

Rain panicked a little bit.

Immolate (10/10)

4985-5697 heat (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes ignition

Range: 1 meter

Cost: 2700 mp/s

The world exploded in a maelstrom of fire as the Dissolver ignited. It instantly released him and fled, taking most of the flames with it, but Rain didn’t even notice, distracted as he was. It felt as if he’d been dunked into boiling oil. The pain only grew worse as the scorching air seeped in through the gaps in his armor, the Forceweave providing insufficient insulation. It was the worst by far on his face. His head had been turned away, and his eyes had been closed, but that hadn’t saved him. It felt as if the flames had blasted through the slit in his visor, projecting a searing bar of agony across his face. His health was dropping precipitously as the hot air pressed in on him. One hundred damage. Two hundred.

Refrigerate Nova!

The spell didn’t activate. Rain’s mind frantically kicked into high gear, and he removed Extend Aura from the modifiers and tried again. This time, he had enough mana to trigger the spell.

Refrigerate (10/10)

3270-3738 cold (fcs) damage per second to entities and environment

Sufficient damage causes slow

Range: 1 meter

Cost: 900 mp/s

The blast of cold was almost as intense as the heat had been. There was a flash of blue light from Rain’s armor, and he fell to the ground, the air temperature plummeting. There was no burst of snow, however, as the air never reached the freezing point. The power of the icy nova was insufficient to completely cancel the heat from Immolate.

