I chuckled. That was a masochist’s skill and no two ways about it. Still, my ass back in Sutherland would’ve loved to have that skill. Especially for leg day. Ah, well. There was no discussing that I’d have better odds of surviving if my mind wasn’t distracting me, informing me to scream out loud from whatever pain was trying to overwhelm me.

“So, are you finding whatever… what the fuck?” My amiable words shifted tone halfways through, as I arrived to stand above Lure and see what he was doing. He wasn’t busy trying to mine some metal, or process the downed Rastlers, or something like that. Rather, he was kneeling, fuzzy wings haphazardly folded behind him, holding what looked like a turkey baster in hand. In front of him lay one of my discarded armor pieces, and it looked like… “Are you sucking up the acid?”

He winced and nodded without looking up. “Yes. That is what we’ve been brought along to do.”

“Ah.” I felt like maybe I was missing something. ”Once you’re done with that, what is the material you needed to get?”

He still didn’t meet my eyes. “That’s it. This is the material that Stalwart needed. Apparently, you can use it as an ally or something along with steel, and it’ll give even better results than what you get if you just use steel.”

“I think you’ll find that’s ‘alloy,’ mate.” I said. Then the meaning of it all finally started to sink in. “Wait a goddamn minute. This isn’t something that you can extract from the dead Rastlers then, is it?”

He shook his head. “No. Something in their spit changes it. We don’t have much time either, then it’ll harden and become useless. But the good news is, you managed to get them to spit a lot. So, Stalwart will have more than enough for whatever he’s crafting for you.”

“Aha. And just in case I didn’t make it, that the acid in those things ate me up and left me dead, what were you supposed to do?”

His shoulders sank even more. “I am very fast. I was next in line to distract them and lead them away, while the rest of the team extracted what they could.”

“Fuck.” I didn’t say anything for a while. Then a thought struck me, and I asked. “How many times have you done that, then?”

It took ten seconds before the answer arrived. “Three.”

I glared down at him in equal parts fury and compassion. “You need a better boss.”
