“How did you... no, I know how.” Ren said. “Why now?”

“Actually, I arrived late last night.” The healer said. “I've been waiting for hours.”

“Teepo?” Ren asked and looked up.

“I didn't see her when I came back in an hour after I went to scout.” Teepo said from the ceiling.

“My shadow stops all forms of detection.” The healer said. “Just so you know, Spot only works if the object is moving within your sight range.”

“Oh.” Teepo said. “That's good to know.”

Ren sighed and stored the hammerpick. “What's the message?”

“Can we have some privacy?” The healer asked and looked at the maids.

“I can order them to not repeat what they hear.” Ren said. “Or make them forget it entirely.”

The maids gasped at that, and the healer nodded.

“My Queen has been getting her old powers and abilities back.” The healer said. “She's blossoming into what she once was.”

“And?”

“It's because of you.” The healer said.

“Excuse me?”

“Ever since she gave you the Mark of Favor, she's been feeding from you.” The healer said. “It's been having quite the effect on her lately.”

“Does she want to take it back?” Ren asked, and the healer shook her head.

“Not at all.” The healer said. “In fact, she wants to accelerate it.”

“Accelerate it how?”

“By letting you force-feed her like you did with the other one.” The healer said. “We've been delaying her from just popping over and taking you.”

“Thanks for the warning.” Ren said, and the healer laughed.

“I'm not warning you.” The healer said. “I'm informing you that she will come for you soon, and you should be prepared to serve her...” She glanced at the space between his legs. “...hopefully to the best of your ability.”

“I won't be forced into anything.” Ren said and crossed his arms. “I choose what I do and with whom.”

“Forced? Are you crazy?” The healer asked and laughed. “You already agreed to do anything she asked of you. I even felt your desire for her when you visited her last.”

“If I remember correctly, she broke both of my arms by accident.” Ren said.

“Yes, and you were still willing to feed her, even after that happened.” The healer said. “I thought you were a remarkable man for that, then you gave me this and I knew you were much more than just remarkable.” She said and took out the Mana potion he had given her after she had healed his arms.

“You still have that?” Ren asked. “I thought you would have drunk it by now.”

“Drunk it?” The healer asked, incredulously. “It's liquid Mana!” She said and held it up. Her hand glowed slightly for a moment, then the blue potion glowed brightly as it reacted to her ability, then the glow spread over her and she sighed as it faded. “It feels so good to recharge from it.”

Ren stared at her as she put the potion away. No wonder she was so thankful when I gave it to her.

“My task is complete.” The healer said and Ren's pet tarantula crawled up to her shoulder. She whispered to it, and then a portal opened beside the chair.

“I didn't know it could do that.” Ren said, and the healer laughed.

“You are so funny.” The healer said, stood up, and placed the spider on the cloak. “My Queen made the portal.”

“I know that.” Ren said. “I meant talking to it and relaying a message.”

The healer smiled and walked to the portal. “Remember. She will come for you soon.”

“I'll be ready.” Ren said, and the healer stepped through the portal.

*

“What did he say?”

“He said he would be ready.” The healer said, and Lylyth almost jumped for joy.

“Then I'll get him now.” Lylyth said.

“Mmm MMUM!” Her attendant said.

“Yes, I can!” Lylyth said, and a giant spider leg manifested. It quickly reached out, touched the webbing on her attendant's mouth, and yanked. It tore off the webbing like she wanted; it just happened to take some of the attendant's skin with it.

“Gah!” The attendant gasped and fell to her knees as the manifested spider limb disappeared. “You're still unstable.” She said as the healer went to her and healed her face. “I caution that you should wait.”

Lylyth manifested 2 large spider legs and jammed them into the stone floor of the throne room and shattered several tiles into bits and pieces.

“I DON'T Need to...” Lylyth's yell turned into a whisper as she felt the healer regard her as a spoiled child that was throwing a tantrum. “Very well.” She sighed and let the spider legs disappear. “I will give him time to adjust to the thought of feeding me properly.”

The healer finished with the attendant's face, and they both walked over to the throne behind their Queen.

“By properly, you mean...” The attendant started to say.

“Yes.” Lylyth said. “He will scream for me.” She smiled. “Or die trying.”
