Too bad he was fighting Avowed instead of Jatontan pests.

With a restriction on running, and if it’s just me versus one of them…what do I want to practice?

Today, the dueling blocks were going to be empty rooms of varying sizes. No obstacles of any kind for him to work with or hide behind.

Alden started examining the other people in the class one by one. I can’t plan something that would be good versus everyone. Maybe I should just guess and plan with one of them in mind? Hope whatever I come up with transfers to the others?

Heloísa.

Jupiter.

Reinhard.

Reinhard?

Okay. Him.

I owe him back for combat assessment anyway. Let’s figure out a way to beat Reinhard. I’ll boldly feed him to victory, instead of going for a tie.

Nothing in Alden’s bag of supplies was really screaming victory, though.

Not dying did seem doable. Partly because of Reinhard’s personality. He probably wouldn’t fire his strongest shot at Alden. Power built up in his bow every time he hit his target and then he sacrificed that magic all in one go for a big one.

But he would be conservative with the big ones because he wanted to shoot the strongest members of the class with them. Not the Rabbit. If he killed Alden that way and then got assigned to duel one of the S’s immediately afterward, he wouldn’t be happy.

He would absolutely take a draw against me and use me to build up steam so that he could try to beat someone he respected more.

Snatching an arrow out of the air with his skill then firing it back at Reinhard would be the coolest option.

We’re not there yet even with the wordchain. Save that for last ditch efforts.

Ten minutes later, when his turn came, Alden had made a plan.

Can I call it that? It’s not really good enough to be a plan. It’s a theory about how I could attack Reinhard if I had nothing but lots of string for a weapon. No, not even a theory. It’s a notion we’re going to try.

And…oh boy, look who I’m fighting with my notion.

[Dueling Block 3]

[Opponent: Jeffy, Aquatic Brute - S]

[Incapacitate your opponent.]

[Kills: Allowed]

He only had one minute to get into position, so he thanked Jupiter for being his entruster, picked up his notion, and speed walked toward the block with it.

“Alden,” Instructor Marion said, looking up to take in his weapon of choice as he passed. The Engaging with the Unexpected Teacher had his brown hair pulled back in its usual low ponytail.

“It didn’t take long to make,” said Alden, worried he was about to be told that his creation was too much of a creation. “I could manage it in…not an emergency maybe. But in an urgency, it would be doable.”

“I was just going to tell you to be mindful of your injuries,” Marion said. He was still staring at the archer-defeating basket Alden had made, though.

The quick birdnest shield method—just take all the ribbon, paracord, fishing line, and other lightweight string you’d brought and then scramble it into a pile of the desired size and shape before preserving. No tying, minimal fiddling around. If you had a little extra time, you could make sure there were no large gaps, and if you had a convenient largish object handy—like the mounds of elemental bags in the practice area—you could drape your scramble over it and make an easy basket shape.

Then you could give it a long handle and preserve the whole situation.

The basket was around the size of a pair of small sofas stacked on top of each other. The handle was nylon webbing about six yards long that Alden was currently holding much closer to the “basket” part than the tip, because it was too unwieldy.

Ideally, he would have run at Reinhard with it and dropped it onto his head. The crazy mess of a net would stop a couple of quickly fired arrows while he closed distance, and then, assuming that Alden lost preservation when he trapped his foe, all of the crap would still get tangled up with archer’s bow and arrows. For at least a moment.

Reinhard would be very pissed. He’d throw it all off. And then Alden would try the final part of the plan. Reinhard would naturally end up stepping on top of the remains of the basket when he freed himself. Most of those strands would still be connected to the handle.

And then I re-preserve, lift, and hurl him as hard as I can. He’ll smash into one of the barriers. Definitely, he’ll be injured. And if he’s not completely unconscious I…stab him with one of his own arrows or something.

He didn’t know how good his chances of making it work were, but it would have been a really fun way of winning.

Maybe it will work on Jeffy, too?

“Alden! Alden, guess what?!”

His mowhawked opponent was waving both arms when Alden stepped into the block.

“Hey, Jeffy. What?”

“The System says I’m two levels stronger overall now!” Jeffy started to walk toward him.

“Everyone, remember to start on your own side of the dueling block,” Marion called.

Jeffy sprang backward. “I also got a lamp!”

Alden knew all of that already, but he was glad the guy was excited. He stared at Jeffy through a narrow gap in his basket, then he turned his new tool sideways, so that the basket was to his left and the handle extended out to his right. The block they’d been assigned was ten by twenty-five meters. If Alden stood with his back to the barrier in the start position, he couldn’t hold the basket directly in front of him. The handle was way too much unless he extended it out toward Jeffy.

He didn’t think there was actually an established dueling rule for holding your six-yard-long, human hurling device, but he was sure someone would say something to him about it if he was bold enough to start with his weapon already a quarter of the way toward his opponent’s end of the block.

“I heard you were working really hard during the disaster,” he said to Jeffy. “That’s awesome, man. You should be proud.”

[Duel Timer: 2 minutes]

[Start in 5s…]

Alden took a deep breath and let it out.

Nerves.

Just a little.

One-on-one duels at Celena North. Let’s see what this is like.

******

******

[Fractured ribs.]

Well, fuck.

[Fractured ribs.]

“Jeffy!” Alden said. “Let me—”

“He’s a tricky Rabbit. Gotta hold him real tight for sixty more seconds,” Jeffy said in Alden’s ear.

“Put me down!” Alden pried at the arms wrapped around his chest.

“Get the job done. Aqua Brutes have the strength and wisdom of the ocean.”

I think I would feel better right now if I were in physical pain.

Jeffy had started his attack by bellowing “LAND MOVES!” and baseball sliding across the floor at high speed. Alden had been proud of himself for about a second. Despite the unexpected method of attack Jeffy had chosen, Alden had gotten his basket in between the two of them to intercept before the Brute reached him…only for Jeffy to shout, “SKY MOVES!” mid-slide and somehow lever his stupidly strong ass up and over the basket. He’d hit the floor at what had looked like a spine-breaking angle, but apparently it wasn’t, because he sprang right back up and bounded forward to grab Alden.

A wordchain that helped you move better wouldn’t save you if you couldn’t predict Jeffy’s randomness fast enough.

And now this.

Instead of killing Alden, Jeffy was bear-hugging him from behind. The Brute had bent himself backwards so that Alden’s feet wouldn’t touch the ground. He had failed to trap Alden’s arms, so Alden could freely wave all four of his limbs helplessly in the air while an unmovable Jeffy slowly caved his ribs in and said everything in his head out loud.

“Max says not to overthink,” Jeffy chanted. “Instead, overdo.”

I should yield.

“You look stuck there, Alden!” Instructor Marion shouted. “Perhaps you’d like to concede?”

“No! I’m still thinking!” He kicked his feet. He waved his arms.

He’d still had a grip on his basket handle when he’d first been picked up, but whacking Jeffy in the head with the end of it did absolutely nothing.

Sixty seconds later, Jeffy set him down. Alden was breathing hard. He reminded himself that Jeffy wasn’t a deliberate jerk and him going on about the strength and wisdom of the ocean while Alden flailed wasn’t some kind of insult.

“Good fight!” Jeffy held his hand up for a high five. “Wow, your face got red!”

“You…” Alden took a deep breath, let it out, then slapped his hand. “Yeah. Good fight. The overdoing is working for you.”

******

[Dueling Block 6]

[Opponent: Njeri, Shaper of Water - A]

[Claim your opponent’s territory by tagging all of the marked locations on their half of the block.]

[Kills: Disallowed]

“Um…this doesn’t seem fair if you’re not allowed to run today,” said Njeri, staring at the red squares on Alden’s half of the block. The jumbo water jugs she’d overturned were spilling their contents onto the floor.

“I’ll just do my best.”

She lifted her hands, and the water began to form a blob in front of her. “But your shield is a net.”

That is unfortunate versus a Water Shaper. Maybe I’ll get Reinhard next time.

******

[Dueling Block 3]

[Opponent: Marsha, Meister of the Mutable Haft - S]

[Incapacitate your opponent.]

[Kills: Allowed]

Just hold out for ten seconds, thought Alden. He’d ditched the handle, and he was holding the big bird’s nest shield directly in front of him with both hands. It covered his whole body and then some. Versus several members of the class, with his back to the barrier, this would be enough to ensure a draw. Versus Marsha ten seconds would be a triumph.

[Start in 5s…]

How to make it last that long against her?

I’ll throw myself toward her as soon as we start. Using the good foot, so nobody can complain. She won’t be expecting that from me. As soon as I land, I’ll jump to the left as hard as I can.

I’ll zigzag around like crazy. At least ten seconds, then I’ll find out what it feels like to take one of her hits with my skill.

He wanted to know that, and this was his first opportunity.

The polearm was still in glaive shape. She would probably just run straight at him as soon as they started and swing it.

[1s…]

[START]

Alden bent his knees to throw himself toward her.

A sense of threat to the space he occupied. A flash of light.

No. His fingers tightened on the shield.

For the briefest instant, there was a detectable battle—the authority of his skill to bear and preserve, resisting the attack of someone whose power was bound for the creation of an offensive strike. Then Alden was standing there, holding two fistfuls of severed cord and string.

His skill was toast. An injury list that could have been abbreviated as “very dead” appeared.

He looked across the dueling block at Marsha. She hadn’t come toward him after all. She’d just swung her weapon from over there, trusting that the magical follow-up slash would finish him.

“Like chopping wood,” she muttered, stalking off.

So, thought Alden, as he watched her go. This is what duels are going to be like.

******

******

He was the second person to head to the bleachers. Olive was there, sitting with her arms wrapped around her knees and a jacket draped over her like a tent.

The posture and the puffiness around her eyes made Alden think the illusionist wasn’t in the mood for company. He went past her and found a seat high enough to provide a good view of all the blocks.

Should have expected this.

When having one big skill was your style, and that skill was tired, you didn’t have anything to fall back on.

I guess I could have told Klein that I wanted to keep going until I’d run out of temper sphere uses. The look on his face might have been worth it.

He stared down at the current batch of duelists. Max and Astrid were just standing in their block, watching each other with tight postures. Alden assumed the problem was that Astrid knew Max had put down a trap, and she was trying to guess where it was.

The skill that went with Max’s zone spells was one that let him adjust the effects the zones had on him. It was reduction only at this point, but that meant he could walk around in the middle of one of the traps and fool people into thinking it was normal floor.

In the neighboring block, Reinhard versus Haoyu wasn’t going well for Reinhard. He ran faster than Haoyu, but not when he was shooting at the same time. Haoyu had him in a chokehold already and would be winning any second.

There was still over an hour left of class.

I have thirteen more classes until the end of term. Maximum. We’ll probably be dueling in a lot of them.

How should I handle it?

Writher plunged into the back of the Brute who’d just grabbed Lexi.

Should I try to figure out how to beat each classmate?

Lucille had the Object Shaper pinned to the floor. She looked apologetic about it.

No. Let’s stick with the plan. I’m here to learn, practice, and grow the skill. So if I leave a fight having done that, it’s a personal win. And if I don’t get anything out of it, it’s a loss.

He looked down at Marsha.

No taking her hits like that again this term.

He understood what it was like now. There was nothing else to be gained from a repeat.

I also can’t outrun her without a ground element surface. So she’s absolutely no good for practicing defense against in a battle like the one we just had. Next time, I’ll try out something offensive.

Okay, so if she’s going to stand in place and chop wood like that whenever we fight, I might as well use her to practice hitting hard and fast from range. Getting my aim down might take a while, but how fast can I make something on the end of a string fly if I have…let’s say a minute to prep it in the practice area in advance.

