He considered it for a couple of minutes, then put the problem aside and studied the fights going on in front of him. The outcomes were usually predictable. He wasn’t surprised by where the gaps between his classmates were, but witnessing the width of those gaps in this kind of scenario was brutal.

Everyone had been freed of the need to think about delicate rescue operations, team strategy, and complicated rules.

The S-ranks looked like monsters. And the S-rank Meisters looked like the monsters that ate the other monsters for breakfast.

Tuyet, Marsha, and Ignacio didn’t lose except to each other.

Alden didn’t see Finlay fight Ignacio, but Tuyet got the speedster by throwing all of her darts at once. And Marsha just barely beat him in a difficult-to-follow close combat situation. Alden was going to have to watch that one in slow motion. He thought Finlay’s mistake might have been positioning himself between her and the place where the polearm had fallen on the floor.

S-rank Weapon Meisters were generally the killingest of killing machines. Most of them lacked the flexibility and creative options that Shapers and Adjusters had. They weren’t given as many foundation points as Brutes. What they had were magic weapons and the talents they needed to make those weapons extremely dangerous. So their dominance today was to be expected.

It was to be expected…but a lot of people, including the members of the class who had seemed most eager for duels, were acting like they hadn’t expected it.

The obstacle course didn’t make it as stark as this, Alden thought as he watched a boy stalk away from his duel with Ignacio. He turned back to say something that made Klein bark a warning.

The tempers were getting hot in the A-on-A fights as well.

Njeri was out running on the track. Her competitive streak had gotten the better of her during a fight with Heloísa, and she’d launched a jet of water at her roommate after time was called. It hadn’t seemed like she was really angry, just too into the battle and unwilling to stop mid-attack.

She’d looked mortified to be sent off to do laps.

As time passed, spell impressions wore out. Skills wore out. A few of the Brutes got tired and clumsy, and Klein ordered them off the floor. A couple of people went to use the bathroom and never came back. The smarter ones just had private breakdowns in their seats.

“People in this program get very upset about losing,” Alden said when Lexi, wearing a towel around his neck and moving like he was exhausted, finally joined him on the bleachers.

He’d done well, and he looked satisfied. That’s probably the equivalent of an average person wearing a giant grin.

Lexi drained a water bottle in a few gulps. “How did you do?” he asked. “How’s Haoyu? I haven’t been able to pay attention to anything but my own fights since I started.”

“Marsha butchered my magic and my body,” said Alden. “Haoyu hasn’t been winning as much as you. Some people have started running from him to force draws. But he’s going to be the last A-rank standing.”

Lexi looked down at the floor, then sat up straighter at the sight of Haoyu’s current opponent. “Everly’s still in it?”

“Not really. She’s been on a losing streak for a while, and she can’t run at all anymore. She just wobbles around the block until she gets killed or manages a spell cast. But when Marion tried to tell her she could quit, she shouted that she had been careful and saved her impressions and this was her gym time.”

The instructor had seemed a little concerned, but he’d let her go on with it.

After a minute, Lexi said, “The bridge really bothered her. It should bother us all of course, but she’s got Kon asking me for running tips. Like I’m some expert on training just because I exercise in the mornings.”

“Why didn’t she just ask you herself?”

Lexi frowned. “I don’t know. It’s not like I’m that hard to talk to.”

Alden clamped his mouth shut and focused on Jupiter. She and Vandy had agreed to have a Shaping-only duel. They were each sitting on the floor while a ball of smashed cacti and a current of air clashed in the middle of their block.

“She blinded three people.”

“What?”

“Jupiter. With her cactus bomb.” Alden watched the green ball creep a little closer to Vandy. “She aims for the face.”

******

******
