When the old servant’s screams quieted to a hoarse whisper, Gen addressed the servants as a group. “I was once like you all, a base scavenger from an unnamed village in the wilds, living under Imperial yoke and too stupid to realize it. I spent my days seeking Balance and yearning for strength, but thanks to their lies, I tasted the barest hint of power, one which elevated me a hair’s breadth higher than a basic commoner. You’ve seen the strength I now wield, and you could wield it too. All you need do is reject the lies and accept the Truth, and Heaven’s bounty will be yours. Why remain loyal to a dog Emperor who has abandoned you? Why cover for your so called comrades who’ve sent you out to die? You see us as conquerors and rebels, but I tell you, we are the true patriots of the Empire! Those Loyalists spout their lies of Balance and Defiled to keep commoners like us weak and underfoot, but in doing so, they cause more death and misery than any foreign savages ever could. I, Gen, the Emissary of Earth’s Fire, will bring change to the Empire, and it will be change for the better.” Gesturing at his Huntsmen, he shouted, “We are the wildfire who will clear away the dead undergrowth of the Imperial Clan. We will form the steel and earth of a new foundation, a new Azure Empire without the lies and corruption of the old, but to do that, we need your help.” Pointedly glancing at his new Bei, he added, “I promise to guide you to discover the immeasurable power of the Heavens, and I only ask one thing in return. Give me the location of your comrades, and I will erase your sins committed in ignorance and personally welcome you into the fold.”

Bei’s eyes met his own and Gen suppressed the urge to lash out. She would soon learn not to challenge him, but for now, he needed her alive to find those hidden Loyalists. Taking a deep, shuddering breath, Bei straightened up and declared, “You will find our comrades when they emerge to take your dog life, Defiled filth.” Her part said, she trembled in fright and shut her lovely brown eyes, stubbornly rejecting the Spirits from her mind and Gen from her heart.

How dare she?

When he emerged from his berserk rage, dusk was upon them and all the prisoners laid dead save one, a young man with robes reeking of blood and excrement as he busied himself telling Kash anything and everything he could think of. Sweet Bei was an unrecognizable mess scattered about the desert, for no matter what Gen did or made her do, he could not convince her to accept the Truth. Chest aching in heartbroken sorrow, he took a deep breath and licked his fingers before scrubbing them clean in sand, for there was still more work to be done.

Perhaps he’d find another Bei amongst the Imperial Loyalists.

After scouting out the area, they found the smuggler’s warehouse right where the gibbering prisoner said it would be, backed onto a towering dune and entirely hidden beneath the sands. Further searching uncovered the well-concealed stone entrance described by the prisoner, as well as two more exits he swore he didn’t know about. Not convinced, Gen removed a strip of skin as punishment and fed it to his gajashia. Then, since he wanted to wait until midnight before attacking, he removed a strip of fat, then muscle, then began carving his name into the bone before the prisoner finally fainted and it was no longer fun.

He finished carving his name regardless, mostly because he needed the practice. Reading and writing were much harder to learn than the secrets of Martial strength.

When the time came, he dispatched Kash and Deng to guard the other exits while leading the assault on the main entrance himself. Aside from Mentor’s plain-armoured Transcendent who never left his side, Gen had also brought a second Transcendent along on this hunt, one under his sole control. A recently born Transcendent, the white-faced Demon was both stylish and deadly, a lean, dangerous duellist with a billowing cape of blades, and like Gen, hands bearing sharpened, metallic fingers. Gen had an older brother who’d died in infancy, so he imagined that this Transcendent was his brother reborn, here to protect Gen as an older brother should.

Samat had been his name, and this Transcendent would wear it proudly. A shame he was too stupid to hide in Gen’s shadow like the first Bei had, but he made allowances for family.

Though the warehouse was well hidden, it had been built with concealment in mind, not fortification. Once discovered, it was more deathtrap than fortress, for there was no place for sentries to watch and warn of enemy approach. Striding up to the entrance under the cover of darkness, Gen arranged the Transcendents on either side of him and the Huntsmen behind before drawing on the Blessing of Earth. Body bristling with boundless strength, he ripped the heavy door off its hinges and tossed it off into the empty night. Though surprised by his abrupt entrance, the Imperials were ready and waiting for an attack, trembling behind their impromptu barricades at the force arrayed before them. Grinning from ear to ear, Gen stood tall and clasped his hands behind his back, portraying the young hero he knew he was.

Ah, of course. It’s too dark for them to see.

Conjuring a ring of fire around his feet, Gen posed and said, “I am Gen, Emissary of Earth’s Fire.” There were no shuddered gasps this time, which put him in a foul mood. Perhaps he should’ve kept the Transcendents out of sight. “Lay down your weapons, embrace the Truth, and your sins shall be forgiven.”

Silence was their only reply, their weapons still pointed towards him in utter irreverence of his status. Utterly unacceptable. Anger consumed him for the second time this night, and when he emerged from the darkness of his mind, the battle was done and he held a lovely warrior woman by the hair, so similar to the Bei he’d dismembered only scant hours ago. A Heaven-sent gift, no doubt, to come across his deceased wife’s sister so soon after losing her, and Gen rejoiced to find love once again. “Hello Bei,” he said, stroking his wife’s flawless cheek with his gore-soaked hands. She would look so much more beautiful after he branded her with burns. “I’ve missed you so, wife.”

“I’m not your wife, Defiled filth.” Bei struggled in his grip, but her arms and legs were covered in lacerations and completely useless. It pained him to see his wife in such poor health, but the woman defied him and must learn her place. “Nor am I this ‘Bei’ you speak of. I am Brigadier –!”

Her words gave way to a strangled scream as he held a burning hot finger to her lips, leaving a lovely black line across them both. “Hush dear wife. You are Bei, my beloved bride, and I have missed you so. Come, let us celebrate our reunion. You remember my brother, yes? You injured him greatly in your hysterical struggles. A good thing he calmed you down.” Eyeing Samat’s grievous injuries, Gen shook his head and sighed. “Dear wife, you must be more gentle with your brother-in-law. Healing does not come easily to the Transcendents.” Gesturing at the dead Huntsmen and Loyalists around them, he commanded the Spirits to sacrifice themselves to Heal Samat using the corpses at hand and lamented the waste. Mentor treated the Spirits like a resource to be spent and consumed, but Gen knew how precious each of them truly were. The more Spirits used to Heal Transcendents, the fewer remained to convince his prisoners to accept the Truth.

Reminded of his work, Gen tossed Bei aside to deal with later and turned to the crowd of prisoners, launching into his oft-recited speech. “I grew up as a base scavenger from an unnamed village in the wilds...” No matter. The cost was well worth it, and with Mentor’s savage rabble marching east to their deaths, there would soon be many more Spirits free to roam about, Spirits better suited to Enlightening or inhabiting more worthy hosts. Then, once their army of Enlightened Warriors and Transcendents was ready, they would bring fire and justice to the Azure Empire and slaughter all those who opposed them.

And after the Dog Emperor lay dead, Mentor would be next to pay for his crimes against Heaven. Such was Gen’s burden, to usher in a new age of Enlightenment as the Chosen Son of Heaven and future Emperor of All Creation.

Chapter Meme
