“The idea is to just keep going down until we reach the bottom?”

“Yes, and there are three general ways to go about it,” Ogras said.

“The normal layers have hidden pathways like the one we used to get here,” Ogras continued. “There are also hidden Troves, but we haven’t found any real way to search for them. It seems to be a matter of luck and fate, so I have high hopes now that you’ve rejoined us.”

“I’ll see what I can do,” Zac said with a smile. “The layer we’re currently on is different from the graveyards. I thought I could feel the aura of the Lower Planes from the ruins.”

“Exactly,” Ogras nodded. “I guess you could say these are central layers. The most important difference from the graveyards is that there are no hidden pathways leading to the next floor. Jumping down is also impossible. Instead of deadly winds, there’s something like an absolute chasm. The next layer may as well be on the other side of the continent.

“I guess we have to make our way through the Lower Planes to reach the Hollow Court?”

“That’s the theory,” Ogras nodded.

“Theory?”

“You were dropped off close to the top, so we haven’t actually passed any major layers yet,” Ogras explained. “I just took a sneak peek on the other side. It’s filled with life, so I’m guessing it’s one of the gardens. Bringing the miss through in her previous state would have been… ill-advised, so we decided to stick around.”

Zac saw Tavza’s brows flicker with annoyance upon hearing the “we,” and he had to suppress a smile. Apart from the kidnapping, spending some time with normal people might actually do the heiress some good. Zac could see some of the same isolation on her as he saw in Iz.

If nothing else, being constantly annoyed by Ogras could help temper her Dao Heart while training her social skills. Tavza was a wealth of knowledge, but she was also undeniably somewhat rigid. The trial needed them to take on the identity of others, and not all interactions could be avoided by hiding within her personal Abyss.

“Life… Another Garden? Or the Unbounded Pastures?” Zac asked.

“Should be a different one. It has a very different feel to it,” Ogras said, scrunching his face. “And not a good one.”

“Going by Mr. Azh’Rezak’s description, it should be the Fifth Garden, Poised Meadow. Its essence of Life is centered around the spark that begets the Soul and sapience. If not careful, its environment can trigger the birth of a new consciousness, creating a dangerous mental schism.”

“Girl, you must have realized that when we inspected the entrance. Why didn’t you mention that when I went ahead to check things out? I almost got my ass—” Ogras withered under Tavza’s even stare. “Anyhow. It’s not necessarily a real Realmgate. There’s a memory domain on the other side.”

Zac slowly nodded, having a rough idea of what was going on. The Hollow Court was responsible for using the Nine Gardens and Eight Hells to support the Left Imperial Expanse. The Joyful Gardens was one of the anchors connecting the two sides, though Zac suspected it was only a minor anchor. The main bridge would naturally be the Hollow Court.

“We’ll figure out the details when we enter,” Zac said, not without some anticipation. Kālasūtra’s Realmlord had warned him not to “return” too early, but Fate had other plans in store. “I guess we’re going realm diving.”
