Mieriel sucked in her breath sharply. He killed William? Everyone knew Jax had to be somehow involved in the assassination, many of them suspecting he was the will behind it, rather than the Silent Assassin or Kieran Mori, but hearing the words spilling directly from his own mouth was a truth most shocking. Mieriel could scarcely believe he had said it aloud. By the palpable waves of emotion rippling off the entire room, it seemed it was equally shocking to everyone else.

Markus cleared his throat, breaking the silence. His hand reached up to adjust his glasses, as if uncaring that he had the attention of the entire room. “As you are no doubt aware, Mr. Hawkhurst, you have just admitted a serious crime to a representative of the crown. I suggest you do not leave town until the royal guard comes to collect you.”

Mieriel just stared. Never in a million years had she expected this outcome. She had hoped to throw a wrench into Jax’s business deal with Markus, and instead she had just witnessed him confessing to William Turner’s murder. How much frustration and rage had he been keeping pent up under the iron grip of control for it to shatter so dramatically? A cauldron under pressure, just waiting to burst.

A soft chime sounded in the back of her mind.

Mind’s Eye has reached level 100 (+3)+30 attribute points.Empathy has reached level 64 (+2).Heightened Perception has reached level 42.Augmented Deduction has reached level 45.Misdirect Attention has reached level 63 (+4).Inconspicuous Presence has reached level 52 (+2).Convincing Story has reached level 58 (+3).Requirements met for class evolution. Class evolution options will be automatically assigned in one week.Additional class options may be available at a shrine.Class experience is paused until your class evolution is complete.

Oh, my! She glanced at Markus de Voss and decided the crown banker would have to be trusted to take it from here. As surreptitiously as she was able, she beat a hasty retreat, fleeing from the Princess’s Petticoats Lounge like she was chased by a demon.

Vivian, I must tell Vivian! And where is Aliandra?

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
