I watch, dumbfounded, as a bird man wreathed in fire descends upon Mac and starts attacking him. He’s screaming bloody murder, something about chasing Mac forever and not getting anywhere. The birdman seems to be using martial arts, but his fists and feet are covered in fire, and every blow sends a wave of heat flying off. Mac deflects every strike with watery barriers, and seems to be trying to defuse the situation, but the birdman isn’t having any of it.

[ Altair of the Burning Wrath, lvl ? ]

Just based on his Namecard, it’s pretty easy to guess who he is. Mysterious monster with a Sin Trait? Yeah, that’s another Chosen One contestant. And it looks like Mac was his Target, and since Mac just completed the First Event before he could get there, he’s not happy.

Sucks for him. Not my problem.

Herman and Sasha soon join in with the battle, and while they fight, I locate Zorg’s corpse below us, and grab it, along with Sasha’s severed wing that she left behind when she tried to attack Mac. I take a little nibble of both, and find them to be suitable. Sasha tastes quite interesting, actually. Her blood leaves a little bit of a tingle in my mouth. If I had to guess, that’s a Sonic Affinity, or something like that.

Then, after that, I beckon the twins down, and together, we start collecting frogs. Sadly, Mac and Altair’s fight seems to be killing a few of them as collateral, but there are enough to go around, and a whole other enclosure when we’re done here. We have to finish up soon, because apparently there’s a big demon on the loose, but eh. I’m sure we’ll be able to get away. Worst case scenario, we just make another Dungeon escape.

We move casually through the swamp, picking up frogs as we do. I do most of the picking up, but B grabs a few sometimes using special spatial shields to contain them, and Lauren takes on the duty of spooking them out of their burrows. Chad joins us thirty seconds later or so, having finally made it over the wall, and we fill him in on what he missed while gathering more frogs.

The whole time, A just admires her gun, meditating to recover her mana so she can put even more of it into the gun. She hasn’t even healed her shoulder yet. B tried to get her to, but she said she’d rather save her potion limit for mana.

“How does the rifle even work?” I ask as I Snatch a half dozen frogs in my tentacles. “Does it just absorb a bunch of mana into the bullet, then shoot it?”

“That’s the main feature,” says B, answering for her distracted sister. “It’s a bit more complicated than that, though. The upper limit on stored mana is based on the user’s wealth.”

I think back to the enormous amount of mana that A managed to shove into that thing, and then compare it to the relatively pitiful bullet that Zorg fired.

“Wait, how much money do you guys have?”

“Artifice is very profitable,” says A without looking up. “Very, very profitable…”

“That’s not an answer.”

“We have a portable house,” says B. “You know how expensive spatial relics are, right?”

“Uhhhhh…”

“Have you not sold the box you got from Maligar yet?”

“I’m gonna be honest, I forgot I had it.”

“Well, go try to sell it, and you’ll understand.”

“I will definitely do that and not forget again,” I say.

Abby, write that down!

“Done.”

“It also has a few other minor features,” continues B. “You can designate a target, and it won’t damage that target. For example, if she wanted to kill a beast, but keep its heart intact, she could designate its heart as the target, and destroy everything around that while leaving the heart pristine. And before you ask, no, it doesn’t work on–”

A loud explosion rings out from somewhere behind us, and a wave of heat hits us in the back. We glance back to see if it’s something we should be concerned about, then turn back to the task at hand.

“It doesn’t work on defensive measures like shields or armor,” continues B. “The description says that explicitly.”

“Interesting,” I say, scratching my chin with a frog before tossing it into the box. “Sounds useful, I guess?”

“The most important part about it all is that it can be pre-charged,” says B. “Unlike most other soul weapons, mana imbued into it doesn’t fade over time, and she can charge up to four bullets. So she can have four attacks stored up that are stronger than her strongest ordinary attack, and she can use it in an instant, without needing to charge up.”

“Oh wow, that’s good.”

Wait, that’s really good. That’s too good. That’s not fair! That’s better than my Soul Weapon!

“No it’s not.”

Yeah it is. Mine is lame. I have to hit stuff to absorb energy, and I can only do the thing once per day.

“For now. Remember, Zorg is a Tier higher than you. Also remember that charging up the one bullet took more than three times her entire mana pool, and those potions she consumed to recharge weren’t cheap. She probably spent 5000 gold just charging up a single bullet. And if she didn’t, it would take days to load it with enough mana to be useful.”

Yeah, but–

“And yours is useful on its own. That one is only useful during its four bullets. Other than that it’s just dead weight.”

Well…

“It has a lot of power, but it has to give up a lot to have that power. Yours, on the other hand, is useful in nearly every scenario, and its abilities are just the cherry on top. Besides, you can literally do the exact same thing as that gun with your Stomach, minus the selective anti-targeting.”

Okay, fine, you’re right. It’s not better. But I still want one.

“Maybe that unavailable Soul Weapon–”

Not that one. We don’t talk about that one.

“If you say so.”

“I cleared the burrows in this region,” says Lauren, materializing by my side. “And it sounds like we need to find a Soul Weapon for B. Everyone else has one except her.”

“It’s really–” starts B.

“Yeah, you’re right,” I say. “I can’t have any of my minions falling behind. B, what kind of Soul Weapon do you want?”

“You really don’t have to,” she says.

“Well, I want to. You’re my minion, and as a princess, I must be generous with my subjects.”

“Well, if you insist…” she reaches into the spatial bag on her hip and pulls out a notebook. “Here.”

“What…?” I say, grabbing it and opening it.

The top of the first page says “Berthariklesionasthitara’s Soul Weapon Wishlist” and then below that in smaller text, it says “Version 5.” I look up at her, and she looks back, her face blank and expressionless. After a second or two, she nods to me, gesturing to continue.

I flip the page to find a wall of text written in perfect handwriting that seems to detail her thoughts on Soul Weapons, and what kind of abilities would best suit her. I flip through a few more pages, and find sections on known Soul Weapons, with commentary from her on which features she likes and dislikes, and what kind of abilities she would like in her own.

“How long did you spend on this?” I ask, closing it and handing it back.

“We’ve been refining our wishlists for years,” says B. “Making a Soul Weapon is one of the signs of being a true master artificer. These notebooks are mostly about the kinds of enchantments we’d want to put on our own, but if we got existing Soul Weapons with some of them, we could theoretically modify them to better suit our needs. So anything with any of the abilities listed here would be acceptable.”

“Right…”

Abby, you memorized all that, right?

“No. What?”

You didn’t, like, take a video as I flipped through the pages?

“I don’t have that capability.”

Really? I thought you were a super spyware something or other.

“I am a personal assistant, not… whatever you thought would be able to do something like that. I’m not allowed to record things at all, even with your consent. I think…”

Ah, well, I’ll figure something out.

We change course, looking in a new section of the enclosure for more frogs. There are actually quite a few already out and about, disturbed by the battle going on around the rest of the enclosure, so it’s easy to Snatch them up by the half dozen. The box is gradually filling up, taking a lot more frogs than I initially thought it would. Abby says something about the frogs being small and that they can compress or squish to maximize volume or something, but it’s nerd shit, so I don’t pay any attention.

The battle rages on all over, and it’s starting to get really humid from all the steam, so I turn to the others, about to ask if we wanna move to the other enclosure when suddenly, B erects a dozen layers of shields next to us. I notice the reason a split second later, and Blink out of the way. Just in time too, as Mac and Altair come flying through all twelve layers of shields, passing right through the spot where I just was.

“Hey, watch it!” I shout.

“A little help?” calls Mac, raising a wall of water to deflect a spinning kick from Altair.

“Yeah, help me kill this fucker!” shouts Altair literally breathing fire as he talks.

“No, piss off!” I say. “And stop killing so many frogs! Or else I’m gonna have to intervene.”

He kicks at Mac, and I watch a pair of frogs emerge from their burrow, only to get incinerated.

“Hey! Stop that!”

“Either help me or get out of the way, you creepy hag,” says Altair, sending a burst of fire my direction for some reason.

“Hag?!” I demand, appearing on an unburnt branch. “Did you just call me a hag?!”

He doesn’t respond, too busy trying to kill Mac.

“Yona, don’t–”

“Nuh uh, you don’t get to call me a hag and just ignore me like that,” I say, summoning my sword. “Come into my heist, kill my frogs, and call me a hag.”

“Yona!” calls Lauren.

I watch Altair jump in the air, spinning around, using fire to boost his leg in a downward arc, where it hits Mac head-on. Mac erects a watery shield just in time, but it’s not strong enough. The fire of Altair’s attack turns the shield into steam, then continues down into Mac’s shoulder. It’s greatly weakened, but it still blackens the fur and makes Mac wince in pain.

And at that exact moment, I appear behind the angry bird man and swing down with a Spatial Slice aimed at his shoulder. Somehow, he manages to react perfectly, twisting his body and redirecting the strike with its arm just before it hits. It still cleaves off a few feathers, but it doesn’t do any real damage, and losing those feathers just seems to make him angrier.

A three-way melee ensues, with Altair fending off attacks from both me and Mac, and somehow doing so successfully. Sasha and Herman don’t rejoin the fight, but as the battle takes us back across the enclosure, I see the hippo man badly burned and cradling a twitching bundle of charred feathers that is probably what’s left of Sasha.

It becomes very clear after just a few seconds of battle that I am completely outmatched. Both Mac and Altair are a Tier higher than me, and they also have Sin and Virtue Traits, so mine can’t make up the stat difference. I can still be a general nuisance, though, and I’m just quick enough to avoid getting hit. Mostly. One of Mac’s attacks splashes me though, which soaks my hair, fur, and clothes, which pisses me off, so I send a small fireball at him, and then suddenly we’re all fighting each other.

I realize that joining this was a bad idea almost immediately, but I stubbornly stick around because I want to land just one hit on Altair. Who the heck does he think he is, calling me a hag? How can I possibly be a hag?

“Maybe he’s really young.”

That’s no excuse to be rude. Especially not to a princess.

“The longer you spend fighting, the fewer frogs you get.”

I know, but I just need to land one hit. Just one. He needs to learn his lesson, and if Mac manages to beat him, he’ll die having gotten away with it.

“Well, just be careful.”

I lighten up on my pressure a bit, watching the fight closely to try and find an opening. They both seem to be running a little low on mana. The fight has been going on for a little while now, I guess. Meanwhile, I have been replenishing my reserves by drinking maligar lassi while they weren’t paying attention. Soon, I’ll be able to–

A presence washes over the enclosure that makes us all freeze. The fire encasing Altair's limbs dissipates, and the water Mac was raising to defend himself splashes back into the water below. I tense up on my branch, ready to flee, but I don’t get the chance. Maybe I could have Blinked once, but it’s obvious from the presence that that wouldn’t be near enough to get away from this person.

Wesley came to a halt right on the edge of the battlefield. The three combatants were standing still, watching him tensely, and none of the three were who he expected. There was no crocodilian pseudodragon. Just some kind of bird monster, an otter monster, and Yona. There was no sign of Zorg at all.

“Where is Zorg?” he asked.

“Dead,” said the otter—Mac. “I killed him. There’s no need to worry for the safety of the people anymore.”

Wesley frowned. He did not recognize the monster, but he recognized the voice. He had definitely met Mac before, when he was disguised as a human.

“You were in my raid group.”

“I was,” replied Mac. “And I’m sorry for deceiving you, but I had a divine mission too.”

A divine mission, Wesley internally scoffed.

“And you,” he said, turning to the bird. “You must be the one who was hunting him.”

It was an easy guess. Mac’s fur was singed, and the bird man—Altair—had an extremely strong Fire Affinity, to the point where Wesley could sense it even when he wasn’t using any magic. Altair didn’t respond, but he glared at Wesley in a way that someone with only a Wrath Trait could.

“And you…”

He looked over at Yona. He had always been mildly suspicious of her. Not enough to pry, since she had, overall, been a very positive influence on the world, but no one who looked into her could not be suspicious. Even without doing any digging, he knew that she had appeared basically out of nowhere, rapidly climbed in power, and garnered fame and recognition nationwide. Sure, the beastkin had claimed her as one of theirs, but that still didn’t quite explain how she had gotten where she was.

And on top of that, there was Seria’s prophecy. It had specifically said that three of the divine catastrophes would meet. Zorg had been the obvious first one… but now he was dead. Had he died before meeting the other two? Or after?

And what about Yona? She had appeared at the same time as all the other invaders. Coincidence? Or was she one of them too? Given what she had done thus far, he was reluctant to do anything, but if Seria’s prophecy had meant these three before him, and not Zorg…

He felt conflicted, and strangely enough Divine Intuition didn’t seem to be giving him anything. Either that, or Seria was just as conflicted as him.

Regardless, he wouldn’t find the answer by staring.

“I had my suspicions,” he said. “I didn’t want to believe them… but I believe that makes three.”

Only a few had been confident enough in their speed to follow after Wesley, while the rest were traveling back the way they came, grumbling all the way. Many of them seemed relatively unbothered by the news of the demon. The rest were annoyed, and Michael was among them.

Sure, getting a Soul Weapon hadn’t been a sure thing, but the odds were high enough that he was more than willing to gamble on it. And he had gambled on it, spending a lot of gold to clean and upgrade his gear just for this mission. And now they were just going to turn around?

Similar complaints echoed all around him. The paladin were doing their best to keep everyone in line, but without the promise of experience and a chance at a Soul Weapon, the Adventurers gave much less heed to their words. The paladins urged a hastier retreat, but the Adventurers largely ignored them, moving at their own pace.

“...dead,” Michael heard someone mutter from nearby. “He can’t be? How could it happen?”

He turned to see the uniquely-shaped woman biting her fingernails and trembling. She was not the only one nervous, but she was the only one that looked like she was panicking. Her gait was unsteady, and her body was shaking so much that a lot of people were stealing glances.

“Something wrong?” Michael asked.

She turned to face him, eyes wide and bloodshot. She looked like she was on the verge of tears.

“We need to leave,” she said. “We can’t– If he’s dead– It’s just–”

“Woah, hey, calm down,” he said. “We’re leaving right now, see? It’s not much further.”

He wasn’t sure why he was wasting time trying to comfort her, but he had an unfortunate experience with a panicked Party Member once in the past, and didn’t want to see a repeat of the incident.

“No!” she shouted, drawing the attention of half the group. “We need to run! We can’t– It’s not safe! If Zorg is dead, then that means–!” She put her hands on her temples. “Run!”

She did exactly that, sprinting past a group of bewildered Adventurers. One of the paladins grabbed her arm to stop her. She came to a rapid halt, and there was a sickening pop as her shoulder dislocated.

“Calm the hell down!” shouted the paladin.

“No!” she shouted. “Let me go! We need to–!”

“RUN!”

Another voice interrupted her, and the entire group turned to see the rear guard sprinting toward them. He had been a few hundred meters back, watching their retreat to make sure nothing tried to ambush them. Until this point, Michael had not seen the man, and now that he had, he realized that the strange woman was more right than anyone had guessed. The rear guard looked even more panicked than her, and a split second later, the reason became obvious.

A seven-fingered hand reached out from the darkness, fingers digging into the stony ground. Then a second followed, and soon, the body of the demon came into view.

“RUN!” shouted the rear guard again.

No one needed to be told a third time. As a scout, Michael was among the fastest still left with the group, so he reached almost all the way to the front in a single stride. At the same time, the paladin let go of the strange woman, and the moment she was free, her body morphed into that of a giant frog, leaping forward, crossing a hundred meters in a single bound, pulling ahead of the group. Michael didn’t even have the mental capacity to be shocked. When he saw that, only one thought went through his mind.

I wish I could do that.