Ambling on until sunset, he ate a meagre meal of berries before climbing into a tree to sleep. His body ached with the rigours of age, but he didn’t dare settle down to heal. He’d never been good at it and it required all his concentration, too dangerous without someone to watch, the forests filled with soldiers, bandits and beasts alike

While dreaming of killing and eating a delicious bear, Gao Qiu’s eyes snapped open in the darkness, his instincts alerting him to danger. The moonlight filtered through the treetops as he studied his surroundings, still and silent as can be. Though nothing stood out, he gripped his axe tight, ready to sell his life dearly.

From the base of the tree, a familiar voice sounded. “Well fuck me sideways, I’d recognize yer shitty cleaver anywhere. Gao Qiu, get yer old bones down here, I ain’t in the mood fer climbing. Yer surrounded fer what it’s worth, not like I need help to kill a senile bastard like yerself.”

Snorting loudly, Gao Qiu dropped from the tree and landed, the sound of his knees cracking loud as a thunderbolt. “Old? We’re the same fucking age Jariad. Yer antler roots must be digging into yer brain again, doing strange things to yer memory. Never met a half-deer who wasn’t an idiot.”

“Half-Stag ye damned bastard.” Standing out of weapon range with arms crossed, Jariad’s teeth shone in the moonlight. “Ye look like shit, more so than usual I mean. What’s the Red Devil of Sanshu doing out here all by his lonesome? Ye lose yer job sucking the Spectre’s cock? Some younger lad take yer job?”

“Just cause Bastard Liu lets ye slobber all over his don’t mean I do the same. This here is still Butcher Bay territory, where Corsairs like yerself ain’t welcome. The traitor thinks he can break the Accords, how surprising. Looking to take out the Spectre once and for all is he?” Spitting to the side, Gao Qiu limbered up, twirling his axe in both hands. “Well, he should have sent more. Y’all are nothing more than a spot of exercise, good fer the heart.”

“Ah I’m gonna enjoy killing you.” Drawing his saber, Jariad took his stance, ready to charge forward with a slash, predictable as always. “Still, much as I hate yer guts, I can’t say I saw this coming. We served and fought together back in the day, and though yer a right bloody bastard, I’d never have pegged ye fer Defiled.”

“Shut yer fucking mouth!”

“Why deny it? It’s obvious, why else would you be out here? Ye heard about Laughing Dragon turning Defiled and feared the Spectre would suss you out, so ye cut and ran.”

The statement took Gao Qiu off-guard, his mind thrown into turmoil by Jariad’s statement. Never one to miss an opportunity, the sneaky bastard charged with a yell. Barely parrying the attack, Gao Qiu pushed the half-beast aside, ignoring the opportunity to counter as he held his hand up for pause. “Wait, stop. Laughing Dragon is Defiled?”

“Don’t pretend, old man.” Though he sneered in contempt, Jariad halted his attack, signalling for his men to back off. “That Warrant Officer you tangled with, he ended up on the western shore. Ran into a Defiled band which he swears was led by Laughing Dragon. The bitch called the Purge and the boss sent us out here to guard the shore. Said the Spectre was too lenient on runaways.”

Ignoring the laughs from Jariad’s joke, the world crumbled around Gao Qiu as he struggled to accept the truth. Laughing Dragon and the Spectre, a meeting behind closed doors. Laughing Dragon, the Defiled. Colonel Yo Ling, the man who knew everything that happened in Sanshu, meeting with the Defiled Laughing Dragon. Screaming in rage, he threw his axe into the dirt and reached for Balance, displaying his purity before the others. His fist smashed into the tree beside him, again and again, the trunk shattering in a mess of splinters as he huffed with exertion. His rage spent, tears streamed down his face as he leaned against the broken tree, mourning the loss of everyone he knew, praying for Jariad or one of his lackeys to kill him and end it all.

No such luck. Gao Qiu legs gave out, flopping to the dirt as he stared at a confused Jariad. “I ain’t Defiled, but the Spectre is. Before I left, he was meeting with Laughing Dragon.”

Scratching his beard, Jariad thought with his mouth open, an annoying habit he’d never lost. “Well... Fuck.” After a long silence, Jariad stepped forward and Gao Qiu closed his eyes, waiting for the sword to fall. Prodding him with a boot, Jariad snorted as he held out a hand. “Don’t be so dramatic ye old bastard. Stand up now, I ain’t gonna carry your heavy ass.”

Letting himself be pulled up, Gao Qiu asked, “Why?”

Already leading his men away, Jariad called back over his shoulder.“Same reason I do anything: Boss’ orders.”

Sighing as he patted himself down, he grabbed his axe and did his best to straighten his beard. Just his luck, after almost a decade of separation, Gao Qiu had to meet old friends and enemies looking like a beggar.

How humiliating.

Chapter Meme
