The flask exploded as it hit the first Wyvern in the head. Qissa saw everyone duck. But the Wyverns just blinked as the red, oily liquid covered them. Two of the Wyverns stared at the red liquid on their friends. Then they turned back to the [Guards].
And one of the red-covered Wyverns bit the first in the neck. The other Wyverns recoiled. But then the other three Wyverns attacked their fellows. They screamed, foaming at the mouth.
“Ancestors, what—”
The Wyverns were fighting amongst themselves! Three had gone berserk, the ones covered in the red oil. It had absorbed into their scales somehow, and they were frothing, biting their friends. Qissa panted. How, by the walls…?
Then she heard a voice.
“See, this is why I stay in my cell. I leave for one day, and this is what happens.”
Qissa knew that voice. She turned her head and there he was. A Drake with dusky yellow scales. He was slim, tall. And, oh yes, naked.
Saliss stood in the war torn street, juggling a trio of glowing potions. Or—alchemical mixtures. He nodded at Qissa.
“Watch Captain. I opened my door for a breath of air and I saw all these Wyverns. What’s going on?”
“We—we’re under attack.”
Qissa replied slowly. Saliss paused. He looked at the fighting Wyverns. The nine were killing their enraged companions.
“You don’t say? How many?”
“I don’t know. The upper floors are overrun. They’ve taken the walls. The 1st Army is trapped below—I heard Magus Grimalkin was on the walls. Alone.”
The Watch Captain searched for more information, but the [Alchemist] just nodded.
“Got it. Well, I guess it’s my turn to earn my keep. Pull the Watch back.”
Qissa looked at him. Saliss. The Drake she’d arrested countless times, fined, reprimanded. Pallass’ number one public nuisance. And Named Adventurer. She turned.
“Fall back! Named Adventurer is advancing!”
The Watch scrambled back. Saliss waited until they were clear. Then he aimed for the Wyverns. They were enraged, biting the corpses of their comrades, trying to kill them even after they were dead. They looked up as the three glass jars flew at them.
The first detonated in midair, spraying the Wyverns with a brown-black liquid that glistened. They raised their wings, but the liquid did nothing. The second liquid was clear. It splattered over all of them, again exploding just above the cluster of nine Wyverns. They hissed—the smell was terrible. And the third? The flask covered the lot with a red powder.
And nothing else happened. Saliss eyed the Wyverns as they shrieked their displeasure. Qissa watched them, but they weren’t possessed by madness. Just—covered by all three substances. She blinked at Saliss.
“Alchemist—”
Saliss looked at her.
“I have to know what their limits are. These are variants. They have some kind of magical resistance. Test one. [Flash Sparks].”
He clicked his claws. Qissa saw a flicker of light near one of the Wyvern’s feet as the monster inhaled, aiming at Saliss. And the Wyverns ignited.
All three liquids caught fire. The red powder actually exploded. Qissa threw her claws up, shielding her face.
“Ancestors!”
The fire’s heat hit her from afar. And it kept burning, unlike a [Fireball]. The mixture consumed the Wyverns, and they screamed, trying to roll, to put the fire out. But it stuck to them. Saliss watched. The Wyverns’ shrieks lasted only ten seconds. Then they slumped. They were still burning, the alchemical substances sticking to them.
“Test complete. Durability’s up from regular Wyverns. But they’re not chilled. Fire does work.”
He nodded. The [Alchemist] whirled. The Watch was staring. Civilians gazed at Saliss out of their windows. The [Alchemist] paused. Then he posed.
“Hello, Pallass! Did you miss me? Sorry I missed the alarm call—I work in a soundproof laboratory! And I hate Chaldion.”
“You—you—”
He waved at the buildings, then winked at her and pitched his voice so everyone could hear.
“I guess I’ll help out. I’ll bill the city later. Oh, and don’t eat those Wyverns. Mm. I wonder if Lasica can do a Wyvern steak. I’ll find out later. See you, Watch Captain.”
He turned. And he spread his arms wide, revealing his nudity. Pallass’ citizens blinked. Some shouted at him, almost as if they were having a normal day. The Drake was acting like it. And his absurdity made them forget their fear. Saliss grinned around.
“Saliss.”
“Can’t stay, Watch Captain. Take this for the frostbite. Share it.”
Saliss tossed a vial at her. She caught the warm vial and saw Saliss pulling out two vials. He downed each. And then he exhaled.
“Whew. That’s hot. And this—”
The second potion was a Potion of Speed. Qissa recognized it. Saliss’ form blurred. And she thought she saw him look back for one second before he ran. Ran forwards, already pulling more potions out of his bag of holding.
The [Alchemist] shot towards the stairs. [Soldiers] were trying to fight the Wyverns attacking from above. Others had landed on the northern grand staircase and were snapping at the 1st Army trying to advance. Saliss ran past the Wyverns. Qissa barely saw his arms move. Two potions flew—and burst. One Wyvern swallowed a potion and immediately began writhing in agony, screaming. The second was hit in the head by the liquid that solidified, covering its eyes, its nostrils. Saliss ran past them, not even slowing. He threw a third flask up.
Lightning exploded in midair, downing a Wyvern. It crashed onto the steps. Saliss tossed a potion at its head and there was a bloom of light. Qissa’s jaw dropped. She’d heard rumors of how Saliss fought. But this—she watched the [Alchemist] climbing. Faster and faster, and the Named Adventurer was still naked. But he ran faster, towards the walls. And Qissa watched him. She’d heard what he’d whispered before he left.
She thought he’d said, ‘Sorry I’m late.’
 
——
 
“Grimalkin of Pallass is fighting on the walls alone, ladies and gentledrakes! We saw him engage what looked to be the leader of the Wyverns, but we are not in position to see more! We can only assume Grimalkin is fighting to take down the leader of the weyr! Right now, Sir Relz and I are hearing that the Wyverns are being pushed back by the 1st Army! They’ve reached the 4th floor, but they are far, far from our position!”
Noass was bellowing at Sir Relz and the magical scrying mirror. He pointed across the 9th Floor.
“The forges are under attack! The [Blacksmiths] must have been caught completely off-guard. We’re trying to see—I see Master Maughin over there! Look!”
He pointed; Maughin’s huge figure was visible against his forge. He had a hammer in hand and was throwing it at a Wyvern that had landed. The other [Smiths] were throwing tools too, crouched behind their forges. The Wyverns weren’t interested in the iron and smoke, but some had still assailed the smithy. One reared back, and a hammer struck it in the face. The Wyvern recoiled, and hissed. It lunged at Maughin—
“Damned Wyverns!”
Pelt’s hammer cracked the Wyvern across the skull. The Wyvern crashed down for a second. Maughin retreated and Pelt raised his hand. His hammer flew back into his grip. He threw it again, and then threw another hammer his apprentice handed him. He was standing in his forge, protecting his Grasgil bardiche.
“Get everything in the bag of holding! And get to cover!”
The Dwarf roared at his apprentice and the other [Smiths]. They were running for shelter from their exposed forges. Pelt swore as the Wyvern he’d clocked ran at him. He glanced around. Then he picked up part of his broken anvil and with an oath, hurled it at the Wyvern.
The huge piece of metal sent the monster reeling backwards. But it kept coming. Pelt ran backwards as the Wyvern snapped at him, trying to bite him. Maughin tackled it from the side. The [Armorer] was huge, nearly the size of a War Walker! But the Wyvern was larger still. It rammed him against the wall of his smithy.
“That’s Maughin and Pelt! Our two best [Smiths]!”
Noass cried out in dismay. Maughin groaned, trying to shove the Wyvern off him. Pelt swore and hammered at the Wyvern’s leg, but it was too large for him to bring down alone. One of his strikes split the scales on the Wyvern and the monster shrieked. It turned its head, aiming at him.
“Pelt!”
Maughin roared. He tried to shove the Wyvern off him as Pelt backed up. The Wyvern opened its maw. The Dwarf turned as Seborn appeared out of Pelt’s shadow. The Drowned Man grabbed Pelt and vanished.
“What—?”
Maughin stared. Then he saw a person. A giant man, as tall as he was, raised a staff.
“[Earthen Spire].”
Maughin felt an impact. The Wyvern slammed into the forge’s ceiling, breaking through it as a spire of stone shot up, impaling it from below. It didn’t pierce the beast’s hide, but it threw the Wyvern off Maughin. He felt someone pull him back as the Wyvern landed on its back, stunned. Maughin recognized the half-Giant.
“…Moore?”
“We got here as fast as we could.”
The half-Giant nodded at Seborn. The Drowned Man leapt forwards, aiming at the Wyvern as it tried to rise. His enchanted daggers went through the beast’s wings. The [Rogue] slashed a series of gashes through the Wyvern’s left wing. Then he leapt backwards as the Wyvern responded.
“Ulinde! Now!”
The Drowned Man shouted. Maughin saw a female Drake—no, a Selphid, run past him. The [Spellslinger] aimed both wands at the Wyvern.
“[Sticky Webs]!”
The white strands engulfed the Wyvern as it tried to rise. It was stuck, and thrashed, tearing loose of the magical bindings. But that was enough.
A huge Raskghar—no, someone wearing a Raskghar’s form surged past Ulinde and Seborn. She had a flail in her hands. Now, she whirled it. Bringing the steel ball down on the Wyvern’s head. Again and again. The two-handed flail danced in Jelaqua Ivirith’s paws. The [Iron Tempest] struck the Wyvern’s head as it tried to rise, bombarding the same spot with all her might.
From the other side, Seborn was slashing at the base of the Wyvern’s neck. Moore and Ulinde stood back, staff and wands raised. But the Wyvern never got free of the bindings. Jelaqua delivered the last blow and the Wyvern’s skull deformed. She stepped back.
“That’s—who is that? What in the name of the Walled Cities is that…that’s not a Gnoll!”
Noass was staring at Jelaqua. Sir Relz pointed.
“I recognize the half-Giant and Drowned Man. This is the Halfseekers. That must be their team captain, Jelaqua Ivirith. A Selphid, wearing a…some unknown body. Didn’t we hear about some strange new monster in Liscor’s dungeon, Noass?”
“It might be, Sir Relz! And it looks like two Selphids—they’ve taken down a Wyvern!”
Jelaqua strode over to the shaken [Armorer]. She smiled at him.
“Jelaqua.”
“Hey, handsome. I heard the alarm. Sorry we were late. There are Wyverns all over! I can’t stay, but we’ll get everyone to safety. Come on.”
She grabbed him. Maughin stared at Jelaqua, his lover. He reached out.
“You came at the right time.”
The Selphid smiled at him behind a Raskghar’s face. She blew him a kiss. Maughin realized her combat body was male, much to his discomfort.
“I couldn’t let you die, could I? Sorry about the body, but I don’t want to wreck the good ones.”
The Halfseekers formed up behind her. Seborn snapped at Jelaqua’s back.
“We fought our way three floors up here for your date, Jelaqua. Now’s not the time to relax!”
Moore shook his head, scanning the 9th Floor.
“Jelaqua, we’re needed.”
“I know. Maughin, get to cover.”
“One moment!”
The [Armorer] ran for his forge. Jelaqua cursed.
“Maughin, I really love you, but now’s not the time to—”
“Here! I finished it this morning!”
The smith hunted around his anvil. Then he tossed something at Jelaqua. She stared at the flail, twice as large as her old one. She whistled.
“Oh wow. Just what I need!”
Maughin nodded. He watched as Jelaqua tossed her old flail to one side. She spun the huge ball of iron, larger than her head, with ease. This larger body could easily swing the flail, and the force behind it—he nodded.
“Made for the Raskghar form. Go. We’ll get to safety.”
“Hah. So that’s the Selphid? Peh. She smells like a dog. Get out of here. Emessa! Grab my bag of holding! We’re not sticking around to get eaten by Wyverns!”
Pelt jogged past Maughin on his shorter legs. His apprentice ran after him. Jelaqua smiled at Maughin, then she looked around.
“Get clear, Maughin. Halfseekers, on me! We’re clearing the 9th and the staircase! Ulinde, stay behind—no, stay in front of Moore! Your body’s expendable. Let’s go!”
The Halfseekers charged across the 9th floor. Noass was pointing.
“It looks like more Gold-rank teams are entering the fray! They’ve downed a Wyvern—of course, the Halfseekers are a veteran team! Sir Relz! Sir Relz?”
“Noass, I’m seeing more explosions from below. Someone’s—it looks like someone’s breaking through the lower floors! Look! The staircase!”
He pointed. Someone was racing up the steps. And Wyverns were falling, some literally exploding in midair, others crashing down, wings entangled, or covered in a burning mixture. Sir Relz gasped.
“It’s Saliss of Lights! Pallass’ Named Adventurer!”
Here he came. Jelaqua’s eyes widened as the Halfseekers faced down another Wyvern. She brought the flail’s head down, crushing the Wyvern’s clawed foot. A glass jar sailed past her face and into the Wyvern’s head. The Wyvern screamed as acid burned its face. Someone raced past Jelaqua.
Saliss. Noass was shouting as the [Alchemist] charged up the walls.
“That is Saliss Oliwing, Pallass’ resident Named Adventurer! Saliss of Lights! He’s cleared a path up the stairs all by himself! And he’s going onto the walls!”
The Named Adventurer was climbing higher. Wyverns swooped down on him, screaming. But the [Alchemist] was a blur. He stopped and threw potions. Jelaqua saw one, eight, sixteen—
They detonated in midair. Burning webs, flashes of lightning, alchemical explosions ate up the Wyverns diving at Saliss. Ulinde gaped.
“How did he—”
“That is Saliss of Lights, everyone! The Named Adventurer rumored to have the highest attacking power in the world! He’s a pure [Alchemist]—”
Noass stared, lost for words for a second. Saliss was spinning, throwing objects he plucked from his bag of holding. A Wyvern landed across from him, and a potion hit it, covering it with acid. A second detonated, lightning blasting the Wyvern. A third, a fourth—the Wyvern disappeared.
