“That’s me! The Flying Gnoll of Pallass. But that’s just a hobby. You attacked that Wyvern to distract it.”
“Well, I’d have done better if I had something else. I need more knives.”
Erin scowled. Lasica and Rufelt looked between the two. Rufelt shook himself.
“We should be safe now. The door will keep the Wyverns out.”
“What if they breathe frost? Can it block that?”
“It should. We paid for it to be practically indestructible.”
Lasica murmured. Erin nodded. She glanced around the bar. Then she looked outside through the windows. She couldn’t see anyone else on the street, or the Wyvern who’d attacked them. Darn, she’d have to find the knife later. Erin reached for the door latch and Rufelt blocked her.
“What are you doing?”
Erin blinked at him.
“Going to look around. I’ll just open the door. But if someone needs to get in…”
The Gnoll stared at her. He let go slowly. Erin nodded. She cracked the door open, peered around. No one on the streets.
“Darn. Those Wyverns are awful.”
“How did they get in the city? There should have been protections! This is Pallass!”
One of the Dullahans wailed. Erin heard a chorus of agreements. She ignored them, thinking.
“Not much we can do here. If I had my stash of acid jars, we could throw them at the Wyverns.”
“What?”
The others looked at her as if she were mad. Felkhr just grinned. Erin shook her head.
“Well, if we can do something—”
“The army and the Watch will drive them off.”
Rufelt shook his head. Erin propped her hands on her hips. The Gnoll was going back to the bar, pushing Lasica into a seat. What had gotten into him?
“So what, we do nothing?”
“Exactly! We stay safe! There’s nothing we can do to hurt the Wyverns, anyways.”
He snapped at her. Erin puffed out her cheeks. She glared at Rufelt—but her intuition was pinging her. She stared at him, at Lasica, and then her gaze travelled past Rufelt.
It was true, Tails and Scales was not Erin’s inn. They didn’t have her emergency supplies, or a handy Hobgoblin or Bird. But it was a bar. Erin stared at the drinks, ready to be mixed. At Lasica’s hotplate. Erin hummed and then pointed.
“Hey, Rufelt, which of those are flammable?”
 
——
 
“Ladies and Gentledrakes! I think I’m seeing the Wyverns being driven back!”
From his reporting position, Noass and Sir Relz had regained some of their usual aplomb. The two Drakes were grinning, pointing down into the city as they slowly panned the magical viewpoint across Pallass. Noass was pointing out flying shapes—a lot less of them than there had been twenty minutes ago.
“The Wyvern attack is being blunted! There’s fighting on the walls, but Grand Strategist Chaldion has led a successful counter attack and Pallass’ wall spells are activating! Indeed, a number of high-rank individuals have taken to the field and pushed the Wyverns back!”
“Of course, Noass. This is Pallass. After the—the initial attack, as one might expect, things looked hopeless. But the presence of Magus Grimalkin, Saliss of Lights, and notable Gold-rank teams, such as the Halfseekers and the Wings of Pallass, have reversed the battle along with the Watch and army. I think we just saw the Wings flying after a Wyvern down there.”
Sir Relz was adjusting his monocle, nodding. The two Drakes were doing a lot of that. Noass pointed above.
“We’re not on the top of the walls for fear of being caught up in the battle, but we can see a furious engagement taking place that seems to be going all the way of Pallass! I’m seeing more fliers taking back the air as the wall spells down Wyverns—Pallass’ magical defenses, no doubt being employed by Chaldion himself! Not only that, we can see some of the fighting on the eastern wall! Look!”
The vision turned and revealed a far, far distant series of lights, flashing and exploding. It looked like fireworks, but instead of crackling sparks, the viewers saw clouds of shining particles, crackling thunder—and conventional explosions. Sir Relz shook his head in awe.
“Saliss of Lights appears to be single—yes, single-handedly holding down the Wyverns on the eastern wall, to use a Human expression. That’s why they call him Saliss ‘of Lights’, by the way. The [Alchemist] is famous for his ability to prepare hundreds, perhaps as many as a thousand alchemical weapons. And he is using them all up in the defense of his home city!”
“One wonders if Pallass’ Assembly will recompense him for it. Surely so—and—yes! More Wyverns are fleeing! They’ve been decimated below and they’re on the run, see?”
Noass pointed excitedly. Wyverns were indeed flying up, escaping the fighting. Many had wounds, and the weyr had been reduced by at least half.
“It looks like the 1st Army has seized nearly seven floors. And the Wyverns are even being repelled by civilians in several places. Dead gods! Look at that Gnoll, loosing arrows from atop her apartment!”
The image focused on a single Gnoll with a shortbow, taking potshots at a Wyvern. Noass was nodding.
“Exceptionally brave. And very much in the Pallassian spirit! Get out of our city!”
He pumped a fist up and down. At this point, one of the viewers of the magical broadcast had to roll his eyes.
“You wouldn’t imagine he was in a panic ten minutes ago.”
Niers remarked to Foliana. The two were watching the broadcast. Niers, specifically, had been watching the fighting. To the [Grandmaster Strategist], it had been a fairly neat retaking of the walls. Too slow for his liking, but Chaldion had executed the counterattack well.
Not that Pallass had been in danger of falling. The two Drakes had been unsure of it, but Niers could count. Pallass was a vast city. It had never been going to fall. The question had been how much damage the Wyverns could do.
And the answer was a lot. But not as bad as it could have been. Niers was counting and he estimated the casualties were around three to eight thousand at most. The Wyverns had done the most damage on their first attack, with the frost breath affecting large groups. But after the citizens had fled, it was just [Soldiers] the Wyverns were fighting. For a weyr of a thousand, it was bad.
“Are they going to win?”
The Titan of Baleros rolled his eyes.
“It’s a Walled City versus a thousand Wyverns. More like six hundred at this point. What do you think, Foliana?”
“Mm. You tell me. That’s what I pay you for.”
Niers threw a piece of walnut at Foliana. She let it sail into her mouth and chewed. The Fraerling sighed.
“They’ll fight them off. The question is whether Grimalkin of Pallass was maimed or killed. These two don’t know. That would be a disaster. The same as if their Named Adventurer dies, or their Grand Strategist.”
“Likely?”
“I don’t know. That looked like a Greater Wyvern. Remember those?”
“Yup. Nasty. Think they’ll die?”
“I don’t know. Now, shut up and let me watch.”
Niers scanned the image. That Drake, Noass—and what a name, Niers had to chuckle over Drake naming conventions even if it was juvenile—was still ranting about Pallassian ‘spirit’. He was pointing out more civilians getting in the way of the actual army by and large.
“You can see some Garuda youths harassing a Wyvern. I hope it doesn’t turn on them! But then, they might level! Pallass is in uproar. We even see—hello? What’s this?”
The ‘camera,’ or rather, scrying mirror turned and revealed another sight, focusing on it below. Niers felt his heart jump. No. But there she was, right when he’d thought she wasn’t part of it.
“I—what am I seeing, Sir Relz?”
“I think it’s a Human, Noass. A rarity in Pallass. She appears to be throwing…what is that, an alchemical weapon? Yes, some kind of fiery explosive at a Wyvern! Keeping it from attacking that apartment! There! And there’s a Gnoll and a [Warrior]! Oh—oh, they’re retreating inside! Looks like they’ve distracted the Wyvern. It’s attacking their building—”
“No, don’t do that!”
Niers gripped the arms of his chair. Foliana peered at the young Human woman as she ducked inside and the Wyvern charged the building. She looked at Niers’ face and her eyes narrowed.
“Ancestors! I recognize that bar! That’s Tails and Scales, one of the most reputable establishments in the city! The Wyvern’s going to smash it! Oh—no—no, wait! It can’t break the building! It must be enchanted! And I see a squad of [Soldiers] already attacking the Wyvern! Splendid! Those brave Pallassian citizens—and that Human—helped save that family!”
Sir Relz was nodding pompously. Niers sat back with an explosive sigh of relief. Dangerous! His heart was beating faster than it had any right to. The Titan looked at Foliana.
“Hm.”
“What?”
“Hmm. Who’s the Human?”
“No one.”
“You think it’s your mystery chess person.”
“Shut up, Foliana.”
“You like her. Because she’s female. And not male.”
“I just—would you be quiet?”
A furry finger poked Niers. He found his steak-cutting knife and stabbed it into Foliana’s finger.
“Ow.”
 
——
 
“Hah! Take that you overgrown—you—is it a lizard or a bird?”
Erin shook her fist as the Wyvern screeched outside the tavern. She could hear [Soldiers] attacking it and Erin watched through one of the windows as  the Wyvern retreated. The others were watching anxiously. Felkhr grinned at Erin. She hadn’t been sure if the impromptu molotovs would work, but when she’d seen the Wyvern trying to attack that family, Erin had done it anyways.
“That was impressive. And you have a powerful arm, Miss Solstice!”
“Nah, nah. It’s just a Skill. And I’ve had plenty of practice. Hey! Rufelt! Got any more molotovs? Just in case?”
“This is a waste of good alcohol!”
The [Bartender] Gnoll complained, but he was already mixing flammable cooking oil with the spirits and shoving a soaked cloth into a bottle. Erin seized it. Just in case.
“Better that than nothing! And it doesn’t really hurt the Wyverns, just makes them mad. I think the only way to hurt them is to throw it in their mouths. Or eyes.”
Erin nodded outside. The Wyvern had gone silent. She unbarred the door and saw a bleeding corpse.
“Ew.”
Lady Salkis, the highborn Drake, turned pale. The [Bodyguard] next to her—an injured Drake named Viss, snapped at Erin.
“Will you stop that? You’re exposing Lady Salkis and the others to danger!”
“What if someone needs help? He’s willing to help!”
Erin retorted. She was keeping the door mostly closed; wary of frost breath from above. She nodded at Felkhr. The other Drake [Bodyguard] blushed.
“It’s fine. Viss. I’m quite fine. We should all do our part to help.”
Lady Salkis was staring at the dead Wyvern corpse from across the bar. She half-rose.
“If someone is in need, you help too, Viss.”
“Yes, Lady Salkis.”
He sighed and stood up. Erin nodded, peering out the door.
“We’ll all help. Careful with the bottle. Just light and throw.”
Felkhr offered one of the molotovs to Viss. The Drake nodded.
“Give me one. I’m feeling better now.”
Lasica rose from her chair. Rufelt instantly stopped making a molotov.
“Absolutely not. You sit, Lasica. You inhaled too much dust—I’m not having you in danger.”
“It’s my city, Rufelt! If I can’t throw those—what did you call them, Erin?”
“Molotovs.”
“Yes, those! At least give me one to drink! I can’t stand this.”
“No. You’ll have water or something without alcohol. Remember what the [Healer] said? Sit, Lasica.”
Rufelt pressed Lasica down. His wife hissed at Rufelt.
“Stop babying me!”
Erin’s head swung back to Rufelt and Lasica with a frown as she checked outside the door. Something was definitely off about Rufelt. She watched the way Rufelt was arguing with Lasica quietly. And then she stared at the drink Lasica wasn’t allowed to have. Erin peered at the molotov in her hands and then her eyes widened. She turned to the Drake.
“Oh my god. Lasica. Are you—?”
“It looks like the Wyverns are in full retreat! I see them above Pallass’ walls, but the ones in the city have fled! And the 1st Army is advancing towards the walls at full speed!”
Everyone in the bar jumped. Erin whirled. Someone was shouting. A Dullahan boy backed away from a mirror along the back wall.
“What happened? I am so sorry—what is this?”
The Dullahan’s mother was scolding her son. His head nearly fell off his shoulders as he turned. Rufelt blinked.
“That’s—I bought a scrying mirror after the last few attacks. Is someone broadcasting the battle?”
“Yes!”
Erin recognized Noass and Sir Relz. They were showing Pallass from above. The 9th floor. She saw the city from above. Wyverns were flying up. Noass was crowing.
“The city’s been retaken! But for the walls, and it’s over! You can see all the Wyverns flying in the air, battered and bloody! They’re probably thinking of retreating and the 1st Army is on their way up to reinforce the walls! I just heard that 4th Army is approaching the city—why they were out of the city at a time like this we’ll have to uncover. I think we might be able to see the end of the battle, Sir Relz. If we move up—”
The Drakes were heading towards the stairs when Erin heard a terrific roar. It was echoed a moment later from the doorway. Everyone in the bar flinched. Noass and Sir Relz stared up.
“W-what was that?”
“Oh no.”
Erin saw the viewpoint shift up. The weyr of Wyverns was in the skies. But Noass had underestimated how badly beaten the Wyverns were. Nearly half had died, but the rest, wounded, yes, were still in the air. They were being showered with lightning from Pallass’ walls, and enchanted munitions.
But there were still hundreds. Now, something screamed from the walls. Erin saw a vast Wyvern, larger than the rest, spiraling upwards. It exhaled and dove towards the stairs. A huge [Fireball] sailed past it. The Wyvern breathed—
And the [Soldiers] charging up the stairs froze. Erin saw a hundred turn into statues in a moment. And that was only those directly hit. Three floors froze around the stairs as the Wyvern Lord screamed. Outside the door, Erin felt the temperature drop.
“Oh no, no—”
The Wyvern Lord landed in the city, shattering frozen figures. And as it howled, the weyr descended. For round two. Erin backed up from the door. It was—she heard the scream twice, from the scrying mirror and outside.
“Take cover! They’re attacking again!”
Noass was shouting as the Wyverns dove past him. There was no one else on the streets, but the 1st Army and the Watch found themselves fighting the Wyverns. And this time the Wyverns were fighting en-masse. They landed on the top two floors, attacking everything in sight, not dividing. Erin looked out the doors.
