“Grimalkin of Pallass! He’s fighting them alone!”
Noass was screaming. He and Sir Relz were jumping up and down, pointing like hatchlings. And the roar echoed them. It came from below, from Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garuda. The people of his city saw him standing on the walls and screamed his name.
“Grimalkin!”
The [Sinew Magus] heard them. He turned and raised a fist. And Pallass thundered back. The Wyverns wavered at the unexpected sound. Grimalkin looked around the walls, and then he twisted.
A strike to the back. It was so fast that even Grimalkin couldn’t catch it. Something blew him across the battlements. The Drake flipped, catching himself as he landed. He stared at his torn scales, felt his back muscle ripped open. He looked up.
The Wyvern Lord landed, howling its fury. Grimalkin eyed it. It was larger than the lesser Wyverns by a third. At least. And its scales glimmered. There was something intelligent in its gaze as it hissed at Grimalkin. It kept its wings folded, a smaller target, as its head swayed back and forth as it crouched.
Grimalkin put one hand on his belt. A little vial appeared in his claws and he tossed it down. The Wyvern Lord’s eyes narrowed as Grimalkin’s injuries healed. The [Sinew Magus] nodded.
“You must be the leader. Good.”
The two stared each other down. Appraising each other. Grimalkin looked around, keeping attention focused on the Wyvern Lord. The rest of the weyr was circling, but keeping their distance. He inhaled.
“[Bound Spell: Siege Fireball].”
Mana condensed around one claw. The Wyvern Lord’s eyes narrowed. It lumbered at the Drake a surprisingly swift charge, head snapping forwards as it came. Grimalkin dodged. Or tried to. The biting jaws missed his torso, but the Wyvern’s head impacted him. The [Sinew Magus] flew backwards.
“Strong.”
Grimalkin gritted his teeth. He touched his chest, feeling the bruise on his scales. He looked at the Wyvern Lord—
[Flash Step]. The spell saved Grimalkin’s life. The Wyvern Lord’s tail cracked the air where Grimalkin’s head had been. It had swung around, using its tail to strike a second blow. The [Sinew Magus] saw the Wyvern Lord turning. He pointed a finger.
“Release!”
The huge orb of fire shot from his claw, larger than Grimalkin himself. The fiery spell hit the Wyvern Lord as it tried to draw back. Grimalkin felt a flash, an explosion of heat. He waited, his guard up. The smoke cleared, and the Drake heard a shriek.
The Wyvern Lord was standing in the radius of scorched stone. Unharmed. It howled at Grimalkin. He eyed its scales.
“Spell resistance.”
The two stared at each other. Grimalkin clenched his teeth. Then he charged. The Wyvern Lord roared as it flew at him. They collided like thunder. And Grimalkin—cursed. Just once.
 
——
 
“Desk Sergeant! There are too many! We have to fall back!”
“Hold your ground! Hold the street or I’ll toss you off the floor myself!”
Kel shouted as a cluster of [Guards] on the 8th floor fought to hold. The City Watch blocked off the streets around their Watch House. Civilians were fleeing past them, through the gaps on either side of the street. And the Watch held the middle.
Barely. A Wyvern flew overhead. The [Guards] ducked. A group of the Watch with bows loosed and the Wyvern howled as arrows lodged in its wings. It breathed—
“Shields!”
The Watch raised their shields along with Kel. The frost froze his scales and Kel shouted in agony. But the shields blocked the worst of the frost breath. The tower shields cracked as the metal couldn’t handle the extreme change in temperature. Kel turned his head as the Wyvern landed.
“Archers! Take out the eyes! Shields, forwards! Push it back!”
The [Guards] advanced. Long pikes braced as the [Guards] with shields tried to hold the Wyvern back as it looked for something to bite. Kel looked past the Wyvern and swore.
A group of Gnolls were running. They stopped as the Wyvern turned. The Desk Sergeant pointed.
“Charge! Protect the civilians!”
The squad of [Guards] rammed forwards. The Wyvern recoiled and the Gnoll family turned to run. Kel shouted.
“[Protector’s Order]! Run! Get past us!”
The Gnoll family halted mid-step. They turned back. The [Guards] formed an opening, striking at the Wyvern’s hide. Their steel weapons barely cut the Wyvern’s hide! It hissed, slammed its head into a rank of shields—then it turned and slammed its tail like a whip.
The first line of [Guards] were flung backwards against the second rank. Kel felt an impact, pushed the Dullahan falling onto him back up. He looked around. The Gnoll family was running into the safe zone. Good, good.
He looked up and saw the Wyvern opening its jaws. An arrow bounced off its head, missing the eye. The disorganized [Guards] tried to raise their shields, but their formation was filled with gaps. The Wyvern breathed.
Frost engulfed the squad. In his chainmail, Kel felt his scales freeze. He screamed. But the deathly cold hadn’t killed him. Nearly—but it was the Dullahan in the first rank who had taken the brunt. The [Guardswoman]’s head dropped from her body as she toppled. Frost covered her armor.
“Damn you. Form ranks! Archers, shoot its eyes out! Shields forwards!”
Kel fumbled for the spear he was carrying. The [Guards] reformed. The Wyvern hissed as more arrows flew. It had killed half of the first rank and some in the second. But Pallass’ Watch refused to die. This time the Wyvern charged, trying to scatter them.
It pierced its chest on their pikes. The long pikes designed for stopping a horse’s charge groaned, but six of them struck the Wyvern’s chest. Two snapped, but the rest buried themselves deep. The Wyvern uttered a scream. It tried to back up, but Drakes and Gnolls and Dullahans cut at it. A Garuda went for the eyes, flying.
It tore the Garuda apart. Another [Guard] died as the Wyvern broke loose of the pikes. It twisted, and the long, whip-like tail snapped around. It struck a [Guard] and the impact cracked the Drake’s chest, breaking armor and bone.
Dead and dead. Kel’s healing potion did nothing to the staring face. So he turned on the Wyvern. The Watch cut the creature’s legs, shot its wings so full of arrows that when it tried to fly, it couldn’t.
Red blood froze on the cobblestones. But it began to melt the frost as the Wyvern fell. The Watch stood, panting, counting their losses as the Wyvern slumped over. They’d done it. Kel, wide eyed, leaned on the rim of his shield.
“We got it?”
He’d never fought a Wyvern. But the Watch had been trained to fight monsters. He looked around.
“Desk Sergeant? Orders?”
Kel looked around. The city was in panic. He was hearing multiple horns calling the alarm. Order dictated he take every [Guard] he could spare and reinforce the area.
But the Watch on the 8th floor was holding this ground. They’d funneled every civilian they could find into the Watch House, the blocks they were holding. And the squad was down a third of their number. Kel shook his head.
“We—we hold this spot. Grab those shields! Pull back down the street. We need to reinforce.”
A shriek. First faint, then growing louder. A wail of fury. Kel turned his head. He saw a second Wyvern land next to the corpse of the first. It looked at its dead companion and then howled at the squad. Kel felt his heart drop.
“Ancestors. Form up. Form—”
He was turning, raising his shield. But the Drake tasted despair on his tongue. Foul. He put himself in the front row, shoulder-to-shoulder with Patrol Leader Tanic. Kel looked up as the Frost Wyvern opened its maw, cold vapors pouring out of its throat.
“Archers.”
It was a plea. The [Guards] aimed. And they loosed. Nine arrows flew. Half missed the Wyvern’s moving head. They were [Guards], not expert [Archers].
Four arrows struck the Wyvern’s head. Two along the neck. One glanced off a tooth. The last—missed the eye. Kel closed his eyes. Then he opened them.
“Brace—”
The Wyvern pointed its head at Kel. It inhaled—and Kel heard a voice.
“Guardsman, left! [Rapid Retreat]!”
Kel jerked at the voice of command. He felt his legs move. The Watch surged left, moving fast—faster than Kel could have imagined. The Wyvern exhaled.
Frost stung Kel’s back. Froze his scales against his armor. He cried out, but the Wyvern had missed. It stared at the empty street, then at the squad that had dodged as one. The Wyvern faltered. Kel immediately yelled.
“Fall back! Archers, covering fire! Aim for the wings! Keep it from flying!”
The Watch reacted instinctively. They fell back, showering the Wyvern with arrows. It hissed as the arrows struck its wings. Kel looked around. Where—?
There. A Drake with light blue scales was shouting from a rooftop. He pointed.
“Now! Relc!”
“On it!”
A huge Drake charged past Kel. He had a long spear in one hand. Kel shouted. The Drake was alone! But he was so quick! A blur shot towards the Wyvern. Relc charged into the monster’s huge chest.
“[Triple Thrust]!”
His spear struck three times in an instant. The Wyvern recoiled, staring down at the three holes punched in its hide. It tried to back up, fanning its wings.
“[Attack Formation]! Hit the wings!”
The [Strategist] shouted. Kel saw the [Archers] aiming, placing their shots. The Wyvern’s wings filled with holes. It tried to fly—Relc braced, and stabbed with all of his might. His spear went deep into the Wyvern’s side. It shrieked and tried to get away. The [Guardsman] pushed in. The spear slowly pierced the Wyvern and it writhed, caught.
“Forwards! Watch the legs! Use the pikes and strike it from range!”
The squad surged forwards again. They joined the unknown Drake and stabbed mercilessly. The Wyvern tried to fly one last time, but like the first it died.
Relc’s spear was embedded halfway through its guts. The Drake pulled the spear out, grunting with effort. He looked around.
“Hey.”
“Who are you? Guardsman?”
Kel recognized the uniform, but not the Drake’s colors. Then a light went on in his head. He stared at Liscor’s insignia. Then the stripes on one armband.
“Senior Guardsman?”
Relc grinned.
“That’s me. Hey Olesm! Get down here! The Wyverns will pick you off!”
“I’m surveying the situation! Relc—there’s trouble two streets that way! Another Wyvern!”
The Drake cursed.
“Damn. Alright! Here I go!”
He turned. Kel didn’t even see the [Guard] start running. Relc was blurring down the street as the Drake on the rooftop took another look around and jumped to the next one.
“Squad—injured?”
“They got Shais.”
“No. I’m alive.”
Shais panted. Kel caught his breath as the squad sounded off. Then he heard a voice.
“Who’s in charge here?”
The Drake called Olesm was standing in the street. He looked and sounded like an officer, but again, not one Kel had ever met. The Desk Sergeant instinctively saluted.
“Desk Sergeant Kel! 8th Floor’s Watch House! Who—who are you?”
“Olesm. Strategist for Liscor.”
“Liscor?”
The [Guards] stared. But yes—of course! Kel’s eyes widened.
“The door?”
Olesm nodded. He was staring at the sky, adjusting a glowing ring on one clawed finger.
“Liscor’s sending all of its Gold-rank adventurers. I came through as well as Relc.”
“He’s going to fight a Wyvern? We have to reinforce—”
Patrol Leader Tanic turned. Olesm barked.
“Belay that, Guardsman! Relc is a [Spearmaster]! He’ll reinforce any squad that needs help! You’re all with me! We’re going to expand the zone of control and find as many civilians as possible. Are they in the Watch House?”
“As many as we can find.”
Kel answered. His mind was in a whirl, but it was a relief to hear the steady note in Olesm’s voice. He was younger than Kel! Yet no one was questioning him. Tanic turned, a faint light of recognition in his eyes.
“Wait. Relc. Was that the Gecko of Liscor…? I heard they had a monster in their Watch—”
Olesm ignored them. He eyed the surrounding buildings.
“Desk Sergeant, how many [Guards] do you have? Where are they located? I need a map of the area. And I’m assuming command of your sector as Liscor’s [Strategist]. Unless you object?”
“Nossir!”
Kel saluted. He felt a surge of relief. And then—almost a sense of incredulity. Liscor was coming to help Pallass?
“Is it just you, Strategist?”
The younger Drake met Kel’s gaze. He smiled for half a second and shook his head.
“The door can’t move many people through. But don’t worry, Sergeant. We’re not the only ones.”
He pointed, and Kel saw it at last. It had taken an age. Or maybe minutes. In the scale of the attack, it felt like forever. But he saw the Drakes wearing plate armor. The Flamewardens charged down the street, heading for the stairs. Keldrass wore the Heartflame Breastplate, and it burned with fire as he roared.
“For Pallass! Take the walls!”
 
——
 
Wyverns flew into the city, spiraling down, landing. A dozen had occupied the 4th Floor. A dozen. Watch Captain Qissa was trying to just hold them in place. Her [Mages] were blasting the Wyverns, but the damn things had resistance to spells and they were just huge. Even a [Fireball] couldn’t do more than hurt one.
“Where’s 1st Army? Where’s General Duln?”
She bellowed at one of her Senior Guards. The Drake shouted back.
“I don’t know! They’re all fighting below! They’re making their way up, but—”
“Duck!”
Everyone threw themselves down as all twelve Wyverns breathed at once. The combined breath attack hit a magical barrier—and shattered the spell. Qissa felt the frost eating at her scales. She heard [Guards] screaming. The Senior Guardsman shouted at the Watch Captain.
“The Frost Resistance potions aren’t working! It’s too cold!”
“Keep them pinned! Just keep them pinned—until reinforcements get here! Tell the 1st I need reinforcements now! They need to take the stairs even if the Wyverns hit them! The higher floors are being overrun!”
Qissa was shouting. She saw one of the Wyverns lunging, trying to break the wall of [Guards] behind their steel barriers. They were meant to close a street down, not fight Wyverns! It smashed into the steel and Qissa saw the metal tear. She swore and grabbed the enchanted spear she carried.
“I’m going in!”
“Watch Captain! No—”
Hands grabbed for her. Qissa fought them. Someone had to hold the Wyverns! She saw the [Guards] bunching up as six Wyverns charged them. They were going to be overrun! And then—
Something flew past Qissa’s head. She turned as she saw something. Not a spell. It was too slow. Slower than an arrow. It was a flying…glass…jar. And it shone red. Like a—
“Down!”
