The Named Adventurer stood on the stairs. He spun. And posed. His naked body faced Pallass. And the city shouted. He had many names. ‘That naked bastard’, ‘Pallass’ number one nuisance’, ‘that insane [Alchemist]’. But he was also theirs.
“Saliss of Lights!”
He climbed higher. Jelaqua looked up towards the walls. The Named Adventurer had gone alone. She gestured to her team.
“We’ll take the 9th. On me!”
Her team ran, and Saliss climbed higher into a sea of Wyverns. A naked [Alchemist]. But that was what it meant to be a Named Adventurer. Jelaqua shook her head.
“Not us. Not yet.”
Then she ran towards the next Wyvern she spotted.
 
——
 
Grimalkin of Pallass knelt on the walls of his home city. He stared at the ground for a second. Then he stood up. He clutched at his arm. It wasn’t moving, and he could barely feel the ice encrusting it.
“You’re fairly strong.”
That was all he said. The Wyvern Lord glared down at him. It opened its mouth again. Grimalkin dodged left.
“[Greater Frostward]—”
He recast the spell, but the frozen breath still hit him. It froze his legs, his entire right side. Grimalkin stumbled.
Cold. Absolute, piercing cold. It went through his spell—no, the spell was working. But it was just too cold. Grimalkin could see frost forming hundreds of feet from the radius of the Wyvern Lord’s blast. And at the epicenter—he stumbled forwards. Numb. Completely. His right arm barely moved.
“[Flashfire].”
Fire caught. Grimalkin lit up his entire body. Intentionally. The flames burned, warming him. Slightly. But the cold—
Grimalkin saw a movement. He tried to raise his guard. The impact from the Wyvern Lord’s tail tossed him through the air like a toy and he hit the ground hard.
“Greater Wyvern.”
The [Sinew Magus] spat some blood from his mouth as the Wyvern Lord flew after him. He raised himself up. No good. His muscle was as good as dead on his right side. The frostbite had killed it. So he gritted his teeth and spoke a Skill.
“[Muscular Restructuring]!”
His muscles shifted. Grimalkin felt the dead muscle moving. His entire body rippled as the Wyvern Lord landed. His right arm was gone. Should have been gone. But then the Magus was flexing his arm and moving his legs. Grimalkin grimaced. He looked…a bit thinner? As if he’d shed a bit of mass. He glared up at the Wyvern.
“Looks like I can’t block that breath. I wonder if this is what it’s like to fight a Dragon. It makes me wish I’d invested in better shield spells. Dodging—”
He [Flash Stepped] sideways just in time. The Wyvern Lord had exhaled again. But instead of a stream of frost, it had hurled an orb of frost. It exploded on the walls and Grimalkin felt the chill piercing him even as he dashed further away.
“Continuous ability to use breath attacks, changing the nature of the attack—spell resistance—”
The [Sinew Magus] disappeared as the Wyvern Lord dove. The thundering impact would have killed the Drake if it had hit him. Grimalkin continued speaking, reappearing backwards. He threw two [Fireballs]. They exploded on the Wyvern Lord’s scales. But all that did was disorient the Wyvern for a few seconds.
“—And incredible physical strength and agility. Far stronger than a normal Wyvern.”
He waited. The Wyvern Lord turned towards him, shooting towards the stationary Drake. Grimalkin didn’t move. The Wyvern Lord passed through the illusion and halted, confused.
Grimalkin stepped out of his [Invisibility] spell and lined up a punch. [Lion’s Strength], [Gauntlet of Force], [Tremor Wave]—
His punch rocked the Wyvern Lord back as he struck its chest, its entire frame moving up with the impact. Grimalkin was already ducking away as the Wyvern Lord whirled. It winced—
And that was all. Grimalkin stared at the place where he’d hit it. He’d have punched through a normal Wyvern’s hide with that hit. But it was just a heavy punch to the Wyvern. He saw it open its jaws.
“[Siege Fire—]”
The explosion as ice met fire hurled Grimalkin back. But the frost engulfed the heat. Freezing him again. Grimalkin blocked his face. So long as his brain wasn’t frozen—he narrowed his gaze, feeling his eyes freezing. He had to stay up. Had to—
The [Sinew Magus] stopped moving. He stood in place, a layer of ice covering his entire body. His eyes stared ahead. The Wyvern Lord howled triumphantly. But it still stared at Grimalkin warily. It looked up, shrieking a command.
Another Wyvern landed. It stared at Grimalkin, just as warily. It shrieked. The Drake didn’t move. It was surely dead, waiting to be eaten. The Wyvern cautiously approached—
Grimalkin burst out of the icy shell. One fist slammed the Wyvern’s head up in an uppercut. The Wyvern rocked backwards as Grimalkin emerged, coughing. Frostbite turned his scales black. He fumbled for a healing potion.
“Feor was easier than—”
He rolled. The Wyvern Lord exhaled again. Grimalkin felt himself freezing and popped the vial into his mouth. He chewed it down, shards and all. Live. He had to stand. The [Sinew Magus] rose.
“What’s taking so long?”
He looked around. The wall was filled with Wyverns. Some were retreating with injuries. They were using this place as a staging ground to attack. They had to be driven off here, and the Wyvern Lord slain, or the weyr would never leave. He knew it.
But he was alone. Grimalkin growled as the Wyvern Lord advanced, cautiously. It was checking to make sure Grimalkin was real by fanning its wings, watching the dust hit him.
“Clever.”
Grimalkin looked around. No one else stood on the walls. He heard shouting from below. But the walls! Grimalkin looked around. He bellowed, in frustration at the Wyvern Lord.
“I cannot stand alone! I am not Zel Shivertail!”
The Wyvern Lord blinked at Grimalkin. He shouted.
“Drakes do not stand alone! Where are my reinforcements?”
He shouted to the air, to the Wyverns. But he was not unheard. Below him, far below, Chaldion looked up.
“Here.”
The [Grand Strategist] nodded to the figures around him. He opened the scroll. The figures around him did likewise.
“Activate [Gateway].”
Grimalkin saw a flash of light. He turned. The Wyvern Lord looked as well. A few feet away, the air glowed as Chaldion stepped out of the space. He nodded calmly to Grimalkin.
“Grand Strategist is in position.”
More figures stepped out of the light with him. A Dullahan with a huge mace, glowing red-hot and a tower shield appeared. He nodded.
“1st [General] Duln. Apologies for the delay, Magus. I was giving orders and equipping a strike force for battle.”
[Soldiers] rushed out of the air around him. They took up a formation on the walls. A Garuda officer pointed a glowing spear. They were all wearing enchanted gear and their weapons burned. Heat enchantments.
“[Engineers], reclaim those siege weapons! [Archers], ready!”
The officer bellowed. Grimalkin saw the [General] point at the Wyvern.
“[Volley Fire].”
Bows thrummed as the [Archers] instantly raised and fired. Each shot landed. The Wyvern Lord recoiled as the enchanted arrows exploded and blasted it back. General Duln pointed up.
“[Phantom Volley].”
A second wave of arrows appeared, exact copies of the first. They blasted the Wyverns overhead to pieces. General Duln pointed.
“[Lineholders], advance! With me! Support Magus Grimalkin!”
1st Army advanced, pursuing the Wyvern Lord. More were flooding out of the magical gateway—until it closed. Nearly four hundred [Soldiers] had leapt through the gateways. And more were surging up the stairs far below. A coordinated push. Chaldion pointed.
“Lieutenant, hit and retreat. Cover the [Engineers]. [Speed Formation].”
A group of Garuda led by the [Lieutenant] shot through the skies, as fast as Bevussa, flying in formation as they aimed at the first Wyvern. Grimalkin hauled himself up.
“Grand Strategist.”
“Magus. Are you hurt?”
A pair of [Healers] rushed over. Grimalkin looked around.
“The Wyvern Lord is immune to low-tier spells and enchantments.”
“I saw.”
Chaldion pointed. The Wyvern Lord was flying backwards, howling. Wyverns flew around it. The barrage of arrows had barely scratched it. General Duln pointed.
“[Shieldwall Formation]! [Rapid Advance]!”
The Wyverns and the Wyvern Lord exhaled. But this time the ranks of [Soldiers] didn’t freeze solid as the magical frost struck them. Their shields repelled the frost and cold thanks to the [General]’s Skill.
But it could not stop the ground and air from freezing. The [Soldiers] slowed, shouting in pain as their armor froze from the ambient temperature alone. But they were alive and they kept charging. [Archers] loosed arrows, hitting Wyverns in the wings and pulling them down into the range of the [General] and his elites. The Wyverns died, but the Wyvern Lord landed and struck a blow that sent a group of [Soldiers] flying.
“General Duln can’t handle the Wyvern leader alone. Can you take the walls?”
“Go. Saliss has nearly arrived.”
Chaldion’s one eye flashed at Grimalkin. The [Grand Strategist] looked around as Grimalkin charged after Duln. Chaldion stood alone as the 1st Army fought to take the walls. An [Engineer] swung himself up a ballista coated in ice. The siege weapon hadn’t been destroyed. He triggered it and a bolt went through a Wyvern.
“I will not let this city fall yet.”
The [Grand Strategist] stared around the walls. The 1st Army had caught the Wyverns off-guard. But there were nearly as many Wyverns as [Soldiers]. Without reinforcements, the group on the walls would be crushed. Chaldion slowly removed the eye patch he wore. His fake, red gemstone eye shone in his left socket. He whispered.
“[Path to Victory].”
The Drake’s eye flashed. He looked around at Pallass. The [Grand Strategist] nodded.
“I see one road.”
His eyes found the naked Drake charging up the walls. He looked at the Wyvern Lord and Chaldion’s gaze narrowed. Then he stared down at something. The Drake froze.
“What is that?”
The light vanished from Chaldion’s gaze. He blinked a few times. Then he touched a stone.
“[Long-Range Command]. This is Grand Strategist Chaldion! Guardsmen! Fall back from the 8th floor, east! Climb to the 9th and hold the line there!”
Below, on the 8th Floor, Desk Sergeant Kel and the other fighters on the ground looked up. They stared at Olesm and each other in alarm, but then they rushed for the stairs. Chaldion spun. He pointed at the [Soldiers] around him. More reinforcements were taking the walls, seeing the fighting above.
“[Army: Veteran’s Knowledge]!”
A group of struggling Dullahan [Guards] fighting a Wyvern on a staircase paused for a moment as Chaldion shouted. Then their formation tightened up. They advanced, shields held ready. The Wyvern backed up. It twisted—the Dullahans were already bracing as its tail came around in the sneak attack Wyverns loved to use. The Wyvern hissed as it failed to dislodge the Dullahans.
Seamlessly, the Dullahans hacked at the tail, and two moved left, into the Wyvern’s blind spot. They aimed for the Wyvern’s hindquarters, trying to hamstring it. As if they’d fought Wyverns a hundred times.
Chaldion had. The [Grand Strategist] looked around, surveying the battle.
“[Rapid Retreat]. Fall back—now!”
He pointed. A group of [Soldiers] fled as Wyverns landed, about to encircle their position. Chaldion nodded. He looked at another catapult.
“Catapult! Hit the Wyverns there. [Marked Target].”
The catapult swung around and loosed, hitting a cluster of Wyverns in the air. Chaldion watched the bodies fall. Then he turned as a shadow passed overhead. A Wyvern was heading for the lone Drake, seeking an easy target. Chaldion paused. He flipped up his eye patch.
“[Fireball].”
A flaming orb shot from the red jewel in his left eye. It struck the Wyvern in the face. Chaldion shielded his head from the explosion. The Garuda squad flew into the Wyvern as it recoiled in the air.
“Take it down! Protect the [Strategist]!”
Chaldion walked forwards as the Wyvern crashed to the ground behind him. He looked around.
“Hm. First deviation. And—now—”
A series of explosions tore apart a group of Wyverns on the stairs. A naked Drake appeared through the smoke as Chaldion watched. He kicked past a Wyvern. Spotted Chaldion.
“Oh, it’s you.”
Saliss of Lights stared at Chaldion. The Grand Strategist nodded.
“Saliss. You’re late.”
“What took you? I heard Grimalkin got here first. And before you ask—I didn’t hear your alarm. Kill me later.”
The two glared at each other. Chaldion turned his head.
“I have one path. The 1st Army is advancing up the stairs. 4th is marching on the city at all speed. I need you on the eastern wall.”
Saliss looked around. Wyverns were flying through the air there; the 1st Army had teleported onto the northwestern side with Grimalkin. There were only Wyverns and the dead on the eastern wall. The Named Adventurer sighed.
“This is why I miss my cell.”
Chaldion glared at him. Saliss paused.
“Five minutes, no holds barred. Agreed?”
“The city will pay you back. Go.”
Saliss popped another vial. Chaldion watched him sprint away. The [Grand Strategist] checked himself.
“Two deviations.”
He stared at the image of victory he’d called forth. It was one road. And the future was already changing. But the old Drake reached out for it. Wyverns flew through the skies. And in the city, they were still harassing the [Soldiers] and Watch trying to advance. Chaldion reached for a scroll. As he did, he touched the magical stone and his voice echoed again throughout all of Pallass.
“This is Grand Strategist Chaldion! All fliers, land! You have forty seconds!”
Across the ramparts, Garuda dropped to the ground. Oldblood Drakes did likewise. Chaldion counted slowly.
“That is Grand Strategist Chaldion of Pallass’ voice we’re hearing! Of course, he’s the high strategist in charge of Pallass’ armies! Over Level 50—I went to his 50th level celebration! If he can’t clear the walls with reinforcements, no one can!”
Sir Relz was shouting as he pointed up at the walls. He and Noass had seen part of the 1st Army arriving and they were trying to get to the fighting.
“They must have used a spell to appear on the walls. But I doubt all of 1st Army can teleport up there. If Strategist Chaldion can’t retake the walls—if the Wyverns kill him, the army might struggle to reclaim them. What then? They can freely attack Pallass from the interior. If 1st Army can’t reclaim the walls—”
Noass turned. He stared at Sir Relz and then lashed out.
“If they take the walls? Control yourself you fool!”
The other Drake slapped Sir Relz across the face.
“Pallass will never fall!”
Sir Relz rocked back. He blinked at Noass in shock and then nodded.
“Forgive me, Noass. I don’t know what got into me.”
