Something hit the Wyvern in the jaws. The Wyvern’s head snapped back. It nearly fell on its back. The monster’s head rang. It looked around, stunned. Its teeth were broken. Something had—it was bleeding.
The Wyvern flopped on its back, getting up, now drooling blood instead from its broken gums. It tried to howl, but the second discus of lead and steel hit it in the neck. The Wyvern’s neck deformed and it collapsed. It looked up, stunned, uncomprehending. What was hitting it? What was—
A giant Drake walked out of his house. He was huge. The Wyvern was far larger, but this was the biggest prey it had ever seen of its kind. It tried to bite the Drake, feebly. But its upper teeth were destroyed. It couldn’t breathe. The Wyvern still tried to lunge.
Grimalkin punched the Wyvern in the head. His fist cracked bone and sent the splinters into the Wyvern’s brain. The monster slumped. Grimalkin cracked his neck and looked around.
“The weights make good impromptu throwing weapons. Apprentices! Find anyone on the street and get them inside! Don’t let a Wyvern eat you! I’m heading up.”
His wide-eyed apprentices stared at him from the opening of Grimalkin’s mansion. Ferkr gaped at the two deformed weights. They were from the weights bar. Grimalkin had hurled the fifty-pound weights like discuses and crippled the Wyvern with it.
“Master—”
“Move.”
Grimalkin didn’t waste words on Ferkr. It had been minutes since the attack. Chaldion’s voice had alerted him; the [Sinew Magus] hadn’t heard the screams or explosion in his mansion. Now, his eyes narrowed.
“What idiot didn’t activate the [Cage of Pallass] spell? If they’re alive, I am going to kill them.”
Grimalkin of Pallass charged down the street. He ran faster than someone of his size had any right to move. The Drake reached the edge of the 6th Floor.
The Wyverns were still assailing the upper floors. They had the air and fewer of them were reaching the lower floors. Grimalkin saw the flash of armor and magic below.
“The army.”
He looked up and back. The 5th Floor. Grimalkin heard screams. He crouched.
“[Reduce Weight]. [Warlock’s Leap].”
His eyes flashed. Then Grimalkin leapt.
The 5th Floor was being assailed by another Wyvern. It was herding a group of Drakes up, snapping at the ones trying to flee. Grimalkin landed. The Wyvern’s head swiveled. It stared at Grimalkin and then charged at him, ignoring the other prey for this large one. Grimalkin lowered his stance, made one fist. As the Wyvern lunged, he punched.
The Wyvern felt something smash through its teeth. Something immovable. As hard as stone. It recoiled, stunned. Grimalkin pointed a claw.
“[Lightning Bolt].”
A flash. The Wyvern jerked as the lightning struck it, but even a lightning bolt couldn’t kill it. It flopped back weakly. Grimalkin charged in. One clawed hand grabbed the Wyvern’s head. He put a foot on the neck. Then he jerked up.
The Wyvern’s head could move in almost any direction, but it still had bone. It fought weakly as the [Sinew Magus] pulled it up, up, bending it backwards. The Drake’s muscles bulged and he growled. Grimalkin twisted the Wyvern’s head backwards until he heard a snap. Then he dropped the Wyvern.
“Ancestors.”
Someone breathed. Grimalkin turned his head. The Drakes were staring. Grimalkin nodded at them.
“Get to safety. Find the nearest building and get inside. I can’t stay.”
He was already moving. Grimalkin checked the Wyvern’s head to make sure it was dead. The eyes gazed blankly at the [Mage] of Pallass. Grimalkin jumped. He flew through the air, almost weightless, grabbing hold of an elevator’s cable, then leapt again. Onto the 6th Floor. Higher and higher.
 
——
 
“We just saw the Wings of Pallass go down! They were intercepted by the Wyverns—they are still diving! It has been—minutes since the alarm in Pallass was called and the higher floors are getting overrun!”
Noass was shouting as he half-faced the scrying mirror, pointing down at the chaos below. He and Sir Relz had stopped near the stairs to the battlements. The Drake was pointing down into the heart of the city.
“The Watch is fighting to try and reclaim the battlements, but Wyverns are assailing them! I can see fighting on the 2nd floor where the garrisons are located—but there is a bottleneck on all four staircases! And the Wyverns are attacking any large groups! This—this is a disaster! Sir Relz, thoughts?”
The other Drake gulped.
“The army normally deploys outside the city for attack. They’re stationed for sortieing, not having to retake the walls. Clearly there’s been an error in their stationing. Normally the battlements have more than enough personnel to repel an attack. But as you can see—”
He turned. A group of armored figures were fighting at one of the staircases. The Watch and [Soldiers] were battling multiple Wyverns, assaulting them as they tried to take the stairs.
“There are too many Wyverns above! And the lower floors are congested as the Wyverns slow reinforcements! We—we could be seeing a disaster. I think there are thousands, thousands dead. I repeat, thousands. The Wyverns are slowing to eat their kills, but whenever they breathe that damned frost attack at a cluster, everyone dies—and we just saw a Gold-rank team fall prey to their diving!”
Noass was nodding, looking around.
“The Wyverns are assaulting groups heading up, preventing anyone from making a foothold on the upper floors. Everyone is retreating. This is a disaster. Where are the higher-level officers? Are they all trapped below?”
The Drake’s voice was despairing. And their commentary wasn’t going to just those watching from outside Pallass. People in the city were picking up the broadcast, watching from inside their homes. Sir Relz turned to Noass.
“Can you see anyone? Noass? Anyone?”
Noass’ voice was bleak.
“I see pockets of fighting everywhere. The Watch is spread out across the city. But Wyverns are a Gold-rank threat. An entire squad can barely fight one, and these are Frost Wyverns. They have a variant of Dragon’s breath, like an Oldblood Drake! Even if our [Soldiers] beat one, two, or three attacking at once? I—I just don’t see—”
The Drake’s voice stopped. Sir Relz looked at him and then tried to angle his scrying mirror.
“What do you see? Noass?”
“I—I see someone moving up! Look! There!”
Noass pointed. Sir Relz’s mirror moved. And then they saw him. A small figure from afar, but growing larger. Leaping. Yes, leaping up the floors. He stopped as a Wyvern dove. The two Drakes peered.
“I don’t see—a Wyvern’s diving at him—”
“Who? An officer?”
“No! It’s—Ancestors!”
The Wyvern hit the huge figure and crashed. The two Drakes gaped as they saw the figure charge it. There was a bloom of fire—the Wyvern’s head was missing. And the figure turned, scanning for opponents. Then he leapt higher.
“Who is that? It’s a Drake—no, it must be him—he must have heard the alarm! Look! It’s Pallass’ Strongest [Mage]! Grimalkin!”
The [Sinew Magus] leapt higher. He was on the 7th Floor now. The two Drakes gaped as he landed below.
“Magus Grimalkin!”
Noass bellowed. Grimalkin’s head whipped around. He spotted the two Drakes. They saw him squat, his form perfect, then leap. The two Drakes backed up as a huge shape soared over the railing of the 8th Floor.
Grimalkin landed lightly. His arms and part of his huge neck were covered in blood, but it wasn’t his. The [Sinew Magus] eyed Noass and Sir Relz.
“You two! Get inside! Hide from the Wyvern attack!”
He barked at them. Noass’ mouth worked. Sir Relz took over.
“Magus! Magus, we’re broadcasting live—”
“What? Broadcasting what—”
Grimalkin looked at Sir Relz. He stared into the image and then his brows snapped together.
“You idiots! If you have the strength to use a scrying orb, get people off the streets!”
“But people have to see—”
“Out of my way. I don’t have time for this. I’m retaking the walls.”
Grimalkin had spotted the fighting on the stairs. He sprinted past the two Drakes. Noass turned.
“That—that was Grimalkin of Pallass. Known as the Fist Mage, but also Pallass’ self-proclaimed strongest [Mage]. He’s known for—dead gods! Is he insane?”
The Drake was running straight at the three Wyverns on the stairs. They’d pushed back the [Soldiers] and [Guards] fighting there. Grimalkin roared as he charged the nearest one. It reared up and Noass gasped.
“He can’t fight three at once! He’s a [Mage], even if he’s known for hand-to-hand fighting. He’s mad. He’s going to die—”
Grimalkin halted as the Wyvern turned on him. He planted his legs and made a fist. He chanted as the Wyvern charged at him.
“[Gauntlet of Force]. [Lion’s Strength]. [Bound Spell: Impact Shockwave]. [Thunder Step].”
The last spell was followed by a sound. Sir Relz’s scrying mirror jerked as Grimalkin exploded forwards. The Wyvern lunged. And Grimalkin struck. He hit the Wyvern’s head as it bit at him, and the top of the Wyvern’s head exploded.
The other two triumphant Wyverns froze. They stopped shrieking. Sir Relz jerked. Noass’ jaw dropped. They stared as the fleeing [Soldiers] and [Guards] turned back. Grimalkin just looked at the other two Wyverns.
They dove. Grimalkin blurred sideways and the first missed with its claws. The second he jumped at. He struck it in midair.
“Release.”
[Impact Shockwave]. The spell activated. The Wyvern crashed out of the air as the spell hammered it to the ground. It writhed as a tremor went through its body, tearing muscle and sinew. Grimalkin held out a claw.
“[Siege Fireball].”
A huge flaming ball of fire appeared. The [Magus] threw it and the fireball engulfed the Wyvern in an explosion. The Drake turned as the scorched, blistered form of the second Wyvern slumped, burning.
The third hissed at Grimalkin, and met his eyes. Then the Wyvern tried to flee. It reared back, flapping its wings. Too late.
“[Thunder Step].”
Grimalkin appeared in front of the Wyvern. Its underbelly was exposed as it rose up, flapping. The head jerked back in shock, trying to breathe frost, or bite. Too slow. Grimalkin drew back a fist.
“Pallass’ Strongest!”
He punched through the Wyvern’s chest. The huge beast froze in the middle of rearing back. It moved, a convulsion—Grimalkin tore his claw loose, clutching the remains of a heart. He dropped it and the Wyvern collapsed.
Noass and Sir Relz stared. Grimalkin shook the blood off his claws. Then he turned.
“Soldiers! Reform and regroup! Take the 9th! Pallass will not fall!”
His bellow was audible even from afar. The [Soldiers] rallied as Grimalkin leapt up the stairs. They charged after him, ando did Sir Relz and Noass. They saw Grimalkin leaping up to the 9th floor. Then—
Higher. Noass pointed.
“He’s going up! He’s going up to the walls alone!”
Grimalkin was leaping up on a roof on the 9th floor. He crouched and jumped a final time. The Drake landed on Pallass’ battlements. Sir Relz craned his neck, running to see him.
The weyr of Frost Wyverns was confused. They were hearing death-shrieks from their comrades. A few, but more and more. More were flapping towards the edge, walking on their two clawed legs to search for prey. It was so easy from above. Easier than in the mountains, even.
Over a third of the weyr still held the walls; the rest were in the city. The Wyverns on the battlements were complacent. Only they were alive at this point. None of them were prepared for the single Drake who landed on the battlements.
Grimalkin. He landed lightly, and looked alone. Hundreds of Wyverns stared, offended and surprised. Prey had come to them? And he smelled like blood. Wyvern blood. They recoiled, and then screamed.
But he did not smell afraid. The [Sinew Magus] inhaled, assessing the situation, ignoring the Wyverns closest to him.
He stood on the walls alone. Hundreds of Wyverns flew around him, more diving into the heart of the Walled City. The [Sinew Magus] looked around and all he saw were frozen bodies and blood. Without the protections of Pallass’ magic, the defenders of the wall had been caught off-guard. Overconfident, the Day Strategist hadn’t reinforced them. The Drake closed his eyes for a second, seeing a frozen Gnoll he recognized.
Watch Captain Rekhassha. Something had eaten part of the statue of ice she’d become. Grimalkin opened his eyes. A Wyvern was watching him. Smaller, a youngling of its species. It darted its head at Grimalkin, like a snake striking.
He caught it. Grimalkin dodged the head and his right arm encircled the young Wyvern’s neck. It tried to jerk back.
“[Magic Anchor].”
Grimalkin’s feet glowed. The Drake didn’t even budge as the Wyvern tried to pull back. The [Sinew Magus] regarded its flapping wings, the rest of its body. He looked around.
“You pestilential beasts don’t deserve to stand here.”
His muscles bulged. The Wyvern screamed—and began choking. The other Wyverns reared back. Impossible! But Grimalkin kept squeezing. He just squeezed and squeezed the Wyvern’s neck until its eyes bulged. It jerked, spasmed.
Stopped moving. Grimalkin dropped the Wyvern’s head. He’d crushed its neck and windpipe. The Wyverns froze. And then they shrieked.
A mother dove at Grimalkin. He dodged it, struck a blow that shattered the huge leg. It screamed and Grimalkin pointed. A bolt of lightning hit the Wyvern in the head, sending it reeling backwards. Another Wyvern landed—Grimalkin held out a claw.
“[Stone Sphere]!”
A boulder appeared in his hand, as large as his chest. Grimalkin heaved it. It went straight through the Wyvern’s opened wings. The second boulder struck the Wyvern in the face and shattered its skull.
The weyr stared. Grimalkin stood there. He raised his arms. Below, Sir Relz and Noass watched, and the people of Pallass looked at the image of Grimalkin standing on the walls. The Drake’s muscles rippled as he flexed. He roared up at the Wyverns.
“I am Grimalkin of Pallass! Come, you wretched beasts! I will bring all of you down if I must!”
A single Drake. They dove at him, screaming. He raised his arm and a gauntlet of stone blocked one strike from a pair of claws. The magus turned, grabbed the Wyvern’s claws and threw it. The Wyvern crashed across the stone. Grimalkin ducked another.
“Weak. Weak!”
One claw grabbed the Wyvern’s tail as it flew past him, dragging it back as it tried to fly forwards. Alarmed, the Wyvern tried to fly. It outweighed the huge Drake several times! It was impossible. The Drake couldn’t—
Grimalkin roared as he heaved. His feet were anchored to the ground by his spell. And the Wyvern lost. Grimalkin threw it back, across the wall. He charged after it, and his fist crushed its vulnerable neck. Grimalkin raised one fist and the Wyverns backed up.
