The other commanders in the room looked towards Luciva. Some were nodding, but then a young voice spoke up.
“Done.”
The youngest occupant of the room by far folded her arms. Rafaema met Luciva’s eyes calmly as the Dragonspeaker spun. Rafaema, a Wall Lady by rank, seemed one of the least fazed by the situation unfolding in the scrying orb. She nodded at Luciva.
“I ordered them to go to alert when I got the message. Four full wings. They’re already heading towards Pallass.”
The Dragonspeaker met Rafaema’s eyes and surprise flickered in her gaze for only a moment. Then she snapped at the Gnoll [Strategist].
“Send a counter order for the wings to hold their position.”
She nodded towards Rafaema. The younger Drake shrugged, flexing her brilliant wings slightly. Dragonspeaker Luciva looked around the table.
“Even at max flight speed, they will not reach Pallass in time. The intervention might be unneeded. Or worse.”
“Nothing like an unwanted companion to the chase. Pallass would take offence.”
Hunt Commander Makhir nodded. He glanced at Rafaema. The younger Drake shrugged.
“And if the Walled City falls?”
General Milka consulted a tome. The pages fluttered without her touching them as the Drake stared at the information. She looked up and shook her head.
“They will not. I don’t know how the Wyverns took the walls, but they should have…1st Army and 4th in position. Either one should be able to repel the attack. And if the Wyverns possess greater numbers or abilities—they can take cover. A few minutes’ difference won’t change the results.”
“And what are the odds of that? I can’t believe they gained the city.”
“There are precedents. What species of Wyvern are these? If they’re rare variants—Hunt Commander, thoughts?”
The Gnoll scratched a scar along his chin, where he’d taken a wound from an encounter with a Wyvern.
“I’ve heard reports of Wyverns causing volcanic eruptions and launching attacks in the ash clouds. And I’ve seen them with any number of abilities. There are variants in Baleros that camouflage themselves. But in numbers? I have never encountered a weyr over two hundred. And the group I saw was ordinary. I don’t know what they might have done.”
“Pool their breath attacks.”
Again, Rafaema spoke up. Every head turned towards her. Dragonspeaker Luciva inclined her head slightly.
“What do you mean by that, Wall Lady Rafaema?”
The young Drake shrugged.
“I’ve been reading older accounts. Wyverns and Oldblood Drakes can pool their magical abilities together. In fact, a Drake riding a Wyvern can combine his attack with the Wyvern’s. Even different elements. I’ve seen it done. There was a flying wing in Manus eighty years ago that used that tactic.”
Her tail flicked back and forth as she spoke. The other leaders looked at each other. Each one nodded. General Milka nodded to herself, doing a quick check of her tome.
“Report, Dragonspeaker. Pallass’ protections spells did not activate. Some were used, but I’m getting more [Messages]. Summarized—confirmation of Grand Strategist’s alert. Pallass is under attack by feral Wyverns. Frost Wyverns.”
“Impossible.”
Someone muttered it a third time. Not in shock, but now just disbelief. Dragonspeaker Luciva’s lips twisted.
“They didn’t activate the protection spells?”
“Must have been caught off-guard. Idiots. They didn’t get Chaldion. He can fight them off.”
“There’s no way they’ll take the city.”
“But the death toll has to be in the hundreds already. Thousands, maybe. Listen.”
That calm voice came from Spearmaster Lulv. He was leaning on the table, looking at the scrying orb. Now, all the voices in the war room fell silent.
This is what they all saw, the world over. A shaking, moving street. No—someone running while holding whatever was providing the magical image. In Manus, the leaders heard a wheezing pant, a cough—
Shrieks in the distance, tearing the air. Faint at first, and then growing louder. The viewpoint jerked up as a scream increased in volume. The image revealed a huge, plummeting shape. A Wyvern sixty feet long dropped out of the air, diving. Its hunting scream reached a crescendo as it flashed past the onlooker.
The image shook, a visible flinch. And then, pattering footfalls. Someone else ran into view.
“Take cover! Take cover! Get inside!”
A Drake ran into view. The perspective changed, and Dragonspeaker Luciva saw a pair of Dullahans running towards an open door. A Drake was shouting at them, waving at them as he ran towards the scrying orb. Luciva saw a young, frightened Dullahan boy grabbing at a sister. The sister nearly dropped her head as he ran towards the Gnoll holding the door open.
For a second Luciva closed her eyes, seeing the girl’s face. Not because it was someone she knew, but because it was familiar. Then she forced her eyes open.
The first Drake was catching his breath. He looked around wildly, ducked as another shadow passed overhead. So did whoever was holding the magical device providing the image. The first Drake looked up, then spoke breathlessly.
“I—I think we’re clear. Are we still broadcasting?”
“I believe so.”
Someone fumbled with the mirror. Another Drake appeared in frame, and part of his arm. The two Drakes were both male, both familiar. One—the one with the arm holding the magical scrying device—had a monocle, dangling from a chain loop secured around one of his neck-spines. He was expensively dressed. His comrade was less so, but the two were a well-fed pair.
The first Drake spoke in a rush after gaining his voice back.
“This is Sir Relz and Noass, your [Commentators] coming to you live from Pallass! Is ‘live’ the word we’re using, Sir Relz? Where’s the logic in that?”
“Who cares, Noass? Pallass is under attack! It’s been bare minutes and we—”
Both Drakes ducked as a Wyvern shot down past them. Noass shouted.
“Get inside! Get off the streets!”
Sir Relz was speaking into the mirror as he tried to angle it, showing the audience a view of the skies—and then a close-up of the side of his face. He was inept at placing the viewpoint just right.
“Ancestors damn it, get out of the way! Show us numbers! Where’s the army?”
Someone growled in Manus’ war room, but it was otherwise completely silent. Sir Relz was still panting for breath.
“We’re using a portable scrying mirror—and under the effects of [Spectator’s Concealment]! Which we’ve gained as a result of our class. So long as we don’t interfere, it is extremely effective as long as the Wyverns are occupied! This—we’re—Noass, how did this happen?”
The other Drake jumped. His jaw worked soundlessly.
“I—we all heard a massive explosion! Someone on the walls, I think. Then there was a chill—and Wyverns were attacking! Grand Strategist Chaldion shouted the alarm and then—how did this happen? We—we’ll have a better view from the edge of the 8th floor. Come on—”
Sir Relz’s pale face again, then more running. The Dragonspeaker looked around.
“Massive explosion?”
“Combined dragonbreath.”
Rafaema’s voice was certain. Some of the others nodded, looking sideways at her. She was an oddity. Despite her age, they all gave her a level of deference no one else commanded. She was striking. Beautiful, in a way that even the other Oldblood Drakes were not, that even Dragonspeaker Luciva wasn’t, for all her heritage was among the purest of all Drakes.
The young female Drake looked no older than…twenty three. Which was impossible, given the station she was accorded. The way she looked about, the understanding in her eyes made her older than her appearance. She was poised, intent.
And she was a Dragon.
But that was irrelevant to this moment. Rafaema’s eyes were locked on the scene unfolding in Pallass with everyone else. And Dragonspeaker Luciva saw the image halt at the edge of the 8th Floor. The two Drakes stared out in horror at their city.
And Dragonspeaker Luciva saw what they did. Pallass, the City of Invention, was under attack. Wyverns flew through the skies, casting huge shadows above the Walled City. It was snowing. And the Wyverns were attacking.
There weren’t many of them. For a city of Pallass’ size, the near-thousand of them weren’t a vast horde that would blot out the skies. But the Wyverns were huge. And the sight of them there, breathing frost and diving down on the small figures below—
It shook the world. It pierced Dragonspeaker Luciva’s heart, and the war room went still. This was the nightmare Manus’ children had sworn to avert. But they were not alone in seeing it.
Watch. Flos of Reim stared at the Walled City and smiled that predator’s grin, his hand itching. The Blighted King sighed. Niers Astoragon cursed while Foliana tried to eat another raw egg.
In his chair, the Necromancer, Az’kerash, watched with a raised eyebrow, almost mockingly. Incredulous more than anything else.
And Tyrion Veltras smiled. His eyes shone with a cold light.
Attention. More and more joined to see. Spectacle. Tragedy. Triumph too, but it was all one thing. And more strange watchers still.
“I see Pallass. It is smaller than I thought. And weaker still.”
“Perhaps, my Queen.”
Xrn of the Centenium spoke softly. The hovering image of Pallass she had conjured reflected off the huge eyes of the Grand Queen of the Antinium. Now, even the Antinium watched. With glee. With cold analysis. With incredulity.
Watch. Noass stared over the edge as the scrying mirror caught part of Sir Relz’s slack face. The Drake’s scales were white, drained of blood. It was the other [Commentator], Noass, who began screaming.
“Ancestors! Look out! They’re dive-bombing the lower floors!”
He pointed. More Wyverns were diving. They hunted like eagles. The huge, scaled monsters dove and struck their prey, carrying them up, tearing at them. If you looked, you could see struggling shapes falling as the Wyverns bit. Or the beasts just breathed their killing frost and tore apart the frozen shapes.
“What happened to the [Soldiers] on the walls?”
Noass screamed. Sir Relz’s voice was distant.
“This isn’t possible. Pallass can’t be—where’s the army?”
The image jerked. There was fighting below. You could stare down into Pallass’ heart. And there was a glint of steel below, running figures. But so far away. And the Wyverns—Noass ducked as one flew past, but the Wyvern ignored the two Drakes. Its serpentine neck was covered in blood. And it looked—it looked like it was laughing.
They had stolen the skies. The two Drakes looked at each other. Noass’ face was frozen with horror, but then he faced the image. And the [Commentator] did the only thing he could: speak.
“Pallass—everyone. If you can hear me! Get indoors! My name is Noass, and I am live on the attack on Pallass! If anyone can hear me—any adventurers nearby, any Drake forces! Pallass under attack! I don’t know what’s happened on the walls! But we’re going to find out. Someone—anyone. We saw the door to Liscor is open. Flee through it! Adventurers, [Soldiers]—”
His voice broke. Sir Relz appeared in frame. Luciva recognized him at last. One of Pallass’ nobility. A Wall Lord, but without the emphasis on rank and station other Walled Cities accorded him. Nevertheless, he looked dead into the image, and Dragonspeaker Luciva met his eyes.
“This is an emergency. Anyone who can hear this in Pallass, seek cover. Indoors! We will broadcast the image as long as we can. We are counting hundreds, repeat hundreds, of Wyverns. If anyone can send help—”
Luciva had heard enough. The Dragonspeaker looked around.
“Send the wings. Now.”
Hunt Commander Makhir raced out of the room. In Pallass, Noass was turning.
“It’s so cold. Dead gods, there’s frost on the upper part of the ninth floor and the ramparts—there. You see? It looks like the Wyverns overtook the walls—we’ll have to get up there. But where…?”
He looked at Sir Relz. The other Drake shook his head.
“I don’t know. Perhaps the explosion? I—I—the stairs? The lifts are surely not working…”
The wide-eyed Drakes were familiar to some viewers. After all, they had achieved a minor fame during their impromptu commentary of the attack on Liscor. And then the other one. Indeed, they’d even gained a class. But this was a new side of the Drake pair.
They sounded a bit harried, a bit stressed. As if this attack was more personal, more immediate than their commentary on any battle before this. And someone watching, from say, Liscor, might have found that a bit ironic.
But no one was laughing in The Wandering Inn. Lyonette stared at the scrying orb and then at the magical door. Relc had dragged it into the common room when they’d heard about the attack. Now—she saw a street where snow was falling.
“We have to do something.”
Selys was white-faced. She looked around wildly.
“Keldrass?”
“His team’s on the way. He’s in Liscor, getting the Heartflame Breastplate.”
Relc called out tersely. He had his spear out and was tensed, ready to move. Lyonette heard a shriek, louder through the door than the scrying orb. She looked around for Mrsha; the Gnoll was holding Apista, safely behind Pawn. The Antinium were all on their feet. Even Bird was downstairs, gazing at the Wyverns longingly.
“The Wings…?”
“They went through. Selys, get back. It’s too dangerous to get near the door.”
Lyonette looked around.
“We shouldn’t have brought it out there. Relc. Bring it back. Put it in the hallway.”
The Drake [Spearmaster] started.
“The Wyverns can’t—”
He looked around. Krshia, Elirr, Gnolls, Drakes—the Senior Guardsman hesitated, then he nodded. He grabbed the door.
“We have to do something. Where’s Zevara? Change the door back to Liscor! Can we send anyone?”
Lism was on his feet. It was Olesm who shook his head.
“No, Uncle. Wyverns are a Gold-rank threat! And the door doesn’t have the mana to send enough people. Let me go to Liscor. I’m getting Guildmistress Alonna and every [Mage] I can find. We have to send the Flamewardens through!”
“What about—get the other Gold-rank teams! Can’t we send anyone else?”
Lism gestured around, frustrated. Relc had disappeared and Olesm with him. But the other occupants of the inn? Lyonette was checking on Mrsha. The Gnoll was hugging Pawn’s back. The Worker looked at the Gnoll, into the scrying orb. The two Drakes were trying to shout at people to get indoors. Pawn stood up abruptly.
“I will go.”
“What?”
The [Priest] looked around. Yellow Splatters nodded. The [Sergeant] turned his head.
“Painted Antinium, with me.”
The Soldiers stepped forwards as one. Lyonette spun.
“No! Pawn—”
Belgrade was also present for the inn’s reopening. The [Strategist] shook his head.
