“Pallass is under attack.”
It was one of those sentences that you could say too many times. And it was such an innocuous set of words. Pallass is under attack.
If you had no idea of the Walled City the name referred to, much less the significance of that statement, the line would pass you by. In Baleros’ cities, many might ask where that was, or which city. They might recognize it, but again, only from afar. It was not their continent, not their species. Who cared?
But that was a terribly selfish point of view. Understandable, but selfish. Who cared what happened if one of the Drake Walled Cities fell?
The answer was: everyone. Everyone who thought about the future. About the position of the Drakes and their feud with the Human-controlled north. Who knew of the placement of the Antinium Hives. Anyone who knew the Necromancer of Terandria lived.
Not just Drakes. In the Blighted King’s courts, King Othius the Fourth felt a chill. His court fell silent. Yes, it was the Blighted Kingdom of Rhir, separated by thousands of miles from Izril’s politics. And yes, most of Rhir’s people would have laughed at the petty wars and challenges that the Izrilian people regarded as important.
However, the people of Rhir also knew that their arms, the steel they used in battle against their ancient foe, was wrought of metal mined on other continents. Shipped across seas by fleets of other nations. And Drakes bled on Rhir’s soil, dying far from home to fulfill ancient oaths.
“Send for my court of war. Bring me more scrying devices.”
Othius looked to his left. Nereshal, his steward, bowed. The [Chronomancer] swept from the room, moving at a walk—but still faster than the running messengers who had brought the news. And Othius looked into the scrying orb that had been placed on the pedestal before him. His nobility stood silent, watchful. Wary.
For anyone who thought Rhir could stand against the Demons alone was a fool. And now, the Blighted King had seen one of the six pillars that held up the Drake species shake. He looked into the scrying glass and saw.
 
——
 
“Wyverns.”
The King of Destruction looked up. His eyes sharpened as he balanced the tiny scrying orb on his palm. He stared into the orb. It was indeed an odd thing, to see an event unfolding across the world in a moment’s notice. Stranger still to think it was commonplace in another world.
But scrying orbs had existed since anyone could remember. The odd thing was that there was now a system in place, and a mentality that allowed events to be broadcast the world over. Wistram was behind it; Flos had heard the shrill sound and flash from the scrying orb. That in itself was highly suspicious, and the King of Destruction had not appreciated the thought that his scrying orb was a vessel that could be…found.
Gazi the Omniscient liked it as much as her [King]. All but one of the half-Gazer’s eyes were fixed on the scrying orb, and narrowed. She looked at the King of Destruction.
“My lord.”
“I know, Gazi. So that’s the way of it, is it?”
Flos stared into the scrying orb thoughtfully. He shook his head, ruefully.
“You warned me as much. But I will take this as confirmation. Still—”
He paused, and grinned.
“It’s too much of a lure for me to resist the bait. Pallass is under attack? Amerys couldn’t break Zeres. And Wyverns, of all things?”
The King of Destruction grinned like a hunting wolf.
“Have you fought such beasts, Gazi? I’ve encountered them only twice.”
“Yes, my lord. They are native to Izril. Chandrar is inhospitable to most species.”
“And how dangerous are they?”
Gazi thoughtfully paused.
“You have fought Griffins, my lord?”
“Of course. Can you ride Wyverns?”
“Yes. And they are larger than Griffins. Scaled. These look like variants of the species. Stronger.”
Flos Reimarch grew more interested by the second.
“[Griffin Riders] were always a dangerous force. Do the Drakes have [Wyvern Riders]?”
“Fissival. Orthenon would know more.”
“Yes. Fascinating. I’d love to be there. And this is the way of it. Whenever something happens now, it must be…”
Flos waved a hand at the scrying orb, and his tone suggested distaste as much as mild interest. He glanced at Gazi. Then at the orb.
“And we watch. I am beginning to understand more of what Trey and Teres tell me about entertainment in their world.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
“And one more thing.”
Flos Reimarch looked into the scrying orb. And his eyes stared past the scene of Pallass in chaos. He ignored the frantic Drake’s voice as Noass shouted at Lyonette, and the view swung to The Wandering Inn. One of Gazi’s eyes locked into the image, and Relc’s and Klbkch’s faces. But Flos Reimarch stared into the orb itself. At the magical glass.
“How convenient of Wistram to broadcast this image the world over. Do you see me, Archmage Feor?”
He leaned over the orb. And across the world, a [Diviner] monitoring the spell felt her heart skip a beat as the King of Reim looked straight at her. She backed up and the other [Mages] staring back through the magical connection froze. Flos Reimarch’s voice was pleasant.
“Give me back Amerys. Show her to me, Archmage. I am losing my patience. And I will break your academy to find her.”
That was all he said. Then the King of Destruction sat back and his gaze focused on the image in the scrying orb. He looked at Gazi.
“Even so, fascinating.”
Flos clapped his hands and the door opened.
“Your Majesty?”
He turned to the [Servant].
“Go to the treasury, and find a larger scrying orb. I’m sure we looted one from Germina or Hellios. Fetch me Trey and Teres as well. And Mars—send her a [Message] to find a scrying orb.”
The [Servant] bowed. Flos sighed as he sat back. He nodded to Gazi.
“This would be an opportune time to try that ‘popcorn’ Trey kept telling me about, wouldn’t it?”
She smiled. The King of Destruction clapped his hands again. Then he began watching. Such was the luxury of a spectator, and perhaps, the arrogance of [Kings]. But it was true that, the world over, people were watching.
And why not? It was one thing to hear of battles won, and great events. Another to see them as they happened. This world was caught by a phenomenon Trey and Teres were well aware of. Flos had yet to put a name to it, but he already saw it, even if he could not yet grasp what it might become. That strange thing.
Spectacle.
 
——
 
They watched the world over. Niers Astoragon paused in a lunch with Foliana. He looked up.
“Wyverns hit Pallass? Impossible. They have a Tier 7, city-wide defensive spell. And the spell is powered by their walls. Even a regular [Mage] capable of hitting them with Tier 7 spells wouldn’t be able to break through.”
“Mm. Wyverns can’t do it usually. Pass the butter.”
Foliana agreed. Niers ignored her; the butter saucer moved past him as Foliana picked it up.
“They must have been caught off-guard. Typical. That’s how they get you. Millions of gold pieces of enchantments and thousands of [Soldiers] and some idiot forgets to activate a spell. Even so—those must be Frost Wyverns. See the snow?”
The [Grandmaster Strategist] was already thinking out loud.
“Bestiary. There must be something on Wyvern abilities. Either they flew above Pallass’ line of sight—creating a blizzard and flying in by stealth? No—get me the [Messages] from the Walled Cities. And a bestiary on Wyverns. All of them.”
He turned to the officer who’d brought him the news. The Titan sat back as Foliana peered at the scrying orb.
“It made a sound.”
The Titan nodded. He leaned back; Foliana had coincidentally placed the butter so that it would obstruct the scrying mirror’s view of the Fraerling. In cover, Niers raised a finger, touched one eye, then traced ‘W’ in the air. Foliana blinked once with both eyes. Neither his face or the Squirrel Beastkin’s moved an inch as he sat forwards.
“Foliana, put that butter somewhere else. There’s enough there to stop my heart five times over.”
“Mm.”
She moved it. Niers Astoragon looked at the scrying orb. Unconsciously, one hand drummed on the table. He had nothing to gain or lose by Pallass’ falling. He knew of the Antinium of course, but from where Niers sat, the fate of a Walled City was less important. Like Flos, he was just an interested member of the worldwide audience.
Except that wasn’t entirely true. If you were looking—and no one but Foliana was—you might see the slightest, tiniest clues of stress on the Fraerling. He told himself it was nothing. It was Pallass, not Liscor. But his eyes searched the inn as Noass turned to face the magic door.
“Help. Someone—”
Niers ignored the Drake’s voice. He stared into the inn. Looking at faces he recognized, vaguely. But searching. Searching for her.
He didn’t see her. And the Titan’s fingers drummed faster on the tiny lunch table. He told himself that he didn’t know. That it was just a guess. Not to make assumptions. And after all, it was Pallass. There was no way. But he didn’t see her. And the Titan of Baleros watched, searching for a face.
Foliana watched too. She watched her old friend staring at the scrying orb. And her attention was more on him than the events in the City of Invention. Because Wyverns were just monsters. But what she saw was fascinating. Slowly, ever so slowly, she lifted a raw egg to her mouth and slurped it down. The Squirrel-woman paused.
“Nasty.”
 
——
 
If the world was a map, and attention a flickering point of light, then the words summoned a growing sea of lights. First, they flickered on and off, like fireflies. But then there was a swell, a gathering of light from every continent. Some came for idle amusement, others to speculate on the future, for personal gain or because the news affected them in ways large or small.
A father watched his daughter in a scrying pool. A sister nearly choked on the spoonful of gelato as her suitor stared at her in consternation. She dabbed the sticky liquid from her neckline, biting back an exclamation.
“Isn’t that…?”
A young woman’s face, so changed that only her family would be sure, sure it was her. And even then, not completely. Others looked upon the Antinium and shuddered. The Blighted King stared at his foes and his eyes narrowed.
But these were passing sights. The image reflected in the scrying orb was of one thing alone. The attack on Pallass. And the world watched.
…But damn the world. Who cared what they thought? The sentence screamed across the Drake cities, far louder there than anywhere else. It mattered to Izril. Tyrion Veltras watched with cold attention, neither smiling nor frowning. Magnolia Reinhart clutched her dress, white-knuckled. And they were only Humans.
In Manus, the war council sprinted into the meeting room where the scrying orb had been set up. [Hunt Commander] Makhir nearly ran down General Milka. He was panting from the run from the walls.
Dragonspeaker Luciva Skybreath was only a beat behind the others. She charged into the room, and the [Strategist] whirled. In the inner keep of Manus, Luciva could hear more shouts as Wall Lords and Ladies, and the other protectors of the City of War scrambled for a room to see the situation for themselves.
“Report!”
She bellowed. The [Strategist] replied at a shout even as Rafaema stopped, nearly colliding with Luciva’s back. The young Drake woman flexed her wings. She’d flown here. The others clustered around the scrying orb as the Gnoll [Strategist] spoke, words tumbling from his mouth.
“Pallass is under attack. They report a Wyvern assault from the walls. Grand Strategist Chaldion has issued a city-wide alarm.”
“Wyverns?”
For a second those gathered in the room looked at each other. Wall Lord Kishield looked blankly around.
“Does that mean…Oldbloods?”
The other people in the room looked at him. Makhir opened his mouth, and General Milka snapped.
“No! This isn’t a damn code. These are actual Wyverns.”
“What?”
Two more were crowding Rafaema. She turned and they backed up. Dragonspeaker Luciva nodded to the young Wall Lady. Everyone was on their feet, and slowly they began spreading around the circular table.
“Impossible. Wyverns can’t assault Pallass. No—is it Fissival? Damn them! If they’ve launched a surprise attack—”
“Maybe Salazsar? There was that dispute with the Trisstral Alliance. If Salazsar is replying to Pallass backing the alliance—”
“Impossible. There’s no way they’d have hired Fissival—”
“What about from Elleis?”
The babble of military voices was cut short by the [Strategist]. The Gnoll snapped, his voice cutting his superiors short.
“They’re not mounted! These are wild Wyverns, as far as we can tell!”
Manus’ elite stared at the [Strategist]. Not in offence over him interrupting, but pure shock.
“Impossible.”
This time the word was flat and it came from half a dozen throats. Dragonspeaker Luciva stared into the scrying orb, but it was a blur—someone was running. Sound was filtering through, but it was just a din of shrieks, screams, explosions—
It was the sound of a battlefield. Luciva could pick out the distinctive hunting scream of the Wyverns, but little else.
“Do we have another viewpoint?”
“Negative, Dragonspeaker. The anti-scrying wards are in full effect.”
“Then the walls aren’t down and the spells aren’t compromised. How did a weyr of Wyverns—?”
“I have a report here. Wyverns sighted, count above one thousand. Liscor spotted them first, and they were confirmed on a southern course, heading straight for Pallass.”
Spearmaster Lulv pounded a furred fist onto the table.
“Liscor! How many attacks has this been? This cannot be a coincidence. Is this the Human’s retaliation?”
“There is no [Beast Master] in the north capable of moving an entire weyr at once. It might be possible if they controlled the leader, say—”
Voices. There was no orderly chain of command where one person raised their arm and went first, nor any niceties like, say, Pallass’ Assembly of Crafts. And that could be a contentious room when things got heated. But in Manus’ circles, the leaders of the Walled City were [Generals] and [Commanders], officers used to taking charge. They shouted over each other.
Luciva Skybreath tuned them all out. Her mind focused, dividing the situation into pieces. The whole was too confusing, the facts unknown. She breathed in and out. And time…
Slowed…
The Dragonspeaker opened her eyes. Her mind raced a thousand miles a second, ahead of the voices. She stared at the scrying orb. And when she spoke, her voice cut through even the loudest shout.
“Oldblood Drakes. I want every single flier capable of reaching Pallass within eight hours moving. No—have them on alert. Officers with speed skills in position.”
