The two Drakes looked up.
“What was Strategist Chaldion’s announcement? Fliers to land? That sounds like—”
A flash blinded everything. Noass and Sir Relz staggered, shouting incoherently. Above them, a Wyvern fell out of the skies, charred, wings burning. There was a flash of an explosion—and only then, the sound of thunder.
Lightning fell out of the skies as Chaldion triggered Pallass’ attack spells. But the lightning fell inside the city. Wyvern after Wyvern was struck by bolt after bolt. The Drake [Grand Strategist] stood on the walls and aimed the attack spells. By the dozens now, Wyverns fell.
Chaldion was laughing. His ruby eye gleamed. He pointed and the Wyvern Lord was struck by a hail of bolts. The Greater Wyvern screamed as it attacked the Dullahans surrounding it. Grimalkin saw Chaldion pointing. More lightning fell. The Wyvern Lord howled. Then it charged General Duln. The [General] raised his shield—
The impact threw the [General] into the air. Chaldion stopped laughing. The Wyvern Lord turned. The electricity arced off its scales. It seized one [Soldier] wearing glowing magical gear, and bit the Gnoll in two. Magical weapons bounced harmlessly off its scales. Chaldion stared at the Wyvern Lord. Then he shook his head and began picking off Wyverns lower in the city.
“Stay alive, Miss Erin Solstice.”
His vision of victory had seen only what may happen, what could happen. And he had not seen her in it. The future could change. In his vision, the Wyvern Lord had fled when the bolts struck it. In this one, the Wyvern Lord shrieked, refusing to flee or die. Chaldion gritted his teeth.
“Three deviations.”
 
——
 
Erin Solstice had never seen a Wyvern before. She knew what they were. Vaguely. If you asked someone from her world, they might know. If Erin had been asked, she’d describe them as ‘like a Dragon, but smaller. And with less…stuff.’
And that was what Erin saw. A huge, winged beast. Wyverns had no forelegs, just two huge hind legs. They were like eagles, but adapted to run on the ground in their own way, oh, and they were huge, with scales like armor. Gigantic.
Like Dragons. But smaller. It didn’t make them any less terrifying. And they were attacking Pallass.
“Come on! Run!”
Erin grabbed at Rufelt and Lasica. The married couple ran after her as Erin charged out of the building they’d been hiding in. She was no hero. And she hadn’t gone out fighting when the Wyverns attacked and Chaldion sounded the alarm. The only thing Erin had done was grab Rufelt and Lasica and push them into the nearest building they could find.
Someone’s home. Erin had busted through the window and cut herself twice on the glass going through before opening the door. She’d healed the cuts and Rufelt and Lasica had sat inside with her. They wanted to go to their bar. Erin had told them to sit right there.
That was the sensible thing to do. Erin was no warrior. All she had on her was a pair of healing potions and Pelt’s knife. She had a realistic expectation of what that would do against a Wyvern capable of eating her with one bite.
So she’d stayed in the apartment and shouted at everyone she saw to get inside, opening the door twice as people rushed by. Most were indoors; the citizens of Pallass were smart enough to do that. And everything had been fine, really. Erin hadn’t known how the battle had been going, but she’d heard Chaldion’s voice again, warning fliers to get out of the skies.
And what she’d seen from the windows had looked good. Bad would have been Wyverns flying about, looking for prey, but it sounded like all of them were fighting. Erin had been reassuring Rufelt and Lasica, peering out the windows. She’d wanted to do something, but it was too risky and there was nothing in the home that could help Erin. She’d grabbed a frying pan and two knives from the kitchen just in case, but that was all. And everything had been fine.
Right up until a smoking Wyvern had crashed onto the house and caved in the ceiling from above. Erin had no idea where it had come from, but the entire building was coming down.
“Get out! Go! Go!”
Erin shouted at Rufelt and Lasica. The Gnoll appeared with his wife out of the dust. Erin ushered them out of the door and ran herself. Just in time—the building collapsed with the dead Wyvern.
“We have to find somewhere else!”
Erin was coughing, half-blinded by the dust. She looked around. The nearest house had no lights on. Erin rushed over to it as Rufelt doubled over, hacking and trying to brush dust off Lasica.
“Anyone in there? Hey! Open up!”
Erin hammered on the door. There were bars over the window. She yanked on the door as she shouted, but it was closed. Erin whirled.
Another house! Erin charged over to it. This one had a light on.
“Hey! Open up!”
“Go away!”
A terrified voice called from within. Erin kicked at the door.
“Open up! We’re going to get eaten out here!”
She checked the windows, but someone had closed the shutters from the inside! Erin growled.
“If you don’t open up—”
“Erin! Come on!”
Rufelt shouted at her. He was hurrying Lasica back. Towards the stairs.
“Oh no. No, Rufelt—we can’t go to the bar! It’s two floors up! Let’s go to the prison!”
Erin ran after them. Rufelt was headed for the stairs. Rufelt stared at Erin as she pointed. The Gnoll’s fur was full of dust. He shook his head as Lasica coughed.
“The prison? Are you mad? What if the prisoners escape?”
“How? They’re locked up! I bet there’s tons of [Guards] there! And I’d rather fight prisoners than Wyverns!”
The Gnoll was shaking his head. He was in shock. And not thinking! Erin was cool—okay, somewhat cool—okay, she was afraid, but she had been in this kind of situation before. Rufelt was panicking.
“No, no. The bar is warded. It’s just up the stairs. We can take the stairs against the walls. Come on—”
“Rufelt! Lasica, come on, talk some sense into—”
Rufelt snarled as Erin reached for Lasica.
“Don’t touch her! We’re going to the bar!”
He held Lasica firmly against him. Erin stared at him, wide-eyed. Lasica stopped coughing. Through streaming eyes, she looked at Erin.
“It’s enchanted, Erin. If we get there, even a Wyvern couldn’t break in.”
“But—fine! Let’s go!”
Erin realized they were wasting time out here. She turned. Frying pan, knives. She had lost the pan when the Wyvern fell. But she had a spare knife and Pelt’s.
“Go!”
The couple didn’t waste time arguing. Erin saw they were headed for a stairwell set against the walls. Under the cover of the 4th Floor, in short, where Wyverns couldn’t spot them. She sighed in relief.
“This way. There’s no one on the stairs—”
Everyone must have fled. Erin estimated that barely fifteen minutes had passed. It felt like ages, but everything was happening so fast. She ran past a patch of frost. Then she saw blood. Rufelt and Lasica froze. Erin averted her gaze.
“Don’t stop!”
“But—”
“They’re dead. Don’t stop!”
She ran them forwards. Erin was looking around for the telltale Wyverns. She was trying to think.
Weapons. She could use the knives, aim for the eyes. Anything else? No acid jars, nothing else—Erin cursed. She was terrified she’d trip and break an acid jar on herself. She needed her personal bag of holding! She ran up the stairwell set into stone, leading Rufelt and Lasica.
4th Floor, then 5th. No one was on the stairs. Erin panted as she got to the 5th Floor. She heard more thunderous booms in the distance. Was someone throwing lightning? Good!
“This way! The bar’s not far!”
Rufelt and Lasica pointed. Erin stared ahead.
“Oh no. No, stop—”
To get to Tails and Scales, they had to leave the overhang of the floor above. They’d be running out into the open. Erin charged after the two, but the Gnoll and Drake were fast! And they were ignoring Erin. Idiots! Erin had the rare thought. She glanced up.
Pallass was at war with the Wyverns. Lightning bolts hit Wyverns, appearing out of the skies. Armed [Soldiers] were advancing up the stairs as fast as they could. They’d taken the ground all the way up to the 6th floor!
But that meant nothing to an airborne foe. Wyverns kept diving out of the sky. There were only a few fliers in the air. Erin thought she saw a familiar green figure darting at a Wyvern. But then Erin saw what she’d feared.
Rufelt and Lasica were running to their bar. Rufelt fumbled for his key as Lasica looked up. And a Wyvern crashed into a building opposite the bar.
“Dead gods!”
Erin heard a scream. A group of people emerged, running for their lives as the Wyvern flapped its wings and hissed. Something had knocked it out of the sky, but it hadn’t killed the beast. Erin saw three Drakes, a family of Dullahans, a Gnoll—she shouted at Rufelt.
“Get that door open!”
“I’m trying!”
The Gnoll howled, his face pale under his fur. He was jamming the key into the lock. But even the most basic of actions was hard. Lasica grabbed the key.
“You have it upside down! Let me—”
“Watch out!”
Erin hurled the spare kitchen knife. She aimed straight for the Wyvern’s eye, but the monster moved. The knife glanced off its head as it righted itself. It had been aiming straight at Rufelt and Lasica.
Instead, the beast turned to her. Erin froze. Then she ran and dove behind a wall. She felt an incredible cold freezing her legs, but the blast of frost missed her. Erin scrambled to her feet. She ran back out, nearly slipped on the frost now coating the floor.
“Rufelt! Lasica!”
The couple had hidden from the blast. Now they scrambled to get their door open. Erin saw the other occupants of the house running for the bar. Two of the Drakes looked like [Warriors]. They were covering a young female Drake as she ran, claws over her head as if that would help. But the Wyvern was in the air. It dove—Erin saw it crush one of the Drakes flat.
Somehow, the Drake survived. He was screaming, but he hammered on the claw with a sword. The other was slashing at the Wyvern. The monster flew up, hissing. It looked for another target. Saw Rufelt and Lasica.
“No.”
Erin threw Pelt’s knife. It spun through the air and hit the Wyvern. The tip of the Dwarf’s blade sank halfway through the Wyvern’s neck. The monster recoiled. It turned to Erin again. This time it dove at her. Erin stared up at it.
“[Like Fire…]”
She was an idiot. Erin knew she wasn’t going to be able to use her Skill. She stared up at the Wyvern as it dove, moving to dodge. Too slow. It was tracking her as it dove. Erin grabbed for a healing potion. So stupid. But she didn’t regret a thing.
“Hairballs. And I just bought this scroll today, too.”
Someone muttered to Erin’s left. She saw the Gnoll who’d run out of the house turn. He flung open a scroll of parchment, pointed up.
“[Improved Featherfall]!”
The huge, falling shape of the Wyvern slowed. Erin nearly halted mid-run, but the Wyvern was still diving. But slowly! She saw the Gnoll shouting at her.
“Run! Inside!”
The bar was open! Erin raced towards it, staring upwards. What was happening?
Above her, she saw the Wyvern drifting through the air down towards her. It was…falling! But all the momentum was gone. Erin saw it trying to dive, flapping its wings furiously, but the magical enchantment was letting it fall at a feather’s pace.
“Everyone inside! Now!”
Rufelt was at the door, waving people in. Erin saw the Gnoll barrel through, and then the two Drake [Warriors] making their way for the door. Erin sprinted after them. She grabbed the Drake’s other arm and they ran for the door.
The Wyvern landed on the ground, screaming its displeasure. It turned for the bar. Rufelt slammed the door shut. Erin saw the Wyvern charging. Then Rufelt slamming a bar over the door. And then—
Thump.
Inside Tails and Scales, the door rattled with the impact. Once. Erin looked around warily. She heard a muffled shriek, and felt another thump.
The door rattled. That was it. The bar didn’t shake. The expensive alcohols on the walls didn’t so much as quiver in their vessels. Erin stared at the door. It rattled weakly a third time, and then there was silence.
“Oh, wow.”
“Told you.”
Rufelt grinned at Erin. His face was pale and his fur was damp with sweat. Erin felt her legs go out from under her. She sat down on the ground hard. She was alive. She was alive—
She’d have to find Pelt’s knife again. She kept nearly losing it.
That inane thought popped into Erin’s head. She laughed, shakily. Then she heard someone else laugh.
“Dead gods. And I thought I was crazy.”
The Gnoll who’d saved Erin was bent over. Like her, he looked wide-eyed. But he glanced at Erin as she slowly got back up. She looked at him.
“You saved me.”
“No, no. I just used a scroll. You distracted it.”
He waved a paw, breathlessly. Erin looked at him, and saw Rufelt hurry back across the bar.
“Lasica! Are you alright?”
He was tending to his wife. Erin then saw the bar had more occupants. The Dullahan family, the young Drake—Erin saw one of the two [Warriors] hurry over while the other collapsed, drinking from a healing potion.
“Lady Salkis! Are you alright?”
Erin saw the young Drake look up. Erin did a double-take as she looked at the female Drake. Her scales were jet black, but glittering, lustrous. You’d describe them as onyx, without any other coloration marring or changing her appearance.
Erin stared for a moment—the Drake was clearly someone important. And she was shaking in her chair. She turned back to the Gnoll.
“What did you do? Was that…[Featherfall]? Does that work on Wyverns?”
The Gnoll shook his head. He’d gone over to a window to look out it. Erin hurried over. He half-spoke to her as the others in the bar talked in much the same, frantic, relieved way.
“Normally, not. But I bought an improved version of the spell. It works even on large beasts like that one, or so I guessed. Glad it bought us time. Still, that was three weeks’ pay!”
He groaned. Rufelt came over with Lasica. The Gnoll was holding his wife’s shoulder. Lasica nodded to the unknown Gnoll.
“I’ll pay you back, Felkhr. Thank you. You saved us. And you, Erin.”
She looked at Erin, still pale behind her scales. Erin smiled.
“Hey. At least we’re alive.”
She did not say the part about ‘why did we have to go to your bar? We almost died, y’know.’ Rufelt and Lasica probably got that. Shakily, they nodded. Erin turned.
“Felkhr?”
“Call me Felk if you want. I know it’s a mouthful for a non-Gnoll.”
Felkhr extended a paw. Erin shook it, and then a memory made her eyes widen. She’d thought he was familiar, but—
“You’re that Gnoll who jumped off the walls the first time I was here!”
The Gnoll laughed. Some of the others in the bar looked around as he grinned.
