Janice, the woman that had helped Ren set up his account at the bank, and had turned in her boss to the FBI for embezzling money, sat in the vice-president's office at the new bank. She had a huge smile on her face, because she was sitting behind the desk. When she had brought them two multi-million dollar accounts, with the potential for a third, they quickly made her the VP of accounts.

*

Lucy had finally gotten an interview at another hospital that was only a few minutes outside of the city. The commute wasn't that bad, and the buses ran that route 4 times a day. She sat in the seat, wore her best clothes, and hoped beyond hope that she could get away from the sinking ship that her old hospital had become.

*

Stella felt like she was losing her mind as they reached the hour mark, and she stared at Ren as he kept going, and it didn't look like he was going to stop anytime soon.

“St... st... stop.” Stella finally managed to say.

Ren looked up at her and saw that she had a dreamy expression on her face, and he assumed it was because he had made her go yet again.

“I...” Stella licked her lips. “I want...”

“Do you need a rest?” Ren asked her.

Stella shook her head.

“Do you want me to keep going?”

“No.” Stella said, and sat up. Ren leaned back, and watched as she grabbed several towels and threw them on the floor, along with his bathrobe. She laid him back on the pile, and pulled down his pajamas and underwear. Much to her surprise and delight, he was full and ready. Stella almost laughed because she didn't have to waste time to get him ready for what she really wanted. She straddled him and positioned herself.

“I want... this.” Stella said, and rocked her hips back. He slid in easily because of all the prep work he had done with her, and her body really needed to have him inside of her.

“Oh, god!” They said at the same time as they joined together for the first time. She stared at him as her hips moved on their own, and he reached up and caressed her breasts. It wasn't long before they were both consumed by the sensations they were feeling.

*

Denise hopped in her car and braced herself for the hectic commute into the city. She normally didn't head out this late, but she didn't have to be at the care facility until noon, so she had a bit of time to waste before she absolutely had to be there to meet Ren and Stella.

*

Ren and Stella reached the point where they didn't have any thought except sharing pleasure with each other, and all that mattered to either of them, was that the other felt good, too.

“I'm gonna...” Ren tried to say, and then he couldn't talk as Stella's body gripped him harder than anything he'd ever felt before. Stella looked like she was in pain as the orgasm hit her, and Ren finished with her.

“Oh, my god!” Stella exclaimed as she collapsed to her hands and knees, with Ren still inside of her. She could feel him throbbing between her legs, and it made her go again. They stared at each other while their bodies finished convulsing and pleasing each other. It took a few minutes, and they both smiled at each other.

“I can't move yet.” Stella said.

“You shouldn't anyway.” Ren said. “If you move while your body is still holding me so tightly, I'll go again.”

Stella chuckled and her breasts jiggled. He reached up and caressed them again, and Stella closed her eyes.

“I can't take much more.” Stella said, and he stopped touching her. “I'm having a hard enough time holding myself up as it is.”

“Sorry.”

“For pete's sake, don't apologize.” Stella said. “This was an amazing experience.”

“It sure was.” Ren said. “It's so amazing that it's still going on, even though we're both pretty much exhausted.”

“Why are you exhausted?” Stella asked. “I did all the work!”

“It takes a lot of energy to just lay here and let you have your way with me.” Ren said and grinned at her.

“Quiet, you!” Stella said, then they both laughed. After a few minutes, her body relaxed enough that it was safe to move off of him, without causing him to go again and possibly make a huge mess.

“I think I need another shower.” Ren said, and Stella looked at his fluid covered mid-section.

“Yeah, I think we both need one after that.” Stella said.

She helped Ren stand up and took off his pajamas. She removed the rest of her own clothing and they stepped into the shower together. They were both too spent to even think about playing with each other again, and cleaned each other up. With the two of them working at it, they were showered, dried off, and dressed again in only 15 minutes. Ren sat on the bed and Stella removed the chair from in front of the room's door.

“What do you feel like wearing today?” Stella asked him, and he thought about it.

“One of the nice blue shirts, and the loose-fitting black pants.” Ren said. “I have to look good for the viewing audience.”

Stella snorted a laugh. “All right, Mr. Wiseguy.” She took out the clothes he wanted, and he started getting dressed. It was getting close to the time they had to leave, and he wanted to be ready. “You do realize they're recording your voice, not taking a picture, right?”

“You never know.” Ren said, and his room door opened.

“Hi.” Denise said as she came into the room. “Did you guys have fun this morning?”

“Did we ever!” Ren and Stella said together.
