A perfect cycle of silver threads links together, creating three points of gravity out here in the vast emptiness of space.

One being my Immortal Core, the other being Maria's, and the third is my sword overlapping with hers, grasped in both of our hands.

Our fingers are interlocked, but I do not feel any pressure. It is like my hands are resting within a cold, endless void of space she's holding. It is the same for my blade.

The liquid rainbow diamond artifact made of source resin molds around my sword and holds it in place down to every single particle and law making it up. This strange substance, found in the center of our galaxy and at the core of the Noble Grade World where the Wyverns were created, does not show any adverse signs when reacting with the complexity of this sword.

It doesn't matter if the depth is as small as the single layer created in this universe or the countless stacked in foreign ones; a perfect reflection is mirrored back. After integrating with the membrane artifact, it creates the perfect pocket of void to rest in.

Then my soul tethers to her sword and new abyssal form. I feel all of the physical energy in my body fluctuating at an uncomfortable frequency.

In this compacted state, all of the mana and demonic energy in my being has been compressed and fused with flawless grade ether to the point where they have become one indistinguishable substance named Emperor's Essence. Natural glyphs hold this liquid together around the strands of silver threads radiating from my Immortal Core.

As these threads are siphoned into my blade, I feel the true separated energies surging through me again.

Even the flawless grade ether holding everything together like glue is being torn apart without a central thread of gravity to hold it in place.

This reaction happens within every single drop of Emperor's Essence within my body. Even just a single fingernail sets off quintillions of chaotic bursts of energy reacting to the destabilized environment they've been thrust into.

Instead of latching back onto each other and finding a natural equilibrium, the opposite occurs.

My Immortal Emperor's Form attempts to expand outward in every direction to make enough room. The chaotic liquid is colliding with itself in a violent manner, and needs some place to go without countless silver thread anchors holding it in place.

With my ability to view the future laws, I watch what would happen if I allowed my body to do just that, and it ends in this entire universe filling up with diluted red gel. My concentration of energy would be limited, and without the silver threads my blade is eating right now, it would be almost impossible to consolidate again.

My second thought is to let go of my sword and force the last of the silver threads still flowing through me to hold my body together again; but that would halt all the progress I feel shifting within the laws of the system right below my consciousness.

A fuzzy crackling sensation starts to manifest in the depths of my soul.

It is like firecrackers, or a sizzling grill, or sparks flying off the collision of swords.

The longer I hold my Immortal Form together in this state, the stronger this feeling becomes.

When I try to pinpoint the root of the sensation, I find no energy signatures and no alterations of the laws within my Immortal Form.

Yet, there is one change in my environment that I do manage to catch.

Ember's eyes shift and even widen as they look deep into my body.

When I follow his gaze, I see exactly what is happening. There are golden sparks flickering all over the weakest points of my body. It is where the silver threads have almost entirely left, leaving pure decompressing Emperor's Essence behind in their place.

I watch a sight play out that I haven't seen since very early on in my journey, on the Dark Continent of the human world.

It is the natural reaction that takes place when raw demonic energy and mana collide.
