Tala shook her head. “Not powers, no… Well, I suppose the soul does power the body as well, but she is in command. There is no artificial, Reality-tainted intelligence using the soul as a powersource. She is the soul. She is in command of her own body.”

Eskau Meallain shook her head. “That isn’t possible. A mundane soul isn’t malleable enough to control such a body. Even a Mage’s soul would have to be so twisted and broken that the resulting being would be mad. Any more resilient or flexible of a soul would permeate the whole form, rather than just being held in the head as a powersource. What you are describing cannot be done.”

Tala sighed, shaking her head again. “She came into being in this body, Eskau Meallain. This is her first and most natural form.”

“And why did you have this body in the first place? How?”

“Be-thric sent me into a hold that was creating automata, and I dealt with them. The body was left over and inert, so I kept it for examination and study.”

The ancient woman opened her mouth to object, but hesitated, allowing Tala to continue.

“We have had experts examine her, and it is somewhat how you say. Her soul is oddly shaped, twisted in shape, but not in structure. She was not forced into this form. As I said, she came into being as you see her now.”

Lisa seemed to decide that his input might be useful. “As entertaining as it might be to see you attack their daughter and be slapped down, I find the current conversation… repetitive. I state unreservedly that Lea Sappherrous is the soul both powering and controlling the physical form before you, now. Though an automaton in physicality, she is human in soul and mind. This I unreservedly proclaim.”

Again, Tala felt the rippling within existence. Eskau Meallain regarded the fox-kin for a long, long moment before giving a slow nod. “Then… it must be so.”

Rane relaxed just a bit, but Tala was still wary.

“So, this is why I have been left to my own devices for so long?” The woman raised an eyebrow.

Tala nodded. “She is, yes. I wanted time with my daughter, and I wanted to make sure that we had enough information to placate you, before you knew.”

Eskau Meallain grunted. “You did a poor job of it.”

“Maybe so, but what’s done is done.”

She grunted again. “So. Does that mean things will return to normal?”

Her eyes continued to flick toward Lea before darting away, the elf clearly uncomfortable with one she felt should be an enemy being so close. Tala nodded. “Yes. Moreover, I find myself a bit… stifled. It has been far too long since I had a good spar, and I think you could do with an outlet for your confusion and frustration.”

Eskau Meallain nodded once. “Very well. A good fight always clears the mind and provides a clarity of thought. Let’s do this.”
