Malika reached the shaman just in time for his body to collapse in a puddle of blood, splashing across their melee forces. She dodged just as another Blood Thrall self-detonated, sending trolls flying, and then she saw movement over by the lake of blood. There on the shore, the shaman’s body reappeared, and in the few seconds he had by himself, he gestured vaguely at the lake. Two large fountains of blood erupted upward, coalescing into dense balls of roiling crimson that orbited his head. With another gesture, the balls fell to the ground and rippled but didn’t burst – then they began to crawl rapidly to the recovering troll army.

“More Blood Thralls!” Malika shouted. “Watch out!”

“Go. Bloodlust!” Calen’s voice rang out, and Malika felt the surge of power from both Calen’s motes of light and the incredible shaman’s blood magic. She teleported to Joraa, unleashing everything she had, every technique and stance she knew to gain more damage, every last scrap of stamina that her Soul Strike and Martial Arts would take.

It was an exhilarating rush – not enough to overcome her Clarity, of course, but still it was only after Bloodlust expired that she had the slightest inkling that something was wrong. It was simply a sense that came with her Healing Mantra – an intuition for how much health someone had and whether they needed healing.

“Did we hurt him?” Bloodlust and Righteous Fury was the most powerful combination they had, and their entire group had gone all out on Joraa, and yet, she had a dark premonition that they had not even scratched him.

“Is that the best you can do?” Joraa taunted, following it up with a harsh cackling laugh.

“Ali?” Calen asked.

“Fifteen percent, about,” Ali answered, using the common language to conceal their information from their foe.

“Left?” Calen asked.

“No, that’s all we did, and he’s healed it already,” she answered.

What? Malika stared at the shaman, stunned at the impossible resilience he had just displayed. It was just like the Corrupted Fire Drake at the end of the Emberforge Mines – they simply could not do enough damage to kill him, even going all out.

“I’m going to try something, but we need to wait for Bloodlust again,” Ali said, condemning them to another fifteen minutes of bleeding, dodging, and explosive oozes.

“Let’s regroup first,” Calen said. “Everyone out!”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
