"Ah," Eviscerator managed, her voice still oddly strangled. "Uh, no, my lady—I mean, um—you are not—what is your name, student?"

"I am Kryva of Snowspire," Kryva answered, tilting her head slightly. "Is something wrong, Eviscerator?"

"No, no, not at all!" Eviscerator said rapidly. "Everything is fine, ma'am—uh, student. Ordinary student. Or you aren't ordinary, I suppose, since you're wyldfire, but—"

"I take it I bear a resemblance to this Pastel Queen of yours?" Kryva seemed amused by the thought. She placed her tea back down on the rock. "I am not her, I am afraid, though I appreciate the compliment. I would ask that you avoid collapsing any mountains on me, however. My training regimen is quite different."

"I would—I would never," Eviscerator said, swallowing.

Cale was, at this point, curious if Kryva was in fact the Pastel Queen. Perhaps she had somehow survived or shaken off the role? That should have been impossible, but nothing would surprise him, at this point.

He doubted it, though. Kryva's mana core was strange, but it bore none of the marks that might have suggested a connection with the Dark.

"The Pastel Queen..." Kryva mused out loud. "That was quite some centuries ago, yes? I believe some of the scrolls in our clan vault may reference her. Father must have wanted to hide our connection to the Dark, to bury them so deep, but perhaps she is an ancestor of sorts."

"Of—of course, my lady," Eviscerator said, dipping into a half-bow before realizing what she was doing and straightening abruptly. "Ah, I mean, yes. That makes sense. But it is an honor to meet a descendent of the Pastel Queen. If you ever require any assistance with your training—"

"I will ask," Kryva said. "I do believe you have a class to teach, though?"

Sensing that Eviscerator needed some help getting things back on track, Cale chose this moment to jump in. "When you say you used a [Punch] to fell a mountain, are you talking about the first tier spell? The one that costs ten mana and just slightly enhances the blow?"

Eviscerator latched on to the question like a lifeline. "That is correct!" she boomed, turning to face Cale. "A true understanding of melee magic gives a good mage the power to cause great calamity with even a lesser spell. That is a foundational principle of melee magic!"

Many of the other students looked awed, and even Syphus leaned forward, interested. Cale's brows furrowed instead. She wasn't wrong—melee spells came with a great many disadvantages, but often made up for it with overwhelming power.

Collapsing a mountain was far beyond that simple tradeoff, though. Cale frowned slightly. No, the only way a basic spell like that could accrue that much power was if it somehow incorporated an aspect of the Dark.

Fascinating. He'd hoped to learn something about dark ones from Eviscerator, but it seemed he had a chance to learn how dark magic functioned, instead. He had to take a look at this spell as soon as possible.

"Cool!" Cale said brightly. "You should demonstrate to the class."

Eviscerator frowned at him. "It is a highly destructive spell when wielded correctly, I would remind you. How exactly would I do that?"

Cale beamed. "By casting [Punch] on me, of course!"
