Florence pointed at her, "Stopping Elysium, but we planned on doing that regardless. As for everything else involved with owning Blegara, I can help point out some of the best resources there...And, I'll keep any governing suggestions to myself. I wasn't exactly the most effective ruler, so my advice is, well, unwarranted."

I shook my head, "Actually, you'll be helping me decide a lot of the rules there. We all will. The more pressing matter is taking the planet from Elysium. We need so much firepower that even a Spatial Fortress would shake in its boots. Or, its giant tentacles and, uh, mouths, I guess. You get what I mean."

I rubbed my hands together, "We do that, and we'll be reaping all kinds of rewards."

Helios crossed his arms, "It's unfortunate, but Schema will not appreciate your rampant military arming."

Florence scoffed, "What? Why wouldn't he? We need every bit of firepower against Elysium that we can get."

Helios turned to his brother, "Schema despises militaries that rival his own. Throughout the cosmos, that A.I. has done away with empires for that reason - they were too powerful. Militarily, that is."

I turned to Helios, "Is that why Obolis focuses more on building up resources than armed troops?"

"Partially. He also relishes in exploration, which is far more inclined to resource accrual than building a large, standing army. Don't mistake that for weakness, however. We're doing well in other territories outside of Blegara, so don't underestimate the Empire's might."

I raised my hands, "I'm not. I just appreciate how that military isn't on Blegara. Speaking of which, we're going to back off of Blegara for a while."

Kessiah finished her food, "Why would we do that? We just got a base established there."

I pointed around us, "See, Schema's system is all around us because this world is owned by him. If we back off of Blegara for a while-"

Florence snapped his clawed fingers, "They'll establish their system there...So, uhm, why is that a good thing?"

I let my hands flop against my sides, "Your plan wouldn't work otherwise. How else is Amara going to broadcast my takeover of the eldritch?"

Florence's head leaned back, "Ah, of course. That's a noteworthy detail I forgot to flesh out. Unfortunately, letting the Adair family establish themselves will make retaking Blegara much harder, however."

I shrugged, "Eh, we're barely holding any territory as is. It's no big loss. I'm more concerned about making our retaliation as fierce as possible. Helios will be the one warping in a large number of troops. Him and Spear both. For that, we need potent troops to send."

A message popped up in my status screen from Torix. He wanted to talk in his bird emporium. I turned to everyone, "I have to cut this short. I've got to meet with Torix. You guys relax, though I might need you all to do something later, so don't stray too far."

Florence gave me a thumbs up, "You got it, Harbinger."

I jogged off before floating myself through Mt. Verner. I loved the mornings here because the suite section was home to a few cafes. Passing them filled the space with the comforting, warm aroma of coffee. It tasted pretty good still, though the caffeine had no effect on me anymore. It's one of the things I missed, though I never drank too much coffee before the culling.

Passing the shops, I moved towards Torix's tunnel, passing the dusty elevator leading there. After getting to the same room beyond the glowing fungus, I walked into the bird exhibit room. I frowned at what I saw.

"Torix...what the hell are you doing here?"

The lich stood over a group of misfits, several animals, and even some Eltari. The lich piled several gemstones over in the corner of the room, and he hovered a few towards his left. These oddballs stood in front of the crystals, ready for contact. At the back of the bird exhibition room, a medical team was ready and waiting to help them in case of an adverse reaction.

Torix found me looking, so turned to face me,

"Ah, you're here. I was waiting to see you in person. I believe that we can use the crystals against the Hybrids, as we predicted."

I stepped up, inspecting the line of people here. They carried deep scars over their bodies, and many lacked a limb or two. Most stared forward with a careless attitude as if they didn't care if they lived or died. Torix gestured to them,

"I put out an ad campaign to our guild to see if there were any members who were willing to expose themselves to the Omega Strain."

"Omega Strain, eh? You're using the Greek alphabet again."

The lich's eyes flared red for a moment,

"There are few things I don't know, and you exposed one of those weaknesses the other day. I thank you for that, and I now know the Greek alphabet along with much of its previous culture. Many of your ideals were formed from that culture, in fact."

He waved off the implications behind his words, "Cultural investigations aside, I guaranteed these individuals would receive credits and new positions in the guild if they allowed a measure of experimentation. These rewards would be given to their families should they die, and these are the individuals who showed up."

Seven people stared up at me, and their eyes widened while their jaws went slack. I put my hands on my hips while facing them,

"Torix, what makes you think the, er, Omega Strain, right?"

"Precisely."

"What makes you think it's safe for use?"

Torix lifted an arm where three birds flew up to him. Each carried one of the living crystals on them, and by now, the crystals shifted color. A robin held an emerald gemstone, and it made ribs around the bird. The second, a mockingbird, carried a black crystal that waved like a tail behind it. The third, an armored raven, covered itself in a deep, violet stone that looked like purple jade.

Torix gestured to them, and they flew over to me. Landing on my shoulders, they stayed quiet and well behaved. I raised a hand at them,

"So, there's more to these crystals than we first imagined, eh?"

Torix's eyes flared a bright blue as he put his hands on his hips, "Indeed. As I coined it, the Omega Strain is an amorphous viral structure that adapts to its host's thoughts and needs. It can take many shapes and sizes, and it manifests quickly after exposure. Over time, it can change coloration and function depending on the mental strength of its host."

Torix gestured a palm at the raven, "These birds each carry different kinds of Omega Strains, yet the raven's crystal is by far the strongest. This is in no small part due to its higher intellect. Observe."

The birds flew up, the raven facing the robin and mockingbird. Two against one, the robin and mockingbird flew at the raven. The violet crystal over the raven shifted, and it sped under its two assailants. The mockingbird's tendril shot at the raven's skull, but the dark bird's gemstone latched onto the enemy's attack before it was killed. The raven spiraled, and this created a spiral in the mockingbird's stone tentacle.

Carried by that twist, the mockingbird was slung towards the ground, but I caught it with a gravity well before it was killed.

Poor bird.

The other robin flew up and over the raven in the meantime. It latched its ribs into the raven's armor before pushing the violet armored bird towards the ground. The violet-colored raven smashed into the concrete, leaving a few cracks beneath it before it stood back up. Spreading its crystalline wings, the raven spread its frame out wide. With a stone crushing jump, it launched itself into the crystal ribs of the robin.

The robin crushed into the roof, its body somehow unharmed despite the sheer impact from the raven. The robin was still unconscious, however, so I caught it as it fell from the roof. The Omega Strains remnants spilled onto the floor like broken glass, the bird's fight coming to an end. Torix pointed at them,

"Impressive, aren't they?"

I narrowed my eyes, "They are, but how does this prove this stuff is safe for sentients?"

"For one, the birds are still safe and sane. Of course, I'm managing their fights using mind magic, but this proximity with their minds tells me nothing is wrong. The only issue is that the crystals can have a degenerative effect on someone's psyche over time. Past eight hours of exposure, and it appears the host begins suffering mental breakdowns."

I scoffed, "Oh, the crystal only drives its user's insane, and that's only the short term side effects you don't say? Talk about useful."

Torix remained calm and confident as he replied,

"Indeed. We've measures in place for preventing the mental degradation of hosts. I'll get to that later. The most fascinating aspect of this crystal is its sheer variance and its metal-eating capabilities. It does require a few constraints for its use, but they are more than acceptable."

I raised an eyebrow, "Such as?"

Torix reached out with his hand, and the birds flew over towards him, though the robin struggled a bit. Torix tapped the crystals on their backs, and each Omega Strain shivered before compacting back into their previous forms. They left wounds on the bird's backs, which would take weeks to heal. The birds weren't a part of Schema's system, however. For Humans and Eltari, the crystals were easy to bring in and out day to day.

That meant we could easily use these crystals for our soldiers as long as they carried some of my armor. My eyes lit up,

"That's right. We just have to limit how long each person is exposed to the crystals."

Torix beamed, "You understand my intention utterly. These people will be the first ones exposed to the Omega Strain, and they've signed waivers to guarantee they understand what's required of them. I explained thoroughly, as well."

"Why haven't you gotten started yet?"

Torix gave me a slight bow, "I wanted to ask for my guildleader's permission and in person."

I was touched.

"Torix, you didn't have to."

"After not informing you of the streaming services I started without your permission, I dwelled on what you said on the matter. I wanted you to know that I thought deeply about what you said, and I intend on ensuring you're a part of the decisions regarding our guild's actions from here on out. No more surprises of that kind."

I turned towards the people here,

"As long as you guys are ok with this, then we're good to go. It's your lives on the line, and you all get to decide if the risk is worth it."

A few people looked at me with a bit of nervousness, but most of them remained unyielding.

Torix cackled, "Then let's begin." The lich waved at the participants, "You may make contact whenever you'd like. Be prepared for sharp, piercing pain when you do so, as the Omega Strain enters through the spines of creatures."

They stared forward, eyeing the floating, magenta masses floating in front of them. Fear and apprehension came over them until an Eltari woman decided it was time. Her arms were ripped off at some point, and now she carried massive scars were they once were. She touched the crystal with her beaked mouth, and the Omega Strain flooded over it.

Crawling over her skin, the strand left hundreds of tiny, minuscule wounds over its victim. Once it reached her spine, the crystal rammed over thirty connection points into the Eltari's nervous system. The Eltari scrambled back and forth, languishing in agony. She knocked over some medical equipment before I restrained her with a gravity well. I spoke like a wall of steel,

"It will pass. Stand strong and hold the line."

I passed The Rise of Eden over the Eltari as it looked at me, giving my words more of a palpable effect. Her foggy, tear ridden eyes showed no expression, but her taloned feet scrunched into tight bundles. She quit squawking in fear, and she proved herself there and then. With Schema's system augmenting her, the Eltari regenerated from her wounds over the next few minutes. Once she got past the initial pain, she stood up.

She conquered it.

The Omega Strain read the wants of the Eltari, and it replaced her missing arms and wings. Once it shaped itself into those missing limbs, the crystal followed the Eltari's commands. She moved her new, crystal limbs, staring at them with fear and awe alike. After a few seconds, she spread them wide, the feathers more akin to spines than plumage.

That didn't matter to the Eltari as she walked over towards the edge of the bird's exhibit. Everyone stared as she leaped from the side, and a few seconds passed. Thoughts of her clunking against the concrete ground loomed over everyone present. It would be a bitter wake up call for the Eltari.

That didn't come to pass. She flew, gliding with flows of mana. She laughed while passing through the air, and several songbirds jumped from their ledges to join her. What was once robbed was returned, and the Eltari beamed with deep joy as she returned to the air. Minutes of flight later, she landed onto the ledge with tears in her eyes.

She walked up to Torix and spoke with a light tone to her voice,

"Thank you, clever one. Thank you. I never imagined I would be one with the sky again."

Torix raised a hand, "Now now, don't get too close. We wouldn't want that crystal reverting to normal just yet, now would we?"

The Eltari backed up, "I...yes. Thank you."

I pointed at her, "What's your name?"

"E-Elthara."

"Good to meet you. You're going to need one of these soon."

I lifted up my hand, and a void popped up at the end of my arm. From it, molten metal spawned into a small mass. I shaped it into a band, and flash froze it. Pulling out my grimoire, I charged the runes for Ophelia's ring as I said,

"This ring will let you do a few things, but the most important part is the ability to get that crystal off of you. In your case-"

