I spawned another piece of dimensional fabric and shaped it into the form of a thin chain. I wrapped that around the center of the ring before planting my grimoire's runes onto the band. Once cooled, I tossed it over towards her, and she snatched it out of the air with her foot. Bending over, she contorted her leg and put the necklace on.

I pointed at it, "Tap the crystal against that ring or necklace, and it will turn back to normal. You can put it in your dimensional storage after that."

Elthrara nodded, "Yes, guildleader. This ring, it is...heavy."

Torix interlocked his hands behind himself, "That is your guild's expectations weighing down on your shoulders. Make sure you carry that burden with pride, and always aim to exceed them."

"Yes, clever one."

Putting my hands on my hips, I peered at the others lined up,

"That's a pretty successful initial test. I know I'm convinced. Who's next?"

We processed the others, several people unable to control the crystal when first exposed. It required a certain level of mental strength to restrain the gemstone, and some people lacked that. To counteract this, I premade the rings and handed them off to people. The enchantments gave willpower and endurance in spades.

Those attributes helped people assimilate more often with the crystals. After the Omega Strain dislodged itself from the individual, it sped up the regeneration as well. However, no matter what we did, the Omega Strain left a bit of vertigo after pulling itself out, so people needed breaks after using the powerful gems. It wasn't so bad, though.

With my ring's help, the eight-hour maximum use time turned as high as ten in the more willful individuals. On average, it was around six to eight hours. That was plenty long enough for most soldiers to get some serious work done in the meantime. These crystals would help members with facing Hybrids on a level playing field for the common soldier. It was about time I handed off a bit of updated equipment to the legion as well.

Super golems would be nice and all, but my guildsmen would fight alongside us. I didn't want them fighting against the Hybrids with broomsticks and frying pans, so it was about time for an update. Besides, their strength was my strength, and I needed as much as I could get.

With that in mind, I met with Torix after everyone left. He healed the three birds used in his exhibition, regenerating them via rudimentary light magic. As he did, I stared down at the birds,

"So, they responded well. It looks like these gemstones are going to be very valuable in the future."

"Indeed. We'll need to create a trade deal with Obolis in order to procure them, but they should be more than worth it. Perhaps an exchange of super golems would be in order?"

"You know, I actually don't think we'll have to. We should be able to manage, even without trading."

Torix narrowed his fire eyes, staring up at me from the three birds floating in front of him,

"Ah, yes, I'm certain that Obolis would just hand over these valuable resources without a care in the world. That sounds just like him."

"He might have."

The lich's curiosity peaked, "How so?"

"Well, we'll be getting the planet soon. Obolis offered it to us. We're in the middle of acquiring Blegara."

Torix dropped the birds, but I already caught them as he did. I expected that kind of reaction. Torix stood up,

"And here I believed he'd be using them himself? He doesn't know they exist?"

"Nope."

"Really now? That's...that's unexpected. I'd imagined the Finder of Secrets would be better at...well, finding secrets."

I waved my arms, "Don't get the wrong idea. I got lucky here. That's it."

Torix raised his hand, "Perhaps a bit, though your ability to travel into extreme environments is a large reason as to why you're able to explore as you do. That being said, if we can go forward with this deal, our guild's ability to fight the Hybrids will multiply. We will gain an unruly amount of resources, and they will make a world of difference for us."

"That's what I was thinking."

"This does raise a few questions, such as what kind of deal was arranged?"

"I gave the albony priority when trading with resources acquired on Blegara. We also have to lease super golems to them."

Torix scoffed, "That's it? For a planet? Maybe owning a planet isn't very valuable?"

I raised a hand, "Planet owning is very lucrative, but you have to think, this isn't a normal planet. Blegara is on the brink of destruction and is being assaulted by hostile forces. The Empire can't economically hold the location, but we can. I'm aware of all this, so Obolis couldn't dupe me. Combine that with the fact he's still able to get what he wants out of Blegara, albeit for a price, and it's a win-win situation."

I smiled, "It's just a little more win-win for me. That's all."

Torix swung a fist in front of himself, "Now that is how it is done, my disciple. After our subduing of the eldritch, I say we assault the planet immediately."

"You and I are thinking the same thing then. We need to prepare for that, and I'm going to need you to do more research into the Omega Strain in the meantime. That needs to take priority over everything else for now. I know your handling a lot with the guild's logistics-"

Torix stood tall, putting a hand up to his side. From it, his obelisk materialized, "Of course, though you overestimate the burden I bear since acquiring this obelisk. Though it took some tinkering, it's automated the most tedious of tasks. I am more than able to handle this new task, and I'll do what's necessary for the legion."

I smiled, "Alright then. I'm sending everyone a message that we won't be attacking Blegara for about a week. After that, we'll make the announcement that we own the planet after the contract with Obolis has been signed. I'll be making super golems in the meantime. They'll be the primary source of our initial charge, along with the Vagni and maybe even the eldritch."

I raised two fists, "We'll collect the Omega Strain along Blegara's depths after we've established ourselves on Saphigia. Our soldiers' number will bolster immensely, and I'll make sure that my rings include something for underwater breathing. That'll get rid of our troops' main weakness."

Torix waved a finger in front of himself, "And we can even give the gialgathens a battlefront they are adept at. They evolved in the ocean from what I've read and heard. They should be veritable swimmers, and by Schema,  we could use the territory. We sorely lack space on Mt. Verner now."

Torix peered off towards the mountain beyond the concrete walls, "It's a shame, but our guild has outgrown this place. The gialgathens and Eltari are fighting amongst themselves for the best roosting locations. Just as well, the humans here are beginning to settle and wish to go above ground."

Torix spoke wistfully, "Perhaps Blegara will let us expand elsewhere without the threat of wiping out your home planet? Wouldn't that be simply superb?"

I took a deep breath,

"I couldn't agree more. That's one of the reasons I've been working above ground with my golem project. If I spend too much time in that mountain, I get cabin fever. I can't even imagine what the people down there must feel like."

Torix tilted his head, "They're alive, which is more than they'd be if Yawm had had his way."

I nodded, "I'll find solace in that. I'm writing the guild wide message as we speak to let our guildsmen know we're not fighting on Blegara for a bit. Once we get a hold on Saphigia, we'll harvest the Omega Strains nearby, get super golems to hold our new territories, and expand outward as needed. It will be a slow fought process, but we'll be able to take it back."

Torix's eyes flared bright with warmth,

"Daniel...there's something I've been meaning to say."

I lifted a brow, "What's up?"

He put a hand on my shoulder, "I've seen you grow from a selfish child into a selfless man. I want you to know I'm proud of you, and you're becoming a fine leader."

I choked up a bit, not expecting this kind of sincerity, "Well...thank you. I don't think I've done the best job, but I've been trying. That's all I can really do."

Torix let his hand drop, "Know that I've said nothing more than what needed to be said. Now, let's get to work. There's much to be done."

I grinned, "Let's crack some skulls."

Torix walked off, interacting with his advanced obelisk given by Obolis. With it, he managed the guild in less than a third the time he used too via preplanned operations. Handling those day to day tasks let him spend this kind of time on the Omega Strain, and I was glad I decided on the obelisk first instead of the furnace.

One last detail needed handling before I got deep into my building work. Torix sent me an update from Althea that contained a lot of information about Elysium and their camps. It included notes from Althea, and I went over that information while creating an underwater breathing enchantment.

She mentioned many of the innovations they used in a positive light, and I had to agree. Elysium rebelled for a reason after all, and the primary cause was how outdated and ruthless Schema's current system was. Of course, Elysium built its backbone on the gialgathen's deaths and the eldritch/silvers' suffering. Those were pretty damn unforgivable sins, in my opinion, but I respected the Adair's more after seeing how much they improved people's lives.

At least they were trying. I had to admit, that was more than most.

My newfound respect didn't shake my resolve to crush them, but it did give me another goal. I wrote up a reform plan for our own guild's way of doing things, modeling some of it after Elysium's practices. Evil or not, they had some excellent ideas. I took those practices and made them work for our own guild, and it gave me some confidence moving forward. Making a difference for people tended to do that.

Bolstered by that assurance, I walked towards Helios and Florence. There was one last part of our plan that needed ironing out. We sent the initial team down towards the Elysium camp without Amara. Amara made the suggestion herself, noting how poorly her stealth skills were in general. Althea's report made the Elysium camp look easier to invade than we initially thought, however.

Understanding all those details, I needed Florence and Helios to help get her over there safely. Pacing over towards the upper suite of Mt. Verner, I sent them messages to meet me outside their residences. As I reached their places again, I found the two of them arguing like normal. Rubbing my temples, I let out a sigh.

Helios turned towards me as I walked up. He scorned,

"So it's our guildleader once again. I love waiting at random places for extended periods."

I eyed the albony, "Or, Really? If you'd like, I could just send you to fight Hybrids by yourself on Blegara. It would only be until you die. Maybe you'd prefer doing that?"

Helios stiffened up for a moment, fear racing up his spine. I spread out my hands,

"Ok then, it sounds like you won't be complaining about waiting a few minutes for me anymore. Good. Now I need you both to take Amara over towards the Elysium camp tonight. According to Althea, their plans went well, and they'll be getting access to an Elysian world soon. I need you both to keep Amara safe while we get the perfect opportunity to go through their warp."

Florence gestured to me, "So, planet owner, what's next for you?"

I raised a hand, squeezing it into a fist,

"I'll be making an army."
