For the first time, the Vulteg hit him instead. Shiv was ragdolled through the air and felt himself tear an ugly gash through the battlements, confusing his broken balance even more. And somewhere in the middle of all that, the Vulteg caught his leg and flung him back down to the ground.

Shiv impacted the floor—and the Vulteg smashed knee-first into the Deathless’s chest before he began hammering him in the face. The first punch fractured Shiv's helmet. The second blow left a bruise on his neck. The third landed under Shiv’s armpit—and bounced off due to Adamantine Adaption. Shiv groped blindly, trying to figure out where the Vulteg was, trying to steady himself so he could get back into the fight.

It felt like water was pouring into his skull, unbalancing him. Shiv pulled blindly on his gravitic field and felt himself slam into the Vulteg. He was briefly freed, but he also felt himself rolling along the ground. He shaped a Woundeater, and it slid inside his skull, devouring the wound. At once, something popped inside his ears.

The world stabilized; things stopped bobbing up and down. Shiv found himself lying face down on the floor, and there was a shadow descending upon him. He turned, whipping his Woundeater high, but the spell passed through the Vulteg as the cyclopean Pathbearer dissipated into a splash of misting shadow. He reformed right in front of Shiv and lashed out with a heavy kick.

The Vulteg was fast.

Shiv was faster.

He caught the Vulteg by the leg, but then the Vulteg dissipated into mist again. He appeared behind Shiv, only to miss his next punch entirely as Shiv activated his Chameleon enchantment and ducked down. Pure instinct saved the Vulteg as Shiv swiped his blade up. The Vulteg laughed, reveling in his own skill—only for Shiv’s Woundeater to crash into the back of his head. A blast of mana swallowed the Vulteg—then he vanished from Shiv's sight.

For a beat, he thought the Vulteg had used a Stealth Skill. But then the enemy warrior burst back into view just a few meters away, with several gleaming knives lodged in his thigh and armpit. Blood poured free from his body, but rather than gush, it only ran as a trickle.

A Dimensional barrier burst beside Shiv as Whisper revealed himself. He was stumbling, smacking his right ear with an annoyed expression on his face. "That was loud," the orc commented with a chuckle of his own.

As the Vulteg pulled a few of the gleaming blades out of his body, he turned and glared at Shiv. Behind him, the erupting jet stream of molten metal intensified as the alloyed barrier succumbed entirely. Plates of metal furled like a blossoming flower as a flood of new forces broke through. Spells descended from above, the defending Dimensionals responding only now due to their lacking Reflexes.

"Deal with them," Shiv called out. "I'll have this one."

"Aye, Insul," he heard Mortar reply from above the walls, and then came a concussive blast. An arcing projectile sailed through the air as it struck the emerging Vultegs in a cataclysmic impact. The world trembled. Bits of burning flesh joined the molten metal in a rain of fire and destruction. But more Vultegs came, spilling out faster and faster. They slipped out from the building eruption of molten fluid in proper formations, stepping out in teams of five.

Yet, before they could truly amass any momentum, the sounds of a violin squealed, and a small army of new Dimensionals entered the scene. They crashed into the Vultegs as a rain of gleaming knives followed behind them. Bolts of Dynamancy descended as well, scattering teams and creating openings for the defenders to exploit.

While the orcs, Umbrals, and some dimensionals worked to bottleneck the Vulteg invaders, Shiv eyed his adversary and briefly disabled his Chameleon. "Interesting Toughness Skill you got there," he said to the Vulteg brawler.

"You as well," the Vulteg replied, assuming a fighting stance. "Just a Scratch. Master-Tier"

"Adamantine Adaption," Shiv replied. “Master-Tier.”

The Vulteg did a double-take. "Adamantine Adaption? How?”

“Die and find out,” Shiv taunted.
