She goes on to interrogate me about everything else I know about the Chosen One Competition, which isn’t actually much. I do expose Buttercup, though. I mean, she didn’t tell me not to, so it’s really her fault. If she didn’t want to get exposed she should have been such a… Well, it’s her fault.

Lacey seems mildly disappointed, but not really surprised, and at the end, she just sighs.

“Well, thank you for your cooperation,” she says. “Now, finish up so we can settle this debt.”

“Yes, ma’am.”

Half an hour later, most of the food on the tables is in my lowercase -s stomach, and the rest is in my extradimensional one, and contrary to my usual MO, I was not secretly siphoning off all the fat that built up from my eating. Instead, I let it sit there, getting slightly flabby so that the weird vampire can have her preferred blood flavor.

When it’s time to fill the bottles, she produces an extremely suspicious looking device that’s supposed to stab into my leg and siphon my blood directly from my femoral artery into a bottle. She fills up her two, then I ask her to fill a third for me. The stingy vampire charges me for the bottle and the service, but it’s not too much, so I ask for two.

Each bottle filled leaves me light-headed, but she has some kind of buffing Skill to help me replenish blood more quickly, so even after filling four bottles, by the time she’s done healing me, I feel totally fine.

“Well, if that’s all, I guess I’m gonna head back,” I say.

“Please do,” says Lacey.

“Hey, that’s rude.”

“So is stealing someone’s drink.”

“Touché. Well, bye. See you later?”

“Unless you cause trouble, no, we will not see each other again. Goodbye.”

“Does that mean I’m allowed to leave the city? No more questions?”

“No, you’re free to go. Now leave.”

“Bye!”

When I emerge from the booth, there are a few people waiting to talk to me, asking questions about what happened in the Dungeon. I actually stick around to bask in my popularity, answering a few random questions before teleporting away and heading back to the inn.

When I get back, Chad is up and carving something from the Maligar wood, the twins are tinkering with something that might be the soul bond they’re trying to copy from Annie, and Lauren is asleep on the couch. Her book is still in her hand, and her hair is falling down over her face, and there’s a bit of drool hanging from her lip that Chad seems to find very distracting. There’s also a blanket on her that definitely wasn’t there when I left. She looks very cozy.

…

I shake her awake, making her start, and sit straight up, reaching for her knife.

“Wha–? Yona? What’s going on?”

“I vant to suck your blood!”
