“Everyone’s different, Gary, to one degree or another. You’ll have to be more specific.”

Gary nodded.

“People treat me differently,” he said. “Not always, and not everyone, but some people. Mr Remore has always been there, helping me and guiding me. Not many get that kind of attention. At first I thought it was because I was the first natural born leonid, but there are others like me. Kids of the transformed. They didn’t get that much attention. And the way he looks at me sometimes, it’s like he’s seeing someone else.”

“Not seeing someone else. Just remembering.”

“The other Gary? The one I was named after?”

“Yes.”

“Do I look like him?”

“No,” Jason said, then waved his arm.

A scene appeared in front of them, of people gathered on a grassy area, overlooking a tropical lagoon. Gary recognised Jason, Rufus and many others he had met in the last week. His eyes, however, were drawn to a towering leonid in front of a grill. The man was holding a set of tongs, and wore an apron that read ‘adventuring is more fun when you eat the bad guy.’ It was in one of the Pallimustus languages Rufus taught.

The image was silent, but as the man threw back his head in laughter, Gary could almost hear the booming sound of it. He wasn’t sure how long he sat, transfixed, watching the man silently talk and laugh and eat the entire roasted leg of some giant bird-like creature. Gary was startled when the image vanished.

Once again, Jason waited until Gary finally broke the silence.

“Before I was born, Mr Remore used to tell stories about him. That’s why my parents named me after him. But he doesn’t tell those stories anymore. Not ever, even when I asked. Do you know why?”

“I do.”

“I thought that maybe I was imagining things. Maybe it was because I was a leonid that Mr Remore gave me so much attention. Why your family included me in so many things. Gave me so many opportunities. I know the clan wants to be more inclusive. To not make it about just your family. But then I said that I wanted to see you. To talk to you, and three hours later, here I am. There are people who run countries who can’t do that. I’m different, and I don’t know why. Can you tell me?”

Jason let out a long, slow breath.

“Yes, Gary. I can.”
