Focus. Pity parties are for later. “Sorry Major, but you left so abruptly I had to say that to get you back here.”

“Nothing’s changed,” Binesi growls, shooting a dark look at where Naaran disappeared to, but the old spearman is already on the other side of the room. Or maybe that’s Kuang Biao, and I’ve lost sight of Naaran. It’s hard to tell who’s who when they’re all in Concealment. “You go against orders, and it’s the lash.”

Even if it costs him his life, Binesi’s glare implies, but I wave off his grumpy dramatics. “Yes, I am a soldier of the Empire and beholden to your commands, but I’ve other duties to attend to, duties you have no right to interfere with.”

“What duties?”

Puffing up my chest with a smile, I point at myself and say, “I am Falling Rain, the Divine Turtle’s Attendant, a duty bestowed upon me by the Legate himself through Imperial Decree. Specifically, I was given free rein within the Empire to carry out my Holy Duty, and any parties caught hindering said Duty are to be executed without trial.”

Check and mate. If only my Imperial enemies were so easy to beat. After a long silence, Binesi sighs and rubs his forehead, no doubt stressed and frustrated to the extreme. “So you go and get yourself killed. Then your blood-thirsty father rebels, his blood-thirsty Mentor backs him, and the Sentinels are left with no choice but to follow because they’re already guilty by association.” He’s the first person I’ve heard use the common word for Sentinel, which is nice because now I know what it is. More language woes, but that’s neither here nor there. “Is this your goal then, boy? To use your death to deliver the Empire to the Defiled?”

“First off, if the Imperials have me killed, then I don’t give a shit what happens to their Empire.” Dangerous words to utter, but it’s the truth. “Secondly, I don’t want the People or the Sentinels to rebel, because that means all my loved ones will probably die. Third of all,” I growl, poking Binesi in the chest and immediately regretting it as I jam my finger on his armour, “I have fought, bled, and suffered for this shit-hole of an Empire. I haven’t served as many years as you have, but I’ve given more than my fair share of time, blood, sweat, and coin to this war effort, so I’ll thank you not to question my fucking motives, Major.”

After a long silence and strenuous struggle, Binesi swallows his anger and nods in assent. “Fair enough. Your motives are good, but your reasoning is still shit.”

Ignoring the jibe, I ask, “Is the Sound Barrier still up?” He nods, so I explain, “Between here and Central, there will be at least one attempt on my life. There is no question of that. However, if I’m under strict guard at all times, then it’s anybody’s guess as to when, where, and how our enemies will strike. Give them an opening, and we can seize the initiative.” Shrugging, I add, “I even have the beginnings of a plan, or at least a suitable excuse.”

“The Guardian Turtle.” Eyeing me skeptically, Binesi asks, “You meant to bring her out on a jaunt to the river or something. Is there any more to your grand scheme, or is that it?”

Exactly that, but the way he says it makes it sound stupid, so I shrug and reply, “Said I had a plan. Never claimed it was a good one.”

After hashing it out for a few minutes longer, Binesi heads out to make arrangements and I scurry over to the chamber pot to do my business. Stopping in place with my hands on my belt, I look around for Naaran and settle on a weird shadow situated at the foot of my bed. “Erm, sorry, but you guys might want to step outside for a few minutes or something.” Or yanno, at least turn around and not look please. God this is humiliating. How can anyone live like this? Can’t a man just shit in peace?

The weird shadow disappears and Naaran stands in its place, the change so sudden and subtle it feels like he was always there and my memory is playing tricks. “How can you spot me, boy?” he asks, his grizzled frown deeper than usual as he tries to figure it out. “Not even Khagati could find me so easily.”

“I can’t actually see you, just signs of your presence.” Shrugging, I explain, “Sometimes it’s a shadow that stands out from the others, and other times it’s a blur in the air that’s only visible from certain angles. Once, I noticed a blind spot because someone was hiding in front of something I was looking for, and another time it was like someone took a realistic painting of the world, cut it in half with a Honed scalpel, then put the two pieces back together slightly off. There’s always a subtle... wrongness which goes with Concealment, but it’d be hard to spot outside of familiar surroundings.”

Plus I’ve had a lot of practice lately trying to spot stupid, adorable Kukku. I noticed that sometimes when I go to visit Ping Ping, he’s roosting atop her head, which is just the cutest thing ever except I can’t actually see it and he leaves whenever I draw close. Dumb cowardly chicken, let me love you...

Or... at least I hope it’s Kukku, and not Monk Happy himself. That would be weird.

“And this time?”

“Your shadow was wrong,” I reply, gesturing at the single lit candle in the yurt. “The other shadows flicker and move with the firelight, but not where you were standing, or up in that corner over there either. Nothing magical, just the mundane powers of paranoid observation.”

Instead of Kuang Biao as expected, one of MuYang’s silent, Oath-Bound comrades drops down from the area of roof I just pointed at and offers a respectful salute. I should salute him, for hanging up there in the first place. All there is to hold onto is the roof struts, which means he had to Lighten like crazy and cling on by his fingertips. Nodding in reply, I glance around one last time and find nothing out of place, which leads me to wonder where Kuang Biao is, but I have more pressing matters to attend to. “So err... your efforts are much appreciated, but my pants are coming off soon and then things are only gonna get more unpleasant from there, so uh... yea.”

In response, Naaran plants his feet and tosses me a blanket before disappearing from sight, and this time I make no effort to find him, or the silent Adherent who is no doubt still lurking about. At least this way, I can hide my head under the blanket and pretend they’re gone, even though the door clearly didn’t open and there’s no other way out of the yurt...

One long, humiliating ordeal later, I head out with the stinky pot in hand and pass it over to a Death Corps guard with all the grace and dignity I can muster. “Sorry. Thanks. Also, there’s a blanket by the door inside. Please have it taken away and washed.” I only had it draped over my head for privacy, but the smell alone was enough to convince me it’ll never be clean again. No idea why it was so bad today, I barely ate half a lunch. Stupid Fung, BoShui, and Zian came to visit and I had nothing else besides my lunch box to offer, but they didn’t hold back at all. They split my dumplings, spiced meat, pickled veggies, and steamed dessert bun between the three of them, and only left the cold noodles, fried rice, and empty box behind. Heartless is what they are, but I suppose I deserve it for not reaching out since I came back from Sinuji. Truth be told, I didn’t even know they were coming to the banquet as Nian Zu’s guests until they showed up outside the carriage, conveniently standing behind the Death Corps guard with my chamber pot.

Note to self: add some sound proofing or something, so people can’t hear me peeing from outside, or better yet, so I can’t hear their choked laughter. Stupid metal piss pot, so god damned loud and echo-ey. Also, what’s so funny about a man using a chamber pot inside the privacy of his carriage? It’s completely natural...

With Binesi and an entire contingent of Death Corps at my side, I lead Ping Ping down to the man-made river which is only a short jaunt from our camp. Granted, our camp fits ten-thousand soldiers, so the river is still awhile away, but I’m fine with taking things nice and easy instead of hurrying the big girl along. Tired from her full day of running, she ambles happily beside me and nudges me every so often, excited to see me after a full day apart. I’m happy to see her too, and she gets hugs a plenty, which help sell the story that I’m out here because of her. I’m fairly certain we won’t come under attack today, but I remain on full alert for all the good it’ll do me, nervously looking around and keeping one hand close to my sword.

At least I don’t have to worry about having my act seen through. This is genuine anxiety right here folks, and my would-be assassins are probably eating it up.

With so many ships and barges pulling ashore for the night, it takes a little effort to find a place Ping Ping can slip in from, but the sweet girl refuses to go for a swim and stays on dry land instead. Daintily stretching her neck to slurp water from the river, she keeps a close eye on her surroundings while insisting I stand in the crook of her shoulder. I’m not sure if it’s my imagination, but it feels like she’s been more alert these past few days, maybe blaming herself for letting those assassins almost kill me. Also, I think she really misses her red panda friends, because every time I duck in to visit her in her Natal Palace, she brings me over to see them and squeaks in distress next to the chunkiest of chonkers. It’s heartbreaking, and I’m almost ready to tell the Legate that Ping Ping needs to go home for a spell. I could spin it as part of my most important Turtle Attendant duties, which is how I came up with this whole idea in the first place.

Please let that giant red panda still be there. I wanna hug him sooooooo bad...

After drinking enough water to fill a backyard pool, we head back to camp with a noticeable spring in Ping Ping’s step. Making a note to have the Death Corps bring her water to drink during lunch, I discuss the logistics with Green One until Binesi chimes in to tell us there are whole wagons filled with barrels of water, just for soldiers to drink. Since they’re filled every night, there’s no harm in giving Ping Ping two or three during lunch, and we make it back to camp in high spirits thanks to the noticeable lack of bloody holes in my chest. After feeding her a few treats, I say farewell to the sleepy big turtle and leave her to rest, though it pains me to walk away from her mournful squeaks which tell me she still wants to play.

I wish she were small and cute like inside her Natal Palace, then I could bring her into my yurt and carriage where we would cuddle all the time...

I hate living like this, under strict guard at all times, and as I head into my yurt, I stop to watch my friends and family enjoying themselves after a long day’s ride. Lin-Lin and the twins busy themselves running around with the animals, while Mila, Yan, and Alsantset sit around in a distracted daze, wholly conscious and responsive, but not really entirely there. Mom is more or less in the same fugue state, though at least she’s aware of her surroundings, and she responds to my gaze with a carefree smile and a sympathetic tilt of her head, though not sympathetic enough to come over and join me in incarceration.

Grandpa Du claims they’re all like this because a part of their minds are still ruminating on the mysteries of Insight. He followed up the statement with a look like he expected me to jump for joy and praise the Mother Above or something, but I mean it’s cool and all that they’re receiving an upload from the universe, but that’s not proof of anything. It only proves there’s something strange but beneficial afoot, which I already knew because Chi. Maybe it’s the Mother Above, or maybe we’re all living in a simulation and our overseers are downloading kung-fu moves straight into our brains for shits and giggles. Who knows?

Seriously though, c’mon Mother in Heaven. Is this really how it’s gonna be? I’m crippled here, and you’re gonna taunt me by giving my family and loved ones casual power-ups? Totally not cool. Napping with turtles and playing in their Natal Palaces is nice and all, but I'd like something more tangible please.

As Luo-Luo picks up the pear-shaped guitar-thing she calls a pipa, I spot Song heading off with a bucket of raw meat in hand. Going to check if her weasel-bear friend followed us all the way out here, no doubt. She’s been feeding him for days now, or feeding some animal, because even though she leaves meat out twice a day, she has yet to lay eyes on him since she first set him free. I doubt it followed our convoy fifty kilometres south, but I hope she finds him again, and not just because I want more floofs. She deserves to have a friend all of her own, and I’m rooting for her to be happy.

But I still want to pet it, so she better be okay with sharing. No matter how I imagine the combination, a weasel-bear just sounds so adorable and floofy.

Clearing his throat from beside me, Binesi nudges me back into the yurt with only mildly less force than a boot to the ass. Grumbling about the indignity of it all, I look around and greet Naaran and the shadow guard with a slight nod, to which the former responds with a disgruntled Sending. “Difficult to secretly guard you when you give away our presence,” he admonishes, and I wince at my own stupidity. I can’t help it, it’s just... manners, you know? If someone’s there, you greet them, that’s just how it is. “Your man came by with some documents and placed them on the table. Stop nodding and do not answer. I will stand guard, and you will go about your business as usual.”

