Almost nodding in agreement despite the warning, I head over to the table and glance over the documents with a smile. It’s a stack of correspondences with various people representing various interests, most of which are business related and entirely genuine, but strategically placed towards the bottom with a corner poking out is a letter from Situ Chi Gan, who according to Zian, is one of Patriarch Rang Min’s strongest supporters. Apparently, Chi Gan’s son, Chi Lok, was a part of the group who chased us off after the Society Contests, and ended up deader than dirt, so Chi Gan swore to have his vengeance upon the Bekhai, which means my enemies should find it strange to see a letter from him in my possession. Less than a quarter of the letter is visible, but there’s enough there for any spying Scryers to determine that I’ve come to an agreement with Situ Chi Gan and we’re plotting to work together.

The letter’s a forgery, of course, because not only did I not know the man existed until a few days ago, even if I knew who killed his son, I’d never hand the person over like the letter implies, but it’s enough if my enemies believe it. Once word of this reaches Situ Rang Min, it should be enough to sow the seeds of doubt in his mind, but even if Rang Min has complete trust in Chi Gan, which I sincerely doubt, then it’s not like I invested a whole lot into the wasted scheme.

Technically, MuYang did all the work, with Junior’s help. There’s also a folder of forged documents I’ll peruse later tonight, once Pong Pong alerts me to Scrying again, just in case leaving incriminating letters around is too obvious a bait. Honestly, it would’ve never occurred to me that the little turtle could sense Scrying of all things, but it explains why he glares at nothing so often, and stops when I go and investigate. According to Mom, Scrying is like shaving off a slice of your Domain, attaching it to your eye with Chi, and sending it out to look through. While the mechanics don’t make much sense, I know that any external Chi construct will rapidly fall apart if it comes in contact with a living body, which means I was probably walking straight through their Scrying eyeballs while heading over to see what Pong Pong was staring at, and thereby ruining their little peep show.

Even going by the few times I can confidently say someone was Scrying, I feel like way too many people have seen me walking around naked. I absolutely hate it, but unless I can teach Roc to sense Scying and ram his feathery ass into them, then I’m shit out of luck.

Settling down to wait for dinner, I open up the folder of forged letters in case someone is Scrying right now, while inwardly reviewing my lessons from Luo-Luo. I’d ask her to come help review in person, but I had a difficult enough time keeping my hands to myself when she was sitting across from me in the carriage, and that was with Mom right there beside me. I don’t know what it is, but there’s something about Luo-Luo today which is so... alluring. Normally, she’s so prim and proper all the time, with her flawlessly arranged hair, pristine posture, and perfectly smoothed skirts, but today, she looked a little out of sorts and less, I dunno, intimidating. I mean, she could still show up at a formal ball and fit right in, but there were minor imperfections which stuck out and somehow made her more appealing, approachable, and... vulnerable. A stray lock of hair out of place, the shoulder of her dress slipping slightly to one side, her seated posture laid-back and inviting, and her lips parted ever so slightly while she watched me with a wide-eyed, adoring stare... it sounds horrible to say, but she seemed so relaxed and defenceless, I had this primal urge to go over there and...

I didn’t though, and wouldn’t have, even if Mom wasn’t there, but I wanted to, even after her constant humming was starting to grate on my nerves. The animals loved it though, along with her impromptu performance from Alsantset’s carriage, and I kinda wish I knew more about how it works. Ping Ping loves it when I hum to her, in real life and in her Natal Palace, but I don’t feel anything different about it. Pong Pong on the other hand couldn’t care less, and the rest of my floofs just love the attention, so I need to do more testing before I can come to a definitive conclusion on whether my humming has the same effect as Luo-Luo’s strumming.

But all that is for another time, along with figuring out how to use Chi, repair a shattered Core, and how I can Devour Demon Ichor through touch. Right now, I have a much more difficult lesson to learn, which is how to fucking be polite. This means sitting down and reviewing my lessons in decorum until everything becomes second nature. No more wild, manner-less savage and foreigner Falling Rain, I must become a noble, respectable young man worthy of my lofty new station. It sounds easy, but the people here are so backwards when it comes to social interaction, and it’s all because of face. It’s a stupid concept, and I still don’t understand it, which is terrifying because even though everyone knows I don’t understand face, no one can really offer a proper explanation. As far as I can tell, face is linked to dignity and prestige, but is a separate concept from both. Dad tried explaining it once and said, “Face can be given, fought for, or lost, but it cannot be taken, and to demand face is to surrender all face you possess.”

Which is like... what does any of that even mean?

The way I see it, face is about ego. People strut around with their giant heads, and lose their temper when they’re inevitably taken down a notch. Except it’s not inevitable, because everyone else tiptoes around their ego and say they’re ‘giving face’, which is stupid because why should I be responsible for coddling someone else’s sense of self-worth? If you don’t want to feel stupid, then don’t do stupid things, which is a perfectly logical way to go through life, except everyone I’ve ever brought this up with has been horrified by my take on face.

“It’s not about the individual,” Dad explained, “Nor is it merely personal pride. It is more than that. It is respect earned by generations before, the dignity afforded to noble heroes of times gone by, or prestige earned by the community as a whole. Face is given to an individual, but it is shared as a whole.”

Which still doesn’t really explain the concept, because there isn’t a proper explanation for face. It’s just this intangible currency we’re all supposed to take pride in accruing and feel ashamed if ever lost, but no one can tell how much face they have or really compare it with anyone else, so it becomes this endless contest of oneupsmanship where people compete with their exploits, wallets, heirs, and whatever else might come to mind.

In other words, it’s all complete bullshit.

No, thinking like this is why I keep getting into trouble all the time. There’s no point complaining about the broken system, because nothing will change, so like Nian Zu said, I need to learn from my mistakes and stay inside the lines. I just... gotta give face, and need to save face, because people will try to make me lose face. Can’t act without regards for face, because that would be shameless, but I also can’t appear to want face too much, because that would also be shameless. If I’m too thick-skinned, I’ll appear rude and unsociable, but being too thin-skinned will turn me into a laughing stock, because again, I’ll seem desperate for face. There are no hard rules when it comes to face, which is disastrous because that means I only have my own judgment to rely on, which history has proven is complete and utter shit.

So I guess I’m doomed. Or not. Who knows. Not me. Definitely not me.

Chapter Meme
