After sitting in a sealed box on wheels for the entire day, I wholeheartedly believe that anyone who claims to enjoy long carriage rides is either a liar or a masochist.

Aesthetically designed by Luo-Luo and decorated with lifelike carvings by Charok, calling it a box on wheels is being a little disingenuous, but it’s all flash and no substance. The curved undercarriage hosts a set of inadequate shocks, the seats aren’t deep enough to settle back into, the satin cushions are too hard, and the octagonal windows are set in the centre of the cabin, meaning I’d have to lean forward to look out even if they hadn’t been closed and shuttered for the entire ride. The interior lacks much needed comfort and safety features, like headrests, armrests, hand holds, or seat belts, topped off with a cushioned bench which is too shallow to rest in, too upright to lean on, and too slippery to comfortably sit on. Given how bumpy the ride was going at a sedate pace over smooth, military roads, I’d hate to find out first-hand what it’ll be like travelling at breakneck speeds over dirt and grass. It’s all too easy to imagine me biting my tongue off, impaling myself on my sword, or crashing into the other passengers and breaking all my fragile, non-Martial Warrior bones while our carriage breaks through a blockade or flees from an assassination attempt, assuming the pretty golden-yellow wood (which tastelessly screams ‘faux-Imperial’) even holds up beneath the initial attack.

All in all, this opulent monstrosity is pleasing to the eye and hazardous to one’s health, which essentially makes it Luo-Luo in vehicle form.

That’s not entirely fair, because it’s hardly her fault she’s as popular as she is, but I can’t help but resent her for being the source of so many woes. Taking a deep breath and reminding myself to be nicer to Luo-Luo, I sit alone in the dim carriage interior and continue listing off its flaws and inadequacies, because there isn’t much else to do while waiting for Binesi to give me the all clear. Everyone else ditched me and disembarked as soon as the carriage came to a stop, even sweet Aurie and loyal Mama Bun, but I’m stuck in the carriage until ‘the camp is secured’. I can’t just call my guards over and head out, noooo. Scouts need to comb through the surroundings and report back on areas of interest, patrols routes have to be drawn up and scheduled, defences dug in, checkpoints reinforced, passwords and confirmation codes exchanged, and a whole slew of minor details to handle and go over before I can step out into the open air, because Binesi’s safety measures makes my schizophrenic paranoia look like minor anxiety.

Then again, if I’m assassinated, it’ll probably spark off a civil war which will doom the Empire, so I guess better safe than sorry.

...The carriage needs more ventilation. It reeks of unwashed bunnies, aromatic wildcats, and heavily-perfumed courtesan, but probably because all the windows are shut. Ooh!, I should install bunbun receptacles. Small, cushioned boxes for them to rest in, like how they used to sleep in saddlebags when they were babies. There’s plenty of room under the future armrest, and over it too, so long as they’re padded on the outside just in case of impact. Gotta make sure we have one for every bunbun, so I won’t have to worry about squishing someone every time I shift in my seat. This’ll mean more room to stretch out once I rip out the seats and replace them with more comfortable couches, ones deep enough for my wildcats to curl up on. Seriously, why do we need all this empty space and bare walls in the carriage? It’s not like there’s a fold-out table to work on, or a lantern to provide enough light to read by. There isn’t even a cup holder or weapons receptacle, though to be fair, Mom, Alsantset, and Charok all seemed pretty blase about holding their spears all day, and even Luo-Luo didn’t seem to mind cradling her sceptre and silly George at the same time.

...It’s this god-damned mundane sword. I hate it. No matter how I wear it, it doesn’t feel right, and I still can’t get the hang of swinging it around. Ugh. Besides, this is really my fault anyways. I knew Luo-Luo was light on practical experience, so I should’ve paid more attention during the whole carriage creation process, but in my defence, I never expected to actually sit in this rolling coffin. I figured this would be Luo-Luo’s carriage, and I’d ride Zabu everywhere or sit on a rickshaw with Lin-Lin, but man proposes, and Heaven disposes.

Or more aptly, shit happens, and real shit’s going to happen right here in this carriage if I’m stuck waiting much longer...

By some miracle of the Mother, a knock sounds at the carriage door only moments before I call for my chamber pot once again, and Binesi’s voice sounds out. “Ready and waiting,” he intones, and I all but leap out of my seat to charge the door. Catching myself at the last moment, I take a second to compose myself before cracking the door open just a hair, ready to head out to use the latrines but not so eager to die just yet. Seriously, usually I’m agonizing over the lack of safety measures, but even with Baby-Sitter Binesi here to dot the I’s and cross the T’s, I’m still not entirely at ease.

Then again, that’s probably normal, given my current situation. Five Supreme Families are gunning for my head, and while Yuzhen and MuYang have done a passable job fending off all the Imperial lackeys in the Northern Citadel, we’re on the road now and Dad’s back at the citadel along with his many, many soldiers. It’s just me and ten-thousand Sentinels and soldiers against the world.

Fun, fun, fun.

A half-second later, biology wins out over uncertainty and I march out the carriage, hoping I look suitably calm and collected for my waiting friends and family. Alas, even if I do, they’re not around to appreciate it, as the only people waiting to receive me are my Death Corps guards and loyal, ever-present Ping Ping, with my caring family, sweet betrotheds, and lovable floofs all nowhere to be found. Heartbreaking, but I’ll live, so I smile and hug the sweet turtle before turning to Green One to whisper, “Escort me to my tent please. Not my yurt.” Which is set up less than ten meters away and makes me suspect Binesi’s bullshit about securing the camp was probably just an excuse to keep me miserable. Then again, maybe not, since Binesi was stuck standing outside the carriage the entire time instead of leaving me to my personal protectors. “I need to go. To my tent.”

Picking up on my none-too-subtle hints, Green One salutes, bows, and replies, “Mercy, Imperial Consort. This one has failed you. Your tent was not set up, as per Major Binesi’s orders.”

“Shit in a pot like a proper noble, private.” Though delivered in the same neutral monotone as always, there’s a hint of satisfaction in Binesi’s inflection as he scans our surroundings for danger. “Move. Too exposed out here.” After a short jaunt to the yurt, Binesi puts his hand on my chest to stop me from going in and heads up the stairs to check the interior, then all but tosses me inside. Nodding at the chamber pot, he adds, “Enjoy.”

With the conversation finished as far as he’s concerned, Binesi moves to shut the door, but I raise an arm to block it. “Hang on.” Bad move considering the difference in strength, but he magnanimously holds back from breaking my hand and glowers instead. Weak. If Akanai’s glower is a ten, and Mila’s an eight, then Binesi’s is barely a tepid four, but I still shoot a nervous glance at the shadows to my left. “Major, if you would be so kind as to raise a Sound Barrier please,” I say, and after a long pause, he rolls his eyes and complies. Or at least I assume he does, since he gestures at me to go on, so I nod in thanks and continue. “Am I right to assume we have uninvited guests lurking about?” Binesi nods, but I knew as much thanks to Pong Pong’s astute senses alerting me to Scrying eyes all day. While we weren’t travelling at top speeds, we covered close to fifty kilometres today, which means we’re well out of range from spies situated inside the Northern Citadel, so any lingering eyes still with us are somewhere nearby. “Considering the losses they’ve already incurred, I doubt these shadowy presences are of Eastern origin.” Dad and Charok slaughtered almost a hundred well-trained and well-equipped Imperial assassins during their heroic ride back from the farm, and I doubt the Supreme Families have hundreds more hanging around Central. “We’re probably looking at locals, either hired knives under contract or personal killers of influential families.”

“Local blades kill just as well as Imperial ones.”

“Well, unlike Imperials, these killers might not have any qualms about keeping things quiet.” The corpses of the Imperial assassins had all been neatly removed and disposed of by the time I rode back to the Citadel a few hours later, which I thought was kinda weird. Every civilian from here to the farthest reaches of the Empire can see I’m not a welcome addition to the Imperial Clan, but I guess the Legate’s enemies would prefer it if no one knew they were actively trying to have me murdered.

Latching on to my train of thought, Binesi frowns and scratches his chin, mulling over the possibilities. “You’re worried they’ll strike regardless of the consequences.”

“Yes. Chances are, they’ve been given orders or made assurances to their Imperial backers, and desperate people do stupid things.” Like launch a suicidal attack on a military camp of ten-thousand soldiers in the hopes of assassinating an upstart Imperial Consort. I’m not too too worried about that, mostly because there really isn’t anything I can do about it. If their forces are strong enough to kill me here, with Nian Zu’s Famous Fifty, the Marshal’s veteran honour guard, and my mother watching over me, well then I guess I’ll die. “What I’m concerned about is what our enemies might do if they think they have no chance of success, because I doubt they’ll just slink home and say, ‘sorry boss, we couldn’t do it’. If it were up to me, I’d do my best to introduce new variables by spoiling the food supply, blocking the road, killing someone else of importance, or most effectively of all, kidnapping a cute and lovable niece or nephew to force me into a vulnerable position.”

Hell, if someone demanded my death in exchange for Tali or Tate’s life, I’d slit my throat myself.

“And what sort of idiocy are you planning?”

Swallowing a snappy retort, I smile and say, “To give our enemies hope, so they don’t do anything too too smart or too stupid.” Ignoring his grimace, I push on and explain, “We’ve left them no chance to strike at me, which means we can’t predict where or when they will attack, but if we leave a flaw in my defences, an opening in my routine, then we can be ready and waiting when they inevitably strike.”

“So you want to play the sacrificial goat and lure the tigers down from their mountains.” Eyeing me in doubt, Binesi asks “You know usually what happens to the goat, right? Much as I would enjoy being relieved of my duties, my job here is to keep you alive and prevent a doomed rebellion from plunging the front lines into chaos and giving the united Defiled an opportunity to break through.” Curling his lip in a sneer, Binesi shuts the door and adds, “Remain inside until we are ready to set out tomorrow morning.”

“I’m not asking for permission,” I yell, hoping he can still hear me. “Only for your cooperation.”

Faster than I can blink an eye, the door rips open and Binesi marches in, prodding at my chest even as he slams the door shut behind him. “Step outside without my permission,” he snarls, looming over me like a spectre of death, “And I will have you drawn up on military charges and whipped within an inch of your life. This is no game, foundling. This is the fate of the Empire, the lives of hundreds of millions of people at stake here, so you will obey, or you will be made to – ”

“It’s alright Naaran.” Straightening in surprise as he finds a spear at his throat, Binesi stands stock still while I address the aged Bannerman holding the weapon in place. “Major Binesi just got a little heated and means me no harm. Besides, he’s well within his rights to have me lashed if I were to disobey direct orders.” Leaving his spear there for a little longer, Naaran grunts and steps back before fading into Concealment once more, as gruff and unsociable as ever. I didn’t know exactly who it was, but I knew someone friendly was hiding in the shadows to the left of the door, and even if that person wasn’t a match for the enraged Major, Kuang Biao is also hiding somewhere nearby. In fact, I think Binesi knew Kuang Biao was hiding behind me and was ready to fight him off, but Naaran’s presence on his left caught him completely off-guard.

This just goes to show that not all hidden mountain ninjas are created equal. I don’t know much about Naaran, except that he’s got amber eyes and Akanai once used him as an example to belittle Dad’s skills. It’s nice knowing the Bannermen are still looking out for me, even though three of them already lost their lives keeping me safe. Khagati, Mengu, and Kharnate, three of latest names added to the tally of Falling Rain’s folly. More will die before all this is done, and I hope brooding old Naaran isn’t one of them. He should be living out his twilight years in peace and comfort, or if that’s not his thing, fighting in battles of his own choosing. Instead, he’s lurking in the corner of a young idiot’s yurt and threatening a fellow mountain warrior whose only sin is trying to do his damned job.

