Through extreme Imbalance, he found True Balance, with Insight and Inspiration aplenty as he reforged himself anew, struggling against causality and the innate order of the world every step of the way. The Heavens fought against him for they knew his efforts would bring him one step closer to True Divinity, and thus one step closer to overturning them with his might, but this Sovereign refused to relent when he was so close to success. There were laws in place meant to keep him from achieving his goals, ones meant to restrict and bind him alongside all other mortals, but these laws held no sway here within his Domain, where his Will reigned supreme. For this, the Heavens sought to unmake him and reclaim their authority over him, to sabotage his endeavours and crush him beneath their weight, but even as the world itself turned against him, he held firm to his Intent to transcend the limits of this world and prepare for his Ascension to the next.

And when all was said and done, only a handful of seconds had passed, but as this Sovereign opened his new eyes to gaze upon the smooth, pale flesh of its unmarred body, he let loose with a laugh that rang all across Shi Bei and far across the desert sands. This body was perfection itself, not just in appearance, but in function as well, a finely-tuned construct powerful enough to contend with a Divinity through pure muscle alone. Beauty was subjective, but this body was without flaw and its features fully symmetric, resulting in an appearance that many would find attractive. At first glance, most would find it difficult to determine if this form was male or female by appearance, for his bald head and androgenous features were appealing to both genders. Earlier, he’d noted that one must indulge in order to be truly free of temptation, which was why he revised his plans to do away with his sexual organ and was even tempted to create a body with characteristics of both genders. Only then could he experience all the pleasures that life had to offer, but he’d been unable to work out how this could have been viably accomplished, so such modifications would have to wait until he possessed a better grasp of the Dao.

An indulgence for a different day however, a thought which this Sovereign placed aside as he rose through the sands and emerged within the city itself. His arrival did not go unnoticed, and he took great pleasure in the reactions of all who gazed upon perfection itself, with most showing signs of revulsion and captivation both as their feeble minds struggled to comprehend what they saw before them. It was not lust or affection which drew their eyes to him so, but the unconscious acceptance of this Sovereign’s superiority in all ways. Though still falling far short of a true Divinity, this Sovereign would soon ascend beyond the limits of a mere mortal, and thus, was best described as a nascent immortal, the very first of his kind in all history.

And as this Sovereign laid eyes upon his most hated foe, he considered his newfangled strength and re-calculated the odds in record time to discover that perhaps securing Falling Rain in hand would not be so impossible a feat. As an Immortal, he not only had access to the raw Energy of the Heavens as a Divinity would, but he also discovered that there was even more to the world than he previously understood, a higher power that went beyond even the Energy of the Heavens. This was Immortal Energy, something this Sovereign could only just barely perceive and lacked the ability to control, yet knowing it was there was more than enough. A vast reservoir of untouched potential, that’s what this Immortal Energy represented, the same energies which Falling Rain used to turn shards of his severed soul into an elixir for others.

An ability this Sovereign could eventually replicate, but why pay the cost when it could use Falling Rain’s soul instead? Even better if he could secure the boy’s soul in hand and leave the body and mind behind, leading others to believe the boy hale and healthy while this Sovereign unearthed his secrets in safety. An opportunity made possible because of the boy’s division of his soul, for this Sovereign could sense a second spirit inhabiting the boy’s Natal Palace, a Natal Soul possessing power enough to rival the boy’s eternal soul. This division left the boy weakened and vulnerable, for the body and mind were anchored to both souls and liable to release one in order to save the other, meaning this Sovereign could easily snatch up the true soul and leave behind an empty vessel to be occupied by the Natal Soul. Why, it might even thank this Sovereign for making freedom possible, though that might well change once it fell into the hands of the Imperial Clan, but this Sovereign will have already escaped with the true prize in hand.

From there, the possibilities were endless, for no Treaty could constrain an Immortal, and in time, this Sovereign was confident of bringing even the Emperor himself to his knees. It would only be a matter of centuries, or perhaps even decades given how much improved this Sovereign’s mind and soul had become, for once the boy’s secrets were extracted and deciphered, the Path forward would be made clear. The decision made, this Sovereign reached out to take Falling Rain’s soul in hand, only to draw back on instinct to catch a sword in mid-flight. Mere millimetres more and it would have driven itself into this Sovereign’s eye and brain, areas of weakness even this Immortal body could not avoid.

How curious. Did the boy pinpoint these weaknesses based on logic and facts, or was it merely habit which drew him to attack in such a manner?

No matter. Following on the heels of the boy’s attack was none other than the Old Wolf Calamity himself, and this Sovereign was eager to see how this newfangled body would hold up. So what if one of them lost control and brought Heaven’s Wrath down upon them? Much like the Old Wolf, this Sovereign no longer had anything to lose, and so much to gain from a conflict now that its forces were scattered to the winds. After today, this Sovereign would no longer be constrained by the red dust of the mortal world, for his sights were set far beyond.

Life and Death were only the beginning, and this Sovereign was eager to see what came next, just as soon as the Imperial Divinities in Shi Bei were dealt with and Falling Rain secured in hand.

Chapter Meme
