Stifling a sigh of bitter regret, this Sovereign laid his ambitions to rest alongside his fallen Commander General, but not every trial and tribulation was meant to be overcome.

The foundation of civilization itself was built upon a bedrock of failure, a truth he understood well enough, but even a Sovereign as discerning as he was discouraged by so egregious a setback. Centuries of planning and preparation all gone to waste largely due to the efforts and actions of a single infuriating boy, one barely even two decades old and unpredictable to the extreme. Fury and hatred welled up from within, emotions this Sovereign had long since mastered, but what aggravated him the most was seeing the boy’s unmitigated delight. There he lay upon the battlements of Shi Bei, dazed and bloodied but unbroken as he celebrated an accomplishment in which he played the part of bait. A wounded fledgling, so defiant in his ignorance, a life so feeble and fragile it would take little more than a thought to end his wretched existence, except the cost of doing so was more than what this Sovereign was willing to bear.

Vague and precarious though it might be, maintaining the Treaty proved more boon than burden to this Sovereign’s end goal, for he was not yet strong enough to directly contend with the Emperor outright, to say nothing of the various monstrous existences hiding in the shadows of the Supreme Families. An admission of weakness which brought the Sovereign no shame or discontent, for the Imperial Clan had come into existence several millennia ago and had been building its strength ever since. The only reason they cared not to deal with this Sovereign outright was because they saw his efforts as an entertaining change of pace, for they’d been playing the same game on the same board with the same pieces for far too long and delighted in seeing something new. This and the fact that his new allies within the Clan saw to it that their rivals made no direct action against him, but this setback in Shi Bei might well turn his supporters against him. There were no eternal friends, only eternal interests, and the fact that this Sovereign was unable to ravage the outer provinces as promised meant his allies within the Supreme families were already re-evaluating his worth.

No matter though, for even if the Imperial Clan united against him, he was more than confident of evading death and capture so long as the Emperor himself did not deign to act. He wouldn’t, because to do so would present the Supreme Families with an unprecedented opportunity to overthrow him themselves, meaning this Sovereign was safe from reprisal so long as he kept his wits about him.

All this and more flashed through his mind in the blink of an eye as he readied his plans for the immediate and distant future both, laying out the steps he intended to take over the next century and beyond. Though the battle in Shi Bei itself was not yet lost, there was no longer anything or anyone of value worth salvaging from this ruinous disaster. Bai Qi had been the most promising sapling of the bunch, and while there were a handful of other seedlings who might one day ascend to Divinity, this Sovereign no longer possessed the desire to nurture them. What use was there in saving a handful of pawns when the whole board was about to be overturned? Better to save his efforts and start anew while his enemies dealt with the chaos and anarchy left behind in the ravaged Western Province.

There was still some small benefit to be had in this most disgraceful of defeats, one which would have wide-reaching consequences to be sure. These last two years had been especially enlightening, and this Sovereign had learned much from his trials and tribulations. It would take time to untangle the truths he’d uncovered, but of this, he was in no short supply, and the benefits gleaned would more than outweigh the cost of failure here today.

And yet, even knowing all this and more, this Sovereign was still sorely tempted to throw caution to the wind and eliminate Falling Rain here and now, and not solely due to the boy’s latent potential.

It all started in Sanshu, where this most promising young seedling foiled this Sovereign’s plot to annex the city in order to later destabilize the Northern Province. Had his plans gone to fruition, then the city would have emerged ‘victorious’ against Butcher Bay’s Yo Ling thanks to the efforts of this Sovereign’s puppet, affording the Golden Highlands Coalition the opportunity to deal a death blow to their competitors within the merchant council and seize control of the city for themselves. Alas, all this was not meant to be as the actions of a single fledgling Warrant Officer forced Yo Ling to accelerate his plans and rush headlong into a disastrous death and defeat, while laying bare the corruption within the Merchant Council itself and leaving the city in control of the once impotent Magistrate who proved far more formidable than expected.

A most frustrating setback all things considered, especially considering how Falling Rain should have fallen under this Sovereign’s sway. A pawn turned against him by an Elemental Spirit no less, entities of power and Balance that even the Imperial Clan didn’t entirely understand. Add to this the Cloud Divinity’s interference preventing the savage tribal foreigners from breaking through the Northern Wall, and this Sovereign was forced to abandon the province and seek ingress elsewhere. He was met with similar failure in the South, where even centuries of planning were not enough to eke out a foothold in that most united of provinces, for their custom of venerating Spiritual Beasts made it all but impossible for this Sovereign’s puppets to rise to any position of high standing. This left him no choice but to focus all his efforts on the West, an outcome which was far from ideal, but it was his strongest base of power thanks to the unshakable position of the Mataram Clan.

A poor start to his plans to conquer the outer provinces, but he was too far gone to fall back. If this Sovereign were to do it all over again, he would have razed Sanshu to the ground and annexed Shen Mu instead, but how was he to know a single brat lacking hair on his chin would ruin all of his best laid plans? Sanshu was the far more valuable prize, the rice bowl of the North from which this Sovereign could destabilize the entire province and supply the West with much needed food and lumber, whereas Shen Mu was merely a gateway to the Northern Wall and therefore the second line of defense to overcome. When choosing a city to test the weapon crafted by the Canston Trading Group, Shen Mu had been the obvious choice, yet events since had proven that this Sovereign’s path to victory would have been laid bare had he chosen to obliterate Sanshu instead.

For then Falling Rain would have undoubtedly died in the ensuing chaos before ever familiarizing himself with his Elemental Spirit, and taking the outer provinces would have been as easy as plucking over-ripe apples from a branch.

There was still fortune to be found in disaster yet, as this Sovereign had found Insight and Inspiration in studying the boy’s most recent advancements, to say nothing of the ideas and innovations he championed as Legate of the Outer Provinces. The weapons of war alone would keep the Imperial Clan occupied for at least another century or two, for if left unchecked, the crossbows, catapults, and cannons would lead to rebellion and revolutions as the masses rose up in revolt against their overbearing overlords. To make matters worse, the rediscovery of poured stone meant building new fortresses was merely a matter of weeks, rather than years, which was the very reason why knowledge of it had been suppressed in the first place. Granted, widespread Runic Cannons would soon render traditional fortress walls moot and ineffective, which would further serve this Sovereign well in the years to come, for civil unrest and bloody insurrection were breeding grounds for Spectres and Demons alike. The so-called Defiled were of limited use, but gather enough droplets of water and a river would form, and the collective peasants of the Empire were an ocean of potential just waiting to be exploited.

Already, this Sovereign had the working outlines of countless tests to conduct and plans to set into motion, ones which would continue to destabilize the outer provinces and further his understanding of his most recent discoveries. No matter how dreary or tedious arranging the tests might be, the mere prospect of uncovering new information filled him with anticipation and longing, rare sensations to be savoured and relished given his extensive experience. The boy called him an eight-hundred-year-old monster, but this Sovereign’s lifespan was better measured in millennia than centuries, a secret known only to one other entity in existence and a secret he would keep for so long as he lived. This Sovereign had done more than bear witness to the rise of the Azure Empire, and he would have a hand in its fall as well, a dream which had been delayed thanks to Falling Rain’s insufferable interference, but not by long for reasons much the same.

No matter though. Two steps forward and one step back was still progress in the end, and this Sovereign was nothing if not patient. Eager too, for Falling Rain’s Path enabled him to carry out feats once previously believed to require the attainment of half-step Divinity at the bare minimum, meaning that the very foundation of the Dao as the Empire understood it was considerably flawed at best. Even the so-called Sword King Ryo Dae Jung had only just touched upon the secrets of Sword Intent, yet young Falling Rain had already successfully merged it within his Manifested Domain to strike down Surkithyr’s prized First Blade. Though admittedly a failure who had reached the pinnacle of his potential, the half-beast Junta had formed a bond with the Transcendent Spirit residing within his armour which brought him to the forefront of his peers in terms of defensive strength. Even a Peak Expert with the potential to reach Half-Step Divinity within a handful of years like Du Min Gyu had been unable to easily kill Junta, yet Falling Rain cut him down in an instant from three-hundred paces away, dealing a blow that neither half-beast nor Transcendent Spirit could sense or defend against.

So imagine what this Sovereign could do with only a hundred Falling Rains, true Cultivators of the Dao who wielded the power of a Divinity without the restrictions set upon them by the Heavens above. A goal which would be all too easy to accomplish if he had the boy in hand, for the boy’s soul possessed the unique ability to meld flawlessly with another’s and form a connection to the Dao itself. Bestowing Blessings was but the least of what one could accomplish with Falling Rain in hand, for his soul could guide this Sovereign steps along the Path to find the true pinnacle of mortal strength, and perhaps even carry him further beyond.

A result of bonding with an Elemental Spirit, or a rare quality of the boy himself? Difficult to say, but this Sovereign hungered for the truth.

These were merely the most valuable aspects of Falling Rain, to say nothing of his many seemingly miraculous discoveries of which there were almost too many to name. Honed Emotional Aura which he used to distract and dishearten, awakening Transcendent Spirits within his Spiritual Weapons which allowed them to attack and defend of their own volition, harnessing the Energy of the Heavens to guide the masses to Core Creation, the boy stumbled across answers to questions this Sovereign had once touched upon in the distant past. The foundational knowledge required to solve those problems had yet to be unearthed, so there was no sense digging aimlessly in hopes of striking gold, yet Falling Rain had done just that. This Sovereign would have counted himself lucky to have stumbled across success in any one of these areas over the last millennia, yet Falling Rain had accomplished all this and more with only a decade of practice. Without the benefit of guidance from his so-called patron no less, for contrary to what most believed, this Sovereign knew that even the Imperial Clan did not possess the answers provided by Falling Rain’s Path, meaning his progress had nothing to do with his Imperial Peerage whatsoever. No, if the Supreme Families had made such progress in this Sovereign’s absence, then there would have been strife and chaos aplenty in the Eastern Province, but as far as he could tell from his own sources and the schemes played out by the prospective heirs to the throne, the Imperial Clan was still bitterly embroiled in the same political infighting he'd left behind several millennia ago.

A battle against progress and innovation of all things, for those in power disliked change or any departure from the norm. As the saying went, better a bird in hand than two in the bush, so why make the effort to progress and risk being left behind? Such greed, such ignorance, to censure any and all developments which the Imperial Clan could not control, because they thought it better to wallow in mediocrity rather than aim for greater heights and risk crashing back down to the world below. They cared not for the glory of Heaven because they feared losing what they had on the earth below, like frogs sitting in a bucket and pretending it was a well because they were too afraid to venture beyond the confines of their current comfortable position.

