All this and more passed through this Sovereign’s mind in less time than it took to blink an eye, thousands upon thousands of threads of thoughts weaving together to form a tapestry of intent. Planning out his next actions would be pivotal for success, so he laid out every step from within his Natal Palace while in union with his body, mind, and soul. This was a key moment for this Sovereign and his Path, one which surpassed even his most recent Ascension to false Divinity some eight centuries ago and his unification with a Transcendent five centuries after. Both of those steps had been a mistake, this Sovereign saw this now, but after a thorough study of Falling Rain’s Path and witnessing the birth of a Transcendent Divinity in Meng Sha, he had all the answers he needed to set himself back upon the correct Path. The resources too, for the siege of Shi Bei saw the greatest gathering of Defiled forces and no small number of Imperial soldiers too, with millions upon millions of them dying in the last fifteen days. There was an energy to death, one which stood opposite to the power of life, and this Sovereign’s Transcendents and Spectres had been gathering the death energies in Shi Bei, energies he would now make use of to take the next step.

Whether it be the energy of life or death, neither one was wholly understood by anyone under Heaven, but if this Sovereign declared himself to be the second foremost expert on such matters, then no one would dare claim themselves the first. Not even the specialists of the Di Family could match his experience, and they toiled day and night to turn corpses into fertilizer and grow the necessary Spiritual Crops needed to sustain the Martial Warriors of the Imperial Clan. It was this mastery with which this Sovereign used to bond his frail mortal flesh with the timeless physique of a Transcendent, a dark, chitinous scorpion shaped creature that was full of fury and hatred. A seemingly prudent move at the time, for his flesh had reached the end of its days and starting anew in a different shell would have been a tedious and time-consuming affair, one he could not afford with success so close at hand. Even after careful preparation, it was always disorienting to take over a new host, and he would require care and protection for more than a decade as he grew from infant to adulthood while dedicating time to lay the foundation required to become a Divinity once more. If only it was possible to skip ahead and take over a fully grown human adult, but souls were eternal existences and not so easily overcome even when impaired by a newborn’s mind and body supporting it. Young Gen was a prime example of just how delicate the matter would be, but he was also a seedling so promising this Sovereign had no option but to try and seize the boy’s body for himself. Falling Rain was even more promising, but despite luring his soul away from his mind and body and trapping it within this Sovereign’s Natal Palace, he’d been unable to keep the boy’s soul from escaping in the end, a conflict which could have ended in disaster if the boy had instead challenged this Sovereign for control of his Natal Throne. Though there was no doubt in his mind that he would have emerged victorious in the end, for a contest of Wills within his Domain was hardly fair for the challenger, but even then, victory would not have come without cost.

If only the boy’s soul had remained distracted for a little longer yet, because a soul was far less formidable without a mind and body bound to it…

Alas, there was no cure for regret, and no benefit to be found in second-guessing past decisions, so this Sovereign focused on the present and future instead. Today, here in Shi Bei, he would leave behind the trappings of mortal flesh and Transcendent graft to be reborn anew, but first he needed to gather the energy required to do so. The Transcendent Divinity in Meng Sha had drawn upon the raw Energies of the Heavens to reshape its physical form, one which melded body, mind, and soul into a singular sublime vessel that could only be described as perfection itself. Not perfection in beauty, but perfection in utility, flawed and limited only because it had been built upon a crumbling foundation of broken faith and wild emotion. That would not be the case here, for though this Sovereign’s decisions had been guided by desperation, his actions were based in cold logic alone, and he would not allow the Heavens to take charge in his Ascendance. This meant supplying the Energy needed himself, while also taking the necessary risk of forging ahead on this new Path before further study, because if he were to delay now, then it might well be centuries before a second opportunity presented itself, centuries he could ill-afford to wait. Better to risk a flawed approach and commit to fixing his errors in the future so he could seize the upper hand for now. This would be his only advantage once the Imperial Clan got a hold of Falling Rain, the head start this Sovereign would need to stay ahead of the Emperor and one day topple him from his throne.

A lofty goal to hold onto, one which might well be millennia away for now, but a journey of a thousand leagues begins with but a single step, and this Sovereign was ready to take his.

Tapping into the Spirits trapped within his golden robes, this Sovereign gauged the reserves of energy gathered by his puppets and hoped it was enough for his purposes. Without the ability to measure Energy in all its different forms, this Sovereign had been unable to determine just how much he would need to complete his transformation, nor was he able to accurately calculate how much his Spectres and Transcendents had gathered. What he possessed appeared to be enough considering it seemed like more than what was used in the Transcendent Divinity’s Ascension, but that had been a flawed transformation in the end, meaning this Sovereign might well require more. For this reason, he continued to watch and wait as news of Bai Qi’s death spread across all of Shi Bei, a grievous blow to the morale of even the most crazed tribal or devout Chosen. It was so alarming that even this Sovereign’s first Disciple saw fit to contact him, but rather than give YuKon permission to withdraw his Clan from the fray, he commanded his Disciple to have the Mataram clansmen fight to the last, for their deaths would only further his cause.

The same order was passed along to every Chieftain, Champion, and Chosen Officer still standing, as this Sovereign used his shackled Transcendents as intermediaries to avoid being discovered. His expectations were low to begin with, but even then, his ‘conquering’ army managed to disappoint him as vast swathes of his soldiers sought to flee the battlefield, setting off a concatenation of events that resulted in a full-blown rout. Not the worst outcome, but far from the best, and this Sovereign could only console himself with the fact that Falling Rain was a bloodthirsty young man who jumped at the opportunity to run his enemies down from behind. Credit where it was due, Chen Hongji’s cavalry forces were mounted and readied even before the order was given, for the brilliant tactician had seen the writing on the wall and knew well what to do with this knowledge. Horses streamed out from the gates alongside a multitude of other diverse mounts, mostly rhinos and roosequins with a smattering of elephants and cattle as well as the odd bird, lizard, or what have you sprinkled alongside them. The death toll already numbered in the millions and continued to climb as the Imperial cavalry ran roughshod over their fleeing foes, and this Sovereign allowed himself a moment to taste the heady bloodlust and vulgar carnality which grew thick in the air. More evidence of the link between life and death, for in the process of dealing death, humans and beasts alike were driven by their instincts to create life as well, to fornicate and procreate in order to sustain the necessary Balance required of them.

Everything came back to Balance, a verifiable truth which helped rein this Sovereign’s own desires back in. Though he’d long since divested himself of such urges, he would be lying if he claimed to not miss the indulgence. A flash of Insight accompanied this seemingly inconsequential acknowledgement, one which brought him even closer to the Truth, for an emotion unexpressed would remain rooted in body, mind, and soul, only to be expressed in another, possibly detrimental manner. Better to retain the ability to express such urges and indulge within reason, which changed much of what he had planned regarding his next step, so he took the time to reconfigure his Intent to better match his new vision.

A process which took longer than expected, but in reality, less than a handful of minutes had passed, and the battlefield of Shi Bei was looking sparse and ruined indeed. The bulk of this Sovereign’s forces were well on their way past the horizon, while the Imperial cavalry was already circling about to deal with the stragglers left behind, as well as those Defiled who were too crazed or stupid to flee. A resounding Imperial victory all things considered, and this Sovereign could only begrudgingly admit admiration for his foes. Not just the outlier and anomaly Falling Rain, but those who supported him as well, like Chen Hongji, Situ Nian Zu, Akanai, and so many others who shouldered the weight of the Heavens and bought the boy enough time to bring yet another miracle into existence.

But even as the Imperial Army raised their voices in celebration, this Sovereign’s lips parted in a smile as he committed to the next step. The Energies of the Heavens surged and kicked like a wild stallion unwilling to be mounted, but he had no use for it just yet as he tapped into the vast reserves of death energy held by his army of enslaved Spectres and the liquefied remains of millions upon millions of corpses gathered by his Transcendents. With their souls shackled within his Natal Palace acting as a conduit, he drew upon everything they’d collected in these past fifteen days and more to fuel his impending Ascension, one which would surpass the Ascension of a Transcendent Divinity and bring this Sovereign to the pinnacle of mortal strength. Better if he could solve the riddle of how to progress beyond mere mortality, but better this than nothing at all, and even this much was already in defiance of natural law. Time was a luxury he could ill-afford, but he acted with care and deliberation before proceeding with each and every action lest he slip up and incur Heaven’s retribution, for he knew not what form it would take and had no intention of discovering this firsthand. As he broke down his mortal flesh alongside the grafted Transcendent, he let loose a scream of agony unlike anything ever heard before, for this was a pain that went beyond the mere activation of nerves and delved into the workings of the soul itself. Body, mind, and soul came together as he wove the material and immaterial into one, doing away with everything he’d built upon a flawed foundation and reducing himself to something weaker than a babe and less than a basic commoner.

Then, and only then, did he bring down the barriers between his soul and the Void, and for the first time in untold millennia, this Sovereign knew fear as the Spectres poured into his Natal Palace to devour everything within his Domain.

They’d been waiting there all along, hungry and eager for a taste of his soul, for he had kept them in check for far too long. Where the Imperial Clan and outer provinces saw the Spectres as a plague upon humanity, this Sovereign saw the potential hiding within. Disincarnate shards of severed souls, poisoned by Imbalance of emotion, the Spectres were capable of driving weak-willed mortals to madness, but poison and medicine often differed only by dosage. Alongside this poison came a connection with the Heavens themselves, and this Sovereign had used that connection to forge ever forward along his Path in centuries past. Even though his initial premise had been flawed, not all his subsequent conclusions were erroneous and unusable, and it was this knowledge which brought him to the cusp of his next step. Balance in all things, but this Sovereign had long since noted that Balance was often kept in check by natural extremes. Just as a forest fire cleared out old growth to make room for the new, an excess of Imbalance could bring about a return to Balance. This was why the Defiled indulged in bouts of murderous debauchery, because they were driven to their limits by the Spectres plaguing them, disincarnate souls seeking Balance through the only Path left to them. Balance through Imbalance, life found in death, dominance discovered through submission, and true victory obtained from surrender.

Alas, few possessed the strength of will to remain true to themselves whilst approaching the limits of human emotion. None thus far in all of human history, in fact, save for this Sovereign himself, as he would soon prove to the world and to himself.

The deluge of death energy was accompanied by a torrent of negative emotion as countless Spectres crashed into his soul and sought to tear him apart for succor. There he sat upon his Natal Throne, clad in his flowing golden robes like an Emperor in truth as the waves of emotions crashed into his psyche and threatened to capsize him beneath their dark intents, but he held the course and emerged from each wave stronger and more determined than before. The waves hammered into him and washed away the impurities of his body, mind, and soul, for they were all linked as one and inseparable from the whole. Every blow hammered into him and moulded his existence into a singular mass of thoughts, experiences, and emotions, a blank canvas upon which he would paint perfection to mark his first step along his new Path.

