Not this Sovereign however, but working apart from the Imperial Clan came at great cost, and not just personal. Though the true secret of his origins was known only to one other living being in existence, his methods and abilities were proof enough that his Path was part and parcel of the Imperial Clan’s. Rather than embark upon a new, untested, and likely inferior Path to hide his origins, he instead embraced them by hiding the truth with an all too obvious lie to keep others from looking too deeply into his persona as Zhen Shi the Uniter. To the outer provinces, he was a madman nicknamed ‘True Corpse’ who indulged in all manner of atrocities, but to the Imperial Clan, his name all but identified him as a disgraced Scion living in exile. A most useful cover all things considered, given how the names of all banished exiles were struck from record to hide the shame of the Imperial Clan, but it was not without its drawbacks. Even though this Sovereign was beyond the petty infighting of the Supreme Families, the ‘exiled’ Zhen Shi could hardly behave in so overbearing a manner lest it raise questions as to which of the Supreme Families was backing him and how much support they were willing to offer. In truth, even though they all suspected that he was a pawn of this family or the other, this Sovereign had no real support from within the Imperial Clan. A fact one enterprising Imperial Scion discovered all too easily, leaving ‘Zhen Shi’ no choice but to make a show of fealty to his new ‘sponsor’ or throw away all pretenses and engage in a battle he was not yet ready to take.

A mummer’s farce is what it was, a show for the masses to make them truly believe the Imperial Clan was embroiled within this conflict, one which cost this Sovereign the lives of five Half-Step Divinity Wraiths. Killing Yang Jixing hardly required so valuable an asset, one not easily replaced, and to make matters worse, this Sovereign had been unable to even see them at their full strength, for they’d been given express orders not to kill Shen Zhen Wu lest the fury of the Grand Marshal and Liang Family both fall upon him. In return, all he received was his new patron’s ‘magnanimous’ gratitude and a promise of support in the future should he ever wish to return to the Clan. Not as an Imperial Scion, but as an Oath-Bound slave, for they coveted his secrets and trusted him not one whit. A dilemma for which this Sovereign had no one to blame but himself, because he was still too weak to stand entirely apart from the five families and Imperial Clan, and could only be drawn into their games once more.

A game this Sovereign understood how to play better than even the Grand Marshal and Prime Minister both. The Supreme Families feared his half-step Divinity Wraiths would bring about an imbalance in power, and so they unanimously agreed to remove them from the board, for ‘Zhen Shi’s’ army could hardly be given free reign to run roughshod over the outer provinces. Had his half-step Divinity Wraiths not been discovered, this Sovereign could have used them to kill every Living Legend dispatched against him and perhaps even a Divinity or two should they be caught unawares. The siege of Shi Bei would have played out quite differently if Chen Hongji, Situ Nian Zu, and Baatar succumbed to a Wraith’s blade soon after the first Imperial ship weighed anchor in a western harbour. Falling Rain might well have died too, though even now, this Sovereign was loathe to kill the boy outright, for his Path and actions represented a treasure trove of knowledge that would forever change the Dao as the Imperial Clan perceived it.

Which was why this Sovereign had risked it all by sending the Phantom to end the boy’s life and deny him from the Imperial Clan.

A decision made against this Sovereign’s better judgement, and not solely because it ended in failure, but because in the short time since, he had already thought up a myriad of scenarios in which having the boy in hand would make his research so much easier. Alas, desire alone would not suffice for he lacked the strength to keep Falling Rain to himself, for the boy flew too high and shone too brightly. In a matter of hours, word of his exploits would reach the Emperor’s ears if they had not reached them already, for the Tian Family spies were everywhere and nothing if not his most loyal of subjects. Their obedience was born from necessity rather than actual devotion, for information was power and the Tian Family was by far the most powerful of all. The only reason the Emperor and the other four Families had yet to turn on the Tian Family was because they only ever traded in information and never acted upon it themselves, for even they dared not reach beyond their demesne. The Tian Family Patriarchs of every generation fancied themselves the puppet masters of the Imperial Clan, but they were little more than grovelling dogs seeking shelter behind the boots of their master, the Emperor himself.

And now, their little birds were racing back to the Eastern Province to bring word of Falling Rain’s most recent exploits, most notably his ability to negate Heaven’s Wrath and enable a Divinity to strike with full strength without destroying their immediate surroundings and rendering it uninhabitable for centuries to come.

This Sovereign had sent the Phantom to claim Falling Rain’s life in a moment of weakness. A desperate last act in hopes of killing the boy before his ability became widespread and rendered the Treaty null and void, for the fear of Heaven’s Wrath was the only thing keeping the Imperial Clan intact. Powerful though he might be, even the Emperor himself would be unable to keep the Supreme Families in check once their respective Divinities took to the field, for a being at the pinnacle of the mortal Path was capable of unleashing untold damage in the mere blink of an eye. So long as they cared not for the consequences, a single Divinity was more than enough to deal crippling damage to a Supreme Family, damage that would take decades, if not centuries to recover from. Then there were the ‘neutral’ Divinities to take into account, for though they lacked unity, they outnumbered the Divinities of the Empire by far, and might well splinter off into factions of their own to threaten the Emperor’s iron grip on the outer provinces.

Everything would soon change drastically for the worse once word of Falling Rain’s abilities spread, and to make matters worse, the boy had already taught his ability to the Old Wolf Calamity, an ancient Ancestral Beast with little to lose and strength enough to bring ruin to the entire Empire in a single night. Even this Sovereign would be reluctant to engage the Old Wolf in battle, to say nothing of the Cloud Divinity Taduk standing guard over Falling Rain, Healing the boy’s injuries while scanning the deserts of Shi Bei in search of this Sovereign’s location. Beneath the Medical Saint’s distracted, absent-minded façade lay a predator through and through, one who saw Falling Rain as his own flesh and blood and hungered for vengeance and retribution for what this Sovereign had done. There were five other Divinities standing alongside them, each one formidable enough in their own right, and while this Sovereign was more than capable of handling any one of them on their own, he lacked the confidence to escape unscathed should they ever join hands against him.

Burning rage and bitter indignation welled up from within, and this Sovereign took a moment to allow his emotions to wash over him. Oh how he yearned to strike the boy down, or better yet, mark his loved ones for death and laugh as his wives, parents, siblings, and comrades died one by one by one. That was the key to tormenting the boy, a truth this Sovereign learned firsthand after crafting a lifetime of nightmares for him within the landscape bordering the Void and Falling Rain’s Natal Palace. Even this Sovereign dared not claim to understand the facts as they were, for he only knew that dreams and nightmares transpired within a realm that transcended the boundaries of the mind and soul both, one in which he could exert influence upon the minds of mortals without trespassing upon their Domain.

And despite inflicting all manner of pain and suffering upon the boy within this nightmarish landscape, this Sovereign had been unable to break him. Instead, it was the death of his loved ones which broke Falling Rain in the end, and this Sovereign yearned to see the boy suffer in reality and break down once again. How sweet it would be to take his hand and force him to flay his father’s hide, or make him watch as his comrades took up blunt arms against one another and fought to a slow and arduous death. Though this Sovereign no longer craved the desires of flesh, he ached to see the boy’s rage and despair as he set all manner of brutes and beasts upon Falling Rain’s sister, mother, and wives, a show to be captured in memory and replayed time and time again within the boy’s mind. Once the boy’s loved ones were dead and gone, only then would this Sovereign press his blade to the boy’s flesh to show him the full breadth of ‘Zhen Shi’s’ abilities, ones which had been perfected over eight centuries of trial and error.

And when Falling Rain’s flesh could withstand no more, this Sovereign would claim his soul and store it within the golden robes of his Natal Palace, trapping it as he trapped the Spectres and tormented them without end.

Alas, all this would forever remain a dream and dream alone, for this Sovereign was no longer able to bear the price of keeping the boy alive. Nor could he afford to kill him either, not after losing two of his most prized pieces, not unless this Sovereign was willing to act and place himself at risk. Even then, there was no guarantee of success, not with the Cloud Divinity standing watch over Falling Rain, to say nothing of Old Wolf Calamity and the frighteningly destructive Ancestral Rabbit. Still, making an attempt on the boy’s life would be as easy as turning a hand for this Sovereign so long as he was willing to pay the price, but that would entail wholly abandoning everything he’d accomplished in the last eight centuries since taking up the mantle of ‘Zhen Shi’. Though this battle and the war itself was lost, there was still much to be salvaged from the outer provinces themselves, and not just here in the West, but if he were to reveal himself and strike down the insolent whelp, then this Sovereign would have no choice but to flee and hide for decades, if not centuries, to escape the Cloud Divinity’s reprisal. Young though he might be, this Sovereign suspected the Ancestral Hare was capable of becoming a calamity unto himself, especially given his superb mastery of his Blessing and ability to summon the rain and winds as he pleased. Thus far, the Cloud Divinity had only used his Blessing to passively support the Imperial Army while hindering the Defiled in an effort to skirt the Treaty, but that was likely to change if Falling Rain were to die by this Sovereign’s hand.

And yet, even after tallying the costs and assessing the grave risks, this Sovereign was still sorely tempted to act, and would have if cold logic did not dictate otherwise. Such was his Path to Balance, to indulge emotion but act only on logic alone, the Razor’s Edge he kept to for as long as he’d lived, and he would not deviate from it now, not when he was so close to success and advancement. Though marred by repeated failures, this foray into the Western Province had proven most fruitful for this Sovereign and well worth the cost so long as he put his remaining resources to good use. Capturing Falling Rain was impossible, and killing him a waste, for the Supreme Families and Emperor would all want the boy for themselves, meaning there was no need for this Sovereign to take direct action. The Liang Family would undoubtedly want to monopolize Falling Rain and had already taken several steps to do so, including introducing him to his future wife who would more firmly bind him to the Family than a mere Imperial Servant. How unfortunate for them that their investment would bear no fruit, because Falling Rain was a prize too valuable to keep to themselves. The other four Supreme Families would never stand for it, nor would the Emperor himself, though this Sovereign suspected the Emperor and Liang Family both had other plans.

Because Falling Rain was a prize well-worth abandoning the Empire itself.

Yes, this Sovereign could already see the moves being played out on the board, as four Supreme Families joined hands with the Emperor to take down the Liangs, while the Grand Marshal gathered his best and brightest to ensure they escaped with Falling Rain in hand. So long as they were able to uncover the secrets of his strength, then the prospect of vengeance in the future would never be far from hand. From there, it would become a race against time, one in which this Sovereign wholly expected to emerge victorious, for even without the boy in hand, he already had a sizable lead on his opponents, one which would only grow larger once he took the next step here in Shi Bei.

