A small part of me wanted to kick myself for suggesting we bury the remains instead of just cremating them, but it was far too late to back out now.

Tabitha and I had already worked together to punch through the brick flooring in the hallway outside the chamber. Initially, we tried to break the flooring inside the chamber as it would be closer to all the bones, but either they used a stronger version of the grey bricks in the chamber’s construction, or it was boosted by other means.

Even with the two of us together, we couldn't scratch the floor inside the chamber, so we were forced to dig outside.

We were on the bottom floor of the ruins, so we could dig down, which was thankfully easier than tunneling to the side. The bad news was that, out of all the gear we brought, neither of us had thought to bring even a hand shovel. Ironically, this meant I had to rely on my hands and Strength to finish the job. It worked, but I wouldn't call it easy.

The dirt around the ruins had long since settled and hardened into something closer to stone, not to mention the countless tree roots crisscrossing everywhere. I wanted nothing more than to suggest we change our plans, but one look at Tabitha’s smiling face was enough to convince me otherwise. She loved the idea of laying everybody to rest, and despite the hard work it required, I did too.

That's why I was standing in a seven-foot hole, scooping dirt out with my bare hands, trying to dig around a particularly large root. Of course, now that we were finally alone down here, I had already removed my armor and set it aside while working, but that didn't keep me from sweating

like crazy.

I can loosen up the ground a bit using the pike side of my hammer, but everything else is done by hand.

“Let me try one more time,” Tabitha says above me, sword in hand.

“One sec,” I say, throwing one last handful of dirt outside the pit before hopping up and out of the way.

Tabitha couldn’t do much digging with only one hand, but she was trying to help in her own unique way. I couldn't cut through the steel-like roots making my life hell, but she could. The root she currently had her eyes on was only two inches thick, and yet it took everything she had to cut into it with her amazing swordsmanship.

Off to the side, next to the pile of dirt I was excavating, was a small pile of similar, all be it smaller roots she’d managed to remove. Later, I was going to try using them to make Tabitha a type of primitive shield, seeing how durable they were, though there was no way they would equal the one she lost.

In her current state, Tabitha was down more than just an arm. If she was going to stand a chance against the winged serpent, she needed a semi-decent shield, and she needed it now.

As soon as we were done burring the bones in the chamber, we would have to sit down and discuss what I could realistically make down here. After all, Tabitha needed a shield, and I had almost nothing to work with.

But that was the future me's problem; the current me just had to dig a big enough hole to fit all the bones in. And while I might be complaining, we were making decent time.

“Here goes,” Tabitha slashes with her sword, precisely aiming for the spot she's already hit twice.

“Nice,” I clap as Tabitha's sword finally cuts through the root, and I wasn’t even being sarcastic, either.

Tabitha smiles down at the severed root at the bottom of our slowly deepening hole. Hopping back in, I grab the piece of wood and examine it.

Though the trees on the surface looked dead, the roots were still good. The chunk of wood was the size of a club and would make an excellent handle if processed carefully. “Wana see,” I hold up the root so Tabitha can admire her handiwork.

Tabitha temporarily sheaths her sword and gestures for me to throw it up. I do just that, and she catches it easily.

While Tabitha marvels at the stronger-than-steel root, I continue excavating. But digging wasn't the only thing I was up to. Digging was mindless work, so I brought up my status page to kill some time.

LV: 84 Experience: 1,531,590/ 1,636,419

Health: 2,700/2,700

Stamina 1,394.12/1,836

Mana: 789.76/1,060

Vitality: 270.01

Endurance: 100.41

Strength: 181.01

Dexterity: 181.00

Senses: 62.77

Mind: 65.67

Magic: 106.03

Clarity: 79.35

Status Points: 20

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV81), Running (LV80), Blacksmithing (LV75), Hammer Skills (LV71), Axe Skills (LV60), Cleaning (LV58), Chanting (LV53), Mining (LV51), Drawing (LV48), Trading (LV48), Cooking (LV47), Sword Skills (LV40), Acting (LV36), Dagger Skills (LV35), Dancing (LV33), Wood Carving (LV32), Sewing (LV32), Pugilist Skills (LV16), Alchemy (LV15), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV81), Double Step (LV68), Charm (LV50), Hammer Arts (LV50), Measurement (LV49), Axe Arts (LV39), Steady Hands (LV36), Intimidating Shout (LV34), Writing (LV32), Mathematics (LV31), Increase Price (LV22), Lower Price (LV20), Sword Arts (LV17), Gourmet (LV15), Dagger Arts (LV13), Marching (LV5), Shout of Valor (LV3), Pugilist Arts (LV1)

Tier 3:

Mana Manipulation (LV67), Expel Mana (LV64), Weighted Strike (LV47), Double Strike (LV46), Precise Strike (LV46), Flash Step (LV40), Contract (LV22), Poison Resistance (LV14), Enchanting (LV11)

Tier 4:

Mental Resistance (LV63), Mana Skin (LV61), Inject Mana (LV57), Extract Mana (LV40), Magic Blacksmithing (LV36), Magic Threads (LV34), Air Walk (LV24), Empowered Spell (LV21), Ironclad Agreement (LV8), Multi-Strike (LV7), Appealing Deal (LV3),

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV41), Soul Manipulation (LV23)

Tier 6:

Soul Devourer (LV18), Experience Transfer (LV3)

Increased Skill Levels

Dancing (LV33) 1,650exp

Flash Step (LV40) 6,000exp

Enchanting (LV11) 1,650exp

Soul Devourer (LV18) 18,000exp

Skill Experience: 27,300exp

Crafting Experience: 0exp

Fighting Experience: 3,614,874exp

It’s been less than a day since I checked my status page in my soul, and while my skills didn't change much, there were some important things to note.

Right off the bat, I couldn’t help but grin at my level. Absorbing the skeleton pushed me up to 84 and brought me to the cusp of reaching level 85. I had estimated the amount of experience I absorbed at 3.5 million, but it turns out I was off by a bit, though it didn’t bother me to get more than I expected.

Now, how would I get another hundred thousand experience points before we faced the lesser dragon again? I wanted as many extra status points ready for the fight as possible, and 30 was a lot better than 20. Of course, Tabitha warned me about using status points that way, but something told me she wouldn't object in this situation. Besides, even if she did, I’d do it anyway because I didn’t care about cheating so long as it let me fight next to Tabitha.

Sighing while shoveling dirt with my hands, I move past my level and onto the four skills that each gained a level. I was thrilled to see both Dancing and Flash Step had increased while dodging the skeleton's attacks, with Flash Step finally reaching its first bottleneck.

I’ve been using Flash Step for a lot longer than Dancing, and while Dancing was leveling faster due to being only tier 1, Flash Step finally reaching level 40 was more significant. Thanks to Flash Step, I can keep up with higher-level enemies in close combat; without it, I'd be a sitting duck. There was no doubt I would have to spam it against the lesser dragon, so each level meant a slightly reduced Stamina cost.

My last two skills were less important when it came to fighting the winged serpent, and while I wasn’t exactly thrilled to see Soul Devourer leveling again so soon, I couldn't be picky with where I got my experience points from at this point.

Oppositely, I was glad Enchanting leveled from cracking the runes on the chamber’s doors. I’d never leveled Enchanting by doing anything other than drawing runes, but it was nice to know it was possible.

However, I only leveled my skill because of how complicated the runes on the door were. Sadly, repeating earning Enchanting levels that way was likely out of the question—not unless I found an even more complex enchantment to study, and what were the chances of that happening, really?

Due to everything happening around us, I was leveling up like crazy, but I still hadn’t forgotten how easily the winged serpent brushed off Tabitha’s attacks. There was a chance I could outrun the snake with my increased stats, but that would require me to leave Tabitha behind, and we haven’t gone through everything we have up until now just to split up now. The two of us either escaped together or we died together; it was as simple as that.

Dismissing my status page, I focus on digging despite how boring it is. Above me, Tabitha was swinging the root she cut around like a sword, and I'll admit, seeing the grin on her face made me feel better. She didn't have the face of somebody who had given up hope, so neither would I.

"Thinking of using something other than your sword?" I playfully tease as I dig.

"No, but maybe this root could replace your hammer," Tabitha deadpans back challengingly.

“That was a low blow,” I puff up my cheeks and pout childishly.

“Technically, I have the high ground," Tabitha says, throwing the root into the pile with the others and sitting on the edge of my pit. "Do you really think you can make me a shield out of roots?" She asks lazily.

I had haphazardly tossed the idea around when we started digging, but I didn't think she was listening—Apparently, I was wrong.

"It's either them or bricks," I snarkily reply, but my joyful smile slowly fades into a more serious look. "It won't be as good as your original shield, but I'll do my best," I do my best to project confidence.

“I know you will," Tabitha's unwavering gaze said she didn't doubt me in the slightest, which put all the more pressure on me to deliver on my promise.

Maybe if we break down more of the floor, I could construct a rudimentary forge out of the grey bricks. It would be mana-intensive with only flame spells, but I could melt down the twisted scraps of Tabitha's left grieve. The small amount of metal I could scrape together by doing so would go a long way if I used it to hold the various roots together.

It's also possible if I somehow pull a working forge out of my ass, I could try melting down the skeleton’s armor, though judging by the amount of rust I saw, I wasn't sure how much usable material that would even give me.

“Assuming I make you a shield, what’s our plan of attack?" I keep the conversation going as I work and plan simultaneously.

Tabitha hums and kicks her legs against the side of my hole. “Even without a shield, I’ll need to be front and center.”

“Are you sure? With my improved defenses, I might be able to take a hit better than you,” I point out to her.

Tabitha's eyes narrow, and her voice drops an octave. “I will be at the front; this isn’t up for discussion.”

I grit my teeth in frustration but don't argue with her. I may have convinced Tabitha to let me help her, but she still refused to put me directly in harm's way. She's probably hoping that if things go south, I can run away while she sacrifices herself. But jokes on her because that's the one thing I refuse to do.

“Alright,” I sigh in defeat. “Then what can I do? It's low-leveled, but I have Shout of Valor. Could that help? If not, I can look at the snake’s soul and get it to focus on me if need be." I suggest two simple strategies.

Tabitha nods along with the first but frowns at the second. “Suddenly having it shift targets might not be the wisest of choices,” Tabitha taps her knee with her good hand. “Remember what happened with the skeleton? You got its attention and dragged the fight out longer than needed. The same could happen with the snake, only with worse results.”

“So, I can help, but I can't draw its attention or do anything flashy,” I roll my eyes sarcastically. “What is it you expect me to do?”

“Survive,” Tabitha replies instantly and without hesitation.

“Funny, I feel the same way about you," I counter, throwing a wad of compacted dirt in her direction, which she easily dodges. "I can help; just give me a chance," I plead.

Tabitha looks at me with tired eyes but doesn't outright dismiss me. Instead, she slowly stands up using her good arm and removes her left from its sling. "I think you've dug enough; let's start moving the bones over,” she instructs.

It was no secret she was trying to change the topic, but I don't point that out. Rather, I hop out of the pit I dug and follow her back into the chamber.

“Are you good to use your arm?” I ask as we walk up onto the first pile of bones. There weren't any more scabs on her left arm, but the scars remained.

“For now, I won’t lift anything heavy with it, but moving bones should be fine," Tabitha waved off my concern with her scared left hand to prove she was okay. She had no outward reaction to moving it, but even if her bones had healed, she still had to be in considerable pain.

In my head, I remind myself to make sure she doesn't push herself too hard, but on the outside, I fake a smile that doesn’t reach my eyes for Tabitha’s sake. “Glad to hear it.”

I bend down and hastily start grabbing bones, but as I do, they start splintering at the slightest touch.

“Gently,” Tabitha reminds me in her teacher’s voice as she squats beside me. "Remember, they're fragile." She reaches out to grab one of the bones, only to have it crumble to dust in her fingers.

“Remember, they’re fragile,” I sarcastically parrot back at her.

“Smart ass,” Tabitha elbows me hard enough to push me over. I comically shout and flail my arms when I could’ve anchored myself to the ground with Magic Threads, but it just felt right to play along.

