I can’t help but laugh as I get back up, and Tabitha was struggling to remain stone-faced and hold back her own laughter at my over-the-top acting. And with that little bit of humor, the heavy feeling from our previous discussion regarding my role in the coming battle disappeared— At least for now.

One by one, pile by pile, Tabitha and I slowly pick up as many of the bones in the chamber as we can. Some were too far gone and couldn't be moved, but we could clean up most of them after a few hours of work.

Eventually, we were almost done; the only remaining thing left to move was the rusty armor-covered skeleton we had defeated.

“You’re sure it can’t reanimate again?” I ask Tabitha as we stand over it.

“No, it’s too damaged. And besides, I’m sure you can feel the difference in the mana,” Tabitha vaguely motions around us.

After we defeated the skeleton guarding the chamber, the last remaining wisps of death mana quickly faded now that the skeleton was no longer around to keep it all in one place. It had been roughly six hours since we defeated the undead, and I could scarcely sense any death mana in our surroundings. There wasn't enough for a remnant to spawn, let alone anything else.

No more undead was ever going to spawn down here, and after we buried the bones, without the death mana slowing down their decay, they would decompose in no time at all.

“Let’s finish this," Tabitha said, moving to grab the skeleton by its armor. Now that it was no longer being held together by death mana, its bones and armor had separated and were much easier to grab.

I do the same, so while Tabitha grabs one of the skeleton's legs, I grab its left arm. Together, we carry everything to the pit outside the chamber, where I turn toward Tabitha and ask what she thinks I should do with the armor.

“Can you do anything with it?” She looks down at the rusty mess in our arms.

"Maybe," I answer less confidently. "Would it be in bad taste if we took it?"

Tabitha sights, “No, armor is meant to protect the living. Besides, I’m sure a warrior of his caliber would have understood our situation. You strip what you need while I drag the rest of him over.”

"You keep saying, him, how do you know the skeleton was a man?" I ask curiously.

Tabitha smirks at me. “You should be more observant. One look at the skeleton’s bone structure should tell you it belongs to a man." She turns around and walks back into the chamber with an arrogant smile.

"Sorry, I don't know bones," I grumble under my breath as Tabitha mumbles a short spell, and a ball of light flickers into existence above her head.

While Tabitha brings more of the skeleton's remains to the pit, I carefully remove bone from crumbling armor and respectfully place what I don't need on top of the other remains. It felt weird essentially looting the dead, but Tabitha said it right: Armor was for the living. So, even if there was only a slight chance that I could do anything with the dilapidated armor, it was worth a shot to try. And on closer inspection, the armor wasn’t completely worthless.

The rust flakes off with the slightest touch, but on closer inspection, a decent amount of material is still hidden underneath. Of course, some pieces were more damaged than others, but there might be enough to make a small shield.

But before I started celebrating too early, I tempered my expectations. I still need to find a way to smelt the scrap down, let alone work it into something useful.

Thoughts of ways I could reforge the metal fill my head, so much so I almost miss something falling out of the gauntlet and impacting my boot.

"What the?" I bent down and picked up a large greenish bracelet, which I had no idea was even there. To the untrained eye, it was just a scrap of metal, but I could barely contain my excitement as I examined the piece of jewelry closer.

According to Sense Mana, the bracelet didn’t exist; it had no presence of any kind whatsoever, and if I weren't looking straight at it, I wouldn't be able to say confidently it even existed.

“Find something?” Tabitha calls out as she approaches with part of the skeleton’s ribcage in her arms.

“A bracelet,” I hold up the jewelry for Tabitha to see, wondering how she will react.

“That’s,” Tabitha only looks at the bracelet briefly while depositing the bones next to me before turning around, seemingly ignoring it. Still, at the last second, before she's to head back into the chamber, she stops and does a 180. “Odd?” Tabitha power walks over to me, and I hand over my find. "What is this?" She seems utterly baffled by the trinket in her hands.

"Crazy, right?" I smirk in excitement.

“Indeed,” Tabitha nods in agreement. “I can feel it in my hand and see it with my eyes, but it weighs nothing and is hard to focus on.” I sense Tabitha trying to pour some of her mana into the bracelet, but it rejects her attempt. “How peculiar. Can you sense anything?" She asks, handing the bracelet back to me.

“Not at the moment, but I will,” I grin down at the jewelry like a treasure chest that needs to be unlocked. The metal was tarnished by age, but other than looking like an old piece of jewelry, its greenish surface had no deformities or pitting from the elements.

“Bones first,” Tabitha feels the need to remind me.

“Yeah, yeah, I haven’t forgotten," I move to set the bracelet aside for now as Tabitha leaves to grab the next piece of the skeleton but freeze just as I'm about to let go of it. What if I completely forgot about it once I set it down?

It wasn't wise to put on a random piece of jewelry, especially one that was 100% enchanted in some way, but I didn’t want to misplace it, either....

I know I shouldn't, but as quickly as that thought pops into my head, it's replaced by a deep desire not to lose my new treasure. So, without even thinking about it, I slip the bracelet onto my right arm, making sure not to accidentally channel any mana into it in case I might accidentally trigger something I shouldn’t.

The bracelet was clearly meant for someone bigger than me and dangled from my forearm, but other than that, nothing happened. I'll have to be careful it doesn't get in the way, but at least I had a reason to pick up the pace.

With renewed vigor, I separate armor from bone faster than ever. Everything was going well until Tabitha returned with more and exclaimed, pointing at my arm. “What are you doing!?”

“Well, I didn’t want to lose it,” I make up an excuse on the fly.

“Not that,” Tabitha growls. “Look at your arm!” Her eyes refuse to leave my right wrist.

Looking down, the blood drains from my face. The bracelet had fallen to my wrist at some point without me noticing, but that wasn't the problem. The problem was, through no action of my own, the once large bangle had shrunk down and wrapped itself around my wrist like a coiling snake.

Well, that’s not good!
