It was at that moment that Zac Atwood stepped out from the back room, his hands covered in a fine layer of sawdust. He smiled at Helisent. “A goddess? She is if you think so.”

“Is she real? Did you see her? How else could you make her so real?” Helisent excitably tittered. Beene perked up, equally curious to the answer.

“I did, and I didn’t,” Zac said. “The wood is shaped by both memories and feelings. If I’ve seen the goddess with my Heart, isn’t she real?”

Helisent looked confused, then disappointed, taking the fleeting answer as a no. “Do you think I could become like her when I grow up?”

“Who knows? Life is unpredictable.”

“These are all amazing,” Beene said with genuine awe. With regret, he added. “I’m just afraid Master Atwood is playing the flute for the cows by staying here in Whitfall. Few in these parts are able or willing to part with such wealth for a carving. You’d find more success targeting the nobles of Palimu.”

“I appreciate the suggestion,” Zac said, his smile never wavering. “I enjoy the peace and quiet here at Greenworth. If those customers can’t find their way here, then it wasn’t fated.”

“Do I know any well-off patrons?” Beene muttered. “I could mention your works to Senior Amfrid’s castellan next time he’s in town. He owns one of the larger farms nearby.”

“That uncle’s so stingy,” Helisent pouted. “He’s going to haggle.”

“Hush you. Money doesn’t come easy, so it’s only right to hold onto it tightly,” Beene gently chided while inwardly agreeing.

Old bastard Amfrid was as miserly as they came, demanding wholesale prices while only buying enough seeds to feed his people. The rest of his fields were planted with that blasted Bloodboil Herb. Normal crops couldn't compete with their profitability since they could be distilled into an effective healing poultice. Every single hunter carried those packs of red paste into the forest these days.

“Is something wrong?”

Beene started, realizing he’d drifted off.

“Ah, it’s nothing. I was thinking of my own matters,” Beene hesitated. “I was admiring your sign earlier. May I ask, what would Master Atwood charge to make one like it for Pott’s Seeds?”

“There’s no need to discuss things like payment between neighbors. Master Beene has helped me in many ways since I moved in. I’d be happy to carve the sign for free if you can provide the lumber.

“That’s… Would turning the old sign over work?” Beene asked with some embarrassment, only now recalling just how empty the small lockbox hidden beneath his floorboards was.

“We can take a look after closing.”

Beene and his daughter stayed for another ten minutes, and Zac gave a tour of the connected warehouse he’d turned into a workshop. During that time, a few more shopkeepers stopped by to wish their new neighbor good luck. The problem with the closed shop was solved, and the beautiful sign truly did add some sophistication to their street.

But as expected, Atwood Carvings received no actual customers despite steady foot traffic. It was mostly curious neighbors and regulars who’d overheard the discussions. Word of mouth was certainly spreading, but Beene still didn’t hold much hope it would amount to anything.

A few days later, Pott’s Seeds was graced with a fresh sign. The old sign had some water damage, but sanding dealt with most of it. Zac cleverly covered the rest of the blemishes with a carving of stalks of grain. Beene liked it even better than Zac’s sign.

Weeks later, Beene still started every day by looking up at it. He could almost smell the fresh grains, and it filled him with energy. And it might have been a coincidence, but his store had seen business pick up.

To his shock and delight, Beene was proven wrong in less than a month. Bazz, an experienced hunter who lived in the area, became Atwood Carvings’ first customer. Beene couldn’t believe his eyes when the gruff, middle-aged warrior carried out the carving of the warrior, treating it like it was a priceless treasure.

Never in a million years would Beene have expected Bazz to spend what had to be a sizeable chunk of his earnings on a piece of art. Beene even hurried over to his neighbor’s store to confirm he hadn’t been robbed. Everything was in order, which left Beene even more confused. His bewilderment only deepened when a powerful hunter he’d never seen before bought a second carving just two weeks later—despite Zac nearly doubling his prices.

The customers kept coming, all of them Hunters or local cultivators. There wasn’t more than one or two a month, but each successful sale brought greater profits than most shopkeepers saw over a whole season. The young man was earning money hand over fist while still having enough time to close shop and disappear for weeks on end.

The secret behind the shocking success eventually became known. Master Atwood’s carvings were so marvelous that a few hunters could use them to grasp new insights during their cultivation. Any resource related to cultivation was prohibitively expensive, so the hefty cost of the statues didn’t faze them. After all, some Spiritual Herbs brought out of the forest depths could sell for dozens, if not hundreds, times more than Zac’s statues.

Within a few years, Atwood Carvings had become a fixture among the locals. Surprisingly, Beene never heard of anyone making trouble for the store. Perhaps it was out of fear of retaliation from Zac’s growing network of Hunter friends. Perhaps it was because he’d joined the Forester’s Guild, who’d become his main supplier of Spiritual Wood. It could even be the rumors that the City Lord had visited in disguise to purchase a piece for his study.

It wasn’t only Atwood Carvings who was doing well. One sign after another on the street had been replaced, each with its unique flair. Everyone saw their sales improve every year. After noticing Greenworth Trade Street’s transformation, a retired hunter chose to open a store to sell traps to his old colleagues. The largest storefront was then turned into a clinic, which brought even more rich customers to the area.

Five years after Zac descended like a Patron Saint of Wealth, Beene had almost amassed enough money to purchase Spiritual Grain. Borrowing the rest, Beene successfully transformed his Seed Nursery into one targeting Hunters, drastically increasing his profits. Helisent’s help wasn't enough, and he had to hire two clerks.

One morning, Beene stood on the street with a cup of tea to ward off the cold. Watching his sign as the sun rose had become a ritual. Skipping out left him feeling off for the whole day. Taking a sip, Beene watched as the street gradually stirred from its slumber.

Shaking his head, Beene returned to his store. “Who would have thought my joke would become reality?”
