Still, cataloging its infusions would give him a better chance at facing the girl down at some point, if that were necessary. You never knew who would one day be your enemy.

"Wait!"

He grabbed her shoulder, and she dragged him a full two steps before noticing him hanging on. "What is it?"

“Ripperweed.” Harker pointed at the ground between slabs of stone. It was covered in red and blue petals, and beneath it, Crooked vines.

"So we just step over it."

"Not a good move." He backed up, lifting a loose stone the size of his palm. "Better stand back."

Disbelieving or not, Adhira listened and retreated to stand at his side. She watched as Harker soaked his rock with a spray of water, before lobbing it over the flowers. The moment it crossed overhead, the petals convulsed, and the vines whipped upward. The stone was caught, faster than a spring trap. The vines yanked it down in the same motion, tightening, grinding the stone against the blue flowers, which now clung like little leeches to its bottom.

"I see,” Adhira said. "Ripperweed. What a fitting name.”

“Its main prey are Sea-Touched beasts and lower types of Aberrants. That's why it responds to Water." Harker pointed at the petals. "Those aren't flowers, but the questing organs of the creature. It absorbs the Water through them, and when it gets full—”

The red flowers erupted in a sudden spray of stinking liquid. It sizzled against the stone, sinking into tiny pock marks that had clearly been carved by many such explosions.

Harker threw a piece of dried fruit into the nearest puddle, and it dissolved with a hiss "It converts the captured Water into an acid."

"A Talented plant," Adhira softly exclaimed. "Remarkable."

"They're amazing," Harker agreed. "Useful, too, especially in trapmaking. The acid burns through woods, skin, even stone, if it goes on long enough.

"Hard to collect it, though. Most people that find a ripperweed end up eaten.”

“Trapped and soaked in acid. What a horrible way to die." Adhira shuddered. "I don't think I like the countryside, Harker."

He laughed. "It isn't so bad if you know what you're looking for."

She appraised him, eyes flicking from boot to chin. "And you do."

He inclined his head.

"Remarkable indeed."

Heat, prickled at his cheeks and shoulders. Harker looked away. "Normally I want to burn the weed out, but we don't have time for that. I suggest hopping off trail and—"

Adhira swung her axe scoring a line immediately next to the ripperweed. "Bulwark!"

Earth burst upward, tearing the weed out at the root, even as its vines clung tenaciously to the manifested Talent. Parts of the earthen wall crumbled, sucked clean of his Water, but it wasn't enough to keep the plant in place. Over half of it was torn free, and parts immediately began to wither.

Downhill, however, was a different story. The earth broke open, stones shaking beneath their boots, as the vines and leaves at the edge started fluttering wildly

Adhira lifted her axe. "What is happening?"

"This is why I prefer to burn it," Harker said through his teeth, pulling free his dagger, just as one of the trees down slope ripped itself from the earth and started lumbering toward the pair of them.
