Now, at sunset, Erick, Jane, Poi, Teressa, and Tenebrae, stood on the southern wall, overseeing the darkened Forest below, as it flowed away under the flying castle.

Teressa went first.

She pointed. She cast. A brilliant sparkle of grey magic flew out of her hand. It touched the [Air Shield] a good thirty meters away and detonated in a conflagration of grey-tinted fire that was quickly washed away by the tearing winds just beyond. She read the air, and startled. “Huh. It’s never been that good before.”

Tenebrae happily demanded, “Let us see!”

Teressa handed out her box for [Fireball].

Fireball, instant, long range, 75 MP

Launch a quick ball of fire that explodes on contact, damaging a medium area for 50 + 2x WIL and igniting everything touched, dealing WIL damage per second for 10 seconds.

Erick read, and smiled.

Tenebrae clapped. “A perfectly made [Fireball]! Very standard. Well made. Good job, Teressa. You need not destroy that one unless you wish to do so.”

“Uh. Thanks?” Teressa seemed to have a hard time processing what she had just done, but she put on a smile, and repeated, “Thank you.” She stepped away from the forward position, to stand back in line with everyone, as she mumbled, “It’s never been that easy.”

Tenebrae said, “Gridwork is a fantastic tool for sympathy and visualization. For those who have always had trouble with magic and who might not want to venture past tier 3, gridwork is one of the best tools in a person’s arsenal.” He turned to Poi. “Next.”

Poi already had [Fireball]; he had displayed as much to Erick just the other day. He stepped forward, pointed, and cast. A speck of sapphire-blue light arced forward and detonated against the [Air Shield], briefly flashing brilliant blue light, and then it was gone. Poi frowned just a little as he read the air, then he turned and handed out his new spell.

Frost Bomb, instant, long range, 83 MP

Launch a quick ball of ice that explodes on contact, damaging and chilling everything in a medium area for 65 + 2x WIL. Entities near the center are chilled more.

Poi silently retook his place.

Tenebrae said, “Decent. You could remake that one, if you wished. ‘Chill’ is not as good as ‘Slow’. ‘Chill’ is what one might experience if they were dunked into glacier water without preparation. ‘Slow’ is an Elemental Effect which lingers, which directly affects a person’s thoughts and actions. As a positive: you got the ‘Quick’ and a decently sized area. Ice tends to have smaller areas than other elements, but you have not experienced this problem.”

Poi said, “Thank you, Archmage.”

“That said.” Tenebrae asked, “What does your [Fireball] look like?”

Poi winced, then handed out a second spell box.

Fireball, instant, long range, 95 MP

Launch a quick ball of fire that explodes on contact, damaging a medium area for 50 + WIL and igniting everything touched, dealing WIL damage per second for 15 seconds.

Tenebrae announced, “Just shy of acceptable. You should remake that. The longer duration is commendable, but you might as well go for the whole conversion. 30 seconds of conflagration for 2 times Willpower, or, 20 seconds of 2 times Willpower and a large area; these are the numbers you should strive for.”

“Understood and appreciated, Archmage,” Poi said.

Tenebrae nodded. He looked to Jane. “You’re up.”

Jane breathed in, then out. She hardened her eyes and her expression, then stepped forward, lifted her arm, and cast. A dark sparkle of deep blue light shot forward to detonate against the [Air Shield]. Midnight-blue fires expanded then fell through the [Air Shield], to vanish.

She held her breath as she read the air. Erick held his breath, too.

Jane’s face broke into a wonderful smile. She laughed, and Erick’s heart flip-flopped to see her happy. She wiped away tears then bowed to Tenebrae, saying, “Thank you.” She stood and handed out blue boxes, then took her place back in the line, right beside Erick. She grabbed his hand to hold it; he squeezed back.

Erick was proud of her; he always had been. But he felt a new swell of emotion as he read her new spell.

Fireball, instant, long range, 66 MP

Launch a quick ball of fire that explodes on contact, damaging a medium area for 50 + 2x WIL and igniting everything touched, dealing WIL damage per second for 10 seconds.

“Well made, Jane,” Erick said.

Tenebrae nodded, then declared, “An excellent [Fireball]! I can see that you have taken the lessons of gridwork to heart. You have even managed to create something that is below the expected costs for such a working, showing that you are focused on efficiency, which is a different way to do well in the further tiers. Well done.” He turned to Erick. “Your turn.”

Erick let go of Jane’s hand. She patted him on the back as he stepped forward just two steps.

He pointed. He cast.

A lightning-fast speck of twisting, flaming white light flashed through the air, slipped through [Air Shield] thirty meters away, and kept on going. And going. And going. In a perfectly straight line, uncaring for the wind or anything else—

It exploded when it passed double ‘long range’; maybe 250 meters. From that distance, the explosion wasn’t very impressive. It looked somewhat like an expanding flower. But then the ‘petals’ of that expanding flower fell, like a falling firework, spreading out as they descended, giving the whole spell the look of a weeping willow tree. It was exactly what Erick was going for. He had even packed the gridwork for the spell with what he recalled of firework preparation, which was a rather odd thing to pop in to his mind when he was making his [Fireball], but it was appropriate, so he went with it. He wanted the end result to leave flaming fire everywhere on every surface, anyway. But maybe he needed more duration and less initial blast. From what he was seeing, most of the falling fire from this [Fireball] probably wouldn’t do anything at all since it was falling so slowly—

A blue box appeared.

Erick reconsidered his idea that this falling fire ‘wouldn’t do anything at all’. With a duration that long, some of those petals would surely reach the Forest below.

Fireball, instant, long range, 100 MP

Launch a super quick ethereal missile of fire that explodes on contact or at the end of its path, creating a large tumult of cloying fire. Deals WIL damage then ignites everything touched, dealing 3x WIL damage per second for 25 seconds.

He handed out the box.

Jane gave a quick laugh, while Teressa smirked, and Poi just nodded. Tenebrae snatched the spell, read it, then dismissed it. Erick waited. Everyone waited.

“I expected failure, but I got success. I would have been happy either way, but in this way…” Tenebrae declared, “I will gloat even more! Ha! My methods have a hundred percent success rate! Yours has a success rate of… What? One success, one half-success, and one failure; You, your apprentice, and your daughter. I have won this contest, and I can only hope you have seen the error of your ways. Do not teach your methods to other people. They are flawed.” He stared at Erick, almost imperiously, demanding, “What say you against proof of my competency and your inadequacy? What defense do you have against the truth of proper magic!”

Erick did not smile. That would set Tenebrae off, for sure. But he was happy and it was hard to keep his joy off of his face. He said, “Thank you, very, very much, for helping my daughter, and to do what I could not. My methods are flawed. They don’t work for everyone. But not everyone learns the same, and my methods work very well for me. If you don’t mind, I will be sharing this ‘gridwork’ with others, as I see fit, and I will credit you each time. My apprentice will especially enjoy this.”

Tenebrae stared down his nose at Erick. “It is only gridwork. This is… Acceptable.”

“Thank you again, Tenebrae.” Erick nodded, half-bowing, saying, “Archmage.”

Tenebrae seemed to accept the deference. A whisper of a smirk appeared on his face, and then vanished, as he said, “You should work that [Fireball] into a [Grand Fireball]. It is decent enough for such an upgrade. Your daughter’s [Fireball] is not there yet, but a few dozen more tries at efficiency and she will get there, too. With this method of gridwork, anyone can learn basic magic. It’s not hard, once you have the proper teaching.” He added, “And it’s not my invention. I will not take credit for this. Do not tell people that I created it.”

Erick couldn’t stop himself from smiling at that. He said, “Now, I just need to learn what it takes to make a [Grand Fireball]! I’m guessing it’s just a Mana Shaping for 500, and the replication of the original spell for that 500 more mana?”

“… Try it and find out. It’s only a tenday wait if you’re wrong.” Tenebrae turned, saying, “I will have questions for you on the morrow. You and I will have a private breakfast. Expect ten questions… Maybe a few more than that.”

“See you tomorrow,” Erick called to him.

Tenebrae disappeared down a trapdoor in the battlements that Erick had not noticed before it was there, and the archmage was gone from sight. The stone swung back into place and sealed with seamless magic, leaving the four of them mostly alone on the battlements, except for a few Rockys in their watchtowers to the left and the right.

Jane instantly hugged her dad, tight. He hugged her back. She laughed, then broke away.

Teressa chuckled. “[Fireball] has never been that easy.”

“Not for me either!” Jane practically shouted, “That was amazing! Kiri eat your heart out!”

Erick laughed, then playfully chided, “Ohhh! I’ll tell her about all of this soon enough.”

“I’m still gonna enjoy the moment.” Jane smiled, relaxing a bit, as she echoed Teressa’s words, “[Fireball] has never been easy. But that was easy!”

Teressa laughed again. “Easy!”

“Easy!” Jane shouted to the sky.

Poi cracked a smile. Erick did, too.

Jane started rushing down the stairs, into the courtyard, saying, “I brought a bottle of rum! Let’s open it!”

- - - -

Erick sat across from Tenebrae in a nice little room off of the side of a tower, where breakfast breads and teas awaited on a small cart to the side. A large arc of the stone walls to the left were enchanted to be as transparent as glass. The Forest whipped by, from left to right, as the sun rose on the right.

They were headed west, instead of north. They had switched directions in the middle of the night.

Tenebrae had called Erick here a little after sunrise. So far, all Erick had done was to greet the older archmage, and for Tenebrae to hum an unintelligible greeting. The older archmage had yet to say anything of substance. He just sat there in his chair, seeming at a loss for words, or planning something, or… something else. After moments of just sitting there, obviously thinking of how he wanted to start, Tenebrae decided to start in on breakfast. Erick wordlessly picked up his own tarrinol roll, which was almost like a cinnamon roll. Erick preferred cinnamon, but he had invented cinnamon himself and it had yet to make any real waves to go very far. Apogee, the former Wayfarer Guildmaster of Spur, seemed to like the cinnamon, but other than him? Nothing.

These tarrinol rolls had a rather thick sugar frosting, though, so they were pretty great.

Ophiels were already scattered around both Erick, and his people, and he saw nothing too untoward, but this silence was… worrying.

Erick tried to break the silence with, “I see we shifted course in the middle of the night. Trying to outrun the sun?”

Tenebrae’s knife and fork halted in the middle of cutting up his tarrinol roll.

Erick continued, “Or were we just avoiding the Blood Valleys?”

A moment of silence turned into a minute. Erick got through a roll. Tenebrae started on his second.

Erick tried, “Any other places we’re avoiding?”

“… There are a few places in the Forest that require avoidance, no matter how powerful one is, if only to protect those who have come along for the ride. The Blood Valleys are one such place.”

Erick was happy for the engagement, but he kept his voice even as he said, “I noticed the danger of the Blood Valleys when we culled those Reachers and Shrooms. Luckily, there were only a few of them in there. Took my apprentice four times to get in there and complete those hunts.”

“Hmm.”

Tenebrae ate a bite of his roll.

Erick had a bite of his own, and then took a sip of tea. He said, “Great tea and rolls. Palodia is a great cook.”

“She is one of the best.” Tenebrae said, “Hired her sixty years ago and though she’s come and gone a few times, she’s here, now.” His voice turned harder. “I would protect her with my life.”

Erick set down his fork. It seemed they were finally getting into the discussion that Tenebrae wanted to have.

Tenebrae set down his own fork, then said, “You should stop teaching your methods to others. Emotional magic is dangerous if only for the fact that it is rooted in force of personality, and not in actual magical theory. Your ideologies are what various accidental archmages the world over have been allowing into popular consciousness, and they are dangerous. Century after century, these ideas poison the well of true magic. Your guard, Teressa, is the most common reaction to that poisoning. An excellent mana sense, but she abandoned the idea of pursuing magic long ago, and opted to become a warrior. Your daughter is another. Popular magical ideas and your own ease of becoming an archmage have stunted her growth. I have proven that there is no one that is truly incapable of learning magic, and that your methods are dangerous. What say you against these accusations?”

Erick said, “I say that you’re somewhat right. I will stop teaching some of my ideas to others. But you’re also wrong because magic is possibility, and possibilities allow for my methods to work, as well. This gridwork is wonderful, but in the end, it is just another tool for visualization; to evoke a sympathy from the manasphere. Gridwork’s main boon is that it allows someone to put their spellwork into ink, so that the maker can see the problems they might have made for themselves, and also so that others may see that work and assist with problems that the caster cannot see themselves. My methods have none of that capability.” He added, “Yet.”

Tenebrae regarded Erick. “… Yet?”

Erick said, “Ask your questions, if you wish. We will probably go over some of what my ‘Yet’ means if you ask the right ones.”

“Very well. Then my first question is for you to elaborate what you mean by ‘Yet’.”

