Lunch was a nice assortment of thin-sliced beef and vegetable wraps, sweet iced-tea.

Lunch was over, but Tenebrae had yet to dismiss them, because—

“You owe me several answers!” Tenebrae demanded, with a smile.

“… Of course.”

“Let us have a discussion of gridwork and you can go further into debt. And to that end:” Tenebrae turned to Jane, asking, “Do you have any questions about all the gridwork I saw you doing?”

Erick almost mumbled something, but Jane’s excitement was more important.

Jane still took a half-second to look toward her father, but Erick just nodded, and she turned back to Tenebrae and happily asked, “Can you somehow turn a grid into a working artifact? An enchantment, or something? How is gridwork connected to enchanting?”

Jane had come to Erick first with her question, but he had no real answers for her. Enchanting, as far as Erick had tried, did not seem to use the grid-system that Tenebrae had outlined.

Tenebrae said, “Enchanting a gridwork into a workable spell is to create what is known as a manacycler. This is difficult to do, mostly due to size and fidelity concerns. You see: A [Force Bolt] is barely larger than a human thumb. The manacycler for [Force Bolt] must be of the same size, or not too much larger. Attempting otherwise leads to gross inefficiency. While the gridwork can be of any size so it is easier to see and work with, magic itself works best at appropriate sizes.” He paused. He continued, “Manacyclers are not good items to focus on. There are so many issues with manacyclers. You can only make basic spells like this. Mostly Force spells. A few single Mana Alter spells, perhaps, but only in extremely well-made manacyclers. Can you guess at some of the other problems?”

Erick had an instant answer. But Tenebrae had not asked him.

Jane smiled, excited. Her guesses about gridwork and enchantment had been correct, but both she and Erick had no idea what the resulting ‘enchantment’ would look like. Such enchantments had a name, though: ‘manacycler’.

Jane calmed herself, and asked, “I want to answer that, but first: What does a manacycler look like? I’ve never touched one. I didn’t even know they existed.”

“Ah. Yes. You didn’t know, did you?” Tenebrae lifted his hand toward the kitchen. A fork flew into his hand, becoming a small ball of silver metal along the way. He concentrated on the ball, his eyes flickering grey. The ball expanded, a fraction. A protrusion came out one end, while several slits appeared in the steel. It was a whistle, maybe? He set it in front of Jane. “A whistle of [Force Wall]. All one need do is blow mana into it and the spell structure will activate. This is a crude method, but it works. I could have made this cycler such that you could channel through your hands, but that is a whole different problem that I need not get into right now. Suffice it to say that mana released in the lungs and then blown out is physically stronger than mana channeled through the hand. So: a whistle. Go ahead. Try it. Blow away from the table, please.”

Jane picked up the whistle, poked at it a little, then turned to the side, pressed it to her lips, and blew. Dark blue mana shone out through the slits in the whistle and a barely-there shimmer of solid Force appeared in front of her; a circular shield two meters across. It was a shaped [Force Wall].

Jane held the whistle in her hands, her shadow flickering into the whistle, inspecting it. She frowned. She said, “Okay. I see inside, and… Yeah. That’s complex. That’s why you can only turn basic spells into manacyclers? It gets too complex otherwise?”

Tenebrae nodded. “And let’s not forget that this whistle is based on single-input spellwork; there’s only one hole to blow into. Higher tier work requires input from a thousand angles at once. This is something that you can naturally do with aura work but not with simple mana expulsions. But! There are some good things to be said of manacyclers. In this application of gridwork I have made an item that cost me no rads to power, and which anyone can use. You can make endless numbers of these for very little cost. With enough use, the mana flowing through them will imprint the item in the manasphere in such a dense and purposeful manner that they can sometimes become minor artifacts in their own right, if only because they become near-unbreakable, what with all that exposure to Force, and all. But still, they are worthless. Can you guess why, now that you have seen one?”

Jane set the whistle on the table in front of her, asking, “You can use this as many times as you want?”

“Yes. As I have said. It is very rare for a manacycler to break through proper use; they only get stronger.” Tenebrae added, “And you can even use it more than once per Script Second, if you blew really hard. The result of this particular manacycler is almost as good as a [Quick Wall], but with this you do not have the ability to put your [Quick Wall]s exactly where you want them. If you stuttered your exhaled mana into that whistle, you might even be able to shape the resulting [Force Wall]s that come out of it.” He digressed, “But there is a problem.”

Jane frowned. She glanced at the air, likely checking her Status, then glanced to the whistle. Her eyes narrowed, then went wide. “Oh.”

“Ah!” Tenebrae said, “You see.”

Jane said, “It cost me 54 mana to make that one [Force Wall]. That’s 4 mana more than the base cost of [Force Wall]’s 50 mana cost. This whistle still costs mana to use. Clarity or Favored Spell or any spell cost reductions… They don’t matter.”

“Exactly. All manually cast spells are like this. They cost full mana to use. When manually casting a spell, it is only through personal skill that you can attain any of the efficiency of Clarity, or any other such ‘spell cost reductions’. ‘Spell cost reduction’ is primarily an aspect of the Script.” Tenebrae said, “That is why these whistles are nothing more than toys. Even if this whistle enables a person to bypass the Script Second, you would be better served with a bandolier of wands. Just tap-tap-tap the wands, and the resulting [Force Wall]s spring up as fast as [Quick Wall]s, and for much cheaper than you could with this little whistle. Oh, sure, there’s a set-up cost to those wands and a risk of theft negating all your hard work, but preparation and scenarios where that preparation will not get stolen from you are more common than not.” He added, “But still: gridwork is good to learn in the same way it is good to learn how to move your arms and legs while you run; all for the sake of efficiency and power. This is the true power of gridwork. Once a person puts their understanding of a basic spell into a grid, it is easy to pick apart, and for an expert to see where, exactly, their casting has gone wrong, or inefficient. It is in this way that you can manually reduce the cost of your spells and ‘manually’ gain the benefit of the Clarity Skill.” He trailed off, “For a certain attainment of Clarity, anyway. It’s complicated.”

Jane, with a small frown, asked, “But what if we’re unsure where to even start with gridwork? How does it all come together into higher tier spells? How high can you go with gridwork?”

“Simple math is where you start. You can simply add the gridwork for various spells together, while following the rules for such additions, and thus find out how best to combine your starter spells in order to make a new one.” Tenebrae said, “You could theoretically go all the way to tier 7 or higher Force Spells with gridwork, but by then you’d be working with a million by million by million sized grid. Or larger! No one does that. Stopping at tier 3 and then learning other maths for the higher tiers is much easier.

“Or! You could try sympathy magic with Ancient Script, which is also a valid way to progress through the tiers. If you have luck with Rune work, then you should pursue that methodology and become an enchanter, since enchanting through Runes is easier than other ways, but usually only wrought are truly capable of truly good Rune work.”

Jane looked skeptical as she asked, “How do you make Rune Magic work? Is it useful for understanding the rest of it? I tried it… but nothing ever came of it.”

Tenebrae smirked, and it was a genuinely happy expression. For a moment, Erick thought the older archmage was actually enjoying his professor-like lecture. Maybe he truly was. But then he looked to Erick, and his expression soured.

“I feel I have talked enough.” Tenebrae asked Erick, “Why don’t you enlighten us what you know of Rune Magic? Succeeded much there, have you?”

Ah. Now they were back on the topic of Erick’s failures.

“I’ve tried Rune Magic for enchanting…” Erick said, “And what you do is create the rune inside the wrought-quality metal item, and then all the channels necessary to allow magic to spark into existence from the mana contained inside the metal and inside of the… Okay. First you have to have the words for your spell inscribed in Ancient Script inside the item, and then you have to fill in those words with rad dust, and then you solidify that rad dust and all the mana channels and all of that with the first casting of the spell contained in that dust. I can make a basic wand of [Force Bolt] using the Ancient Script, but it leaks mana and breaks after only ten to twenty uses.”

Tenebrae sighed in contentment. He almost said some truly unkind thing, Erick was sure, but then he smirked, and the words that came out of him were likely less harsh than they would have been, “Leave the Rune Magic for another day, for that is a field of expertise that is best learned well after the basics of gridwork, for good gridwork will help you with your runework. Even if Runework and gridwork are not the same, all magic has connections to all other magic, and the connections between Rune Magic and Enchanting and gridwork are deep, but also diffuse.” Tenebrae said, “I have decided. You still have many questions to answer for me, Erick, but aside from that, we will have a little contest: The creation of a proper [Fireball], made through gridwork.”

Erick suddenly had a lot of reservations about whatever was going on right here and now. Jane looked skeptical, too.

Tenebrae continued, “I’ll have Rocky give you some proper materials on how to manually combine [Force Bomb] and Fire, and you will study them. We will have another discussion over dinner in several hours, where you and your daughter will show me how you would use gridwork to make a [Fireball], then you will make that [Fireball]. A friendly contest after dessert, let’s say.”

Jane’s skepticism vanished as her eyes glittered, but then she looked to her father.

Erick was already saying, “I’m not competing with my daughter—”

“You’re right! You’re an archmage. You will be competing with me and my [Fireball] that I perfected seventy years ago!” Tenebrae looked to Jane. “Everyone else will be judged according to their own skill.” He looked to Teressa and Poi. “Would you two like to participate? I feel you two have been left out.”

Teressa said, “No, sir. I am not about [Fireball]s or any magic like that.”

“Thank you, but I must decline as well,” Poi said.

“… Unacceptable.” Tenebrae declared, “Erick. Make your people participate. I will count it against your reciprocal questions if they agree. By my count, I have racked up thirty seven questions, and you are deep in debt.”

Erick exclaimed, “How are you even counting to thirty— You know what? Okay.” He looked to Poi and Teressa. “You have the base spells, right? Just play along.”

“Yes yes! We are just playing!” Tenebrae said, smiling.

Teressa frowned. “… Okay.”

Poi said, “Acceptable. I agree. I already have [Fireball], so I will make [Frostball]. How many questions is Erick getting from this?”

“[Frostball] is fine.” Tenebrae said, “And let’s call it 15 fewer questions owed.”

Like he wasn’t just making up those numbers on the spot.

Poi nodded. Teressa briefly looked like someone had kicked sand in her dessert, but she agreed, too.

Jane, however, was bright-eyed and excited.

Erick said, “Okay then. It’s a contest.”

“Good!” Tenebrae nodded. “Now. Tell me: Why do neither of you two have [Fireball]? I can understand Poi and Teressa’s reluctance, but you’re an archmage, and Jane has experience with magic, and everyone tries to make [Fireball]!”

Erick frowned. “They do? It never occurred to me to make that spell. It always seemed so… Pedestrian.”

Tenebrae narrowed his eyes, then relaxed. “An unexpected answer, but understandable.” He looked to Jane.

Everyone looked to Jane, who looked like she had bit into a lemon.

Jane blurted out, “I tried! Okay? I tried.” She frowned, staring down at her empty plate. Then she raised her head, and said, “Every time, every [Fireball] was a 250 mana monstrosity with wildly differing numbers of anywhere between 10+2x Willpower, to 75+1/2x Willpower. The base [Force Bomb] spell is 50+2x Willpower damage. That Basic Spell was better than any Altered version I made. I have no idea what I was doing wrong.”

Teressa nodded in understanding, and so did Poi to a lesser extent.

Erick, however, felt like he was at the bottom of an abyss of terrible shame. He was an archmage, technically, so how had he not been able to help his daughter with her magic? This was somehow all his fault, for sure.

Tenebrae had a very different reaction. He exulted with brief laughter, then said, “There we go! That sounds like normal aspiring-mage problems! Finally!” He asked, “And you never had problems with [Teleport]?”

Jane went from rage at being laughed at, to sudden questioning. She ventured, “No? Never any problems with [Teleport].”

Tenebrae looked to Erick. “And all you ever had trouble with was [Ward]?”

“… And making Ophiel and [Prismatic Ward] and a lot of other things, but not as much trouble now, no,” Erick said.

