Tenebrae relaxed with a sigh. “Okay. That sounds better. Much more normal. Particle Magic is a major outlier, but this sounds more normal.” Tenebrae said to everyone, “I never placed much faith in the ideas of exposing children to extreme mana experiences, but it seems we have an anecdotal case supporting that idea, right here. Maybe for you, Jane, this is what has caused all of your problems, for Spatial Magic is unlike almost all other magics. For Erick… I have no idea from where his success springs, aside from uncommonly well thought-out Intent, and sometimes that is enough.” He looked to Jane. “The only way anyone ever overcomes maligned magic issues similar to yours is through hard work and restructuring their entire approach to magic. We will begin some of that restructuring with a proper introduction to gridwork and [Fireball]. We will rebuild you from the ground up. You will learn. Teressa, you seem to have some of the same issues, so you will relearn, too.”

Teressa forced a smile, and pleasant words, “Thank you.”

Tenebrae said to everyone, “We will have a day or two more before we reach the Green Labyrinth, but we will likely have lots of time once we are there, while Erick sees what he needs to see regarding the Gates. These lessons need not end once we arrive, for I suspect we will be fighting off hordes upon hordes of monsters as we race for exits in the Vision, and then we will spend a great deal of time waiting for the Vision to calm down. That is what usually happens.”

A Rocky walked into the room, carrying a wide, thin book. Erick guessed it was barely over a hundred pages long. He set the book beside Tenebrae.

“Ah! Good.” Tenebrae set the book beside Jane. “Mage work for all of you. Only one book, but you can share as needed. It shouldn’t take a half hour to read this whole thing.” And then he spoke to Jane, directly, “Teressa, Poi, and your father have their own paths, so I don’t care if they fail, but if you’re not dedicated to this then I will stop teaching you the second I feel you are not worth my time.”

Jane, wide-eyed and seeming happy, gratefully took the book, saying, “Thank you, archmage. I can learn!”

“Good. See that you do.”

Erick wondered what would have happened if Kiri had been here. Would his apprentice have gone gaga over private lessons with another archmage? Maybe she would have, a little. Jane was certainly happy, and that was both worrying, and wonderful to see. Hopefully Tenebrae’s gridwork would help her more than Erick’s own methodology.

- - - -

After lunch, while Jane sat in a conjured chair in their rooms with the book in her hands, Erick read over her shoulder with an Ophiel. Jane read fast, for much of the book was rather easy to read; it was just a primer. Erick had his turn with the book next, but found that actually reading it himself was mostly unnecessary for he had mostly read it all through Ophiel. Intelligence was a boon that allowed near-perfect recall, and while that disturbed him a bit, he got over it. Teressa got the book next, and then Poi. Poi didn’t seem to need to refer to the book after the first read-through, but Jane and Teressa shared it between the two of them as they worked on their own grids.

Meanwhile, Erick sat in a chair in the courtyard, applying what he had read to lightward gridwork, but not for [Fireball]. He had already moved onto something else. Something more important.

He had never tried to recreate the Basic Particle Spells he had made so long ago, like [Call Lightning] or [Luminous Beam], but they were Basic Spells, and therefore able to be mapped to gridwork.

Theoretically.

Problems arose right away when the idea of gridwork just couldn’t account for the sky-spanning change that [Call Lightning] called forth. The most Erick could grid was the interaction of electrical charge and Force, the most basic Element of mana. (Force was totally an Element. Tenebrae was wrong.)

[Call Lightning] was only truly possible because water still had polarity, and through the power of magic nudging nature just a bit, a mage was able to take the moisture in Super Large Area of air and cause it to coalesce and then rub against each other, stripping electrons, moving them from one side of the cloud to the other, causing that cloud to become polarized. That same magic further allowed the mage to designate a point where a balancing of that gathered electrical charge could occur, causing a lightning bolt to connect most anything to most anything else.

So… The gridwork for such a spell was, at its most basic…

“Water molecules rubbing against one another?” Erick mumbled as he sat in the courtyard, shaping a lightward of gridwork that might have described [Call Lightning], or maybe only a very, very small part of it. “And then there’s a separation of— Oh. No.” Erick wiped away that lightward, and cast a different one. “It’s all about charge generation; yes. Which means…”

He cast for a while, imagining and reimagining [Call Lightning]. After an hour, he still wasn’t quite happy with his gridwork. [Call Lightning]’s existence was easy to understand, as a whole, but hard to put into a box, if only because the actual spell took place over an absolutely massive scale.

And there was something rather… maddening about magic being shoved inside a box, at all.

But gridwork was not about tackling the problem from the end result; Erick had read that, of course, but he had not internalized it until he had tried his own methods for a while. Gridwork was about the initial cast of the spell. What did that look like? What shape did that take?

That initial shaping was just a packet of Intent.

It was a thought that spread out, replicated X number of times.

… Which had interesting implications when one considered the Propagation Ban.

Oh.

Ah. Okay. So that’s how this works.

Erick dismissed the gridwork he had made, and started over, focusing on what was necessary for [Call Lightning]. Primarily, you had water drawn from the air. Then you had wind, or rather, the tumbling of water. So right there, you just had tumbling water out of air. That was easy to do. The next item was charge separation based on that tumbling, with electrons flowing downward through the space. From there, you had target designation.

A three part spell, with a fourth part, which was just ‘repeat this process as far as my 500 mana will go’. The electrons did not move to the bottom of each part of the spell, but instead moved through every single space without stopping at any individual border. In this way, one piece of the spell was replicated over a Super Large Area.

And that limit was only there because 500 mana seemed to be the limit of what a Basic Tier Spell was able to do. That limit had to be there because of the Propagation Ban.

Erick sat upright. He might have just discovered something that other archmages already knew. The Propagation Ban halted the unrestrained repeating of magic, but if your magic had a limit, then the Propagation Ban did not come into effect.

Maybe 500 mana was the ‘natural’, Script-imposed limit to ‘how far’ a Basic spell could go. Erick’s [Call Lightning], and many of his other Basic Spells, were simple replications of natural forces taken as far as they could go. That meant hitting that 500 mana Propagation Limit.

“Huh,” Erick muttered to himself.

Erick continued to refine his idea of [Call Lightning]; to take the mystical and put it into little boxes.

Before he knew it, it was dinner time.

- - - -

Tenebrae sat down at the table, smiling. Before anyone else could speak, he said, “Erick played around with spells that were not [Force Bomb] or Mana Altering to Fire. Jane practiced what I asked her to practice. Teressa and Poi had middling success. Unless you have a good reason, Erick, I will consider your goodwill spent, and I will no longer help you or your daughter with your magic. What say you, in your defense?”

Erick easily answered, “I was working on [Call Lightning]. I think I got it worked out, too. It’s basically Force magic, and it is only tier one, so maybe I could even make a whistle of [Call Lightning]. How cool would that be? And this is the gridwork for how I would do [Fireball].” He held up his hand and cast a grid into the air. “What do you think?”

Erick had only worked for a few minutes on his gridwork for [Fireball], but it was well-made, in his opinion.

[Fireball] was derived from [Force Bomb], which began with a packet of gathering intent in the center of a hundred-by-hundred-by-hundred grid. He could have gone with a 100x100x99 grid, but that type of grid felt unbalanced, for there was no ‘perfect center’ that he wished to gather around. The inner gathering of this gridwork was a small sphere-ish space that served as a separation and a condenser. When the mana for the spell went into the gathering, that separation protected it from randomly exploding until it touched a target, and that gathering membrane was actually broken. There were also some nods toward etherealness that would prevent the gathering from exploding on any random stuff that might get in the way, and other nods toward other effects that Erick wanted to achieve.

A second gathering was attached to the central gathering, on the caster’s side of the [Force Bomb]. This second gathering was shaped like a cone. This second gathering would produce the propulsion effect. The size and shape of the second gathering, and even the shape of the [Force Bomb]s main detonation packet, denoted how the spell would move through the air. Would it wobble, or would it fly true? Erick’s design would likely fly true, due to the stabilization fins and a few other items that he had put into the working, though he would likely have to experiment with some wind tunnels to get the whole thing rather perfect. He was not a rocket scientist. Yet.

This was good enough, for now.

To change the basic [Force Bomb] to [Fireball], all of the designations for Elemental Force had been switched over to Elemental Fire, though, again, there were nods to etherealness here, too.

Erick still wasn’t sure how to manually make Force become Fire, and the book Tenebrae had given them had not said how, but Aura Control was outside of his current skill set, and the Mana Altering Skill took care of that Elemental shift anyway.

Erick had manually cast [Force Bomb] before today. He knew how to flex his lightform in order to cast this spell. But before today, Erick’s manually-cast [Force Bomb] had been a one-off thing, just done in order to complete the Remake Quest, and get that point. But in being forced to put his own manually-cast [Force Bomb] down into a quantifiable imagery, he had identified many minor issues that surely led to a loss of power. From the shape of the charge, to the shape of the propulsion, to the size of the gathering, to the way it cut through the air and could be made to ignore crosswinds; there had been a lot of room for improvement.

He hadn’t actually made his ‘theoretical [Fireball]’ yet, but he was sure that this gridwork version would turn out well.

The question was: Would this [Gridwork Fireball] be as good as a [Sound it out Fireball]?

And would he be able to make both of those theoretical [Fireball]s, or would he have to destroy one in order to make the other? Would a bit of Mana Shaping allow for him to have multiple different [Fireball]s inside his Status, and overcome the Script’s limitations for combining spells? Erick would try that sort of experiment with a different spell. [Ice Ball], or something. He would leave [Fireball] for Tenebrae to ‘help’ him with.

Tenebrae’s eyes darted across Erick’s gridwork, his expression turning from ‘smug bully’ to ‘relaxed teacher’ in a matter of moments. He even managed a small smile. But then he realized he had smiled, and discarded that obvious show of emotion. He pretended reluctance, saying, “Passable.”

Erick nodded. “Thank you.”

Tenebrae turned to Jane. He waited.

She cast a grid into the air. It was a good grid! Looked fine to Erick. Jane looked ashamed, though.

Tenebrae said, “Good gridwork. We can work on visualization and actualization after we eat.” He looked to Teressa, and Poi, sitting on the other side of the table from Erick and Jane. “And?”

Teressa produced a passable grid that might have been better than Jane’s, but Erick would never voice that aloud. From what Erick had read, Teressa’s gridwork was pretty much a basic [Force Ball] but switched to Fire. Poi did the exact same thing, except for Elemental Ice.

Jane steeled herself, and did not slink into her chair, though Erick could tell she wanted to.

Tenebrae just smiled. “Good work, everyone.” And then he breathed in the smell of the dinner sitting before him, underneath [Heat Ward]s. “Good cooking, Palodia! Thank you!”

It was some sort of eel, wrapped like an ouroboros and stuffed with breading and sausage, sitting on a bed of rice. Everyone got one ‘eel donut’ except for Teressa. Teressa got three.

Palodia called out from the kitchen, “I don’t appreciate you putting my food under [Heat Ward]s!”

Tenebrae said, “Let us eat,” then he canceled the [Heat Ward]s over all the food, and dug in.

Teressa smiled as the subject turned away from magic, and followed the old archmage’s lead. Poi was right behind her. Neither of them had qualms about eels, and even Jane seemed interested in the food sitting before them. Erick, however, had been trying to avoid eating, once he saw what was for dinner.

It was… good.

Erick had the stuffing, the rice, and only some of the eel. And then he had the rest of the eel. It was quite good, actually. Dessert was more chocolate cake, and that was wonderful. Palodia really knew how to cook!

- - - -

To the west, the sun set over the darkened, endless Forest. To the east, the sky was already purple with night and stars. Below, the shadowed Forest flowed away as Tenebrae’s Castle flew north west, at a slightly slower speed than they had been flying at the start of their journey. They had to go slower, after all.

Four times today, Tenebrae’s Stone Men had needed to adjust course and speed when monsters had flown up from the Forest, trying to attack. Those four times, Rockys had taken their places on the battlements and cast siege magics at a flying tangle of gore-ridden wyrms, then at a flying Forest Hydra the next time, then at some ghost-like things of which no one knew about and which didn’t actually die (no notification boxes), and then, finally, to beat back another tangle of wyrms.

During the day, and for the most part, the Rockys remained on high alert on the battlements as the Castle flew, while Erick, Jane, Poi, and Teressa, had busied themselves with gridwork, down in the courtyard, and elsewhere.

