She tilted her head back and forth once more, before pointing at him with her right hand. Lifting the index finger on her left hand, she then pointed at Laughing Dragon and lifted a second finger, then another Firebrand and a third. This continued until she'd raised all five fingers of her left hand, at which point she gestured to the remaining Firebrands before turning south, her arm sweeping across the land as if gathering the air into her embrace. Turning back to Gen, she cocked her head once more, asking if he understood.

“Fuck no.” Laughing Dragon was first to answer. “Ain’t no way I’m staying, the Purge is coming. Let those other fools fend for themselves.” Still, he didn’t move, his feet planted and arms crossed.

Ignoring him, Bei continued to stare at Gen, his brow furrowed in thought. Dismissing his thoughts of her infidelity, he questioned her motives. “You want me to find others like me and bring them to you?” She nodded, then shook her head and pointed north. “Bring them north?” A nod. “Why?”

Her lips broke into a smile as she leaned forward to whisper in his ear. The low, guttural voice set his body spasming in pain, a delicious agony emanating throughout his body. Falling to the ground, he screamed and squirmed as he bled from his eyes, the voice consuming his mind, echoing endlessly within his skull. After an eternity passed in a moment, Gen shivered and panted as the pain subsided, staring up at his wife in shock and confusion. That wasn’t Bei speaking, the power and malevolence behind the voice unlike anything he’d ever experienced. Who was that speaking through her?

The message was simple, three short sentences.

“No more hiding. Gather my children. Destroy the Empire.”

A smile crept onto his face as he stared north, awed by the display of power. They had friends beyond the Bridge, and no matter how powerful they were, they needed Gen’s help to let them in. Images of death and destruction flooded his mind, relishing the changes to come. Ah, what a time to be alive.

A time of revolution, of bloodshed, and of reckoning.

Chapter Meme
