He shook his head, panting and slumping to the ground in exhaustion and relief.

“Whew! That was a close one! You ok, Rain?” Val said, standing and kicking himself free from the pile of frozen Kin. “Nice work. I owe you two lives now.”

Rain looked up at Val, then down at his knees, saying nothing.

“What happened?” Ameliah asked, looking at Rain with concern in her voice. “Are you sure you’re not hurt?”

“I almost got us killed is what happened,” Rain said, not looking up.

“Fucking Kin spotted us before we could get the jump on them. Rain wiped them out with that cold aura, but I got caught in it too.” Val shivered. “Thanks for healing me. You got anything that can help me warm up?”

“You’ll be fine. Rain, what do you mean you almost got the two of you killed?”

“The kin were eating...something. They didn't see us. Val… Val said I should go down and wipe them out, but I… I couldn’t. I froze.”

“Damn things rushed us. Don’t beat yourself up over it, Rain. It happens,” Val said.

Rain breathed out, then looked up, meeting Val’s eyes. “Why are you being so nice all of a sudden? If I had just done what you said… We could have died, Val, and it was my own stupid fault.”

Val grimaced and walked over to him, crouching down. “Sometimes I forget how new you are at this,” he said. “Look, it happens. You’ve been an adventurer for, what, a month? You’re not used to it yet. This will be my...sixth brush with death. You froze, yes, but we’re still alive. Shit, I’m not even hurt thanks to Ameliah. All you need to do is get back up and get on with it. Next time, you won’t freeze.”

“He’s right, you know,” Ameliah said, pulling Rain back to his feet. He felt stamina flooding into him at her touch, followed by healing, though he didn’t need it. “He might be being a little bit too cavalier, but he has a point. You’re still new at this. Freezing up is understandable.”

Rain looked at Val. “You don’t blame me? Really?”

Val shook his head. “I don’t.”

“There they are!” Carten’s voice boomed as he crested the hill blocking them from the road. “Shit, that’s a lot of Kin.”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled, surveying the scene as he and Jamus followed Carten over the hill.

“Kin? Here?” Jamus said, peering out from behind Tallheart. “Oh, yeah. Those are Kin alright. Rain, did you do this? They look frozen...”

“Jamus… what? Where did you all come from?” Rain asked.

“We got bored,” Carten said. “Didn’t see anyone on the road for hours and it was starting to get dark, so we figured we’d catch up. Looks like we still missed all the action.”

“You were yelling pretty loudly. We had just reached the cart when we heard the screaming. Ameliah took off, and we followed.”

“Damn you can run,” Carten laughed, moving to clap Ameliah on the shoulder, but missing as she dodged.

“Does anyone know what rank this area is?” she asked.

Carten shrugged and Val shook his head. Jamus wasn’t paying attention, bending over to poke at the pile of thawing Kin. Seeing that nobody else was going to answer, Rain replied to her question. “Zero, I think. At least, that’s what Jamus said last time we were out this way.”

Ameliah looked confused. “What? What was that first word, sorry, I didn’t catch it.”

“He means that this area is rankless,” Tallheart clarified.

“That ain’t what he said,” Carten commented. “Seer-o. What’s that mean, eh?”

“I’ll explain later. Sorry, could you guys just give me a minute? I don’t feel so great.”

“What, didn’t she heal you?” Carten asked, peering at Rain’s face. “You look fine to me.”

Ameliah shook her head. “That’s not it, Carten. Take Val and go get the horse; we’ll camp here tonight. Nobody goes off alone until we know if there are more Kin out there.”

“Aww, but—”

“Carten,” Jamus said, having returned from inspecting the bodies. “Do it. If there’re Kin here, there could be worse lurking. It shouldn’t be possible, yet...”

“Fine. We’ll make up the time tomorrow,” Carten said, stomping off towards the road. Val moved to follow.

“Rain,” Jamus said, “Think you can do something about this?” He indicated the pile of Kin corpses. “I know you’re tired, but I really don’t fancy spending the night near a pile of monster corpses, once they all start thawing out.”

“It’s ok, I’ve got it,” Ameliah said. Jamus raised an eyebrow as waves of purification started rolling off of her. From the way the light flowed out across the hilltop, it was clear that she, not Rain, was the source.

“What, you too?” he asked.

She tilted her head as she looked over at him, raising an eyebrow.

“You’re an aura user?” he asked.

“I’ve just got the one.”

“Why just one?” Rain asked, looking at her.

Ameliah smiled, but didn’t answer. She canceled the aura as the last remains of the Kin melted away, leaving a faint glimmering of Tel scattered across the hilltop. She held out her hand, palm up. “Attract.”

Rain started as a sudden wind rushed across the hilltop. The scattered Tel were swept up and deposited in a pile in her open palm, which she held out to him.

“Here,” she said, taking his hand and transferring the small pile to him.

“Handy,” Jamus said.

Rain looked down at the pile of Tel in wonder. A glint of red in the pile caught his eye, and he sifted through it, pulling out a slightly larger red crystal from the pile of white Tel. “What’s this?”

“Heat Cryst,” Tallheart rumbled, holding out his hand. “May I?”

Rain handed it to him. “Is it valuable?”

“Not very,” Ameliah shrugged. “Worth a couple Tel if you can find a crafter to buy it.”

“Can you use it, Tallheart?” Rain asked.

The antlered man nodded slowly, examining the crystal. “It is intact. Yes, I can use it.”

“Keep it,” Rain said. “I’ve got no use for it. I don’t think a few Tel is going to make much difference in the end.”

“Thank you.”

“Right, time for soup!” Jamus said.

“Just don’t let Val help you, whatever you do,” Rain said, smiling softly. He felt a bit better. The comforting presence of his companions was helping. He closed his hand, grasping the small pile of Tel.

Still alive.
