"Just fine," Shiv said. "How is this one doing?"

"I, I um…" Maxime looked overwhelmed. "I'm trying to keep her blood flow stable. I'm trying to keep her heart connected to the other organs in the brain. But it's just too much."

"Did you see that earlier?" Shiv pointed, acting brazenly.

“What?”

“Between the diaphragm and the stomach, did you see that?”

Maxime leaned over and used her Biomancy to peel the flesh open and see more. As she did, she caught sight of it: a speck of color, a color so bright that it made all the other silver seem dim. "What is that? Oh, Ascendants and the Darkness Sublime, that’s the seed! Hal! Hal!" she called aloud.

The senior resident came rushing toward them, and then he slid past them, slipping on a particularly wet patch of blood. Hal cried out as he struck a gurney chin-first, and when he collapsed to the floor, he didn't rise; he was out cold.

"What’s up with that guy’s Toughness?" Shiv muttered.

"Oh, Gods, Hal!" Maxime gasped. Her hand shot up to her mouth.

But just then, Malcolm strode back onto the scene, humming a jaunty tune. Its right arm unfolded like the blossom petals of a metal flower. Previously, they looked like human hands, simply metallic. Now, however, its middle finger became a set of pliers, its index finger a telescope and beam, while its pinky now resembled a stubbed dispenser.

"Alright, I got it."

Maxime scowled at him. "Malcolm? Where were you?"

"Figuring something out while checking one of the other patients—had to go get permission from Javelina to test it. Let's see if my theory proves correct—Oh, shit, you found it! Great. Let’s see if it will magnetize." Immediately, it dug its hand into the goblin’s body with gentle precision.

At the same time, Shiv noticed several of the automaton's fingers were spewing sprays of chemicals that stung at Shiv's eyes and nose.

The Deathless shook as his Skill Evolution continued its metamorphosis inside him. His senses felt strange. His hearing kept cutting in and out. His eyes were getting more sensitive, and his taste buds were filling with new odors.

“What are you doing?” Maxime asked, looking down at Malcolm’s surgery.

“Oh, I froze a bit of a patient’s blood, and now I’m going to see if I can get it to—Ah, there we go.” A clicking noise sounded as the automaton extracted a piece of glinting mithril. "It crystallized and got stuck to the frozen blood. Not bad for a bot, huh, Maxime?" Malcolm laughed aloud. "Alright, that's one down and—Broken Moon and Cripple’s missing arm, what did you do to this poor bastard’s heart?!"

"I was trying to bypass the crystal nest!" Maxime shouted.

"Yeah, well, it looks like you lost focus somewhere. A bunch of those vessels ruptured."

"I know!" Maxime cried. "Just help me try to re-link everything, okay?"

"Yeah, yeah, on it," Malcolm said.

The automaton's Biomancy was channeled through its fan-shaped face, and it radiated outwards in pulsing waves.

"Huh, it's like sonar," Adam commented.

Shiv watched as Malcom’s Biomancy did its work. "Sonar?"

"It's a sort of… Bats use it. It's hard to explain. I'll elaborate later."

Maxime and Malcolm pooled their mana together. Despite how they jabbed at each other, it seemed that they were more than accustomed to working as one. In moments, the severed vessels untangled from around the heart and connected them to the rest of the body's architecture. The organ at the core of the goblin began beating faster again, and Shiv watched as she let out a rasping breath.

Just then, his Skill Evolution concluded, and every part of his biological system came alight with electric awareness. The world was different now; his Farsight changed into something altogether more wonderful, altogether more expansive.

Skill Fusion: Practical Metabiology (Initiate) - Farsight (Adept) > Atlas of the Flesh Scryer (Master)
