Seeing Rain’s forlorn eyes watching the wildcat pad away consumed the last of Baatar’s patience. His old friend was merely doing his job, one Baatar asked him to do, but despite his lack of expression, the boy seemed so tired and vulnerable, as if drained and ready to collapse on his feet. “Enough,” he growled, releasing Sarnai and interrupting her mid-Sending as she threatened to beat him bloody with his own dismembered limbs. “The boy can answer the rest of your questions after he has bathed and rested.”

Unperturbed by the underlying promise of conflict laced in Baatar’s tone, Naaran met his glare and Sent, “You are not considering the implications of his appearance. By his own admission, he left the manor to fight and kill. Why? If his life was under threat, why would he leave instead of alerting his guards? Who were these enemies he fought, and how did no one else notice their arrival? How did he even get out in the first place? Where did the conflict take place? Is he remaining silent because his mind is unable to deliver instructions to the location, or because he does not wish to tell us for fear of what we might find? Stand down old friend. Do not force this issue, not here, not now.”

“What do you think happened then?” Baatar retorted, cognizant of the silence surrounding their private exchange. Naaran’s Sentinels were moving to support him, while Baatar’s family made ready to defend Rain. “That he strode out, tortured innocents, bathed in their blood, and came back hoping to wash up unnoticed?”

“The Enemy rarely operates by what you or I consider sound logic.” Glancing at Rain, who was still standing there with his head cocked, arms dangling, and eyes distant, Naaran continued, “Do you not see how unnaturally he behaves? It goes beyond awkward and stilted, to the point where it appears unfamiliar and almost inhuman.”

“He was comatose for months and unresponsive for these last two weeks.” Baatar knew he sounded defensive, but what other tone should he take when his son was being accused? “Much like with Sarnai’s body, Taduk said parts of Rain’s mind might have deteriorated due to lack of use, and is hopeful he will recover soon enough with time.”

Shaking his head, Naaran eyes revealed the depths of his pain as he saw hints of the past in Baatar’s behaviour. “You defend him so staunchly because you have your suspicions, but you hope against all hopes that you are wrong. So you look past the troubling signs and cling fast to the belief that things will improve, all while watching the world crumble before your very eyes.” Glancing away and up into the sky, Naaran heaved a soft sigh, no doubt remembering his own grievous losses. “You are blinded by your love for your son, just as I was blinded by mine, old friend. Leave me be so that I might spare you from a lifetime of pain and regret.”

Though Baatar suspected he knew what Naaran’s answer might be, he had to give voice to the question. “What do you suspect has happened to my son?”

“I fear the worst because I have lived through it,” came Naaran’s reply, his way of softening the blow that had yet to come. “By the boy’s own admission, the Enemy is capable of invading his Natal Palace, and our foe has even successfully subdued and taken over at least one Defiled Warrior, that of Gen from Sanshu.” Meeting Baatar’s gaze with a pained expression, Naaran asked, “So what if this is no longer your son, but a stranger puppeting his body?”

Baatar’s first instinct was to scoff and deny such a thing was even possible, though he knew well enough that it was. He just didn’t want it to be true, because that meant his son was dead and a monster had stolen in to wear his face. It made sense, in a twisted way, but Baatar simply could not believe it, because he knew his son too well to be fooled by a complete stranger. When Rain first regained awareness, little Tali was the first to notice, and children were harder to fool than adults when it came to things like this. She would have sensed something amiss if it’d been anyone other than Rain, as would the rest of them, or so Baatar believed, but this was akin to hopes and prayers, of little use with calamity bearing down upon them.

Objectively speaking, Naaran was right to suspect Rain. The boy slipped out of the manor unseen by multiple Expert guards and engaged in battle and bloodshed without anyone noticing, which was only possible if he used Concealment and somehow avoided detection from multiple overlapping Domains, a feat few could accomplish. Guan Suo and the smaller Divine Turtle for certain, and Sarnai’s Mentor perhaps, but aside from those three, Baatar could not name a fourth. Then there was the matter of Rain’s astonishing speed and strength, moving so quickly to intercept Naaran’s attack that Baatar almost missed it. Healer ZhuShen claimed that by steeping Rain in Lie Guai’s medicinal bath, they were slowly cleansing the marrow and replacing the tendons within Rain’s body, and only raised the qualitative strength of his muscles with the last allotment of baths, but the results were far greater than even what the proud and overly optimistic Healer promised. Besides, refined body or not, how could Rain’s lean, extended arm overpower Naaran’s thick, Chi Reinforced fist with pure muscle alone? No, in order to do this, Rain must have been using both internal and external Reinforcement to a staggering degree, the latter of which he was previously unable to accomplish.

With so many unsettling facts laid out before them, only a loving, hopeful fool like a parent would not suspect something amiss.

“So what do you propose?” Baatar finally managed to ask, already knowing the answer, yet unable to bring himself to give the order.

“If he requires time to Heal, then we give him that time, but in isolation. Away from our families and loved ones, where he can do minimal harm if the worst should come to pass.”

That was the only way. Turning his gaze to the boy, Baatar’s heart sank at the possibility of having already lost his son. Rain deserved better than such a lamentable fate, but such was life. Though Baatar believed this was still Rain and not some renegade Imperial monster out of history, he could not fault Naaran for his caution, not after the calamity this poor man suffered through some decades ago. The boy was tired and disoriented, but questions would not hurt him, nor would Naaran do anything that would. Just as Baatar was about to step back and let his old friend continue, Rain straightened his head and looked up to meet his eyes. “Is ‘kay,” the boy said, his tone flat and expression blank, but eyes welling with love and concern. “Word. Jumble. Answer. Hard. Suspect.” The boy’s frustration was evident, reaffirming Baatar’s trust in his son, because there was nothing more like Rain than frustration over matters outside his control. After a moment of inner struggle, the boy failed to come up with anything else to say and lowered his head in defeat, one of the few, natural gestures which came easily to him, a realization which broke Baatar’s heart. “Sorry. Understand. Love you.”

The boy’s Aura told Baatar that he knew. He wanted to go with Naaran and be locked away, if only to prove his innocence, but Baatar could not bear to stand the thought of leaving his son to suffer in silence once again. Ignoring his old friend’s nonverbal warning, he embraced his son and held him tight. Stroking his blood-matted hair, Baatar whispered, “You have nothing to apologize for, boy. You are among family, and it is here you will stay until you have recovered. Take your time, and you will tell us what you know when you are able, but for now, go wash up and rest. Everything else can wait.”

Rain’s hug was telling indeed as he clung fast to Baatar’s waist, reluctant to leave the sheltered embrace. It wasn’t until Yan and Mila came to fetch him that he finally allowed himself to be led away, but not before hugging Naaran as well, who returned the hug without thinking and seemed surprised that he had. “Sorry,” the boy repeated, before meeting the man’s eyes, and Baatar could see the sympathy overflowing in his son’s gaze. “Sorry.”

As everyone left to stand guard over Rain, he was left alone in the courtyard with Naaran. Still reeling from Rain’s apology, his old friend took a moment to collect himself while Baatar pretended to be both blind and deaf, for no man liked to be seen crying. “You should not have let him go,” Naaran grumbled, his voice heavy with heartache. “Even if there’s nothing wrong and that is truly Rain in there, this was the wrong decision. We risk too much leaving this mystery unsolved.”

“Then we must hope Mother finds something that will shed light on everything.” That was about as close to an admission of fault as Baatar would allow, because if it were anyone other than Rain, then he would have agreed with his old friend.

“I did.” Appearing out of Concealment beside them with a bundled cloth in her arms, Mother fixed Baatar with a stern look, one which made him feel twelve years old again and fear for his backside. “Your sword. Show it to me.” In a testament to how well she’d raised him, Baatar’s body obeyed before his mind even registered the demand, presenting her his sword in the upraised palms of his hands. To his surprise, Mother sighed and opened her cloth bundle to reveal a similar sword, one recently used and stained in blood and viscera. “Old husband,” Mother called, and Father arrived with a speed that belied his size. “Come take a look at this and tell me what you make of it.”

At first glance, Baatar thought Mother had commissioned another short sword for Rain and was jealous she’d taken this opportunity away from him, but unless she knew of his recovery in advance, there was no possible way she would have known to bring it along on this trip. Most of the blood staining the blade had been wiped away, but Baatar could tell it was covered from tip to tang at one point, as the weapon was lacking a hilt and pommel. No surprise there, since there was no need to waste valuable Spiritual materials forging those when a mundane alternative would work perfectly fine, but the sword in Mother’s hand had been used without either. It was a subtle clue, but one they all picked up on immediately, because even though the tang was covered in blood, it also had hand-prints showing it had been gripped in battle. Oddly enough, the hand-prints were formed over the blood, as if the tang had been coated in it before being grabbed, as opposed to a single ‘clean’ hand print where someone held the sword and fought.

Someone threw this blade and it went clean through a body before returning to the wielder’s hand, a trick Baatar was most fond of.

While he was puzzling out how the weapon had been used, Father was busy turning the weapoin about in his hands and inspecting the sword’s physical properties. “Length, width, thickness, balance,” he rumbled, staring down the tang to inspect it’s alignment, “It all checks out. No doubt about it, this is the sword I forged for the lad.”

“Why would anyone make a copy of the boy’s Spiritual Weapon?” There was something about standing in the presence of both his parents that made Baatar want to rely on them, because were it anyone else here with him, he would have internalized the question.

Shaking his head, Father continued studying the sword in hopes of finding some telling flaw or mark. “Ye don’t understand, son. This ain’t no copy. This is the sword I forged him, right down to the little imperfection in the guard. See that bump there?” Pointing at a section along the guard that looked no different from the rest, Father said, “That happened because me tongs shifted while I was working. Got distracted by me girl calling me away fer dinner, so I hurried to finish and didn’t notice the flaw until after it all settled. And this here? See how the light almost bends along this section of the sword? That’s an imperfection that cropped up because the Heavenly Ore ye gave me didn’t fully mix with the steel. I told ye it could happen before I made it, didn’t I? That’s why I said yer best bet was to give the boy a shortsword instead of adding more steel to make a longsword or short spear. Heavenly Ores don’t always take too well to steel, and ye can never tell until it’s finished. Ain’t a doubt in my mind, this here is the boy’s weapon, same as the one I forged him in every possible way.”

Baatar saw nothing of the sort, but Father was the Divine Blacksmith and he trusted his judgment. “But how can that be? His Spiritual Weapons were destroyed.”

Shrugging, Father smiled and rumbled, “Apparently, the little miracle worker found a way to fix em. This one, at least.”

Nodding in agreement, Mother marched to the bathroom, where the Sentinel guards parted for her like sheep for the sheepdog. Inside, they came across Rain sitting naked on a stool while Sarnai and Mila scrubbed away at his arms and Yan stood ready with a bucket. Zheng Luo was also present, covering her eyes with her hand in a comically girlish attempt at modesty, though Baatar noted if she really didn’t want to look, she could have waited outside, turned away, or even just kept her fingers together instead of parted like the ribs of a fan. “This is your sword,” Mother announced, holding it out for Rain. A statement, not a question, since there was no question about it.

“Peace.” There was nothing forced or uncanny about Rain’s smile, the first Baatar had seen since he regained awareness, and one that warmed his heart. He would cherish this smile, cultivate it, and with luck, the boy would have many more just like it in the days and years to come.

