After three, long months, Baatar’s son was finally responsive again, so when Father and Brother Du broke open the wine jugs, he might have drank more than he should have.

Much more, in fact, to the point where his memory of the night consisted solely of lifting a cup to his lips followed by a scathing haranguing from his precious rose as she hauled him off to bed. As such, even though he was no stranger to rude awakenings, the previous day’s joyous tidings left Baatar ill-prepared for surprises. So much so that Naaran’s midnight Sending failed to rouse him from sleep, and the same went for the pounding at his door. It wasn’t until Sarnai smacked his bare bottom with full force that he finally shook the shackles of slumber, jumping to his feet with a growl only to immediately topple back into the sheets. Wishing he hadn’t moved so quickly, he fought down the urge to vomit and quelled his roiling stomach with sheer force of will before asking, “What is it?”

“Get dressed,” Sarnai said, her tone stilted and afraid. “Our son is missing.”

Now there was a sobering statement if there ever was one. After a quick visit to the bathroom to purge himself of liquor, Baatar rushed out into the bustling courtyard to find torch-bearing Sentinels mobilizing while Sarnai, Brother Du, and Taduk comforted Mila, Yan, and Lin respectively. “I don’t understand how this happened,” Yan was saying, unabashed of her tears as she clutched her grandfather’s arm tight. “We fell asleep next to him, and then the next thing I knew, Mama Bun was thumping at the door and Rain was nowhere in sight.”

Mama Bun? Not the Guardian Turtle? Strange. Despite barely leaving the boy’s side during the past three months, the Divine Beast seemed utterly unconcerned with his unexplained absence, sprawled out in the grassy courtyard and blinking sleepily amidst a pile of snoring bunnies while watching the chaos unfold around her. Odd that she would be so at ease in this time of trouble, and as he stepped closer to inspect her, she looked up and radiated a calming Aura, one of patience and composure. “Stop making such a fuss,” she seemed to be saying, before nestling her chin between two sleeping rabbits and closing her eyes to rest. “He’ll be back soon enough.”

Hoping she knew something the rest of them did not, Baatar took charge of the courtyard, for the Mother helps those who help themselves. “Naaran. Bring me up to speed.”

Fully armed and armoured for a fight, Baatar’s old friend appeared out of Concealment, his amber eyes burning with fury and frustration. “The Chief Provost set out with Sarnai’s Mentor and Senior sisters,” Naaran began, his petulant tone insinuating he believed he should be there with them. “Moving as one in hopes of finding a clue regarding the boy’s disappearance.”

Disappearance. Good. This meant they had not yet confirmed this was a kidnapping or assassination. How wonderful it would be if Rain simply wandered off on his own and got lost in the manor somewhere, perhaps falling asleep in the bath-house or seeking solace in the quin stables. “The guards?”

Were Baatar speaking with one of his Imperial Officers, he would’ve had to clarify, but Naaran knew him well enough to understand. “None were drunk or asleep, yet they heard and saw nothing, not even the two standing guard at his door.”

“Window?”

“My station,” Naaran replied, bitter and ashamed by his failure. “Nothing as well. Do you think this the work of a Divinity?”

“Possible, but unlikely.” For more reasons than one. The Imperial Clan had no need to abduct the boy, since a simple summons would be just as effective. As for the Enemy, even if they cared enough to go to all this trouble to abduct the boy instead of having a Divinity kill him outright, there was little chance a Defiled Divinity could make it past the border unnoticed. After Zhu Chanzui’s unexpected appearance in the Citadel, the Imperial Divinities had gone on full alert and remained so all this time, unwilling to be caught off-guard again if should it come to all out war.

Unlikely did not mean impossible, but if this was a matter of Divinities, there was nothing Baatar could do. Instead, he focused on what he could do and divided the remaining Sentinels into four search parties with orders to head off in a cardinal direction and cast as wide a net as possible. Before they had even set out, the courtyard door creaked open and Rain slipped in as if returning from a midnight affair. Stopping mid-step as if caught by surprise, the boy stood in the doorway with one foot raised and an unreadable expression as he processed the scene in silent shock, a reaction which mirrored their own. It wasn’t just his unexpected arrival which caught them all by surprise, but also his bloodied and battered appearance. Though his expression was stony and neutral as could be, his skin and hair were drenched in clotting blood and plastered with bits of gore and viscera, while his tattered, grisly robes told the tale of a bitter, hard fought battle. The boy had taken at least three life-threatening wounds by Baatar’s count. A billowing stain in his mid-section was the result of a clean thrust to the abdomen, and the cascading pattern of dried blood running down his chest indicated a slash across his throat, while his missing left sleeve showed that he’d lost it and the pale, wiry arm poking out from the clean cut garment.

Oddly enough, aside from blood splatter and a few errant cuts, his lower-half seemed mostly untouched, though this was hardly surprising considering his penchant for using his short stature against his foes, charging headlong at his foes to get within their reach and force them to react to his unfamiliar angles of attack. The boy was a splendid duellist, just like Mother, but he could also carry his own weight when thrown into a massed, chaotic melee, a well-rounded Warrior and soldier to be proud of.

Sarnai was first to break the spell of surprise, letting loose with an anxious cry as she rushed to Rain’s side, only to be stopped by a raised arm barring her path. Naaran’s arm, in fact, having stepped away from Baatar’s side, and his Sentinels followed hot on his heels to encircle Rain in the doorway with weapons drawn and readied. “You lot stay back,” Naaran commanded, bravely risking death and grievous injury as all they glared daggers into his exposed back. “Boy, come quietly and you will not be hurt.” Baatar opened his mouth to interject, but Naaran expected his objection and Sent, “You agreed to this. You are his father, but I am his guardian, and he my ward. Such is the duty you passed onto me, when you realized you could no longer bear it. Now, things have come too far to let him stroll in without question, so stand down, old friend. Do not make me ask twice.”

There was pain in the man’s voice, a plaintive plea to not make things worse, and as much as Baatar wished to fight his way over to his son’s side and make sure the boy was alright, he knew Naaran was in the right here. Rain had disappeared in the middle of the night and come back covered in human remains. Though Baatar believed there was a good explanation for this, he couldn’t fault his old friend for his caution, as this was the arrangement they’d made. Being Rain’s father meant he was no longer suited to judge if the boy had slipped and turned Defiled, so he enlisted Naaran to do so in his stead. There was no better person for the job, so it would be best to just leave him to it.

“Come, my rose,” Baatar whispered, wrapping his arms around Sarnai’s, not just to embrace her, but to keep her from doing anything foolish besides growl at him in anger. “All will be well. Let Naaran do his duty.” Brother Du didn’t understand what was going on, but he kept Yan and Mila in check with a hand on each of their shoulders as he readied to guard them both. Tearing his eyes away from his son, Baatar checked to make sure the girl didn’t do anything rash, but Charok was there by her side and she had yet to lash out with the spear in her hand, so matters were going as well as could be expected.

Except in all their shock and surprise, no one remembered to account for Song.

Baatar’s little sister offered no questions, made no demands, and even eschewed a heated cry of challenge as she responded to this perceived threat with the hiss of her drawn sabre. Having struck without hesitation, Baatar thought she might take Naaran’s leg off at the knee, but then a mighty chime rang out as sabre met spear, only for the former to rebound sharply off the latter. Undeterred, Song readied for a second strike, but she was no match for a Peak Expert, especially not one of Naaran’s calibre. Using the butt of his spear to sweep Song’s leading foot out from under her, he drew his fist back to drive it into her unguarded stomach, as the girl had yet to don her Runic armour. A neat and effective way to take her out of the fight without causing undue harm, wise seeing how Father was lurking nearby and liable to lose his temper if anyone were too heavy handed with his precious daughters. Alas, needs must. Song was Oathbound to defend Rain to the death, so it would be best if she was brought away as quickly as possible so they could make sense of the situation without her interference.

Just as Baatar was about to shout for Father to bring Song away, silence and stillness fell over the chaotic courtyard a second time, again due to Rain’s sudden appearance. No longer was he standing trapped in the doorway, but had somehow made it past the Sentinel spears barring his path to block Naaran’s punch. No, not block, but stop the strike entirely before it could even begin, the older Sentinel’s arm still cocked while Rain’s was wholly outstretched. Though Naaran’s posture left him vulnerable to a counter, Rain’s attention was solely on Song as he turned his back to the older Warrior to look at Song instead. “No danger.”

Accepting the simple statement without fuss, Song hopped to her feet and sheathed her weapon before offering a silent nod of apology to Naaran, her customary stony and indifferent expression a match for Rain’s. The only sign of curiosity was an oblique glance back as Song retook her place by the bears’ sides, but she seemed content to let matters play out while Father stood silent vigil over her. A strange relationship they had, Song and Rain, one Baatar didn’t wholly understand, but his little sister trusted the boy without question and seemed unconcerned by his gory appearance.

It was unnerving to see him move so strangely, cocking his head while still watching Song leave before turning to Naaran. The stilted, delayed movements lent an eerie cast to his demeanour, further amplified by his expressionless features and how he seemed to struggle with all natural reactions. One would usually expect him to look at Naaran and then cock his head, not the other way around, but Rain seemed only capable of carrying out one action at a time, and not always in the right order. Combined with his sharp, jarring movements and how utterly still he sometimes became, he gave off the impression of a realistic, lifelike puppet rather than a living, breathing person, which was all the more reason to fear him.

Baatar was happy to have his son back, but he would be lying if he said he had no reservations. Hence all the drink, to help him overlook the oddities and take joy in his son’s good health.

“Why,” the boy uttered, forgetting to inflect his tone to imply a question, yet another unsettling behaviour.

Recovering from his surprise with admirable haste, Naaran glared and said, “I ask the questions here. Release me.”

...How was this possible? Naaran should’ve easily been able to break free from Rain’s clutches, but despite his strained muscles and reddening cheeks, it was clear the older Sentinel’s fist was stuck in Rain’s iron grip despite all his gentle attempts to free himself. The boy was also exerting no small effort, but Baatar hadn’t noticed because of Rain’s lack of expression, and to everyone’s surprise, they were seemingly equally matched.

After a moment spent parsing through the words, Rain complied with Naaran’s demand and let his arms drop to his side. Literally drop, as in he stopped holding them up and forgot about them as they swung about like dead weight. There were times when he almost seemed normal while sitting with his wives or cuddling with his animals, but the peculiarities cropped up whenever he tried to communicate or take calculated actions. “What,” Rain uttered, again forgetting the inflection as he gave permission to be interrogated, his arms jostling and swaying all the while as momentum played out and gave off the illusion that they were limp, unfeeling appendages.

“Where did you go?”

“...Out.”

“What did you do?”

“...Fight. Kill.”

“Who did you kill?”

“...Dunno. Enemy. Ally.”

“Whose blood is that?”

“...Mine. Theirs.”

So far, the boy had given little to nothing of use, and repeated questioning bore no fruit. There was something wrong with the boy’s head, leaving him unable to do more than utter a few words at a time. He was also easily distracted, lapsing into silence and staring at nothing for long seconds before trying to wander off, only for Naaran to stop him in his tracks and repeat the question. The Guardian Turtle squeaked quietly from the courtyard, unwilling to emerge from her pile of sleeping bunnies to make her way to Rain’s side, but Aurie tried to slink past the Sentinels more than once until Song finally brought him away.

