“How is it here? It was destroyed.”

“...Oneness,” Rain replied, his smile falling away after the customary pause he needed to parse through the question. “Me. Sword. Same.” One with the Sword. How... fitting an answer, albeit not exactly useful.

After trying and failing to get Rain to expand on his answer, Mother’s patience wore thin and she asked, “Why did I find this lying in an empty, blood-stained field?”

“...Forgot.”

“How could you forget? The blood has yet to dry!”

“Phrasing, Mother.” Sensing her frustration, Baatar helpfully added, “He answers questions very literally. I believe he is saying he forgot to bring the sword back.”

Glaring daggers at him for being correct, Mother took a deep breath and tried again. “Where did the bodies go?” And it was here, Baatar learned what Mother was afraid of. “Did you... Devour them?”

The silence that followed aged Baatar by a lifetime, until Rain finally answered, “...Dunno.”

And after another equally arduous pause, he added, “...No.”

Mother was struggling with her conscience now, Baatar could see it clearly. She too wanted to isolate Rain lest he bring disaster down upon them all, but seeing little Mila tenderly scrub his bloodied hands made it all but impossible to do. Mother was the strongest Warrior Baatar knew, but he was also a parent, and he knew how difficult it was to break your child’s heart. Unable to bring herself to give the order, Mother turned to Baatar and Sent, “Head directly north from here. Bring your father, Naaran, and Little Du. See with your own eyes what I saw, and perhaps together, we will find the strength to do what needs to be done. North,” she repeated, her gaze fixated on Rain and not in the same way Luo-Luo’s was. “You cannot miss it.”

Stomach sinking at her ominous tone, Baatar did as he was told without question. Cloud-Stepping out of the manor with the others hot on his heels, it wasn’t long before they arrived at what could only be the scene of Rain’s battle, and what they found chilled their blood. While Father and Brother Du gawked in silence, Naaran made a sound that was halfway between horrified and impressed. “A few minutes back, something set the belltower to chiming. Not a proper peal, but a low hum, loud enough for me to hear out on the roof.” Scanning the upheaval with a critical eye, he nodded to himself and said, “I suppose this would have done it.”

For here they stood, at the edge of a cavity of overturned dirt and grass, the ground broken and overturned by a colossal use of force. Though the cavity was not particularly deep and only stretched about twenty metres in diameter, the clear, bare footprint in the centre made it clear this was no natural occurrence, but rather the work of a powerful Martial Warrior.

“The Mountain Collapsing Stomp,” Brother Du proclaimed, and there was nothing but joy in his voice. “The boy’s done it. He unleashed the Mountain Collapsing Stomp here, there’s no doubt about it. I said he’d have to be a Peak Expert by thirty to marry my precious Yan, but the boy might have actually done it with almost a decade to spare.”

Even better news was how no one lived in this area, as it was earmarked for future development and expansion. The boy had plans for it, something about soldier housing or an entertainment district, or perhaps both since it was ill-advised to have bored soldiers stationed so close to civilians. Rain often made plans with more than one outcome in mind, and Baatar had long since learned to trust in his vision, but that was neither here nor there.

There was no proof this was his work, but the alternative was that he fought here against a bare-footed Mitsue Juichi and won, which was ludicrous to the extreme. Though reassured by the boy’s forethought, Baatar forced himself to consider this from all perspectives, and the outlook was bleak indeed. If the boy was capable of this much widespread destruction, then anyone staying in the same building with him was risking death. Yesterday, seeing him throw himself down by the riverside and refuse to budge made for an amusing sight, but what would have happened if they really tried to pry him away? Would he have lashed out in anger, or allowed himself to be moved against his will? Difficult to say, as Rain’s troubles were mental in nature, making it difficult to anticipate how they might affect him. Thus far, he seemed content to indulge in his pets and spend time cuddling the people he loved, an outlet for all the happiness and joy he was experiencing, but what would he do if faced with anger or hatred?

Fight and kill, it would seem, but who were his opponents?

“Well, this sets my mind at ease,” Brother Du declared, stretching his arms with a yawn. “I’ll leave it to the youngsters to comb through all the dirt and grass in search of clues. One of the benefits of age and infirmity.”

“How?” Baatar snapped, angry that he would make light of this. “How can this set you at ease? The boy can barely string two words together, yet possesses enough strength to bring the manor down upon all our heads. Does this not concern you?”

“Hmm.” Stroking his beard in surprise, Brother Du considered the question for a moment before declaring, “No.” Shrugging, he explained, “If the boy is unable to control himself, then whatever will be, will be, but I think you give him too little credit. In my opinion, his mind is working fine, and his issues stem from the connection between mind and body.”

And just like that, the fog lifted from Baatar’s mind, for what Brother Du said made perfect sense. “Of course! His frustration! He knows what he wants to say, but he cannot make himself say it. If he were simple-minded, then there would be no frustration.”

“That and he lured his foe out here so that he could do battle away from the manor and District.” Stifling a yawn, Brother Du gestured about at the empty plains, further emphasizing his point. “If he’d fought in the manor or close to it, others might have gotten caught in the chaos. His logic is flawed, as it would have been better to alert us, but his intentions are still good. Inside that awkward, expressionless body, Rain is still himself, so I’ll lose no sleep resting in a room close to his.”

A fact Baatar had known, but overlooked. Indeed, he lured his enemies to a place they could fight without causing collateral damage, giving up the defensive advantage to protect those he loved. Ashamed for not believing more in his son, Baatar stood silent as Brother Du bade them all farewell and left. Father and Naaran stayed behind, with the latter setting off to do as Brother Du suggested and comb through the dirt and grass. Patting Baatar on the shoulder, Father rumbled, “Come now son, no need to look so hangdog about it. Like yer Ma, your first concern is always yer people first, and your family second. Tis a noble calling, leadership, that it is, and it ain’t fer everyone, but you bear it better than most.” Shrugging, Father added, “Though between you an’ me, I’d think long and hard before telling the lad no. It ain’t likely he’ll throw a tantrum and stomp us all flat, but no sense temptin’ fate, if ye know what I mean.”

Smiling at the half-jest, Baatar leaned against his father’s broad shoulder and took comfort in the man’s powerful presence. “Care to help me search through for clues? There are still many mysteries yet to be solved. Who Rain fought, how he reformed his blade, and perhaps even Insight on how he came this far without being noticed.”

“Bah, if youngster Du can claim the benefits of old age and head back to sleep, then I, yer Father, could have stayed in bed and never stirred.” Grinning as he thumped Baatar on the back, he wished him good hunting and left. Heading over to join Naaran, he offered no apology or excuse and instead set to work beside him, the two of them working by torchlight to follow Rain’s bloody trail of destruction. For long hours, they found nothing definitive aside the odd patch of flattened grass or errant, bloodstained scraps of cloth, and it wasn’t until the sun was rising that they finally uncovered their first real clue in a field almost three kilometres away from where he unleashed the Mountain Collapsing Stomp. “Over here,” Baatar called, drawing his weapon to carefully dig something out of the dirt. “Careful. If this is what I believe it is, then we should not touch it barehanded.” For there, embedded in the grass a short ways off from the third battle-site they’d uncovered, was the severed tip of a black metal blade, so similar to those wielded by Wraiths. “That answers that, then,” Baatar declared, puffing up with pride and vindication. “The boy fought and killed Wraiths.”

“Odd,” Naaran murmured, cutting through Baatar’s joy and tainting it with confusion.

“What is so strange about it? The Enemy dispatched killers to end my son’s life, and he saw them off without assistance.”

“If Rain fought Wraiths here,” Naaran replied, bundling the shard of metal up in a handkerchief, “Then why did he not say as much?” Shrugging, Naaran added, “Just seems strange.”

A good point, but Baatar had no answer to give. “Perhaps he was not sure if they were Wraiths?”

“Difficult to mistake those pale, ugly bastards for anything else.”

True, but Baatar was too relieved to care anymore, just happy that his son was not only conscious again, but now a Martial Warrior far beyond any of his peers. How did Rain’s Mountain Collapsing Stomp compare to Mitsue Juichi’s? Baatar should have asked Brother Du before he left. What of the Spiritual Weapon? Would Rain be able to reform the others? Could he make more, without need of Spiritual Heart or steel? What were the limits of his newfangled strength?

Whatever the answers, Baatar looked forward to helping guide Rain to discover them himself. Even Alsantset was not so far along the Martial Path that she needed help finding her steps, but Rain had jumped so high in so short a time, he was bound to have questions in need of answers, which meant Baatar could finally put his undeserved title of ‘Mentor’ to good use.

Chapter Meme
