“Unacceptable,” she did not want to suffer from [Karmic Rebound], and a painting such as this was surely worth a hefty amount of currency. “Tell me what you desire.”

Armand looked at her strangely. “Anything?”

“Anything,” Eppie puffed out her very discrete chest, putting all her chips on the boy being, well, a boy. She was still very much waterlogged, and her cheap dress was still very much figure-hugging.

“Then I want…” Armand’s eyes were bloodshot as he spoke. “The song you were singing.”

The request was so out of the blue that Eppie had to do a double-take. “What?”

“You were singing something. Starry starry night? Right? You were singing about Van Gogh. About how the artist suffered for his sanity. I know those colours you were humming. I could see them.”

She looked at the painting, and she looked at Armand. She absolutely believed him, only she was singing about isolation, loneliness, solitude, and a genius investor drowned at sea, killed by folk who didn’t understand her…

It was a fine request. She had paid her pound of flesh, and the song was now hers to let loose into a brave new world.

“Is it a new song?” Armand’s face grew close to hers. “It sounded so sad. You know, I… er… looked into some of your work. Is it true that you’re the writer of Whatever Will Be? If the rumour from last term was true, then it was you…”

“So that’s why you jumped down and pulled me out of the sea,” she found great comfort in the wisdom of knowing why this young man did something so irrational. “You thought I was going to kill myself?”

“You stood in that water for an hour,” Armand gave her a stern glare. “What was I supposed to think? Also, you stood in the shadow of the pier. Most people can’t even see you there, not when the sun sets.”

“Fair point,” Eppie reached out a hand and patted her artist on the shoulder. “Yeah, I got history, but that’s behind me. I was just… feeling sentimental.”

She took the painter by his rough, warm hand. “Alright, I’ll sing the song for you at home.”

“At home?” Armand looked at his hand in hers, using his eyes to punctuate the question mark.

“Yeah…” Eppie shaped her face into her best impression of Puss-in-Boots. “Its’ 8 PM now, and if I don’t get back to the dorm by the 10PM curfew, Mama Josefina is going to be pissed.”
