What came from the depths of her memory wasn’t hers. When she had first heard the song from her Japanese tutor, she had not possessed the means to understand it. Yet, all these years, it had stayed in her head, dormant, waking now and then as stray thoughts, tied to happier memories and Halcyon days.

She sang, the melody long and forlorn, bitter and sweet, yearning yet fatal. “Ue o muite arukoo…”

Her voice reverberated through the tunnel, filling every nook and cranny, stirring the sleeping cats who shared the same space as the vagrants. The verses were in Japanese, but her sorrowful trill was delicate and crystaline, no vibrato, no fancy techniques, just the clean sound of a child begging an old NO-NO BOY not to give up on life. She sang about sadness in the shadow of the celestial bodies. She sang about the sadness on the dark side of the moon.

It was the voice of a crying girl trying her best not to cry. The lifting note, the drop in octave, the humid passage in the dark, the artist beneath her hand and the men who lurked, blocking the entrance.

The song ended.

Muse Acquired

Ue O Muite Aruko

Song by Kyu SakamotoLyrics by Rokusuke EiMusic by Hachidai Nakamura

A small amount of Karmic Reciprocity has been paid.Penalties of Prophet of Profits have not applied. The Karmic Resonance of this artwork already exists in the present world.

[El duende] has been applied. Audiences with a high Karmic Resonance will perceive cardinal truths. A large volume of Causality has been consumed.

[142004 Causality]

+ Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality+ Karmic Causality

[155284 Causality]

[SYSTEM MESSAGE]

You have overtaxed your [Persona]

Penalties have been applied due to excessive use of [Stamina]Penalties have been applied. [-1 Vitality][-2 Health][-1 Dasein]

If Eppie had seemed defenceless before, she was now truly defenceless. Together with the grief of Kiritani-san’s refusal, she was now assailed by unbidden emotions of turmoil, disappointment, and heartbreak: Rokusuke Ei, trying to hold back his tears after a failed protest against the US occupation, and the rejection of his love by Meiko Nakamura. What made it all worse was that the [System] found it necessary to transmit the [Karmic Resonance] of the song’s singer, the dearly beloved Kyu Sakamoto, a man who connected continents, only to perish in the single deadliest airline disaster in history. For 32 minutes, JAL Flight 123 circled the air, out of control, leaving enough time for passengers to write their farewells before crashing into Mount Takamagahara.

The song reached No.1 on the US Hot 100 in 1963.

The record label chose a nonsensical title. Sukiyaki. Beef hot pot.It was a generational crime against art.

For Kiritani-san, the warmth of Sukiyaki was what he needed. There was no katsudon for Eppie to purchase at this hour, but she could summon Sukiyaki through song.

In the wake of her audible exhaustion, the silence, much like the tofu in the soy soup, was silken.

“Bogdan…” a mocking voice croaked in the dark. It would appear that not all are universally sensitive to the influences of [El duende]. The truths, it would seem, applied only to those who had dallied with death. “Are you crying?”

“Shut your face,” the big man replied, his tone leaving no quarter. “Before I shut it for you.”

But Eppie did not hear the men, nor cared. The song was not for them.

“Ikō yo?” Eppie reached out to her artist once more. Shall we go?

"Ikō ka," Henry said quietly, his eyes studying the stains on the ceiling.

Let’s go.

The ragged men in ragged clothes allowed them to pass. Or rather, Bogdan made it obvious to the others that, should anyone disagree, they would answer to his bear-like mitts. While Eppie held Henry’s things, he helped the old artist to his feet, aided by a few others, and guided them outside, putting themselves between her and those who would rather the naive songbird stay the night, for reasons.

Near the entrance, Eppie pulled out her phone and called the number with the contact title of “Dad”.

It rang twice.

“Miss Fontaine!” the voice sounded delighted. In fact, it sounded like he’d been waiting for her call. “Did you like the show I sent to the lobby? Did you… love it? Merry Christmas.”

THAT WAS YOU? Eppie’s chest erupted with warmth even as she almost dropped one of the polyester bags holding Henry’s work. If only you could know just how much I love you right now.

“I love it,” she said, but her true affection would have to be shown later. “Dad, I need help. I need a MASSIVE favour.”

“Oh?” Curon’s voice grew serious. “Is this about William?”

There was a pause, it was the sound of someone making a difficult decision.

“Did you kill him? What with?”

This time, it was Eppie who stayed silent while her brain re-routed.

“No, Dad, I need help with a fellow artist…”

She told him. With a succinctness that Claude could not muster until it digested OpenAI wholesale in 2030, she told him everything in under two minutes.

The cats, the bench, the drawings, the artist. The cereal box, the Tule Lake camp rendered in black ink from memory in 1954, the mushroom cloud signed 1975, NO-NO Home, No Citizen, No Oath. She told Curon that an eighty-seven-year-old Japanese-American artist was sleeping in Central Park with his cats because the country that interned him and bombed his family promptly forgot he existed.

“You know it’s Christmas Eve…” her father said.

“I thought you were single… No family, no kids. Come spend it with me.” Eppie said.

Curon made a noise. She could see the man doing Edvard Munch’s The Scream.

“Room at the Four Seasons,” he mulled. “How long?”

“Until I get Juliana, which is at least until after Boxing Day. At worst, after New Year's.”

“Did you say there are cats?”

“... Yes…”

“The cats can’t be booked into the Four Seasons. I’ll…” Curon groaned. “I’ll call someone. What’s his name again?” “Henry Kiritani.”

“Okay, I’ll tell the concierge. I am coming down from Sony City myself. This is insane… I swear to god, you better have a song ready.” Curon hung up. She turned to Henry. “Kiritani Sensei,” she offered her five-foot-one body, five-two on tippy toes. “Please get on my back.”

Henry stared. Bogdan stared. Someone snickered. Henry Kiritani had survived the knowledge of his hometown. He had survived Tule Lake. He had survived forty years of New York winters on and off a park bench. A man possessed of such a samurai spirit was not about to clamber onto the back of a girl-child to be brought across the park to a hotel.

“I’ll do it,” the big man, Bogdan, offered. “You hold his stuff.”

“The cats,” she said. “Tomorrow morning. Someone should be coming with food, I think…”

"We'll take care of them," he declared to the folk behind him, an alpha to his pack. There was a collective murmur of agreement.

Then they carried Henry Kiritani out of Central Park and south down Fifth Avenue.

Forty-eight blocks.

She held his artworks, and Bogdan held her artist on his back. He weighs nothing, the big man said. Like a bundle of twigs. On Fifth, they traversed long white columns ahead of light, lit by streetlights and Christmas decorations, the city thinning around them as midnight approached. The trio made steam angels as they passed, watched by New Yorkers. Avoided by New Yorkers.

A man with a great coat in the seasonal colours of the Four Seasons met them before they had even arrived. Gerald Fitts, he introduced himself. “Mr Curon called. I have the room ready for you. Do you mind if we use the service entrance? Miss Fontaine? The lobby is quite congested at this hour.”

Eppie did not mind. In the future—in the near future—men like Gerald would wish that they had welcomed Kiritani Sensei with open arms and a full percussion marching band.

Before they crossed the threshold and Henry was lowered to the floor, Eppie turned to the man called Bogdan and bowed. She then rummaged through her coat pockets until she produced her wallet.

$500. That’s all she had.

The man was already gone by the time she ushered Henry inside.
