“Okay, Dempton, you said you had something to show me?”

“Yes, Captain,” said the curly-haired tailor, rising quickly as Rain entered the tent marked with the number two. Tarny trailed in after him holding a clipboard.

Dempton snapped his fingers sharply at the other three occupants. “Come on, you three, line up. Sharply, now.”

Rain did a double take, then slid his hand down his face with a tired sigh. “I said keep it simple.”

“And I told you the purpose of a uniform is to impress!” Dempton said, waving elaborately at the three burly models, all former dock workers from Three Cliffs.

“The purpose of a uniform is to be uniform,” Rain said. “All I want is something practical that people will recognize.”

He looked again at the third Aspirant, whose outfit was the worst of the lot. The man was grinning, clearly having a great time, wearing a Vestvallan hat covered with wavy teal lines that hurt the eye. He also had a pair of enormous shoulder pads that made him look like a linebacker, except with dangling crimson tassels. His jacket and pants would have been perfectly at home in Hot Topic, all edgy black leather and studs.

Rain turned back to Dempton. “Recognizable, yes. Practical, no. Fashionable, hell no.”

Dempton inhaled, raising an offended hand to his chest as if he’d been stabbed. His soul, though, betrayed him.

Rain sighed, kicking himself for not realizing immediately. “Lana put you up to this, didn’t she? This has her name written all over it.”

Dempton grinned. “Maybe.”

The sound of stifled laughter from behind a cloth partition made Rain roll his eyes. Lana walked out a moment later wearing a smile and what appeared to be the actual uniform. It was a white jacket like Myth’s, buttoning up on the left side and hanging to the ankle. The fabric was heavier, though, like sailcloth, and the collar was simple rather than evocative of the cone of shame. Ascension’s symbol had been sewn onto the breast in blue thread.

“What do you think?” Lana said, giving a turn and revealing the arrow-and-globe symbol also stitched large across her back. As she completed her spin, she gestured downward at the dark trousers and beige boots trimmed with white fur that completed the ensemble.

The pants are fine, but the boots...

“Better,” Rain said, rubbing his chin as the decoys laughed and slapped each other on the back. “Looks cool, but it’s still a bit too much. The jacket can just button up the middle so it can be worn open if it’s hot, and it needs about three times as many pockets. It doesn’t need the symbol on the back, either. A white jacket is distinctive enough. If the pants are part of the getup, they don’t need to be. Let people wear their own stuff. Also, lose the Uggs. Nobody’s going to Starbucks.”

“Sir?” Dempton asked.

“The boots,” Rain clarified. “Smelt’s already got boots for anyone who doesn’t have their own. No need for anything special. Like I said, keep it simple.”

“Good work, Dempton,” Tarny said, catching Rain’s attention, then signing ‘time’ in hand code.

Rain nodded. “Let me know when the next version is ready, and start rounding up materials. Assuming Smelt and Vanna sign off, we’ll need five hundred at least.”

Dempton choked. “Fff...five hundred?!”

Rain nodded, turning for the open tent flap. “Numbers go up. Lots of new members coming in, given, you know”—he gestured vaguely—“everything. Actually, make it a thousand. Plan for tomorrow, not today. See you later, Lana, Dempton.” He stopped, looking back at them. “Actually, are either of you free tonight for Nine Dice? One more player, and we’ve got a full nine.”

“Will Sana be playing?” Lana asked, taking the arm of the still-struggling tailor.

“Yes,” Rain replied. Tonight. Tonight, I’ll win. I have to.

“Pass,” Lana said, wrinkling her nose. “I love Sana, but if she’s playing, it isn’t fun.”

“Come on,” Rain pleaded, looking at Dempton.

“Never again,” Dempton said.

Rain sighed.

“I’d play,” said one of the burly models unexpectedly, raising a hand. “What’s the buy?”

Rain turned to look at him, then grinned. “Tek, right?”

“You know my name?” the man asked, taken aback.

“Of course,” Rain replied, fighting not to laugh at his expression, though really, it was the Aspirant’s enormous frilled collar that was doing it. “No buy-in, just snacks and good company. It wouldn’t feel right, taking everyone’s money. Saying Sana and I are good is an understatement.”

“I don’t know, Captain,” said Roan, another of the Aspirants. “Tek’s good too. So good, I say he’s a damn cheat.”

“You take that back,” Tek growled, rounding on him.

“All the better,” Rain said. Sorry in advance, Tek. My cheats are stronger. He smiled. ”My tent, fifth bell.” He glanced significantly at the man’s frilled collar. “No need to dress up.”

Tek laughed as Rain turned for the open tent flap. “See you then, Captain, and thank you for the invitation.”

“Bye, Rain!” Lana called.

Rain waved over his shoulder as he ducked out through the wards into the eternal gloom of the overcast sky.

The Maelstrom, as it had come to be called, was the center of what had been a desert in the northeastern Empire. It wasn’t exactly a desert anymore, thanks to the clash between Fecht and the Warden’s puppet army. The effects of their reportedly-days-long showdown had rippled across the entire continent. Here, it was just persistent clouds and wind, but further south, things worsened. It had been raining in Greenfield for a full week, and the storm showed no signs of stopping.

As far as Rain knew, nobody had yet managed to breach the cataclysmic wall of wind that was the Maelstrom itself. Even with Fecht dead—as he hoped against hope was the case—the potentate had gotten his wish, in that the Empire was very much not, at least for the moment. With the Citizens still missing, they’d solidified their hold on the southern DKE, taking Lenleah, Falking, and Kinepeak, with Lightbreaker having participated in all three battles. That was a whole OTHER problem, Fecht’s hold on Val’s father being apparently undiminished. As it pertained to the ongoing apocalypse, though, the point was the Empire wasn’t exactly allowing on-location weather reporters in to have a look around.

Fortunately, Guilders were crazy people.

Alrich the Enkindled, a goldplate and one of the Ten, had fought through Adamants, monsters, and the fury of the storm to get closer than anyone else so far. According to his report, which Rain was getting third or fourth hand at best, system abilities began to misbehave near the Maelstrom, particularly outward-facing ones, such as the unnamed movement techniques Alrich had been using to fight through the gale-force winds. From that, it was clear that reality hadn’t merely been cracked this time, but outright shattered, and nobody knew yet how serious the implications were. Even if it was just the rain and flooding, refugees were already fleeing north in droves.

And I’m here dealing with fabric.

He turned for tent three, knowing he was being hard on himself. Really, he was dealing with everything, and it was only by coincidence that he had two cloth-related appointments in a row. He nodded to Vanna, spotting her talking to a member of Ascension’s growing army of clerks beside the entrance to tent six, then stepped through the flap of his own numbered tent to see an anxious-looking man sitting beside the table. The moment he crossed the threshold, the chaotic symphony of saws and hammers was snuffed out by Romer’s updated wards, and so he had no problem hearing the sudden gasp of surprise from the tent’s occupant.

“What do you have for me, Aspirant Wes?” Rain said as the startled man scrambled to his feet. Wes was from Yelfenn and had only joined Ascension yesterday, answering the call for crafters Rain had posted in the city’s largest square.

“Pardon, but you surprised me, Captain,” Wes said, doffing his slightly shabby hat before bowing low. “It is an honor to meet you for a second time. I’d like to personally thank you for allowing lowly craftsfolk like me and mine to join your company.”

“No need for formality, Wes,” Rain said, happy to have not been called ‘lord’ at least. “I’m the one who should be thanking you for joining. We need all the talented people we can get with everything we’ve got going. On that subject, I’m almost a full minute behind schedule, so I’m afraid I don’t have time for pleasantries. Do you have the sample with you?”

“Ah, yes. Yes, I do,” Wes said, rising and hurrying over to a table. He lifted a bolt of blue cloth and held it out in both hands, a note of pride entering his voice. “Here you are. It is my very best.”

“Hmm,” Rain said, taking the deep blue fabric and rubbing it between his armored fingers. It was thin, with a tighter weave than anything he had seen in this world. That included the long-deteriorated pajamas he’d brought with him.

Perfect.

“Please, Captain, remove your gauntlets and feel the weave,” Wes said anxiously, dry washing his hands. “If you do, you’ll find—“

“Relax,” Rain interrupted. “This is great stuff, and exactly what I need.” He pulled the fabric taut, making a sharp snap. “Nice and light. Strong. Should make a great envelope.” He pulled harder, then harder still, until finally managing to rip the fabric in half, much to the horror of the man across from him. “Relax, I said. I just wanted to see how much it could take. I’m buying it, plus however much else you have ready, and then some.”

“That was all I had,” Wes said dejectedly.

“Oh,” Rain said, folding the two torn halves, then placing them on the table. “Sorry. Anyway, I’ll need a lot more, like a lot more. As the posting said, I’ll pay handsomely in credit. How is it woven?”

There was a long pause while the weaver continued staring at the torn fabric, then he shook himself and looked up. “Well, my family has been in the weaving business for three generations, and our shop has a dozen—“

“No, no, mechanically, I mean,” Rain interrupted. “What kind of looms are you using?” He held up his hands together in front of him, palms pressed together and his fingers splayed apart to create a valley. “The warp gets set up like this by a pair of sliding frames holding the heddles? Pass the weft through the warp, then swap the frames over so it gets trapped, like”—he meshed his fingers through each other, keeping them straight. “Then you pass the weft through again, swap the frames”—he opened his fingers—“and on and on and on?” He lowered his hands, done with the demonstration. “Something like that?”

“I...yes. Essentially.”

“Good,” Rain said, nodding. “Is it mechanized at all? Are there levers to move the bits around?”

“Yes,” the weaver said. “Pardon me, but were you a weaver before your awakening?”

“No, I went on a field trip to a monastery in grade school. Don’t ask what that means. Back to the point, what carries the yarn when you pass it through? Some kind of shuttle, or do you just have it on a spool as you feed it through by hand?”

“How else but a spool?” the weaver asked. “What do you mean by ‘shuttle’?”

“Okay, look,” Rain said, motioning to Tarny, who’d been standing silently behind him this whole time. “Clipboard, please.”

“One moment,” Tarny said, and there was a rustle of paper as he removed the top sheet, then passed Rain the clipboard and a pencil.

“Thanks,” Rain said, then began to sketch. “You’ve got your frame like this, and the thread goes through here, then gets packed down by the thinger. Sorry, don’t know the name for that part. Anyway, you put a little shelf on it like that, then you get a big heavy chunk of wood and put a spool in the middle like this, see? So it spools out as it slides. Then you tie a rope to the shuttle there, and when you yank, it goes flying along the shelf you put on the thinger and runs the weft all the way through. The shuttle’s gotta be heavy, because momentum. Pack down the weft by pulling the thinger toward you, swap the heddles with the levers however you do that, yank the rope again to wack the shuttle back to the other side, again, again, again, you get the idea. Flying shuttle. You’ll be able to make the frame a good bit wider than your arms now. Even without that, it should still be faster, and that’ll save you buckets of time.”

“Speaking of the time,” Tarny said.

“I know,” Rain said, rubbing his eyes with a sigh. He’d left a few five-minute gaps in his schedule, but he just kept burning through them. Signing the page, he unclipped it from the clipboard and passed it to the weaver, who looked like he’d been poleaxed. “Half of what I drew is probably wrong, but it looks like I at least sparked something. Take that to Shena, our Woodsmith, if you haven’t met her yet. She shouldn’t be hard to find. In the meantime, if more hands would help with the equipment you have, Shena can help you with that too. She’s taken charge of that kind of thing.” He returned the clipboard to Tarny. “Tarny, make a note for Staavo: electric looms. I don’t know nearly as much about them, but I know they’re possible, and that’s all he should need. Low priority, though. More generators first, and I still want that blasted printing press already.”

“I’ll add it to the list, Captain,” Tarny said. “Should I instruct Aspirant Dempton to see Aspirant Wes for the cloth he will need for the uniform jackets?”

“No, no,” Rain said, shaking his head. “Dempton can buy that anywhere—well, Mlem can buy it—and then Myth and Reason can dye and treat it for toughness. This stuff needs a better strength-to-weight ratio right out of the gate. You’ll see why.”

I’m getting that damn airship if it kills me. Even a normal balloon will be great for scouting now that we have a working radio again. Take some of the load off Emerton.

“Oh, hold on,” Rain said suddenly, having caught sight of Myth and Reason passing by as if he’d summoned them. Technically, he had, though it was they who’d requested the meeting, which was scheduled right after this one. With the Wards blocking sound, he waved at them furiously until they noticed him, then beckoned, glad he’d managed to save them all the walk to tent one.

“With me, Aspirant,” Tarny said, laying a hand on Wes’s shoulder, who was still staring intensely at the sheet clasped in his hands. “We’ll work out the details of the order, then discuss a point rate for compensation.”

