“Thanks, Tarny,” Rain said, nodding to him. “See you around, Wes. Tarny, please get back here in time for the meeting with the headman. And bring snacks. He should be happy once we’re done, regardless, but an apology is always better with snacks.”

“You’re just hungry,” Tarny said, guiding Wes out past Myth and Reason as they entered for their scheduled appointment.

“So?” Rain asked, smiling.

“Now, Wes, your equipment is still in—”

Tarny’s voice cut off abruptly as he passed through the wards, and Rain grinned, beckoning to Myth and Reason again as they made way. As they entered, he waved a hand. “Hey, guys. How are things?”

“Good day, Rain,” Myth said, looking uneasy to Rain’s immaterial senses.

“Things exist independent of qualitative judgment,” Reason said.

Rain snorted out a laugh. “Nice to see you too. Are we still on for tonight?”

“We will be there,” Myth said, tension still hanging heavy in his voice.

“Great, great,” Rain said, smiling, but he didn’t raise his visor so they could see the expression. He’d been having...trouble...in that regard, with Ameliah gone for a full week as of today and with Tallheart perpetually squirreled away working on the titanium problem.

For probably the thousandth time that day, Rain pulsed Detection through the anchor Ameliah had taken with her. The scan came up empty, with not a single human or cervidian in range. He’d done an excruciatingly detailed sweep once he’d realized she was leaving it behind, already thoroughly confused and worried at that point.

First, there’d been the deserted village, then the three cervidians in the cave, whom Ameliah had taken west before leaving the anchor with them. Then she’d returned with dozens more, plus a handful of humans. Rather than simply heading back to the village or taking the group north, she’d made a trip to a ruined building where she’d left the anchor in a cellar—or perhaps a dungeon, from all the bars. Something had gone wrong, he knew, but the details...

What the hells happened out there, Ameliah? And what’s taking you so long to get back?

Myth politely cleared his throat.

Shaken out of his thoughts, Rain spread his hands, attempting a smooth recovery. “You called the meeting, guys, so it’s your show. What do you want to talk about that couldn’t be discussed over beer?”

“Should we sit?” Myth asked, looking around for chairs and not finding any.

“Sure,” Rain said, folding his legs to sit on the bare dirt floor right where he was. “Sorry, chairs are in short supply, like basically everything. Well, everything except slag.”

“The lack of accommodation poses no obstacle to my repose,” Reason said, flaring out the hem of his black jacket so he could join Rain on the floor.

“What’s going on?” Rain asked, smirking briefly at Reason’s ridiculousness before returning his attention to Myth, who was shifting anxiously from foot to foot. “You’re nervous, and it’s making me nervous. Whatever it is you want to ask, just ask.”

Myth hesitated a moment longer before flaring his coat to sit as well. “We didn’t tell you at the founding, Rain, but we...Reason and I...never intended to remain in Ascension long term.”

Rain froze. FILTH! They’re not—

[⟬FILTH⟭!]  Dozer echoed, interrupting him.

“What exactly are you saying?” Rain managed in a level tone.

“We have changed our minds,” Reason said simply. The words Read true.

Rain held back the expletive that tried to escape his lips, and instead, he simply nodded. “I see. Well, that explains why you didn’t want to be Entrusted. Damn it, okay, I guess I’ll have Smelt close out your accounts and pay you for your—“

“Actually—“ Myth began, but Reason cut him off.

The dark-haired Chemist’s eyes were dead serious, as was his soul. “You would let us go with no challenge?”

“Yeah,” Rain said, turning to him. “I’m not happy about it, of course, but Ascension’s not an army. Anyone can leave if they want to, even Entrusted if the council votes to allow it. You’re just Trusted, so as long as you agree not to talk about certain things, you can just...” He paused, then clicked his tongue. “Why, though? Is there some problem? If you aren’t happy—”

“We are happy,” Myth interrupted, laying a hand on Reason’s. “Reason is simply testing the strength of your word”—he turned to glare at him—“as I told him was not necessary.” He looked back at Rain. “We have changed our minds in that we wish to stay. We wish to be Entrusted.”

“Oh!” Rain said, laughing and breaking into a goofy grin. “You assholes! You let me think—”

*pop*

[Assholes!] Dozer sent.

Reason smiled, or rather, his soul smiled. Rain couldn’t see his mouth, thanks to his black coat’s collar.

“Oof!” Myth said, catching Dozer as the excited slime bounced off his chest. “Has Dozer gotten bigger?”

“A bit,” Rain said, waving THAT whole mystery away. Pretty soon, he’d have to weigh him again. “Anyway, you want to be Entrusted, boom, you’re Entrusted. Why were you so nervous? I feel like I should be throwing you a party. Actually, yeah, that’s exactly what I’m doing. Cake tomorrow. Tell your friends.”

“Wait, what?” Myth said, struggling to contain Dozer’s excited jiggling. “Just like that? The codes say there is supposed to be an interview and an exam...”

Rain again waved a hand. “Oh, exam nerves? That’s all it was? Gods, what a relief. No, the council has pre-approved a few of those who turned down Entrusted initially. Anyone who’s on the list and asks to be promoted gets promoted, no questions asked. That’s just the first secret you’re Entrusted with now. I’ll do the paperwork tonight, so just sit tight until then. Depths, you guys. You really had me going.”

Reading the truth doesn’t mean you can’t be led astray.

Having allocated a full fifteen minutes for this meeting, Rain spent the rest of it just chatting with the Alchemistry duo and playing with Dozer. It was a welcome break, though finally, he had to get back to work, so he bid them farewell, coaxing Dozer back inside his soul before moving to tent two.

On and on it went, meeting after meeting, issue after issue, packed nearly back-to-back and leaving him little time to dwell on Ameliah’s continued absence. All the while, he modulated his auras through the various anchors around the camp, powering the smelters, banishing filth, and resupplying mana to any that needed it.

As Rain worked, he caught occasional glimpses of Vanna, occupied much as he was, the two of them linking up properly for the shared meeting with the headman. That went rather well, especially after Tarny showed up with the snacks, the headman leaving with a promise that Ascension would build his village a breakwater from the stone bricks leftover from the furious smelting operation as recompense for all the chaos they were causing.

Really, though, it was still a problem. They weren’t being very good neighbors, and if things continued as they had been, Ascension’s camp would soon grow to the point that it eclipsed the man’s village entirely. If Tallheart didn’t have a breakthrough soon, Ascension wouldn’t fit on Temerity by the time it was seaworthy again, especially if you counted the coming cerv—

“...which is why we need—“ Atyl cut off mid-sentence as Rain bolted, having been running through Ascension’s latest finances. “Where are you going!? Rain?! What’s happening!? Are we under attack?!”

“She’s back!” Rain shouted, not looking back or bothering to explain what had just popped up on Detection. Carten and his mother unexpectedly stepped out from between two wagons, deep in a heated argument, and not having space to dodge, Rain instead leapt clear over them, almost flattening Kettel on the landing.

“Oi!” no less than three voices shouted, but Rain couldn’t be asked to care.

“Get Tallheart!” he shouted, increasing his speed as he tore through the bustle of the camp. Once he was free of the press, he activated Velocity, tearing along the beach toward the village. The headman was still on his way back, apparently, but Rain blew by him so quickly that the man was little more than a blur. Only when the large group he’d picked up on his anchor came into view did he drop the spell, taking care to leave plenty of time to slow down without showering anyone with sand.

“Ameliah,” he said, jogging to a stop as she moved out to meet him, her radiant smile only outshone by the golden intensity of her soul. Behind her, he saw the souls of the cervidians, seventy-nine of them by Detection’s count, dancing and shimmering with all the colors of the rainbow. Five at the front were slightly larger than the others, with the telltale solidity that told him they were awakened. The cervidians themselves either wore hats or had strips of cloth bound around their heads to hide their antlers, and every last one of them looked to be utterly exhausted. Beyond that, though, one soul was missing. Even amongst the awakened, there were none large enough to have belonged to Proudrock.

“Rain,” Ameliah said, wrapping her arms around him, and through the contact, he felt her happiness and relief, but also a bone-deep tiredness mixed with worry and uncertainty. “I’m back.”

Though it hurt him to release her, he let go after only a moment more, well aware they were not alone. The cervidians were shifting uncertainly, huddled together behind Ameliah as if for protection. Turning to them, Rain bowed, folding at the waist until his back was completely horizontal. “Welcome, friends. I am Rain, friend of Tallheart, who should be here shortly. I believe we have much to—”

*pop*

[Ameliah-Queen!]

Dozer landed on Rain’s back, catapulting himself toward Ameliah and disrupting Rain’s already-precarious balance. Past the tipping point and with his arms at his sides, there was nothing he could do to stop his face from plowing directly into the sand.
