“Yes, but it won’t work as intended.” Pointing at her careful measurements and calculations, Mila sighed and shook her head, deciding it was better not to spare his feelings. “See, your idea to use a coiled spring seems solid at first glance, but it’s riddled with flaws. You understand how Amplification works and why it doesn’t work with a bow right?”

“Uh huh.” Rain nodded as his eyes darted from side to side. “But umm, why don’t you explain, just as a refresher.” What a terrible liar.

“When drawn, a bow stores energy in the flexed limbs,” Song interjected, saving Mila from offering a snappy retort, “and when released, it exerts a constant force on the string which propels the arrow forward. Amplification exerts an instantaneous force which sends a wave through the string. This results in either a snapped string, failure to launch the arrow, or an arrow launched in an errant direction. The proper timing for Amplification is difficult to measure and near impossible to do in real time, as it hinges on a variety of factors such as draw length, string tension, humidity, and angle of launch.”

“Uh huh, uh huh,” Rain said, nodding despite not really understanding. “So it’s virtually impossible, got it. So why not use a sling, like a rope and stone?”

“You encounter the same issues,” Song replied, “albeit on a smaller scale. Impossible to aim correctly. Amplification works best when channelled through a rigid material and used on impact. Flexibility introduces too many extra variables to take into account.”

“So how does Charok do it? Doesn’t his finger flicking thing work on the same principles, storing energy in his bent finger and unleashing it at the point of impact? How’s he so accurate?”

“That’s what I asked but he couldn’t give me a straight answer,” Mila huffed, remembering her frustration. She’d have to apologize to him too, so unfair. “In the end, we concluded since his body was the medium, he instinctively ‘smoothed out’ the process or somehow accounted for other factors. The strange thing is, he’s not the only one who can do it, but no one can explain how.”

“Ha, now you know how I feel most of the time. No one explains anything ever.”

Sighing, Mila ignored his delight and continued. “Your coiled spring idea suffers all the same problems and several unique ones to boot. It’s theoretically similar to Charok’s flicking, but lacking the ability to stabilize the spring and smooth out the process. You say the axe is too short, but make it too long and the coil vibrates too much during decompression. Not only does it make timing Amplification difficult, the projectile will be wildly inaccurate. What’s more, there’s a problem with efficiency.”

“Not efficient enough?”

“Far from it.” Mila shook her head. “With how much force I can pack into a near-indestructible spring, it can launch a projectile at speeds anywhere from 100 to 150 meters per second depending on the weight, which isn’t too amazing compared to a good bow. However, if we factor in Amplification, we could easily see anywhere from two to four times the speed.” For some reason, it irked her how accurate Rain’s randomly sprouted numbers were. Six hundred meters per second wasn’t as preposterous as she’d once believed.

“... so what’s the problem?”

This time, Mama answered for Mila. “The faster an object moves, the greater the force of wind acting on the object. Around 350 meters per second, the force is so great it can shatter steel bolts with ease.”

“Yea, the sound barrier.” All three of them stared at Rain until he explained. “As you approach the speed of sound, 350 meters per second or close to it, aerodynamic drag sharply increases. Breaking the sound barrier is why whips make a cracking noise. It’s not a big deal, you pierce through with slim, inflexible flechettes or avoid the sound barrier by using heavier projectiles, retaining more kinetic energy at lower speeds.” Pretending not to see their questioning gazes, Rain looked down at the diagram once more. “Besides, for the accuracy thing, couldn’t you secure the projectile in place instead of resting it against the coil? Then stick something like a prod to the end of the coil. The spring uncoils, the prod strikes the projectile, and boom goes the Defiled. No more stability or spin issues. Hmm... you could even use multiple springs to help minimize the effect of errant oscillations.”

“It’s not so simple!” Mila exploded, angered by his happy-go-lucky attitude. “This is a Spiritual Weapon, not a wood-cutter’s axe.” So what if his idea had merits? Oh, she could use a telescoping arm to help further stabilize the springs, even placing it in the middle of four springs. That would allow her to shorten the spring without losing power. Another idea flashed through her mind, to make a hammer and insert the springs in the head. Instead of launching a projectile, it could be triggered to propel the head forward 5 to 10 centimeters, much easier to Amplify and with no need to worry about projectile accuracy. Or a giant spike emerging from the tip, oh, it would be so magnificent... No focus. Catching herself before falling into another daze, Mila shook her head. “Most warriors only get one, so it has to be perfect.”

This time, it was her turn to be stared at. After a long pause, Mama’s asked, “Dear daughter, are you telling me you have been slaving away the past week not because your ideas will not work, but because they are less than perfect?”

Frowning, Mila defiantly stared back and answered, “Isn’t it the same thing? ‘If you’re going to do something, do it once and do it right’.”

Her imitation must have been on point as everyone in the room turned to look at her still sleeping Papa. Though he pretended to be slovenly and lazy, Mila knew better than most the pains he went through the ensure every object he crafted was made to perfection. Even the tiniest of flaws in the most common of iron tools would not pass muster, and Mila strove to reach the same standards. While they were distracted, she reached for her inkwell and brush, readying to draw out her newly imagined axe-rifle and impact hammer.

They would need better names, but that could come later.

Losing herself in the work, she only came to when someone took hold of her brush. Lashing out on instinct, her fist bounced off iron-wrought flesh. Nursing her bruised knuckles, Mila looked up to see Mama towering over her with an amused grin. “Enough girl. Your work ethics are commendable, but this is too much. Come,” she said, dragging Mila out into the afternoon sunlight. “We have a funeral to attend and it will not do for you to arrive looking like a beggar.”

“Whose funeral Mama?”

“The former Marshal of the North, Shing Du Yi.”

Oh no... poor Yuzhen, she must be devastated. Squeezing Mama’s waist as they rode Kankin through the streets, Mila closed her eyes and wept. It was obvious Shing Du Yi sacrificed himself to keep his daughter safe, one final act of fatherly love. Mila could only imagine how torn up Yuzhen must be.

Rest well in the arms of the Mother, Shing Du Yi, a true Dragon among men.

Chapter Meme
