The change didn’t stop there. The outer shell began turning transparent at the point where the wreckage had impacted. When Rain had built the structure, he’d imagined glass panes between the triangular framing. Now that there was no framing along most of the outer wall, the Bastion became a snowglobe. Rain’s sudden concerns about cracking didn’t last long, swept aside by what he saw next.

There was another ball of essence out there.

It was just sitting there, touching the glass sphere, ripe for the taking.

How long has…?!

He shifted his view to look at Dozer, stunned. He recovered quickly, then sent his elation through the link along with his words. [Good boy, Dozer!]

Dozer practically exploded with delight.

Carefully, Rain dug away at the wall where it made contact with the new sphere, then started pulling in fresh essence. As before, he used it to expand the outer shell, but this time, he formed beams, making a new geodesic sphere to brace the glass. It was all so easy now. With this much free volume, his control was stronger than it had ever been. The massive increase in his capabilities was intoxicating, but he wasn’t going to let it fool him into complacency. Right now, the Bastion was fragile. Vulnerable. If he wanted to keep what he’d gained, he needed the Bastion to be strong, strong, strong.

He kept working. Once the two new essence spheres were fully assimilated, he devoted his focus to cleaning up the mess. He hoovered up all of the wreckage and built new crossbeams, moving his core back into the center and locking it into place. He merged the new geodesic sphere with the glass shell properly, making it all one piece, but he didn’t thin it down even though he knew he could. Thicker was better.

Steel was better too, he realized, and just like that, the glass became metal. It was still essence, but it would be stronger simply because he considered it to be. Changing it was trivial now, far from the laborious hardening process he’d grown used to, and he could always change it back later if he needed to see outside. With another realization, he upgraded everything to adamant. The walls darkened, becoming a deep gray, almost black. Steel was weak. He had much better options.

By the time Rain finished, Dozer had finished as well. The air was completely clear now, and the slime’s excitement had vanished, replaced with nothing but relief and sleepy confusion.

Dozer was done, it seemed. Beyond done.

Rain had to narrow the link before he got taken down with him. [Sleep well, Dozer. You’ve earned it.]

Wishing for a head to shake, Rain searched for Snek, naming the avatar in that instant. It had somehow survived the tumult, and as he slipped into it, he was immediately struck by the dramatic shift in the scale of his perspective. Snek was tiny at only 64 units of essence. The Bastion held…who the hell knew how much. A butt ton. Metric, of course.

As if drifting through a dream, Rain glided his way down to where Dozer was pooled at the bottom of the sphere. He found himself marveling again at just how enormous the slime was—and it wasn’t just because Snek was so small.

Operating on the experience-is-essence hypothesis, Dozer’s soul should have been about 100 units in size, given his level. Clearly, that was not the case. Dozer’s manifestation here was at least a thousand times that. At a wild guess, 100,000 units—ten times the mass of the original Bastion, smaller in volume only by virtue of not being hollow. That raised many interesting questions that Rain only now had the time to ponder. He guided Snek to a landing atop Dozer, finding the slime to make a magnificent pillow. If Dozer noticed the contact, he made no sign of it, fast asleep already.

Again, Rain wished he could smile. Settling in, he turned his attention back to the subject of size. He’d learned a ridiculous amount about his soul today, and it was going to take him a long time to process all of it, but this was as good of a place to start as any.

Based on everything he had gleaned from Bartum and from his own experience, souls had both an internal structure and an external manifestation. Dozer was inside Rain’s soul, which meant he should appear as that external manifestation, just as he would in soulspace. And yet, he just looked like a slime. An enormous, unconscious, physical slime. In other words: normal.

It was possible that that was just how Dozer’s avatar looked—Rain only had two examples to go on, after all, so he was no expert. His own avatar in soulspace was a glitchy human hologram. Wallace, the Guild healer, appeared as a faint red soap bubble, like a special effect from 60s Trek.

It was hardly a complete dataset.

Also, there was nothing to say that soulspace and his own internal reality had to follow the same rules. The simplest explanation was that they did, so that was what he was going with for now.

Rain knew from various encounters with the Watch that his soul appeared larger and more robust than it should have been, even before he’d broken it, and he’d been attributing that to all of the skill trees he’d unlocked. It followed that his soul’s volume would correlate to his total experience, which was 1.7 million at the moment. The Bastion held much more essence now, true, but he was certain that it was nowhere near that much. He was also certain that a solid ball of 100 essence would be much smaller than Dozer currently appeared. If his assumptions held, that meant the ratio between essence and experience wasn’t one-to-one—if there was even a relationship between them at all.

[Hey Dozer, you wouldn’t happen to know your radius, would you?]

There was no response, of course.

Rain flicked his forked tongue a few times, amused. I’ll come back once he’s awake. I have time now. Wow, I have time now. What a concept.

He flicked his tongue again.

Damn, I forgot to tell Dozer that Ameliah said hello. Oh well. Next time.

Quietly, he flew back to his core and spent a few minutes building the 3D equivalent of a puppy gate around it. He made it out of a fine mesh that would let the outflow through, but not an inquisitive slime. Satisfied, he wrapped himself securely around a beam to rest. He didn’t feel ready to talk to Ameliah and Tallheart yet, lest he come off as a raving lunatic. He thus resolved to stay here and process until they woke him.

He breathed in deeply, then sighed a snaky sigh.

Just…wow.

When he next opened his eyes, Rain found himself back in his real body. He’d come back on his own after about thirty minutes, confused that Ameliah hadn’t roused him yet and fearing that he’d fall asleep inside Snek if he stayed any longer.

The transition to reality was jarring, but less so than usual. There was no brutal headache waiting for him, only gnawing hunger and a feeling of something sitting atop his head.

“What the…?” he mumbled to himself as he reached up to investigate. His gauntleted fingers clinked against something metal, and when he removed the object, he saw that it was an ornate silver crown, elegantly shaped like woven vines.

“Okay, very funny,” he said, smiling as he scanned for his friends with Detection. Ameliah was right beside him, curled up and hidden from view beneath a blanket. Tallheart was also nearby, somewhere above him on the wall, clearly on watch, given that it was dark. The Fire Moss had gone out, and Ameliah’s Lunar Orb was hovering nearby, providing the only light. Rain checked the time quickly, and his faint hope that time-acceleration had started working in his soul was dashed.

Shaking his head, he looked back down at the crown in his hands, then craned his neck around to peer up at Tallheart. He found the cervidian looking down at him, smiling that subtle smile of his.

The smith’s eyes shifted, and he spoke in a low whisper, his tone urgent. “Put the crown back on. Quickly.”

Rain raised an eyebrow, but complied without question. Why does he want me to—? There was a soft noise from beside him, and he jumped, relaxing as he realized it was just Ameliah. As she sat up, the blanket that had been covering her fell away, and pale light glinted off a band of silver resting across her brow.

Rain grinned. Oh.

Quickly, he hid his expression. Ameliah wasn’t looking at him yet, busy investigating the crown, much as he’d done moments before. Soon enough, she spotted him watching her. Her eyes flicked to his forehead, then she narrowed them dangerously as she met his gaze.

Rain couldn’t help it. He began to laugh.

“Damn it, Rain!” She yelled, flinging the crown at him. The metal band hit him square in the chest with a loud clang. It ricocheted into the ground, kicking up a cloud of dirt.

“Hey, don’t blame me,” Rain said, struggling to contain his laughter. “I had nothing to do with it.” He quirked his head in Tallheart’s direction. “Blame him.”

“I should have known,” Ameliah said with a long-suffering sigh. She looked up, then smiled.

There was a heavy thud as Tallheart jumped down from the wall, landing beside the fallen crown. The smith bent to pick it up, rumbling with amusement as he twisted the deformed metal back into shape. He turned to offer it to Ameliah, speaking in an admonishing tone. “This is not a weapon. It is to be worn, not thrown. Hmm. Also, keep your voice down. There are monsters about.”

Ameliah accepted the silver band with a snort. She brushed back her hair, then settled the crown back on her head. “Happy?”

“Mmm,” Tallheart rumbled.

“It looks good on you,” Rain said, smiling. “But then, anything would look good on you, my queen.”

“Oh, stop,” Ameliah scoffed. She looked up at Tallheart, tapping a finger against her crown. “So do these do anything, or…?”

Tallheart snorted. “They are not enchanted, but their function is obvious. They are a symbol of authority. Hmm. A king and a queen must have matching regalia.”

“I’m going to throw it again,” Ameliah said flatly, glaring at him.

Rain laughed, then scooted over to wrap her in a side-armed hug. She really does look good with that crown. There is no WAY we’re ever wearing these in public, though. I am NOT a king, damn it.

“Sorry,” Ameliah said, squeezing Rain back as she glared once more at Tallheart. “I was supposed to wake you. Tallheart said he’d take care of it so I could rest, but apparently, playing a prank on us was more important than stopping you from starving to death.”

Rain chuckled. “Don’t worry. I’m not that hungry.” On cue, his stomach growled loudly, betraying him. “Damn it.”

Ameliah snorted, releasing him and getting to her feet. She turned to face him, then made an elaborate and unfamiliar bow. As she rose from it, she extended a hand to him. “Come, my king. Let us dine in the grand hall such that you might lavish the entire court with the recounting of your spiritual journey.”

“Am I the court?” Tallheart asked, raising an eyebrow.

Rain grinned. “Yes.” He allowed Ameliah to pull him to his feet, then bowed low to her in turn. “A marvelous idea, my queen. I have much to share with you both and would gladly do so over a fine meal.”

Tallheart snorted. “I boiled some of those knobby roots we found yesterday. It did not improve their flavor.”

Rain broke, then, laughing as he slipped an arm around Ameliah’s waist, feeling truly carefree for the first time in what felt like years. “That’s fine, Tallheart, that’s fine.” He grinned at both of them. “You’re NEVER going to believe what happened in there.”
