I’m coming, Dozer. I’m coming. Just hold on.

The next step, he decided, was to make an airlock—one big enough to let Dozer inside. It took him longer than anticipated, as he felt compelled to make working seals and a snake-operable locking system for both doors. He wasn’t sure that he’d be able to shape essence when he was outside, and the hardened outer wall was difficult to modify at the best of times. He couldn’t just open a hole to let Dozer in, then close it before the sphere filled with chaos.

Once the airlock was finally finished, Rain slithered into it, then began sealing himself inside. Moving the door was difficult, being a snake, as was operating the propeller-like handle of the locking mechanism. Lacking arms, he found that the fastest way was to just body-slam the crank repeatedly to turn it. He needed to do this physically because he wasn’t sure that his essence-shaping would work once he was outside. It was better to test it now.

When the seal formed, Rain knew it immediately. His background awareness of the Bastion had been cut off with the final turn of the crank, leaving him able to perceive only his immediate surroundings. That was one of the expected outcomes, so he didn’t panic. Wishing he had fingers to cross, he concentrated on the link to his core, which he still felt, then willed himself to follow it.

His perspective shifted, and then he was there.

Yes! It works! Rain flickered with yellow delight.

It would have been SO inconvenient if I’d needed a direct line every time I wanted to switch. He hopped back to his snake form, then bobbed his head in satisfaction. Right, no time for a celebration. I must be coming up on two hours now. One hour left. I need to hurry unless I want to go ask for more time.

He paused.

I could do that, couldn’t I? Should I, though? It will probably take me at least a half-hour to get back down here, given how wound up I am. Honestly, I’m shocked I haven’t booted myself out already. The Bastion is doing some real work.

A half-hour, though… I don’t want to make Dozer wait. Even if he seems happy, he’s killing himself out there. Damn it. I have to keep going. I just won’t start anything I can’t finish in time. I don’t want to be outside the Bastion when Ameliah pulls my plug. I’ve seen The Matrix.

…not that I think that would happen, mind…

…

And now I’m thinking about it. Hell, even being in an avatar instead of my core might be dangerous.

Great. Just great.

I REALLY need a soul teacher—someone to warn me about all of the ways people have killed themselves doing this shit. I hate not knowing where the landmines are….

…

Damn it, I’m wasting time. Thirty more minutes, then I’ll go back. Decision made. Here we go.

Rain reared back, then flopped his body down on the crank to open the outer door. Two flops later, there was a hiss, and chaos began seeping into the airlock—hot, acrid, and terrible. His eyes started to sting, and soon, he was forced to close them completely. The pain lingered, like he’d been cutting up habanero chilies and had rubbed his eyes with his fingers. At that moment, he was incredibly glad that his lungs were for hissing only. Breathing would not be pleasant, he was sure.

The wait was agonizing, but eventually, things seemed to equalize. Rain waited a few moments longer, then tested to see if he could still return to his core. It worked, his discomfort vanishing in the clear air of the Bastion.

Good, the chaos didn’t block the connection.

He jumped again, then gasped involuntarily, getting the lungful of chaos that he’d wanted to avoid. It hardly mattered, though. In the brief moment he’d been gone, it seemed that the body he’d left behind had been busy dissolving. Rain forced himself to stay there rather than switch away. It was agony, but he needed to know if the damage was ongoing. Seconds passed, then a whole minute. The pain didn’t fade, but neither did it increase.

Do not leave avatars unattended in the chaos. Got it. Okay, I can deal with this.

Focusing, he started trying to repair his semi-dissolved body, but found the pain too distracting. He reached for the outer door, then tried to shape it closed with his will. It worked, much to his relief. Apparently, he’d wasted his time on the physical mechanism. Glad he hadn’t bothered making a venting system too, he simply purified the chaos around him into essence one unit at a time until it was all gone and the air was clear. To get the last of it, he’d needed to make a balloon to capture it as he’d done with the mist. Thin gases were tough.

Still in pain from being half-snake and half-soup, he used the liberated essence to patch himself up. He ended up smaller than he’d been, but that was fine. When he was finished, he coiled his body and shook his snaky head.

Ouch.

Reaching through the airlock wall, he purified more chaos until he had enough essence to restore himself to full size. He made one significant modification to his avatar as he did, adding a pair of clear scales over his eyes like an actual snake. Snakes didn’t have eyelids, they did not blink, and he’d been a fool for forgetting that. At that point, he made the mistake of questioning why his avatar needed eyes at all. The moment he started thinking about lenses and retinas, he went blind. It took him a good few minutes to get back to a functional state.

Expectation was the key.

Sometimes, it was best not to think about it.

Using his will again, Rain slowly pushed the outer door open a crack. This time, the chaos didn’t sting his eyes as it washed over the protective scales.

Nice.

Once everything had equalized, he let the door swing open fully and peered out into the murk. The chaos was gaseous, but thick enough that it might as well have been liquid. It was the same ugly puke-orange color it always was, making it impossible to see far. Carefully, Rain slithered right up to the threshold, then poked his tail out over the edge. The weight of the appendage fell away, surprising him slightly.

Hmm…

He pulled his tail back to consider.

Will I be able to fly once I get out there, or will I just…float off? Wait, if I’m outside my sphere of influence, can I still shift back? That’s…a horrifying thought.

…

Quickly, Rain shaped himself a handhold on the floor of the airlock, then wrapped his tail around it tightly.

I’ll see if I can come up with a safe test later. Maybe I can build something with wings so I can get back if my powers fail. Anyway, I didn’t build this airlock for myself. If I can get Dozer to come over to it, my problem is solved, no lasso required.

He concentrated, opening the link that had been closed since Dozer had last put him on hold. [Dozer, come!]

[Busy,] the slime replied, a sense of tiredness and urgency accompanying the word.

Rain flicked out his tongue in annoyance, immediately regretting it. Ugh. Chaos flavor. Would not recommend. He shook his head. [Dozer, so help me, come back here so you can rest!]

[No rest. ⟬filth⟭.]

[Dozer, get your gelatinous ass over here. I need you.]

[Danger?] Dozer asked.

[Yes, danger,] Rain sent quickly. Then, though he felt dirty for doing it, he pulled up his recent memory of being semi-dissolved and shoved it through the link.

[Rain-King!] Dozer practically screamed in Rain’s mind. The slime panicked for a moment, then rushed straight for him.

Well, it worked. Sorry, Dozer. I hope you’ll forgive me for that one. How are you moving, anyway?

A shudder ran through the Bastion beneath him, and if not for his handhold, Rain was sure that he’d have tumbled right out. Uh…what was that?

[Here!] Dozer sent, and Rain’s eyes widened as the airlock was suddenly covered by a clear, gelatinous shape, rising up from below.

[Dozer, why are you enormous!?] Rain sent, but he didn’t get an answer before he found himself engulfed. Dozer was trying to squeeze his way inside.

[Rain-King]! Dozer sent, excited by a sudden discovery. [⟬tube-slime⟭!]

[Hey, what are you doing?] Rain sent, feeling himself being pulled slowly out of the airlock into what felt like a vat of honey. He tried to will himself back, but it didn’t work. As he flailed, he saw the chaos spread behind him as an orange dome, held back by the slime’s membrane. He couldn’t see across to the other side, however. At Dozer’s center, there was a blemishless white sphere that filled perhaps half his total volume.

And his volume was…considerable. Dozer was never going to fit through the airlock, that was for sure. The damn slime was practically the size of the Bastion itself.

This…could be an issue.

Abruptly, Rain felt himself stop moving toward the sphere at Dozer’s core. Instead, his body was bent, first one way and then the other. ‘Odd’ didn’t even begin to describe the sensation. ‘Terrifying’ might have qualified. Rain felt powerless to resist the curious slime. If Dozer bent him too far, his spine would snap, and then… Okay, I’d probably be fine, but still. [Hey, stop that! The snake is me!]

[?] Dozer sent happily, playing with his new toy.

Damn it. Rain struggled helplessly until Dozer suddenly seemed to lose interest. He felt the slime around him loosen, and then he was floating in a neutral position. The slime was still viscous, but it was more like oil now, in contrast to sentient transparent molasses.

[Rain-King?] Dozer sent, and Rain felt a tremor through the fluid surrounding him. [In?]

[Wait,] Rain sent, thinking. He wiggled himself around until he was looking at the white sphere at Dozer’s center. If that’s what I think it is… He concentrated on the image, then sent it to Dozer along with a question mark. [Ball?]

[⟬clean⟭] Dozer sent happily.

Right, so he’s been collecting up essence this whole time. I should be able to… [Give ball?]

[Yes!] Dozer sent.

Rain felt another tremor run through the gel surrounding him, and then the enormous sphere was rushing toward him.

Oh shit.

There was nothing he could feasibly do to get out of the way in time, and the sphere crashed into him, pressing him toward the outer wall of the Bastion and a swift death. The moment the essence had touched him, however, he’d realized that he would be fine.

The essence had come from his soul and was thus his to shape. Even better, it lacked the iron rigidity with which he’d imbued the Bastion’s structure. It was the perfect clay with which to build.

Rain quickly tunneled into the ball of essence, deep enough to feel safe from the coming impact. When that impact came, it was mild—gentle, even. Dozer must have slowed down the ball deliberately.

Worming his way back up to the surface, Rain’s awareness crossed into free space within the Bastion. He was in range.

Hell yes! [Damn it, Dozer, you magnificent overgrown gumdrop!]

Dozer replied with a pulse of pleased bamboozlement. The slime was just happy that Rain was happy. He clearly had zero clue what was going on.

Working quickly, Rain started pumping the clay-like essence into the Bastion, feeling like a worm hollowing out an apple from within. Once he had a decently sized space, he spent a few seconds forming a rugged seal, welding the two spheres together where they met. He didn’t want the new pocket he’d made to fill up with chaos, especially considering what he was about to do.

He concentrated on the enclosed section of the Bastion’s outer wall, then tore it down.

His awareness exploded. His core’s domain expanded into the new space, bringing gravity along with it. Rain caught himself quickly, flying his serpentine avatar toward his core. Once he reached it, he parked the snake on a beam where it would hopefully be safe, then switched his perspective to omniscient to observe the Bastion’s interior from every angle.

The headache was worth it. It was time to grow.

He didn’t bother with anything as complicated as a geodesic dome. The damn ball Dozer had brought him was solid, which meant he had essence to burn. It flowed like clay as he melded the two spheres together, hollowing one out to expand the radius of the other. At one point, the Bastion’s walls began to tremble, but he just slathered them with more essence until they stopped, then continued. Not long after that, however, there was an ominous creak from the braces holding his core. That was all the warning he got before the entire lattice broke free from the outer wall.

Shit!

Rain’s perspective reverted into his core as it tumbled, locked into the wreckage. Urgently, he willed himself to stop falling, but the weight was too much. Instead, he tried disabling gravity completely. That DID work, amazingly, but it did nothing about momentum. The collection of beams slammed into the outer wall with significant force, several of them punching clear through it. Rain felt himself jerked to a stop, looking on in horror as chaos poured through the numerous punctures.

No!

[Rain-King!] Dozer sent, feeding off his panic.

Rain was already working on it, flinging essence at the punctures, finding that he needed to fight against the pressure. He managed to get them all sealed before too much chaos got inside, but it was a close thing. His core didn’t have nerves or anything, but he could feel the haze of chaos attacking it, trying to tear it back into nothingness. The air was orange. He felt sick. His thoughts slowed.

[⟬FILTH⟭!] Dozer sent, horrified.

I can’t…gather all of this up…quickly. I need to…

Desperately, Rain reached out to Dozer. As always, he couldn’t sense beyond the Bastion’s walls, but he knew where Dozer was from the channel in his mind. The slime was still pressed against the airlock. With a thought, Rain opened the inner door, and clear ooze poured in.

Dozer reacted with a mixture of shock and excitement, then began actively pushing himself through the hole. The chaos filling the air seemed to stick to him, and then, to Rain’s wonder, it began to flow toward his gelatinous body.

[⟬filth⟭!] Dozer sent.

[YES!] Rain sent back in relief, returning his attention to the structure. Dozer would take care of the mess.

The next few minutes passed in a hectic blur. There was a LOT of essence to deal with. Once Dozer was completely inside, Rain sealed the airlock after him before more chaos could rush in. The air was rapidly clearing, and it became easier and easier to think. Further, as the Bastion’s volume grew, other changes started happening. Color blossomed, spreading from Rain’s core through the wreckage that was still entrapping it. The beams became steel in appearance, not just in function.

