"Very few things can wound a library like this. Especially one well-established and taken care of. The ones that can are usually different forms of magical parasites, capable of taking advantage of the magic that leaks out. The most dangerous among those that I know of uses it to fuel echo magic, and there's one thing you need to know about echo magic."

Leo swallowed, unnerved by the intensity in Cale's expression. "What's that?"

"It's an echo," he said. "And it can only ever capture what you were. It does not know what you could be. I have faith in what you could be, Leo."

"You're saying that like I'm going to have to do it alone," Leo said, his worry now reaching a height he hadn't thought possible.

"If this is what I think it is," Cale said, "then I won't have—"

Leo really, really wished Cale had been able to finish that sentence. And also that Cale made a better habit of explaining what he thought things were. Especially since he was right most of the time, and the ambiguity of not knowing was far worse! Granted, he was pretty sure he knew what Cale had been about to say, but... dammit.

Echo magic. He had never heard of echo magic. But he understood well enough from the name what it meant, and sure enough, when he looked up, Cale was gone. In his place was what looked like a pure-white reflection of Leo, with blazing golden eyes.

Leo might have been impressed if those eyes hadn't also looked very much like they wanted to kill him.

"I don't suppose we can just have a conversation?" he asked. "About, uh, I don't know. Earning points. Do you like points? I'll give you ten points for not attacking me."

"...ten points... attack..." the echo muttered in return, and Leo felt the all-too-familiar coalescense of labyrinth magic suddenly surging in his clone.

Great. His first doppelganger fight and he wasn't even going to get to make good conversation.

Considering how much more worried Cale had been, Leo wondered vaguely if he wasn't picking too much up from his mentor. He should have been terrified. Cale was gone, and this was an example of magic that was far beyond him—whatever had caused this had managed to hurt a library. That was so unheard of none of them had even considered the option.

But also, it was clearly dividing its resources, if all it wanted to do was have him face a copy of himself.

There were two problems with that.

One, at that moment, Leo didn't like himself. It wasn't a good thought, he knew—his friends would certainly be upset with him for it—but it still burned within him, no matter what he told himself to feel.

And second...

An echo can only capture what you were. It does not know what you could be.

This struck him like an opportunity.

Leo pushed his mana to circulate in the complex patterns he needed and felt it stall once more, but his gaze didn't waver from the golden eyes of his clone.

The win condition was simple. They were evenly matched, from what he could feel, which meant they could counter one another perfectly. The clone could draw from the mess of magic left behind by the wound in the library, which meant Leo would run out of mana first and lose.

Unless he figured out the trick to palewater.

"Well," Leo said. "Nothing quite like a fight for your life to motivate you, eh?"

His clone snorted and charged.

"I know, I know," Leo said. "That's the sort of thing Syphus would say. I've been learning a lot from it. Friends in high places and all that."

Walls surged up around them as they each unleashed a spell of [Labyrinthine Control]. It was more a spell for controlling the field than for battle, but Leo thrived best when he controlled the field.

So did his clone. Like this, they would wrestle for control over the labyrinth while hunting one another down. The walls of the makeshift labyrinth shifted as they tried to crush one another, making their way through the twists and turns.

Leo did recognize, somewhat distantly, that he was coping with danger by attempting to banter with an opponent that couldn't speak. Clearly, he was learning too much from Cale.

But perhaps he could use that.

Slowly, deliberately, he turned part of his focus inward, even as the rest of him fought to maintain control of the labyrinth shifting around him.
