Veron joined Silvie instead, coming in with his mace when she deflected a spear. They moved in and out, her focusing on defense and parrying, him on delivering heavy blows.

When two archers finally walked through the arched doorway, Hayden charged them with his shield raised, sending one of them sprawling to the floor and ending the other with a single heavy strike of his hammer. He walked over to the second one and killed it too, returning the hall to silence.

Veron caught his breath again. That was the main thing he noticed between himself and the others. They looked tense but ready, their strikes deliberate and heavy. All the while, he felt like he was barely keeping up, feeling spent already. His weighty stone armor and his shield kept him in the fight, as did the small call outs by the others and Reka’s experienced lead.

“Claim and lay to rest. Hayden and Silvie first, then me and Veron,” Reka said.

They claimed without arguments and Veron watched the dark entrances to their hall as Hayden spoke his prayer and Silvie whispered quiet incantations. Then it was his turn. Three of them, which he arranged, arms across their chests, small rocks placed on their skeletal hands. He went down on his knees and touched the stone floor with his palms, closing his eyes as he connected to the earth below. He breathed deep. The air was stuffy, cool, and moist. It smelled of bone and sweat and yet he felt as if he truly breathed in for the first time in his life.

Was it the essence? Or the dungeon?

Veron blinked his eyes. It was done. And this time, he felt different.

Elemental Path [Modest]- Harmony of Earth [Novice II]- Harmony of Wind [Faint III]- Hidden Harmony [Faint I]

- Relic slot [Empty]

Standing up, Veron felt calm and rested. The shield and mace in his hands felt lighter, the stone armor he wore still cumbersome, but less so than before. His Focus had changed too. Or it was changing still. He could feel it. As if he could feel the depths of the stone he wore and held, and stood on. He breathed in deep, and smiled. “I’ve advanced to Modest.”

“That’s my guy,” Hayden said and tapped his arm with his hammer. “Now you’ve earned that iron plate.”

“Good,” Reka said. “We celebrate when we’re back out of the dungeon and still alive. Drink and eat, then we move on.”

“I’ve got a relic slot now?” he asked.

“Comes with being at Modest,” Silvie said. “Now you can save up for something, but don’t get your hopes up yet. They’re expensive.”

He nodded along, and he could already think of a few questions. Either way, he wouldn’t even want a relic. He wanted to focus on his own Harmonies, and even with that, he had to split his available Focus two ways.

Veron drank deep from his canteen, and he ate some bread and cheese. Then they went on, through more dark halls and corridors, crouching and crawling where necessary. By now, he was pretty sure he wouldn’t find his way back through the Crypts. He had seen the map at the Guild, but now with all the stairwells, decrepit ladders, and small climbing sections over rock that they passed, it slowly sunk in how massive this place really was. When they were back, he decided he would have to study.

They faced another small swarm of rats, and they fought two greatsword wielding skeletons, though this time it was them who surprised the creatures, making the fights quick and simple. Veron didn’t exhaust as quickly either, feeling as if his strikes were more deliberate, and stronger. More so in the second fight.

Slowly, it got warmer too, sweat dripping down his face and back when they reached what looked like a massive metal pipe large enough to walk through. Murky water flowed lazily downwards into the dark.

“We reached our transition,” Reka said. “Three hours is my estimate. Hayden? Silvie?”

“A little less, but close enough I think,” Hayden said.

“Yep,” Silvie said and glanced over at Veron. “Training is over. Let’s go to the Gutter.”
