What do you mean? I thought humans were prey?

A fresh wave of intimidation backed by her Dragonslayer title hit her enemy, shaking her already cracking confidence. Some people (her friends) had once said that she was a bit too dramatic when she was fighting. Those people didn’t get it. The planet was listening. Her skills worked around people listening, too. For her, acting like the galactic queen bitch wasn’t tactically sound.

It was optimal.

I am going to let you in on a little secret, dragon. As much as I love some of you, there is a rarely known truth about your kind that most would find unpleasant.

The dragon was slowing down, battling gravity with her maimed wing as much as she was fighting Viv. They were still high in the sky, the desert little more than a carefully curated zen garden around a torched and defiled battlefield carved by titanic spells. Both of their attacks striated the sky in rays and bubbles of color. The sounds of the dragon’s red spells echoed over the hills.

You taste delicious.

YOU DARE?

No no, I’m serious. After I kill you, I will carve you and bring your meat back to the camp. I will eat you braised and seasoned with a side of buttered tubers, and a lovely red wine.

The next thoughts came panicked and jumbled. Viv had her now. She could finish…

The mana on her right arm took on the aspect of change. Tempting tempting… but not right. And Enttiku wouldn’t approve anyway. She still had options though. Time to try another of her god killers, this one for fast fuckers. Viv anchored herself hard, giving the surprised dragon some breathing room or so she thought. The surprised creature managed to slow her fall using that one brief moment of respite, then portals formed all around Viv, and all around the dragon.

It took every ounce of her considerable mind for Viv to maintain control over the constructs all while generating two dozen guillotine spells. The black blades of concentrated annihilation traveled through the portals, entrapping the dragon in a maze of deadly lasers. By a supreme effort of gray mana control, the dragon managed to stop slicing herself on the thick lattice of blades.

Viv screamed. She pushed herself to her limits to exert her control over colorless mana. This wasn’t the spell of a black elemental. It was the spell of a genius who’d worked every day for thirty years to reach that result.

[Reign of Terror]

The portals turned. Mana so focused and destructive it carved through scales and tore into the dragon; the focused rays of annihilation caused what had started as a roar to devolve into a desperate yelp. Blood sprayed even through the portals Viv maintained. When the blades dissipated, the dragon had fallen silent. She fell, crashing on the sand below after more than ten seconds of ghastly free fall.

Broken, it almost didn’t feel like the same creature.

Mana mastery: expert 2

Shield Mastery: Intermediate 9

Acuity Reflex: expert 5

Viv was really a tough nut to crack by now.

Dragonslayer has been altered to reflect that you have defeated several dragons, however, the title itself will not change as you have been merciful when you judged it appropriate.

“That’s ok. So long as they know.”

She floated down.

***

Viv stared at the body.

Now what? She couldn’t cut off the head and parade it, or even save it to give to Solfis on a good day. Dragons could tolerate her killing one of their own because Viv had been the defender. If she’d climbed a mountain to assault the monster in her den, things would have taken a turn for the incendiary. That didn’t mean Viv was off the hook just yet. She had to be respectful enough, but at the same time, the meat was tempting. She was a woman of her word.

Fuck it. It would probably be more disrespectful to let her rot. No more time to hesitate. She used black mana and transparent mana to clear and cut a stone slab, spending around twenty times what a brown mage would have needed but whatever. Now that the dragon’s mana was dissipating, cutting into her flesh with the elemental knife proved disturbingly easy. A pang of guilt and horror grasped her mind, if only for a moment.

She was going to eat a sapient creature, one she’d had a conversation with. The same species as her daughter. It was not quite cannibalism, but it was still pretty bad.

Viv looked at the meat and realized she was actually fine with that. It was going to be mana rich and extremely useful very soon. As long as she was respectful.

Viv started with the legs, carving around the many wounds she’d inflicted where the flesh had withered from black mana corruption. The wings were toast so she discarded them, but the back, and then belly, proved promising. Her task took the rest of the day, then continued well into the night. She had three slabs the size of a small truck with meat piled knee high by then. Some weird ant monster had come sniffing but she’d disintegrated it. No sharing. Kill your own dragon.

At dawn, she was not quite finished but she was unwilling to do more. Even the tail had been partly harvested by now (for soup). Grabbing the core, She was now facing a carcass, her face still intact but otherwise pretty well processed.

The decision to take the core was an easy one. It was a traditional prize, a winner’s treasure. She didn’t feel conflicted about that one. The scales were a more daunting prospect. Even dead, they’d offered resistance to Viv’s monstrous magic. If it were enchanted…

Viv decided it would be fine to take some back and belly scales. She cut the skin and rolled it, hoping she wasn’t fucking up the harvest. Maybe someone back home could do something.

And now, she was truly and fully done. That left the burial. Viv could obviously not incinerate the remains like most nations preferred, back on Param, but she could provide the last rites. The dragon had inflicted countless atrocities upon the people of Sandsong but that was different. An exemplary death was one thing, desecrating remains was another. Under the light of the early morning, she carved the land with annihilation until she had an appropriate hollow rectangle of polished rock under her feet. Pushing the body in it was difficult, and making sure that last claw fit in turned into a rather humiliating task, but Viv persevered. As her dad always said, funerals were about the living. After she was done, she used eldritch walls to cover the remains under a vault of twisted walls, much more subdued than her usual fair.

At the front of the tomb was the relief of a supine dragon, her eyes closed. Viv hadn’t tried to do that.

“Uhm.”

Time to try.

“Oh, Neriad, I call upon you.”

Viv sent the dregs of her mana, her reserves now dangerously low. It was still a respectable amount that traveled towards the city of the gods, but this time, the answer was silence.

Viv knew what it meant, and it made her feel a bit iffy. She hadn’t done it in a long time but now she was forced to go through meditative kata to replenish her reserves. Only once she was satisfied with her recovery did she call upon another deity.

Fuck, she might be one of, if not the only human ever to try that.

“Dragon God.”

Pressure pushed down upon her. It didn’t even feel hostile, only very, very focused. And distant. While the human gods were not unlike some semi-trashy aristocratic family constantly meddling with mortals, the new presence was almost alien. Nevertheless, Viv had a plan. Stay polite, get her business done, get gone. Simple. She poured all the mana she’d prepared towards the distant shape with no idea if it was received or not. It felt like shooting in the night. Maybe something landed, or maybe not.

“We fought. I fought better. Regardless of our conflict, please lead her soul to the afterlife it deserves, and please protect her mortal remains from the depredations of undeath.”

The pressure resumed, then it cut. Abruptly. The aftertaste of a hiss drifted through Viv’s brain, chuckling at a concept.

The Hand that Strikes Down.

Viv stood by her sentiment on being as extra as draconically possible. It was a valid strategy. As she thought that, the earth rumbled. Viv took a few steps back. She felt the bottom of the tomb she’d carved crack, then something emerged from the ground. At first, they looked like bones and she feared the worst but the ribs turned out to be the trunks of tall white trees, surging from the ground at impossible speed. Actually no, on second glance, those were really ribs. Ribs, then trunks. Roots shattered the rock, turning it to soil. Red leaves and thorns popped from the strange vegetation, slowing down eventually. It took maybe ten minutes for the miracle to finish and when it was done, Viv was standing before a copse of desert vegetation with muddy water gurgling at its feet, colored red too. From the original tomb, only the sleeping dragon headstone remained, half-buried among thick brambles. She inspected it.

[Dragon tomb (artifact): a mark of respect, a gesture of dignity.  Do not try to open it.]

Ok that was pretty neat. Also, the dragon god hadn’t objected to her taking the meat which was fair since dragons were cannibalistic too.

“By all the gods,” a voice said from behind her.

Captain Sin had arrived, along with Ambassador Bes, or rather, just Bes now she presumed. The Sandsong scout trailed them.

“You have done it. I cannot believe my eyes! You have slain a dragon in single combat. Not since the days of Eron the Dragonslayer have I… this is… are you an avatar? Nay, you cannot be. Lady Sai… where do you hail from?”

“You guys haven’t brought the carts, I guess.”

They seemed to be in the middle of a religious experience. Viv suddenly contemplated having to float three truck-sized slabs covered in valuable and tempting meat across the desert and its many predators. Without carts.

“Fuck…”
