It simply wasn't as quality as the materials I made and used. However, I didn't have to make them, and that was an enormous boon in itself. Just as well, these pieces could be a tiered reward below my own specialized equipment. We could work that into the incentive structure of my guild, which I'd be reviewing after settling the issues here.

Walking down the tunnels, the remaining portions of the hive congregated around an underground tunnel far beneath the city. In this cavern, Torix, Althea, and I trekked. I kept my size minimal, smaller than Torix or even Althea. They crawled and squeezed through the tunnels, Torix's head often clashing with the stone overhead.

Torix grabbed his head after a particularly nasty head bash.

"Bah. This cavern is entirely too small for normal creatures."

I flowed around a curve in the stone.

"It does take some getting used to."

Torix bent down before his cape ripped a boulder off the wall. It clattered down before Torix stepped on it.

"Disciple, is there, perhaps, a gap within your corpulent schedule where I may get a new body? One with powers more akin to your own?"

I tilted my head.

"Hmm. It's going to be a little while. Either way, if you think that body is clunky, you'll need a ton of gravitational augments and shifting telekinesis to use a body like what I have now. It's hundreds of times heavier."

Torix gestured to me.

"Perhaps using a smaller frame would be wise, then?"

I counted on my finger.

"It would still take gravity wells galore, and they have to be tight against the skin, too. Honestly, I keep them within my body and isolated. They're kind of like a set of gravitational joints that lets me move normally at this point."

Althea murmured.

"Could you, uh, really hurt someone with those if they weren't, er, isolated?"

I nodded, my face grim.

"Oh, absolutely. If the gravity well isn't contained, any normal person who got near me would end up getting pulled against my body. It would start with a small slice of their skin that tugged the rest of them against me. Then, their body would be blended against the surface of my skin. It would be like a thin layer of kinetic shearing."

Althea gawked in horror.

"That was a pretty specific example you just came up with. Has it, you know, happened before?"

My eyes darkened.

"Not with a person, but it did happen with a squirrel once."

Torix murmured.

"I bet that drove you nuts."

Althea and I looked at him. Torix spread his arms.

"Oh, come now. You use terrible puns all the time. I see nothing wrong with my statement."

I furrowed my brow.

"I don't think that's a pun."

Althea shook her head.

"The master has spoken. For shame, Torix. For shame."

Torix threw his hands up, and they crushed some stone above him.

"Oh, now you're simply gatekeeping to prevent me from joining the ranks of pun joksters. Who is truly shameful in the end?"

Althea scoffed.

"Why would you want to join that group anyway?"

Torix steepled his fingers together.

"There is a unique joy in the anguish of those that have heard a particularly potent pun, and I must say, I rather relish the thought of that power writhing in my hands. I always assumed that's why my disciple makes those horrifically awful jokes from time to time."

I shook my head.

"I genuinely enjoy them, as awful as that sounds."

Torix's head clanked against the tunnel once more.

"Enough on puns. What of this unwieldy size?"

I shrugged.

"Nothing I can do about it."

Torix gestured at me.

"Perhaps you could go on a diet then? I've heard you humans are obsessed with losing what is considered excess weight."

I frowned.

"I think that's an old-world problem these days. Honestly, I haven't seen anyone with a gut in a while."

Althea raised her brow.

"You haven't been out much then. People are starting to get enough food for that kind of thing."

I led us into the depths of the dungeon.

"Gah, you don't know how happy I am to hear that. It's a good problem to have."

We turned a curve in the tunnel, and beneath us, an enormous plume of spatial mist gushed like a geyser out of the ground. Its silence unnerved us, and I reached a hand out over it. The mist lacked any substantial feel. Above it, dense clusters of the surveillance tree's roots reached out of the ceiling. They soaked in the spatial vapor like a liquid.

I scratched the back of my head.

"And there's the tree's origin."

Torix marveled at the geyser.

"What is this then?"

He reached out a hand before Althea stopped him.

"Hey. Let's let Daniel handle this part."

Torix pulled back.

"A mere statement would've sufficed."

Althea reddened.

"Oh...Uhm, sorry."

I stepped up to the spouting mist.

"Cya later, guys."

They waved me off. Althea gave a weak smile.

"Be safe."

I pointed back.

"You too."

I created panels of gravitation over the geyser so it didn't blow over when I hopped in. Then, I hopped in. After passing what seemed like an endless steam sauna, my feet met solid ground. Cracks radiated through the ground around me as I collided against the stone. Despite my impact, the tunnel stayed strong. Peering around, I found the source of the cavern's strength.

Beams of chitin supported the tunnel. As I walked through a pressurized chamber of sorts, something kept fumigating the fog like an enormous hose. I wandered into an opening, and a being let out groans of pain. I winced at the sound before finding the source of the agony - an eldritch queen.

I walked up to the creature that reminded me of a queen fire ant. The main body shimmered red alongside its glossy chitin. Its abdomen became what looked like a swollen larva where eggs burst out. Literally, its abdomen kept exploding. Each explosion carried another howl of torment from the eldritch. It should've died from the grievous wounds, yet some eternal source of vitality kept the damn thing alive.

Eldritch Malformation | lvl 18,000~ | Status: Unknown - This creature is a deformed abomination exposed to otherworldly forces, and its body has become a conduit for those strange energies. This persistent corruption has elevated the power and abilities of this queen's hatchlings.

It does so by warping its composition. It then is able to imbibe the same turpitude into its spawn. In the end, its body has been repurposed into a gluttonous, engorged factory to produce its now altered brood. The creature's transition has left it in a state of purgatory and pain.

It should be killed immediately.

Yikes. A leftover part of its abdomen lay in the way of a portal. This spatial rip belched an enormous amount of dark, primordial mana into the beast. The eldritch queen absorbed that energy and regenerated its swollen, bulbous belly, turning the skin on it into a dark blue hue. This part of its body leaked the spatial fluid and drained it into a pit.

That same pit drained down to a tunnel falling deeper underground. Once at a certain elevation, it evaporated with tremendous force, forming the geyser that spewed the spatial mist all over the place. The swollen abdomen rumbled before splitting apart once more. The queen let out a bundle of eggs while letting out roars of anguish.

I gagged before raising a hand. I vaporized its head in a singularity, my disgust overwhelming any other plans for the poor creature. A quake resonated from the Earth, but I prevented any collapse with gravitation. Stepping up to the odd portal, I walked into yet another world. This time, I created a ring over both sides of the portal using my dimensional fabric.

I wasn't about to get jerked around from portal to portal again.

Once more, I walked through the veil. As I did, a strange world surrounded me. All was suffused with a thick, primordial ooze. The mana floated up in dolloping drops to the sky, forming a rippling sea above. There, amongst the clouds, the stars shined within the water. It reflected like a mirror, and it held a disarming quiet, something that imbued a peace and calm within me.

The sensation carried so much weight and force that it created urgency. It was like the terror that came from an encroaching death, like hypothermia or an overdose. As numbness sedated my senses, my mind frantically fought for its life. I grappled against the sedation as brutal cosmic winds bristled against my face.

It came from a strange source; further out, a blue star beamed down with enough radiation to devastate Earth in seconds. The star scorched this plane, the ground howling for peace in a low rumble. Something dimmed the star's rays so that I could still see it, but the entity hadn't fixed the heat or radiation.

This place would kill any normal person who entered it. The planet's sun seared my skin and left me constantly regenerating, yet the star never overwhelmed my sight. I let out a laugh. It was like the celestial body would rather be seen than survived. As I breathed in, the scent of acrid chemicals assaulted my nose and burned my nostrils.

Baldowah's world had been one that smelled of sweat, blood, and battle. This place reminded me of a chemistry lab where a scientist forgot to close his vials. It was so thick that I could taste the air, and the flavor was like lake water mixed with bleach, as if nature and science duked it out in my mouth. As they battled, I was the only loser.

The only pleasant part of this place came from a low, resonant rumbling. It, like the lake above, imbued a sense of calm. It didn't lull like a lullaby. It calmed like rain on a tin roof. Destroying that impression, a quaking erupted from the ground. It kept building in resonance and volume before forming a familiar voice loud enough to liquefy bone.

"Harbinger. You're finally here. I've been waiting, if that's what you beings call it."

Eonoth left me stunned at his environment's hostility, but I endured the beating.

"Agh. Eonoth. You've got to work on your reception. This place is hell on Earth."

"Is it truly that intolerable?"

I raised a melting hand.

"Yes. Now, what are you doing here?"

Eonoth laughed, its voice excruciating to hear or experience.

"To watch the show."
