Before I could reply, the Seer crashed through the Infinity Plaza's entrance. The avatar of Etorhma brushed off bits of rock before forming a spear of his strange mana. He pointed the weapon at me.

"You walk into the lion's den willingly, Harbinger."

I glowed, the stone melting beneath me as mana stormed into my palms. The aura of Marcella shivered as my wake pressed against the force. I won the war waged under the surface, and a tint of red overcame all present. My armor smiled, and my runes shimmered. Several soldiers fell to their knees as I brandished a fist.

"I've been looking forward to a real fight."

A plume of mana from my body poisoned the air.

"Now, let's have one."

Chapter Begin

A cascade of enchanted bullets, runically empowered ordnance, and bombs exploded onto me. Hellfire rained down as lead and steel disintegrated against my skin. I raised my hands, and heat built onto their weapons. The metal melted as soldiers howled in pain, and I siphoned the molten steel away from their grasp.

The bottom walkways of the Infinity Plaza melted in tandem. The magma and slag pooled at the center of the room, and Marcella's walkway guards fell, their footing removed. Many landed on the ground with hard thuds as the orange hue of the forming orb shined on them. Beneath me, the mana bombs disintegrated as Event Horizon stole their energy like a terrifying realization stealing one's sense of calm.

That aura exposed a fundamental difference in ability. It robbed them of everything. Soldiers lost all magical empowerment, from the runes on their armor to the magic buffs they used to augment one another. They couldn't cast magic as their thoughts blurred into ones of rage and hunger. Soldiers turned on one another, each of them going mad.

The stone walkways' magma fused with the swirling mass of glowing metal above my head. I solidified the circle above me, and the igneous rock carried spirals of quenched steel. It clapped into the ground, crushing the elegant granite panels. Their wealth became crags of Earth reaching to the sky.

More mana manifested into my frame, and my body glowed a bright red. Behind me, the Seer raised its arm, a denser aura overcoming it. The entity threw a spear at my chest. A hole in my torso widened around the attack, and the energy lance dispersed into the ground behind me. I pulled a fist back, and the Seer crossed its arms to block. As I fired my hand, I turned my entire body with the blow.

A telekinetic panel formed over my fist, and it slammed the kinetic impact into the green aura over the Seer's stomach. As with Lehesion, the force of my blow pierced its aura. Stone cracked. Its back exploded. A sound erupted, and a shockwave bolted the soldiers against the walls or into their fallback portals.

My hand jerked back, as the Seer fell to its knees, unable to hold itself upright. A massive hole appeared in its torso. Behind the behemoth, the entire side of the building ripped apart. Pillars of reinforced concrete turned to powder. Steel girders sheared. The entrance expanded into a gaping breach.

The Shattered Spires appeared in full view as the collateral damage of our battle expanded. Portions of the Infinity Plaza lodged into skyscrapers kilometers in the distance. Any remaining windows still exploded as shrapnel pierced entire skyscrapers. Crags of steel pierced deep into the ground far below us, and the spatial mist in the distance swallowed the rest of the attack's blow.

It billowed, a colossal ripple gap in the mist forming. It dwarfed the size of the buildings, the sheer size of the movement omening a cataclysm. Before the Seer understood the extent of its damage, I swiped my hand to the side, and another telekinetic impact slammed the Seer's face.

A kinetic ripple ushered forth through the room. Soldiers nearby flung through the air, and they collided against the walls. As if moving in a hastened temporal flow, the Seer smashed into the ground before tumbling further into one of the walls. It crushed the stone before flinging far out of the building.

In the distance, it launched through one floating spire. Then another. It kept tumbling before colliding with the ground far below. Another shockwave fell over us. The Seer flopped several times before finding a wall of dirt. Another shockwave erupted, sending citizens flying below. Two seconds later, the final cataclysmic boom shattered through the building as its impact rippled past us.

As I turned to the other soldiers, I clanked my fists together.

"Come on. Let's fight."

The room froze in place. I had stolen their fire and fury, so I let out a sigh. Imbued with confidence, I paced up to Marcella. She turned to her soldiers, and her voice echoed telepathically.

"What in the hell are you all doing? Everyone. Fight. Fire at him. Do something."

I walked over, taking steps in the air with gravitation. As I did, a few soldiers fell to their knees. Others whispered of the Harbinger. Even more couldn't understand what was happening. Marcella's lips trembled before she condensed her aura over herself.

I pulled my wake over it, but I couldn't quite strip it away. Even if I did, the Old One over her might beat me to a pulp as Eonoth had or worse. Marcella pulled out a detonator from her fur coat, and her eyes carried insanity.

"I prepared these beforehand."

I kept walking. The soldiers gawked in terror, their fear radiating like a cloud. Marcella's second in command, Rebecca stood to her side. Rebecca reached out to her guildmaster.

"Y-you said the ones below Central Park were all you had."

Marcella gawked in disgust.

"Am I beholden to you? No."

Marcella's eyes narrowed at me.

"I never imagined I'd have to do this. Any of this, but here we are."

She gulped.

"Gah. To fight a monster, you have to become one-"

A slapping sound interrupted Marcella's rant. Warmth coursed over Marcella's arm like someone cut on a warm faucet from her wrist. She felt nothing aside from that warmth, the sensation almost welcoming if not for its oddness. Marcella furrowed her brow. The guildleader turned to her hand, finding a nub where it had been.

Althea's face pulled out of the ether, and she smiled.

"Not bad for a collared dog, huh?"

I bolted over and swiped the detonator into my pocket dimension. My moving body propelled enough wind to send a few soldiers flying. Marcella reached out a hand, her strange blade elongating. Althea moved far faster, slicing Marcella's remaining hand off. The blade fell down into my pocket dimension before Marcella roared, and red veins expanded over her eyes.

Marcella bit at her enemy, but Althea bent her body back. Marcella fell forward, and Althea caught her in a guillotine neck choke. As Marcella scrambled to escape, Althea held her in place with ease. Althea sighed.

"She's done. Let's get this over with."

Marcella let out tears of frustration. She growled like an animal, defiant to the end. It was pitiful, and Althea's eyes softened.

"Hey. It's going to be ok. We're not so bad once you get to know us. You...But yeah, you're pretty awful."

Althea opened her dimensional storage while pulling out a vial. Marcella's pupils dilated at the sight, fear overtaking her. Marcella's second in command, Rebecca, tried charging at us, but I held her in place with gravitation. Marcella screamed as Althea tried injecting whatever was within the vial.

The needle snapped on Marcella's aura before Althea sighed. Our sniper made a needle rise out of her fingertip before wincing.

"Ugh, I didn't want to do this. It's not exactly sanitary, but-"

She replaced the needle on the vial with her bone. With a practiced ease, Althea stabbed Marcella's neck and injected the contents. Marcella passed out in seconds. Watching in horror, Rebecca looked at her sedated ruler. Something overtook Rebecca, her body writhing from within. Rebecca scrambled out of my gravitational restraints and leaped towards Althea. Our sniper kicked off the wall, jumping away. Rebecca smashed the wall where Althea had been before bending down. Rebecca warped space, propelling herself to us. As she did, I reached out a hand, and I caught her neck.

Many of her bones cracked from running into my palm, and her neck broke from her body flinging forward. I suspended her in place so healing happened instead of hanging. An eerie quiet passed over us before she regained control of her limbs. Rebecca grabbed my hand and kicked her feet while assaulting my mind.

Hundreds of the psionic presences pooled within. All of the others escaped here. It turned out that Rebecca was their origin. Those entities tore several of my psyches apart while I observed the strange use of psionics. Though they lacked a voice, they experienced emotion, and panic bloomed through the horde as they continued their onslaught.

I shook my head.

"It's like drops of water on a desert. Not enough. Not nearly."

Althea flipped over my shoulders. She injected another sedative into Rebecca. In my hand, Rebecca's head flopped to the side while the psyches silenced. I turned to those around us.

"It's done. Take me to her base of operations."

In seconds, we dismantled the power structure supporting the entire operation. The soldiers gawked at one another, each of them confused. I spread Event Horizon over them, wielding its oppressive qualities in my voice.

"I said it's done."

Several soldiers fell to their knees. As the tension of war faded, the less volatile soldiers let out gasps of relief. Most peered around in confusion as if waking up from a dream. The highest-ranked members showed the most dismay, and they reminded me of escaped elderly patients suffering from dementia.

The lower rung members picked up the slack and got to work cleaning everything up. As they walked by, I glanced at Marcella. I just noticed, but Marcella dwarfed Althea. The guild leader was a seventeen-foot-tall titan. Even her title omened her prowess.

Marcella Meyer, the Goddess of War | Lvl 20,000 | Class: Warlord | Guild: The Defiers

For a moment, I wondered if she went through the lottery. Warlord was a ruler class, and she owned a large guild from the looks of it. Marcella also stopped Elysium agents using the Seer. Speaking of, the behemoth floated back up from the hole I made in my first attack. Its body oozed the seafoam magma, but more importantly, it carried a newfound fear in each of its steps.

Cracks covered its entire body as if Etorhma had plastered the monster back together. The Seer continued healing these fissures by passing its palms over each crevice. Its mana welded the shards into slabs, but it was far from a complete reconstruction. The Seer lost much of its powdered self, the remnants lying around across the city.

As it gazed at me, I glared at it. This being would remember facing me with its scars.

After cleaning up the rest of the mess here, the lower rung of Marcella's guild walked near me. They drew sticks of different lengths before one of them lost. That poor sap walked up to me, and he looked like the fiercest janitor to ever walk the Earth. Furthermore, and far more importantly, he groomed an elegant, manly mustache.

It was incredible.

"H-hello, sir. I, er, we...We know where Marcella stayed. W-we don't actually know if it's where she keeps her valuables," the mustachioed man said.

I smiled.

"She can keep her belongings. The only thing I'm looking for is a few elemental furnaces to make up for my losses and signs of someone we don't want here. After I clean that cancer out, I'll have a guild representative or two come here. They'll organize trade so that you guys can get properly equipped for these dungeons."

I looked up at the many doorways.

"I'd like to reduce casualties to zero moving forward. We'll also help create better housing and offer humanitarian aid across the city. Assuming none of you mind?"

With expectations shattered, his eyes lit up.

"Oh, no, sir. We'd like that quite a lot, actually."

"Good. What's the name?"

"Mcsmitty."

I furrowed my brow.

"I know another Mcsmitty, but you tend to look the part. They were a...A space lawyer or something. Anyways, let's go handle business."

A short chat about the building informed me of all I needed to know. As was the case when I walked in, the lower levels were developed, the middle floors were in development, and the upper floors were either untouched or the most curated. At those peaks, Mr. Mustache and I walked into Marcella's personal chambers.

It was precisely what I'd seen in her illusion, the details uncanny in their resemblance. The tree expanded over all of the Shattered Spires, and the red core portal had been real. I took note of that in particular, wanting something like that for my guild. After inspecting everything, we found nothing out of the ordinary outside of the location and building materials.

Heading downstairs, we had Torix swing by after a few hours. He cast sleeping magic on Marcella and Rebecca before using his many summons to further explore the compound. As we expected, an enormous reserve of rich resources rested on the bottom floors of the Infinity Plaza.

The middle of the tower contained rare loot and red-tiered dungeons. However, the upper floors held the primary loot for us. The blue cores, whether Schemafied or not, were always useful, and this dense cluster held several hundred blue-tiered dungeons. I made yet another mental note to swing by here and collect these blue cores whenever I could. It could also be great training for the guild elite.

After having looted the place of a few useful supplies, we skulked out to Central Park. The dungeon mirrored the illusion I saw, and as expected, it held riches galore. Like The Infinity Plaza, many rifts littered the cavernous expanse. The insects carried valuable swords, shields, and mass-producible armor.

