Instead of leaving after breakfast as I normally do, Baatar throws me a curve-ball and asks me to stay behind. “Demonstrate the Forms,” he says, while feeding Sarnai a nourishing broth. “It has been too long since I instructed my Disciple. Were I to shirk my duties any longer then I would no longer have the face to call myself your mentor.”

Happy to oblige, I move the more expensive and fragile objects out of the way before starting. Taking turns, Baledagh and I show Baatar what we’ve learned in his absence, and though my mentor’s expression is unreadable as always, his wagging tail gives away his delight as he points out our flaws and offers steps to improve. Baledagh’s two original combinations, Sweeping the Fields and Clearing the Heavens, even earn us an enthusiastic ‘good’, high praise from our tight-lipped Mentor who appears to share my little brother’s fondness for naming his attacks. It feels so juvenile but I suppose it’s easier to say ‘Clearing the Heavens’ as opposed to ‘forward leap, two-handed sweep, full pivot, and horizontal slash’, or even worse, ‘Bull Form: Traverses the Mountain into Deer Form: Parting the Underbrush, with Wolf Form: Reverse Bite tagged onto the end’.

Shirt damp from exertion, I bask in the comfortable strain of exertion, the past two hours more strenuous than a full day of training with my troops. This is what I’ve been missing, solid guidance and guidelines on what to do next. Gesturing for me to sit at the dining table, Baatar holds my hand and Sends, “Taduk tells me you’ve formed your Natal Palace.”

Ohhhh more guidance, I love this. “Yea, but I’m not exactly sure what it means,” I Send in reply.

“Tell me about this mental plane of yours.”

Figures. Answers never come easily, but at least now I understand it’s because there usually isn’t just one answer. Describing my mental plane is simple enough. “Sometimes, when I meditate or ponder something important, I retreat into my mind.” Or when I need to speak with my host/twinned soul. Still not sure which heading Baledagh falls under. “It’s like I’m surrounded by vast emptiness, an area where I have total control, or close to it. Over time, I realized I could conjure up creations so I made it look like home. You know, walls, beds, couches, the normal stuff.” All to make things cozier for Baledagh, but there’s no need to list all the details.

Baatar interrupts with a questions. “Your creations, do they persist after you are gone?”

“...Err, sometimes. It’s on and off. At first, everything stuck around, but after the whole debacle with the lake, this was no longer true. It's back to being permanent now, but I... don't know why.” I figure it has something to do with Baledagh. He’s perfectly capable of doing anything I can do. His unconscious mind was probably resetting our mental plane every time I left or something, seeking to drift away into nothingness. He’s doing better now but it’s still difficult to get him to enjoy life in a meat suit. He only ever takes control to train, while spending all his time in the void meditating on all his newfound knowledge.

Although he seems fine for now, I’m fairly certain he’ll go stir crazy if he keeps it up. The sooner I can craft us a second body, the better. While it’s crossed my mind to see if one of us can jump into Sarnai’s comatose body, we both decided it was disrespectful to use my mentor’s wife in such an undignified manner. Besides, there’s the whole issue with being Baatar’s wife, and I think both Baledagh and I would prefer a body with a penis.

After answering all of Baatar’s questions, my mentor’s brow furrows in thought. “You say your mental plane first appeared around the time Vivek Daatei turned into a Demon? It explains how you escaped your illusions, but not how you helped Dagen escape his. How mysterious...” Shaking his head, his questions seem to fly away with the movement, though his eyes fill with pity. “No matter. The how is unimportant. To form your Natal Palace at seventeen is... formidable. Most do not form one until their late twenties.” My chest swells with pride but Baatar gives me no time to bask in it. “Proceed into your Natal Palace. I will instruct you on its benefits.”

Remaining in firm control, I slip into the void and pray Baatar doesn’t notice Baledagh, else I’ll be at a loss on how to explain things. Standing outside the crafted room as Blobby surrounds the space around me, I Send, “I’m there. Now what?”

“Channel your Chi.”

Opening myself to the Energy of the Heavens, I sense it slowly trickling into my core. Since my core is more or less filled to the brim, I’m not gathering Chi quickly, more in drips and drabs. I’ve noticed it before but the process of gathering Chi is like diffusion. If my core were empty, I’d gather Chi at a much faster rate. My Runic Ring removes those limits, but lately I’ve noticed it doesn’t really make a difference, so I handed it over to Rustram and instructed him to share it with the others.

“Visualize the Heavenly Energy seeping in through your pores. See how it flows into your Core and becomes yours, before circulating around and strengthening your body.”

Doing as Baatar instructs, my astral body lights up as an unending stream of energy circles throughout my body, with no beginning or end. Awesome, but I fail to understand the importance. My mind’s eye studies its progress from afar and I concentrate on my findings. The Chi in my body is... sluggish, for lack of a better word, idling about with nothing to do and I report as much to Baatar.

“You need to eat more and train less boy, give yourself time to recover. Focus now. The Chi flowing through your body, envision it flowing out from your palm, only a hair’s breadth mind you, before retracting it once more.”

This is more difficult. The moment my Chi touches the surface of my palm, it dissipates into nothingness. Stopping to think things through, it occurs to me this is practice for using Chi outside of your body, and Baatar confirms my guess in a roundabout way. “This is one use of the Natal Palace, yes. Visualization is key to using Chi, giving it purpose without words.”

The revelation has me understandably miffed. “Taduk never mentioned any Natal Palace, he’s been hounding me for years to just ‘wrap my Chi tightly and throw it out’.” The shotgun approach to using Chi, I suppose. Keep trying till you figure out something that works.

Baatar’s amusement is clear as he answers, “Taduk gives poor instruction because he has never known hardship. What is difficult for others comes naturally as breathing to him. You might as well ask a bird to teach you to fly or a fish to swim.” His explanation crushes what little self-confidence I had. For a few minutes there, I almost thought of myself as a genius. Natal Palace at seventeen, I mean, that’s pretty impressive right?

Nope. Not even a little. While I’m a step ahead of the crowd, true geniuses soar far above us all.

Oh well. Failure is nothing new. Try and fail, then try again. Such is life, failure without end.

...

Just once, I’d like things to be easy. Is that too much to ask for?

Chapter Meme
