and all the rest of the elements. Holy and demonic. Nature and death. Animation. Animal communication. Candy and block magic. Dragon and Insect magic. Enchantment and warding.Alpha really wanted a true double jump, though. That would be neat.He had a further 20 or 30 sections with one or two simple spells in them.“Some,” he finally admitted.“Firstking... would outdo Archmage?” Seth asked, suddenly coyly.“The current Archmage is Opopal TalentDragon. So... yes, by rules of magic and the system in place... he would lose his seat to anyone assigned a higher spot than himself,” Quiss admitted.Alpha stared at them.“I don’t think a governing system dictated by a name pulled out of a hat is a stable one,” he pointed out.“It’s the least corrupt,” Quiss said factually, getting a nod from Seth.Alpha thought that was extremely worrying.Still, it was none of his business. As long as he stayed in his new home inside a hole in the ground... this Archmage guy would just leave Alpha alone.Alpha didn’t want to rule anything or lead an army of wizards. He wasn’t a hero... he definitely wasn’t a wizard-hero.“We could use him to tear down TalentDragon’s regime and install one that respects anarchy,” Quiss said conversationally.“Install a raving beetle king and prune all naughty dogs,” Seth said with a glare.Alpha needed an adult that wasn’t insane or Seth.---Estal stared in horror, backing off slightly.“It’s...” she trailed off, not able to give weight to her words.“Estal, it’s a hole in the ground. It might have bugs in it,” Hazhur said, trying to remain patient. Estal glared at him.“I don’t mind bugs. I had a spider as my only room mate in school. No, it's worse than that! There might be dead people in there,” she whined.“Spiders are not classified as insects,” Silver mumbled.“Any undead in a dungeon are technically created therefore not real undead,” Hazhur replied, as if this was drilled into him at a young age. Estal didn’t know if it was, Hazhur’s early life was like a big secret and her ‘father’ saw that side of the family as low-lifes.“If it smells dead, acts undead, and bites me? It's close enough,” Estal shivered.Karn came up and hopped into the hole.“Well, we do what we learned,” he gestured to what seemed like an ancient bell tied to a nearby rock in the pit. He climbed down and rang it as the others slowly followed.“Summon doom?” Estal asked sarcastically.“Be polite,” Karn retorted smugly.The door closing off the tunnel was etched with drawings of tiny people praising a sun of sorts, offering up their weapons as if surrendering their violent tendencies to some alien god. The door split down the middle and opened slowly, showing what looked to be a parade of sorts slowly making its way out of the depths.“Oh, it's little mushroom people that Karn murdered,” Estal said conversationally as Karn went painfully still. Estal was about to make another snide remark when her eyes went huge.“What... is... that?” she demanded with a voice so tight that Hazhur looked actually concerned.With great fanfare, unique looking little mushroom people emerged on top of...“I want 20!” Estal gushed as the little pigs with mushrooms growing on their back oinked and blinked their button eyes.“Bacon with mushrooms already cooked in,” Karn whispered with drool.The trumpets and strange songs they sang came to an end as the literal army of the mushroom creatures gazed up at them.“We’re here for the little piggy-” Estal began.“Trial of the key,” Hazhur interrupted.The creatures were all still, almost acting as one being they parted like a sea of mushrooms.Someone or something inside the cave was slowly making its way out in an elegant sweep. Another mushroom, but this one was much larger and in her cap, barely visible was a glowing crystal. Her little eyes glowed softly and the air shimmered in front of them as her fluffy white body came to a stop.“I. Missy. Greet,” she curtsied.“I love this hole,” Estal gushed.“Same!” Karn said with delight.The mushroom had laser eyes.Hazhur wasn’t enjoying any of this more than was needed!“Trial. Maze. of. Terror. Come!” she beckoned and walked into the deep cave.“Should we follow?” Karn asked and Silver was already doing so.“We will if we want to know what she was talking about,” Estal said brightly and walked into the pit of laser mushroom death... and terror, supposedly.He felt a slight tug on his bald head and he turned in surprise to find the Pygmies were gazing at his head in slight awe.Hazhur quickly picked up speed...
