Climbing the Salt Mountains meant following a barely visible path through air so dry, Viv could feel her sweat evaporating as it formed. The dry dust puffed up in arid clouds with every rare gust of wind, and from the wheels of the first horses and carriages. Slippery slopes meant that sometimes Viv had to dismount and push up a few steep inclines. At least, the elementals kept their distances though Viv sometimes spotted tornados and quakes starting and stopping in the distance seemingly at random, the only warning a distant rumbling like the protests of a lazy sleeper. On the fifth day of the expedition, they reached the top of the squat mountains to find small pools, crusty and colorful in the gentle light of fall. Viv gasped with surprise. She recognized the small bits of crystals clinging to the sides of the pools like crushed diamonds.

“Salt flower!”

It was just salt that crystallized at the surface of oversaturated ponds as the water evaporated. It looked good though, and was considered a delicacy back in France. She happily jumped down with an empty bag to collect some. As expected, they were soaked with brown mana from the elementals below. It would make food taste amazing.

She got quite a few questioning glances for that, but she didn’t care. Finally a part of traveling here that didn’t suck ass! It had to be enjoyed to the fullest to make up for being shot at and other indignities, like the rationing of water. Seriously, another week like that and scouts would notice them downwind from all the way to the coast.

Despite the discomfort, Viv wasn’t even tempted to fly away anymore. By now, it was a matter of pride. She was a big girl. She’d made a commitment. Poor hygiene was just a temporary, unpleasant test of her willpower and ability to ignore aggressive body odor, including her own. She’d already gone so far, might as well complete the trip in secrecy.

Fortunately, they’d been traveling very fast with the horses. After crossing a pass that showed the ancient, massive statue of a singing woman, Viv got her first glimpse of Sandsong. It was another desert, though patches of shocking green could be seen at regular intervals. The border city of Barrier sat at the bottom of the mountain, a military base and trading post all at once.

Unfortunately, it was burnt to a crisp. The scorch marks were painfully familiar from her first foray into the remnants. Only the scale was different. There was a contemptuous rage visible in the way the flames had devoured not just the town center in precise lines of devastation, but also the walls, and even surrounding orchards and farms clinging to the city and its wells. Dragon fire burnt long and hot, and it spread. There had been no need to attack so many times, and yet, the dragon had done it anyway. Viv could already tell they were from the fire bloodline for sure. She could also tell it was animated by an anger that went beyond the thorough to border on the cruel. It didn’t bode well.

They did have a serious dragon problem.
