Without a word, Jim the Screecher mage took to the skies, and Viv knew what it meant. She wasn’t as sensitive to gray mana as he was, but if he forfeited any sort of stealth by moving air around like this, it meant they had mages incoming.

Viv turned her head. It was just one, a red-robed man whose face was hidden behind the avian mask favored by the Sheem. Jim rose in the air to meet him even as the convoy careened onward as fast as the guards dared to go. A hum spread throughout the land, like someone giving a question consideration. Unfortunately, the hum silenced Viv’s warning.

There was still one coil gun present on Nyil, of course. The one they’d tried to use on her at the border guard post.

“He’s going to shoot you!” Viv warned.

The two mages exchanged notes, their shields blurring under each other’s song. Only Viv had noticed the sinister muzzle emerging from the red-clad mage’s sleeve. What a cheap fucker.

The shot killed Jim on the spot. He simply hadn’t seen it coming and his shield proved unequal to the task. Viv stood at the back of her cart.

This was a mage. A mage with a gun. And they’d just lost their own mage. Things were a little fucked right now.

A guard came to stand by her side. He chucked his spear at the pursuing Sheem. The projectile was pushed away by wind with too much ease. In response, the mage raised his hand again. Viv put up her own shield right on time.

The blast took out the back of her cart and two crates of animal feed as well as the unfortunate spear chucker. Heat made her flinch from how absurdly intense the impact had been. The mage was still there.

Right.

This was a losing proposition. Viv dropped off the cart, surprising the mage. A push spell using one of her gauntlets took him off guard. He was forced back a little at maximum range. Now, Viv had his attention. She started running to the nearest cover.

Suddenly, a song made her stumble. It was so, so very loud. Well not that loud, but loud enough to bury all other thoughts. The effect didn’t last long on her, but she still tasted blood at the back of her tongue by the time she triggered the silence enchantment. This time, she made sure it would stop outside noise coming in as well. The mage persevered for only a few seconds before closing in. A second push spell sent him back, though she didn’t even manage to make him land. He was too damn far.

She ducked behind a dune as the ground behind her exploded. This time, the heat burnt her calves. The unpleasant sensation of seared nerve endings reached her mind. First degree burns only but that was just the beginning.

Suddenly, her breath ran out. She recognized the choke spell the gray mages liked so much. Fuck, did she have something to counter it? Thinking fast, she ran towards the highest concentration of brown mana she could find. The land distorted the mage’s spell, weakening it. It failed shortly after.

“Persistent thing,” the mage said, voice carried by the wind.

She hid behind a boulder while he hovered around, his tone mocking.

“I have heard of you. You have been sent to help the Sandsong… somehow. I do not see your tricks working against a dragon. It will be too late anyway.”

He raised the gun again. Viv ran out of cover just before he pulled the trigger. Stone exploded behind her, and a wave of heat sent her hair in front of her eyes. Splinters stabbed at her skin. None of this was as irritating as that asshole’s voice.

“Enchanted swords, magical shields, all of them are powerless in the face of this.”

The man waved the gun.

“True outlander power. And now that you have made them disappear, this mighty weapon is the only one that remains. A valuable tool.”

Another stone exploded to her left. The man wasn’t very good at aiming. He was also shooting the gun like it had unlimited ammo, and how could he even guess it would run out? She remembered that mass driver guns didn’t really need large magazines. It wasn’t the size of the projectile, it was the speed. The damn future gun could fire another few hundred rounds of needle-sized darts at her ass for all she knew.

“But it doesn’t matter, as I said. You are only delaying the inevitable. Fate… is written. And it is coming.”

Don’t say anything. Don’t say anything. Don’t say anything.

Ah fuck it. She could see Captain Sin creeping in from behind the form of the floating mage. Might as well offer a diversion.

“You know, lots of people think they have destiny on their side until I come along,” she said, leaving cover.

The mage shot again. This time, she blocked it with her shield though she made a show of it cracking.

“You cannot comprehend the change that will sweep all of mankind. Not until you meet him.”

“Him?”

“The Sovereign of the Shadowlands. Mankind will unite under his rule. There will be no more wars, and the Sheem will be his right hand.”

Wait. They were already allied? That might be bad. Unfortunately, Viv wasn’t going to get a chance to interrogate the mage. A powerful blade of intent smashed into the man’s shield just as he raised his hand a final time. He plummeted, crashing in the sand some distance away.

“You’re only delaying the inevitable!” the mage screamed as he stood up, wracked by pain.

“Ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooh?” the sand objected.

“No… no!”

Friend?

“Nope!” Viv replied to the elemental.

With a dreadful splat, the mage’s career as a monologuing villain was cut short. Viv screamed in frustration.

He’d been pulped, and so was the coil gun.

“The fucking gun! Arg!”

The world was conspiring to keep her fingers away from triggers. She just wanted to shoot someone once. Was that too much to ask?

“We must leave! Now!” Sin screamed at her.

Although she didn’t share his urgency, she did run after him because the Sheem were definitely after them now. She gave the elemental one last mental goodbye.

Rift closed. I sleep.

Well good for her. Viv ran after Captain Sin, then after the carriage since the rest of the convoy had wisely decided to keep running. Viv ended the sprint sweaty and annoyed but overall fine. Even the ambassador seemed pleased to see her, having rejoined the group with their original cart. He even gave her a fresh waterskin from their pilfered reserves. It tasted stale.

“Thank you,” she told him.

Behind them, the twisted path gave no hint at whether or not they were being followed.

“You annoy me, Sai Jaratalassi. You do not know your place nor do you intend to learn, yet there is no denying your courage. Or your competence. I only hope, for your sake, that the Sandsong are more tolerant of your impropriety than I remember.”

“Thank you, Ambassador Bes. I am sure we will come to an agreement.”

The man moved away with his horse. Lady Mar checked on Viv a bit later, after they’d slowed down a bit. By then, Viv had made sure to share the healing supplies she’d taken from the camp with the relieved guards.

“Lady Sai, I see that you have managed to make yourself comfortable. I must say, I am incredibly glad that you would be here. I would have felt quite lonely otherwise.”

Viv could understand since the expedition was what she would charitably call a sausage fest.

“Indeed. I understand you are a warrior as well?” she asked.

Lady Mar outranked her on the social ladder, but the noble woman remained casual in the way she spoke.

“A scout by trade and training. I prefer the company of the desert to that of my peers, though I fear few warriors with a spear!”

Viv nodded. She wasn’t quite as good as someone like Koro or Wamiri, but she could definitely hold her own.

“Sadly, my companions didn’t make it. Our foe has shown no mercy.”

“The Sheem killed them?”

The lady nodded with sadness in her eyes. Viv remembered stabbing the guard and still felt a measure of shock, even though she had killed many people before. Mar had been through a lot worse. Honestly, it was sometimes haunting how taking prisoners was the exception to the rule around here.

“Yes. They really didn’t want word of their presence to get out. I assume they only kept me alive because of my status, and so they wanted confirmation from their officers before ending my life as well. My family protected me. For once.”

“Such savagery.”

“Those little sparrows have not come to dominate our corner of the world by playing nice. Or smart, for that matter. Your arrival was salutary in more ways than one. Is it true that you are here to help with the dragon?”

Viv chuckled. Was it even a secret anymore? Obviously not.

“I am confident I can break that stalemate and help free Sandsong from the creature.”

“Blessed be the light gods. Finally, some good news. And one last thing, Lady Sai…”

The tanned woman suddenly grew more bashful.

“Yes?” Viv asked.

“Do you harbor any designs towards Janar Sin?”

“Oh? Oh! No, I have someone waiting for me at home.”

Lady Mar nodded, still a bit red from embarrassment.

“Oh, alright. I am not sure if he will be receptive to my advances.”

“Well, you have my support.”

“I believe I will wait until I have bathed to approach him truly, or he might mistake me for the barrack’s changing room.”

“We are all a little rancid,” Viv conceded. “But I am sure he will appreciate some conversation. Perhaps your spearwomanship could use a few pointers?”

The lady nodded.

“That sounds wise. Is your loved one also a fencer?”

“No, I just have the same muscle heads at home.”

The conversation continued for a little while. Mar was a much more pleasant conversationalist than Viv would have expected from the ‘I don’t really like people’ comment. The mood wasn’t great though, and most people were eventually forced to focus on simply moving forward to escape pursuit. They still stopped at nightfall because the scout was afraid carriages may be damaged during the night. They found a place to hunker down, and didn’t light any fires.

The night was strangely uneventful.

***

The next morning, the expedition reached the first hills of the Salt Mountain. Viv took a moment to appreciate the view. They were not much in terms of heights, as far as mountains went, but they were certainly colorful. Starting with ochre, the peaks extended through layers of various colors: reds, browns, whites, yellows, even some startling black and cobalt blue lines that traced the contours of others like the pen strokes of some artsy giant. More importantly, the hills gave a commanding view of the path they’d followed the night before. It was empty. Their pursuers had given up, perhaps concerned about a lack of supplies. The mood, that night, was still somber. The expedition had lost five people including their mage and one of the scouts, and that was before the slaughter of the border tower. It had been a bloody three days. Contrary to the short skirmish at Ravinport, neither side had offered any quarter. She wondered if it was a herald of things to come.

Captain Sin took Lady Mar aside as they made their camp. Viv decided to help with cooking this time, partly because it hadn’t been asked of her, and partly because the guard in charge of preparing the pot was a fucking tosser. Seriously, she had no dedicated cooking skill and she could still do better. They even had a magical portable stove to provide some controlled heat. It was hard to believe how little they cared about making a proper gruel. Anyway, when the pair returned, Lady Mar gave her a curious glance. She could only assume Captain Sin had warned her about the strange arcanist.

“One of your cousins is a cook as well?” he asked her after trying the congee she’d made.

“Come on, this is nothing. You cannot tell me you don’t get better food at the palace.”

“Yes,” the man replied. “At the palace. Well, you are a woman, so perhaps it is just one of the skills of the fair sex.”

Viv decided to let that one pass. She was just too sad for their low standards out in the field.

The food helped people recover, somewhat. Sleep would help too, but as the night darkened, people kept cluttered and unwilling to retire to their bedrolls. Some officers might have given the order to do so anyway, but Captain Sin went with another decision. He started singing. The music was a dirge that rose to the sky like a mournful call. First, Sin sang alone, but soon he was joined by other voices until the entire squad sang. Even the ambassador joined in. Viv was the only one left out. Those were folk songs people first listened to as toddlers without understanding them, something an outsider like her couldn’t understand. That was fine. She listened with pleasure when Lady Mar added her voice to the chorus. Hers was a higher pitch, a different line adding harmonies to the whole. The men split as well as the long song continued with some deep and rumbling, other high and emotional. They kept at it for minutes. Sometimes, someone forgot lyrics so one of the lines faltered, but they always joined again until the song fell back down to a natural calm. The last line was sung by Captain Sin, alone, ending like he had begun.

Silence returned, but it was a different kind of silence. A little while after, people drifted to their bedrolls.

***

