“Very well, you two aren’t bad. Start telling me everything you know about this freeform theory. I’ve passed Level 50 in spellcasting, but there is a bar between our magic and the magic of Wistram’s higher floors. Valeterisa has tried to breach it for years. Whomever Eldavin is, he remembers that magic.”
Pisces sat down, relieved, as Ceria scooted forward on her butt.
“Combining magical disciplines is what Pisces and I have learned. Even Falene and other [Mages] don’t use linked magic much, but I can easily do it with the circlet’s help. Linking spell schools?”
“Casting across disciplines isn’t hard. I can throw a [Siege Fireball] like the rest, Ceria, and cast [Ice Lance] in the other hand.”
Amerys demonstrated, and Ceria waved at it.
“Ah, but do you cast a [Siege Fireball] like a [Pyromancer] and merge it with an [Ice Lance] spell like Illphres would do?”
“Why would I twist my magic up to be that focused? It’s far easier to just cast it…”
Amerys trailed off, and Pisces finished the thought.
“Like a fixed spell. How would we recreate this carriage if we weren’t doing things the easy way? Damn, if only I had access to an enchanter’s book.”
Colth appeared, friendly, with a wand in hand.
“I’ve watched Larracel cast enchantments on the Adventurer’s Haven all day. If either of you two need a rundown in basic enchanting…”
Four mages, if you included Colth, talking theory so fast and excitedly that they lost Yvlon. They were onto something, and every now and then, Yvlon would hear ‘but the complexity of’ or ‘what if we…?’ or ‘theoretically, yes, but let’s prove it’ in ways that sounded promising.
The conversation even attracted Trey and Gazi, though Trey was mostly trying to even understand what was going on, and Gazi was no spellcaster. But one had attended Eldavin’s lectures, and the other saw magic very clearly. They were talking animatedly within a minute.
 
——
 
“Nerds.”
That came from Elena, but affectionately. She turned to Yvlon.
“That Colth guy might take my job, but he’s not a specialist, right? I’m sure I can be useful.”
“You don’t need a job, Elena. That is, we don’t dislike you, but we can’t guarantee your safety, and frankly…we don’t really need a [Beautician].”
That was the part that Yvlon didn’t want to hurt the girl’s feelings on, but she wasn’t exactly a [Squire], [Quartermaster], [Explorer], or any, uh, useful class. Yvlon knew how well some classes could synergize. But the Horns really didn’t need to look good while fighting Crelers. Elena was very well put-together, you had to admit.
“We’ll give you money for a ship to Terandria or Izril. I’m sure you’d find plenty of work in The Wandering Inn.”
Lyonette could use Elena, and she’d fit right in. However, Elena protested.
“Yvlon, don’t think my class is useless.”
“I wouldn’t say useless, but in a battle—”
“I’m a [Beautician]. Yes, a lot of it’s vanity, and there is a lot to do with makeup, but I’m a [Beautician]—a trained one from my world. It might only be good for appearances on Earth, but appearances matter there, too. Here? [Beautician] is a class, and I’m past Level 30. One of the world’s most dangerous Earthers is a [Singer], the other one’s an [Innkeeper]. Do you think I’m useless?”
That drew Yvlon up short. She gave Elena a longer, studying look, suddenly filled with interest, and Elena smiled.
“There’s no way your class can have an effect on our combat abilities.”
Yvlon said without confidence. Elena’s eyes twinkled.
“‘Twas beauty that killed the beast. That’s a quote from my world.”
The Silver Killer hesitated, then tossed her own hair back, which, she admitted, she barely did more than comb with her metal hand—that could turn into a comb. She’d accepted a more rag-tag look from so much adventuring.
“Any makeup you apply wouldn’t even last on this trip.”
“Unless I had [Makeup: Permanent Fixture]. But let’s not even do your hair or your face. You’re way too naturally pretty, even when you get travel-worn, and that’s great. I have this amazing idea. Give me an hour, and you can talk me out of anything, but—Nawal? Do you have one of your chisels?”
Elena got up, and there was a brief fight as she pursued a veiled young woman that Yvlon recognized from around the camp. When Elena came back, she had a chisel and was staring pointedly at…
Yvlon’s arm. Yvlon glanced at her arm. At Elena. The metal rippled, and Yvlon held up her hands.
“I don’t think—”
“It’s like movable armor, right? You could give yourself tattoos or shape the metal. Do you have House Byres’ crest or something? If you don’t like the idea, we don’t have to.”
“I—but there’s really no need—I don’t need House Byres’ crest. My arms change so much it’d be gone in a second. Would it even look good?”
“If we got a pattern you remembered, wouldn’t you be able to remake it? You’ve seen decorated armor, right? Did you ever like any?”
Now she had Yvlon, and the Silver Killer bit her lip.
“There was this suit of armor back in House Byres’ armory that I always wanted to wear. One of my great-great-greataunts wore it in battle. But it’s so complex…”
Elena had a pad of paper open.
“[Design Sketch: Client’s Preference]. Do you have a style?”
“Er—well, it was very thin, engraved onto the arms, this floral pattern—the Flowers of Izril, you know? Like, you had twisting vines up the arms and this square or more angular pauldron. But listen, it’s nothing important. It’s just armor. Or my arms. And you’re not—”
 
 
——
 
The Horns of Hammerad were interesting, Teresa determined, and she decided she’d thought of them wrong from the start. They were not the opportunistic adventurers she’d assumed they were, but a mix between the place the King of Destruction’s Seven were and real people.
She meant that in the sense that they didn’t live and breathe their achievements. Mars was fun. You could drink with Mars, talk to her about anything, and she was friendly, sometimes stupid about things that didn’t involve battle, and relaxed.
But she was never not Mars the Vanguard, Mars the Illusionist. She never saw a task and said ‘wow, that’s hard’ or ‘I can’t do that’. She either didn’t want to do it or found a way it was done.
The same with all the rest. Flos was a [King]. He got what he wanted, and if he didn’t—it was because what he wanted was that important. The Horns, though, still had humility, in a sense. Not all of them. Not all the time. Ceria was like the spirit of mischief, and Colth was impossible to read, but sometimes, there was a flash of basic humanity in them.
Like Yvlon, the Silver Killer herself, gingerly sitting in the morning as Elena tapped a chisel gently into her arm, trying to implement a design they were going over. That look of vulnerability on her face—the rest of the Seven weren’t like that. Amerys could be worried about her lack of magic, Gazi could be frustrated and uncertain about her place as the weakest of the lot. But they’d strayed from mortality to become legends. They had seen empires break and armies flee before them too many times.
Teresa wanted to be like them. But she knew she had no chance as she was. She had to climb and keep climbing to reach where they were, and it seemed only reasonable to her that Hraace, and now the Horns, were a path to that goal.
Teresa Atwood, Teres for short. The martial twin to Trey’s magic. Funny how that worked out, but if you’d asked the Atwood twins from the start who they thought would gravitate towards which class, they probably would have agreed it made sense.
Trey was a bit more bookish; he’d always done well in history, and Teres had been on the football club in secondary school. Where they’d split was in, well, ideology as much as specialization.
Teres had stuck with Orthenon, participated in Flos’ wars, fought in the dust and bloody battlefields.
Trey had learned from Gazi, the Quarass, gone to Wistram and broken Amerys out, and become a hater of A’ctelios Salash and, in some ways, Flos himself.
Right now, Trey was the golden boy, even if he enraged Flos constantly. He was the [Chaos Schemer], the [Bloodglass Mage], the favorite of Gazi and Amerys, and held even the Quarass and Fetohep’s respect. Also, he had Minizi.
Teresa was somehow the one who got to be the ‘annoying one’, the child whose ego and ambitions outstretched her abilities, the one to make sure wasn’t hurt. She’d fought in more battles than Trey had ever seen, had nearly died defending Reim, and he was the better one.
She didn’t mistake how things were. In many ways, Teres was aware of the King of Destruction’s court more than Trey. She knew how they regarded her and him.
It was so frustrating. Not unfair; fairness would have meant Trey and Teres never appeared here, let alone had the chances they had. She knew how lucky they were, even if Trey didn’t see it that way. She just wished…she was doing it better.
Another world. Thrust into the heart of what might be a meeting between planets, between realities, given the chance to ride beside this world’s version of Alexander the Great, to meet legends and fight battles and know that in her lifetime, right now, her deeds mattered. She talked to the King of Destruction; she could put a finger, however small, on the world’s scales and try to make it better.
That was a privilege, an opportunity Teres had never thought she’d ever have in her world. In her world, as she’d told Flos time and again, governments and powerful, rich people, who were born into their roles or had connections, changed things. Ordinary people just lived as idiots came into power and mucked things up, or good people tried to force systems to change.
There were no Floses in her world, no men and women who could push and topple nations. Even world leaders were constrained by their cabinets and rules and governments. Even tyrants feared a single bullet, and they were just people who gave orders which were followed.
The King of Destruction could push down a wall or rip a Djinni’s collar apart with his bare hands. This world had given Teres everything she had ever wanted. 
It was a shame Trey resented it so much.
 
——
 
Gazi Pathseeker broke away from the magical discussion as everyone began to wrap up breakfast. The [Mages] and Colth piled into one of the magical carriages, Trey included, and they were all chummy now. Trey had that ability. He’d be nervous and defer to people, and they’d just…like him.
Bastard.
He and Pisces were talking as they passed by, and Yvlon was being led to the second carriage, flexing one arm. Teresa listened to both conversations.
“So you met the man? Archmage Eldavin seemed…grandiose. Larger than life, from what I saw of him on the scrying orb. I did meet him in person before he arrived in Wistram, but that was when he was in disguise…and is that a Golem?”
“Lifesand—and Bloodglass. Wait, you met Eldavin before…? That’s Minizi. Wave, Minizi; don’t swing that sword—she used to be really small. You, uh, make undead, don’t you?”
“I’m a bit of a creator, yes, but I’d hardly say I’m artistic. May I ask how she was developed? The inspiration, er, seems clear…”
Both shot a glance at Gazi, and one of her eyes was rolled up in her head, a clear sign she was monitoring their conversation and reading their lips even if she couldn’t hear them. She always kept an eye on Trey. Everyone pretended they didn’t notice, and Trey never did, but it was obvious to Teresa and the Seven.
Trey and Pisces were shaking hands, talking like, well, kids putting together figurines at the tabletop games Trey loved. On the other side, Elena, who was braver than most people gave her credit for, and smarter too, was talking to Yvlon.
“No tingling? How does it feel?”
One of Yvlon’s arms was elegant. Somehow, Elena had already transformed it until it looked like a piece of armor; twisting, engraved vines with tiny leaves ran down from a symbol etched on an angular pauldron, and Teres almost snorted when she saw the symbol. She didn’t—because Yvlon was a warrior and it clearly mattered to her.
It was an Antinium with a sword standing under a tree; the roots were the vines running down Yvlon’s arm and along her biceps before turning into Izrilian heraldry. The back of her metal hand had House Byres’ symbol, and Elena had even dug metal out to give Yvlon’s fingers that gauntleted look.
“It’s…it tickled when you were moving the metal around, but it feels fine. It looks amazing. It feels—better. Lighter. Maybe the metal you removed made it—?”
Yvlon was swinging her arm around, perplexed. Elena gave Teresa a huge wink, and Teres would have loved to know what Skills the [Beautician] had used. She had a feeling Elena was going to get her way.
Earthers and Yvlon in one carriage, mage-team in the other. That left Gazi and Teres behind. Neither one really wanted to join the other groups, it seemed. Gazi glanced around, then swung herself on top of the Earther carriage. Teres followed suit nimbly.
She was still a [Blade of War], and even if it wasn’t as fancy as Trey’s class, she could run, fight, and act on the level of an athlete from her world, if not better. She steadied herself on the lip of the carriage, anchoring herself with the guardrails that could keep passengers or luggage in place. Soon, the magical vehicle took off.
Gazi said nothing.
She was definitely intimidating, but Teresa knew she was softer than she looked, or Trey would be dead. Teresa just didn’t know her as well as the others.
Mars, Orthenon, and Takhatres were the three of the Seven that Teres knew. Mars was like the big sister for everyone, fearless, the greatest warrior—the most burdened, but the most able to keep strong.
Orthenon was strict, perfunctory, anal about all kinds of customs and protocol, but deeply caring about Flos, and conscientious about everything, even if he looked only grumpy or severe.
Takhatres was picky, arrogant, rude, and full of himself, a real roving, nomadic tribal leader, but he respected Flos, for all he constantly strived with the King of Destruction. He had a vision for Garuda and treated Teres like a kid to be indulged when he was in a good mood.
Gazi…
Gazi was the kid of the Seven. It was obvious. She was Flos’ oldest vassal, the youngest, the weakest, but she’d been there from the start. Teresa knew the lore that even Trey hadn’t picked up on.
