“Eh, I can see it. Humans like us, or the look of us or having something of us…sexually…but then they realize they’re not us. They can’t be us. They’re dying and we’re not, and we have gifts, and they hate us. Which is fair because when you meet us, we suck. Did you meet any of us in Terandria?”
“Just one fellow. He was a bit…persnickety? Peculiar. He did the same thing every day, and if you messed him up—”
“That. That’s real half-Elf right there. Dead gods, but the more annoying they get, the better they are. What was his thing?”
“Violins. And swordsmanship.”
“How good was he?”
“I saw him best a ghost. And a lot of other things. He was a good guy. I…wish I’d stayed with them, honestly, but Cara’s been searching for Earthers, and someone had to know what was up with Wistram, you know?”
Elena brushed at her eyes for a second, and Ceria stared up at her with a smile that was kind and distant, an adventurer’s smile, and in its way, far colder and more dangerous than any of her imagined counterparts. Because she could care and see Elena’s grief. And be watchful and wary and put those emotions somewhere else when she had to.
She was gauging Elena as well, and Colth glanced at Yvlon’s decorated arms as Ceria patted Elena’s hand.
“We’ll take care of you if you want to come with us. But death’s just around the corner.”
“I want to matter. And I’m good at being a follower. And a servant. I…was one for months. You can tell me what to do, and I’ll just do it sometimes. It’s why I don’t want to be alone on the way back. Just in case.”
Ceria nodded.
“Got it. Then you’re with us. Ooh, I like the pigtails? No, I don’t. Yes, I do? It makes me look like a kid. If I want people to underestimate me, I’ll do this. What’s the other half-Elf girl do?”
“Her name’s Marcille, and I think she mostly gets grossed out at eating monster parts. The entire manga is about eating monsters to survive, I think…”
“What. That’s Falene. I’ll eat monsters all day! Give me a bug! Watch me suck out its abdomen!”
Yvlon turned from the conversation to Colth. The [Ultimate Supporter] was happily grinning as Teresa gave him a devil’s glare from the other coach. Gazi was sitting with her, still, but notably upwind of Teres.
“Colth, do you have to torment her? She’s interested in Pisces, right?”
Ceria and Elena glanced up as Colth turned.
“Oh, yes, she is. I think she’s hoping for some ‘levelling’ after a few ‘spars’. Real and in bed. She’s not a bad swordswoman, but she’s Gold-rank at best.”
He waggled his eyebrows to make sure Yvlon got it, and she folded her arms neutrally. Which she really was on the matter. She glanced at the roof of the carriage.
“Pisces is an adult. She’s a bit younger, but if she’s leading, let him turn her down.”
“Sniffmaster Pisces isn’t always on top of his game. He could be seduced into it.”
“Isn’t that his choice? She’s an Earther, Colth. It’s a miracle she’s survived in the King of Destruction’s company, let alone as a soldier. Let her be, surely.”
Yvlon felt a flash—a memory of a group of Blighted Kingdom soldiers. Youthful faces leading the charge, too strong and fast for their age, like Gold-rank adventurers or better. A stunned young woman falling over the ship’s edge as she stared at the bloody mess of her front.
Earthers. Yvlon shut her eyes hard at the memory and knew Ceria was remembering the same thing.
“They’re children. More than you or I. Give her a break, Colth.”
Her voice was rough, perhaps because she understood more than Colth who these people were. But he just folded his arms.
“She’s killed at least a hundred men and women. She’s an adult by any standard, Yvlon. We’re a team. I’m looking out for Pisces.”
“By not letting him even realize what’s going on?”
Colth stretched out his legs across the carriage, then curled up like a cat.
“It’s not my fault he can’t see a pink sail in the winds. Let me put it another way to you, Yvlon. Let’s say Teresa was approaching you about Ksmvr and asking if he was free for some fun. What would you say?”
She didn’t have to think.
“She’s not good enough for Ksmvr. And he’s too young!”
Yvlon glowered at the thought. Colth pointed a finger at her.
“And she’s good enough for Pisces?”
“Well…it’s not serious. Pisces has had a hard time of late, Colth. Some companionship might be for the best. Maybe.”
Yvlon lost her certainty in that statement as she said it. She knew the adventurer lifestyle, which was rough and tumble, but she had to own she’d done less, uh, tumbling between the sheets than her rank and experience indicated.
The Silver Spears, her knockoff group of the Silver Swords, had tried to emulate their ideals. Yvlon had been a [Lady], even if she’d aspired towards copying Ylawes. She and her teammates had largely kept their noses clean.
Oh, they’d had…encounters, but very chaste ones by adventurer standards, and by the time she’d joined the Horns, Yvlon had been nursing a broken arm, which was also infected, most of the time. Not exactly the mood to flirt with anyone.
Ceria and Colth were more knowing, it seemed, and Ceria opened her eyes as she was given a ‘Frieren’ look, which she grimaced at.
“Okay, these are just children, Elena. Colth, Pisces could get his heart hurt a bit, but he’s a big boy. Lay off?”
It wasn’t an order, but an invitation for Colth to argue his point. He placed his fingers together.
“She’s not the one. She’ll drive him crazy; she wants to hit Level 40, then Level 50, and she’ll be trying to get him to show her his swordplay day and night.”
“So?”
Ceria didn’t seem to see the problem, but Colth pulled out a cigar, of all things, and offered it to Yvlon, who passed, then Elena, who sniffed at it but announced she wasn’t a fan. He gave it to Ceria and lit one himself. Colth sat back, blew a smoke ring, and pontificated.
“I’m all for a Pisces-distraction with the right lady. Or lad. But he’s only into the ladies, it would seem.”
Yvlon shifted, slightly uncomfortable at how open Colth was about talking about…she was an adventurer, and you knew things existed, but Ceria didn’t even blink.
“Definitely the ladies. Here’s one. So if not a Teresa, whom? There was Selys, and he keeps blushing about steam baths, and there might have been…”
She glanced at Yvlon, and Colth filled in the sentence so smoothly Elena gasped.
“Erin Solstice.”
They stared at him, and he raised his hands.
“What? Am I wrong? No? Please, it’s obvious. But that’s my point. He never engaged, mostly, I think, because his head could stop a storm of arrows when it comes to romance, but infatuation is different from…”
He paused.
“I fell into infatuation with plenty of women. Never love.”
Yvlon was reminded the Eternal Virgin was a title appended to him from his high-profile romances with women he’d met and helped make into success stories. But Colth was a bit too knowing for her to give it credit.
“I don’t think he actually loved your [Innkeeper]. True, I haven’t known her as long, but it reminds me of [Soldiers] falling in love with their [Healers]. She was the first person to treat him well, wasn’t she?”
“For over half a decade? Probably.”
Ceria looked guilty as she sat up and promptly put the circlet on her head. Elena took it off on the pretense of adjusting Ceria’s hair and winked at Yvlon. Yvlon liked Elena already. Colth glanced at the rooftop and nodded.
“Would they have fit? Not for me to say. But he might have just loved her differently. I love Mihaela and Larracel, and once upon a time, I thought it was like a lover. It’s not. So—this Selys. Strongwilled? Intelligent?”
“Both. Clever as he is.”
“There you go. But it didn’t work for whatever reason, and here we are. Pisces escaped Roshal. That leaves a mark. Regardless of what they did or didn’t do…”
Yvlon’s arms rippled with the hint of spikes, and Colth went on, face smooth, voice controlled.
“…he’s not ready for a romance. A fling, yes.”
“Okay, then who?”
“Well, I was hoping Queen Jecaina, but he flubbed that one. And Mars wasn’t interested when I hinted, so that’s out.”
Ceria sat up so fast Elena poked her in the eye. The half-Elf’s laugh was of delight, Yvlon’s was of horror.
“Mars?”
Colth nodded. He put his hands behind his head.
“I’m picturing the next city we get to. Hraace, depending on what it’s like. A brothel. Not the top [Courtesan] or [Prostitute], mind you, but the owner herself. Sixties, a confident woman, the kind who’d sweep him off his feet, toss him to the winds, and leave him wandering around in a daze. Perfect heartbreak.”
“Dead gods, Colth.”
That was all Yvlon muttered, but Ceria was sniggering. She somehow got what Colth was saying.
“Impossible to make work. Okay, I hear you. Teresa?”
“Another idiot for the Necrolad to try and help or save. He’s soft-hearted. See, now, if he liked men, that would be easy. You go to a bar, you find the right group, and then you’d probably tap the biggest, roughest-looking fellow on the shoulder and see if he buys Pisces a drink or if he’s just the veneer. But I’ll work with what I have. Let me know if you want me to send anyone your way, Yvlon, Ceria.”
“Eh, I’m sort of more mercantile right now. That’s how I got one of my new spells. You find a susceptible high-level [Mage], let me know.”
Colth wrote that down. He turned to Yvlon with Elena and Ceria, and the [Armsmistress] leaned out the window.
“…Hraace is pretty picturesque, isn’t it?”
 
——
 
Hraace was indeed picturesque in an odd way, Pisces decided. He couldn’t articulate it until they heard a [Shepherd] bringing the goats into a pen for the night.
It was not merely the Prelon trees growing in orchards on cliffs, nor the [Farmers] tending to smaller plots of Yellats or arid plants. They weren’t that impressive; Wailant had a bigger farm, and Hraace did not speak of wealth.
Neither did it speak of poorness, to be sure, but it was no Medain. It was in the houses they passed, white stucco scraped clean, not dirty or cracked, in roofs that did not lack for shingles, in the toga a boy wore as he whirled a staff, sending goats jumping around him, and the horn he pulled out.
[Shepherd] boy brings his goats to pasture for the evening. What else could be more banal? Pisces sat with Trey and a repairing Minizi, whom they were trying to give a full skeleton instead of a few interconnected bones, albeit made of Bloodglass rather than metal or ivory. Pisces had speculated she was unable to grow without more structure.
The boy on the cliff put the slightly dented horn of a goat to his lips, and Pisces remembered something.
Hraace.
There had been a Hraacian in the King of Destruction’s army, hadn’t there. Who was it?
Right.
The [Drummer], Medacium. And he’d been—performative.
The first peal of the horn split the night air, a long, impressive sound from the boy’s horn. He blew a series of triumphant notes, and the goats jerked their heads up and turned to him.
It was a call for them to come hither, but it was also a song. Pisces blinked. He had never heard any [Shepherd] play a song from his horn. He leaned over the side of the carriage as Trey sat up.
“That’s good.”
No sooner had he said that then another sound played in the distance. Another [Shepherd] with their flocks. A similar horn, the notes amazingly clear and, Pisces realized, answering the first. The boy stood and turned his horn to the passing carriages. He waved and blew again—and then the second horncaller and a third played.
Like a strange serenade. The boy, in his toga and sandals, danced, waving, a delighted grin on his face when he took a gulp of air, and a goat did a backflip behind him. His eyes were locked on the magical carriages with every note of delight like any child would have when they saw what they took to be magical and important moments. But then he put the horn to his lips again.
He was, Pisces realized, showing off. He blew the horn until the carriage was long past his set of cliffs, as if he were the [Herald] of the King of Destruction himself.
“—Strange. So this is Hraace?”
Pisces murmured. The two wagons were passing around cliffs, headed towards that bay and outcropping along the sea, and when he craned his neck, he saw structures of white marble leading down to the white beaches of a harbor filled with fishers, boats, and nets, by the look of it.
Hraace looked picturesque, and the capital city seemed one of the nicer places in the world. Pisces remembered Erin’s beach and thought—here was a place that embodied the dream of her [Garden of Sanctuary].
Indeed, every person they saw on the road seemed to know their names as the carriages slowed to avoid hitting anyone. Even why they had come.
“Lady Pathseeker! The Horns of Hammerad, welcome to the Mentorship of Hraace! The Pedagogia awaits!”
One old man cast a finger down the slopes as he passed, a basket of Prelons in hand. He was a [Farmer] or [Orchard Tender] to look at him, but—Pisces figured it out now.
“They speak like [Actors].”
It was in his posture, the way he projected his voice. Emoting as if speaking to an audience. Trey raised his eyebrows.
“You know [Actors]?”
“Of course. We had some…that is, Erin invented them, one supposes. Is Hraace, ah, culturally inclined?”
The reply came not from Trey, but from the rooftop of the other carriage. A rather surly Teresa Atwood—who had gotten into it with Colth for reasons Pisces didn’t understand—and Gazi were near enough to hear without the constant rumble. It was Gazi who called back in a low, but conversational tone.
“All of Hraace are born for that stage, Pisces Jealnet. It was just never invented before now. They do fine reenactments and plays of a different kind. You met Medacium, the [Drummer]. Even the meanest hermit of Hraace can fit into the court of a [King], or so it’s said.”
Someone called up with a laugh and a bow: a woman who blew a kiss at Gazi.
“And we have, Lady Pathseeker, at the King of Destruction’s side for a lifetime of conquest! May it come again if the Pedagogia and the Mentorship wills it!”
Even the half-Gazer favored the woman with an indulgent smile, and the carriages rumbled onwards. Pisces was more and more confused.
Mentorship. He’d thought Hraace might be like Grimalkin’s training camp from hell if they ‘made’ [Heroes]. As the coaches rumbled down towards the city, the city was wide open. It was built of white marble that likely came from the surrounding cliffsides, and it had few roads. The city was exceptionally walkable, so many citizens wandered around with little vehicles except down the main roads.
