It was so funny how they talked. The [Mayor] was nervous around the two of the Seven; practically all over Ceria, who was scribbling her autograph down with a bemused Pisces.
Pisces, who got looks of mixed interest and wariness, but broad approval from the Portemese folk for being famous.
Yvlon, whom they avoided like a rabid metal dog, which was fair, and Colth, whom they treated like the interesting rookie. He was good at that role.
Pisces, though…Colth signed autographs, talked the team up, and blended backwards into the crowd as he listened to several people speaking to the [Necromancer].
“It is bold of you, you know, to make war on Roshal. I cannot say I agree, but it is bold, nonetheless, to make them a foe.”
Pisces stared at a [Guildmaster] of some kind, who thought making conversation about a fight for slavery was a good opening to ask for an autograph. It was that kind of comment that made Colth itch for his daggers…but then Elena was there, gently speaking.
“Adventurer Pisces, sir, Captain Ceria needs you to wrap up autographs in three minutes. I am so sorry, Guildmaster, but we must be on the road. Lady Pathseeker, you know—”
She made a gesture, and Colth grinned as the [Guildmaster]’s pique at being hurried along vanished at the thought of angering Gazi. Elena. Seemed good at her job. But another person moved forwards after the [Guildmaster] got his autograph.
“I think it is a fascinating war, Adventurer. And hope you find no issue in Portems to slow your journey. Well met.”
There was nothing in this other woman’s words to suggest she was more than an ardent fan who desired a handshake and autograph, but the…Guildmistress of the Potter’s Guild made Colth instantly think she was on the right side.
Of the war. There could only be one. It was in her tone, her smile, the way she squeezed Pisces’ hand, bowed, and left. She wasn’t the only one to seem to hint she thought the Bane of Roshal was doing the right thing. But they were all careful. They had to be.
Roshal is everywhere. Colth had no doubt they had spies monitoring the Horns’ progress, even now, but so long as Gazi was near, even Yazdil would walk carefully. But soon, it’d be dangerous. Soon…
The [Mayor] was trying to also get them to do work, which was very funny. As if monarchs hadn’t been doing the same.
“Captain Ceria, I know you are on business, but if you had the time, Her Majesty of Portems has some small issues she wished to bring up to a team of your renown.”
“Oh? We’re sort of on our way to Hraace, but anything worthy of our time?”
“Perhaps not your time, Adventurer Ceria, but there have been a few quakes of late. Not natural ones. We think they’re coming from sea caves along the northern coast? We’ve sent Silver-rankers in, but they vanished. And if you…”
They had a mission from the Quarass, Flos, the Claiven Earth, Medain, Jecrass, and Heroph. Colth was eminently glad Ceria instantly refused the offer, though he did think some adventuring would be good for them.
They needed money, arms, levels to survive Chandrar. Yes, speed was also important, but Roshal was dangerous, and finding Pisces’ friends would take time. Finding Colth’s…
They can’t be alive. The Quarass is mistaken. But she’s never mistaken. She’s often not mistaken. If they actually made it…
Colth was so busy listening to the Horns getting the famous treatment that he only realized someone was watching him after a second. He turned, and Teresa Atwood walked forwards.
“Hi, Colth, right?”
“Warrior Atwood, hello. We haven’t talked much.”
I haven’t been interested. Nawalishifra, the disgraced [Smith] of Clan Tannousin, was interesting. Gazi and Amerys were to learn from. Trey was a unique class. Teresa Atwood was a decently levelled [Soldier]. The kind Colth mowed down when he went to war. Carefully, in case she had tricks, but stepping-stone level.
She surprised him when she indicated Pisces, who was nervously animating a Skeleton Champion to the applause of the people. They didn’t hate undead here. He had to learn that.
“I know you’ve been busy with Trey and the magic stuff. I was hoping I could talk to your team, though. Especially…Pisces, is it? Is he taken, do you know?”
She spoke like a [Soldier], straightforwards and to the point. Colth blinked. He pulled something out and scribbled on a piece of paper.
He kept having to adjust Pisces’ ‘Charisma’ stat. You had to give the [Necromancer] decent looks, height, and he was fit enough as a [Duelist], but 14 seemed too low. 16?
What kind of a [Necromancer] had a 16 in Charisma? Colth ran his eyes down the distribution. He’d been talking to the other Earthers, which had really helped him flesh out his mechanics. Troydel had had a lot of opinions, some right, some which didn’t really gel, but…
 
Pisces Jealnet — The Bane of Roshal, AKA Sniffmaster Pisces, Pisces the Nose, Necrolad…(add more names.)
Race: Human
Morality: Lawless, Ethical, Slaverbane, Adventurer
Age: 23
Height: 5’11
Weight: Est. 165 lbs? (Feed him more.)
 
Strength: 11
Dexterity: 16
Endurance: 10
Intelligence: 17
Wisdom: 12
Charisma: 14 16?
Luck: 15
 
Athletics: 8/20
Cooking: 3/20
Intimidation: 5/20
Diplomacy: 6/20
Flirting: 0/20
Swordplay: 15/20
Stealth…
 
He had a long sheet, meticulously filled in with hand-drawn boxes, and he kept revising the numbers and the way the statistics worked.
It was just for fun. And the notes sometimes were useful when working with other adventurers. Colth muttered to himself as Teresa stared and peeked at what he was working on.
“Let’s see. Not one score under 10. He should have one. Luck? No, on average his is pretty damn good. Endurance? He’s better than Ceria. Some people are just like that. Maybe it’s a 15 for Charisma…but if you think about it…”
Colth hadn’t gotten too much on Pisces’ romantic background—because there wasn’t much—but he put that down to the [Necromancer] being a surly hideaway for most of his life and unwashed.
Lately? You had to count a [Queen] highly; they had a lot of opportunities, and there was some hinting from his fellow [Slaves], though that was a different circumstance, but certainly one or two Gnolls at the Meeting of Tribes had given him hints he’d failed to pick up on…if Pisces actually had a clue what was going on, he’d be like Deniusth.
Actually, that was a great point. Deniusth the Violinist had excellent stats on paper. Colth went back to one of his character sheets from an earlier time when he’d ranked people on multiple aspects of charisma. Deniusth? Great face. Terrible hair now, but back in the day, he’d had good hair, poise, a great body, fame, could play an instrument—
Objectionable personality, so he wasn’t higher in a score that ran up to 18 naturally (though with classes, you could exceed that. Barelle was probably a 21 or something), but a flat ‘15’ as well if that made sense. No demerits for reasons of being a Goblin (it was hard to charm even if you were Numbtongue), or because Pisces had too many character flaws. For example, Pisces versus Deniusth…Pisces could be more charming after you got to know him, and Deniusth was more charming before you got to know him.
“Fascinating. I guess that’s why it’s a game and not applicable to life. You know what? You’ve gotta fudge the numbers sometimes, but I wonder what happens if you throw them both in a room with…Minotaurs? Lizardfolk? No, that’s speciesist. Cultural, cultural. Put them in a room with a bunch of [Farmers] at a social gathering and see who wins without reputation. Yeah.”
“Er, excuse me, Colth?”
“Hm? Oh, hello. You didn’t get the memo.”
Colth finished scribbling on the sheets and gave Teresa one of his friendly, fake smiles. She raised her brows.
“What did I do? I’m nice. Don’t worry, I’m not trying to get any hooks into him or steal anything like Amerys. I’m just asking if he’s taken.”
“He’s taken.”
“By whom?”
“His team. We share.”
“So he’s not taken.”
“He’s not looking. I think you might know why.”
Teresa indicated she did know of Pisces’ recently removed class by nodding her head. Which told Colth she knew a lot of the King of Destruction’s secrets…he filed that away, and Teresa gave Pisces a sympathetic glance, or what she might have thought was one.
“I’m sorry about that, but it’s not like I’m going to hurt him, and he can always say no. So—”
She turned, about to set upon the Necrolad with all the forthrightness of an arrow loosed from afar. Colth wasn’t actually sure how Pisces would react. He doubted anything would happen, but you never knew, and he wasn’t a fan of Teresa, so Colth spoke as he folded his character sheets up.
“Okay, sure, I’ll let Pisces know.”
Teres turned her head, then smiled.
“Thank you. I’m just asking if he’d like to talk or—”
Colth dug in his pockets and flicked a few gold coins into one palm, then some silver ones.
“How much?”
“Excuse me?”
The [Blade of War] didn’t catch on, and Colth stared at her, then added a few more copper coins, then made a show of patting his belt pouch.
“I don’t have that much on me, but I reckon I can run to the Merchant’s Guild. How much for a night?”
“…I’m not for sale.”
Her tone had grown dangerous, and Colth gave her his most charmingly aggravating smile. He’d once seen Mihaela do this to someone she really didn’t like, and Colth? Colth remembered everything.
“Sure you’re not. Neither is my boy Pisces. In truth, you should be paying me, but he’s not for sale, and you’re not richer than we are. So let’s say this covers dinner and—”
He held out the coins, and she drew her sword on him. She was quick.
Colth had seen quickdraw swordmasters before. He flicked a gold coin at her fast, and she just had to cut through it. They always did. Teresa swung forwards with a snarl, halting before she actually struck Colth—
He was strolling away, whistling, hands in his pockets. She stared at him as people turned, and Colth waved at her. She could keep swinging at him and embarrass herself. Or drop it.
Teresa’s eyes blazed at him, and he sensed she was one of Drath’s lot. Inner energy or whatever it was; Colth had never gotten enough practice to master it, and even Yazdil hadn’t known enough to be confident in training him. It manifested as a weak intimidation Skill, and he blew her a kiss.
She went to go talk to Pisces, who eyed her warily. Teresa Atwood smiled as she sheathed her sword.
“Sorry, I had an argument with your friend. Pisces? I’m Teresa Atwood. I was wondering if you wanted to sp—whoah!”
She felt the tug on her foot and avoided the long-range tripping Skill that Colth used, then put her foot back. Then she stepped on the [Slippery Shadow] spell he’d cast. Always have a backup.
People asked Colth, all the time, why he carried vinegar around. Or spices. Spices, they got, but vinegar?
It was good in alchemy, for food prep. You could make poached eggs with vinegar. You carried around vinegar because it was a luxury. All items that were useful were luxuries. Bags of holding were amazing.
Why did Colth carry around cowpats that he’d collected from the Meeting of Tribes? Because he could sling one across the ground like a discus and have Teresa land flat onto it. Even if she sprang to her feet, all you needed was some water to make it nice and sticky and a little Skill…
She stood, whirling on him, as Pisces backed away, and Colth waved at her. Never mess with the backup. He might not have gotten many [Wingman] Skills, but he had met a lot of [Heartbreakers], [Meddlers], [Troublemakers], and even a [Jilting Lover].
She ran at him with a shout, sword raised, until Minizi got in her way; Teresa beheaded the Lifesand Golem, which made her twin blast her with sand. The two began to fight until Amerys turned her head and blasted Teres and Trey with a bolt of lightning that made both keel over, paralyzed.
Colth helped load them into a carriage. Another victory for the Horns of Hammerad. He gave Ceria and Yvlon a big thumbs up, and both of them eyed him. Ceria seemed amused, Yvlon, mildly exasperated, as if she had no idea why he was doing all that.
Pisces just wondered when lunch was.
Absolutely no clue, absolutely not. He was back down to 14 Charisma after all. What was the point if you didn’t know what to do with it? Everyone got moving again. Amerys flew off, satisfied with her magical conversations with Ceria and Pisces—and she had a war to get back to. They all settled down in the coach.
Then they arrived at Hraace.
 
——
 
By the time they arrived at Hraace, everyone hated Teres. Never mess with a Colth. He wasn’t quite a Kevin, but the [Supporter] was second- or third-best in everything he did, which meant he was still quite likable, and he could hang out with Earthers. Because Teres now hated him, it meant they were less predisposed to her, and she hadn’t exactly started high on their lists.
Yvlon thought it was rather petty of Colth. She had realized he was sabotaging Teres going after Pisces; it was obvious after Elena pointed it out, and she had stayed out of it.
She was watching the landscape slowly change. Hraace was not dynamically different from Portems, but it did change gradually as they went over the border. Portems had been fairly close to a drier version of Izril—it had enough water thanks to their ruler. Hraace was drier still, despite its proximity to the sea.
It seemed to favor the coast; at least, that was where the capital city was. Part of the nation was a peninsula that jutted out to sea that Yvlon could glimpse past a sparkling green bay. The water was a stark contrast with the yellowed rock and sands, and the farming did not look promising. Still, there were decent herds of goats and sheep, and if Hraace was not as remarkable as Yvlon had thought and this turned out to be a waste of time, it had only taken two days and they looked to be getting to the capital around evening.
She had the chance to bring up Colth’s actions when he leapt into their carriage, grinning; Pisces was sitting on the roof with Trey, having a longer conversation about upgrading Minizi. That meant Yvlon could bring up what Colth was doing as Elena braided Ceria’s hair.
“There’s this popular manga with someone who looks sort of like you. Let me juuust do a braid like this. You need to look goofier.”
“Manga? What’s that? Erin said your world likes Elves. How’s this for goofy?”
Ceria pulled a face. Elena shook her head.
“No, more…clueless? Hapless? Manga’s like comics. And uh, comics are like images instead of words telling a story? Oh! There’s one that Maximillian keeps talking about with a white-haired Elf girl. What do you think about being a famous species everyone likes?”
The half-Elf closed her eyes.
