“A dining place? I wouldn’t mind that…do you think they could do six? Excuse me, five—I forget Ksmvr’s not here. My team and I would be delighted to accept.”
He hadn’t really gotten a chance to talk to Teresa, but her brother was quite knowledgeable and genial, and she seemed well-spoken herself. He did want to know what serving the King of Destruction was like.
Teresa hesitated and gave Pisces a slight narrowing of the eyes, as if she suspected he was making fun of her. But when he blinked again, she coughed. A slight blush entered her cheeks.
“Um. I was thinking more of you and me. Something intimate? If you’d like to. We could spar as well. I’m being forwards. What I meant was, you know—we have a night, and I’m very interested in you.”
She glanced at him, and Pisces blushed, then caught himself. Dead gods, he was reacting poorly.
“That’s very flattering, Miss Teresa. I shouldn’t hesitate to accept.”
Her eyes brightened, and Pisces went on.
“Do you think they have fencing courts around here? We could squeeze in a duel before dinner—not that I’m not interested in a longer exhibition of skills, but it does take a while for the stomach to settle.”
This time, Teresa actually opened her mouth and looked Pisces up and down. Slowly. He was going to ask if she had any practice in dueling—always a concern so they didn’t hurt each other, even with protective artifacts. Teresa Atwood hesitated, bit her lip, swallowed, and then turned redder. She stepped forwards until she was standing very close and murmured up at him.
“I’d like that. Practicing in a duel, I mean. But, um, Pisces. Do you know what I mean by a private dinner? I was thinking of a night as well as the evening. Maybe share a room? Because I…quite…like you, and it’d just be a night—”
Even in her third and final attempt, it took Pisces a bit before he caught on. Then his eyes widened, and he stepped back, turned beet red, swung around, did a double-take, and began to stammer.
“Oh, I—I am terribly sorry. I didn’t mean to—that is, I was not aware of the thrust of the—my assumption was—”
His mind was blanking out, and he knew, absolutely knew, that if Ceria or Colth heard this, they’d never let him hear the end of it. Colth was right about Jecaina! You fool!
He was so red-faced and embarrassed that Teresa flushed as well, holding up her hands.
“Sorry, I know I’m being weird. I…don’t worry. I knew it wasn’t likely, and if you didn’t understand it, that’s on me. Don’t worry.”
She executed a smooth bow, hand on her sword hilt, and tried to back away. Pisces held up a hand.
“Wait, please.”
She did, to his relief, and he managed to get his tongue in order. Pisces looked at Teresa, sincere.
“I…am sorry I missed that. It has been a while since—well, Wistram. And it is most flattering.”
That made Teresa smile in relief. Her voice became teasing.
“Really? For a handsome guy like you?”
Pisces found himself straightening his robes and coughing.
“Well, I was hardly so—hygienic before, and in truth—no. That is, you are quite charming, Miss Teresa. I may not know you, but…it is not that. I don’t think I’m in the, the right place for such encounters. With anyone.”
He thought of Cawe. He rubbed at his chest and wondered if he could ever bear to show that to someone he didn’t trust. He regarded Teresa, and she was charming, striking—dead gods, if he’d met her before Chandrar, he probably would have accepted on the principle of why not? He hoped he hadn’t angered or upset her, but she just exhaled.
“Thanks for being straight with me. Hey, no hard feelings, and I would like a duel. I just thought—well, I should ask.”
She turned a rueful smile on him, and Pisces was the one to bow, arm to the waist, awkwardly formal.
“I don’t mean it as any smirch against your looks or your own appeal, Miss Teres. I am just—wounded.”
It felt odd to say. But it was also true, and Teresa’s eyes softened.
“I know. Flos told me. He shouldn’t have, but he blabs—sorry.”
For some reason, that didn’t hurt. Pisces gave Teresa what he hoped was a gallant smile.
“I owe him enough to not hold that against him. But besides that, well…I am a bit older than you.”
At least six years, if he was a judge. Teresa frowned.
“Time passes faster here. I’m at least eighteen by Earth standards, and I’ve survived wars. You’re an adventurer. If that was your concern—”
“No, no. Pardon me. I just…don’t feel it.”
“Right. I get that, too.”
They stood there a moment, and then Teresa ducked her head. She laughed, then sighed.
“Well, damn. Just so you know, whenever—if ever you do start looking around, you won’t have to settle. In that case, I’ll see you at the banquet with everyone.”
She winked at him and began to stroll off. And that was it. It was gracefully done and left Pisces feeling complimented and…well, he caught up to Teresa after a moment.
“I, uh!”
She turned, and Pisces coughed, red-faced.
“I would be down for a sparring session. With swords! With blades, I mean—I do want to see what a capable [Warrior], let alone a soldier of Reim, can do. Would you have time for…?”
Her eyes brightened, and she nodded. Within moments, they were being directed to a private fencing arena by some of the Mentorship who just happened to be around to pop out and give directions.
By the time the Horns, and Trey, came looking for Pisces for dinner, they found the two talking and laughing in one of the magically cooled rooms, discussing sword-forms and fighting alone versus in battles. Colth was all set to go in there and make Teres’ life a misery—as was Trey—but Yvlon glanced at the two of them and dragged Colth and Trey back. And since it was her, they all had a good chance to listen in on their conversation as Colth and Trey flailed and slowly turned red, then purple from lack of oxygen.
“I know you must think I’m—forward. Or that I get around a lot. I’ve just been in warcamps before a battle, and it’s what happens. Life’s short.”
“I’d never hold that against you. I am indeed an adventurer, and I was a [Necromancer] in a country that burned them.”
They were standing together, leaning on an open balcony as they spoke, watching the setting sun. The Heromakers of Hraace were staring at a glowing automaton made of light that the two had been using as well. Delitandra was writing a note to the Pedagogia.
That part of the training room had been broken centuries ago. How had they…?
“I just don’t believe it was entirely, ah, altruistic. Did my team put you up to this? Colth?”
Teresa glanced at Pisces, and he didn’t realize why she laughed so hard at that.
“What? No! I wouldn’t take anyone telling me what to do. Flos would never—and could never order that. Let alone anyone else.”
“So it was just because I am attractive?”
He gave her a sidelong look full of skepticism, utterly blind to anything inwards. Teresa rolled her eyes, then leaned over.
“No. Okay, you want full honesty? Part of it was your looks, which you shouldn’t downplay. Part of it was because you’re an adventurer and a [Necromancer] and I thought that might be fun…”
“F-fun? Howso in the terms of my class…?”
“I don’t know. You get surprised. But mostly? I thought it might help, a bit.”
Teresa pulled a face at Pisces’ blank look.
“Everyone gets hurt in war. Sometimes, it’s just a night. Sometimes…I’m not a [Healer]. But it’s nice to want to feel…useful? That’s a bad word. To be—”
She stared out the window.
“Needed. To feel like I helped someone beyond swinging a sword. That’s what I’m good at. But you—”
The [Blade of War] turned, hesitated, and then blushed fiercely red.
“I don’t have any Skills, if that’s what you were thinking.”
“No, pardon the thought! Er—it’s getting late, isn’t it?”
“Oh yeah, I’m starving. Let’s go find the others, shall we?”
They stepped back from the balcony, and for a moment, Pisces glanced at Teresa, and she met his eyes. The moment lingered…right up until Colth strode into the practice court.
“Pisces! Teresa! Dinnertime!”
He beamed at them and dragged the two to dinner, and that was the end of it. The issue didn’t come up again, no one brought it up, and it didn’t matter. As Yvlon remarked to Ceria—
“Sounds like Colth could have let her be and she would have handled it just fine. Pisces too.”
Ceria smacked a fist into her hand.
“Yeah. And it sounds like we should have a sparring session with Colth after this. With my boot and your fist. He can choose what kind of spar either way.”
Yvlon thought about that. Colth shivered and glanced over his shoulder as the two Horns of Hammerad nodded at each other. He gave them a worried smile. They watched Pisces smiling.
Thus began their time in Hraace.
