On the second day of their travel to Hraace, Elena Othonos sat down with Yvlon Byres and asked a question as Pisces, Ceria, and Archmage Amerys squatted around the wreck of a magical carriage.
“So, Miss Yvlon. Or should I call you Adventurer Yvlon or something? I realize this is sort of forwards, but if we’re going to be travelling together, I should ask. Do I have a budget?”
The Silver Killer was chewing on the portable flatbread sandwiches filled with meat and Yellats favored by the King of Destruction’s soldiers on campaign. She wasn’t taking part in the deconstruction of the magical carriage—she had no magical background.
Thusly, she had nothing to do but heal from the beating she’d received from Mars and feel vaguely useless while travelling. It took her a second to process what Elena had said. Then Yvlon turned.
“Excuse me, Miss Elena? Yvlon is fine…a budget for what?”
“Cosmetics.”
When the reply elicited no response from Yvlon’s face, Elena clarified.
“The Quarass gave me a lot of tips and unguents and even powders and knowledge on how to make more at any decent [Alchemist]’s shop, but she refused to let me have anything unless I signed up to work for her. I had some from Wistram and even before that, but I figured a monthly budget would let me restock. Mostly, it’s basic cosmetics, but I can definitely do anything you want with your hair. Dyeing your hair—frosting, balayage, and so on—I can even do disguises.”
“For me?”
“For the team.”
The Silver Killer still didn’t quite get it, so Elena scooted forwards as Teresa wandered around the camp, brushing her teeth. The [Blade of War] clearly caught the next words.
“Because I’m following your team. If you have anything else for me to do that’s not fighting, let me know and I can try. I have some experience in the…servant industry.”
For some reason, that made Elena hesitate, but Yvlon didn’t pick up on it right away.
“Wait. We convinced the King of Destruction to let you go. You’re free, after Hraace.”
“Right! You got me out of there when no one else could. So…I want to follow your team around.”
“Why?”
“Because you’re my best chance to get back to Terandria in one piece? And I like your team. Plus, I feel like I’ll level in your company, and I want to level.”
They were three good reasons for Elena. Three somewhat mystifying reasons as they pertained to the Horns. Yvlon made a sound like a chuckle.
“With respect, Elena, the Horns of Hammerad do not lead safe lives. Anyone following us is likely to get hurt or die.”
“As opposed to following Flos? Or Trey?”
Teresa smirked at that last one, but Yvlon was glancing at her team. No one was here to bail her out; Pisces and Ceria were both learning from and talking to Amerys, and Colth was preventing a fight. The two began to argue, politely, which it had to be said was Yvlon’s weakpoint, but both Elena and Yvlon were distracted by the mage’s conversation happening in front of them. Or perhaps argument was a better description.
 
——
 
“No, you two are amateurs. Shaping the mana into the wheel isn’t hard. See? It’s like this. You make it—delicately—and then fire spell circuits through the mana. It’s simple, ingenious—if I’d known you could harden mana…”
Amerys had a glob of free-floating mana, a lot of magical power, but something any Archmage could generate. Even as Yvlon and Elena watched, she disengaged a green blob of her magic, and the glowing, semi-transparent magic froze.
Turning from radiant and transparent to an opaque substance, rather like a frozen cloud. It fell, and Amerys caught it; it was clearly not heavy, but was strong enough. She threw it at Pisces’ head.
He was somewhat cowed, but he shot back.
“I realize that’s how this carriage was made, Archmage, but my studies would indicate that this is improbably wasteful. You are casting a series of extremely high-level spells and one…small variator.”
“Ceria, you said your teammate was elucidative. These are not magical terms. We’re almost finished reverse-engineering the carriage. If he’s wasting my time, I’ll zap him.”
Amerys was not a…team player, which explained her isolation at Wistram. Pisces shuffled behind Ceria instantly, and Ceria clarified with a crooked smile, adjusting her circlet.
“I said he was like an annoying dictionary. Pisces, you’re not making sense.”
They ganged up on Pisces, but Colth intervened with a smooth smile—and a cup of tea.
“Lady Mages, what I think Pisces is trying to say is that we have an avenue to explore here. Pisces, one second? Why don’t you have a cup of tea? And I’ve grilled a hot sandwich for the both of you.”
He presented a significantly nicer-looking sandwich than what anyone else was having, steaming and filled with the best cuts of meat and vegetables, such that all the Earthers and even Gazi stared accusatorially at the [Soldier] passing out camp supplies. But Colth had just taken the food he’d been given, and tea he’d again squirreled away, and added spices he’d gotten from somewhere with a [Chef]’s Skills such that Ceria and Amerys instantly began eating.
“Very well. This is better than the fare I normally get in the mornings. Do you do eggs?”
“Poached, Archmage?”
“Hm. Two, with pepper.”
“Me too!”
Colth hurried a campfire over and produced a bit of vinegar, tossing it into a pot he held over the fire as Pisces retreated from the other [Mages]. It was fascinating to watch. Yvlon had completely forgotten Colth’s abilities. He was an adaptive fighter, of course, an expert planner and intelligent. But his best role was, well…
Keeping the [Mages] focused, on-task, and even bridging communication gaps. A happier Ceria and Amerys had just finished their breakfast when Colth slid back over with a smile that managed to be helpful and not greasy or timid or unctuous.
“Point of clarification, everyone. Pisces doesn’t have the terminology to use because he’s self-teaching himself from an, ah, interesting spellbook. Ceria, you know the one. What we’re looking at isn’t [Alter Spell] or any variation of magical infusion theory, Archmage. He’s actually going closer to the root of spellcasting. Freeform magic.”
Ceria’s eyes narrowed, and Amerys sat up fast.
“Why didn’t you say that? What spellbook?”
Pisces blustered a bit, but with Colth’s help and perhaps a Skill, he explained in a way even Elena and Yvlon got.
“It’s all theoretical, but my studies are…well, I cannot do as much as I would like, but it seems to me, Archmage, that spells fall into two camps. You can alter lightning to make it burn or acidify it or anything you please.”
“Of course. I have a Skill. [Metamagic: Elemental Variation]. I can also make lightning small, big, invisible, anything so long as I have magic for it. Two camps is reductive for the vast variation of magic that can exist. I thought you met Valeterisa.”
“Ah, but that’s within the purview of the spell, Archmage. My book doesn’t teach any spell with…well, an established name. You know [Light Arrow]? I can cast an arrow of light, but it’s not…[Light Arrow].”
Pisces was trying to explain the invisible container in the air that defined [Mage] as opposed to mage. You could hear the difference, and Amerys frowned.
“Freeform casting. So? It’s a useful way to surprise a foe, but most of the time, a fixed spell can be altered just as well and is far less mana-intensive. And often more powerful. Many Skills fail to work on freeform casting.”
The [Necromancer] sniffed, saw Amerys’ eyes focus on his nose, and swiftly stopped doing that.
“Yes, Archmage, but it seems to me that all the adaptability of fixed spells is something of a myth. You can change your lightning in so many ways, but there is a world of variation within freeform casting that you neglect. Similarly…this carriage.”
Being told she was an unadaptive lightning mage was not how you impressed Amerys. She was crackling a bit, her hair standing up, but Pisces hurried over to the carriage.
“You clearly produced a huge amount of mana, solidified it, and then were going to attempt to insert the mana circuits through the resulting mixture. Correct?”
“Yes. Solidified mana cannot be shaped after it’s been ‘frozen’. It merely breaks without any ductility, like metal. I wonder if you could recycle it, but that’s the tradeoff for a light, strong, mana-heavy material.”
Amerys kicked at the wheel they’d taken off the wagon, and it splintered, proof that it would dissipate once broken. Pisces nodded.
“In this process, how many spells were fixed, Archmage? Please, humor me.”
Colth had the poached eggs already, and Amerys humored Pisces as the [Supporter] produced a cushion for her to sit on. She cooled off slightly.
“If I made the process standard for His Majesty’s armies? [Form Mana Orb], [Magical Anchoring] on some area to keep enough of it present while I generated enough…infusing spell circuits might be a Skill. I’d use [Randimen’s Tracer], probably, or even [Valeterisa’s Overly Complicated Light Rays] with a small variator to burn the circuits in. Anchoring enough magic gems in the carriage might require boring holes to fill them up, but you could hire someone to do it manually and seal the gaps. Or shoot the crystal through, or even dust to make sure you had a good network. A basic compressed air spell like [Air Jet] combined with [Pinpoint Spell: Needle’s Precision].”
She spoke so knowledgeably and quickly that it was clear she could do all the magic off the top of her head. An Archmage’s competency. Yvlon doubted Ceria or Pisces could do the same even if they put their minds together.
It was intelligent, fitting of Wistram’s Archmage, and yet—Pisces’ eyes gleamed.
“So you’ve recreated the Wistram Carriage in its entirety, Archmage. But I would like to posit that you used one moment of freeform casting.”
“Did I? Ah, ‘hardening’ the mana. That’s not something that occurred to me, but when I studied the carriage, I realized it could be done. That’s the real boon of this carriage, as well as the command spells animating it, I suppose.”
Amerys was getting annoyed again at this interrogation, but Pisces tapped his fingers together.
“A logical conclusion, Archmage. But it’s my belief that this entire exercise, which you’ve solved so quickly, is a trap. This carriage may be reproducible by your methods, but let me ask a final question—how many [Mages] would be required to make a carriage like this?”
The Archmage was fully piqued by this point, but Colth distracted her by asking if she cared for anything else to complement her morning, so she snapped back.
“Give a Mage’s Guild a month and they can pump one of these carriages out. So four to ten [Mages] who collect the mana and craftsmen to do the work they can’t since most aren’t [Enchanters]. I suppose one half-decent [Enchanter], so that puts out seventy percent of the Mage’s Guilds in the world. His Majesty can have a dozen within two months if he pulls Parasol Stroll and some decent [Mages] for the job.”
Pisces nodded as Yvlon thought it was an expensive proposition, if completely fair for magical carriages nearly as good as Magnolia’s. But then he brought something up.
“Then, Archmage, how were three carriages—and I am given to understand there are dozens upon dozens more—already moving around Chandrar? They came out last month.”
The question stumped Amerys, but Ceria’s eyes gleamed as she adjusted her circlet.
“Oho. You just scored a point, Pisces.”
“…Wistram produced them, obviously. They came from the north, so they had Medain’s Mage’s Guilds lend mana and imported the rest from a ship.”
“With the seas so badly in turmoil, Archmage Amerys? How many carriages could Wistram produce?”
“Hundreds with its damn apprentices!”
“So it was purely making carriages? The very hard-working [Mages] of Wistram we all know and love? And they transported them here? And took the time to infuse each carriage with working spell circuits?”
Amerys’ eyes flickered. Suddenly, she swooped back over to the carriage and inspected it. She was counting.
“I’ve seen…at least two dozen on a given day, not the same ones. They wouldn’t roll them out in Chandrar alone unless we were a testbed, and I know they’re in other continents. A hundred is a low estimate. A hundred in a month…this Archmage wouldn’t make them himself. You’re correct. This is impossible given the methods I outlined.”
She flickered. Electricity trailed, and then her finger was jabbing Pisces in the chest. He recoiled, but Amerys spoke.
“Explain your theory. Freeform casting?”
“I think it’s a trap.”
Ceria instantly leapt away from the wheel, but Pisces clarified.
“A trap of magical theory, Archmage. Your method works. Wistram didn’t exactly try to hide the manufacture of the carriages, did they?”
“It would have been difficult and costly and ultimately pointless. So they let me and any other [Mage] intercept these…but the method I’m obtaining is wrong.”
Amerys was now on the same page, and her eyes flickered back to the carriage.
“But I can’t think to…I can streamline each spell, but there’s no obvious way this improves. You generate mana, and you solidify it. Based on my spellcasting theory…”
And there it was. Pisces’ eyes gleamed.
“Unless the Archmage of Memory knows a better method. Or, I suggest, he’s using fixed spells we don’t have. Are magical carriages a pure block of mana or is it, in fact, a far more complex design?”
“It’s not pure mana. There’s a lot of air in it. Your chunk of mana’s all solid, Amerys. Weighs the same, but that’s interesting.”
Ceria was squatting next to the sample Amerys had made, and the Archmage flickered over to her.
“So even if I put all of Reim behind making carriages, we’d fall behind Wistram in a heartbeat if they’re using methods we don’t have. There’s no guarantee the spell circuits would be written that easily, either. I just assumed if they had so many working carriages…how many spells ahead is Archmage Eldavin?”
“He’s ahead on pure theory, Archmage. I think he can freeform cast any spell he wants. As I said, [Light Arrow] is so convenient and conventional, but light arrow itself…”
Suddenly, all three [Mages] were back to the drawing board. Amerys tossed the piece of solidified mana she’d made into the air with a flick of her finger and blew it out of the sky with a lightning bolt, disgusted. She turned to Pisces, who flinched, and her tone was flat—but she was nodding.
