It was hot in Hraace, even in the evening, but Pisces saw lines of people on the beaches hauling in nets from boats; the day’s catches.
Hraace would have a very fish-focused diet, then. Pisces wasn’t exactly happy about that after a month at sea. But the fish were colorful, bright red and blue, in the dappled emerald bays, and more importantly, Pisces saw the first animal unique to Hraace as the carriages slowed upon the beach and everyone clambered out.
“What is that?”
It looked like a…giant, blonde…well, Pisces had no word for it. It was long, wide in the middle and narrow at the ends, and curved upwards as he watched. No dog, no cat or other animal. Trey took one look and laughed.
“Sea lions!”
The Earthers pointed and laughed at the blonde, beige, and similarly-colored sea lions lounging on the beach. They were big, Pisces realized, maybe not Human-sized, but large enough. These ones had brilliant coats and oddly chubby faces, but they seemed to pose in the sunlight. Gazi, with a wry smile, shook her head.
“Idolions.”
Her main eye was fixed on something else in the distance, and she spoke to the group.
“Ah, the Mentorship is busy or we would have been welcomed. The Pedagogia is just up the stairs in the courtyard there. We have a moment to see.”
The fishers were bringing in the harvests as the Idolions watched. The animals were rather impressive with their splendid coats; Pisces saw one grooming itself, obsessively maintaining its glossy sheen. He found them a bit pretentious, which made Ceria’s next comment hurt.
“They look like you when you’re trying to be important, Pisces. See how they turn their noses up, Yvlon?”
The [Armsmistress] nodded.
“Do they hunt?”
“Not Idolions in Hraace.”
Gazi informed them. Sure enough—Pisces saw sweating, swearing men and women, mostly Humans, wrestling nets of fish onto the beach. They’d pull the fish out, sort them, toss some back into the waves, and then throw the Idolions one from every catch.
The lazy creatures just leapt up or did big jumps to catch the fish, then lay back down to sunbathe! The name became clear at once. Pisces stared at the Idolions, rather mystified why anyone let the wastes of blubber exist until there was a shout from down the beach.
“Crab! Sword Crab!”
“Oh dead gods.”
Teresa’s head snapped around, and she started running as Ceria groaned. The half-Elf tugged out a wand, and Pisces swore as he drew his rapier. Of all the times—!
Coasts had monsters, and Pisces had a new sympathy for anyone who fought Sword Crabs. One was scuttling out of the waves, clearly intent on reaping the harvest of fish and people for itself.
“Teres, get back! Minizi, you too!”
Trey was shouting in alarm as he fired [Bloodglass Arrows] at the distant Sword Crab. His aim was bad; people were running, and Ceria raised her wand, looking at Pisces. But she was also glancing at Gazi.
The Named-rank hadn’t moved. So the Horns hesitated—and the charging Teres never got a chance to engage the Sword Crab. There was an oun-oun-oun sound, and then no less than fourteen Idolions leapt off the beach, surging through the water at the Sword Crab.
The hungry crab saw a wave of Idolions swimming around it and stopped snapping at the nearest [Fishers]. It lashed out with that precise, dangerous slash Pisces had personally felt and cut an Idolion. But shallowly; the Idolion barked as it twisted away, the blubber saving it, and another flipped out of the water.
It smacked the Sword Crab in the eye-stalks with all its weight, and the crab recoiled. It went to snap the Idolion in half, but three more hammered it with their significant weight, crashing down out of the waves with that oun! sound. The Sword Crab whirled, snapping, but began staggering as the angry sea lions slammed into it from all sides.
It looked ridiculous until Pisces guessed each one had to weigh a thousand, maybe two thousand pounds as adults. And more and more were coming, until the Sword Crab realized it was going to be slammed into pieces if it didn’t retreat. It backed up, waving its claws, and the Idolions honked at the Sword Crab as it retreated into the waves.
Then they flopped back onto the beach, where the cheering Hraacians raced back to grab their nets—and feed their lazy protectors treats. The wounded one itself posed in the center, being given the most fish, and Pisces scratched his head.
He saw Teres halt on the beach, sword raised aimlessly as she stared at the defeated monster. Ceria whistled.
“Nice. So the Idolions protect the beach, and they get a cut of the fishing. No wonder Hraace looks nice.”
“They also save people from drowning or alert them when someone’s collapsed from sunstroke. They saved me when I first came here as a [Slave].”
Everyone looked at Gazi. Her orange-brown skin flushed.
“I couldn’t swim.”
Everyone watched the fishers continue their work, and Pisces frowned as he saw the biggest, fattest fish not going into the nets, but being tossed into the waves.
“Why do they do that? Toss the big fish?”
“Those are the pregnant ones, or the best catch. Overfish them and they’ll have fewer next year, and the next. They could fish three times as much, but they’d starve in a generation.”
One of Reim’s weary [Riders], who might have also been Hraacian or knew the culture, informed Pisces. The [Necromancer]’s brows rose.
“Forward-thinking of them.”
He couldn’t imagine many Drakes doing that. The Chandrarian Stitch-man raised a cloth helmet and grinned at Pisces.
“They’ve starved before, Adventurer. Before His Majesty broke Terandria’s back out here, they were tithing half their catches to that damned continent. Hraace is no mighty nation of warriors or agriculture. But it is respected and given access to any Chandrarian nation. Once, any continent welcomed them.”
“I’ve barely heard of them.”
Pisces admitted to the man, and the [Soldier] spat, earning him a disapproving glance from a Hraacian.
“Name me six Chandrarian nations famed as much as Terandria’s. When Chandrar is poor, Hraace is poor. Rich when rich. Just remember that when the King of Destruction was at his mightiest, we settled our debts to Terandria, Izril, and every other fairweather foe.”
“Noted, sir.”
Pisces nodded slowly. The [Soldier] bowed, then accepted the mop a Hraacian handed him pointedly and scrubbed at his own phlegm. In the distance, there was a commotion. Pisces saw a large fountain, a gathered crowd, and the now-familiar feel of [Scrying] spells. It looked like an amphitheater. A play of some kind?
Everyone was heading that way, and Pisces trooped after his team. He paused as another local animal native to Hraace passed by. He looked around, then bent to try and pet the cat. It was tawny, small, and blinked at him with two eyes screwed up as it waggled ragged ears and a pink nose.
The third eye in the center of its head opened and glowed. Pisces stared at the three-eyed Cat of Prophecy, and it leapt away, after the fish on the beach.
Hraace. Interesting start. The Pedagogia and the Mentorship—more interesting still.
 
——
 
Hraace reminded Elena Othonos a lot of her home nation.
Greece. And it wasn’t just the climate, nor even the proximity to water or similarities in building design; all these things made sense to her as a natural kind of geological happenstance. Nor did she mean the Greece of now, but the image that popped into a lot of people’s heads, the history that had never been quite as people imagined it, the Greece in popular cultural stories.
It felt a bit—mythological. Elena had travelled to a number of places now.
Noelictus, which was a gothic horror story with surprisingly warm people. Horrific undead and valiant, brave [Hunters] fighting in the darkness.
Wistram, the Academy of Mages, full of intelligence, if not wisdom, a resplendent magical shadow that could be better than it was and yet breathed magic and wealth.
Then Reim, which seemed to live for war and bloody battles, where great deeds and powerful people sat side-by-side with equally manifest injustice.
Beautiful, terrible, each one unto a story themselves, with delights for Elena’s eyes, but regrets she had not conceived of until she went there and saw how they could be so bitter in reality.
—Not vacation spots. Not one of your classic fantasies or even gentle in how they showed her their majesties. Hraace, now.
Hraace was beautiful and simply magical in the fish. Elena ate fish. She had never seen a resplendently red, vaguely carp-looking fish held aloft in a young boy’s hand, so mouthwateringly good-looking that she would have paid for a bite there and then. And the greenwater bay was as fine as the best tourist spot in her country.
And the cute cats! They all had three eyes, though kept their third eye in the center of their head closed, mostly. They’d open them rarely, often to illuminate nooks and crannies or, once, to flash a warning at someone about to step on them.
The point was that Hraace seemed like a place Elena would like to actually be—and it almost occurred to her that she could live somewhere like here, Germina, or even Khelt and not fear for her future.
—But the Horns of Hammerad called to her. They had the same air of Cara, Eldavin, and yes, Flos and the Quarass. People who would make important things happen. The difference was that Elena liked them, so she instantly cozied up to the Horn most crucial for her success.
“Adventurer Colth! Is it Colthei? Can I do anything for the Horns right now, or—what should I be doing?”
The green-haired man glanced around as Elena hurried over, whispering. Gazi was patiently herding the excited Earthers over to the amphitheater where everything was happening. Colth hesitated, then put on that fake smile. Elena wasn’t fooled.
If he didn’t like her, she was probably gone no matter what Ceria or Yvlon said. Colth was like one of her old bosses at a hair salon: good at his job, on top of you if you made a mistake, and able to ruin your day or life. You wanted him on your side or you got Teresa’s treatment.
Her approach worked. He looked her up and down, then took her aside.
“Elena, right? You might keep up. In moments like these, the Horns tend to blunder around. I’m often with them; you’re the kind of girl who can find the pulse of a city, right? It’s always important to know what’s going on. Big events first, scandals, who’s in trouble, and any Named-ranks or important people in the city. Then find out the details. Report to me.”
“If I get lost…?”
Colth made a show of flicking a speaking stone up.
“I make them myself. I can locate you as well. We’ll work on a few more backups. Do you have a knife?”
“Um. No.”
He handed her one. Elena took that more gingerly.
“Wouldn’t I just turn over my wallet, I mean, my money pouch if someone mugs me?”
“Oh, certainly. This one’s for monsters. They pop out of sewers sometimes. Or if you get assaulted, we’ll come running, but you don’t show them this. Wait till they’re distracted and try to shove it through their throat or ear. But watch out for groups.”
—Yep, Colth was the scariest member of the Horns. Yvlon was a softie. Colth gestured, and Elena moved away from the Horns, trying not to wonder if she was getting into things too fast. Then again, compared to how she’d first entered this world, running into the magic of Belavierr the Stitch Witch…
She’d been a prisoner in her own body for months, a screaming puppet until Cara found her.
Yeah.
This was easy.
As it so happened, the Horns and Elena and everyone else were merely observers of Hraace and the event going on in a very interesting amphitheater. Seated people were watching a group declaiming from the center. Elena saw two rows of rather well put-together men and women standing to the side of a single, grandmotherly woman.
A note here for Elena—they were all attractive. Not just your natural beauty, but makeup and hair on point. Beauty wasn’t something that faded with age; it just transformed, even if most people were shallow and thought you were hot then not after 40 years old.
Take the woman in the center dressed in a purple sash that left one shoulder bare, bronze skin shining in the evening light as she raised one hand upwards to project her voice. You’d think she was just some important person giving a speech, but here was what Elena noticed:
 
-She wasn’t using a speaking stone. This wasn’t a [Loud Voice] Skill. She was projecting, pure lungs and intonation.
-Her skin was smooth despite her age of, what, sixty-some years? Her hair was faded white, but she was in excellent condition. Did she have suntan oil on? Looked like it.
-Every person in the choir behind her—or whatever it was—was in fantastic shape. Late thirties or early forties at most; most were young and didn’t stand like lumps, but posed. Pensively, standing on their toes, to suggest rapt attention and focus the mood on the speaker.
-All of them had noticed the Horns and Gazi the moment they appeared at the top of the amphitheater, but were pretending they hadn’t seen as they continued speaking.
-A scrying orb with a yawning [Mage] of Wistram was here. The crowd seemed a bit bored, as if they’d heard this before, but the Hraacians, the Mentorship, were doing their best. Was this being broadcast?
 
She whispered some of this to Colth, to prove she was smart enough, and got a chuckle of approval from the speaking stone.
“I got that, but good job.”
Yep, he didn’t need her to state the obvious. Elena listened—and the nature of Hraace was immediately evident to her. She blinked, then laughed in the crowd despite herself as the Pedagogia of Hraace, their leader, Araxia, spoke. Oh, really? This was Hraace?
Okay.
 
——
 
When she spoke, she sounded like she was speaking to her audience. The Pedagogia Araxia took a bow and then began; the Horns had arrived just in time.
 
“We are the Mentors of Hraace!
Patrons of the arts, and mentors of heroes.”
 
A stir went through the crowd of Hraacians. This wasn’t news to them, but they nodded with evident pride. The Wistram [Mage] blinked, scratching at a scab on her neck, but a susurration, no, voices ran through the crowd.
They were coming from the group behind the Pedagogia. The men and women murmured, loud enough to be heard in the amphitheater due to the acoustics, but they were also pitching their voices.
At first, it sounded like they were whispering too loudly, but it became obvious this was like sidebar commentary.
 
“Real [Heroes], darlings. Not like Doubte.”
“Oh no, not like Doubte. That wasn’t us.”
“Wasn’t our fault.”
“No one asked us, poor man.”
 
