The Pedagogia shushed her followers theatrically and turned a smile back to the scrying orb, which she was emoting for. That was how the play, no, performance went. The background speakers would chime in anecdotes and provide props or staging—an earlier form of a play.
 
“That’s a story for another time.
But perhaps you’ve heard of the King of Reim?
Mars the Illusionist? Queravia the Gambler of Fates?”
 
One of the young women with frizzy, black hair whirled out of the crowd, twirled—and a passing imitation of Mars appeared. A woman in armor with flowing red hair blowing behind her.
Another stepped forwards, unsheathed a sword, and planted it at his feet, imitating Flos. A third flipped a coin up and whirled—
A Stitch-woman with dark-brown skin, piercing yellow eyes, and a smile half-hidden by an opera mask caught the shining coin. The performer captured something in that smile, wild chance and daring, the willingness to bet thousands of lives on a single coin toss.
Queravia, the Gambler of Fates.
Then they stepped back, flourishing as they shed their disguises. The rest loudly tittered and commented.
 
“That was us. We taught all three, you know.”
“When Hraace finds you, Chandrar is never the same.”
“—And none of those were even [Heroes].”
 
Araxia slashed a hand.
 
“We were there when the King of Destruction rose.
Forty years ago, the era was ready to change.
Chandrar was reeling, bleeding, pleading—
The injustice had half the continent seething!”
 
“If they dared to say a thing, of course.”
 
“Terandrians had the coast from Hraace to Laineq
Colonies of Humans on the east, Lizards to the west—
Shield Kingdom Ainmel died a pitiful death
And all nations wondered, who’s next? Who’s next?”
 
You’d think they’d do some pantomime here, but they just produced a map of Chandrar on a wheeled platform and began pointing out nations. Murmurs in the crowd; the Wistram [Mage] frowned as if trying to remember the nations that one of the Mentorship began crossing out.
In the crowd, Pisces winced. It felt like ancient history to him, but he saw half a dozen nations vanishing. He did know of the Shield Kingdom Ainmel dissolving. Chandrar had manifestly not been doing well. Until—
 
“Then came a boy from Reim.
Just a little kid, a thirteen-year-old sprout—”
 
The frizzy-haired young woman cupped her mouth and called out to the crowd with a laugh.
 
“Handsome as could be, even then.
Ladies, if you think he passes all the scores now? Whoo.
You should have seen him in his youth.”
 
The Pedagogia shot her an annoyed look, as if this part weren’t in the script. Or it could have been acted out.
 
“The boy won a war with his people in mind
Not a lot of sense but a whole desert of pride
I heard him cry, I heard him ask
Where’s the justice? Why do people sigh?
Then I knew we had a hero in time
A man who could unite Chandrar—
That boy from Reim.”
 
Her eyes twinkled as she drew a clearly ornamental bronze sword from her side.
 
“He could barely swing a sword, all bravery and not a lot of sense.
Whether or not you think he went too far—
He cleared Chandrar of its rot.
But who do you think taught him to hold that sword?”
 
The rest of the Mentorship called out.
 
“He did do that.”
“The Black Judgement. The Chorded Empire.”
“If it was before your time, children. That’s good.”
“That’s just fine. Some people deserve death.”
“That’s our King of Reim.”
 
Pisces, sitting in the audience, was thoroughly entertained, mostly by the style of this quasi-play. He was, of course, a student of history, so this was eminently interesting to him, even if he regarded the entire retelling as somewhat false.
Bold claim to take credit for the King of Destruction’s rise in no uncertain terms. He saw Ceria snorting and eating some roasted fish she’d somehow already bought. Yvlon was doing that polite smile that said she wasn’t sure how entertained she was, and the Earthers were fidgeting.
Not all of the crowd was thoroughly entertained, whether by a lack of entertainment in the performance—which Pisces thought was good—or because they’d heard it before. The Hraacian crowd was clearly watching the scrying orb, and some were staring at hand-mirrors.
This had to be being broadcast, but if the dissatisfied scowl from the Wistram [Mage] and a few of the Hraacians was a judge, it wasn’t getting the airtime anyone wanted.
However, then the Pedagogia swung the sword, and Pisces blinked. She whirled it around in one hand, performing a three-hundred-and-sixty degree spin without it coming out of her hand, three times, thrusting it into the air, spinning the blade, reversing the grip and slashing in economical, yet showy swordswomanship behind her. She planted the sword in the ground with a single thrust, and Pisces almost applauded that alone.
Earthers, Horns, and even the Wistram [Mage] sat up a bit. Gazi didn’t blink; she had that faint smile on her face as she watched the Pedagogia. No surprise.
That wasn’t fake swordplay. Nor was it a Skill! Seeing an old woman do that with a blade made Pisces take the rest of the performance more seriously.
—Unfortunately, at this point, a mistake was made, and it was as a series of actors, arrayed in costumes of soldiers, dignitaries, an imperious [King] with robes, all strode forwards to the side of the amphitheater, and Pisces realized this wasn’t the performance…this was the beginning. The Pedagogia swept out a hand with a huge smile as two shimmering curtains appeared behind her.
Illusion spells.
 
“It’s a long tale, but hear us out—
It’s a true story with a lot of heart
It’s got a sad ending but hear us out
You have to know how we got to this part.”
 
Then—they began a play of the King of Destruction’s rise to power, a three-act structure with intermissions, actual swordplay on stage, and all Seven of the King of Destruction’s vassals and their histories told in brevity as the young boy of Reim rose to power, aged and conquered, then fell into despair as his beloved [Strategist] died and his dreams became too weighty.
It was a two-and-a-half hour play. Pisces sat, rising to applaud at the end with an empty basket of popcorn at his feet. A hundred other Hraacians applauded as well, and the Pedagogia came out, bowed, then scowled at the dead scrying orb and the snoozing Wistram [Mage].
“That was entirely splendid. I can see why we came. Hraace is a cultural touchstone that the King of Destruction has indeed lost from his courts, and if they really are capable of training fine legends, we had doubtless avail ourselves of their services.”
Pisces turned to his team…and saw Maximillian sitting with rapt attention in his seat. He saw no one else. No Trey, no Gazi, no Teres, no Ceria, Yvlon, Elena, Colth…
Pisces folded his arms, glowering. Some people had no taste.
 
——
 
The Mentorship of Hraace had a problem, and Elena realized it as soon as she ‘got’ their schtick. They were performers, good ones. They had stagecraft, presence, and it seemed at least some actual abilities with swords and whatnot.
—But they were old-fashioned, out of date in this modern day and age. They were trying to adapt to the scrying orb, to television, and it wasn’t working.
Oh, the performing was good. The play wasn’t. Someone had clearly seen the Players of Celum, tried to copy them, and had written a passingly good screenplay—the props were on point—but the amphitheater wasn’t the right venue. The Hraacians had viewed this performance too many times to be into it and give the energy the play needed, and the Wistram [Mage] wasn’t tracking the performance or doing camera-work.
Moreover, if Elena could offer some notes—the Mentorship’s style was old-fashioned. For instance, when the King of Hellios, the late King Treland, was facing down the young King Flos, there was this exchange.
 
“Yield the northern cities of Caskel, Noith, Lagret to me and I will not cut down another harvest of your citizens, boy.”
To which the boy raised his chin and responded—
“I do not desire any harvest, Treland. But take your armies into my land and I will have your head!”
 
To which the entire cast of the Hellios court was set ablaze with gasps and cries, and King Treland turned his head incredulously. Then, the cast of the Mentorship called out into the crowd.
 
“What was that? What did he say?”
“He’ll have his head? Did I hear him right?”
 
They were trying to get the audience to gasp and play into the moment and shout back. Two problems. One, the crowd wasn’t that into it. They were watching the scrying orb and probably counting how many people were tuning into the broadcast—not many, if the emptying seats were any indication.
Second—it didn’t work. The scrying orb wasn’t showing the audience, so this crowd-engagement only worked in person, and all the energy of the performances fell flat when you translated it into, well, television.
Elena was a bit familiar with this from Cara’s rants about the stage, which Elena wasn’t that big a fan of. Famous musicals and performances that hit Broadway or other stages fell flat when brought to the silver screen because the way you performed for a camera was completely different than for the stage. Maybe not vastly, visibly different, but it made an effect.
“They’re doing call-and-response. This is so bad.”
She covered her face, trying not to laugh at the genuinely hard work on display, but it was terrible. The Pedagogia and her people were among the amphitheater, calling out and trying to get the audience riled up.
One of them actually heard Elena as Gazi jerked a thumb and Trey and Teres got up to go. The frizzy-haired one, who looked to be twenty-seven, turned, and Elena tried to look innocent. But the member of the Pedagogia’s court, or her acolyte or whatever she was, took a swift look around for Araxia herself, then leaned over and whispered—really whispered, not stage-whispered—at Elena.
“It is bad. This isn’t making the top of any television network. You can leave if you want. It doesn’t get better. Stick around for the end of the Black Judgement if you want. There’s a good fight scene, but the rest is just politics.”
Elena gave the woman a relieved smile.
“Thanks! Sorry! It is good, just not—”
“It’s a stupid waste of time. We practiced for two months and booked Wistram, and look at how many people we’re impressing. A hundred worldwide? You’re the people we should have been seeking out, and His Majesty of Destruction. Hopefully, the Pedagogia sees that.”
The young woman brushed at her hair, then began cheering as the young King Flos parried King Treland’s sword and the two were dragged back. She broke off the loud applause and whistling to whisper to Elena.
“See you later, Elena Othonos.”
Elena jumped. She saw the young woman wink and realized they knew exactly who she was, despite not sitting with the Horns.
“Um—thanks? Who are you?”
“Delitandra of the Mentorship of Hraace! Trainer of [Heroes]. Or so I hope.”
Her eyes flickered across the Horns of Hammerad, Gazi, Trey, Teres, and back to Elena. She smiled, and Elena took a breath.
Okay. Interesting.
Here came the flaws and infighting Colth had wanted her to find out. Gorgeous, cultural coastal paradise it might be, but Hraace had a problem.
 
——
 
Gazi Pathfinder didn’t stay for the play, which recounted the events she had lived through. She surveyed the land of Hraace and found it not wanting, but certainly not impressive.
“Gazi? Was the play inaccurate, or were you just bored?”
“It was hardly Hraace’s best moment. They are not playwrights. They are performative, not performers. It seems the Pedagogia is at least aware Hraace’s reputation is failing. Which is well; she may be more inclined to heed His Majesty’s will.”
And train us like they trained him. Trey kicked along the beach as Minizi ran about, searching for foes to attack with her mithril sword. Gazi never really knew what to make of Minizi. Trey had said he just made her as a project, but he hadn’t decommissioned the Golem.
Also, the rest of the Seven seemed to like Minizi more than Gazi. She had been described as ‘cute’ by even Takhatres. Gazi stuck out her foot, and the Lifesand Golem plunged into a wave. Trey bit his lip.
“Er…so this is Hraace.”
“What do you think?”
“It’s nice?”
A bland answer. Teres stomped up behind them and folded her arms.
“It’s weak. Venith could conquer this place with a single battalion.”
Trey rolled his eyes at Teres, and Minizi came charging out of the wave to kick and punch at Gazi’s leg. However, Gazi took Teres’ side for once as she put a hand on her claymore’s hilt.
Minizi decided to go look for crabs.
“Teres is right. Hraace’s army is pitiful, even by the standards of this region. Nor are they a nation of great metallurgy or food. It is indeed beautiful, though.”
Even at night, you could see people in the bay. Gazi’s eyes saw, sixty feet distant, a girl on a boat staring into the water with her father. He had a bucket lined with glass at the bottom; they used it to get a clear view of luminescent fish swimming underwater.
“That looks sort of fun. Want to try that, Gazi? We’re not meeting the Pedagogia today, are we?”
“We were scheduled for tomorrow, dawn. And no, Trey. My eye can see the fish clearly.”
Trey sighed. He must have liked fish; Gazi was thoroughly sick of them from her month of waiting at Wistram. Teres’ head scanned the city.
“I don’t get how another nation hasn’t swept in and conquered them. Medain’s High King would.”
“That’s because they are the Heromakers of Hraace, Teres. They occupy a role that nations covet, hence their ability to enter other lands. Better to have them around than destroy them…but that is not a guarantee, hence their desperation to stay relevant.”
Teresa nodded, raising her brows at Gazi.
“And they’re that good at training? That Pedagogia seemed to say she taught Flos how to use a sword.”
She snorted, and Gazi smiled with a bit of nostalgia.
“She did. Araxia was assigned to His Majesty. She campaigned with him for twenty years and taught him much of his swordsmanship. He learned in battle, of course, but the Heromakers are good at their jobs. His Majesty would not waste our time otherwise.”
“Really?”
That fascinated the twins. Trey lifted his staff.
“What about magic?”
“They are as good as any tutelage you would get outside of Wistram, and better than many within, Eldavin being a notable exception.”
“Do they have a mage academy?”
Again, Gazi shook her head.
