“Yes, I am aware. Clan Tannousin has returned to their regular hunting grounds, and they are, as yet, unmolested, but what else would you call a clan that drove away its finest [Smith] and piled her father’s shame on her? Already, the younger members splinter and war with the elders. It shall collapse, and may the secrets of Naq-Alrama steel not die with it. You are in need of tutelage in the art of metalcraft. Jewelry, I think. You must rediscover your love of smithing. Three weeks.”
Startled, blushing, Nawal bowed deeply.
“I am no stuff of warriors, though, Pedagogia…”
“You are one of Chandrar’s [Smiths]. Not one of the greats. Yet. It is worth training you. Next, Trey Atwood. Let’s see the boy who tricked Wistram. Scheming cannot be taught in the same way; you shall have a list of books to read, but magic? Oh, yes. Prep the training Golems for his creation. If Minizi overtakes them within the three weeks of his study, he will doubtless level. Some statecraft won’t go amiss either. If only to have him fit the august courts of Khelt, Ger, and so on.”
She beckoned Trey aside.
“Maximillian. Hm. No [Hero], but—do you have the will to be a [Warrior], young man?”
Maximillian shuffled forwards nervously. He cleared his throat.
“I, uh—yeah, but not fighting. Not war. I’ve seen enough of that, and George…no, Miss. I mean, Pedagogia.”
She gave him a polite smile that was not unsympathetic.
“I understand. A foundation of physical fitness befits many roles. You have promise, so we shall put you with Lady Pathseeker and the others on the same regimens. Any who wish to study magic during their stay shall, but we often see fastest growth in physical conditioning. Three weeks will have you the envy of your peers.”
“Um. Thanks?”
She nodded to him and beckoned to another Earther. Teres strode forwards.
“And I, Pedagogia? His Majesty sent me and Gazi to you.”
Araxia gave Teres a long stare.
“I know. I said pass. Don’t blink at me, girl. That was my judgment in full. Neither one shall be a [Hero]. In due consideration of His Majesty’s will, I will make you a far more passable warrior. We are not versed well in Drathian training techniques, but I will do something about your inner core of energy; we acquired some low-grade pills from Drath a decade back. As for a warrior, yes, you shall improve and level. Let’s see the Horns of Hammerad as well; step forwards.”
She beckoned to the Horns of Hammerad, but Teres was so incensed she strode forward another step, hand on her sword.
“Gazi is one of the greatest warriors of Chandrar! Part of the King of Destruction’s Seven! You owe her more than five words.”
“Teres, leave it be.”
Gazi murmured, but Araxia just snorted.
“I helped raise Gazi of Reim, Teresa Atwood. The same as the boy who was fourteen when I met him, who knew nothing of how to rule a nation. If I do not leap to bow before them, I have earned that. If I do not run to aid either, it is because both are beyond needing my help, by and large.”
“So you’re largely useless after anyone hits, what, Level 40? Your pantomime yesterday wasn’t impressive. If Hraace makes such amazing warriors, where are they?”
Teresa was getting into it already with another ruler. She had like a reverse Trey ability when it came to endearing herself to people. Araxia’s voice was steady as she leaned forward in her chair—throne was too exorbitant a word—and called back.
“Child. We make proper champions and rulers. Tell me something—have you ever seen the King of Destruction looking less than magnificent? Has he ever blown his nose and covered his face with snot? When he sits, exhausted, are his clothes slovenly?”
Teres shrugged. Araxia went on pointedly.
“When he was backed into a corner by House Minos, did he flinch? When he was stabbed through the heart, did he shriek and fall apart?”
“So you’re good at making people pose for the camera.”
The [Blade of War] could not be less impressed. The Pedagogia threw her head back and laughed, and the entire room laughed with her until Teres flushed—they were authentic, natural guffaws, or so they sounded. It stopped as she lifted a finger.
“The High King of Medain lost his crown and turned and bravely fled. My part-son of Reim would have faced a foe like Mars down even if he had no chance of winning, and if you stole his crown, he’d put a wreath of leaves on his head and turn it into an heirloom worth more than one made of gold.”
She struck one thigh with a slap and rose to her feet, declaiming once more.
“We are the Mentorship of Hraace, and we once taught Khelta how to sit! We trained the Immortal Tyrant for the worst and the Heroine of the Seven Walled Cities for the best! We gave Torreb pointers, but he wasn’t quite right—we haven’t made a hero yet. Not this Mentorship. The King of Destruction was close. But he was half-done. You shall learn, but you are not a [Hero]. Few are. I am gifted with prophecy and what wisdom I’ve learned over my life. Stand aside.”
Teres moved back, because there was nothing to say, glowering, but at least slightly impressed. Araxia went through the Earthers, talking with them, getting a sense of what they wanted. Lessons in magic? Done. Understanding Chandrar? Done. One of them, a young man, pale-faced and stammering, she took one look at.
“[Thought-Healers]. You shall rest, my friend. Rest in Hraace, and that will do more than any rigor. Now, the Horns of Hammerad.”
They moved up the queue so fast that Yvlon was taken off-guard, so Ceria went first. She posed in front of the court, earning a laugh, and Araxia smiled.
“Certainly not a [Hero] with a cursed circlet, or at least, none we’d care to create. Magical tutelage would be a…trap for us. You’re too advanced. No, balance. Physical conditioning for a [Mage], but skating lessons.”
“Oh, come on. I’m not that bad.”
“You’re no Illphres the Frost Masked. Simple agility will benefit you greatly.”
Ceria blinked, and her ears waggled at that name. Yvlon was quite impressed at this point. Did the Hraacians know everything? When it came to adventurers, it seemed so.
“Colthei the [Supporter]. I grant you leave to steal anything you may. Training you is a waste of time.”
Araxia’s lips curled up, and Colthei gave her a delighted bow.
“An honor to exceed even Hraace’s exceptional standards.”
“When did I say that, you charming thief? Next, next. Yvlon Byres. How many have called you a woman of metal?”
“…A number, Pedagogia. An honor to be here.”
Yvlon bowed, awkward, and the Pedagogia gave her an inviting smile. She reminded Yvlon of Lady Zanthia, one of those old tutors of young [Ladies]. But Araxia was far more nimble. She rose and descended quickly.
“May I?”
Yvlon let her inspect her arms, and the Pedagogia murmured to herself.
“It would take time to research the exact nature of Melded classes, which we shall do, but strengthening the metal is not something I would attempt. Ironically, your [Smith], Nawalishifra, has a better chance of doing that than Hraace; we train, but are not the best [Smiths]. For you? Hand-to-hand combat training. I saw your gladiator fights in the Coliseum of Monarchs. A [Martial Artist]’s lessons befit you. And there’s something else…”
Her eyes met Yvlon, and for a second, Yvlon thought the Pedagogia frowned, but she covered it up fast.
“…I shall leave that be.”
She might not have known about Yvlon’s [Dreamer] class. But if she did, she was pretending not to for the rest of the Mentorship, including Delitandra’s group. Araxia called over her shoulder.
“Not a very brave augury, to call this team Named-rank potential. Nor even Level 50 within a year.”
A chuckle arose, and Delitandra flushed; Araxia stepped around her, eyes on the last member of the Horns, and murmured to the group.
“You see, we style ourselves as fortune-tellers and auguries of the future. We are gifted with some prophetic abilities, like the Cats of Prophecy, but only one in ten thousand of them is born with oracular magic; they are blind from their third eye, mostly. They use it to scare prey or predators or use lesser magical abilities. It is a commentary on Hraace I do not mistake.”
“Oh, so Delitandra wasn’t predicting the future?”
Ceria snapped her fingers, and Araxia laughed again.
“Oh, she was. She bet her reputation on it. That’s what we do. I bet everything on Flos Reimarch, and it won me the Pedagogia. Delitandra wishes to rise, so she bets on you. But not bravely. Hm. Hmm.”
She was staring at Pisces. Longer than the rest. Narrowing her eyes at him as he gave her a weak smile, staring as if at the two missing members, tilting her head back to look at the group. She did not miss Elena, but the Pedagogia lingered on the Horns far longer than the others. More than the rest of the group combined, in fact.
So long that even the Mentorship began to edge forwards until the Pedagogia was interrupted by Pisces.
“I, ah, do appreciate the regard, Pedagogia Araxia of Hraace, but I rather doubt you’ll find the stuff of champions among us. We are adventurers, not the heroic sort.”
Yvlon was about to…well, she didn’t protest verbally, because that was arrogant, and he was right about her, but her team? They’d fought the Adult Creler, gone into the Village of the Dead—
Araxia raised her brows and, with a smile, stepped forwards. Pisces stepped back slightly, but she circled him once, twice, and then nodded. She closed her eyes, in great thought, and then spoke.
“I am the Pedagogia of Hraace. I make this augury: the Horns of Hammerad shall produce among their ranks someone befitting of the [Hero] class, even if they fail the exact requirements. Deeds that even a Named-rank adventurer shall envy. I shall accept candidates to guide them. Four weeks.”
Dead silence—and then such a roar of voices and exclamations that Yvlon was astounded. She saw Gazi’s head turn to her, her main eye opening wide, Delitandra leaping to her feet, visibly shocked, and Pedagogia Araxia’s stare.
Knowing…and nervous. It was closer to a bet, what she’d said, but she’d just gambled…Yvlon peered at Pisces, who was looking at Ceria, at her, and not realizing whom Pedagogia Araxia’s eyes had lingered on the most.
Ceria nudged Yvlon.
“I bet it’s Ksmvr or Vofea. Vofea’d be nice. We could use a rookie [Hero].”
She grinned to show it was a joke, but even the [Prankster] was unprepared for the wave of excitement that raced outside of the temple. Within minutes, someone was blowing a horn, and the Pedagogia sighed.
“Not a [Hero]—would we’d met you when you were Silver-ranks. But good enough for mentorship. Four weeks, Horns of Hammerad. Lessons begin…now.”
She left Yvlon standing there breathless as the Mentorship hurried towards them, directing them towards the training fields, asking about dietary restrictions, splitting up, as many as two dozen per person.
[Hero]? Among their team? Impossible. Yvlon found herself saying it plaintively.
“I know it’s such an important class, but can anyone make a [Hero]? Even if we’re fated or likely to be one, I never understood…what makes a [Hero] as opposed to a [Great Warrior]? The storybooks never said.”
The Hundred Heroes of Terandria had settled the wild continent, defeated Giants and Dragons—that was what [Heroes] did. They took out Krakens and armies. They were storied as Named-adventurers, but better.
Delitandra appeared, guiding Yvlon towards the beach with her followers. She smiled knowingly.
“That is the secret of secrets, Adventurer Yvlon. To be one, you should be a champion of might and magic. Popular, brave, exceptional in your way, all the features you imagine of them. But there is one great secret that we cannot share, which creates them.”
She had such a superior smile on her face that Yvlon was half-tempted to point out Hraace hadn’t made a [Hero] in ages. Colth, though, just passed by Yvlon on the right and muttered.
“Yeah. Big secret. It’s just a prophecy. [Heroes] have to be prophesied to get the class.”
Yvlon grinned at him as he winked and gave her a thumbs up. She began to chuckle—and saw Delitandra and the group of Hraacians stumble and pile up. Several fell over each other, and their mouths were wide open…
They had expressions of such shock and horror that Yvlon’s grin faded. She turned to Colth, with Ceria and Pisces, and he gave them all a bigger thumbs-up. And a bigger, eviler grin.
Even the Pedagogia herself seemed stunned that Colth knew that. But the Demons’ best friend, Colth, winked at the Horns.
“Alright, let’s get to training.”
 
——
 
The first day of training was due to begin tomorrow, as soon as all arose. After their meeting, the Horns were swept away for a few things.
Mostly, measuring their weights, heights, checks for parasites, illness, or anything else the Hraacians didn’t know. Even, amusingly, a request for them to describe their adventures.
The Crossroads of Izril was a naked ploy for information, but the rest was actually noted down for the files the Mentorship kept, which was flattering. But they even asked for favorite foods, preferences in music, and arranged beds and rooms for all the Earthers and other guests.
“Dead gods, I asked for a pool, and I got a pool right outside my rooms! This is great!”
Ceria wandered out of her rooms at dinnertime, which promised to be a real banquet, and petted a three-eyed cat with her bone hand. Colth just made an expression of horror.
“Ceria, no. The humidity.”
“They’ve got great enchantments on the doors and room. Where are you staying, Pisces?”
“Er, the lounge two areas down. Rather splendid bedding, you know…where’s Yvlon?”
“I think she wanted a tent because she thinks training should be rugged. Want to help me drag her into a nice place?”
Colth and Ceria headed out to rescue Yvlon from her own hubris, and Pisces, well aware of how obstinate Yvlon could be, lagged a bit behind. That was when someone cleared her throat and caught up with him.
“Oh, Pisces. Hey, do you have a second?”
Colth’s head snaked around as Teresa engaged the [Necromancer], but Ceria grabbed him and towed him on. Pisces stopped.
“Of course, Miss Teresa. Do you need something…?”
He assumed it was Gazi, but Teresa brushed at her hair. She’d put on a casual tunic—though she had the sword—and she had added some kind of fragrance and washed the dust off.
“Actually, I was wondering if you wanted to take a break with me tonight. Nothing fancy. The Hraacians have a dining place for two, and I’d love to talk and see your swordsmanship personally. You’re pretty striking, you know?”
She flashed him a grin, and Pisces blinked, rather flattered by the compliment. He glanced over his shoulder.
