Gazi and Flos? Never a couple. Never even dreamt of by Flos. Clearly, a source of strife for Gazi. Mars and Flos had definitely hooked up when he was younger, and everyone knew about Queravia. No ruling on Amerys; even the rest of the soldiers didn’t know, and rumors abounded, but Gazi?
Chip on her shoulder. Potentially imposter syndrome, though she could walk the walk pretty well.
Neither woman said anything as the magical carriage travelled. Teres felt it was moving faster than a car from home. Likely her imagination and due to the fact she was on the open roof, but it was quick. The ground just vanished—they were racing through one of the nations along the coast, past Medain.
Portems, east of Medain. Not a place you heard of even with all the wars with nations declaring for or against Flos. It had a [Coastal Queen] and strong enough armies to push back Medain; it wasn’t notable to Teres beyond that, but she remembered the name. Hraace occupied the northeastern flank of Chandrar. You got a lot of tiny nations down the coast. The only one she could name was Cosiere because Flos had some enduring popularity among the people there.
He had it everywhere, to greater or lesser extents, but many followers were within the bounds of their nations with families or a disinclination to stand and die for him. When he took a nation, he’d gain support.
Already, he had a lot of Stitch-folk joining him from the cities he’d overrun in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Mostly Hemp; they were not pleased with Nerrhavia’s Fallen.
“See anything interesting?”
Teres broke the silence after fifteen minutes of dizzying speed. She was watching Gazi’s main eye slowly track across the landscape. The rest of her eyes were bouncing about, save for the one on the [Mages]’ carriage. Normally, Gazi’s eyes roved, but it seemed like her main one was searching for something.
Gazi gave Teresa a brief stare, as if weighing whether it was worth even engaging with Teresa. Then she spoke grudgingly.
“I saw something in the night. It was headed the same way we were.”
By ‘something’, she meant something important since she could see for miles and through walls with her eyes.
“Magical carriage?”
“No. But moving faster than anything but one of the Seven.”
“Djinni? Magical carpet?”
“Too low to the ground, and it wasn’t radiating magic. Whatever it was was simply fast. It passed by the outer radius of my vision, so I had no way to see what it was.”
Teres sat up.
“About that…your eyes work differently than ours, right? So this outer radius is more like a sonar?”
Gazi had no eyebrows, but her skin raised above all five eyes in a weirdly similar way.
“Trey has described it to me like that, yes. Motion is what I see at my outermost ranges. All the…detail, colors and shapes, only closer to me.”
“How far’s your outer limit?”
“Thirty miles.”
Teresa whistled. That was something. Gazi just shrugged.
“It only works for the most notable of things. Which this was. What or whoever it was moved faster than some Couriers.”
“So…faster than a magical horse?”
A flat look.
“Yes.”
After a grudging moment, Gazi added.
“It could have been a rider. But the moment they were detected, they moved out of my range. That is the interesting part. I can think of a few candidates who could do that. And be heading towards Hraace.”
Teres slid the blade she carried out of her sheath. It was a single-edged sword in the style of Drath, gifted to her by Orthenon. She’d learned how to use it in battle as well as with her many tutors. Venith Crusland had been the last to instruct her.
Poor man. She hoped he was doing better with Calac returned. Give Trey credit: he’d gotten that right. She wondered what had become of his friends, the half-Gazer and Drowned Man who’d helped him escape.
“Should we be ready for a fight?”
“I will be ready, as will Amerys. You should concentrate on saving your energy. If Hraace accepts any of us, or teaches us, you will need your strength. As will I.”
Gazi’s tone was pointed, and Teres sheathed her blade and sat back, folding her arms.
“You don’t think I’m useful.”
“I would expect you to evacuate the Earthers if a foe capable of fighting Amerys and I approached. Then die in the defense of them well. His Majesty has expressed how valuable you are in war. He must constantly watch you.”
So you’re an overall negative in an actual fight. That was the message Teres understood. She tossed her head.
“Trey’s no more survivable than I am.”
“Trey doesn’t attempt to be.”
“He broke Amerys out of Wistram. I told Flos to throw me into battle and not worry about it.”
“So eager to die, are you?”
Gazi’s tone was flat as she stretched out on the roof, flexing her curious, four-fingered hands. Teres gave her a smile that was neither bleak nor overconfident about her chances of survival.
“I’m trying to reach a place where I’ll matter before this war ends. So’re you. We can’t all be as lucky as Trey. Flos doesn’t have to listen to Trey or me. Trey can shout at him until he’s blue in the face, and he won’t do a thing about the slave trade in Reim. But he’d have to listen to the most high-level of his Seven or someone who has Venith’s levels.”
That worked. The [War Scout] glanced up, and her frown felt like staring into a lighthouse beam.
“That has been a source of strife between you and Trey. Don’t pretend you are on the same side.”
“I’m not against his side. I just think he’s being a mule. You know Flos won’t change his mind right away. Trey makes you happy because he says what you’re feeling louder, but even with Amerys lending her voice, and Elena—whom he does respect—has he done a thing?”
No and no and no. Gazi’s silence felt like sulking. Teres went on.
“He can’t, anyways. His wartime economy falls apart, and everyone knows it. Now, if he were six nations up…then he’d be more receptive because he can afford it. Roshal’s embedded in the heart of Chandrarian culture. Removing that overnight is impossible. You put your foot on the rudder and push.”
“A thankless task that I have not seen you undertake.”
“Flos doesn’t insult me every two seconds. I’ve been focusing on what matters. What I can change.”
Teres lifted the sword and felt the blade cutting the wind. She held it up, as Orthenon had shown her, and exhaled. She focused, and the wind blasting across her and Gazi’s face, making conversation difficult—stopped.
The dust carried on the wind left a trailing stream across the magical carriages, but parted in the air around the blade of the sword. The vacuum left in its wake was now pleasant, eerily quiet.
 
“Cut the wind. Cut the metal. Cut the soul.”
—Some kind of Drathian proverb that Orthenon said in Drathian, 23 A.F.
 
That was worth having. Trey could animate his Lifesand Golems all day. His sister could cut a breeze in half.
“Not a bad display. Can you do it all the way to Hraace?”
Gazi’s eyes clearly said Teres could not; the reservoir of power located below her stomach would run out too fast. It was this…secondary unit of energy you drew from that was unique to Orthenon’s people and class.
Teres didn’t get it entirely, but meditation and training advanced it. It was a more focused method of fighting than a [Warrior]’s Skills. She gave Gazi a shrug.
“Can you? Orthenon and you were a couple, once. Didn’t he teach you how to do this?”
Gazi’s scowl said she didn’t want to talk about the famous tryst between her and the King of Destruction’s Steward. But she grudgingly shrugged.
“I know some tricks, but like magic, I do not have the means to increase my powers.”
“With pills and whatever they use in Drath? Orthenon said he hadn’t done more than ‘basic refinement’, whatever that means. It still means he can improve, right? Just not eat…more power?”
The Gazer frowned, speaking a bit more animatedly since Teres was informed on the subject.
“Cultivation. The powers of Drath. Cultivate the body and soul and even blades. He described the tonics you could imbibe, made out of rare ingredients, as unto wells of power. You can waste them or use every drop. You can improve naturally, but it is vanishingly slow compared to ingesting years’ worth of stored energy.”
“Like drinking fat.”
Silence. Gazi’s lips trembled. She smiled, briefly, and Teres grinned.
“He hated that analogy. Anyways, I’ve refined what I had. I can’t do much with it, and I haven’t hit any ‘limits’ or whatever he talks about.”
“I as well. Orthenon expects nothing of the few people he teaches. It is a useful trick, but he is a master of the…ah…”
Gazi hesitated, her all-knowing smile fading. Teres scratched at her head, and the two tried to figure it out.
“Tenth…soul…gate?”
“The Golden, no, Truegold Core Formation of the Immortal—no, he said he passed the Late Heavenly Master’s Stage of cultivation, which is actually lower than the Sage’s 1st Realm, but he took a transgression across the—”
“His core is something like the Meridian Foundation, but he applied Phoenix’s Rebirth and began again so—”
They started chuckling. There was a reason Orthenon seldom discussed the principles behind his exact abilities. However, Teres did know more than probably anyone outside Flos’ inner circle from the old days, so she put her hands behind her head.
“Do they still want him dead in Drath?”
Laughter ceased from Gazi. She sat there, and Teres opened one eye to see if she was offended, but Gazi had just gone back to scanning the landscape.
“I do not think their edicts for his death have changed since he escaped and was made a [Traitor], no.”
“It’s been forty years?”
“Fifty, I think.”
“Fifty. Then he’s seventy-something? He looks—”
In his forties. Orthenon never mentioned his age, and Gazi just glanced at Teresa.
“They have long memories, and he stole a great deal to cultivate himself. He killed for it, as you must know. If Drath is unwilling to press the issue to Chandrar—especially given his prowess—they would not forget.”
Teres sat back, thinking. An outcast for life. A disgraced, powerful expert from Drath who had sacrificed his honor, home, all to keep clawing up what he described as a never-ending road to power. By the time he’d met Flos, he’d been a deeply unhappy mercenary without a cause. Much like the rest of the Seven, really.
To her gratification, Teres felt like she and Gazi were getting along decently well. The half-Gazer seemed surprised as well, because she ventured, after a moment, to flick her eyes forwards.
“There.”
The dust ahead of them slammed out of the air, and Teres lowered her blade since she no longer needed to keep it from hitting them.
“What’s that?”
“Weight and petrification. My eyes gift me with many powers, which I have refined as well as most full Gazers. My armor and bladesmanship makes me better than most warriors. I am, like you—not at that level which defines true warriors.”
Level 50. The big one. Teresa was closer to twenty levels away than ten, but she dipped her head.
“Think Hraace will actually make you reach that point? Or take you in as a [Hero] or whatever it is they do?”
Gazi was silent for a long moment.
“No. I don’t think I’m the material of [Heroes]. But you are correct. Time runs out.”
Moodily, she folded her arms, and Teres nodded and sat back. Both of them stared at the carriage with the arguing [Mages]. All they had to do was master new spells. Mages had it so easy compared to warriors. After a moment, Teres spoke.
“The [Necromancer]. The brown-haired one, Pisces. You know him, right? I was thinking…”
Gazi glanced at Teresa.
“They are adventurers. He is a [Necromancer]. An…interesting one, I suppose, but him? Truly?”
“Well, Ceria and Yvlon aren’t my type. And the one called Colthei?”
“Ah. Well, yes. Of the lot—”
Gazi fell silent and thought about it.
“I believe the Antinium is probably the sane one.”
“Well, he’s not here. Any tips?”
The Named-rank adventurer known as Gazi the Omniscient eyed Teresa as the carriage sped onwards, then grudgingly spoke.
“He sniffs often. It’s a habit, not a runny nose or other defect.”
“Okay.”
“Why any of them?”
The half-Gazer just seemed perplexed by the question, and Teres smiled.
“He’s on a journey, and so am I. I think it’d be fun, he’s handsome, and we could trade sword-techniques among other things.”
Companionship could be easy and fast in the armies where you knew death was around the corner, she’d found. Gazi just sat there, blinking.
“…Handsome?”
She gave Teres a look that called the girl’s tastes into question, and Teres just rolled her own eyes. Gazi wasn’t one to talk. Just look at who she liked.
 
——
 
They called the nation Portems, and it was no Medain, but Colthei reckoned it was decent enough. Sort of generic? Could you call a nation generic?
It just lacked for details he valued. It wasn’t strongly for Flos, wasn’t strongly against; it doubtless had a thriving economy, but it was like…Reizmelt, a Human city in Izril. Reizmelt existed.
Being neither hugely strong nor weak meant that when Amerys and Gazi rolled through the nation, an entire army turned out to meet them with great trepidation, as if afraid two of the Seven had been sent to conquer the entire place by themselves.
Colth would have liked to have seen that. Once Amerys had assured them she was heading back to Reim tonight and Gazi had stated she was heading to Hraace, they calmed down, and the carriages were allowed to visit border cities to restock on food and let people stretch.
Two things happened that Colthei the Supporter deemed of note at all. One—the Horns got a welcome they deserved. Two, one of the two twins that served the King of Destruction, Teresa Atwood, had the gall to try and flirt with Pisces.
Of the two of them, Colth would have given Trey a run at Pisces first, and he knew Trey was a [Mastermind] class of some kind and therefore a rat.
Analysis, statistics, numbers. Colth had a habit of assigning values from his own system to people, like giving people a score for their ‘Charisma’ or ‘Luck’ and making sheets about them. He also cataloged reputations, and the Horns’ reputation had well exceeded his own at this point.
“Lady Pathseeker, Archmage Amerys, you are welcome in the city of Llovend. And I also welcome you, the Horns of Hammerad! Captain Springwalker, I had hoped to meet Ksmvr of Chandrar…may I have your autograph? And I trust you, Necromancer Pisces, shall not cause any bloodshed in my city, ha-hah. Adventurer Colthei, an honor, and I greet you, Silver Killer.”
