“No. They could not train a generation of [Mages]. One or two, though…their entire nation is devoted to training the finest. Torreb came here, though I doubt they taught him as extensively. Queravia did learn here—they train promising candidates, but they judge and create [Heroes].”
“Why haven’t we seen many, then?”
That came from Teres, and Gazi kicked at the sand.
“Few are worthy. And making them is dangerous. The Heromakers have a duty, and they take it as seriously as a Shield Kingdom. Preventing the wrong sort from taking the [Hero] class is their duty on Chandrar, and it is why only Doubte remains as a [Hero] of this age not ordained by them.”
“I don’t hear of Izril, Terandria, or the other continents having problems with [Heroes].”
Teresa’s voice was suspicious. Gazi favored her with a big smile.
“They are rare. But when they arise, they damn Walled Cities if they become corrupt or evil. They become foul monsters. Let me think of an example that suits. Ah. Oteslia, the City of Growth, produced a [Hero] of great note six centuries ago.”
“Oteslia’s still around. I’m pretty sure I’ve seen it on the news.”
Trey pointed out cautiously. Teresa gave him an arch look. Gazi’s smile widened.
“Did you see the smaller city next to it with the giant flower growing in the shade of the vast World Tree?”
The [Sand Mage] frowned and scratched his head.
“…No, I think I would have remembered that.”
“Exactly.“
Both twins stirred, and Gazi leaned on her sword. She kept staring around with her eyes. She felt…unsettled. Not by the Pedagogia; she was no longer a child, just nervous about whether she would be accepted.
She felt like someone was avoiding her eye. And she didn’t like that.
“Let us find a place to eat. The Pedagogia has allocated us somewhere to rest. Prepare yourselves, for tomorrow we shall meet her.”
“Any tips?”
Teresa’s eyes sparkled, and Gazi glanced at her.
“She will see through you. Hope she places a bet on your head, or the others in the Mentorship do. And do not eat a large breakfast. It may come back up.”
 
——
 
The Pedagogia Araxia was not a happy woman when called upon the next day. She was reading a report on how many people had watched the reenactment of the King of Destruction’s rise and was arguing with her Mentorship.
The ‘court’ of Hraace was hardly so formal. The Pedagogia was no real ruler, just the first of them. That meant something, but they were so uppity these days.
“I told you, I told you it wouldn’t gain traction.”
Delitandra was too strident, even pointing out the correctness of her words. She was young, vibrant, ready, and Araxia was the old woman with old ideas. Not so long ago, Araxia had been in her shoes, arguing that the young boy-king of Reim was worth taking a chance on.
She’d been right then, and she didn’t feel old or stupid now. Just…annoyed by the changing world.
Damn that Singer of Terandria. She was changing things too fast, and Araxia didn’t get the new rules of the game.
“We do not do such works purely to entertain. That was meant to remind Chandrarians of why the King of Destruction was needed. To inform the world and give caution!”
“Well, it’s cautioned all twenty-six people who saw it. Were we at the King of Destruction’s side, they’d know our names. For the same woman who helped him the first time, you’ve forgotten how you became Pedagogia, Araxia!”
That was too far; Araxia was still in command, and the rest of the Mentorship murmured as Delitandra refused to apologize or back down. The Pedagogia flicked a finger.
“Out of my sight. You may wait with the Followers when we greet our supplicants.”
Delitandra went with her cortège of supporters, and Araxia sighed. There was a truth to the stinging words.
Hraace was, as everyone had noted, a country that could not exist alone. Like a small fish that clung to larger ones and cleaned their gills and removed parasites, Hraace found people to support and was in turn supported in time.
When one of their students became famous, some of that wealth and security flowed back to Hraace. It would have been easy to go back to the King of Destruction, but…it had not been a bet Araxia had liked.
“He is no longer that boy-king with fate and goodness and youth on his side. He is another [King], the mightiest of them, but Hraace does not bet. It predicts. We are oracles, not speculators!”
She called after Delitandra, and her voice was loud enough to echo throughout the tall temple the Mentorship worked from. No reply was her rebuke, and it still stung.
Fuming, Araxia sat back and drummed her fingers on the armrest of her seat. She took a gulp of Prelon-flavored milk, a refreshing delicacy in the heat, and spoke.
“I divine.”
The Mentorship looked up, and Araxia activated a Skill. Her eyes rolled into her head, and she spoke first of mundane things.
“—It shall be a great storm tomorrow. Do not bother with the fields today.”
Someone ran her words to a [Message] scroll where they would be sent from city to city. [Farmers] and [Fishers] would take note, one to perhaps avoid watering their crops, and another to plan around the increased fish activity—and the danger of the storm.
Or not. A [Farmer] in Hraace might well keep watering his crops as he pleased.
It was a prediction. Not a certainty.
Araxia had used her [Forecast] Skill to predict a storm, but it might be a storm that could be mitigated by some magical or Skill-based event. Or the storm might hit only part of Hraace. Or it might not be a storm of water.
Predictions were like that. Araxia was, among her classes, an [Oracle], and even she did not trust to her words entirely. But they did help. The second thing she did was speak a somewhat desperate Skill.
“[Predict Cultural Trend]. Hmm. I see. Someone…give me a mirror. Hand-sized. And a stick?”
People ran to do her bidding, and the Pedagogia frowned at something, an idea more than a vivid image, and tried to make what she was seeing.
“It is this device…on a stick. Only, it angles back towards you that you might hold it up to see yourself. A miniaturized scrying instrument, I think, capable of taking images and recordings.”
“And the stick?”
“A way to capture yourself, I think. Bah.”
The Pedagogia tossed the stick away, virulently annoyed by the waste of her Skill. There had been a time when the Skill was useful—now, she just got strange nonsense like that. Hraace lived by surfing the furthest wave of what was going on, but things were changing too fast.
The King of Destruction knew why. She should just tie Hraace to him, but if he fell, Hraace would burn. Hraace might burn for joining him…
Risk and reward. If she’d declared for Flos at the start, she might have lost Hraace or now be counted among his sworn allies. If she did it now, he would be far less grateful. She just wanted to find…
A [Hero].
Each year at three times, in the summer, autumn, and winter, people would come to Hraace from across Chandrar. Once, from across the world. They would be vetted, tested for everything from their appearance to their classes to their potential and personality, and be trained if they were worthy.
Normally a day or two, weeks or months rarely. If one was truly worthy and the moment was right, if Chandrar called out for them…or if the stage was set, Hraace would name them a [Hero].
But it was not easy. It was not lightly done. There were specific conditions to be met to make a [Hero], and only the Pedagogia and a few select rulers knew what they were. Hraace kept its eyes and ears open, ventured across Chandrar to inspect likely candidates. They had to train [Heroes] as they emerged. It was their calling.
They’d missed Doubte. Araxia’s predecessor had missed the [Hero] and resigned as a result. Araxia was the Pedagogia of now for having seen the King of Destruction. Forty years of ruling a nation, and it was no small thing, even if it was a smaller nation like Hraace. She did not want to lose her seat by missing, and she knew she’d have one chance.
So—when the Horns of Hammerad, Gazi Pathseeker, and the two twins and odd children came into her presence, she studied them. Hard. Looking to see if they had that potential that would make them legends if they were nurtured right. True [Heroes] to shake this world to its core.
They needed one, Araxia felt. Something was wrong in Rhir; they had requested her visit, and her emissaries had not said why…but they feared the Blighted Kingdom had begun making [Heroes] of their own. [Heroes] were such odd classes. Everyone thought them to be no more than a powerful warrior hybrid, like a [General] was strong.
They were wrong. [Heroes] had terrifying Skills and classes. They were too powerful. They had to balance power and fame and temptation and so much more. So…her visitors. Were they worthy? The moment they walked in, Araxia heard Delitandra place a bet, which told her what the young Mentor thought.
 
——
 
The Mentorship lived in a huge temple on the top of the city that you had to climb a thousand steps to get to. Pisces was still smacking his lips from the beautiful red fish he’d eaten; the food here was most excellent.
Colth was nervous, fiddling with the clothing he’d made everyone wear, and Ceria was letting Elena mess with her hair. Yvlon’s arms were already decorated, and she was massaging her forehead.
“Bad sleep, Yvlon?”
“On the contrary, Pisces. I felt like I tried to do too much. My head hurts…let’s get this over with so we can go find your people.”
Gazi was incredibly nervous as she fussed with her shiny armor. She strode ahead of them, posture immaculate, all eyes forwards, and Pisces relished this rare moment of uncertainty from her.
“Welcome, guests of Reim and Izril! Step forwards—the Pedagogia awaits. She shall hear the King of Destruction’s words, then judge you!”
Someone called to the group at the door, but there was no formal hush, and indeed, a buzz of voices arose from the Mentorship gathered on each side of the temple’s opening. They stood there, craning for better views, reading from paper in their hands, pointing at the Earthers, Horns, Gazi, and talking.
It was…rather like being an animal on display at an auction. Pisces would have said a [Slave]—but they weren’t so wretched or cruel or filthy as that. Pisces glanced from side to side, trying to keep his head high, casual, until he realized they were judging him on that, too.
“Good composure on the Horns of Hammerad. You can see they’ve passed their rookie status as Gold-rankers.”
“Lady Pathseeker’s not levelled much…even from Wistram. Armor’s broken, of course.”
“Some kind of hairdresser in the lot? She’s not bad.”
“—Hardly a crop of [Heroes] in the children. They’re fairly ordinary.”
The Earthers blushed or joked or tried to look good, embarrassed or offended, and Pisces thought the comments were from the lower-level Mentorship. The higher-ranking ones were at the back of the room, mostly…except for that one Elena had met.
Delitandra posed, head tilted to one side, as striking as any of the Players of Celum, eyes narrowed as she ignored the Earthers and Gazi and studied only the Horns and Trey and Teres. She watched them pass as Elena waved at her, and she stared hard at Pisces. Ceria. Yvlon.
Trey. But her eyes lit on the Horns longest. Then she said something odd.
“Augury! They will be a Named-rank team within a year if they live. Worth teaching.”
Every head turned. Pisces’ cheeks turned red, but the speculative silence that arose said this was more than a verbal bet or an idle compliment. Colth began grinning, and Delitandra amended her bet.
“Even more unto a bet—not only will they be a Named-rank team, more members than not will be Named-ranks themselves. And—at least one will pass Level 50.”
“A serious claim, Delitandra. You’ll put your rank and name on it?”
Someone murmured, a man in a toga who wrote this down as Delitandra jerked her head at them. She favored Pisces with a huge smile.
“I do. Tell the Pedagogia I will be training them if no one else does.”
Colth rubbed his hands together, grinning, as an audible ‘oooh’ swept through the temple. He nudged Pisces repeatedly, and Pisces hissed.
“What the heck does that mean?”
“It means they think we’re promising, Lord of the Sniffs; try not to blow it!”
Gazi seemed disgruntled by the augury focusing on the Horns, and she strode ahead of them as Trey hurried to keep up. Pisces followed, seeing the familiar bronze-toned woman with the white hair held back by a headband that seemed less like a crown and more like a hair ornament. Was she a ruler like the others? She had…something to her. Not a ruling presence, Pisces realized as she glanced at him.
She was a [Mage]. A good one. She reminded him a bit of the Quarass; her gaze was knowing, and then she spoke, and he changed his mind.
She mostly reminded him of Erin when she was giving orders. He wasn’t sure if that was a good or bad thing.
 
——
 
“Fail, Gazi Pathseeker. I don’t see the makings of a [Hero] in you. I do see promise and a need to reinvent your legend. So I do grant you and your companions a week. In light of our long friendship with Flos Reimarch.”
Pedagogia Araxia said that before Gazi said anything. The half-Gazer was mid bow and straightened, seeming disappointed, but not surprised.
“Can I not convince you to change your mind, Araxia?”
“My eyes are older, but they deceive me as little as yours, Gazi.”
There was an indulgent smile in Araxia’s voice, for all it was strict. Gazi fidgeted.
“My armor…”
“…is a crutch you relied on during the campaign. You should have taken it off when Flos fell into slumber. But I can’t fault you for that. You shall take off your armor and train without for the day when it fails. Now, step forwards, Teresa Atwood, the [Blade of War] for a king with too many.”
She wasn’t making a good impression on Reim’s people. Trey and Teres bristled at the brusque way Gazi was shuffled off to the side, for different reasons. For once united, the two strode forwards and gave Araxia a glare. She gave Teres an idle stare.
“Not you. Pass. Thorough, I grant you…there’s something here. No [Hero] in the lot of you, but there’s consideration here. Two weeks. Now, Nawalishifra of doomed Clan Tannousin.”
Teresa wavered, hesitating, and lost her chance to speak as Nawalishifra stepped forwards. The normally sharp-tongued [Smith] seemed nervous.
“Doomed Tannousin, Pedagogia? They left Reim without a hand against them. Has something happened…? I am indeed Nawal. Formerly of—”
Pedagogia Araxia nodded, speaking over her briskly. Not unkindly, but as if this were a waste of time that was best omitted for all’s sake.
