Ophiel, sitting on Erick’s shoulder, objected with a series of flute sounds.

Poi glanced up to Yggdrasil’s [Scry] orb, adding, “And not even middling-mages let people [Scry] on them all the time.”

Yggdrasil’s orb did not react.

“Everything about you is odd.” Poi said, “I’m not even sure why— I mean. I know why you want to make these new spells. But you don’t really need them to go incognito out into the world. Polite Society dictates that you don’t use active magic inside cities. If you want to walk around without attracting a crowd, all you really need is to dye your hair and your irises and to wear something less nice, and for Ophiel to keep away except for having him as a small bird.” Poi looked to Ophiel. “And I mean actually looking like a bird. Two eyes, at the most.”

Erick chuckled. He, too, looked to Ophiel on his shoulder.

Ophiel got the message. He flexed. His tiny jumble of wings became streamlined, as he took the form of a bird with a normal-looking head, a beak, two wings, a normal body, and a long tail. No legs, but that could be discounted by him sitting down directly against Erick’s body. And he had only two eyes!

But…

He was fully white. Even his beak. And his beak was made of tiny, tiny wings.

His whole body was made of tiny, tiny wings. Hundreds of wings, at least. Perhaps a thousand. Every one of his wings were so fine as to be mistaken for feathers. And then he flexed out his main wings, revealing dozens of eyes on the underside of each.

“I didn’t think it was possible.” Poi said, “But that’s even more creepy.”

Erick laughed as Ophiel relaxed back into his normal form of four wings and a scattering of eyes. He squawked. Erick patted him.

Poi said, “This world is not as connected as yours. If you did what I suggested and left Teressa, Jane, Kiri, and I behind, you could walk down the streets of almost anywhere in the world, except for Spur, and likely not be recognized by any normal person. You’d have trouble with Candlepoint, too, I suppose.” He added, “Your biggest problem with retaining anonymity would be your lack of experience with visiting cities as a normal person, and the people in charge would recognize you sooner or later depending on various factors outside of anyone’s control; chance meetings and such.”

“Bah! Problems for later! For now: Magic!”

Poi smirked.

Erick listened to the flowing wind of [Air Bolt], the spell he had made with Syllea’s help, and with Ophiel’s help, then he extracted the sound of the wind. Getting the same result from Mana Altering was easy enough, and from there, he refined the sound even more, into a gale force breeze. With a twist and a cast, Erick flowed wind into [Force Shrapnel], because [Force Shrapnel] was a rather decent short-range spell.

Force Shrapnel X, instant, short cone, 5 MP

Sharpened forward blast of mana that deals 25 + WIL damage in a cone

A blast of ten cutting wind blades, some meters wide, exploded from Erick’s hand, slicing through the air like the whistle of an oncoming tornado. Most of the blades went wide. Some scraped tiny furrows in the mountainside. All of them went much further than Erick expected.

Ophiel instantly copied the sound, whistling like a windstorm on the horizon.

Poi shivered.

“Wind must add range, eh?” Erick mused, as the blue box appeared.

Tornado Blades, instant, medium cone, 15 MP

Ten blades of wind blast forward, each dealing 50 damage + WIL

Erick said, “Only 50 damage plus Willpower. I left the suffocation out on purpose. Does that seem close to normal?”

Poi countered, “50 damage plus Willpower per blade. With your Willpower, that single spell deals 2000 damage if they all hit, with a high chance of at least one of those blades critting. Beyond the simple Health damage of the magic itself, it would probably do some decent damage against hard targets, too, though I am not certain of that fact. Wind is not sturdy.”

“Well… I can’t help it if everyone else is shitty!”

Poi laughed.

“No. Seriously.” Erick said, “Do they teach wrong at the Arcanaeums on purpose?” He glanced around, as though expecting the Headmaster to be right there. “I heard about the Headmaster’s brother… Was that true? About the origin of the Dragon Curse?”

Poi’s laughter died. He said, “That’s just one more story among the apocryphal origins of that Curse. ‘Melemizargo did it’ always made the most sense to me; he doesn’t want dragons overpowering him now that he’s so small. You must keep in mind that there’s only one existent dragon that isn’t Cursed, and her name is Rozeta.”

“Oh!”

“Don’t believe everything a Shade tells you, sir. But about arcanaeum magic? That method of magic works just as well as yours—” He winced. “I realized what I said the second I said it. Your Particle Magic works a lot better than normal magic. From what I’ve seen, it could be true that we’ve had it wrong all this time. The god of magic has been insane for a long while, after all.”

“Oh. I never considered that angle.”

Poi said, “Anyway. Your [Tornado Blades] is fine. A bit strong. But fine. Try for a Mercy variant?”

Erick was back to being excited for magic, as he said, “Mercy seems like it would like the suffocation, so let’s add that back into the mix.”

Erick did exactly as he said.

Curling, insubstantial blades made of wind and light blasted across the mountainside like fog given form. They did not leave tracks on the stone where they touched. They left fog, instead.

Merciful Suffocation, instant, medium cone, 35 MP

Ten curls of suffocating wind blast forward and attach to struck targets. Curls stack. Affected targets take 50 damage + WIL to Health per curl of wind each time they attempt to breathe with a high chance of causing suffocation. Each breath expends one curl upon the target. Merciful Suffocation immediately fails if the target has no Health.

“Huh.” Erick said, “A bit more sinister than I envisioned.”

“Less sinister than that slime you made earlier.”

“Hey now. Don’t disparage the slime. They’re your ancestors, after all.”

“I can disparage my ancestors all I want.”

Erick laughed. Poi smiled.

Poi added, “And ‘damage every time you breathe’ is a lot less sinister than a potential 20,000 damage to the face. Not many people can actually shape [Force Shrapnel] as well as you can, and some mages have trouble getting a single shard of a [Force Shrapnel] to hit, but I doubt you would have that problem. Keep that in mind when you cast [Tornado Blades] where other people can see.”

Erick frowned. “Surely you exaggerate. Other people can Shape [Force Shrapnel] to hit a target with all the shards, and with that in mind, [Tornado Blades] would only be… 10,000 damage for a normal mage… Ah. Still really high. Bah!” Erick deflected, “That’s with all of them hitting a person’s head, though. I couldn’t do that.”

Poi gestured forward. “Make a statue. I bet you can.”

… Erick made a statue with [Stoneshape]. It was a rough human-sized target, and that was good enough for the purposes of a target. From ten meters away, Erick shaped and shot his [Tornado Blades] at the statue’s head.

Five blades struck true. Five went wide, with three clipping the body, but each of those were only barely off course, missing by decimeters, if that. Every attack that hit carved a tiny furrow in the stone.

Poi joked, “I guess I expected too much from you.”

“Ha ha,” Erick droned. “That was my first time. Here—”

He cast again, and this time all ten blades lined up like a barrage, each funneling into the power of the one behind it. Each blade struck true, right where Erick had meant for them to strike. He briefly considered linking [Force Bolt]’s ‘inevitable’ to the striking power of [Tornado Blades], but… No.

[Force Bolt]s Bolts always struck where it was easiest for them to strike. They could not be aimed at heads or such in order to critical. Erick suspected this was due to some Principle of Least Action, or something, that designated that a [Force Bolt] take the shortest possible path to a target. [Force Bolt]s could crit, but only if you got really lucky with the target turning their head toward the Bolt at the right moment, or some other similar accident.

Combining [Force Bolt] with [Tornado Blades] would create a spell that was almost guaranteed to not crit, and Erick had more than enough of those.

He pointed at the target, saying, “There we go. Other people should be able to do that with some practice, right? It doesn’t even seem good against armor, or anything hard, really. That’s normal magic, right? Or… I’m missing something obvious, aren’t I.”

Poi reminded him, “Your Sculpt Spell Class Ability~”

“Oh.” Erick could have smacked himself. “Not many people take that, huh?”

“Not just that!” Poi said, “I don’t think you actually understand— The problem is that you have a Class at all, let alone gone as high as you have, which makes magic easier for you in a way that shows in everything you do, but that, and Sculpt Spell, is just the start. Any seasoned adventurer looking at [Tornado Blades] would mark you as a Classed person, but if you were to show off your less well-known Particle Magic, anyone with the knowledge to see would either recognize you as ‘Erick Flatt, the Particle Mage’, or they would see you as an uncommonly talented adventurer.

“[Incandescent] or [Frozen Mist] are really good crowd-control spells, effectively blocking off avenues of attack, but with damage. Actual blocking is achieved with [Force Wall], and you have that. You could probably pass off [Hermetic Razor] as a Wind-based spell if you wanted, and most would never know the difference. Spells like the [Sleep]-slime you just made would get you some weird looks, but not many know that [Sleep] is a Mind Mage only spell. You could probably pass that one off as a wind-derivative spell, too. Incidentally, I have circumvented the visit that you would normally get from us Mind Mages, of course.

“But even disregarding all that: there’s the fact that as soon as a person sees that you never run out of mana, they would, at the very least, rearrange everything they think they know about you. Most people in this world have 600 mana, at the most, and that is only true of those who actually try their hand at being a mage. Most people don’t even have that, with the average being 80 or 120 mana.” He finished with, “So the only way for you to go incognito would be to pretend to be an adventurer, but in those circles, you’d get spotted almost right away. That’s why I say that this idea of going incognito is going to be tough.”

Ahhh… He knew this was going to be tough, but he had not allowed himself to connect as many dots as Poi had. Maybe he should have, but he had not wanted to, because, now that Poi laid it all out there, in some intrinsic, sad sort of way, Erick felt a disconnect between himself and the rest of the world; a gulf he could not easily cross.

Poi stood straighter. “Sorry.”

“It’s not your fault. I just… Forget, sometimes.” Erick said, “I’ll figure it out. I appreciate the warnings, and the perspective. Thanks, Poi.”

Poi nodded, “Of course. So what other spells are on the list?”

“Let’s see… Shield, sleep, two attacks… and all the other spells I barely ever use.” Erick decided, “Good enough. Let’s move on.”

“Back to the room?” Poi asked, hopeful.

Erick crushed those hopes, saying, “Nah. I’m going to ring Syllea.” Erick did so, sending out a telepathic call to the other archmage.

Poi said, “She is still avoiding us.”

“Yeah. But I haven’t actually pressed the issue until… now… No answer, though. I’m going to try Bayth.” He did so.

No response. No backlash of a denial, either, though! So—

The connection cut; a denial, but not a harsh denial. And then Syllea’s connection cut, too, in much the same way.

“Bah! Still avoiding me. Well fine.”

Poi asked, “Tenebrae?”

Erick agreed, “Tenebrae.”
