With thoughts of mana and reality as both physical and not, and therefore able to twist back on itself, Erick considered [Rebound], [Ward], and [Strike], together. [Pure Reflection Ward] was great, but it was a [Personal Ward], and therefore rather limited. He already used his [Personal Ward] for damage mitigation, and had done so for a long time.

So! To make a good [Melee Reflection Ward] that was not on his person, Erick needed something solid.

[Conjure Weapon] would do for his needs.

Ophiels on either shoulder began to sing, small, and yet powerful. One spoke of [Conjure Weapon]; a solid plane of Force, but twisted sideways into a blocking Force. The other spoke of [Rebound]; an echoing noise that picked up [Conjure Weapon] and turned it into a mirror. Other Ophiel hovering in the air sang of the delineation of space; [Ward]. Others spoke of harm committed in the most advantageous ways; [Strike]. Discordant noise became reflective harmony.

Erick felt the magic in his very soul. With a breath in, and then out, he willed [Conjure Weapon] into [Rebound], [Ward], and [Strike], blending into his working the idea of the reflection of matter and magic; a denouncement of all oncomers, a denial of the enemy. His [Lodestar] flexed. The light around him moved as though sinking into a whirlpool, churning and condensing.

He felt a call in the light before him.

He plunged his left hand into the churn. Mana drained; a staggering cost for any normal person, but not for Erick. Light snapped to his forearm, cracking the air with a flex as that light turned into something more solid.

It was… a shield… of sorts. Erick had never seen anything like it. From his own perspective, a small buckler of solid silver held against the outside of his wrist, upon which tendrils of thick air, like solid glass, arced away from that silver center. From Erick’s side, his new shield looked like a masterwork of glass with a bit of silver at the center; an ineffectual shield a meter tall and two-thirds of that wide, a working that would break at the very first [Strike].

But from an Ophiel’s perspective, just on the other side of that shield, Erick’s new magic looked like a solid, thorny briar and a brilliant mirror without a single gap. It was a reflection of the world, pointed outward and against all oncomers.

A blue box was waiting for him when he came back to his own sight.

Shield of All Reflection, instant, self, 2500 mana

Create a nigh-unbreakable weightless shield that reflects all spells and Strikes. Lesser protections against physical attacks. A much lesser protection extends to cover your entire person while held. Will break if the user suffers too much damage. Lasts as long as held, or 10 minutes.

“Ohh.” Erick breathed out, then said, “That’s a mighty fine spell!” He looked to Poi. “Hold out your hand. I want to try something.”

Poi eyed him.

“Bah! Hold out your shield-hand!”

Poi sighed, then held out his hand.

The shield wasn’t actually attached to any part of Erick; its silver-buckler part hovered just on the other side of his forearm, so he had an inkling of some fun tricks he could pull. And he was right. Erick held the shield against Poi’s arm and willed the shield away. It snapped like a closing beartrap upon Poi’s sapphire-scaled arm.

Poi yelped. Then he relaxed. “Okay. So. That was just unexpected.”

The shield had snapped over his arm, but then reformed.

Erick smiled to see the shield on Poi’s arm. “You look good with a shield! Why don’t you use one more?”

Poi waved his arm and the shield around, feeling the weight of it all, or rather, the weightlessness. [Conjure Weapon] was rather light unless you made it otherwise. The shield still caught on the air, of course. If one were to look at it from Poi’s perspective, it might not even seem to exist—

Nope. That was wrong.

Erick looked at the shield again, from an Ophiel that was flying behind Poi, while Poi held the shield up in front of his own face. Glancing over Poi’s shoulder, the shield was just solid silver.

Poi said, “Yup. Only the wearer can see through it.”

Erick summoned another shield onto his left arm. “Want to play around with it? Spell description says it should work against all spells and [Strike]s.”

“No.” Poi twisted his arm to view the opposite side of the shield then poked one of the thorns with a talon. His hand flinched back. He continued to poke at the shield but with more care. “You don’t see me with shields because I’m terrible with shields.”

“Bah!” Erick dismissed his shield, and also the one on Poi’s arm. Poi waved his arm around a bit, as if recirculating the blood. Erick added, “But you’re right. I’m not that great with shields, either, so, I either learn and spend all that time sparring— Or! I do this!”

In much the same way that Erick had once made [Flying Weapon] by linking together [Telekinesis] and [Conjure Weapon], he now did the same with [Telekinesis] and [Shield of All Reflection]. With a quick channeling of mana through his abilities, and checking to hear how they all went together, Erick cast.

The air folded and twisted. Six silver vines, covered with thorns, sprouted from a silver whirlpool, each vine spouting even more vines, all of them curving and curling around and back toward the center, or through each other, layering like some creation halfway between a snowflake and a briarpatch.

The shield hovered a meter in front of Erick. The outside was a silvered surface, covered in tiny spikes with a mirror in the center. The inside was silvered, too, but partially transparent. With a telekinetic impulse, he moved the shield exactly as he would have moved his [Flying Striker], or his light tendrils, or any other telekinetic-adjacent spell. The shield moved quickly. At a thought, Erick whipped it around, testing the responsiveness.

It was pretty good.

Erick checked the blue box.

Flying Shield of All Reflection, instant, self, 2600 mana

Create a nigh-unbreakable weightless shield that moves at your command, and that reflects all spells and Strikes. Lesser protections against physical attacks. A much lesser protection extends to cover your entire person while held. Will break if the user suffers too much damage. Lasts until dismissed, or 10 minutes.

Erick smiled. He could make it better.

He channeled the sounds of [Interception] through one hand, and the [Flying Shield of All Reflection] in the other. He combined them into something quicker. Something more responsive than humanly —or even ‘human?’ly— possible.

Mana twisted away from Erick, then snapped to his forearm, forming into something small; a tiny twisted-silver buckler not even a handspan across.

He blinked.

It might have looked like a nothing-spell, if you used normal sight, but it certainly did not feel that way, and to [True Sight], the tiny buckler appeared like a glowing rock upon Erick’s forearm, bright as his All-Stat belt had been. With a twist of will and a push of intent, that tiny buckler was suddenly in the air, and fully deployed into a full shield, faster than the eye could see. It was the same flying shield Erick had seen earlier, except perhaps more streamlined. Smaller, yes, but no less powerful for it. With another flex of intent, the spell was back on Erick’s forearm, like it had never left.

This was a powerful spell.

The blue box that appeared confirmed Erick’s hunch, somewhat. He came to that conclusion based solely on the dearth of words therein, for other powerful spells like [Lodestar] didn’t have many words, either.

Animadversion, instant, self, 3500 mana

A thorny rebuke!

Lasts until dismissed, or 10 minutes.

Poi put a slight damper on the mood. “That thing is certainly not low-key, sir. Even when it’s small.”

“But it’ll be great when needed!”

“That’s not what I mean— You could use the first or the second one whenever you want. Adventurers have strange magics out in the world all the time. But that thing is casually blocking my— my natural [Telepathy]. Not completely, but partially.”

“… Oh?” Erick glanced at the shield upon his forearm. “That’s a foible I can work around. Would it block hostile mental attacks like [Pure Reflection Ward] does?”

“Yes. That’s a touch above [Pure Reflection Ward], actually.” Poi said, “And you can use it at the same time… That’s... That’s really good. It’ll reflect all healing spells, though. So keep that in mind. You need to actually dismiss it if you want to be healed because it lasts ten extra minutes...” Poi frowned. “I don’t know if this is a good spell.”

“Foibles to work around, Poi! Nothing more than that.” Erick smiled, then dismissed the shield. “I don’t know how Jane expects me to make magic in the middle of a battle. Archmages need to be prepared ahead of time.” Erick did not completely ignore the fantastic spells he had made in the heat of any moment, like [Flight of a Thousand Hands], but he could only get lucky so many times. Being prepared was better than pulling things out of his ass whenever they were needed. “[Animadversion] will be useful some of the time, but not always. So let’s see... I got my shield. My incapacitating spell. I need one or two damaging spells and then I think we’ll be good for exploring the Forest. What do you think?”

Poi instantly said, “Remake your [Sealed Privacy Ward]. I want a nice place to sleep at night, please and thank you.”

“Oh! Right!” Erick said, “That was also on the list. I broke that down just the other day… Has it been long enough? It feels like it has...”

Erick checked his magic, then considered the Destructive versions of [Mana Sight], [Soul Sight], and [Blood Sight], along with the Audio and Visual Disruption options of [Ward], exactly as he had before, but this time he added more pieces. Ophiel picked up those pieces, singing a song of privacy. Erick continued onto a Destructive [Witness], listening to the end of mana sense. He sprinkled in a Destructive [True Sight], listening to the end of sight. There was a Destructive [Scry] in the mix, of course. With a thought to what he had done to make his [Prismatic Ward] permanent, Erick added some of that same functionality to his new creation. He wasn’t sure, exactly, when he had switched from theorizing and listening to casting, but he went with the flow, and magic happened.

Five meters away, in a large space the size of a house, the world blinked, then came back, looking exactly as it had been; nothing seemed to have changed, but everything had. With a blink, Erick switched on his mana sense.

He smiled, laughing a little. This was a good version! The original [Sealed Privacy Ward] had been rimmed in the visual static of [Ward]’s Audio and Visual Disruption options. The spell today had created a private space that looked exactly as it had before. Unless one walked into that space, Erick doubted that anyone could even tell it was there…

Except if they had a mana sense.

Seeing the world as the mana did, Erick saw an opaque white bubble where the spell lay. This was fine. Erick would have put up a [Prismatic Ward], anyway, and there was no way to hide that working from a mana sense.

He blinked off his mana sense, and read the box floating before him.

Sealed Privacy Ward, instant, medium range, 1500 mana

Disrupt all light, sound, scrying, mana sense, soul sense, life sense, and true sight, as it exits a large area, replacing all of that with an image of what was already there. Lasts 24 hours.

When ended, Sealed Privacy Ward further disrupts all mana sense within the protected space.

“I didn’t expect anything close to permanency with as little study I have put toward this, so 24 hours is great! … Blocks all senses.” Erick felt something was missing, but it was a vague feeling, easily dismissed, as he said, “That’s a keeper.”

Poi sighed, content, saying, “Yup.”

“Oh! No scent blocking! … But I already have that in my [Scent Ward]. This is fine.”

“For a trek into the Forest, there will be many redundant hiding spells.”

“Right.” Erick continued, “So! On to a few attack spells, then…” His voice trailed off. Then he said, “I don’t know what a normal mage’s spells look like.”

Poi chuckled, then gestured toward a boulder over yonder. A puff of flame escaped his hand, traveled the twenty-ish meters to the target, then struck, billowing easy-going flames around the rock and leaving lingering fires at the site. He said, “[Fireball] is always a good one.” He kept pointing. A spike of ice, a meter long, dashed forward, cracking into the rock. The ice broke; the rock was fine. “[Ice Spike] is decent. You already have that one.” He lowered his hands. “Then you got [Blinding Flash] and [Thunderous Chime]. Both are useful against anything that relies on sight or sound to target. Great for clearing away animals. Less effective on monsters. [Noxious Scent] works wonders as an animal deterrent, and you get that from Decay and [Alter Scent]. [Invisible Bolt] is great for harrying monsters and keeping them distracted from the tank, but not fully focused on you.” He said, “Basically, just go through the whole Mana Altering Skill, and have one for each Alter.”

“… I had never considered doing… any of those.” Erick said, “You’re quite talkative today, too! I like it.”

With good humor, Poi said, “Maybe we should have gone to the Adventurer’s Guild more. All you keep thinking about is air magic that suffocates and Mercy magic that’s useless against monsters, and besides that, those are not middling-mage spells.”

“How about sticking to anything under 50 mana?” Erick asked, “Would that work?”

“Sure. And then Ophiel shows up and blows your cover. Normal mages don’t have [Familiar]s.”

