“Fascinating,” said Samantha, still chuckling. “But is there anyone here who didn’t know that?”

Surprisingly, Leonidas raised his hand.

“Seriously?” asked Jessie.

“Yeah, I thought he liked you,” said Leo with a shrug.

“Well, Sophie, looks like you got lucky there,” said Samantha. “Alright, Jessie, you’re up!”

The game went around the room, with each new person revealing a slightly smaller secret than Elise had tried to. Evidently, her own attempt backfiring made everyone else more cautious. Jessie went for some low-hanging fruit as well, revealing that Sophie’s personal teacher was a dragon, and Cassian and Leonidas each revealed each others’ favorite colors. Hugo revealed that Theresa wet the bed until she was seven, and Theresa retaliated by exposing that Hugo was scared of snakes.

Helene made no secret of her goal to get as much out of Samantha as possible.

“Samantha is actually 9th tier,” she said confidently.

“Wrong,” said Samantha. “Are you just going to sacrifice your own secrets to try to guess mine?”

“Yes,” said Helene.

“Fair enough,” said Samantha with a shrug. “But you do have to give up another secret now.”

“I’m more than fifty years old,” said Helene dismissively. “Alright, your turn.”

No one had been zoning out, but when it came time for Samantha’s turn, everyone’s attention became hyperfocused on her. While they were all interested in each others’ secrets, Samantha was on a whole other level. Even Emmett himself hadn’t figured out who she was yet, so even the tiniest hint would bring them that much closer to the truth. All that needed to happen was for Samantha to get some of her own guesses wrong, something that happened much sooner than anyone expected.

“Hmmm,” said Samantha, stroking her chin as she deliberated.

She made a show of looking at each person in the room in turn before turning to Elise with a light smile.

“Eleanor,” she said. “You are actually the clone of the king of Corunia.”

Elise heard a small gasp from Cassian, but the rest of the room went silent as Samantha’s faint smile turned into a smug one.

“...No,” said Elise. “That is completely wrong.”

“Huh?” asked Samantha, her expression morphing to confusion. “You’re lying.”

“I’m not,” said Elise. “I am my own person. I am no one’s clone.”

“...Well, shit.”
