“[Greater Invisibility]. [Muffle]. Hm. [Concealed Presence]. [Sticky Feet].”
Az’kerash cast a few spells, turning the rat invisible from detection both mundane and magical. Of course, if a Named Adventurer or someone with high detections Skills was present, he would have to improvise. But the rat, climbing out of the trap door with [Enhanced Strength], encountered no such formidable adversaries. It raced up the wall and saw Pisces as he slowly descended the steps.
The inn was clear, both of people and debris on the floor. In fact, the floors were so polished, it was almost a sin to walk on them. And it was certainly precarious. Octavia’s soap formula had worked—too well. The floors were polished, smooth, and slippery, as if they had had a wax coating. Pisces overbalanced, caught himself with trained grace, and watched Drassi flip and fall on her back.
“Ow!”
The Drake was on duty, and she’d been carrying a platter of food to the table of the inn’s staff. Mrsha, bouncing at the table, looked up in dismay. But Pisces raised a finger and the strange pile of food stopped in midair.
“Drassi, are you alright? Good catch, Pisces!”
Lyonette got up and slipped towards Drassi with Ishkr and a Gnoll. They all nearly fell over as Drassi tried to get up.
“It’s the floor, Lyonette! It’s too slippery!”
“I know, I know. Octavia warned me, but I must have not added enough water! We’ll fix it.”
“We’ve washed it with water and it won’t stop slipping.”
Ishkr pointed out as Pisces made his way over to the table. Az’kerash scurried the rat closer. What was this? The aforementioned pizza?
It did not look like any dish he recognized. Nor, as Pisces pointed out, did it look like a pizza. Mrsha sniffed it suspiciously. It was much too tall, more like a pie than a pizza! And it had…sauce on top? Mrsha stared at Lyonette as she returned to the table. What was this trickery, she signed indignantly? She had been promised pizza!
“It is pizza, Mrsha dear. According to Erin. It’s…deep dish pizza. And I’m told it’s quite fattening, so you’ll eat greens tonight. Don’t give me that look! Drassi, pass me the knife.”
Lyonette scolded Mrsha gently as she served a slice. Pisces, Mrsha, the staff, and Az’kerash all saw the knife bite into the crust and thick pizza and reveal a cheesy filling and a thick base. Mrsha’s eyes lit up. Pisces just sighed.
“Some days it feels like Miss Solstice is unable to make a dish that contains healthy food.”
“If you don’t want it—”
Lyonette looked up. Pisces waved a hand.
“I’m merely remarking on her general culinary focus. By all means, serve me a…slice.”
He took a plate and fork. Mrsha was already gobbling hers and burning her tongue. Pisces began savoring his meal as Drassi rubbed her back.
“Hey, can I get some to share when I leave, Lyonette?”
“Mm. Sure. Erin can always make more. Let’s eat!”
All of them began to tuck into the meal. Az’kerash, possessing a rat…watched. And he frowned. A bit of curiosity rose in him. That had to taste…taste?
“Pizza?”
“What, master?”
The Chosen were watching him. Az’kerash rose, absently, as he watched Pisces making small talk with Lyonette, explaining away the sounds from earlier. And he began to walk, past his undead creations who shuffled out of his way.
It was just a whim. But Az’kerash was concentrated, his thoughts all revolving around this moment. He was in the moment, recalling his past as an Archmage. And he had never seen a food like that before.
The [Necromancer] walked through the halls of his castle, passing by motionless skeletal knights, followed by his Chosen. He paused as he walked through the halls, turned left, then came back the way he’d come. He was looking for a room he hadn’t used since he bought this castle from a certain [Witch]. She’d thrown it in with a deal on the robes he wore. And he had never thought he’d need this room.
But the kitchen did exist. And it was full of dust. Not spiders or any animals; they stayed away. Az’kerash blinked at it. And then he raised his hand.
“[Gust of Wind].”
His Chosen, following him, found themselves encased in a miniature tornado of dust and debris. They walked through it, and peeked around the corner to see Az’kerash standing in the center of the kitchen. They looked at each other. But now was the time.
Bea was the one to speak. Even if she wasn’t first of Az’kerash’s Chosen, like Kerash, she often got away with infractions Venitra, Kerash, Ijvani, and Oom did not.
“…Master? What are you doing?”
The Necromancer turned. He looked at Bea, and then paused.
“Simply…cooking.”
“Cooking?”
Bea was confused. Az’kerash had never eaten. Not since her creation. But the Necromancer was raising a hand. Absently running his hand through the air. Where would he find…?
“Ingredients. My Chosen.”
“Master?”
They chorused as one. Az’kerash turned his head.
“There is a storeroom filled with foods somewhere in this castle. Preserved. Find it. Bring it to me. Bea, wear gloves.”
“Yes, Master. What do you wish? How many bags of holding?”
The Chosen surged with energy. Az’kerash frowned. He stared through the undead rat’s eyes as Lyonette went for another pizza and slipped.
“One, should do. I will not need much of each…flour. Cheese. Hm. That red sauce. Tomatoes? And some…basil. Eggs. Water. Clean water. Salt? And oil, yes.”
“At once, Master!”
The Chosen raced off, vying to be the first one to return. They ran through the halls, searching room after room. Venitra was the first to find the storehouse. Or so she assumed. She stared at the neat rows of produce, bought by her master for some reason that eluded her. Food. It was so…
“Flour first. Perhaps a bag.”
She eyed the huge bags that would require two grown men to carry. Then she bent and inspected the tubular, round things inside.
“Flour?”
She prodded them. They were soft and had some kind of skin. Was this…Venitra stared at the bag. She circled around it. Then she realized they weren’t labeled.
“Venitra? Is this the room?”
Bea and Kerash skidded into the room. They stared at Venitra. She looked up at them, her competitive spirit fading slightly.
“Bea. Kerash. What does flour look like?”
The two Chosen paused. And then looked at each other. And they realized, among their vast knowledge of the world, cooking had never really been an issue for the undead. They turned into an anxious huddle.
“Flour. That was what Master said. I know tomatoes. Red things.”
“Flour. Flowers?”
“No, the white stuff. Like…bone meal?”
“That’s right! What’s salt?”
“Um…the same stuff.”
“No. Eggs?”
“Round.”
“Half the things in here are round!”
“Oh, I know! They turn into chickens!”
Kerash and Venitra stared at Bea. She hesitated.
“I think.”
Az’kerash was still silently watching the meal when his Chosen raced back into the room. He turned his head as they timidly offered him a bag of holding.
“Master, we have brought it. Um…”
The Necromancer reached into the bag and produced the ingredients, one by one. All except for…he stared at a potato.
“This is not an egg, Venitra.”
The bone woman hesitated. Az’kerash inspected the ingredients. He slowly reached for a handful of powder.
“And this is sugar. Not salt. Go back and find the correct ingredients.”
“Yes master.”
The undead hurried off. Az’kerash ignored them. He was fascinated by his own thoughts. How did it go? How did it…flour. And water and eggs. And he needed a bowl—
He looked about for his Chosen and realized they were gone. Absently, Az’kerash clicked his fingers. The stone of the kitchen counter moved, and a perfect, smooth bowl formed out of the stone. The Necromancer stared at it.
“Flour.”
He tossed it in. Egg? He stared at the filthy water that Venitra had brought from somewhere. The undead had a very loose understanding of hygiene too.
“[Purify Water].”
There. Water, clean and sparkling. Az’kerash looked up as his servants raced back in.
“Is this salt?”
“Yes. That’s still not an egg. Venitra. Find me an egg. It looks like—”
Az’kerash clicked his fingers. A floating image of an egg appeared. Venitra gasped.
“That’s an egg? Yes, Master!”
Az’kerash absently cracked an egg when it reappeared. He stared into the bowl, as the water sat on top of flour and the egg’s yolk mixed with all of it. Bea made a face.
“Ew. Is that cooking?”
“Maybe it turns into something. Like Oom and mana cores.”
The Necromancer ignored them. He absently reached out, plucked a wand out of his bag of holding. Stared at it. He cast the wand aside and created a whisk made out of air. Better. He began stirring it.
The flour congealed with the water as it mixed. Bea, who was a zombie engineered from plague, stared at the mixing substances with undisguised horror. Venitra stared at the bowl, appalled. Kerash just blinked.
“Ew, ew, ew…”
“Bea, hush.”
Az’kerash stared at the dough. It had to rise. No—you could bake it as it was, he recalled. He raised one hand. The dough rose upwards. The pizza looked like—
The dough moved. It shaped itself into an approximation of the bowl. Az’kerash paused. Cheese? He stared at a wheel.
“Kerash, slice it. Into small pieces.”
The Gnoll drew his sword, one of the six Baneblades made to slay the living. He chopped up the cheese. Az’kerash poured it into the bowl. Next came the tomatoes. Venitra raised one fist. He eyed her, pointed. The tomato pulped in midair, poured on top of the cheese. Venitra lowered her fist, dejected.
“Is that it?”
Az’kerash mused. He couldn’t help but feel that it had been different. Ah, the [Chefs] of Terandria courts didn’t work so. But he was out of touch. Out of his field. Absently, the [Necromancer] clicked his fingers.
“Let’s see. [Flame Jet]?”
A blast of fire shot from his hands, struck the ceiling, and turned the room to fire. Bea and Kerash fled. Az’kerash narrowed his eyes, adjusted the heat. He turned to Venitra and gestured absently.
“Venitra, close the door.”
Joyfully, the bone woman did. The kitchen, now an oven, smoldered, and Az’kerash, still holding the pie in his free hand, watched it bake.
“Clearly a flawed attempt.”
That was his remark afterwards. The crust, in the searing heat, had browned. It was too thin, and lacked yeast. The tomato sauce wasn’t actually a sauce with the nuance Erin had made, but just…pulpy tomatoes. The cheese was okay, but the deep dish pizza was too hot. The Necromancer pointed.
“[Deep Freeze].”
It turned to ice. He tapped it again.
“[Warming Touch].”
There. The pizza was steaming. Az’kerash placed it on the counter as Bea and Kerash peeked back in. Venitra stared at her master. He regarded it. Inspected it. Sliced a piece away. Raised it to his lips. And took a bite.
“Master?”
His Chosen gaped at him. Az’kerash frowned, chewed, swallowed. He considered the food for a moment.
“Crude. Even were it made correctly. The nobility of Terandria would not stand for it if they knew how simple it was. But if I were…”
He lapsed into thought. And Perril Chandler remembered a boy who might have loved the taste of this dish. He stared at the pizza, and then at the image of Pisces eating, stealing the last bit of pizza from Mrsha. He looked at the burnt, ill-made version in front of him. And he turned away.
His Chosen watched the Necromancer leave the kitchen. They stared at each other, full of wild surmises. They could guess their master’s will most times, at least in part, but this? They stared at the pizza and the single bite taken out of the slice. After a moment, Kerash reached for a piece.
Venitra beat him to it. She snatched up the pizza, took a huge bite. She chewed, and Bea and Kerash all took a bite of the rest of the pizza. After a moment, they swallowed. All of them stared at the deep dish pizza. Then at each other. Venitra tossed her pizza down. The undead woman scowled and spat the pizza out; she didn’t have a throat. She was solid bone. Kerash poked at his stomach experimentally. Bea shook her head.
“I don’t see the point. It’s pretty, though. Like the inside of a fresh body.”
 
——
 
The Necromancer didn’t know why he was still watching. Only that the young Pisces called to him. In a way. It had taken Az’kerash some time to make the pizza. And then, the Necromancer returned to his work room and absently continued working on his whale design. But the feed into the inn continued in his mind. And as time passed—so quickly for the [Necromancer], but so full of relevance for the living, he saw Pisces returning upstairs. The inn filling with guests, half of whom fell over. His team returning.
He had a team. People who trusted him. Az’kerash saw the half-Elf, the female [Warrior], and the Antinium joining Pisces. Lyonette had a sign warning everyone of the slippage. She could only wait for the floor to re-dirty itself; she wasn’t about to spread sawdust, which would defeat all the work they’d done. There were some benefits to the slippery floors.
“Whee! Go Mrsha!”
Drassi skidded across the floor, using some towels like skates. Mrsha slid past her on her stomach. The staff had cleared a path for her down the center of the inn when they’d moved the chairs back and the Gnoll was happily sliding across the floor. Some of the guests were trying it too, but they didn’t have the childish ability to surf on their stomachs like Mrsha.
Pisces was there too. Az’kerash had seen him return to his studies, trying to memorize an [Acid Orb] spell. And then return below as his team came back. Ceria was telling him about some scenario involving their team.
“Stan’s on board, and so is Alais’ team and a few others. I think they’re still sort of, you know, about us, but they want the pay. We’re going to go out on a preliminary expedition soon with them, so be polite, Pisces.”
“I shall be exceedingly polite to their fragile egos.”
The [Necromancer] sneered. He was having a dish of greens with a side of salmon. He paused as Mrsha slid by him on her back, giggling silently and waving her paws. Ceria laughed with delight and Yvlon smiled. Pisces just sniffed.
“Childish.”
The Gnoll cub looked up, slightly hurt, and Yvlon punched Pisces on the shoulder.
“Don’t spoil her fun. Is Erin back yet?”
“Not yet. Although I am amused to see her inn is the locus of her breed of chaos, even when she herself is not here.”
They all laughed at that. Az’kerash watched the inn fill, empty. The rat followed Pisces upstairs as night fell. Watching. Just watching. His friends bade him good night. The Antinium even stood in Pisces’ room, watching him demonstrate the new skeleton and dutifully applauded. The [Necromancer] smiled.
“Why am I continuing to observe?”
