“Forever is a long time, my dear. Even the undead fade. I would that you could stay with me. But…”
Bea looked at him. And Az’kerash paused.
“You lack only for one thing, Bea. You, Venitra, Kerash, Oom, and Ijvani. One thing that would elevate my Chosen, allow you to correct your flaws. Without it, you are unchanging. With it, you might deliver me that forever.”
“What? Master—if it is anything, we will find it for you. Salt, or flour. Or…”
Az’kerash laughed softly. Bea held still, hopeful. But he shook his head.
“It is nothing you can make. Or if it is, every hint of it was scoured from the earth. It is something I failed at a hundred thousand times. But still, I persist.”
“What?”
“Life. Someday, I will complete the secret to creating life. And someday, perhaps, you will level, Bea. If I could only understand what I lack. But neither Zelkyr nor I ever finished the secret. And I fear my friend died, leaving Cognita shackled. And you—you are forever my child. You will not grow. But I love you for that.”
Bea closed her eyes. It hurt. Even when he told her he loved her. Because she knew she was incomplete. And she would know it forever. But maybe—she looked up. And he nodded.
“Someday, master? You promise?”
“Yes. I will keep trying. I promise you. Forever.”
He held her. And she took all the comfort from his promise.
After a while, Az’kerash rose. He brushed Bea’s cheek, and then left her standing in the dust. He walked through his castle, past an army of undead led by Kerash. A silent Venitra watched him walk into his work room. The Necromancer stared up at his creation hanging in the air. And then he waved a hand.
The thing he worked on next was simple. It was so simple, it was beyond his grasp. The Necromancer raised his hands. And all of his craft, all of his being went into it. A twisting word, a magical script compressed a million times. A library’s worth of words, drawn in magic. All the power he could command, shimmering into a point. It was a word, but incomplete.
Power scorched through the air. Az’kerash pointed and the charged air turned the sky dark. The objects in the room, the other magical wards, began to fail as the magical script condensed further, into a shining point. He raised both hands, and his eyes opened wide.
Flesh moved among bone. Organs moved, forming together. A heart rose, beating, imitating life. Lungs heaved, a body filled with blood and every component floated in front of him. He pointed, and the mote of light struck its chest. For a second, the heart beat. And the eyes opened. Az’kerash pointed.
“Live.”
The eyes opened—and the magic blasted outwards. The Necromancer raised one hand. The shockwave sent every object in the room flying. He stood as it blasted outwards, and the undead in his castle looked up, their eyes flickering for a moment.
And then it was done. The Necromancer stood amid failure. And he exhaled. He turned away. He walked towards his quarters.
Things to do. He didn’t sleep. He didn’t rest. But some things were beyond him. Perhaps even immortals needed to stop. There, Az’kerash sat. He thought of this day. An aberration among countless others. And at last, he waved a hand.
In a dark room an undead rat sat up. It regarded a sleeping young man, sprawled out in his bed, snoring after a late night of…fun. Childish though it may be. Az’kerash regarded him. And he thought of the man he was. He turned his head, staring at the incomplete foot, the attempt at a behemoth.
So young. So inexperienced. But—so familiar. The Necromancer paused, looking down at Pisces. Then he raised a finger.
In the room, the bones stirred. They floated out of Pisces’ bag of holding. They reshaped themselves. And a creature of bone rose. A monster far larger than a Bone Horror. Smaller than a giant. The Necromancer paused as it began to touch the ceiling. Then—he was struck by a thought.
He smiled, and twisted his fingers. The bone bent, reshaping itself. The form kept building, but compressing itself, doubling over, moving sideways, to fit in the enclosed space. The Necromancer kept working, assembling the final product.
He finished it at last. The twisting structure of bone filled the room. A behemoth, compressed through contortions of bone, but complete. And animated. The spell matrices twisted in Az’kerash’s sight, a complex knot due to how the creature was aligned. But it was whole. And its eyes flickered to life. The head rested just above Pisces as the [Necromancer] tossed in his bed, oblivious of the change.
The Necromancer paused, looking at the behemoth. It pleased him, in a slightly perverse way. The young man would have to decipher it to understand how it worked. It was a riddle made of magic only a [Necromancer] could solve, and even then—tricky. He had to admit. But it was familiar.
Homework. The kind he’d used to give to students, a lifetime ago. For a moment, the Necromancer smiled. And then the little rat floated forwards. It scribbled on the skull of the undead creature facing Pisces. A spell. The little paw engraved the magical words deep in the skull, a black spell, a death magic.
Call it a whim. Call it a chance. Az’kerash turned away. He had work to do, and Pisces was only one of his concerns. But—he spared one last look as the rat collapsed onto the table. He would not watch the boy today. Perhaps tomorrow. To see how he had done. Perhaps, to see him and his team. The strange inn.
But the Necromancer’s amusement faded. His eyes darkened. And he looked at the slumbering form one last time. He whispered.
“Someday, you will see the depths of their hatred for you, boy. Rejoice in your today, for that tomorrow lies ahead. Inevitably.”
He turned away. And the Necromancer thought of the future. The past was dead. He sat back in his chair and closed his eyes for nine seconds. And he thought of nothing at all. Then he opened his eyes.
“…Where did Ijvani go?”
