Az’kerash instructed the rat to swivel its head, taking in the room. He replied softly, absently noting the construction of bones. Piecemeal. The boy was using a piecemeal construction, rather than whole bones. He must lack for a supply, certainly of larger bones. And—he was working on a behemoth-type undead?
Ah, the book Az’kerash had given him. Perfecting Facets of Undeath, by the [Necromancer] Credeth. Pompous, certainly, but excellent in describing fundamental construction techniques. By the looks of it, the young [Necromancer] had failed to grasp the theory so far.
That was disappointing. But mildly so. The boy wasn’t Az’kerash’s apprentice. He was most definitely not in fact. They had an arrangement.
Pisces had encountered Venitra under the guise of Regrika Blackpaw during her disastrous pursuit of Ryoka Griffin. Unhappily, he had known Venitra for what she was and Az’kerash had been forced to intervene. He’d offered Pisces a simple deal: instruction for silence. The alternative would have been death.
This was simpler, for all it carried an inherent risk. But Az’kerash had exacted promises, bound by magic that Pisces could not break. And he had attracted the Necromancer’s attention. After all, Reiss was dead. A failure at the end. But Pisces might be a good replacement. An experiment at the very least.
Az’kerash frowned. But not one he intended to spend too much time on. He had already assisted the young mage with making Bone Horrors, and provided him with a book on necromancy. Indeed, Az’kerash had been quite generous, giving Pisces examples of his own creations. The [Necromancer] was specialized in bone-type undead, which was more difficult than simply reanimating bodies. However…
“What is that design, young Necromancer?”
The rat turned to the skeleton standing in the center of the room. It was similar to a basic skeleton soldier, but horribly, terribly flawed. The ribcage had been redesigned, creating some kind of…Az’kerash peered at it, but the rat didn’t have a good view.
“I gave you the designs of a more functional skeletal soldier. That is an alteration of my work.”
His voice was ominous. Pisces hesitated and licked his lips, but he did reply.
“Yes, Archmage. However—I was experimenting with the structure of your skeletal soldier. Of course, I mastered the basic form at once! However, in your absence, I considered modifying the central structure to create a projectile weapon of sorts…”
He was referring to the elongated limbs, and the reinforced structure of the spell bindings. It made basic skeletons that bit more deadly at little cost. Az’kerash stared at the ribcage.
“You spent three weeks attempting to redefine a bone structure I personally designed? One without flaw?”
Ridiculous. It was a foolish design as well, weakening the existing integrity of the ribs, which were in themselves a fairly effective design! And a projectile weapon? Pisces defended himself, and a bit of haughtiness leaked into his tone.
“Archmage, I believed it was worth the effort. You see, I had the thought that a skeleton might well surprise an enemy with a crossbow-like weapon, only built into the creature—”
He was interrupted by a sound from the rat. Az’kerash waved a hand in irritation, much to the surprise of his Chosen, who were only watching his side of the conversation. He spoke out loud, the rat copying his words.
“Ridiculous. There is no elasticity without sinew of some kind. I might applaud your ingenuity—I myself have considered such designs, albeit with spell and sinew—but with bone? You fail to understand what any novice [Engineer] would. The standards of [Necromancers] have fallen if you do not understand the basic principle of how crossbows work.”
Pisces flushed beet red at the criticism, and he hunched his shoulders. But he still talked back.
“Archmage Az’kerash, I believe I have completed such a mechanism.”
“Impossible.”
The Necromancer’s voice was dismissive. He watched as Pisces hurried over to his skeleton. The young man angled the skeleton’s chest cavity just to the left of the undead rat controlled by Az’kerash.
“You see, there is a small bolt inside.”
But it wasn’t going to fire. There was no tension. No string that could hold the force. Az’kerash sighed—
And he heard a snap, a crack, and a shard of bone blew past the undead rat’s head and shattered on the far wall.
From below, Lyonette looked upstairs and shook her head as Mrsha and her Gnoll staff looked at her.
“Just Pisces. If he breaks a window or damages a wall, the Horns will pay for it. Keep going.”
Inside the room, the Necromancer stared at the bits of bone on the floor. Then he looked up. Pisces was desperately trying to suppress a smirk. Az’kerash paused. More of his thoughts focused in.
“Remove the skeleton’s protective armor on one side of the body and turn it to face me.”
Pisces did, bones floating away and Az’kerash saw. Pisces pointed it out excitedly.
“You see, Archmage, my design is essentially an inner crossbow built into the torso of the skeleton. Obviously there is space if I miniaturize some elements. The entire bone structure shifts so, and thus creates a hammer effect here…”
“…launching your crude projectile out of the rib cage. That is not a crossbow. But similar in structure. Your terminology is off. But the design…”
Pisces flushed a bit as Az’kerash considered the effect.
“A single shot is all each skeleton would provide. And the design is quite complex. Pointless in an army given the cost to create such a skeleton.”
“Yes, Archmage. However, I have a limited supply of creations I can animate. And I do not create permanent undead.”
That was true. Az’kerash considered the skeleton. It looked ridiculous, frankly. He imagined them trying to aim. They would have to bend backwards to aim upwards, let alone swivel to target something.
“You would sacrifice the integrity of your skeletons for a limited advantage. And this chest-mounted firing mechanism would handicap the skeleton.”
Pisces nodded rapidly. He walked around the skeleton and lifted an arm.
“I am aware of the issues, Archmage. This is my proposed fix for the problem when I understood it. One arm. I am attempting to configure the bones in such a way that it can fire a single bolt of bone while keeping the rest of the corpse more or less natural to the body. If I can mass-animate skeleton warriors for instance, they would be quickly deployed with a significant hidden advantage…”
And fire one shot per battle. One sliver of bone, thrown from a miniature crossbow. Az’kerash considered that. Complex, perhaps needlessly so if you could give a skeleton an actual bow or crossbow. But it could go through an eye, take an enemy off-guard.
“It is still needlessly complex. But continue.”
Pisces relaxed. He sped around the skeleton, reconfiguring it.
“I also had plans to trap the body itself, Archmage, so that the entire body explodes outwards in battle. I had perceived an, ah, weakness in my team of adventurers. I had encountered the [Sinew Magus], a rather powerful [Mage] by the name of Grimalkin in the last week—”
“Grimalkin?”
Az’kerash paused. His eyes flickered, recalling.
“Ah. Of Pallass. That buffoon. He thrashed your team quite effectively, I take it?”
In physical combat, he was certainly capable of that. Pisces nodded carefully, repeating Grimalkin’s assessment. Az’kerash agreed, at least in part.
“Bone Horrors are not designed for power. Bones are, by nature, lighter than flesh. Had you specialized in Draugr, you would have the crushing force you seek. Assuming you armed your creations with appropriate equipment, such as warhammers. However, your weakness is not a lack of spell power in other fields, young Necromancer. You simply lack for two aspects: [Deathbolt] and your own force of undead.”
Pisces paused.
“You believe so, Archmage?”
Az’kerash felt another twinge of ire. Pisces was exceedingly humble in attitude, but his questions betrayed his skepticism. He spoke flatly.
“I am certain. As I have informed you, [Necromancers] build armies. They do not spontaneously conjure creations; that area lies too far into a [Summoner]’s field. Necromancy’s strength lies in preparation and planning, not spontaneity.”
“I do understand that, Archmage. But my circumstances do not allow me to have, ah, standing undead. And is there not an elegance in having pre-prepared designs one can call forth at need? A focus on quality over quantity?”
“Elegance?”
Az’kerash was almost disbelieving. That young upstart thought—he looked at Pisces’ designs. No, he did assume he could improve on his work! And quality over quantity? Was he implying…
Pisces realized he’d gone too far. He paled, and hastened back to his skeleton, knocking it to pieces and summoning the variety that Az’kerash had shown him.
“Of course, I am a strict student of your wisdom, Archmage! I wouldn’t dream of countermanding your instruction; I only seek to learn as a humble student of your—”
“Silence.”
Pisces paused. Az’kerash looked at him. He was…the Necromancer’s fingers tapped slowly against the armrest of his chair.
“If you believe your designs to be an example of quality over quantity, by all means, continue your efforts to improve them. They have little potential for warfare in my armies. Now, I have insufficient time for instruction this day. I will aid you in your understanding of the fundamental principles of creating undead giants and behemoths. Assuming you are able to understand the concept by the time we next meet.”
He didn’t wait for the flushed Pisces to reply. The Necromancer gestured, and the rat bones collapsed. But he didn’t break the connection. It only seemed to the novice standing in the room that the magic had left the rat. Az’kerash watched Pisces stare red-faced at the rat and then kick over the skeleton.
“Little potential for warfare? I am not aiming towards war or—or some endless soldiery of mass-produced troops! It’s perfectly viable! And this idiotic book—written by hidebound fossils incapable of new ideas—”
He hurled the tome Az’kerash gave him against the wall. The Necromancer watched, tapping his finger on the armrest. Childish tantrums. Not one shred of dignity about him. And that irksome manner of his, questioning Az’kerash’s designs. You could make an army of undead skeletons with an attachment that fired a single arrow from their arms—you could even make undead who had a small catapult built into one arm like a primitive sling. But what was the point? It was a waste of time.
About to cut the connection, Az’kerash spared a moment to regret his tutelage of Pisces. Part of him wondered if he should simply kill him. The young man was so—so—
And then Az’kerash, the Necromancer, heard the faint tapping sound. He felt it in one finger and stared down. The tapping finger on the armrest stopped. And the Necromancer realized he was…annoyed. It was so surprising he just stared at his finger for a minute.
Annoyed? Him? At being questioned by a single young [Necromancer] less than half his level? Az’kerash blinked. He’d been affronted by the designs, the implication that his undead had, in any way, less elegance or refinement than Pisces was capable of. But that was such an odd statement.
Not to Az’kerash, the Necromancer. He was a master of undeath, and the greatest [Necromancer] living in this world. Even if you put him against the ancient [Necromancers] of old, Az’kerash would have been confident his Skills outclassed those old masters in some areas. But his touchy pride bothered another part of him.
“I would have never taken a student in Wistram to task so. I only took issue with poor students, lazy ones that failed to innovate. Like that upstart Feor.”
Az’kerash stared ahead. Then he looked back through the rat’s eyes. Pisces had stopped throwing things around. Now he was squatting, slapping his forehead and calling himself names for insulting Az’kerash. Every so often he’d glance up at the rat, to make sure it was still inanimate. Az’kerash hesitated. Perhaps…
“Pisces!”
Both the [Necromancer] and the Necromancer jumped. In Az’kerash’s gaze, it was just a movement of the hand. The voice was loud, and it was accompanied by a sharp rap on the door. Lyonette called from outside the hallway.
“We have lunch!”
“Already?”
“…It’s been four hours! We’re still not done, but you are a guest. I have some of Erin’s newest pizza if you’d like to have a quick meal? I think it’s a pizza, anyways.”
Az’kerash saw Pisces hesitate, and then collect himself, he called out as he rushed the bones into his bag of holding.
“I should be delighted to, Miss Lyonette!”
“Good! I’ll set a plate. Come down, but watch your step! It’s, er, a bit slick. The soap Octavia gave me is rather strong.”
The [Necromancer] paused as Lyonette headed downstairs. He looked back at the dead rat and Az’kerash saw him bite his tongue, and then shake his head. He hurried for the door. And Az’kerash, after a moment, followed him.
It was just a whim. But the young man’s odd—relationship with the inn still intrigued Az’kerash. And he felt annoyed at himself for snapping at the boy. When he had studied at Wistram, he had criticized that same inflexibility in his teachers. What on earth had possessed him to copy them? Those flawed, ancient fools? It was a flaw in his thinking and should be corrected. Not that Az’kerash interacted with the living, but arrogance was a weakness.
As for Pisces—Az’kerash had also heard an unfamiliar word. And the scholar in him had to hesitate.
“Pizza?”
Some new dish, of course. But it did intrigue, so the Necromancer found a new set of eyes to follow Pisces. Obviously, the undead rat the [Necromancer] thought was Az’kerash’s only eyes on him wouldn’t do. So Az’kerash cast his senses around the inn and surrounding area. It was simple. There was death everywhere.
And in this case, Az’kerash’s new minion came exactly in the same place he had found the old. The People of the Grain Sack, the rats of Erin’s basement, had been slaughtered mercilessly by the horrible ‘pets’ of Elirr. But not all their bones had been disposed of. A few corpses remained, hidden in a grain sack, suffocated by the grain.
It was really going to make Erin call into question the health codes of her inn when she thought of them, but to be fair, her grain was preserved, and so were the corpses since they technically counted as food. Just potentially filled with rat germs. Now, one of these corpses moved. The rat’s body twitched, began to dig upwards, out of the sack. It emerged, scampered towards the basement stairs. And turned invisible, soundless.
