Unwilling to shoulder the loss, I try to will the room back into existence, but no matter how hard I focus on the image in my mind, nothing I imagine forms in my Natal Palace, not Baledagh’s room, Qing-Qing’s hut, my home in the village, or even my yurt in Nan Ping. Despite knowing my body isn’t really here, I take a deep breath to calm my nerves. By destroying the replica of the village, have I caused irreparable damage to my Natal Palace? Is this what the Legate meant by ‘diminished’? Is this why it’s been in flux lately? Does this mean it’s no longer able to hold a cohesive form? Am I stuck with this vacant, underwater domain forever, or will it be a crap shoot every time I visit, wondering what image from my subconscious I’ll find next?

Great. Just great. I lost my happy place, which was never really all that happy to begin with, but it was mine. Then again, this could all be because I overdrew my Chi reserves during the confrontation with Pong Pong, so maybe I’ll get lucky for once and everything will pop back into existence after I meditate and top off my Core. Willing myself to calm down, I open myself to the Energy of the Heavens -

The ground trembles beneath my feet and slides out from under me.

Even as my body tumbles through the watery depths, the world spins circles around me, a nauseating and disorienting sight I would never care to repeat. Twisting and turning, the world alternates between darkness and light as time and direction lose all meaning. Am I falling or is the world rising? Does it matter?

Without warning, the world comes to a halt and I find myself face to face with a massive, red moon hanging in the sky, or perhaps planted in the ground, I’m not sure which. Against my will, I’m brought on a journey around the moon, or I remain in place while the moon rotates before me, again I’m not sure of which. Soon enough, a shimmering sea of blackness emerges from the red moon’s surface, and I’m struck by an epiphany as I take in the familiar sight, one I witnessed mere minutes ago in the real world.

That’s no moon...

Waving at the massive eyeball, I force a smile and yell, “Hi Pong Pong!”

The gravity of the situation makes my stomach turn. Somehow, I stepped into the wrong Natal Palace, invading the tiny turtle’s domain instead of slipping into my own. I don’t know how it happened, or what triggers it, especially since I’ve never been able to replicate the feat whether it be with Dagen or anyone else I know and trust. Aside from Dagen, the other Natal Palaces I ventured into belonged to Yo Ling and Bei, one Defiled and one Demon respectively. Thankfully, Pong Pong is a far more humble host than Yo Ling, and after peering at my tiny Spiritual Body for a while, shrinks himself down to a much more reasonable size, though still many times larger than his real body, stopping at about twenty times bigger than Ping Ping.

Glancing around, I realize it’s possible he didn’t shrink himself down, but instead made my Spiritual Body larger, which has implications I’d rather not dwell on. Turns out, Pong Pong’s Natal Palace isn’t as empty as I’d thought, I was merely too small to perceive it. Colourful stones and verdant seaweeds dot the landscape all around us, while golden sand sparkles from in between. It’s a complete underwater world, filled with all manner of complex sea structures stretching farther than I can see. Judging from the disparity in our initial sizes, it stands to reason Pong Pong’s Natal Palace is much, much, much larger than my own, which backs the Legate’s claim that bigger is better. I guess Pong Pong is big where it matters, which explains how he beat the shit out of five peak Experts and his future wife.

Resting on what appears to be a bed of sculpted, pink coral, Pong Pong studies me with undisguised curiosity, obviously wondering how I appeared in his mental sanctuary. That makes two of us, but sadly, I lack the ability to communicate effectively. Patting his massive nose, I giggle at how absurd this must seem to his little turtle brain, finding a tiny replica of the person who offered home and safety inside his mental fortress of solitude. It might also be because I’ve gone giddy with fear since I realized I’ve inadvertantly stepped into a domain in which Pong Pong holds absolute power.

Seriously... he could wipe me out with little more than a thought. What happens if this Spiritual Body dies? Do I cough up blood and wake up, or do I turn into a vegetable and sleep forever? Maybe I’ll form a third, previously unknown personality and he’ll step in and take over. I don’t know, but I’d rather not find out. Sadly, the first thing I did was try to will myself awake, but to no effect. It seems I’m stuck here at the mercy of Pong Pong’s whims, but thankfully, the ginormous turtle has yet to react, happy to lay there while I awkwardly pat his nose and pray he doesn’t eat me.

Tilting his head, he nudges me away and a massive shrimp pops into existence between us, his way of asking for more food.

Thankful I fed him before going down for a nap, I nod and shout, “Yes! I’ll get you more shrimp, but you have to let me out.” Blinking in non-comprehension, the giant turtle tilts his head the other way and makes yet another shrimp, unable to understand my words or gestures. Swimming over to the first shrimp, I point at it while furiously nodding, hoping he’s smart enough to understand. Blinking in contentment, Pong Pong smiles and the world dissipates around us.

Coming to with a start, I sit up in my yurt surrounded by a horde of disgruntled bun buns, annoyed by the disruption of their afternoon nap. Poking out from his shell, Pong Pong’s head has the same inquisitive tilt, still wondering if what he saw in his Natal Palace was real or imagined. Heart pounding in my chest, I smile at the tiny turtle and nod once again, saying, “You want shrimp? I’ll feed you all the shrimp you want Pong Pong.”

I don’t know if this is a good or bad thing, but what I do know is if the super powerful turtle with a planet-sized Natal Palace wants to eat shrimp, who am I, with my tiny, room-sized Natal Palace, to refuse? Besides, Pong Pong is so physically tiny, how much could he possibly eat?

Chapter Meme
