Before the working could settle into her being and start affecting her thinking, she struck, slashing through the indicated part of the massive construct, shattering the odd material and causing it to disperse into nothingness.

She immediately dismissed Flow and all the workings that had surrounded it.

Reality stuttered.

With the rapidity of a popping bubble, the reality field that had been expanding outward was torn away, fragments collapsing inward with the power of a galeforce wind.

Yet the actual air was utterly still.

Like the dropping of a rock into a perfectly clear, still pond, ripples radiated out across reality even as magic flooded back in.

Tala felt the magic that they’d passed by on the way in—that which was more chaotic—rush inward as well, away from the collapsing zeme of ambient power coming to level out the region.

A moment later, the chaos was lost among order, the kinks and hitches smoothed out and forced into alignment with the laws of magic that Tala was used to just as she understood them to be.

There was a fractional pause as if all combatants across the entire area had taken a collective breath. Then, magic exploded into being.

Combatants who had been held back now washed away lesser automata with abandon, and they were suddenly achieving crushing victory.

There would be pockets of resistance, and it would take time to hunt down the remnants but—

Terry’s presence suddenly slapped her upside the head as the soulbound was fully unveiled once more.

He wasn’t close, but he was closing in at speed, and that very fact drew her attention far more quickly than it otherwise would have been directed toward him.

Alat seemed to have the same draw, and she was startled enough that she didn’t shield her half of the conversation with Terry from Tala. -Huh? Check the Archive? Wha—? Oh, no…-

Terry had stopped as soon as he sensed Tala, and he was now moving away again, back the way he’d come. Alat? What’s going on?

-Bandfast is threatened. An army is mere hours away. We are needed.-

Tala wasn’t proud that one of her first thoughts was for certain tasty food-logs, but she moved past it and nodded firmly. Get our orders from the war council, gather those who can come with us. We leave in fifteen.

-It will be done.-
