There was a grinding crash as the blockage collapsed, filling the tunnel with choking dust. Vanna shouted and pulled Yott back, saving her from being crushed. Tarny scrambled away, staring worriedly at the ceiling. He’d been told it was safe, but nothing was certain. Mining was not for the faint of heart.

A wave of freezing air washed over him, coming from the other side of the barrier. As the rocks settled, the air became colder and colder, to the point that wisps of fog curled through the air. Peering into the darkness, Tarny made out the form of a man, climbing the piled stones.

“Hey, it’s him!” Yott shouted. “Night Cleaner, are you okay? You didn’t get hit, did you?”

“No,” said a man’s voice, echoing in the tunnel. “Thank you, Yott, I’m fine.”

“You remember me?” said Yott, sounding surprised.

“Of course,” said the man, slowly making his way through the rubble. “I remember all of you. Hello, Yott, Tarny, Vanna. It’s been a while.”

Tarny shivered, and not from the cold. He felt an enormous pressure weighing down on him, growing stronger and stronger as the man came out into the light. He swallowed, eyes locked on to the black-cloaked form of the Night Cleaner.

His thoughts snagged on the image of Rain when they’d met him before. The man, unarmored, had been freezing slimes solid with a thought. At the time, it had been exciting. Now, the cold rolling off of the adventurer felt like a threat. It spoke of an endless winter, with no chance for spring. In a word: death.

He glanced at his fellow workers nervously. They seemed likewise unsettled. Vanna, usually unflappable, looked like she had seen a pack of kin. This was the power of an awakened. Lord Rain. The Night Cleaner. Death Zone. That last name was new, but standing here and feeling this pressure, it felt like the truest of them all.

No matter the fact that Tarny remembered the adventurer as harmless, friendly, even, he still felt afraid. The pressure was strangling, like thick smoke from a hay fire, except as cold as ice. If this man wanted to kill them, he could do it without even lifting a finger. Against his power, the three of them were less than chaff in the wind.

Death Zone stepped down from the blockage, then paused, his armored head swiveling to each of them in turn. Tarny flinched as he felt the adventurer’s gaze on him. The silence stretched, then the adventurer spoke.

“What’s wrong?”

Rain was confused. The three workers standing in front of him looked as pale as ghosts beneath the grime covering them. There was no reason that he could see for them to be acting like this.

“Um…Lord Rain, I…” Tarny stammered. He swallowed, then spoke in a rush. “We dug as fast as we could. I’m sorry it took so long.”

“Calm down,” Rain said. “And just call me Rain.”

He couldn’t understand why, but Tarny was clearly terrified. The others looked unsettled as well, but not to the same extent. Rain reached up slowly to remove his helmet. “I know you remember me,” he said as he pulled it free, “There’s nothing to be afraid of.”

“Then why are you using magic like that?” Vanna demanded, placing herself between him and the others. “Whatever you’re doing, please stop. It is making it hard to breathe.”

“I’m not doing anything,” Rain said, hanging his helmet on his belt and raising his hands. “The cold is just from before. I was using Refrigerate to—never mind. There shouldn’t be any magic affecting you.”

I’m just using Winter, and it’s compressed… They shouldn’t even feel it. What the hell is going on?

Vanna took a deep breath, then let it out slowly. “I’m not sure…”

“Vanna, come on, it’s just in our heads,” said Yott. “It’s late, we’re tired, and he looked evil as fuck with that helmet on. Look, at his face. He’s the same as he was when we went with him into the sewer last month.”

“If you mean scruffy-looking, then yes, yes I am,” said Rain, gesturing to his head in an attempt to lighten the mood. He didn’t have a mirror to check, but he was betting that he had quite the case of helmet hair.

Tarny let out a nervous laugh. Vanna looked at Yott, a skeptical expression on her face.

“No,” said Vanna. “It’s still there. You’re just getting used to it. Focus on the feeling and you can tell. Otherwise it just sort of slips into the background.” She licked her lips. “I think… I think I know what this is.”

“What what is?” Rain said. “Seriously, I’m not doing anything.”

Vanna ignored him, speaking to the others. “When I was just a little girl, I met the Volcano. I couldn’t have been more than five.”

“Wait, really?” Yott said, “You met the Volcano? Why did you never tell us that?”

“It never came up,” Vanna said, shooting her a look. “And it was a long time ago. Anyway, I remember feeling like this. This pressure... The Volcano had it too. His was less wild. More deliberate. Still, it was the same. This…” She shook her head. “Have either of you ever met a goldplate? Other than Halgrave, I mean.”

Both Yott and Tarny shook their heads.

Vanna turned back to Rain. “This pressure… It’s oversoul.”

What?

Yott scoffed. “No way. That’s just a thing in stories. Nobody is that strong. You can’t feel someone’s soul. It doesn’t extend past the body. Everyone knows that.”

“Okay, you explain it then,” said Vanna, glaring at her.

“Wait, wait, wait,” Rain said, drawing their attention back to him. “What the heck are you talking about? What’s oversoul?”

“You really don’t know?” said Vanna disbelievingly.

Rain winced. Shit, common knowledge. My weakness. “Maybe I just know it by another name,” he said hurriedly. “Is it supposed to be something like what Avarox did to the court of Wix? You know, unveiling himself and quelling them with a glance? From Legends of the Green Wood?”

“Yes, that’s exactly what it means,” said Tarny, looking at Rain with wide eyes. The fear had been replaced with awe. Rain found the sudden reversal jarring. “You’re a platinum…” Tarny whispered.

“Bullshit,” said Yott. “You’re daft, both of you.” She pointed at Rain. “He couldn’t even blast his way through a little mud, remember? There’s no way he’s stronger than Halgrave after a month, and Halgrave doesn’t give off…whatever this is.”

What the hell is going on?

Rain shook his head. It made no sense. Legends of the Green Wood hadn’t used the word oversoul, but in several of the stories, there had been descriptions of powerful people suppressing others with a glance or just by entering a room. He’d just taken that figuratively, but now, reviewing the passages in his mind, he saw how it could have been meant literally. Rain froze, connections rapidly snapping into place between the stories from the book, his own experiences, and things he’d overheard at the Guild. A picture began to form in his mind.

My soul is…leaking?

He shook his head, thinking it through.

I have a powerful soul for my level. My character screen confirms it with the total experience number. I’ve got a rare class, and I’ve spent an assload of experience on skill trees. That’s not all. I’ve also done a lot of tolerance training and whatnot. Could it really be that simple?

Yott and Vanna broke out into an argument. Tarny was still staring at him, the intensity of the man’s gaze starting to be unsettling. Rain shook his head again.

No, Yott’s right, it doesn’t make sense. At level fifty, a goldplate should have a total experience of almost two million, not counting skill unlocks. And that’s just if it’s a common class. A rare class would be fourteen million. Who the hell knows about legendary. I’m only at four hundred thousand. Granted, a normal level eighteen should have something like a quarter of that, but still. I’m nowhere near goldplate strength, let alone platinum. That’s level seventy-five for crying out loud.

Rain could feel his headache starting to build again, and the heat wasn’t helping things. Humid air was wafting in from the tunnel leading to the surface. He automatically activated Refrigerate to cool himself down. Thankfully, he had the presence of mind to keep the aura tight to his skin so as not to alarm the others.

No, there’s got to be more to it. I was at around the same total experience before I went into the lair, and I never got this kind of reaction. At least, I think I didn’t. I’m pretty sure it was just the armor getting me all those looks. Unless maybe it wasn’t? He shook his head. No, people were skittish, sure, but not like this. Tarny looked like he was going to wet himself, and now he’s looking at me like I’m some sort of god. Something changed, but what?

Rain reviewed his journey through the Fells in his mind, then his time trapped underground. He ran past a particular scene, then blinked in realization.

Essence Meditation? Shit. Is that why I’m feeling so awful? I thought it was just the training, but that pressure when I felt like I was going to pop… That must have been when it happened…

He groaned and rubbed at his eyes. I ruptured my soul.

“Lord Rain!” said Yott suddenly, catching his attention. “There’s something moving down there.”

Rain lowered his hand to look. “Oh, that’s just Dozer. Don’t worry. It’s harmless.” Perhaps ruptured is a strong word. It’s been days, and I’m not dead, so—

Dozer launched itself out of the darkness, faster than Rain had ever seen it move. It was headed directly for Yott.

“Ah!” she shouted, scrambling back. Dozer landed where she had been standing with a wet splut, then pulled itself together and continued its pursuit. Through the link, Rain got a flash of excitement and hunger.

“Dozer, no!” he shouted, hurrying to place himself between the slime and the workers.

To his surprise, the slime obeyed, ceasing its pursuit and shrinking down, spreading itself across the ground like a melting scoop of ice cream. Confusion came through the bond strongly, mixed with fear.

Rain bent down, glaring at the slime. “No eating people.”

The slime quivered. The fear had vanished, replaced with what Rain could only interpret as regret. It seemed that Dozer understood and was sorry.

Good. Rain sighed, then straightened his back, wincing at the soreness of his muscles.

“Why do you have a slime?” Yott said, peering around him.

Rain ran a hand through his hair, too tired and distracted to explain. “Because of reasons.”

“Amazing,” Tarny said, crouching down to inspect Dozer. “Even the beasts bow before his will.”

“What?” Rain said, alarmed by the man’s reverent tone. “No, this has nothing to do with— I just fed it, and it started following me.”

“Why’s it clear?” asked Yott, watching Dozer warily.

“Oh, that’s from Purify. You know, this.” He activated the spell as a Nova, sending a shell of white light blasting over them, instantly dissolving the layer of grime. The tunnel was transformed, stone powder and small flakes vanishing from existence. Rain was momentarily distracted by a flash of disappointment from Dozer, mixed with hunger. When he looked up, everyone was staring at the pristine hallway, speechless.

“So bright…” said Vanna, blinking to clear her eyes.

Rain winced. He’d started using Purify like this recently for clearing out sand and dust. He hadn’t been thinking straight and had failed to consider the implications for the others. It wasn’t at a dangerous level, at least, not for a quick pulse, but still. It would have been more or less like looking straight into a camera flash. Hardly pleasant.

“Sorry, I forgot how bright…” He trailed off and sighed as he saw Tarny’s expression. “Stop looking at me like that. I did this before, remember? It was just a bit slower that time. It’s not impressive. It doesn’t even work on anything bigger than a pebble, and—”

Rain cut off his sentence and clicked his tongue, having caught himself rambling. He ran a hand through his hair, trying to untangle it. Purify was no substitute for hot water in that regard. “I’m too tired for this,” he muttered, shaking his aching head wearily.

I need a good meal, a hot bath, some antacid, ibuprofen, and a bed. Oh, and a band-aid to stop my soul leaking all over the place… I need a lot of things. Before I can worry about the fact that I might be dying, though…

Rain took a tired breath and let it out slowly. He couldn’t rest yet. When he spoke, his voice didn’t waver. “Tell me what’s going on in the city.”
