That seemed to catch Mistress Holly off guard. “I…” She frowned. “Hmmm… I don’t believe so. This is mainly due to two things. First, not all Eskau are Hallowed, not by a long shot. So, acknowledging an Eskau is not acknowledging a Hallowed.”

Tala nodded slowly. “That’s… fair.”

“Second, knowing her as we do through interactions and provided information, she genuinely doesn’t see her authority as an Eskau as hers. She is an instrument of her Pillar, of her house.”

“Ahh… Yeah. That makes sense. She is always and forever of the House of Blood. The only thing she’s done in recent memory that was for herself was to come after me, and she sees that as a failure, a poor choice. I can see how she’s not in danger of confirming her authority, let alone acquiring more.”

“Indeed.”

Tala drained her mug, and almost moved to stand up before deciding to ask a rather important question. “So… I don’t think you’ve said, how do I move toward advancement?”

Mistress Holly gave a small smile. “I think I’ve told you as much as you need for the moment.”

Tala gave her a flat look, her single word not a question. “Really.”

The Inscriptionist shrugged, not answering the non-question.

Tala sighed. “Fine. I suppose I should be used to that sort of thing by now.” She stood, hesitating once more. “Thank you for what you were able and willing to say.”

Mistress Holly nodded, smiling in acknowledgement. “We’ll speak again, I am sure. Keep authority in mind, Mistress Tala. Consider it from all sides, from all sources, and remember that gateless power often rests in the concept more than the fact.”

When it was clear there was no more to be said, Tala gave an appropriate bow, turned and departed.

On a whim, she willed herself into her sanctum, then caused her anchor—her stoneward and starward bodies—to continue moving in tandem, taking her anchor-point back to rest near Ironhold’s anchor.

It wasn’t nearly as fast as her flying construct, but it was movement of her previously anchored space.

That is a quite useful possibility.

-Indeed.-

What did you think about what she said?

-It’s… It’s a lot to think about.-

Indeed.

-But, hey, at least the trip to the arcane lands won’t be boring.-

That was never a concern.

-Well… fine. I suppose you’re right.-

Tomorrow?

-Tomorrow.-

And nothing more needed to be said.
