Some debts can’t be forgiven.

“Harker…”

Adhira stood on shaking legs. Her chest was aflame with pain and blood dribbled from her hip. She didn’t care.

“Harker!”

Her voice was lost to the wind and waterfall. She gripped her axe, pulling it closer to her—closer to the edge. It had never weighed so much.

He’s gone.

She’d only just met him and now…

The bottom of the cliff was hundreds of feet below. Thousands, perhaps. It was impossible to tell through the mist that coiled upward around the waterfall. An unrefined Surface Talent would never survive.

If she’d told him sooner that she knew…could she have helped him refine his skin? Would it have been enough?

If I had Descended, I could have manifested Bulwark at a distance…

If. If. If.

That creature had tried to kill her. Harker had stopped it, and she—she’d knocked it off the ledge. Everything after was her burden to bear.

Muir. Cold rage boiled in her belly. The Stitcher’s creature was dead, but that mattered little. The butcher himself still lived, and he was after her Talents and artifacts. At first she’d thought he wanted Harker, but that made little sense.

Sejal, I need you. She couldn’t look away from the mist. It swirled, promising to reveal something—anything—but never parting. Did that monster still have her steward? Even if it did, she hadn’t been able to overcome even one of its abominations alone.

Adhira tore her eyes away from the mist. She knew what to do, but she didn’t want to do it. When Harker had been at her side, she’d been able to put off the fear that had stalked her since they’d found that missive.

Now he was gone too.

“Stop blubbering.” She shook herself, locking her gaze on the break in the trail. She owed it to Sejal—to Harker—to finish her journey. “The only way out is through.”

She scraped her toes into the mud. “Bulwark!”

Harker awoke in the dark.

Bubbles rushed past his face, catching the fleeting light as he sank into an oozing shadow. The waving tendrils of something limp and once-green clung to the backs of his legs, and his breath was a knot beneath his ribs—one that was nearly untied.

Twin lanterns lit up the dark. Brilliant yellow, they cut the murky void and set color alive amid the churning debris. Teeth gnashed and claws reached out, grasping Harker across the chest.

Stillwater…

The Gilken pulled him up, kicking surprisingly powerful legs, but the lanterns faded. The knot untied, the burning only intensifying as a deep cold tried to smother everything else.

He broke through and a small fist bashed against his diaphragm. He coughed, a gout of liquid spilling from his lips before a shock of air rushed into Harker’s lungs. Cold wind cut across his damp flesh and small claws dug into his hip and stomach.

“Addled humans! You live half as long as bullfrogs and still run at every chance to kill yourself.” Stillwater shook Harker, hands digging into his coat. “You want me saddled with your debt? Huh?”

The little guy’s rant continued, but with the cessation of pain came the blessed relief of quietude. He faded, falling under a different surface that was just as murky. Dark and light came in waves as the water rushed around him. Rocks threatened the edges of the river, and Stillwater cursed at every opportunity. Always, calm returned.

Time passed. Stretched, really, in ways that made little sense to Harker. He skimmed through it all, sinking and bobbing back up to the surface at confusing intervals. One thought, however, was far more insistent.

Adhira…is she okay?

His thoughts tumbled, loose and liquid. He couldn't quite remember how he ended up floating down the river. He remembered attacking the Stitcher's puppet. Adhira had been bloodied—but she’d struck the final blow against the abomination. It fell…they fell.

She will live.

He was certain.

Before long, however, even that certainty drained away. Towed by the relentless grumbles of a Gilken, he floated on without end. The river sapped heat from his flesh, tightening his skin and dragging at his clothes.

The river flowed around them, rolling over Stillwater’s paddling claws in little wavelets. It tickled against Harkers limbs—arms and legs he couldn’t move in the slightest. That did not concern him as much as it should have. He floated not only on the river but on a haze of sensation. The slick slide of fish scales and the soft caress of cold wind. Somewhere in the distance, small flowers were blooming close to the algae clinging between rocks.

No fish ventured close. He could taste their fear of the Gilken, just as real as the fronds that wavered below—both were pulses against his back. Harker was confused. They were too far away for him to sense them properly. Yet how did he know the fronds were a muted green? That their rippling leaves were serrated at the very ends, or that the fish had eyes larger than his closed fist?

Something larger shifted, bucking against his senses. A heavy thing, ten feet across and shelled. A turtle of some sort, ponderous and coated with little fishes feeding off of its muck-piled back. The silt and mud swirled around its paddle-like fins, inward and around, stirred into eddies that pushed the turtle up and away. The same eddies that floated around Stillwater as the Eidhrin huffed thin breaths just above the waterline.

He didn’t speak any more, just grunted, his finned ears laid back against his skull as he pulled Harker along.

Harker tried again to swim to aid the process. His fingers twitched, but all that shifted was the Water inside of him. It sloshed and swirled, and even that was too much. Like the turtle, he peeled away, lost amid the silt clouds.

When he came back, mist covered the river. Thick as soup, it clung to his lips and coat in rolling beads. Trees loomed from the distant banks, hundreds of feet tall and bent toward the river like women praying over a grave. Newly budding tendrils reached into the water as if sipping from it, a series of curtains that the pair of them passed through over and over. Above, whatever remained of the sun was a hazy disc too far to matter. Which, perhaps, was why it took so long to notice the watchers.

Figures stood on the banks, dark silhouettes that crowded the shoreline. Harker had little energy for fear—he could only observe as they grew closer and ever larger. As the layers of mist parted, he expected empty eyes and hungry maelstroms, but instead spied confusing limbs and weatherworn features.

Statues…

They stood in the mist, clad in droplets and thick moss, most at least as tall as the willows. They bore features that belonged to no man nor woman, but pricked at Harker’s memory. Faces out of dark stories meant to turn a child’s spine to jelly. Wide and thick, tall and angular, low and sharp—the statues were so varied in shape that they seemed like a fever dream.

Harker’s focus slipped, retreating from the banks. For a moment, he could only feel chill lapping at his sides. Then it returned, like swimming out of a deep bog.

They were further along, the mysterious statues having retreated behind them. But it wasn't until they rounded a bend that he knew them for what they were. A final statue was stuck at an angle through the soft earth. It was half the size of the others and quite round, with ears like sharpened fins and a wide mouth full of teeth. A Gilken.

They’re…Eidhrin…

Harker faded, and this time it was a long while before he resurfaced.

"Keep breathing human."

Stillwater dragged him harshly through deep water. The mist was gone, but in its place was a stygian darkness. Insects buzzed, flitting above them with glowing bodies and droning wings. Night had descended.

When had that happened?

"Not far now," Stillwater muttered.

The world spun as the Gilken adjusted their direction, but the stars kept swinging. Confusing. Harker’s mind sharpened, and the stars kept moving amid a sea of blackened green.

No. The wind was too warm. It smelled of growing things and a deep, musty accumulation. A cavern.

Moss draped from the ceiling far above, and among them were glowing specks of phosphorant fungus. Stelactites hung low, dripping steady streams into the river on all sides. Before long, the false stars faded, drowned out by warmer lights. Buttery yellow, they resolved into lanterns hung out over the water above shell-crusted posts.

There was a house ahead. It was a squat thing of piled stones that had been built atop the water, planted on deep pillars that were slimed with weeds and mussles.

"You are not welcome here."

The deep voice rattled through Harker, and not just him. The water itself shook into small, jittering waves. A monstrous creature stood at the docks, a live replica of one of the statues, though far smaller. Ten feet tall, it was a crustacean with only the vaguest resemblances to a man: a long body with many angular legs, a hunched back, and eyes above a tendril-draped maw. Yet beneath its massive claws, it had a separate, delicate set of arms and hands clad in what looked like armor, and it wore an apron.

Stillwater forced a laugh. "Ironwine, you old crab—”

“You were imprisoned,” the crustacean said.

"No longer. I—”

“The Courts do not deal in mercy."

Stillwater bared his teeth. "This isn't about me.”

“Do not try me, Scourge. Everything is about you."

Stillwater groaned, still splashing in the water. "I owe—”

“You owe many.”

“I owe this boy." Stillwater grunted, shoving Harker forward. "A life debt."

The creature leaned off the dock, far enough that Harker could make out the black eyes blinking with transparent lids. Their antenna twitched, and the tendrils writhed beneath their cheekbones.

"He is unconscious. Has been for a while.”

“He fell from a very great height."

Ironwine nodded. “Injuries.”

Can't he see my eyes are open? Harker blinked—or tried to, but nothing moved. He opened his mouth, but his jaw wouldn’t respond and no words shook his throat. The only movement he could manage was the labored squeeze of his lungs and the rush of Water through his tributaries. A rush that Harker belatedly realized had not stopped for all this time.

Sovereign Sight is active…

Water poured in a steady stream from all of his Locks at once, pooling around him in replenishing waves. How long had his Talent been active? He could see and feel all around himself, but there wasn’t a bit of strain. Sovereign Sight draped around him like a cloak, easy as breathing.

At any other time, he might have marveled at his new capacity. In that moment, however, Ironwine’s words hit him like a knife to the gut.

"He is dying.”

"You've twigged upon the issue."

Claws bigger than Harker's head moved closer. They prodded at his leg and a strange warmth coursed up his body before fading.

"Stature. In a human. What is this you bring to me?"

"A unique child. One that I need your help in saving."

Silence stretched, broken only by the ceaseless dribbles of stalactites. "You need me to save you.”

“There is no difference in this matter." Stillwater paddled in place. "You owe me, Thrysalid."

The crustacean ignored Stillwater and peered at Harker again. That smaller set of hands unfolded from beneath the heavy claws. They were human-sized, almost delicate. With deft movements, they opened up Harker's coat.

Eyes like pools of liquid shadow stared into him. And for a moment, Harker was certain the creature knew he was watching.

Armored fingers twitched his coat closed.

"I will take on your life debt in exchange for the absolution of my own.”

Stillwater groaned. “That is not fair. I’ll take half—”

“You will absolve me, or you can sink and face the Courts yourself.”

Stillwater gnashed his teeth.

“I do this, and we are settled once and for all, Stillwater. Let the Bargain be ended."

Stillwater grimaced, but gave a jerky nod. “As you say.”

A strange weight shifted in the air, carrying with it a heat that Harker found familiar. Stature had shifted between the two, but it wasn’t an even trade. A heaviness settled onto Ironwine and his legs twitched. Stillwater, by comparison, seemed to deflate somewhat.

The Gilken patted Harker on the shoulder. The gesture was gentle, and if Harker was a fool, he might have considered it comforting.

"This is where our rivers part," Stillwater said quietly. "Fair tides, Harker."

Claws dunked into the water and lifted the boy up. They were surprisingly gentle.

When Harker turned attention back to the river, Stillwater was gone.