“Uh…” Rain said offering his hand. “Nice to meet you…Buggy? Is that your real name, or…”

“Nickname,” Buggy said, hesitantly reaching out to shake. “But my real name is worse, so…” He trailed off with a shrug. He didn’t have even a trace of Kettel’s thick accent.

“Anyway, anyway,” Kettel said, interjecting and waving his hands. “I finally convinced em ta come see ye. Go on, Rain. Do the thing.”

Rain blinked, then laughed. He knew what thing Kettel meant. This must be the ‘grubby kid’ that he’d mentioned a few days ago. He gave Kettel a look. “You’re really pushy, you know that? I’ll do the thing, but only because I want to,” he said, failing to keep a straight face.

Kettel just grinned at him as Rain shifted his focus to Buggy. “You ready?”

Buggy nodded.

“What the hells is going on?” Melka asked. “What ‘thing’ are you going to do?”

Rain looked at her. “Purify. Just watch,” he said to her, gesturing to Buggy’s face. “You’ll enjoy this, I promise.”

He activated Purify, keeping the radius tight to include just their small group. He watched with anticipation as the misty white magic washed over Buggy's acne. Under the assault of the magic, the lumpy boils started to deflate before his eyes, the pus filling them being broken up and drained away. Some of it oozed down his face, thinned out enough to drip free. It didn’t make it far before completely evaporating, leaving Buggy’s skin looking, well, not good, but much better. His face was still red and irritated, but no longer misshapen by the horrible boils that had afflicted him.

“What the fuuuuuuck?” Melka said, then laughed. “That was…”

“I know, right?” Rain said, flipping up his visor to reveal his grin. “Best spell ever.” That’s more like the Melka I remember.

“Wow…” Buggy said, reaching up to touch his face.

Rain smiled. Another job well done. He looked at Buggy. “If you want it to stay like that, wash your face every day. Use soap. If it gets bad again, just come find me.”

“Thank you…” Buggy said wonderingly. “I never thought…” he gulped. The corners of his eyes looked wet. “For someone to waste healing magic on a git like me…Thank you, Night Cleaner.”

Rain tsked. “Okay, one thing. Don’t call me Night Cleaner. Literally anything else would be better.”

“Yeah,” Kettel said, turning to his friend. “I told ye not ta do that.” He punched Buggy in the shoulder lightly, then looked at Rain. “Sorry Rain, I’m tryin’, but it looks like it’s catchin’ on.”

“Damn,” Rain said with a sigh. “Maybe…come up with something else? See if you can get people to call me…I don’t know. Something…not that.”

“Mana Master?” Kettel asked. “Armored Slimehunter? The Black Death? Frosty Beacon?”

Rain’s face paled. “Kettel…I take it back. There are worse things than ‘Night Cleaner’. You’re not allowed to pick names for anything. Ever. Just tell people to call me Rain. I don’t need a title, nor do I want one.”

Kettel laughed. “I’ll think o’ some good ones, don’t ye worry. But, oi, listen, we gotta go. First meeting ah the guard an’ all that. I’m jus’ glad I found ye. By the depths that were somethin’ to see. C’mon Buggy, play with yer face later. We gotta move.”

Belatedly, Rain noticed that Buggy was also wearing one of the hawk pins. It had been hidden by the collar of his ragged shirt. If Velika was going to provide the members of her guard with some equipment, these two hadn’t gotten theirs yet. Idly, he wondered where all of the hawk pins were coming from. Someone in the city had to be making them, unless Velika had brought them with her. He turned his attention back to Kettel, frowning.

“Hey, Kettel, listen. About the guard. Be…careful. I don’t know what she’s going to ask you all to do, but…try to be, I don’t know. Just…don’t be evil.”

Melka snorted. “Good advice. The Watch isn’t going anywhere.” She looked down at the ground. “We might not be able to do anything about…about…” She grimaced, closing her eyes and taking a deep breath. Her hand rose half-way to her throat before she stopped it, returning it to her side in a clenched fist. “About that woman,” she continued, schooling her face back to passivity, “but we’re still watching.” She looked at Kettel, doing her best impression of Lamida’s icy glare. “And we won’t stand idly by.”

“Uh…” Kettel said. “Don’t worry, lady officer. We won’t do nothing.”

Rain looked at Melka, concerned. That’s like the twentieth time. What the hell happened to her?

“Anyway, we really do gotta’ go,” Kettel said as the awkward silence stretched on. He started dragging Buggy after him. “See ye later, Rain.”

“Thank you again…Rain,” Buggy said. “I can’t ever—”

“Don’t worry about it,” Rain said, raising a hand. “Go on. If I know anything about Citizen Sadanis, you don’t want to be late.”

Kettel waved to him, then the pair of them disappeared around the corner. Rain turned to look at Melka. She was looking back down at her feet again, breathing deeply with her eyes closed. He frowned. “Do you want to talk about it?”

“No,” she said, opening her eyes to glare at him, then looking away.

Rain sighed. If she wouldn’t talk to him, there wasn’t a lot he could do. “Okay,” he said with a shrug. He looked toward the gate, then back at Melka and cleared his throat. “Um, I’m going to be using a dangerous spell once I get outside the city. The cold one. I’m sure they’ve told you about it. You probably don’t want to stand next to me when I do it. Do you want to, like, wait by the wall or something?”

She shook her head. “Just go. I’ll be…there,” she said, pointing at a large building down the street, likely a tavern. “Come find me when you’re done.”

Rain paused. “You’re sure that’s okay? Lamida said…”

“I don’t care what Lamida said,” sighed Melka. “She can watch you herself if she wants to. Just don’t make me have to come find you.”

“Melka…”

“You know, I really don’t understand you,” she said. “What, do you like me or something? I’d have thought you would be happy to be rid of me.”

He shook his head “Melka, I’m not blind. I can tell something is bothering you.”

“And I told you, it’s fine. It’s none of your business,” she said, turning and walking toward the tavern. “Don’t make me wait too long.”

Rain stared after her for a long moment, then closed his visor and headed toward the gates.

Ameliah sat up. Someone had come out. She’d been waiting all morning, but the Watch hadn’t appeared, making her question whether they had some other way of communicating across the barrier. She peered at the figure, then shot to her feet.

“Rain…” she said, moving to lay her hand against the barrier. Damn it, he is in there after all. Who else is with him? He’s alone? What’s he doing out here?

Rain was walking down the road leading from the south gate. She was standing off to the side in the direction of the Watch’s camp and it didn’t look like he’d seen her. She waved, but Rain didn’t notice. He was looking down at his feet, seemingly deep in thought.

Typical.

Ameliah started walking to meet him, hurrying to reach the spot where the road met the barrier. She had to fight her way through the drifts of snow. Rain stopped well before he reached the barrier, turning to walk away from her toward the river. As he did, he used Refrigerate, judging by the sphere of snow that expanded around him. He was walking slowly, his feet breaking through the crust of ice that now covered the muddy ground.

Why is he doing that? Gah, damn snow.

She stopped, preparing herself to use Purify. She released the spell in a Nova, the pulse of white light slamming into the barrier and flowing along the curve of the dome. It didn’t do anything about the snow, but that wasn’t what she was after. It was midday, but the spell was bright enough to be clearly visible. The sky was still overcast, which helped quite a bit.

Rain looked up at the sudden light, then his helmeted head turned to look at her. She laughed as he stared, then broke out into a sprint heading straight for her. He slipped on the ice almost immediately, going down hard. He recovered quickly, using his own blast of Purify to clean himself off before heading over to her at a more cautious jog. Ameliah smiled as he skidded to a stop, fumbling to remove his helmet.

He stared at her through the barrier, the two of them separated by the thin magical wall, no more than a hand in thickness. He was shouting something, but she couldn’t hear a thing. She quickly tried using Message, but the spell didn’t connect even though she could see Rain standing right in front of her. She shook her head and pointed to her ears, then gave an exaggerated shrug. She didn’t need to be a good lip reader to be able to know what word Rain said next.

She caught his attention with a wave, then thought for a moment. I highly doubt he’s learned hand-code, but it has been a few days, and it is Rain we’re talking about. Now, how did it go? Slowly, she formed the sign for ‘understand’ then ‘hand-code’, then made the gesture to signal a question. She was hardly an expert at it herself, but she could hold a basic conversation.

Rain shook his head, then started digging in a leather messenger bag that he was wearing under his black cloak, coming out with a notebook. It wasn’t the crinkled one of his that she remembered; this one looked brand new. He quickly scribbled in it, then held it up for her to see.

“Ameliah!!!!!!” it said. She laughed. Way too many exclamation points. He’s such a goof.

She watched as Rain took the notebook down and wrote frantically in it. He paused a few times as if thinking, then held it up again for her to see.

It read, “I’m fine. Val and Carten are trapped in here too. Have you seen Jamus and Tallheart out there? They aren’t in here with me. Staavo either. I know you don’t know him, but he’d probably be with Jamus. Old grumpy guy. Do you have a notebook?”

She shook her head, motioning for him to wait. She pointed to herself, then the Watch camp, then mimed writing in a notebook, then pointed back to herself, then to her feet. Rain smiled and took down the notebook to write.

“Got it. You’re going to go get one. Nice mime. Just like old times. I’ll wait here.”

She smiled and gave him a thumbs-up, then dashed off to the Watch camp. Quickly, she negotiated with one of the prospects who was working as a scribe, acquiring a stack of paper and pencil to write with. She thought for a moment, then scribbled on a piece of paper before dashing back to the barrier. Rain was still standing in the same spot as she pressed her note up against the wall.

“Rain!!!!!”

He laughed, then jotted down his response.

“Haha!” it read. His previous question was still visible, so she quickly wrote out a response, pressing the paper up against the barrier to write. It was difficult, as the paper kept trying to slip away. When she was done, she turned it over for him to see.

“No Jamus or Tallheart. Camp deserted. Watch doesn’t have them. Will try to find later. What is going on in there?”

“DKE took over. Attacked city, raised barrier. Majistraal made it. Some artifact below the city. It drains mana to fuel itself. Velika (sword woman from the mine) is Citizen Sadanis now. How did you get here?”

“I ran. How is the city? Did the Watch fight back?” She paced as she waited for him to write his reply. This would be so much easier if he knew hand-code. Damn it.

Finally, he pressed the notebook back up against the barrier. “Really? How far is Jarro? It hasn’t been that long… I am never going to beat you in a race, am I? The city is okay, I guess. Not great. Air is hot from the fires. I’m working on it. We’ve got plenty of water and plenty of food. Can’t get out, though. Velika controls the barrier. Westbridge (other DKE Citizen) left after kicking Halgrave’s ass. Not nice. Killed a lot of people. No Watch or Guild, though. Politics. Watch fought back, but lost. They are not happy, but Velika is mostly leaving them alone. She hasn’t done anything bad evil yet. Might have killed Carten with snu snu. Joke. Carten is fine. Probably fine.”

What? She scribbled quickly. “Snu snu?”

Rain grinned as he wrote. She was relieved to see his smile; it was further confirmation that the situation inside wasn’t as horrible as she’d feared. If he was joking around, then it couldn’t be that serious. He held the notebook up once more. “Nothing to worry about. I will explain some other time. Carten is fine. I saw him yesterday. If he died, he died happy. Where is Halgrave? Is he alive? Is the Watch going to do something about the barrier?”

She shook her head, writing to respond. “Halgrave left to talk to the main branch. The Watch is pissed. There’s nobody important out here, though. They say that if their organization retaliates, it will be a huge mess.”

Rain nodded, then looked behind his shoulder at the city. He turned a page, then wrote slowly, as if thinking about his words carefully. He tore out the page and crumpled it up, tucking it into a pocket before starting again. He stared at the page for what felt like minutes. His face looked pained as he labored over the words. More time passed with each sentence, his expression growing darker. Ameliah looked on with concern at the pain written on his face.

He made to hold the notebook, then hesitated. Finally, he shook his head and pressed it up against the barrier. “The first few days in here were bad,” it said. “I saw some horrible things. People in pain. Blood everywhere. Fire. Rubble. Dead kids lying twisted, buried in the rubble…” The next few lines were scribbled out. “Things are getting better, but I can’t stop myself from remembering. From seeing the bodies. From thinking that there was something more that I could have done. I wish you’d been here, but if you had, then you’d be trapped too… Sorry.” There was a gap, then a single line at the end. “It was awful.” Another gap, then another crossed-out line, but not well enough that she couldn’t read it. The same line was written again below it, not crossed out this time. “I missed you.”

