“So, I have a question,” Rain said, taking a bite of pork. He and Melka were currently having lunch in a tavern, considerably cleaner than the one from yesterday.

“You always have a question,” said Mel, “I’m starting to regret answering the first one.”

Rain laughed. “Yup. I promise I’ll give it a rest after this one. It’s just been bugging me for a while, and when they wouldn’t let me into the training yard that just made it worse. I gots to know!”

“You have to know,” Melka corrected, taking a bite of her own meal.

Rain waved a hand at her, “Sorry, it’s a reference to something. I have to know.”

Melka sighed. “Fine. One question.”

Rain nodded. “How do physical skills work?“ He speared another piece of meat and popped it into his mouth.

“That’s way too broad,” Melka said, shaking her head. “What do you mean, how do physical skills work?”

Rain finished chewing while he considered how to frame the issue. “Okay, so you are a warrior or something, right? You use two daggers, so I’m guessing you’ve got some skills in the ‘Dagger Combat’ tree. There’s three skills in there at tier ze—foundation tier. How do they work?”

Melka frowned. “That is a very impolite question.”

Rain sighed. “I’m not asking you to confirm whether or not you have them. Honestly, I don’t see what the huge deal is with people hiding basic stuff like this. I’d see for myself if I ever saw you fight.”

“You do the same thing,” Melka said, pointing her fork at him.

“That’s different,” Rain said. “I just don’t want to end up as a slave, chained to a post in a basement and forced to use support auras all day. It’s less of an issue now that I can kinda take care of myself. Without this armor, I’d be a lot more paranoid.”

Melka nodded. “I suppose I can see that. We’ve had problems with the nobles in the past doing that. Awakening people and forcing them to take particular skills and then locking them away. You don’t need to worry about it. The Watch would intervene. We’re not the Empire. We don’t do slavery.”

Rain smiled. “Good to know.” He stopped himself from saying that they were all basically enslaved already, thanks to Velika. Melka did not respond well to any mention of the Citizen, for obvious reasons. “Anyway, my question is more general than those specific skills, I just want to use them as an example.”

Melka sighed. “Fine. I have all three. Happy? What do you want to know about them?”

“Well,” Rain said. “Lingering Bleed is a straightforward passive, it just makes all attacks with daggers bleed more, adding an actual ‘bleed’ status and some damage. There’s tons of skills with effects like that. I’ve pretty much stopped asking why using a particular kind of weapon matters when it comes to using a skill. That’s a road that doesn’t lead to any sort of useful discussion. It’s the other two that I’m really interested in. Razor Flurry and Asp Kata.”

“You have a very roundabout way of asking questions. Just get to the point.”

Rain ignored the jab. Compared to arguing with Staavo, this was nothing. “Razor Flurry says ‘attack with a rapid flurry of strikes with a pair of daggers.’ My question there is, what happens when you use it? Does it, like, take over your arms and attack automatically or something?”

“Yes,” Melka said. “That’s exactly what it does.”

Rain shuddered. “Isn’t that, like, really creepy? What’s it feel like?”

Melka shrugged. “You get used to it. The trick is to use it at the right time. The skill will target whatever you’re focusing on, so you’d better make sure you’re in range and have an opening. Otherwise, you’ll get locked into the motion and hit nothing. Razor Flurry is fast, so it’s not so bad, but something like Anvil Fall with a war hammer will leave you really open.”

“Yeah, I can see that. Still, I’m glad I decided to become a mage. I don’t like the idea of someone, no, something else controlling my body.”

Melka shook her head. “It’s not like that. It’s your skill. Why would it be strange for it to guide your motions?”

Rain sighed. “It just is. Anyway, the other one. Asp Kata. That one just says ‘dual dagger fighting technique.’ Literally, that’s it.”

“It’s a little more helpful for me,” Melka said. “Does your interface not give you detailed descriptions?”

“It does,” Rain said. “Usually, anyway. Not for any of the Katas, though. All of them that I’ve found are just as vague. ‘Polearm fighting technique’ and ‘Sword fighting technique’ and so forth. Why, what does yours say?”

Melka set down her fork, then swiped at the air a few times. “Asp Kata: Stances and forms for learning the technique of the asp. Requires dual daggers and consists of lightning-fast jabs and smooth, sweeping cuts.” She looked back at him with a shrug. “I also get a feeling of what it’s about and how it will look. It’s hard to explain.”

Rain blinked. “Wow, that is much more helpful. Hey, out of curiosity, what does it say for Purify? That’s foundation tier too.”

She shook her head. “I’m not answering that. One, I don’t want to spend the time to find it, and two, you said you would only ask about one thing. If I answer, it will only encourage you, and then you will never stop.”

Rain frowned. “Hey, I’m not that bad.”

“Yes, you are,” Melka said. “Here, I’ll make you a deal. I’ll answer whatever you want if you tell me why you don’t know all of this already.”

“Um…because of…reasons?” He scraped at his plate with his fork collecting the last few vegetables and finishing them off.

Melka snorted. “Not good enough.”

Rain sighed, setting down his fork. “Fine. Let’s at least finish with my original question. The Asp Kata doesn’t sound like something you activate. How’s it work?”

“It’s like a pattern in your mind,” Melka said. She drew one of her daggers and held it between them above the table. She started moving it side to side in a sinuous motion. Rain’s eyes tracked it, and the longer he watched it, the more snakelike it appeared. “When you take the skill, it’s like you get a whole set of instincts along with it.”

Wait, like The Matrix? You take the skill, then you know kung-fu? He swallowed, still watching the weapon as it snaked through the air. “It teaches you to fight instantly?”

“No.” Melka shook her head. “I said instincts. This,” she gestured to the swaying dagger with her free hand, “is a section from the third-rank kata. You need to practice it. It’s like…you can feel how your body should move. You start at the beginning and go through the motions of the first kata. Once you can get through the whole thing, the skill will advance, and then you can start learning the second kata.” She stopped the snake-like motion. Rain blinked and shook his head. He’d been watching it, entranced. Wow, that’s dangerous. Some mental effect? I forgot where I was for a moment. Fuck. Now I’m thinking about that ridiculous Face Stab skill. It’s only tier 1, so she probably has it. I think it would be better not to ask.

Melka sat back in her chair. “Satisfied?”

Rain nodded, resisting the urge to slip on his helmet again now that he was done eating. “Actually, yes. That makes sense, it’s just…different from how my magic works. I think I understand a lot more now. Active physical skills are fixed, but the katas are like a library of moves that you can chain together freely to fight. They really don’t level with experience?”

Melka nodded. “Not all skills do. Some have other methods for advancement.”

Rain rubbed at his stubble. It was time to shave again. I think I see why they wouldn’t let me into the training yard now. Letting people watch seems like a bad idea, as if you know the moves, you know how to counter them. Damn it, I wanted to see the asshole Pokémon trainer. ‘Protecting the secrets of the Watch’… Bah, ridiculous. I’ll learn how it all works eventually. I wonder if I can get Melka to teach me the first kata. There shouldn’t be anything stopping me from learning the moves the hard way… Except time.

Any further discussion was interrupted as a young boy ran up to the table. “Oi, you’re the Night Cleaner, right?” said the kid. “I’ve got a message for you.”

Rain sighed. “My name is Rain, not Night Cleaner.”

Melka laughed. “Stop fighting it.”

Rain swore under his breath, then looked at the kid. “What message?”

The boy stood straight and took on a formal posture. “Lord Arta Rill formally greets the Guild adventurer Rain, known as the Night Cleaner. I would like to have a brief discussion with you at your earliest convenience. Please join me at my estate. Do not pay the boy. He has already been compensated.” The boy relaxed as the message ended.

“Shit,” Rain said, shaking his head. I knew something like this would happen eventually, but I’m not ready. He looked at Melka. “You think I should go?”

Melka shrugged. “He’ll track you down, one way or another. I’d say we better go see what he wants.” She turned to the boy. “Thank you, you may go.”

The boy didn’t move, looking at Rain hopefully. “Now, I know the message said I’d been paid, but I take my job serious, I do. I could have left that bit off, but I didn’t.” He shifted his gaze from Rain to Melka. “That’s worth something, ain’t it?”

Rain laughed and gave the kid a few copper coins from his pouch. He didn’t bother to count. It should be enough for a meal or two, even with the rising price of food in the city. “There you go.”

“Thanks,” said the kid. “Want me to show you where the Rills live? No charge. He said I was to show you if you didn’t know.”

“That’s alright,” Rain said. “I think I’ve got a pretty good idea.”

“Right,” said the kid. “Nice meeting you, Mr. Cleaner.”

Rain sighed as the kid scampered off.

The thick page of the book of children’s stories made a soft sound as Rain turned it. He was currently sitting in a room of Lord Rill’s mansion, probably the first room that he’d been in that wouldn’t have significantly benefited from a concentrated dose of Purify. The floor was marble, and the chairs were plushly upholstered. He’d felt nervous at first, but that had quickly been replaced with boredom, leading to him taking out his new books. He’d tried a bit of the others first, before settling on this one. It best suited his current mood.

Though each individual story was simple, reading them was fascinating in itself. The stories were alien, yet familiar in many ways. There were parables about honor and glory, mixed in with straightforward tales of excitement and adventure, even the fighting of dragons. The system was omnipresent in many of them as a plot device, depicted in different ways, and with differing degrees of believability. He was only around a third of the way through the book, but already he was glad that he had bought it. It was expensive, but the entertainment was worth it. Plus, he was counting on being able to sell it and the others later.

He looked up at a sudden sound. Melka was playing with a statue, tipping it with her foot. She’d let it slip, causing it to wobble around noisily on its base. He cleared his throat. “You sure you don’t want to read one of these?”

Melka scoffed. “I’m good. I can’t believe you’re reading with your helmet on.”

I suppose these would be boring for her. Still, better than nothing. What the hell is taking him so long?

He used Detection, searching for entities. He’d long-since singled out Lord Rill with IFF and had been tracking him as he moved through his manor. The Detection pulse returned, indicating a signal moving toward them. He sat up abruptly, closing his book.

Melka looked over at him, raising an eyebrow. The statue wobbled on its base, then settled to a halt just as the door opened, revealing the man that Velika had placed in charge of the day-to-day operation of Fel Sadanis.

Lord Rill was an older man, but not decrepit. He had light gray hair combed back neatly and was wearing an elaborate suit of blue and gold. While he bore no visible weapons, there was an air of danger around him that was more than just the power of his station. Rain had done his research before coming here, and he knew that the man was under level ten and fought with a rapier. He rarely carried it, however, other than when he was training his children. He had little need to. The Rills were an old family, Arta having inherited his build from his father, who inherited it from his father before him.

That was how it worked with noble families. It wasn’t the same thing as the nobility Rain knew of from history. There was no powerful king or queen for them to curry favor with, at least not here. Now that the city fell under the authority of the DKE, that would likely change, but not overnight. As for how you got nobles, typically, a powerful adventurer would retire, start a family, and pass down their legacy to their children. That meant money, equipment, and knowledge, not to mention literal power in the form of accolades. They would awaken their children, then pass on the spoils that they had earned in their careers.

Some inheritors went on to join the Guild and to make their own way in the world, but not all. Those that didn’t became the start of their own noble houses, fiercely guarding their secrets and lording their power over those less fortunate than themselves in the most literal sense of the word. After a few generations, you got, well, Lord Rill. The rumor was that his house was in decline, but you wouldn’t know it to look at him.

“Ah, good. They told me you had arrived,” the noble said, closing the door behind himself. A flicker of annoyance was visible on his face, quickly hidden.

Rain rushed to stand, then inclined his head formally. “It is an honor to meet you, Lord Rill,” he said, keeping his voice neutral. A little flattery never hurts, and from what I’ve heard about this guy, he expects it. I’m not about to bow and scrape, though. I could probably kick his ass, or at least make him have a very bad day, but that’s not the point. He has the power thanks to Velika, and I can’t kick her ass. Besides, we live in a society, such as it is.

Rill returned the bow with more than just a head tilt, bending far lower than Rain had. Rain blinked in surprise as the man spoke formally. “It is an honor to meet you as well, Guilder Rain.” He rose, then looked at Melka—who was still seated—with a frown.

Guilder, huh? At least he didn’t call me Night Cleaner.

Melka rolled her eyes and got to her feet. “Fine,” she gave the barest shadow of a bow. “Happy?”

