Rain glanced at him, then at the sword he’d examined the last time, the one worth as much as a used car. It was still there. He shook his head. “I’ll just browse, thank you.” It looked like the man didn’t recognize his voice. That was a good thing. As for the sword, he was feeling rich, but not that rich. Besides, he’d put his eye out.

He walked through the room, examining the wares on offer. He quickly realized that most of the items were mundane—simple swords, maces, axes, and the like, clearly well-made, but not magical. By hovering his hand over them and expelling a puff of mana with Mana Manipulation, he could tell as much by the lack of resonance. The magical weapons and armor appeared to all be laid out along the wall near the sword. It wasn’t a vast selection. The whole store looked a bit picked-over.

He went over to inspect them. He wasn’t looking for a weapon, but seeing Melka’s daggers had him wondering about what kind of things were out there. The sword would be a good starting point.

Razorsteel Sword

Durability: 204/204

Hardness: 182

Material: Force Steel

Mana Capacitance Rune

404/2000 mp

Import Efficiency: 80%

Export Efficiency: 0%

Greater Sharpness Rune

49% increase to damage to all strikes when using a sword-aspect skill, 20mp/strike

94% increase to sharpness, 20mp/day

Huh, Greater Sharpness? That’s better than what was on Melka’s daggers. About twice as good, actually. Interesting. The capacitance rune is better, too. I can see why it’s so expensive. I’m betting the fact that nobody has bought it means that it’s too pricey for most of the adventurers around here. For someone who uses swords, though, this would be pretty great. It doesn’t show the properties for the metal like my armor does, though. Weird. He shrugged. How ‘bout this knobby-looking shield?

Briarbark Shield

Durability: 403/403

Hardness: 147

Material: Chemical Oak

Mana Conversion: 0%

Mana Saturation NA

Mana Dissipation NA

Mana Capacitance Rune

309/1000 mp

Import Efficiency: 100%

Export Efficiency: 0%

Thorns Rune

Reflect 23% of damage blocked as chemical damage, 2 mp / dmg returned.

Oh, damage reflection. Cool. Chemical Oak? How do you make that? Do you have to, like, grow it that way, or…? Whatever. It doesn’t look like it would be much use against magic. It’s showing the material properties this time for whatever reason. Not like it matters. The durability is a bit crap. It would break after only a few hits. I wonder how much it costs. There’s no price tag…

He debated asking the clerk but decided against it as he didn’t want to be hovered over. He touched a greenish-tinged metal breastplate next. Time to see how Tallheart stacks up.

Chemsteel Breastplate

Durability: 4103/4103

Hardness: 124

Material: Chemical Steel

Mana Conversion: 43%

Mana Saturation 0/4,373 mp

Mana Dissipation 22 mp/s

Mana Capacitance Rune

277/1000 mp

Import Efficiency: 24%

Export Efficiency: 0%

Durability Rune [Active]

+3000 durability, 20 mp/day

Chemical Resistance Rune [Active]

+20 chemical resistance, 15 mp/day

Yeah, Tallheart wins. These numbers suck. This thing is a hell of a lot easier to charge, but look, the mana conversion blows. That means some magic will get through. That must be why Tallheart made mine the way it is. Oh, wait a damn second here. How do you repair this thing if it doesn’t have a self-repair feature? It’s at full durability. It wouldn’t have started there because of the boosting rune, so someone had to have repaired it. How? There must be a repair skill. Note to self: spend a bit more time looking at the crafting trees.

“Anything good?” Melka said. “Thinking of changing armor?”

Rain shook his head. “No, mine is better. This has chemical resistance, which would be good for where I’m going, but everything else is just…no. Plus, it’s ugly. I’ve got no desire to dress up like a metal olive.”

“Where did you get that armor, anyway?” Melka asked. “I’ve never seen anything like it. It’s enchanted, clearly. What’s on it?”

“No comment,” Rain said. Damn it, Tallheart, I hope you’re okay. Has Ameliah found you yet?

“Something from your backer?” Melka asked.

“Huh?” Rain said. “Backer?”

Melka shrugged. “I was surprised when you took Rill’s gift. You clearly don’t need it, with armor like that. I was figuring that you’d be insulted. Whoever you’re attached to, they must be someone significant. Too significant for Fel Sadanis. I’d be careful if I were you. You wouldn’t want them to think you’re working for Rill now.”

Rain laughed. “I don’t have a backer,” he glanced over at the clerk, making sure he wasn’t listening in. “I’m actually poor as shit. That box has got more Tel in it than what’s in my pouch by an order of magnitude.”

“I can’t read you at all, so I can’t tell if you’re joking.” She shook her head. “Sorry, it’s just so unbelievable.”

“Can’t read me?” Rain asked. “You mean with that lie-detector thing that everyone in the Watch seems to have? Is it a skill? Like a ‘Skill’ skill? You’ll have to tell me how that works sometime.”

Melka laughed. “No, I don’t. We’ve got our secrets, just as you seem to have yours.”

Rain nodded. “Fair. Anyway, what I’m looking for is something to help with resistances. Chemical, for the lair, and heat and cold for other reasons. Oh, and mental and arcane and…yeah, all of them, actually. Any idea what kind of thing I should look for?”

Melka shrugged. “Armor usually has that kind of stuff. If you’re not going to replace yours, then your best bet is a ring or an amulet. It will be ungodly expensive, though, if you want a decent boost. Honestly, you’re probably fine just from the fact that you’re all wrapped up in metal already.”

“Damn,” Rain said. “I guess I need to ask the random shop guy. I am definitely not fine.”

He walked over to the counter, and the man immediately greeted him. “Something catch your eye?” If he was fazed at all by the famous adventurer in his shop, he didn’t show it. There was no recognition on his face at all, in fact.

He’s probably used to adventurers, and I’m no silverplate. This is good. I’m happy that he hasn’t heard of me. I can feel my head deflating.

“Yeah,” Rain said after a moment of looking across the counter. “I’m looking for something to boost resistances, something that isn’t armor. Got anything like that?”

The man nodded. “I have a few ward-charms left. Single-use, but they’ll give you fifty points of resistance for a few hours.”

Rain considered, then shook his head. “I was looking for something more permanent. Like an amulet or a ring or something.”

The man spread his hands in a gesture of apology. “I’m afraid we don’t have anything like that at the moment. I’d say check back next week, but obviously our shipment is going to be…delayed.”

“Damn,” Rain said. “How about something that boosts health or mana directly?”

The man shook his head. “Sorry. Not a lot of call for that kind of thing. Too inefficient. You’d have to place a special order, which, again, won’t be filled any time soon. Mostly what we’ve got is weapons and armor. I see that you’re without a weapon. Perhaps you would be interested in that sword you were examining? It is one of our finest pieces. It has a greater sharpness enchantment—no small thing, I tell you.”

Rain shook his head. “I’m not a swordsman. The only thing I even remotely know how to use is a staff, or maybe a spear. Too inconvenient to carry around, though.”

The man smiled. “I’ve got just the thing.” He walked over to the wall, Rain following somewhat reluctantly. He was getting major car salesman vibes from random shop guy now. He didn’t like car salesmen, and he didn’t want to part with his newfound wealth for something that he didn’t need. He blinked as the man reached up to grab a small metal bar off the wall.

“This is a Quickstaff,” the man said, handing it to him. “Convenience is its main feature. It is otherwise fairly unimpressive, but it seems you only want a backup, not a primary weapon. If you don’t have Mana Manipulation, then I also have an activation stone that I can—Ah. Never mind.”

Rain had pushed his mana into the bar, smiling after reading the description. The 20 cm rod jumped in his hand, rapidly telescoping out to the length of a full quarterstaff. It was made of steel and was quite heavy, but not as bad as he would have expected. It wasn’t hollow, that was for sure. Magic was involved. He grasped it with both hands, falling into one of the stances that Val had tried to teach him. “Nice. How much?”

“Three hundred and nine,” the man replied immediately. “I know, I know, that is a lot for something without any damage boost whatsoever, but the enchantment is rare. The metal is durable, and it counts as a staff for all intents and purposes. It will allow you to use staff skills, and it is small enough to be tucked into a pocket.”

“Humm,” Rain said, making a few experimental moves with the staff. Damn it, this thing is fantastic and I want it. But 300 Tel… I just got this money, and I don’t really need a weapon. I still need to go buy healing scrolls and potions and whatever else. I’ve gotta check with Mlem and with Myth and Reason to see if they’re selling anything that might keep me alive. This staff won’t do it. I can’t justify it, unless…

He glanced at the shopkeeper. “How do you charge all this stuff?” He took his hand off the staff to gesture at all the equipment lining the wall. “I don’t see a way to deactivate the enchantments, and they are all kinda low.”

“Ah, that little issue,” The shopkeeper said. “The Havenheild Company prides itself on providing adventurers with all the services that they require, including item repair and recharge. The owner of this branch is a powerful mage, though not a fighter. He manages the stock as well. I will admit that he has been struggling under the current conditions, even after spending the night at the Watch stronghold. You are proposing that you charge some of the items in exchange for a discount on the staff?”

Rain nodded.

The shopkeeper considered. “I find this agreeable. I can charge a higher price for fully charged equipment. However, I will not make any accommodation for the current conditions of the city. I will give you, say, four Tel per thousand mana charged. Store credit, naturally.”

“Ten,” Rain said. “That is the standard rate. And per mana spent, not charged.”

The man shook his head. “I have a business to run.”

Damn car salesman. Well, I might not like them, but I know how to deal with them. He grinned beneath his helmet, then spun the staff to plant the end on the floor. He did his best to loom. “Ten.”

Melka chuckled. “Here we go again.”
