Rill snorted. “No. My servants informed me that you refused to leave, but I will not make an issue of it. I have nothing but respect for the Watch, but please know that this conversation is intended to be between Rain and myself.”

Melka rolled her eyes as Rill looked back to Rain. “There are many pressing duties that require my attention,” he said, “so I must keep this conversation brief. I felt that it was essential to handle this matter personally, however. It has not escaped my attention that you have been performing a vital service for the continued survival of the city.”

Rain was taken aback. This wasn’t how he’d expected things to start off. “Umm, thanks? I’m just doing my part.”

“Nonsense,” Rill said, “you have been instrumental. Without Purify, the commons would be dying in the streets. I don’t know what you have heard about me, but I really do care. Stability is good for all of us, common and noble alike.”

Rain nodded. “I agree with that, I suppose.”

“That is good,” Rill said, smiling. “I know that you have been simply obeying the commands of our honorable Citizen. While it was her wish for such work to go unrewarded, I do not share this opinion. Unfortunately, I have not been able to sway her on this matter.”

Wow, this guy is…not an ass? He nodded his head, not having anything to say in response.

“While that is the case,” Lord Rill continued, ”she has not forbidden me from doing as I wish with my own resources. To that end, please accept this small gift for service to the city.” He reached into a pocket, pulling out an ornate black-enameled box. He offered it to Rain. “With my personal thanks.”

Rain accepted the box but didn’t open it. He already knew what was inside, thanks to Detection. Tel were one of the things that he habitually scanned for, and he’d known that Rill had been carrying a lot of them before he’d even opened the door. A follow-up pulse as Rill had pulled out the box had confirmed that many of the Tel were inside of it. Holy shit.

He bowed again, deeper this time, saying nothing. He was thankful that his helmet would hide the expression on his face. The signal from the box was strong, feeling like his pouch had felt after the trip north. Before he’d paid off his fine, that was. He’d already considered his money problems to be solved after learning about the rates he could charge for mana, but this was immediate and real. He straightened, struggling for words and ultimately deciding to play it off like it was no big deal. “Thank you, Lord Rill. Your appreciation is reward enough.”

Rill smiled. “Good, I am glad that you feel this way. It is below ones such as us to obsess over material wealth. Still, I hope that my gift will help you in further service to the city and the house of Rill. Consider it a token of my appreciation, and a promise of a future of collaboration between us.”

Ah, there it is. That’s more like a noble. Rain nodded, not trusting himself to say anything without putting his foot in his mouth.

Rill glanced at Melka, then back at Rain. “Now, to business. As you know, Citizen Sadanis has claimed the Fells for her own use. She will be leading an expedition into the lair tomorrow morning, and she has requested that you join her. Ninth bell.”

Rain paled. Talking to Rill was one thing, but the thought of being in the same room with Velika was terrifying, especially after learning what she’d done. He looked over his shoulder at Melka, then back at lord Rill. “And if I refuse?”

“Don’t refuse,” he said, fixing Rain with a flat expression. “The Citizen’s requests are…not requests. They are commands. She does not react well when she is disobeyed. You would be wise to do as she asks.”

“And if she asks me to do something…distasteful?”

Lord Rill frowned. “I will speak plainly with you, though it is dangerous for me to do so. Citizen Sadanis is not a natural ruler. She is not stupid, but neither is she fit for command. She has no appreciation for subtlety, reciprocity, nor restraint. It is only through great effort that I have been able to keep things from falling apart completely. She does not wish to rule. She desires power but shirks responsibility. It is a recipe for disaster, and only by playing by her rules can we exert some measure of control.”

Wow, that is speaking plainly, alright. Damn. Does he have a deathwish?

Rill laughed softly, then looked at Melka. “Do not look so shocked. Did you think me a fool? I have already discussed this with your masters.” He looked back at Rain. “All we can do is mitigate the damage. By accepting the yoke, the ox may guide the cart, so long as he strays not from the path.” He chuckled to himself. “Sometimes, there is great wisdom in peasant sayings.”

Rain shook his head. “What if she asks me to kill someone because they look at her wrong? I’m supposed to just do it?”

Rill shook his head. “She will not, most likely. While many died in the attack, none of those deaths were at her hand. She subdued the Watch without killing a single member—no small feat, and not something that she would have done unintentionally.” Rill’s eyes flicked to Melka. She had raised her hand to her throat, but dropped it when she saw them looking.

Rill looked back at Rain and continued. “She is operating under restrictions placed upon her by Citizen Westbridge, or by the DKE as a whole.” He shook his head. “Please do not take this the wrong way, but perhaps it is too much for me to expect an adventurer to understand the politics at play. Trust me when I say that she will step lightly. She cannot afford the Watch to come to believe that the cost of removing her will be less than the cost of allowing her to remain in power.”

Rain nodded, hiding his annoyance at the jab. He’d already come to a similar conclusion. “Oh, I understand,” he said. ”Politics is right. The whole thing with the dome is just an excuse for them to take the city, that much is obvious. They don’t want to piss off the Watch too badly, though, hence her restraint. They must be confident in her ability to keep things under control.”

Rill nodded, but Melka shook her head. “Doesn’t make sense.” She made a fist at her side. “The woman is a fucking psychopath. They’d never put someone like that in charge if they had any choice in the matter. There’s got to be something else. They want her to fail.”

“You know her so well?” Rill said, raising an eyebrow at her. Melka scowled, but did not respond. “As I said, she is not stupid. Her commands thus far have been reasonable, and she will listen to reason if it is presented to her properly. Citizen Westbridge is the greater mystery. I would have thought he would have honored Halgrave’s request to allow the Guild to depart.”

“Yeah, me too,” said Rain, nodding. “At first, I thought they wanted us in here to fuel the barrier, but the math doesn’t check out. There are too many unawakened for a hundred or so bronzeplates to matter.”

Lord Rill nodded. “It is a mystery. Even Citizen Sadanis does not know the reason. I have heard her yelling at Westbridge many times now. It seems she has not mastered the use of her link to the other Citizens yet, as she always speaks aloud, and always to Westbridge.”

“So, she can talk to him?” Rain said. “How’s that work exactly? I’ve heard that the Citizens are linked somehow, but I keep getting conflicting information. This one guy even said that—”

Rill raised a hand. “I apologize, but I am afraid that I must soon return to my duties. There is still one more important matter that I need to discuss with you.”

Damn. Rain nodded, setting aside his question.

Rill cleared his throat. “As you are aware, Citizen Sadanis is recruiting for her guard. Three of my children have decided to join. To my great shame, I have been unable to awaken them through my own power. You will no doubt have heard that my father made the foolish decision to harvest the lair that our family had curated for generations.”

Rain nodded. He hadn’t heard that specifically, but there were a lot of rumors flying around. It was hard to separate fact from fiction. He listened carefully as Rill continued.

“My children felt that joining the Guard is their best chance at achieving their awakening,” he said. “It is indeed a great opportunity for them, and one that I support. Unfortunately, Citizen Sadanis was immediately pressured by the other families to include their children in the first expedition into the lair. After much argument, she decided to hold a random drawing. To ask her to include my family at this point would be unwise. Nevertheless, I have arranged for one of my children to be selected. My son, Arlo.”

Rain nodded. “And you want me to keep him safe.”

“Yes,” Rill said, tapping a finger to his temple. “I do not know exactly what lies within the Lair, though I do have some general information. It is rank eleven, but with a wider than normal spread. It will prove incredibly dangerous for an unawakened, even one as well trained and equipped as my son. The Citizen will accompany you inside, of course, though I do not know to what extent she will assist. Her interest will lie in preventing anyone from destroying the heart. She may make her candidates fight, unawakened as they are. Should that be the case, my son will likely die. He is overconfident and reckless.”

“Why don’t you go in with them?” Rain asked. “I’m not the best fighter. I’m not sure I can do much. Why does she even want me, anyway?”

“I would, but she will not allow it. She wants to awaken six members at once, so that only leaves room for her, and for you, I suppose. As for why she chose you, it is no mystery, not once you know that the Fells is a swamp. Your Purify aura will make the experience much less of a…trial.”

Melka snorted. “Fucking right it will.”

“Ah, yes. You would know, wouldn’t you?” Rill said, nodding to her. “I am well aware that the Watch does not wish for the details of the Fells to be known, but I would appreciate it if you could tell Rain of your own awakening. It will be important for him to know what to expect. There is nothing to be gained by secrecy any longer.”

Melka nodded. “I would have told him anyway.” She stalked forward, pointing a finger at the noble. “Don’t think I’m buying that you’re on our side. You’re skilled, old man, but not that skilled. I can’t sense your lies, but I can’t sense the truth from you either. You’re just in this for the power. The fact that you rigged the lottery proves it. You’d better remember that this city belongs to the Watch when we take it back.”

Rain stared at her. Wow, she does not like nobles.

“Come on, Rain. Let’s go,” she said, ignoring Rill’s frown.

“Don’t worry, I’ll try to keep everyone safe, not just your son,” Rain said, inclining his head to Lord Rill.

“Good,” Rill said. “That is all I can ask. In the future, I may have more tasks for you. I think you will find that I can be most generous to those that are useful to me.” He flicked his eyes to Melka, then back to Rain. “Whatever ties you have to the Watch, they are not worth antagonizing the Citizen. It might be best for you to cease your association with them.”

“Fuck you too,” Melka said. “Rain, don’t listen to this snake. He works for the enemy.”

Rill sighed. “I am sorry that you do not understand, officer Melka.” He opened the door, then nodded to Rain. “The servants will see you out. Think about what I said. And once more, I thank you. My son may be brash, but he is still my blood. I would hate to see anything happen to him.” With that, he left, leaving Rain and Melka alone in the room.

Rain grimaced. Melka had already been testy after being made to wait, but now she looked like she was positively fuming. She glared at him, then sighed, her expression softening.

“Don’t like nobles, I take it?” Rain said.

She shook her head. “It’s not because of him. Or at least, not all of it. It’s her,” she said.

“Yeah,” Rain said, nodding. “Okay, let’s just go then. I need to get a few things if I’m doing this.”

Rain and Melka followed a servant out of Rill’s estate, then Rain led the way toward the Guild square. He was acutely aware of the weight of the box of Tel in his pouch, though it was much lighter than the books he was lugging along in his bag. Those had been an extreme expense this morning, but now, they didn’t seem so expensive after all. It was time to see if there was anything worth buying in the shop near the Guild, now that he had crystal to burn.

When he approached the square, he noted that someone had been using cold magic again. The entire area was covered in a layer of ice, slowly melting in the warm air. Unsurprisingly, there weren’t many people around.

Melka sighed. “Why in the middle of the city?” She stepped onto the ice, gliding with all the grace of an Olympic skater. “I need to talk to that woman.”

“Which woman?” Rain said, raising an eyebrow behind his helmet. “Mahria?”

Melka nodded. “This was obviously her doing. Something like this would get her thrown out of the city if we were still in charge. She’s a troublemaker, always pushing the boundary.”

He shrugged, hiding a smile. “I barely know her, but I can see why you’d say that. She doesn’t have very nice things to say about the Watch, either.” His smile faded as he thought about his trip to the mine. As if I need another source of stress, now I’m thinking about Lavarro. I wonder what she’s up to. Does she know that her daughter is trapped in here? At least she can’t get to me. Silver lining to being trapped in a reverse snowglobe.

He skidded his way across the square with considerably less grace than Melka, heading for the shop that catered to the Guild adventurers. He now recognized the flowing script above the door as the written form of Zeelada. Of course, he still had no idea what it said. He hadn’t spent nearly enough time with the language book.

The interior of the shop was laid out with various displays of armor and weaponry as he remembered, and the same clerk was behind the counter, wearing the same green tunic as a uniform. What did I call him? Oh, right, ‘random shop guy.’ We meet again. The man had given him an attitude the last time he came in here, but that was only after he’d learned that Rain was practically broke. The place was otherwise empty.

“Ah,” random shop guy said, looking up as Rain came in. “Welcome, welcome. I have not seen you before. Is there anything I can assist you with?”

