Domitian stepped up to the edge of the parapet, gripping the stone so hard his knuckles paled. “Enough, Caesar. You made your point. No unclassed child could have done what she did. Even most men couldn’t. She’s the greatest natural fighter I’ve seen in fifty years, but she’s spent. Her Mana is nearly gone. You can see it in her stance, the way she’s breathing.”

Galerius jabbed a finger toward the courtyard, voice rising.

“She’s running on fumes. Any man with eyes can see she’s at her limit. Even if you wanted to break her, she already proved more than any of us believed possible. There’s no shame in ending it now. If you let those ghouls at her, they’ll tear her apart. She’ll die for nothing.”

Silanus’s tone turned sharp as iron.

“You want to show us what? That a girl can be a monster too? You proved it. She is. But she’s not immortal, Caesar. Even the greatest prodigy can’t take on a fresh mob after killing a hundred dead. Not when her Mana’s spent and her body’s on the edge. You’re not training a Champion—you’re feeding a child to wolves.”

Domitian’s mouth drew tight with disgust.

“I’ve seen grown men snap from less. You can hear the ghouls. They’re not like the zombies. They circle, they wait, they test the shell, and when she slows one step, they’ll pull her down and eat her alive. If you have a shred of sense left, Caesar, call it off.”

All three glared at Caesar, expecting him to stop the trial or at least explain himself.

Instead, Caesar stood unmoved, arms crossed, his expression fixed. He waited for their anger to crest, then cut through it with a cold, level stare.

“You call her spent. Maybe she is. Maybe she’s one step from collapse. You say she’s the greatest talent you’ve ever seen, and you’re right. But that’s not enough. I don’t care about talent. I care about monsters. You want to win a war, you need something more than bloodlines and laws and custom. If she can’t survive this, she’s not worth a damn.”

Galerius spat on the stone.

“You’re insane.”

Silanus didn’t hide his contempt.

“You’ll kill her. You’ll waste everything you’ve built.”

Domitian’s tone cut through the others, low and uneasy. “There’s vapor coming off her skin. I can see Mana burning out of her core. Caesar—did you… That’s not normal Mana. You taught her—no, you wouldn’t.”

For a heartbeat, everyone turned, even the [Templars] below, listening.

Galerius’s voice was wary now.

“You taught her your Secret Skill?
