As the Bekhai Khishigs marched out to surround the gathered guests, visions of bitter conflict and slaughtered nobles flashed through Yuzhen’s mind. Reacting a beat too slow, she ran on stage dragging Gerel behind her, hoping to talk some sense into Baatar before her premonition came to pass. Blade drawn and teeth bared, he was no longer the quiet, reserved warrior she once took him for, but instead a murderous savage hellbent on blood and vengeance. The transformation was startling to behold, a disciplined soldier turned wild creature pacing the stage in restless unease. Shoulders slumped and back hunched, he eyed the guests with blazing blue eyes like a predatory beast searching for an opening to pounce on his wary and frightened prey.

Curiously enough, the Divine Turtle seemed completely unperturbed, still eating her meal next to the stage alongside the rest of Rain’s pets. Knowing how he loved them dearly, it was disheartening to find Rain’s pets so indifferent to his death, more concerned with filling their bellies than mourning their master.

Her approach drew Baatar’s ire and his frosty eyes locked onto Yuzhen with a snarl, responding to what he saw as a challenge to his authority. Pulling her behind him, Gerel stood tall with hands up and palms forward to show he meant no harm. “Hands off your weapon, my love,” he Sent, his gaze locked on Baatar. “Challenge him now and he’ll act without thinking, or worse, Sarnai will act without caring for consequence.”

It took more effort than she liked to admit to lower her guard, unable to relax the fingers wrapped tight around her hilt. An obvious blunder to approach him with weapon ready to draw, but she didn’t remember reaching for it, an instinctive response to a dangerous situation. Not that the weapon would do her any good. From what her father told her, Baatar might be strong enough to defeat Nian Zu in single combat. Then there was Akanai, a woman on par with Du Min Gyu and standing nearby over the fallen Rain with her axe-lance in hand. Were the Bekhai to lose their mind here and now, Yuzhen doubted anyone present could contend with this Mentor-Disciple pair aside from Guan Suo, and even he might be forced to retreat before this assembly of Bekhai Experts.

It’d be foolish to rely on the Smiling Slaughterer to save them. They had no prior relationship and if anything, he’d probably stand on the Bekhai’s side. Then there were the other powerful and prominent guests present, such as Nian Zu, Tong Da Hai, Chu Tongzu, Situ Jia Ying and her brother Jia Yang, all high ranking officials and warriors with both feet firmly in the Bekhai camp. If Baatar acted, they would have no choice but to support him because no one in the Empire would believe they were unable to stop him. Yuzhen had to choose her words carefully lest she become a witness to the birth of a rebellion backed by no less than three Magistrates and a Colonel General.

Speaking out loud so the guests could listen in on their exchange, Yuzhen began with, “My sympathies for your loss -”

“Do not speak as if my son is dead while he still draws breath,” Sarnai interrupted. “Haven’t you heard? He is the Undying. Mere poison isn’t enough to bring him low.”

So much for choosing her words wisely. Now that she looked again, Yuzhen noticed the Medical Saint kneeling with eyes closed and hands pressed against Rain’s bared chest. Gerel’s mysterious veiled Mentor joined Akanai to ensure no one interrupted the Medical Saint’s work, yet another hidden dragon she’d forgotten about. At times it felt like Bekhai Experts were as common as clouds, a stark reminder they were a force not to take lightly.

To make matters worse, Sarnai’s words were spoken with confidence and contempt, instilled with Chi to echo throughout the courtyard for all to hear. She made it clear she knew how the guests viewed her oh so troublesome son and many of them shifted uncomfortably in their seat, no doubt remembering earlier conversations where the words ‘savage’, ‘bumpkin’, and ‘brute’ had being bandied around quite liberally. As spectacular as Rain’s victories were, Martial Warriors were an arrogant bunch and his strength far from enough to inspire fear or respect. Most believed his triumphs were solely due to luck, having faced only one ‘true’ talent, Wu Gam. Then again, even if Rain were ten times stronger and defeated all his rivals in single combat, he’d still have more than his fair share of detractors due to his background alone, not to mention his offbeat opinions and distinctive mannerisms. He should have listened to her advice and presented himself as a stoic (and silent) warrior of humble origins instead of flaunting his learning and wealth in front of the entire Empire. Only then would he command respect and...

Focus woman, no sense blowing out candles while the whole house burned down around her.

“What fortuitous news.” Smile, but not too much. Relief, not joy, which could be misconstrued. The Bekhai are insular and trust no one, so don’t give them reason to mistrust you even more. Gesturing at the Khishigs surrounding the guests, Yuzhen added, “Thank you for your protection. Who knows if the dastardly villain might strike again. I believe I speak for the Northern delegates present when I offer our full cooperation towards finding and apprehending the party or parties responsible for this heinous crime.”

Glancing at her Central counterpart Yo Jeong-Hun, she prayed he had the sense to speak up. After a moment’s thought, he stood and clasped his hands. “Central understands the need for caution in this delicate situation, and I am personally outraged by the audacity of this crime. Not only did they target this talented young hero and mar this festive occasion, it was carried out in the presence of so many esteemed peers whilst under Imperial Decree. Whatever aid you might require, ask and I shall answer.”

A thinly veiled warning and an offer to help without committing to anything. How diplomatic of him. The southern delegates had no unified representative, so they all looked to young Dienne for guidance, who merely nodded in silent agreement. Addressing the crowd, she ‘suggested’, “With so many suspects to winnow through, it would be best if we all remained seated while the Bekhai inspect the kitchens and question the servants. It would be remiss of us if the guilty party were to slip away in the chaos of our departure.”

A chorus of ‘ayes’ and nodding heads followed her statement, but despite securing their agreement, there was no doubt in Yuzhen’s mind that every guest present had already Sent a message to their guards. Even as she spoke, she knew there were countless warriors marching towards this courtyard ready for blood and battle, but she had to at least try to keep the situation from spiralling out of control.

Directing her next question to Akanai, Yuzhen prayed the Bekhai leader was as calm and level-headed as she appeared. “Perhaps the Khishigs would be of more use guarding the exits.” From escaping would-be assassins or approaching would-be rescuers, Yuzhen didn’t care. Fewer swords wielded by fewer temperamental hot-heads would be good for everyone, and sending the Khishigs away might calm the guests down. So long as the balance of power sat firmly in Bekhai hands, Yuzhen believed Akanai would keep things from devolving into open slaughter.

With a nod, Akanai wordlessly sent the Khishigs away and Yuzhen celebrated this tiniest of victories. A half-second later, the sound of heavy boots filled the air, draining her of joy and filling her with trepidation as they marched towards the courtyard in a steady and speedy cadence. Hundreds of boots moving in perfect rhythm marked them as highly-trained and disciplined elites, and their quick response meant they’d been waiting nearby in full armour no less. The Bekhai hardly seemed concerned by the approaching warriors, which was strange considering they lacked any sort of heavy infantry. This meant that in all likelihood the boots belonged to Nian Zu’s elite soldiers or Yo Jeong-Hun’s personal guards, but neither man’s reaction gave anything away. Temples throbbing and shoulders tense, Yuzhen held her breath and waited. Whose soldiers would step through those curtains and for what purpose? Were these warriors here to even the balance or would they tip the scales even further in favour of the Bekhai?

She wasn’t sure which outcome to hope for. Neither one would make things better and both had the potential to make things so much worse.

Clad in their distinctive, glossy-black armour, the Imperial Death Corps marched out from behind the stage, their weapons drawn and purpose clear. Yuzhen almost cried out with relief and the guests audibly sighed as one, believing the worst to be over and done. Raised from birth to obey orders without questions, the Death Corps cared not whether they faced a Marshal or a peasant. So long as their master ordered it, they would kill without blinking or die in the attempt, but that wasn’t what made them so fearsome. Anyone could raise slave warriors, but only the Death Corps belonged to the Imperial Court. Slaves though they might be, disrespecting them was akin to disrespecting the Emperor’s authority, a crime worthy of death. Since the Legate was the only Imperial Scion in Nan Ping, this meant that once the Death Corps secured the area, the Legate would arrive soon after to smooth things over. Surely not even the Bekhai would be so bold as to directly oppose the Legate?

The brief illusion of safety shattered at the sound of a melodic, sensual voice, emanating from the beautiful and dignified Zheng Luo who stood with Rain’s family. “Soldiers of the Imperial Death Corps, my Lord Husband has been poisoned,” she said, her voice so calm and composed it sent chills down Yuzhen’s spine. “What is the punishment for the attempted murder of an Imperial Consort?”

“Nine Familial Extermination.” Hundreds of voices responded in concert, lacking in enthusiasm or excitement but filled with boundless determination.

“Noted.” Gesturing around the courtyard without pointing at anyone in particular, Zheng Luo stated, “Father has ordered the suspects apprehended and brought here. Should any attempt to escape, kill without mercy.”

“By your will.” The Death Corps marched out to surround the guests, but not a single voice spoke out in protest of being treated as suspects. Like Yuzhen, everyone was too busy coming to terms with the two simple words which changed everything.

Imperial. Consort.

Oh Mother in Heaven...

The pieces fell in place, yet Yuzhen still had difficulty wrapping her mind around all the complexities. Zheng Luo, an innocuous, superficial Imperial Servant, was in fact, an Imperial Scion by birth. Unlike most Imperial Servants whose parents were little better than merchants or commoners, one or both of Zheng Luo’s parents held high positions in the Imperial Court, else Rain wouldn’t have been granted the title of Imperial Consort through marriage. Whether it be a high-ranking official, a close relative of the Emperor, or possibly even the Emperor himself, someone in Zheng Luo’s family had more power than most nobles in the outer province could even dream of. Hypothetically, she was merely a Servant without ties to her birth family, but in practice, things were rarely so simple. Who knew how her parents would perceive an offence directed at their daughter or her husband, no matter how estranged? Even if they didn’t care about their daughter’s well-being, an insult to her was still a loss of face for the family itself, a nigh unforgivable act for any Imperial Scion.

And an especially heinous transgression if Zheng Luo were blood-related to the Emperor himself...

In truth, Zheng Luo’s heritage wasn’t all that surprising. Imperials loved playing their little games of power and offering a child as tribute in exchange for the Emperor’s favour wasn’t unheard of. What was unheard of was gifting an Imperial Servant of high-birth to someone outside the Imperial Clan. Literally unheard of, as in Rain would be the first ever in the history of the Empire. How interesting. With this new status, Rain would be nigh untouchable in the outer provinces, a genuine member of the Imperial Clan, though only by the barest legalities.

If the party responsible for his poisoning were here now, their intestines must be green with regret. Initially, they merely risked death, but now exposure meant Nine Familial Extermination. What was the Legate thinking when he bestowed such an honour upon Rain? Was it because of Rain’s talent? No, impossible, talent was worthless at this juncture, potential which had yet to be reached. Could it be to protect the Divine Turtle? Possibly, but what benefit did the Legate or Imperial Clan draw from this? And why now? The Divine Turtle’s existence had been known for decades now...

Or was Zheng Luo a reward for Rain’s gift? Runic shields, though valuable, wasn’t enough to warrant such a princely prize, which meant it had to be because of his book. But how? Rain gifted her with the first copy he made and she’d read it from front to back a hundred times over. It contained a smattering of useful knowledge and a myriad of... ambitious concepts, but that’s all. Was there something she’d missed, or were water clocks and cast iron all it took to be inducted into the Imperial Clan?

Maybe she should take another long, hard look at Rain’s inventions...

A tortured groan interrupted Yuzhen’s introspection, and her heart leapt with joy to see Rain lift his head. “Feels like I got hit by a chariot,” he muttered, making no effort to sit up. “What happened?”

“Save your strength my boy,” the Medical Saint answered, wiping Rain’s pale face with a handkerchief. “I didn’t want to wake you, but I had no choice. You’ve been poisoned by something I’ve never seen or read about. No one else is showing symptoms, so this attack must have been directed at you. Tell me, have you eaten or drank anything suspicious? We must find the culprit and force him to identify the poison else you’ll be incapacitated for weeks, if not months.”

“Well... Shit.”

“Language my boy, language.”

“Sorry.” Closing his eyes, Rain quietly coughed and thought things through while Yuzhen and the other guests waited with bated breath. After an eternity of silence, Rain finally opened his eyes and chuckled, shaking his head ever so slightly. “Damn. I think it was the idiot servant.”

After listening to Rain’s theory on how he was poisoned, Yuzhen felt the urge to smack him upside the head and ask who was the real idiot. A single cup to control which one he drank, running back and forth so no one could accidentally drink from a poisoned teapot or see him poison the cup, making eye contact with a young noble and then disappearing without warning, all strange behaviour unbecoming of a servant. What happened? Rain was normally so wary and perceptive, for him to stumble like this was entirely out of character.

“Well, he’s probably long gone by now,” Rain said, eyes closed in rest. “Guess I scared him off when I asked for a bigger cup, haha.” With a tired sigh, he asked, “So why will this take weeks to recover from?”

Instead of taking offence at an open challenge to his skills, the Medical Saint merely shook his head in defeat. “Whoever arranged this knew of your Healing abilities and planned accordingly. They didn’t poison you, not exactly. Whatever it is, it’s taken root in your intestines and created... not an obstruction, but an impediment of sorts. In small doses, this wouldn’t be an issue and to some it might even be considered a boon, helping to filter the rich blood flowing out of your intestines. Problem is, you consumed too much and now the obstruction is so dense, it’s creating blood clots which are carried away to the rest of your body. You were lucky, my boy. Had this clot travelled to your brain instead of your lungs, you’d have had a stroke or possibly even outright died. As it is, you passed out from a pulmonary embolism in your lungs.”

“Oh. Least I’m not dead.” Furrowing his brow, Rain continued, “Clots are easy to deal with, I can handle that myself, though it’d require constant surveillance. Hmm... I can’t remove the impediment. My body doesn’t recognize it as harmful or foreign, so my Healing does nothing. How clever, using medicine to kill.”

“Indeed, but not to worry. Though removing the cause is beyond my skills, treating the symptoms is simple enough. Blood flow will break down the impediment in time and while this will lead to more blood clots, so long as we have a healer watching you around the clock, no harm will come to you.”

“Why don’t you just remove the impediment?”

Shaking her head at Rain’s question, Yuzhen worried that a clot had already reached his brain and was affecting his memory. He’d only just stated that the body didn’t recognize the impediment as harmful, so there was no way to target it with Healing. The Medical Saint said as much, but Rain merely smiled. “No, I mean physically remove it. With a knife. Slice my stomach open, cut out the afflicted section of intestine, and Heal me back up. Easy peasy.”

A bark of laughter slipped through Yuzhen’s lips before she could stop it, but thankfully, she wasn’t the only one. Nervous chuckles emanated from the gathered guests at the thought of doing something so barbaric. Vivisection and flesh-sculpting were the pursuits of madmen and sadists, like the heretic Zhen Shi and his ilk. For Rain to suggest such a thing was -

“Brilliant!” With a dazzling smile which had Yuzhen swooning on her feet, the Medical Saint beckoned for Baatar’s help. “Come, make a single long incision here, deep enough to penetrate the abdominal cavity but not enough to rupture his intestines, else we’ll have a real mess on our hands...”

The next fifteen minutes were the longest quarter hour of Yuzhen’s life. It was small comfort knowing she wasn’t alone in her torment, the other guests also forced to sit and watch while the Medical Saint and Baatar eviscerated Falling Rain on stage in front of them. Once the cut was made, the Medical Saint stuck his hand into the bloody incision and rummaged about, chewing on his tongue and humming beneath his breath while Rain’s guts spluttered and squelched. After long minutes of ransacking the cavity to no avail, the Medical Saint snorted in discontent and pulled out an entire length of intestine, inspecting it centimetre by centimetre while it was still attached to Rain like a length of bloody, throbbing rope. Soon, he gave a cry of success and held out a section of blackened intestine. With two flicks of his wrist, Baatar cut it free and the severed piece fell to the stage, rolling away while the Medical Saint cackled with delight while holding two spurting sections of guts in his blood-soaked hands.

Thankfully, Yuzhen’s mind blocked out the rest and soon enough, she looked down at a shirtless, bloodied, but uninjured Falling Rain. Mouth twisted in a grimace, he plucked at his black silk pants covered in his own blood and quipped, “Next time, we should put down towels first. I really liked these pants.”

Mind buffeted by alternating waves of shocked disbelief and fearful apprehension, Yuzhen struggled to keep her mouth closed and feet steady. More than one guest had fainted with others wavering on the precipice, and it was all Yuzhen could do to hold back the bile rising in her throat, but Rain? His eyes were wide open throughout the entire ordeal, yet he never made a sound. Now, minutes after being disembowelled, he sat on the stage floor with bowl and chopsticks in hand, shovelling food into his mouth while cracking jokes about needing to put on weight. Even without his new title of Imperial Consort, Yuzhen suspected that once word of tonight’s events spread, no one would dare cross him ever again.

‘The Undying Savage,’ the people would say, ‘is entirely devoid of mercy.’

Even towards himself.

Chapter Meme
