Barbi was a little surprised when he put the remote down on his other side and rested his hand on her lap. He wasn't doing anything sexual at all and just rested his arm there. His hand was on its side and not palm down like some people would do to take advantage of the situation. Her arm was only slightly around him, so she moved it down and hugged him slightly, then Ren wiggled a little bit and managed to get his head in closer to her and rested his cheek on the side of her breast.

“Even today's technology, like cell phones, can be explained away because a lot of the places he goes wouldn't let them work, or they were stolen, confiscated, or broken.” Ren said and smiled. “That's what I do to trick my mind into accepting the outdated show. I rationalize the flaws away.”

“Do you only do that for shows?” Barbi asked. Ren tilted his head up and looked up at her, which caressed her breast, and she hid her reaction to the touch.

“You're asking me about Gloria, aren't you?” Ren asked, and she nodded. “I... yes, I guess I do.” He said and sighed sadly. “I didn't think I did; but like I told her, I took the time to go over everything we had gone through, and it made me realize what had really been going on.”

“Ren, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to bring it up.”

“It's okay. I've had years to come to grips with it.” Ren said. “The only problem is, I remember everything now.” He said. “I can recall everything she said, everything we did, and when it ended.” He tilted his head back down to look at the television and sighed again. “I also remember how much it hurt.”

Barbi's heart fluttered at his pain, and she put her hand down on top of the one he had on her lap. He opened his hand to take hers, and she turned it over instead and placed it on her thigh.

“If you remember everything...” Barbi bit her lip and swallowed. “...what shape are the tips of my breasts?”

“They are almost perfectly round, but the left one is slightly oblong.” Ren said. “There are 31 little bumps around that one, and 26 on the right one. The tips at the time were only partially erect, since I suspect you were only just starting to get excited about flashing me.”

Barbi caught her breath at the specific details, especially with her pet peeve about the shape.

“I was surprised that you reacted so quickly and distracted me.” Ren said and smiled. “You saw my reaction to that.”

“I did.” Barbi said in a normal voice, glad that her control of her emotions was quite strong. “I was surprised by you as well.”

Ren chuckled. “Not scared?”

Barbi pat his hand. “It would take a bit more than that to scare me.”

“Wow.” Ren said and looked back up at her, intentionally rubbing her breast with his cheek. “I am not going to ask what would scare you.”

Barbi chuckled. “Just watch the show and explain to me what you did in the game.”

“Yes, ma'am.” Ren said and looked back at the screen and settled the side of his face against her breast again. “First, I had to make over a hundred thousand steel squares...”
