She sat down heavily as that thought struck her, as it sometimes did. She’d left Mrsha behind. And yes, it was because Ryoka thought—no, she knew she brought death. Better for Mrsha to be safe…safer with Erin. But she should send a [Message]. Or perhaps it was best if Mrsha forgot all about Ryoka. After all, if she and Ryoka had never met…
“I’m a terrible person.”
Fierre noticed Ryoka’s suddenly despondent look. She hesitated, and then squatted down and laid a comforting hand on Ryoka’s shoulder. Since her hands were ice-cold, that really just made Ryoka shiver, but Fierre tried her best.
“Hey. You couldn’t ever be as bad as them.”
Ryoka paused.
“That’s true.”
 
——
 
At the same time as the disappointing broadcast was taking place, another event was occurring. Only, no one was broadcasting this, and only a few were even aware of its existence.
In Pomle, the warriors gathered by the oasis. They did so seldom, save for when the Strongest of Pomle called them for war, or momentous occasions.
Such as this. The [Martial Artists]—those who obeyed the call, some were simply loners—gathered. Some hadn’t seen each other in months. They trained as they pleased, lived as they pleased.
This was Pomle, one of the few places in the world where martial artists trained and learned. And it had to be said, in a world like this, where magic swords and spellcraft were common, anyone willing to challenge that with their fists or bodies alone was brave indeed. The warriors had resisted all other nations, created a sanctuary where there were few rules.
You lived and did as you pleased here, so long as it fell within the basic rules of Pomle. The [Martial Artist] community would shelter people who had committed murder, so long as they did not break the peace here. And it was the Strongest of Pomle who enforced that rule and shaped the tiny nation.
At the moment, that person was Orjin. And he had allowed many outsiders in. Refugees, fleeing the war in Tiqr. Many had left, but a lot of non-warriors had created a small settlement. The [Martial Artists] weren’t happy about it—but neither were they unduly upset. The Strongest made the rules, until someone challenged him.
And this, at least, was something Pomle was used to. The [Martial Artists] had gathered for a fight. An organized one, but a fight nonetheless, and they’d honed their bodies—or brought weapons, if they had them.
Not all of them used bare hands of course. Orjin knew eight different weapons well enough to use in combat, and there were a number of experts, such as a [Peerless Spearmaster], a pair of [Fencers] in training, a retired [Assassin], and a few [Weapon Experts]. But most were [Martial Artists], albeit with unique specializations and variations of the class.
“Strongest. Who challenges Pomle today?”
“Visitors from afar. Two groups, I think. The regular ones and some…expert.”
The dark-skinned man answered a Selphid [Martial Artist]’s question. She nodded, looking intrigued. Her body was old and would have been rotting but for the fact that it was desiccated.
She was the only Selphid in Pomle; few would have been able to survive given how hard it was to find new bodies regularly. As it was, her Skill allowed her body to move and keep active with minimal wear over the years.
She was one of Pomle’s masters. If there were many who came to Pomle to train, or learn, there had to be masters who wanted to teach, be alone, or perfect their craft. The Selphid was an expert in grappling. Orjin would rather jump into a nest of giant flame ants than let her get an arm around him.
She had brought someone with her. A…Dullahan. Female, like the Selphid’s body. It reminded Orjin of a Garuda he used to train. Well, hit every time she challenged him and then taught a few new moves to.
Peki. He wondered if she’d ever made it to Baleros. Orjin dismissed the thought. If she was strong, and she was, he would see her again. She had promised to return when she met the Titan.
“Your apprentice?”
He indicated the young Dullahan. Well, ‘young’—she was in her mid-twenties. But young in terms of ability.
Mendi looked better than her master; Salthorn was a worn, half-rotten corpse with a carelessly worn uniform; Mendi’s was new, well-tended despite the rough conditions, and she had sewn a badge onto one arm; a falling giant, Salthorn’s symbol. Her armored body was cloth, light, and oddly fragile-looking compared to other Dullahans, but it added to her appearance. A light-footed warrior, standing on the balls of her feet, ready for her match.
She was restless, drawn in by the sight of all of Pomle’s warriors gathered. Orjin and the Selphid, by comparison, were calm.
“Mendi. Introduce yourself.”
“Strongest. I hope to fight today, if I am able. Master Salthorn has taught me for eight months.”
The Dullahan bowed to Orjin. He nodded.
“You seem like a grappling-striking expert. Correct?”
He eyed her muscles and posture. The Dullahan nodded. Orjin was able to tell how his opponent fought most of the time. He remembered another Drake who’d come by when Orjin wasn’t the Strongest. He’d been interested in learning, too.
Perhaps it was the visitors today who were prompting so many memories. Orjin looked at Salthorn.
“The challengers are a large group. The Windcaller’s Wrath. I think.”
“All warriors?”
“They follow their great leader, who is a master of [Martial Arts]. He has come to challenge me, I think.”
Salthorn looked interested. Orjin had been too, when he’d heard that.
“A great master indeed. What is their name?”
Orjin paused.
“I don’t know. Salii informed me they were coming, along with others. So I gathered everyone here.”
It was a regular event in Pomle. At the Strongest’s whim, or for a challenge from afar, the warriors of Pomle would gather to spar. To learn. Even if Mendi did not get to spar the outsiders—and sometimes it was adventurers, or foreign warriors who would come to pit themselves against Pomle—she would get to fight other disciples.
“Here they come.”
One of the Garuda [Martial Artists] had spotted some of the newcomers. The warriors of Pomle turned, and saw a vast group heading their way.
“One thousand, two thousand, three…”
Orjin’s brows rose. To see so many challengers was incredible! But he quickly realized that the group converging on Pomle’s oasis weren’t all martial artists.
“It looks like a nomadic tribe.”
“But not Garuda. And they dress well.”
The Strongest of Pomle eyed the group with confusion. There were indeed civilians, following a smaller group of [Martial Artists]. Some kind of…support? They were carrying packs, while the [Martial Artists], dressed in silk, strode forwards.
Not just dressed. Some were silk. Stitch-Folk. And their acolytes, the followers, were cotton and hemp. Orjin stared. Some were former-Cotton or even former-Hemp. He could see by the cloth-skin of their heads, which was hard to change. But these [Martial Artists] were clearly above the pack-carrying others.
Which was odd. The stronger one should have carried the packs. Orjin frowned. Were they conserving their strength? They’d never build muscle if that was how they lived. But he only waited, appraising.
“Odd forms. Look at how they walk. Unguarded.”
Salthorn murmured. The [Martial Artists] did indeed have a strut about them. They glided as they walked, which Orjin allowed looked good, but left them open if someone were to attack them.
Then he realized. Some of them weren’t touching the ground. Their feet were hovering over the arid ground and dust.
“An air-walking Skill?”
A murmur ran through the warriors of Pomle. One of interest. Orjin frowned.
“They’re showing off.”
He didn’t know why they’d do something like that. Orjin sat on a rock with Salthorn as the group approached. But he didn’t see anyone that looked like a great [Martial Artist].
“Orjin! Orjin! There’s trouble!”
Someone ran up towards the gathering. Orjin’s head turned. Salii, the Drake [Receptionist] appeared, waving her clipboard. She looked unusually worried.
“Salii, the guests are arriving for the sparring. Can this wait?”
“No! It's about them! Remember how I said some foreign martial arts group was challenging Pomle? The Windcaller’s Wrath?”
“That’s them.”
Orjin nodded towards the group. Salii, nodded, desperately.
“Yes! But Orjin—I didn’t realize! They’re not just a group of [Martial Artists]! They’re a cult!”
The word made some of the [Martial Artists] look over. Orjin frowned.
“What?”
The Drake pointed at the non-fighters.
“They follow their leader, the Fury of Skies. He’s a master [Martial Artist] who promises to make his disciples into the greatest warriors! Everyone else gives money to him and follows his way of life, leaves their homes—”
“How would giving money to him help them?”
“It’s a way of life! I mean, a cult! It doesn’t have to make sense, Orjin!”
Salii snapped. Orjin just looked at her blankly. Then he noticed a man walking towards the oasis. Through the air. He was, Orjin saw, a thin Human. His body was covered by silk robes, etched with magic sigils. For protection?
There was a murmur. Orjin looked up and saw the Fury of Skies. Walking. And he was no Garuda.
“That’s a powerful level of air-walking. I wonder if he can fly or if that’s his limit?”
Salthorn leaned on one of her training swords as she watched, raising her rotted brows slightly. Orjin just shrugged.
“He’s pretty slow.”
“Orjin! This is important!”
The [Receptionist] snapped. The [Martial Artist] looked at her.
“Why? He asked to fight Pomle’s warriors and their strongest. So he will. That is how we do it, Salii. There is nothing to worry about, even if he has a cult. I don’t have any money to give him.”
“Orjin, he’s a [Cult Master] as well as a [Martial Artist]. This—group follows him blindly, and he’s started chaos in several nations before. If he starts talking to the other experts—”
Salii cut off as the cult stopped at the oasis. The people carrying packs fell to their knees as their leader walked slowly over them. They shouted, as the [Martial Artists] behind them bowed.
“Fury of the Skies! Fury of the Skies!”
And he descended. He moved slowly, nodding at his disciples and studying Pomle’s warriors with urbane interest. But that wasn’t what made Orjin, Salthorn, and some of the masters stare.
“He’s out of shape.”
The Selphid studied the Fury of Skies. Orjin corrected her.
“He doesn’t have much muscle.”
“I see baby fat. His body isn’t like yours, Orjin! Or like half of Pomle’s warriors!”
She meant muscular. And yes—Orjin saw some evidence of muscle on the man, but he lacked, well, the pure athleticism you got by training all day. He looked—off. But he was walking in the air.
Without introducing himself, the master of the Windcaller’s Wrath descended to the ground in front of the warriors of Pomle. He spoke in an authoritative voice.
“I am the Fury of Skies. I have come to challenge Pomle’s Strongest and to show the world my power. My martial art is powerful. I have mastered the ability to cut the air and sunder the earth!”
He struck a pose, and Orjin saw him inhale. Then he exhaled and shouted.
“Ha!”
His fist punched—and Orjin saw the air move. A blast of air hit one of the few palm trees around the oasis, a hundred feet distant. The explosion knocked bark off the trunk, tore apart the leaves.
Orjin waited. The Fury of Skies leapt. He soared into the air, higher than some of the flying Garuda. His disciples oohed, and stared as he landed. Light as a feather. Next, the Fury of Skies touched the earth with his shoe, just the tip at his toes. He pressed once, walked away.
The [Martial Artists] waited. After a second, the ground split where the Fury of Skies had touched the earth. A crack and burst of dust floated upwards, about six feet wide.
The people of Windcaller’s Wrath waited. Their [Martial Artists] looked smug. Pomle’s warriors blinked. Orjin waited a bit more, then turned to Salii.
“Should I punch a rock or something?”
The [Receptionist] stared at him.
“That wasn’t impressive? I haven’t seen you punch the air!”
“I don’t practice that. I could have dodged that. Half of Pomle’s warriors could have, even closer.”
Orjin shrugged. Salthorn was nodding. She leaned over as the Fury of Skies waited, looking triumphant and cool. Triumphantly cool.
“I think he’s insane, Orjin. Why did he show you his Skills ahead of your spar?”
“Perhaps he’s that confident? Maybe those are just feints. That would be cunning.”
“True.”
Some more of the masters walked over, eying the Windcaller’s Wrath. The other warriors went back to sparring. The smug atmosphere of the other group faltered a bit.
“Well? Will you not answer us?”
One of the silk [Martial Artists] leapt forwards, slamming a foot into the earth. There was a large impact—[Tremor Blow], Orjin guessed. He looked over.
“The others have not come yet. We may have to wait a few hours.”
The Cult of Windcaller’s Wrath stared, and the Fury of Skies stared at Orjin. He went back to sitting on his rock. Salthorn greeted the other masters.
“Looks like a lot of challengers today. Will your disciples be fighting?”
“Perhaps. I just came to look at the Fury of Skies.”
An old Garuda, the [Peerless Spearmaster], leaned on his staff. He eyed the Fury of Skies, who was being attended to by his flock. Orjin waited.
“Well?”
The [Peerless Spearmaster] snorted.
“I’m going back to sleep. Wake me up when he leaves.”
 
——
 
The sparring began an hour later. That was how long it took for the others to arrive. The cult weren’t the only group coming to Pomle today, as Orjin patiently explained to one of the angry senior [Martial Artists], or Hurricane’s Fists as they were apparently known. Pomle got people who wanted to join the warriors, or just train.
And in this case, it was what they offered Pomle that was important. Not every [Martial Artist] in Pomle fended for themselves. Anyone who wandered in was expected to do whatever they needed to survive. That meant find shelter, food, and attend to medical emergencies on their own.
But what if you sucked at finding food? Or found it cut into your training time? Then, you could offer Pomle something.
A new Skill. A way of fighting. The ability to make swords or weapons to train with. Some of the warriors better suited for fighting would find you food in that case, in exchange for some training, or just because it benefited all. Of late, Salii had been pushing Orjin to expand this impromptu system, but for now you had to come here and demonstrate…something.
