It was a strange day. War had begun in Belchan. Well, there were a number of concurrent wars, some of which were more wars in name only—declarations between countries without fighting.
But in Belchan? Oh yes, it was war. And Wistram, despite having had many complaints, was still broadcasting it.
“—Hours into the first proper day, and we’re not seeing the King of Destruction’s army slowing. Their advance has been much slower than projected—”
“They’re not racing, Noass. Rather, they’re systematically destroying each group they’re coming across. We’ve seen two local forces routed in minutes—”
The advance of Flos’ armies as the two Drakes spoke in their broadcasting studio—which was still just a table with props—was visible through a second scrying mirror as they spoke. And indeed, Flos’ armies were moving slowly.
Slowly, yes, at least given the initial rampage. But that was only because the two [Commentators] had been speculating how fast Flos would gallop towards Belchan’s capital. Which was an idiotic idea. The King of Destruction was enraged, but he was at war.
And he knew war. His infantry were marching fast, boosted by his [Rapid March] Skill, but conserving their strength. The cavalry, meanwhile, was moving ahead, clashing with small groups but mainly scouting for opponents. [Mages], casting spells from afar. Of course, the [Commentators] had had [Strategists] giving their opinions on what Belchan could do.
“We’ve uh, seen the suggested hit-and-away tactics attempting to be employed by Belchan’s [Mages]. They have a good school, and they may have seen the broadcast. But uh, they’ve been quite thoroughly destroyed—”
“—slaughtered—”
Sir Relz murmured, adjusting his monocle uncomfortably. Noass nodded.
“—by the King of Destruction’s [Steward], among others. It, uh, appears that the level differential is too much. Even the ones attempting to use [Invisibility] or [Lesser Teleport] were killed. Quickly, too. Which is why…er…this broadcast is not definitive strategic advice.”
His words were accompanied by the scrying [Mage] in charge of the broadcast focusing on a group of a hundred some [Riders]. All elites, led by the [Steward] himself. And they were moving fast.
In fact…they were getting larger as the viewers and Drakes watched. Rather quickly, too. They were, in fact, heading for the Wistram [Mage] deployed to the battlefield.
“Uh oh. I think that our watcher has been spotted—”
Noass stared as Orthenon rode down on the [Mage]. And instantly, the [Seer] panicked. He began putting up shield spells and shouting as the [Steward] rode down on him, spear readied.
“Wistram! I’m from Wistram! I—”
The barrier spell flashed and stopped the [Steward]’s charge for about half a second. The man screamed and Orthenon’s spear flashed towards his head. The butt of it, though, not the blade. The last sound and sight was of a thud and the view tilting—and then the scrying mirror went dark.
Noass winced.
“That would be the third [Mage] covering the battle in Belchan down, ladies and gentledrakes, if you’ve been keeping count. Um. It appears the King of Destruction is not viewing any outsiders as non-combatants, although he has not, as of yet, slain any of them. To our knowledge. Er—and the situation in Belchan’s capital is chaos, apparently. While—while we try and get another viewpoint, let’s switch to one of our other broadcasts. Sir Relz?”
The other Drake nodded.
“Thank you, Noass. I believe we have an event shaping up in—Terandria? Yes, some kind of [Knight] order. Challenging…a [Lord]? Well, we’ll cut to that while we try and find another [Mage] willing to broadcast the events.”
With that, the scrying orb went dark. There was a sigh from the Mage’s Guild, and the audience watching the orb—one of many across the world—relaxed and began to chatter a bit.
Ryoka Griffin ate a popcorn kernel. It was unpopped, but she liked eating the kernels as well as the popped ones. It was a habit.
“Odds are one to eighty-six that Belchan survives the war. If they make it past a week, anyone with a gold coin bet walks away rich.”
Fierre murmured from the side. She and Ryoka were watching from a bench in Reizmelt’s Mage’s Guild. There were few scrying orbs in the city, and one of them was being used to display Wistram’s broadcast. Everyone who could be here, was. More were peering through the windows, in fact, but Fierre had gotten Ryoka in on a bench. She had connections.
“Pass me some popcorn?”
Ryoka did. Fierre munched as the two waited for something to happen. Ryoka glanced sideways at Fierre.
“Did Alber and Madain not want to come?”
“Nope. He’s practicing your weird punches. And Madain doesn’t like crowds. Plus, no one’s allowed to drink in here.”
“Huh. Well, there are kids.”
Ryoka glanced around. The Mage’s Guild did indeed have kids, and Ryoka wasn’t sure if letting them see people literally being killed was…well, good. But this was a reality here, and she wasn’t going to argue with the parents.
In fact…Ryoka was a bit perplexed that the two kids sitting on her bench hadn’t tried to get any popcorn. They were staring at the blank scrying orb, but even when she offered her pail over, they barely looked at it.
The people in the room were silent, in fact, apart from a low murmur. And when the broadcast began, it would be dead silence. People went outside to sneeze. They had a reverence for the televised broadcast that people from Earth had forgotten.
So, the Mage’s Guild was quiet, but for the occasional crunch as Ryoka waited for more to watch. She and Fierre were there. Eating popcorn. And yes, Ryoka had made it herself, after asking Madain for permission to use his kitchen.
She wasn’t bringing it to this world, and she wasn’t making a stink about it. It was just popcorn and butter and salt, alright? With an optional bowl of delicious, meltable parmesan flakes for taste. If you wanted it.
Besides, Erin had already brought popcorn to this world. Although she ate it with—the City runner had to shudder—nutritional yeast on top. Who did that?
Anyways, Ryoka could still cast normal magic spells, and she could warm up the popcorn whenever she pleased. She stared as the two Drakes reappeared.
“Sorry, everyone. A minor technical issue—we’ll try not to cut the broadcast again! We’re back, and we have what I understand to be a challenge to the ah, infamous [Lord] Belchaus Meron, who is known of course, as the most eligible bachelor, and best [Lord] in the world as ranked by Sir Krsysl Wordsmith. Of course, that list has been disputed, but the Lord of the Dance, as he’s known, is a Terandrian force, and his navy has defeated—what’s that, Sir Relz?”
“I believe, Noass, this isn’t a challenge per se as we understand it. Um, this appears to be some sort of traditional…competition? By the Order of Savellia.”
“Ah one of Terandria’s ubiquitous [Knight] orders. We, er, saw a few Orders yesterday, Sir Relz…”
Noass had a slightly supercilious tone as he spoke. In the Mage’s Guild, Fierre snorted. She elbowed Ryoka.
“Savellia? This is going to be good. Have you heard of Lord Bel, Ryoka?”
“Best [Lord] in the world? Lord of the Dance?”
“That’s just what some Drake wrote. But he is one of the best [Lords], in combat and other aspects. But do you know what the Order of the Knights of Savellia are known for?”
An image was appearing in the scrying mirror, replacing the two Drakes. Ryoka leaned forwards, glancing at Fierre.
“No. What?”
And then there was light. Ryoka looked up and saw…well, a ballroom.
That was what she assumed it was at first. Marble floor, an expanse of smooth stone decorated in some pattern she couldn’t make out—and people, standing in near darkness.
The ballroom was vast, the kind of place where you could see hundreds, perhaps thousands of people mingling, eating, dancing—or book the room so two people could dance obnoxiously in the center with a film crew.
But it was poorly lit at the moment, and Ryoka could see people in shadow. Whomever had control of the viewpoint was sweeping it across the silent room. There must have been at least four hundred people, all…waiting.
And then, the view tracked towards two double doors. Ryoka heard a sound from outside. Voices. Marching footsteps, the sound of armor en masse. Then the doors blew open, spilling light into the room, and the Order of Savellia swept into the room.
They were [Knights]. And yes, they wore armor. Plate, among their more senior members, but chainmail, even cloth mixed in with their clothing. Oh yes—and they were colorful.
Ryoka had seen the Order of the Seasons, who decorate their armor brightly, with the colors of the summer or spring. But the Savellian [Knights] had style. They’d decorated their armor with art, not just a layer of paint. Ryoka saw one [Knight] sporting a motif of flowers along his arm guards and breastplate, which twined down into vines along his legs.
Another had on an armored…dress. Which was exactly like what it sounded; a knee-length skirt and armored leggings and guards on his arm, yes, but more suited to a court than a battlefield.
But they were armed for battle. All the [Knights] had helmets; none went without, although few were full-visor. They wore weapons, mostly quick ones, like shortswords and bucklers, few battleaxes or huge maces. There were about a hundred on this…raid? Challenge? And one of them had just kicked the door open.
They stepped into the ballroom slowly. And the light that slowly illuminated the room was aided by a series of magical [Lights] that sprang out around the room. Ryoka saw the hundreds of people in the room stir.
She realized they were [Dancers]. They were dressed in free clothing, showing a certain athleticism in the way they stood and moved. They were lined up as the Order of Savellia slowly gathered on their side of the ballroom.
And then Ryoka saw Lord Bel. He stood at the far end of the room, and the first image Ryoka had of him was his legs. Most people stood. More or less straight, or with slouches. Lord Bel—posed. He stood, one leg higher than the other, as if he were about to explode into motion, on the balls of his feet, vibrating with the energy you could see in some people, all contained in his limbs.
He looked—good. Beyond an athlete or a bodybuilder, it was his form that first stood out to her, but his dress and the rest of his appearance were no less good, and she could appreciate both. Lord Bel wore something closer to a suit from the yester-years of dance culture married with that Terandrian old-fashioned nobility look. Disco meeting European nobility; an open-collared pale blue shirt with rose-red inner cloth and long leggings that accentuated his height, polished black shoes.
He might have been forty, but his grin was infectious, and he seemed to have ceased aging, such that if he had appeared when Ryoka were in college, she’d be going up to him. He was chatting animatedly, legs and body moving to the rhythm of a song only he could hear, but it felt like if he wanted to, he could make that song a reality.
Lord Bel was distant, but Ryoka saw him surrounded by a court of the best-dressed people. She stared at him, and then the [Knights]. And she blinked.
“Are they carrying…drums? Is that a trumpet?”
The [Knights] at the back of the group were holding instruments. Not weapons, unless you thought you could kill someone with a trumpet. Which you probably could, but—Ryoka saw a pair of cymbals, a kind of violin—she stared at Fierre.
Then the [Knights] began to stamp. Ryoka saw their armored feet hitting the ground in perfect unison. At first, they did it slow, ominous, a rhythmic thump and clash of metal. But only for a few seconds. Then they began to speed up.
The Savellian [Knights] began to stamp faster. And behind them, the ones carrying them began to beat on their drums. But—the atmosphere was all off. If this was meant to be intimidation, they were going too fast. And then some of the [Knights] began to play on their instruments. And Ryoka realized this wasn’t a display of intimidation. This was a beat.
The [Knights] swept forwards as a wailing brass horn began to play. And Ryoka saw an armored woman shoulder her way forwards.
“The Grandmaster. That’s her.”
“Her…?”
Ryoka stared as a woman dressed in the most ornamental armor she’d ever seen in her life stepped forwards. The grandmaster of the Savellian [Knights] had a raised collar, like a formal suit’s, but made of metal, shielding the sides of her neck, and someone had styled it like a suit, slim and flexible links of metal around the waist, closer to scale armor than plate. It was bright red, and black lines emphasized the look of the suit-armor. She was old, in her later years, but her hair was dyed, and she felt young; her movements certainly were.
The [Knights] spread out behind her. She raised a hand as the shrill horn grew louder. And then she began to dance.
The grandmaster raised a hand and her [Knights] streamed forwards. They began to step down the ballroom as the music continued to play. Dancing, not just step. Ryoka had seen good dancers before. And she saw the [Knights] spreading out to the left and right, gliding down the floor.
They were men and women in armor—in almost equal number, she realized—but they didn’t move like it hindered them at all. They sauntered forwards, tracing a pattern with their footwork.
Left, right, cross-step, right, left—turn. The [Knights] each held out on arm and Ryoka saw they’d made a tunnel with their bodies, towards Lord Bel. The Lord of the Dance waited. And Ryoka saw him smile.
The music cut off abruptly. And the audience, silent, saw the grandmaster stop. She locked eyes with the Lord of the Dance, and then she motioned. Four senior [Knights] lined up. And when they stopped moving, there was silence. Then—the grandmaster raised two fingers and pointed.
The four [Knights] and the grandmaster slid forwards. They advanced, dancing, and Ryoka saw they were stepping, a quick march with high knees, they stopped, did a sideways step, twisting their heels in. The [Knights] on their left side began to move with them. They advanced again, four steps, paused, twisted, pointed.
At the Lord of the Dance. The music started up again, punctuating their movements, rising, stopping—the right side of the Order of Savellia came forwards, throwing up their hands and shouting. Again, in rhythm with the music. All the [Knights] halted again, and then the music picked up.
They advanced, raising their hands and stepping with their right foot. With each step they threw up their arms, and Ryoka saw the four [Knights] and the grandmaster turning, pirouetting, beckoning, challenging.
