The [Knights] were halfway down the ballroom. They paused, then swept out their legs, doing what looked to Ryoka like a low attitude-turn. She wasn’t a dancing expert! The most she knew was tricking. But the [Knights] were dancers.
They swept forwards, in a mix between what looked like classic ballroom dancing moves and a faster, freer dancing style not meant for the ballroom specifically. Performance dancing.
And just as they seemed like they’d keep dancing until they ran into Lord Bel, his [Dancers] began to move. A stir at either side of the ballroom; Ryoka saw the closest [Dancers] tumble forwards, half doing handsprings, the other half leaping like ballerinas, incredibly nimble. The [Knights] paused as the other [Dancers] surrounded them. The [Dancers] began to snap their fingers.
And Lord Bel stepped forwards. The Lord of the Dance paused, and the Savellian [Knights] waited. Then he sprang at them.
“Hold on, that’s not—”
Ryoka choked on some of her popcorn as Lord Belchaus advanced. His steps looked nothing like classic waltz. His [Dancers] were like a modern team, echoing Lord Bel’s dancing suit in their more modern dress; they certainly exposed more skin than Terandrians would normally share…
Advance, half-step, turn, cross-step forwards, left sides facing the [Knights], arms extended, head tilted sideways, chin up just so—
At some point, Ryoka realized she was watching a dance battle. A choreographed dance battle. Lord Bel’s troupe paused as the [Lord] advanced and did what she could only term a complicated forward step on the tips of his feet. He was in releve, a term Ryoka knew from the few classes she’d had to take. But she couldn’t have described the rest.
What was the grandmaster doing? She was side-stepping forwards too, then a heel pull turn? Glissade back—Ryoka stopped trying to catalogue the moves and started just watching.
“Oh my god. They’re good.”
“I know, right? I’ve never seen them dance! But they’re famous for it? Both Lord Bel and the Savellian [Knights]! They fight in perfect formations in the battle—and Lord Bel is said to be better than most [Strategists]!”
“But that dancing! It’s so—modern!”
Ryoka stared at the grandmaster and Lord Bel. They were having a dance off in the center, surrounded by clapping and cheering [Dancers] and [Knights]. She had a more traditional dance, accompanied by her [Knights] who moved in sync with her, extending their arms, stepping back, turning, all with perfect form and order.
They surrounded her, and she extended an arm as they moved around her in a spiral. Behind her, [Knights] with brass instruments played while striking poses, moving up and pushing the [Dancers].
That was more like a performance. But the Lord of the Dance? He refused to bow to the Order of Savellia. He was moving forwards in a slow step, with his [Dancers]. Pausing before their feet touched the ground, halting the energy of the [Knight]’s dance. And then Lord Bel began to advance in a faster step. The baller shuffle! His fast-moving footwork made even the [Knights] break from their choreography.
“Who taught him how to do that?”
Ryoka choked on her popcorn.
“Shut up!”
But she had to ask—the Lord of the Dance was grooving, and yes, that was the term for it. Even the grandmaster looked surprised by his style of dance, which was at odds with the slower, more deliberate dances. Because yes, he was boogieing, switching into a tap dance—his feet were moving so fast that if you missed it, it looked like he was just sliding, rather than taking individual steps.
And then he did a moonwalk. Just for a second. Ryoka pointed.
“Look! Look! There’s no way—”
Perhaps it wasn’t that he’d been taught. Lord Bel just seemed to have the most free, energetic dancing that Ryoka had ever seen. And he was good. The grandmaster stopped, putting her hands on her hips as her Order began to look dismayed. Faced with the energetic style the Lord of the Dance and his [Dancers] were using, their more deliberate, ostentatious dance was struggling to keep up.
And he was smiling. As if he was gently mocking the Savellian [Knights]. The Lord of the Dance spun backwards, and some of his [Dancers] raised wands. For a second Ryoka thought it would turn ugly, but they shot magical streamers, and some of his [Dancers] leapt forwards.
There were [Tumblers] and other [Performers] among them; they began to leap and cartwheel through the streams of light and other illusions. Or not. A leaping beast made of fire leapt as a young man did a handspring over it.
A dance-off, indeed. The Order Savellia conferred. And then sixteen of their dancers stepped forwards. Lord Bel motioned, and sixteen from his side did likewise.
The two met in the center as the music grew slower. And some of Lord Bel’s people were playing as well, matching the [Knights]. The thirty-two dancers in the center began a fast waltz. It was a competition, perhaps to see which side would match the other. Because it definitely hadn’t been rehearsed. One side would twist into a move, like a hip lift and turn, and the other side would try to keep up. Or up the ante.
Ryoka was beyond entertained. She saw Lord Bel motioning at the grandmaster, inviting her to a dance. She was smiling—she was, in fact, a woman in at least her fifties, with greyer hair. She tilted her head, eying him. They clearly knew each other.
“Does this happen all the time?”
“When he’s not defending his lands, he entertains ‘challenges’ like this all the time. I’ve heard he’s studied dancing from every species, and he pays to see new dances or meet people who’re really good. He’s also unmarried, by the way.”
“Huh.”
Now both sides were dancing with each other as partners. Bel’s dancers were good. Savellia’s [Knights] were incredibly acrobatic and swift for people moving in armor, but they were fighters before [Dancers]. The [Dancers]? Well, they’d even implemented some of swing dancing’s more acrobatic lifts and flips into their dances.
The music was moving into an upswing, and Ryoka saw Bel pointing, ordering more of his [Dancers] forwards. It looked like they were going to do a huge choreographed number, which Ryoka was all for—with the grandmaster being invited into the inner circle with Lord Bel.
However, one of the Savellia [Knights], a young man, seemed unable to take the apparent superiority of Lord Bel’s dancing. The music faltered as he leapt forwards. Lord Bel looked up as the [Knight] slid sideways, doing a fast four-step into what looked like a circle slide. He was copying Lord Bel’s movements.
And he was good. If he was in a club or anywhere else, he might have been one of the best, but he was up against The Lord of the Dance.
However, his fellow [Knights] seemed to like his display of audacity. They cheered him on and the [Dancers] and [Knights] alike made a circle as the young knight-errant went up against Lord Bel. He kept dancing, locking eyes with Lord Bel, clearly taunting him—
And the [Lord] jumped into the circle. The [Knight] recoiled, mid-step, surprised that the [Lord] had interrupted his challenge. And he slipped. His body, overextended, made him overbalance. He began to stumble backwards—
And Lord Bel reached out and caught him. He seized the [Knight] at the lower back, like he might a female [Lady]. The young [Knight] blinked as the Lord of the Dance effortlessly held him. For a second—they looked like some scene from a movie, the young man staring up at the grinning Lord Bel.
The Lord of the Dance winked. He let go of the younger [Knight], and the [Knight] righted himself. He eyed the Lord of the Dance, then laughed and held out a hand. Ryoka saw Lord Bel laugh. He took the hand—
And then the two began to dance. The music halted, shifted as the musicians found a different song. They took on a courtly, slower theme, like one of the Victorian-era songs for the ballroom. But of course, this being Lord Bel’s home, it was more upbeat, and with a melody and harmony that made you want to move.
And the young [Knight] took Lord Bel’s hand and they began a waltz. Like the very ones Lyonette had taught to Pawn, although Ryoka couldn’t know that. But she grinned as the two men danced. The other Savellian [Knights] were clapping lightly to the beat and their grandmaster was whirling one of the female [Dancers] onto the floor.
They just loved to dance. That was all of it. Be it courtly, fast, newfangled or traditional, on-the-spot—Ryoka stared at the people in the image. And she wanted to move her feet. She wondered if Lord Bel had ever heard of tricking. No—how good could someone in this world with a dancing class be?
Certainly, she saw Lord Bel effortlessly hoist the younger [Knight] in a classic ballroom move, as if the armored person were a light [Lady] in the dress. He even made it look graceful, which should not apply to someone wearing plate armor. Yes, it was light, but…
The theme was set. Male dancers paired off with male, and female with female. They whirled around, dancing as the music began to pick up. Ryoka was smiling and Fierre laughing. And as Lord Bel turned to walk hand-in-hand with the [Knight] of Savellia, tracing their steps carefully and delicately across the ballroom floor—
The image went blank. The scrying orb darkened, turned into crystal. Ryoka’s jaw dropped. What happened? She stared at the [Mage] attending the scrying orb. He was staring at it, confused. And then—
The image of Noass and Sir Relz’s broadcast flipped back on. But the table was empty. The audience, bewildered, stared at it. Then, they saw a Drake—not either of the two [Commentators], but one of their assistants, hurry onscreen.
A little placard was hastily placed in front of the empty desk by a Drake assistant who hurried offstage just as fast. Ryoka read it slowly.
We apologize for the short intermission. This broadcast has been cancelled due to issues of possible obscenity.
There was a moment of silence. And then Ryoka threw her pail of popcorn at the scrying orb.
“What? That was the best part! You sacks of shit!”
Ryoka and Fierre went nuts from the back of the crowd. The audience erupted into shouting as the Mage’s Guild tried to restore order. The worst part was that not everyone was with Ryoka. Some people looked disgruntled.
“They can’t be real! That was just two guys dancing! And doing it better than I’ve seen!”
Fierre looked unhappy, but she tried to shush Ryoka as the [Mage] glared at her.
“I bet there are Terandrian nations already complaining.”
“For what? It’s just—”
The scrying orb came back to life as Ryoka was about to rant. Noass appeared on the screen, hurrying forwards and looking unprepared. He brushed crumbs off his tunic.
“Sorry for the delay, folks. Er, we apologize for the scene, and we’ll uh, immediately cut to—”
There was another voice in the background. Sir Relz, and someone else.
“Those Ancestors damned—there are children watching! Talk about impropriety! We’ll have to broadcast—no! No one’s ready! Cut to the Titan! What do you mean, he’s not teaching class? Cut to—”
Ryoka just stared. Drakes too. She knew this world had problems, but she realized—was it Terandria and Izril? She looked at Fierre. The Vampire-girl seemed just as annoyed as she was.
Really, though? They weren’t even saying they were…anything. But two men dancing—or two women—was enough? Ryoka sat, fuming, as the scrying orb changed again. She stared darkly at the orb.
A rather flustered [Mage] was standing in an empty classroom. He conjured a glowing ball of orange fire in one hand and spoke to the camera.
“And now, we shall begin a study of magic spells for those neophy—er, self-taught [Mages] abroad. I am Mage Rievan, and I will be going through one of our advanced lessons in spellcasting. Which is but one of the many of the magical theories taught in Wistram—”
“Bullshit! Give me my dancing!”
Ryoka was then ejected from the Mage’s Guild. She found herself outside, and raised two fingers to the guild’s doors, and then the sky to express her vexation. She stomped away as Fierre hurried after her.
“Hey Fierre, do you have another scrying orb?”
“It’s on my to-buy list, but I don’t have one, Ryoka. Most of my money went to rebuilding my shop and getting more contacts—why were you so mad?”
The young woman was about to have a talk with Fierre about gender—did she even know half of what was common knowledge on Earth?—when she caught sight of a [Fistfighter] striding her way.
Alber hadn’t come for the scrying orb. He was in fact, bare-chested, and he was sweaty. Ryoka eyed him. Fierre eyed his neck. Alber waved at Ryoka.
“Griffin, there you are. Are you going to show me the rest of those punches yet? I tried that other technique you showed me. But I need a sparring partner.”
Ryoka relaxed. This at least was a welcome change of late. She had begun teaching Alber some of the boxing theory from her world that she knew. And he had obliged her by knocking her flat a few times. He was a [Fistfighter] and she had no class, after all, but the two had a mutual appreciation of hitting things.
They were almost like friends. And it was an easier relationship than with Fierre. Ryoka grinned at Alber.
“Sure. Give me one second? Can you do a flicker jab already? Really?”
Alber grinned. He was already good enough to fight with Silver-rank adventurers—barehanded—and Ryoka teaching him about the priority of using jabs first meant that he was getting more dangerous with each practice session.
“Like snapping a towel? I think so. Come check my form.”
She nodded. Alber jogged off—the importance of roadwork was something else that Ryoka had told him about. Strong lower body. Fierre glared at his back.
“I could knock him out, fancy moves or not.”
“Vampires don’t count. If you boxed, you’d be even more dangerous than you are.”
“Hmf, well, I guess they won’t let us back in there.”
Fierre looked at the Mage’s Guild. She sighed as Ryoka began to stretch.
“You and Alber like hitting each other too much. At least the kids are gone.”
Ryoka paused and grimaced. That was true. There had been…difficulties of late. And she was grateful for Fierre and Alber’s forbearance in hard times. She said as much and Fierre scowled.
“Don’t talk to me about them. They’re probably dead three miles south of here. Ambushed by rabbits.”
“Hey. Look—”
The City Runner began to defend them. Then she gave up. She shook her head.
“…I should probably send Erin a [Message], telling her…damn. I should probably send a [Message]. And gold. And ask about Mrsha.”
