The fight, as it happened, went like this. The Fury of Skies launched a blistering series of punches and chops after Salii called down the count. The air rippled, and slashes of wind burst across the ring. They were sharp blades, so much so that the other warriors ducked out of the way, shielding themselves as they did.
Orjin covered his face. The blades of air lashed his skin, cutting, even drawing a bit of blood. But it was superficial. He held still as the Fury of Skies kept attacking.
“See! He can’t move! He bleeds!”
The [Cultist] shouted. But Iratze noticed how superficial the wounds were. Indeed, Orjin had let the first one hit him as a test. He’d been prepared to dodge, but after realizing they weren’t that sharp, he just waited for the real attack.
Since it never came, Orjin began to dodge the cuts of air. He moved fast, and the Fury of Skies kept striking at him. The blades of air missed, and the warriors of Pomle blocked or dodged. But…
The blades of air weren’t that powerful. Salii deflected one from afar with her clipboard. They could cut, but with his guard up, Orjin’s scarred, enhanced skin couldn’t really take much damage as long as he guarded his vitals. And he closed in.
Tremor punch. That was the good Skill Orjin had seen. He was waiting for it, but the Fury of Skies actually got tired of attacking. Literally, tired. Because he dashed in and struck at Orjin. The [Martial Artist] slapped the arm down.
And the Skill missed. The Fury of Skies ground his teeth; Orjin was sure he couldn’t use it for at least another minute. So he grabbed the Fury of Skies over the head, under the armpit.
The man wasn’t expecting that. Such an ignoble hold! He tried to hit Orjin, but the [Martial Artist] was bigger, had a better position, and the Fury of Skies had no idea what to do. So he shouted as he aimed a finger at Orjin’s stomach.
“[Pressure Point Bl—]”
Orjin threw him. The Fury of Skies hit the ground hard. He scrambled up—
And the cult went silent. He lunged at Orjin, finger poking—and Orjin hit him in the face.
“Ooh. He doesn’t know how to take a hit, either!”
Iratze saw the Fury of Skies’ head snap back. He hadn’t tried to cushion or dodge—he just reeled there as Orjin watched him. Then he tried for a punch.
Orjin clinched again. He hit the Fury of Skies twice in the face, threw him before the pressure point could hit him. Then, as the Fury of Skies tried to get up, Orjin got on his chest and locked down his arms with his legs. He began to punch the Fury of Skies in the face.
“That’s a fucking mount. He can’t get out of it!”
The other Earthers who knew anything about fighting groaned. Some had to close their eyes. Orjin was a heavy fighter and the Fury of Skies had the ability to walk through the air, cut the wind, and shake the earth. But with Orjin on him, he couldn’t move.
So Orjin punched the Fury of Skies in the head until he stopped moving. It wasn’t a fight. It wasn’t martial arts as practiced by the Cult of the Windcaller’s Wrath, who had gone deathly silent. But it did work. If you wanted to beat an enemy, you could slash their face with wind from afar or hit them with a paralyzing pressure point blow.
Or you could kneel on them and break their jaw and teeth. Orjin stopped at the teeth and jaw. Then he got up, shook his head, and walked off.
“I think he’s dead.”
The Earthers stared at the Fury of Skies. He wasn’t moving. He wasn’t dead, but neither was he getting up either. The cult—perhaps soon to be former cult—stared at their master. And not one of them challenged Pomle’s warriors. Not that Pomle’s warriors were interested.
“Iratze—maybe we’re in the wrong—”
The other Earthers were whispering as the last of the Pomle’s warriors lingered about the oasis, setting up their own sparring. Salii was conferring with Orjin, looking pleased, and he was looking bored as he wiped the blood from his arms and knuckles.
It was Mendi who looked at Iratze, noting his body.
“Are you with them?”
She nodded at the cult, which was retreating fast, bearing their master with them. Iratze shook his head.
“We—all of us—heard this place gives people food if they can teach something.”
“If they have something to offer. Do you? You look like a disciple, not a master.”
Mendi was a bit overconfident, or a bit tired of foreigners after today’s letdown. But she knew the rules. Iratze nodded.
“I…studied a different school than I think you know. It’s called MMA. Mixed Martial Arts. It’s similar to how you fight, but I think I can teach. A bit.”
He was a bit unnerved by how similar, actually, but he’d spotted weaknesses in even Orjin’s moves. Although he clearly hadn’t been trying hard. Mendi shrugged.
“If you think you can fight—I will let you spar me.”
She took her place in the ring as a few of Pomle’s warriors watched. Mendi was a bit too overconfident, but Iratze was not. He took a lower stance. She was going to try to let him hit her, he could tell. She didn’t even have her guard up. Which was a shame. For her.
He was better at grappling.
 
——
 
Orjin was annoyed, and ready to go off and practice by himself. He was just telling Salii that he’d order the [Martial Artists] training at Pomle’s borders to watch for reprisals from the cult—or rather, not to kill the Hurricane’s Fists who might try to get revenge. That was when he heard a roar from the ring.
He spun. The other warriors of Pomle were gathered around Mendi and one of the foreigners who’d remained. She was on the ground and he had her in a perfect arm bar, legs tangled around her arm. She was trying to get out of it, but Iratze could snap her arm.
“What happened?”
Salthorn pushed forwards, jumping over the heads of the other warriors to find her apprentice on the ground. She turned and one of the others explained.
“He beat Mendi on the ground!”
One of them exclaimed. Orjin stared at Mendi. Overconfident or not, one of Salthorn’s disciples had lost while…?
Then he stared at the arm bar. Which was new. And practical. He stared at Iratze, as Mendi tapped out and rose, panting. She looked at him, and then she bowed. And Iratze was surrounded by Pomle’s own, demanding to know what that move was.
Because Pomle respected skill. Real skill. Not fake Skills. It was Orjin himself who approached Iratze.
“Where did you learn that, warrior?”
“From a long ways away. We hoped—not all of us can fight, but if some of us can at least get something to eat—”
The young man had an accent Orjin couldn’t place. The Strongest nodded.
“If you can teach us anything more like that, there is always a place for you.”
The other Humans sighed in relief. Some sagged, and Orjin saw they were well worn out.
“Thank god. We’ve been travelling for so long!”
“You must hail from far indeed.”
Orjin noted their paler skin, and the oddness of their clothes.
“You have no idea. We’re from so far away it’s insane.”
One of the other Earthers grinned weakly at the Strongest of Pomle.
“Really? Where, exactly?”
Salii pushed forwards, eyes lighting up. The young man hesitated.
“Um. Mexic—”
“¡Oye, Raúl! ¡Cállate la puta boca!”
Iratze snapped. Raúl stiffened and Orjin heard a different tongue. Drathian? He stared, and that was how he met the strange visitors from afar. And he was grateful for this day. After all, even the Strongest of Pomle loved to learn.
