Usually that meant sparring with one of Pomle’s warriors, if what you offered was your abilities. The masters would decide and they’d tell you if Pomle would feed you or not. You could stay either way, but some aspiring warriors came in hopes of getting that treatment.
As was the case this time. A group of Humans had arrived, looking travel-worn and nervous. Some had decent muscles, though. Nothing like the Windcaller’s…something. Orjin had already forgotten the name.
“Sparring. Who will challenge the first of Windcaller’s…the visitors?”
Orjin called out. One of the better members of Windcaller’s Wrath was already standing in the sparring circle. A Silk-bodied Stitch-Man, one of the Hurricane’s Fists.
The warriors of Pomle looked at each other. A few lifted their arms or called out briefly.
“Send your best! My Hurricane’s Fists will challenge your masters and I, your Strongest!”
The Fist of the Winds or whatever he was called shouted. Orjin ignored him. Perhaps the Hurricane’s Fist was better than he looked. Either way—Orjin looked at the Dullahan who’d come with Salthorn.
“You. Go.”
She nodded and walked forwards. The Hurricane’s Fist began shouting as she walked towards the circle in the dirt that had been drawn.
“Beware, my opponent! My fist splits the air! I cannot guarantee your life if you enter this ring!”
He demonstrated with a punch, then a kick that did indeed cause ripples in the air and dust. Mendi paused as the cult oohed and the Humans stared. She looked at Orjin as the Hurricane’s Fist smirked.
“Do I have to show one of my Skills?”
“I don’t think so. He showed you of his own free will. Looks like a passive Skill, anyways. Go ahead.”
Orjin shrugged. Mendi nodded and walked into the ring. She had on a light, cloth armor, which made sparring more fair and gave her quickness of her feet. The Hurricane’s Fist sauntered into the ring, on the other side.
The masters waited next to Orjin. Some of them were murmuring, inspecting the Hurricane’s Fist.
“He split the air with a punch.”
“So?”
“That was my question. He split the air with a punch? What does it do?”
“It looks good. But what’s the damage? It didn’t go very far.”
“Too arrogant. Let’s see how they do, though. How good is Mendi, Salthorn?”
“Slightly above average. No better than many.”
Salthorn was a tough master, but she might be right. Mendi was new to Pomle. Orjin nodded.
“I will count. From three. On one, you begin. You fight for a minute, stop for a minute, fight for a minute until one is finished or gives up. You will try not to kill each other, or leave the ring.”
“I can make no promises!”
Orjin ignored that too. He counted.
“Three, two, one—go!”
At once, the Hurricane’s Fist stepped forwards and punched the air. The air rippled, and the blast of wind shot at Mendi, like a physical thing. She instantly guarded, bracing hard. Orjin saw Salthorn nodding.
The blast of wind hit the Dullahan and the spectators. They coughed, and the Hurricane’s Fist punched again. Again, air blasted the Dullahan. She kept blocking, covering her eyes, shielding her nose and other extremities.
The Hurricane’s Fist punched again, and then leapt into the air. He paused, standing in the air for a moment, and then dashed forwards. He dropped, foot dropping at Mendi’s head—
And she dodged left. The kick missed her, struck the earth hard. Without missing a beat, the Dullahan dove in and hit the Hurricane’s Fist in the side. He staggered back.
“Good hit!”
“Why didn’t he begin dodging?”
Mendi paused. The Hurricane’s Fist staggered back, and Orjin saw him wince. He punched again, without the wind this time.
“Mendi’s on guard. She’s feeling him out.”
The masters watched as the Hurricane’s Fist struck Mendi. She blocked, dodging some punches and kicks, and then backed up. Orjin saw her glance at Salthorn—until a punch made her put up her guard.
“Something’s wrong.”
Salthorn had seen it too. The two [Martial Artists] watched as the Dullahan continued to block. She never took a direct punch, although the cult was cheering as the Hurricane’s Fist blasted her with wind and struck relentlessly. Twice, Mendi hit him, one in the side, then in the chest. The other [Martial Artist] stumbled, and then went back on the attack, snarling.
“She’s not pressing him.”
At the end of the minute, the Fury of Skies stood up. He shouted at his disciple.
“My Hurricane’s Fist! Use a pressure point!”
Instantly, the young Stitch-Man went at Mendi, two fingers aiming for a point along her neck. She backed up. He advanced—and struck. Mendi deflected the finger. She stared at the way the other [Martial Artist] was aiming at her with both hands.
“Hard to hit a pressure point on a Dullahan.”
“What’s that? Like a blow to the groin?”
“Why isn’t she fighting?”
The other of Pomle’s masters were watching, mystified as Mendi backed away. She kept glancing towards them. Then a minute passed.
“Break!”
Orjin shouted. The two warriors went back, the Hurricane’s Fist to thunderous applause. Mendi walked over to the masters.
“Mendi, what’s wrong? Why didn’t you hit back?”
The Dullahan took her time in replying. Then she pointed at the Hurricane’s Fist.
“Master, is that a [Martial Artist]? He has too many openings. And his punches are weak.”
The masters looked at each other. Orjin frowned.
“What do you mean, Mendi?”
“The wind kept blowing in my face when he punched, so I thought it was a feint. But aside from his drop-kick Skill—he’s not hitting me hard. And he has terrible form, even if that is a Skill.”
Orjin had noticed that too. The pressure point poke looked weak. Salthorn glanced at him.
“What do you think, Strongest?”
Slowly, Orjin inspected the Fury of Skies. The other [Martial Artist] was staring at Orjin, challengingly. He looked supremely confident, but Orjin had a thought.
“I think…these might be show-masters. I’m sorry for calling you.”
He turned. And the other warriors of Pomle groaned. Two of them got up at once and walked off. Salii, who had been worried, looked around.
“What? What’s a show-master?”
Salthorn sighed as Mendi looked disappointed.
“It means they practice, but not for a fight. Those moves—splitting the air? Walking on it? Breaking the earth? It looks good and it might be…decent. But they don’t prepare for a fight. Mendi?”
“His guard isn’t there. I hit him three times, and he was all attack. He doesn’t seem to know I can ignore the dust and fight blind.”
The Selphid nodded unhappily.
“Show-master. The Fury of Skies sounds like one. A [Cult Leader]? Orjin, you don’t think—?”
“They may be tricked. By his abilities.”
Orjin agreed unhappily. The Hurricane’s Fists had decent Skills, but he’d give a fight to a Silver-rank adventurer with experience any day. As for the Fury of Skies—he just looked too weak to actually hurt Orjin, who was large and heavier than him by at least twice without a Skill.
Orjin’s enthusiasm for this moment drained out of his feet. He looked at Mendi—the time was running out.
“Mendi.”
The Dullahan looked at Orjin, warily. Was she expecting him to ask her to throw the fight? Salii was whispering at Orjin about something. The Strongest ignored her.
“Teach him a lesson about fighting. Go all out. But don’t kill him.”
The Dullahan grinned. Salthorn pushed her forwards and Mendi stepped back into the ring.
“Three, two, one—”
When the fight started, the Hurricane’s Fist punched and blew wind and dust at Mendi’s face. It was a good move—if you hadn’t seen it. Mendi just charged in. She took a blow across the head and chest as she did and Pomle’s warriors murmured. That was reckless! She had to close her eyes to go through the wind punch. But Mendi took both hits—
And then raised both arms, away from her face. The Hurricane’s Fist hit her across the chin and chest. And the Dullahan [Martial Artist] took both blows.
“Oh no!”
Salii looked aghast.
“Oh no.”
Salthorn agreed, but for different reasons. Orjin closed his eyes. If Mendi took both hits, it meant that was because she didn’t care. He opened them as the Dullahan baited a punch. Then she hit the Hurricane’s Fist in the head.
The smack was a thud that silenced the cult of the Windcaller’s Wrath’s cheering for a second. The Hurricane’s Fist stumbled backwards. He tried a few punches, woozy, and Mendi let him hit her. Then she kicked at his leg.
It was a fast kick. The Hurricane’s Fist kept attacking as Mendi dodged backwards, kicking again. That happened five more times. She just blocked the punches and two kicks and hit him sharply. It didn’t look like it hurt the Hurricane’s Fist, but Orjin winced with every blow.
“I think she shattered his femur. Cracked it, at least.”
Then Mendi began hitting the Hurricane’s Fist with heavy body blows. He kept moving, striking with the wind, but she just covered her face. After a minute, Orjin called a stop. He noticed the Hurricane’s Fist moving backwards slowly towards his side. The cult and his fellow Hurricane’s Fists were calling encouragement and abuse—the Fury of Skies looked…furious. He clearly wanted the match to have been over two rounds ago.
Mendi and the warriors of Pomle were just silent. Orjin stared at the Hurricane’s Fist as Mendi walked over. He spoke, briefly, as the other masters looked at each other.
“Don’t hit him in the head again. He doesn’t know how to take the blow. You’ll kill him.”
The Dullahan nodded. The way the Hurricane’s Fist hadn’t moved or seemed to know how to react when he was struck told Orjin he hadn’t sparred properly before. He was…all show.
“He’s coming back. He has spirit. Although I don’t think he understands how badly he’s outmatched.”
One of the other masters observed. The others nodded.
“Broken rib.”
“Cracked bone.”
“Mendi, take him out.”
The others nodded. Mendi walked forwards and Orjin counted down.
This time, the Hurricane’s Fist punched hard. He couldn’t kick with his broken leg, but he was determined to keep Mendi away. The air rippled, and Mendi advanced with her guard up. The Hurricane’s Fist punched and she—
Got him in a headlock.
“Ooh! A clinch!”
The shout came from some of the Humans watching. Orjin looked around, intrigued. He didn’t know the term, but Mendi had the other Hurricane’s Fist in a close grip. He was punching at her, awkwardly, trying to get free.
“That is not martial arts!”
One of the Windcaller’s warriors cried out furiously. Orjin eyed him.
“It’s fighting.”
And indeed, Mendi knew how to grapple. It wasn’t an on-the-floor takedown; she didn’t seem to think she needed it. She just kept kneeing the Hurricane’s Fist in the chest. Each blow made Orjin wince. Then Mendi punched the [Martial Artist] in the ribs, paused, and let him go. He sagged over.
“His ribs are broken. I think—many of them.”
Indeed, the young Stitch-Man wasn’t moving. His fellow [Martial Artists] ran over. Mendi walked over to Orjin, shaking her head. She looked around at her fellow warriors.
“Not worth fighting.”
Then she walked over to her master and sat down. Some of Pomle’s warriors murmured. They’d picked up on what Orjin had learned in Round 2. Some got up to leave.
“Outrageous! You call that fighting? That was—grappling! Like a [Fighter] would use!”
Some of the Hurricane’s Fists were furious. Orjin just sighed.
“I think this match serves no purpose. Pomle has no interest in dueling your people, Windcaller’s Rest.”
“Wrath!”
“Yes. That.”
Most of the warriors were indeed walking away. But the Fury of Skies leapt forwards. He ran through the air, and halted in front of Orjin. And when his eyes flashed, the wind blew at his back and his cult stared up at him in awe and trepidation.
“Do not think you will flee our duel, Strongest of Pomle! I challenge you! My disciples may err, but I do not. Accept, or be shown as weaker all your days!”
Orjin looked up at the Fury of Skies. And he felt a bit sorry for the man. But mostly annoyed. He looked at the people all following this man and wondered how he would do on a battlefield.
“I do not wish to fight you. If you do not wish to be humiliated, walk away, Fist of the Skies.”
The Fury of Skies’ eyes blazed. He pointed into the ring and punched up. Wind blasted around the oasis, and some of Pomle’s warriors looked back.
“I challenge you, Strongest! You and any other master! Come!”
He leapt into the ring, as light as a feather. Which probably meant he had all the weight of it in combat too. Orjin looked at Salthorn.
“Kill him. I could use a new body.”
The Selphid suggested. Then she paused.
“Although mine is better. Let him live.”
 
——
 
The fight, as it went down, was watched by the Humans who’d come to Pomle. Not the Cult of Windcaller’s Wrath, but a separate, smaller group.
“Iratze, who will win? You said that—armored girl was better.”
One of the young people whispered to their leader. The [Martial Artist]—and yes, he was one, if new to the class—grimaced.
“The big dude will. He outweighs the other one by twice. Maybe even three times!”
“But the Fury of the Winds has a Skill—”
“So? Skills aren’t everything. If this was a ring back home—he’s going to die. I could have taken down the Hurricane’s Fist, even without a Skill.”
One of the cultists heard him. A young woman with fervor in her eyes shouted in fury as the Fury of Skies took a fighting pose. Orjin just rubbed at his head, looking annoyed.
“The Fury of Skies won’t lose to anyone! It’s his [Windcutter Strikes]! He can slash his opponents from afar by moving the air like blades!”
“Iratze?”
The small group turned to him. They were, in fact, from Earth. They were following Iratze, who was indeed a [Martial Artist]—but from their home. The group was a gym’s younger members, two of them aspiring fighters, a girl visiting her father, and eight from outside, walking down the street—one who had been in a car.
There had been nearly twice that number, teleported. But these were the ones who’d stuck together. And survived.
“That could change things. But the Strongest has Skills too, right?”
The young man from Mexico eyed the Strongest of Pomle as he stretched. The Fury of Winds was exhorting his cult and Iratze had a sense of how this was going to go down. But he saw the Dullahan who had fought earlier was walking over.
“The Strongest won’t use a Skill. He doesn’t need to.”
The cult looked outraged. Iratze just nodded.
