Suddenly Malika was there, unleashing a flurry of blows that flashed with her soul magic, but he didn’t let up, his arrows accurate enough now that he could avoid hitting her even in melee. An arrow struck ribs, and then, finally, one pierced through their throat, triggering the sound of the chime.

Your group has defeated Shadow Assassin – Human – level 39.

“Ali?” he gasped, with a horrid sinking feeling in the pit of his gut, surprised to find Malika with him and not healing her.

“She’s fine,” Malika answered quickly, much to his intense relief.

“I’m ok,” Ali called out, echoing Malika’s assessment, and Calen flew over to verify it with his own eyes, letting his Righteous Fury fade.

“How?” He had seen the blood, and he had been certain it was an Ambush attack. The critical damage from a professional assassin of that level should have been enough to kill Ali outright.

“Mato took the damage,” Ali answered, pointing to where the tree was twisting and warping, slowly restoring Mato’s original form. “I’m not hurt at all.”

“We may have won the vote, but I think there were some sore losers,” Malika said, her lips twisting as she dragged the corpse with her and joined them. “This one is stupid enough to be wearing the Town Watch insignia under their gear.”

“Tala?” Calen asked, his stomach clenching.

“No… this one is male,” Malika answered. “But… that doesn’t mean she wasn’t involved.”

“I think we need to talk about some better security measures,” Calen said, but his heart was simply flooded with relief. It could so easily have gone very badly. “We were lucky this time. You alright, Ali?”

The Fae nodded slowly, “Just about.”

Finally allowing himself to relax, Calen opened his notifications to find a level up waiting for him.

Archer of Light has reached level 36.+10 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 24.Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 27 (+2).Motes of Light has reached level 14.Eyes of the Archon has reached level 22.Righteous Fury has reached level 11.Azrael's Wings has reached level 5.

Considering his attributes for just a moment, he decided to spend two each on dexterity, perception, and intelligence – his primary class attributes – and one each on the rest.

As she drew closer to the ruins of the grand library, Ali could see the vast sphere of her domain mana flowing through the stone, extending well past the walls, powered by the giant tree that grew within. All the way up the bone-encrusted walls, far beyond the limits of her vision, it soared.

She had told her friends she was fine, but in truth, the assassination attempt had left her shaken. All those nightmares of Kobold rogues stabbing her in the darkness had resurged in full force, only this time she had not been quick enough or lucky enough to get her barrier in place before being stabbed. If Mato hadn’t been nearby or Calen had been a little too slow, she was certain she would have died right there.

She turned her gaze to study the Beastkin Druid, now mostly recovered to his former enthusiastic energy level, contrasting sharply against her fatigue and fear. But he had described the experience of being a tree as much like meditation, so she presumed he had been resting most of the time. His skill was as remarkable as it was strange – she had felt the unforgettable sensation of the dagger stabbing into her back. She knew there was blood, and it had been excruciatingly painful, but when the dagger emerged, she had been unharmed. Somehow his skill was able to magically whisk away the damage and apply it to his own body. A body with thousands of health and a massive regeneration rate – vastly more suited to taking damage than hers. She felt positively fragile in the light of what had happened.

Malika said she’d check with Mieriel to see if they still had a bounty on their heads, but Ali was still not quite sure what to make of it all. Mieriel had most certainly gone above and beyond to help clear their names, but she still felt anxiety around her – the remnants of the half-remembered interrogation they had subjected her to.

“I think I’m going to clean all this bone off the outside walls,” she said as they approached the library doors. It was not excess energy that prompted her, but the need to take her mind off her worries. Nothing like repetitive chores to tire her out further and then she could sleep. Besides, it would need to be done at some point, and it was now entirely encased within her domain, so her mastery would make it a much easier task.

“Maybe make some monsters to guard you?” Malika suggested. Things between her and Malika seemed much better now, but there was still a distance that had not been there before. Hopefully, she just needed time as Lira had suggested.

“I can practice outside with you,” Calen offered.

“Thank you,” she said, accepting his company. If only she had a skill like his Motes of Light to dispel the stealth so favored by assassins. At least he summoned them while she began creating minions to protect her – a couple of wyverns and a few mages.

Then she hopped on a disk of barrier magic and, sizing up the monumental task, set to work. She flew around, spiraling higher and higher, wielding her Domain Mastery skill to turn the bone into dust while her Wyverns wheeled about in the air nearby. As the huge swathes of encrusted bone fell away, she further exposed the exquisite Dwarven stone craftsmanship and relief sculpture that had been famous across the entire continent. When she was finally done, she returned to the ground, deconstructing the waist-deep piles of bone dust, ignoring the imprint she learned from her efforts.

As the bone dust evaporated into ambient mana, her eye caught the outline of something familiar. Reaching out, she brushed it clear with her hand, exposing a magical rune etched into the stonework. It was ancient and heavily packed with dust and dirt – if she hadn’t been looking at it directly, she would probably have missed it.

What is this? It was not something she recalled either. She reached with her hand to the side and brushed at the ground and, as she had intuited, she found a second rune, similarly buried under the dust and grime of the ages. Giving in to the excitement bubbling up within her, she began to search, uncovering more and more runes etched into the stone all along the base of the library’s outer wall.

“What did you find?” Calen asked, peering down curiously.

“Look, it’s a rune circle! Only, it seems to be the size of the entire library,” she exclaimed.

Calen immediately bent down and joined her, caught by the excitement of discovery, and between the two of them, they uncovered a large stretch of it before he paused.

“Can you tell what it’s for?”

“I’m not sure,” she said, taking a closer look. The magic circle was extensive and ancient, but with her Runic Script, she was able to begin to decipher it. “This part seems to be related to Knowledge traits,” she said, indicating a large section. “And this here seems to be more focused on learning.” She studied it further, trying to figure out the next tricky section, and eventually, it came to her. “I think this was meant to connect to the mana condensers – a power source.”

“Fair enough,” he murmured, his eyes flickering back and forth.

“Oh, wait! I know what it is!” she exclaimed, suddenly recalling what the runes were for. The library had several grand enchantments to enhance learning and study, and now she could read them. “It’s one of the learning enchantments – a runic circle.”

“Can you fix it?”

“Well, the mana condensers are broken, or they fell into the jungle,” Ali pointed out.

“Aah, that’s too bad,” Calen said.

“I wonder…” Ali said, catching his eye. “I might just have an alternative power source, so to speak.” In the center of the library was an Elder Tree pumping out who knew how much excess mana.

And I have a skill that attaches my runic circles to my domain. She recalled to memory the teleport circle she had made and focused on the adjustments to the runic structure that hooked it into her domain mana. She needed to adjust both the runes and the domain.

But I have Runic Script and Domain Mastery. In theory, there is no reason I can’t duplicate it manually. “Hey Calen, can I borrow your notebook?”

“Sure,” he said, his shining eyes reflecting her excitement.

She opened the notebook he offered to a blank page, and with a little thought, she sketched a replacement design for the power conduit rune construct, replacing a number of the original runes with the ones compatible with her domain connection.

“Mhm, looks about right.”

“If you say so,” Calen said, squinting over her shoulder at her written notes.

Happy with her work, she bent and twisted her domain, taking a few tries to duplicate the pattern and hook it to the stone-etched ancient circle, but as soon as she got it right, the mana from her domain flowed through her new power coupling and into the stone runes in the ground, blasting the dust and grime away as they filled with mana.

“That seemed to do something,” Calen said, examining the now perfectly dust-free runes carved into the stone.

“It didn’t activate,” Ali frowned. Worse, partway round the circle, the runes had not reacted, still buried under dirt.

“Maybe you need to attach it in another spot?” Calen asked.

“Possibly. Come help me look for another section like this,” Ali said, hopping up and rushing around the library wall. She finally found the second power conduit and repeated her work, layering in a new connection before hooking it up to her domain. Again, the runes blasted the dirt out but failed to fully activate.

“That was a third of the way around the library,” Calen said. “Probably the last one is another third.” And he proceeded to lead her directly to the third conduit.

When she finally hooked the third conduit up to her domain, the entire area dimmed dramatically before the circle flared with intense brightness. Then after a few moments, the mana recovered, and the circle settled to a more sedate level of illumination.

Domain Mastery has reached level 13 (+2).Runic Script has reached level 21 (+2).

Elated by her success, she stepped across the threshold and into the library, and she was greeted with a notification so familiar to her that it felt like coming home.

You have entered the Grand Library Arcana.All Learning and Knowledge magic is enhanced by 10%

Ali touched her wet eyes, speechless.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
