Rain activated his refrigeration aura, maximizing the range, but pulling back the intensity as much as he could. If he was going to win this thing, he needed to use mana efficiently. The links of his chainmail glowed almost imperceptibly with a pale blue light as the mana interacted with the metal. He started sprinting directly towards Val, chasing the wave of cold air. The moment Rain started moving, Val raised his hand to point directly at him.

Rain gritted his teeth and charged on, aiming for the center of the circle. The blast of light took him square in the chest, a sudden warmth warning him that the strike hadn’t been entirely blocked by the metal links. The wave of cold hadn’t even reached Val yet, traveling significantly slower than the man’s instantaneous blasts of light.

Rain smiled as he saw some of the confidence in Val’s expression fade away when the circle of frost grew past the center of the ring and continued straight towards him.

Hah! He forgot I could boost the range after all! It’s just a distraction though, once I get to the center, it’s over for you!

Val swore and lifted his other hand. Rain felt another blast of light hit his chest. The heat became much worse and he smelled the burning of cloth. He noticed his health bar drop noticeably with the strike, but much less than it had when he had been hit while unarmored. Rain skidded to a stop in the center of the circle and crossed his arms in front of himself, blocking access to the weakened section of armor.

Time for my master plan!

Rain switched his buffs, replacing extend with amplify and pushing as hard as he could with channel mastery. Then, he started to spin.

The wavefront of cold raced towards Val, the stronger aura clearly visible in contrast to the weakened version he’d been using before. Frost crystals were forming in the air and there was a blue tinge of magic as well, just barely visible. The blue light shining through the metal links of his armor was also much stronger with the increased mana output. Rain felt the strike of another laser impacting his back, but he ignored it, his armor shrugging off the blow. He continued to spin, feeling additional strikes to his arms and his back. None struck the same spot more than once due to his wild rotation. He heard Val swear loudly and smiled, watching as his mana ticked down. Soon, it ran out and he was forced to cancel the skill, but he kept spinning. He knew that if he stopped, Val would nail him in one of the spots he had already hit, pushing his health down into dangerous territory.

Though he had stopped channeling, the wave of cold wind would still last a few more seconds as it crossed the distance to the edge of the circle. It would have to be enough; otherwise, that was it for him. He counted three more strikes before he heard Val’s voice call out.

“Stop! Half health, damn it!”

Rain spun to a stop, panting. It had been less than 30 seconds since the duel had started, but he was exhausted and the world was spinning horribly. His armor felt like it was on fire where it had been hit, the heat baking him despite the frozen surroundings.

Rain sat on the ground hard and watched as Val furiously rubbed his arms, trying to warm up. He was grinning like an idiot as Tallheart’s deep rolling laughter flooded the clearing.

Haha! I can’t believe that worked! That…was actually kind of fun.

Tallheart walked over to him from where he’d been spectating on the side of the ring. His armored boots left footprints on the icy dirt, but he looked as if the cold hadn’t bothered him in the slightest. His armor didn’t even have any frost on it.

“Winner, Rain,” he said, extending a hand to pull him back to his feet. “That was the dumbest duel I have ever seen.”

“Bullshit is what that was. I’ll get you back for that,” Val said, his teeth chattering.

Uh oh. He’s smiling even though he lost. That’s not a good sign. I was looking forward to a quiet afternoon...

“Rematch!” Val shouted.

“Fine, one more,” Rain said with a resigned sigh. “Just give me an hour to get my mana back. Tallheart, do you need to look at my armor? It doesn’t look damaged, but...”

Val cut him off. “An hour? You seem to have pretty good regen, but I’m going to need more than that. I’m not waiting around half a day for my mana to recharge, though. We’ll use <something> rules this time,” he said, slamming a fist into his open palm. “No magic; just need to find a couple good branches to hit each other with. Now where did I put those healing scrolls...”

Damn it. Of course the guy I saved turns out to be some sort of dueling addict. This…is going to be a long day.
