Past the new challenger, Jessica saw many more lined up and waiting for their turn. Some, she had a feeling, would be far above her and Iris’s current level and skill. This crowd wasn’t here for a few quick skirmishes; Jessica knew they were looking forward to an all-day event.

Her aunt slashed a hand through the air and shouted, “Begin!”

***

Far away, down the Bloody Peaks, through forests, and across desolate lands, there was a castle built into a mountainside. The Oracle stood on a balcony that overlooked the barren, dying landscape of the Umarii lands, but that is not where her eyes were set. She was looking towards the sky, watching the chaotic waves and rolling clouds of a storm that only she could see.

Something had shifted… but what?

She searched, following paths she already knew well. Battlefields with piles of corpses, flames scorching the forests, and thousands of human-skinned animals massacring each other.

Some of the paths were more personal. Some ended with dozens of knives descending on her, tearing through her, ripping and stabbing again and again as she laughed in acceptance of her fate.

Others showed a Hell Hound—Luke—lying in a pool of blood, and Themiel being dragged away, screaming.

Most present of all, of course, was the nameless one. The Oracle did not even need to look there again.

But none of these are what grabbed her attention. She was looking for that shift in the storm, trying to see if a cloud might have turned to reveal some new ray of light.

Then she found it.

The Bloody Peaks.

Something had changed there, of all places, but she couldn’t tell what.

She searched, watching possible futures roll past each other—some quite amusing, others more horrifying, though she was numbed far past wanting to look away.

Yet, she couldn’t see specifically what it was that had caught her eye. Perhaps it was nothing.

With a sigh, she looked down from the sky and tried instead to bring her mind back to the present. To reconnect with this body and these eyes that only saw what was right in front of her. Every day it became harder to do so.

Themiel had mentioned a possible other transmigrator amongst the Bloody Peaks. It was worth knowing—all transmigrators had value, though some more than others. The likelihood of this particular one ascending to godhood seemed unlikely. Otherwise, the girl’s place in the storm would be far clearer, and the Oracle wouldn’t have needed Thiemiel to know of her in the first place.

“Yes… It’s likely nothing…” she muttered.

Yet, before turning away from the balcony, the Oracle glanced back once more.

Something had changed in the Bloody Peaks; she just couldn’t grasp the shape of it.

Perhaps fate had simply not yet decided.

READ NEXT CHAPTER NOW!

Thanks for reading! Hope you've liked Jessica's arc here. Next chapter, we are getting back to the main party!And because Jessica has been the center of most of the negative feedback in vol. 1, I'm curious about your opinions of her and whether they've changed over the course of the story so far. Therefore, if you have a moment and would like to share, please answer the poll or comment below!
