But the rest? Anazurhe looked at the antidote and listed poison. She tsked.
“Okay poison. Bad if shot. In veins? Frozen in blood? Yuck.”
She was so casual it made Rags angry, despite knowing that the Goblin Witch had no reference for Erin Solstice. Anazurhe nodded. Valeterisa was peering at the details.
“Hm. Liquid would not work. Potions require a living system. Powder? Gas? If the body is frozen—ah. No wonder it is so difficult to administer. I…hm. I would risk applying it to the body as it warmed. But then the patient might die. Which I assume is not the desired outcome? No? Simply inquiring.”
She was rather interested by the puzzle as an academic, but she had no good answers either. Rags offered it to Hekusha, who gave the entire sheet a blank look.
“What would you do?”
“C-cast [Restoration]? I seldom get immediate poison victims…”
Valeterisa, Rags, and Anazurhe looked at the Healer of Tenbault. Now here was someone who had a single answer for everything. Mind you—it worked, but still.
Anazurhe tapped the sheet thoughtfully. Rags hopefully looked at her.
“Is your tribe filled with many poison-experts?”
She glanced at the crowd of Goblins that Redscar, Fighti and Calescent were trying to recruit into coming with them. The Goblins listened to stories of battle and looked at the celebrities…but shook their heads. More were clustered around the scrying orb, and Calescent stopped and went to sit with them, giving up.
“Not like a great tribe. No. But this…”
Anazurhe frowned. She inspected the details provided by Oteslia’s [Researchers], who believed in communication. She ran her finger down attempted solutions that had not worked on frozen trial rodents. And her eyes turned.
She looked left, and Rags looked left as well. Anazurhe spoke.
“There is the Goblin who could find the cure.”
She pointed at Velan the Kind. Who had once been one of the greatest [Alchemists] ever. That was what Rags kept forgetting. He had made such medicines that his body had become as strong as any [Warrior]. He had travelled to Drath, had learned secrets…
And was dead. Did the answer lie in memory? Anazurhe looked at the list. She turned it over. Frowned.
“…Hm. Hmmm. Hmmmmmmmmmmmmm.”
Rags’ head rose. No one ‘hmmed’ like that for nothing. Anazurhe’s eyes flickered down the list again, and she muttered.
“There is one potion. Not tried? Not known? Maybe…maybe…Prixall! Get over here!”
She snapped at the [Witch]. The Goblin walked over with an exasperated look Rags recognized. Safety or not, it couldn’t be fun being the eldest daughter of the Great Chieftain for sixty years. If only she could get Prixall. Alas, Redscar wasn’t enough, especially since he probably would refuse to seduce her.
“Chieftain?”
“Get that thing. The drink for ceremonies. Useless drink.”
Anazurhe snapped her fingers, clearly at a loss for what she wanted. She glared at Prixall as the Goblin suggested fifteen different names, finally got the one Anazurhe had forgotten, and stomped off to get it.
“What is it?”
Valeterisa was still engrossed in the problem. Anazurhe, on the other hand, explained, her eyes glittering.
“Useless drink.”
“…Great.”
Rags snorted. Anazurhe rolled her eyes, flapped her hat at Rags, and explained haughtily.
“A useless drink now. Something…made it less useful. It used to be used all the time. Goblin’s Lament made it. Some tribes made it. A very valuable drink. Less useful now than many, many lifetimes ago. Useless…now. I tried many times. But…”
She spread her claws.
“No good. I put it in special cups, put it in special ceremonies. Nothing happened. It is not a drink for us.”
“Drink? Not medicine? Drink for who?”
“Spirits.”
Rags’ eyes narrowed. Prixall came back, and Anazurhe shook her head. She stared about.
“So quiet. So empty. Nothing comes…one did, but didn’t stay. Only one? Used to be many. Here.”
She took a mostly-empty container and held it out. It glowed with magic, and Valeterisa dropped the notes instantly and came over.
“What a fascinating magical binding. It is a specific barrier on this amphora.”
She tapped the clay vessel. Anazurhe slapped her hands away.
“Yes, yes. Obvious. Duh. Now, look, Chieftain Rags. Prixall. Cup!”
The [Witch] held out a hand. She opened and closed it, then turned her head.
“You didn’t say ‘get a cup’, Chieftain.”
Prixall glowered. Anazurhe spoke slowly.
“Get…a…cup.”
Prixal was about to burst, but Rags offered her own canteen.
“Will this do?”
“Sure.”
Anazurhe held the canteen out, not even bothering to align it with the amphora. Rags worried she’d waste it, but, as it turned out, there was no need.
The liquid that flowed out of the amphora didn’t fall like regular water. It…drifted, as if it was made less of liquid, but not quite gas. Oh, and it was a light green, swimming with motes of violet and even particles that might have been for taste or a byproduct of how it was made, for it was surely old, as the vessel indicated.
…It went straight through the canteen. Straight through Anazurhe’s hand. As if neither were there. It fell into the ground and vanished. Valeterisa’s head followed the small stream down. Anazurhe looked at Rags.
“Hmm? Only a special barrier keeps it inside, you see.”
Rags stared at the liquid. Then at Anazurhe. She flicked her eyes back to the scattered bounty, and her eyes opened wide.
“Does it…do anything?”
“Spirits drink this. But ethereal poison? Very bad. You take an arrow, dip it, and it goes through armor. Like that one’s sword.”
She looked at Redscar. Valeterisa nodded happily.
“Goblins have their own version of a Ghost Touch liquid. Fascinating. I have never seen this kind of potion, although I do not foray into alchemy…”
“Yes, yes. Shut up. This is hard to get. This is a drink. If an [Alchemist] uses the ingredients…maybe an antidote goes through her, you see? Your ice cube.”
Rags was hopping from foot to foot. Yes! Yes! That did seem likely! Anazurhe smiled.
“And I get the partial bounty. Twenty two thousand gold! Everyone wins!”
“Where can we get it? How is it made? Do you know?”
“Hmm. I know how. Or I can remember from [Shamans] past. The problem is…ingredients are rare. Rarer than Kraken Hearts, maybe.”
Rags stopped dancing.
“…Where are they? Do you have any?”
“I did. I used them to make this, see?”
The Goblin [Witch] helpfully held out the useless amphora of ghost happy-juice. Rags was tempted to kick it into the fountain.
“Do you have more ingredients? Where are they?”
“I know of three.”
Anazurhe was enjoying Rags’ impatience. She held up three fingers.
“One comes from fish deep in the ocean. Hard to get. Drowned Folk maybe can get it. The second? A Baleros creature deep in the jungles. Might be none left. Both are one in a decade.”
No, no, no! Rags was tearing at her hair. So close and yet—no wonder not even Oteslia had any! Anazurhe waited until Rags was about to explode, and then smiled.
“Fortunately, Chieftain Rags, the last one is more plentiful. There is one place to get it. Or rather…one tribe in Izril grows the mushroom. Harvests it. Uses it. Maybe they are dead. Maybe they live. I think, with the Goblin Lord, they may be dead, but maybe some remain.”
“Who?”
Rags stared at Anazurhe. The Great Witch smiled.
“The Ghostly Hand tribe.”
Rags stared at her. Anazurhe went to inform Oteslia of the possible solution and put in for a partial bounty. Rags just stood there. How…how was she supposed to get there? In southern Izril? How in the—?
 
——
 
“Shoo. Shoo.”
Numbtongue kept urging the little Goblins away as they followed the Gnolls to their tribe. The [Hunters] were tolerant, but the Goblins were still putting them all in danger.
Even so, the annoying Goblins with the white handprint on their skin could tell he was a Hob. One kept poking him.
“You Hob. We Goblins.”
“Yes. Go away.”
“We have tribe.”
“Good for you. Go away.”
“You visit?”
“No.”
“Please?”
“No.”
“You have ghosts. Chieftain have ghosts. We show?”
“N—what?”
The Goblin grinned at him and stared at Pyrite. The Hob stared back. He waved slowly. She grinned wider and waved back.
 
——
 
Hope. Secrets. Other tribes. Rags was mixed on what she’d learned, but she felt in her marrow she’d found a clue. Healer of Tenbault aside.
This was something, if she could get to Goblinhome. Anazurhe assured her that she could help speed and aid their journey. They would also go with something from Valeterisa, who kept avoiding Rags mentioning payback for the notes.
But Rags would not go with other Goblins. They had refused. Maybe some of the Goblins from the outlying tribes, but no one from this academy. Not yet.
She had nothing to show them. Only stories of death. What could inspire them? What could…and not Kevin. Not this time. He wasn’t a Goblin, and that was the point.
Redscar had given up on recruiting to speculate with Rags about a way back. Fighti kept trying, but no one was listening. Calescent sat at the scrying orb as Hekusha tried to re-ingratiate herself with him.
“I just meant…you must understand. I quite like your cooking, but, you see…”
Goblins perched on swings or lay about the scrying orb, with their favorite new hobby. Watching television. Calescent gloomily watched too. He wished they had a cooking section. All they showed were angry Gnolls, angry Drakes, and now people killing each other. War, strife…he stared at a figure as Drassi began to commentate. Then he frowned. Then…
Hekusha backed up as Calescent made a fist. She squeaked and hid her face as he swung it. Then stared. Calescent picked himself back up and rubbed at his jaw. He checked the news. Then he shot to his feet with a roar.
“Chieftain!”
Rags turned. Anazurhe saw the [Chef] shoot to his feet, sadness forgotten. He waved his arms, scattering children and the Healer as he pointed, lost for words.
“Him! Him! Chieftain, here! It’s him!”
“Who?”
“Rabbiteater!”
And then every Goblin was running over. Pushing each other aside. Anazurhe picked up a Goblin child, squealing as his space was invaded, and tossed him at Prixall. She threw herself down and saw the [Knight]. You’d never know he was a Goblin unless you knew.
Then…you saw him.
 
——
 
Ser Greysten’s arm was burning from mortal exhaustion, not from fire. He felt like his entire body rang from throwing himself into terrible blows against the Dame of the Hills. She was stronger. He was higher-level and refused to burn her.
Neither would yield. And because of that, his Order was losing. He cursed, surging forwards as she drank a potion, to deny her that.
“Hardly sporting, Ser Greysten!”
“Then damn sport! Fight, Dame of the Hills, until one falls!”
She grinned, tossing the bottle aside. Her [Squire] ran after it, since a bottle fit for her was actually too expensive to waste. Greysten rode at the half-Giant, into her shadow, and felt Rabbiteater was right. Ailendamus had played their [Knightly] nature against them. Perhaps not the Order of the Hydra, but someone…
It was the same conclusion Dame Talia came to. She looked around as a cluster of [Summer Knights] fought inwards. Winning duels, or the crushing melee—but hindered by the rules of, well, chivalry.
How would Wil do this? How would the Titan? She imagined them sailing a ship into the middle of a formation. [Strategists] didn’t fight fair. She grimly set herself—and then saw it.
Someone was recording this battle to see whether the Order of Seasons won or lost their bid to aid the Dawn Concordat. But it had not been exciting; a bunch of armored people bashing each other down, or Ailendamus calmly shooting Pheislant’s forces from afar, was hardly the stuff of prime-time television after the King of Destruction and similar battles.
…And that was the case right up until the shouts of dismay. The cry of impropriety. Talia turned her head. There was only one [Knight] on this field who would do such a thing. She saw what was happening at once.
Hydra Knights by the dozens were shouting, flailing, hacking at…webs. More were slipping and falling all over each other as the ground turned to butter. A cadre of Autumn Knights was standing, throwing non-lethal, but highly annoying spells into a section of the bunched [Knights].
“Unsporting! They are attacking with magic!”
“Well, have at them!”
A roar went up from the Hydra Knights. Outraged, they charged the emplaced Autumn [Knights], who began to cast more [Sticky Webs], [Tripvines], and other spells. However, this backfired almost at once.
“[Dispel Magic]!”
A [Knight] drew a scroll and Talia grimaced as the webs and other hindering spells vanished at once. Of course they had magical countermeasures. She bet Rabbiteater had thought he could overrun them. Chivalrous rules went two ways!
The Goblin. She felt a tightness in her chest, an anger at his name, which went hand-in-hand with Greysten’s lecture and her own sense of betrayal. Even so…she looked for him.
If he was in the knot of Autumn Knights being swarmed by the Order of the Hydra, he was dismounted or already down. They refused to duel—they took out the [Mage-Knights] fast, knocking them off their saddles, some going as far as to aim blunt-tipped crossbows which dented plate armor. Talia winced. And now they’d just lost six Autumn Knights. That…she turned to see if she could spot him or Markus.
…There was no one there. The Hydra Knights picked themselves up, reprimanded the six Autumn Knights, and frowned at the grins on the captured group’s faces.
 
——
 
“Oops! Looks like that ploy didn’t work, eh, Sir Relz?”
Noass laughed as the two went over light coverage of the battle, in between Drassi’s Gnoll-segments. Sir Relz chuckled, but then frowned.
“Hold on, Noass. Do you see that?”
He pointed out something odd in the battlefield. Noass frowned.
“Indeed I do, Sir Relz. What is that?”
“Looks like something our scrying spells are picking up. Clearly magical. Excuse me? Can we zoom in on—there! There’s ten of them! See?”
A disturbance in the lines of the Order of the Hydra, exactly opposite where the Autumn Knights had made their brief stand. The Hydra Knights were resetting themselves, but they were a bit disjointed there. Some were being knocked down, looking around, confused. Shouting—and not seeing ten [Knights] riding through their ranks.
Not at first. Noass eyed the glittering figures.
“They must be invisible. I think we have a situation. We are watching, live, ladies and gentlemen, ten [Knights] under [Invisibility] spells trying to break the Order of the Hydra’s lines. They’re clearly noticing, but they don’t see them. Will they make it? This is Wistram News Network and—”
 
——
 
