“Yet they do not. Not this time. Next time. Ten years. Twenty. Then it is done. Since I came here, I built this. Molten Stone is my tribe. It has lived as long as I made it. I, you understand? This was just rock decades ago.”
She touched the opening to the fortress entrance. Rags blinked at it. Then looked at Anazurhe. The Great Chieftain smiled.
“You…made this? Molten Stone is not old?”
“Yes. No.”
Then Rags understood. She stepped back and beheld it again. A fort hidden in stone. An academy. Being built. Wistram before it had been Wistram. Anazurhe whispered.
“It is not done. Not yet. Goblins must have a safe haven. For magic, here. For war? Our island. I made this. I refused to follow even our King who lost himself to madness. So I greet you, Chieftain Rags. But I will not give you more than aid here. No armies. No great pacts. Not yet.”
She reached out, and touched Rags’ shoulder. The Chieftain looked up at her. Then saw the long claws reach down and touch something hanging around her neck.
The key.
Valeterisa poked her head out from behind a rock. Both Goblins turned to stare at her and she poked her head back. Anazurhe looked at Rags and shook her head.
“You and I are not the same. I will stay here and make something that may last. You? Beware, Rags. You are a Great Chieftain, but you walk the path of Goblin Lords. Stay.”
“What is the difference?”
Anazurhe shook her head.
“One, like Tremborag, like me, like Kraken Eater’s Chieftain, are content to be Chieftains. The other are Goblin Lords, and seek a Goblin King. Like Greydath. They will all die. Take the key and toss it away.”
She pointed across the vast, barren wasteland. Rags’ own hand clutched at the key. She backed up a step.
“We need it. It is the great treasure of Goblins. We need more than this, Anazurhe.”
She gestured around at the hidden enclave, so small, for all it was so hopeful. The Goblin Witch saw her walk away. An Archmage hopped out from her hiding place and hurried over.
“Hello, Chieftain Rags. I am Archmage Valeterisa. Would you like to trade for that key you are holding? May I inspect it? I am a friendly Human…”
Prixall had also been watching the conversation, eavesdropping as well. She walked over.
“Mother.”
Anazurhe looked over.
“Chieftain.”
She corrected, but mildly. Prixall, the oldest [Witch] besides Anazurhe herself, like a spark next to a great fire, watched Rags go. Curious. Dismissive of a ‘lesser’ tribe, but curious.
“She is not like the Fomirelin Chieftain.”
“No. He loves battle. She wants something more. Watch her. That one will never grow as old as you. She walks the path of a Goblin Lord. She has his key. To uncover his gift, she would need to be a Goblin Lord at least.”
Anazurhe murmured, sadly. Prixall nodded, but hesitated.
“What if she survives to become a Goblin Lord? Survives and lives even then?”
The Great [Witch] exhaled slowly. Her burning gaze turned back towards the fortress, and Prixall knew exactly what she was staring at.
“Then? She will die.”
 
——
 
Ah, that was it. Tired.
Like Greydath. Anazurhe made sense to Rags, now. She had done wonderful things here. But she was tired. Resigned. She did not even want the key.
The difference between a Great Chieftain and another Goblin Lord, Rags supposed. She walked back inside the Molten Stone tribe and found there were two things she had left to see. Two more things. One, an ambition, the other, an explanation.
The first thing she did see, though, was Redscar hitting Goblins with sticks. He had practice swords and was whalloping nearly a dozen Goblins in an exhibition of what it meant to be Redfang.
Anazurhe joined Rags as the Goblin Chieftain groaned, but she looked amused.
“So this is Redfang. My Goblins train with blades. They want to learn.”
“What kind of Goblin warriors?”
It was hard to see at first, because the eager Goblins, male and female, tried to fight Redscar on his own terms.
Which was objectively stupid, because he was a war veteran and praticed with blades every second he breathed. They couldn’t get near him; Rags saw a Goblin charge in with a spirited cry and shout. Redscar let him swing and slashed him mid-strike. He actually halted another Goblin’s thrust by grabbing their arm and applying a knee to their chest.
“Weak! Weak!”
Redscar left a trail of bruised Goblins behind. He seemed offended by their lack of experience. They had arms training. But they were clearly a cut far below Redfangs, who had all the practical knowledge in the world.
Rags saw they had a huge audience. Goblins were watching Redscar fighting. Not just admiring him, personally, but staring at him with a familiar expression. It took Rags a while to realize it was adoration. Awe.
“They know Redfang. They think he is Garen Redfang.”
“You know his name?”
“Yes. We know famous tribes. This is the first Redfang they have seen, though.”
To judge by their looks, Redscar did not disappoint. But Rags found it curious. Goblins knew of other tribes, but this expression was again, more of something from Liscor. It was…she snapped her fingers.
“Joseph.”
“Hm?”
Rags didn’t know how to explain. It was like how Ekirra looked at Joseph, or Drakes at Drassi. Celebrity.
She looked at the scrying orb set in the plaza and pointed at it.
“You have scrying orbs? Not worried about Wistram spying? They can do that.”
Anazurhe snorted. But it was a Human man who edged over, wiping sweat from his forehead with a handkerchief.
“Not to worry, Miss, er, Chieftain. All our scrying orbs are custom-enchanted. No one’s spying through them. Matter of fact, I can arrange some if you have the coin. May I introduce myself? Roell, [Rogue]. I can get you what you need, have it delivered right here.”
Rags stared at the Human, but she was reminded instantly of the other [Rogue] who’d come to Goblinhome. She actually shook his hand.
“You sell things to Goblins?”
“That’s right. Begging your pardon.”
He gave Anazurhe a wary look, but the Great Witch was analyzing Redscar’s performance. At last, some of the Goblins had decided to use their talents.
Here came that [Warlock]. Roell and Rags both watched the magic-user show off his talents. Rags had never met a [Warlock] before, but she understood his power was analogous to [Witches]. So how would he…?
The young Hob leapt with a whooping shout, his practice sword glowing in Rags’ eyes. He’d run his hand over it while waiting for an opening. Redscar was no idiot. He backed up, parrying the sword—then recoiled as a hissing snake shot out of the blade and tried to bite him!
A spectral snake made of orange light. Rags started. The [Warlock] turned, and flicked a bolt of concussive magic that knocked one of his buddies flat as she tried to charge Redscar from behind. He hesitated in dismay, and Redscar knocked the blade from his hands. The [Warlock] stared stupidly at his hand, backpedalled, and Redscar gave him a flying drop-kick to the back.
“That’s a fairly dangerous fellow. He’d be a Face for sure. Makes this lot look silly.”
Rags shrugged. She eyed the [Warlock] with interest as Redscar picked him up and tried to explain how not to do that again. He had potential. That bound creature trick would have done a lot of damage if he had the experience to back it up.
“Anyways, Miss. Where are you from? Don’t worry! Rogue’s confidentiality. I reckon you’re on the list if your tribe’s met my people.”
“Mm. I met someone else. Gave me free rings.”
“Oh. What’s his name? I can do you a better offer. Do you need potions? Supplies? I can get you a scrying orb, free, depending on what you have to sell…”
The man broke off as Rags saw Hekusha again. The Healer of Tenbault was staring at Valeterisa, who kept wanting to see the key. And Roell. He blinked.
“That’s…is that the Healer of Tenbault? Then you’re…”
He looked at Rags, recoiled, and backed up. Rags raised an eyebrow.
“Don’t want to sell me things?”
“Er—maybe when all’s cooled down, Miss Chieftain. Terribly sorry, but we don’t like dealing with active tribes.”
The Healer of Tenbault stared at Roell. Then pointed an accusing finger at him and Valeterisa.
“You’re conspiring with Goblins. I’ve been kidnapped! They slaughtered Tenbault’s people! How could you?”
Rags crossed her arms. Now that her true feelings were out, the Healer looked even more afraid of the Goblin monsters than before. And equally—as outraged at the traitors to her people.
It was Valeterisa who rubbed at one ear.
“Is she speaking? I can’t hear anything.”
Roell, on the other hand, just gave the Healer of Tenbault a long look. A…none-too-friendly look, actually.
“Begging your pardon, Miss. I’m just a poor man, trying to make a decent living. I’ve never seen more than…”
His lips moved. Roell counted.
“Eight people get killed, all because they were stupid. I heard they got you.”
He nodded at Rags.
“Crying shame. Hope you’re treated well.”
“You’re just going to leave me here? You won’t tell them where I am? I am the Healer of Tenbault.”
Hekusha shook her fist at him. Roell glanced at Rags and Anazurhe.
“…Assuming I was stupid enough to do that anywhere near the Great Chieftain of the Molten Stone tribe, Miss? I’d still not really bother. Molten Stone pays well, and they give [Alchemists] good stuff through my gang. Even set me up with a poultice once. I had a niece who died in Tenbault. Never saw you. Good riddance. G’day, too.”
He nodded to her and stalked off. Rags liked him. She nudged Fighti.
“We buy stuff from him later.”
Fighti was munching on some food the Molten Stone tribe had provided as Hekusha was lost for words. And friends. Anazurhe gave Rags a knowing look.
“Chieftain Rags. Humans will come and search for her. They will not get here, but tribes will fight them. You cannot stay.”
Rags already knew that. She nodded.
“Can you give food, directions? Get away from Humans?”
Anazurhe’s eyes glinted.
“I can give you magic to hide you or speed you. That is what I do. Even to distant Goblins; Chieftains have paid me to give aid. My magic can stretch across the north, and I can give you great potions or spells.”
Rags’ ears perked up. She nodded slowly.
“Useful. You want something?”
Anazurhe winked.
“No one comes to the Great Chieftain without a gift. Except [Witches]. What will you give me for aid?”
Rags pursed her lips. Valeterisa jumped in.
“I will pay Anazurhe if you would consider trading me the key…no? Very well.”
Rags stared at the woman.
“Are you really an Archmage of Wistram?”
“Yes. I believe so.”
Valeterisa gave her a blank look. She raised a finger to her temple.
“Valeterisa to Wistram. Am I still an Archmage? …Yes? Good. Yes, I am.”
Rags wondered if she was sick, and if it was contagious. She edged back a bit, but she did have a suitable gift in mind.
“Chieftain Anazurhe. If you give us shelter to rest a day or two, and magic, we will trade. And Archmage Valeterisa will give us something, for my gift.”
Both Anazurhe and Valeterisa glanced at Rags. The [Witch of Flames] looked amused.
“Archmage and Great Chieftain both owe you favors? It must be a gift of gifts.”
Rags shrugged, casually. She produced her gift, and held it out. Valeterisa’s eyes sharpened and Hekusha whirled.
“That’s my—!”
Her notes, personal spellbook, and everything looted from her research station all came out of Rags’ bag of holding. She held up the trove of knowledge to Valeterisa, who made a snatching grab for it, eyes alight with curiosity.
“Good gift?”
Anazurhe grinned, taking off her mask. She eyed Izril’s most famous Healer, who had turned dead-white. And you know what? Rags didn’t feel bad about it at all.
“Good gift, Chieftain Rags. You are welcome to Molten Stone!”
 
——
 
Rabbiteater joined the battle with the Order of Seasons, riding in neat wedges of cavalry. This time, the Order of Seasons would take their mounts into battle. They had to risk it, despite the danger of being bogged down by the Order of Hydra’s numbers.
The army of Ailendamus had parked themselves along a ridgeline, cutting off the Order’s escape route. And here came the legion of [Knights], chanting and cheering as they marched forwards, led by the Dame of the Hills.
“Dame of the Hills! I challenge you!”
Dame Voost saluted the half-Giant with her sword. The Great Knight smiled behind her helm.
“Ah, a ploy for the Summer’s Champion to burn my fellows down, is it? Challenge denied! [A Knight’s Duel], Ser Greysten! Let’s have it out!”
The Summer’s Champion roared in frustration, but he swung his own warhorse around and rode at her. Rabbiteater cursed. It was already going bad.
Just like last time, the Order of the Hydra moved in, refusing to let the Order of Seasons charge and breakaway. They neatly cut off Pheislant’s [Soldiers] from the rest of the fighting with a hail of crossbow bolts, and Rabbiteater watched Pheislant’s forces skirmish against Ailendamus’ infantry while under heavy crossbow fire.
…Behind a wall of the Order of the Hydra, who cheerfully surrounded two lance-charges of Ser Zulv’s best Summer Knights who tried to break to the aid of their regular forces. The Order of Seasons was forced backwards, charging, regrouping, refusing to duel, but hemmed in by a press of bodies that would take down any mounted [Knight] in seconds. They moved back into the valley as Greysten and Dame Merila fought.
Greysten was roaring with flame, and slashed halfway through her own sword with his axe. It wasn’t enchanted; it was a huge blade for a half-Giant, a colossal expense of metal, let alone in forging. She dropped it with a curse, throwing her shield out to block a gout of flames.
“Sword!”
“[Armed At All Times]!”
The highest-leveled [Squire] that Rabbiteater had ever seen, a fully-grown man, charged forwards. Somehow, he tossed up a blade longer than he was tall, and Dame Merila caught it. She swept back down with a scything blow that Greysten parried with a Skill—but sent his horse rearing back with the shock of it.
“If he just killed the [Squire], it would be easier.”
“That’s not chivalrous.”
Ser Markus pointed out. Rabbiteater rolled his eyes behind his helm. He began to charge with his group. They were going to lose. The Order of the Hydra had marked Voost, Zulv, and were playing this game and winning. If only…his eyes roamed.
If only…
 
——
 
There was a secret at the heart of the Molten Stone tribe. Rags was shown it, while Valeterisa and Anazurhe read the Healer’s notes.
It was Prixall who was tasked with showing Rags, as a sign of the Molten Stone tribe’s largesse. She was a bit uncomfortable, and Rags got the sense the [Witch] didn’t know if she was the clearly superior Goblin anymore.
