“You don’t like me.”
Rags commented as the two walked deep into the bowels of the volcano. It was still being built, and Anazurhe was expanding down. She feared not the volcano, explaining to Rags that she could keep it suppressed. How and for how long were her problems, so long as nothing exploded at the moment.
“…I think Chieftain Rags is a mighty Chieftain.”
Prixall answered, cautiously. Rags grinned.
“You sound like a Human.”
Prixall glared. After a second, she answered, matter-of-factly.
“You…that Redfang, the one with two swords, is strong. Redfang is famous. Even we hear of Flooded Waters. Goblin Lords. You stole the Healer of Tenbault. All Izril hates you. You are high-level.”
She looked at Rags, and the shorter Goblin deciphered the gaze at last.
“Jealous?”
Prixall looked away.
“You have adventure and fame. Other Goblins like what you do.”
Rags peered at the [Witch]. Prixall herself, too. And yet…
“What is wrong, then?”
“…You will die.”
Rags slowed as they descended further, into a place not used by any Goblins. Prixall glanced back at her.
“That is what Chieftain Anazurhe says. Goblins like you will die. We stay here, we learn. We level—slowly. But we level safely. You have bright lives. Short lives. Like…”
She made a little flame with her fingers and blew it out. Rags smiled grimly.
“Not all. Redscar is eight years old. I knew a Chieftain over ten years. Goldstone Tribe. His name was…”
She saw the Goblin [Witch] stop, remove her mask, and start laughing. Prixall put her mask back, and shook her head at Rags.
“Great Chieftain. Do not be mad.”
“Why not?”
Rags put her hands on her hips. Prixall just shrugged. She tapped her chest.
“That is old for Goblins not here. Chieftain Anazurhe is not old. There was a Goblin who was old who came here, once. Greydath of Blades. But he was old. No other Goblin I have ever met was old. Not other Goblin Lords. Not other Great Chieftains. Not even Velan was old.”
This time, the young, young Goblin came to a halt.
“You met Velan the Kind?”
“Yes. He was here. He asked my mother to fight for him. She told him no, to run and not die. He refused.”
Mother. Rags looked at Prixall. The [Witch] touched her hat, then her chest.
“Chieftain Rags. I am not old. I am her oldest daughter. Living. When she came here, started this tribe, she had me. Long ago. I studied here. I helped make this…”
She tapped the walls of the cavern.
“I am not old. I am over sixty years old. And I am not old. You all die too soon.”
Rags recoiled so hard she slammed into the wall. She looked at Prixall. A fully-grown Hob. And—Rags didn’t see a difference between her and Snapjaw. She had no white hair like Greydath. She could have been a Hob of four years. She was…
Prixall nodded.
“Goblins of the Molten Stone tribe admire you. Want to be Redfangs or Flooded Waters. But why? If they leave, they die. Glory is…”
A flame burned for a second. Then winked out. And there was nothing Rags could say against it. Prixall pointed down the corridor.
“See what Chieftain Anazurhe makes, Chieftain Rags. You are smart. You may see.”
She led Rags forwards, and they came to a strange place. Through carved tunnels—neat, but still with a bit of variation in craft, signs of mixed skill levels, albeit hard work—they came to a huge…chamber.
Chamber was Rags’ word, because she couldn’t figure out what the purpose was, at first. It was a completely square room in all dimensions. Unlike even the rest of the fortress, even Anazurhe’s personal magic room, this place was perfect.
Perfect as in, each line of geometry was a mathematical constant. As in, each tile was laid with such outstanding craftsmanship and skill that even Hexel or Drevish would have said it was fine work. Rags saw two braziers, custom-made, each a solid piece of iron, sitting next to the one part in progress.
A…staircase. Which led to nowhere yet, as it was only sixteen feet down. Each step made of gleaming, dark granite. Each block without flaw. And the new ones were being laid personally by a sweating Human [Mason].
Watched by no less than eighteen Goblins, and commanded by another Hob, holding a scroll and inspecting it constantly.
“I, ah, I’ve got a little flaw in this stone, sir?”
The Human poked his head up and showed them one of the blocks he was installing. He was clearly using Skills; it looked like the place he’d laid was as seamless as the rest of the room. He was good at his job, and clearly nervous about his audience, who were armed.
“Bad stone?”
“Yes, sir?”
The female Goblin took a look at the stone, made a noise of disgust, and hurled it past Rags and Prixall into the plain corridor beyond. She went over to kick at the pieces as the [Mason] watched. Then turned back.
“Good. No bad stones.”
“No bad stones at all, Miss. I…”
He stared at Prixall and Rags. The [Witch] spoke.
“Keep working, [Mason]. We will observe.”
“Yes ma’am. Of course. I…”
He went back to inspecting each stone before laying it. Rags stared around the perfect room. Black stone, polished like a mirror. When the two braziers were lit, it would give this room ambiance, especially with the walls of equally smooth stone. The stairway wasn’t a slope, but an actual stairway. Why?
There was no reason for this much clear expense and, to judge by it, painstaking perfection if Anazure just wanted a new wing. Why hire a Human? Was this some magical room?
If so, why wouldn’t a [Mage] make it? Rags saw Prixall watching her with amusement as she strode around the room.
“Anything special?”
“No. Just built to exacting standards. Show her.”
The Goblin with the scroll hesitated. Prixall glared.
“Anazurhe has given Chieftain Rags permission. Show her.”
The [Mason] hesitated as Rags looked at the blueprints to this room. Which he had been told that if he so much as glanced at would result in a painful death. Rags stared at a very neat set of blueprints of…
This room. A perfect square, noted out with exact measurements for how big each tile should be. A scrawl about the quality of stones, and a staircase leading down to…
Nothing. It literally ended with a single arch. It was nearly done. Rags nearly went cross-eyed trying to figure out what this damned room was for. It was only when she saw the writing on the top left that it all clicked. It was how it was written, and it was what Rags had seen before that let her understand at last.
 
[The Labyrinth of Fithel].
 
It was written like that. Like…Rags’ eyes narrowed.
A Skill. She looked around the room and had the distinct impression it was familiar. Not in appearance, but…she closed her eyes and remembered a door. A door that led into a garden, that had existed before someone found it. She turned, suddenly, and gasped.
“Inheritance Sk—”
Prixall made a slashing gesture and Rags stopped before she clued in the [Mason]. He was oblivious, inspecting another stone with sweaty fingers. Prixall couldn’t hide her astonishment.
“You know what this is?”
Like the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Rags nodded.
“This is…something that exists, but you get. A Skill of a place?”
The [Witch] inhaled sharply.
“You are smart. Chieftain Anazurhe is making. This is…a special place. If we get, we get danger, but lots of space.”
“How does she know?”
Prixall snorted softly.
“She remembers. She is stealing this place, see? Nearly done.”
Rags’ mouth opened. She had never thought of that! Goblin memory extended to many things, but remembering an inheritance Skill and stealing it? She thought she was good with the Healer of Tenbault! This…this was real theft, the kind even Ratici would tip his hat to.
And it gave Rags a lot of ideas. Prixall hurried her back before she could give the game away to the oblivious [Mason]. Each one had to be Level 30, and they came here with no idea what they were doing. Obviously, seeing the blueprints was death, given what it was about.
Rags, knowing the Molten Stone tribe’s even greater dreams, thought nothing could surprise her as she went to meet with Anazurhe.
Until she saw the last part of the Molten Stone tribe, a water fountain that doubled as their water supply. The Goblins purified the natural water they collected from the very toxic landscape, and Anazurhe had made a water fountain out of it so that Goblins could scoop water out of a basin.
Bathing in it was frowned upon, even if it technically would purify the waters. Just a fountain, another resting area, and where the [Witch of Flames] and Archmage of Izril had retreated to argue over the magic notes while silly Goblins hit each other with sticks in the other plaza and watched the scrying orb.
That was the place. Rags saw the fountain first. Then…without warning, he was there. Without explanation—no, without preface. Suddenly, she saw him and stopped dead.
 
——
 
Velan the Kind, no, he was just ‘Velan’ before they named him like that, yawned. It made the other Goblin Chieftains snort.
A rare gathering of their kind, but the Great Chieftain had come when asked. He really tried to hold it in, but he couldn’t help it.
It upset the Goblin [Witch] of the Burning Snow tribe, who was trying to explain her grand plan to them all. She shouted at him.
“Stop snoozing you stupid—stupid Great Chieftain!”
Then she threw a ball of fire at him and singed his eyebrows off. Which sort of ruined the dignified showcase and plan she was trying to get the other Goblin Chieftains on board with, but they just didn’t have a good place or the will.
“A Goblin academy is good. But where? Gazers have jungles. Dullahans will find you in the north. Underground?”
He tried to console her afterwards, as the Chieftains went to more interesting activities. The Goblin [Witch], sulking, muttered.
“Maybe somewhere else. Chandrar. Izril.”
“Far to go.”
The Great Chieftain stretched. Anazurhe shrugged.
“Maybe.”
That was his first meeting with the [Witch] named Anazurhe. She did leave for Izril, and he saw her only a few times before then. Then once more…fifty years later. And then? He was already—
 
——
 
Rags jolted. She stumbled backwards and Prixall caught her. The Chieftain was breathing heavily. She looked up and saw.
Velan the Kind. He sat there, staring over her head into the distance. At something amusing or…contenting.
His statue, of course. The Goblin King—no, he wasn’t quite the Goblin King, was he? It had triggered the memory in her, but this Goblin wasn’t the same one who had raged across Izril. A bit younger.
“Chieftain Rags. Are you alright?”
Rags looked up and saw Prixall looking concerned. She realized what had happened to Rags.
“Chieftains see it differently. Some Goblins too.”
Velan. He was just like her memories, but it was something to see him sculpted out of stone. Rags…looked around, and saw a figure sitting by the fountain.
Anazurhe was looking at her. The Great Witch had commissioned the statue. The statue of one of the most hated beings in the world. Her eyes were distant as she looked at Rags.
“You did know him.”
“Of course I did. Some Goblins are older, Rags. I saw him be the great Goblin Lord that they called kind. The one they made pacts with. Then…madness. That is the fate of Goblin Kings. He was mad when he died. And I do not know why.”
She looked so sad. Rags shook her head. From wanting to take Anazurhe to task, she had gone to respecting her vision to…she could not condemn it any longer. Not someone who had been there. No wonder she hid her tribe here, playing a longer game.
“I saw what you are making.”
“Ah. You knew?”
“I have seen another.”
Anazurhe’s pointed hat tilted up. Her eyes glinted.
“Interesting.”
“Quiet, please. I am committing these notes to memory.”
Valeterisa muttered from the side. Anazurhe looked over, and poked her hard in the side. The Archmage did not respond.
“You see much, Chieftain Rags.”
“I do. I say…it is Goblin if it matters, Chieftain Anazurhe.”
The Witch smiled. Rags went on.
“I would like some of what you do for my tribe. We are young…”
She glanced at Prixall.
“Very young. But we are making something in the High Passes. Maybe it is in danger. Maybe it will not last. But if you will let some of your Goblins come, we will try to make something like this.”
“And what is ‘this’? A safe place? A place of power?”
Rags shook her head. The Great Chieftain was testing her. She gestured around.
“A place that does not need to steal.”
“Ah.”
Anazurhe smiled. She nodded. That was what Rags liked most of all. This was not Tremborag’s domain. Everything she saw had been won fairly. You could not walk here and say this was stolen, that Goblins were a people who could only raid and destroy.
Only she had done that. She looked at the Healer’s notes, shamefaced. But she had a task she needed done, and it was worth the cost, she thought.
“If a Goblin wishes to go with you, I will let them. They will not.”
“Not one?”
Anazurhe shook her head.
“They know what lies outside. You have little to offer them. They will go, like the island-Goblins, to die, for great deeds. But not because they see hope.”
That was the weariness. Rags shrugged.
“I will ask.”
 
——
 
Not one Goblin volunteered. Not even Redscar’s fans. They were tempted, from the little [Witches] to [Mages] to the [Warlocks], but they looked at Prixall, at Rags, and the ‘old’ Redscar and Redfangs, and saw exactly how long they’d live.
Rags couldn’t blame them. But she needed them. She was trying and failing to figure out how to convince them, as the Molten Stone tribe feasted them. Rags saw Calescent, a bit happier, trading his death spice with the Goblin [Chefs] and showing the Molten Stone tribe that there was fire they had yet to experience.
“Could I…purchase a bit of that? Might be a cheaper way to distract someone.”
Even Roell made a purchase of Calescent’s death-spice after he sampled it. Rags herself munched on a delicacy of their tribes; some kind of weird preservation technique. The Molten Stone tribe loved to bury eggs, Yellats, and other foods like fish, in clay pots with ash and other things—and let them rot into weird, discolored foods.
Well, not rot. They were perfectly edible. It wasn’t quite fermenting as her experts knew it, but it certainly took advantage of the natural terrain. Rags poked an egg with a brown outside and a black yolk. Hekusha stared in horror at her plate; the Goblins had, with careful spitefulness, served her a huge bowl of them.
Rags shrugged, took a bite, and found it was good! She liked it a lot more than bugs. She tried a pickled bit of herring next and chomped it down.
“Your Healer does not like you.”
