He had even managed to add a Base Class Ability to Particle Mage; Particle Sense, which allowed the user to look or touch or otherwise focus a singular material, and to then understand its atomic and molecular composition. That Ability was an offshoot of Metal Sense, which allowed the Smith Class to understand metal, which Erick had also gained.

Particle Mage

Particular Insight - Spend 100 mana to discover if a Particle spell is possible, greatly reducing the risk of Errors.

Particle Witness - If you witness a Particle spell and you understand it, you may unlock that spell for free.

Sculpt Spell - Major Mana Shaping applies to all Spells. Altering ongoing Auras is considerably easier.

Lesser World Warden – Double damage. Double resources

Mana Shield – Damage taken is mitigated by Mana as well as Health.

Particle Spell Creation - Your ability to create new Particle Spells is Greatly Increased.

Quest Board – See what others desire, and post your own desires for others to see.

Blood Mana – Spend Health as though it were Mana.

Light Dedication - Take much less damage from Light Sources. Do much more damage with Light Sources.

Force Savant - Your Force spells do more and cost less.

Gatemaster - Double the effective range of your gate space. Minor improvements to everything gate related.

Multi-Ward – Double up on [Personal Ward]s.

Benevolent Draconic Rebirth – Donate a portion of your overflowing Benevolent Draconic Essence to another in order to raise a willing recipient to full Draconic Benevolence. Current overflow: <7>

Particle Sense – Touch an object and understand its particle breakdown.

Metal Sense – Touch a metallic object and understand the internal stresses of the object.

Benevolent Touch – Shift the destiny of a person onto a better path.

Mana Siphon – All spells that attempt to deal damage to you are Drained of power, granting you extra resources based on that drain.

Failsafe – Upon receiving a fatal blow, trigger a <[Return]> instead.

Failsafe – Upon receiving a fatal blow, trigger a <[Time Stop]> instead.

Shifting Form - [Polymorph] becomes Variable cost. Gain the ability to partially and cohesively adjust your Form for a reduced cost.

There were a few Abilities he switched out now and then, when he needed them. Book Savant was one of them, for when he needed to do better Book Magic. That one usually replaced Force Savant, but Force Savant was a good generic Ability; it boosted almost all magic by a slight amount. He also had Extreme Survivor, just in case he needed to go lava-diving, or he needed to spend a week out in the colder parts of the world, building Gate systems. A lot of things usually replaced Force Savant when the need arose.

Erick had tried out the Summoner’s Double Summons once, but he had only done that for six months before Ophiel started acting really weird, and much older. The little guy had advanced several years of growth in that short time that Erick had 20 of them flying around out there. Erick didn’t mess around with any Summoner Abilities after that.

Other than that, all the rest of the Abilities were solid choices.

Benevolent Draconic Rebirth was there because it was time consuming to have someone try and gain Dragon Essence and then have Erick shift them to Benevolence after they were done. So he had Wizarded up a solution into a single Ability that took care of the whole process at once.

Failsafe was there because Erick had experimented with Charm Magic versions of [Return] and [Time Stop] and found them lacking, because they could be taken away, or disrupted. He had almost been assassinated in that way, once. Class Abilities could not be disrupted or stolen, though.

Mana Siphon was just about the best defensive Ability anyone could have when it came to magical battles, but it was based on [Renew], which Erick had made, and to his knowledge he was the only person with that Ability at all. Kiri was having trouble getting that Ability, it seemed, but Erick was sure she could pull it off eventually.

Shifting Form was there because… Well. It was a quality of life option. As a Protean, Erick could shift his form at will with [Perfect Polymorph], but Shifting Form made the whole thing easier.

Metal Sense and Particle Sense were there because Erick was often working in metal, and purity was important. He had long upgraded the system to Gate Version 27, and he honestly could not think of more ways in which to improve the Gate Network, but those Abilities were crucial to working within the tolerances that the Gate Network now demanded from Erick.

Erick asked, “You have Metal Sense and Particle Sense, yes?”

“I don’t have enough room for both, so Metal Sense will have to do. I can still make the Gates with the ingots you left, and with the duplicator it should be more than enough.”

Erick smiled. “This’ll all be much easier for you once you get some godly boons. Maybe even Rozeta’s Abilities, for 20 of the things instead of just 10. This office should give you ample opportunity to gain those.”

Kiri eyed him. “Did you take any boons from anyone in all these years, though? At all?”

“Nope; they always came with strings. I’m fine with having strings from Rozeta, but not with Sumtir asking me to oversee war zones. But they were offered to me now and again. I’m sure you’ll get a lot of people offering you a lot of different things, Kiri. Only accept the ones you know you can live with. Rozeta, primarily. She never said anything to me about giving you any, but I’m sure that after you prove yourself for a while she’ll give you something. Probably a lot of somethings.”

Kiri stood strong. “Of course.”

Erick looked his apprentice over again. She looked happy. Erick was glad for that. “Draconism suits you.”

Kiri blushed a little, her emerald-scaled face darkening. Sunny, wrapped around her neck like a scaly green scarf, flickered in rainbow light briefly, trying to match Kiri’s color change before quieting again, returning to simple observation of everything happening around her. Kiri patted the little girl, and Sunny changed colors again.

Kiri said, “I don’t know why I was ever worried about having wings; none of the other dragons you’ve transformed ended up like you.”

“Now if the Cult will stop calling me Melemizargo, then that’d be great.”

Kiri chuckled.

Erick asked, “Do you think your family might finally move here, now that you’re going to be even more important?”

Kiri almost waved off the question because she had asked her family repeatedly to move over here to Candlepoint, and they had repeatedly declined, no matter what Kiri offered them. But then Kiri thought about the question. She realized...

Erick watched as Kiri understood what he was getting at.

Kiri steeled herself, and said, “I’m going to have to force the issue, aren’t I. They cannot be outside of my power once I’m Gatemaster. It’s too much of a security issue, even if they did accept the guards I put on them; it’s just not enough.”

Erick nodded. “Try to be gentle, but yes; they cannot be citizens of Odaali and Greensoil any longer.” Erick stepped back toward his throne, saying, “I have a lot to do before I can leave, just as you have a lot to do before you can step up.”

Kiri nodded.

They parted.

- - - -

Erick dispersed the [Hasted Shelter].

Time resumed its normal course, and the Apparent King got back into the groove of solving problems the world over from the non-comfort of his white-stone throne. Some problems were easier than others. Half a world away Erick found some bandits hiding out in the woods outside of a distant city of the Songli Highlands. He sent Ophiel in, looking like a plain-copy of himself, whereupon Erick found their leader and demanded they cease their attacks on the Local Area Gate Network, or face the consequences. They attacked Ophiel, but Ophiel simply ignored their attacks, and unfurled his wings from Erick’s avatar, making him look like one of Earth’s modern-day Christian angels, showing himself as not just some random person, but as the Apparent King.

And then Erick filled the sky with [Inevitable Bombardment]s, laying down a constellation of radiant bombs ready to drop at a moment’s notice. While everyone suddenly panicked, Erick had Ophiel point upward, as he announced a 5 minute deadline. The bandit camp would either die, or move on to a better life, under the aegis of Candlepoint.

Erick went on to solve something else.

By the time he came back, the bandits had surrendered. He canceled the Bombardment, and then filed the bandits through a [Gate] to Candlepoint, where they would be put into a work program and given free housing and food and safety. The recidivism rate for that program was rather low, but according to the relieved looks on the bandits’ faces and at the sudden cheer of being able to live inside city walls again, Erick expected these specific people to never resort to banditry ever again. From what Erick was seeing, they were all exiles from the Highlands for some reason, which was fine. A bit of investigation of the camp turned up nothing untoward. They didn’t have any slave collars or dead bodies around their camp; they were just people down on their luck who had turned to thieving in order to get by.

Ophiel hung around long enough for Erick to accept the thanks of the operators of the The Local Area Gate Network, and then Ophiel moved on.

As Erick moved on to the next problem, he realized he could sit here and solve worldly issues from now until forever, and he would never grow tired of helping people, but… The world was stable, for now.

It was time to distance himself from this absolute power; to prepare to spend some more time with his kids. Ophiel would need him there when he separated and Yggdrasil would, too, even if the big guy was trying to be more and more independent.

Maybe it was time for some paternity leave. Sure, Erick had planned for a 9-ish month sabbatical, but he could easily turn that all the way up to a two year leave of absence.

Maybe Jane would be up for a visit, too?

Erick smiled as he imagined a vacation with all three of his kids…

And then he worried, his smile crashing, the very air around him seeming to dim with unexpected concern. How would such a vacation even work? Physically? They couldn’t all just… go to a museum or a play together. Even the old standby of a beach vacation—

Well.

No?

They could do that, actually.

Jane and Erick both had human-shaped forms. Ophiel would get one, too. And Yggdrasil would have a human-shaped form of his very own, soon enough! One that he had made on his own!

Oh!

Maybe they could all go to a beach together! That would be really fun.

The air in the throne room began to glitter with sparkling joy.

If nothing disastrous happened between now and Yggdrasil’s re-sealing and Erick’s ascension to Full Wizard…

It would be really nice to go to some sort of play or something with all his kids.

… Oh. But. Would Ophiel be, like, a toddler? Would there be 10 of him? Or just one?

Hmm...

- - - -

Three days passed quickly and without incident.

Erick had a nice date with Quilatalap at the Saucery. Kiri got up to speed on most of her new duties. Jane had some Thoughts on Yggdrasil’s re-sealing, and while she was full of worry, she was also incredibly busy. Jane had asked, if Erick was getting out of the House anyway, if he could come meet for a better talk, in person, in Adventurer City. Erick had no problems at all agreeing to that.

He was beyond happy that Jane had even asked.

Soon, though, it was time to inform the last remaining people in his personal life.

Teressa came back to the cloud castle along with her husband Dariok soon enough, and the two of them joined Erick, Kiri, Poi, Rizala, and Rizala’s husband Variol for a nice dinner. They didn’t talk business at the table, but afterward, Erick announced Yggdrasil’s re-sealing.

Teressa had a complicated set of emotions as the news fully settled into the room. The large woman was still as strong and as beautiful as she had been when she first decided to become a guard for Erick, way back when they were at Spur. But a few facts of life had hit her hard over the years, and those facts were hitting her all over again. As Variol opened the floor, asking what Yggdrasil’s re-sealing truly meant, and as Kiri spoke over the transition to her becoming Gatemaster…

Teressa sat there silently staring forward, into the middle distance.

She was not having a vision.

She was deciding on something.

Dariok reached out and took Teressa’s hand, and Teressa returned his steady grip.

Erick liked Dariok. He was an orcol and a great match for Teressa. The two of them had actually met at Rozeta's Orrery years ago, back when Teressa went down there to truly try and understand her [Benevolent Sight]. Apparently, they had almost met a year before they actually did, because Dariok had been a part of the Benevolence Essence program out of the Office of the Overseer of Magic around 8 years ago.

They hit it off wonderfully when they did actually meet, though, like two complementary souls finding each other in the vastness of improbability.

There had been one problem, though.

Erick participated in the conversation happening around them, answering questions and concerns as Poi and Kiri and Rizala spoke of them, everyone trying to understand what was going to happen next, now that they were all in the same room and talking about it.

But Erick mainly focused on Teressa.

Finally, Teressa spoke, “A few nights ago we saw some disturbances in the Benevolent Sky. Those disturbances coincided with this event happening now— this event that has already happened. And which will continue to happen.” She said, “But that’s all it was. A disturbance. Followed by a settling. A few distant problems shifted subtly, perhaps most notably the rise of Computational Magic is both 5 years away and 75 years away, but that’s normal for something as esoteric and then suddenly-relevant as Computational Magic… Probably just an offshoot of Book Magic, anyway, like how the specific application of Water Magic can be called River Magic or Ocean Magic in certain circumstances—” She cut herself off, then looked at Erick… Then she looked at Dariok, who nodded, and then Teressa looked back to Erick. “I want the [Reincarnation], the All Stats, and the [Soul Realignment] before you go on this journey. It’s time to finally move on from the Juggernaut Class, and to right an old wrong.”

The rest of the room was silent.

Erick said, “Okay. We’ll do it after this talk.” He looked to Dariok. “Will you be taking that option as well?”

“Yes, sir,” Dariok said, his voice filled with conviction. “Thank you for the offer, and this opportunity.”

