The Grand Dungeon of House Benevolence was one of the largest and most intricate dungeons in the world.

The entrance to that dungeon was located about 20 kilometers northwest of the Gate District, between the Elemental Dungeons and Benevolence Tower. The original entrance had been inside the House itself, but Quilatalap quickly gained control of the dungeon and moved that entrance to where it was now; inside a large, black crystal expanse.

It wasn’t long after that relocation that the Office of the Exterior, overseen by Mox Dawnsider, had organized the harvesting of the Grand Dungeon, as the Office of the Exterior had already done for all the other normal dungeons in the area.

Mox and Quilatalap had a decent enough working relationship, which is about what Quilatalap had with almost everyone in the House. Delvers went in and out of his dungeon all the time, bringing out riches and more, if they were very good, but mostly people went in and came out empty handed. They usually gained the knowledge needed to try another day, though.

Erick went in and out as he pleased, for Quilatalap lived inside this dungeon.

The Apparent King stepped down onto grassy land outside the dungeon’s brutalist entrance, and a part of him felt like he was coming home. The Kingly part of him, though, stood well over 2 meters tall, straight-backed, with black horns on his head and white and black robe flickering with lightning upon its edges. His clothes were mostly an illusion of power, but Erick maintained his illusions of power in this public space, as he was well-trained to do. Fewer people tried to kill him and those around him when he looked the part of The Wizard, and The King.

Glossy black stone rose up from the ground in front of him, like black kendrithyst crystals growing together, forming a foundation first, and then towering overhead to join together to blot out the sun with their enormity. It looked like a dangerous place, and it was. Four thousand people died in those dark depths every single day. Mostly, those people came back, [True Resurrection]’d either by the Archlich, or by the Grand Dungeon itself.

In a way, all of the largest, most put-together dungeons were sort of like this one.

Even with all the dark immensity of this place, there were offices of intake and outlet on the left and right sides of the dungeon entrance, adding a sort of banal, Disney-esque corporatization to the entire affair. The Dungeoneer’s Guildhouse, a massive thing of wood and stone that rivaled the dungeon entrance for size, lay about half a kilometer to the south, towering like an Adventurer’s Guildhouse upon the prairie.

If it weren’t for the giant collection of towering black crystals, and the well-paved road leading from the Dungeoneer’s Guild to this place, this place would look rather normal. As it was, it almost looked like an attraction at a theme park.

The early-morning crowds certainly gave that impression, too.

Erick paid little outward attention to the various people all around, as those people gave him looks, and exclaimed about this or that. He just walked forward, into the dark interior of the black crystal structure. Ophiel trailed behind him, singing a tiny song about purple tarts. At least the little guy kept his song narrowed to his personal concerns. It was somewhat embarrassing when the little guy would sing little love songs he had overheard over the years, whenever Erick walked this way.

The Apparent King strode past the small line of delvers, all equipped in their real armor and with their real weapons, all waiting for their turn at the dungeon laying far beyond the dark hallways. Then he walked past the first guardian undead, which was a simple bird skeleton perched on a pole in the middle of the hallway. The skeleton bird would squawk at people, warning them to stay away until it was their turn, and then it would do worse if people tried to sneak around, or ignore it.

Just beyond that guardian skeleton were massive black-boned skeletons, dozens of them, lurking in the darkness to the sides of the black-crystal tunnel, almost vanishing in the shadows, except for their eyes which were like distant pairs of stars. They watched Erick as he walked past, their heads slightly turning to track his movements. They did nothing more than watch, which was also all the skeleton bird had done.

Ophiel fluffed up at the gazes of the black-boned skeletons, his song turning more solid, as though he could ward off the shadows with mere words. Which he could, no doubt; he’d have to put in some actual magical effort into those words, though. Ophiel wasn’t scared of much these days, for he had seen almost everything Erick had seen these last 13 years, but he still got nervous around eyes in the dark.

Erick couldn’t blame him for that.

The Apparent King strode down the dark hallways of the Grand Dungeon’s entrance. Eventually, under a black dome of crystal that was much more than that, Erick came to a hole in the world, ringed in black light. Beyond that hole lay the dungeon. It was a land of soft grasses and trails leading this way and that, while forests and mountains rose in the far distance beyond.

Erick glanced upward, up, up, to the ceiling, where the first true guardian of the dungeon stood watch, hidden in the shadows, here at the true entrance of the dungeon.

It was a thing of long arms, a head made of several heads, eyes at the end of every palm, and dark, forgetful magic lingering in the black fur of the animated beast. It was a black moon reacher. There were three more of them prowling around the exterior of the dungeon, though those ones out there were much, much smaller. This one was the size of a mansion, and was technically an amalgam of tens of black moon reachers; the ones that went unseen, unknown, unfelt, and who could reach through magic to take and kill whatever they touched.

According to Erick, that monster was #1 the creepiest fucking thing in the entire kingdom. It was one of Quilatalap’s many masterpieces, and it was about as powerful as one of Melemizargo’s Ancients, back when he was still making those. It hardly ever did anything, though, so according to everyone else in the kingdom, Erick or Quilatalap himself ranked #1.

Still, though, the look of that thing hanging under the dome of the ceiling gave Erick a frightful case of the heebiejeebies. Jane couldn’t stand the damned thing at all; she hated all moon reachers with extreme prejudice.

Erick ignored the monster overhead, as it did the same for him, and then Erick hopped through the dungeon portal, back into the bright sunlight on the other side, where green fields spread out in every distance and the horizon was a land of mountains. Paths lay at his feet, pointing the way to several different trials and tribulations.

Erick stepped off the paths, ignored the warning trill that briefly filled the air like a dying cat, and walked his own way, through the knee-high grasses.

A minute into his walk, he passed an invisible corner in the dungeon’s domain, and then he turned left.

To all outside observers, Erick had walked behind the air.

The grass stilled, and then, as though nothing was wrong, a breeze passed across the plains, sending the grasses back to movement, like they were green waves in an ocean.

- - - -

White lightning struck a white boulder that was covered in moss, half-buried in a rock garden at the side of a real garden, and a house. Erick stepped out of the light. For a brief moment he was imposing. Larger than life. Broad-shouldered and with a crown of black horns on his head, with a robe of white shimmers and deepest black, just in case Quilatalap had some guests. But there were no guests. And so, Erick smiled, transforming in that moment from the Apparent King, to just Erick, as he dispelled his horns and ditched his shoes, to feel the greenery underfoot…

Whatever repro came out of today would likely remember these next few hours in a nebulous sort of way.

Erick hoped that however ‘Erick-2’ turned out, that he wouldn’t be angry that he wasn’t the original.

- - - -

Erick held within his hands a core that was oh-so-similar to the one beside his own heart; perfectly spherical, the size of a fist, and iridescent white. It contained everything that was himself, along with a very tailored experience of meeting Quilatalap and deciding to actually go through with this whole thing; this ‘vacation’.

The dungeon master slime that gained this core wouldn’t really understand what he was until hours after implantation, though, and when that happened, and the memories finally settled, he would be Erick. In almost every way that counted, Erick-version-2 would be Erick. He’d probably pick a real name for himself, though.

Erick held out the sphere to Quilatalap.

Quilatalap took the sphere into his much larger green hands, and then he put his other hand on Erick’s shoulder. “He’ll be fine, and I won’t do the implantation for days yet anyway.” He flicked the sphere into the air, where it vanished instantly. He put his other hand on Erick’s other shoulder, and pulled him in for a hug. “He and Quil are going to get along well.”

Erick sighed as he held Quilatalap. “Gods that’s going to be such a mess.”

“It might not be. No way to really know until I actually introduce the core to a dungeon master slime.” Quilatalap pulled away. “You’re really sure you want to give him all your spellwork?”

“I am. It would be cruel for me to do otherwise to myself.” Erick rapidly added, “I know you do it differently, but… I couldn’t see myself not having all of the spells I have now.”

“I’ve regained my spellwork so many times I hardly need a foundation anymore to get up and running again.” Quilatalap grinned. “And it’s nice making a different Status every few decades or so.”

“Eh… Maybe.” Erick said, “I’ll have everything lined up as soon as I can, and then we can go. Thank you for agreeing to come help with this, Quilatalap.”

“If Sininindi’s proposal isn’t completely untenable, then I’m probably going to agree to it in exchange for some actual assurances of peace between the greater pantheon and I.” Quilatalap shrugged. “She’s probably going to have me stick around there for the foreseeable future, too, but that’s fine with me.”

“Hopefully her demands aren’t too great. It’s a good chance for actual peace, right?”

“The possibility is there. Of course, she could be doing this because she wants you to be involved in her power, somehow.”

Erick was not so sure of that. “She hasn’t wanted me to get anywhere near Everbless.

“Maybe she does, now. Everbless is growing up just like Yggdrasil.”

“He’s only begun to talk last year. Meanwhile, Yggdrasil has 9 bodies and he’s piggy-backing off of me, so he’s growing a lot faster than Everbless.”

Yggdrasil’s twin, created at the moment of Yggdrasil’s own creation, way back before Last Shadow’s Feast, was taken by Sininindi as fulfillment of her demand that Erick make a [Control Weather] machine. The goddess of Storm and Sea had named that ‘machine’ ‘Everbless’, and he was anything but a machine to Sininindi. From everything Erick had heard, Sininindi truly doted on the World Tree.

Over the years, and from a great distance, Erick had watched Everbless grow from a seedling to a full World Tree, but where Yggdrasil was white-barked, green-leaved, and rainbow-crowned, Everbless was deeply affected by the Storm Goddess’s power. Everbless might be Yggdrasil’s twin, but they looked and acted nothing alike. Everbless was still only a kilometer tall, and he had only begun speaking about 16 months ago. Rather stunted growth, there… Or maybe Everbless was simply experiencing normal growth rates? Probably.

Quilatalap chuckled a little. “I suppose Everbless isn’t very big.” He changed the subject, “So! I want dinner at the Saucery before we go to Storm’s Edge.”

Erick smiled. “It’s been a few years, hasn’t it? I will make that happen.”

“Good! Now go on and get back to being a king. I’ve got a lot of stuff to do, too, since I’ll be handing off the Grand Dungeon for a while.”

“See you tonight? Talk more?”

“How about tomorrow?”

“Sure.”

- - - -

The day passed with little in the way of events, except for another odd monster break on Dungeon Island, over at Quintlan. Erick didn’t need to clean up that monster mess, for the local Dungeoneering Guildhouse was on the case, but there were a dozen dead that Erick had sudden responsibility over. So he revived them, because the local guildmaster asked, and that revivification had been a major part of their international agreements.

Back when Hollowsaur and Treant and others had taken the island back from the oozes, nearly 9 years ago now, the collective efforts of the world moved in. It was there that the people of the world truly started working toward making a replacement for the Script in those experimental dungeons. House Benevolence was one of those signers of those agreements, and so had agreed to certain things. One of those things was the revival of those who had been lost to dungeon breaks or other disasters in the area, and who had agreed to signing the associated paperwork.

The dead people today got un-deaded, then they got some new paperwork to go with their new lives, because a [True Resurrection] outside of the dungeons carried with it a closing of all current bank accounts and property and lives. Because of that, all 12 people got [Reincarnation]s, too; [Reincarnation] was simply a bonus that Erick included because he could. It wasn’t a part of the normal [True Resurrection] agreements.

That whole [True Resurrection] debate was still going on in the courthouses across the world, but House Benevolence and Oceanside and Dungeon Island had come to an agreement with how [Resurrection], at least, would be treated; it would be as though the recipient had legally died. People got around this legality many different ways, since the Fractured Citadels and all the liches of those lands had interests in Dungeon Island, too, but House Benevolence adhered to the international treaty.

Erick was still sitting on his throne, at the top room of House Benevolence, dealing with the final parts of that minor international incident, when Kiri showed.

The Wizard’s Apprentice appeared on the other side of a white-rimmed [Gate], stepping through from some mountainous land directly into the throne room. She was no longer the 19 year old girl who had whipped Erick in the training arena, and who had the audacity to ask for an apprenticeship; to use Erick for her own needs, while she was already laden with so many entanglements to those who would also use Erick for their own needs.

