Teressa spoke up, “Yes. Thank you, Erick.”

Erick smiled softly. “I’d do anything for both of you. You’re going to make wonderful parents.”

Years ago, Teressa and Dariok had found out that both of them had shared a lot of things in common. Their general path in life looked rather similar. Both of them had started off in migrant orcol tribes, and both of their tribes had been wiped out, leaving them as the final survivors. Teressa had lost her people to the Shade known as the Witch. Dariok had lost his people to a deathsoul shroom infection.

Eventually, both of them had delved deep into prognostication in order to ensure that they would see the bad things coming.

And then, they had both ended up at House Benevolence, and they had fallen in love.

Their wedding had been magnificent, and Erick had cried happy tears.

But then, Teressa and Dariok had tried for kids for years. Apparently, both of them were infertile. They finally went to Atunir, the Goddess of Field and Fertility, looking for answers and solutions. She had told them that she could solve Teressa’s issue, but Dariok’s issue was both soul and genetic-based. For him, there was literally nothing there to heal, though it looked like there should be. He had escaped the deathsoul shroom, but not completely.

Erick, however, could solve all of those problems, and now it was finally time to take that major step.

At Erick’s words of calling them wonderful parents, Teressa relaxed. Her shoulders untensed, her breathing came easier, and she gripped Dariok’s hand hard. She smiled, and small tears fell.

Poi spoke up, wishing them happiness, and then so did Kiri, though she took Teressa into a sudden hug, for she was a hugger, and Teressa laughed, happy and joyful. Erick joined in on the hug, too. For a good minute, everything was perfect.

And then the moment passed.

Erick asked, “So about the disturbance in the Benevolent Sky?”

“Right!” Teressa glowed as she began, “The sun-ward sections of the sky flickered dark most solidly, but then everything went back to how it was. Starting with Yoril’s future, we saw...”

Teressa spoke of how Yggdrasil’s re-sealing showed that something would happen, but it didn’t seem to be anything horrible.

Erick was pretty sure that everything was going to be okay, and if it turned out that something bad was going to happen, then he would just pull out the Big Wizard solutions.

Later, Erick settled both Teressa and Dariok into their new bodies; same as the old, but younger, and healthier. It would take them some time to regain their spellwork, but they had time now. A lot of time. They were going to be wonderful parents.

- - - -

Erick lightstepped away from the sleeping forms of Teressa and Dariok, to stand upon the tallest tower of his cloud castle. The night sky stretched overhead, luminous in its starry magnificence, while Erick’s castle held all around; white stone buildings joined together by walkways and courtyards and clouds and magic.

From the bridge of his cloud castle hovering high above House Benevolence, Erick looked down and saw even more stars and light.

Yggdrasil was a green mountain reaching high, high into the sky, to the south, like the largest glowing green mountain anyone had ever seen. A rainbow halo surrounded him, casting light from the center of Candlepoint Lake, all the way to the fully-populated coast, where fisheries and cities and houses fully encircled the waters. Skyscrapers of eternal stonewood stood out here and there along the coast, and further inward, where civilization sprawled.

Feeding that civilization was a constellation crown of a Node Network that extended all the way up and out from Yggdrasil, all the way through the sky, to join every large tower here or there, to link down into the myriad cities themselves. Those glittering Nodes were like street lamps, connected by glowing lines, that attached to every house and building. Wardlights inside those million houses were connected to smaller [Node Network]s, cast by individuals or by people who were a part of the Lighter’s Guild.

Those Lighter’s Guild were almost like how Erick had been, years and years ago, back when he stood in front of the Mage Guild Cleanse-Mend-Light Job Board at Spur, and picked a few [Cleanse] and [Mend] jobs off the wall. Erick had never gotten the chance to put up wardlights back then, for he had already moved on to bigger things before he had gotten that particular Mage Guild certification. But Erick had put up a lot of lights since then. More than a million of them. From those lights, other people put up even more lights every night, and the population boomed.

The Greater Candlepoint Area was one of the most well-lit lands in this world, but it was also full of shadows, both bright and dark, for all of Candlepoint glowed with all colors of the rainbow.

Mostly sunlight-white, though; people liked that color of wardlight the most.
