She was 32, now, and a full woman grown. Her green scales gleamed in the rainbow-white light of the throne room and under the bright sun overhead. Her green dress was layered and formal, but made for fighting, while her green horns curled backward, forming most of a halo. She saw Erick, and she smiled, her bright white eyes flickering with Benevolent lightning. She might have been born with a green magic signature, but her transition into a Benevolence Dragon years ago pushed her full-white. Her transition also made her a little over 2 meters tall, making her the second tallest person in the room.

Kiri glanced to Zolan, who was the only other person in the room, not counting Ophiel.

The Castellan of House Benevolence stood on the ground just beyond the Benevolent Throne and its dais. The pale-purple demi was even more handsome a decade after his [Reincarnation], in Erick’s opinion, and he had regained all of his previous magical power, and then some. He was considered the most eligible bachelor in the kingdom, and his days were barely less busy than Erick’s. He didn’t often act as Erick’s personal secretary, for Erick had about ten of those people, but for certain shifts in schedule, Zolan reported personally to the Apparent King, which is exactly what had happened with this Dungeon Island problem.

Zolan gave a small nod toward Kiri, then easily said to Erick, “I’ve pushed back your 4:00 pm appointments, but it seems the Overseer of Gate Expansion is particularly eager today. Pray tell, I hope it’s nothing bad.”

Erick almost laughed at that. Zolan wasn’t a Mind Mage, and he did not have Intelligence, but he was whip-smart anyway.

Kiri stood tall, her eyes focused on Erick, “Is today the big day?”

Kiri was always a smart one, too. Thanks to all the New Stats, and a clearing/prevention of the shadeling curse by Erick himself, she was even smarter, with well over a hundred base Intelligence.

Zolan wasn’t often surprised these days, but he was surprised by Kiri’s declaration; her insinuation. He looked to Erick. “The big day?”

Erick wrapped the room in a [Hasted Shelter]. Time slowed to a crawl. “Since you’re both here, there is something very large happening, and it is time you both knew of it. To begin with, over the next 6 months to a year, I am going to be working toward removing Yggdrasil’s 100-year seal…”

Erick explained.

Kiri’s eyes shone with worry, and joy, and anticipation, and finally, as she came down from the high of ‘it’s finally happening’, she rapidly transformed into the capable archmage and statesman she had grown into over the last ten years. Her recent Worldly Path had finally filed down her most dangerous parts, like her thoughts about places like Greensoil, which had fucked her over in her younger years due to human supremacy being the law of the land. She still saw injustice everywhere, which was great, but she could at least work with Greensoil these days without pissing off some noble from over there with pointed questions.

Zolan frowned a little throughout the whole explanation, and then, when Erick was done, he announced, “Archmage Flamecrash is not ready for this responsibility.”

Kiri asked him, “Will you help me be ready with this responsibility?”

“I’m not vanishing off the face of Veird,” Erick said, “But I am going on a sabbatical, at least. Six months to a year, and hopefully by the time that is done, when I come back it won’t be in nearly as large a position as I have now. You can contact me if something horrendous happens or is about to happen, but I imagine that I’m going to be traveling by myself for most of the trip, and I would appreciate not having any interruptions at all.”

Zolan frowned a little.

Kiri stood strong, waiting, hoping that Zolan would agree to this. And then she went on the offensive. “I will not be able to replace Erick, so the House will likely have to go through a minor restructuring. I’m imagining you, Zolan, taking over as Head of House in Erick’s absence.”

Zolan sighed a little. “The fact is that no one will ever be able to replace Erick… But you are a close second. And you want it, right?”

“Absolutely,” Kiri said, without hesitation.

“Glad to see that hasn’t suddenly changed, unlike other truths I thought were stable,” Zolan said.

Erick smiled softly. “Kiri can do the job with everyone’s help, Zolan; just like me. This organization is too big for anyone to do on their own.”

Zolan looked to Erick, his expression hard. “Promise me you won’t start some other organization when your sabbatical is over; that you will come back.”

“Absolutely,” Erick said, “And my repro will be around here somewhere in case you have questions for me. He’ll probably want to continue working, too… But I have no idea how he’s going to be. Not really.”

Kiri said, “Well I think it’s great you’re trying for one, and he’s probably going to work out fine. Better than mine.”

Zolan looked straight at Kiri and announced, “You and I will have quite a few talks about what went wrong there, along with a hundred other hours of dialogue before I accept you as a temporary replacement for Erick.”

Kiri nodded, saying, “You always have the best interests of the House at heart, so I would expect nothing less from you, Zolan. I know none of us are ready for this transition, but at least you won’t have any more 60-hour days.”

Zolan had a complicated set of emotions over Kiri’s last words. After a moment, he said, “I suppose small miracles can be found where least expected.”

Erick smiled, and then he got up off his throne, saying, “Let’s talk transition. Kiri? Want to try out the throne—”

Three things happened fast.

Kiri gleefully, yet calmly, walked forward, her eyes locked on that simple, white stone throne.

Erick stepped aside.

And Zolan announced, “NOPE!”

Erick frowned a little.

Kiri tsk’d, briefly narrowing her eyes as though a prize had been snatched from her.

Zolan said, “Make a new throne for her. Smaller and set to the side. Maybe your throne can be moved backward, and Kiri’s throne can go where yours is now, but Kiri is not taking your throne. I’m not having that, and neither is the House.”

“Eminently reasonable,” Kiri said. “I’ll make my own throne.”

“Also,” Zolan said, “You’re not stepping down from Gatemaster, Erick. You’re elevating to the position of ‘Wizard’, which is informal but which I have just decided needs to be made formal. ‘Wizard’ is above ‘Gatemaster’, of course, and then Kiri is taking ‘Gatemaster’. A lot of specific duties will move around… Thusly.”

“Reasonable, and acceptable,” Kiri said, her voice still solid and unperturbed.

And she wasn’t faking it, either.

The Kiri of a decade ago would have been miffed by Zolan’s shifts and demands, but the Kiri of today was older and wiser, and she had been working toward this goal right here ever since Erick started truly raising her to be his successor. She still wasn’t completely ready for the role, but she was close.

Over the next few hours they spoke of what needed to change around here in order to elevate Kiri to a separate, smaller throne. Funnily enough, they eventually decided that Kiri wouldn’t get a throne at all. She would simply take her Overseer chair and put it up there in front of Erick’s throne.

Erick was sure everything was going to work out fine.

- - - -

Eventually, Zolan had other things he needed to attend to, and quickly, so he requested Erick allow him an Ophiel and a [Hasted Shelter] so he could have some of his own emergency meetings. Erick easily agreed to this, and soon, Ophiel sat down on Zolan’s shoulder, squeaking out small hellos. Zolan smiled a little bit at that and pulled a purple candy from his pocket; the same pocket which Ophiel had been poking at when he sat down on Zolan’s shoulder. He and Ophiel got along well, with Zolan always giving the little guy little treats, now that he could taste things.

As he handed off a second candy to Ophiel, Zolan said to Erick, “I like that you’re unsealing, or re-sealing, Yggdrasil. I hope that your actual ascension to Wizard goes well, too, for I’m looking forward to never having to use [Hasted Shelter] again, and relying on you to simply [Return] if something catastrophic has gone wrong.”

Erick laughed at that. “Didn’t take much to convince you, eh? Just needed to be able to finally bend the universe to my will?”

“If your repro is half the man you are, then we’re all going to be okay.” Zolan said to Ophiel, “Okay, Ophiel. Let’s go to the Office of the Exterior.”

Ophiel chirped, “Office of the Exterior!” as he opened up a [Gate] directly there.

Zolan stepped through the edge of the [Hasted Shelter], experiencing a bit of a time dilation lag and ephemeral burn, but it was only 250-ish damage, and he had more than enough [Personal Ward] to withstand that. Ophiel did too. They moved like absolute molasses in the office space on the other side of the [Gate], though, so Erick conjured a wall to block off the view inside the throne room. After a few subjective minutes over here, and only seconds over there, Ophiel would close the [Gate].

For now, Erick turned to Kiri—

And Kiri giggled like a schoolgirl as she wrapped Erick in a sudden hug, saying, “Oh my gods, Erick! It’s finally happening!”

Erick hugged her back, being careful of her horns, and of his own horns, saying, “You deserve it. You’ve worked hard for it.”

Kiri hugged tighter once more, then pulled away, her eyes shining with unshed tears. “I was expecting another ten years. Not a transition a month or two out from my completion of the Path.”

“I think Yggdrasil has been waiting for years to ask this of me, and with you becoming a real option, he decided to ask this of me now. All the rest of it is just some godly drama, I think.” Erick said, “I’ll be working to ensure that the 90-year timeline to new worlds remains intact, though. Not a single person is ready for that to happen in the next year.”

Kiri put away her mirth, and she became the woman who Erick knew would become Gatemaster. “You hope that is the case. You don’t actually know. In fact, there’s that convenient gap between the seal transferring to Yggdrasil and you becoming a Wizard capable of enforcing that shifted seal. Someone is going to exploit that gap, Erick, and it’s going to be the gods; any number of them, maybe all of them.” Kiri said, “The gods went along with this dungeon core program awful damned fast for a lot of different reasons, most of which are about expanding their own personal domains and sucking in new worshipers. Or creating those worshipers directly, and sometimes in order to directly attack Melemizargo in a faith-campaign inside his own Darkness.” Kiri said, “The gods are not truly benevolent. They press and shape and carve the world as they are wont, making it in their image as dictated by their beliefs, just as much as Melemizargo does.”

Erick had already considered all that, but he was glad that Kiri had considered all that, too. “I know. Something is likely going to happen, but if it does, I can always fall back on Big Wizardry; it just won’t be as Big or solid as it could be, without being a Full Wizard myself.”

Kiri frowned a little. “I suppose… That could be true.” Then she added, “I always thought that you never went far enough with combining your two Statuses. You still have two of them; you should only have one.”

“Well… I did what I could there. Combined all the things I could combine; erased everything that didn’t fit.” Erick admitted, “All I ever managed to do was make both Statuses look the same.”

Erick Flatt

Protean, age 12

Level 99, Class: Particle Mage

Exp: 9.71e24/ 100e100

Class: 20/20

Points: 37

HP

30,960/30,960

86,400 per day

MP

55,768/55,800

86,400 per day

Strength

208

+50

[258]

Vitality

207

+50

[257]

Dexterity

207

+50

[257]

Constitution

208

+50

[258]

Perception

221

+50

[271]

Willpower

414

+50

[464]

Focus

413

+50

[463]

Intelligence

211

+50

[261]

Favored Spell Waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

Favored Ability waiting!

“Both forms even have a core, too.” Erick changed the subject, “Speaking of which! How much mana production per day are you up to? How goes your own core?”

Kiri eyed Erick, not willing to change the subject that easily. But she digressed. “My core is fine. Maintaining it is always and forever annoying, but having my own base of mana allowed me to conquer all those dungeons and finish the Path. I’m up to 15,000 mana production per day, too. Somewhere around there, usually.” She shrugged. “Should increase to something like 25,000 per day once I become Gatemaster-in-full, but even 50 per day is enough to maintain the core. I haven’t been worried about my core for years now.” She added, “What I have had to worry about is Wizardry.”

“Have you given yourself any new Abilities through your own Small Wizardry?”

“… Multi-[Ward], like you. Having two [Personal Ward]s has been great outside of dungeons, though it’s rare to find a dungeon that actually allows Script magic to work at all… That whole Worldly Path was rather great for my capability. Still working on creating Mana Siphon, though I suspect I won't be able to get that [Renew]-based one without some approval from Rozeta, or something similar.”

“Mana Siphon is pretty awesome,” Erick said, smirking.

Class Abilities were special applications of the Script that allowed for things that normal spellwork could not easily do, or they were solidifications of spellwork that were not able to be disrupted by an enemy’s [Dispel], or other similar negating power. Doubling resources was one major application of Ability. Taking reduced damage, always, was another.

Erick had filled out his Class Abilities a decade ago, though he had changed up a few of them as he gained them. Multi-[Ward] had required Wizardry to attain, since that Class Ability was the bedrock upon which the Class: Warder was built upon, while Erick’s Particle Mage was built upon the generic Force Mage Class. Getting the base power of other Classes in his own Class had been difficult, but Erick had managed to do that by hiring some Warders and other Classes to answer his questions, and then singing a small song at the end of those lessons.

Erick had managed to grab that base power several times over the years.

