Poi looked to the air. After a moment of checking with the streamers of intent around his head, he turned back to Erick. “She’s thinking about it, but she has not consulted others and we’re not quite sure what your spell will look like in the Crystal Forest. Right now she’s leaning toward ‘yes’, but she needs more information. She has suggested that you throw this spell over Candlepoint, if they will let you. It would lead to less of your own involvement in the city, they can spend magic to conjure moisture from a sky full of clouds, if they need it, and we’ll have a test run of the spell’s capabilities and environmental impact.”

Erick thought for a moment. He said, “That’s a good point.” He shrugged. “And if they say no, I could just make a plot of green forest out there somewhere. There’s no shortage of space, out there.”

Poi nodded.

Erick thought. He said, “Actually! I’ve decided: I'm going to do that, anyway. Just to see if I can.” He smiled. I wonder what Sininindi will think of— Ah! Drat. I forgot to put in my tithe to the Church. Let’s go do that, Poi.” He held his hand out to Poi. “Think I can blip directly into the Bank?”

Poi frowned. “If we must do this quickly, please [Teleport] to the Mage Guild, instead. They have spaces for this, and the Bank is runed against [Teleport].”

“Fair enough!”

Poi took Erick’s hand. The two of them flashed white, blipping away.

- - - -

The trip to the bank was a really, really nice trip.

Erick had wanted to set up his account to automatically give 1.5 percent of monthly earnings to the Church, and also to check his balance, his deposits, and everything else about his bank account. They led Erick to a nice, partially private room just off the banking floor, where a nice young man served him hot tea, where he waited for an older woman teller to prepare and deliver all of his banking information. The greyscale worked fast. Erick only had to wait ten minutes while all of his information was gathered. The greyscale gently advised him that if he did not wish to wait, that he could always make an appointment, but Erick wasn’t in any rush.

When his information was finally brought to him, he was, at first, bewildered. And then he was happy.

Like, really, really happy.

“Oh my gods,” Erick breathed out, reading the numbers the teller had given him. He was filthy rich. Beyond the necessary amount to live, for sure. He contained his happiness to a simple overflowing smile. Reading a slightly different set of numbers, he saw ten different deposits for 25,000 gold in the last three weeks, along with a lump sum 131,000 gold paid in the last few days, all from the same account. That account was number 000-000-001. It had to be the Headmaster’s. Holy shit, that was a lot of money! Erick mumbled, “The Light Slime dungeon must be working well.” He smiled wider. He giggled. He laughed. He said, “It’s time to start enchanting again!”

The teller asked, “Will you be wishing to withdraw any rads today?”

“No no no.” Erick said, “I’m gonna hunt for those. I will need a way to use this money to pay for materials, though. Metals and such.”

The teller nodded, and said, “Any Mage Guild Bank the world over will be able to draw on your funds, as per usual, but getting liquid funds does take time.”

“Right. Right. I already knew that. Oh!” Erick said, “I need to set up a 1.5% monthly tithe on earning to the Interfaith Church of Spur.”

“Easily accomplished.” The greyscale pulled out a drawer behind her desk, and pulled out a sheet of paper. “One percent is normal. Are you sure you wish for 1-point-5?”

“Yes.”

The greyscale began writing.

Erick signed and dated five sheets of paperwork. It was the most paperwork Erick had done in the last year, not counting Oceanside studying, of course. Erick got out of the Bank feeling a lot better about his own stability, and the fact that he could easily afford the promise he had made to Delia. That was never in doubt, not really. But actually seeing the number in front of him, and not being drunk like he was yesterday, really helped to cement that he was doing rather well in this strange world.

Still… ‘Ruling Class’? Erick didn’t like that.

- - - -

After the Bank, Erick thought no more about his supposed ‘political status’ as he turned his thoughts to enchanting and [Control Weather] and other issues. He had walked out of the Mage Guild to get to the Bank, but now he walked back into the Mage Guild, looking to solve some more problems and pick up some more answers from the Guild Library. Both times he looked for Anhelia, but both times she was not there at the front desk.

Anhelia caught up to him while he was speaking to the orangescale librarian, Tamarim, about finding specific books.

Anhelia did not look happy, exactly, upon seeing Erick, but she didn’t look angry, either. Her iron ‘skin’ was creased, while her eyes seemed slightly hollow. Was it possible for wrought to age? Or was she just tired? Whatever the case, Erick was glad she was here. What had she learned about Candlepoint since last they spoke?

“Ah, good. You are here today,” Erick said, as he turned away from Tamarim. “I didn’t see you out there when I came through the first time.”

Anhelia said, “I need to speak with you.” She sent, ‘I am very busy, so it will be quick, and [Telepathy] is good enough of a security barrier.’

Erick paused. He tentatively sent, ‘Okay. You seem distraught? Is something wrong?’

‘I will be blunt: Are you working with the Shades?’

Erick had a supreme moment of disbelief. He smiled a little. Was Anhelia fucking with him? Surely she must be fucking with him. But as the moment came and went, and she studied Erick with serious eyes, her words weren’t funny anymore. Disbelief turned to hurt, turned to anger, then rage. Rage was quickly subsumed by utter disconnect, as Erick felt unmoored; lost, and not himself.

He had been accused of some pretty awful things during his lifetime. From child neglect, when Jane was in gradeschool and always so angry, to purposefully harming the lives of those he tried to guide through the byzantine systems of assistance back on Earth, to even worse accusations by people seemingly much angrier than Anhelia, like when Krakina called him a Wizard. At the time, Erick didn't truly recognize that insult for what it was, but now, he knew that Krakina had called him one of the worst things one can call another, on Veird.

When people got angry that they didn’t get what they wanted, and needed, they lashed out at whoever was nearby. It was a truth as universal here as it was on Earth. With that in mind, was Anhelia lashing out, right now? Or was she genuinely testing Erick on his loyalty to the cause? Erick would have thought an 800 year old person would be beyond a primal, emotional response.

So? Was this a test of some sort?

Erick soothed his anger down, down, down. He breathed. He breathed again. He looked her straight in the eyes, and sent, ‘No. I want to kill them all.’

Anhelia looked into his eyes, too. ‘Then why did you give Bulgan a specific trigger to start the war? That puts the power in his pocket and you deeper into their shit.’ She rapidly demanded, ‘Are you working with them?’

‘I am not working with the Shades. But I am starting to reconsider working with you.’ Erick sent, ‘I am ending this conversation here, before we both end up saying something irreparably hurtful.’

Anhelia sent, ‘If you can’t handle harsh questions—’

‘I can handle a lot, Anhelia, but I can’t handle being compared to a Shade.’ He stared at her, ‘Are you coming at me because I don’t want to see people hurt? Because I need to feed and uplift those who are unwitting puppets, but who could also become their own people, if given time?’

‘Shadelings are disposable tools of the Shades, Erick. You are forgetting this essential fact.’

‘I am not forgetting anything, but I will admit that I am trying to see past their origins in a way that is perhaps foolish.’ His thoughts laced with venom, as he sent, ‘All I can say, is that it’s gonna hurt me something deep and horrible when they finally drop the act and I have to kill them all.’

Anhelia frowned at Erick for a long moment. Then she cut their mental connection, lost her frown, and walked away.

Erick was too mad to look at books right now, but he tried to play off what had happened; there were students sitting in desks nearby trying not to look at him, and sweating a bit too much to be natural. He put on a happy face, and turned back to the librarian’s desk.

Tamarim stopped staring at him from the corner of his eyes, from two meters away. He fully faced Erick, plastering on his own smile, as he stepped closer. “So where were we? Enchanting?”

Erick listed his needs, “How to enchant a Grand [Prestidigitation] Stove. Weather patterns from Farmer’s Almanacs, or whatever sources you deem useful for understanding the weather and wind patterns of the Crystal Forest. I also want some books on the uses of auras, or aura work, or something to give an overview of what an aura is capable of achieving.” Erick paused. He had a brilliant thought that demanded he act upon it, so that would come next. He said to Tamarim, “I’ll come back for it all, later.”

Tamarim nodded, saying, “Sure thing, archmage.”

“Thank you, Tamarim.”

Erick got the hell out of there, and went to a friend’s house.

- - - -

The Sewerhouse was only two stories tall.

That was the first thing that Erick noticed, and that tore him out of his anger at Anhelia. The gold building had been three stories tall for quite a while. Ever since Erick and Jane had opted to live upstairs, in fact, back when they were first finding their feet. But even when the place was rebuilt after the Red Dot attack it had remained at three stories so that Savral and Bacci could move in together up there.

Why was the Sewerhouse only two stories tall, now?

His anger at Anhelia temporarily forgotten, Erick strode past the wardlight slime sculptures near the entrance, through the open double doors. Purplescaled Bacci stood behind the main counter, where grain and powder sized rads were on display under glass, for sale to the public. Her face fell for a moment, before she put on a professional smile.

Savral was nowhere to be seen. He usually stood next to the door, wearing his big black armor. Instead, there was a stranger. An orcol man in steel armor. This man flinched as Erick’s appraising glance raced from the man’s helmet to his greaves, but remained silent.

Erick tore his gaze away from the steel encased man, then thumbed at the stranger as he asked Bacci, “What’s going on?”

Bacci’s smile faltered. She said, “Hello, archmage. If you’re looking for Al, he’s out in the city, helping people close up in time for the Ballooning Spiders.”

Erick had, of course, seen the new stone bars and smaller windows that had been put up across the city, as well as various shaping crews doing the [Stoneshape]ing, but that wasn’t why Erick was here. His purpose in coming here was at least two fold. He wanted to know more about auras from the person who had turned him on to auras and the Focus Stat in the first place, and he wanted to know more about what had happened last night. Erick barely remembered any of it, and some of it might not have actually happened.

But now, Erick latched on to the only question he had, “Did something happen to Savral?”

Bacci frowned. “A lot has happened to that man. Did you not know? Did Al not speak to you about any of this?”

“I have no idea what is happening right now, Bacci.” Erick said, “Except for seeing Al last night at the bar and with Mog, he’s been distant. What happened to Savral?”

Bacci looked bewildered for a moment, then said, “Savral is gone.”

“What!”

“It’s… complicated. It started when we had a fight last week.” Bacci explained, “He’s been forgetful ever since the Red Dot. Small things, usually. Not that important. He’s still him. But… he was having trouble with cooking some steaks. He forgot his spices. I kept saying he was missing bluebottle. He kept saying that bluebottle didn’t taste right to him; that it was the wrong answer. I don’t know how it got larger than that, but it did. Al got involved. Anger happened—” She shut her mouth. She continued, “He left the Sewerhouse, and I moved back in with my old roommate. The rest of his team is already chasing him down, trying to find wherever he went.” She got mad, demanding, “Did Al not ask you to help look for him?”

“No. He did not.”

Bacci glared. “I don’t know what the fuck happened between you two, but that’s just asinine!” She asked, “Would you help look for him?”

Erick summoned an Ophiel, and then another, and sent them outside the city, “Of course I’ll help! I didn’t even know—”

“You didn’t know, because I didn’t want you to know.”

Erick turned around. Al stood in the doorway to the Sewerhouse. Al glanced at the guy in plate armor. The guy just nodded, then stepped out of the building, closing the double doors behind him.

Al said to Bacci, “I told you not to involve Erick.”

Bacci threw her arms up, saying, “He came here! And someone had to involve him! You weren’t!”

“Bacci.” Al calmly said, “I am saying this as nicely as I can: You need to stop pushing Savral. I already know where he is, and so does the rest of his team. The only one who hasn’t been told is you, because you need to stop pushing him.”

Bacci’s eyes glittered purple as she spat fire, saying, “You utter asshole! I cannot believe that—”

