Listen to me, girl. You are doing too much. No, no, don't just roll your eyes and walk away. I need you to listen right now.

You are burning your talent. You are using your strength too vulgarly. I know what you're trying to do. You're trying to assemble a faction of your own, an internal set of loyalists and blackmailed individuals you can trust to be of use against the entrenched nobility in the higher councils.

But if I can see it coming, then so can some of the others.

The game you must play if you wish to be voted in and reach the position of Councilwoman is one of subtlety and influence before control. Control is too heavy-handed. You are doing something that no one can accept, and that is telling them how they should act, and, even worse, feel.

A tyrant worth their salt understands that they have to give their dog some room. That's why the leash stretches. You can pull and tug, but you also have to be able to let it go slack. Right now, you are tugging and tugging, and if you keep it up, either all your dogs will turn and try to take a bite out of your flesh, or you will pull so hard their necks snap, and they will be of no more use to you.

You have to understand that you cannot reign alone. Not even a god possesses such an ability, because what is a god without someone to extract faith from? Think. Do not just use your talents brutally. You are more than raw potential. You are more than the rawest expression of your skills.

I beg of you, before you do anything, apply some thought, girl.

And I truly mean this because I see it in you, that ability to reach the highest offices one day, if everything goes right. When you are there, I wish for you to stay. I wish to find someone else competent in this miserable mess that we call Republic. This miserable, beautiful home that is all we ultimately have in this world.

Learn to use people through the soft ways. And learn how to rely on people without exposing your vulnerabilities to them.

We are to govern a superpower, and that means to let the experts reign over their own areas. Make them feel respected. Allow little acts of sin to purge the greater transgressions.

Sacrifice and trade and favor. That is what makes up the purpose of our office. Sacrifice, trade, favor, and know who you can rely on.

And I’m on your side, even if you don’t want me to be.

—Councilman Anthony De Diego to Master-Representative Veronica Chandler

428

Divine Reciprocity

Divine glory drenched Shiv the moment he arrived at Starhawk's Perch.

Casting himself across time, his Harbinger became a temporal projectile shaped of fractured shards of gold, but the Legendary Skill’s resplendence proved dim and paltry beneath the new sun dawning over Gate Piety.

Said sun sprouted out from Adam’s flaming crown. It cast forth into the sky, piercing the ceiling and looming over the castle and the nest-like crystal filaments that lined the firmament above. The web of hardened eldritch mana and matter alike offered no shade beneath the beaming smile of Adam's Divinity.

It simply pierced through everything. It gazed upon everything. It drenched everything, and Shiv felt something rattle against his Magical Resistance as his Practicing Atheist Feat triggered. Something was trying to sear his flesh. Something was trying to imbue itself upon him, yet it was at once subtler and greater than a Curse or Blessing.

But that fact mattered little, for Shiv was occupied with a greater concern. Adam was up. Adam was standing, restored from his comatose torment, and he stood clutching that thing which laid him low so many days.

The Crown of the Anti-Savior was a piece of barely recognizable scrap, little more than a melted husk of thin filigree. The Paragon held the hateful circlet in his hand, his body language at once hateful, yet also somehow surprised. He didn't seem to realize where he was. There was a distant look on his changed face. His right eye was missing, with a flame of holiest properties spilling out from it like a substance between liquid and gas, but it was the eye that remained that hurt Shiv to meet. It was so radiant that it seared blind spots into his vision, and he instinctively raised a hand to shield himself, like when he was still a Pathless and caught off guard by the sun's rays upon exiting a dark ruin.

The moment he arrived, Shiv felt the shadows that were now bound to his soul slowly fray and fold inward.

It wasn't that Adam could pierce through the Trespasser Shaped of Dread and Null, but that holy, elevated property of the Paragon's Awareness would not be refused by any kind of skill. It stared into the shadows, it stared beyond the Deathless' flesh, and it stared deeper still, piercing the sediment of his magic until it gazed upon his very soul and knew him for him, and knew him for where he was in the absolute, eternally.

The only reason why the divine fire still coiled and lashed at Shiv's flesh was because his Feat-empowered Magical Resistance endured. The Light sank deep into him, but he constantly pushed back without ever noticing, for it was his nature to defy the divine.

Yet it was Adam's destiny to ascend toward that higher plane of apotheosis. Thus, even passively, they stood apart from each other, shadow greeting light, and burning beneath it. One child blessed with peace, and the other manufactured through an act of depravity toward the end of eternal war.

And yet, symbolism and mythology were only so strong, for they were spawned by decisions and behaviors made through the choices of men. Right now, Shiv broke from that dichotomy the System and existence tried to cast him into, for he was no longer the shadow glared down upon by the light. He was a shadow moving across space and time to embrace the source of said light. Ultimately, beyond all that meaning, beyond the legend that was being built right here and now, he was just a boy overjoyed to see his beloved battle-brother arisen from his grave of suffering.

The Deathless jolted across time once more. He surged past Roland. He abandoned Valor. He left Uva, Rose, and Isabella in his wake. In that time, he felt pulsing waves of force wash over him as the Educator arrived. But he ignored all of them as he snatched Adam off the floor and embraced him tight. Then he loosened his grip and spun on his feet, swinging the smaller man around like a fragile feather that might break again at any moment. He caught sight of the Culturist, who gave both of them a respectable amount of distance while sporting an inscrutable expression.

“Adam!” Shiv shouted between gasps of laughter. “You absolute felling monster—you ripped that shit straight out of your head?”

How Adam had managed to perform such a feat was beyond Shiv, but he was proud of his friend nonetheless. It seemed an impossible thing to do, with how long it had left Adam bedridden and broken, how deep it had buried into the center of his brain. All the Legends gathered in the Gate, well over a dozen of them, young and ancient alike, had not found themselves suffering impotence and humiliation as they were unable to provide any true aid to Adam.

Valor followed close behind Shiv and wasted no time examining Adam with three dozen spells at once. After a few seconds in which Shiv continued to spin his friend like a man-shaped carousel, a heavy laugh, dense with warmth, pride, and halfway grief, escaped Valor. “Monstrous indeed. You leave me speechless, Legend Arrow. You leave me proud. And you leave me feeling lacking, for I was desperate to think of a way to ensure your salvation, only to find myself unneeded once again.”

And indeed. The Paragon had saved himself, proving his own guardian in his time of greatest need. The gaze that he fixed Shiv with revealed the stupor in his mind. He was still lost inside his thoughts, but slowly, his lips curved upward, and he finally reciprocated the hug, clinging to Shiv in the way a knight would hold a cherished shield.

“Shiv,” Adam muttered. He said that and no more. It was enough. The whisper alone contained the fullness of his emotions and relief.

The rest of the room drew in close as well, a swarm of moths approaching a golden flame. Uva came to a halt behind Adam, looking alarmed as she observed the Paragon for any mental fragilities. Her Psychomancy poured forth from her mind as she painted a projection of Adam's mental state over the ceiling once more, and Shiv caught a glance of Adam's psychological landscape. What he beheld left him speechless.

It still appeared like a broken mosaic. Within Adam's mind, there was only a single foundation solidified, like the trunk of a tree rebuilt, but still fractured in so many places, with broken branches along its length and barely any leaves clinging to life. Yet there were nubs growing, spots that promised regrowth that stood testament to Adam's mental recuperation.

But it was more than Uva's Psychomancy that saw to his restoration; dense mists infused with a divine essence leaked out from the uncountable cracks that lined Adam's cognitive tree, and it was that Divinity that pulled him back from the brink, that rejected the Challenger's device in its totality.

As more people arrived to greet and assist Adam, Shiv turned his head and saw the Crown of the Anti-Savior pressed against his shoulder. Adam clung to the melted construct, refusing to let it go, and this close, Shiv could taste the stench of gore and feel that festering influence of strife, anguish, and war still throbbing within. But though the Challenger's power still lay dormant within the Crown, it had receded into the darkest recesses of the metal, for now it was stained with the faintest vapors of peace, one Domain overthrowing another.

Rose Van Arren wedged herself between Adam and Shiv with a grunt as she embraced her son and pressed her lips upon his cheek. She cared not that his face was still caked in a mask of dried blood. She was unburdened and undisturbed by his wretched and ragged features. She was only glad that he was standing once more after days upon days of watching him tortured for every second that he clung to life. As she ran her hands through his hair and whispered incoherent thanks to no gods in particular, yet all of them at the same time, Roland appeared behind Adam, and Shiv relinquished his hold—allowing everyone else their measure of comfort as well.

Nothing was exchanged between father and son. The former was simply too worn for words. A relief filled him as well, but with that relief came exhaustion. Roland had been holding absolute terror and grief at bay for far too long, and that sensation of weakness was shared by the Starhawk, who'd also suffered his own loss at the start of this tragedy. The Lord and Lady of Blackedge held their child tight, their only surviving child, their last treasure in a world that sought to deprive them of so much, and refused to let go. At this moment, there was nothing, no force in existence, that could make them let go.

Held slightly at bay was Isabella, for she had no angle of approach and felt almost both awkward and overwhelmed by all that was happening. Shiv didn't let her stay out in the cold. He pointed at her, caught her attention, and as she jolted in surprise, he waved for her toward Adam as well. She was to be part of the family, albeit a much different family than months prior. She was still hesitant as she shuffled toward her fiancé and his parents, but when Rose noticed her, she hooked a wordless elbow around Isabella’s neck and pulled her in too.

Things had changed for Adam Arrow, dramatically so, but not all for the worst. Though Blackedge had suffered a horrific blow, its castle was saved, as were thousands of survivors. Their losses were great, but they could continue on, and the Arrow family itself had been restored, with one member returned in full and another perhaps, as it stood only an illusion within Shiv's soul, but an illusion that felt all too real, and now Adam had surfaced from the demesne of pain he was cursed to suffer.

Never did light shine brighter than when one emerged from a pit of deepest darkness.

But again, there was more than metaphorical light illuminating the room. What shone down on them was divinely radiant and near-blinding, intrusive and reassuring at the same time. It pressed upon Shiv perhaps more than anyone else, for he felt its nature, for it regarded his nature as inimical, yet it wanted to sink into him.

Nearby, the Educator looked up in awe, staring at how cleanly her sketched borders had been breached. Aside from Shiv detonating himself using that chain reaction between his vitality and Necromancy, few other things had seared her charcoal outline so deeply, had burrowed clean through that impassable threshold she could line. Yet Adam had done it twice now, first with his mist and now with his new Awareness. That Skill Evolution continued streaming up from him. His personal crown was flame and water at the same time, a constant stream of incandescent mana that kept running upward through all matter, its path destined to manifest as a new dawn over all.

“How…” the Educator gasped. “Just what relic did you leave inside this boy, Matthew? What burns inside of him to allow such power?”

Her question went unanswered as Adam suddenly jolted. It was like a part of his mind was still catching up to where he presently was, and he found himself surrounded. Only after realizing it was his parents and Isabella did his alarm subside—but not his tension. Shiv sensed it in Adam immediately; Uva noticed right after.

The Paragon coughed and rasped, “Where—where is he?” His voice broke into a hateful growl at the end.

“Where is who, Adam?” Roland asked, his worry invoked in an instant.

