The Paragon disentangled himself from those who cared deepest for him without force, but with continued purpose. His expression hardened, and that look which was written upon his face spoke of unbridled rage, yet a higher level of determination. Shiv realized who Adam was talking about, and his insides dropped.

“The Challenger.”

Such was all Adam said before his Wings of Eternal Ascent came aglow and he lifted himself into the air, before anyone else could say anything in protest or ask Adam what he was doing. He fired a radiant Shard of Exalted Flame, and it ripped through the walls to take him across the Gate as he was pulled along in a spray of embers in the same blink.

"He's going for the Tutorial gateway!” Shiv shouted to the others. “Uva—”

Like always, she was a step ahead and playing to her own pace. Her Dreaming Storm fell, connecting Shiv with everyone else, so he could communicate his insights in an instant, beyond the lag of words. At the same time, she reached out for Adam as well, trying to understand what he wanted, to halt him in case he meant to put himself in danger once more. The moment she connected her mind to Adam, Shiv felt a hatred so hot he almost flinched at its touch and a deeper strength unlike ever before in his friend.

The Delve had broken things inside Adam. The time he'd spent suffering the Challenger’s instrument had scarred him somewhere deep. The Paragon wasn't whole. He wasn't truly healed. But he was composed once more, drawn back from the brink, because of something greater than what compelled him when he was mortal.

Now the ideal of Adam Arrow mantled his flesh and wore his skin. And this ideal was driven by an urge beyond fate, an urge in spite of the System, an urge to face its Anathema: Peace against War, Tyranny against Anarchy.

“This is beyond words and psychology,” the Harbinger declared. “What drives him now is mythology in the making, like the manifestation of scripture. This someday will be the original lore of Adam Arrow, what he becomes at the final realization of his godhood.”

But even if he couldn't talk Adam down, that didn't mean that Shiv was just going to let him throw his life away. Shiv leapt across time with his Harbinger, and he appeared over the bunker that held the Tutorial gateway—currently sealed and dormant.

Outside, across the newly constructed residential district made in replica of Blackedge from Uva's Dreaming Storm, the surviving citizens of Blackedge gathered on the street to look upon the newborn star blazing through the crystalline branches above. They weren't alone. In the distance, the Dragon Brokers gestured and spoke to one another atop their hoards. They noticed Shiv and they saw Adam thereafter, and soon they dispatched servants to intercept the Deathless, doubtless seeking an explanation of their own.

Thereafter, there were the Descenders. Marikos kept pace with Shiv as he swooped down from above. It seemed that he had ascended to take a closer look at Adam's star moments before, and now, following the stream of mana downward to its source, he found the Deathless and the Paragon headed for that forbidden zone that parted Piety from the Challenger’s dimension.

“Deathless!” Marikos bellowed. “What transpires?” Shiv winced as he noticed the wary looks Marikos was shooting Adam. “And why has a beacon of divine Awareness sprung forth from—eh…”

“Those aren’t wary looks,” the Harbinger assuaged Shiv's worry. “He just forgot Adam’s name.”

“Long story!” Shiv shouted as his inertial sheath roared louder. A chain of kinetic explosions went off within his membrane of momentum, kept contained by his Shapeless Tides, and his speed continued to build. In this, his Heroic Reflexes were different from Adam's, for the Paragon performed a sudden descent and deceleration, coming to a perfect halt in front of the bunker while Shiv shot ahead like a spear, unable to halt instantly. Instead, he used his Chronomancy to revert himself back a second into the past and pointed his Shapeless Tides downward. Using his strength to wrestle his momentum, Shiv crashed down behind Adam, cracking the floor and sending bits of dust into the air.

A good godsdamn thing I can use my Shapeless Tides to absorb physical impacts, because that might have cracked the district in half, he thought to himself.

While the others arrived close behind, Shiv called his friend’s name, who kept walking at a steady pace, ordering two startled Weaveresses standing guard to unseal the entrance. Roland, Uva, and Valor teleported in just behind, and a half-second before Marikos’ maw opened to spit rage at the latter, Shiv’s head snapped around as he pointed a warning finger at the Dragon-Knight. “Marikos! Not felling now!”

Shiv's displeasure was conveyed as more than just a bellow. A flood of pure darkness poured out from him, washing over Marikos as everything went empty and all senses were stripped away: touch, hearing, sight, and everything else. The Descender briefly thrashed, but the Deathless' voice still reached him via the Harbinger, striding out of Shiv, away from Shiv's body.

“Get your shit together, Legend-Knight Valdemar! You can settle your grudge any other time, but not now. Control yourself. I'm not dealing with this right now. Also, please, I'm begging you, as the master in this whole guest-right thing, don't make me do this right now. I have to deal with my friend.”

These Words of Truth and Adoration 93 > 95

Trespasser Shaped of Dread and Null 203 > 204

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin 366 > 370

And just as Marikos prepared to shape a ball of all-incinerating flame, he hesitated and halted, battered down both by Shiv's reason and the waves of crushing Intimidation that came from the living darkness. When the dragon finally let his Pyromancy go dim, Shiv drew his trespassing shadows back but kept it manifested in part as an extension to his dimensional cape.

Though Marikos’ eyes and mind were completely fixated on Valor again, Shiv’s presence and personage clearly held enough weight in his mind that he kept himself from breaking his word; a more than acceptable outcome for Shiv, because he didn't really give a shit who hated whom in the grand scheme of things. He could deal with that in time, with focus. Right now, however, he needed to stop Adam from doing whatever he was about to do, and he needed to do it without hurting Adam in any way.

It was Roland who reached his son first, seizing Adam by the arm. Yet Adam continued walking forward, and to everyone's astonishment, all but him suddenly found themselves pinned in place. A mist spilled out from Adam, but it wasn't an offensive skill, not truly. An incandescent hand shaped from vapor descended from high above, and the stasis it brought befell everyone following Adam. Roland's body went rigid as he was stripped of all movement. Valor endured the same fate, and Shiv as well. A strand of Uva's lightning was utterly frozen, trembling and desperate to reach Adam, yet unable to, for it seemed this skill by nature was absolute.

But Shiv had more than one body. He moved his Severed Shadow out from the surface gateway, where it was serving countless guests aboard the Sky-Swallowing Carp. It arrived in his stead as Shiv transferred his Harbinger over to his original body, and it appeared right next to Adam, avoiding the crushing zone of stasis. “Adam, hold on. Just give us a second. I want to know what you're trying to do. I'm not trying to stop you—”

He trailed off as he saw how the Paragon blinked at him, his eyes wide in surprise, like he was still deep in a fugue. Shiv understood. Adam was still damaged, and his mind was drifting, bouncing from one moment to another. He was volatile and confused, but he was driven by fire.

Adam's lips moved, his mouth opening and closing as he tried to gather the words he needed to speak that he absolutely had to say. "Challenger," Adam whispered to Shiv, his voice low but carrying an impossible weight. "I need to face him. I need to. I need to."

The Paragon suddenly held up the melted Crown. "I need to return this to him. I need to see him. He came to me…" Adam swallowed, licking his dry, cracked lips. "He came to me in my Delves. He cried. He worshipped me, Shiv. He worshipped me. He knows what needs to follow. He's waiting for me, and I need to face him. It has to happen. It has to."

“Okay, okay,” Shiv said, holding his hands up and keeping his distance. A flash of translucent lightning slammed into Shiv, and Uva materialized out of him a half-second later.

“No,” she said, completely contrary to Shiv. She marched past him, and Adam took a half step back—as if unwilling to use his palm on her. With sternness but no force, she took hold of Adam’s upper arm and tried to guide him away. “You’re in no state for this, Adam, and we cannot expose the Gate to him right now.” Chains of psionic lightning crossed over from her mind into his as she tried to convince him of the right path telepathically. She marked him with her Legendary skill, but he did the same to her, for Shiv saw how her body was lit like a candle by his divine light, and the same glow now spread across almost everyone else across the Gate.

Everyone but Shiv—for now.

“Uva,” Adam said, as if just remembering her name. “He’s waiting.”

“Then let him wait,” she snapped. “I care little for what some demented, faraway god wants.”

“I do.” The pure certitude in Adam's reply made her hesitate. “I have to. He… I must return this… I need to…”

“It is to be his declaration of war,” the Culturist said, blinking in a flash of azure-bright mana as he emerged from within Adam’s soul. The palm holding Roland, Valor, and Marikos in place broke as the threesome were allowed to move once more. “The Challenger does not intend to invade the Gate.” The Legendary orc frowned. “Instead, he intends to grant us offerings.”

“We don’t need anything else from him,” Shiv snapped. “It’s because of what he did that Adam—”

The Paragon shook his head with vigor. “No. No. He had to. It’s what he is. I felt it. I think I… I remember his presence. I remember his power. He cannot turn away from his own cruelty. He cannot turn away from war. If he hadn't hurt me in some way, his Domain would have been damaged. He would have broken his own mythology. Cruelty is his shape. But Heroism and Tyranny are mine.” He looked between those around him, and an aura of fragility returned to his withered features.

It horrified Shiv that someone could look so close to godhood and death at the same time.

“Please,” Adam said. “I need you to… I need your help. All of you. I want you with me. I am scared. I can do this regardless. But I just don’t want to be alone. Not in his world. You being there… All of you… It will make me more. But… I have to go. I need to return this. I need to… I need to cast his worship back at him. I can feel him… and I won’t stop feeling his presence until this ends. He won’t stop pressing against my Domain until we finish this properly.” The Paragon lifted his head. “He wants to see my dawn. He wants me to set my glare upon him. He wants to be known to me always, as I have been known to him.”

“Why?” Roland asked, his petrification bleeding over into his voice and body. “Why does he want this, Adam?”

“Because it is to be a holy war,” the Starhawk said, intruding on the conversation in manifestation and explanation. “Because the God of Strife has named his Vaketh-Bakal.”

In the corner of Shiv’s right eye, he saw Radio bounding toward them from the serried residences of New Blackedge—screaming as Cripple was manifested around its pitiful chassis. It seemed like more than just the Starhawk had heard the Challenger’s proclamation.

The silence that followed was cold and dread-stained.

Sometimes, it was only after spending some time in the light that the darkness was given its rightful horror.

“Fuck,” Shiv summarized, pinching the bridge of his nose. “Fuckkkkk.”

“Shiv,” Adam continued, looking at the Deathless specifically. “There’s no avoiding it. Not for you. Not for me. Not for Uva. This was coming for us. We can’t just starve the System by ignoring it. We can’t live under it. The only way is to loom over it.” And once more, Adam manifested his cloud-shaped palm, but didn’t bring it down this time—used it to give a picture to his Intent.. “We need to crush it below us. We have to be the ones that decide and choose. It has to be our dominion… It's… it’s hard to…” The Paragon almost whimpered. “It’s hard to think, but I need you to understand. I need you there with me.” And then Adam’s voice grew thin. “I don’t want to face him alone.”

And with that, Shiv’s fate was sealed. “You won’t be. You won’t be.” He planted his hands on his hips and steeled himself for what was to come. “And you’re… you’re sure you have to do this?”

“I have to,” Adam repeated. “It’s not a trap. It’s not. I have to face him down… His worship festers inside me. I need to… I want to cast it back. One act for another. Symbology against symbology.”

Somehow, something about that statement and the way Adam was holding the ruined Crown made things click into place for Shiv.

“The Challenger breached Adam’s Delve and prayed to him in aid and honor of Adam,” the Harbinger mused. “War to Peace. Now, Peace must cast the instruments of War back upon it, in a declaration of the latter's namesake. It is a balancing of more than legend—Divinity and mythology work differently, and Adam is not a full god yet.”

Metaphysics 1 > 11

Skill Gained: Faith (Common) 1

“Okay, Adam,” Shiv said. He gave his friend a single nod. “Let’s give the fucker his Crown back.”
