When they passed the first layer of clouds, Tissl knew she was dead. The waters were showering down, now, and below her, the magical storm was dying as it hurled itself into the sky. She was gasping, pressed down by the forces shooting the ship higher.
I won’t survive this fall, surely. Unless…she was just watching.
After the second layer of clouds, the water started falling. The momentum of the ship—the half-Elf girl was delirious as she clung to the wheel and felt herself beginning to drop.
In that dizzying moment between ascent and descent where she was floating, the half-Elf girl gaped around at a world only a few beings could ever see. Higher than Garuda dreamed of flying unaided. In the wide, vast sky…
“Is that a city?”
Her eyes, stained by burst blood vessels, locked on something in the clouds. Tissl reached out—then they were falling.
The ship and the half-Elf. Her head craned upwards as the wind began to rush around her. The girl gazed down as the acceleration grew worse, and now she was clinging to the wheel with both hands as her legs lifted up.
Down. Down into the sea below where there was naught but a single rain-drenched island, tiny as a dot in the distance. Just ocean—so fast she knew it would splatter every bone in her body.
The Half-Elf gazed downwards at the waters drawing nearer with each faltering breath. And she thought—
This is a glorious death. But she didn’t want to die. Her adventure was just beginning. It wouldn’t…it surely wasn’t this easy, was it?
It was the only idea she had. So she drew on her birthright, not her gifts from a ghost. Her mother’s teachings. A bit of magic.
“[F-Featherfall]?”
Then she let go of the wheel and prayed to an [Innkeeper] she’d never met.
As if it were laughing at her—
The wind carried her down around the falling white water.
 
——
 
The handy thing about being a high-level [Rogue] and Drowned Man were twofold.
First—if you performed a [Shadow Leap] into the water before hitting it, you could bypass the impact of the water hitting you, even at terminal velocity.
Second, even if you passed out, you wouldn’t drown.
That was the good news for him. When Seborn awoke on his back in the cold, salty, normal waters, he gazed around and didn’t know if they were alive. And that panic nearly consumed him until he got his bearings.
“Irrel? Tissl?”
The Drowned Man shouted, splashing around in the waters. He was at sea. Far at sea; there was nothing around him. Except for—his eyes focused on a dot on the horizon.
Land? A ship? Too big for a ship—he began to butterfly stroke forwards, then shouted again.
“Tissl? Irrel!”
She had gone up. He’d seen her teleport. Would that Relic-class armor save her? Or the Dorhmin? He—
He was praying for mercy. Not again. Not—
 
——
 
The way the Drowned Man shouted his name made Irrel think that this was not some act. And he had wondered…if anyone would trust him like his father and his crew. The Dorhmin boy sat up in the waters where he had been laying on his back.
He was at home in the seas, even more than on deck, and he’d been conserving his strength. Sleeping like a body stretched out in a casket, clutching a sword to his chest. If he had to swim for days, he needed his strength, much less to fight off sea creatures.
The damn sword was still with him. He’d almost hoped he’d lose it, but it seemed destiny had linked the two. Irrel turned, triangulating Seborn’s voice.
“Seborn! Here!”
The silence of the magical storm dying left the oceans very, very calm except for the slosh of water. Seborn was very far off, but he recognized Irrel’s voice, because he shouted—and the two swam toward each other.
The Drowned Man had a desperate expression on his face as Seborn almost jumped over a small wave.
“Irrel! You’re alive!”
“Somehow.”
Even with Seborn’s trick, Irrel was very surprised. And he’d fought with the Bloodtear Pirates all his life. Seborn checked him over.
“You’re not hurt? Did you land with me? I passed out.”
“Me too. Nearly died.”
“How?”
Irrel pointed at the damn sword.
“Almost cut my damn head off. Fell right where I was. Dodged it.”
He wasn’t quite sure how he’d dodged it either. Only that he’d jerked his head aside and then caught the sword before it could sink forever. Passed out, breathing seawater.
“That’s good. That’s…you haven’t seen Tissl?”
“No. She went up.”
Irrel had a bad feeling about Tissl. And the ship. If they’d barely survived a fall that bad…how high had Tissl gone?
Neither man wanted to say it. Instead, Seborn just pointed.
“There’s something that way. See it?”
“Yup. Island. Don’t know where we are. Thought it might be the Archmage’s Isle. Or another one.”
“Hesheit? Wrong side of the continent.”
“Could be.”
“…You’re right. Let’s head towards it. C’mon.”
The two began to swim at a steady pace, not saying much. How would they even find Tissl? Scrying spell, perhaps, if they could find a port. That was the only way. Otherwise, seeing someone in the open sea was beyond difficult.
You’d have to know where they were to find them. Or have the advantage of height and a really good spyglass and Skills…both things that neither Irrel nor Seborn had.
Or—
About fifty minutes into their swim, the island had only marginally gotten closer. It was as if they weren’t making any headway, but neither Seborn nor Irrel felt a current…but the slosh of waves and their glancing about revealed something to Irrel. He grabbed Seborn’s arm.
“Blood under the decks. Seborn.”
The oath made the Drowned Man turn. He stared. Then spat some water out and coughed.
“That’s a mirage. We’re dead and—”
“Nope.”
“I’m telling you, you probably hallucinate when you die in the deadlands or something.”
“I’m Dorhmin. We probably don’t go anywhere.”
So, Irrel smiled as he heard a cheerful voice shouting at them.
“Ahoy, Captain! Ahoy, Irrel! Guess who levelled up and can [Locate Crew]?”
Tissl? She was standing aboard the sorriest ship that Irrel had seen in his entire life. If the keel wasn’t broken beyond saving, he was a [Storm Sailor]’s uncle, and the ship appeared several feet shorter, as if it had been squished together by the force of landing.
“Dead gods, Tissl! How the hell are you on that ship and how is it sailing?”
The Halfseeker’s Promise had only one sail partly rigged up, and Tissl was fighting the wheel. She shouted back, looking remarkably good for someone who’d survived a skyfall.
“My armor teleported me onto the deck after I landed! I tell you what, that Lord Gillam must have paid for great enchantments! I reckon they’re all busted, though.”
“No, no, how is that ship—”
“Oh, it was sinking when I teleported back on! I used up every [Repair] scroll in the ship, and it’s still leaky. But I didn’t die! I used [Featherfall], and then I just teleported onto the ship—after I finished making sure it wasn’t going to sink, I sailed around until I had to sleep. Then I woke up with my new Skill, and I found you two right away!”
She was beaming with such a self-satisfied expression that Irrel got sort of annoyed. From her condition, she’d clearly slept in a bed rather than passed out amidst the waves. He felt he needed to ask.
“You can just [Featherfall] out of the sky?”
“I mean, I never used it to jump off more’n a small cliff back home. But Ma taught it to us because it’s a good spell to know, even if we didn’t become [Mages]. Turns out it works.”
Seborn’s mouth opened, and he had to spit out some water.
“Damn [Mages].”
This comment was in spite of the fact that he’d teleported them into the water with a half-second’s window. Irrel shook his head.
“Damn level people.”
Tissl tossed a rope ladder down.
“All aboard, Captain?”
 
——
 
Things weren’t as rosy as all that, but considering he could have had two dead kids and no ship, Seborn decided he needed to make an offering to the seas. Or Erins. He wondered what she’d accept.
“…Mac and cheese?”
“Don’t got whatever that is, Captain, but we’ve got food! How’s it look, Irrel?”
“That [Lord] paid too much for the enchantments. Some are still active.”
Seborn twisted around, and Irrel clarified.
“Not protection. Just the water-bailing spells and some others. It’s why it’s not sunk.”
“Dead gods. He was bragging, but I thought he wasn’t that rich. Then again, he said a proper [Shipwright] had made this. I’m going to sing their praises up and down the coasts.”
So much for my ship, though. Well, it could still float. Tissl had gotten one sail up; the others had been ripped away and one mast had cracked, but they were alive and could sleep.
His crew was alive. Seborn sagged against the cabin’s wall when they weren’t looking, then came out, all briskness.
“Right, first things first. Let’s get to that island. If it’s deserted, we grab supplies and figure out where the hell we are. Hopefully Mrsha contacts us. She must be trying. If it’s inhabited, repairs. Both of you—good work. Tissl, you’re a woman of the sea now.”
“Ew. I don’t like that name.”
“It means you survived a magical storm. Any [Storm Sailor] would call you that.”
“It sounds like I’m married or I just had sex or something. Can I not call myself that?”
Irrel grinned as he grabbed a spare set of sails out. Seborn rolled his eyes, but they were all shaken, and if Tissl’s reaction was mouthing off…
They had just gotten the second pair of sails up and Seborn was seeing bits of water actually funnel back out of the ship. Dead gods, it really was still enchanted! They’d better patch up, though. That enchantment had to run out eventually…
Better and better, Tissl called from the main deck.
“Hey, Captain! I think we’ve got a ship to starboard!”
“No. Did that island see us? Or was some other idiot caught in the storm?”
She gave him a spyglass as he strode onto deck.
“I think the second. They look pretty bad, Captain.”
It was true. Seborn’s guess was this ship hadn’t gotten caught in the center of the storm like his. If so, it would be nothing—it had probably just been caught on the outskirts. That was enough for a vessel like this. He grunted.
“That’s a tub. My boots are more seaworthy than that thing.”
It was clearly not made with Skills or from a professional. A single mast had snapped like a twig, and it wasn’t floating under its own power. Figures were bailing water out nonstop. He snapped the spyglass closed.
“It’s half-sunk already. Looks like they’re bailing. Tissl, change of plans.”
“Already on a course to them. Is it a trap?”
He had to admire her instincts. The Drowned Man scratched his chin as Irrel came over to see.
“Could be. But that’s a gutsy move, and I don’t think you feign a sinking ship like that, not right after a magical storm. Even [Pirates] would be checking to see everything’s still attached. Irrel?”
“That’s an ugly ship. Even Antinium build better ships than that.”
The Dorhmin commented, and Seborn grinned. He stretched.
“Plus, they’re Terandrians. We might have gone straight north in which case this is off Pheislant or something. If we’re lucky, they’ll have a noble on board, and that might make up for our [Pirate] status. Pheislant knows to play some games with the law.”
Everyone nodded, and Tissl stared ahead as they made decent speed towards the other ship. Again, thanks to the magical sails; Lord Gillam really had left a good ship to them. She hesitated after a moment.
“Why d’you think they’re Terandrians, Seborn?”
“Skin tone. Wellfars are more tanned. Chandrarians, Balerosians I’d expect to have different dress or just have non-Humans.”
She squinted, then motioned for her spyglass. Irrel had it instead.
“You hit your head, Captain? They all look like Drowned Folk to me. Half fish.”
“I missed that. Maybe half both?”
Irrel frowned at both his crewmates as he handed the spyglass off.
“…They’re Gnolls.”
Both Tissl and Seborn turned to him. The other ship had seen them and were waving and shouting for help. Seborn glanced through the spyglass at them, then swung it left.
“Huh. A ship just left that island. Less primitive…wait. They’re Drakes.”
His eyes narrowed at the other crew, which now looked like Drakes. Tissl opened her mouth, and Seborn grabbed her arm.
“Tissl—don’t get too close. I think—”
The mass-illusion spell broke as they were sailing about two hundred feet from the other ship. Irrel grunted, and Tissl gasped. Her eyes went round, and her hands tightened on the wheel.
“Goblins!”
Seborn closed his eyes as the Goblins on board their sinking ship realized their illusion spells had failed. They began to panic, still bailing water, shouting at each other in their own language as his ship drew alongside.
“No kill! No kill!”
A small Goblin was waving at them. She dove under cover as more hands pulled her back. A mix of Hobs and regular Goblins—they stared up apprehensively at the foreign ship. Eyes fixed on the Drowned Man, who might know the score, the Dorhmin, the half-Elf…and the ship coming from the island.
Their home.
Seborn Sailwinds knew where he was now. If not where, then what he was close to. He cast his eyes up at the famous, deadly place where you could trade or die, bane of the House of Minos.
The Isle of Goblins. Then at the Goblin ship. They tensed, and a few grabbed for bows or weapons as the others tried to stop them. Irrel put his hand on his sword, and Tissl drew her crossbow.
But what they saw, including anxious [Shamans] on shore who had spotted the other vessel, was no bloody boarding of vindictive [Sailors]. Instead, one Drowned Man was clinging to the prow of the ship…shouting obscenities at the air.
“Erin! I need one thing! One thing—and that’s a minute to breathe! Damn you, Erin—”
 
——
 
They let the Goblins aboard. Of course they did. Their ship sank minutes afterwards without the frantic bailing, and Tissl was the only one who hadn’t met non-hostile Goblins. Or Goblins at all; she was wide-eyed as she peeked out of the Captain’s cabin.
That was a precaution. Irrel stood with his back to the cabin’s walls, sword not drawn, but not exposing himself. They were outnumbered ten-to-one by this group of Goblins, and as Seborn well knew, not all Goblins were friendly.
Like anyone, they were a people. But he did his best.
“Er…hello. Mapazu? I’m not an enemy. Kɪskaɪ no. Elame us.”
He felt like an idiot as they stared at him, mouths open. They were green-skinned, crimson-eyed, but had a much duskier hue to their skins, probably from sun exposure—and they wore clothing clearly made from bark or leaves.
