So why weren’t they failing? Surely, it was a matter of time. If the army hung on one more year, Liscor would collapse and they’d be needed. Surely…that Gecko had to settle for some middle-aged Human woman with grey hair. Even if she was a—an Archmage.
They were doing great. Just fine. No one liked it when Liscor was under attack or had another disaster. The Goblin King? Every unit had been refusing to march unless it was north. But—
But—High Command were waiting, just like everyone else. Waiting. They cared about their home. They were just waiting for home to call for them, their army. To ring those bells and beg for their saviors, just like with Az’kerash and the Black Tide. But that plea never came. At least, in the right way.
When the moment came and they returned, the Free Antinium had to go. That was obvious. Anything less than that meant it wasn’t time. If Liscor’s army showed up, fought and died for home, and then they were sent on their way with a pat on the tail and the Antinium remained, or worse, they bled and the Antinium were in a position to take over completely…
That’s why some in the High Command had seen Tyrion Veltras’ army as an…opportunity. Not that they’d said as much to the troops, who were begging to return.
Send a company, find a contract that locked them in, and think.
The [Lord] was a bastard, and he’d been worse when his wife was alive, a real threat to Liscor, but he didn’t execute cities wholesale. There’d be some casualties when he took the gates and walls, but minimal. Say he took Liscor. What then?
The Free Antinium might clash with the north. In the ensuing bloodbath, that was the moment. So they’d waited. And hoped—and fate had twisted things again, so their salvation of Liscor, Liscor’s salvation from their madness, was thwarted.
By some damn Goblins fighting each other and an [Innkeeper]. It was a curse. That was the rumor that was quashed down by the brass. But in truth, Liscor’s army was just upset because Olesm, the Council, the citizens, weren’t coming back to them and begging them, specifically, for aid. Instead, it was Pallass, all of the south.
It was like they’d been forgotten. And that notion, that realization, was like a wound that festered in the mind. 
It couldn’t be. Not us. Not after all we’ve done for them.
We weren’t wrong. It’s not our faults.
What are you doing?
Hold on, hold on…if they held on, they’d have their moment. The perfect moment when things were lined up for them to return and set all things to right. Just hold on a bit longer.
As for Relc, forget about him. It was just temporary, a fluke. Just…
 
——-
 
A moment in the sun.
The clouds broke and revealed the blue skies above as the Drake shaded his eyes. The rains ceased pouring down on the magical shields hovering overhead, and he couldn’t hear anything over the cheering.
His mouth was open in a classically dumbstruck expression as he stood before the crowds, crowds of people cheering him and Valeterisa. Filling Shivertail Plaza. A parade being thrown for their Gecko of Liscor and the Archmage of Izril.
It wasn’t all about him. There were banners of Lord Mireden facing down the Archmage of Lightning flying from some buildings, and Valeterisa lifting Fissival overhead—he didn’t even have a doll on sale in the stands.
Relc was fine with that. But he was still part of this celebration.
The suspiciously well-made banners certainly were doing a lot for Valeterisa and Lord Mireden’s reputations. He’d gone through the city earlier this morning before giving a speech for his district on what he intended to do for Liscor.
Relc had a feeling that Mireden might win the elections. But he wasn’t a gambling man except when he’d had a few drinks, and only for coppers. After all, he had a kid an Archmage to support.
Valeterisa was so overwhelmed by the noise that she instantly floated back through the [Door of Portals] and tried to hide in the inn. But even there, Relc was getting more cheering than he thought he really deserved.
“Relc, Relc, Relc!”
Mrsha and Nanette chanted as they banged on the breakfast table. Well, Nanette chanted for the two of them. And Lyonette had been singing that song about flying Archmages—
“Hey, it’s like I’m popular or something! You throw one spear at an Archmage and everyone wants to be your friend or something!”
Relc joked weakly, and Asgra raised a water pitcher to huck at Valeterisa just in case it was true. But it was Elia Arcsinger who actually made the most sense in the moment. She planted herself in front of Valeterisa and spoke.
“You have to go out and let them celebrate you. Or they’ll think you’re too good for their feelings.”
“Most of the battle was me being hit by lightning bolts! I dislike loud sounds and socializing with people who like me prior to me even meeting them!”
Valeterisa snapped back, but Elia just fixed her with that cool, professional gaze of one of the world’s most famous adventurers.
“Better that they like you than resent you. They came out in the rain for you; just smile and wave. Or cast a few spells. That’s all they want. Answer their expectations as best you can. They’ll get tired after a few days.”
Because it was, well, Elia Arcsinger, Relc and Valeterisa glanced at each other. Elia chewed on her words, then added—
“And enjoy it. You earned it.”
She nodded at them and strode away. Calescent gave her a thumbs up, and she pretended not to notice as she folded her arms and leaned against one wall. So cool. So professional.
“I suppose I could create a [Silence] spell and work on new spellcasting theories…and it would be good advertising for the academy. But where did all the dolls of me come from? I am objectionably proportioned.”
Valeterisa was actually calmer than Relc about all of this. She, at least, had already done something like this in raising Fissival into the skies, and she had a lifetime of being an Archmage. He froze up when he saw the crowds again.
“Relc! Relc! Relc!”
They were chanting his name! People he knew, like the elderly woman who sometimes gave him old sandwiches on Market Street! And his buddies in the Watch!
And worse…
“Aha! There’s our heroes of the day! I was about to get worried!”
Lism. He had a too-large smile as he posed with the duo, raising his claws in a ‘L’ sign.
“Lism and the current Council! Vote for us! Sending the King of Destruction packing since the Winter Solstice! Where’s our music?”
Oh, dead gods, there was a marching band. And a choir, who began playing Liscor’s newly-written anthem.
 
“Oh~ say what stands upon those many hills,
Doth thou city stand amidst the rains?
It does, oh Liscor o’er valleys bloom,
As Rock Crabs scuttle these very Flood-Plaaaains~”
 
After two more verses, even the choir stopped singing to Relc’s eternal relief. The anthem…needed work.
At this point, Relc was thinking that Valeterisa’s approach was the right one; he thought she might have [Blinded] herself, and she had certainly deafened herself to the noise.
“Lism, this is a bit much—”
“What? I can’t hear you! Earplugs! Where’s your spear?”
“It blew up!”
Relc was still mad about that, actually. He knew with his new class he could get a new spear, but he’d been hunting around for a piece of his old spear so he could bury or cremate it or something. It had saved his life more than anything…Lism stared blankly at Relc.
“We’ll get you a spare, then! Someone get a spear!”
“For what? Am I on duty?”
“No, the exhibition, of course! You got my [Message], right? I got a very strange response from Archmage Valeterisa—”
Lism saw Relc’s face and shouted happily.
“Don’t worry! Just show off! Do a few spear dances and wow us! You hit Level 40, right? We’ll broadcast it live!”
He had called it with the King of Destruction and selling water to a certain Garuda. But all things considered, Lism’s instincts weren’t always perfect.
 
——
 
Part of it was Mrsha’s fault, just once. She had done her best, but the girl slipped up. It wasn’t just her fault—it was Nanette’s too!
Elirr had run into the inn that morning, demanding to know how they were supposed to ‘showcase Relc’s talents’. Valeterisa was easy; she could do magic, but it was a good idea to let Relc show off, right? Right?
He might have been a tad bit frantic, and this sounded quite innocent. So the two girls had perked up. They had tons of great ideas.
“Mrsha, what if he did that thing, like in the World’s Eye Theatre? He could do, like, a training exhibition. With poles he jumps on and a spear—”
Mrsha had nodded vigorously. After all, it was Relc, right? Elirr had read desperately as he cribbed notes.
“Show off spear skills…we’ll need a stage. Right, right…throw rocks at him?”
So he can block them all cool like.
“Ah, I see. And he could do a spear dance—perfect! Plus, we could let him cut water or whatever he did—maybe have him hit a few targets with his spear?”
“Don’t forget the theme song.”
Nanette added seriously, and Mrsha nodded. A training montage had to have a good song. And wouldn’t you know it, but they had a great one from this movie they liked…
 
——
 
The moment he heard the music come on as he stood in the wide platform space with a flashy golden spear in hand, Relc knew who to blame.
He glared at the two girls waving in the sea of faces around him. Then he whirled his spear and tried to grin.
“Uh—hey! I’m the Spear of Silence! Liscor’s spearmaster!”
His voice provoked a cheer, again, before a bunch of volunteers with rocks raised them. Relc stared blankly at the rocks. Then at the obstacle course.
What the heck am I doing?
He began to get into it, though, when the first shower of rocks came his way. The Drake’s spear whirled automatically as he cursed; the rocks went flying, and the audience gasped.
Wait, he could actually deflect rocks? Was this their Relc, the bored Senior Guard? The Drake stopped, blinked, and then posed.
“Yeah! That’s Relc-style!”
He whirled the spear one-handed in a circle, then let the butt thunk against one shoulder as he posed like that movie that Mrsha liked so much. He executed a flying jump kick, balanced on the spear, and began his spear dances.
The audience watched, cheering, as the Drake showed off his Skills on the stage, and after six minutes, the cheering had died down. And they realized the same thing Lism did, watching from the side.
This sucked.
Oh, some things looked cool, like when Relc ‘froze’ a sheet of water like glass. People would have loved to get up and touch it or ask Relc what he was doing, but it didn’t fit the stage. In a very real sense, it didn’t fit Relc.
When Relc was showing off, being his most generic Relc to anyone who didn’t know Relc, he came across as the Relc that you didn’t want to Relc with. It was when he was accidentally his most Relc that the inner Relc came out. And it was the accidental Relc they’d seen yesterday, not this Relc-on-display.
To his credit, the Drake seemed to realize it too, because after seven minutes of breaking clay pots on stage and firing off his Skills, he planted his spear on the platform, cast around, and turned to Lism with a huge smile.
“I’m done.”
“Er—what?”
Lism had budgeted thirty minutes for this with plans to run into an hour! And again, he was a fool, a damned fool.
Seven minutes? Most [Spearmasters] didn’t have enough Skills to chain into a performance for seven minutes; they’d fight an entire duel in less time in most cases! Relc was no [Performer]; he was the Gecko of Liscor. His spear moves were expedient, not flashy. And he was not comfortable.
Relc was about to hop off the platform and find Valeterisa. He only hesitated when he saw the disappointed expressions of some people holding spears, toys, or practice spears.
“Aw, Ancestors, Lism. What are you doing? I’m not the person you should be celebrating, and I can’t make spear training seem fun! It’s all bruises, blisters, and tears if you stab yourself in the nuts!”
He growled at Lism, genuinely annoyed. The Councilmember put up his claws.
“We’re doing this for you, Relc! This is your moment!”
“I’m just a Senior Guard—a Watch Sergeant! I’m not whatever you think deserves this!”
Relc was still audible due to the [Loudness] spell, and the audience suddenly saw the Gecko of Liscor arguing with Councilmember Lism. Not a good look.
Salvation from this circumstance came to Lism as he prayed for help. Not that he was one of those weird Antinium—he heard a group cheering, who hadn’t stopped even when Relc had lost momentum.
“Relc! Go Relc! Whooo!”
The enthusiastic group were people who actually knew Relc as more than a [Guardsman]. Relc turned and grinned as he spotted Hickery, Vok, and—
“Hey, my spear-kids! Look!”
They’d shown up, of course. All the kids who were drawn to Relc’s dawn classes, holding their practice spears and shouting their lungs out. Relc turned to Lism.
“I’m going to go talk to them. You do election stuff, how about that? We all win.”
Lism cast a glance at the crowd who’d come here for Relc, and he had a premonition of how well doing a stump speech would go. As Relc turned, the desperate mind of the [Shopkeeper]-turned-[Councilmember] worked, and Lism had a genius idea.
“Well, if you’re done…bring them up, and let’s see what you’ve taught them!”
Relc blinked—then cast his gaze over the crowd. He hesitated, and then his face lit up. Because that?
That was a Relc-worthy idea.
 
——
 
Lessons from the Gecko of Liscor. No, no, spear mastery showcased by Relc Grasstongue’s apprentices!
Archmage Valeterisa was done with her exhibition—she’d fired eight spells off in quick succession, advertised Kaalblades from the House of El, mentioned her academy, and flown off. So the crowds of people who’d come to Liscor for fun and celebrations were set adrift.
Anama, the Drake Sootling from Pallass, was one of thousands of visitors. When she heard about the [Spearmaster]’s exhibition, she thought it sounded lame, but she had nothing else to do besides wander the city, so why not?
That was how she found the huge platform filled with more than four dozen students of Relc holding practice spears. Anama almost laughed at one of the front-rank students; she looked like she wasn’t even ten! And there was a junior [Guardsman] next to her…
Hickery and Vok, Relc’s students from Cellidel, were trembling with excitement and nerves. After all, they were on the stand in front of the crowd, and Relc was watching from the sides.
The Gecko of Liscor couldn’t be happier. He was genuinely beaming now. And he had a stone in his hand.
The Relc methods of training were gentler than the Jelaqua school of levelling, but there were overlaps.
