Islanders’ clothing. Lots of feathers on some and in their hair. He didn’t miss they were armed, but it wasn’t good stuff. Wood, hand-carved.
But this is the island that gives the Minotaurs a fight of their lives every year. Seborn was wary and wished he remembered more Goblin from Garen.
Mapazu wasn’t the right word—it meant ‘come in’ more than ‘hello’. He only knew kɪskaɪ—enemy—and elame, which was friend. Oh, and how to say ‘my balls are about to fall off you damn Drake’ from when Garen had been hit at speed by a flying Eater Goat in the groin.
However, that worked. The Goblins were so astounded he knew anything that they burst into a chatter. They switched to common as Seborn shook his head.
“I don’t know—no fighting, right? We know the island.”
“Good, good! You elame! Best elame! Storm catch—pshkt! You fall!”
“Ship no go that! We this one? Take wheel not-that is good!”
“We very friendly. Zɪvɪnaɪ not. Is good go?”
He had no idea what…Seborn turned to Irrel.
“Irrel, I’ve only heard of the Goblin isle! I never visited—Garen himself had no idea it existed until I told him. Do you know anything?”
“We traded sometimes, but they speak good common. These young.”
The Dorhmin squinted at the Goblins. It was true, Seborn realized. He’d taken some of the Hobs as adults, but by the metrics of Goblins—who aged fast in any case—these ones appeared young. And Garen hadn’t been that old.
One was a literal Pebblesnatch-sized child who was clutching a pack from the ship. She was pointing at the ship with the others.
“We’ll bring you to the island safely. Deal?”
Seborn tried, and he got a chorus of screeches. One reached for the wheel and, to his surprise, tried to turn them around.
“No! Kɪsk! Bad! Those—zɪvɪnaɪ! Not go back! This way!”
What now? Seborn got his spyglass out as he wrestled the wheel back and saw the other ship was larger, coming at them, and…crewed with adult Goblins.
Hobs, every last one of them. The hairs on his Human half stirred. They were also armed and pointing at him.
“Tell them we’re not kidnapping you.”
One of the Goblins did just that, cupping his hands to his mouth. He shouted.
“Ech!”
Which seemed to be ‘hey’. Then he rattled off a string of Goblin that Seborn couldn’t follow. The other ship didn’t slow, but the warriors did stop aiming bows at him.
“What the hell’s going on?”
Seborn decided he needed answers from someone, and the clearest answer came from the little Goblin with the pack. She had put it down and was rummaging around.
“Those is zɪvɪnaɪ. We no is go. Other way?”
They wanted him to flee? Why?
“What’s a zɪvɪnaɪ?”
“Eh…[Zɪvɪnaɪ]. What word is…? Hit thing. Fight.”
“[Warrior]? Those are [Warriors]?”
She nodded, and the little Goblin tugged on Seborn’s arm. She presented him with something, and he stared at the bluest little ceramic pot he’d ever seen in his life. It was quite beautiful with melded colors.
“Is more. You take, we go.”
She had a sack full of…pots? And clay? Seborn stared down at the Goblin girl, then he saw the other Goblins motioning him to turn around. He checked their ages, even the Hobs, and the ones on the ship. Then he groaned.
“You’re runaways. Erin!”
 
——
 
On the Isle of Goblins, the Goblin Lord, Izikere, had cracked one eye open. That was how seriously the island was taking the departure of the runaways.
They’d timed it well—the magical storm might have blown them far, but they’d just been about to sink when the other ship had appeared. The fact it had survived was interesting enough, but all had been concerned they were about to kill the Goblins.
That they hadn’t meant they’d live…but what had gotten the Goblin Lord to crack one eye open was the [Captain]. One of the [Shamans] who had enhanced everyone’s vision and hearing until they could focus on the distant altercation was frowning.
“Why does he keep screaming ‘Erin’?”
Her voice was loud as thunder even with the directed hearing spells, but she had to ask. Another [Shaman] scratched at his head.
“Must be bad seapeople curses. He’s not a [Slaver]. Not a bad smell. So…he’ll turn the children back. We should give him something as thanks.”
Definitely. What other outcome could there be? Everyone nodded. They had been worried for the young Goblins’ sakes when they had fled the island. It happened now and then. Every Goblin learned warfare, and this group had not wanted to. They’d smuggled a scrying orb they’d traded for and stared at the world and that Goblin Chieftain and dreamed of more.
That was not the role of the Goblins here. They resettled continents, rebuilt tribes. They were warriors—even if their talents lay elsewhere, like the little [Potter] whom even Greydath had remarked upon in his visit.
The group would not be punished much, and the foreigners thanked. Maybe even with repairs to their ship, which seemed a bit pancaked. That was the plan…right up until the other ship turned around.
“Uh. What is he doing?”
“He’s fleeing. Why? Did they hold him hostage? Or threaten him? Or lie…?”
The [Shamans] began panicking. They started casting spells, but they were out of range, and their own ships had already set forth on their own voyages; this was a fishing ship not meant for pursuit!
“Goblin Lord! Can you stop them?”
One appealed to Izikere. The Goblin Lord watched the ship with its new crew departing as the Drowned Man Captain took the helm. He was swearing and shouting at the Goblins hugging him. She could hear him clearly.
“—off of me! I’m not doing this for charity, and there aren’t enough damn pots in the world to pay me! I’m just dropping you off, and you can find the Flooded Waters tribe on your own. You are not crew. Wrong word. Tissl, take the helm! How old are you lot, anyways?”
She cracked a smile as she sat still, moss growing up her legs. The Goblin Lord could have stopped that vessel with a spell, but she remembered Greydath’s argument. The Drowned Man spoke a Goblinfriend’s name. So, she decided to let them seek a different fate even as the Goblins around her argued and fretted.
The world was changing. Besides—Izikere closed her eyes.
Between that sword and the armor the half-Elf was wearing, it seemed like a fun ship to be on.
Thus, Seborn Sailwinds and his new crew sailed onwards as the Goblin ship behind them gave chase, then turned back. His first act as the Goblins scrambled over the ship, repairing it with pieces of their ship and familiarizing themselves with their new home, was to have an altar built.
Just a few planks of wood. A hanging bar above it where you could tie things. He found a bit of twine and a piece of plankwood no good to anyone and scrawled on it in ink. They’d have to get a statuette or just a Mage Picture later. Before the curious Goblin’s eyes, he hung up the prayer, or perhaps message.
The shrine had ‘Erin Solstice’ on it in lieu of a statue. The missive read:
 
I’m getting really sick of this shit. I appreciate us not dying in the storm, but one more thing like this and I’m going to poison your drinks the next time we meet.
—Seborn
 
Then he took the wheel, and when no one was looking, he smiled ruefully.
A Drowned Man had a strange team with Goblins in it as he went on his adventures.
It wouldn’t be the first time.
