“Hey, Hickery, last chance to back out! No? Alright, let ‘em have it!”
The shower of stones tossed onto the stage at the Gnoll girl standing in the center of the group was less motivated than when they’d chucked the stones at Relc. Anama gasped.
That girl was going to get stoned—this was going to be hilarious!
Then she saw Hickery’s stick blur even as the girl’s eyes widened with panic. The clack of stick meeting stone was like an avalanche, and then—the rocks were flying everywhere!
“Whoa! Careful—”
One of the rocks nearly brained Anama in the crowd! Relc caught one of the pebbles with a grin.
“Think fast, kid!”
He sidearmed the stone at Hickery so hard that this time, Anama barely saw it. Lism blanched, and Hickery blocked—the stone hit her staff dead-center, and she skidded back.
“Relc! You could have killed me!”
“Nah! You can block pillows just fine, so I knew you’d be okay. Wait, are your parents here?”
Relc glanced around, and Hickery’s parents were indeed there, open-mouthed. They knew that Hickery had talent, and she showed up and practiced the spear-training classes more than anything else, but seeing their girl block a storm of stones?
Lism’s mouth was just as gaping.
“That’s a [Spearmaster] in the making. Tekshia won’t be the last female [Spearmaster] of this city—Relc! Can all your students do that?”
“Hickery’s one of the best. Vok, you want a go?”
“No!”
Sadly, the crowd was cheering, and the nervous [Junior Guard] had to take a turn. He was wearing his armor, which was good because he was hit—but his defensive spear whirl still caught quite a few stones! And, Anama realized—all of Relc’s students were kids!
Oh, there were older [Guards] and spear-users that Relc knew on the sides, but he had his students show off a few basic moves he’d taught them.
Lunge and stab.
Backstep slash.
Quick jab and parry.
These were not hard moves. And Relc himself could demonstrate each move with an aplomb that none of them could match, but here was the thing that Lism was learning: it looked way better to see a group of people moving in concert than one expert alone.
There was some power to the unity, the sense of cohesion of seeing a group of fifty strong led by Relc stabbing the air. Whirling the spear to strike left. Executing a jump-kick—okay, half of them failed that, but they were laughing.
The air was relaxed. Relc was calling people up.
“Hey, we’ve got lots of practice spears! Anyone want to learn a spear move? It’s not just for kids! Tekshia said it was great for her health!”
“No thanks! I don’t want to be an adventurer that bad!”
Someone shouted as Anama hesitated, wondering if she…? She lowered her hand, remembering she was a Sootling. But Relc just called back at the heckler.
“Who said it’s for fighting? It could just be exercise or self-defense! C’mon, kids. Let’s show them an intermediate spear dance, then let’s see if you can do this weird cut.”
He and six other students stepped forwards and whirled their spears in synchronization. The delighted expression on Hickery’s face as she pivoted and stabbed in concert with Relc sold Anama.
The shy Sootling tried to cover her face, but Relc barely gave her a second glance as over a hundred people got on stage and he pivoted to show them the first move. When everyone managed the first stab and the ‘hah!’ he told them to shout because it sounded cool—
Anama felt something. She swung the spear, building up a sweat in the temporary reprieve from the rains. When she saw the Gecko grinning and giving them a thumbs up, she wondered. Maybe she could learn to use the spear. It felt…easy with him teaching. Or a sword?
 
——
 
That was the magic of Relc when the Relcening occurred at its finest. He could not perform before a city.
But he could teach a parade how to swing a spear. It seemed even he didn’t know that until now.
Valeterisa was watching Relc and sighing as she rested her chin in her hands. Any more lovestruck and Jelaqua wouldn’t be surprised if little pink hearts floated off of her.
“He’d have made a great [Mercenary Captain] back home. But you know, you don’t have to be that lovey-dovey in public. It’s sort of embarrassing.”
She covered her mouth to whisper to Valeterisa as they stood and admired the Gecko from afar. The Archmage blinked at Jelaqua and frowned. She opened her mouth, but even her many [Parallel Thoughts] couldn’t quite articulate how hypocritical that sounded.
The brief window of daylight ended abruptly, and the shower of rains returning put an end to Relc’s lessons. He ran with the rest of the crowd, laughing. And there went the Gecko of Liscor. As Tekshia Shivertail might have said, if she could see it, it was decently done.
Rather than being an unapproachable figure who was treated like a lesson or danger, he was still just Relc. Unlike Xil, he would not need to flee his homeland to live alone, attracting only those who wanted to obtain the heights of mastery or be a target for glory-seekers.
Just Relc. He raised the spear overhead as he shouted.
“Alright! Let’s get to The W—to Barehoof Kitchens for some snacks and milkshakes! Councilmember Lism’s buying!”
 
[Trusted Sergeant of the Watch Level 26!]
[Synergy Skill: Spearmaster – Advanced Spear Training Obtained!]
 
——
 
While others celebrated and lived their lives on land, so often they forgot the sea. A distant continent all of its own, the vastest, so wide and sprawling that far from shore, events could take place that the landfolk never dreamed of.
Such as—
The storm.
Magical Storm Thiborkilj had neither relented nor stopped since it had come howling down off Cenidau’s coast. But it had not come for any continent; instead it had kept tearing across the sea, gaining in momentum, grounding all sea traffic in its wake.
A disruption for commerce. An inconvenience for those who wondered where their delivery of sugar or Terandrian plums was.
For anyone caught up in the storm, fleeing it, it was a nightmare. The winds did not stop howling. They tore around in a vortex until the screaming siren became second-nature. The colorful rain lashed sky and ground until you couldn’t tell which way was up or down, until the seas heaved and a wall of water was sent upwards.
For any ship caught in Thiborkilj itself…only the true sailors of the sea were as yet alive. Crews grimly hunkering in place, bailing water, [Captains] fighting to keep their vessels afloat for if they capsized they died.
How long they had fought, they did not know. But even the greatest of storms could not last forever. And Thiborkilj was no legendary storm to last a century. The maelstrom slackened, and there it was.
A moment in the sun. A break in the rains. For a minute, like the Gecko of Liscor, the Drowned Man caught sight of the sun.
Orange rain lashed against his skin. Lightning flashed down, too-yellow, and he felt the hum of magic in his molars. As he opened his mouth, it condensed, mana so rich it was becoming physical.
“Hang on! I can see the sun—!”
Did they even hear him? The Dorhmin boy, Irrel, and the half-Elf girl, Tissl, were clinging to the railings, lashed to them. Not below; there was no safety there. If this ship went down, at least they wouldn’t be trapped inside.
Another wave lifted them up, and the Drowned Man felt his stomach lurch, and he braced—the other two did likewise. If Tissl was no seawoman before now, then her first magical storm was a rite of passage for [Storm Sailors].
Crash. The roaring of waters as the enchanted ship desperately righted, and Seborn dragged the wheel to counter the listing ship. Water burst over his legs, and it was purple—was it his eyes or the magic?
The colors of magic were raining down around him as the magical storm sprayed them once more with water and tried to drag them down. The worst part was—it wasn’t just cold.
Seborn was cold, chilled, but the waters ranged from boiling hot to icy at times. It felt like a dream. If he lost focus, the Drowned Man knew he’d begin to hallucinate. They’d been days without sleep, and this was the most treacherous moment—when you could think this was all some dream as your senses betrayed you.
“Tissl? Are you hanging in there? Tissl?”
He turned his head, and the half-Elven girl was blinking. Something was racing up her hands. It looked like a line of glowing ants…Seborn blinked, but the apparition didn’t.
Magic. Her armor was attracting it. The ancient half-Elf’s gear was collecting green sparks of mana up her arms. The girl reached for them dreamily.
“Tissl! Hold on!”
She was fumbling at her gauntlets, forgetting to hold onto the railings.
“It itches. It—”
She was sleep-deprived and stumbled as the ship rocked in the face of another wave. Irrel grabbed her, and she started—the Dorhmin boy glanced up, and the wave sent him crashing against the decks.
“This bad. Bad storm.”
He was bleeding red as he rose and wiped at his forehead, grim. Even the son of an [Admiral] of the Bloodtear Pirates was humbled by this storm. His green eyes glowed brighter as he turned his head.
“This bad, Captain.”
“We just have to make it let us go! Damn it, grab Tissl and hold on!”
Seborn was cursing the storm. It had seized them up and, rather than spit them out, held The Halfseeker’s Promise and carried their little ship with it.
The worst of all outcomes. Not only did he not know where the hell they were, the further into deep sea they got, the more the storm could toss them about. In a way, the lightness of their vessel had saved them; they could move with the water rather than be smashed like a heavier ship would be. If that Minotaur cargoship had followed, it might have cracked under the forces at play.
Not like this one’s guaranteed to continue lasting. That was what Irrel meant. Seborn wasn’t sure if he should relinquish the helm to Tissl to try and climb the mainsail to see if he could spot a way out of this storm or just hold on.
This magical storm can’t go on forever. Unless it’s like one of the ones that just moves around the ocean picking up more and more magic. How long did one of those storms rage? Two years? Anyone trapped in that one had surely died of exhaustion if not…
Focus. Seborn slapped himself. Then he saw the waters sucking down and bellowed.
“Whirlpool! Whirl—”
They were being dragged around in a huge arc towards a vortex forming in the sea itself. Irrel’s eyes went round, and his hand rose to the sword on his back.
If we’re dragged down—better to cut free of the ropes. Seborn took one look at the size of the hole in the waters and realized he could have fit this ship across it six times with ease. He let go of the wheel. Cut himself free and ran towards the other two. Seborn lashed himself with the ropes, fingers slipping in the rain, and put a hand on his daggers.
“Hold on!”
“Seborn! Irrel! My armor’s hot!”
Tissl was clawing at her armor, and Seborn saw the magic was glowing brighter. He cursed. Was she overloading? They had nowhere to put the magical items but her bag of holding.
“Stow anything you’re not wearing! Hold on! We’re going down!”
He saw her fumbling with her armor, and then the ship was turning. It was tilting, and Seborn’s stomach dropped.
First it was a slant, ten degrees. Then twenty…then they were being pressed against the railings.
Krakens wake. We’re going over.
Forty degrees and Seborn’s clawed hand was on the ropes. He was gazing at Irrel and regretting taking them into the storm. Down—the waters were dragging them down into the vortex, and Tissl was screaming.
“My armor—”
It was lighting up, covered in a million glowing ants. Irrel’s teeth were bared as he clutched her shoulder, despite the crawling magic. Seborn peered into the heart of the whirlpool as their ship turned ninety degrees, and they were standing on the railings.
“Dead gods, Erin. Even you couldn’t think of this.”
It was the Drowned Man who saw what was coming next. The water funneling down was magical, swirling like a rainbow of colors and more he could not name. As they sank into the center of the whirlpool, there was a surge from below.
Magical storms. The whirlpool was reversing; a jet of water was rising upwards, pale white, shooting skywards, piercing the storm, tearing the clouds and rains apart, pulling everything with it. Including the ship—
Seborn felt them rising. In the last flashing moments, he saw Irrel let go of the railing and place both arms around Tissl. Seborn grabbed them one-armed, holding onto the ropes with the other—just in time for the railings to snap.
Their feet left the ground, but they were flying up. The ship now above them—the water hurling itself skywards as Tissl’s mouth opened. Seborn read her lips as she said:
“Activate armor—”
 
——
 
Any good adventure should have its ups and downs. But preferably more ups than downs. There was always a twist, always a monster in the place you didn’t expect it. And sometimes, a mystery waiting to be unveiled. A secret magical item.
Such as the armor of a long-dead [Pirate Captain]. What might such a man think was worthy armor? Protection, yes. Style, certainly. But possibly—seafaring enchantments.
Like, perhaps, a way to save oneself even in a terrible storm.
She didn’t know what happened in the moments they were flying upwards. Only that when she opened her eyes, she was standing on the deck of The Halfseeker’s Promise. And the ship was flying.
Oh, it was still being carried upwards by the jet stream; this was no effect of the armor. The armor’s magic was only enough to teleport her onto the ship and, apparently, keep it level.
Tissl stared down at the object she was clutching—the helm. The wheel’s spokes were in her hands, and she breathed in as they kept flying skywards.
“Captain? Irrel?”
The second problem—the armor only worked on her. The half-Elf’s eyes, roaming the illuminated darkness of the storm, found the sky being breached by the magical storm’s final act. Clear skies beyond—then the sea far, far below them. The funnel of water.
Seborn and Irrel, then, the only dots standing out against a white barrage of water flying skywards. Dropping away from her.
“Seborn! Irrel!”
Tissl screamed. She swung the wheel, but it was pointless—and she realized she might be in the most danger of all. Because she was still going up; they were headed down. The half-Elf was too terrified to jump off the ship and be caught by the geyser, and she could breathe no water unless that was another enchantment of the armor.
She didn’t want to find out—so she clung to the wheel. And thus, she was the only member of the crew who stayed on board the ship for those last moments as it was shot skywards.
