She went on to explain the best job of her life. She’d been summoned by a team of wizards who had built a device that had some assembly required on the bottom of an ocean floor, on a planet inhabited only by aquatic wildlife.  She’d gotten trained up, geared up, and then dropped off for a two-week-long assignment that sounded a lot like hammering giant tent pegs into very specific locations in a very specific way while trying not to let any curious animals touch them.

She’d literally slept underwater to avoid the terrible storms on the surface and drank her meals out of pouches. She’d had nothing but some kind of magic music box for company, which they’d let her keep as a souvenir. Extra time was built into her trip just in case she needed it to complete the task, but she was happy she hadn’t needed it because it gave her an opportunity to leave the construction site and “really experience the adventure.”

She’d done the job and then swam around exploring everything.

“See?” Jeffy whispered. “Two weeks. With nothing but fish.”

“I do see,” Alden said slowly. “The good news is that, right now, you’re definitely not qualified to have that kind of experience. You’re missing a lot of abilities you’d need for that one.”

“She couldn’t even make phone calls,” Jeffy said. “She didn’t have anything but that emergency signal. What if they gave me one of those and I made a mistake and lost it? There wouldn’t be anyone to help me find it. She was down there forever. I don’t want to do that. I want to swim toward people and help people and then celebrate with people. That’s what other superheroes get to do.”

Pointing out that Abisal probably did a lot of that too wouldn’t help anything.

“I get you,” Alden said.

“You do?”

“Yes.”

“So what do I do?”

He took his time thinking of a reply. “First of all, I think you’re right not to just do whatever the faculty says. Especially if you didn’t even get the chance to tell them what you’re worried about. You should talk to them again when you’re ready to explain, and talk to other people you trust who know more than you.

“And only take talents you want. If someone says you have to have a certain ability to succeed as a superhero, but you feel uncomfortable about it, then ignore them. Don’t take it. You’re going to level more in the future, so you can always pick up what you need later.”

“What if I fall behind everyone else? I don’t want that to happen. It sucks to be at the bottom of the class.”

Alden briefly wondered how it was possible for him to be worried about a thing like that, then he reminded himself that Jeffy had been in a regular school until recently.

“This is Anesidora, and you’re an S. You won’t fall to the bottom in our gym class, which is the class everyone in the program cares the most about. You could take nothing but Appeal and Life Jacket for the next year, if the System didn’t cut you off, and even though the instructors would be freaking out and yelling at you, you still wouldn’t be losing every duel.

“The thing is, you’re already awesome. The System picked you to help people during a real crisis. You were a red halo. You’re already a superhero. I bet if everyone had to rank the class right now, you’d be really close to the top.”

Jeffy’s posture straightened, and his grin returned.

At least he bounces back quickly.

“All right,” said Alden, looking back at the computer. “So now I understand. At the moment, you don’t want anything that will make you a perfect longterm submarine like Abisal, and the faculty plans are all on the way there. Eventually. But that doesn’t mean everything they suggested is a no-go at this point. And Life Jacket isn’t the only option that would guarantee you get called to work in places with other people. Like that new locator spell…looking for named objects usually means you’re somewhere inhabited by intelligent life. There aren’t a lot fish naming things, right?”

Jeffy’s eyes widened. “I hadn’t thought of it that way!”

“Some wizard might drop something on an abandoned planet and then send you to go look for it. But I doubt that would happen very often.”

“Maybe I should choose that one right now,” Jeffy said. “What if it’s a spell that the System will only give out a few times, and other people get it first?”

He lifted his hand like he was going to touch something on his interface, and Alden barely stopped himself from tackling him. He did stand up from his seat, shouting, “No! Whoa! No! Don’t take something as soon as I suggest it!”

Jeffy pulled his hand back, staring at him.

Alden’s heart was pounding. “You didn’t just…”

“I was answering a text message from Max.”

“Oh! Um…good. Sorry. You should do that.” He took a deep breath. “Just don’t rush your decision. Do you want me to help you make a list of more options? And then you can talk to people who aren’t me. Other Aqua Brutes. Max? Your grandparents. And make sure you tell them everything.”

Jeffy nodded.

Alden was trying to trust the nod. It was hard. “Actually, let’s make a list of the good, knowledgable people you’re going to talk to first. And then we’ll write down what you want to say to them.”

******

******

By late morning, Alden was feeling better. Helping Jeffy had been perfect for a reset, and he was looking forward to seeing Gustavo. Going shopping for the clothes he would wear to meet the healer was something he’d decided a couple of days ago that he should be excited about…so he was.

To make choices about my future and deal with whatever is coming my way, I need to be at my best. The mind healer will help me be at my best faster. Proper clothes will keep me from embarrassing myself or the art’hs in front of the healer.

Therefore, buying an outfit worthy of embroidering that commendation on is an important part of my choosing season.

Mentally framing it all that way made it seem like the massive questions ahead of him could be approached one millimeter at a time.

Listening to The Elder’s Croak was probably an important part of my choosing season, too.

He kept trying to think of more millimeter-sized goals until he was standing outside the shop Gus had said they would meet at. He wondered if the intake counselor had checked to make sure the place was still open for business after the floods. It was in a lucky pocket near Apex’s northern coast that hadn’t been inundated, just a couple of streets back from the water. But the curtains were shut over the window, and the door was locked.

It was called Needle & Wheedle, and there was no sign advertising it. A custom doorknob with the name on the front in raised letters was the only way Alden could be sure he was at the right spot. He poked around for a while, looking through the windows of a few other places on the street. There was a steakhouse, an attorney’s office, and a store that claimed to be the provider of the finest pocket knives in the world.

He sat on a bench across from Needle & Wheedle, in front of a white stuccoed building. Beside him, a post drop with a wraparound screen was playing silent footage of famous Avowed being epically photogenic. If he spoke politely to the mailbox and tried to target it repeatedly…well, that was nobody’s business but his own.

At exactly the scheduled time, his shopping partner pulled up in a zippy little rental vehicle that looked like an auto rickshaw trying to disguise itself as an apple.

“Hey!” said Alden, as soon as Gus had stepped out. “Thank you so much for helping me with this. You didn’t have to come in person, but it’s good to see you.”

<<New Rabbits are mine until they’ve been here for ninety days. New Rabbits shopping for clothes are also mine. Intake kids who watch football with me after midnight and cheer when I tell them to—mine.>> He shut the door of the rental. “These are all you! Of course I came. Gretchen, too, if we need her. Later. She’s visiting a friend.”

“I don’t need too much today,” Alden told him. “If we could just make sure I have a couple of very nice outfits, that will be a start.”

Gus laughed as if Alden had said something funny, then patted him on the arm.

“What?” Alden asked, smiling at the infectious laugh.

“You called me on Wednesday to say you’d be going to Artona I sometime next week. Not for work. Personal business. You need perfect clothes for this trip, you said. I thought, <<We should take care of Alden fast. A week isn’t a lot of time. I’ll meet him on Saturday and introduce him to the people every busy Rabbit needs to know.>>” Gus was still laughing. “Thursday you call again and ask if I want to cook something because you are giving a Thanksgiving meal to every wizard at Matadero! So I’m in the kitchen, cooking and watching television, and there you are appearing on the news, flying around to host a party for Artonans. In a stained t-shirt.”

“I’d just spilled something on it! I did change out of that before the party.”

“So I think you do need much.”

“I swear I changed it.”

Gus led the way across the quiet street to the shop. The curtains were still closed.

“The door’s locked,” Alden told him. “I think maybe they’re not open this weekend. Because of everything. But I found the names of other places that sell clothes for—”

“By appointment only,” Gus said. “Don’t worry. I made you an appointment.”

Alden blinked. There’s such a thing as an appointment for clothes shopping?

Just before they reached the entrance, the door swung open. A tall, dark-skinned man wearing a pale blue striped jacket held it for them. A pair of steampunky-looking goggles were hanging from a strap around his neck. Just beyond him, a woman in a yellow sweater that hung down to her knees was pulling boxes and fabric swatches from a shelf.

“Hello, Gus,” said the man. Then he turned to Alden and looked him up and down. And up and down.

And a third time.

The woman was doing it, too.

“Welcome to Needle & Wheedle,” said the man.

“What name do you prefer?” the woman asked. “And would you like a coffee? Tuck makes the best pour-over.”

They make me coffee while I shop. And there are swatches.

“Just Alden is fine. Coffee would be nice.”

Their smiles were warm enough and their Appeal stats high enough that even all of the staring didn’t feel as invasive as it should have.

“This is where Rabbits who are frequent visitors to the Triplanets come when they need clothes,” said Gus.

Swatches, thought Alden.

“That’s us!” the woman said. “You’ll need to authorize the System to give us your measurements, but first, just have a seat. We’ll talk about what you want from your wardrobe for as long as it takes. You’re our one and only priority for today.”

These people are going to take a lot of money from me.

******
