He was only sitting in the floor holding a glass case a little bigger than a football in his lap, but in a way, he felt like he was under attack. He’d suspected something like this might happen. He could preserve the broken pieces of wand, but the wand had a lot going on beyond its physical existence.

Whatever was left of its connection to its owner was involved. And possibly the thing that had made it valuable in Olget’s eyes was a factor, too. Multiple people had implied inheriting the wands would have made him more powerful.

Alden didn’t think that what the wands were made of was the reason, in and of itself, but rather that over the course of a long life, Olget’s mother had taught them to speak to the universe better. Or something of that nature.

He was certain he’d missed picking up some of what the wand had been, and he was now holding the crumbs of it apart from the rest of itself, which was straining his skill and presumably damaging an already badly damaged casting tool even more.

But Kon had a time limit that had now passed them by, so Alden could only hope that taking these fragments with Bearer before that had happened would have a larger positive effect than a negative one. He tried not to think about all the NesiCards he’d broken by pulling enchantments off of the chips and keeping them preserved for too long.

Kon’s skill might have fit into Rabbit better than Adjuster.

It was quintessentially Adjuster to have a skill and spell designed to go together, but fixing things that had broken less than five minutes ago was so Rabbity. Most peoples’ assumption was that the System was going to offer Kon more spell impressions that went with his object reading skill, but as it looked now, he was a special case who would have been a reasonable addition to either class.

No point in him being a Rabbit. Someone already has a plan for him that doesn’t involve other wizards being allowed to hire him.

Lute got summoned by the same wizard every time. He had a schedule for work. Kon might be in for something like that.

Some wizard who worked with exceptionally fragile equipment could be planning to have him on hand once a week to unbreak any accidents. That would be a great job for a lot of Avowed. Regular, safe, highly paid work that would prevent you from being assigned to spontaneous, dangerous, highly paid work.

The Velras hadn’t nabbed all the Chainer slots because they sucked.

Alden knew he was blindly guessing at Kon’s future employment, but this particular blind guess did soften his alarm to a more manageable level. Kon’s skill seemed unsuited for combat, so the job was more likely to be something safe, wasn’t it?

We were just talking about him in front of the Bromelimas tree. He picked the special skill and spell combo himself, and he’s a smart guy who prepped his whole life for selection.

And it was a good thing Alden had found this out. For whatever reason, Kon hadn’t been informed by his future employer that his Avowed work was already decided. Alden would tell him so that it didn’t land on him one day out of the blue.

“Thank you for helping Stu and the others with the Here-to-There, Alden,” Olorn-art’h said. “We weren’t aware you were traveling with them.”

“We had a good trip until a short while ago.” Alden thought about telling her that Evul—who was a real adult despite all evidence to the contrary—had known. But she could probably figure that out herself.

He wondered how okay, or not, it was for him to leave the Rapport and go on adventures to parts of Artona I that weren’t under the control of knights. When Stuart took him to see Healer Yenu it had been more planned out than this.

“If you have any worries or any more troubles, you may call us,” said Olorn. “Of course.”

“Of course.”

She looked like she was considering him in some way. But she only said,“The Avowed from your school will be with you in a moment.”

Alden glanced at Kon. He saw him take a deep breath, and then their call disconnected.

He had been teleported.

******

Alden, Stuart, and Bithe were alone with one another again suddenly. The Primary’s spouses had all ended their calls at around the same time.

That’s it? thought Alden. The problem is just dealt with this fast?

Six former votaries who had married themselves to each other and to the goal of raising and supporting a giant family of other votaries and knights should be pros at handling unexpected situations. Combined with Alis-art’h’s spouses and Tesen’s widows, with all the resources of the Rapport and their own children, nieces, and nephews available to help them, they could probably mop up all manner of catastrophes as easily as spilled milk.

“Your parents are efficient,” Bithe said.

“I was thinking the same,” said Alden.

Stuart nodded.

“I didn’t mention Ryada to them when they asked how we were doing.” Bithe swallowed audibly. “She’ll…I think we’ll want to talk to our squad first.”

“That’s the right choice at this time.” Stuart was staring at the case in Alden’s hands. “I was sure one of them would insist on coming here to handle the situation in person. With an Avowed being called and a wizard doing something this <<traitorous to path>>.”

“It was Olget,” said Bithe.

“I believe it was,” Stuart agreed. “Alden saw him drinking shenav in a house nearby. He wouldn’t have to enter here to cast a spell toward a wand he knows so well.”

“Doing this forces his mother to keep the other wand until her death, if she doesn’t want to severely weaken her casting. So he’ll have more time to persuade her to make him its next owner. And the bors…if the bors feel obligated to make up for the loss, they might try to return to the village to support her.”

“I’m sure she wouldn’t let them,” Stuart said. “The first thing she asked when she called was if anyone had been hurt by whatever happened to the wand. Very proper of her.”

“They can’t know.” Bithe directed the words at Alden. “If the person who’s coming can really fix it, we shouldn’t let the family learn it was ever broken.”

Before Alden could agree, Kon arrived.

He appeared right in front of Alden, standing between him and the hearth. His shirt was wrinkled and untucked, and his flip-flops didn’t go with the rather dressy black school uniform pants.

He was smiling, and he said a formal, “Hello,” in confident Artonan. But his hands were balled into fists inside his pockets, and his eyes darted between Bithe and Stuart before he looked down to where Alden sat at his feet.

“Hey,” Alden said in English. “Thanks for coming. Next time I call to ask for a favor, I bet you’ll make sure I’m only downstairs before you answer.”

Kon’s chuckle was a little weak. “I’ve never repaired anything more magical than some Wright stuff. Or maybe that temper sphere you let Heloísa break.”

“This is significantly more complex and potent than a temper—”

“Don’t worry,” Alden interrupted Stuart. “If you can’t fix it, it’s our fault for not getting you here on time. Or my fault for screwing up and missing a speck of the wand when I preserved it. It was really nice of you to get up in the middle of the night to come try.”

“No problem,” said Kon. He licked his lips. “I’ll…um, I’ll sit here in front of you, and you’ll pass that glass thing to me. I’ll read the broken stuff inside, and I’ll return this wand to its former self. If it goes well. Right. That’s what we’ll do.”

Alden was glad Kon was looking only at the remnants of the wand as he sat down. He didn’t need to see the anxiety, hope, and doubt the two Artonans were exchanging with each other.

[Make sure nothing interrupts him,] he messaged Stuart. [He won’t have another chance.]

Stuart hurried toward the front door to lock or guard it.

“Ready?” Alden asked.

Kon nodded, and Alden passed him the wand.******
