My instructions complete, I return back to my spot, sitting down to continue my healing, ignoring the looks around me and fighting off my depression. What should have been a happy success has done nothing to improve my mood. Woo, I was right, I'm holding on to a secret that could get everyone I love killed. Not exactly a happy thing to be right about. I'll just go home after this, quit the Sentinels and never leave again. I can build myself a tiny hut on the outskirts, and just pay someone to bring me stuff, or maybe even live a bit further, like on a cliff overlooking the village. Close, but not too close.

The rest of the lesson wraps up without incident, and I return to my tent without fanfare, exhaustion starting to kick in once again, almost asleep before my head hits the pillow. A quick check on Other me shows that nothing has changed, and I close my eyes and wait for sweet oblivion.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Against her better judgment, Mila carefully stepped into Mama's tent, announcing her own entrance with good cheer. “Hi Mama, we found some chestnuts and roasted them, I thought you'd like some while they're still hot. Song and I already shelled them for you.” And ate more than their fair share, the sweet treats too good to pass up. Only a handful remained and Mila hoped that Mama wouldn't think them too few.

“Oh?” Mama's smirk seemed to see right through her as she waved Mila in, moving some documents from her desk to make room. “Here to try to bribe me into letting your betrothed go free? You shouldn't have gotten so greedy, there are still crumbs on your faces.”

She and Song both wiped their faces, Mila's cheeks turning red at Mama's smile. “No Mama, I just thought we could chat.” Damn it, there were times it seemed that she could read minds, it was uncanny.

“Ah, I see, how sweet of you two.” Her eyes twinkled as she ate a chestnut, smiling from the natural sweetness, a cup of rice wine to go with it, carried in by Song. Taking a slow sip, she made a great show of savoring the taste while dragging out the inevitable, Mila fidgeting in her seat while she waited, knowing that Mama was playing around. It was a favored tactic of hers, remaining silent and reading the situation, letting the object of her attention speak out of fear. “So, what would you like to talk about, oh filial daughter of mine?”

Struggling to find a topic, Mila simply gave up all pretense, driving straight to the matter. “Fine, you were right. How much longer is his punishment going to continue?”

Mama took her time answering, enjoying another chestnut slowly, letting Mila sweat in the silence. Even though she knew all of her Mama's tricks, it made them no less effective. Finally, Mama sighed and shook her head, leaning forward to speak quietly. “Rain is something of a puzzle to me, causing more than a little headache. I am at a loss on how to handle him, were he any other Sentinel I would have him lashed for insubordination, but I made a promise to my disciple that I will not break. What else am I to do?”

“I don't know Mama, but you can't have him digging forever, it's turning him so gloomy. He hasn't smiled in days, even though I visit often and try to cheer him up.” She had thought her joke would at least elicit a half-smile, the sheer absurdity of it being hilarious, but he had actually believed her, making her feel terrible instead. Worse, she had still laughed. “He had no ill intentions, he just wanted to help.”

“You think me unfair, daughter? He knowingly betrayed a direct order from me, even taking the pain to hide his actions with a ruse, albeit an ill-conceived one. He knew what he did was wrong, even if he did not know why. What would have happened if you had not discovered him?”

Shaking her head, Mila tried her best to seem subdued and obedient. If only Papa were here, she could have gone to him and he could have convinced Mama. “Not unfair, it's just... you're holding a dagger above his head, not allowing this to come to an end. I'm sure he's learned his lesson now Mama, and I'll watch him carefully from now on, I promise.”

Sighing deeply once again, Mama ate her chestnuts while thinking things through, Mila swinging her feet in her chair, unable to stay still. How did Song do it all the time, remain so motionless? One by one, the chestnuts disappeared into Mama's mouth, each followed by a tiny sip of wine until nothing remained. Slowly shaking her head, Mama looked regretful as she asked, “What has he learned? Is it the value of honesty and obedience, or that he needs to be more careful in hiding his intentions?” Shaking her head, she continued, “His punishment has been too light for me to be sure. I first thought to have him bind or execute those soldiers, but if he refused it would have left me with no further option but the cane. For now, he is to continue digging, until I can come up with a suitable punishment.”

Pouting, Mila slid off her chair and moved around the table to give her Mama a hug. While she had not gotten her desired outcome, Mama had thought hard on the matter and Mila could not fault her decision as Rain had truly gone too far this time.

“Lieutenant General, Senior Captain here to report.” Alsantset's voice sounded out from the tent flap, and she appeared almost immediately after, Mila's hopes rising. Perhaps she was here to talk to Mama about Rain as well, chipping away at Mama's resolution to continue his punishment.

Evidently, Mama thought the same, sighing once again, her arms still around Mila. “I supposed you wish to speak about Rain as well?”

“No, Lieutenant General, the boy made a grievous error and I have nothing but gratitude for your leniency.” Alsantset's voice was carefully neutral about the subject, her face showing no signs of deceit. “A scout has arrived with two messages marked urgent.”

After a short perusal of the two scrolls, Mama crumpled them in her fist, throwing it to her desk with a thud. “Damnation, this is sooner than expected.”

“What's the matter?” Mila peered at the bundled mess of paper, trying to decipher their contents.

“An order from the Marshal. Martial Law has been repealed and we are to return to Shen Huo with all haste, relieved of our duties here. Along with it is a missive from the Disciplinary Corps, demanding the presence of Alsantset and the five youngsters with all haste. They are to meet at the Bridge, so that their trial may take place.”

Dread washed over Mila, worry suffusing her with every word and she looked to Mama for any sign of what would happen next. With a grim smile and a reassuring pat on the back, Mama sat back in her seat, looking resigned. “Well, some good news has come of this, little Mila: Rain will no longer need to dig latrines, we break camp at dawn.” Motioning for her stationery, Mila quickly moved aside to help while Mama began penning messages, readying herself to close out their conflict with the Society.

Whether it was to fight or flee, Mila did not know, but either choice meant there were difficult trials ahead of them. With nothing else to do, Mila quietly prayed for the safety of those she loved, that they could all return home safely.

All the same, she eagerly hoped for a fight, to cripple the strength of the Society, perhaps even taking the stage herself. Rain and Huu had already made names for themselves, and it irked her to be so ignored.

Sumila, daughter of Akanai and Husolt, was not an opponent to be looked down upon.

Chapter Meme
