Settling onto the floating stage with grace and aplomb, the serpentine dragon raises its horned head high and flexes its claws. Screeching in challenge, the dragon lunges towards the pack of lions, looking to scare them away and steal their hard earned tribute. The music shifts and the tempo speeds up as the lions back away from the dragon’s advance, until their bottom line is reached and a handful roar in defiance. Bolstered by the courage of these brave individuals, the pride holds its ground and form up behind their champions, prepared to fight to the death and bring this invader to its knees.

The music reaches a furious pace with a speedy drum roll echoing without end. A pride of majestic lions, the king of beasts, facing off against a fearsome dragon, the symbol of Emperors since time immemorial. Powerful they may be, a lion is no match for a dragon, but the lions are many and the dragon alone. Should the Imperial beast push things too far, even it might meet its end at the fangs of the force arrayed against it. Who will win? None could say for certain, but should things progress as they are, we will soon find out.

Battle is joined with a crash of gongs which throws off the music’s rhythm, so offbeat it must be a mistake. Drawn to the city in search of the offending musician, my eyes pick out countless dark figures perched across the city, laying in wait and lurking in the shadows while the lions and dragon face off. Cymbals join the fray in a tumultuous din, so discordant and unpleasant I almost want to cover my ears, but I cannot spare the attention. With each passing second, more dark figures are revealed, grotesque, hideous creatures of nightmare and sin, their faces twisted in delight as they take in the battle before them. The Dragon fights fiercely and lions ‘die’ beneath its fury, but not without cost as more lions leap into the fray to avenge their fallen comrades and tear scales off to reveal silken red ‘flesh’ underneath.

All the while, the dark figures continue growing in number, flocking to Nan Ping’s roofs and edging closer to the docks, content to hide in the shadows until the balance of power shifts in their favour. Slowly, but surely, the dragon weakens and the lions dwindle, until finally, believing the day is theirs, the dark figures let loose with a cacophony of shrill cackles, bringing the battle between lions and dragon to a halt.

Until now, the performance was sublime, but my interest evaporates once I piece together the rest of the story. The dragon and lions, once bitter rivals, join forces to fight the dark interlopers and eventually defeat the invaders to carry the day, though at great loss as the cabbages are all destroyed in the bitter struggle. I get what they were going for, the lions are the outer provinces while the dragon is the East, and though we may butt heads from time to time, we must now unite against the Defiled else all will be lost.

Blergh.

We would have been better served if the dragon and lions all died and THEN the evil foreigners revealed themselves. That’ll teach everyone to fight over cabbages.

The Lion Dance comes to an end and the crowd’s thunderous cheers shake the ground as the performers take their bows. When the Legate steps out from beneath the dragon’s head, the applause reaches ear-splitting proportions as the audience goes crazy at the reveal, awed and gratified to have witnessed his Imperial self take the stage for their entertainment. Storytelling gripes aside, Shen Zhenwu really knows how to work a crowd, strutting about with his dragon leggings and waving at the audience while the other performers kowtow in costume.

Once finished basking in his applause, he holds his hands up for silence and the crowd obliges. “People of the Empire,” he begins, and I quickly turn an eye to those around me, watching to see how they react. “While there is much to celebrate in this gathering of heroes, let us not lose sight of why we have gathered here today. After millennia of conflict, the Enemy has finally breached our defences, and the West has fallen.” Lowering his head, the Legate offers a moment of silence for the fallen and Nan Ping responds in kind.

I can’t figure out what it is about him that makes him so charismatic. It’s gotta be more than his pretty smile or poignant delivery. A few simple words has the audience ready to ride out and meet the Defiled on the field of combat. Even Tali and Tate look adorably ready to lend aid to the defence, their cherubic faces set in grim determination, a stark contrast from their usual, fun-loving selves. Then again, maybe it’s not the Legate’s speech. Maybe I’m the weird one for not feeling the same way, but I don’t have it in me to hate the Defiled.

I’ll fight them and kill them, but I can’t hate them. They’re sick, and if I can’t save them, then the least I can do is put them out of their misery.

The moment of silence over, the Legate raises his head and resumes his speech. “We stand against an Enemy united, working in concert toward a singular goal: the destruction of our Azure Empire. Should we fail to drive them back, they will burn our cities, raze our lands, kill our soldiers, and torture our citizens, for no reason other than our mere existence.” His gaze sweeps out over the city and his tone takes a chilling turn. “Yet even now, with the Enemy at our doorstep, there are those among you who seek advantage in the chaos, putting their own interests above the Empire’s well being. Only yesterday morning, on this stage, Falling Rain defeated his peers to become the number one talent in the Empire.” Yay, go me, I’m awesome. “To nurture and develop his talent, I raised him to Imperial Peerage through marriage, and intend to raise others who prove worthy of the honour.” Honour, right. Thanks for making my life even more complicated, really appreciate it. Not. “In spite of his new status and an Imperial Decree, someone among you had the AUDACITY to make an attempt on his life. This insult will not stand.”

Gratified by all the gasps of outrage, I stand a little taller in the face of all the attention, though really, everyone around me already knows what happened. On stage, the Legate raises his hands for silence once again, and the audience’s outrage dies down to a hush. Snapping his fan open to display the dragon etched upon it, the Legate says, “Hear Me. The criminals responsible are sentenced to Nine Familial Deaths. You are all charged with finding them and carrying out their sentence. Should the guilty party step forth now, your family will be spared. Such is the Emperor’s mercy.” Fan still open, he stands and waits, a full minute passing in complete silence. When no one comes forth, the Legate shakes his head and utters, “So be it.” Closing the fan, he tucks it back into his belt before continuing. “Know this: my tolerance is at its end. Any further dissension will be punished to the full extent of the law, whether the perpetrator be noble or common born. Only united, can we stand against the Enemy, so united we shall be.”

Tch. Should’ve gone with, “United we Stand, Divided we Fall.” Would’ve really hammered the point home. I should get into speech writing. ‘Four score and twenty centuries ago, yadda yadda.’ Easy money.

Unaware of my critique, the Legate continues his long-ass speech, and eventually reaches a point of interest. “To promote harmony and uncover hidden talents, we have organized a staggering array of contests and challenges in the days to come. Feats of strength, skill, speed, and spirit will take place, open to all who seek to join and with remarkable prizes waiting to be claimed by the victors. Come, rise to the occasion and defeat all challengers to mark your name down in the annals of history!”

While the city erupts into cheers and Mila burns with anticipation, I let loose with a sigh of relief. I’m already number one talent in the Empire, and of Imperial Peerage, so it shouldn’t be a problem to skip all the contest shenanigans, right? Gotta leave some glory for the others, and who knows. Maybe someone in my circle of friends will make it big and take the pressure off my shoulders. Mother knows, I could use the help.

Most importantly, I’ll finally have time to decompress, get my head on right, and figure out all my shit.

...

Or at least, take a nap before going deep sea diving in search of a literal drop of water. I deserve that much, right?

Chapter Meme- End of Volume 19 -
