The air within this half-a-trillion-kilometer-wide birdcage becomes so heavy that anything less than a full-fledged Royal Family Head would die by now if they got anywhere near the aura.

So many different energy types are bursting through the air, blending physical reality with abnormal bends in space and vibrations testing the strength of the other's will.

Samir yells back.

"Impossible. Humans... with the capacity to wield the powers of the Primordials..."

Far more white spinning arrays form around this Demon's armor as he raises an empty palm and points it our way.

I have no idea what a Primordial is... but considering the invisible aura both myself and Maria have just tapped into was not present before, and I'm watching it grow in potency all over this Demon's raised palm, this is the power in question.

Although, I feel it only in my blade at the moment. Its weight connects to my soul, but I don't feel the source of it coming from there. Nor do I get the feeling Maria has summoned it any differently than me. Her connection to this power is tethered to that sparkling Source Resin that has merged with her soul through her sword.

What we do know for sure is that we have to act fast.

We summon a ball of pure celestial energy powered by explosive Royal Vibrations in between us and make sure the energies react fast and violently.

The blast from this stunt sends us flying over a hundred billion kilometers away from each other, just in time to watch a pulse of white light shoot out from Samir's palm.

It appears to just be a glowing ball of Celestial Energy, but that is truly only what can be seen on the surface. It is only the residue from the activation of some kind of command deep within his armor.

The actual attack is completely invisible. It is like a sphere of gravity was just shot our way, and the only instincts I had were to run and not face it head-on, even in my current state.

It makes me grin, and I can feel ambitious icy cold vibrations echoing through the birdcage from Maria mimicking my excitement.

She yells out to reply to Samir's refusal of my offer, "Sounds like you're not planning on dying either... too bad."

She swings her soul sword across her body and flaps her wings during the follow-through.

A sparkling white reflective crescent of ice flies forward. It's bright and flashy, but deep within it, the same invisible weight makes it the most dangerous attack I've ever laid my eyes on.

This stirs something in my soul, like a friendly competition. My sword reacts to it, grumbling with hunger again and tugging on my soul to let it try that too.

I nod inwardly, set my sights on this Demon, and swing my blade across my body with everything I have too.

A monstrous pressure washes through me, as the weight of my soul ties from every single link of loyalty I've made in the Lower and Upper Realms feels as though it's being stimulated; and every single power multiplier in this larger manifested Sacred Body adds weight to it as well.

Invisible strings of weight all flow into my sword as a crescent of bright red fire flies out from it, making it simultaneously the most flashy, yet most hidden deadly attack I've ever thrown myself.

It feels like the souls of every single world I'm connected to are tied to this attack... and what I see next makes my eyes widen with disbelief.

Samir doesn't move at all to dodge, like we did.

Instead, the tens of thousands of Royal Demon Soldiers floating around us get in the way of our attacks.

They throw themselves in front of the line of fire like this is all a game, like following orders is more important than living itself.

Each of them activates massive white ether defensive arrays, and this manages to block a lot of the Celestial Fire and Icy Residue from our attacks. However, the more potent invisible weight at their cores overwhelms these Royal Guards completely.

They are only fragments of Samir's soul, even the borrowed power they have from their wielder is nowhere near enough to block what we've thrown.

I watch tens of thousands of Demons be disintegrated on the spot once the core of my attack hits them.

The same goes for Maria's attack.

They can withstand the fire and ice for a moment, but the instant their aura is put in a one-on-one battle against ours, it's like they are deleted entirely from existence.

Tiny amounts of the weight are lifted from our attacks for every Demon we kill, and by the time the blue and red crescent are about to hit Samir, his Loyal Sentinel beasts put their necks on the line for him too.

Quite literally.

The Hydra lets out a roar from all 32 of its heads, but only moves forward with one in front of Samir. The tortoise jumps forward and turns its glistening bronze shell our way. The Celestial energy that fills the entire birdcage is so intense and explosive, it would have carved a crater a trillion kilometers wide in the sea... but that isn't the unfathomable part about this clash.

It is the eruption of this invisible, intangible aura that collides. It is deeper than souls, more complex than vibrations, and on a far different plane than just real Celestial Energy. It almost has the same pressure and gravity as Divine Energy, but there is no mass or proof of its existence that I can see.

It is so strange, yet as I feel these weights collide and destroy each other, I start to understand it better.

Unexpectedly... memories start flashing through my mind.

Somehow, they're from the point of view of a Hydra's head.

I start getting flashes of a war in this Blue Zone, from an extremely long time ago. I see not only this Hydra in its original 5-headed form, but thousands of others. They all send beams of orange and red-colored Celestial Energy into the air, fighting Dragons and Demons attacking this zone through demonic rifts opening and closing from the Cyan Zone.

It's an all-out war.

There are citadels floating in the sky, bases of operations floating in the sea, but oddly, there is far less Celestial Energy here in the Zone.

It looks like whatever happened here was far from the end of this zone's history.

I even see silhouettes of other races far off in the background of these flashing images, of Tortoises fighting the Demons too, and even light elves in the mix.

None of the Demons can be identified in these flashing images, but I get a general idea it must have been an army associated with the Vanguards... or possibly even predecessors. It's hard to tell.

A loud bang breaks me out from my flashes, as Samir's attack slams into the birdcage at the back of this prison array.

It may look like there are tens of millions of kilometers of space between each white pillar, but in reality, there is the same invisible weight creating a dome. I see no weaknesses, nor do I have the mental capacity to even understand what a weakness in this strange new power would look like.

Yet, I do see where these flashing memories have come from.

As the residue clears, the Hydra's head I managed to attack has been destroyed completely.

There is a gash through the top side of the Bronze Tortoise's shell too.

They glow red and blue, but there are invisible scars much deeper than what it looks like on the surface. I can feel these monsters trying to regenerate, but they won't budge.

Samir doesn't react, he only puts his other hand up and moves both arms to face his palms in opposite directions toward us.

He yells out again, "This does not make any sense. Humans... with a Legacy at least the potential ranking of a past Overseer. That's the other way you could hold this much weight."

The Demon's head turns toward me. "You have an Amplifier. It's starting to awaken, so that's how you can wield this power." He shifts his head toward Maria, "But you— you have none of the Legacy Races' aura within you. You don't hold the Dryads' Legacy... and they were the only Overseers before the Tortoise Clan. You're not an Originator, that is certain. But what are you? Your path... it does not make any sense. The only possible answer would be... no... was I wrong? Could two humans really have claimed the Creator's Legacy?"

This Royal Demon's aura shifts, and for the first time, I watch his pupils grow smaller.

He is genuinely confused... questioning everything he knows, but that ripple in emotions only lasts a fraction of a second. Millions of arrays start spinning around his armor, and he instantly calms down and regains focus.

I watch some of the closest Royal Demonic Soldiers around him start to slowly reform out of nothing, from thin air. However, a large amount that were incinerated in the most powerful portion of our attacks are not growing back.

Neither are the wounds we landed on the Sentinels.

Samir goes on the all-out full attack. Both of his palms start flashing with dozens of pulses of bright white light, and the birdcage gets filled with invisible deadly attacks.

My gaze locks onto many prizes, some being the memories I may gain from the other hydra heads; and others being the secrets hidden inside this Family Head himself... I don't believe for a second this is all the power he wields. Unlike Miriel, this Family Head is aligned with the rulers at the top. I get the feeling he is an asset, not just a tool.

With a grin, I let massive detonations of celestial energy beneath my feet send me forward through the invisible death maze in the sky. I start charging up my blade again, to prepare for my counter.
