She wrenched her torn leg from its jaws, trying to dodge the rat that now seemed intent on savaging her instead of Mato. A sudden sharp crack echoed through the chamber and Malika stumbled as the ground quivered. Confused, she tried to catch her balance and heard an even louder report echoing off the walls. She could not afford to fall with the rat still attacking her. Tiny cracks and fissures raced through the brickwork. With a sudden lurch that she felt in the pit of her stomach, the entire floor gave way under her feet in an explosion of dust and stone shards. Rock, rats, and people fell. Reflexively Malika leapt, ignoring the pain in her injured leg, twisting her body upwards in a desperate flip – her Acrobatics skill carrying her above the rat she had been fighting. Everything landed in an enormous crash, a chaotic discordant roar of noise, rock, dust, and bodies. Something snapped and squashed sickeningly under her as her breath was punched out of her lungs by the painful impact.

Your group has defeated Sewer Rat – level 1.

She blinked away the stars in her vision, ignoring both the notification and the pain as she focused on trying to breathe. Rapid scurrying and scrambling noises carried over the confusion and dust as the remaining two rats bolted out of sight. Wincing, Malika raised her head, searching around in the dimly lit rubble for her companions. Mato lay groaning and coughing on a nearby slab of the fallen floor, his body covered with dust and blood. Her torch was lost and extinguished.

“Everyone alright?” Calen’s voice echoed down from above. Looking upwards, Malika saw both Calen and Tala still in the hallway above, staring down over the shattered edge of what had once been the sewer floor by the flickering light of the one remaining torch.

Shaking her head to clear the lingering ringing in her ears, she answered, “Yes.” Slowly she got up and went to check on Mato. How is Tala still up there? Calen, she understood – he had been far at the back shooting his bow, but she could have sworn Tala had been right behind Donavan when the floor fell.

“You ok?” Malika asked, quickly checking Mato for serious injuries.

“Ugh,” Mato groaned, conscious, but obviously hurt. “That took half my health.”

Never mind the rats, Malika thought. There are easier – and stupider – ways to die down here.

A rope snaked down from the sewer above, and a few moments later both Calen and Tala shimmied down, joining them on the pile of sharp shattered brick and stone. Calen immediately retrieved one of their valuable minor healing potions and fed it to Mato. In moments his more serious wounds began to close as the magic took effect.

Malika carefully checked herself, but aside from the bite to her leg, she seemed surprisingly unhurt, losing only a few points of health and being winded from the precipitous fall. Her eyes rested for a moment on the crushed corpse of the rat that had cushioned her, and she realized just how fortunate she had been – not that the wiry bundle of filthy muscle was much of a cushion, but it had probably saved her life.

The dust began to settle, and Malika took stock of her surroundings. They had fallen almost fifteen feet, landing on a rise near a rough wall of natural rock. Many tons of sewer brick, crumbling mortar, and foundation rock had collapsed down into what appeared to be the edge of a vast underground cavern, leaving a gaping hole in the darkness above and the giant pile of rubble on which she had landed, crushing the rat.

Dust covered everything, turning her skin and clothes a uniform gray. The sewer channel they had been following now formed a brand-new, disgusting waterfall that cascaded down onto the back of the rock pile, its fetid smell blending uncomfortably with the thick stench of ancient decay that infused this place.

Beyond her precarious perch, the cavern floor dropped away precipitously, opening out into a vast space filled with giant blackened and long-dead trees – some of which must have been over three hundred feet tall – that extended upward into the rock and stone of the roof. Meandering through the center of the cavern, Malika could make out a sluggishly moving river, complete with stagnant bends and ponds, and even though the entire space was dimly lit by bioluminescence, her eyes failed to make out the far end.

A little beyond the river, a dimly glowing pillar of swirling golden light shone out in the darkness as if marking that particular spot.

Is that…

“Wow, that’s… big,” Mato said, getting slowly to his feet.

Suddenly, Tala called out from the other side of the rock pile, “Well, I guess our fearless leader is gone.”

With an ominous premonition filling her with certain dread, Malika quickly scrambled over to that side, finding a pair of boots sticking out from under a rather large slab of stone, a sickening dark stain on the mossy dirt of the ground.

Malika turned away, stomach churning. While she had seen death many times, and had found Donavan to be a self-important jerk, it was still a gruesome sight. The casual, almost happy sound of Tala’s voice announcing the death replayed in her mind.

Did she… Malika shook her head trying to clear the ugly thought, but she couldn’t shake that last image she had of Tala being right behind Donavan before the floor dropped out from under her.

I need to keep an eye on her.

“We should go back to town,” Calen said.

“No, why?” Tala said, “We’re not done yet.”

Shit, I can’t go back, Malika thought as debate sprung up around her.

“Donavan was by far the strongest fighter in our group,” Calen said. “We’re too weak without him.”

“We didn’t need him anyway,” Mato snapped, fixing Calen with a deeply pained look. But his arms were folded around his body, and he shot several uncomfortable glances at the boots poking out from under the rock. “Besides, I’m a better fighter.”

“Try being objective for once, Mato. Donavan had the best armor, a fantastic sword, he was loaded with potions, and he actually had decent training,” Calen said, echoing, nearly to the word, precisely what Malika had concluded.

Mato looked away, a little sullen, but he remained quiet.

“We should at least try and get Donavan’s gear then,” Tala said.

“How exactly are you going to move all that rock?” Calen asked.

Calen’s point was well made, their group would be vastly weaker, and they didn’t even know what lurked down here in the darkness. But Malika had a far different worry on her mind. If she returned to town without a Class, she was certain Adrik and Edrik would finish up her trial by forcing her to rob everyone they could find and denying her access to the mayor’s shrine, practically ensuring she gained the thief class.

“I think we should stay,” Malika said, her mind running furiously. It was clear she couldn’t use her real reasons, but she had an idea that might convince them. “If we return, William Turner will not let us back down here with only four people, and there are no other candidates. If we don’t finish up our trial now, they won’t let us, and by then it will be too late. Likely we will get a far weaker choice because we didn’t finish the trial properly.”

“I agree with the Street Rat,” Tala said, a shade too quickly. “I mean, Malika,” she said, correcting herself.

“I like that argument too,” Mato said, perking up just a little bit. “What do you think, Calen?”

Mato’s manner surprised Malika yet again. Even though he had clearly been hurt by Calen judging Donavan to be the better fighter, he still wanted to ask the Half-elf’s opinion. She filed that tidbit away for later.

“It’s a good point,” Calen said, his eyes thoughtful. “If the rest of you want to continue, I will come too. But I think we should camp here and rest fully.”

Aliandra

The darkness loomed huge and vast, dwarfing the tiny bastion of light shining from Ali’s arcane spell. Within the golden circle, the Grove was still and quiet. Beyond it, however, a shape moved, shuffling and scratching, the sound somewhat muted and muffled, lost in the darkness, and all the more terrifying for it.

Every instinct screamed at her to run, but her legs were weak and trembled, her body still sluggish and slow.

A shiver shook her body as the rat emerged from the darkness, testing the light. Yellowed teeth were bared, and it hissed while fixing her with a malevolent gaze. It crept one step closer, wickedly sharp claws slicing easily through the damp moss-covered ground. And as more of it emerged into the light, Ali’s breath froze in her throat. It stood taller than her at the shoulder, with matted black fur covered in dirt and muck. It had to weigh many times more than she did.

She stood, rooted to the spot as the reek of rot and decay washed over her. The rat took another step forward, snout raised, sniffing at the air.

Go away! she thought, panic driving her heart to racing. But the monster was not about to abandon easy prey.

It hissed loudly and sprang toward her, jaws opening wide to bite and tear. Ali screamed and fled. And for a few brief moments, she felt a desperate hope that she might outrun it. But it was all dashed in seconds as the heavy bulk of the monstrous rat slammed into her back, smashing her body, face first, into the ground. The weight vanished as soon as it had knocked her down and the rat rolled past her, its scrambling claws tearing up clods of dirt and moss as her tiny frame entirely failed to halt the momentum of her attacker.

Ali scrambled to her feet, struggling to make her still-sluggish body move, and took off in the opposite direction, heading for the dark outline of a downed rotting tree trunk outlined by the light of a few small glowing mushrooms. Her ragged breath rasped deafeningly in her ears. Her heart hammered so hard she feared it might burst.

She had almost reached the dubious safety of her cover when a surge of pain drove her to the ground as the rat’s jaws clamped down on her shoulder. She screamed again as her own blood splashed warmth onto her neck and face and flowed down her body. Her head rattled as the rat viciously shook her. In desperation, she reached for her mana, creating a small golden sphere with her Arcane Cantrip, and flinging it blindly at the monster. The shaking and panic conspired to make her miss, but the rat flinched reflexively, releasing its hold on her.

Not knowing quite how, she rolled free and scrambled to her feet, taking off at a dead sprint. The rat shot past her as she slipped and stumbled on the still-glowing remnants and shards of her mother’s barrier magic, and she finally reached the cover of the stone shrine.

Looking around frantically, she found the dark mangy rat scrambling to its feet and turning toward her. Ali cast around through the magic of her Plant Growth, trying to find something, anything that might help her. Below the ground her senses found some roots, and, as the rat charged, she poured out her mana making them grow. Roots extended, bursting out of the ground, reaching, and tangling. But the magic was slow and the few roots that did grasp the rat’s feet were ripped aside by its powerful charge.

Ali summoned a small disk of her arcane magic, throwing it into the path of the oncoming monster, and she turned and fled into the darkness. While her magic was definitely much more powerful than she remembered, it was no match for the ferocious rat. With a snap of its powerful jaws, her magical construct shattered into fragments and the rat pressed its attack, closing in on her with terrifying speed.

I can’t…

Despair welled up in her heart at the sight of the relentless monster bearing down on her. She was not made for fighting. She never had been.

I’m too small.

Too weak.

She just wanted to hang out in the library and lose herself in an interesting book, not this nightmare of facing terrifying monsters alone in the darkness.

Suddenly, she saw her own mother’s face, as she had last seen her, and heard her last words while her body faded into mana.

“Remember, I love you.”

Her mom had not had a combat class. And she had held off a Death Knight and foiled the Lich.

In that instant, Ali’s panic and fear evaporated, replaced by a cold fury, a rage that filled her heart. Her mother had given her life to save her from that dark and terrifying Lich. Her father had left without hesitation to fight the Death Knight and buy them time to flee.

And I’m just going to give up? To die to a mangy rat? To throw their sacrifices away?

Ali screamed all her frustration and rage at the charging monster, all her powerlessness and grief, her sudden and terrifying loneliness. Its bulk slammed her to the ground, knocking the wind from her lungs, while its claws raked her body, and its teeth found her soft flesh once again. Its fetid breath blew warm on her face, and its little squeals of joy as it tasted her flesh echoed out across the Grove.

Now you’re not moving, she thought, wrapping her tiny arms around the rat’s body and hanging on with all the strength she could muster. She cast deep into the ground with her Plant Growth spell, coaxing the roots to grow up and tangle the rat while it was wholly focused on biting and tearing at her flesh. Ali gritted her teeth against the raging pain, furiously hanging onto consciousness while she poured her mana recklessly into her magic growth spell.

The roots snaked up past her legs and coiled around the rat, rapidly thickening and twisting as they grew with unnatural swiftness urged on by her nature magic. Suddenly the rat released her and began to thrash and struggle. A loud crack sounded in the darkness followed by a pained squeal from the rat as its struggles grew more frantically desperate. But it was already too late, and roots, some as thick as her arms, coiled tighter and tighter around the struggling rat. There was another crack, followed by a thrashing that left bloody furrows from its claws tearing through her skin like paper. One final crack, louder than the others, a sickening crunch, and then silence as the rat slumped in the embrace of the thick and gnarled roots twisted around its body.

A soft chime sounded within Ali’s mind.

You have defeated Sewer Rat – level 3.

Plant Growth has reached level 5.

She slumped to the ground, completely drained, her breathing ragged with pain and exertion.

How am I still alive?

Health: 4/25Stamina: 8/40Mana: 2/210

Ali stared uncomprehendingly at the numbers for a few moments, realizing just how close her reckless gambit had been. If she hadn’t stopped running, her Plant Growth would never have been able to tackle the rat. But the cost had almost been her life.

