Malika

Malika wrinkled her aching nose in vain against the overpowering stench of the sewer, but the soft soothing pulse of the healing potion’s magic was rapidly erasing her scrapes and bruises. She followed the group, hanging back and letting the more adventurous – and better-equipped – members take the lead. The flicker of their torches brought a dim, dancing warmth and light to the crumbling damp brick walls. The dank tunnel reeked of decay and filth and the slippery floor underfoot was covered in moss and decades of accumulated grime. Sluggish, fetid water sloshed quietly as it ran down the middle of the tunnel and off into the darkness, barely contained within its channel banks, but, by the chest-high stains on the walls, it seemed clear that flooding was a rather common occurrence. No surprise here, half the town used the sewer tunnels as a dump, and even the storm drains – and the river overflow – emptied into these tunnels.

I’ll probably need to take a dunk in the river after this.

The anxious silence immediately pressed in on the group, clearly evident in the lines of tension and hypervigilance of her companions. Some tried to play it off as nothing, bravado perhaps, but this was a combat trial, and they were all jumping at shadows. Malika tried to distract herself by studying her companions. The mayor had made a point of stressing teamwork and cooperation as the way to survive their combat trial, but Malika was skeptical. Perhaps the pre-organized teams would have had a better time, but she had never met any of her companions before today and it was highly improbable that teamwork would be their strength.

Case in point, she thought. Blunt and direct insults followed subtle and sophisticated barbs as Mato and Donavan’s bickering echoed from up front. Malika would not be entirely surprised if the two boys started a brawl, heedless of the dangers sure to be lurking down here. Donavan was an entitled noble, but Mato seemed particularly aggressive, and the two of them got along like oil and fire. She reflected on what little she knew of her companions. The Beastkin boy confused her. On one hand, she didn’t trust his aggressive behavior or his overly familiar manner. On the other hand, he was the only one who had noticed her injuries and the refreshing magic of his healing potion was still working to heal her much-abused body – an unexpected kindness and generosity.

Malika had a wealth of experience with injuries and being beaten up. Under normal circumstances, it might take about an hour to regenerate her mana and stamina, but health required rest. Serious injuries such as bleeding wounds and broken bones require proper healing. As if on cue, she winced at the pain of one of her ribs snapping back into place under the influence of the healing magic from the potion but tried to pass off her reaction as a stumble.

Tala seemed to be on edge, constantly looking around furtively and always touching her daggers. Malika made sure to stay far from the cat-girl. Of all her companions, she trusted Tala the least. She knew it was the association with the Town Watch, but still, she kept a sharp eye on her. And something about her felt… shifty. It was nothing overt, or even something she could explain, but her hard-won experience had taught her it was far better to trust her instincts.

The Half-elf archer, Calen, was the only party member she allowed behind her. He brought up the rear, and apart from the few brief words in the Town Hall, she hadn’t heard him speak. Malika had already identified him as too nice and too shy to be a problem.

At least they all have decent equipment. Tala’s daggers were of exceptional quality, and every item Donavan owned was masterwork quality or better. He must be wearing at least a hundred gold worth of gear, and none of it was the overly ostentatious bejeweled crap nobles tended to prefer. Nearly every item on him glittered and sparkled as Appraise lit them up, drawing her attention to the magical enchantments.

Malika glanced at her stained and torn brown cotton shirt. I’ll have to be careful when we fight. She knew she was woefully unprepared for this adventure, but armor and weapons cost money. And any money she earned quickly found its way into the greedy hands of Adrik and Edrik, no matter how hard she tried to hide it.

Click. Click.

Her heart kicked into high gear, racing at the sudden sharp, irregular skittering noises from the darkness up ahead. Donavan raised a hand in the flickering light, both he and Mato falling instantly silent, their bickering forgotten, as everyone froze.

Malika crouched, silently propping her torch up against the wall where it could shed some light into the tunnel, freeing up her hands for fighting. She quietened her breathing and strained her eyes to make out anything in the gloomy darkness up ahead. Slowly, a dark shape emerged, somehow crawling along the curved brick of the tunnel roof despite its weight. It had a rounded bulbous body with eight slender black shiny legs ending in blade-like talons that clicked against the brick as it crawled towards them. Eight shiny eyes fixated on their group as it paused.

“Level two Giant Spider,” Calen said quietly from the back.

“We all have Identify, idiot,” Donavan said.

I don’t, Malika thought, grateful for Calen’s information, but she remained quiet knowing that Donavan already saw her as a liability.

The spider’s body was about the size of a large dog, and with the broad span of its legs, it appeared quite a bit larger. Mato and Donavan both leaped forward at exactly the same time, jostling each other in the process.

“Watch out, you oaf!” Donavan shouted as he pushed Mato to the side and swung his sword upwards. His blade bit into the black carapace, raining dark ichor from the wound. The spider screeched, tucking in its legs and it dropped down directly on top of him. Donnavan let out a high-pitched squeal of pain as the spider’s fangs sank into his neck, avoiding his armor entirely.

They’re going to die. The thought sprung into Malika’s mind as she stared dumbfounded at the clumsy, botched attack. Not that she cared too much about either of them personally, but their dying here would make it infinitely harder for her to gain experience. And to gain experience, she needed to survive.

With a sharp low swing, Mato’s mace thumped against the spider’s head while it was busy biting Donavan. It recoiled, releasing the noble boy as it hissed in pain. Suddenly it charged at Mato, making a clicking scramble as its many legs clattered against the stone. Mato immediately backed up against the tunnel wall, wielding his mace in short, powerful strikes.

Malika had spent many hours watching high-level fighters drill and train in her parents’ dojo, many of whom were vastly experienced at fighting monsters. Mato’s deft manipulation of the spider showed her that he either had a deep understanding of the role of a melee fighter, or he simply had great instincts. With his position, back against the sewer wall, Calen would have a clean shot at the creature, and Malika could easily flank it.

She took a deep breath, and, mindful of the slippery floor, charged in behind the spider. She lashed out with her fist, a compact strike that cracked painfully against the tough chitinous thorax of the monster. She winced, redirecting her efforts, using a couple of quick kicks to strike the back of a more vulnerable leg joint and she was rewarded with the sight of the spider stumbling briefly.

Movement flickered to her right, and with surprising speed, Tala buried one of her daggers to the hilt in the monster’s abdomen, a broad grin bordering on ecstasy appearing on her face.

On her left, Donavan appeared, seemingly unbothered by his wound. He slashed with his sword, surprising Malika with a competent stance and an efficient strike, at odds with his first attack. The sword bit through the carapace, spraying green ichor across the side of her face and shirt. She wiped it out of her eye with the back of her hand while delivering another kick to the spider’s leg, careful to leave room for Calen’s arrows.

It wasn’t a pretty fight, nor was there much in the way of coherent strategy among them. She managed to break two of the spider’s legs, making it sluggish and list to the side before the accumulated damage from the others finally caused the monster to collapse in a puddle of leaking gore. But the fight had taught her a lot about her companions.

Your group has defeated Giant Spider – level 2.

The soft chime resonated in her mind as the monster died. My first monster kill, she thought. That could have gone a lot worse. I didn’t even break my ribs or nose again.

Mato poked at the corpse as if daring it to get up and go for another round. He was bleeding from a couple of puncture marks on his shoulders and arms, but the sturdy Beastkin seemed to be able to ignore his wounds.

“How serious is that bite? Do you need a potion?” Calen asked him.

“No, it wasn’t venomous,” Mato answered. “I just need a few minutes to recover my stamina.”

Donavan rummaged through the pack he had dropped and retrieved a potion, downing it quickly and discarding the vial into the sewer channel. “See how easy it is?” he said triumphantly. “Did you see how I took it down from the roof?”

Tala stifling a snicker turned Donavan’s expression into a scowl.

But despite the noble’s arrogance and bravado, his skill with the sword was undeniable – clearly, he had been properly trained. And his armor had turned what might have been a debilitating injury into a minor scratch.

Before Donavan could get upset, Malika asked, “How many of these do we need to kill?”

“I heard you need enough experience to gain one level before you are offered any classes,” Tala said.

“Everyone knows that,” Donavan retorted, still glowering grumpily at Tala.

Ignoring the emotional theatrics, Malika wiped her hands on her pants to remove the spider ichor. Her clothing was already stained with her own blood from earlier, so it wasn’t like she was ruining them. She found a relatively clean and dry spot and sat down to meditate while the others collected their arrows or rested in their own way from the battle. Meditation was Malika’s pride, learned early on under her father’s strict tutelage. Even though she had only been able to level it to three, it still allowed her to regenerate her stamina and mana nearly twice as quickly as normal.

Meditation – level 3Focus: Enter a meditative state during which mana and stamina regeneration is increased by +80% [35 + skill x 15]. Movement or using an active skill cancels your focus.Wisdom

While she meditated, Malika reflected on the battle. She had expected it to be much harder, but with the spider focused on Mato the entire fight, it hadn’t really mattered that she wasn’t wearing armor.

I guess team fighting really is effective. Her only regret was that she hadn’t been able to punch through the spider’s armor. Maybe with a class and a weapon… She was certain that fighting the spider by herself would likely have been suicide. Or at the very least, an extremely dangerous undertaking.

Ten minutes later, Mato stood up. “I’m ready, let’s find some more,” he announced with a grin.

“About time,” Donavan replied, picking up where their bickering had left off.

Grabbing their packs, torches, and equipment, they headed off down the tunnel. Donavan and Mato nearly came to blows arguing about who would take the lead. All of Malika’s thoughts on teams making combat easier would come to naught if those two couldn’t cooperate. But a little of the edge of the group’s tension had blunted after the successful first encounter.

After about half an hour, the tunnel they were following widened into a broad open area on the left side of the water channel. This room seemed particularly decrepit, with piles of rubble and decaying trash in the corners. Large cracks ran through the brickwork of the floor and walls and giant dusty cobwebs hung in drapes from the ceiling. Prowling the room were three oversized rats rummaging and sniffing through the piles of trash, their noses and whiskers twitching.

Shit, three, she thought, glancing back at Calen in the hope that he would identify them again. Each rat stood as tall as her waist. Sharp yellowed teeth flashed in the darkness as they rooted about in the muck for food, with their mangy matted fur bearing testament to a life lived in filth.

Donavan immediately drew his sword. “I’ll take the one on the left,” he said, and, with a loud battle cry, he charged straight into the room, drawing the attention of all three rats simultaneously.

He’s going to die, Malika thought, staring stupefied at the brash disregard for any sort of strategy or planning. She crouched, ready for anything.

But much to her surprise, Donavan’s efficient and straightforward sword technique drew sprays of blood and angry squeals from his chosen rat, while the claws and teeth of the others mostly scraped harmlessly against his expensive leather armor.

Mato, despite his continual bickering with the other boy, saved him from being mobbed by the other two rats. With two controlled swipes of his mace, he split the group, dragging the remaining two rats over to the wall, just like he had done with the spider previously.

So, it wasn’t a fluke. Once the two rats were under his control, Malika chose her moment to engage, using the same flanking strategy as before. As soon as she had chosen her target, Calen’s arrows began striking the same rat. He has a decent eye for strategy, too. Tala, on the other hand, chose to attack Donavan’s rat, effectively splitting the team’s damage.

Malika bobbed and weaved, aiming her kicks at the vulnerable joints. She might not have weapons, but a kick to the knee was still effective.

With two rats attacking him at the same time, Malika could tell that Mato was struggling, his body already bleeding from numerous bites and claw marks. He blocked one of the rats trying to bite his leg, but the second one managed to bite his exposed arm. The rat Malika was kicking lashed out in a blur, its wicked-looking claws catching Mato on the thigh and spraying crimson blood against the damp brick wall. Seeing Mato being pressured, Malika shifted her position and unleashed a rapid kick combination to her rat’s neck and shoulders, hoping to distract it from Mato.

She succeeded. A little too well. The rat twisted around and snapped at her, catching her leg. The vicious yellowed teeth sank into her calf, grating against the bone.

