The banging on the door continued but I couldn’t pay attention to it. Instead, it was the sweet sound of curse words that captivated me. Those new uncouth utterances were the final straw that allowed me to complete my Path of Linguistics - Helenian. I was now a native speaker, capable of demonstrating my mastery of the spoken word. That was, if I ever chose to talk in front of someone. To date, beyond a few single words said gleefully to my mother, I had only ever whispered to myself late at night in my cot. Just one of the ways I had progressed the Path.

The second notification came swiftly after the first and I rejoiced, expecting something amazing.

You have advanced the Tier of your Path! Path of the Completionist II (60/50)

Reward: 3 Unallocated Stats

Reading the notification left me feeling disappointed. I had hoped, given the seemingly special and difficult nature of the Path, that the reward would be better. Unallocated Stats were useful, but they didn’t feel...grandiose. My expectations didn’t align with the result, and probably like billions before me, I was left feeling a little hollow at the outcome.

I pressed my lips together and firmed my resolve. Was I going to lose my desire to grow just because the rewards weren’t as exceptional as I hoped? Hell no. I wasn’t even two years old. I had so many more years before me. While I might not be able to compare myself to others yet, I had all the hallmarks of a future powerhouse. A chance to be somebody. There was a fire in me that wouldn’t go out!

The five Unallocated Stats went straight into Talented as I clawed my way free of the blanket wrapped around me and began climbing out of my cot. I brought up my Status to see what I should work on.

Name - Sebastian

Skills (1/3)

Class - Locked

Muffled Steps (Minor) - 1

Basic Attributes

Body Features

Strength - 107

Aether Core - Minor

Stamina - 118

Aether Channels - Weak

Coordination - 111

Mental - 148

Affinity (1/1)

Aether - 100

Shadow (Strong) - 100

Advanced Attributes (1/2)

Talented - 129

Paths (9/10)

Completed Paths

Path of Exceptionalism I (50/100)

Path of Basic Numeracy X

Path of Crawling IX (8019/10000)

Path of Linguistics - English X

Path of Sneaking VII (1902/2500)

Path of Endurance X

Path of Hiding VII (2080/2500)

Path of Willpower X

Path of Stealth III (225/500)

Path of Eavesdropping X

Path of Deception V (479/500)

Path of Linguistics - Helenian X

Path of Climbing VII (1232/2500)

Path of the Completionist II (60/200)

Path of Soulstealing (0/10)

Completing my Linguistics Path meant I now had a free Path slot available. A small part of me whispered I should hold it open in the hope of getting a Path that related to Aether by leveraging my new Skill. But, I had no idea if that would work, and leaving an open slot that I could instead use for development also didn’t sit right with me. With the careful deliberation of a toddler, I decided that I would accept whatever Path was offered next, no matter how boring it was.

My feet touched the floor and I took two steps.

Path Unlocked! Path of Walking (0/10)

Every point matters. Every point matters. I kept repeating my mantra to myself as I accepted the new Path. At least it should be an easy one to complete. I went to take a step and then paused, wondering about something. It was time to conduct a test!

Instead of walking, I immediately began running around my room. I liked to believe my improved Coordination and Stamina played a factor as I managed to run laps around my cot with surprising ease. It probably helped that I had been walking for months. More importantly, I watched as the steps streamed in and notifications began flashing.

After ten minutes, I was ready to collapse. After twenty, I knew I couldn’t go on. It was almost thirty minutes before my body finally betrayed me and I tripped over my own feet, managing to fall sideways onto my arm rather than faceplant. The notifications numbed my pain.

You have advanced the Tier of your Path! Path of Walking I (383/10)…

You have advanced the Tier of your Path! Path of Walking V (383/250)Reward: +2 Strength, +2 Coordination, +1 Stamina

The steps had only started to slow down to a crawl in the last five minutes of my torturous practice. But the truth was plain to see, as far as I was concerned. It was like I was getting credit for my previous knowledge and practise. Since being born, I had wondered why my earliest Paths, Linguistics - English and Basic Numeracy, had progressed so fast. I had managed them in a fraction of the time it took to complete other Paths. My question was why? Now, I had a possible answer. Competency was a factor. The steps for Path of Walking had slowed toward the end. I had only gotten one in the last five minutes of my run, while in the earliest stages it was like I was getting one for every single step I took.

I lay puffing on the floor, filled with the knowledge that my efforts on non-Path activities wouldn’t be completely wasted. After all, running came after walking. Though doing any more of the former was the last thing on my mind.

The door creaked open as my mother swept in to find me still on the floor, curled up on my side and trying to catch my breath. I smiled for her even as she looked over my small body with concern.

“You’re sweaty my sweet boy. You don’t have a fever do you?”

Before I could answer I was swept out of the room and down the stairs. It felt good to be carried as I was still recovering from my forced exertion. You’d have thought someone like me, who had completed the Path of Endurance, would be able to run for hours. But nay, I might have a slightly improved stamina, but it was working with the body of a baby. My limits were clear as day as I was literally carried away.

When we reached the bottom of the stairs I caught a glimpse of the common room where five people were eating before we blew past them and into my grandfather's office. It wasn’t a particularly large room, maybe a few metres long and wide, made smaller by the filled bookcases lining the walls. My grandfather had other curios beyond his pipe, but they were kept in a locked glass case behind his desk which was a mess of papers, more books, and other writing utensils.

The old man glanced up, his penetrating blue eyes looking from his daughter to me.

“What’s wrong, Penny? Are the guests causing more problems?” he asked.

“No. At least, nothing I can’t handle. Bastian feels a little hot and sweaty though. Can you take a quick look at him?”

Cornelius stood, coming around the dark wooden desk to lay a hand on my forehead. I expected to feel something, anything, as he used magic on me. But all I felt was the cool touch of his slightly wrinkled hand against my flush skin.

“He’s not sick. Just tired, I think. I thought I heard him running around his room upstairs.”

Instead of concerned, my mother turned apologetic, rocking me. “Oh, I am sorry, honey. Were you trying to get out of your room? Mummy had to make some food first for our guests.”

She continued to talk to me as we exited my grandfather's office. I spun my head to get a good look around my mother’s arm back through the door, hoping to glean a little more information for future stealthy forays. All I saw was the door closing as Cornelius turned back to his papers and whatever he was doing in there.

We returned to the living room, finally giving me a good look at the ‘guests’ who had gloriously woken me this morning with their sweet swear words and loud banging on the door. They looked less rough than I expected. Three human men were crowded around a single table, talking around mouths half full with eggs and flatbread. At the second table sat two dwarves, also eating, while going over a ledger together.

“Lass, do you think you could round up a few of the locals who are looking to trade?” asked one of the dwarves, his red beard braided and hanging down onto his broad chest.

My mother paused. “I suppose, though it’s quite a walk. How long were you intending to linger?”

I tried to contain my excitement. I doubted my mother would leave me here with Grandfather, which meant this might be the first time I got to go beyond the outside of the outpost we lived in. This was my chance to see more of where we lived, and since I might be out from under Grandfather’s eyes, perhaps an opportunity to experiment some more with my skill.

“We’ll be gone before lunch, lass. How many do you reckon you’ll be able to return with by then?”

“At least four, all with goods to trade,” she replied instantly. “But if you’re sending me out like an errand boy I expect to be compensated for my time.”

The red bearded dwarf leaned back in his chair, eyeing my mother in a way that said he wasn’t looking at her body but weighing her worth, or I supposed, the worth of her time.

“What are you thinking?”

“Are you moving any food?”

By this point, everyone in the room was paying attention to the exchange, though the eyes of the human men were more lecherous than curious. I’d have poked their eyes out for looking at my mother like that if I could. Instead, I settled for a dead-eyed stare. Being small and helpless was the worst.

“Aye, lass. I’ve got a variety of honey and meat pulled from The Endless Plains, along with some herbs from the same. Nothing beyond the second floor, mind you. The rest is furs and leathers. A few alchemicals as well, if any of them dabble. And of course, I’ve enough coins to make purchases if they’ve got something I want and aren’t looking to trade.”

Something told me there was a lie within his words. I wasn’t sure what about, but the dwarf just oozed untrustworthy to my eyes. Though, maybe I was just put off by the company he kept and their beady unwelcome eyes.

“A jar of red-stripe honey then.”

“Seems a little steep, lass,” countered the red dwarf. “How about a jar of the green-wing?”

My mother shrugged. “Send one of your guards to find them then. I’ll wish them luck and return to my other duties.”

The dwarf held up his hands in surrender. “Fine, lass. Fine, no need to get all twisted about it. A jar of the red-stripe honey, but only if you can get at least four of them here to trade.”

My mother bit her lip for a moment before nodding. “Alright, but payment up front. I’ll give it back if I fail to return with at least four willing to trade.”

Stroking his beard the dwarf let the silence drag on before grunting his agreement. “Suppose you’re not going anywhere with it. Flynn, go get me a jar of the red-stripe honey.”

“Come on, I’ll show you where it is,” said one of the human males who I was assuming was Flynn as he stood and moved closer to us. His eyes never left my mother's face.

My mother matched my dead-eyed stare. Flynn sneered after a moment, shrugging and stomping out the door in his worn leather jerkin towards the Dwarven merchants’ wagon.

The second dwarf, this one with a black beard, glared at the two remaining guards.

“Any of you give the lass trouble, and it’ll be me you answer to. Assuming the Society doesn’t hunt you all down and skin you alive. Keep your friend in line if you want to see Helenica.”

I flashed a big baby smile at the dwarf. Flynn returned shortly, and sensing how the tone of the room had changed, wisely handed over a jar of honey to my mother. I could see red stripes through the viscous golden liquid. At least they named things simply.

My mother carried me into the kitchen with her, putting the honey in a cupboard before letting Cornelius know where we were going.

After setting me down long enough to pull on a warm coat for herself, my mother made sure I was similarly clothed, before scooping me back up and stomping loudly out the double doors of the outpost.

She set off, marching down the dirt and gravel track that could loosely be called a path like the stone beneath her feet had personally offended her. I couldn’t keep the smile off my face. We were going on my first adventure!