Kura scrambled to her feet, shaking her head. Three golden shadows stepped free from her body and formed a defensive perimeter against the dark. A loud groan sounded nearby, and Shiv looked down to see the blade-covered prisoner rising not far away from him. The Deathless leaned down to pick the man back up. As soon as he did, he felt a jolt of surprise flare through him as the blade-covered Pathbearer suddenly turned, swinging an arm out to claim Shiv’s life.

Two blows were delivered in that instant. The first was the blade-covered Pathbearer. He thrust a gleaming sword toward Shiv's skull, attempting to impale him through the right eye. The second was Gone. The goblin proved her staggering speed once more, bringing her claws up to intercept the blow. But where her Reflexes were Legendary, her strength was lacking. She was knocked aside—flung backward past Shiv's peripheral vision.

But she'd slowed the strike enough for the Deathless to react. By the time he caught the blade coming to claim his life, Adam had loosed six Veilpiercers into the blade-covered prisoner's chest. Then, a golden length burst out from the back of the man's head. The blade-covered Pathbearer let out a rasping gasp as his body went rigid. His legs kicked and twitched, and with another swipe, his head came free.

Behind him stood a golden shadow. A few meters away, Shiv saw Kura looking at him, offering him a nod. The Deathless reciprocated, and he realized that she was relatively serious about this whole honor-debt thing.

Beat the shit out of the right person, you might make a good friend, Shiv thought to himself with a feeling of odd disbelief. He then looked down at the blade-covered Pathbearer and snarled. “Really, asshole? I was trying to help.”

Just then, Gone appeared beside him. She prodded the unmoving body of the blade-covered Pathbearer and spat on his corpse. "Think this one saw his opportunity. Tried to take it. Tried to take it by playing possum." She looked Shiv up and down and shook her head. She was constantly vibrating from the sheer amount of speed rushing through her. "You don't go near anyone. No, you never go near anyone. Too much risk. Can't afford your death right now. We'll unbalance the fight right now."

Her words came in rapid bursts, and it took a while to decipher them. At the same time, Shiv noticed how the shadows were still held at bay.

That was when he noticed the shield wall comprised of golden shadows standing guard against encroaching blackness. Though the darkness lashed at them, the shadows of Kura appeared and dissipated, only to be replaced by another the moment after. Shiv guessed that the elven Chronomancer was constantly replacing her magical clones to avoid a buildup of depression.

As the fight reached a brief stalemate, Shiv looked at Adam and cast out his Psychomancy. The Gate Lord triggered his Commander's Foresight, and the two of them began to plot once more.

“Okay, so I managed to run into the Ascendant’s Avatar.”

“You did?” Adam asked. “Is that who killed you? I had no idea when you went down, just that you did.”

“Yeah. Calls himself Anthony. Just walked right out of the black and stuck a knife up my chin.” Shiv felt his vitality spasm. “Whatever he did jacked up some of my skills. Feels like I have a soul flu of some kind. Bastard has an Animancy dagger.”

“He does?” Adam hummed with building disquiet. “Well, we know a few things now. First, this Ascendant isn't that good with Divination. Or at least, he has a hard time using it.”

“How can you tell?” Shiv asked.

“Because he can't seem to track you very well. I noticed how a few of the others were looking in your general direction back when we were fighting the Tarrasque. I felt their Divination mana as well. They were powerful. There's still some Divination mana coming from this Ascendant, but it seems reduced somehow, as if the dark doesn't conduct it well.”

Shiv thought about that for a moment and added his own observations. “Well, it hides the Ascendant's life force pretty good too, but it's there. You can't really see it, but I managed to drain some of its vitality.”

“I guess there are costs to hiding too well,” Adam commented. “All right, so our fires work, my azure sun works, your shapeless tides can hold the black at bay, and it despises your Vitality Drain, so we have means of repelling it, but we can't just hold them in place. There are probably other Avatars coming as well.”

“Barely handling this one, I don't want to think about how we'll do against two, or three, or twelve,” Shiv grumbled.

“Or twelve,” Adam agreed with a shudder.

“So we don't wait for them to come,” Shiv said. “Listen, I have a skill that's about to evolve.”

“Again,” Adam cried aloud. “Really?”

“Yes,” Shiv said, entirely serious. “It's my Outside Context Problem.”

Just then, a few of his other skills flickered. The error notifications appeared before his vision, and something assailed his memories. Things changed in his past, and then reverted to normal. He remembered losing to the elemental golem inside Passage, burning to death within the teleportation anchor.

His Physicality skill briefly winked out, and his Legendary-Tier Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides changed to something else. Something that was little more than a stream of nonsensical letters and errors. But the change wasn't just visual; it was quite literal as well. His strength left him for a moment, leaving him as weak as he was as a Pathless, but then he was fine again.

Yet, it wasn't just his Legendary-Tier skill that was affected; his other skills were also compromised. One after another, from his Reflexes to his Toughness to his Magical Skills, his vision was filled with error notifications.

A groan escaped Shiv, and Adam's mind filled with worry. “Shiv! Shiv, are you alright?”

“No, it's the godsdamn Animancy dagger,” Shiv groaned. “My skills are acting weird. It's not affecting my Outside Context Problem, though.”

Despite all the skills that had been compromised, Outside Context Problem was untouched. It was untouched, primarily, because it was practically part of Shiv. It was unique. Shiv couldn't find it in himself, even when he rooted through his very soul using his Vitaemancy. And right now, in the heat of battle, he didn't have time to isolate whatever damage Anthony had done to him.

However, he could evolve the skill, and he could take a gamble and see where that led them. It didn't seem like they had any better options anyway.

“Alright, so next steps are evolving the skill, and…” Shiv trailed off. “Well, that's all I got, Adam. I'm going to see what I can get if I evolve this skill. I'll be honest, the situation's looking kind of fucked. The dark's all around the entire cube, so we can't exactly break out and make a run for it. Five might be able to tap into some of the Dimensionality flowing through the entire prison, but we need to find the right mithril column, and it needs to have the right spells running through it. I don't think we're going to have that opportunity when the fighting gets started again.”

“I have doubts as well,” Adam said. “Wait, you said you have a means to contact Cripple.”

Shiv's thoughts ran still. “Yeah, yeah, I do.”

“Give it to me,” Adam said. “I'll see if I can communicate with it. Let's see if it can offer us any aid. In the meantime, how are you going to level your skill quickly?”

“I was kind of hoping that you or one of the other Pathbearers could kill me,” Shiv muttered. “Most of my other skills are out of whack right now. My pillar’s on and off. I don’t think we’re going to get a better chance at putting me down than right now.”

“Alright, best let me do it.” A shudder ran through Adam's being, and Shiv realized just how much killing him might bother Adam.

“Thanks, Adam. I'd prefer to be you than someone else anyway.”

“Don't mention it,” Adam said. “Fingers crossed that the Skill Evolution will be a new level of bullshit.”

Shiv chuckled. “Well, that's a first from you.”

“It's probably not going to be the last, either.”

As their conversation came to an end, Shiv called out to the others nearby. “Hey. Adam’s going to kill me now. Don’t get spooked.”

Candles nodded sagely. He offered Shiv a flaming grin shaped from pure-white flames—which disappeared as he tilted his head in confusion after a second. “Huh? What you say?”

Adam then fired a Veilpiercer through the back of Shiv's head as his Pillar of Orichalcum stopped working. Several of the other prisoners nearby flinched, and Shiv held out his branching Vitae before Kura. He cast a telepathic thought into her, calling out, stating that Adam was doing what Shiv asked, but the telepathy broke down halfway as Shiv's skill was compromised. Even so, Kura blinked as she looked between Shiv's corpse and Adam.

"It's alright," Adam said. "We're just testing something right now."

"You have an odd way of testing things," Five noted, looking down at the gore-ridden hole in Shiv's head.

Ten strands of Vitae stretched out and drank some vitality out of Bonk. The orc winced slightly at the Deathless’s touch but just hummed to himself with amusement.

“You can take from me,” Adam offered.

Shiv waved a hand in his face. Need you in top condition, Adam, Shiv thought to himself. The Gate Lord understood and pulled his hand back. As Shiv grew closer toward resurrection, a series of notifications appeared, and his skill went over the threshold.

Pillar of Orichalcum > [Error]

Outside Context Problem 100 > 101 (Skill Evolution Reached)

Skill Evolution: Outside Context Problem (Unique) > Non-Sequitur (Unique)
