Erick was happy for the engagement, but he kept his voice even as he said, “I noticed the danger of the Blood Valleys when we culled those Reachers and Shrooms. Luckily, there were only a few of them in there. Took my apprentice four times to get in there and complete those hunts.”

“Hmm.”

Tenebrae ate a bite of his roll.

Erick had a bite of his own, and then took a sip of tea. He said, “Great tea and rolls. Palodia is a great cook.”

“She is one of the best.” Tenebrae said, “Hired her sixty years ago and though she’s come and gone a few times, she’s here, now.” His voice turned harder. “I would protect her with my life.”

Erick set down his fork. It seemed they were finally getting into the discussion that Tenebrae wanted to have.

Tenebrae set down his own fork, then said, “You should stop teaching your methods to others. Emotional magic is dangerous if only for the fact that it is rooted in force of personality, and not in actual magical theory. Your ideologies are what various accidental archmages the world over have been allowing into popular consciousness, and they are dangerous. Century after century, these ideas poison the well of true magic. Your guard, Teressa, is the most common reaction to that poisoning. An excellent mana sense, but she abandoned the idea of pursuing magic long ago, and opted to become a warrior. Your daughter is another. Popular magical ideas and your own ease of becoming an archmage have stunted her growth. I have proven that there is no one that is truly incapable of learning magic, and that your methods are dangerous. What say you against these accusations?”

Erick said, “I say that you’re somewhat right. I will stop teaching some of my ideas to others. But you’re also wrong because magic is possibility, and possibilities allow for my methods to work, as well. This gridwork is wonderful, but in the end, it is just another tool for visualization; to evoke a sympathy from the manasphere. Gridwork’s main boon is that it allows someone to put their spellwork into ink, so that the maker can see the problems they might have made for themselves, and also so that others may see that work and assist with problems that the caster cannot see themselves. My methods have none of that capability.” He added, “Yet.”

Tenebrae regarded Erick. “… Yet?”

Erick said, “Ask your questions, if you wish. We will probably go over some of what my ‘Yet’ means if you ask the right ones.”

“Very well. Then my first question is for you to elaborate what you mean by ‘Yet’.”

Erick chuckled. Then he said, “Sound exists in waves, like the surface of the ocean, where densities of particles correspond to peaks and troughs. Do you know of sound waves?”

“… Not like you do.”

“No one does. Just like no one knew of particles, not really.”

Tenebrae said, “You are too full of yourself. Alchemists have been working with the physical world for a millennium before you came along.”

“Even the alchemists and metallurgists just knew enough to get by in their jobs and to establish some rudimentary formulation and chemistry. None of them knew what they were doing aside from that it worked, or else they did know what they were doing, and they hid that knowledge from the world. None of them made magic or shared their notes with each other. Not like I did. I came along, and with a few small lectures, changed the world.” Erick said, “False modesty does neither of us favors.”

Tenebrae frowned, but he was emotionally on the edge of his seat. Erick could tell. He could tell a lot about the people around him, all the time, these days. Mostly, he edited the awful thoughts that occasionally bubbled up in his brain, like how Teressa was on the edge of leaving their little group, but she felt obligated to stay. Or how Jane resented him, and couldn’t bring herself to actually say or do anything that would give away those inner thoughts. Silverite was worried about needing to kill him, if he turned ‘evil’. The people of Candlepoint wondered if they were getting ready for war against the world, with Erick leading the way. Kiri blamed Erick for her current troubles and triumphs, and she, too, wanted him to go away, to leave her to her own devices and power, though she, too, would never have said those things. She was happy in Spur, though; Erick had checked.

Poi was the only one who wasn’t an open book, and that was nice, but Erick wondered how much of that was Poi, himself, or due to Poi’s magic allowing him to mentally edit himself. Such a thing was surely possible, right? Soul editing existed. Therefore mind editing must exist, too.

… Blood editing existed, as well. The practice wasn’t very popular in Spur, but in other parts of the world, people edited their bodies all the time. Or, at least, that’s what Erick heard. He wasn’t too sure where ‘other parts of the world’ existed.

But anyway.

And then there was Tenebrae, sitting right in front of him. Sometimes, he was as easy to read as the words on a page. Tenebrae was obviously suffering from some deep, untreated trauma, which likely had to do with a dead family. Erick guessed that they had all died long ago, each to horrible circumstances.

Normally, Erick shut off that cynical part of himself, that had recently grown so large with the introduction of Intelligence. But now, he let that part of himself out to play, to make sure that he wasn’t being played, himself.

From what he had seen, he was pretty sure that Tenebrae was a rather good man.

But still...

“Please do not pretend that I am not divulging huge ideas to you right now.” Erick said, “Elaborating on what I mean by ‘yet’ is massive. Do not do both of us a disservice and pretend otherwise.”

“… We shall see.”

“Fair enough.” Erick explained, “Sound is a wave. It is a density of energy that propagates through a medium. This world has tuning forks—” Erick grabbed an extra fork from the side, then lifted it up. With little effort, [Metalshape] turned the two-pronged utensil into a two-pronged musical tuner. “Like this one.”

Tenebrae said, “I have an entire set of those. You needn’t have ruined my silver.”

“It is hardly ruined. I’ll repair it when I’m done.” Erick tapped the tuning fork against the stone breakfast table. It vibrated with a rather normal sound. “I think I’ve tuned this one correctly to 440 waves per second, also known as 440 hertz. That is just a measurement, though; it doesn’t matter. What matters is that this little bit of metal will send out pressure waves in the air, at 440 waves per second. Longitudinal waves, to be precise. Those are compression waves; compression on particles, mind you. Transverse waves are the other type of waves.” Erick did not elaborate on those types. He did, however, cast a moving lightward into the air, showing a moving sinusoidal wave against a graph-paper-like background. “This is a representation of a soundwave, and unless my time in Oceanside was complete misdirection, then I know you have never seen this before.”

Tenebrae narrowed his eyes, and slowly nodded.

“Sound is characterized by a few things.” Erick pointed, as he continued, “In no particular order, you have:

“The speed of the sound, which is an intrinsic property of the material that the sound travels through. Sound travels faster through metal than through air, for example, because metal is denser than air; the particles are closer together, which is what makes a thing ‘dense’. Incidentally, the speed of sound in air is around 343 meters per second; though I have not taken that measurement on Veird, this is mostly what it was back home, at sea-level, and it seems to be the same here on Veird. On Veird, even way up in the sky, it might still be 343 meters per second. This is due to the Script mostly ‘evening out’ pressure throughout all of Veird.

“Anyway.

“The first characteristic of sound is frequency, which is the number of compression points in a given amount of time. High pitched voices have higher frequency. Low-pitched voices have lower frequency. There are points beyond high and low that are above or below a person’s ability to hear.

“Second, you have the intensity of sound, which is the power of that sound. This is the amplitude, or how tall the crests are. Louder sounds have higher intensity, and softer sounds have lower intensity.

“That’s all there really is to understanding how sound exists and functions. Except, I suppose, to understand that sound radiates out from where it was made in a spherical pattern, and with distance from the source, the intensity will naturally decrease as the sound expends its energy to move through its medium.

“As for why I imagine that my methods don’t work as well as yours, is that I don’t know how to let other people hear the magic as I hear the magic. Kiri barely hears what I hear. Jane even less so. I am almost a hundred percent sure that mana can vibrate with the soul, and hearing those sounds is not as simple as listening to the vibrations that channeled mana makes upon the air, which then vibrate a person’s ear drums.” Erick said, “But! I am sure that some machine, some day, will be able to understand mana and magic perfectly, and after hearing a spell, that machine will be able to copy what it hears, and thus be able to recast the spell that it heard by recreating those sounds, and eliciting a resonance with the magic that is already out there.”

Erick stopped talking. He had given away more than enough hints and truths.

He repaired the tuning fork back into a real fork. He dismissed the lightward that described wavelengths.

Tenebrae sat back in his chair, eyeing Erick, but also thinking, deeply.

Erick sipped his tea.

Tenebrae eventually said, “I was taught that sound was an aspect of Force. I was taught that Force was the base nature of reality, and that the physical detritus that composed this physical world was a necessity of the transition to this New Cosmology.” He said, “I understand, now, why you think that Force is an Element. To me, Force is just the real nature of reality which we can only experience as temporary and personal Reality. To me, you must Mana Alter Force in order to get Sound, which is what the soul hears through the physical medium of the various parts of the ear. To me, Sound is derived from Thunder which is right next to Lightning, which is an offshoot of Air and Light. It has nothing to do with ‘frequency’ or ‘particle density’… Can you prove what you say?”

“I can make a Particle Spell with the theory I just spouted; sure.” Erick said, “I already have, actually. Here.” He passed over the box for [Stillness].

Stillness X, instant, super long range, 250 mana.

Dampen all ambient physical damage in a super large area, turning that damage into light. Lasts 1 hour.

Erick said, “It used to say ‘Drop all <sound> to the level of a <speaking voice> in a super large area for 1 hour.’ But that was before Rozeta added Particle Magic to the Open Script.”

Tenebrae read, then postulated, “An application of the transformation of one element into another, or, in this case, the transformation of sound ‘intensity’ into Light. Perhaps?”

“Something like that.”

“… I see. I also see that these ‘waves’ are easily a form of maths. But you don’t like maths. What is going on there?”

“Uh.” Erick stumbled a bit, then said, “I mean… I guess. Yeah. They’re math. Not like your magic math, though. I don’t know how to translate those two systems into a working whole.”

“Hmm.”

After a moment, Tenebrae stood up, saying, “You have discharged your debt to me.”

Erick stood up, and nodded. “I hope you use this information well.”

“Perhaps. I won’t be sharing it with anyone, if that’s what you’re worried about.”

“I admit, that was a small worry, but it is good to know that we can trust each other with secrets.”

“Hmm. Quite.” Tenebrae said, “I don’t need to see you make another spell. I have seen enough. Prepare yourself for entry into the Green Labyrinth. We will be there in a few hours.”

“We’re ready.” Erick said, “Thank you again for helping my daughter with her spellwork.”

Tenebrae paused, then said, “She seems like a capable young woman, but she needs to develop proper aura control if she is to fully utilize her Prismatic Class. I have no idea how to help you with yours, but I suggest the same to you. All proper mages need proper aura control.”

“I’ve been working on it, though I do admit that aura control has dropped rather low on my current list of necessary goals.”

Tenebrae nodded, then walked off, saying, “I remember when I was like that.”
