Then, the Librarian gave Tala a hug. Tala returned it hesitantly, taking a surprising amount of comfort and stability from the gesture.

“Feel free to reach out to me if you need anything, alright?”

“Sure. Thank you. I will.” Tala was a bit overwhelmed, if she was honest. She had sort of just… responded to Mistress Ingrit’s kindness, and she felt better for having spoken her feelings out loud. Still, she felt in a bit a daze.

They walked down the long hallway and into the atrium. There Mistress Ingrit split off from her, saying goodbye as she headed for the Library.

Nearly as soon as she vanished, Mistress Jenna appeared, entering from the far side. It was almost suspiciously perfectly timed. Though, did Mistress Jenna delay to arrive after Mistress Ingrit left? Or did Mistress Ingrit leave before Mistress Jenna arrived? …Or was the timing just a coincidence?

It wasn’t like it actually mattered one way or another.

Mistress Jenna’s tone held some tension, but it still seemed genuine as she greeted Tala. “Mistress Tala. Thank you for giving me this time. I understand that things are rather… hectic for you at the moment.”

Tala felt a flash of memories: Illie’s death, the Leshkin, Gretel’s death, progress toward her Reforging, Master Girt, Eskau Meallain, and now Lea… Yeah… “That’s a rusting understatement.”

Mistress Jenna gave a small smile. “Indeed. Come, come. We shouldn’t discuss such things out here.”

She waved a greeting to the receptionists in the central desk area of the Archon Compound’s atrium, and they waved back in greeting. Then, Mistress Jenna led Tala deeper into the hallway.

They got to the woman’s office without any incidents or difficulty. After the door closed, Tala felt some privacy magics engage around the space.

“Coffee? Tea?” Mistress Jenna offered Tala some refreshments.

“Coffee, please.” She did her best to relax. This was meant to be an informal discussion, a quick meeting between the two of them.

“Of course.” Mistress Jenna pulled a steaming mug from thin air.

“Thank you.”

The two women sat, and Mistress Jenna locked eyes with Tala. “Now, Mistress Tala. We really must be frank with one another. The simplest course of action at this point is to scrap the automaton and move past all of this.”

Tala froze, coffee halfway to her lips. “Excuse me?”
