"I've a penchant to agree with you. Elysium wouldn't have struck without knowing they'd destroy Schema. They'd alert the AI to their knowledge, allowing the machine to relocate across the galaxy after the failure to destroy him."

Althea frowned.

"Sorry, I don't mean to shoot your idea down, but that assumes Schema stays in one place. If it were me, I'd be on a ship out in the middle of nowhere."

Torix spread his hands.

"No need for apologies, and that's an excellent idea. It's far more difficult to discern a mobile location. Assuming you're right, then Elysium's assault becomes even less likely. The Old One's are the most obvious solution, but why would they attack Schema?"

I frowned.

"Maybe they're not even interrupting the AI. I mean, think about it. For some reason, Old Ones use avatars to interact with our universe. I think it has to do with fragility - if they come here, everything is wiped by their size and magnitude. They take small fractions of themselves and put them into things here so they can run rampant within pre-determined limitations."

I crossed my arms.

"But there's no way they get those limiters right every time. At any moment, the situation around them could spiral out of control. I think we're getting caught up in one of those spirals."

Plazia simmered.

"We may conspire to random outcomes endlessly. This is meaningless."

I raised a hand to him.

"Eh, it's good to have our thoughts out there. We may get ahead of whatever's coming that way, but yeah, let's not sit on this for too long. What needs handling first?"

Althea pointed up.

"I say the moon."

Torix nodded.

"It's the most volatile situation by an order of magnitudes."

I peered at Plazia.

"More than the eldritch?"

Plazia scoffed.

"I cannot stop this eldritch for reasons outside of strength. Some entity accelerated its growth, and some viel of protection ceases my pursuit. Otherwise, killing it would be a simple proposition."

I hated the Old Ones. Torix rolled a hand.

"Just as well, the moon situation truly needs to be seen to be fully understood."

I nodded.

"Then let's go."

Althea stepped up.

"Do you mind if I come with you?"

I shrugged.

"If you think it's safe enough, by all means."

The executive clapped his hands together.

"Perfect. We have our ace problem solver at the helm, so we can rest easy. Sorry about suddenly leaving, but I've got a lot of projects on hold right now, so I'll see myself out."

We said our goodbyes before Plazia murmured.

"Perhaps some unknown being won't ruin Earth as they've tried ruining Blegara."

The hivemind cackled.

"Good luck."

He closed the call, leaving Torix, Althea, and me standing in a circle. Torix put his hands on his hips.

"Now, may I see the skill you worked so hard to create? My curiosity is killing me, as it were."

I opened my status.

"Pshhh, are you kidding me? Of course."

I turned my skill description to him.

Infinity | lvl 468 - Within the finite, there exist concepts that bind mortals. Time. Death. Eternity. These are mere ideas that sentients touch upon, but they may never grasp them fully. You've unraveled these truths as lies, and in unveiling the ineffable, you've become an entity without limit.

Infinity augments temporal manipulation, the number and volume of the user's psyches, and the conversion of matter into energy. This skill also enhances the user's assimilation of cipheric alterations, their efficiency, and the stability of the user's soul. Finally, Infinity allows for a grander scope of one's mental composition and augments the user's ability to suppress domains.

Current Effects:

46+ Endurance, +46 Willpower, +23 Perception, +23 Intelligence, and +11 Luck

+46.8% to Time manipulation, mental power, and conversion of energy types | +23.4% to cipheric augments, their stability, and the user's soul | +11.7% to mental remapping speed and domain suppression.

-18.72% to the mana cost of Infinity

Torix shook his head.

"Marvelous skill description. It's rather mysterious. I understand most of what it dictates control over, but what of domain suppression?"

I shrugged.

"I'll be honest. I don't know what that part's all about. I have a few ideas but nothing concrete."

Althea scratched her head.

"There's more influenced stuff in this skill than most legendary skills."

Torix nodded.

"That's likely due to the unknown skill compendium. Schema might've grafted on extra bonuses as a compensatory gesture."

I squeezed a hand to a fist.

"I don't think so. I think the skill is simply that powerful."

Torix cackled.

"Oh, I like the newfound confidence. That being said, what makes you so certain of its outsized impact?"

"The raw numerical difference on my mind."

Torix's eyes flared.

"Is there a specific number of psyches currently? Unless you'd rather not say, of course."

I waved the concern off.

"I don't mind. There's sixty-two of them."

Althea and Torix gawked at me. Althea murmured.

"What? Are they...Like, doing stuff while we talk?"

I leaned back.

"Of course. I have twenty in my dimensional wake, twelve pulling mana from elemental furnaces, and ten more putting the energy into my cipheric runes. The others are researching the cipher. In fact, I rarely have them idle since I have a lot of work that needs doing, and it needs to be done all the time."

Torix tilted his head.

"So it's as if we're talking to a shard of you but not the entire whole?"

I frowned.

"Hm, not quite. They're all me, and I'm all them. We operate in tandem, like different Daniel's, experiencing fifty timelines at once. I distribute the knowledge out as I acquire it, increasing my general cognition."

I scoffed.

"Thought, that depends on who you ask. I think most people would consider me as dumb as rocks, and they're probably right. If you combine all of that experienced time with my actual temporal magic, then conversations like this feel so short-lived. I even have to speak slowly so that I don't sound differently to you two."

Torix nodded.

"I've noticed that at times. Occasionally, your voice becomes higher pitched and rapid."

Althea frowned.

"Are you saying talking to us is a chore? Because if you are, then, well, that hurts my feelings."

I scoffed before peering into the distance.

"It's not that. I love talking to you both. It's just getting more difficult to measure time out. My sense of how long something takes isn't reliable these days. It's so warped that I can hardly tell the difference between a minute and a day anymore. Sometimes, I worry that years will pass in the blink of an eye while I hone myself like a machine."

My eyes grew distant.

"It's kind of scary, actually."

Althea and Torix stared at each other. Torix coughed into a hand.

"Are you...Feeling poorly at the moment? A bit under the weather, perhaps?"

I raised my hands.

"If I seem off, it's cause I'm still pulling myself out of my meditation from earlier. It was a hard thing to dive into a cognitive task so deeply. It's like pulling myself out of a pit to get myself back to normal. Whatever normal is these days."

Torix's eyes flashed purple for a moment.

"Hm. Do take care of yourself, disciple. We'll need you in the future...And as you are, not as a machine."

I put a hand on his shoulder.

"You'll always have me, and thanks for the concern. Really though, I'm fine."

Torix peered at my eyes. He sighed before turning to a side room where students gathered.

"It's good to hear that. Now, I'm off to finish a few lectures and maintain our guild's expansion operations. This Canada they speak of is apparently a frozen wasteland for the most part. It's difficult to arm our members with the appropriate supplies to pierce its icy depths. A competent individual must be the spearhead of such a drive, so do excuse me."

Torix walked to his lecture hall before I turned to Althea.

"Thanks for coming with me. I'd be lonely otherwise."

She grinned, a mischievousness glint in her gaze.

"Even with sixty other Daniels keeping you company?"

I rolled my eyes.

"Talking to yourself is like drinking from a mirage in the desert. For a moment, you feel better. Once the wind scrapes your face and the sand burns your dry mouth, you're only left more empty on the inside."

Althea put a hand on my cheek.

"Well, let's be glad you have me then."

I put my hand on hers. I smiled.

"It's hard not to cheer up hearing that."

We set out of the upper floors of Mt. Verner, passing through the tunnels in seconds. Finding ourselves outside, we glided towards the warp drive at Springfield's center. Althea's wings sliced through the air with friction placed perfectly where she wanted it.

"You know...You have me worried."

I frowned.

"I know."

"It's like...I know you'll be fine. You always are, but this time, it really feels like you're stepping away from me. From all of us."

"I'm going to be right here. You know that."

"I do, but you're so different now. Every few months, it feels like I'm talking to an entirely different person."

"Do I sound that way?"

"No, but you feel different. It reminds me of a soldier after his first real kill. After they do it once, the next time is much easier, but it changes them. It makes them have this unseen pain, and that's kind of what's happening with you even while we're talking right now."

A desire to share my experience crossed over me.

"Do you want to see what's causing it?"

She grabbed my hand.

"I do."

We changed our direction, gliding over toward a silent, dark hill. This hill oozed with a feeling of death, like the site of some ancient battle where fallen specters screamed for retribution and vengeance. No sound ebbed around the mound, birds silenced, and insects quiet. It was an odd solemnity, but I understood its source.

Before Shalahora arrived, I turned to Althea.

"There's two reasons, really. The first is this."

I shared the space of my soul with her. She perused the mental web, finding a torturous, splintered framework. The sheer burden I experienced at all times overwhelmed her in seconds, and she jerked herself away from me. As she stumbled back, I peered down at her, my face solemn.

"Sorry...I didn't mean to make you uncomfortable."

She winced and shouted.

"What in the hell are you doing to yourself?"

My eyes glowed from mana saturating my blood.

"I'm working."

She took a few breaths before standing up. She brushed herself off.

"Uhm...I'm sorry about that reaction. It's, uhm, just a lot, you know?"

Sadness leaked into my voice.

"Oh, I'm well aware. It's hard to describe to other people. They assume that each of my minds experiences exhaustion, pressure, and pain on an individual basis. They want to think that my many psyches actually make my toil more like giving a city a job rather than a person. That's not the case at all."

She hugged an arm to her side.

"It just lets you try even harder, doesn't it?"

A gentle amusement came over me.

"That's exactly right. If I lacked my raw stats, it wouldn't be feasible for me to tolerate this. I couldn't think this hard. I couldn't balance all of my parallel thoughts into something cohesive. I wouldn't be able to absorb this exhaustion, discomfort, and pain. It would overwhelm me in moments."

Althea raised her hands.

"Then why do it at all? You're already the strongest person in the guild."

"But that's just it. Shalahora is far stronger. Plazia may be as well, and they're nowhere near as powerful as the enemies I've chosen for myself. And just as well, I have this ability. It's my responsibility to use it."

Althea's face gnarled.

"But it's so much to put on yourself. Why put yourself through this when there must be an easier path?"

I smiled.

"I don't want my path to be easier."

She frowned.

"Isn't that what you're doing for your guild? That's like, 90% of what we do. We make life easier and better for the people we look after and care for. You know, you deserve that same grace, right?"

I peered at the skyline of Springfield. More skyscrapers grew after my absence. They touched the clouds in places like silver fingers waving through clouds of steam. I nodded.

"I want that for them, but I don't want that for me."

Althea scoffed.

"How does that make any sense?"

My gaze grew distant.

"You remember my talk with my father. He and my mom always tried to make me into this evil figure that splintered their family and caused the rifts that ruined their lives."

"And they were wrong."

"Very. However, even if they never intended to, that made me into who I am today. I wasn't made by my armor, my status, or my trees. I was made in a broken home and a dark cave. The struggles I found were what forged me, not the easy moments. That's why I have to endure this. I need to become something that even the Old Ones will fear."

Althea wrung her hands.

"I know you can. I just don't know if you should."

I turned a palm to her.

"I don't know anyone else who can, so I must."

Althea frowned.

"Is that the only reason? Because I don't think it is."

My words flared as spoke.

"You're right. I do have a sense of duty, sure, but there's more to this. The Old Ones think of me as one who is beaten. As a fool who has no sense of scale or understanding of the universe. They imagine me small because that's all they know of me, but they're wrong."

My smile grew fierce.

"Baldowah. Eonoth. Even my mother and father. Everyone who ever thought I was nothing, I'll show them exactly who I really am, and it will be undeniable."

The beginnings of fear came over her face.

"That uh...That sounds personal."

I walked over, and my smile turned gentle once more.

"That's because it is. I've been given this armor, this mana, and this ability. To me, I still think almost anyone else could've done a better job with it. They could've been more creative, more talented, and more effective. That's because I've never been intelligent or strong."

Althea went to disagree, but I raised a hand and continued.

