“No, sir. I just believe she's a good person.” The secretary said. “She'll come through for you. I just know it!”

Edward looked down at the financial empire that Haddon Enterprises had become, quite literally overnight, and he knew he could never overcome the sheer economic firepower that was poised against him.

“Send a message to Elise Stanford.” Edward said. “Tell her I... I want to discuss terms of surrender.”

“I don't think you need to be that dramatic about it, sir.” The secretary laughed. “I'll give her the message.”

Edward thought he had used just the right amount of drama and smiled. “I doubt she'll be able to respond right away with everything on her plate right now, so don't make it sound urgent.”

“I understand, sir.” The secretary said and disappeared again.

*

What Elise had on her plate right then was sleep. She was sound asleep next to the man she loved, after having secured his financial future and ensured that Ren didn't have to worry about money ever again. Not that he had ever worried about it, anyway. It was one of the things she loved about him. Once he had enough to not worry about it, he didn't worry about it. His trusting nature was as endearing as his fluffy hair was, and she revelled in both every chance she got.

Barbi laid on Ren's other side and she was sound asleep, too. She had been up just as long as Elise had been and needed just as much sleep. She never imagined that she would be cuddling up to Ren, though. Unlike him, she had trusted too many people and been burned too many times, so she was cynical about every decision that affected her and she was careful in how she dealt with those decisions... until Elise offered her a job.

Barbi thought it would have been a week of hard work to get everything set up and running as Ren's public relations specialist, then the work would probably slack off and she would be left with lots of spare time. She was delighted that the job was much harder than she had anticipated and that she needed nearly all of her acquired skills and contacts to keep and maintain everything that was going on.

Despite the job being difficult, Barbi had been pleasantly surprised about how easy it was to work for someone on a personal level. It was so different from her normal experiences, with office politics and backbiting by her coworkers to try and get ahead, and none of that existed in her current job. She felt like she was her own boss, and she made decisions and just informed Elise and Ren about them, rather than being told what to do and how to handle it.

Barbi liked that. She liked it a lot. She didn't remember any other time in her life when she had been happier to go to work. She was actually eager to face the next challenge and she knew she could meet it head on with both confidence and skill. The people around her while she worked didn't fear her abilities or had fake personalities for her to deal with. They were open and honest and made her feel welcome as soon as she had met them, and that made her happier than she had ever been.

It hadn't taken Barbi long to decide that she would do everything she could to help them as much as possible in her field of expertise, and she did it with aplomb. Her job was to maintain Ren's public persona; but, she knew the others were just as involved with his public persona as she was, and she made sure that none of them, herself included, could be seen in a negative light.
