Magnus sighed, looking more relieved they hadn’t pushed him to try again with a younger animal. “My Talent is a real piece of work, but I’ve always been a pretty cheerful guy and I didn’t want to lose that. It was probably closer than I’d like to admit. Still, the experiment was a success. The goats know what happens, and they volunteer. I also try not to call on them that often. It’s hard to kill a creature so loyal, even if they knowingly consented to a slightly shorter life span near the end. My Talent thankfully doesn't care about emotions too much. I’ve read the histories of Vinna the Carver and don’t want anything to do with chasing strong reactions like terror.”

Matt winced at the name of one of the most prolific serial killers during Manny’s early reign.

Part of the reforms both Manny and his father had pushed through limited immortals' direct interference with a mortal's life to shape it to better suit them. Mainly, it was to prevent an immortal setting themselves up to save the day in a heroic, but ultimately false, grand gesture.

Usually, love-struck idiot immortals who had already been rejected, or thought they would be rejected, decided to pull strings behind the scenes, engineering a scenario where they could win over their heart’s desire.

It was rarer now, but it still happened. Vinna the Carver had done something similar, except instead of love or anything even remotely positive, her Talent best harvested negative emotions and she was happy to oblige. Undetected for centuries Vinna would insert herself into people's lives. A new work friend, a new girlfriend from out of town, a boss, an underling, she put herself wherever she could best interact with her target. From there she would dismantle the person's life, harvesting the negative emotions as things constantly went bad for the target.

Because those types always escalated, that wasn't enough. She didn’t just stop after getting a harvest she started capturing people and carving her victims into pieces, extracting every ounce of terror and hatred she could before moving on to her next victim.

While long dead, her memory was hardly forgotten for immortals and it acted as a warning from the Empire on anyone considering such behavior.

Once more, Matt’s instincts told him the seeker in front of him was downplaying his Talent, but Matt didn’t speak as Liz started to talk about various rituals she knew that might assist Magnus.

Seeing she was going to talk shop, Matt followed everyone else to the bridge where they needed to make a decision.

The three inner planets had immediate rewards, but promised fights. There were either already teams on both worlds, or teams would undoubtedly arrive while they were harvesting, making it a surefire fight.

Matt wouldn’t mind a good brawl so he could test his newest ideas about his Power, but all of the rest of the crew wanted to avoid the fight and go for one of the deeper-in worlds.

He understood the logic, but felt they were selling themselves short. Sure, a higher-Tier exploration team could pass them by and defeat or even kill them, but it would prove very difficult given the two teams of Ascenders.

Officially they, not Lila’s guild or even Lila herself, were in charge of all such decisions. But despite being Ascenders, they all knew they weren't the experts there. At least not on such exploration matters.

So after hearing everyone's opinion, they chose the third world Lura had found as their first target. The fact that if they didn’t hit it meant it might not be explored combined with Magnus’ divination confirming there was something of exceptional value there, pushed it over the edge. Doubly so when it was on the path of one of Magnus’ high-value worlds deeper in, and if the predictions weren’t wrong, they could hit it while not going too far out of their way.

Settling in they prepared themselves for whatever they might find.
