"Did to you, mostly," Bonk corrected.

Shiv closed his eyes and used his Psycho-Cartography skill to convince himself not to punch the orc in the head.

"To me, yeah. So, with my first-hand experience dying over and over again at the hands of that giant bullshit monster, I think we're going to need everyone to keep its attention and finally kill it. That," Shiv let out a sigh, "and I need to figure out how to deal with all that Vitae keeping it alive. It spends a little bit of vitality every time it resurrects, but a little bit is not going to cut it. I need to do what Sullain did to me just now."

The Deathless thought back to how the Vicar had ripped Shiv's vitality out of him by shifting it into that thin membrane, infusing the world with it.

How the hell does that work? Shiv thought to himself again.

Bonk tutted chidingly. "You must be more ambitious, Insul. Sometimes, we can have a pound of flesh and eat it too."

"What do you mean?" Shiv asked.

"I mean that it's going to be awfully hard for you to contend with the Tarrasque as barely a True Hero. That Legendary skill would matter a great deal. So…" The orc smiled as he let his words trail off. "I think that many things can happen at the same time.”

Shiv thought for a second, considering their options. "A heist?"

"Yes," Bonk said. "We should recruit a Dimensionalist. If I can find a living orc Dimensionalist, great. If I can't…" He licked his lips. "Well, that's the reason why we should visit the inquisitors’ flying fortress first. That surfacer Legend won't suspect them. And they are going to be a problem sooner or later. Best we spend them against the Tarrasque.”

Shiv let out a grunt of agreement. "Yeah. Alright. Fine, Bonk: I'm listening."

"First, you may want to help us survive that massive wave of fire."

And just then, Shiv noticed how close the destructive tidal wave sweeping the world was getting. Shiv magnified his vision into the approaching mess and snorted with derision. "Yeah. Alright."

Then Shiv began accelerating toward certain death.

Bonk looked at him. "What are you..."

"Relax, Bonk," Shiv said, as he prepared to manifest his pillar. "Just keep talking about your plan to free everyone and get me that Legendary Skill…”
