Vorathrex was inching closer to the edge of the circle, scripture blazing. The big demon was studying the script, head tilted. He started to reach out with one hand toward a symbol before catching himself and pulling back.

Does the big guy know something? Or maybe he just feels something like me?

Various violet rocks with that same dizzying orange demonic scripture rose from the ground. When they finished, two circles spanning five and then ten meters across filled the space inside where the ritual circle had marked out.

"Is what you said earlier true? About humans coming here?" asked Vorathrex.

Kairon looked to his right, making eye contact with the larger demon. "It is."

Vorathrex let out a satisfied grunt. "Then that," he said, pointing with one of his big meaty hands, "is going to come in handy."

Kairon arched an eyebrow. "You care now, huh?"

"I am to train and fight. So yes. I do."

"Mhmm," replied the city lord noncommittally. Bending down, he crouched beside one of the newly risen spawning ground stones and studied the characters.

I recognize those two symbols... The same sequence. He pulled up his memory of the ritual circle from last night and nodded shortly. I'm sure of it. After I deal with this big oaf, I need to find something to sketch with. Perhaps a sharp stone and some bark would do. I now have three different demonic circles, with remaining scripture. Enough to start connecting and cross-referencing.

Dusting off his scales, he rose. Kairon immediately sent the five wood imps off for their afternoon work, Shiny in the lead. With the loss from last night, he decided that keeping the hunting squad up to four members took precedence.

Maybe I should speak with the little guy soon. After he's had a little more time to process the loss. Kairon wasn't certain the imps truly understood more than fear, hunger, and orders. Shiny seemed to, but the others. He shook his head. Later.

Once the spawning grounds had fully risen from the tear in space, the purple light blinked out of existence.

Suspecting what he needed to do next, Kairon placed one claw against the cold stone of the new building. Immediately, a notification appeared:

"It seems we only have a single option. Wrath imps. Have you seen those before?" Vorathrex was still standing behind him. If someone would know of it, it'd be him.

Without waiting, Kairon went ahead and selected the spawn choice. Free was free. A countdown timer began, and in the middle of the circle, a faint purple light began to pulse.

"Yes. They are weak, but so are humans," replied Vorathrex.

Kairon nodded. "I have already begun the process. Interesting, that spawning these doesn't require a cost. I figured we might have to pay a measure of coin for them."

Vorathrex just stared at him carefully for a moment, before shaking his head. "Fledgling, do you know what this city is? Why does the plane grant its power?"

"Actually, now that you mention it, no I really don't. The way we got here was quite... unorthodox."

"The demonic plane has plans. You are only a small part." Vorathrex scratched his head. "Sometimes, it bends rules."

Kairon smirked. "Isn't that what you would call weakness? Rule bending?"

The big demon looked decidedly uncomfortable. "I'm not certain." He hesitated, then, mind made up, continued on. "But know the plane has desires. Its own. I do not know them. But..."

"But?" prodded Kairon.

"Each demon comes from the plane. When you summon something, you are invoking its power. That carries its own consequences."

The city lord turned this over in his head, reflecting on the warning. And despite last night's unfortunate events, Kairon was actually enjoying his company. It was, after all, the most complex conversation he'd had in a while.

Kairon rubbed his claws together. "That's... quite a lot to unpack. And frankly, I hope we're here long enough for you to tell me all about it. But for now, we've spent over two weeks before you got here just gathering the resources it took to get this far." He paused, making sure Vorathrex was following along, before continuing. "I don't have any intelligence confirming this, mind you, but I'm pretty sure we have less than four weeks at best until we are attacked by a large group of humans. I really don't know how many. I suspect at least fifty. Maybe a hundred. I don't know."

Vorathrex simply grunted, something Kairon was coming to understand was his norm.

"I am going to make you my provincial councilor of War. In reality, that title doesn't mean anything. But in the future, it may. What this means is that I'd like you to make good on your agreement from yesterday. With wrath imps being spawned soon, you will see to their training. And, with the potential attack coming, advise me on matters of military."

"Does this mean I can consume the humans?"

"If by consume you mean fight, yes. Assuming they are here for war. If they come in peace, you may not. Is that clear?"

"You would make peace with humans?" Vorathrex nearly spat the words.

"I..." Kairon paused, considering how to best phrase his reply in a way his new military leader might understand, "would consider it if they prove their strength and if they can make us better for it."

The orange eyes staring at him glinted. "You are learning, I see. Strength is good."

Kairon gestured quickly. "Yes, well. I do try." The city lord sighed, taking a seat and leaning up against one of the large rocks from the spawning circle. The cold stone felt nice under the morning sun.

He thought about the current situation. Especially as it related to food. If they had maybe four weeks, the circle could spawn around thirty wrath imps. Assuming he could find a way to feed them all, build a camp to increase the population limit, and not lose any during that time.

If they had the materials and food, that number could actually be substantially bigger with a second or even third spawning grounds. But that leaves gold. Everything always comes back to gold. With only 100 gold left, that was enough for two universal buildings or a single district one.

"Vorathrex..." Kairon began, waving his claw. "Tell me, what exactly do you want? Other than squashing me and my imps, of course. Is all you truly desire to consume?"

"Mmfh. No. Consuming is good. But worthy foes are what truly makes my blood boil."

"Oh now, that I might be able to help you with. My imps were injured recently in the northern forest by a great beast. Something attacked them, and I haven't been able to get what out of them. Even when I try ordering them to tell me, I get nothing. Maybe you could find what you seek there?"

And if it's what I'm hoping, buy us some more time with our food shortage. I could ask the big guy to go hunting directly, but I get the feeling he'd see it as some kind of slight.

"Could you handle whatever it is? I don't think any of the imps are able to."

The big oaf's nostrils flared as he breathed in, sniffing the air. "Nothing I smell is beyond me. I will seek out this beast. If it is a worthy opponent, I will hunt."

Kairon hummed thoughtfully and nodded. "Good. Why don't we start meeting each morning to catch up. Call it a council meeting." By the time that's done, we should have some wrath imps for him to train.

Vorathrex huffed, which Kairon took as a new type of grunt, and walked off. Presumably to get started right away.

The city lord watched, eyes narrowing at the back of the bulky form plodding off to the north. This investment is already paying dividends. Soon, though. I aim to have the full repayment.
