Tala barely got her left arm up and in the way in time, the end wrapping around her gauntlet.

It was odd, having the white steel filled with Eskau Meallain’s power pressed hard against—even trying to dig into—the metal filled with Tala’s. It was almost as if their power was pressing against one another, sparking and jockeying for dominance.

In this space, Tala could have utterly overridden Eskau Meallain, taking her weapons’ material for herself, but that would, once again, ruin the point of the clash.

As Tala pulled back against the tug of the whip, she watched Eskau Meallain split off tendrils of white steel.

The first effectively lassoed her own leg, pulling it up and allowing the woman to jerk her hip back into place with a disquieting crunching squelch.

Then, with threads so thin and dexterous that Mistress Cerna would have been proud, Eskau Meallain’s cheek bone was pulled outward, back into place, and the flesh sutured closed.

Finally, the last act was one only possible due to the elf’s true elevation, suppressed and bereft as she was. Even so, Tala would have said it was impossible.

All of Eskau Meallain’s power, from all throughout her body rushed together, compacting and amplifying until the woman’s power hit Revered in a very tiny area, specifically that of her damaged eye.

With a flicker and a flash, all the power vanished, used up to execute a self-replenishment of the flesh.

The next instant, Eskau Meallain had sucked in new power, back to the maximum allowed her, the over-abundance of the surrounding zeme allowing such a quick acquisition of power.

Well… I did not expect her to be able to do that.

-Yeah… maybe she isn’t quite as restricted by our strictures as we believed?-

That’s… concerning. It dances on the edge of what we forbid without actually crossing the line.

If the small smile on the elf’s lips was any indication, she had very purposely demonstrated that little trick.

Even after the white steel sutures pulled free once more and flowed back down to rejoin the whip, barely a handful of seconds had passed.

Tala could have attacked in that time, but this wasn’t a life and death fight. She wasn’t trying to take every possible advantage. It was meant to be a sparring match, and it only made sense to let the other woman recover between clashes.

Eskau Meallain gave an appropriate bow even as she pulled back her whip. “I concede that the first round goes to you, Eskau Tala. Shall we go again?”

Tala immediately gave a decisive nod. “Of course.”

Lea was tucked in close to Rane, with her eyes glued to the combatants. She didn’t seem to want to miss anything.

That made sense. After all, there was more violence to be had.
