Fifty-thousand heavy infantry was bad enough, but word arrived from OuYang Yuhuan saying that the Enemy sets of blue or yellow armour were Runic in nature. Fighting Defiled with any sort of armour was already bad enough, but how was he to deal with so many Champions wearing nigh-impenetrable brigandine? A cursory glance told him at least a tenth of the Enemy elites were garbed in Runic Armour, a mind-boggling ratio never before seen in any fighting force in history, so not only would Hongji’s forces have to face the Defiled soldiers while exhausted and outnumbered, they would also be under-equipped to boot. Even without mentioning the too-many demons standing in plain sight and the many more which could be hidden beneath the earth or Concealed in shadow, Hongji had long since cast aside all hopes of victory and instead fought to hold until the requested reinforcements arrived.

One day, nay, a mere twelve hours should be long enough, assuming his fellow Field Officers weren’t dragging their feet. Had he known the Enemy’s elites would arrive bedecked in Runic armour, he would have damned the consequences and set fire to the plains a day ago instead of holding out for a bigger army of Defiled to march out in force.

Though a massive pain in his ass, Hongji was pleased to see the Society finally do something right as they extracted the tattered remnants of his first-line defenders with relative ease, though they lost the outermost walls in the process. Most of those rescued soldiers were under Hongji’s direct command, and while it pained him to see how they’d been bloodied and battered, he swelled with pride to know they remained unbroken as they filtered back towards the healing tents. Though initially worried about handing control over to an untried youth, he was indebted to Tam Taewoong for taking care of his people so well, the young man covered in the blood of his allies and enemies alike as he carried two injured soldiers away from the battle, his eyes grim, but resolute as he sat to rest and await his return to battle. The stench of blood wafted through the air as Healers swarmed about to stabilize the dying, and the pragmatic commander in him advised he should leave the worst off to die and focus on those who could still fight. Ultimately, he was unable to give so callous an order, and though it might doom his people in the end, he could not give up all hope just yet.

For without hope, there was only despair, and such dark, desperate times lent credence to the Father’s whispered lies.

Putting the pained cries and suffering groans out of mind, he returned his focus to the battle at hand. Eager and well-rested, the Society forces quickly retook the foremost walls with a zealous counter-attack. A mistake in his opinion, for the lost ground was less valuable than the stamina of Sinuji’s defenders and he still had a third line of walls, but the improved morale could not be neglected as the soldiers cheered for their figureheads. Han BoSha, Situ Gulong, and a smattering of OuYang something or the others, alongside a few other prominent names from forgettable factions. Knowing he now had three Patriarchs and however many Experts guarding the battlements, he finally found time to turn his attentions back to the flanks. The southern flank was largely intact, though this was mostly due to a lack of Enemy interest. Perhaps he could use them for something, though ordering them to sally forth and assault the Defiled horde would be consigning them to death, especially with the Enemy’s armoured battalion still lying in wait.

More worrisome was the northern flank, which threatened to collapse at any moment. The lion-hearted Mister Rustram continued to hold the line, barely out of breath despite having fought since the battle began. Despite his best efforts, the mounting Defiled pressure had pushed his line back and stretched his people thin, forcing him to commit every available soldier to holding a massive clump of Defiled warriors in place. The cavalry had yet to enter the fray, but for good reason: the Enemy cavalry outnumbered them and were waiting for them to commit. If the Imperial forces moved against the Defiled horde, then their gajashia-mounted cavalry would intercept, and in a match up of lances, victory was usually decided by who charges whom. Thus, the cavalry were stuck in a deadlock and the battle on the northern flank rested squarely on the shoulders of their infantry. Situ Jia Zian flourished his blades and Han BoShui crushed his enemies, while Wu Gam fought with impassive fury and Du Min Yan scythed through her foes, but regardless of their gallant efforts, Hongji knew they danced upon the knife’s edge. If the Enemy broke through that thin, wavering line of Imperial soldiers, then the entire camp would fall as Falling Rain’s allies were engulfed by the horde of savage desert tribesmen.

Cold dread surging through him, he cursed himself for not checking in sooner and Sent word to Mister Rustram of incoming reinforcements, but to his surprise, a reply returned shortly after. “Call-sign ‘Mister’ reports: No need for support, all going to plan,” was the message Hongji’s aide relayed, and not moments later, he understood why. The battle came to a standstill as all of Sinuji shook underfoot, a minor disturbance emanating from the precarious northern flank. Still Scrying their position, Hongji’s jaw dropped as a wall of shifting earth rose between the Defiled and Imperial lines, pulling the ground away from under the very feet of the Enemy. Crashing forward like a rolling wave of dirt and debris, the ground opened wide and swallowed the Defiled attacks, dragging hundreds, if not thousands down to rest in its dark, crushing embrace. When the dust settled, the dirt smoothed out as if nothing of importance had taken place, the bodies buried beneath untold tonnes of earth and soil.

All was silent and still across the entirety of Sinuji, as those who were ignorant waited and those in the know stood in shocked disbelief. A booming laugh sounded off in the distance, echoing across the hushed battlefield for all to hear. “Listen here, you little Defiled shits,” the Chi-magnified voice began, and though arbitrary, battlefield-wide communication was against Army regulations, Hongji allowed it simply because it gave his soldiers a precious minute of rest. “They call me Eccentric Gam, and your grand-daddy here can kill these Defiled dregs and dirt-grubbing Demons as easily as turning his hand. Come one, kill one, come a thousand, kill a thousand, I can do this all day, from sun up to sun down.”

Cheers rang out from Hongji’s troops and the boost to morale was much appreciated, but then Eccentric Gam continued speaking. “What say you make things interesting for this grand-daddy and send some of them big-boy Demons down to dance, eh? Enough with the shit-swimming mole-rats ye got crawling around, I ain’t getting younger waiting for a real challenge. So what’s it gonna be? You coming to me, or you gonna make me come find you?”

Hongji’s many attempts to shut the half-fox’s mouth fell on deaf ears, and he was mere seconds away from running over there to smack the arrogant bastard over the head, but the Enemy responded with a guttural command in the twisted tongue of the Defiled and the battle resumed forthwith. Hongji’s sigh of relief was cut short as the previously idle Demons came to life and trudged towards the battle-lines, three moving for the fort walls and no less than five heading directly for the northern flank. Hurrying over to support them, Hongji cursed Eccentric Gam a thousand times over because they both knew most of Falling Rain’s Experts were with him and the cavalry, while the rest of his allies had precious few to call upon. If the damnable half-fox thought himself strong enough to deal with five Demons single-handedly, then he was a lunatic and a fool, for not all Demons were equal, and among the five approaching him was one who matched evenly with Colonel Jukai. A slender, pale-faced creature with a billowing cape of blades and twin katars for hands, Hongji remembered its battle against Jukai and prayed the others were nowhere near as formidable.

Though they both held the same rank, Hongji was under no illusions of his personal strength. The Twinned Dragon of Shen Bin earned his rank more than twenty years ago, shortly before retiring after the death of his comrade in arms. Had he not removed himself from the public eye, Jukai would undoubtedly have risen to the rank of Brigadier if not higher, yet he still failed to kill the Demon with the cape of blades mere minutes after its birth. How strong would the Demon be now after it had time to consolidate and develop?

Smacking his sceptre against the palm of his hand, Hongji prayed he would not have to find out firsthand, for Jukai and Eccentric Gam would both have to die before it came Hongji’s turn to fight the formidable Demon. Glancing at the sun, he marked the passage of time at a little under two hours since the battle began and suppressed the urge to shudder. Ten more hours, that’s all. Just ten more hours and the reinforcements would arrive to send the Defiled army fleeing back to the west. Ten hours. Six hundred minutes. 36,000 seconds. Less if his allies hurried...

Not long at all. For better or worse, this battle would soon come to an end.

Chapter Meme
