It’s amusing how despite all her talk of decorum, Luo-Luo is so starstruck she almost forgets to curtsy for the Legate. She has plenty of book smarts but is completely lacking in real life experience, a caged songbird seeing the world for the very first time. Then again, in her defence, the Legate is rather handsome and dignified, rocking a neat man-bun and a clean-shaven look which shows off his strong jawline and fair, youthful features. His vibrant ‘casual’ robes make my second best set shirt and pants look plain and muted in comparison, and even though he sits at ease, it’s hard not to notice his broad shoulders and muscular chest hidden beneath the folds of embroidered silk, a physique built on good genetics, proper nutrition, and a whole lot of hard work.

Plus he’s tall, the lucky bastard.

Holding back my tears of jealousy, I utter the customary demeaning greeting alongside Yuzhen and Akanai. “Ten thousand years of boundless longevity upon the Emperor. Imperial Servant greets Imperial Legate.”

“Dispense with formalities,” the Legate responds, gesturing at the chairs. “Be seated.”

My ass is halfway to the chair when Yuzhen responds, her head still bowed in deference. “Imperial Servant does not dare.”

Fucking courtesy B.S shenanigans... Frozen mid-stride, I stand like an idiot while the Legate and Yuzhen do their little song and dance. He insists we make ourselves comfortable and she says we don’t deserve the honour, then he puts his foot down and she reluctantly agrees. It’s all bullshit and delays me from sitting for a good five seconds, during which my thigh cramps up from the awkward positioning. When I finally get to sit and relax, with Akanai in the middle and Yuzhen on the far left, I realize there’s no seat for Luo-Luo to sit. After a second’s thought, I leave it be as it was probably done on purpose and my new concubine seems content to stand off to the side and sneak glances at the oh-so-handsome Legate. Bet she wishes he kept her for himself. They’d make a lovely couple, what with them both being gorgeous and of similar height. Hmph. What’s so great about being tall anyways? I’m compact, efficient, and my clothes are cheaper because it takes less fabric to make them.

So what if I have to shop in the teen’s section? It’s all the same tailor-made clothes anyways, and I’ll probably ruin them within a day.

The old Seneschal pours three cups of tea for us and stands aside while Yuzhen makes polite conversation with the Legate. In the meantime, I do my best not to fall asleep and wonder what I’d look like with a man-bun. Awesome I bet, but then I’d have to brush and style my hair every day. Besides, it takes deceptively long hair to pull off something like that, which means it’d be at least two years of looking terrible before reaching sexy man-bun status. I could dress nicer too, but I hate robes. They’re not simple and easy at all. There’s the inner-robe, which is like your typical comfy house robe and not so bad, but then there’s the outer-robe, which is where things get complicated. It’s not always a robe per-se, sometimes it’s a vest, or a long coat, or even a shirt, but it’s always elaborate, shiny, and in a different colour from the under-robes. Then there’s the sash, which ties the whole outfit together, both literally and figuratively, and hangs down in front of the legs like a flat, flaccid silk dick.

Nice as it all looks, it seems like a lot of trouble to put on every day even if you exclude all the other attachments like cloth shoulder pads, ornamental, detachable collars, and fancy hats and hair pins. Plus, how would I even fight while wearing those layers? I’d probably trip on my robes and impale myself by accident. No, tight shirt and slim pants are the way to go.

Though there’s something enticing about sporting a giant silk dick...

After exchanging an appropriate amount of small talk, the Legate puts down his teacup and I copy Yuzhen and do the same, though Akanai drains hers first before following suit. A power move, I guess, subtle, but telling. I don’t understand what message she’s trying to convey, whether it’s displeasure at the Legate’s lack of response to the repeated attempts on my life or showing she isn’t intimidated by his rank and nobility. Who knows, maybe she’s thirsty and wanted to finish her tea, subtle is complicated. Either way, the Legate appears unperturbed by her unhurried demeanour, waiting until her cup rests firmly on the table before continuing on. “So, yet another attempt has been made on your life, at a banquet in honour of your new concubine, no less. How inauspicious.”

Without looking, I can feel Luo-Luo tensing up at the Legate’s words, probably reading too much into them and flying into a panic like she does so often. “This one puts little faith in portents and omens. Considering how quickly we rushed things into place, my enemies most likely already had their pieces in play, and the banquet merely provided them with the opportunity to strike.”

“Have you determined who was behind the attack?”

After a quick glance at Akanai to confirm, I shake my head and sigh. “Not yet, but we have people working on it.” Work I’d rather not be privy to.

With narrowed eyes, the Legate’s smile turns from smarmy to scary, displeased by my unknown assailants. “Hmph. How daring, I’ll see to it the perpetrators suffer to the full extent of the law. Send word once you have a likely suspect in mind, someone with means and motivation aplenty. I’ve ordered the Magistrate punished for his lack of security in hiring servants, and he is to lend whatever aid you should require in apprehending these criminals.”

“Do not plead for mercy on behalf of the Magistrate.” Yuzhen’s Sending arrives just in time and I swallow my words. “The sentence has already been carried out and an appeal will only put you at odds with the Legate. Just smile and thank him.”

So complicated. “This one thanks Imperial Legate for his support in these trying times.”

“Nonsense.” With a grin which makes him look even younger than he already does, he adds, “I’m only doing what’s expected. I couldn’t possibly sit by while someone tries to assassinate the newest member of the Imperial Clan. The Emperor, Blessed be His Name, would have my head for it.”

Oh right. “This one thanks -”

“I.”

“Uh... Sorry?”

“I.” Pointing at me with his fan, the Legate mock reprimands my choice of pronoun. “You’re of Imperial Peerage now, which means you are no longer to refer to yourself as ‘this one’. ‘I’ when conversing with your lessers and in informal settings such as ours, and ‘Imperial Consort’ when in formal settings.”

Finally, something good comes of this whole mess, though I’m still not thrilled about being called ‘Imperial Consort’. Might as well call myself ‘Imperial Manwhore’. “Then I thank the Legate for this great honour, though I worry I’ve done nothing to deserve it.” Gotta be humble, plus I don’t know what he wants in return.

Seeing through my attempt to play coy, the Legate smiles and says, “I must admit, I had my eye on you even before I arrived. A young hero hailing from parts unknown who stumbled across a nefarious Defiled plot, who then played a pivotal role in Sanshu’s defence and Butcher Bay’s downfall. Yo Ling’s Bane, one playwright called you, a rising young dragon bound for heights unknown.”

Damn, that sounds awesome. “Exaggeration and hyperbole. At best, I played a supporting role throughout the entire ordeal. Magistrate Chu Tongzu and the united people of Sanshu are the true heroes.”

“I believed the same until I looked into the situation for myself. While the others played their parts well, you were pivotal to the defence of the region. Without your report of a Defiled outbreak, Yo Ling’s attack on Sanshu would have gone unnoticed, suppressed by the Traitor Mao Jianghong and his corrupt allies of the Golden Highland’s Coalition. Victory would have been theirs with no one the wiser, an entire city lost to the Enemy in these desperate times. Even if word got out, there wouldn’t have been enough time to muster a force to save Sanshu. Had things proceeded as they did, Yo Ling would be free to run rampant in the North while its soldiers were here in Nan Ping, leaving the Empire divided as soldiers flocked home to defend their loved ones. A most disastrous outcome, wouldn’t you say?”

“... I suppose, but it was dumb luck. I was in the wrong place at the right time, and things fell into place.”

“True, but luck is a strength all on its own, for what is luck except for the Mother’s favour smiling down upon you? Intrigued, I continued looking into you, and I must say, you are loved by the Mother. Finding such great fortune in the Society’s bi-decennial Contest, you were forced to flee for your lives and narrowly escape death due to Martial Law. This bought you time and you headed to the front lines in the battle against the Defiled, where your strength grew by leaps and bounds and eventually, you defeated the Society’s greatest young talents in successive duels.”

The Legate continues regaling me with tales of my glories, neither downplaying nor overstating my part in matters and sticking to the facts. How I arrived at Sanshu with a hundred captured bandits and captured hundreds more in the following days. How I faced off against assassins sent by Sanshu’s merchant Council and emerged unscathed, then defended a crucial fishing region from the Red Devil Gao Qiu. How I exposed Laughing Dragon and clashed with the Shrike, warned the Azure Ascendants and rallied the Mother’s Militia to aid us, then personally killed multiple high ranking members of the Butcher Bay Bandits in the battle for Sanshu. My final blow on the Demon Bei, being present for Yo Ling’s death, and even how I raided Butcher Bay’s hideout, it seems like the Legate has memorized all my greatest hits.

Which I guess makes him my biggest fan. Weird.

After a sip of his tea, the Legate continues, “When you arrived in Nan Ping with the Divine Turtle in tow, I knew my guess was right. You are beloved by the Mother, and thus, I made my opinion of you and your people known, but that wasn’t enough. Your victory over your peers today gave me the excuse I needed to offer even more support, but it seems not even the title of Imperial Consort is enough to keep you safe.” With a wry smile, he shakes his head and sighs. “Were it not for the Divine Guardian’s desire to go swimming each day, I’d have you brought into the Magistrate’s Palace and kept under watch, but otherwise, I fear there’s nothing more I can do at this juncture.”

Touching story. Too bad I don’t buy a word. It could be because Ping-Ping doesn’t like him, but I suppose it could also be because I was just poisoned and am now suspicious of everyone and everything. Besides, it seems like a flimsy excuse. He’s my fan and thinks I’ll make it big, so he has me marry into the Imperial Clan while leaving me the freedom to do as I please? That sounds way too good to be true. He has to have an ulterior motive, but the problem is, why? I’m so weak, he could tell me to do whatever it is he needs, and I’d probably have to obey. Plus, what the fuck? Why doesn’t anyone appreciate my book? Even if it was just the banking part, I thought my brains would be enough to win me a ticket into some stupid Clan.

Putting these thoughts aside, I smile and reply, “Imperial Legate has already done more than enough. If I still can’t keep myself alive, then I’ve no right to call myself the Undying.” Honestly, the name’s starting to grow on me. The Undying and Unrivalled Beneath Heaven, Falling Rain.

Yea that’s me. Wassup?

“Haha, the confidence of youth.” Not something I wanna hear from someone who looks like he’s in his late twenties, early thirties at most. “Now, you had something you wanted to bring to my attention?”

Finally. Turning to Yuzhen for support, she requests an audience for Jorani and his boys, though using much more formal wording. Carrying a bundle of cloth, Jorani looks ill at ease as he enters the room, and so do Jinoe and Ronga who are hot on his heels. Striding in without a care in the world, Siyar casually glances around the room as if he’s here to sight-see, but nothing escapes his sharp gaze as he notes the layout and exits like a proper paranoid soldier should.

Or, you know, a trapped thief. Either or.

With the Legate’s permission, Jorani rattles off a rehearsed rendition of his adventures at the winery, which immediately puts a frown on the Legate’s face. In retrospect, maybe he wasn’t giving me tacit permission to go after the Canston Trading Group outside of Nan Ping, but it’s too late for regrets now. With input from Siyar who details his time alone in the warehouse, and Ronga’s stump which Akanai made me leave unhealed for this very reason, Jorani’s tale soon comes to an end, but the Legate’s mood has yet to improve. Lips pursed in a frown, he says, “There is no crime committed here, not anything of note. You say this... weapon dissolves cloth, stone, vegetation, and flesh, but what of it? If the Canston Trading Group has an entire warehouse full of it, then I say good! We could use another tool in our battle against the Defiled.”

It reeks of Defiled and Demons, but I can’t really share how I know this. Thing is, how did the piggies get their hands on it in the first place?

And then it clicks.

The Defiled.

The Piggies.

Expert piggies who use their skills to torture and torment.

Ugly Expert piggies, which is impossible because Chi makes people pretty, so ugly Experts means Defiled.

