The Piggies are Defiled! Which means all the torture I suffered in the mines was to turn slaves Defiled! Now these Defiled Piggies have a warehouse full of Demonized, flesh-melting goop. Stone-melting too, which explains the reports from the border forts and Shen Mu about walls crumbling to dust!

Hot damn! I solved it! Take that, past me! Who’s the idiot now? I’m the smartest man alive!

In my excitement, it takes a few tries to get my thoughts into words that everyone can understand, but once my point is made, the mood in the room grows dark. “Audacious!” Slamming the table, the Legate’s handsome face twists in anger. “Zhu Chanzui, wash your neck and wait. I’ll have your head for this!”

Seizing the opportunity, I stand and clasp my fist. “Imperial Legate will want to secure the Canston Trading Group’s cache of Unholy weapons. Warrant Officer Falling Rain requests to join the expedition.”

“Denied. Leave the evidence behind. Speak not a word of this to anyone, under threat of death! Dismissed.”

Shit.

As we file out into the hallway and back to the antechamber where Ping-Ping awaits, Akanai explains the Legate’s abrupt dismissal through Sending. “It is common knowledge you have a grudge against the Canston Trading Group, so you cannot be present when the Legate assaults one of their properties. They’re backed by Zhu Chanzui, and thus we must adhere to the law else he might claim we’ve broken the Treaty and targeted him unjustly.”

“What’s the Treaty?”

“...An agreement between the Empire and creatures of power which keeps everyone in check through threat of mutually assured destruction. Ask no more, for this is all I know.”

Hmm. Fun. Apparently, the Empire is stuck in a cold war with Ancestral Beasts. Cool, cool, cool.

The rest of the trip back to camp is spent in silence as I revel over the justification of my boundless hatred of piggies and mohawks. It might not be enough to end Big Poppa Piggy, but with proof of their misdeeds, the Canston Trading Group will be dead and gone by the end of the week.

Ah, sweet, sweet revenge...

The Death Corps park the palanquin right outside my door, and by the time I step out, Ping-Ping is already burrowed in for the night. Strange turtle. Won’t let me take a bath indoors but is happy to let me go meet with the Legate. Probably because she already got what she wanted, the pervert. Patting her beak goodnight, I count the bunbuns in their enclosure and the sleeping birds on the roof, mostly for my own peace of mind. After panicking because Roc was missing and finding him asleep in a corner of the bunbun enclosure, I head back to my yurt for a well-deserved rest after the longest day of my life.

“Lord Husband?” Arms crossed and shoulders slumped, Luo-Luo looks so scared and vulnerable standing beneath the moonlight, but more importantly, between me and my yurt where precious sleep is to be had. “Might we speak in private for a moment? Luo-Luo has something important to reveal.”

I’ll bet she does. Her intentions are obvious and my self-control non-existent. If she makes a move on me in the yurt, she’ll be subjected to the most disappointing three seconds of her life before I explode and fall asleep. “It can wait.” Doing my best to step around her, Luo-Luo moves to block my way and I’m forced to stop before I crash into her pillowy breasts.

Mm, I’d love to sink my face into them and fall asleep...

“But Lord Husband,” she whines, probably all too aware of what I’m staring at. “It’s Luo-Luo’s wedding night...”

“Sorry, but I told you earlier, there’s no need for this. Look, I’m exhausted and would really like to sleep now. We’ll pick this up tomorrow okay? Li Song moved into Mila’s yurt, so you have the place all to yourself. It’s right over there -”

My words fall on deaf ears as Luo-Luo flares with anger, finally showing her true, petulant nature. Turning around, she moves to enter my yurt uninvited, but unfortunately for her, while yurt doors don’t lock, they do latch, and there’s a trick to opening them that isn’t apparent at first glance. While she jiggles away at the doorknob, I glance around in search of help, but Jorani and the others have scampered off and I don’t feel right asking the Death Corps to drag her away. For once, I could use the monk’s help, but he’s been curiously absent for most of the day and not sitting in his customary place next to my door. Strange, considering we’re supposed to have our hour long debate where he tries to convert me to his ways, which happens to include celibacy.

What am I doing? A gorgeous woman who I am technically married to wants to do the horizontal tango. Not exactly the worst problem in the world. Besides, it is our wedding night...

“Ah ha!” Luo-Luo’s triumphant declaration wakes me from my stupor as she figures out how to open the latch. Watching her voluptuous body straining against her oh-so-tiny dress, my heart-beat speeds up at the prospect of sex. It’s been so long since I’ve been with a woman, and while I feel guilty for wanting to sleep with someone besides Mila or Lin, they both insist on waiting until after marriage which won’t be for another year or two. I’m a man, a man with needs, and if Luo-Luo is willing, then I don’t see why two consenting adults can’t do the nasty -

The door bursts open and Luo-Luo falls back with a shriek as fangs and fury come barrelling out, snarling and hissing up a storm while guarding the door. Catching her before she falls, I tilt my head at the familiar shape and stench before my tired brain finally clicks and the pieces fall into place once more. “Zabu!” I cry, unceremoniously hoisting Luo-Luo to her feet and abandoning her to go greet my first quin. “Hiya buddy. Remember me? It’s been so long, gimme a hug.”

Rearing up at the sound of my voice, Zabu bares his teeth and gives me a few experimental sniffs. With a throaty grunt of acknowledgement, he turns around and disappears back into the yurt, without so much as a scritch, boop, or poof. Flooded with disappointment, I tell myself that’s how Zabu is, an unfriendly battle quin who doesn’t like hugs, grooming, or apparently long-anticipated reunions. It’s okay. I’m not hurt or anything. I got dirt in my eye, is all. I’m so tired I can’t stop yawning, and all these tears keep leaking -

Emerging from the yurt, Zabu dumps two large, furry bundles into my arms and rushes back inside with a squeak and a chirp. Glancing down at the unexpected gift, I find two fuzzy, otter-sized roosequins staring back through sleepy eyes, their little roosequin feet sticking up in the air as they nuzzle into my arms. Slowly dropping to my knees, I coo in delight at the sweet baby quins, marvelling at their soft, dense fur and how completely at ease they are in the arms of a stranger. They trust their daddy and know he’d never deliver them to someone dangerous, don’t they? Yes they do. Returning with two more pups in his arms and Shana carrying a third, Zabu arranges his babies in a pile before me and sits back, his head held high as if to say, ‘Look at what I made’ while I inwardly squee in delight.

Wait... if they’re here... does that mean Yan’s waiting inside too?

“Luo-Luo, go back to your yurt. We’ll talk in the morning.” Giving her no time to argue, I bring the pups back inside with Zabu and Shana’s help. Lips stretched in a smile, I wait for my eyes to adjust to the darkness. “Yan?” I whisper, not wanting Luo-Luo to overhear. “You there?”

Silence is my answer and after a moment, I realize the yurt is empty but for me and the seven quins, with no gorgeous, luscious-lipped, peach-butted Yan waiting naked beneath my covers. Or you know, at all. She doesn’t have to be naked. Though it would be nice if she were. And here. But she’s not.

Why not? Is it because I’m so late getting back? Why did she bring Zabu and Shana here? Was it so I could meet the pups, or is there more to this?

Laying down on the floor, I arrange all five pups in a pile on and around me, giggling at their sleepy little yawns as they snuggle into my chest and neck. Zabu and Shana settle down beside me, and I wait for sleep to come while staring at the most adorable little faces in the world.

Whatever, this is good too. Floof is love, floof is life.

Chapter Meme
