Ren repaired the dozen picks that were hung in the blacksmith shop, checked the baby fire elemental and gave it more food, then went into the mines. He set up more lanterns with the Illumination runes enchanted on them, smashed several large boulders that had been unearthed after he'd left the day before, then started digging another marked offshoot tunnel. An hour later, his regular work crew showed up and he joined them in their efforts to get the mine into operation. They laid down track, cleared more dirt and boulders, and finally hit a very rich iron ore deposit.

“Wow, would you look at that!” One dwarf said. “Someone get me a cart!”

“Someone get us all a cart!” Another one said. “We'll have this dug out lickety-split, or my name isn't Orecruncher!”

A couple of the dwarves ran out of the main tunnel and brought back several carts each. Ren helped dig out the ore, and they filled the carts quickly. They repeated this several times, and filled all of the available carts.

“Now what do we do?” One of them asked. “All of the carts are full, and there's no cart foreman to weigh them for us.”

“I'll go and talk to the mine foreman.” Ren said, and looked at the iron ore vein that still covered the end of the 20 foot wide main tunnel. They had dug through a hundred feet of it so far, and were now pretty much surrounded by it. “We'll need someone on the cart foreman job as soon as possible.” He said. “And a lot more miners.”

“Yeah-hah!” The crew said. “We've opened the mine!”

Ren left them to celebrate, and went to the mine foreman's office, told him what they'd found, and asked when the cart foreman could get there.

“I'll send a messenger right away.” The mine foreman said, and used the steel square Sending glyph to contact Ereka for a messenger. “I'll handle the job until he gets here.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, and the mine foreman laughed.

“Your gamble is paying off.” The mine foreman said. “Once word gets out that we're up and running, people are going to flock here.” He grinned. “I guarantee it!”

They left the office and Ren went into the tunnel to tell the miners to bring out the carts. Once everything was weighed and the miners were paid their due, they went back inside and did it again. Ren on the other hand, took some of the ore into the blacksmith shop and told Lurmoli to start smelting right away, then went into his own workshop and got his own smelter going. They would need more track, and a lot more carts; and now that they had a steady supply of ore, there would be no problem making what they would need.

Ren skipped lunch, and kept smelting ore as more and more of it appeared in the storage area. He went to the mine foreman, and told him to get several carts sent out to pick up ore to be sent to his workshop at House Neram Keep.

“Are you sure that's wise?” The mine foreman asked. “We're going to need this ore if any orders come in.”

“If an order for what we can produce in a day comes in, then offer to deliver it the next day.” Ren nodded slightly. “I started this because I needed the ore.” He explained. “If we can get steady buyers as well...”

“Ah, I understand.” The mine foreman smiled. “We make sure the clients expect a slight delay, then when we can produce more in the same time frame, we can dazzle them with our efficiency.”

“You got it.” Ren said. “If they already have low expectations, then they will be amazed when production ramps up to full scale.”

Everyone kept working, and they produced a fairly large amount of ore that day. Ren finished his shift, changed clothes briefly to clean them, and ran down to the gate. The guard opened it as he approached, and gave him a slight wave as he ran by. Ren was back at House Neram Keep quite early, and went up to the workshop.

“The mirrors were delivered.” Tee-one said as Ren came into the forge room. All three forges were smelting ore, and Ren smiled.

“Please tell me you got it done.”

Tee-one chuckled and handed Ren a huge crate. He opened it, and grinned.

“Oh, this is great!” Ren exclaimed. “Thanks, Tee-one!”

Tee-one opened his mouth to comment about the thanks, then changed his mind. “Here's 2 more sitting tables.”

Ren stored them and the crate, then put a hand on Tee-one's shoulder.

“Yes, I know you regret that you couldn't do it yourself.” Tee-one said. “But technically, you did do it yourself.” He smiled. “I'm a part of you, and I'm using your skills.”

Ren nodded, pat Tee-one's shoulder, and left the workshop. He ran down to the Keep and went inside to the house.

“Honey, I'm home!”

“Can you guess where I am?” Nathalia said from the kitchen, then laughed as he ran in to give her a snuggle from behind.

“I'm really sorry that I can't stay for supper.” Ren said and kissed her cheek. “To make up for it, I had something made for you.”

“Oh? What is it?”

“Come into the main room.” Ren said, and Nathalia put down the chef knife she was using, and took off her apron. She followed him into the main room and looked around.

“I don't see anyth-woah!”

Ren took the huge crate out of inventory.

“What in the world is in that?!?”

“Open it and find out.” Ren said and grinned.

Nathalia stepped close to the crate and couldn't reach the top. “Ren, I...”

“It has a door handle.” Ren said and pointed. Nathalia opened it up and gasped.

“By the GODS!”

It was a whole new wardrobe of outfits for her.
