Trey hurried down the hallway. He turned a corner, looked over his shoulder, and then gazed at the carpeted intersection. His breath caught. He took a few wary steps, looked over his shoulder again…and began hurrying forwards.
“No way. No way…”
Trey Atwood pulled something out of his bag of holding. He raised it slowly.
 
——
 
Calac Crusland’s eyes were huge in his head.
“You didn’t.”
Trey held the object out to him.
“I did.”
“They didn’t catch you? Or notice…?”
Calac’s hands were trembling, and he refused to touch the object as Trey set it down and configured it. The young man shrugged.
“Why would they? Even if the ward spells saw me heading down the hall and not to the bathroom—I bet they thought I was just curious, and I only took a minute. Tops. Then I went to the bathroom, and they were none the wiser.”
“But they didn’t detect…?”
Trey Atwood was still shaking with nervous energy. He thumbed the button…paused as he went back too far, and Calac stared at the odd face. The uncanny…place.
Trey switched back to a far newer picture without a word. Then he handed Calac the camera.
“They can only detect magic.”
He had taken a recording of the entire area. Calac saw the camera pan shakily as Trey hurried down the hallway. He paused in each room, just for a second, which meant they had to play and replay each image. Even so…
“It is a lounge area. Look at that. There is a taproom there! Even barrels still in stock. Is that some kind of magical game?”
The two young men tried to pick apart each scene. Trey pointed at the strange, oblong shape that people could stand around.
“Yep. It’s deactivated. Some kind of [Mage]’s game. And over there you can see where they’ve just set up beds. Toilets are there…”
Calac caught Trey’s arm.
“Wait.”
He slowed the recording, and Trey noticed something that he himself hadn’t seen the first time he’d gone hurrying around. The swinging view of the camera stopped, and the two stared at a dark room, some kind of…indoor garden?
Yes! Although the plants appeared to be mostly dead. The room itself transformed into loamy soil just past the doorway, and Trey saw a lot of dead plant matter on the ground. Creeping vines up the walls…
“Looks like a greenhouse. Or maybe a private area for a [Green Mage]? A [Druid]? What a shame.”
Calac was shaking his head. He stabbed the camera screen with a finger.
“Not that. Trey. Look! Look!”
The young man frowned. Then his eyes went round.
Greenhouses were a feature of both Earth and this world. Of course, in both worlds, people had learned how to artificially produce light to grow plants, but that was obviously something people did because there wasn’t enough natural light or they wanted year-round coverage.
If you were going to build a greenhouse…even [Mages] didn’t spend unnecessary effort. Trey’s breath caught.
“There’s no way that’s real.”
Calac just gazed at him. Then at the light in the picture that the forgotten greenhouse would have benefited from with a bit of water.
“They’re [Mages]. They didn’t even think of it. I bet you it’s real.”
“Maybe it’s camouflage. Maybe it’s warded too.”
Calac nodded.
“Maybe. But…”
They both stared at the light shining through from outside. Sunlight, coming through the glass ceiling…and a transparent door that looked suspiciously like it was open to a neat little railing and slight terrace.
A balcony.
 
——
 
Finding a balcony in the huge, dimensionally-challenged academy was as difficult as could be, especially because, given the twisting and changing hallways, Trey and Calac weren’t sure where that greenhouse balcony was.
However, they could guess based on the rough position of the Creler-mural hallway. They went one floor up and began to find every open window, terrace, balcony, or exposed walkway they could.
It was at this point where Trey started working on the other elements of his plan. He already had a simple one for the guards.
They didn’t eat all the food he brought; they were picky, and he was worried if one didn’t eat and the other did and Trey just happened to be sitting there while one or the other mysteriously fell asleep—he’d be in trouble.
They were high-level [Mages] who had seen fighting. Even if Trey got the drop on one, he was certain he’d lose. Plus, he didn’t want to kill them.
“But they do finish their meals. And if someone were to slip a sleeping potion into their food…”
“You’d need to persuade someone to put it in. And get a sleeping draught.”
Calac pointed out. Trey told him about Mena, who was one of the Terras faction and, he happened to know, also a personal apprentice of Eldavin’s.
“What if we helped her out? We give her some food to take—she thinks we’re doing her a favor.”
“And the sleeping draught? I suppose we could buy one from an [Alchemist]…that’s not hard.”
“Done and done.”
Trey showed Calac a little bottle and note with instructions on how to use it. Calac folded his arms.
“How…?”
“Malia and Sa’la. I told her I was having nightmares and trouble sleeping.”
Trey felt bad about it, because the [Thought Healer] had instantly gotten him a strong sleeping tonic from Sa’la and kept asking him how he was doing. Calac was purely impressed.
“That…that could work! The [Mages] would be out. That only leaves the balcony, if we’re skipping the Golems.”
“We shouldn’t discount them. I don’t know how we’re freeing Amerys; they only have the key to her mask that I saw. Maybe we just drag her out, but there are ward spells, that door…”
The secondary door they’d set up blocked off the rest of the hallways from Amerys’ cell. Calac nodded.
“I need to do my part, then. I’ll find that balcony.”
“You can’t just climb down out of every window you see.”
Trey pointed out reasonably. Calac smiled. He looked around Trey’s room and pointed at the camera.
“All I need is that. I can check each spot in minutes if I record.”
“What, put it on a string? You have to manipulate the buttons. I suppose you could record it, but it’ll just spin around. It has to be angled, Calac.”
The [Swordsman] frowned mightily. Trey was busy trying to recreate an image of the key. Could they pick that lock? He heard Calac walking around the room then exclaim.
“Wait! What about—”
Trey turned and saw Calac pointing to something. Or rather…someone.
Minizi, who was rather large at this point, raised her head. Trey and Calac stared at her, then the camera. She was four feet tall, and dangerous. Heavier, with all her upgrades. Calac turned to Trey.
“Lifesand Golems. She’s just sand, isn’t she? Does she have to be that big?”
 
——
 
Night. Wistram’s calm bubble of controlled weather created a glassy lake. The stars shone down in every color around the Academy of Mages.
Parts of Wistram were lit up. Laughing students at parties. Voices speaking from distant windows. But this section of Wistram was quiet.
A section of stone opened, and the image of plain, grey material flickered, revealing a hidden window. A hand thrust it open—and then a little figure clambered onto the balcony.
A foot-tall Golem, with something strapped to her chest. A professional camera. She looked behind her, got a silent nod—and then looked down.
It was a straight drop, but there was a lip of something below. The question was…what? The Lifesand Golem looked around, saw no one watching. So she tensed—and jumped.
Minizi leapt out a window, holding the camera. She didn’t fall, but jerked to a stop as the rope tied around her waist arrested her fall. Slowly, the Lifesand Golem descended, rotating and aiming the camera.
A little red light flashed as the lens panned across the outside of Wistram. The Lifesand Golem peered around, aiming the camera for thirty seconds. Then she reached up and tugged on the string.
Once.
Calac Crusland lowered it further. He leaned against the window, ostensibly taking in the night air. He nodded as a [Mage] passed him without a word, and blocked their view of the right side of the windowsill. He fed more rope down from the spool he was holding until he felt two jerks. Then…the rope began to swing.
What was she doing? Calac risked a glance and saw Minizi swinging herself back and forth. The Lifesand Golem reached out and grabbed the edge of a balcony.
“Minizi! What are you doing?”
He hissed, but dared not be louder because a laughing group of flirting male [Mages] following a few female peers—Centaurs all—were trotting down the hallway. Calac could only stand and stare out the window, hoping there was no one there.
Then he felt three quick tugs on the rope and began to pull her up. He saw a smug little Lifesand Golem aiming a camera at him and exhaled as he reached out to put her in the rucksack.
 
——
 
“She’s too intelligent. Are you sure she can’t think?”
Calac pointed at Minizi as she returned to her ‘main body’. The little Golem walked into her larger form, and larger Minizi stirred.
Trey frowned at Minizi. The angle of the camera was certainly good, and he saw her swinging towards the balcony.
“I don’t think she’s stupid, but she’s not a Sentient-class Golem according to the Quarass. Not…yet. Calac. Have you seen this?”
The [Lord] raised his head as he flopped back into his bed. He’d spent the last eight days and nights canvassing every window he could find. This was one balcony of many, and the camera’s memory was filling up. Trey kept deleting all but their reference material…and the original pictures on the camera. He felt guilty doing it, but it was useful, and the [Mages] had confiscated his iPhone for ‘inspection’, which meant playing Flappy Bird and whatnot.
“No. Is it…?”
He sat up as Trey silently showed him the footage. Calac took one look and cursed.
“Trey, that’s not the greenhouse!”
“No. But look at the stonework, Calac. It’s changed to that interior wood design—and the walls look like the stone of the balcony. It’s not granite, or regular stone. It’s got that odd green-tinge we thought was mold.”
“Iveine stone.”
Calac whispered. He looked at Trey.
“I’m on it. I’ll find out where this was and see if we can get access to that. If not…how are the locks coming?”
Trey smiled. This too was done in part with his Lifesand magic. He showed Calac something.
“Take a look.”
There was a lock, an actual lock and tumblers on the table. Calac eyed it.
“Where did you get…?”
“I found a door and blasted it out. Don’t worry, it’s just a cheap lock. And take a look at…”
Trey raised a finger, and Calac saw some rust-red sand gather around it. A little, plain key with two simple teeth appeared. A stereotype of a key, too large and, Calac was sure, not the key for this lock.
But then Trey poked it at the lock, and Calac saw the Lifesand ooze into the cracks. The key morphed, and Trey frowned.
“The trick is…moving the tumblers…aha!”
He twisted the key, and Calac saw the mechanism move. He heard a click, and saw the bolt shoot out. Trey glanced up at Calac.
“Locks picked. I wonder if Amerys’ lock needs that key?”
The [Lord] was agog.
“Th—then that just leaves the Golems. If we even have to fight them. The Golems and the ward spells. Then…”
In silence, the two young men looked at each other. Mages down. Both doors opened and Amerys’ locks. Balcony?
Calac found the balcony the next day. That just left the ward spells. And a distraction. Trey thought he had an idea for the distraction too.
 
——
 
Calac and Trey walked around the next day with a spring in their steps. A bit of swagger. Their friends noticed it. Of course, when asked, Trey just claimed he’d learned a new spell, and Calac honestly said he’d leveled up as a [Mage].
Neither one could tell the others the truth. Which was that they were taking apart Wistram like a jigsaw puzzle.
“It’s definitely the balcony. We land, we go in—we just need to bypass the wards. What are they? Do they [Detect Life]? Movement? Who do they report to, the [Guards]? If so, we’ve knocked them out.”
“I don’t know. I also don’t know if those two Golems ever patrol.”
Trey leaned against the ballroom they’d found that looked straight down into a suspiciously plain little outcrop a floor down. Far, far below, they could see the surf meeting the cliffs, and Trey’s stomach sank a little.
“It’s…sixty feet. We scale down with a rope. An enchanted rope. I barely got Minizi down far enough to photograph the inside the first time. But Trey—I bet you we can put her down in the greenhouse.”
“Interesting. But not without a counter to the wards! I can try to figure them out next visit. That’s tomorrow.”
Trey’s heart was beating fast. Calac was shifting from foot to foot.
“Can you do it faster? The war isn’t going well. His Majesty is injured, and the armies are approaching Reim.”
“We’ve nearly got this, Calac. Just give me a day. As for ward spells…wait. I have an idea. Let me do a bit of prep work. How are we doing on the distraction?”
Calac’s eyes glinted. He patted his side.
“I was just about to do my part on that.”
 
——
 
Calac Crusland casually strolled past one of the many doors in Wistram’s hallways meant for residents to live in. There were entire wings devoted just to that, but this wasn’t a space normally held by students or even [Mages].
This was the guest suite. The young man kept moving at a slow saunter, waiting as a trio of veiled young women slowly glided down the hall. They were one of the most notable guests of Wistram.
Drowned Folk. Half-Starfish Drowned Women.
Identical to their mother. Calac Crusland slowed down, glanced over his shoulder casually, and pulled something out of his pocket. He slid it under the door as he bent down to tie his shoes.
A little note. The young man stood up, checked himself, and went on his way. He was long gone by the time the door opened, a minute and a half later, and a face poked out, casting left and right down the hallway.
 
——
 
“Miss Mena. Are you busy?”
The [Bard] turned as she inspected the morning buffet table for the best picks she was placing into a pair of wooden boxes. Other [Mages] jostled her, reaching for food, but she calmly shoved back.
“Hey. Quit it.”
“You’re the one pulling a Telim!”
“It’s not for me, it’s a delivery. Shove me again and I’ll web your feet. Oh. Hello. Isn’t it Troy? Grand Magus Eldavin teaches you too!”
She gave him a huge, beaming smile, and Trey ducked his head.
“That’s right. Are you busy?”
“I’m just—that’s it, [Sticky Webs]!”
Mena swore, turned, and pointed at someone’s feet. There was a snigger.
“[Dispel Magic]. You don’t—hey, why isn’t it dispelling. Wait, wait—”
