No. If there was a weak point in the Archmages and each faction, it was in the now third-largest faction. The Revivalists, filled with the youngest [Mages], students, the most outspoken, and led by Nailihuaile. The Star Lamia was in a laughing, loudly-speaking circle of them, and she was the center of it all.
She was not stupid, but she was willing to take more risks than the others. She wasn’t necessarily impulsive, but she was ambitious. She sat with Beatrice, that Dullahan who never smiled, and Trey had heard…he turned and murmured.
“Hey, anyone know a rumor about Archmage Nailihuaile? I heard she wasn’t…nice.”
His other friends looked up. Astritha raised her brows silently. Goelv, the Gazer, closed his mouth; he didn’t like gossiping, probably because so much was done about him.
Tov, the Drowned Man, raised his brows.
“Thinking about joining a faction already? I thought you were with Terras.”
“More like…I was wondering if I could get on her good side. You know, to get something enchanted?”
The others nodded. Ah. You could trade favors, even possibly get the Archmage to make you something herself if the favor was big enough. Emirea sipped from her glass of Sage’s Water with a straw. She piped up nervously.
“Um. I speak to the Libertarians sometimes. They like me. They don’t like her. You know, she used to have another helper? I heard she was a [Lady] from Terandria. Montressa du Valeros. She did something that made Archmage Nailihuaile so upset…she got Montressa exiled.”
The other students stared at her. The older students were appalled. Trey saw Tov just raise his brows. After a second, he prodded Emirea.
“…That’s it?”
Trey, however, liked that nugget. Nailihuaile held grudges. She also did things. Calac looked at Trey and leaned over the table.
“I have a big secret. I’ll share it with all of you.”
The others turned to Calac with great interest. That wasn’t something you did, but the young man was focused on Trey. He murmured.
“I heard a rumor Archmage Nailihuiale hired the [Pirates] who attacked the King of Destruction.”
Trey whistled and sat back. Tov blinked from Calac to Trey.
“You didn’t know that?”
The [Sand Mage] glanced at Tov.
“No. Is it open knowledge?”
The Drowned Man rubbed at his hair where it met the half-slug section of his face, which was glistening slightly. He took care to keep his Human hand away, or it’d be covered in a thin layer of mucus.
“Gossip about something as big as that? The Illuminary was paid in Wistram-gold. They brag, you know.”
“How can someone say it’s ‘Wistram’ gold, though? It’s not like Wistram stamps it.”
Messill interrupted. Tov gave him a calm look; the two didn’t like each other too much.
“Gold and artifacts, Messill. It’s obviously from Wistram. Trust me. You don’t guess about Drakes and politics, do you? Like our guests. Which city is that Drake from?”
He pointed at a small group sitting apart from the rest of the body. Ostensibly guests, but isolated, watching carefully.
Two groups. Trey’s eyes flickered over, and Messill snorted.
“Fissival. Obviously.”
“How do you know that?”
“Because only Fissival would send a delegation here. Alright, alright. I take your point. And you probably could tell us Depth Mage Doroumata’s ship or whatever, right?”
Tov nodded. He looked at Doroumata and her…daughters, who all had the same face if you saw past their veil. They sat in a group, dressed from head-to-toe in black. Tov bowed towards them slightly, though not one glanced their way. He lowered his voice.
“Don’t point. It’s rude. Of course I know her ship. Everyone knows her ship. Be more respectful.”
“Or what?”
Messill scoffed, pointing harder as if to prove Tov wrong. The young man ominously glared at Messill.
“Or you’ll need a new finger. Ever been hexed by abyssal magic?”
The Drake snatched his claw back, and Trey craned his head out from the table. Wait a second. He looked back at Calac, and the [Lord] raised his brows. He’d had the same thought.
 
——
 
“Why are the representatives of Fissival and the Drowned Fleets still here?”
Trey already knew the answer. He turned, and a young woman folded her arms.
“Because they know about us. Don’t worry, the other guests from the other academies are being kept in the dark. Why? Is one of them bothering you? Sometimes one of the Fissival Drakes comes around and tries to chat with us, but they usually get shooed off. The creepy Drowned Women? They just stare.”
Elena and Trey stood in the Earthers’ private rooms. Which, Trey realized…was another Hidden Hallway that even the [Mages] didn’t know about.
One that Aaron had found somehow, and, in theory…completely secret.
“Lots of different groups are finding out about Earth, then.”
“You have no idea. I’m worried what’ll happen when the truth gets out. Wistram thinks there’s someone looking for us—besides them. Of course, they’re still collecting us like trading cards.”
Her scowl said it all. Thoughtfully, Trey went over to one of the Earth-themed snacks that was always stocked in these rooms. He turned his back to Elena as he spoke.
“Good food, magic, safety…I didn’t know what I was going to find here, but it was better than war and death in Chandrar. Monsters and [Slavers]…”
“They really have lots of [Slaves] in Chandrar? I knew it existed, but…real slavery?”
Elena’s voice was uneasy. Trey looked over his shoulder and saw her appalled expression. He nodded slowly.
“You have no idea.”
The [Beautician] considered a response.
“Fuck.”
Trey turned back to the snacks.
“Mhm. Wistram’s better than that, isn’t it?”
“To some. But it’s still a cage. Nor do I trust Wistram. Honestly, Troy—if you don’t mind it, I’m glad. It’ll wear on you, though. It does after months. If they left us alone I think I’d enjoy it, but they keep prodding. Even Eldavin. I thought he’d be fine, but suddenly he’s asking us way too much—like that conversation about nukes. I don’t feel like this is a home.”
Elena was weary. She represented a vocal part of the Earthers here. Aaron was on the other end; for all its faults, he seemed content to stay. Trey nodded carefully.
“Where would you go if you could go anywhere?”
He stood with her, as someone played some loud music from down the hall. Elena stomped over to the door.
“Hey! Shut the door! There’s [Silence] spells on it for a reason!”
The door closed, and she frowned back at Trey.
“Honestly? Back to Terandria. I have a…friend there. But if not for that—not Chandrar from what you’ve said. Anywhere, though.”
She looked past Trey.
“You know Leon?”
Trey made a face. Elena smiled slightly and brushed at her hair.
“Yes, well…he told us about where he came from. Liscor. Pallass. Invrisil. It sounds amazing. If even half of what he told us was true…I want to see it. I don’t know why he left. Probably all the monster attacks, but that sounded like the inn he was staying at, more than anything.”
“Hm. Yeah.”
The [Sand Mage] chomped down on an éclair and felt like he was gaining weight. He turned back and caught Elena watching him.
“Why? We haven’t made any concrete plans. Everyone’s full of hot air, like Saif claiming he could commandeer a ship if we enchanted his airsoft gun right. Most of us…”
She hesitated.
“…Most of us don’t want to leave badly enough. That’s what I think the problem is. We talk about it, but there’s only a handful of people who’d really leave, even if we got a magic door right here and now. Do you want to leave?”
Elena frowned at Trey, and he stood there, blank-faced. After a long second, the young man looked at Elena.
“Yes. But I agree—at least half of the people here wouldn’t go.”
He glanced out the hallway as some of the Earthers walked by. Poor Sidney, who had seen too much, but who benefitted from Sa’la’s medicine and safety. Malia, the [Thought Healer] who was trying to create something with Elena’s help. Caroline, the [Writer], whose works were reaching a wider and wider audience under her alias of Heartslayi. Erik Muller, the darling of the Aquais faction, the [Actor].
Even Flynn, who was carefully watching as Sidney held Pokey, the Needlehound dog, seemed to like it here. Trey turned to Elena and saw the [Beautician] was inspecting him carefully.
She kept her appearance up. Trey had known people who wore makeup, but Elena was a professional—and a professional with magical tools as well. She looked like a fashion model, and her hair had the unreal gleam that he had always assumed was photoshopped or something. Not a single hair out of place.
However, calling her just a pretty face was incredibly stupid, and it amazed him how many people did.
The Quarass would like her. The Quarass was an expert on poisons, disguises, assassinations, powder, alchemy, and everything else in the world, of course, but Ger was known for its incredible [Assassins] and poisons. Trey touched his throat as Elena nodded.
“Half wouldn’t go. Some people want to. Eun—he hates the Libertarians, but it’s not just that. He’s a [Student] but he wants to see the world, you know? Lamont’s a [Sailor]; he likes the sea, for all his stories scare the hell out of me. Basil’s sworn never to go back to Chandrar—but Sang-min doesn’t regret landing on Terandria, even though he saw fighting. There are some people I’m sure would go. Including me. But we can’t get everyone on board.”
Trey just nodded. He picked up another éclair, stared at it, and placed it down, carefully. He glanced at Elena.
“Then if we left, we’d need to make them choose. You’d never get all of them. The ones who leave would have to be certain and never hesitate.”
The [Beautician] peered at Trey. Her eyes lit up with sudden interest. But Trey just packed a few more éclairs into a little box—then added more food. Then more…Elena began to look concerned.
“Please tell me you’re not going to eat all that.”
 
——
 
Trey was beginning to know the [Mages] on duty. There was a small rotation, and apparently they were being compensated for their time, but this was still an arm-twisting by their Archmages.
The Dwarf’s name was Yolv. The Naga’s was Texiasha. Yolv was from the Centrists, Texiasha from the Revivalists.
Trey offered them a box filled with snacks as Sa’la escorted him to meet with Amerys on his second visit, and their eyes lit up.
“How thoughtful! And here I thought we’d have to shake down Telim again. Sa’la, these young [Mages] are far better than we were. Or did you help arrange this?”
The Selphid’s gaze was amused as she looked at Trey.
“Don’t thank me. Troy thought of it.”
“Just because I feel like I’m disturbing you. And I remember you mentioning that you couldn’t get snacks easily unless you brought them in…”
The two were greedily helping themselves. Yolv brushed at his beard.
“Too right. Don’t you worry, young man. You’re the most interesting thing all day while we’re on duty. Come as much as you want—but I’m afraid you’re wasting your time. Brave of you to come back, though. Braver than most. Sa’la, did you hear what happened last time? Telim must have told you.”
He winked as Trey blushed. Sa’la looked confused—until Trey entered the room, removed Amerys’ mask, and sat down.
“Hello, Archmage Amerys.”
“It’s you again.”
She looked patiently amused, but her eyes flicked up and down Trey’s face. He? He offered her an éclair.
“Ah! You can’t feed her anything.”
Texiasha raised her voice, but Yolv muttered to her.
“She’s not going to bite him a second time. It’s just…what’s this? Another Earth food?”
Amerys blinked as Trey offered her an éclair. She let him insert it into her mouth and chewed it slowly, savoring each bite. When she was done she licked her lips for nearly three minutes as Trey watched.
“That…is the first thing I have eaten in months. You’re back.”
“I…have more food if they’ll let me give it to you.”
Amerys blinked at Trey. She nodded instantly.
“That’s very kind of you. Do you want something?”
Trey twiddled his thumbs. Conscious of the eyes on his back, he looked at Amerys. Why was he back and asking to see her? He was no Erik, who could play a part, but…he glanced back at the Wistram mages, blushed, and leaned over.
“Archmage, if I trade you, um, some food, and bring it regularly, would you tell me a few secrets? Even ones other people know about. Maybe—”
Amerys’ yellow eyes flickered over Trey’s face for a second with bright intellect—then her face developed into a sneer. Behind him? All three Wistram [Mages] exploded into laughter, and Trey turned beet red.
However, it was approving. Texiasha pointed her tail at Trey.
“The nerve of this young man! Trading food for…? I love it.”
Naturally, Amerys was less enthusiastic. She bared her teeth.
“Keep feeding me and I’ll consider it.”
Which meant that Trey came by with more food and began taking orders from the guards on duty. Not just Yolv or Texiasha.
“It’s not that we can’t bring food; it’s just that we don’t know what the dish of the day is. We have to stay here. Two days in a row. Yes, there are toilets and places to sleep and we can practice magic and whatnot, but it’s just boring. And she only talks to you.”
A rather chatty Dullahan confided in Trey as the young man unpacked buttered crab legs. He was a full [Mage] of Wistram, so he didn’t have his people’s customary reserve. The Human woman nodded; one of Viltach’s people. Trey casually paused as he brought out some napkins.
“Oh. So you have to bring all the food here yourself?”
The woman smiled at him. She had a scar running all the way down her leg; she’d fought in Terandria and apparently was an [Arrow Magus].
“Not at all. Someone does a delivery. Not Golems; we can’t order them around all the time for…and this is more delicate since Amerys was never stripped of her title. For caution, we get one of the younger [Mages] to do it, but they just grab whatever they can find. No decency to get the pick of the day, like you. The only one who’s ever thoughtful is that young [Bard]. What’s her name?”
“Mena. That’s the one. Terras. I cannot wait for Telim to be shuffled into guard duty now that Terras is an official faction.”
“Imagine it. I’ll visit just to laugh at him.”
Trey smiled, and then looked concerned.
“Um…could I use the toilet?”
“First left, down the hall. Mind the toilets. Use the one on the right unless you like the water features.”
The Terandrian woman shuddered. The Dullahan turned to her.
“It’s civilized.”
“If I wanted a water spell in my toilet, I’d cast it myself—”
