“It matters to me greatly. You seem surprised I want to learn magic. I do want to learn. The mission comes first, but my mother tells me a bit of magic is as handy as can be for a warrior. Even my father says he would have used some spells if he had the aptitude.”
“Venith said that?”
Trey was amazed. Calac shrugged, a bit self-consciously.
“They’re practical warriors.”
“I know. I just thought of Venith as not wanting to use magic. If they were fighting with swords…”
“Why? Magic is fair. Just like an arrow.”
“I just thought he’d not want to use any.”
Calac raised one eyebrow.
“Why? Oh…you’re thinking of Terandrian [Knights]. My father isn’t like that. He’s a warrior. A [Lord], but a warrior born. In battle, in war, there’s no way to duel like that.”
Trey was struck by his misconceptions. He ducked his head.
“I guess not. I’m sorry for assuming.”
Calac seemed on the verge of making a pithy comment, but then just sat down on his bed and tried casting again. Slowly. Trey showed him, and Calac struggled to copy it. He spoke as he practiced.
“We’re different, aren’t we? I realize that more and more. I spoke with one of the Earthers…George? He wanted to know how to use a sword.”
“Really?”
Trey saw Calac frown and bite his lip. Minizi tottered back to him with a wet rag. Trey picked it up, took one sniff, and handed it back.
“Minizi, you put alcohol on it. That’s Calac’s gin.”
“That’s a gift for one of my teachers!”
The Lifesand Golem trudged off. Everyone was a critic. Trey turned back to Calac.
“And? Did you teach him how to use it?”
Calac hesitated.
“He didn’t really want to learn. I just realized—you do come from a different place, don’t you? These Terandrians are like that too. I met someone who challenged me to a duel. He had a silver bell and a rapier. Charles de…something or other. I told him I didn’t duel for fun and he sneered at me.”
He must have learned his lesson after the magical dueling incident. Trey nodded slowly.
“That’s…”
Calac interrupted him.
“I didn’t finish. When I refused, he tried to provoke me with his sword.”
“Oh. Uh…”
Calac didn’t look hurt. The [Warrior] gave Trey a sideways grin.
“I kicked him in the groin and his friends accused me of cheating.”
Trey had to laugh at that.
“I think I know that guy. The Libertarians? Archmage Viltach’s people?”
“The same. They claimed I couldn’t use my feet or magic in a duel. Such strange Terandrians. And those Drakes! Messill can’t stand Lizardfolk. It’s…”
Calac stared ahead.
“Bothersome. Does it bother you? It reminds me of Garuda tribes not being allowed to camp near cities. Only, they don’t have reasons to fear thieves or anything like it here. It’s just Lizardfolk. Yet the Drakes can’t stand them, mostly.”
The [Sand Mage] nodded slowly. He watched Calac’s hands move and grabbed his shoulder.
“You had it! Wait—oh, sorry. Yes, it bothers me.”
The [Lord] had a pleased smile of triumph on his face. He relaxed suddenly and flopped back onto his bed. He looked at Trey.
“I will call that my victory. Thank you.”
Trey nodded. Still, he lingered since they were talking about something interesting, for once. Calac sat up.
“We are different, aren’t we? I didn’t realize how peaceful your world must be. George asked me if I had ever used my sword or killed someone. As if it were a question.”
Trey sombered. He twiddled his thumbs, not quite looking at Calac, and reached down. Minizi came up with a cloth dampened by water, and he dabbed at his face as she sat on the bed. Calac grimaced, but Trey assured him she wouldn’t leave sand.
“We are different. You know, most guys would tell everyone who they had over. People in Chandrar don’t do that?”
“People in Crusland land don’t do it. I don’t speak for Reim or Chandrar.”
“Right. Sorry. I just meant—”
Calac’s argumentative tone stopped suddenly. He raked fingers through his hair and looked embarrassed.
“I know. I am…different. My mother is Lady Maresar. You know her class, right?”
“Er, [Bandit Lord]?”
Calac nodded again.
“And my father is Lord Venith Crusland. I know I’ve been taught differently. Some things I learned my mother taught me are…different. Sometimes I wonder what other families must be like.”
He looked—not anguished, not sad or longing—but just curious. Trey raised his brows.
“I didn’t know my mother. Me and Teres are twins. Everyone’s different.”
Calac half-nodded.
“Yes…but having a mother who can be more of a man than my father is…odd. The first time I saw her use her Skill—the one which makes her look like a man? It was very strange.”
Trey tried to imagine that. He tried not to smile. Calac just gave him a look.
“Go ahead and laugh. She does. My mother is far too strange, and even I know it. My father? I can’t live up to my father.”
He sighed. Trey stopped smiling, guilty.
“I’m sure he appreciates—”
Calac’s weary look silenced the words coming out of Trey’s mouth.
“Don’t say it.”
So Trey didn’t. They passed a minute in silence, and Calac went on.
“My mother has peculiar notions of everything. Not necessarily right or wrong, but they confuse me greatly. You know that argument they had yesterday? Your Earthers and the Terandrians and Izrilians? Everyone got involved, but that one?”
Trey frowned.
“I don’t kn—oh, that one.”
The [Lord] gave Trey a meaningful look.
“Exactly so. It isn’t as…hugely problematic to Chandrar. There are no laws for or against it in Reim. A man doesn’t boast about his private life, anyways. My mother, on the other hand? She told me that, but for my father, she’d be flipping a coin and kissing whichever came first. Then she tried to give me advice on what to do from all four possible perspectives and…”
He saw Trey’s expression and nodded.
“That is my mother. Do you think it’s close to normal?”
Trey decided the best thing to do was get Minizi and go to sleep.
 
——
 
When did Calac Crusland become a friend? Trey wasn’t sure. It wasn’t the first month. Perhaps it started the second.
But it probably continued on these nights. Through arguments and surprising insights. Stories from home, encouragement, one helping the other, like Calac giving Trey food after the worms incident…not laughing…
It was pleasant, then. Although Trey did realize something. It was how odd Wistram was. Calac had his own opinions as a citizen of Reim who had grown up on stories of the King of Destruction from his people’s perspective.
To everyone else, they were stories.
“He’s back. Father says the King of Destruction is just a myth. I mean, he was. Mother said we didn’t talk about him—that was when he woke up! Is he real? Carn, Troy, you come from Chandrar. Did you ever hear about him?”
Emirea hugged Minizi as she looked at them, wide-eyed. ‘Carn’ and ‘Troy’ exchanged a slow glance.
“Hellios was conquered by Flos. So naturally I saw him. That is, I saw his armies. Never the man in person. But he did conquer Hellios. In a flash. We never stood a chance. Though we tried, honored be our stone halls.”
Trey didn’t wince; Calac was getting better. All of Goelv’s many eyes focused on Calac, and the Gazer sat forwards.
“Truly. Did you ever lay your eyes upon the one called Gazi?”
Tov, Astritha, Emirea, Trey, and Messill all looked at Calac. The young man hesitated.
“Not…up close.”
“But you did see her.”
Trey looked at Goelv. The full Gazer boy was fixed on Calac, so much so the young man froze up.
“Goelv. Goelv, you’re staring!”
Tov shook his shoulder, and Goelv’s eyes snapped away. Calac unfroze with a sigh as the lesser paralysis effect wore off. Goelv ducked his head, bending at the waist.
“I am very sorry, Carn. It just matters so much to me.”
“Do you like Gazi?”
One of Goelv’s eyes rotated in their sockets.
“She is the most famous Gazer. Half-Gazer. Even in the jungles, they tell stories of her. I…just wish to meet her.”
“Like meeting a story. Keep your eyes on the horizon and the tide, not on fables.”
Tov snorted. Goelv looked hurt, and the Drowned Man hesitated before making an odd sign. No one took it too seriously; you hurt each other’s feelings, coming from different and varied places.
Calac and Trey exchanged glances over their now almost nightly study sessions. He had to work harder than the others, while Trey had personal lessons from Eldavin and communicated them to the others, but each of them had an interesting thing to add.
Calac was the swordsman, who actually could tell you if someone could just duck or swat a [Fire Arrow] spell down with a gauntleted hand. Emirea was the gifted young [Lady] who helped them refine their basic spell theory. Goelv? Eye magic, so powerful in that he could cast spells just by looking. Tov had the Drowned People’s perspective and talked about magic he’d seen or theory even Wistram’s teachers—aside from Eldavin—found odd. And Trey had Eldavin’s magic, and his strange tutors.
“It’s a story to us.”
Astritha said reasonably. She was from Rhir, and less known to Trey, along with Messill, their Izrilian, but between them, every continent—and Earth—was represented. She was serious—often too serious—and was open about going back once she’d graduated to support the battle against the Demons.
Messill, the Drake, just yawned.
“It’s all hyperbole. Trust me—I actually think it’s Wistram’s fault. They cooked up the story of him. Yes, there was a [King]. There still is. But he’s not the only [King] out there, is he? Prove me wrong!”
He looked at Carn. The young man raised an eyebrow.
“He did conquer my homeland.”
“Yes, but if he’s so dangerous, why is he losing to a bunch of half-rate nations? Not yours, Carn, but the ones out there.”
Trey raised a hand. Calac just blinked at Messill.
“Half-rate…? You mean, like Nerrhavia’s Fallen?”
“Exactly. Never heard of it.”
“You mean…Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Half-rate?”
“You’re saying it like I’m wrong. Okay, how big are they?”
“…Bigger than all the Walled Cities’ controlled lands combined? Probably.”
Messill stared at Trey. He looked around, then threw his head back and laughed, albeit with a trace of uncertainty. He gestured with his claws to the others.
“See? This! This is what I’m talking about. There’s no way that’s true, Troy. Exaggeration. I know it’s big, but when they say ‘millions of [Soldiers]’ in an army, it’s an exaggeration of what actually happened. Exaggeration. Now, let’s go find a map and see how big this place really is. I’m sure it’s ‘big’, but…”
 
——
 
And then came the Djinni. Then…it was serious. They had known they were behind schedule, but they had been enjoying themselves.
Then—they made progress, and it stopped being a game again. Trey Atwood placed something down, and Calac just stared at it.
“You met Amerys.”
His eyes flickered up. Trey was pale, but smiling. He was trembling with nerves.
“I did.”
The [Lord] inhaled. He started and stopped half a dozen times.
“Did you say—what did—is sh—can we do it?”
Trey looked at Calac. A sand-eye poked over the lip of the table, and both looked around. Viltach had upgraded Minizi with Trey so that she was now three feet tall and tougher. She carried her mithril sword and looked up at them. Trey inhaled, and felt his heart beginning to race. He turned to Calac, and the [Lord] waited.
After so long—Trey looked at his friend. At the map, and the gold pins, all three of them, Maresar, Venith, and Teresa, at one space. Nerrhavia’s armies incoming. He thought of two conversations. When Flos Reimarch had approached Trey with his mad plan—and when Amerys had first met Troy Atlas.
Trey thought of the stakes, of Earth, the Earthers here. Wistram and their ambitions and how Wistram was. Eldavin. Teresa.
He looked Calac dead in the eye and shook his head, slowly.
“I don’t know. But we can gather the information and see what we’re up against. I know where it is—I saw as much as I could, and I’ll be back later. So…let’s get started.”
 
——
 
Archmage Amerys did exist. She was alive, and in Wistram.
After her long absence from the academy and the public eye despite the King of Destruction’s return, people were beginning to spread rumors that she had died, like Drevish, the Architect.
They didn’t know. Which amazed Trey; even in vaunted Wistram, rumors ran like water through the halls. Complete lies or misunderstanding where facts floated blissfully over people’s heads.
His pace was quite slow, which suited his companion. Also, Trey was able to ask questions and take his time. That would not be the case with the other two people who might have led him here. They were far, far more perceptive.
No…that was unfair. Trey glanced sideways at the portly [High Mage] who could be as spry as you wanted—in Mage’s Quest, the new magical-reality game Ullsinoi, Telim, and Aaron were pioneering.
Nor was he a bad man. If anything, he was Trey’s favorite [Mage] in Wistram, and that included Viltach, Eldavin, and all the others. Because Telim was splendidly uncomplicated when it came to morality. Not his interpersonal life, his mind—just the way he behaved. He didn’t do things he needed to give reasons for. Everyone else Trey had met, from his sister to Flos to the Quarass, Gazi…did.
Telim? He shuffled along amiably, his comfortable Super Silkworm robes swishing as he walked, a puff pastry filled with whipped cream in one hand. He offered one to Trey.
“Another?”
“Thank you, High Mage Telim.”
The man winked one bright orange eye at Trey and pulled another snack…out of his huge brown beard. He laughed hugely at Trey’s expression.
“Hah! Another one! You’ve never seen my beard-trick before? Tiny bag of holding. You pull it out—great party trick. Interferes with a regular one, obviously. Here.”
He showed Trey the little bag of holding buried in the nest of brown hair. Trey took the pastry, grinning ruefully.
“That’s amazing, High Mage.”
He chortled happily.
“You like it? I even made the Titan of Baleros laugh when I showed it to him. Back in the day—he was a Named Adventurer.”
“Wh—really?”
Telim’s eyes glittered. He kept walking through one of Wistram’s less-crowded hallways. He was a new member of the Terras faction, but Trey knew he was one of Wistram’s [Mages] for life.
“I met him. You’d be surprised how many people have visited Wistram, at least once. Him, Three-Color Stalker, monarchs—never the Blighted King or Queen, you understand. They seldom leave for fear of assassinations, but great heroes and people of stories have walked these halls. You came from Chandrar. What part, again?”
