His hand was shaking, but he pointed the first two fingers of his right hand at Amerys’ temple. He met her eyes.
“I don’t know if I can cast it here. But if you take my fingers, I will try. Let me go. I haven’t done anything to you.”
The prisoner looked up at the young man. She stared at him.
Curious. That was…different. He was in pain. She could feel his hand shaking through her teeth. He was breathing hard, scared…
But the fingers pressed against her temple were the only calm things. She stared straight into his eyes.
Ah. Now those looked…different. He wasn’t in disbelief or simply panicking. If anything, he was more terrified because he knew he was a second away from losing his fingers. Even so, he pressed the tips of his fingers into her forehead a bit harder, so she felt the nails dig into her skin.
“Archmage Amerys. Don’t. I want to talk to you. I am not joking. I have been here before.”
What a simple, casual line. She blinked up at him. In genuine shock. The woman met his eyes. She hesitated—
And then Amerys’ teeth loosened on his fingers. She spat out his hand, and her head jerked backwards. Telim grabbed him, reaching for a healing potion. He dragged Troy back as the other two guards aimed their weapons at her.
But Amerys ignored them. She just looked at Troy Atlas as he poured a potion over his hands and watched his skin regrow. As he glanced up and met her eyes.
What a strange boy. He said strange things. Familiar things.
I have been here before.
She wondered if it was just coincidence. Or if someone had told him to say that.
Perhaps that falsely confident faker. The woman who wore masks far deeper and more complex than any other. Layers of armor over a fragile soul. Yet also, the [Vanguard]. The warrior who broke armies across her armor. Could it be?
The woman—Amerys, sat up as they bound her head back with spells. But she kept watching him. He didn’t run or hide, even after nearly losing his fingers, and that made him different from Aaron.
For the first time in a long while, Amerys began to hope.
 
——
 
Archmage Amerys sat there, spitting blood out of her mouth. His blood. Trey thought she did it just to get the clean room dirty and annoy the other [Mages].
She looked…odd. Now that she was calm, she seemed completely different from the madwoman bound up, unblinking.
Her head was bound back by little strands of magic, but her eyes were locked on him. Scrutinizing him from head to toe.
A remarkable transformation. That static charge in the air was gone. The [Mage] in front of him was…well.
A [Mage]. When she spoke, her voice had that precision that made him think of an academic.
“[Light Spear] is complementary with sand and glass magic. Why did you specialize in that?”
He just looked at her, cradling his healed hand. It still hurt with phantom pain. Telim was keeping an eye on them as the other [Mages] returned to their card game, but they were all watching her. Listening in? Almost definitely.
Even so, Trey didn’t run. Despite nearly losing fingers to her. Her voice—it was so at odds with her image of just a second ago. She seemed…relaxed.
No.
Tired. She lay there, bound from head to toe, and Trey thought she looked exhausted. Haggard. With a deadly core of wrath—but tired. Worn out from doing nothing.
It was a strange thought, until he looked around this cell and imagined being bound like this for a day. A week. Months.
“A friend told me the magics went together. So have most of my teachers.”
That was all Trey said. Amerys chuckled drily.
“Yes. Logical magic. Why…”
She paused to cough. She couldn’t wipe her mouth, so she licked her lips to catch the saliva. She glanced up at Trey and curled her lip.
“…Why did you listen? Because you thought it was your magic? Because you had no direction? Because you agreed? If it was their plan to teach you the best magic, abandon it. Run away from their designs.”
Trey looked down at her.
“Why?”
Amerys tried to wiggle into a better position and ended up falling sideways. She glared sideways and looked at him with a wry grin. Look at me and laugh, it seemed to say.
“Magic. Is magic a set of rules you follow? Or is it passion? Are we artists or bound by logic? Optimal magic. Complementary schools. That…that is magic for children who want to be the strongest. You know who I am. I did not gain my levels or class by pursuing the best magic for me. I cast the spells I loved again and again.”
Trey walked over and slowly rotated her shoulder so she was lying against the wall again. The [Mages] watched him, but Amerys made no move to bite him.
“You mean, lightning magic?”
She met his eyes calmly and chuckled. It was a rasp, tired at first, but she seemed to grow more alert with every second of talking. More alive.
“You’re doing it again. It makes sense for me to have a school of magic, doesn’t it? I don’t call myself a [Lightning Mage]. So I am not one. I do like lightning. Every intelligent [Mage] tells me it’s foolish to be an elementalist at my level. That everyone will specialize in anti-electricity wards. They say these things—while being ten levels below me. While never having lived through one war.”
She spat again. Trey and Amerys stared at the red glob on the ground. Amerys shook her head—or tried to with the bindings.
“Do you know how they captured me?”
“No.”
She exhaled slowly.
“Three Archmages. They tricked me into a meeting, and I didn’t have a chance. I was ready—not for that. Lightning, specialty, has nothing to do with why I lost. So there is your lesson. Love your magic. If you have to choose between what is efficient over what you want—follow your heart. No matter what they do to you, stay loyal to that.”
She looked at him. Her voice was raspy from lack of use. She was bound like one of the Super Silkworms that had made Telim’s robes. Even so, Trey was reminded of the rest of them.
“Is that a metaphor for why you supported the King of Destruction, Archmage?”
Amerys rolled her eyes.
“No, it’s a random aside. At least you understand what a metaphor is. Do you like light magic?”
“Yes, a bit. I do think it’s…neat.”
She laughed.
“Then there you are. However. I have answered your first question, haven’t I? They all ask me. That’s how I answered them, every damned year. Children with the same question. Children and Archmages. Why him? Why still? Is that what you came here to ask? Like that other boy?”
Trey half-shook his head, fascinated. She wasn’t like what he expected at all. The nearly biting his fingers off—that was unwelcome, unexpected, yet partly what he had imagined.
This?
He sat, cross legged, and Amerys watched him. Trey Atwood ducked his head. He wondered what to say. He had said one of the things he had meant to already. And he thought she had heard it.
“I came here to ask you a question, Archmage Amerys. That’s true enough. And to see that you exist, I suppose.”
“Do they think I’m dead, then? Or has Wistram leaked secrets that I live?”
Her voice was dry. Trey heard a loud voice clear behind him and turned—the Naga gave him a warning shake of the head.
“No current topics.”
He nodded. Amerys gave the Naga a baleful glare. Trey turned back to her.
“Archmage, I just have one question for you. Today. If I’m allowed, I might come back with more. But…”
He looked around the cell again. Inspected her bindings. There was no visible lock or key; just sigils drawn over where cloth wrapped around her. Trey’s heart sank—and then Amerys shifted. She looked at him as she revealed something half-hidden by her legs.
A small lock, made of pure mithril. Trey looked at it, then at her.
“…I just wanted to hear your perspective. On the King of Destruction. Not why you joined him. But whether you think what he’s doing is for the better or the worse.”
Amerys blinked a few strands of hair out of her face. Trey couldn’t see the [Mages] behind him, and he didn’t know if they were listening. So he went on, keeping his voice level.
“I have come from Chandrar. I cannot tell you what has happened—but I did see the King of Destruction’s return. He makes war again—or people make war against him. In the end, it doesn’t seem to matter. There is always another war. I’m told that’s how it happened the first time. But I wasn’t there. You were. Was it worth it? All of this—your imprisonment. Bringing Reim back. Drevish, the Architect, is dead.”
She twitched. Her eyes opened, and one of the [Mage] guards stood.
“Is all of it worth it? If he had won, would it be for the better?”
Amerys gazed at him strangely.
“You’re asking me, one of his Seven. His most trusted vassals, whether I support what my [King] did?”
She began to smile, but Trey just nodded. He felt at his fingers again, and rubbed at his throat. Amerys glanced at it.
“I suppose it’s a silly question. I just wanted to know if you had any regrets. Any reservations. Or if you saw nothing wrong and would do it all over again that way.”
The Archmage lay there, eyes flickering to him, past his face. She tried to stretch out her legs, grimacing. Three times she opened her mouth before she spoke.
“You know, I wasn’t there for the early wars. You have heard how Flos Reimarch first rose to power, haven’t you? His father passed, and Hellios invaded his kingdom. He was a boy who fought to save his people.”
Trey nodded fractionally. Amerys licked her lips.
“Well, he made those just wars at first. The Black Judgment. Hellios. Wars for people or causes. By the time we met, he was older. A young man, not a boy, and he began some wars to conquer. That was what drew some of us. Some for causes, for what he did, or people he liberated or fought for. Others for power alone. But I? I grew up in Chandrar. Not impoverished; it has many lands as rich as any you could dream of. But Chandrar alone…even more than Rhir…it has places where all that is left is sand and dust.”
Amerys’ tone deepened contemplatively. Like a historian going back through the world’s timeline.
“Zeikhal. The Great Desert. It has swallowed a hundred thousand nations. There are nations as old as time, that bear relics of great ages, and places where everything has been lost. I am a [Mage] and scholar. I am good at war and magic, unlike my peers, who understand neither.”
She gazed past Trey and grinned at someone. Amerys went on, turning back to him.
“I know his kingdom will end and most likely be forgotten, even if it spans half the world. I knew it before I joined him. But he instills loyalty in me for reasons beyond gifts. More than the fact that I rode with him across so many years. More than visions of kingdoms and power, or the backing to follow magic to its core. More than the fact that I relish grand battles where we live in the dance of spells!”
Amerys was breathing harder, and he could see her pushing, trying to break free. She could not, and lay limply. Looking at him.
“For one reason alone, I think his cause was right. For me. There are [Kings] and [Warlords] across this world. His kingdom was bigger than most. He is not a perfect man.”
Trey whispered.
“No.”
She nodded, eyes fixed on him.
“No. But when his Seven stood around him, and that one [Steward]—it was not just him. It was the best of us. And though much time has passed…though we die, I still think it is right. That it is correct, if I could join him. That I will see my world change for the better if he triumphs. For one reason alone.”
Trey waited. He sat there and felt like he knew what she was about to say next. Amerys took a deep breath. She stared him straight in the eyes.
“He keeps his promises.”
She heard nothing in response, but Amerys saw the young man’s head dip for a second.
Yes. He does.
 
——
 
It was not the courtyard when they met again. The [King] was at war. However, he had made camp early, thrown up the royal tent, and he was waiting when Trey Atwood stormed in.
“I’m done. She’s a monster. She—that place is monstrous. It must be erased. You—did you know what you were sending us to? Have you seen it? I’m done. This world. Chandrar? It’s filled with nightmares. Nightmares and tragedy and—I’m leaving. Let Teres go with me.”
He was shaking. White-faced. The [King] rose from his chair and put aside his cup. Water. He was on campaign. He had had a bit of wine—but only to toast Gazi.
This was his second meeting of the day, already eventful. The camp was buzzing. For Gazi Pathseeker had returned.
With her mended eye. That was the talk on everyone’s lips. Or for the presence of the Quarass of Ger, who inspired her people arguably more than even he. The cunning ruler of the ancient Shield Kingdom with endless knowledge and tricks.
A surfeit of kindness, though. He saw it all over Trey. Flos looked at the boy’s throat, but his eyes did not widen markedly.
Gazi had told him everything. Trey saw his look and laughed.
“That’s right. She cut my throat. She let me bleed to death in front of Gazi. She—she’s insane. I’m done. A’ctelios—that place is—”
His voice was raised, and he was sweating, red-faced, eyes shining. Hysterical. The King of Destruction stood there. Trey ranted at him.
“Your entire continent is filled with villains and horrors! And you! You’re turning Teres into a murderer. I thought the Quarass was—is she even the Quarass? Or did we sacrifice someone to turn her into that? Why do I have to live through all of this?”
“Trey. I’m sorry to hear of—”
“Shut up!”
Trey shouted at Flos. The King of Destruction saw the young man point a quivering finger at him.
“Just—stop. I’m tired of being your pawn! I know this is your fault. You asked the Quarass to make me stronger. Well done. Someone else can put up with you and tell you it’s alright. I won’t. Not anymore. I’m tired of…”
He searched around aimlessly. His legs buckled.
“I’m tired.”
He sat down, into one of the chairs in the tent. Trey stared at Flos Reimarch. The King of Destruction looked at him.
Slowly, the [King] raised a cup of water and sipped from it. Trey twitched. If he had his staff, he might have tried to cast a spell.
The [King] didn’t shift his gaze from Trey, but he did find a chair and sit as well. He was so uncharacteristically quiet. Flos murmured.
“The Quarass—”
“She cut my throat!”
Trey screamed at him. Flos Reimarch fell silent again. He kept drinking his cup and went to fill it with the pitcher. He offered Trey a cup, saw the young man’s stare, and sat back down with his. He was three sips in, and Trey was about to explode, when he spoke.
“Gazi tells me A’ctelios Salash stirred. She also informs me you have seen a terrible thing within. Which has to do with children from your world. Tell me what you saw.”
