“Second door. Another lock. Instead of a maze that takes fifteen minutes to pass through and requires nonsense like walking through the third mirror on the left backwards while hopping blindly.”
“Why did you shout at Ullsinoi? Are they here?”
Telim gave Trey a blank look as he inserted a second key. This one had a strange set of pointed teeth, but it was more like the real thing.
“You never know. I do it whenever I think they’re here. Just shout and assume someone’s cloaked. It’s worked twice in my life. Mind you, they’re smart. But you couldn’t pay me to walk that maze every single time…so someone made a door. It works.”
He opened the door, walked through, and shut it after Trey.
 
——
 
“They replaced a master-illusionist maze with…a door. And a stone wall.”
Calac looked at Trey. The [Sand Mage] put a hand over his heart.
“I swear.”
The two looked at each other. Calac noted the door down after a second. He believed Trey, of course. It fit in completely with the [Mages].
“And after that?”
Trey swallowed.
“After that…there’s only the two guards. And Amerys.”
 
——
 
The two [Mages] were clearly delighted to see Telim. After their initial argument, they relaxed and were as friendly as could be. Politics didn’t trump friendship in this case, it seemed. One was actually a Dwarf, a rarity in Wistram. A tall Dwarf; he was five-foot-two.
“Dead gods, Telim. I know you have some snacks! Fork them over! Do you know how boring it is, sitting here all day?”
“Read a book. Or watch a scrying orb. If you want my snacks, pay me.”
The Naga slapped her tail on the ground as she bookmarked her novel.
“We can’t watch scrying orbs; we’re warded. Come on, Telim. It’s a two-day rotation.”
The [High Mage] staunchly refused to give up the snacks.
“That’s what you get for joining a faction.”
“So says Mister Terras. Listen. Share some snacks, and let’s play a game of chess or magic cards. We’ve got a deck. Or else we’ll be very upset, and the next time you go to raid a buffet, we’ll put a motion in the Council banning [Mages] from taking more than a set amount of food each meal.”
“You bastards. Alright. Sage’s Grass Chiffon cake or Frost Fritters? Both fresh from today.”
“Both.”
“You’ll have both over my dead body.”
“Is that a challenge…?”
The two [Mages] were certainly able to make good on Telim’s promise. Trey half-watched them the first time. The second, he noted the duo changed.
What didn’t change was that the two [Mage] guards were good at fighting. Telim had told Trey that, but the young man saw it. He was no magical expert, though he’d had teachers who knew combat like Parasol Stroll, Gazi, and the Quarass.
How did you tell a [Mage] who could hold themselves in combat apart from a powerful magic-user who might make simple mistakes apart?
Simple.
[Battle Mages] always had magic barriers. The Naga and Dwarf’s were both different. One appeared as a shimmering field around the Naga. The Dwarf had glowing runes sewn into his robes. The Naga deactivated her barrier to levitate a fritter through and happily munch down on it. The Dwarf had no problem eating his.
Telim had no shields. He shook his head at them.
“You have to wear barriers all the time? You can’t even touch anything without deactivating them! How do you even play chess?”
“We don’t, or we use magic, Telim. Don’t kick up a fuss. Anything in our personal radius is within our barrier, so we can read books. I don’t know how you lot can’t be bothered to put on a simple ward spell all the time. What about accidents?”
“It’s a pain in the butt.”
The two [Mages] rolled their eyes at Telim and glanced at Trey.
“That young man knows what we’re talking about. You know, I was walking down the street one time and someone hit a nail wrong. Freak accident. It goes flying straight at my cheek and guess what I had? A barrier. Don’t you remember when that poor boy got hit in the face by that pot of hot soup? Barriers, Telim. Barriers…”
“Listen, Yolv. I understand you. I counter with this—you’re sitting on the toilet. You reach for the roll of toilet paper. Barrier spell.”
“You are…that’s your reason?”
“Yes.”
Trey barely listened to their argument. He only had eyes for the person in the room beyond. She sat in the padded room, bound from head-to-toe, and chained as well.
She had a mask-binding over her mouth, and her arms and legs were also bound. She looked like a prisoner in a mental asylum.
Even so. There she sat, eyes locked onto him. A stare that was unblinking. Two bright yellow eyes and a messy tangle of leaf-green hair. Almost like nothing at all…not the woman he had come here to see.
That was, until the two [Mages] opened the unlocked door and ushered Trey through the thick glass that looked out of the room. One reason why they had chosen this area to contain her.
The other? Trey walked forwards slowly and felt the air go dead.
Anti-magic containment. Not just that…he felt a strange tingling in his stomach. Telim looked at Trey and grimaced.
“Ah, that’s why. Nutrition rooms. Do you even feed her?”
“She bit the fingers off the last person who tried. And swallowed them.”
Telim hesitated, a fritter halfway towards his mouth. He slowly put it down.
“I’m going to take that as a ‘no’.”
In days before these, these rooms had been used for more than holding prisoners. In fact, Trey suspected that was not their purpose at all.
Configurable rooms, like the ones that they held the group-therapy sessions in. But unlike those rooms, which created false beaches or climates…these were for a [Mage] to train.
Anti-magic to deaden your natural magic. Artificial nutrition so that you couldn’t starve to death.
For meditation? Protracted study?
He didn’t know. Nor could he think. Trey just walked forwards.
There she was.
Amerys.
The Archmage of Lightning. One of the King of Destruction’s Seven.
Amerys, the Calm Flower of the Battlefield.
She just sat there. Like an untidy silkworm. She even smelled a bit…unwashed. Her hair was a mess, and she looked like she’d been sitting like that for a long time. Trey saw just a woman, bound in chains.
Then one of the [Mages] guarding her called out.
“We’ll have to unlock her mask, young man. But keep back; she bites. I don’t know what you hope to gain, but you’ll be disappointed. She’s not pleasant company to be around.”
The other added with a roll of her eyes.
“She never was.”
Trey looked back, then at Amerys. The woman didn’t move. But as Trey went back to take the little key which unlocked her mask, he noticed something as he left and entered the room once more.
A curious tingle in his stomach. The feeling of unwelcome satiety, growing a tiny bit every moment.
Deadness, a lack of magic that made him feel like he had lost something. In truth…it felt like home, in a sense, but even more oppressive. Magic was stifled here.
Yet the last thing had nothing to do with his own nerves or feelings of apprehension, anticipation. It was simply…Trey felt at his neck. Then his head. He realized what it was.
His hair was standing up on end. As he took another few halting steps forwards, he felt it grow stronger.
A static in the air. A…charge. So powerful that, even here, a dozen paces away, he felt all his hair stand up on end. Trey took a few more steps forwards and felt it grow stronger.
As if he were approaching a battery unleashing its current into the air. That was thrilling, not scary. It should have just been…well, magical.
However, Trey didn’t feel the static was an impartial force in the world. He hesitated. Glanced back at the [Mages].
“Something wrong, lad?”
“It’s a living legend, Telim. Give him a moment. She’ll disabuse him of it in a moment. You should have heard what she said to that other poor boy. Aaron.”
One of the [Mages] spoke dismissively. Trey looked at them. Then at Amerys. They didn’t feel it from where they were.
He did. And he wondered…how many times they actually stepped into this room. If they didn’t have to feed her, and she didn’t need to use the restroom? Maybe she turned it off. But he felt it.
The charge in the air was ominous. A crackling possibility. As if he were standing under dark clouds in the rain. On top of a hill. Waiting for a flash that would be the last thing he ever saw.
The static ran up and down his clothing. The woman’s eyes were locked on his.
Bright, yellow eyes. Like lightning itself. They stared straight at the young man, tauntingly. Daring him to come forward. Amerys tensed up a bit, like an evil lightning bug.
She was helpless. She was bound head-to-toe, and the faint electrical current in the air was all she could manage. Even so…she had yet to blink. Trey got the distinct impression she was smiling from behind her mask.
He slowed, stopped, and cleared his throat. She just stared at him as he reached forwards to unlock her mask. What…he wondered.
What did she see?
 
——
 
It was a comfy cell, but it was still a box. With glass windows.
There wasn’t time here. It passed by slowly. The lone occupant just sat there. Unsure how long had passed. Time dripped by.
You could go mad, here. Perhaps that was what they hoped would happen. If so—they were wrong. She passed time the only way she could. Waiting. Waiting. But she could wait forever.
Until something changed to break up hellish nothingness. And something did come.
A raised voice in argument.
Her head rose. A veil of hair parted, so she could peek up. What was this, now? A fat [Mage] she recognized was arguing with the two captors for today. She counted by their rotations. It was a heated argument, and they were all pointing at a fourth party. She made out their voices.
“…personally told not to allow this young man to…”
“…Archmage Viltach’s orders. Directly.”
A head rose, slowly, under quite a lot of weight. A mask on the face, chains and bindings. Because there was a second voice, one she knew. She would have laughed.
The [Mage], Telim, held his ground, impatiently waving his finger in their faces.
“I quite understand that, you two. But let me vouchsafe this to you. Grand Magus Eldavin. Who’s soon to be Archmage. You say Viltach? I say Eldavin. Let the lad through. It’s the kind of thing a young man just wants to do. Meet a story. That fellow, Aaron, comes here all the time?”
“Yes, but Archmage—”
“Eldavin.”
“But Vilt—”
Telim had a way about him. She would have laughed if she didn’t have the mask on her face. He rolled over the two. He could do that when he wanted, but he never did. What a waste. The [High Mage] cheerfully interrupted the two.
“Eldavin. Also Valeterisa, for what it’s worth.”
A new Archmage? Who was Eldavin? She had heard that name once from her guards. The woman listened, but she heard no more nuggets to stir their minds. The guards looked at each other, and then relented. They beckoned the fourth person forwards, clearly content to pass on the trouble to someone else.
That was when she saw him. The woman’s eyes narrowed. She saw a young man, brushing his hair back, bowing to the two guards. He looked like nothing, and she sneered as she recognized him. Like the other boy, though they were different in appearance.
Children.
She waited as he came forwards, taking the key. He stopped, sensing electricity in the air.
Would he run from that alone? No…she bared her teeth, waiting as he approached with key in hand.
“Archmage Amerys? Hello. My name is Troy Atlas.”
No response. She just stared up at him. Her eyes burned, but she didn’t blink. Pain, the need to blink, these were all things you could control with a rational mind. And she wanted to unnerve him. She saw the young man lick his lips.
He felt like sand. Sand magic? He was no great [Mage]. A curious little boy. He went on, after a second, face too-earnest.
“I’m going to unlock your mask. I hope we can talk, Archmage. Is that alright?”
She said not a word. Just waited. She could lie, unmoving, for hours, until they thought she was dead. If only that did anything other than scare them. However, right now?
She waited. The woman bore this boy no particular grudge. But she…was smiling behind the mask. The prisoner waited, very still, as he inserted the key into the metal section of her mask. At this, the [Mages] stirred. Telim glanced up as he was dealt a hand of cards. He raised his voice, cautioning the boy again.
“Troy…watch your fingers.”
The two guards both glanced up as well. The woman grinned. She felt the key turn, heard the snick, felt the magical cloth fall from her face—
And lunged. Her mouth opened and she bit in a flash.
He had been ready. But this Troy was too slow. She hadn’t ever caught Aaron after that first time because he was careful. But the first time…
He jerked his hand back past her face. So she turned her head and bit.
The hand jerked to a stop. He shouted—yanked—and she felt her teeth grind over his skin. Stop. She was biting his fingers. Three. All the way down to…
She tasted blood. What a familiar feeling. The [Mages] shot to their feet. So did Telim.
“Troy!” 
“Let him go, Amerys!”
The Naga warned her. The woman laughed. She was biting hard as the young man shouted, trying to pull her jaws off his hand. She had the ends of his digits in her mouth, locked by the teeth. He would never pry her mouth off with his other hand. She was staring up at him, through a bloody grin.
The other guards were threatening her. One had a wand aimed at Amerys. The Archmage laughed silently. They had put her in a box that sucked away magic, made her a prisoner. What are you going to do to me?
Torture me? Kill me? They were [Mages] of Wistram. None of them had the stomach for it. Not Feor, Viltach…maybe Nailihuaile, if she saw the clear gain.
She bit harder and heard a gasp of pain. She could feel the bones in his fingers vibrating. The woman looked up at him.
She wanted to see his face. What will you do? You’re going to lose your fingers. Will you scream, beg? She gazed up into his eyes gleefully. She saw his expression of pain, his eyes locked on her.
“Archmage Amerys! I’m not your enemy. Please—”
A bit harder. She saw his face go pale. Telim was striding into the cell, wand raised, but he was going to be too slow. She rather liked Telim. But…Amerys grinned and continued to bite.
Then—she saw the young man’s expression change. The look of surprise, pain, fear—flickered. His wild brown eyes focused on hers and he inhaled. Then he lifted his other hand and put his first two fingers together.
“If you bite my fingers off, I will cast [Spear of Light].”
The woman halted. She did not snap bone. She hesitated, her mouth filled with flesh and blood. Telim halted.
“Troy?”
