Telim walked with Trey again, and the young man’s heart was fluttering out of his chest. He did not want to be here. He shouldn’t have been here, but like a fool he’d kept up his regular visits to Amerys.
He clutched a basket of snacks like an alibi to his chest. Nor did he have the luxury of chatting with Telim to create anything like a relaxed atmosphere or a cover story.
[Mages] were all over this area. Two were casually lounging outside the Creler-mural zone. And the ones inside?
There were now six Guardian Golems, two in their original spots, two more in the hallway, and two on patrol. Telim stopped when he saw them.
“Six? I didn’t know we had six of them! This is a bit overkill, isn’t it? Has something happened?”
He looked at Trey, and the young man tried to seem as shocked as possible. Telim glanced around. He peered down the shag hallway currently being torn up by the huge feet and called out.
“I say! Yolv! Has something happened?”
The Dwarf [Runic Warrior] was standing in the hall, armored up and shielded behind his magical barriers, in discussion with no less than eight other [Mages]. Including…Trey’s mouth dried up.
Galei, the Centaur of the Ullsinoi faction. Trey looked past him at an exasperated man and turned a shade paler.
Archmage Viltach was there too. He and a Libertarian were talking with the Ullisinoi’s representative and other [Mages] assigned to this duty. Nailihuiale slithered out of a room and caught sight of Telim.
“Who’s this now?”
The Centaur tilted his head and regarded Trey with a keen eye.
“Troy Atlas, one of the Earthers, and Telim. Are you here for guard duty?”
“You will never get me sitting guard duty for days on end. Galei, Archmages. Has something happened with Archmage Amerys?”
Viltach, Naili, and the other [Mages] exchanged looks. Viltach folded his arms, and Yolv coughed, spotting Trey.
“This might not be the time for a visit, Telim. Something did happen. We’re recreating the security on this floor. Which means, apparently, how many guards?”
“Let’s call it an even twelve. You can play cards or something.”
Galei spoke. The Centaur had an amazing mane of hair, silver grey, and a wicked smile over his kilt-like robes. He looked like mischief and had a balanced pair of spectacles on his face. Half-moon. No, he didn’t need them, but he’d added them after hearing stories of Earth.
He and another [Mage] who wore Ullsinoi’s curious eye-sigil on their robes faced the other [Mages]. Instantly, one of the Dullahans present complained.
“Twelve? Ullsinoi doesn’t contribute its members. We’re not having twelve guards, Galei. Or is it Galei-Taxiela? Am I even speaking to a person? You lot are as trustworthy as quicksand.”
She went to prod Galei, and the Centaur laughed as she poked his stomach. He covered it protectively.
“Stop that! You know, quicksand isn’t actually that dangerous. Now, Freefall Quicksand is the stuff that’ll bury you up to your nose in a moment. We’d contribute guards—but it’s a matter of trust. We’re willing to put in the magic, though. See?”
He nodded and two more [Mages] came strolling down the hall. Trey’s heart sank. Because the lovely shag-and-wood hallway no longer led towards the improvised door which Amerys was imprisoned behind. One of the [Mages], a smiling Drake with fiery orange scales, clicked his claws—
And the hallway devolved into a shadowy maze filled with smog. Labyrinthine walls thirteen feet tall—and, oh yes. Ominous cello music.
“Dead gods.”
Yolv took one look at the enchanted maze and turned to Galei. He raised a finger and pointed at the maze.
“You put it back. You bastards! It takes fifteen minutes to get through that shit! I am not walking fifteen minutes to use the toilet!”
“True. It’d take you fifteen minutes to run.”
Galei and the other Ullsinoi mages started cackling with laughter. Yolv just rolled his eyes.
“Short jokes. Archmage Viltach, please, speak some sense into them!”
“I’m still waiting to know what happened. Excuse me? Is Amerys free? Did someone try to break her out?”
Telim waved a hand. Viltach glanced at Trey, and the young man kept his face as straight as possible. He sighed loudly.
“We know what happened, Telim, roughly. This is private—but it appears Ullsinoi, not trusting to our safeguards, has been trapping this entire area with spells in case someone were to attempt to free Amerys. They planted powerful spells that could have hurt our own guards—”
“We were more clever than that. It’s directional. You walk out for a breath of fresh air, you don’t explode. Now, if you land…so long as no one started hopping there, they were fine! Besides, you’d spot it. Probably. Maybe. Nah, we hid it well.”
One of the [Illusionists] remarked cheerfully. Yolv swore, and the other guards looked at the Ullsinoi [Mages] askance.
“You didn’t think to tell us? We’ve been guarding Amerys—”
Galei interrupted calmly.
“Poorly. You didn’t think about the balcony. Don’t get out of it—you didn’t. That’s why we put a spell there; because we’re on your side. On the window, too.”
What window? The [Mages] present refused to acknowledge Galei’s point. They just glared—and Nailihuiale sighed loudly.
“The point is that one of their spells went off, Telim. Which has led to Ullsinoi condescending to tell us how flawed our security is.”
Galei cast a glance towards Trey. His eyes lingered for a second on the young man.
“…And he proves my point. Visitors. Even feeding Amerys snacks. You want to keep her prisoner? Do it properly.”
Trey jumped as the Centaur pointed at him. Viltach frowned, and Telim muttered.
“This is all…astounding. Astounding! Ullsinoi, helping out directly? But the spell—what happened? Someone did try to get in? Did they turn into silkap or what?”
“No. We know what happened. We did investigate, Telim. Despite what Ullsinoi might think, we’re not idiots.”
Viltach’s eyes rested on Trey for a moment, and the young man waited. This was it. He tried to think of something to say—and Archmage Nailihuaile sighed louder.
“Emirea du Merrimom.”
…Huh? Trey’s mouth opened. Of all the names—Telim started.
“Isn’t that your friend, Troy? What about her? She tried to—”
Nailihuaile lifted a claw.
“No, no. The poor girl. She was the victim. Apparently she feeds birds; the Merrimom estates. Poppingjays or some stupid things. Well, she feeds the seagulls here. She named one ‘Beaky’ or something inane—I say that in past tense, because the child was happily watching her little friend fly around when it must have crapped on the spell or landed for a moment. Ullsinoi blew it into bits.”
Trey’s mouth was open. Galei bit his lip, and the other Ullsinoi [Mages] looked away. Naili turned to Viltach and the others.
“She came to me, screaming, with a handful of bloody feathers in her hands, and when I realized what had happened—”
It was too much. Galei and the other three Ullsinoi [Mages] cracked. His cheeks bulged, and they started laughing so hard the Centaur had to lean on a wall to stand up. One actually went over, she was cackling so hard.
“Oh, for—Galei! This is not a joke!”
Viltach snapped. The Ullsinoi [Mages] kept laughing.
“That’s hilarious! Don’t glare at me! It’s a damn seagull!”
Galei was wiping tears from his eyes. Trey almost laughed himself. He felt his would be hysterical, though.
Poor Emirea. But the luck! One seagull fatality meant that no one had asked questions. However…Viltach turned to the maze, and sighed.
“I suppose we can rethink the security precautions.”
“Yes.”
Galei stood upright, and glanced at Trey, Telim, and nodded to the hallway.
“For instance, we can put more Golems in. Let’s have all six guardian golems. More [Mages]. And turn off the false wall in the mural walk.”
“What?”
Archmage Naili and Viltach looked at him. The Centaur sighed, his face expressing every level of weary resignation.
“A wall to keep us all boxed in means reinforcements have to turn that key. It means they’re funneled in. Open this area up. Keep the Golems. Add more [Mages].”
He smiled cheerfully as the other factions looked at each other.
“Take my advice. Or don’t. But trust me—if you want to keep Amerys secure, you’re going to need to sacrifice a few birds. Oh—are those snacks?”
He flicked his hand, and Trey jumped. Galei chomped down on a fruitcake and smiled. He turned to Trey and trotted past him.
“The point to making a prison is to make it impossible to break out of—at least, if you want to keep someone inside. You lot are far too nice. People trying to break into my domain only get one shot.”
He winked at Trey and dropped the fruitcake back in the basket. Silently, the young man stared up at him as Viltach sighed again.
 
——
 
Trey Atwood and Calac Crusland sat together. In silence. They had the warding stones up in their room, but they said not a word.
Minizi silently and expressively sucked down a thimble of Trey’s blood in the corner. She was rejuvenating her lost sand; even she couldn’t reclaim it after it was blown to bits like that.
All their plans were in shambles. The layout of the prison was completely redesigned. Worse?
They were made. Maybe. Possibly? Trey kept thinking back to Galei’s comments. But for Emirea, they would be caught.
And even if they weren’t, and they had a second chance…what were they supposed to do? He didn’t know. Worse, the veil had been stripped away and Trey realized how bad their plan was.
He just pictured it, again and again. Him and Calac landing on the balcony, all set to break Amerys out and—boom.
He had no ideas and no more time. An army was marching on Reim to besiege it. Trey searched for the words to express how he felt. But it was Calac who did.
“I let them down. It’s arrogance.”
Trey bestirred himself. The [Lord] was looking at his hands.
“I didn’t understand the King of Destruction. I thought I was better than I was. No wonder my father didn’t trust me. This was my chance and—”
“We’re up against Level 50 [Mages]. It’s just us versus the Academy. We…Flos himself said it was a long shot. He said there was limited help he could give, and that we might fail. I think…he was even testing to see if I wanted to stay.”
Trey murmured. Calac looked at him and turned away, towards his window.
“We’re just fools. I don’t think he believed that, Trey. I used to think you didn’t deserve anything. Let alone his ear. But you—you came up with most of that plan. You had so much set up. I couldn’t contribute enough. If I were better at magic, or thought things through…”
“Neither one of us is good enough. Calac—there’s pieces. We’re not sharing Amerys’ cell. We have to try again.”
The [Lord] was staring at the three golden pins in Reim’s capital. He nodded.
“We must. But we’re not good enough. Not us two. Not a [Sand Mage] with a Lifesand Golem and a [Lord] who knows the sword and a bit of banditry.”
He looked ironically at Trey, and the [Sand Mage] nodded. The lights were dim in their room, and they sat in the dead of night. They had blown out almost every candle; it fit their mood.
Minizi sat, drinking blood. She had a gem for an eye, and bones of mithril. The Lifesand Golem’s sand eye swiveled to Trey, to Calac.
What was wrong with them? They were so silent. So still. So hopeless. All Trey had done when he’d come back was go to Emirea’s room. She was still crying and mourning her friend, Beaky.
Trey had returned, lit a simple candle, and placed it by his windowsill. It guttered as it cast a long shadow over the room. Like despair?
They were so still, Minizi wondered if they were sleeping. But they did not, in her experience, sleep standing up. The Lifesand Golem saw Calac glance at the candle.
Then Trey.
It wavered. A single, burning glow now. It was very dark outside. The clouds covering Wistram’s night sky. Parts of the academy glowed, but two statues and a little Golem sat in the room.
The candle. Minzi stared at it. She was aware of some things. She was aware of being unaware of things. Like the traps in Wistram that Trey and Viltach sent her to try and clear. She learned to dodge them—sometimes by running into them two dozen times and finding a route by trial and error.
But she did learn. Context clues. Some were easy, like a bit of raised stone, a change in gradation that mortal people would miss, but was as obvious as the sun to a Golem.
Some things were harder. But this…this was more of a common-sense issue, so it took Minizi a while to figure it out.
The candle moved and danced as the night air entered and left. It was just a candle, melting low, lower. But something was off about it.
The flame. Minizi really tried. The flame was no bigger or smaller than regular fire. It was not hotter or colder that she could tell. So what was it…?
Ah. Perhaps it was simply that the flame was invisible. At least, to Minizi’s eyes. She saw the wax melting, but she did not see the flame, just the place where it distorted the air.
But that was fine. She had been made in someone’s image, but her eyes were sand. Her body was blood and sand, and the boy who had created her had many mixed emotions in his chest.
Desperation. A cold determination when he looked at the camera. Fear. Apprehension. Uncertainty.
And a growing feeling of…
Expectation?
Minizi’s head tilted sideways on her body. Slightly oversized, like a bobblehead. A cute little being with a sword. Razor-sharp teeth.
She didn’t know what she was based on, only that she was. The Lifesand Golem stirred as Calac and Trey looked towards the window.
The candle guttered out. Both boys sat in silence. But Minizi heard it.
The faintest sound in the world. A…scraping sound. Very faint. Metal on stone.
She rose to her feet. The little sand hand grasped her sword.
A claymore. Viltach, the other creator, had laughed when Trey suggested it. Fitting.
Why? Minizi stared at her reflection in the blade. Dreadlocks of hair around a huge, central eye. Four smaller ones over a mouth filled with pointed teeth. Four fingers on each hand.
That was all…not like Trey. Not like anyone, except for Goelv. But the eyes were different. Minizi touched her face.
She had no skin. Or rather, the sand detailing her didn’t depict regular skin. Her fingers, her body had an odd…segmented quality to it.
Like armor. A flexible armor of banded scales, from neck to toe. The Lifesand Golem heard another crunch of something digging into stone and looked up. She raised her sword and heard something outside the window.
Like a rat. The really big ones. Minizi tottered forwards, ready to swing her sword and rightly end it. Trey started as the Lifesand Golem charged past him.
“Minizi. Wait—”
