Because he could be charming. He was disarmingly charming, in fact. Likable. Not for humility alone, because he had a ‘selfie’ of Fetohep of Khelt, the first picture of the undead king ever. Which, yes, was a low bar to set…but he had something else.
So Flos listened as Trey counted on his fingers.
“I brought two books for the Quarass from the libraries, with Orthenon’s permission. Um, a bag of holding with some of the garden’s supplies—again for her, and for Fetohep, I brought one of the meringues—but frozen so it holds its shape sort of. We’re going there first so it should fit. And, um, uh…”
He hesitated, and Flos prodded him.
“Go on. I’ll just ask Orthenon. It can’t be too embarrassing, can it?”
He genuinely didn’t know. Trey squirmed, scratching at one leg with the other.
“A, uh, painting of you, Your Majesty. Not one of the good ones.”
Flos blinked. He hadn’t actually known what Trey had gotten for both rulers. He repeated Trey’s words slowly.
“You…are giving Fetohep of Khelt…a picture of me? Could you tell me why these four gifts? Why…why?”
And that was the thing that fascinated him. Trey looked embarrassed, perhaps nervous Flos would be angry, but when he spoke, it fascinated Flos, so the King of Destruction listened in rare silence.
“Well, they’re things they would want. I think, at least. I hope one of them will make them smile.”
“A picture of me. Fetohep. Has someone cast [Confusion] on me?”
Flos rubbed at one ear, but only to pretend. He saw Trey smile and duck his head, but Flos watched his eyes. He…knew what he was doing.
“It’s nothing they asked for—not exactly. The Quarass likes books, and she mentioned you had some from, uh, conquered countries, and I said I could bring a few. So that’s simple.”
“Why seeds from the garden? Or produce?”
Trey shrugged.
“Ger doesn’t have bountiful fields. Some of the things were from Tottenval’s era, weren’t they?”
Flos felt a pang, but he answered quietly.
“Yes. So for her fields.”
“She loves Germina. Anything for Germina makes the Quarass happy.”
“Not cakes, then? Not a bounty of sweets? The [Chefs] could make a hundred cakes. Why for Fetohep—who does not eat—and not the Quarass?”
Flos thought he had an inkling, but he saw Trey give him a blank look, and the [King]’s heart leapt. Because…Trey understood.
“The Quarass wouldn’t want a hundred cakes, even if I could bring them, Your Majesty, Flos. She can’t share a hundred cakes in her capital. Seeds…cuttings…”
“Of course. And Fetohep? A meringue and painting?”
Trey folded his hands behind his back and tried to look innocent.
“Um…he might burn the painting. Or, uh…uh…”
“Out with it.”
“I mentioned darts, and he said he had a magical set. But we had to leave, and I’m sure he’s set up some to play, so if I brought a target he enjoyed—”
The King of Destruction laughed so hard he thought he’d crack a rib. He slapped Trey on the shoulder, delighted, and caught the young man before he went over the balcony.
“Trey Atwood! You make me laugh too much! Go on, go on! The meringue thing? Why?”
Like someone watching a [Magician], he turned to Trey. The others were watching enviously or curiously, but Trey didn’t notice. He just swept back his hair with a hand, looking modestly pleased himself.
“It’s because it’s a good meringue, Flos. But, um…it’s a complex treat.”
“Yes, the [Chefs] had a devilish time figuring it out from your recollections. So why…? Ah.”
The young man nodded.
“Fetohep will want to take it and prove his [Chefs] can do better. No offense to Chef Yerinse, but…he will probably have a lot made, and it’ll be the talk of Khelt.”
“Of course. Prove Khelt’s superiority. You have thought through each and every gift. I imagine you even have an idea how to keep them entertained.”
Flos gave Trey a huge smile, and he watched as the young man tried to brush it off, blushing. But he, like the Quarass, remembered that, and a little idea began to hatch in Flos’ head. Naturally, it required time. And Gazi had her own ideas, but when she laid it out for him—
He knew who to pick. Of course, it wasn’t that simple. Cunning plans never were. You had to work hard at it. Too hard, like true games of chess, and he would have rather relaxed. But plans…
Trey could make plans.
 
——
 
Months later, Trey Atwood wondered if Flos Reimarch had been planning this all along.
If so—Flos could have done a better job of it.
But hadn’t Gazi had a hand in this plan? If so—Trey had to believe in her, although if her plan was working, she was, right now, sitting underwater, tickling fishes, and she had been for at least a week.
No…he hesitated. No, how long exactly had she said she would take to follow them? It didn’t really matter.
They were not busting out Amerys right now. He had no idea where she was.
It was his second week of being at Wistram. Trey knocked on the door as he stood in the near-empty hallway, shifting from foot to foot and trying not to look suspicious.
Students went to each other’s rooms all the time. If anything, this was normal. If anything, Trey being nervous sold the scene: someone would suspect he was going to partake in semi-frowned upon Dreamleaf. Or a romantic escapade.
Given the owner of the room, Trey hoped for nothing of the sort. Indeed, a moment later Calac Crusland, or ‘Carn Thustone’ as he was known here, opened the door.
“Hello, Troy Atlas. Would you like to come in for our studying of spells?”
The young man intoned with such a painful deadpan that Trey quickly shoved him inside the room. A little Lifesand Golem, Minizi, poked her head out of the hood of his robes as he hissed at Calac.
“You suck at acting!”
Calac instantly dropped his deadpan look and glared back at Trey.
“I don’t have the class!”
“You don’t need a class to be halfway decent! Are we secure?”
The other young man nodded. He pulled out a gleaming runestone and showed it to Trey.
“I check every night that the wardstones are working.”
“Just don’t show them around.”
Calac rolled his eyes. He was not Trey’s preferred backup and co-conspirator. Trey didn’t know Calac that well, but he remembered him from Venith and the first days of Flos’ campaign. Calac was hotheaded, impulsive, unlike his father and mother, who…no, he was sort of like Venith in that sense.
The difference was that Venith had been rightfully angry at Flos, and when he got angry, it was with genuine exasperation.
Calac was just angry. He had a darker skin tone that was a mix of his father’s and mother’s, and he had certainly inherited his parents’ gifts for combat. He was good with a sword, enough to be part of Wistram’s club of weapon-using [Mages] already, could ride, shoot a bow…and he had a chip on his shoulder the size of Reim’s palace.
He had dark hair and pale, off-white eyes that were faintly yellow. However, what always stood out to Trey was Calac’s scowl. In most of their interactions he would be scowling at Trey and Teres, and it didn’t take a genius to figure out why.
They were the King of Destruction’s companions. Calac was not. He was semi-disgraced in his own eyes—or perhaps his parents’—for once interfering in the duel between Venith and the King of Destruction. He…hadn’t proven himself.
This was his chance, but Trey still would have taken Teres. She was like Calac in some ways, though both would have resented the comparison, but she was his sister. You had to put up with family.
“I am a [Lord] of Hellios. It makes sense I would have anti-listening runestones. Just maintain your cover. You’re the one hanging out with your kind.”
“You mean, Earthers? Afraid I’ll turn on you?”
Calac stopped halfway over to the map of Wistram he was drawing. Which was a stupid idea because entire hallways could change location—but he had still made one, and drawn huge red X’s to mark where they’d searched. Which was another bad idea because they didn’t need to find Amerys like a needle in a haystack, they just needed to ask someone where she was.
The young Crusland pivoted slowly, hand going to the sword that hung at his belt.
“You had better not even joke about that. My father and mother and the [King] trust you. If you betray us all, you’ll condemn—”
“It’s a joke.”
It hadn’t really been, but Trey snapped and Calac shut up. The two young men glared at each other. After a second, Calac pointed at the map.
“We don’t know where she is. Have you been asking? Even hinting? I brought it up—”
“You’re too obvious. You can’t just ask someone where Amerys is!”
Calac snapped back.
“Why not? You’re too afraid to ask anyone a single question! It’s a fair thing to ask —where one of the Archmages is!”
“Just about her? ‘Oh, look at me, I’m Carn from Hellios, which isn’t at all near Reim. Anyone know where Amerys is?’”
Trey lowered his voice and parodied Carn’s rough tone. Calac turned red.
“We are on a schedule. Lady Pathseeker should be in position, which means we have to hurry—”
“We’re on a mission not to get caught!”
Minizi climbed out of Trey’s hood. He caught her before she fell—not that it would hurt the Lifesand Golem, she’d just ‘bruise’ and reform her head, but he still felt bad when he saw it—and he and Calac began to argue harder. Trey’s stomach hurt.
Go to Wistram, Trey. Take Calac. I can’t send any artifacts or they’d notice. I have faith in you. Just like I have faith in the Quarass to cut your throat. Also, can you pay a visit to A’ctelios to heal Gazi?
Fucking Flos.
 
——
 
“Get off! Get—[Light Arrow]!”
“Damn you!”
Minizi slowly ate a half-rotten slice of apple. Since she had no stomach, it just sank into her body, and she pulled it out, looking disappointed.
She was bigger, now, having been fed on milk, honey…metaphorically. More like Trey’s blood and sand for three weeks. She sat on the table since she had been told not to interfere, and watched as the two young men rolled about on the floor, throwing punches—and spells.
Calac threw punches. Trey ate punches, and threw spells since the other young man had him in height, experience, and muscle.
Magic was the great equalizer. In theory.
In practice, trying to fast-cast a spell while someone punched you in the face didn’t work. Even with Gazi’s training, Trey got the worst of it. Calac pulled a punch as he sat on Trey’s stomach, raising a bloody knuckle. They were both angry, stressed, with no real progress, and they kept saying things they regretted.
Then Minizi decided enough was enough—or she wanted some of that sweet, sweet Trey-blood—and she leapt on Calac’s back. Which wasn’t really a problem because she was only twice as tall as a big cup.
The problem was she had his apple-knife and she’d been learning how to stab rats.
 
——
 
It was very late at night, and Trey knew he was waking Calac up because the young man took a while to open the door. He probably hadn’t expected Trey; they’d agreed not to meet until one of them found something conclusive.
Since he had, Trey didn’t beat about the brush.
“Alright. I’ve found out Amerys is in Wistram. I even think we might be able to get a visit with her. Grand Magus Eldavin’s gaining in power.”
Calac looked up. The first flash of hope entered his face. He hesitated and put a hand on Trey’s shoulder.
“Good work.”
He smiled. Trey looked at him and glanced over his shoulder. He saw Calac’s map of Wistram—which had gone through about twenty one revisions before being scrapped—had been replaced by a map of the war in Reim with the King of Destruction. Calac was plotting a slow course of Reim’s advances and retreats.
But he had two pins which were in gold. They were fairly close to each other, and Trey looked at them and thought about what they might mean after he caught Calac up on the mysterious Eldavin who’d just blasted through the banquet hall.
Of course. His mother and father were fighting on the front. And here he was. Trey felt a pang and thought of Teres. They had both watched the Minotaurs beat Flos. Neither one said it, but…he decided to be nicer to Calac. If possible.
 
——
 
Four days later, Trey regretted trying to be nicer to Calac. The young man’s scowl was met with Trey’s weary one. Calac held up the diagram.
“Explain it to me again.”
“Calac…”
“Call me Carn. We can’t slip up, remember?”
Trey rubbed at his face. Minizi passed him a cloth, and he wiped his face…and realized it was the inkrag. Trey closed his eyes.
“Carn. It’s past midnight. We have class tomorrow! This isn’t part of the—the plan! Grand Magus Eldavin has a lecture!”
“On history. Teach me how to do the basic mana…projection again. I can’t master it.”
“You’re a first-year student. No one has to master it.”
Trey rubbed at his eyes and got ink in them. He cursed, and Calac handed him a water flask. He didn’t look any more energetic. Trey happened to know he woke at dawn to practice with his sword, and apparently had a few admirers—but he was insistent. Calac spoke around a jaw-cracking yawn.
Trey noticed his plain room had gained some decorations. Calac had a military-style setup with a chest containing his gear, his armor and sword laid out, polishing kits, and that map of Reim, but he’d started adding fresheners, and it seemed like he had begun sweeping up. Trey glanced around, frowning.
“Did you have company? It smells like perfume.”
Calac avoided his gaze.
“That’s private.”
“You did. What?”
The [Lord] flushed as if being found out were a huge source of embarrassment.
“It’s private. I don’t ask about your private matters. Don’t you have any common decency?”
He was quite different from the other young men Trey knew about. Intrigued, Trey yawned as Calac tried to master the basic spellcraft again.
“Nope. You’re still doing it wrong. Can’t we call it a day?”
Calac cursed.
“No! I can’t! Emirea can do this, and she’s eleven! So can Goelv and Tov!”
He named their friends. Goelv the Gazer boy. Emirea du Merrimom, the shy, young [Lady]. Tov, the Drowned Man who was half-slug.
“She had tutors. Goelv’s a Gazer, and uh…Tov’s from the Drowned Ships. You literally had no magic practice. I did.”
Calac just looked at Trey.
“I don’t want to fall so far behind that I can’t talk with them.”
It was such an honest, even quietly embarrassed statement that Trey stopped being grumpy and looked at Calac.
“I…didn’t think of that. Sorry.”
The [Lord] brushed it off, but he didn’t draw back. He was surprisingly genuine, and again—the fact that he was able to say that with a straight face outright was also different.
