Trey watched the confidence turn to panic as the [Mage] overbalanced, sending utensils, food, and everything else flying up…down onto them.
The [Bard] gave him a superior look as she pocketed her wand. Trey stared at her.
[Dispel Magic] didn’t work?
That was Grand Magus Eldavin’s teaching. The other students looked at Mena as she packed her food and levitated the two boxes after her. She nodded at Trey.
“I’m just doing a delivery. I can talk. Is there something the Grand Magus needs? I can go find him right after this.”
She turned to him eagerly, and Trey saw the same look a lot of [Mages] had. It made him…uneasy. It was the kind of pure adoration or loyalty that made him think of…
The King of Destruction. Someone swept up in the cause.
Gazi looked like that. At times. But she was tempered by years of knowing Flos. This? Gazi was a Gazer, and she watched Flos with a hint of this passion. But this was closer to blindness.
“Not Eldavin directly, no. Can I walk with you?”
Mena visibly hesitated. She glanced ahead.
“I’m going somewhere private. Up till there is fine, but…”
“You’re making a delivery to the guards. I know. Grand Magus Eldavin has let me visit…her.”
Trey finished Mena’s sentence. The [Bard] turned to him, surprised, then smiling.
“Of course you know. In that case, come with me. Do you know what he’s planning for his Archmage’s coronation? I mean, ceremony? It’s coming up soon.”
Trey shook his head.
“No more than anyone. Does he say anything to you?”
Mena frowned.
“Teura knows, I’m sure. She’s had some of the older mages working hard…but I didn’t hear more. That’s just gossip; don’t repeat it. What do you think of her? Grand Magus Eldavin went to speak with her once, but he hasn’t again.”
“I bring her food. And the guards.”
“That’s you who’s doing it?”
Mena exclaimed. Trey nodded and she laughed and slapped her forehead.
“It all makes sense! The guards tell me someone else has been feeding them properly. I’m glad someone does. You know, the other people doing deliveries don’t even bother checking what they put in the boxes? One packed an entire loaf of bread in and eight raw carrots one time.”
“Really?”
They were chatting as they came to the Creler mural. Trey slapped his forehead as Mena fished for the key.
“You know what? I shouldn’t.”
She smiled sideways at him.
“Don’t be dramatic. It’s not as if you don’t have permission.”
“But the Golems. You know, the wards?”
The [Bard] shook her head. She glanced up at Trey and bowed her head.
“Archmage! No, it’s fine. I have an amulet, and the wards are spelled to ignore it, or that’s what they said.”
Trey smiled, but the back of his neck suddenly prickled. He casually turned his head, nodding.
“Archmage Viltach. Good morning to you as well.”
“Troy. On another…visit?”
The Archmage of Terandria smiled as he passed by Mena and Trey. The young man nodded slightly, suddenly feeling a little…sweaty. Mena just nodded, brushing frazzled hair out of her eyes.
“Just keeping them fed, Archmage.”
“Very good. Don’t let me keep you. Troy—we must speak about Minizi, later. Perhaps a dinner?”
“Perhaps, Archmage. I, uh, have a lesson with Grand Magus Eldavin late.”
Viltach’s expression changed. The friendly, bearded Archmage looked at Trey with…what? Envy? Betrayal? Resignation?
Just a hint of it, for a second, and he nodded ruefully.
“You do have to report to your Grand Magus. Another time, then.”
He passed by, and Mena calmly turned the key in the lock. Trey’s stomach fluttered—but then they were standing in front of the Golems.
“I don’t know how you walk past them alone, even with the amulet.”
She tugged it out of her robes and shrugged as Trey stared at it.
“It’s not exactly hard. They scare the older [Mages], and they’re unsettling—but they wouldn’t go straight to killing you. Honestly, they could open up this Hidden Hallway and no one would get hurt, even if they did wander in here. All these wards? The Golems? Hey, I showed you my amulet!”
She waved an irritated hand as she walked forwards with the floating breakfast boxes, and the two Golems swung down swords to block her way. She lifted it again, and their glowing gem eyes flashed. The two arms rose, and Trey tried to unwet himself. He’d actually come close…
“W-what was that?”
Mena strode on, heedless of the Golems. Trey thought he saw the hidden ward spells thanks to Eldavin’s tutelage, but all he could make out was a faint tracing of magic. There…there…
“There’s one.”
Mena pointed it out on the wall, and Trey nearly jumped out of his skin. The [Bard] smiled at him.
“You’re beginning to see them, aren’t you? Good! Eldavin will be pleased. Even full [Mages] can’t, but they weren’t taught by a real [Grand Magus]. These are the same ones as all the areas the old [Mages] want to keep private. You’re only a 1st Year, so you probably haven’t seen any.”
“No…”
The [Bard] winked at him.
“There’s wine cellars—only higher up. Private libraries with spell tomes, and so on. Older students try breaking in. The stupid ones get caught and punished, but the smart ones don’t even bother dodging wards or security Golems. Just get one of these.”
She flashed the amulet at him. Trey saw a circle, surrounded by eight different symbols. Elements? He thought he saw stylized representations of different elementalist spell schools.
“Wait. Just that amulet?”
“It’s keyed to most secure places. The trick is knowing who’s set up the wards. If it’s a big faction—they share this amulet around. Now, if an individual [Mage] has secured a wing, all bets are off, but if it’s Centrist, Revivalist, Libertarian, or any of the main factions’ shared property…”
“Really?”
 
——
 
At this point, Trey and Calac were wondering why they had ever thought it would be difficult. No—it had been. They had come to Wistram not knowing what was what, and Trey had needed to find the right people.
Eldavin arriving was a stroke of luck, and without being an Earther…Minizi was also invaluable. Lifesand, though Trey still hated to admit it, was beyond useful, and the Quarass had armed him with a trick that had gained Viltach’s favor as well.
“How’s the distraction going?”
“I think it’s set. We don’t need long. So let’s go over the plan.”
Trey had just returned from a long chat, and his voice was scratchy, but he walked over as Calac laid out their blueprints.
Now, they had a full vision of the breakout. It went like this, as Calac summarized:
“Archmage Amerys is being held in a magically-restricted room, here, surrounded by two experienced battle-mages. They have a magic door which blocks their way to the rest of the area, which is a converted lounge and private area. There are two ways in: one through the Creler-mural and two giant guard-Golems. Another—through a balcony from the Dazeid Ballrooms and a sixty foot descent. There are ward spells throughout the area, but they’re apparently keyed to an amulet all advanced [Mages] have.”
Trey nodded. He was shaking with anticipation and broke in.
“The plan is simple. We have one…ally who we signal a day in advance. At nightfall—no—”
Calac corrected him.
“Before that.”
Trey nodded.
“Before that, we have to be ready. So on the day of the event, Mena will deliver both [Mages] their food. We need to slow her down, maybe even delay her or hope she’s doing a lunch delivery. That way they’re hungry. They eat the drugged food and are passed out by the time we arrive.”
Calac traced a route through the map of Wistram.
“We are in place in the Dazeid Ballroom and descend using ropes. We camouflage ourselves with spells—one of us needs to learn [Camouflage] or [Invisibility].”
“Just [Camouflage]. Even Eldavin couldn’t teach me a Tier 4 spell that soon.”
Calac nodded.
“Or potions or scrolls. We land in the balcony, and one of us uses an amulet to bypass the wards and the other sticks by them. We get to the door.”
He paused at the door.
“Unlock it. That’s your job. We get to the guards and make sure they’re asleep and won’t come after us. I can do that. Mother told me how to bind a [Mage] so they can’t easily escape.”
Trey nodded.
“Then we try to free Amerys. If we can’t—we go to Gazi and bail out the window. Straight down again. So two sets of ropes. We’re on a ship. I bet you her sword can break the bindings.”
Calac nodded. He scrubbed at his chin; he hadn’t remembered to shave, so a light stubble was growing.
“The main thing is we don’t want anyone checking on the guards. We need a distraction. Which you’ve set up.”
He turned to the young man, and the Earther sobered for a second.
“…Yes. I think so. I’ve gotten it rolling, but it’ll be something, either way. It’ll definitely cause a distraction. It’s not nice, though.”
He looked at Calac, and the young man’s eyes flickered to the camera and then to Trey. He shook his head.
“No. It’s not. But just know that I appreciate…you doing it. They won’t get hurt.”
“They won’t. This is Wistram. They don’t cast magic to kill.”
Trey repeated that. He looked at the map, trying to put it out of his head. Did they even need a distraction? Too late now.
“The only thing we can’t account for are…the Golems. If they patrol, we’re dead. I need time to break that lock. We need to make sure they never leave that room.”
The [Lord] nodded, but cautiously.
“How do we do that? On another visit?”
Trey shook his head. He looked around and saw a figure practicing her sword swings. Perhaps because she saw Calac doing it? She had no muscle to build, but he thought it suited her. Minizi looked up as Trey smiled.
“I have a better idea. And it’ll help us finalize our plans.”
 
——
 
Minizi checked herself. Harness in place? Check. Amulet? Double-check.
No camera this time. She had to move fast, and besides, Trey needed the camera for the other part of his plan; they’d already finished that.
Calac had a spool of enchanted rope in one hand, and he was checking Minizi’s harness. The Lifesand Golem peered down at the balcony.
“Remember, Minizi, just go down, inspect the hallways, and come back up. Don’t be spotted!”
“Can you see what she sees?”
Calac murmured as the Lifesand Golem nodded repeatedly at Trey, almost impatiently. The [Sand Mage] grimaced.
“Vague impressions at best. No one’s teaching me Golem-magic, not even Eldavin—but I think she’ll be able to communicate to us if she sees the Golems on patrol.”
“How long do we leave her there?”
Minizi leapt from the balcony, was caught by the rope, and smacked into the stone wall. Trey and Calac winced. Alright, when they did it? Don’t do that.
The Lifesand Golem’s head slowly reformed as she carefully descended with Calac feeding her the rope. She wiggled, trying to swing herself towards the balcony’s railing. Trey shrugged.
“Maybe an hour? Two? Just so we know they don’t patrol. One hour would be fine.”
“We just stand here?”
“No, we anchor the rope with [Sticky Web] right outside the window and walk away. No one’ll see it.”
They were on the far side of the academy, and even if some ship captain were sailing in…Calac nodded. He was tense, but with excitement as much as anything else.
Minizi was halfway down. Trey turned to Calac.
“You never did tell me how you got the amulet.”
The [Swordsman] was embarrassed. He turned away.
“A…an older [Mage] in the Libertarians likes me. We were practicing with the sword and I suggested she divest herself of things getting in the way.”
“Oh. Oh.”
The [Lord] didn’t look at Trey.
“I’m ashamed of stealing it from her. Even if she notices, though, she’ll just think I stole it, if she connects it to me at all.”
He was a [Spy]! Trey didn’t know what to say, but he knew that Calac was guiltier then he let on. Solemnly, he patted Calac on the shoulder.
“I’m sure it’s not hard to get a replacement. Let’s just see about Minizi.”
Calac nodded. He peered down; she was ten feet away from the balcony. He turned to Trey.
“Do we signal her tonight if we don’t see anything?”
Trey’s mouth went dry at the thought.
“I…no. We have to set up the distraction. But…in three days? In three days?”
Calac looked at Trey, and the other young man returned his gaze of half-disbelief. Just like that? In three days?
Minizi jerked the rope once, impatiently. She was almost down and wiggling to get into hiding. Calac hurriedly spooled the rope down. Trey gazed out into the ocean.
“I’ll signal her myself. She—she told me all I had to do was find her, and she’d come when I did. But in this case, I th—”
Calac was turning back to Trey. He lifted his hand, fed Minzi another foot of rope, and the air shook.
Whoom. Trey heard the sound and felt part of the rumble. Then—a moment later, felt a flash of heat. A spray of smoke and dust and sand geysered up, and he recoiled. Calac stumbled backwards, line suddenly slack. Smoke billowed up as the two young men stared out the window.
“What was—”
Trey leapt up.
“Minizi!”
He stared down in horror and saw the balcony below was filled with smoke, dust—and a huge crater. Calac pulled at the rope and found a burning stump was all that was left. They looked at each other.
Then the klaxon alarm began to ring. From below—the balcony—echoing upwards. Trey and Calac heard a loud, and calm, and familiar voice of a [Mage] speaking.
“Hello. This is Galei of Ullsinoi. Someone’s trying to break out the Archmage. They might be dead. Sound the alarm. Hello, if you’re hearing this, they just ran into our traps. This is Galei of Ullsinoi. Someone’s—”
The two young men stared down in paralysis for a good ten seconds. Then they heard shouts of alarm from below. Someone threw open a window up and to the left.
“What was that sound?”
The two young men looked at each other and then Trey slammed the windows shut. They ran for it.
In his rooms, Minizi, the main body, sat up with a sudden jerk. The little sand-Golem looked around, and then folded her arms. She didn’t really understand all of it. She didn’t know the politics, the drama, the stakes…but she was certain of one thing from her trials in the depths of Wistram, clearing out trapped rooms. She could have told Trey and Calac that.
They’d underestimated those twisted [Mages].
They’d got got.
 
——
 
It was amazing how little the explosive trap and alarm was remarked on in the rest of Wistram. It was barely a footnote and even then—no one knew the reason why, only that an explosion had happened.
Which was normal life in the Academy of Mages, apparently.
Within Amerys’ prison though, things were a different matter.
