“Er…Hellios. Somewhere thereabouts.”
Trey carefully replied. They passed by one of the libraries, and he marked it. The Comfy Library. So named because it had the best couches. No big reason beyond that. You went here to read for a long time.
Telim was nodding happily. He peeked inside, waving at some students and [Mages] who glanced up and nodded to him. For a second, Trey looked inside and saw towering stacks of bookshelves.
This was a library that Alexandria would have coveted. In places, the book stacks rose so high that Trey guessed one stack held upwards of ten thousand books. Ridiculous architecture done, he suspected, purely because it could be done.
It was certainly inconvenient for the students, who filed the books everyone liked to use on the lower stacks. To get up that high, you had to know levitation, have one of the super-ladders and a head for heights, or [Light Bridge].
“You know, some [Aeromancers] and [Mages] love putting reading materials up there. Old Menisa—she passed nearly twelve years back, lovely woman—used to teach a class on telekinesis. You’d see poor students trying to pull books off the shelves each start of term. Alas.”
Telim sighed fondly. Trey eyed a Garuda calmly flapping upwards to return a book.
“What about Garuda?”
“Bastards. If I had wings…no, I’d probably walk. It looks so tiring!”
Telim’s laugh was nothing like Flos’ either. He had a huge belly laugh that was uncomplicated. Trey grinned with him. He rather admired Telim’s approach to life, which included raiding the buffet table without regard to anyone else’s desires.
This was Wistram. So, amid this vast library, Trey saw a Lizardgirl happily curled up on a splendid couch three times her size, reading a book on her back. He thought he might miss it when he left.
It was a strange feeling, to look at Wistram like a spy or infiltrator. Or…Trey swallowed hard and looked at Telim’s back.
An enemy.
He shook the feeling away. Not yet. They were close, Trey felt, to their destination, so he turned to Telim.
“Hellios, but I came south to get to Wistram. I was close to Nerrhavia’s Fallen a lot of the time. I didn’t know exactly where I was…”
Telim took it at face-value, without even apparently bothering to cast [Detect Truth]. Most [Mages] didn’t in casual conversation, although Trey was warded. He nodded as he chewed down another pastry.
“Earthers. Good that you landed there and not like the other poor children. Well, we’ve had quite a number of Nerrhavia’s Fallen’s nobility pass through. They have a competing academy—the Hundred Thousand Tomes—but they do come. I daresay every species but Fraerlings send their people here. I’m told…we’ve even had Goblins as guests in the past.”
“No.”
Trey glanced at Telim, shocked. The [High Mage] gave him another wink.
“Swear on my staff and balls. We even debated having Velan—before he became Goblin King. It was a vote on the floor of the Council—not that it had a chance of passing, but that was the feeling in the air. Monsters and heroes, Troy.”
That begged a question. They rounded a corner, went down a ramp, and Telim began checking the giant fresco on the wall. Trey’s instincts began to perk up. The fresco was of some raging war—and, with a chill, he realized it was of Crelers fighting people. A long war-mural that ended with them being pushed backwards.
“What about the King of Destruction?”
Telim slowed. His fingers traced across a hideous monster. Something bigger than an Adult Creler fighting a shining woman in armor. Trey had passed this wall before, but he hadn’t realized how detailed the [Artist] had been. There were even…names. He peered at the woman as Telim hesitated.
“Never him. I suppose that’s part of your enduring curiosity, eh? When he was strong—Amerys made overtures, but he scared us shitless. So no. After? Again, no. You know…you never did say why you wanted to meet her so badly. I never had the instinct. Nor is this permissible, and you are keeping this secret—even to the others.”
He turned a kindly eye to Trey, but a serious one. The young man hurriedly nodded.
“I know. Grand Magus Eldavin made sure I understood.”
Telim nodded.
“Very good. It’s not for the danger, as you’ll see. It’s more students. They’d come and try to talk to her, and rumors…well, Eldavin’s got the clout to authorize it. He’ll be an Archmage within the month, mark my words.”
Trey nodded. After so long—even Viltach had refused Trey’s requests. But one person had granted it, after looking Trey in the eyes and asking why.
“Why?”
The [Sand Mage] scrutinized the painting for a moment before answering, without looking directly at Telim. He made his voice as genuine as possible, which wasn’t hard. You lied with the truth. He stared at the woman. Was she…moving?
Very slowly? Yes. Telim saw Trey jerk back. He smiled.
“It moves, yes. You can see them fighting if you check back over the course of a week. I’m told it nearly killed the [Artist] because they had to redraw the mural…oh, countless times. Do you know who this is?”
Trey looked at the image.
“It says…‘Marquin the Radiant’. Where do I know that name?”
Telim grunted. He brushed at a bit of dirt on the mural and pointed at the woman battling the giant Creler.
“Your history lessons, probably. This is Marquin, the first [Queen] of Calanfer. One of the heroes of the Creler Wars. One of the ones who took the fight to Rhir. She was given Calanfer’s lands as part of her deeds. Imagine that; even if Terandria was partly in ruins. The Eternal Throne of Calanfer, the entire kingdom started because of one woman’s ability to kill Crelers. You had to admire that.”
Trey stared at the mural. Then glanced up at Telim. The [High Mage] was still watching him, and he was no fool. So Trey nodded.
“That’s why.”
“To meet a legend?”
The older man calmly took a bite of his snack. Trey met his gaze for a moment and slightly shook his head.
“No. Not just that. To see if she is one. I saw the King of Destruction’s return. I want to ask her a question.”
“Ahh.”
The [High Mage] nodded, exhaling in satisfaction. He patted Trey on the shoulder.
“You have seen things, my lad. You don’t talk of it, but I’ve seen that look before.”
Trey glanced up at Telim, and the older man’s face was full of kindness. He swallowed and saw Telim look at the line on his throat.
Lies and truth, blended so closely he couldn’t tell the mixture apart.
“Yes.”
“Then mark this well. Not that you can enter alone. But remember it; this is one of Wistram’s Hidden Hallways. One of six I know.”
Slowly, Telim reached into his pocket and drew something out of his robes. It was a key. Trey’s eyes locked on it. He saw the strange head, with no teeth like a regular key, but a spade-like design. Made of bright, clear stone, paler and lighter than a sapphire, that shimmered as Telim inserted it into the lock.
The lock, which was a tiny bit of space next to the first [Queen] of Calanfer’s head. Trey blinked. The hole hadn’t been there—Telim winked at him.
“Hidden Hallways. Spell phrases. Keys. Secret activation requirements like dancing naked under the moonlight.”
Trey smiled. Telim gave him an amused look. The young man wavered.
“Wait, that’s real?”
“You’ve clearly never met the more twisted [Mages] of Wistram. Give a high-level [Exhibitionist] enough levels in [Enchanter]…remind me never to show you how to get into that one.”
So saying, Telim twisted the key, and Trey opened his mouth to ask if they needed to keep this secret, because they were standing in a hallway, and a student could just walk by and—
Pop.
“Aaaaaaah!”
Telim nearly jumped out of his skin. He leapt back from Trey as the young man shouted.
“Dead gods, Troy! Don’t do that to me, lad! It’s just minor teleportation!”
“What—that didn’t feel minor!”
Trey felt at himself. Telim rubbed at his neck, removing the key from the wall and putting it in his pocket. He patted the engraved keyhole on the blank stone wall and shook his head.
“I forget you’re not used to it. I’m sorry. Well…here we are.”
They were on the other side of the wall. Trey looked around, still breathing hard. Then he stopped.
“Uh, High Mage?”
Telim looked around. He smiled at Trey’s expression and patted him on the shoulder.
“I told you. The issue’s not Amerys getting free. Although, frankly, I’m not getting into those politics. The Archmages are keeping her locked up…it’s not something I like. But at this point it’s somewhat inevitable. Amerys being Amerys…there’ll be blood if she gets loose. But it’ll be a vote or someone like Eldavin motioning to free her. Stay close to me and don’t do anything stupid.”
Trey stared up at the first layer of security, then at Telim. The [High Mage] looked up, slightly nervous despite his confidence they were safe. Both men stared up at the first Golem in the hidden area of Wistram.
The first Golem, about eighteen feet tall, with a huge, conical head with multiple eyes set in every direction, and six arms, like some mythical guardian of Greece. Each one holding an enchanted blade.
And there were two Golems. Telim nudged Trey.
“…And those aren’t even the ones in Zelkyr’s last test.”
“I didn’t know Wistram had Golems like—”
Trey didn’t take the Golems of Wistram for granted. Cognita—the serving Golems—he had definite feelings on them. But the biggest Golems who wandered the hallways were just made of clay, sand, steel—towering, but only eight to ten feet tall—already huge, but porters. Most were shaped like people, serving Golems.
These ones? Telim nodded slowly. He waved at one of the guardian-Golems, who didn’t move, and whispered to Trey out of the corner of his mouth.
“We keep—or rather, Cognita keeps—the really dangerous ones far out of sight. Too many accidents.”
“Accidents?”
Telim’s head turned. The man whispered to Trey.
“If you’re a drunk [Mage] who walks into a room and sees one of these staring down at you in the middle of the night? Believe me, you’re going to need a new set of robes.”
 
——
 
“Two Golems. How tall again?”
Calac interrupted Trey’s recounting. Trey just looked at him.
“Eighteen feet.”
“You…must be joking.”
The [Swordsman] licked his lips. His look of excitement faded. Trey pointed to the first room he was outlining.
“I’m not. They looked like…they’re not made of steel.”
The other young man brightened up.
“Oh? Wood?”
Trey hesitated.
“Sort of a bronze-gold.”
“So…a magical metal.”
Calac’s head sunk into his hands. Trey nodded.
“They have these strange gems on their elbows—chests, legs—everywhere. Each one’s different. I asked Telim, and he said they probably each produce a spell or some effect. They don’t have proper feet, either. Just giant poles and sort of hoof-like bases.”
“That doesn’t seem like they should be able to stand.”
The [Swordsman] muttered. He was trying to sketch a picture. Trey added his own clarifications, shaking his head.
“Apparently it’s gravity spells. I saw some kind of rune work around the bases—they looked very sturdy. I didn’t see them walk, but those, um, weapons? One had a spear, two swords—the curved scimitar kind—a flail, a shield, and some kind of short, wavy blade.”
“A kris. How did you see all of this?”
Trey grimaced.
“We…took our time getting through there. Telim had to show them an amulet, and he verified himself by tracing some kind of sigil. It looks like this, but it was magical, so I can’t tell what he actually did. He made sure we were safe, believe me. Apparently, they wouldn’t jump straight to killing us…unless we started fighting.”
Calac swore. This was room one of Amerys’ security, not even counting the magical lock. Defenses?
Giant Golems.
“What’s the second layer? Is that it?”
Trey hesitated.
“Well…we pass through a hallway here. There are intersections, but I don’t know where they lead. You see—”
 
——
 
“—this is a repurposed area. Hidden Hallways. Those Golems had to be moved here; few places in Wistram have security.”
“Oh. So this isn’t normal?”
Trey followed Telim closely in his steps. The [High Mage] looked at Trey.
“Aside from an experimental area or one of the sealed portions? Dead gods, my boy! Hardly! All this security is different. New. Can you feel what we’re passing through now?”
They were walking down some actually very nice hallways. Carpeted. Odd, actually; Trey didn’t know if he liked the feel of actual carpeted floors after so much of Wistram’s stone. It felt…cozy, and he kept feeling as though he shouldn’t be wearing shoes, but Telim assured him the carpets were self-cleaning.
“It…feels like the air’s charged.”
Telim nodded, waving a ringed hand around.
“Ward spells. They’ll know we’re coming. You see, this is certainly not a normal secure area. I think this was actually a private club of sorts. Nice carpets, all these paintings of [Mages]—and I don’t know who they are.”
He pointed out some [Mages], all of whom were grinning or smiling or nodding in their still portraits. They even passed by a dark room. Trey peered in. Is that…
 
——
 
“A taproom? Really?”
Calac paused. Trey nodded.
“I swear, it looked like it. It really is just a repurposed wing they converted to hold Amerys.”
“Why…this wing? It makes no sense. I would use the crypts or the upper floors. This is a nice place.”
Trey agreed, but he knew the answer.
“Telim told me that it belonged to Feor’s faction. The Centrists. They used to hold private gatherings within—as early as last year. They changed it to hold Amerys because it was convenient, hidden, and because there’s a set of rooms that do something convenient.”
Calac glanced up. He paused, his quill wet with ink.
“Go on. When did you meet Amerys? Did they torture her?”
Trey stopped him.
“Wait. There’s something else…”
 
——
 
“Frankly, the Golems and the ward spells are enough security. It is apparently a nightmare having to switch the guards, and no one likes guard-duty. We’re [Mages]. Lazy. So they decommissioned the magical maze.”
“The…”
“Ullsinoi set it up. They’re experts in that kind of thing. I think they have one in their Hidden Hallway—not that I know if they have one. Perhaps they have dozens. It would be just like them. Hey, if you lot are here, no pranks today!”
Telim shouted randomly as he and Trey came to a clearly-new door set into the hallway. It seemed out of place, and some telltale stone and dust cling to the doorway made Trey suspect someone had…built a door here.
