"It—It worked!"

"I swear my loyalty to the Rising Emperor."

"I can see—everything—we're all connected..."

"What is this system augmentation...?"

Whispers and even some yells start to appear in the crowds below the white and green glowing goblin queen in the air.

Small bursts of auras start to explode outward from the Lords in the stands.

They are not nearly as strong as any of the fighters in the event, as these are mostly weaker 2nd Class Lords that work and live in the Grand Citadel.

But it is clear that somehow, the suppression commands have been lifted on a few hundred Lords.

To create links, Lords only need to verbally declare their loyalty. Many watching the hologram on the live feeds long enough, having a feeling the intention to follow this Human Lord even create mental links without saying a word. They all instantly gain access to the World Wide Connectivity system.

Their home worlds are linked to the Rising Emperor, and the forum sifting algorithm instantly shows all of the new entries in a small private chat that grows extremely quickly.

All of the Lords in the Grand Citadel become interconnected, and their reactions spread like wildfire.

"She's telling the truth!"

"He really was a human, there's proof here!"

"Wait a minute... Some of these other chats are live communications from the Lower Realm..."

"I swear my loyalty to the Rising Emperor!"

The numbers increase exponentially. Thousands, then tens of thousands.

Lords start to break free of their ankle and wrist suppression bonds, and fly upward, opposing the Demonic Servant Admins.

This only makes the spread of chaos move faster, as sections of Lords watching further away turn their attention to the uproar.

Ava still looks downward at some of the strongest Lords here, all part of the tournament earlier.

The strong are often the last to be swayed by words like these, as taking a chance with their lives to swear loyalty to one ruler over another that is already in charge and has been for millennia is not the smartest gamble.

Yet, the growing reactions around them do widen their eyes.

Ren is the first to give in, as the Rising Emperor's promise of meeting the Fallen One, and the fact that he had Celia's aura linked in a strange purple artifact, increases the likelihood that this is the moment they have been waiting for.

A bright white greater energy form erupts out from the small white-haired Lord's confines of suppression commands and shackles.

At the same time, below them, fractures in the ether commands holding back the battle below from leaking out begin to become visible.

Even above, and surrounding them, the Grand Citadel's dome and the inner city's pillar grow weaker and weaker as more ether is siphoned downward to aid in the battle.

—

Outside the dome, this is very apparent.

The streaks of ether flowing away from the outer layers of the dome leave it incredibly weak from the outside.

Six Noble Demons are flying at obscene speeds toward a single point around the outside of this wall.

Some of them from the sides, while others are approaching from higher up, near the top of the dome.

They are all headed toward the energy blast that triggered all of their perception arrays.

It registered a mana control, ether refinement, and vibration frequency of an old Clan that they believed to have been eradicated tens of thousands of years ago.

Their orders from Lucian Morvale himself were to eradicate any threats to the demons, and this is a definite target.

Though, the furthest Noble Demon, holding a heavy purple hammer, with three dense horns extruding from his head, sends a notification through their communication channel.

"Will the five of you be enough to neutralize the threat? I sense another threat near the top of the Citadel... it smells like elf..."

"Permission granted. Five will be plenty," a deep tone replies back, from the Demon closest to the explosion point.

The Scarlet Clan's dense red aura of vibrations that fills the air reflects in this Demon's two black horns and the massive purple longsword in his grasp.

Four other Demons, in two squads of two coming from opposite sides of the Citadel's outer layer toward the single point, report their positions as well. Each of them has one purple horn in the center of their foreheads, and bright matching soul weapons.

They all have a small letter M engraved on one of their horns, and it glows with a faint cyan-colored light.

—

The Berserker Giant, holding two massive white blades in the center of these growing red shockwaves, is releasing a burning hot pressure that grows not only his energy form, but the flesh on his body in size.

The Monster's bones fracture and rebuild, its blood becomes infused with the scarlet-colored light flooding out from its chest, and its skin becomes soaked in this deep blood-red color as its muscles expand.

The avatar created by the warlords adapts to these changes, letting the intent flowing out from this monster adapt the mass and ether commands tethered to his soul like real flesh.

His body grows to nearly 100 meters tall, glowing red hot, then his wind-imbued greater energy form erupts around it.

Gusts of mana and hot ether blow away the clouds for thousands of kilometers in every direction, and even crack the side of the citadel again continuously, even after it self-heals.

He floats upward and backward away from the wall, growing over 5 kilometers tall in a bright wind magic form, but then this too becomes flooded with hot red energy.

It begins to grow too, but in his peripherals, 5 Noble Demons fly his way.

"You said it'd be 6..." he mutters to himself through gritted teeth, and his deep red eyes focus in on the approaching forces, even tens of thousands of kilometers away, with crystal clear focus.

The two to his right hold daggers and an axe. The two approaching from the left hold a long spiked mace, and one wears nothing but a bright purple glowing suit of armor and a rectangular shield.

They each grow in size to about 1–2 kilometers large, and give off the Noble Vibrations of a very strong Noble Demon, similar to Andras Vermillion, the old Lord of Ellipsia.

All four of them erupt with purple and black light as they unseal their Noble Bloodlines.

Yet, the Berserker's gaze only shifts to look at the black-horned demon holding a sword, coming at him from above.

"Well... you're worth 6 alone... I guess I'll still get more than I bargained for after all..."

A horrific dark black aura bursts out from him as he unseals his Noble Bloodline too, and only streaks of light purple can be seen trailing his sword through the domain of darkness that fills the air around this monster's presence.

It grows well over 5 kilometers tall too. Yet, the cloud of darkness that erupts around it grows to be over 50 kilometers wide in an instant.

Zashen concentrates, makes both of his burning hot white swords glow with scarlet-infused wind blades, and swings both his swords across his body in an X formation, only releasing the attacks at the end of the swing.

Both massive energy crescents are sent off to his left and right, adding to his propulsion upward as he kicks off the air and dives headfirst into the dark cloud of growing aura above him.

The sounds of soul weapons clashing, and five massive shockwaves erupting through the air and fracturing the side of the Grand Citadel again, begin their battle.

The two squads of Nobles attacking from the side both use their full force to block the incoming energy crescents with their soul weapons, while simultaneously, the black cloud of dark mist in the atmosphere lights up with red and white light.

The burst of energy that flows out in streams and pillars makes it appear like a storm is raging inside.
