We were silent for a while. Then he said. “Would you care for a wager?”

“I really, really would not. I’d like a hot meal, then I’d like to rummage through your possessions and decide what I need, then I should like to get the hell away from here.”

“I wager that I have a better option for you than whatever you are currently contemplating.”

That shut me up. I blinked in disbelief at the scrawny guy.

He stared back, entirely unflinching in his certainty. He held up a finger. “One thing you should know about the Tibidi. A detail that sets us apart from anybody else. We do not lie.”

I couldn’t help it. I broke down laughing. “Oh, that’s the worst bullshit I’ve ever heard. One of your first sentences to me ever was a lie!”

“Confusion.” He was silent for a while. “Ah. No. I see your misapprehension. My second sentence ever to you was an admission of Harten’s lie. I would have been entirely comfortable letting you believe in his lie. Yet, I myself did not lie.”

I blinked in confusion. The scene was a bit of a blur to me, what with all the fighting for my life. But… damn. He was right. He hadn’t actually lied, only confirmed that Harten lied. “Okay. So how does that change anything?”

“In that you should pay attention when I say the following. I believe you are lost. I believe that, for some reason, you are adrift, away from your own, wherever that may be. You may, of course, take anything from amongst our goods – I can’t stop you. But it’s a short-sighted solution. If you go back out there, alone, you will die. Rather, you should choose the second option.”

Stupid, overly perceptive asshole! “I’m not admitting to anything – but what is the second option?”

He spread his arms. It was a weird gesture. Not in that it was threatening or hostile in any way. Quite the opposite, in fact. He looked welcoming, kind and open, even if it looked out of sorts with his perpetually emotionless expression. With him standing right next to the team mates I’d just slaughtered? Yeah, that made it scary. “You should join me, for now. I seem to find myself bereft of guards. A Tibidi entering a place like the Last Chance without protection is a horrible idea. With you at my side, I should be able to enter and get myself settled without issues.”

“I’m hearing a lot of reasons why it would be good for you to have me join. Still haven’t heard a single reason why I should trust you, or even join you.”

“Like I said. Tibidi don’t lie-”

“Says you!”

He stared at me. “Frustration. Yes. If you do not know the Tibidi and our nature, I find it difficult to convince you on that. Yet, I hope you will admit that you would be much better off with better equipment, tailor-made for you. With knowledge about the surroundings that I cannot provide you just yet. With a proper plan for what to do. Possibly even a map, and the knowledge of where you may find whomever you knew who has been enslaved by the Kadren, hmm? All those are things you may find in the Last Chance.”

I glared at him. I wasn’t giving the bastard anything.

“If you did not want me to listen, perhaps you should have learned from your mother. Your face speaks volumes.” He spread his hands amiably. “Yet, there it is. You can see me safe to Last Chance, and find yourself in a place where you may properly embark on whatever purpose you have, or you can take your chances on your own out here.”

As much as I wanted to punch the guy, I couldn’t. Mostly because of the quirk, of course. But also, because the little bugger was right. I was walking blind out here. With some purloined equipment from these guys, I could keep roaming around the wilderness for some time, and maybe even survive. But odds were that I’d end up stumbling into a group or monster that were too strong, or just a bad match-up for me. And then, I’d be dead, having solved nothing. No. If I wanted to make it here in the long run, strength wouldn’t be enough. I’d also need knowledge. And for that, I’d need to take a risk and join the locals.

Heh. Last Chance indeed. Too on the nose for my liking.
