The new set of runes covering the Duplicity Core was the result of combining his Soul Cultivation and the pathways of his Classes. The reason Zac felt they were somewhat subpar was likely due to his lagging Soul Cultivation. While his soul was stronger than the average Peak Hegemon’s, much of that was the result of fortuitous encounters and tempering himself through battle. His actual mastery of the [Nine Reincarnations Manual] was barely the equivalent of Early D-grade.

The slowly shrinking space of Quantum Space was related to the lack of strength in his soul as well. It couldn’t currently support a microcosm of that size, so it was automatically adjusting itself to a state of equilibrium. While somewhat regrettable, it didn’t affect Zac’s cultivation or combat ability. The realm was still close in size to the Inner Worlds of the Monarchs he’d fought during the trial. His Cosmic Core and Soul Cores felt as small and insignificant as planets did in outer space.

Zac spent the next hour trying out a few things, at which point he finally relaxed. The switch-up brought more benefits than downsides. The centralization of Dao and Energy made control much smoother. Zac could now effortlessly attune his energy as it left his core, slightly cutting down on skill activation time.

The synergistic effect of [Void Emperor Apotheosis] had seen a decent boost. His Soul Cores, especially, saw significant benefits when directly nourished by the roaring energy of his Peak D-grade Cosmic Core. Zac didn’t even need to cultivate for the nebulaic clouds to slowly gather strength from the emanations of his core.

The slow leakage of spatial integrity remained a cause for concern despite being barely discernible. Channeling his bloodline couldn’t do anything to stop it. Actively rotating his Soul Cores at maximum efficiency did temporarily stabilize the realm, but Zac couldn’t maintain such a state permanently. The only real solution seemed to be focusing on his soul until it grew strong enough to cover the whole realm.

There was one more question Zac failed to answer. Since he couldn’t figure things out on his own, he emerged from seclusion to confer with his mentor.

“What do you think? Have I become a Half-step Monarch?” Zac asked after explaining the situation.

“I—I have no idea. Why can’t you do things the normal way?” Esmeralda grumbled, staring at Zac with exasperation. “Here, rotate your energy and punch this.”

A spatial field appeared between them, and Zac immediately followed the instruction. He experienced the feeling of being trapped in a nightmare where you tried to run but remained stuck in place. Esmeralda had created a mile-wide spatial expanse inside that small space. To destroy it, Zac would have to exert his Daos to counter hers.

“No traces of a Monarch’s domain,” Esmeralda muttered after dispersing the field. “While you technically haven’t entered Pseudo C-grade, you should probably consider yourself a half-step Monarch in regard to your cultivation. The space you’ve opened is still the foundation of your Inner World. Let it set too long, and you could harm its potential for future expansion.”

“How much time do I have?” Zac asked.

“A few centuries? It’s hard to say. Your soul will help you keep the space alive longer than normal, almost like a real Mystic Realm,” Esmeralda marveled. “Either way, you don’t have to worry too much.”

“You think I’ll be ready to become a Monarch that fast?” Zac asked. Centuries still felt like an eternity to him, but Monarchy was a monumental barrier even in the Multiverse Heartlands.

“I wouldn’t bet against you after what I’ve seen so far, but that wasn’t what I was referring to,” Esmeralda exclaimed as her nose pointed to the sky.

“I guess this is a problem pertaining to the mysteries of space. If only there were a sagely master who could point me in the right direction,” Zac dutifully played along.

Esmeralda giggled, never tiring of the game. “How can such a small issue stump the great Esmeralda? I’ll fix it right up after I’ve recovered some of my cultivation.”

Zac laughed and got to his feet. “Then what are we waiting for? There are treasures to steal.”
