After feasting to his heart's content, he packed as much of the butchered meat as he could and left most of the carcass behind. Following his instincts north through the forest and away from the village, he moved without thought, running past village after village without slowing, his body full of energy, the twin claws hanging on his belt by a scavenged leather thong. Better for his whereabouts to remain a mystery, so his triumphant return would come as more of a surprise, but before anything could happen, he needed more wolves, more warriors. The sun fell before he stopped to eat, wasting precious time cooking before setting out again, moving through the darkness without difficulty, another wonderful discovery.

When the sun rose again, he didn't bother stopping to cook, devouring the meat raw as he moved. Much more efficient this way, and far more delicious. The chewy, grainy texture alone made it a better meal, and he wondered why he ever bothered with cooking at all. A second day passed in the same way before he consumed the last of his meat, but it didn't matter. He'd arrived at his destination, the smell of death embracing him as he strode into a burnt village, meeting the eyes of pillaging bandit and despairing villager alike, smiling at the surrounding carnage. Here were his wolves, his pack, his brethren and together they would tear Baledagh limb from limb.

“Hey, ye one of ours? I ain't ever seen ye around before” A little bandit sheep approached him with a sneer on his face and weapon in hand, but Gen ignored the worthless lout. Glancing around, he quickly found several kindred spirits interspersed among the sheep, each one acknowledging his presence, seeing him for who he was. One of them intercepted the idiot lout and directed Gen towards the centre of the village. The power was thick here, in the bloodshed and carnage, the anguish and hatred fuelling his brethren and festering inside the sheep, so they too might learn of true power if they survived. Voices rose within his mind, empowered by his surroundings, whispering to him as he wandered through the remains, delighting in the creative expressions found throughout the area, the bodies posed and toyed with in the most imaginative ways.

In the village square, he came across the man he'd travelled so far to find. Standing to one side, Gen enjoyed the show with a smile on his face, the massive warrior toying with a few villagers, their screams filling him with ecstasy and longing. The voices told him to wait patiently, whispering for him to embrace the violence and become stronger through surrender and he relinquished all his senses to them, their satisfaction echoing in his mind. Lost in the pleasure, he stepped forward and drew his knife, grabbing a lovely little maiden with half her face missing, her mouth babbling insensibly from the pain. Beautiful.

A powerful backhand caught him in the face and he reeled from the impact. Snarling at the warrior, he readied to leap forward to kill, but the voices stopped him. Dark-haired and clean-shaven, his assailant looked every bit the handsome hero if not for the gore covering his body. Brandishing a red-hot knife from the brazier beside him, the warrior spoke with a deep gravelly voice. “Yer new so I'll let it pass this once, but these are my toys. Been expecting you for awhile now, ain't good to keep yer comrades waiting so long.”

“There are people I need to kill. A village, only a day or two away.” Gen couldn't tear his eyes off the weeping girl, wanting nothing more than to fight the warrior and take her for himself, but the voices persuaded him otherwise. There were plenty of other sheep to devour.

Looking him up and down, the warrior broke into a grand smile, as if seeing an old friend. “Good, good, you'll fit in nicely. Why not, one village is the same as another. Call it your welcoming gift, best to remove all traces of your past anyways. We'll head out in the morning, go have your own fun elsewhere and burn everything when yer done. Gotta cover our tracks ye see, can't have the army coming down on us. No one cares about dead villagers, but our activities bring too much scrutiny.” Thumping his chest, the warrior proudly exclaimed, “Yer a Firebrand now, working under Xiao HuoLong, the Laughing Dragon. You listen well and we'll kill to our hearts content.”

Ha, not wolves, but dragons. Yes, Gen was finally where he belonged.

Chapter Meme
