Rain rubbed at his eyes blearily, having just woken up. His gauntlets and helmet were on the table in front of him where he was currently seated in Staavo’s living room. This was the first chance he’d gotten to take a break since the barrier had gone up, almost three full days ago. Those days had been filled with terror, stress, and plenty of hard work.

After leading the first group of people down to the sewers, he’d taken on the responsibility for keeping them safe until the battle above the city died down. The large group of humans had quickly attracted attention from slimes. He was able to deal with those easily enough, but he couldn’t be everywhere. Luckily, the hardy unawakened townsfolk were fully capable of dealing with the slimes themselves as Kettel had proven. The process was just a bit messy for those brave enough to take them on.

Evertorches were taken from walls and distributed through the crowd, keeping the entire area lit to avoid more slimes spawning in the middle, away from the fighters on the edges. It would have been a problem if one spawned amid the children or something, but thankfully that didn’t happen in the short time they were down there.

Other townsfolk and adventurers had had the same idea, the sewers quickly filling with the sheltering residents of the city. The battle itself had lasted for no more than a half-hour, but it had taken quite a toll on the townsfolk’s sanity. The temperature had risen quickly as the fiery battle raged above the city. Rain had gone as far as to start using Refrigerate at a low level, just to get people to stop panicking about being boiled alive.

Eventually, the noise had died down. The revelation of Halgrave’s loss and Velika’s ascension had been another blow. Westbridge had broadcast his speech to the entire city. Not long after that, people worked up the courage to climb out of the sewers. The reluctance to return to the surface quickly vanished as people realized that small fires had broken out within the city. Fire was no joke. People had put aside their fear and banded together to extinguish them before the entire city was consumed. Worry about the new regime had been set aside until that was dealt with.

In the end, the damage to the city hadn’t been as extreme as Rain had feared. The district where Westbridge had smashed through the earth was in pretty bad shape, as was the area around the teleportation complex that had gotten the worst of the fires. Thankfully, the warehouses in the western half of the city were unscathed. It didn’t look like the city would run out of food, at least, not right away. Luxuries were quickly becoming expensive, but there was enough grain and salted fish to last quite a while.

In fact, Fel Sadanis was probably better off than a modern city would have been. In modern times, cities relied on a complicated supply chain to bring in food to support the massive populations. It worked a little differently here. Fel Sadanis wasn’t that big, for one. Rain estimated the population at around twenty thousand, including the people who had come for shelter in response to the conflict to the west. Coming up with that estimate had been frustrating. There hadn’t been an official census in a long time. The typical answer he’d gotten when he’d asked was “lots”, followed by a shrug.

Even with all the refugees, they would be fine. He’d done the math. The city’s warehouses were intended for storing food through the bitter winter. Farmers, hunters, and fishermen would sell their goods to the merchants that owned the warehouses throughout the year, then the merchants would resell the food at a small markup until the next harvest. It was an effective system for those without their own farms or the inclination to stockpile their own food. There were also some larger, merchant-owned farms that relied on the warehouses entirely, cutting out the middleman. Those farms also employed a good portion of the city’s residents during the harvest. The point was that there was plenty of food.

Water was also a non-issue. Rain had been initially concerned when he’d realized that the dome had blocked the river. With both inlet and outlet blocked, the river had become a stagnant pool. The sewers, likewise blocked, had backed up, the collective filth of the city’s residents starting to pollute the water source. A lot of ash had also been washed into the river from the fires and the subsequent bucket brigades. Fortunately for the residents of Fel Sadanis, they had a friendly neighborhood purification mage to deal with the problem. He’d spent a good amount of time yesterday using Purify at a low and steady level while the townsfolk filled barrels with fresh water. The supply would probably last for a few days before he’d have to do it again. The Watch had no issue with this use of his magic. In fact, they’d been the ones to ask him to do it in the first place, organizing the whole thing.

The obvious consequence of this was that everyone now recognized him whenever he went out into the city. Like it or not, he was now something of a celebrity. Word had spread quickly concerning the evil-looking armored mage and his water cleaning spell, even among those who hadn’t been anywhere near the river. It was something of a mixed bag. He liked the fact that he could basically use Purify whenever and wherever he wanted now, but the constant attention wasn’t exactly helping his paranoia.

Not all of his secrets had become common knowledge, fortunately. The mana-draining effect of the barrier was still at 90%, for all that the dialog said that the barrier integrity was merely ‘low’ now, and no longer ‘critical’. He’d been keeping his mana usage covert with the exception of that one flashy usage of Purify. People would probably assume that he was out of mana, which would have been a reasonable assumption for any other mage. The reality was that he was already back at full.

He’d been running Winter at 100% compression, only occasionally extending it to people who already knew about the aura like Gus. That list now included Wallace, the Guild healer. His opinion on the man had done a rapid 180 when he’d found him literally passed out from mana overuse, his hands badly damaged from four or five shattered Clarity rings. The man had kept going even after his rings failed, the number of wounded simply too large for a single healer to keep up with. Seeing that, Rain had no choice but to help. Wallace had crippling mana issues, even worse than Jamus did. The rings were his method of managing the side effects of an extreme ratio. While they lasted, they dealt with the headaches completely, but they didn’t last long, and when they failed, they tended to explode as Rain’s Focus ring had.

Rain felt bad for his initial judgment of the man. Outside of a crisis, it was perfectly reasonable for Wallace to charge for his healing, especially since the Guild didn’t reimburse him whatsoever. He needed money to buy Clarity rings so he could keep healing. He was trapped in a vicious cycle, replacing the rings when they failed, unable to find a more permanent Clarity boosting item. Such things weren’t easily found in Fel Sadanis. It caused him actual, physical pain if he used his magic without them. Needless to say, he was desperate to dig himself out of the hole he was in. That was why he charged so much and only did the bare minimum to stabilize people, rather than healing them fully. He was trying to make his rings last while saving enough to buy something better.

When Wallace had healed Rain after the incident with Lavarro, he had done barely enough to save his life. He apparently had a skill called Tissue Scan, which he said let him determine the extent of someone’s injuries. Because of that skill, he’d been confident that Rain would recover. Wallace had looked a little upset with himself when Rain had told him of how bad the concussion was before Ameliah took care of it. Apparently, healing was a lot harder than it looked from the outside.

Rain had spent a full day blasting Wallace with Winter and Essence Well, trying to balance the different kinds of soulstrain to allow him to heal as many people as possible. Winter apparently helped with the headaches quite a bit. Wallace was incredibly grateful for his help and together they were able to save a lot more people than either of them would have been able to on their own. They had reached a limit eventually, but thankfully not before the worst of the wounded had been taken care of.

Wallace had agreed to keep his mana-boosting skills a secret, but Rain was debating whether that secrecy was still justified. He could help so much more if he could just use Winter out in the open. The commonly held assumption in the city was that the mana drain effect wasn’t going to go away until the barrier reached a safe level in the eyes of its creators. The only way to charge it up faster would be to boost the collective mana regeneration of the city like the dialog wanted. Winter was the perfect skill for doing that, no doubt about it. The only question was if he dared to use it that way.

He didn’t want Velika to catch on to how useful it was. She’d cowed the Watch into submission, though they had yet to fully recognize her authority. If she decided to make him into her personal mana slave, there wasn’t a thing he could do to stop her. Giving mana to a few people he trusted not to rat him out was one thing; bathing the entire city in a fully boosted Winter aura was another entirely. He needed to decide if he was going to pretend he was out of mana like everyone else or let the cat out of the bag completely. It was certainly a heavy decision and not one that he was ready to make at the moment.

That was part of why he presently was hiding in Staavo’s living room. He’d come here to check on the old man late last night, but Staavo hadn’t been home. He hadn’t seen him since the barrier had come up. He’d sat on the step to wait, but the constant attention and requests for aid from passing people had driven him to try the door, finding it unlocked. It wasn’t that he didn’t want to help, he did. It was that he was just so exhausted, mentally and physically. Plus, if he kept using mana, people would quickly realize that something strange was going on. He needed a break. The first thing he’d done upon falling into one of Staavo’s armchairs was to fall asleep.

There was still no sign of Staavo having returned, for all that Rain felt like he had been asleep for days. The scholar was either out helping in the city, or dead, lying under crushed masonry. Rain grimaced, fighting down the image of the small girl he’d seen lying broken and twisted under a wooden beam. Detection had been invaluable for finding people trapped under the rubble. Saving them, however, had been another matter entirely. He’d almost been crushed himself several times as he dug through the rubble.

To say that the past few days had been horrible was a bit of an understatement. Val had finally turned up at least, Rain having run into him at the Guild the day before. Carten was safe as well. He’d been visiting his aunt in the northern part of the city when Westbridge had attacked. Neither of them had seen Jamus. Rain was worried. Maybe he and Staavo left the city for some reason?

He sighed and got up, walking past the fireplace toward a shuttered window. Though the fire was out, the room was still stiflingly warm. The whole city was, in fact. The barrier seemed to block everything but light, trapping the heat from Westbridge’s fire magic inside. He cooled the room down with Refrigerate as he walked to the window. He wasn’t opening it to get a breeze, just to look outside. It was mid-morning, judging by the position of the sun. He flicked on his HUD briefly, verifying the time. It’s 10:15, so I was asleep for the whole morning. I’ve got over an hour before I need to get to the arena.

Velika—Citizen Fel Sadanis, now—had issued her first edict. She was demanding that all awakened in the city join her for a meeting to discuss their role in the governance of the city. He hadn’t run into her so far, but there was no doubt that she knew he was here. His armor was very recognizable. She’d commented on it during their last meeting and his new celebrity status meant that she’d have had little trouble connecting the dots. He had no choice but to go; there was no getting around it. Damn, it’s a good thing I didn’t sleep through it. From what I’ve heard, she doesn’t respond well to people ignoring her commands. What am I going to say if she asks about Tallheart? Is he even still there, or did he leave? The Watch camp outside the barrier is pretty close to the forest…

He shook his head. Tallheart could take care of himself. He had enough of his own problems to deal with for the moment. He needed to prepare himself for the coming confrontation with Velika. He wanted to adjust the settings on his ring first and foremost. He’d just left them where they were since he’d last messed with them, not willing to risk soulstraining himself in the midst of a crisis. It was time to see if he could figure out a way to track his acclimation, and then to boost himself further. Before that, though, he needed to take stock of his current situation.

He walked back over to the chair he’d been using and dropped into it, still feeling a bit awkward about being in here without the elderly scholar present. They were acquaintances at best, and invading the man’s home like this was a pretty big social transgression. He just hoped that Staavo had survived so he could be mad about it. It wasn’t like he was going to go through his stuff or anything; he’d just needed a place to sleep away from prying eyes. If Staavo didn’t want to lock his door, well, then that was on him.

He opened up all his menus, starting with the training notifications from the past three days.

Training Overview

Skill Experience Earned

Mana Manipulation: 142

Aura Compression: 293

Training Overview

Skill Experience Earned

Mana Manipulation: 40

Aura Compression: 5340 [Rank Up]

Training Overview

Skill Experience Earned

Mana Manipulation: 10

Aura Compression: 4034 [Rank Up]

