“Of course, I would be a fool not to take advantage of so many gods’ favorite mortal,” Casper said shamelessly. “Though in my defense, I do plan on proving myself useful. In fact… how many B-grades have you ever killed at once in a single fight?”

Jake considered the question for a while before answering. “Not that many. I tend to avoid taking on groups if I can avoid it and prefer slaying singular, powerful foes instead.”

“Understandable, but as they say, variety is the spice of life, or well, death in my case, but I digress,” Casper said, obviously amused by his own silly joke. “Point is, let’s have some fun. Say, how many of those golems do you count from here?”

Deciding to go along with whatever Casper wanted, Jake took a look and did a quick headcount of the B-grades. “Thirty-two, unless we want to go to another wall-section entirely.”

The Grand Labyrinth was an octagon based on what Jake could see, so there were eight massive outer walls in total. Jake saw absolutely no reason to go to another section when they could enter from here, but perhaps wiping out all the B-grades could be an idea.

Jake had no idea about the true difficulty of the dungeon, so it was entirely possible they would have to retreat to the safety of the cabin at some point. Risking B-grades patrolling close to the wall spotting them and giving chase mid-retreat could be a problem, as that would keep them in combat. In conclusion, killing them all was probably the wisest.

Admittedly, Jake also wanted to know what Casper was planning.

“Thirty-two? Sounds doable,” Casper said after a few seconds. “I might lack the damage output, but when it comes to control, I’ll have you know that the combination of my class and Dungeon Engineering skills is quite nasty.”

Jake quickly understood what the Risen was getting at, making him smile. “All of them at once?”

“Of course,” Casper said, almost looking offended. “Or don’t you have confidence in your damage output or endurance to kill them all, even with my help? It’s okay if you don’t. While it may take me a while, I’m fairly certain I could handle them all by myself. I’m just trying to give you a chance to get involved and speed things up.”

“While I’m confident when it comes to both damage and endurance, the more you keep talking, the less confident I’m getting in my aim,” Jake said, throwing the Risen a look. “Who knows, if you keep yapping, perhaps we’ll even have an unfortunate accident.”

“Eh, I’ll take the risk,” Casper shrugged with a smirk. “You only live once… well, twice in my case. You know what I mean. Hopefully. Your amazing level of ignorance about basic things has made me start questioning even what I consider common knowledge.”

“Just go gather those damn golems already,” Jake sighed, shaking his head. “Oh, and watch your back out there. With my amazing ignorance, who’s to say I even know how to differentiate enemies from allies?”

“I believe in you!” Casper gave him a thumbs up before wrapping himself in curse energy and teleporting away to gather all the B-grade golems below.
