She teleported, switching to another stone island without all the intervening complexities of mazes, paths, and portals, her heart singing with joy as her magic responded freely to her will. “Come,” she called and teleported again and again, following the direction toward the center of the dungeon. Her Troll Ice Mage appeared right behind her in a burst of frozen snow.

Ali landed on the large floating island in the center of the Infinite Maze. Rising from the center of the island was a beautiful stone-and-crystal building, all delicately curving lines and soaring arches. Her Ice Mage appeared beside her along with Clarence, who had somehow managed to keep up with her mad teleportation dash across the convoluted and warped space of the entire maze. None of the shades had caught up with them yet, but it wouldn’t be long. Ali didn’t care, though – she intended to get answers. Answers that were only to be found inside.

By now, she had created several hundred minions, leveraging most of her swarm imprints to map out the entire area, providing her with convenient teleportation targets, and she knew that this was the spot she sought – every tendril of mana, every wisp and line of the magical formations – everything originated from here.

She stepped forward, her barrier held at the ready, still limping on her injured foot, approaching the magnificent building.

“This is what the beasts showed me,” Val’korr said. His hand reached out to an empty stretch of air between two trees, but his thick fingers struck something entirely invisible, causing the very space in that area to ripple briefly before returning to normal. The ancient seeker had caught up to them quickly, presumably having finished his divination.

“What is that?” Malika asked, reaching out her own hand, curiosity getting the better of her cautious nature. Her hand encountered resistance, like she was pressing on a sheet of something flexible, but she couldn’t see anything with her eyes. Even Soul Sight showed her only a faint, indistinct warping of the ambient mana in the area.

“Space magic, I think,” Rezan said, poking at it carefully before actually unleashing a powerful punch. But his attack was rebuffed just as easily as Malika’s probing touch. “Strong, too.”

Mato swiped at it, but not even his strength and claws could pierce it.

“Perhaps we can find a way in?” Calen suggested. “My skills tell me Ali is in there, but it’s not clear where exactly.”

“Let’s hunt for a weak spot,” Val’korr said, leading the way as they trekked through the spirit realm, following the boundary of the strange phenomenon wherever it led, quickly having to resort to various versions of flight to follow as it seemed to ignore the ruins themselves.

It had been almost an hour of searching when Val’korr stopped abruptly, causing their entire party to pause.

“Something is happening,” he said, his eyes studying the invisible space beside them as if he could see something she could not.

But then she saw it – a strange swirling ripple in the mana which grew progressively greater and more chaotic, until suddenly the veil blocking their way ripped horizontally, and a blast of dungeon mana burst forth from the gap.

“A dungeon!” Calen exclaimed. “The Infinite Maze, level one hundred and twenty-five. Space and Arcane affinities.”

“Let’s go,” Rezan said, leaping through the gap, and everyone followed him.

Hang on, Ali. We’re coming.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
