“I do. I’d leave for Manus as well, but I must know why Rafaema left and where she’s going. I’ll leave you to it, Wall Lord.”
He was turning to go when Ilvriss spoke up.
“Hunt Commander Makhir?”
The Gnoll turned. Ilvriss pointed at him.
“Aside from the diplomatic incident between nations, leave Lyonette du Marquin unharmed. Or you and Manus will answer to me. Press her by all means, but harm her or her people, and we will have a second issue.”
The Gnoll just snarled at him and stormed out of the room. Ilvriss went back to packing. Zeres was leaving some of its army to check Oteslia because the City of Growth might be disposed to help the Gnolls. But it was moving towards the Great Plains, and so was Liscor’s mercenary army.
“Not now!”
Ilvriss hurled a pair of shoes at the wall and winced at the damage they caused. But he cursed aloud.
“Not now! This is not the right time! Damn you!”
However, it was too late. The first battles between Gnolls and Drakes were continuing. If Ilvriss had one consolation, it was this:
He’d personally seen Salamani and Ci take Saliss’ antidote a day ago. Ethereal-class antidote; it required an enchanted container just to hold the liquid. It was en-route to Liscor.
 
——
 
So was Rafaema. Lyonette du Marquin sipped tea and listened to Makhir and his delegation arguing with her Thronebearers. A fight broke out after a minute, but she kept staring out the window.
She could not leave Oteslia. At least—not until Mivifa was back, and she might well be arrested by the First Gardener and Makhir for what she’d done.
Five days after the amazing conversation with everyone. Five days—and it had taken Saliss and Xif two days without sleep after receiving the mushrooms to synthesize the antidote.
They were sleeping through the fight. Lyonette had handed the bottle to Salamani, still cold from whatever they’d done to make it that way. She’d lost some skin and didn’t care.
“Wake her up.”
Now, Lyonette thought that Ferris would be in the Meeting of Tribes. She had wanted Makhir; Rafaema had only been sure Ferris would obey.
Lyonette wished she had sent Mrsha something more. An artifact! But Ferris had pointed out that anything magical would make her stand out more, so she had agreed reluctantly to wait. And handed over all but one of her artifacts to Rafaema.
Cloak of Balshadow. Ring of [Fireballs]. Wand of [Sticky Webs]. Mivifa had lent Rafaema her collection of gear too, but the Dragon was very well-equipped already.
A Dragon. Lyonette didn’t know if she was losing her mind because it felt so natural. Including turning her head and giving orders to the nervous Earth Dragon standing with her.
“Cire. Go and stop Makhir.”
“Me? He’s punching your [Knights]! And they have armor!”
The Dragon squeaked. Lyonette rolled her eyes.
“You are…you, Cire. He won’t harm you. Go and stop him.”
It was about knowing people. Delegation. Cire went out, and the crashing did stop—but the shouting didn’t.
What will I tell Makhir? Nothing? Everything? No—he doesn’t know what I know. I will be in danger. I have collaborated with Rafaema as per her wishes. I need to poorly intimate that I ‘know’ so he guesses that I don’t and am trying to ferret out information.
That was so simple she didn’t even have to dwell on it. Politics were her blood.
Mrsha was her heart. Lyonette waited for Mivifa to come back. When she did—Lyonette would leave Oteslia. For now, Ferris was guarding Mrsha.
Where was Rafaema going, though? Well, that was simple. And Lyonette suspected that the pink coach, Salamani and Ci, and Mivifa were all headed in the same direction.
“Honestly, we might have just had them all ride together, then. How fast would that carriage go if a Pegasus and Ci were pulling it?”
Lyonette was almost certain they were all headed to Liscor.
 
——
 
Two days ago.
 
“Liscor? You’re certain?”
Lyonette was watching coverage of the Ailendamus war. She looked up as Rafaema and Cire paced about. Well, Rafaema did it because she was nervous. Cire did it to copy her.
“Yes. The Dragon you’re looking for is at Liscor.”
“Are you sure it’s not him? He looks like us.”
Cire pointed at the image of Eldavin. Lyonette chewed on her lip.
“If he is, based purely on eye-color…it’s rare I’ll grant you, but not everyone with mismatched eyes is necessarily a Dragon.”
“True. He could be a dual-elemental [Mage]. His magic, though. And his…why are you certain I should go to Liscor?”
Rafaema turned to Lyonette. The [Princess] turned off the orb so she could focus.
“Because Erin met a Dragon there. She told me, and I never believed her; I thought she met a fire-breathing salamander or something. But there were other…hints.”
Like Klbkch refusing to deny there was a Dragon in the High Passes. Like whispers overheard from Ryoka that mentioned someone. Lyonette said it aloud.
“Teriarch.”
Rafaema and Cire’s heads turned, and they looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] got up.
“Now, that is just a name. Perhaps Grand Magus Eldavin is this Dragon. It is entirely possible, and he seems to be Ryoka’s benefactor. But it would make sense that if he had a base or something, it would be in Liscor, wouldn’t it? When Ryoka visited Eldavin—or Teriarch, if the two are different—she went to the High Passes. Or do you think Grand Magus Eldavin has all his worldly possessions?”
Rafaema chewed on the tips of her claws.
“…He does not. He’s had to beg alchemical ingredients, and he mentions his wealth, though he’s not specific.”
“How do you know that?”
Cire blinked at Rafaema. The Lightning Dragon irritably waved a claw at him.
“I read the reports from our agents in Wistram. And believe me…”
She eyed Lyonette and fell silent. The [Princess] gave Rafaema a happy smile.
“Wistram is hiding something hugely significant? Like…young people with interesting backstories?”
“You know about that too? Well, that’s one thing, but it’s convincing me that you might be right.”
Rafaema crossed her arms. Cire’s head swung from Rafaema to Lyonette.
“Wait, what’s this about?”
Both women snapped at him.
“Classified.”
Cire threw up his claws.
“This isn’t fair! I’m helping! I agreed to Lyonette’s deal.”
Lyonette was unmoved. She nodded at Rafaema.
“Ask her, but it isn’t my secret to give.”
“Then can I go with Rafaema?”
“No. Mivifa would never allow it. How are you going to convince her to give me a ride, anyways? She knows I’m a Dragon.”
Cire smugly rubbed his claws against his shirt.
“I’ll just tell her that I’ll scream, ‘I’m a Dragon’ from the rooftops if she doesn’t. Then, when she comes back, I’ll tell her I swore a death-pact with Lyonette. She has truth spells. Easy.”
Rafaema turned to Lyonette. The [Princess] saw the Dragon gesture to Cire.
Do you see?
Lyonette nodded fractionally. She pressed her fingers to her temples. Imagine if she had to deal with a male Mrsha in his teens…all her life? She felt for the First Gardener and Makhir, she truly did.
“Liscor. Dragons have caves, don’t they? Or is that a rumor?”
“I don’t know. Who would actually have a lair or cave? It sounds…stereotypical.”
Cire frowned, unfurling his wings slightly. Rafaema scratched at her neck-spines, equally dubious.
“I can see a secret base, but I’d hate a cave-cave. Still, you’re right. Finding proof Eldavin is a Dragon is far better than risking revealing myself to an Archmage. Okay, Liscor. I like it. Even if it’s a dead end—it’s an adventure. And you’ll lend me your invisibility cloak and whatnot?”
“Cloak of Balshadow. Yes. Now, I’ll write you a letter to Ishkr, but Erin is…asleep. Do you think you can track down a Dragon’s lair?”
Rafaema went to check her neatly-laid out gear and armor, all perfectly maintained. She spoke as she fidgeted; she couldn’t stand still. Cire, by contrast, could sit all day if he was focused.
“I…don’t know. I’m hardly that gifted in magic. I need to learn from scratch, and it’s hard when a [Mage] tells you how to do it. However, I might be able to smell the cave. I smelled the Dragon on you. So that’s how we know one exists. Let’s say I go there, track it down to the cave…and make contact. You and Cire will go save your daughter, or Ferris will contact you. Just—do you know what kind of Dragon it is? Maybe it’s an evil one. Maybe it is Eldavin. How do you know Teriarch is the right name?”
She sounded uncertain, longing, and afraid, and looked at Cire and Lyonette as if worried they would see that as weakness. Cire went to pat Rafaema on the shoulder, and she swatted him away.
They were alike as a species—and different in personality. Lyonette thought they felt younger than her, for all they were both many times her age. She would have helped them as much as she could, oath or not, normally.
But Mrsha needed her. So Lyonette was willing to let Rafaema find what she needed or her doom in the High Passes. All she wanted…was their help. If she had to unleash a full Dragon or drag Oteslia into war—she would.
And Oteslia’s Dragon was bound to her by life or death. She was going to use that. Magnolia Reinhart would be so proud, and Lyonette hated that, too.
But the mother took it one step at a time. Convince Rafaema. How? Oh, that was so simple.
Satar had just shown up on the news, and Lyonette had to believe her darling mischief-maker had helped organize that. Her first public event, and she’d probably helped write all those letters!
She was grounded forever, and Lyonette would never let go of Mrsha again. The [Princess] rose and picked up something. It was so simple. She handed Rafaema a book, and the Dragon’s claws locked onto it.
“Teriarch. When you meet him—I don’t know what he’s like. But you are looking for Teriarch, not Eldavin. The Dragonlord of Flame.”
Rafaema’s eyes went round. She looked down at the book, and Lyonette thanked Ser Dalimont. The Thronebearer and Ser Sest had been researching the ‘legend’ for her obsessively. Dalimont might suspect something, but Ser Sest had bought the line about Teriarch being connected to the Heartflame Breastplate.
The Dragonlords, by Ciarr Plain’s Eye. A copy of an ancient book. Cire’s jaw dropped.
“If you find him—good luck. I’ll write you more letters if you need them, and I’ll show you on a map where Ryoka must have gone. Oh—and stay away from Goblins.”
She had more instructions, and Rafaema only half-listened. She had a name, hope, and a certainty a Dragon existed.
So she went.
 
——
 
Now.
 
Brave children were going to do great things. They had already done great things. If only they had time, and the world wasn’t against them.
Children should have time to grow. They should have had peace.
All these revelations in the Meeting of Tribes were having an unusual effect. Some tribes embraced the new, like Sootfur and Hawkarrow. They followed Silverfang’s charge into revealing old truths.
Some tribes saw all these things and drew back. They gathered around Plain’s Eye, Gaarh Marsh, and older tribes. When the world shook, tradition and the past were roots to cling to.
“We must be wary of this new world. Those two—Rose and Inkar—they must be watched, don’t you agree, Chieftain? We cannot let them leave. And the danger—!”
An anxious Gnoll Chieftain of the Gembows Tribe was speaking. Her nerve was shattered. Some people, when faced with the incomprehensible or a great challenge—broke.
It was too bad she was a Chieftain. However, Chieftain Xherw of Plain’s Eye slowed long enough to nod to her.
“I will take care of it, of course, Chieftain Yinbe.”
She smiled and nodded, relieved. What Xherw carefully omitted was that he would not do what she wanted.
Not exactly. He was split on the Humans. On all these new events. He disagreed with the idea of shunning Earth. They had to join hands with Earth rather than face a great foe.
At the same time, Earth disturbed him. But he would not be the reactionary who fled from fire when someone invented it. He would be cautious—Plain’s Eye had to walk a narrow line.
Satar Silverfang was a good example of what ailed Xherw. She herself was not a bad Gnoll. If anything, Xherw admired the young [Storyteller] and [Shaman]. He could wish for a thousand Gnolls with her spirit. Her combined Skill? Wonderful. Her class…
No. No, that was a problem. She was digging into the past, and that…that was regrettable. That was what hurt Xherw.
None of these young people deserved anything but a bright future. Around him, horns were blowing.
The tribes were going to war. He had seen Feshi Weatherfur moving with Adetr Steelfur. Honored Gireulashia? A lot of the Gnolls who’d helped make Theikha’s Skill a reality were going north.
Two main armies were coming from the north, and Plain’s Eye would take the western one. The young children were headed to the eastern battle.
Actually, a lot of tribes had joined the eastern battle. Even Lehra Ruinstrider would be participating.
Four bright young Gnolls who all knew each other. By contrast? Plain’s Eye alone would fight on the western front. Plain’s Eye, augmented with Gaarh Marsh and Wild Wastes, but they alone.
Some tribes felt it was close to showing off or glory-seeking. Xherw intended to show them it was not, and to show them Plain’s Eye would bleed for the tribes. He had to prove it.
However, the eastern battle concerned him. So many children…
There was an opportunity, so Xherw left the nervous Chieftains still babbling about Earth behind. He approached the Silverfang camp, and some guards stirred to nervous attention.
“Chieftain Xherw himself? How can we help you, Chieftain?”
A…Weatherfur Gnoll blocked his way. Xherw frowned as some of his personal guards stopped, politely nodding to their counterparts.
“If it pleases Silverfang and Weatherfur, I would like to enter the camp, friends. This is a time of war—but I am seeking someone.”
The Gnoll hesitated.
“That—it would be easier if we could bring whomever it was to you, Chieftain. I am ashamed to stop you, but Chieftain Akrisa has given orders for no one to enter the camp unannounced. We have had an issue, you see. With another Chieftain.”
Interesting. Xherw looked about. His fur was…tingling.
Is the Golden Gnoll here? Quite possibly. Yelroan could not prove she was a Doombringer, but I think one is here.
However, that was a secondary concern to war, so he only smiled and nodded.
“Quite understandable. Then, could I ask to meet with a certain Gnoll? I understand Silverfang has joined the forces heading to our northeastern flank.”
“Yes, Chieftain. They are about to depart. Who can I send for?”
The Gnoll was oddly tense, but Xherw put it down to the mood in the Meeting of Tribes.
