It was almost like home. Cers grabbed a pawful of food and raised it, and Feshi, with the instincts of a [Strategist], went for cover. Rose reluctantly was drawn into the discussion about sin since it wasn’t theology. Mrsha’s ears perked up as she heard Gire complaining.
“I like math! Math is fun, Rose. Just explain it. I think Yelroan understands, but I want to be certain! The universities certainly beat some of the other places.”
“The what now? What’s this about? Is this the big secret my Chieftain was talking about? Should I ask to visit?”
Lehra perked up, and Gire turned.
“You have to. If you’re allowed—it’s the most amazing thing ever, Lehra. And it has incredible food. But it’s secret.”
She glanced at Lehra’s team, and Elgrinna growled.
“Damn it. Is that my cue to leave?”
“No, since Lehra has no permission, I won’t tell anyone.”
Gire shook her head. Lehra looked crestfallen.
“But I want to know! Fine, I’ll get permission! Then I’ll tell my team. I wouldn’t keep anything secret from them!”
“And that is why you’ll never get permission.”
Adetr growled. Lehra gave him a supercilious look.
“My team’s trustworthy! I’m loyal to my tribe, but it’s silly to think non-Gnolls can’t be trusted.”
“This is bigger than just one tribe. You’re a Named Adventurer. Secrecy—”
“Anyways, Rose. Some places are boring. Not to give out secrets, but that thing with the pews and altar? Boring. The book is somewhat interesting, but it has a lot of words blanked out.”
“The…”
Rose sat up in alarm, but Gire just yawned.
“Is that really how it looks to you? The man who gave the entire service kept skipping the word too. Either the Skill’s busted, or you have weird…what’s the word?”
She snapped her fingers. Yelroan looked puzzled.
“What place is this? Fill-in-the-blank games?”
“I wish. It’s on the tip of my tongue.”
Religion.
Mrsha frowned at Gire, demanding to know more too, and Lehra and Adetr were arguing about the tribes. The tent flaps opened once more, and someone hurried in.
Cetrule. The Gnoll was winded, his ceremonial garb hanging askew. Only Feshi, peeking out to see if the food fight had begun yet, noticed. Had he had a bad turn? Gotten into a car accident or looked at some very…disturbing images online?
The Gnoll’s fur was messed up, and he looked at the chattering room.
“What are you…?”
No one noticed. Cetrule caught himself as Satar turned, beaming.
“Cetrule! I found out what my new Skill does! It’s—”
The [Shaman] of the Silverfangs cut her off. He took a breath and then bellowed, so loudly he drowned out everyone else. A note of high tension, a cracking voice bordering on a howl.
“What are you all doing?”
Everyone went still. Mrsha looked up, face covered in sauce, and the arguers, diners, and Cers himself looked in Cetrule in alarm. The [Shaman] pointed outside.
“The Drakes. They’ve crossed the water line. The Woven Bladegrass tribe sounded the alarm—every tribe is mustering its warriors. Honored Lehra, Gire, Adetr, Feshi, your Chieftains need you now.”
The tent went silent. Mrsha had been afraid for a moment that someone had found out her identity. This?
This was worse. Yelroan’s head snapped up. He saw Feshi pale; Adetr was already on his feet and racing around the table. Lehra dropped the fork she was holding, and the clatter was far too loud.
It could have been glorious. If only they had more time. Time to explore the wondrous Skill, to get to know each other, to enjoy life. If only this part could last forever.
If only…Drakes weren’t so petty.
 
——
 
“They are split up and coming from every angle into the Gnoll Plains. Not one unified army. We could smash any one army so far, but every Walled City has sent a force. Fissival has sent the largest by far. A Wall Lord Dragial is now leading it.”
Someone shouted in outrage.
“That bastard!”
Feshi Weatherfur listened, declining to interrupt as Chieftain Werri of Woven Bladegrass spoke. She, Iraz of Steelfur, and Chieftain Reizet of the Az’muzarre tribe were leading the discussions.
Werri because her people had been doing the scouting. Iraz to balance her and because he was a foremost military leader. And because this was their land and they had famously fought every foe who entered their homeland, Az’muzarre.
Feshi was present as one of the [Strategists], and Yerranola too. Some of the Gnolls gave her distrustful glances, but she was not a Drake. She just happened to be wearing a Drake’s body today.
“We could really use Wil, Merrik, Peki, and Venaz right now. Or the Professor.”
The Selphid whispered to Feshi. She’d been lying down rather than eating, but had risen for this. The poison seemed like it had mostly run its course, but the Selphid looked grim.
That was fair. Everyone was grim.
“First they attack vulnerable tribes. Now, they come after us. Does their treachery know no end?”
Reizet growled. Others agreed, but Feshi privately thought the Professor would have approved in his way. There was no way the Meeting of Tribes would have ended with the Gnolls happy with the Drakes. The cities had struck first.
“Do we have a list of which cities have sent armies? Or their reasons? This is a clearly aggressive act.”
Chieftain Iraz spoke up. Adetr wasn’t present; he was no [Strategist], and each tribe was mustering warriors. This meeting was to decide who went where.
“They are citing our tribes fighting back as excuses for the war. It doesn’t matter why—they’re here.”
Werri snapped. She pointed at the map.
“The point is they’ve split up. They know we can defeat them. My tribe alone can crush armies from any one Drake city outside of a Walled one, so they run the instant we get near. They link up and wait for us. But they’re not idle. They’re using tactics from before the Antinium Wars against us. They’re setting fire to the Gnoll plains.”
A low growl went up from those listening. Feshi growled herself.
“They’re trying to send a wall of fire at us. Wildfire, stoked by magic. We need to put out the fires with our [Shamans]. So we have to tackle them. This is the perfect time for it, with the heat of the summer and autumn detritus. If it were winter, they’d try to conjure blizzards and starve us of food. These are old tactics.”
A [Strategist] from the Wild Wastes tribes was old enough to remember those classes. Werri growled.
“I’ve highlighted the biggest armies. There’s one to the south of combined Drakes. Not all high-level—but over eighty thousand strong. Two more joining from the north, and Zeres has reinforced their lines. Smaller gatherings. Woven Bladegrass is in position to take the south.”
“They will not stand alone, no. My Steelfur Gnolls will split up. We must divide and fight. Which tribes will join our southern assault?”
“Hawkarrow will. But we are fewer. We must divide by specialty. Who goes north?”
“Weatherfur goes north. I will help lead the northern attack.”
Feshi spoke up. Iraz nodded at her, and they began tallying tribes. Someone else spoke.
“Ekhtouch will fight in the north as well. Fifty warriors.”
Fifty? But it was a tiny tribe. Then Feshi heard the speaker add.
“And our [Paragon]. I will lead twenty of ours to aid you, Chieftain Werri. Gireulashia will join the north.”
Chieftain Firrelle calmly strode out of the tent. And Feshi’s worries stacked higher.
 
——
 
“Gire is too young to fight!”
Rose was trying to argue with Akrisa, but there was nothing the Silverfang Chieftain could do.
“She must if Chieftain Firrelle says she must. I asked her—but she said that if Gire is old enough to challenge her for her position, she is old enough to fight. It is…pettiness.”
“Not pettiness. Vindictiveness. You saw how Gire dealt with her. All I can do is tell our warriors to try and shield Ekhtouch—but it will be a terrible battle.”
Cetrule muttered. Rose looked from Gnoll to Gnoll.
“What can we do?”
“Do? I am no war-[Chieftain]. I will place our command with our [First Warrior]—but it is a battle. Even Honored Beilmark does not fight in wars. I am afraid…we can only support our people from the rear, Rose.”
Akrisa looked pale and worried under her fur. Rose whirled and ran to find Gire.
The [Paragon] was hiding in her tent. She was hiding under her blanket as a little Gnoll girl worriedly patted her on the shoulder.
“I must fight. I must. I am a [Paragon]. I’m scared, Mrsha.”
Don’t fight. Don’t fight!
Mrsha was begging Gire not to, but the [Paragon] was one of many Gnolls going to the front. And going now.
“Where’s Ekhtouch? Move out!”
A roar made Rose jump as she stood in the doorway. She knew that voice. Gire poked her head out, and Mrsha turned. Rose saw an angry Gnoll standing in front of their camp, surrounded by nearly a hundred Gnolls with metal fur.
“Adetr! Can you convince Firrelle or Iraz not to send Gire to fight?”
The [Battle Seeker] stopped as he saw Rose. His face was not the joyful look he had when anticipating a fight. This was grim, and she saw his snarling face turn to surprise when he saw her. Ekhtouch was already lined up, and Gire emerged from her tent a moment later.
“Rose? Gire? No. She’s a [Paragon]. We need every warrior we can get!”
“She’s fifteen.”
“So?”
Adetr gave Rose a blank look, and she recalled that he had been fourteen when he was first made a [Warrior]. But then he recalled their talks. His gaze softened.
“This is a war for our people, Rose. If the Drakes start the fire, they’ll cast a windstorm across the entire plains. We’ll all burn by the time that inferno reaches us.”
Even the Steelfur Gnolls looked uneasy by his talk. Adetr was not good for morale. He looked around, then grabbed her arm and whispered.
“I’ll try to protect her. Feshi is coordinating the assault in part. We will look out for her, yes? But this war is…”
He knew other Gnolls were listening, so he didn’t finish it. Rose looked at Adetr desperately, then looked about.
“Hold on! I’ll get you a scarf! Or amulet! Or…”
“What for?”
Adetr gave Rose a blank look. One of the Steelfur Gnolls groaned, slapped the back of his head, and winced and rubbed at her paw.
“Dead gods, Adetr.”
“A lucky charm! Or something! Just don’t die.”
“I can’t wear a scarf. It’ll get in the way, and it’s not useful—stop that.”
The other Gnolls were jabbing Adetr in the back with the tops of their weapons so he’d shut up. Rose realized she wasn’t going to find anything to give Adetr and settled for a hug. His fur bit into her flesh, but she hugged him tight.
“Don’t die, you stupid [Battle Seeker].”
“I won’t. And I’ll keep the others safe.”
He nodded to her. Rose stepped back as Gire raised her paw.
“Ekhtouch, we fight with Steelfur! With me!”
She loped forwards, and the fifty Gnolls followed her. Adetr grunted, and he began jogging with Steelfur to their rally point.
No! No! A little Gnoll tried to run after Gire, trying to howl, her brown fur covered with tears, and the gold paint on her ears flaking. Rose tried to grab her, but she leapt past Rose and ran after Gire. She would go with her friend!
“Mri! Stop! St—”
Since the camps were in chaos, her usual guards were too few and too slow. Mri ran after Gire and might have vanished—but for a Gnoll who scooped her up and handed the kicking, biting girl back to Rose.
“Thank you!”
Rose grabbed Mrsha with all her strength, ignoring the sobbing, punching girl. She looked at…a Gnoll she had never met before. Prha got tackled again as she tried to reach Mrsha by a Weatherfur Gnoll.
“No problem, Miss.”
The Gnoll tipped his cap to her. He was still a bit puffy-cheeked. Damn allergies. But Ferris watched as Mrsha clung to Rose, sobbing. He scanned the camp and slipped away. By the time Mrsha and Rose realized someone had stuck a letter to her back embossed with Calanfer’s seal—he was gone.
Incidentally, so was Rafaema. And Ferris was only glad he wasn’t around to hear Makhir.
“I’m going to lose my job for this.”
The [Infiltrator] sighed. Then he went to figure out exactly how bad the situation was.
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was preparing to go when he was asked for a quick meeting with Hunt Commander Makhir. The Gnoll didn’t beat around the bush.
“My ward is missing. Wall Lady Rafaema. Dragonspeaker Luciva herself considers her safety top priority. I know you’re a Wall Lord of Salazsar, but by our cities, I need you to help me, Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
Ilvriss raised his brows.
“She’s gone? When?”
“This morning. I found her quarters empty and a letter addressed to me. The contents—in brief, she wrote she was looking for something. She didn’t say who or where, but she was speaking to that [Princess]. But she refuses to say anything, and I cannot…persuade her to tell me. If I could force the issue, I would.”
That was as blunt as Manus, but surprisingly aggressive. Makhir looked…Ilvriss eyed him.
Beyond worried. Was he Rafaema’s father, or was she more important? Or was she Luciva’s adopted daughter?
He didn’t know. But the Wall Lord spoke directly to Makhir.
“I wish I could help, Makhir. I can speak to Miss Lyonette. But I am leaving Oteslia.”
Makhir grunted in surprise.
“How?”
“I am being permitted to leave.”
The words were sour, but Ilvriss spoke them. He glanced at the window; Zeres’ army was pulling back.
“Zeres has entered the war against the Meeting of Tribes, and they have brokered a deal. Any foreign dignitaries may leave. Any…Drake dignitaries. Miss Lyonette will have to stay. Perhaps that was how Wall Lady Rafaema left?”
Makhir shook his head instantly.
“She did not go on foot or even horseback. She left with Mivifa herself, via Pegasus. The First Gardener did not order it—I cannot imagine what possessed Adventurer Mivifa. To risk Rafaema’s life…it’s inconceivable.”
Yet he could conceive of a reason. Ilvriss saw Makhir’s eyes flicker.
This has something to do with Cirediel. Xesci said they were unusual. If I could pick this apart…Ilvriss replied, curtly.
“I wish I could help you, but I swear on the walls of Salazsar and my family that I don’t know why this occurred, Hunt Commander. I’m leaving to link up with forces from Salazsar. My house has sent our standing forces along with an army.”
“To join the attack on the Meeting of Tribes?”
Makhir fixed on Ilvriss, suddenly shifting to the pressing military issue. Ilvriss met his gaze without blinking.
“To take stock of the situation. Salazsar has not declared war on the tribes, and I will personally be damned if we do. But this is high politics, and I need an army. Without one…I’m stuck. I’m sure you can understand.”
The Gnoll cursed.
