“What did you do this time, Chieftain Orelighn? Shaman Cetrule? My experience was…revealing.”
It was interesting. All three Gnolls had clearly had a very different experience. Mrell looked unhappy, even troubled like some Gnolls who’d been jumped or held up or had to spend their hour in the hospital due to accidents. He didn’t look shellshocked—and some Gnolls had walked out and sworn never to return.
It could be traumatizing, walking around in a new world. Even seeing all those Humans, their foreign architecture, reading the news…
They had city-destroying bombs in all the major powers. Bombs that could destroy everything around it and poison the air itself for countless miles, and they thought it was normal? All those conflicts…Adetr had seen some graphic pictures when Rose had shown him how to access the internet.
However, Mrell’s troubles were not Orelighn’s. The Chieftain practically burbled with delight.
“I have had the most wonderful experience! I hope I can do it again? Disney world. You should all go! It has these…rides! And food! And such funny little characters!”
He waved his arms, trying to explain to the curious [Shamans].
“It does cost money, and there are lines, poor Humans. However, there are little children having such fun! And the rides! On one, you ride this roller coaster where you go upside down—ah, but there are multiple parks in the same area. Very humid. Oh, and there are giant lizards in the water.”
“Monsters?”
Adetr’s ears perked up as a [Shaman] looked worried. Orelighn waved it off.
“Only small ones. Alligators. Florida, I think. But they aren’t that dangerous, and I got exclusive treatment when one tried to eat my foot and I had to kick it. Which is wonderful because I got to the front of every line!”
He had had a great experience, it seemed. Cetrule was more in the middle.
“I…I think I fell into a trap of some kind. Has two hours already passed since I entered? I just sat down and…I’ve been tricked. She tricked me!”
He looked around accusatory, but didn’t immediately elaborate.
“Who did, Shaman Cetrule?”
Mrell and Cetrule seemed to be coming out of their experience, and the [Shaman of Purity] hesitated, then gave Mrell a look of instant reserve. They did not care for each other. Adetr was good at noticing impending hostilities, so he was intrigued.
Mrell and Cetrule did not get along, but it was Cetrule who clearly didn’t like Mrell, and he couldn’t even hide it that well. He turned instantly hostile, and Adetr wondered what Mrell had done to make a [Shaman] so impolite.
“Ah, Chieftain Mrell. I…took advice from someone and visited an ‘arcade’. A…very odd experience. Time flew away. And the littles games on…”
He shuddered.
“I could have lost my life there. Hours! Days! That little child wants to…?”
What was this? Adetr’s ears perked up. Little child? Mrell looked like someone had just poked him with a sharp needle. Cetrule’s mouth clamped shut, and he turned to bow to Theikha and give tips to the other [Shamans].
Mrell never took his eyes off Cetrule. Now curious, Adetr stood up. There was only one ‘child’ he knew of who would be precocious enough to give Cetrule advice on anything.
Okay, two. Cers was Cetrule’s son, but he had no insight into Earth. If anyone did—why would that make Mrell look so…?
There were more secrets in the Meeting of Tribes yet to uncover. More to do, clearly. However, the wonders of the combined Skill had not faded. If anything…Adetr thought that the event two days ago had changed so much.
For the better.
 
——
 
We were there. 
The rest of the world didn’t know about the Skill that had been created in the Meeting of Chieftains. In fact, the grand tent had to be abandoned and a second one built, much to the confusion of the Gnolls.
They knew something had happened, but the Skill was being guarded by the best [Guards] and magic. And anyways, the secret of Theikha’s great wonder had been covered by another huge occurrence.
Books. Books and stories.
Satar Silverfang. Write down her name, underline it, circle it, and maybe highlight it too. Ferkr of Pallass. Krshia and Akrisa Silverfang.
She had gone from ‘daughter of the Silverfang’s Chieftain’ to Satar Silverfang overnight. All because of a certain name-dropping Revenant, a little Gnoll with a quill…and stories.
The first book had arrived for Satar that morning. The last two days had been spent doing interviews, meeting other Chieftains and fellow lovers of the written word who wanted access to the promised bounty, telling all her friends how it had gone down, and also visiting her new Skill!
And freaking out. Satar had been rolling around on the ground like Cers—and breaking into tears, so overwrought with emotion.
You could, in fact, be too happy. However, two days meant she wasn’t curled up in a ball with Cers howling for their mother to calm Satar down.
Her paws were only shaking so badly she couldn’t undo the fancy purple-and-gold ribbon and delicately-wrapped paper, such that it required no glue or magic to keep itself folded. The wrapping fell away as the Courier, Mrsha, Cers, Akrisa, and dozens upon dozens of Silverfangs and a [Cameraman] Gnoll hired by Wistram News Network jostling with one hired by Nerrhavia’s Wonders watched.
“…and it looks like Satar is opening the wrapping now, Sir Relz.”
Someone was commenting in the background. Satar shed the wrapping paper—which looked so pricey someone snatched it for reuse—and lifted up the tome.
Her breath caught as gilded lettering over beautiful leather came to light. It sparkled under the rising sun, and a pair of tiny jewels gleamed. Satar looked down into a leather-embossed cover with an illustration of an imperious ruler holding a staff and pointing down, catching the light. Undead marched before her in the illustration, and two tiny gemstones made up the [Necromancer]-[Queen]’s glowing eyes.
Anthologies of Khelt, Volume 1: Khelta the First, Undeath Queen, [Queen of Necrocracy], Khelta the Eternal, Sovereign Ruler of Khelt, Guardian of the Norrislands…
It had a long title. So long, in fact, that someone had worked the list of her formal titles into the outline of the tome, so it ran around and formed what looked like a solid line around the cover and across the spine and back…until you realized they were microscopic letters.
This was a first-edition book of Khelt, gifted to Satar by none other than Fetohep of Khelt. In fact, the Drake Courier herself let out a sigh.
“Delivered and witnessed. Will that do, Your Majesty?”
She turned and bowed to the figure who was watching from a scrying orb. Satar heard a calm voice.
“Admirably, Courier T’shar of Zeres. You have Khelt’s gratitude.”
The Drake bowed again, and looked around.
“A pleasure, then. Is it alright if I check out the Meeting of Gnolls?”
“Of course! And thank you—again—”
One of the Silverfang Gnolls broke out of their stupor as Satar, trembling, opened the cover. The Drake Courier smiled and jogged off to get something to eat. She had a slight limp on her left leg, but nothing that had stopped her from taking the book from Zeres the instant it had arrived.
Via teleportation. Then straight to Satar via Courier. Such was Fetohep’s largesse; more books were inbound via ‘slower’ boat travel to reduce the cost of teleportation.
That was T’shar Glassbreath. The Courier who breathed glass! Or something like it—and who had received the most fines out of any Courier on Izril for temporarily turning stretches of the trade roads to glass so she could slide to her destination.
However, arguably…Satar knew someone more famous. Fetohep of Khelt. She heard someone muttering behind her.
“Cover alone’s worth probably a few hundred gold. That’s not a poor gemstone cut up; that’s a magical gem. Hand-stitched lettering, first-edition Kheltian volume probably written over a few thousand years ago…”
Qwera the Golden Gnoll got a firm nudge from a Human woman standing next to her.
“Stop scaring Satar, Qwery.”
Ysara Byres was watching with clear envy. And a bit of concern. Satar looked like she might faint.
“…and there you have it, folks. The first book to the Meeting of Tribes. This is Sir Relz, and our [Reporter] on the ground, Casif Plain’s Eye. Now, onto our next story…”
The crowd—at least, the television side of it—began to break up. However, the Gnolls who were here for the stories, not just the short-lived fame of it, gathered even closer, begging to touch the book or asking for a turn.
“Absolutely not. It’s too valuable. It has to be guarded! We’ll have to watch for [Thieves]…”
Beilmark knew what she was on about. The [Guardswoman] was already watching the crowd, and Satar’s heart leapt painfully at the thought of it.
Good came with ill. Yet Satar thought this beautiful gift…she looked up, and a Revenant winked at her, one of his golden eyes vanishing in its socket a moment. She had never thought she’d love an undead face.
“I trust this satisfies, Satar Silverfang?”
“Yes. Thank you!”
“Do not thank me. It is well that Khelt be first to share its vast knowledge. You caused this. I trust you will share your enlightened view on Khelt and the world to your Chieftain and other Gnolls. Good day to you.”
The world’s friendliest Revenant vanished from the scrying orb, and the Gnolls began to talk and exclaim in earnest. But not before Fetohep gave a smug little girl a dark look.
 
——
 
Mrsha was getting too full of herself. And for a girl whose mother was a genuine [Princess], and who had been raised for the last year in The Wandering Inn by Erin Solstice—
That was saying something. Lyonette had not helped with Mrsha’s ego, only her manners and other things she considered important. The problem was—Lyonette was a real blue-blood.
Actually, she was a red-blood because she bled red if you stabbed her. Mrsha had been vaguely disappointed by that. False advertising.
The problem was, Mrsha had once been a terrified, half-feral girl in an abandoned inn traumatized by the loss of her family. Then she had been a curious, mute girl, getting into trouble, but wide-eyed and fairly innocent.
Now? Now she swaggered around on two feet with a bag of holding full of gold, wore a crab-hat, and not only could insult you in prose but considered bribery an effective way of getting out of any situation—followed by ruthless blackmail or pulling rank or calling in favors.
She was either a girl thrust into great events of strife, hunted as a Doombringer unfairly, and somehow still innocent and caring despite all she had been through…or all that plus a monster in the making.
To her credit, she’d gotten rid of the crab hat. Unfortunately, she’d replaced it with an obnoxious pair of sunglasses slanted in a crazy ‘w’ shape that blinded everyone every time she turned her head in the sun.
“Who gave you that? No—I don’t have to guess. Yelroan. Give it here, Mrsha. It’s blinding people!”
The Gnoll girl slapped Rose’s hand down. She handed the Earther a card.
Back off, punk.
Rose stared at Mrsha. The Gnoll put up her dukes. You want to fight? Huh? Huh? You’ll take these glasses over my dead—
The thing was, Rose was a fairly poor caretaker, and, despite knowing Mrsha, she did not really know how to deal with Mrsha. She mistook hesitancy for kindness.
Beilmark calmly snatched the glasses off Mrsha’s face. When the Gnoll went to kick at her, the [Guardswoman] raised one paw.
“Kick me, and I arrest you. These are a public nuisance.”
Mrsha hesitated. Beilmark was nice and friendly, but her grin was a bit too nice, if that made sense. Mrsha sat down in a pout.
She was being childish today. It seemed like you rolled a die to find out if you got a mature Mrsha or a bratty one. However, anyone mistaking this for a simple roll of the Mrsha-dice was a fool. There was a psychology to this:
Mrsha was sulking. Ergo, she acted out. Much like a [Princess] would calmly announce to the entire court she was pregnant in a bid for attention. Or how Erin would do whatever she wanted.
The root cause of Mrsha sulking was more complex, though. The Gnoll girl was not with Satar, who was still marveling over her book; she’d lost interest and retired to Krshia’s tent, which was a sort of living-room for people to gather since the [Shopkeeper] only used it to sleep.
She had been trying to raise Fetohep to smugly congratulate him, but she couldn’t find her [Message] scroll. Mrsha had then resorted to her gifted sunglasses—most likely to annoy everyone in a hundred foot radius, only to be foiled.
She searched around for her [Message] scroll, then saw to her shock that Beilmark had it! The [Guardswoman] had come into the tent, picked up her scroll—
Give it back! Thief! Thief!
Mrsha raced after her just as Qwera and Ysara entered to continue pricing out their analysis of Satar’s gifted book. Beilmark held the scroll calmly over her head.
“No, and no. No sunglasses, no scroll. Kick me again, and you will regret it, Mrsha.”
“Mrsha, here—come on. Beilmark, what are you doing with, um, Mrsha’s scroll?”
Rose was present; Akrisa, Krshia, Inkar, Tkrn, Gire, Adetr, Yelroan, Feshi, Cetrule, and everyone else were gone. It was only Mrsha, Beilmark, Rose, Ysara, and Qwera in the tent.
Rose suspected Inkar and Tkrn were on a date in the Earth-simulation so Inkar could show him around her home. Akrisa and Krshia were discussing the issue, and Yelroan, Feshi, Adetr, and most of the important Gnolls were allowed access to the Skill—so that’s where they were, or unpacking what they’d learned.
She was here because, well…home made her hurt too much. She had gone in once—and only Adetr had helped her avoid a breakdown. Even then…
It had been a mistake to go home. To go home and see people who were not her parents but looked like them and talked like them and…
Good things hurt. So Rose was here. Beilmark was here, not being trusted enough to participate. She was put out by it, but understanding. Mrsha was here because she was Mrsha, and Plain’s Eye would be all around [The World of You and Me]. Same with Qwera and Ysara; they were not in the know.
Beilmark tucked the scroll into her bag of holding. She read a card Mrsha was waving in her face.
“I am not stealing it, Mrsha. This is a request from none other than Fetohep of Khelt. He sent a little note with Satar’s gift. You have been annoying him. So you don’t get this back for a week.”
Tyrant! Thief! You can’t do that! I’m his best friend! I’m his only friend! He’s an old man with nothing to do!
