“It is just magic. You must learn some yourself, though you will weave fire—far more tumultuous, my daughter. Wiskeria never cared for thread either, and you were made to burn.”
“I want to meet Wiskeria.”
“I will allow you to. When you are older.”
Belavierr hadn’t told Wiskeria about Maviola. It was just a mother’s instinct, but she felt as though admitting she had murdered a [Lady] of the House of El and used her corpse to create a second, undead daughter capable of levelling might disturb Wiskeria.
But parents never knew their children, anyways. Belavierr was, at least, grateful that she could feel anything. So long she’d been a…captive to her own immortality. Now she could think.
And she thought she was poor.
My immortality and protections, burnt. My fortunes, also burnt. I have been bleeding artifacts making petty deals these last few thousand years. Ah, well.
It beat hiding in the darkness waiting for the magic to come back. Or dealing with Crelers, ruining any opportunity for good business…no, on the contrary, great calamity provided excellent opportunities.
Belavierr sipped from her cup. Maviola kept chewing happily; she had taste buds.
“Mother? Why are we here? Are we waiting for the castle to be repaired? May we return soon? I miss the funny skeleton.”
The immortal Witch of Webs, the Stitch Witch, Belavierr the Spider, the Temptress, and too many names for her to bother to remember—twitched.
“…I told you not to speak to that one. It is a bad influence.”
“Yes, Mother. But he’s funny. Why are we here?”
The two were, of course, impossible to eavesdrop on. But Belavierr looked around carefully even so. She was annoyed even her ‘don’t notice me’ charms seemed to be struggling, but perhaps she really was out of fashion?
Belavierr loomed over Ryoka Griffin, who was six-foot-one, without a hat. The seven-foot woman plus her incredible hat made a Gnoll sway back. He focused on her.
“What an incredible…hrr.”
Then the magic persuaded him she wasn’t the most astounding thing he’d see all year, and he wandered off. Belavierr frowned after him.
“There is business to be done, Maviola. I must find a new client—after our work with the Necromancer concludes. However, there are poor pickings and I must rebuild my fortunes and magic.”
“Yes, Mother. So why are we here? You said you lost far more than you could have gained. Including your eye.”
Belavierr covered her left eye at the reminder. The new one was identical to the first, but she was still…very unhappy about losing the other one. An immortal’s lifespan even Dragons would admire and she had lost it to a Fraerling riding a bee?
The fact that Niers was the greatest [Strategist] of his age didn’t placate Belavierr’s wrath. And it was true; she’d lost far too much.
“We are here, my daughter…because I was thwarted.”
“By a child, Mother?”
Belavierr turned her ringed gaze, and Maviola went back to eating her food.
“…Yes. However, my daughter, I do not take defeat lightly. I have been thwarted. So this…is simply revenge.”
The outdoor cafe in Pallass containing the Stitch Witch and her daughter shivered as the temperature dropped. Belavierr was sitting on the 6th Floor. Calmly…looking down at a certain bar on the 5th Floor.
There was such a thing as a bad reputation. However, given how it had gone down, Belavierr was alternating between wrath and simply pique.
To be clear, pique was drawing a rune of pestilence on the doors of Tails and Scales and attracting every rodent in a ten-mile radius. Possibly deadly.
Wrath was pointing at the bar and casting [Everburning Firestorm]. And she was thinking about wrath. A bad reputation was one thing, but she also had to maintain her image.
Belavierr calmly produced a little flame from one fingertip and took aim. Then she caught herself, and the growing inferno winked out.
What was she doing? She turned to her daughter, almost embarrassed.
“I have made an error, Maviola. I must teach you better. When you take vengeance upon a couple bound by love, kill one and spare the other. Vengeance may follow, but that in itself is well. I taught Wiskeria this.”
She produced a tiny needle and hunted for a vial of poison. Maviola nodded and smiled, but it slipped as Belavierr looked away. Maviola wasn’t sure she liked her big sister that Belavierr praised so often.
Belavierr unstoppered a bottle that might kill everyone in the cafe over the next two days if the vapors were released and, created a little void of air so she could dip the needle into it. She was, after all, not a mass-murderer or some errant lawbreaker.
She just followed laws and practices as old as she was. That was why, when the announcement began to blare across Pallass and every head rose in alarm, she politely stopped and listened.
“I am Chaldion of Pallass. A Named-rank criminal has been located within our walls. All citizens, stay indoors. 1st Army is in position. A Tier 7 spell has been prepared, and wall spells are online. Remain indoors.”
“I didn’t know they had a Tier 7 spell anymore. How distressing. Be very careful, Maviola.”
Belavierr cautioned her daughter. Then she felt something writhing. She pulled out a tapestry of her deaths and saw a lot of tiny threads seeking her life.
Belavierr glanced around and then saw the [Snipers]. And the Dullahan [General] marching down the street as Gnolls and Drakes screamed and ran.
“Hm? Oh. Is it me again?”
She looked around—then uncannily, terrifyingly, twisted her head and stared across the city towards a disguised partition behind enchanted glass where a [Grand Strategist] was sitting, surrounded by wards.
 
——
 
Those eyes peered straight into his soul. Two eyes with infinitely smaller rings, staring at him. A contorted head and body, twisted around to stare at him across thousands of feet, through stone.
The Drake refused to flinch.
Her immortal gaze met his gemstone one, a flashing blue gemstone eye of [True Sight] set in one socket, a burning mortal eye narrowed and fixed on her. Everyone else in the room shuddered, but Chaldion spoke into a stone.
“Duln. Arrest her. I will sound the all-clear once she’s willing to leave peacefully.”
Timing a trap for the Spider was hard. It spoke to Pallass’ current state that she could so freely enter and leave. Like the Meeting of Tribes…it was decay.
However, Chaldion saw the Dullahan approach fearlessly. Belavierr would have probably forgone her vengeance now she knew he would stand in her way. She was practical. But Chaldion didn’t like gambling when too much was on the line.
“Tell Belavierr that she is under the laws of hospitality. If she accepts, fine. If not, escort her out of the city and inform her she’s banned just like I told you, under the old wording. Politely. But let her know that if she accepts and agrees to meet me as hospitality dictates…I have a job for her.”
The Stitch Witch could not hear him in the contained space, protected by so many spells even Archmage Eldavin would blink. She could not hear him, and she should not be able to see him.
But she was the Witch of legends. Chaldion’s scales crawled. In his magical eyesight, he could see her across the city as if she were right in front of him, the view magnified, enhanced, and revealed all secrets except hers. He saw Maviola El’s body, and if he thought he could kill her without a death toll so high…
But use whatever weapon you had, even a cursed one. What scared even Chaldion though, was Belavierr’s reaction.
She smiled as wide as could be. Ah, at last.
Proper employment. Belavierr met with Chaldion—briefly—and he paid her a pre-calculated fee with minimal haggling.
He would report to the Assembly of Crafts that Duln had helped run off a Named-rank criminal because that’s what they needed to know.
His private security council would hear of their deal, and Chaldion would summarize the results. His offer? Taken. The price was steep, and Belavierr refused a few conditions, like destroying the corpse of Maviola El. But she agreed to do what he wanted.
The problem was, even the [Grand Strategist] of Pallass couldn’t predict how Belavierr would act. Nor was he aware of all the factors. If he had been…he might not have sent her to her destination.
Belavierr departed Pallass and headed straight for the Meeting of Tribes.
 
——
 
If only they had more time. It could be glorious.
When they did meet each other, it was at lunch. Lunch was big, plentiful, and social, with Gnolls coming and going.
But since a certain little Gnoll needed to keep mostly out of sight, she had lunch catered to her. Sulking that she couldn’t eat sweet, sweet ice cream while playing on arcade machines and eating pizza and doing all the things without consequence, Mrsha splurged.
Not least because Gire could and did eat anything she wouldn’t finish. And where good food existed…
Lehra Ruinstrider followed.
“Mri! Hello! Is that Wyvern steak? Mind company for lunch?”
“Lehra, no. I am so sorry…”
The Stargnoll and her team peeked into a big tent where Mrsha was paying for a small feast of food. A drooling Gire was looking at marbled cuts of Wyvern, fresh and preserved from the famous attack on Pallass. Marinated, fried just enough to cook it, but still bloody and rare.
Oh, and there was also a Fruit Golem. Which was a Golem…made of fruits.
Not ordinary fruits, but rare ones. Bananas? Mundane. Pineapples? Passé. Glowberries, Jumping Durians, Sea Oranges…and more.
Such a bounty! Aside from durian, which was a horrible-smelling fruit that Mrsha refused to touch. However, Lehra had followed her nose, and that was how she became a guest, despite Elgrinna’s clear embarrassment as she tried to drag Lehra out by the tail.
“I know Mri! We’re all friends! What’s the issue? Hello! Nice fur.”
Qwera, the Golden Gnoll, Tesy, and Vetn all looked up from their spot at the table. They exchanged looks. Tesy waved, and they whispered together as Lehra said hello to others she recognized.
“Is that a Named Adventurer? I’m allergic to adventurers.”
Vetn edged as far back from Lehra as he could. The Thief of Clouds and a Named Adventurer at the same table?
But they knew each other! And it wasn’t just Mrsha—or Mri, rather—who made it happen. The other person was…
Tkrn. And Inkar. The Gnoll [Guard] was blinking at a little Golem made up of different bunches of grapes begging for its life.
“I…I’m not hungry. Who eats like this?”
“Sick people.”
Inkar agreed. Rose guiltily hid a grape she’d been about to eat. So Rose, Inkar, and Tkrn were there.
And so was Adetr, unapologetically already eating a huge steak. And then the tent flaps opened, and more guests came in.
“Hello! Am I late? I found Yelroan. We were visiting the thing—oh!”
Feshi Weatherfur and Yelroan both entered the tent and blinked around. They were followed by Satar and Cers…and the two young Silverfangs were agog by the company.
“You know Lehra Ruinstrider, Mri?”
Cers’ jaw dropped, and Lehra offered to sign his forehead. Satar squeaked, and Mri looked around smugly.
“That child is a nightmare. Who raised her?”
Qwera muttered to Vetn and Tesy. Ysara Byres slid into a seat at their table.
This was not a moment about them. They were peripheral to the Meeting of Tribes; their entire involvement was due to Mri, and honestly, none of the four were quite sure where they fit.
There was business to be done, but Sellme and the Thief of Clouds were clearly antsy.
“She has so many protectors. I don’t know how it happened. Maybe she’s safe now, Qwera. We’re not even allowed to know what’s going on. Unless you can find out, Vetn?”
The Gnoll [Thief] shrugged.
“I tried. They’re locked up tighter than any tribe. I could get out, but I’d have to make a scene. Something big’s going on, but I’m not interested. You, Tesy?”
“Nope. It’s not like there are any walls to paint on. I could do the grass…but grass grows. What do you think, Qwera?”
The Golden Gnoll rested her chin on her paws. She had risked a lot coming here, and so had Vetn and Tesy. Mrsha probably remembered, but the girl was in the midst of distracting herself.
“Poor child. She’s surrounded by protectors, but where were they when you found her, Vetn?”
“Hrr. That other idiot probably took her away.”
“All these Gnolls can’t stop an arrow. Well, Lehra Ruinstrider might and that [Paragon]…but we’re staying.”
Vetn watched as Tesy chewed on some durian with subdued horror. The Drake looked around brightly.
“Okay then, I’ll see you all later. Vetn, want to head to Oteslia? I hear we might be able to—”
Qwera grabbed both by the shoulders.
“You two. Are staying. Here.”
Both young men looked at Qwera and sighed. However, they had to admit—there was some energy here.
Tesy’s claw itched, and he absently began sketching the sight of Lehra, Gire, Adetr, and Feshi together. Each one a leader in battle in some way—but completely different.
Important Gnolls. Fascinating Gnolls.
Yelroan was positively shy, and he seemed nervous of Mrsha, almost sick to the stomach as she waved at him to sit and eat and told him how Beilmark had stolen his glasses. Yet he did sit, and while he was visibly reluctant, he opened up the instant Gire had asked if he’d figured out ‘sin’. Sine? That was the least of the math to be had!
On the other end, Adetr was trying to draw Emper into a discussion about [Monk] fighting styles while Emper ate the fruits, and Rose was whispering to Gire about all the good eats on Earth. Cers was staring at Suxhel and losing because the Gazer had more eyes to stare at him, and Satar was writing this all down.
Inkar and Tkrn were being disgustingly cute. Ysara sighed.
“What a mix. And here I thought my younger sister was exaggerating about the inn she visited. This is a gathering.”
“Biggest I’ve ever seen.”
Qwera muttered. Ysara raised her brows.
“You think so? It reminds me of when the Five Families gather. You’d see this around Magnolia Reinhart or another influential figure like Tyrion Veltras. Not that they’re ones to emulate. I think it’s good, Qwera. It means they like each other.”
“Like tips the scales, but gold and blood weigh more.”
Qwera quoted a famous adage from the [War Merchants] of Baleros. Ysara smiled.
“You’re too nervous here, Qwera. You got Mri to safety—and the sky hasn’t fallen! Relax! Here. Have some fruit. Do I need to feed it to you with kisses?”
She picked up a durian piece and offered it to Qwera with her lips before the Golden Gnoll flicked it away—and into the back of Feshi’s head.
 
——
 
Mrsha beamed as Feshi looked around, and Qwera instantly pointed at Tesy.
