I frowned, his passive aggressive tone annoying me. If it were the old me, I would have slapped him back to meet his ancestors, but I was a brand new bird, so I controlled my temper.

I gave the store a quick once-over with my Divine Sense, since Appraisal would give me a headache if I’d used it for every single sword in the store.

I stopped quick upon spotting something in the far corner of the shop, its luster hidden by dust and shadows. Making my way there followed by the clerk and the shopkeeper, I gave the weapon a quick appraisal.

[Blade of the Elements]

[A weapon forged by the ancients, people who are rumored to have been on the continent far before any other sentient race. Their relics have survived the test of time to the present era, and some say they hold powers beyond modern knowledge.]

Of course, there was nothing written on the plaque, not that it had any. The sword seemed to have been forgotten by anyone except time.

“What of this sword?” I asked, hoping to get a straight answer. The shopkeeper, however, shook his head.

“I haven’t seen it before, it doesn’t look like s something I would put on display. I did buy the shop from someone else a few decades ago and never bothered to clean it up.”

“I see.”

It was a shame. The sword looked no different than a normal mortal one, and time left its mark with traces of rust and chipped bits. However,, its name, description and appearance called to me.

“I’ll take it.”

“What? But-”

“I will buy this sword.”

***

I walked out of the Myriad Market with a bag of holding containing part of the Yo Na’s required ingredients and materials. Only the most common or basic ones though, and it seemed like I would need to buy information for the rest of them.

That was fine, since I got the money for it. Besides asking Jing Liu to be on the lookout for any of the Lone Cultivator pieces, I’d also withdrawn ten pieces of Top Grade Spirit Stones. That should be enough to last me a while.

Moreover, my best purchase so far had to be the sword.

Finding a remote corner, I pulled it out and inspected it. It was as basic as they got, and the rust had eaten away any inscription that could help me discern its functions. The only information I had was what the appraisal skill gave me, and it didn’t change even after I picked it up.

However, there was something behind the rust. I infused Qi into the sword, and almost immediately regretted it.

The sword began eating, no, devouring my Qi, greedily absorbing it like a thirsty man finding an oasis. Mere seconds after I began the process, half of my Qi reserves were gone! If things kept going, I would not be able to feed the greedy weapon!

Just what sort of monster created you?!

I tried to cut the connection between the sword and I, but it refused to let go.

Left with no other choice, I quickly pulled out one spirit stone and absorbed its energy. I hadn’t even began to properly refine the Qi that the sword took it.

Sweat poured down my forehead as spirit stone after spirit stone got eaten by the sword. I might as well have been feeding a famished Spirit Beast!

Thankfully, it only took six Top Grade Spirit Stones and all of my Qi reserves to calm down its hunger, but I knew that it was only a temporary thing.

I fell to the ground, catching my breath.

After a minute or so passed, I gave the sword a quick look, and was shocked to see that something had changed on its surface.

Thick within the rust, a line had appeared, and the blade itself seemed to have regained some color.

Just what did I get my hands on?

Before I could properly process that, though, I heard footsteps and cries, their words fueling me with anger.

“I think she went this way!”

“Let’s go catch her, apparently she’s loaded! We can rob her then ask for ramsom from her clan or sect.”

“Idiot, with the amount of money she apparently has she’s a small sect by herself.”

“Don’t be a fool and shut up, she may hear us.”

“Hehe, she was pretty too, we could have some fun.”

“No… What’s wrong with you?”

“Remind me to never recruit you for anything again…”

There were both woman’s and men’s voices, but their subjects ranged from infuriating to disgusting.

Standing up, I smiled to myself and looked at the sword.

Time to see what good my Qi did for you, eh?

For a second I swore I could feel excitement coming off of it, but surely it must have been my imagination.
