“The vacuum is in love with me? The vacuum? What’s wrong with you guys?”

“It’s the natural progression of your relationship,” Haoyu told him. “Say yes.”

“To what?” Lute asked. “Is it proposing?”

“Show him the pictures,” said Alden.

“There better not be pictures.”

“But Emilija liked the pictures,” Lexi said with a smirk.

******

“Bromelimas tradition number thirty-something,” said Alden, walking between Lexi and Lute on the way to the uni side of campus for Reindeer Selection. “Photos of bros being pranked are only for fellow bros. And maybe that should be a huntski lodge tradition, not just a Bromelimas thing. A rule. An unbreakable law.”

“Is it because you saw Lute’s spirit leave his body and turn to ash when Lexi said Emilija’s name?” Haoyu asked.

“It’s just a smart rule,” said Alden. It was mostly because he’d seen Lute’s spirit leave his body and turn to ash. “Keeping pictures so that we remember the important moments is good. Never showing them to anyone else is also good.”

“You didn’t really send anything to her, right?” Lute asked.

“How many times have I sworn I didn’t? I would never have said that if I knew it would freak you out that badly.”

“Lute, Emilija wouldn’t be leaving you alone if we’d sent her funny pictures. She loves teasing people,” Alden pointed out. “If Lexi had sent her something like that she’d want to practice English by making jokes and puns about it and trying them out on you. The fact that she’s not already on your social media calling you Sleeping Lutey or Vacgroom is proof that she knows nothing.”

Lute stared up, like he was pondering the sparse gray clouds above them. “So if Lexi sent her pictures of me being pranked, that would give us something to talk about?”

“Don’t go in that direction with it.”

“I want her to think I’m mature and cool. I didn’t look mature and cool in those pictures. But I could act mature and cool about the pictures…”

“You’re plotting? This sounds like a plot,” said Haoyu. “I’m not sure a plot to be mature can work.”

“Lexi,” Lute said decisively, “I give you permission to share those photos.”

A minute passed. Alden made note of a string of broken pavers that some careless student must have caused.

“Have you sent them yet?” Lute asked.

Lexi looked at him. “I can’t. Sharing photos of pranks is against huntski lodge rules.”

“You…fine! Haoyu—”

“Sorry, Lute. It’s an unbreakable law.”

“Alden!”

“I’m the one who made the unbreakable law,” said Alden.

By the time they made it to the university track, Lute was accusing the three of them of being in league with both his grandmother and the company that made their vacuum.

They ran into Kon, Everly, and Tuyet when they arrived but separated from them quickly on the pretext of needing to buy lunch from the concession stand.

“We could sit with them if you guys wanted to,” said Lute.

[Lute: More people 2 distract badger.]

[Alden: We’re distracting enough on our own. You even helped distract him before you woke up this morning.]

It was nice of him to think of Haoyu, but Tuyet, in particular, hadn’t looked like she wanted to hang out with Lute. And Kon had seemed eager to hear details about the ambassador, which Alden would rather put off.

So far, he and his roommates had succeeded in making this day fun. They were keeping everything that could make them anxious at bay without it feeling like they were on the run.

A balance like this needs to be protected. Yesterday started out great and then all of that happened.

They took their food into the stands and got ready to root for some Avowed who were pretending to be deer.

There would be a holiday-themed race at the Anthropodrome on the day after Christmas, and the team Celena North would send to represent the school would be chosen today. The three groups of finalists, whittled down through previous trials, were uni students and faculty members who had built their own sleighs and designed their own reindeer costumes. Each team also had a Santa Claus.

“I wish at least one of them would fly,” said Lute, looking down at the teams getting ready on the track. “I always liked the flying sleighs better.”

“You’ve seen this before,” said Alden. “Last year?”

“No. I’m just familiar with the race at the Anthropodrome. I’ve never come to this one. I wonder if the judges here are going to try to pick a team that could be an overall winner or target one of the other categories. Like funniest team. Best sleigh.”

Alden felt like he might have seen the Anthropodrome race himself before on television, but he must have been a little kid because he could barely remember it.

The three teams were very different from each other. One set of reindeer was wearing in-line skates and antlers that looked more like exhaust pipes. They would be pulling a sleigh that had been made out of a modified military jeep for a Santa with a giant wrench that Alden thought was actually a disguised Wright weapon. The team beside them was more traditional, with fake noses, hooves, and a sleigh decorated with icicles. And the last team seemed to be planning on carrying their sinisterly-costumed Santa and rusty sleigh over their heads.

After Alden had finished taking them all in and making guesses about how they’d be running the race, he turned and found Haoyu looking a lot like he had this morning, when he’d had the staring match with the kitchen light. This time his eyes were pointed at the head of the girl who sat in front of him. Alden doubted he was having deep thoughts about her scrunchie.

“What do you think the deal is with the mean Santa?” Alden asked, elbowing him. “Even his deer look sad. That’s going to scare people.”

“Mean Santa?” Haoyu shook himself and looked toward the teams on the track. “That is creepy with the angry eyebrows and the rusty sled. And that one deer looks like it had a nosebleed.”

The event started right on time, with the teams jogging around the track for a warm-up lap while an announcer introduced each deer and drew the crowd’s attention to special features of the sleighs. Then the race commenced.

For these three teams, running the fastest seemed to be less important than running the most interesting race. The traditional sleigh went right for holiday nostalgia, with flying reindeer and a jolly professor dressed as Santa narrating the story of their flight. Starting on their second lap, they began fighting their way through a storm of wind and water created by helpers on the ground.

The team with the jeep sleigh had a seemingly unlimited supply of special effects for themselves and minor inconveniences to send toward their opponents. Their Santa kept accusing the other two of being fakes and launching green sparks at their faces with his wrench.

And the rusty sleigh situation was dark, with the evil Santa insulting his own deer and terrorizing them into running faster and faster until one of them led the others in a rebellion. They abandoned the sleigh and chased their Santa all over the track before trampling him and dragging him back. Then it became clear that their Santa was a Brute who could carry the whole sleigh, loaded with his reindeer, over his own head in a reversal of their roles.

Alden clapped for anything exciting. He picked out a favorite deer on each team and shouted for them to do their best. He was mostly present and mostly enjoying the light of a happy event on the last day of the school year.

But he was very aware of noon ticking closer and finally arriving.

He stared at the time while he pretended his attention was still on the track. He imagined he could see Lexi and Lute tensing out of the corner of his eyes. Haoyu had gotten very quiet a few minutes ago.

Mrs. Zhang-Demir was only supposed to call around noon. Not at noon on the dot.

12:01 felt ominous.

12:02 made him swallow hard.

At 12:03, the teams were all on their last lap—the lap they seemed to be taking more seriously and running like an actual race—and Alden couldn’t stand it any longer. He had to glance over to see Haoyu.

One layer away.

Alden caught the moment when the call came. Every tiny muscle in Haoyu’s face shifted. He reached for something on his interface.

The crowd screamed. Alden wasn’t sure who’d just won the race.

<<Hello, mom,>> Haoyu said. “I’m watching reindeer races with my roommates….It is really fun. You’re on Artona I now? Nothing else dangerous at all? Good….Good. Thank you for calling me first….Of course you should talk to him. I’ll see you in the morning like we planned, then? Okay…..I love you, too.”

Alden watched the way Haoyu’s hand shook when he closed the call.

Haoyu looked around at the cheering crowd then down toward the track. “Is it over?” he asked, swallowing. “I didn’t really see what happened.”

******
