If there had been a danger, Erick would have gotten her out of there, but as his other Ophiel confirmed, this was just a simple rise of creatures that naturally lived here, that Ophiel’s and Ava’s passing had disturbed. They weren’t even headed in Ava’s direction.

Ava gasped as she gazed upon the shifting horizon, and the creatures rising from below.

In the short distance, two dozen dunes slipped down, as fins lifted up, spilling orange sands across the horizon, billowing clouds of dust into the sky. As grit fell away, gold and glittering scales appeared from a pod of creatures that seemed to have no interest in anything, except escaping the ground, and lifting to the sky as an orchestrated group. They were larger cousins to the goldfish that had once drawn a wyrm toward Erick, Teressa, Poi, and Rats, and they were beautiful in a sharp sort of way. Each the size of a large house, and shaped roughly like tuna, these skyfish had lost the billowing fins and tails of their smaller cousins, but as the sand fully fell away, Erick witnessed those smaller cousins in the shadows of the behemoths, following along, keeping up with the larger skyfish.

Erick smiled to see the procession before him. He found himself wishing he was there, in person…

But he could not be there. He would not put himself in that sort of reckless danger.

But Ava looked happy to be there. She stared at the flying fish, watching as the larger ones flew east, like gentle giants, and the smaller ones trailed behind; toddlers trying to catch up to their parents.

As the skyfish filled the air with glittering gold, they crooned, one after another, a gentle sound that reverberated through Ophiel, that Erick heard in his heart, even though the experience was one step removed. As the school of skyfish ended their first song, the Ophiels above the one beside Ava joined in, crooning deep vibrations upon the world, echoing what they had heard, and yet changing it with the added sounds of violins.

The skyfish didn’t seem to care for Ophiel’s attempt at their song, but it made Erick smile to see Ophiel try to catch their attention.

As the skyfish flew on, and Ava watched them go, she suddenly perked up, going from awe to active in a moment, calling out, “They dropped scales!” She rushed forward, saying, “I want some!”

Erick smiled as he made Ophiel follow Ava, across the orange sands, under the endless blue sky.

Over the next two hours, Ava managed to get to level 30, as well as procure seven good gold scales out of the thousands of broken and discarded remnants that had been left in the skyfishs’ sand pit. Each of those scales were as large as dinner plates, and as bright as polished gold. Erick had no idea what Ava would use them for, but her eyes lit up as she gazed upon their luster; she had plans for them, for sure.
