Ava, for her part, was having a grand stroll. Up the dunes and down the dunes, nary a toe sinking into the sand. Her being barefoot was only part of the conundrum of the hour. Most people wore shoes when they walked around, but apparently not Ava. The most confusing part was that as she walked, the very ground seemed to move with her, if only a fraction. For every step she took, she moved more than that.

The two of them were a good seven hundred kilometers from Candlepoint, in another high-density mimic area, similar to the one where Erick had taken Justine. They had yet to reach the first mimic.

Erick started the conversation, “How are you moving upon the sand, without any spell at level 10?”

Ava glinted a smile at the sky. She kept walking, as she said, “Easily understood, but difficult to master. I attempted to teach every student who came across my sewer, but only five managed to learn the technique. Three surpassed me.” She hiked up her dress, showing off her legs as she exaggerated her footsteps, saying, “The narrow of it, is [Stoneshape].” She stepped forward. The sand deformed into a solid surface as she touched down. “The deep of it, is aura control.” She lifted her foot, and the stone turned to sand. “See?” She tapped the dune with her foot, turning sand to solid then back again three times, before moving on. She waved a hand, saying, “[Stoneshape] and Aurify is a cheater’s start. Real control lets you move the stone under your feet like it was an old friend, helping you in every task you do.” She pointed at the air around Ophiel, asking, “You’re already doing this, though, so why the question?”

Ophiel trilled to be complimented, as Erick spoke from the air around him, saying, “That’s Ophiel; not me.” He didn’t mention that he had never really played around with Ophiel’s own [Airshape] capabilities, but he had already shown his deficiency of expertise, as he admitted, “I will have to try this method with [Stoneshape], though.”

“Good luck. Flying is okay, if you’ve the wings for it, but I prefer the grounding of Stone all around me.” Ava stepped to the top of her dune, and stopped. The mimic stood perfectly still on top of the next dune over; it wasn’t going anywhere. Ava said, “I also prefer harder hunts than mimics, but I have been reset to zero, so I might be overestimating myself. I’m not even a Rookie, anymore.” She paused, then asked, “They still have ‘Rookie’ designations at the Adventurer’s Guildhouses, do they not? Or?” She lowered her voice a little, asking, “They still have the Guilds, do they not?”

“They’re both still around.” Erick said, “I was under the impression that the Guilds were millennium old traditions. Hard to see that vanish when immortals are around to keep the past in the present.”

Ava stared off into the sky, into nothing. The wind played with her black hair and long dress. She said, “The Jadescales were a millennium old clan. We traced our history all the way back to the Fall of Quintlan, and from there, up, and to the past, to the Cutting Scale Empire of the Old Cosmology, in the depths of Radiant Sphere.” She lowered her gaze to Veird, saying, “In the west, the Lori Dukedom is now the Wasteland Kingdoms. The Greensoil Republic survived and thrived, even with its many, many civil wars that somehow got resolved past my first death. I never could have predicted that.” She added, “The Nelboorites are still at war with each other, so at least it’s good to know some things never change.”

After a long moment, staring at the mimic twenty meters ahead of her, she said, “It’s all been a very large change, archmage.”

He said, “I know what it is to lose everyone. I am sorry that this happened to you.”

“… Thank you.” Ava said, “I suppose you would know more than most.” She clicked her tongue, taking on a harder demeanor, as she said, “But everyone and their sister has a tragedy of loss in their history. At least some of my people managed to escape and survive. Perhaps, one day I will visit them, and hear for myself what befell our people.” She looked to Ophiel, “But your story is stranger than mine. I cannot say that I have ever interacted with a true Planar, archmage.”

“Please, call me Erick.”

Ava paused. She said, “With your leave, I shall do this.” She tested the word, “Erick.”

“My whole world isn’t gone. It’s still out there. I’ll just never see it again. But I still have my daughter. We fell here together.” Erick said, “She’s enough for me.”

Ava’s whole being softened, for a moment. Then she stood straighter, saying, “That is good. You can treasure the most important things, and discard the rest.” She looked to the mimic, as her voice took on a conspiratorial edge, “Has anyone discovered the purpose behind the mimics, or their creator, since I’ve been dead?”

Erick thought for a moment. He said, “I’ve heard conflicting stories. Half of them say that the mimics were a creation of Ar’Kendrithyst. Half say that the mimics were a misguided attempt at starving Ar’Kendrithyst of resources.” He added, “Apparently there’s an open Kill and Exterminate Quest from Atunir to kill them all, but no one has received this Quest in 800 years and Atunir isn’t forthcoming. It is possible that both stories are true. Maybe a Shade created them to harm the other Shades.”

“Drat.” Ava said, “I was always hoping for someone to solve that mystery for me.” She asked, “How is Spur, anyway?”

“It’s doing well. Rains are feeding crops and the city is bustling.”

Out of the blue, Ava asked, “Is Slip a Shade?”

“Ha!” Erick said, “I have no idea.”

“Are you going to try to kill him?”

Erick sighed, then said, “Not… No. I will not.” He said, “You were likely alive back when they were killing Shades every other week, and there were hundreds upon hundreds. But when Silverite pushed her city forward as a group to end them all, 104 years ago, they pushed back as a group. The Shades killed most of Spur, and Silverite changed who she was. Now, there’s only maybe-40 Shades. The first new Shade to appear in a long time was Bulgan, a little over ten months ago.”

“He was the one that controlled Candlepoint before, wasn’t he?”

“Yes. He also has a large grudge against my daughter, for showing him up when he was still a member of Spur’s Adventurer’s Guild.” Erick said, “He tried to kill my daughter and I, but he failed. After that happened but before we could do anything about it, he left for the Dead City. Apparently he’d been working for Tania Webwalker, the Champion of Melemizargo, for years, at that point.”

Ava, already pale, paled a bit further. Then she relaxed into the sun, saying, “That’s enough horror for now.”

“I have a hard time coming to terms with it all, as well.” Erick handed her a green hat, and sunglasses, saying, “Care for a hat and glasses?”

“Oh! Perfect.” Ava took the hat and the glasses, and put them on, saying, “It is rather bright today, and [Conjure Item] is too far down on the list of necessities, you know.” She stepped forward, saying, “And now the mana is finally full again. Let’s do this.”

Erick watched.

Ava dipped her hand down into the sand, and with fingers flared, she pulled up five stones, one at the end of each finger, each of them two centimeters across. She pointed. She fired. Like a bullet from a gun, the rock launched, breaking the sound barrier, scattering wind and flashing bright for the briefest of moments. The mimic faltered, then righted. Ava had struck center mass. She fired again. Two seconds had passed, and one crystalline spike, three meters long, broke off, as the mimic chimed into action, racing down the hill toward Ava.

She fired three more times. Her final shot blew a bleeding blue hole large enough to see through in the central stalk, near the top. The mimic had only reached the bottom of its dune, and no further. Blood flowed from the monster as it rolled to a heavy crash and died. Ava relaxed. She gave the barest notice to the air; likely dismissing a kill notification, among other boxes.

“That was impressive,” Erick said. “And no level 10 spells? No tier 2 spells?”

“Not a single one!” Ava waved a dismissive hand, saying, “Altering is useful at all levels of spellwork. You just won’t know your true capabilities until you make the tier 2 spell box.”

“… Right.” Erick knew that. “It’s been a while since I practiced with lower level spells.”

She added, “[Rock Bolt] was my very first spell. I could cast that in my sleep.”

Ophiel pointed toward the north, as Erick said, “That way to the next one.”

Ava smirked, and took off walking, strolling down the dune, her feet never sinking below the surface. She was practically walking on concrete, or maybe something slightly softer.

As they reached the dip between sandy hills, Erick asked, “What level were you before?”

“85.”

“Impressive!”

She shrugged. “I doubt I’ll get there again. But, you never know. Does wyrm season still exist?”

“Yes. Wyrm season is in five months, or thereabouts.” He said, “85 is rather high.”

“There are lots of monsters in the 90s near the Core. Melemizargo has been trying to breach that Script-blue orb since its creation.”

Script-blue? “… Really?”

Ava paused, then continued, saying, “Well… That’s what we all assumed. Fact and legend and truth are a lot more… fluid, than what most people tell each other. Fact is, the density of the mana that far down ensures that monsters grow a lot stronger than they can on the surface. Another fact is that the Geodes routinely kill as many of those high-leveled monsters as they can, trying to ‘keep others from the danger’ and to ‘protect the core’.” She balked. “As if! Here is another truth: Anyone who can reach the Core can easily kill at least one of those beasts, and thus gain massive power. Getting away is another task entirely, but that is doable, too.” She added, “I always felt that the Geodes worked to keep the power of those high level kills out of the hands of others. But the Dark Dragon is remarkably easy to talk to, these days. Maybe he is trying to breach the Core? But who would want to ask him? I certainly don’t know, and I certainly wouldn’t want to ask him.”

That was a lot to think upon.

While Ava hunted, and Erick oversaw, she asked of shopping opportunities in Spur, and other places. Erick admitted his ignorance on much of all of that; he didn’t get out of the house, much.

“Do you want me to pick you up something specific?” Erick asked. “I could look for something. I’ve already offered this to every other person of power in Candlepoint, and you will qualify for this once you become the actual sewermaster.”

Ava thought for a moment, but quickly waved him off, saying, “I’m going to gain it all, myself.” She smiled, adding, “My first step will be the sewer, of course, but that is only part of my myriad goals. As long as Candlepoint isn’t deemed blasphemy, heresy, and denounced by the world with a hundred thousand [Meteor]s, then my next step is beautifying the entire city. I’ve always wanted to work more in crystal, Erick. And now! Now, I will finally be able to do that, and more.” She exclaimed, “Can you imagine it! A city of crystal that is not full of Shades or wrought! As long as I can get everyone else to agree, of course.”

Erick could imagine Candlepoint as a city of crystal and brilliant architecture, but thinking on it a bit more…

Ar’Kendrithyst was full of shadows, because they could safely ensconce themselves deep in the red-purple crystal of the city. That was why even the strongest adventurers had trouble in there; attacks could come from literally any angle and retaliation would be impossible, for the attackers would all retreat into deep, dark crystals.

By that same merit, crystals in Candlepoint would protect the shadelings.

But it would also be like declaring to the world that they were building defenses, and digging in, either forging a forward base, or a retreat. Some people might not like that.

Erick said, “As long as you go with some friendly coloring. The point is not to be a danger to civilization. Maybe that would be enough. The shadelings do need a defensive structure, but… It might be fine.”

With excitement in her voice, Ava crested the next dune, as she asked, “What are your feelings on green?”

“Mimics go crazy for green.”

“… Right. I had forgotten that.” Ava asked, “White, then?”

Erick looked to the mimic on the next dune. Its crystalline body was not just clear, but also white and blue. Erick offered, “White and blue?”

“Ah, yes.” Ava scooped up five stone bullets from the sand at her feet, then pointed at the mimic, saying, “We have a lake to consider, as well.” Over the next five seconds, she killed the mimic with five expertly released [Rock Bolt]s. When it was dead, she said, “White and blue sounds good.”

“There’s everyone’s votes to consider, too.” Ophiel pointed toward the next dune. As Ophiel and Ava continued on, Erick said, “Whatever everyone decides is fine. Where would you get the crystal, anyway? From sand?”

Ava headed down the dune, saying, “Yes. White should be rather easy to create out of this sand.” She dipped a hand behind her, causing a minor avalanche in the dune as she strolled to the base, saying. “This stuff is mostly quartz. You simply have to know how to put it back together to make the crystal and I know how—”

The dunes rumbled below; a small tremor, but one that belied something shifting under the surface.

Ava went silent, as she stepped backward, then raced back up to the top of the dune.

