Florence frowned. Once again, his theories were dismissed. I kept them in mind as I raised my eyebrows at them, "What happens when an eldritch starts winning in a post fringe era?"

Alastair grimaced, "The world is smothered with the Alpha eldritch until not one atom of organic matter is left. They strip the world like a plague, and they leave nothing but weathered rock and salted water behind."

Alastair coughed into a hand, "Or so I've read from Fringe Walker's testimonies. It's difficult to find any accurate data on the issue for, well, obvious reasons. Either way, they're terrifying, aren't they?"

I glared out in the distance, "Yeah, in a way." I turned back to Saphigia, "Come on, let's go back. There's still more city to take back."

We laid waste to another stretch of Saphigia, exterminating the Hybrids skulking about. Unfortunately, Espen and Hybrid reinforcements arrived with the blighted to retake portions of the city we secured. They ran through the Empire's defensive lines, forcing us to take time out of our day to save them.

This meant retaking land took longer than expected, the endless streams of Hybrids wearing the imperial army down. That might be why we found different species wearing the Empire's banner and uniforms as we went from checkpoint to checkpoint. Many of these members stood upright with the same reverence for the Emperor as the albony. Others seemed coerced like mercenaries or adventurers.

This different frontline proved no less useful than the one made of pure albony. If anything, they worked better. Despite the Empire's class system, they seemed more than fine with breaking those age-old rules when the going got tough. Either way, I appreciated the extra volume of troops for securing areas we passed. It meant we didn't need to retrace our steps as often.

After carving out another stretch of territory, we reached the edge of the city once more. By now, the others were exhausted as usual, their eyelids heavy under their masks or on their open faces. We warped back towards Mt. Verner, which gave our members a safe place to rest. I stayed up, meeting with the golem creation team. Well, trying to. They remained absent for the night, taking some much needed time off.

As always, I didn't give myself that luxury.

Working with Ophelia and Chrona, I kept at the long and frustrating slog that was discovering primordial mana. They explained the concept and mindset enough times by now that I lacked any real insight from their descriptions anymore. They all bled together into an undefined mess. I needed fundamental, tangible concepts and applications to use with primordial mana. You couldn't really do anything with it till after you created the stuff. It was a catch 22 of sorts.

That's how the entirety of my progression remained. No matter what I tried, I ended up grasping for air. There just wasn't anything tangible to hold onto. This wall wasn't the first of its kind, however. I worked on learning the cipher for well over a year on my own, night after night. In that situation, I lacked the same talent trees and teachers that I did now, yet I persevered until I was victorious. I would do the same here.

In that way, I continued, on and on. I attempted holding different mindsets. Again and again, I failed. I stretched my mind until I managed two alternate states of thought for prolonged periods. I still fell short. I immersed myself in different perspectives, reading through some of Torix's old books.

I changed my approach as the hours and days passed. Asking questions became second nature, and I managed my time between my various pursuits. This grind continued for the next three days. During sunlight, I handled Saphigia's reconquering. During the night, I toiled under the light of glowing metal, reading ancient works. At the end of the second day, I ended up gaining something for all my work.

New Unique Skill Gained! Congruent Mind Strand(lvl 10) - By enveloping in the thoughts of others, you've gained insight into developing multiple perspectives. You may now hold two different strands of thought at the same time.

I leaned back from the skill description, the starlight leaking down from above. Chrona rested while Ophelia worked on a portable chair and table she brought with her now. They answered my questions when I needed them, but this particular question left me wanting to find answers on my own.

So I did. I attempted holding two different strands of thought. The first involved creating a golem and the cipher inscriptions involved, and the other was a small, unstable series of reviews about primordial mana. Just like my attempts at the mana in real life, my strand of thought was wispy and unrefined.

But it was there. I held onto it, burgeoning it to grow. As it did, my thoughts about cipher inscriptions waned. Combined, the total of the two mental flows exceeded my average capacity, but only slightly. That still worked in my favor considering my computational ability was excellent at this point, mainly from my high intelligence. Most concepts and ideas didn't require my full attention by now.

Having analyzed the new skill a bit, I brainstormed ways of using it and the first involved multi-tasking. Instead of only struggling with primordial mana, I also maintained a steady flow of mana absorption from my elemental furnace. This multiplied the growth of my cipheric runes, and I held a perpetual state of annoyance at the same time. It was a win-win situation!

Sarcasm aside, it helped morale to have myself working on something I was good at for a change. Using the furnace was second nature, so even with less than my full efforts, I could maintain steady gains from using the tool. It gave me the ability to multi-task far more effectively than before. It was actually worth doing now.

Even if it wasn't the same as primordial mana, I welcomed any useful new skill. As the night dragged on, the sheer scale and scope of the skill became apparent. It wasn't something that would save me from one of Lehesion's blasts, but it might have been even better. It saved me time and time I didn't have.

If I learned anything over the last few months, it was how it felt to be stretched thin. I worked day in and day out, yet I never managed to get ahead of my responsibilities. I neglected my personal progress to keep up with them, in fact. Now keeping track of both was possible, and that opened up a world of possibilities. Of course, this wasn't enough to get rid of the pile of tasks I had mounted over the past few months. It did help me finish them faster, though, and that was enough.

That reality bolstered my mood as I checked in with Torix's new recruits that next morning. This was their third day of training, and the lich set aside the last few days to whip them into shape. In that way, his own personal chambers serving as their training ground. Stepping into the top floor of Mt. Verner,I found four members sitting cross-legged while doing mental drills.

Isa, Lester, Alexander, and Alpha sweated or rumbled under florescent lights. It made their pale faces paler, besides for the golem, and the three people earned bags under their eyes from the last few days alone. They each looked like they hadn't slept at all.

Torix stared them down, walking back and forth in front of them with his hands interlocked behind him. He wielded his mind magic like a knife, testing their every defense and weakness, probing for any manner of crushing them.

And crush he did. The two dungeoneers showed sheens of sweat over their foreheads, each one dripping profusely. Alexander handled the mind magic better, but he still showed symptoms of wear and tear. Alpha, on the other hand, was endless, and so he lacked their same signs of struggle.

In many ways, the dungeoneers impressed me most, however. They dabbled in this forbidden art for the first time, and Torix relished in their struggle. Despite that, they were still here through thick and thin. That kind of dedication deserved recognition.

As I paced up to them, the lich turned to me. As he did, his recruits took deep gulps of air.

Relief at last.

"Ah, it's good to see you, disciple."

I gave the lich a wave, "You too Torix. How are they holding up?"

I gave them the luxury of not answering, letting Torix handle that for them. Lester and Isa took me up on the offer, each of them recuperating as much as they could. Alexander couldn't meet my eye, so he stared down instead. Alpha gazed up with curiosity drenching his every move.

Torix gestured towards Isa,

"She shows the most promise, though none of these individuals lacks in their mental fortitude. Despite my misgivings, I must admit, they've held their own through the exhaustion and torment. I'll give them each an artificially assisted rest period before tomorrow. That should allow them to recuperate. As for Alpha, he is surprisingly gentle. His mind is similar to your own, Daniel, though he lacks the same visceral intensity."

Torix weighed his hands back and forth, "Alpha is instead, a benign, giving creature. This is to his detriment when tasked with mental defenses, but I cannot condemn him too much. His natural ability far exceeds the others here by virtue of his mind's size - it is truly colossal. That alone means attacking him, and wearing him down takes time."

Torix scoffed, "More than enough time to smash an enemy into pieces, I'd wager."

I gave the golem a nod, "Good work, Alpha."

The golem beamed with pride, sitting up straight,

"Thank you, creator."

I turned towards the dungeoneers and Alexander, "How's the training going?"

They caught their breath by now, and Alexander answered first in a wispy voice,

"It's hard. Very hard."

I grinned, "Nothing a little pain tolerance couldn't help with."

Alexander scoffed, "You're right about that. I uh...I trained that skill a lot after our lesson. I've gotten that skill up to eighty-eight now. This still hurts, but it's nothing compared to what it would be without my previous training."

Torix nodded, his hands still interlocked behind him,

"Precisely. If you experience pain now, you won't experience it later. That is why my lessons are as grueling as they are."

Lester shook his head, "I don't know about that. I doubt we'd ever be torn up like this on a real mission."

Torix stared down at him, the lich's gaze sharp as daggers, "The Adair's mind magic exceeds my own. If caught, you each will have your minds torn apart by many mages at once. There will be nothing remaining of you thereafter."

Their faces darkened at the prospect and truth of his words. Torix sighed,

"Though I wouldn't worry about such a fate. Althea and Hod have been instructed on what to do should you all be captured."

Their grim looks turned outright bleak before I interjected,

"Come now, it won't come to that. Althea and Hod have a lot of experience getting through the Adair's defenses. This is a recruiting camp, so those two will keep our team safe. Speaking of teams and plans, though, have you guys got a plan ironed out yet?"

Torix steepled his fingers as he cackled,

"Oh, we have one developed indeed."
