It's like how everyone refers to ‘Heaven and Earth’ like it’s one thing, meaning everything within this world, a single, interconnected system that appears to be divided in two parts, but the distinction is no more real than arbitrary lines drawn on a map. Buddy gets it, which is how he’s able to move in reality and jump over to the Void without thinking twice to escape danger at any time, and technically, I should now be able to do the same, but seeing how even Zhen Shi and the Eternal Emperor haven’t shown signs of such mastery of space, I reckon it’s a concept far beyond my meagre understanding.

What I do know of this One with the World is that I have now become intrinsically linked to the world around me. Not just the physical world, but the metaphysical world too, as they overlap and come together all throughout reality and the Void at the same time. I am still me, and the world is still the world, and the Void still the Void, yet I understand the part I play in all this a little better. Not enough to even begin to define my purpose or place, but enough to know that I have one, and it is wherever I will make it. If the world were a human body, then I would be one of a bajillion cells, one which has not yet specialized to become a part of an organ, a specific tissue, or any other specific purpose, but that doesn’t mean I don’t have one. I am here to find and fulfil my purpose, and whatever I choose to do will become that purpose, for I am a part of this world and I always have been.

It’s not the purpose I yearned for whilst grieving my lost brother, nor the purpose I questioned while suffering in the mines, but it is still a purpose all the same, one I am free to define. Not right now, and perhaps not ever, if I should so choose not to, but the choice is still mine all the same.

In discovering this Oneness, I harmonize my everything to the rhythm of the world, not just the tempo of my breathing or the cadence of my thoughts, but with every fibre of my being as I meld seamlessly into the flow of the world in a myriad of inexplicable and ineffable ways. Before, I was a ship being cast about on stormy seas, but now I have melded with the currents and can navigate them as I please, able to become One with the World and separate from it as needed. In response to this change, I am more in tune with the Energy of the Heavens surging through me, which is now Cleansing my Refined body, mind, and soul and improving it in every way, widening the channels of my Spiritual System and strengthening the muscles of my body along a myriad of other things, all in preparation of the power I will one day wield.

An effect that is only possible because I have become One with the Heavens and One with the World, for reasons I cannot quite understand, yet make perfect sense to me, like two pieces that fit so perfectly together the appear as if they were made to connect.

As mentioned before, this is the second milestone along my path, one of gathering and amassing not the Energy of the Heavens, or even of emotion to wield it, but of something else, a higher form of energy which I can just barely perceive as it courses through me and enacts changes beyond my scope of comprehension. Though still One with the Heavens and One with the World, I sense a qualitative change in the Energy of the Heavens as it cycles through my Cleansed Spiritual System, through all the minor and major passages I carved out when Shattering the Void. There is a growth associated with this flow, an accumulation and sense of amassing power with each complete revolution, revolutions somehow linked to my state of mind, my state of Balance, and the physical act of breathing which I’ve synced with the rhythm of the world itself. The vast majority of Heavenly Energy passes through me like water through a sieve, yet something of itself is left behind, a miniscule, almost negligible fraction of a fraction which contains unfathomable power hidden within, power which has always been there, yet I have only now become aware of.

Power which might well escape if I do not take measures to contain it, and just like that, the next step comes to mind and I set out to take it in stride.

One with the Heavens and One with the World saw me become part of something greater than myself, but I aspire to be more than a mere cog in the system. That’s how the Heavens sees us mortals and beasts, as beings who play a vital role yet individually are wholly replaceable parts in the all-encompassing machine that is reality and the Void both. For most living creatures, they are born, they live, they die, and little to nothing changes, which is exactly as intended, but humans are unique in that they possess the potential to achieve so much more. For better or for worse, to such extremes that we could very well become world breakers or world creators, wielding the twin energies of Creation and Destruction alongside whatever else lies within reach, but such extremes are too far away for me to consider just yet. Instead, I need to learn how to hold onto this power bestowed upon me, the meagre fractions of unfathomable potential currently drifting aimlessly on the currents of my Spiritual System. Invisible, intangible, and almost indecipherable from the Energy of the Heavens themselves, I nonetheless can differentiate the two and set my Will to gather all this power in one place. Where will I keep it? In my Core of course, a golden orb of Domain condensed from my body, mind, and soul, but not one meant to contain the Energy of the Heavens. No, my golden Core remains permeable to the Heavens and the world around me so as not to affect the flow, yet its borders are impermeable to the nameless power I can only barely perceive. This is only possible because I have achieved One with the Self, to contain without containing in order to keep what is needed and let go of the rest. Within my Core lies a realm within a realm and a plane within a plane, seamlessly divided and connected again to create a Core that is not a Core, a distinct Domain in which my Authority reigns supreme, and my Authority alone, without ever disconnecting from reality and the Void itself.

How does it work? Fuck if I know, but in my Domain, I make the rules, meaning that if I should one day amass power enough, my Core might well transform into a world unto itself, one bound not by the laws of physics, thermodynamics, or any other physical or spiritual laws, but rather by laws set down by my Will.

Not something I can accomplish any time soon, or perhaps even ever, but still a possibility to keep in mind, for I see now that what lies at the end of my Path goes beyond True Divinity, with the potential to become a god myself. Which leads me to wonder if I was wrong. Maybe the Emperor didn’t come up with the Mother and Father. Maybe they did truly exist, though I doubt they care much about the world they left behind. Even if there are deities out there who came from this world, they are not the all-knowing, all-powerful gods I would imagine. They’d just be normal, everyday people who surpassed the limits of mortality to become something more, beings so powerful I can only imagine the limits of their strengths.

Or maybe this universe is merely a world within the Core of a being so powerful I cannot even begin to comprehend its existence, and to Ascend beyond the limits of this world is the process of being born into the next, the world of the existence I cannot comprehend. Who knows.

This is the third milestone along my Path, and for creatures like Buddy, Pong Pong, and Ping Ping, the last milestone in theirs, for though they are capable of taking this step, they lack the ambition to pursue the next. This isn’t a knock at animals, merely an indisputable fact, because why else would so many animals choose to remake themselves in the image of humans if not for this limitation? No, this isn’t right, because all Paths lead to the Dao, so who am I to say there is no Path forward for Divine Beasts? I merely cannot see what it might be, nor am I able to sense the next milestone for me as the surging Energy of the Heavens slows to a trickle and signals the beginning of the end. This is as far as I can go for now, but there is most certainly still a long way to go from here, just as soon as I figure out the right path to take. Even as I resign myself to accepting the facts as they are however, a fire erupts within me and sets the Energy of the Heavens to churning once more, a fire of indomitable Will born of need and desperation for I will need more power still if I am to defeat the Eternal Emperor.

I can no longer afford to simply accept things as they come, for I am fighting not just for my life, but for the lives of everyone near and dear to my heart. For this reason, I draw upon what I learned from Akanai’s Ascension and continue to Refine my physique even further, pushing myself to the very limits of potential rather than accepting those imposed upon me by the Heavens above. There are people down in Shi Bei counting on me to lead them to victory, and I refuse to disappoint them with failure, but I cannot succeed without giving it my all. Even this continued Refinement is not enough, because if I should stop here and now and accept my progress as is, I will lose all the momentum I have already built up, and all that awaits me is inevitable defeat, so it’s high time I looked my fears in the eyes and pushed on through them regardless of my doubts and apprehensions. I am in control here, not my fear, so I will continue forward no matter the cost, because I cannot afford to do otherwise.

Except… how can I seize the power I need if I do not understand how to claim it? Even the limited omniscience of the Heavens is unable to provide me with the answer I seek, save to hint at the fact that it lies in this nameless, transcendent energy which supersedes even the Energy of the Heavens, yet is nothing like anything I understand. It’s not Life Force or Death Force, nothing like Sword Force or any other Weapon Force, lacking even any similarity to the eight basic Chi Skills which I now know represent the fundamental forces of the universe. This is something else entirely, something more, something unnatural and all-powerful, an indescribable, divine energy which I am not qualified to even guess what it might be, except that I know it is not something a mere mortal can wield.

So… Immortal Energy? Though the Abbot would disagree with me and say I am needlessly making the simple complex, I would argue that names have power. Not in the sense of summoning or controlling something with its name, but by bestowing a name upon this nameless energy makes it easier for me to conceptualize and analyze with my feeble mortal brain. It’s the same reason why I feel the need to differentiate between Chi and Heavenly Energy, Water Chi and Chi Tea, and Sword Force versus Spear, Sabre, or any other Weapon Force, because the name helps me keep it all apart.

What’s in a name? Well, a distinctive and hopefully unique qualifier that makes it easier to talk about than simply describing the concept in its entirety each and every time, so Immortal Energy it is.

The Immortal Energy I possess isn’t enough to even fill a thimble, or at least that’s what it feels like to my admittedly untrained Spiritual Senses, yet I trust my gut feelings which tell me there’s something familiar about this Immortal Energy, something I’ve come into contact with before. There’s a short list of possibilities for where I might have encountered something like this, a list that starts and ends with Blobby. Once that connection is made, it’s a simple effort to ask Buddy if he has any advice to share, though it takes some effort to figure out how. As my dog digs his paws in the sand out of utter frustration since the old wolf is no longer willing to lead the charge against the delicious and dangerous Demon snacks just idling nearby, I send him the tiniest bit of Immortal Energy I have to see how he’ll react. Unsurprisingly, my dog’s first response is to ask if I have anything for him to eat, and his second to inquire if I could go get him something to eat, since the food is right there just waiting to be eaten. Not exactly useful, but also not entirely unexpected as I endeavour to struggle and surrender to Balance to keep the torrential waves of Heavenly Energy surging through me.

