Failure. Wastrel. Disappointment.

Lies and slander the lot of it, for this Sovereign knew well his own worth and the validity of his Dao, so there was nothing his Natal Soul could do or say to change this. If there was a flaw to be found in this Sovereign’s Path, it would be found in his faulty implementation, for his methods and goals had always been in accordance with his Will. Now he accepted the errors of his past and understood the steps he should have taken instead, but while he acknowledged that he could have done better, could have made better choices, could have been more effective and efficient, this was not enough to deem him a failure, merely someone whose success was less than optimal. Thus there was no sense in abandoning the Path he’d set out to conquer so long ago, for the issue was not with his goal, but rather the means he used to achieve them. A logical and rational argument made which blunted the fangs of his Natal Soul’s verbal assault, leaving it without any ability to shake this Sovereign’s foundation and overwhelm him with emotion, for there was no longer any substance or significance to its claims. All the Natal Soul could do was parrot Falling Rain’s arguments and distract this Sovereign with a deluge of intrusive thoughts and observations, but the subtle manipulation combined with impeccable timing made for a most vexing tribulation in combination with the information he’d gleaned from studying the Predator’s inconceivably powerful Dao.

A far more dangerous tribulation laid out before him, for this was a Dao so simplistic and effective that this Sovereign was no longer so certain of the legitimacy of his own.

Though unable to replicate the Predator’s Dao, seeing it was enough to show this Sovereign a multitude of areas wherein his Dao was sorely lacking. For too long, he’d sat idle waiting for the Heavens to guide him along his Path, to bring him to the answers he sought in the perspectives of others. A mistake, for this passive investigation was based on secrets others had stumbled across, when instead he should have set out in pursuit of the truth so that he could experience those secrets for himself. There was still time to correct the error of his ways, which were understandable considering his love of his Empire. If not for the fact that he’d been too busy protecting the last bastion of humanity to allow himself the freedom to cultivate without care, he would have discovered the error of his ways soon enough and corrected himself without need for an outsider’s perspective, even if that perspective was from his own Natal Soul. Once his flaws were mended however, he expected to reap fortune from disaster and benefit from Liang Wu Di’s well-orchestrated insurrection, one which had set this Sovereign and the Empire both back on the correct course.

For countless millennia, this Sovereign had played guardian and shepherd to his flock, protecting them from the dangers around them and the dangers they posed to themselves, but for what? Nothing but scorn and resentment. The people of the Empire did not appreciate his efforts, nor did they care for everything that he’d sacrificed in their name. One could at least lean upon a shepherd’s crook to rest and recover, but the mantle of leadership weighed heavy on his shoulders, a burden he bore without complaint for millennia untold, yet never once did his people thank him for it. Instead, they coveted his power because they thought they could do better, for they were courageous in their ignorance and knew not how high the Heavens truly were. Though Liang Wu Di might well be celebrating his unprecedented achievement at this very moment, this Sovereign knew full well that the Empire was coursing headlong towards disaster.

In truth, this Sovereign needed only be patient and the throne would return to him in time. Though the Five Families had united against this Sovereign in order to depose him from his throne, this unity would not last now that he’d peacefully stepped down. If one Emperor could be deposed, then why not another? This was the thought plaguing the minds of every prospective heir and Family Head, so it would remain to be seen if Liang Wu Di survived to ascend to the throne he'd worked so hard to claim. Like a stone cast into a still pond, the aftereffects of today’s events would be far-reaching indeed. It would not be long before the foolish ambitions of the Supreme Families came to a head, each one seeking to dominate the others in a war fought in the shadows. From there, their conflicts would inevitably spill out into the light, where they would soon divide the Empire itself in a bitter war for the throne. The once pristine fields of the Eastern Province would be ravaged by war once more, bringing blood and death to the rolling hills and flowing rivers of this Sovereign’s home state of Qin and beyond, lands which had sat peaceful for so long. They knew not the price this Sovereign paid for such peace, knew not the loss and devastation the coming war would bring or the sacrifices such an all-encompassing conflict would demand. It was impossible to claim that they were all entirely ignorant of which way the winds blew, and the Five Families were no doubt already preparing for the coming internal conflict, but numbers on parchment meant nothing compared to the countless lifetimes of experience under this Sovereign’s belt.

No doubt Liang Wu Di thought himself clever and had contingencies in place to see that he would become the next Emperor and reach the Heavens in a single bound, but it mattered not. Whatever schemes he played or tiles he’d hidden away, it was all but guaranteed that he would underestimate his rivals. The Five Supreme Families had prospered since the founding of the Empire, and each had their own hidden secrets just waiting to be unveiled. Countless generations of wealth and nepotism allowed the Liangs to win over the outer provinces, but coin was a weapon far too ineffective and unwieldy to reliably secure the throne for long, for greed would bring about their downfall before long. As for the Yangs, their progress in Runic talismans was far more reliable, having led to the development of cheap and easily produced paper scripts which could be torn apart to unleash a myriad of different and potentially devastating effects. Not quite as devastating as Falling Rain’s Runic Cannons, which the Yang Runic Craftsmen were no doubt scurrying to replicate even now, but the paper talismans had their own strengths which made them useful in other ways. Then there was the Xing Family’s hidden death soldiers, fanatical Warriors raised in secret using forbidden training methods developed by their founding Ancestor, the Martial God Xing Wushen, methods which drew upon one’s Prana to boost one’s strength at a significant cost of lifespan and potential. In manpower alone, the Xing Family was the equal to all four other families combined, yet only a quarter of their strength was visible from the surface, with another quarter subtly hinted at in order to keep others from looking too closely. The Tian Family assassins were another open secret, but little did the other Supreme Families know about the spies embedded within their midst, families of agents and informants who could trace their lineage back a hundred generations within the various Supreme Families themselves. Should any of the Supreme Families even consider turning against them, the Tian’s would know the moment the matter was even brought up in discussion, and in war, information was a potent weapon greater than any sword or spear, to say nothing of all the potential hidden daggers nestled within the strongholds and safeguards of the other Families.

Then there was the Di Family, who appeared like the weakest of the Five Families but wielded political power unmatched. In truth, it didn’t matter what weapons the Di Family kept hidden away, for their coveted ability to cultivate Spiritual Plants and Spiritual Beasts made them indispensable allies to every other Supreme Family, yet the same could not be said in reverse. Should the Di Family ever intend to make a bid for supremacy, they would find allies aplenty outside the Five Supreme Families by simply offering to share their bounty, or possibly even their secrets should circumstances become dire enough to warrant it, and even dragons would eventually fall to fang and fury when faced with wolves in numbers enough.

Yes, this decade leading up to the succession of the throne would be a tumultuous one indeed, culminating in the eruption of a civil war that would sweep across the length and breadth of the Empire and leave peace but a forgotten memory. Falling Rain claimed this Sovereign had lost sight of his Path, that he believed the Empire prosperous only because he himself had never experienced true prosperity, but the transmigrator had similarly never known the true horrors of war. The depictions within his memories lacked the raw authenticity of a first-hand experience, for in those scenes, war was glorious, honourable, and necessary, but humans were creatures of conflict and competition even when there was plenty for all to share. This war against the Defiled was the bloodiest in living memory, yet it paled in comparison to even a minor border conflict between two unremarkable kings in the days of this Sovereign’s youth. There’d been few Martial Warriors then, so armies were largely comprised of callow youths of meagre strength carrying spears they barely knew how to wield, going up against other youths who would much rather be home with their families.

Which made for a bloody, chaotic conflict wherein the victors were largely determined by luck and happenstance rather than skill and tactics, or at least it was so until this Sovereign took to the field and changed the landscape of war.

Falling Rain was outraged by the death and suffering of this Sovereign’s Empire, but little did the optimistic fool know how blessed he was to have been born in this era as opposed to the Warring States. How many conflicts had this Sovereign’s continued presence prevented since he united the provinces? How many lives were saved because fathers, brothers, and sons were free to stay home with their families instead of being conscripted to wars fought by bloodthirsty kings? This was the rationale for his existence as the Eternal Emperor, for others lacked the strength necessary to keep all sides in check, a fact Falling Rain overlooked in his desire to reshape this world into a mirror of the one he’d transmigrated from. Might makes right, so this Sovereign would use his strength to show the world and Falling Rain both that his Path was correct, one which would lead him past the pinnacle of the Dao to ascend to a higher plane of existence.

There was one fact this Sovereign could not deny however, one truth he had no choice but to accept, that he had long since stalled in his Path. Following the successful unification of the provinces and the eradication of the outlanders, he’d grown complacent and was all too happy to maintain the current state of affairs while resting on his laurels and waiting for Insight and Enlightenment to present themselves to him. This would change soon enough, for he knew the error of his ways and had taken steps to correct them, no longer valuing the complete perspective of others as highly as he once had. Though he still intended to uncover all of Falling Rain’s secrets and study them in depth, as well as the secrets of so very many other prospective talents, like the Medical Saint, this generation’s True Divine Musician, the Abbot Akupara, and of course, Falling Rain’s dog, the Predator, this Sovereign was doubtful they would provide him with the answers he sought.

No, the knowledge he needed was most likely to be found in the memories of this Sovereign’s Natal Soul, of this, there could be no doubt. There was much to be gleaned from studying Zhen Shi’s progress and the trials and tribulations he overcame along his Path, for his attainments had been accrued over long millennia of incremental progress with decisions made in accordance with this Sovereign’s own perspective. Though their experiences differed greatly ever since their separation, this Sovereign’s Natal Soul offered him a glimpse at how his Path would have developed had he failed to unite the provinces under his rule. Because of this, he somewhat sympathized with his Natal Soul, for it was indeed true that they had once been one and the same, but their reunion did not necessarily mean the death of the entity known as Zhen Shi. This was not an end, but a new beginning, one they would embark on together as the complete person they always should have been. Not as Soul and Natal Soul, but as the Eternal Emperor who bears the title of Divine True Corpse. All these long millennia of suppression and safekeeping had amounted to naught, so it was high time this Sovereign tried a different tack, one brought to him by his Natal Soul who’d stumbled across potential unlimited and power untapped. This Sovereign had given this Empire countless lifetimes of service, kept his people safe and sound beneath his guiding hand, but he’d gained nothing from all his effort save for the contempt of his ‘most loyal’ subjects. Thus, he would seek to recoup his losses in another way, and take back all the years of peace and prosperity he’d bestowed upon them, for he would be their shepherd no longer and return to his roots as a dragon among men, one who would use his rebellious subjects to fuel his ascent into the Heavens.

