Yes, yes, he could see the Path unfolding before him, each step laid out in crystalline clarity as he organized his pieces and arranged them on the figurative chessboard of the world in preparation of taking on the Five Supreme Families, the Imperial Clan, and the outer provinces all at once. Though he’d sworn an Oath to no longer meddle in the affairs of the Supreme Families, this was contingent on the premise that they paid no mind to him and his, yet he was the Eternal Emperor, Heaven’s Chosen Son, meaning everything under the Heavens was his birthright. The moment Liang Wu Di or another rival claimant publicly ascended to the throne, they will have impugned upon that which rightfully belonged to this Sovereign, and in doing so free him from the shackles of his Oath exactly as planned.

Yes, these ten years would be most fruitful indeed, and his patience would be well rewarded. First, he needed to secure Falling Rain, then come back to collect the others who’d caught his eyes, before closing himself off to contemplate his findings and solidify his foundations for what would come next. Then, while the Supreme Family exposed their strengths and expended it upon themselves, this Sovereign would quietly make plans to harvest the lives of his citizens to seek Insight in their torment and suffering, slowly gathering his strength and putting his pawns in place before enacting a massacre unlike anything this Empire had ever seen. Oh how sweet it would be, the entirety of the outer provinces consigned to death and suffering in an orgy of debauched depravity, a ritual of slaughter and sacrifice which would throw back the veil covering the secrets of Heaven for his full review.

This Sovereign would use the blood of billions to cleanse himself of the red dust of this mortal world before Ascending to the next, a world of Immortals within a higher realm of existence which he would then conquer in turn.

The details still needed to be pieced together, but ten years was time enough with the foundation laid by this Sovereign’s Natal Soul. Even as the plan came together in mind however, an obstacle cropped up in his Path as Falling Rain harmonized his breathing with the rhythm of the world and moved forward on his Path towards Nascent Immortality. The Energy of the Heavens surged and swelled like a drunk sailor in the midst of a barroom brawl, leaving this Sovereign no choice but to release his grip upon Falling Rain’s throat. In merging his body, mind, and soul with the Heavens to Ascend to Divinity or Nascent Immortality, the very space around Falling Rain became inviolable to all, a Law even this Sovereign could not breach, leaving him naught to do but stew in his rage while watching his foe Ascend.

No matter though, for even if the transmigrator could mend the flaws of his fractured Path and become a Nascent Immortal in truth, he would still be ten-thousand years too early to defeat this Sovereign, but he had not lived so long by taking risks. Proclaiming his intention to resume hostilities and freeing himself from his Oath of accord, this Sovereign set his Will to Concealing the incident from the feeble mortals below, though no amount of effort could hide this from the Divinities gathered in and around Shi Bei, nor did he try to. The battle between Divinities in Shi Bei came to a standstill, for even the Ascended Transcendents could sense the secrets of the Dao hiding within the chaotic turmoil of Heavenly Energy centred around Falling Rain, a fortuitous encounter for all involved.

Including this Sovereign, but there were more pressing matters to attend to. While the soldiers battled against the Ascended Transcendents for the useless prize of Shi Bei and the gathered Divinities watched the Ascension with bated breath, this Sovereign committed it all to memory while carrying out a multitude of tasks necessary to seize victory from the jaws of disaster. First, he seized control of the Transcendent Divinities with a focused effort of Will, then made contact with the allies gathered by his Natal Soul, organizing them all to ready a barrage of attacks meant to claim Falling Rain’s life the moment his Ascension completed. A precautionary measure, since there was a good chance the transmigrator would fail and die in the process, for his attainments in this life were far too shallow to offer any real hope of success. Since that was the case, this Sovereign no longer cared to capture his foe alive, because much as it would pain him to lose so complete a specimen, Falling Rain’s soul would provide perspective enough to make up for this Sovereign’s losses.

Balance settled upon his shoulders like a cloak draped over his very being, his calm returned to him now that his Natal Soul had been placated and his Path forward made clear, so he allowed himself a small smile of satisfaction in celebration. The plan was coming together and his pieces all falling into place, so this Sovereign readied to act in the moment of Falling Rain’s success or failure, and then move forward from there.

For he was the Eternal Emperor, the Chosen Son of Heaven, a man who would Ascend to True Divinity or destroy the world in his attempt.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As the secrets of the Heavens unveil themselves before me and I proceed along my Path, it takes an effort of Will not to hide my face in my palms and utter a groan of unmitigated regret.

All this time, I’ve been so close, and yet so far from the truth, the answers all laid out for me to take in hand, except I was never able to put it all together in a way I could understand. Balance is a part of it, but not just the internal Balance of a single individual, for though we each must forge our own Path, we are never truly alone. The Heavens have always been here to guide us, but not in the way I expected, wherein an omnipotent being is sitting on high and doling out hints for us meagre mortals to pursue. No, the information we’ve all needed has been here all along, sitting there right in front of our eyes, only in a form we’ve been unable to make sense of. The secrets of Heaven have been baked into our very existence, waiting for someone, anyone to slowly unravel, and the answers are all made clear as I Refine my body, mind, and soul to completion without having to direct a single action or understand what’s happening.

But this knowing without knowing comes not from the Heavens above, nor is it the Mother’s voice whispering to me from on high or the Father’s minions empowering me to better serve His needs. No, the information all comes from within, from my body, mind, and soul itself, in a form I even recognize and am familiar with. The memories of my previous life tell me that humanity had already stumbled across these secrets and given them a name, the blueprints of life itself. Deoxyribonucleic Acid, or more simply, DNA, but what the people of my past life have yet to discover is that there are counterparts to the mind and soul as well. It's that simple. All the information we could ever need, hidden within every cell and constituent part of our body, minds, and souls. Even in my past life, humanity was a long way away from unlocking all the secrets hidden within our genetic code, and I myself am nowhere close to smart enough to figure it out on my own, but I don’t have to. I have the limited omniscience of the Heavens on my side, which enables me to make use of this information hidden in plain sight to Refine my body, mind, and soul to the pinnacle of human potential. It’s like a cipher to the code which doesn’t really tell me anything in a language I understand, and it is both beautiful and frustrating at the same time.

There are no long, drawn out explanations regarding what I must do, no measurements or ratios to adhere to, no numbers provided to give me perspective on how much I’ve improved, or how the physical and spiritual are able to merge into something that is of both worlds and neither. Instead, there is only a sense of right and wrong as I muddle through this Refinement in a wholly natural and instinctive manner, with my Will providing the impetus, my DNA providing the blueprints, and the Energy of the Heavens doing all the heavy lifting, in a manner similar to how Panacea Heals without any real direction.

No, not Panacea, but stem cells, meaning Heavenly Energy might well be the ‘stem cells’ of the universe. Not electrons, neutrons, protons, or whatever, for those form the building blocks of reality, but the Energy of the Heavens are the building blocks of all creation, which includes the physical and metaphysical both. Hence why I’m able to Refine my Mind and Body as well, but I know even less regarding those subjects and can only watch without any understanding whatsoever. This is how Ping Ping Ascended, how Buddy created his body from scratch, and now I follow in their footsteps to Ascend to Divinity and perhaps become the first Ancestral Human in existence, without really knowing what in the fuck is going on. My connection to the Heavens can’t tell me if there have been others before me, because the Heavens don’t understand what being an Ancestral Human means, which is why I called this limited omniscience ‘limited’ to begin with. It has all the information regarding everything that has ever happened, and could accomplish almost anything with the right impetus, but there is a failure to communicate between myself and the Heavens, a fundamental difference in understanding. I, being a lowly mortal, require structured words and explanations in order to know what is happening, but the Heavens only require incentive. This is a natural force, one I have harnessed with my Will without truly understanding it, the same way you can use fire to cook without really knowing the science of what’s happening.

That being said, as my Refinement progresses, I find myself uncovering the buried memories of the first time I experienced this returning to me in full, and I curse myself for not figuring it all out sooner. I’m not talking about my depressive breakdown in JiangHu, because even though I wielded power unmatched, that was merely a fraction of the power I hold now. The difference lies in the approach, for in JiangHu, I divested myself of emotions and fed them to the Heavens, like a fisherman putting bait on a hook and dragging his line through the waters. Here today in Shi Bei, I have given the Heavens nothing and merely opened myself to them as I struggle against and surrender to emotion in whole, completing the first milestone along my new Path which I started in Meng Sha. This is what it means to Shatter the Void, wherein I lower the barriers between my body, mind, and soul to Refine them all and become One in every sense of the word, merging the physical and metaphysical to create a Spiritual System and open up my Spiritual Senses. One with the Heavens, a big first step to take, wherein you start off as a mortal residing in the physical realm possessing a soul populating the spiritual, linked by a mind that is part and parcel of them both. By Refining these three distinct segments of self into one however, you then become something more than mortal, a denizen of the physical and spiritual realms both, with the foundation necessary to progress along the Path to True Divinity.

And now, with this first step finally complete, I continue to open myself up to the Heavens in a bid to become One with the World, discarding my individual oneness to become a greater part of a whole.

This is the second milestone along my new Path, but even knowing everything I know in this very moment, with the limited omniscience of the Heavens to help guide my comprehension, I still find it difficult to describe the process in a way my mortal mind could fully comprehend. There are just so many ideas and concepts unfolding behind the scenes to make this happen, ideas and concepts which I don’t even have words to define. I understand how my body, mind and soul united as one, became more than the physical or spiritual vessels they previously were, but what is the word to define the process of a metaphysical spirit sublimating to take on physical characteristics? What about the reverse, wherein my physical body takes on spiritual characteristics? This blending of the physical and metaphysical, the material and immaterial, reality and the Void, it all took place once before when I Shattered the Void to Refine my body, mind, and spirit, and now it’s happening again only on a much grander scale as I tap into the cosmos in a way I never knew was possible.

Because before, I was me, Falling Rain, and everything that entailed, but now I am also a fraction of a whole.

Not in the sense of a whole person, or even an entity, but a rather a part of the world. Yes, I was a part of the world before, but this world exists in more than just the physical. Reality and the Void are connected together in more than just a passing sense, but rather they are interwoven together so tightly that they might as well be one and the same. It shouldn’t surprise me, seeing how Zhen Shi was able to dispatch Gen’s Soul to contact me from so far away, and in turn guide my soul over into his Natal Palace after a little bit of trickery and deception, and yet I find it difficult to wrap my mind around the concept. It was easy enough to envision reality and the Void as two separate planes of existence, perhaps even with one layered atop the other like strata in a cake, but now I see that this is not the case, because they are no more separate than my body, mind, and soul, wherein reality and the Void are two separate realms, yet melded together in a way I cannot entirely define.

