It appears that Buddy doesn’t really care for Immortal Energy, meaning the same goes for Blobby inside him, or merged with him or whatever. Still not entirely clear on that, and the Heavens have no answers for me, but I have more pressing questions to unravel, namely how in the fuck am I supposed to use Immortal Energy and how do I get more of it quickly? As far as I can tell, the next milestone most definitely has something to do with Immortal Energy, a milestone I hope to achieve here and now, but alas, I am at a complete loss on what to do next. Why doesn’t Blobby care for Immortal Energy? I’m pretty sure there was some scattered within the usable Heavenly Energy he left for me to use, yet why would he discard so valuable a resource? Or am I looking at things from the wrong perspective? Maybe Blobby wasn’t discarding it per se, but rather the Immortal Energy was simply a by-product of the process he used to turn Spectres and Demons into Heavenly Energy, and he shows no interest because he himself is an entity of Immortal Energy and has as much as he could ever need? Yea, that makes more sense, because Blobby’s usable Heavenly Energy was no different from ambient Heavenly Energy, but it was separated from the cumulative ‘mass’ of Heavenly Energy for reasons unknown, so maybe this Immortal Energy is the reason for it, like adding a powder to dirty water to make all the dirt and particulate sink, which is something that happens which I can’t really explain. This means that Immortal Energy should theoretically enable me to wield Heavenly Energy with a higher degree of precision and control than what mere Will can afford me. Course, there’s only one way to prove that theory right or wrong, so I might as well get to it then. I mean, what’s the worst that could happen?

…I am defeated and my soul kept prisoner in a torturous dream world alongside the souls of everyone I love and care about. So yea… don’t fuck this up?

Unwilling to just let go of the surging waves of Heavenly Energy, I set my sights on the battle still unfolding below and sever a whole host of Natal Souls without a second thought before dispatching them to lend aid to the battle below. Unlike before however, I feel no significant drain on my Life Energy and suffer no ill-effect from the severing, though I’m unsure if this is because I was able to gather Life Energy as part of my Ascension and just never noticed, or if Pong Pong gave me so much that I haven’t noticed the loss. I don’t blame the little guy for legging it, and I never have, but his gift of Life Force pretty much cements him as the best bro ever. Pong Pong already went above and beyond in his duties as a Divine Turtle and close friend, so wherever he is, I wish him all the best.

Tearing my focus away from the battle below, I turn to face my foe while wracking my brain for something clever to quip. Round…. Like eight or something now, is a possibility, though the number might be higher, since I stopped keeping track a while ago. Nah, too overused and too indefinite, since I’ll probably die of embarrassment if the Eternal Emperor corrects me. Something about weight classes, or seeing how it is to pick on someone his own size? Nope, too arrogant, and worse, I’ll look so stupid if he immediately smacks me down. How you like me now? I’d probably be met with silence and confusion, though to be honest, even having given the reference myself, I wouldn’t know how to respond if I were in the Eternal Emperor’s shoes.

Things would be so much easier if I had a cigarette, because then I could take my time lighting it while I come up with something to say.

Having settled on a nonsensical statement of, “Yippie Kayaks Other Buckets,” I open my mouth to deliver the line only to suck in a deep breath of surprise as a volley of powerful, reality shattering attacks are directed my way. A welcoming gift from the waiting Defiled and Demonic Divinities, one which takes shape before my enhanced Spiritual Senses to reveal the destructive energies contained within. Dark Domains imbued with lethal intent manifest as glinting claws, shimmering swords, incandescent talons, and other shimmering effects as the attacks converge upon me, none of which are visible to the human eye yet are revealed to my senses in a way my mind can comprehend. There are varying degrees of danger to each of these attacks, and as I seek out an answer as to how to defend myself, I find that the limited omniscience I relied upon to Ascend to Divinity has been lost to me in my distraction, an outcome which should have been wholly expected yet surprises me all the same. Though it all takes some time to describe, and I am able to process it all in extensive detail, there is nothing I can do but stand frozen in shock as my inevitable death draws near, one ensured by the formidably dense, fist-shaped construct launched by the Eternal Emperor containing a myriad of deadly forces that congeal into a deathly, destructive mass just ready to explode.

And the worst part? If I were the Eternal Emperor, this would be the perfect opportunity to make some crack about fisting my opponent. That sounds wrong now that I think about it, but in my head, it’s fricking hilarious, but possibly only because I’m in abject denial of my impending death.

I always knew that people calling me the ‘undying’ would come back to bite me in the ass one day…

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
