Second, Mistress Petra was still finishing up getting breakfast ready, her time extended when Alat and Tala asked her to set out food for a guest who might eat as much as Tala.

The woman needed another ten minutes or so to be ready—even though she was pulling from her stocked back-up dishes, held perfectly ready by the sanctum’s magics—and then she needed to have fully departed.

Tala could craft an illusion around Lea, making her seem a normal, young, human woman, but Tala didn’t like that idea. Lea would have to be disguised much of her life—whatever that actually meant—and so there was no reason to start that earlier than necessary.

Therefore, they needed her to not be seen by Mistress Petra, not yet. There was just too much that they needed to figure out first.

Lea walked with ease, her magics rippling to activate the artifact-style constructs that made up the whole of her body in precise ways. It had only taken her a stride or two to accustomize herself to the body and how it moved, and she now walked as naturally as Tala or Rane.

Wait, are these her first steps? Tala had a momentary thrill at the thought, only to be brought back to reality a moment later.

-Not quite her first steps. I can show you memory of those later.-

Oh… Okay. That would be nice.

Lea’s white steel exterior moved and flexed as if it were simple skin, though Tala knew it was anything but.

If anything, it was essentially like Tala’s armor, which moved with her every thought, enhancing rather than hampering.

Sure enough, when Tala focused, she could see a subtle aura of Lea’s influence over her own body.

It was an obvious magic-binding between her soul and her body. Exactly like gated-humans always have.

The girl was human in the ways that counted—at the level of her soul—and the fact that her biological functions were replaced by magical functions shouldn’t matter.

If anything, that makes her more like me, as I’ve quite overwrought my own body, bending it more toward magic than merely biology.

Finally, they reached the top of the long incline, and Lea sucked in a startled breath.

Tala frowned for a moment as all they could see was a bush positioned to block easy line-of-sight to the tunnel downward.

“It’s beautiful… so green and… alive.”

Rane put his arm around their daughter. “It is, yeah.”

Tala smiled. “Come on, around the bush, and take in the real view.”

Lea looked to Tala, eyes widening. “This is only a bush? I thought… Wait, there is more to see?”

Instead of responding, Rane and Tala led her around the bush and out to the path proper, exposing her to a small—if still stunning—vista.

“Oh!” Her gasp of delight was heart wrenching, and Tala found her own smile stretching into a huge grin.

They could see out over some rolling hills and to the trees of the forest beyond. It was nice enough, but it was among the least of the views available within the sanctum. That was why no benches—nor any true means of stopping to enjoy the landscape—had been placed at this point.

Even so, it was clear that the sight was new and exciting to Lea, and that caused Tala’s heart to warm. If Rane’s broad smile was any indication—and the feel of his soul through their bond said it was—he was feeling much the same way.

She spoke softly. “Do you like it, Lea?”

“I do, mother. I really do.” Tala gave the girl a side-hug squeeze, surprised at how soft the white steel seemed under her hands. It was warm too, likely due to the magics and motion, but the results combined to make the girl feel incredibly real, incredibly human.

When Tala pulled back, she met the red eyes, a thought coming to her. “The white steel is your skin, isn’t it? You feel with it?”

“Yes.” Lea nodded easily.

“Then, you’re effectively naked at the moment.”

She frowned, then nodded. “Yes?”

Rane blinked a few times, clearly not having considered that.

Tala placed a hand on her shoulder, then. “Here, let me.”

Her elk leathers grew over the girl, clothing her similarly to what Tala, herself, wore. After a moment, Tala broke the connection to the clothing, and it became simply mundane material.

“There you go.”

Lea moved and shifted, looking down at herself, then up at Tala. “This is pretty, mother. Thank you.”

“Of course. I am happy to help with something so simple.”

“It’s pretty, thank you.” Lea’s open and honest face left absolutely no doubt that she meant it.

“You are most welcome, Lea.” Tala gave her another squeeze. “Now, come. Let’s go get you some food.”
