“He’s below thirty percent,” Ali announced, knowing Calen would want the update. Thirty percent of its original health was a substantial marker and one that was important to their strategy. Most enrage or low-health abilities triggered at twenty percent remaining health or lower, and if Calen wanted to make any adjustments in preparation, this was the time.

“Good,” Calen said. “Bloodlust.”

“Or that works,” Ali said, relaying the command to Joraa, her only surviving shaman. As usual, Calen synchronized his Righteous Fury with the sudden surge of blood magic that erupted from the center.

“Kir’vella, get to the shrine and be ready to stash it the instant the boss dies,” she instructed.

“Yes, Seeker,” she coughed, turning and darting away. The shrine could not be captured while it was still owned, but the moment the boss died it would be free to claim.

Ali retrieved a wand and fired Winter’s Desolate Celerity at her ice trolls, still impressed by the sheer surge of speed they gained from the ice magic buff and the self-chill from their ice shields. Their ice bolt streams accelerated to unreasonable speeds, firing through her protective barrier as if it didn’t even exist and into the upper reaches of the giant plant monster.

Ice crystals rained down on Mato and Malika, but the giant plant itself slowed from the chilling effect of the dangerous magic.

“Twenty percent,” she announced, happy to realize there was no Enrage.

An oddly familiar sensation prickled along her skin, a strange twisting of mana, but she ignored it, focused as she was on directing her minions. Then, it suddenly intensified, and she snapped her head around to look. What is that?

“Seeker!” Kir’vella shouted, and for once, the cracked witch doctor seemed afraid, gesturing urgently.

For a few moments, Ali didn’t see anything out of the ordinary, but she was looking with her eyes. Arcane Insight caught the wave of thrumming mana flowing through the artificial shrine, the bright, suddenly glowing runes, and the projection of the locus on the ground below it.

Her eyes widened as she suddenly realized what it was. That’s… impossible! We haven’t even killed the boss yet!

“Incoming! Lich!” she screamed, her voice raw with sudden terror. Over by the humming shrine, the complex mana formation unfolded. A dark, gaunt, and horrifyingly familiar form appeared – his eyes bound by a scarlet blindfold.

Her heart froze. Her knees gave out. The crippling aura of dread bore down on the very core of her being, crushing her to the ground and staggering her mind.

The Blind Lich laughed, his harsh hissing voice echoing strangely within the cavern, cutting through the sounds of battle with ease.

Ali struggled with all her might to push herself up from the ground, just to look at him. To her surprise, she managed.

A gaunt skeletal hand emerged from within the wide sleeve of his robe. He raised it to point to the center of the room, and a horrific and familiar magic shot out, dark and hungry. It crossed the cavern in an instant and sank into the core of the Mana Eater, ripping something ethereal and glowing from it. An incongruous chime sounded in Ali’s mind as the giant plant collapsed, and she barely registered the release of the curse aura.

“I have need of this,” the Lich said, reaching out his other hand, and making the artificial shrine vanish. In response, the entire remaining domain of the Blooming Rot dungeon collapsed. Then his head turned and fixed its blind gaze on her, and Ali knew he was somehow peering into her soul. She felt violated despite that nothing physically happened.

Move, Ali! she screamed silently within her mind, but it was a small voice yelling against the torrent of fear and dread. She was stuck there as certainly as a bug impaled by a pin. Not quite. With the sounds of her teeth grinding inside her head, she forced herself to rise.

“As for you,” the Lich remarked idly, with the air of deciding on a pleasant stroll somewhere. “I think it’s time to be rid of a pest. You will make a great servant in undeath.” His hand reached toward her, suddenly seething with dark magic as he channeled a potent spell.

But still, she couldn’t flee. Under the oppressive weight of his aura, her muscles were like jelly.

At that very moment, something dark and wobbly fell from the ceiling, splatting heavily onto his outstretched hand. His dark magic blasted forth from withered fingers and into the slime, which simply absorbed it entirely. Someone appeared beside Ali, and suddenly the fear vanished as she felt Malika’s Touch of Clarity steadying her mind.

You have gained Clarity.

“Run!” Malika screamed, grabbing her hand and slapping a Recall Potion into it.

“Wait! Where’s Naia?” Ali asked, her eyes scanning the battle and finding no sign of her friends.

“She teleported away,” Malika said. “We have to go. Now.”

Ali needed no further encouragement, throwing the potion at her feet and feeling the sudden lurch as she vanished.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
