“I am afraid I cannot do that. Now, back to what I was saying— to a young father of one, I would highlight the fact that their children, as long as they are below the age of eighteen human life cycles, are ineligible for the trial, and thus, are in no danger. All he has to do is survive what is to come. To someone who craves power, I will offer them the promise of real, tangible power. To someone craving revenge, I will tell them that there will be arcane ways to seek down and track who they wish to hunt, as long as they are powerful enough to do so. You happen to fall in the latter two categories, making my job surprisingly easy,” Arrenis Shen offered, with a hint of amusement in his voice.

“You…..monster…..,” Jack growled out.

“And yet, I see that you haven’t refuted my offer. Such is human nature, Jack. Your heart’s desires overwhelm your mind’s rationality,” Arrenis Shen brusquely cut him off. “No, I do not know what happened to your parents. As powerful as I may seem, I am neither omniscient, nor omnipotent; otherwise I would not be here to begin with. I only say what I say because I know it will goad you into action, increase your odds of surviving what is to come. But,”

“But?” Jack asked, his voice sharp.

“You can investigate. On the other side, once you awaken, you will have access to abilities beyond your imagination. The power to disregard the laws of physics. The power to track down whoever you wish to. The power to ascertain the truth from the falsities. If you want to find it out, you can— and on that, I swear, upon my honor as an Arbiter of the Three Realms”.

“And if I refuse?”

Arrenis Shen shrugged. “You never had much of a choice to begin with. All I say, all I do, is to assist you. If you disregard my words, you will simply die once you reach the other side. “

“Why? Why assist me?”

“Because this iteration of myself was assigned to you, and thus I wish for you to survive. “

“Survive?” Jack asked.

“Whatever it takes, survive. Yes.”

“Those blue lights? Flame? What were they? Am I even alive?” he asked.

“You are very much alive and well, Jack. In fact, I would say that your physical and mental capabilities will be better than before when you wake up. The Divine Flame nourishes the mind, reforges the body and cleanses impurities— when you wake up, you will still be on Earth, but the planet will be unrecognizable to you; cleansed of the milleniums of harm your kind has wreaked upon it.

Jack took a deep breath, struggling to maintain his composure.

“You really think that I will act according to your wishes like a hapless puppet because you offer me a possibility at the truth?” he asked, his voice quivering.

“I do,” Arrenis Shen replied, unfazed. “It is my job to weaken the limiters of the human psyche— to the greatest extent I can. Your existence has been shrouded by that day’s events and if nothing changed, I suspect you would have died alone, bitter and sorrowful, suppressing your desire for vengeance until the bitter end.”

“Fuck you,” Jack replied, in a moment of complete, unadulterated and raw honesty.

“Now that the pleasantries have been exchanged, you must make a choice,” Arrenis Shen clapped his hands together, and something popped up in the forefront of his vision, blocking his view of the alien being.

[Choose one of the following options:

Way of the Sword: Receive class [Swordsman], one basic sword artifact and sword skill [Qi Blade].

Skill description: Involves elementary Qi manipulation, channeling Qi to form a sharp sword halo that increases sharpness and decreases wind resistance.

Way of the Spear: Receive class [Spearman], one basic spear artifact and skill [Qi Spear].

Skill description: Involves elementary Qi manipulation, channeling Qi to form a sharp spear-point halo that increases sharpness and decreases wind resistance.

Way of the Marksman: Receive class [Ranger], one basic bow artifact, an infinity quiver and skill [Qi Arrow].

Infinity quiver description: Used arrows will be replenished every twenty four hours.

Skill description: Involves elementary Qi manipulation, channeling Qi to form a sharp, pointed arrow-tip halo that increases sharpness and decreases wind resistance.

Way of the Assassin: Receive class [Assassin], one basic dagger artifact and movement skill [Qi Steps].

Skill Description: Involves elementary Qi manipulation, channeling Qi into the feet to significantly increase movement speed while muffling sound of footsteps.]

“Where’s the way of the gun?” Jack asked, scowling at the options presented to him.

“I’m afraid that those toys will do you little good for what is to ensue,” Arrenis Shen off-handedly remarked.

Jack’s gaze shifted to his waist, or rather, his holster, which had been feeling a little lighter the last few minutes.

His scowl grew deeper.

“You took my gun,” his gaze turned to Arrenis Shen, the distaste in his eyes palpable.

“I did.”

“In the real world?” he asked.

“Astute.”

“Why? Is this some sick, twisted, inter-galatic game for you? Is this what you pompous pricks do instead of watching sunday-night football?”

“I am afraid not, Mr. Anderson. As you well know, reality seldom seems to be as simple as we want it to be.”

Jack grimaced.

“What is Qi? An artifact?”

“All the information I can offer you is listed on that screen. Now, you must choose,” Arrenis Shen replied, an air of finality reflected in his tone.

“Fine,” he snapped. “Give me a few minutes, atleast.”

Arrenis Shen replied with a slight nod.

Ten minutes later, Jack’s eyes snapped open. breathing out deeply. His visage hardened.

Hesitating further was pointless.

“The way of the sword,” he replied.

Another screen popped up in front of him.

[Selection Confirmed….]

[Dao Mark status- Inert]

“What the hell is a Dao Mark?” Jack asked, having heard no mention of this… phenomenon or perhaps, mechanic, in the screen that had popped up before him.

“You shall see,” he replied cryptically, before clapping his hands together again.

Jack awoke.
