Jack Anderson was sipping a beer on his sofa, watching the highlights of a football match on his fancy home theater set-up when his phone started buzzing loudly. With a small sigh in irritation, He gave his smartphone a glance and then decided to accept the call.

“You got some news for me?” Jack asked, his tone sounding out a little annoyed.

“The commission you ordered? It’s done,” An aged voice sounded out from his smartphone, it’s cadence characterized by a thick southern accent.

“Which one? Jog my memory a little,” Jack asked, going from disinterested to having his interest somewhat piqued.

“The pump-action? Four months ago? Golden-red paint job?”

“Oh that one,” Jack replied, as his interest began to fade. That piece had been more of an impulse buy, really. He hadn’t put all that much thought into the customization, settling for only five mods and a uninspired paintjob when he’d usually go for twice that.

“Yessir. Oh, and that antique blade you had me looking out for. Current bid is twenty six percent over the limit you set. Still want it?”

“Right, the Khopesh. How much is it going for?” he asked, light excitement seeping into his voice. His collection still lacked the elusive blade and this was the real deal, not some shoddy replica or some poor forgery. No, this came straight from the Nile Valley, in all its barely intact glory. Or.. well, it came from a defunct museum selling artifacts that it could no longer afford to maintain but… same thing. And it would make for a good tax writeoff.

“7,700$.”

“Jesus christ, man. Really busting my balls here,” Jack mock protested in good humor

“That a yes?” The aged voice replied, amused.

“Yeah man, send it over. My insurance premium is about to skyrocket again, isn’t it?” he asked in jest.

“Thank you for your patronage. Now, do you want me to send the boys, or are you planning on driving to the town?”

“Hmm,” Jack seemed to deliberate the matter, before giving his reply, “I’ll come by around five thirty, yeah?”

“Sounds good.”

Jack cut the call from his end, sinking into his plush sofa. Plucking the beer mug from the table, he downed the remaining beverage in a single swig, feeling the cool, refreshing and mildly bitter liquid stream down his throat. Walking over to a sliding glass door, he gently pushed it aside. A pleasant breeze wafted past him as Jack stepped onto the veranda, taking in the pure, unblemished countryside in.

“Might be a good day for a trek,” he murmured to himself, taking a few minutes to appreciate the vista before him, his mansion ensconced by a verdant forest, the sound of chittering insects and distant bird songs forming nature’s beautiful, touching melody.

Letting out a gentle sigh, Jack headed back inside.

He walked through his repurposed home theater room, past the dining hall and then took an abrupt right that spilled into a long hallway. A few minutes later he stood before an unassuming door that looked like a service exit, an installation that was not too uncommon when you lived in a veritable mansion. Stepping through the door and walking down a narrow flight of stairs, Jack, oddly enough, found himself before another door.

But the difference was palpable.

He found himself staring down a reinforced steel door that was easily six, maybe seven times thicker than his main door. There was no handle or doorknob, nothing but a metal numberpad sticking out next to the door.

A tapping sound echoed out as Jack punched in the combination. The sound of pressurized air leaking sounded out followed by a loud whirring of mechanical parts sounded out as the heavy door began to fold inwards. Another, even longer flight of steel reinforced concrete steps awaited him. His only companion was the sound of his own footsteps as he walked down the stairs, far deeper than a normal basement had any right to be.

His footsteps landed onto a warm berber carpet that spilled across the length of the wide chamber. Or, more accurately, his fully functional state of the art nuclear fallout bunker equipped with cold storage canned food, frozen food and just about every type of food that could last for years on end without expiring. Of course, he also had regular old chicken nuggets for regular old non-nuclear apocalyptic days. One could never really go wrong with chicken nuggets.

His gaze shifted to his armory, for what safer place was there for his precious weapons than a nuclear bunker? He’d opted for a wall display for his modern weaponry— semi-autos, handguns, shoutguns, you name it, and there were atleast three of each. Hell, he even had a decommissioned RPG proudly racked onto the wall the terrified “is that real?”’s he got each time he showed it to someone alone worth the five grand he’d offloaded to an antiques dealer.

His historical artifact collection, predominantly focused on medieval era weapons were stored behind bulletproof glass displays with infrared scanners— a courtesy of his insurers, that insisted upon this measure. An alarm would go off if anyone tried to unseal the collection without his keycard, which included an ancient Katana from the Heian era in Japan, an Espada Ropera from late fifteenth century Spain, apparently one of the first few ever made; which was a great honor indeed, to be able to own a blade that inspired the rapier into existence and an indonesian Kris from the late fourteenth century.

In his eyes, an ancient artifact was like the ebb and flows of history crystallizing into his admittedly unworthy hands, a truly magnificent experience. That error would be rectified after he died, for his historical artifact collection was going to be donated to a National Museum.

Neither was he actually disrespectful enough to put the already delicate weapons to the test, his only wish to experience them in the flesh. Most could not understand it, but then again, most people weren’t doomsday preppers now, were they?

His gaze fell upon the empty glass case that would store the Khopesh if he won, knowing that he was in for an interesting time. Jack made it a point to have a replica forged for every artifact he owned, before he set out to train extensively with that weapon, even to the point of having instructors flown out for stretches that varied from weeks to months. It was his way of paying homage to the artifact, of the winding river of history the blade’s curvature echoed.

He unsheathed one such replica that had been casually resting in a wicker basket before walking over to the center of the room. Taking a deep breath, Jack began cycling through basic forms, or Kihon Happo. Simple cuts, slashes and thrusts combined together to form a beautiful symphony, a blade song— for Jack did not rush things, his movements far too slow to be useful in actual combat.

He simply wished to refine his movements, correct his balance and focus his intent into the blade, finding it quite a relaxing exercise.

Twenty minutes later, he walked out of the bunker with a handgun strapped to his waist, sealing it behind him before he walked back to the upper floors.

Stepping into his drawing room, he was greeted by the sight of his butler setting the table for breakfast. His neatly combed hair was a thicket of black peppered in with strands of gray, his uniform pressed and his shoes spotless.

“Morning, sir,” The middle-aged man asked, a thick british accent audible in his voice.

“Robert,” Jack acknowledged. “Are those pancakes I smell?” he asked, before slumping down onto his seat.

“indeed, sir,” He replied. “Served with fruit compote and a dash of whipped cream,” Robert added, as he took the seat opposite Jack. A glass of freshly squeezed orange juice was his only accompaniment, but the butler didn’t seem to mind it.

A minute passed as Jack sampled the pancakes, truly appreciating the rich, syrupy goodness as he tucked in another bite before focusing his gaze on the estate manager.

“My compliments to the chef,” he offered.

“Thank you, sir,” Robert gracefully accepted the praise.

“So, what do you think?” He asked.

“Pardon, sir,” Robert replied. “I’m not sure what you mean.”

Jack let out a muffled chuckle. “This might be a little presumptuous of me, but I’m going to venture a guess anyway. I’m pretty sure your last client didn’t have enough weapons to outfit a small militia sealed in a nuclear bunker,” he chortled unabashedly. After all, his last butler and his estate manager had left for the same reasons, even if they hadn’t openly explained themselves.

Robert seemed to be a little vexed for a long second, before a small smile made its way onto his face, “Permission to be candid, sir.”

“Sure,” He replied, intrigued.

“Compared to the other ‘pursuits’ that I have witnessed in this line of work, yours are rather tame, sir. You seem to treat the house help well, are friendly with the townfolk and pay generously. Those are all green checkmarks in my line of work,” Robert replied, honestly reflected in his blue-gray eyes.

“That is a generous assessment,” Jack replied, as he tucked into the last of his remaining pancake. “You know, this would be a lot less awkward if you just had breakfast alongside me.”

“I am touched by your consideration, sir, but that would be unprofessional."

“I suppose I can only respect your wishes. Well, the weather seems pretty friendly today. I’m thinking of going on a small hiking exertion, stretch the legs a little.”

“I shall make the arrangements, then. Will you be requiring a driver?”

“No, I’ll drive. Make sure to pack rations for three days.”

“Very good, sir,” Robert calmly replied, giving Jack a nod before heading towards the storage room.

He breathed in deeply as he took in fresh countryside air, his gaze shifting to the expanse of trees stretching out beneath him for miles. Only from this vantage point could he appreciate the raw, untamed beauty of the scenic vista. Malanike Nature Preserve was off limits to most people, his permit being the only thing giving him access to the sacred sanctuary. He wasn’t allowed to hunt in the area, the gun holstered upon his waist for self defense and self defense only.

This was part of the reason he’d relocated so far off the beaten path, away from the bright lights, incessant crowds and the never-sleeping cities.

He enjoyed the gentle hymn of nature as he proceeded deeper into the Nature Preserve; the occasional chirp of a bird, the persistent low hum of crickets, the crunch of dead leaves beneath his hiking shoes, all blending together to form an experience that all his wealth could never purchase, a oneness with nature that many in the modern world had lost.

Glancing at his watch, he realized that he was three hours deep into the trail; knowing from first hand experience that it would soon diverge into two routes— one would circle back to his camping spot while the other led right to the base of a small waterfall, a serene view that he wouldn’t trade for anything in the world. He didn’t want to call it a day just yet, so he kept going.

Ten minutes passed, a ten minutes that should have been like no other he’d spent in his life. But Jack came to an abrupt halt in place, without any rhyme or reason. His left foot was still raised air, his right firmly rooted onto the ground. It was as if his arms were crystallized in place, rooted in their forward moving, swinging gesture.

A muscle pull? No. Poison? Possible but… why weren’t his limbs moving? An illness? Impossible.

He couldn't budge a single body part, not a single muscle in his body, not even so much so as a twitch. But his body remained balanced in place when he should have collapsed onto the floor.

There was no pain. No strain on his knee from standing on one leg. He tried screaming for help, but no words were uttered.

What came next… words failed to describe it.

Ethereal blue lights blinked forward in the periphery of his vision, intersecting with each other and interspersing with the flora it passed by. Everything it touched, it engulfed completely, leaving behind an ocean of blue that was headed in his direction, with such velocity that his perception could barely keep up with it. He remained there rooted to the spot as the colour drained out of his face— horror stricken and helpless, he watched as the blue lights consumed miles of forested land in a matter of seconds.

Until the end, he was unable to muster a single flicker of defiance besides the fury contained in his eyes.

Seconds later, the etherial blue lights that bore a greater resemblance to a wildfire, now that he was so close to its onslaught, engulfed him as it had engulfed every blade of grass, every trace of human civilization in its path. He was no miraculous exception to the seemingly divine fury.

Why do these flames carry no heat? Jack thought to himself, the last thought he was allowed before darkness ensured.

He gasped out loud. His eyes shot open. Adrenaline pumped through his veins as he found himself falling forward. It was only years of training that allowed him to place both of his hands in front of himself to cushion his fall instead of faceplanting.

Disoriented was an understatement. Discombobulated, perhaps, was more accurate. Physically, he was in no pain. In fact, he felt better than he had in years; as if he had gone through a… de-ageing procedure? His musculature felt limber, his skin more silken and his body, rejuvenated.

The afterlife? he thought, as he groggily got back onto his feet.

