“It took me a while to come back to myself, then even longer to change back.” Ren said.

The scene played out and he changed the display to show him recovered and going to Yuwen's carriage. They heard him get the explanation about making the women concubines to save their Respect, then it showed him meeting Dilseffa for the first time and making the concubine offer to Yuwen and her.

“It wasn't until yesterday that we had the ceremony.” Ren said and changed the display to show Dilseffa walking backwards towards him, then her voice could be heard.

“...in his domain he rescued personally. He's even saved this world several times now.” Display Dilseffa said as she stopped walking backwards.

He really didn't hear my conversation with Rimsoh. Dilseffa thought, and gave Ren a squeeze as her image on the display exclaimed her thanks to Ren, then she made her declaration.

“I, Countess Dilseffa Dreikhyth, publicly acknowledge King Ren as my Inamorato.” Display Dilseffa paused for a second. “I am Second Mistress of his Royal Concubines, and I will do my best to earn him Respect.” Display Dilseffa said in a strong voice, which surprised her brothers and not her parents. “I am his, and he is mine, both formally and informally. I dedicate the rest of my life to his service, and that of my family members who so choose to join me in that service. I do so swear.”

“Oh, my god.” Her mother Duyu whispered as the bright beam of light connected Display Ren and Display Dilseffa.

“I humbly accept your pledge of loyalty, Countess Dreikhyth.” Display Ren said. “Please, allow me to adorn you properly.”

Dilseffa's whole family watched in surprise as she was given a string bikini, which left her nearly completely naked, then she was given platinum jewellery worth more than anything they could have ever imagined.

“Now for your crown.” Display Ren said.

“My WHAT?!?”

“Royal Mistresses are a part of my Dynasty in the lands of Pervaria.” Display Ren said and asked her to kneel. He put the diamond tiara into her hair, welcomed her to the Ren Dynasty, then gave her a tender kiss to end the ritual. The video ended there and Ren stored the display device. Duyu had tears in her eyes because her daughter had been crowned in front of the country's whole delegation.

“He did the same ritual with Yuwen and Tiyaphi after that.” Dilseffa said and looked down at Ren.

“They weren't as moved by it as you were, though.” Ren said with a smile and looked up at her.

“Their beam of Light wasn't as bright, either.” Dilseffa said in a soft voice and started to comb his hair with her fingers, like her mother had done to him, and she discovered that she liked it. “I didn't notice it at the time.”

“Me, either.” Ren said, just as softly and let her feel that he liked her touching him like that. “I think it was because you were a lot more receptive to it than they were.”

Silence fell in the room as Ren and Dilseffa stared at each other, and no one said anything for several moments.

“All right. If no one else will say this, I will.” Doth, the eldest brother said, when no one else volunteered. “Dilseffa, why the hell did you pledge your whole family to lifelong service?”
