Elise, the secretary at Sid Tec, finished eating her lunch and sat at the table in the corner of the room so she could quietly watch the last bit of footage of Ren. When the screen went blank, she frowned; then reversed it a few minutes, and watched it in real time.

“NO!” Elise exclaimed and stood up. Everyone looked at her, and she ignored them as she paused the video on her tablet. She picked it up, and left the remains of her lunch on the table as she left the cafeteria.

*

One of the workers looked worried, because Elise wasn't someone to just leave her things like that, and she went over and cleaned off the table.

I hope everything is okay. The worker thought as she brought the empty bowls back to the kitchen and put the tray in the sink.

*

Elise didn't say a word to anyone as she walked through the halls to the tech department. Several people tried to engage her in conversation; but once they saw the look on her face, they quickly stopped and went about their own business. She walked into the tech department and ignored everyone there as well, until she came to the head programmer's desk.

“Max.” Elise said, and Max's head whipped up at the sound of pure hatred in her voice.

Oh fuck. Max thought when he saw the look on Elise's face. It matched her voice perfectly.

“Explain this.” She said, and started the video on her tablet.

“What the hell?” Max said, and grabbed the tablet. “No. No, that's not right.” He said, handed her tablet back, then turned to his computer and tapped the keys furiously. “He shouldn't... no... oh, shit...”

“Well?” Elise said with patience laced with scorn.

“Hold on for a second, Elise.” Max said, then leaned around her to look across the room. “Craig! Check server 6 and the update for the giants!”

“On it!” Craig said, and Max turned to Elise.

“He shouldn't have encountered the giants at all, let alone to this extent.” Max said. “I honestly don't know what to tell you.”

“What does that mean?” Elise asked. “Ren was STEPPED ON!”

Max shrugged his shoulders. “What do you want me to say? He was fighting giants. It was bound to happen at some point. I'm just sorry he died before the hidden quest was completed.”

“The WHAT?”

“The attack on the dwarf garrison was a hidden quest. Defend or die. It's something Craig cooked up when we decided to introduce the giant race next year.” Max chuckled. “Well, it was supposed to be next year. If Ren does what I think he's going to do...” He shook his head for a second, then changed mid-motion and nodded instead. “He's definitely going to do it now. We're going to have to put a rush on the giant update.”

“It's been accessed!” Craig said from across the room. “I'm not sure how, though. The files are encoded.”

Max laughed. “Craig, we're running top of the line computers with state of the art AI. There's literally no code they can't break or work around.”

“Oh.” Craig said. “Right.”

“Kids.” Max smiled, then looked at Elise. “Hey, what do you want me to do about it? He failed.”

“I don't think he did.” Elise said.

“What?”

“I memorized that last moment.” She said, ran the footage to the spot she wanted, and paused it. “Look.”

Max looked at the still image and frowned. “What is that?”

“If I had to take a guess, it's a crossbow bolt hitting the giant in the eye.” Elise said.

Max turned to his computer again, and pulled up the data from the incident. “Well, damn. You're right. It killed Ren, but it's dead, too.” Max smiled. “Depending on the timing of both of their deaths, the AI might give him the XP, or it might not. I guess we'll find out when he logs back in.”

“Ren is still going to suffer the death penalties, isn't he?”

Max chuckled. “Everyone does, Elise.” He said. “It's a basic mechanic in the game.”

“He's carrying a lot of specialized equipment.” Elise said.

Max waved her concern away. “Don't worry about that.” He said. “The portable crafting stuff is a part of his character build.” He smiled. “So is that funky weapon tool he made.”

Elise sighed. “Well, that's a relief.” She said. “Can you tell me what he dropped?”

“Yeah, but I'm not going to.”

“Excuse me?”

“You'll only tell me to change them, or replace them with something less valuable.”

“Oh, god.” Elise put a hand on her forehead. “How bad is it?”

“He'll survive without them, there's no question about that.” Max said. “I just want to see if he notices what it is that he dropped.”

“Maaaaax.” Elise said, and he laughed.

“You're no fun.” He said and smiled. “He dropped about 33 platinum in money, one of the rings on his fingers, and...”

Elise waited for a moment. “And what?”

“Something he should really miss from inventory, if he's smart.”

“Max, what is it?” Elise said, and loomed over him “Tell me!”

“You know, you're cute when you get all menacing like that.” Max said, and Elise scowled at him. “Yeah, like that.”

Elise made a fist, and he laughed.

“Okay, okay!” Max held his hands up in surrender. “It's a small wooden box.”

“What's so important about it?” She asked.

“It's got 30 shadow coins in it.” Max said, and grinned at Elise's shocked expression.

*

Ren opened his eyes and yawned, then stretched.

“Hey there, sleepy-head.” Denise said.

“What... what time is it?” Ren asked, after looking at his wrist and remembered his watch was still on the dresser.

“Almost 3 p.m.” Denise said.

“Wh-what?!?” Ren asked surprised. “I missed...”

“It's all right.” Denise said. “”The next game day doesn't start for another 10 minutes, and then there's breakfast they eat, too.” She smiled. “You've got plenty of time.”

“Whew.” Ren said. “I started to panic there.”

“I wouldn't let you be late, or panic.” Denise said. “I was going to wake you up in a few minutes, anyways.”

“Thanks.” Ren said, and sat up in bed. She handed him a supplement to drink, and he took his time with it. “Vanilla?”

“Yep.” Denise said and smiled. “Now that we're not under the strict rules of the hospital, your food is going to taste a little bit better than it used to.”

“That's music to my stomach.” Ren said, and covered his mouth with a hand so he could burp. “See? It agrees.”

Denise shook her head and took the glass back. “You're still on the restricted diet, but at least we can change it up a bit more than usual.”

Ren nodded.

“Do you need the bathroom?”

“Actually, yeah.” Ren said, and she helped him slide out of bed. “Can I use your arm for balance?”

“No. I'm going to make you crawl to the bathroom.” Denise said and grinned.

“Ha ha.” Ren said, and gripped her outstretched arm. He walked to the bathroom pretty much on his own, her arm was just for security. “I can't believe staying in bed for a week makes me this weak.” He said, and transferred his grip to the back of the toilet. “I have to work up to walking again.”

“Do you think you can handle this part alone?”

“Yeah.” Ren said. “I think so.”

“I'll just turn around and wait right here, just in case.”

“Thanks.” He said, and lifted the toilet seat. Once he opened the dam that was his kidneys, the flood of water that came out didn't stop for nearly two minutes. Both he and Denise were laughing pretty hard as it just kept going and going. They had tears in their eyes by the time he was done. Ren cleaned up and Denise helped him walk back to the bed.

“That almost sounded painful.” Denise said with a huge grin on her face. “How in the world did you hold that much in all day?”

“I have no idea.” Ren said. “I bet you're really glad that I didn't dream about running water or something.”

Denise snorted a laugh. “I think we should both be glad for that.”

“Oh, I am.” Ren said. “I haven't had these pajamas long enough that I can ruin them without it bothering me.” He looked at the rollaway table and the cubbyhole. “Denise, can we walk back to the bathroom again?”

“What for?”

“Ah... I forgot to... ah...” Ren said, and tapped the rollaway table.

“Sure.” Denise said, got one of the foil packets, and turned Ren around to lead him back to the bathroom. “Right this way, sir.”

Ren chuckled as he walked back to the bathroom with Denise's help. “I wish you were my physical therapist.” He said and sat down on the now closed toilet. “I don't mind you leading me around like this.”

“I wish I could be your therapist.” Denise said. “I'm not certified for anything like that, though.”

“That's okay.” Ren said. “Nobody's perfect.”

“Quiet, you!” Denise smiled crookedly, and shook her fist at him jokingly. “Or I will get physical!”

Ren laughed and tried to open the foil packet. His fingers slipped and dropped it on the floor. “I think I overdid it with the hand exercises.” He said and sighed.

“Stay there. I've got it.” Denise said and knelt to pick it up. “It's not open, so it's still okay to use.”

“That's a relief.” Ren said. “I'd hate to waste it like that. There's only so many in the box.”

“Can you handle this part?” Denise asked, as she opened the foil packet carefully.

“Actually, I don't know.” Ren said, and flexed his hands. “Stella handled it for me yesterday.”

Denise looked at Ren with raised eyebrows, and he chuckled.

“My arms were tied to the bed because of the IVs, remember?”

“Oh!” Denise said, then blushed a little. “I'm sorry, I... ah... I thought...”

“I can neither confirm nor deny that anything has ever happened.” Ren said. “At least, I think that's the right thing to say. If I said it did, you'd believe it did, and if I denied it, you'd believe that it did anyways.”

Denise smiled. “So, something did happen.”

“I didn't say that.” Ren said with a slightly worried expression on his face. “I said...”

“I know what you said.” Denise said. “I'm looking at your eyes, though.”

“What... what about them?”

“You are a terrible liar, Ren.” She said. “I don't know why you are, but any time you say something that's even slightly untrue, we can always tell.”

“You're just like the dwarves.” Ren said and sighed. “I can't lie around them, either.”

Denise smiled. “Okay, then. Spill it. Tell me what happened.”

Ren sighed again, and told Denise about Stella helping him try to find the right foil packet for his needs, and how one item had gotten stuck, and the aftermath.

“Actually, that happens more often than not.” Denise said. “You really don't know how they'll fit until you try them.” She nodded. “Stella handled it well, I think.”

“Her view on it being the body's natural reaction to stimulation really made it a lot easier for me not to be embarrassed about the whole thing.” Ren said.

“Well, that's not too bad.” Denise said. “If that was all that happened...”

“Well, there was one other time...” He said, and her eyes widened as he told her about the quick incident in the shower.

“You're kidding.” Denise said, and she tried hard to keep the blush from her face.

“No.” Ren said. “She really helped me a lot that day. I wanted to return the favor.” He smiled. “It happened fast, and I couldn't enjoy it as much as I wanted to; but, she seemed happy afterwards.”

“No wonder!” Denise said, the clamped her mouth shut.

“What?”

Denise looked at him, and it was her turn to sigh. “Most guys wouldn't return the favor.” She said. “Ever.”

Ren put a hand on her shoulder. “I'm sorry.”

Denise snorted a laugh. “That's not something you should be sorry for.”

“I meant it on behalf of all the men that passed up the opportunity with you.” Ren said. “They don't know what they're missing.”

“How do you know it's something they would miss?” Denise asked, then shook her head. “No, don't answer that.”

Ren smiled. “If they know you half as well as I do, then they are definitely missing something special by not returning the favor.”

Denise opened her mouth to say it wasn't anything special, then she saw the innocent smile he was giving her, and changed her mind. “Thank you.”

“You're welcome.” Ren said and took the opened foil packet from her. “Now stand back. This could get messy.”

“Excuse me?” Denise said, her curiosity piqued.

“The lubrication on these things can go everywhere if I'm not careful.”

“Oh.” Denise said. “Do you need help undoing your pajamas?”

“Maybe.” Ren said, and stood up a little shakily. Denise stood up as well, just in case she needed to catch him. He pulled his pajama pants down and looked at her.

“I've seen it before.” Denise said. “It was only a few hours ago that I bathed you.” She smiled. “Go ahead.”

Ren nodded and pulled his underwear down. After some slight stimulation, he applied the contents of the foil packet, and cleaned himself up.

“Um... you're using it wrong.” Denise said. “It's nowhere near close to being on and you're only at half-mast.”

“I know.” Ren said, pulled up his underwear and adjusted it accordingly, then pulled up his pajama pants. “I leave the extra room, just in case.”

“In case of what?”

“In case I need to go a few times.” Ren said. “You've seen the blue screens.”

“Yeah, but they're only 15 to 30 minutes long.” Denise said.

“Uh huh.” Ren said, then looked at her. “Did you forget the time compression? It's 4 times as long in the game.”

Denise's mouth fell open, and Ren laughed at her expression.

“Yeah, you forgot.” He took her arm to keep his balance, and Denise walked out of the bathroom to the bed, and wordlessly helped Ren climb into bed. “Hand me the VR headset, would you?”

Denise did so, then helped him put it on.

“See you at supper.” Ren said.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren popped into the white loading area, and looked down at himself. He was wearing his red pajama set, and looked around.

I wonder why I'm...

“Hi, Ren!” A familiar woman's voice said, and Ren turned around to see Elise standing there. She wore a silk blouse and a short skirt. He smiled, because on a woman with normal-length legs, the skirt would have been a moderate length. Elise's legs were so long that it made the skirt look like it was short.

“Hi, beautiful.” Ren said, and she blushed slightly. “I wondered why I was in the loading area.”

“I couldn't wait until after work to see you.” Elise said and stepped close. “The new system sent me the footage from your game session last night.”

Ren dropped his head slightly. “Boy, did I mess up, or what?” He said and looked back at her. “All that work for nothing.”

