Elise cupped the side of his face. “I probably shouldn't tell you this, just so you can discover it for yourself; but...” She smiled. “...you didn't mess up that badly.”

“What do you mean?” Ren said with wide eyes. “Hold on! I... I did it?”

Elise nodded, and Ren picked her up and swung her around.

“Wha-hooo!” Ren said as Elise laughed, and he put her down a few moments later. Elise blushed and was flustered, and Ren grinned at her. “I hope I can still get the XP, even though I died.”

“That we don't know.” Elise said, once she calmed down a little. That was a rush! She thought, then smiled. “I talked to the tech guys, and they said the AI will decide when you go back in.”

“Nice.” Ren said. “A 50/50 shot is better than none.”

“You still died, though.” Elise said, and took him into an embrace. “I'm not going to ask how it felt to be stepped on like that.”

“I'll tell you if you want to know.” Ren said, and Elise looked at him in surprise.

“You will?”

“Sure.” Ren said. “Why wouldn't I?”

“Most men wouldn't want to subject a woman to such things.”

“I can't believe I still have to tell people that I'm not like most men.” Ren smiled. “Do you want to know?”

Elise thought about it, then nodded. “Even though there are some things I think you should keep to yourself, I'd like to know.”

“The pressure was enormous, and it broke every bone in my body at once.” Ren said. “The pain was excruciating, and then everything went black.”

Elise's eyes widened at the description. “You... you shouldn't have felt that.” She said. “It should have cut the feed as soon as it stepped on you.”

“I think it did.” Ren said. “Or I would have felt everything getting crushed.”

Elise blinked her eyes at him a few times. “Um... I...”

“I think the game let me feel the bones breaking, because I felt it before.”

“You WHAT?!?”

It was Ren's turn to look at her in surprise. “You didn't know that?”

Elise shook her head.

“I figured you got all of my medical records when you got me transferred out of the hospital.”

Elise sighed. “They gave me enough to maintain your care, but once the lawyers got involved, if we want the rest of them, it's going to be through the courts.”

“I don't think so.” Ren said. “They might refuse to release them to someone trying to take care of me, but they legally can't refuse if I request it.”

Elise ran a hand through his hair. “I'll bring the proper paperwork over when you log out for supper.”

“Great.” Ren said. “So... why am I still here?”

“Can't I just want to snuggle with you?”

Ren chuckled. “That would be a fantastic reason, but I know you wouldn't stop me from going into the game if it wasn't important.”

“How can you know me so well?” Elise said, let him out of the hug she still had him in, and knelt. “It's about your loot drop.”

“Don't tell me.” Ren said. “It might influence the game's choice.”

“Wh-what?”

“If I go in knowing I'll lose something specific and important, my Trouble recipe will flip everything around.”

“I never thought about that.” Elise said. “I... I want to tell you so badly, but... if you know and it changes, then telling you won't mean anything!”

Ren stepped close, and looked at her in the eyes. “Just coming to tell me means a lot to me.” He said, and kissed her. He ran his hands through her hair as they made out, then Elise ran her hands up his back and hugged him close. They stayed that way for several minutes, and then Ren broke the kiss.

“I better get in there, or I'm going to miss breakfast.” Ren said, and stepped back.

Elise's hands fell away and down to her sides, and she stared at him with wide eyes.

“See you in a few hours.” Ren said and smiled. Elise nodded several times, and her hand reached out to tap a few keys on a keyboard invisible to Ren. He smiled at her and waved, then dissolved.

*

Oh, my GOD! Elise thought as Ren disappeared. She put a hand to her lips and then quickly between her legs. Ah, dammit! “Logout!”

********

Elise got up from the chair in the VR lounge and ran to the bathroom. I'm really glad I wore the extra thick pad today! She thought as she cleaned herself up and replaced the pad with a normal one from the dispenser in the bathroom. I have to remember to go home and get another one. She turned on the hot air blower and held her slightly damp underwear underneath it.

********

Ren was enveloped in a glowing white light for several moments, then appeared in the glowing spawn circle in the middle of the main room of the house on top of House Neram Keep.

Notice!

You died, and must suffer the consequences.

You have lost 5% of your current money. Amount lost: 32 Platinum, 52 Gold, 89 Silver, 20 Copper.

You have lost 1 randomly chosen equipped item.

You have lost 1 randomly chosen item from inventory.

Hidden Quest Complete!

You have successfully stopped the slowly encroaching horde of giants that were infested with Brain Arthropod Grubs.

Rewards: 0 XP (player deceased)

Influence: +63,410

Loot: None collected

Notice!

You have successfully defended the Dwarven Kingdom from an imposing foe.

Honor: +12,500; Lady Neram +12,500

Running Quest Update!

You have shown some influential people what you can do when the going gets tough.

Rewards: 3,500 XP

Fame Bonus: +75% (100% minus Class Reduction 25%)

Fame: 2,500

Notice!

Excess Fame converted to XP.

Fame: 2,500 x 10XP = 25,000 XP

Notice!

Because of your ingenious plan to induce the Brain Arthropod Grubs into gathering together, and for saving the most giants possible in so short a time, you have been granted a special reward.

Intelligence: +3

Wisdom: +1 (2 points were lost due to recklessly throwing your life away)

Special Recipes: Rod Of Leadership, Wand of Command

What's with that 'reckless' comment? Ren thought as he dismissed the popups, then an ear-piercing scream cut through the house.

“RENNNNNN!!!” Nathalia screamed, and he was embraced before he could blink his eyes. He also discovered that he wasn't wearing his gold-colored armor.

“Hello, My Love.” Ren said, and held her close. She looked at him as the tears flowed out of her eyes, and he wiped them away with a scrap piece of cloth.

“You...” Nathalia said, then shook her head at him. “By the gods...”

“I'm sorry I made you worry so much.” Ren said. “I honestly didn't have the time to contact you at all, with everything that's been going on.”

“And then you died, you IDIOT!” Nathalia yelled at him, then kissed him. “You...” *kiss* “Damn...” *kiss* “Stupid...” *kiss* “Idiot!” *kiss*

He tried not to laugh as she kissed him all over his face, including his beard and both eyes.

“What were you thinking?!?” Nathalia asked him when she was done.

Ren shrugged. “I wasn't thinking about much, past getting the attacking giants redirected.” He said. “Teepo and I discovered that the grub I'd taken from the giant that had Groggot, had left a trail of pheromones for the others to follow.” Which reminds me. He thought and looked down at his hand. The Beetle Crown Ring was still there; but one of the raised platform rings with Screaming Terror enchanted on it was missing. Summon Teepo!

Teepo's slightly glowing blue astral form materialized at Ren's feet. “REN!” He said, then zoomed up to land on Ren's shoulder. His little bug legs tickled as he tried to give Ren a hug on the neck.

“Pheromones!” Nathalia said, surprised. “That could have been really bad.”

“Yeah.” Ren said, and explained what he had done with dragging the sack of grubs around. “If I hadn't done what I did, the entire Garrison might have been overrun by giants.”

“Oh, Ren!” Nathalia said, and kissed him again. They stayed like that for a moment, then Ereka came into the room.

“Ren, I...” Ereka sighed. “I'm so sorry for what Croggart did.”

“Wait... Croggart hit me with the sleep spell?” Ren asked, and let Nathalia go. “How did... oh, that sneaky, rotten...”

“Yes, he took it from Groggot.” Ereka said. “He didn't want to go back to prison.”

“Of all the things he could have done...” Ren shook his head. “He chose... poorly.”

Ereka walked over to him and knelt on the floor by his feet. She took his hand and put her head on the back of it, then closed her eyes.

“We owe you an-”

“NO!” Ren exclaimed. “Stand up!”

Ereka looked at him in surprise. “But...”

“You will NOT say you'll be my eternal servant.” Ren said. “If you even mention it, I'll have Nathalia banish you from House Neram lands.”

Ereka's mouth dropped open in shock, and she stared at him. Ren gripped her hand and lifted her into a standing position.

“This was not your fault! You will not demean yourself for your brother's mistake.”

“But...”

“No.” Ren said. “I did not risk my life to save your brother Groggot, just so you could throw your own life away.”

Ereka took a deep breath. “I wouldn't be.”

“You would.” Ren said. “I'm leaving in 3 months. If you pledged to me personally, you'd leave the entire House without anyone to help run it.”

Ereka tried to argue with him, but Ren was having none of it. He took both of her hands and placed them on his cheeks, then kissed her lightly. Her eyes widened as he pulled her hands away, then put his own on her face, and kissed her again.

“There.” Ren said. “Now there's no Honor debt between us. All is forgiven.”

Ereka put a hand to her lips. “But... but...”

“You can't mention it again.” Ren said. “Your own culture's rules say so.”

“I...” Ereka let her hand drop, and she left the room.

“You handled that very well.” Nathalia said. “She's been agonizing over what to do for days.”

Ren nodded slightly. “I only just found out about Croggart, and I'm pretty angry about it.” He shook his head. “I can only imagine what she's been going through.”

Ereka came back into the room and handed the Wand of Slumber to Ren. “I found this at the house.”

Ren took it from her and stored it. “Thanks.”

“No, Ren.” Ereka said. “Thank you.”

“For wh-” His words were cut off as Ereka kissed him full on the lips. Ren's eyes widened and he held his hands out to the sides, and didn't kiss her back.

Ereka stepped back and smiled. “You saved my brother from the clutches of a crazy giant.”

“I sent him into the giant lands, though.” Ren said.

“That was his choice.” Ereka said. “You gave him as much help as you could, didn't you?”

“Of course I did.” Ren said.

“Then that's all that matters.” Ereka said. “Groggot's always had a fire under his butt for adventure.”

“A... a fire...” Ren said, then all the blood drained from his face. “Oh, no! I left the baby fire elemental at the mines!” He said, and ran for the door.

“STOP!” Nathalia commanded, and Ren stopped with the front door open. “Get back here. Right now.”

“But I have to go!” Ren said.

“Now.” Nathalia said sternly. Ren shut the door and walked over to her.

“Nathalia, please...”

“Instead of just running off every time you hear something, or remember something...” Nathalia said. “...you might start by talking about it.”

“I... I'm sorry.” Ren said. “The baby fire elemental has been at the mines the whole time I've been gone.” He said calmly. “I have to go there right away.”

“For what?” Nathalia asked. “To discover it's not there?”

“Wh-what?!?”

“That's right.” Nathalia said. “If I hadn't stopped you just then, you'd have run all that way, only to find that the pen it was in is empty.”

“Oh, no.” Ren said, and sat down on the couch. He put his head in his hands and his elbows on his knees, then sighed. “What... what happened to it?” He finally managed to ask.

“I went and picked it up.” Nathalia said.

Ren's head whipped up and he stared at her as hope filled his face.

“You'd been gone for 2 days by then, and I was pretty sure no one was feeding the poor thing.”

Ren stood up and hugged her tightly. “Oh, thank you. Thank you!” He said, and kissed her deeply. “Where is it?”

“I... I made... a pen in the courtyard.” Nathalia said, a little flustered. Ren kissed her again and ran out of the room. “Hey, I said not to do that!”

“Sorrrrrry!” Ren said, and disappeared out the front door.

*

“That man.” Nathalia said, and shook her head.

“That man is back.” Ereka said, and gave Nathalia a hug. “Loving an Adventurer definitely has it's ups and downs.”

Nathalia looked at her with wide eyes, and they both started to laugh at what Ereka had just said.

*

Ren looked around quickly, and found a large stone brick enclosure; then was surprised to find what was inside. It was the baby fire elemental like Nathalia had said, except it was about a foot and a half long now, and not much of a baby. It still only had the 4 stubby fire legs that it had when it was small, though. Ren hopped into the pen, and knelt.

“Hey, there.” Ren said, and the fire elemental shifted colors slightly, and extended it's head-like stub. “I'm sorry I've been away.”

The fire elemental walked cautiously over to him, and he held out a hand. It came a little closer, and Ren moved the hand down and tickled it's underside. He could hear the sound of a crackling fire; but it was much louder now, and the fire elemental's color changed to a bright orange and it jumped on him. Ren started laughing and hugged it, as it's head stub poked him in the face a few times; almost as if it was kissing him.

“Yes, I missed you, too.” Ren said. “Boy, did I ever miss you.” He said and took out several pieces of spider silk scraps.

The fire elemental took them and shoved them inside itself, glowed white for a few seconds, and they were gone.

“Nice!” Ren said, and rubbed it's head. “You must eat a lot if that doesn't give you trouble anymore.”

“It sure does.” Nathalia said as she came out of the house. “I've got a standing order at the lumber yard.”

Ren picked the elemental up and tossed it into the air a few feet, and it glowed orange with a bit of blue. “Are you a glutton?” He asked as he caught it. “Does my favorite little elemental like to eat?”

It shifted color slightly, and Ren smiled. He saw the old pen had been used as part of the wall, and the fire bricks there were still putting out fire, but only a tiny amount compared to the size of the elemental.

“I think a slight modification of your pen is needed.” Ren said. “Would you like more heat and fire?”

