Its color shifted slightly again, and he enchanted a pile of bricks on one side with wind and fire glyphs. When he activated them, it covered nearly half of the pen, and the fire elemental jumped right into the center of it. Ren could see it stretch and then lounge as it basked in the windy flames.

“I'm heading to work.” Nathalia said. “Want to walk me over?”

“Always.” Ren said, then hopped out of the pen and joined Nathalia at the gate. They went through it, were greeted by the guards, then they walked down the road to the restaurant.

“You're going back to the Garrison, aren't you?” Nathalia asked.

“Yes.” Ren said. “I have to see what they did with the giants.”

“You could just call.” Nathalia suggested, and Ren laughed.

“You're definitely smarter than me.” He smiled. “I'll do that to let them know I'm coming.”

Nathalia shook her head. “If I told you not to go, you'd still go, wouldn't you?”

“I didn't see Princess, Riley, or Stacy.” Ren said. “I have to go and get them, at least.”

“Ren.” Nathalia stopped walking in front of the restaurant, and turned to him. “Please, I don-”

“Stop.” Ren said. “If you tell me not to do something that I need to do, it's only going to hurt you more when I leave to do it.”

Nathalia sighed. “So, you really would ignore me and go.”

Ren stepped in close to her, and cupped the sides of her face. “You've known all this time that there are certain things that I'm going to do, no matter what.” He said. “Now, I want you to remember one of the main precepts of the military.”

Nathalia put her hands on top of his hands that held her face. “What is it?”

“Never give an order you know will be disobeyed.” Ren said and smiled. “I'll be back as soon as I can.”

“What about working in the mines?” She asked, and he kissed her.

“I'm taking the afternoon off to spend it with the woman I love.” Ren said. “I've got almost 5 days of work caught up already from that last little stunt. I can afford to take an afternoon off.”

Nathalia shook her head. “What am I going to do with you?”

“Anything you want to.” Ren whispered to her, gave her another quick kiss, and Nathalia blushed slightly because she was thinking about all the possibilities. He stepped away from her, waved, then ran down the road.

“I'm so glad you're okay.” Teepo said.

Ren laughed. “I died, Teepo. That's not really okay in my book.”

Teepo chittered in delight. “You're back, so everything is okay.” He said. “I see one of the Screaming Terror rings is missing.”

“Yeah. It dropped as loot.”

“What else did you lose?” Teepo asked.

“Just over 32 platinum, and something random from inventory.” Ren skidded to a stop. “I hope I didn't lose a crafting station or something!” He opened his inventory, and checked it quickly. “No, I've still got them all.” He looked a little more. “Then what... oh, crap.”

“What is it?”

“I lost the little wooden box from Lord Lodur's loot.” Ren said. “With the shadow coins in it.” He closed his inventory and started running again. Maybe if he was extremely lucky, no one would have gone into the pit yet.

“There's no chance of that.” Teepo said. “That place is a gold mine for loot.”

“I know.” Ren said, but kept hoping anyways.

********

“Ha!” Max, the programmer at Sid Tec said. “Craig, you owe me ten bucks!”

Craig counted out ten pretend dollars and threw them at Max.

“Thanks!” He said and pretended to grab at the falling bills. Once he had collected them all, he grinned. “I knew that kid was smart.” He said. “Now we have to wait and see if he's smart enough to get them back.”

********

Ren took out the Sending Square for the Commander of the Garrison, and concentrated on him.

“Good morning, Commander.” Ren said. “I'm sorry to bother you.”

“Welcome back.” The Commander's voice said.

“Thanks.” Ren said. “I'm coming to pick up my mount and dogs.”

“The door's open.” He said. “I'm sure they are eager to see you.”

“It doesn't really sound like you are.”

“Oh, I am.” The Commander said. “Meet me in my office.”

“I'll be right there.” Ren said and put the Sending Square away. This should be fun. He thought sarcastically as he took the corner to run up the road to the Garrison.

“It'll be fun if you want it to be.” Teepo suggested. “Or not.”

“Okay, this will be fun.”

“That's the spirit!” Teepo said. “Now run faster!”

Ren laughed as he ran as fast as he could, which was pretty fast considering his boots let him run twice as fast as he normally did.
