“Only one of us is a pure black mana caster, and you are also our employer. Normally, the treasure should be yours. Treasures.”

Irao brought back an early Christmas present. Two more cores of a similar size to the other. She wasn’t sure, but she thought the price of those would be enough to retire a rich woman in any large city. At least a hundred gold talent per piece, easy. Of course, those would not be sold. She had a nice project in mind that would make her heavies protected in battle. Those would be the batteries.

She was juggling them with joy when Solfis spoke.

//Your Grace.

//There is another prize.

Now that the nascent necrarchs were dead, their absence revealed the back of the armory. Little was left of the original weapons save for faded trails of rust along the sheer walls. The chains binding the monsters had disintegrated as well, leaving behind shards of striated black iron. It made the surviving object that much more threatening. Viv approached, watching the grisly weapon with concern.

[Skull mace, artifact. Once used for ritual sacrifice and as a badge of office for the high priest, this potent weapon has been twisted by the death of its creator. Cursed. It is not suitable for use by any naturally-occuring creature of Nyil.]

Before Viv could even think about tricks, a new window opened.

That means you as well for the purpose of defining ‘naturally occurring.’

Don’t touch it. Even you won’t break it easily.

Viv needed that instruction the same way she needed to be told not jump ass first into a volcano. If an aberrant could be an object, it would be the abominable assembly of spikes, twisted bone, and cancerous obsidian this apparatus seemed to be made of. Only a B-movie power-hungry antagonist would touch that horror and hope for anything but to be turned into an ulcer. ‘Cursed’ was an understatement.

“What the fuck are we supposed to do with that?” she asked no one in particular.

Solfis stepped to the thing, grabbed it, then shoved it into a bag.

//We shall sell it to Elunath, of course.

“Errrrr,” Viv replied, a little unsure.

“The good decision would be to bring it to a temple of Neriad to be destroyed,” Solar said reproachfully.

//Then let us hope…

//That Elunath will take a good decision.

“You think he’ll buy that thing?”

//Undoubtedly.

//If not out of interest, then out of concern.

//He will never trust you with such a dangerous tool.

“I don’t know, giving a cursed artifact to a powerful, overconfident mage sounds like a recipe for disaster.”

//I estimate he will analyze the mace then destroy it himself.

//In the unlikely event where he is corrupted.

//Note this is below 4%.

//Then his fall will lead to the destruction of Helock.

The room fell silent while Solfis stood there, unfazed.

//Tragic.

//A terrible loss.

“I can notify the temple,” Sidjin said. “If he doesn’t destroy it, they will.”

Solar shrugged.

“As long as it is destroyed, I care little. Sidjin is correct. Elunath would be a fool to keep it, and one has not reached his level of power by being a fool. Let him have it, if it will help Bob survive.”

“Right,” Viv said, “Let’s have a break, then we’re off.”

After taking a minute to recover, the party was ready. Once again, magically reinforced bodies and minds came in clutch. Being surrounded by people on the fourth step or above really drove home how much Nyil turned its more determined denizens into super soldiers. The survivors, in any case. It was not just the ability to cut rock with a sword. Even their mental resilience improved, allowing them to brush off near-death experiences. She wondered how a society with supermen would look in a world like earth. It probably wouldn’t be too great.

“I think we should finish exploring this floor,” Solar said, “I don’t want things to come at our back again.”

//The black mana density here is lower.

//Should the necrarch return while we are here, it would not fight at its maximum potential.

//I believe the decision is sound.

“Right.”

Staying in formation again, they explored the study rooms next. It was a large, open space with pillars set at regular intervals and some alcoves dug into the sheer rock with tables and seats. Viv believed the empty space might have housed a storage space for scrolls or books. Unfortunately, nothing was left of it. Regular openings on one side showed the night sky, partially cloudy. Whoever had dug them had also woven the consumed stone into an overhang, protecting it from most rains. It was cleverly designed for comfort despite the Spartan appearance of stone furniture. Perhaps, a long time ago, this place of study might have been covered in pelts and colorful cloth. She would never know. In any case, only Solfis found something valuable.

//Those inscriptions on the wall show the totality of the ancient glyphs used in their alphabet.

//With a sample that size and by cross-referencing ancient Enorian dialects, I will be able to decipher those texts.

//Eventually.

“This is all fascinating but we have more pressing issues than archeology,” Viv said.

//I do not need time.

//I have saved all the texts to my database.

//We can move on to the last part of the upper floor complex.

//The garden of fertility.

Viv wondered what would be left of the garden, if anything was left at all. The path leading there winded up to what Viv was the secondary, open-air entrance she had spotted from afar. It was bound to have a nice view, at least. She just hoped there wouldn’t be any traps.

The party followed the winding stairs leading there. The higher they got, the more certain Viv grew that there was something left.

The first thing that hit them was the smell. A pungent and acid wind hit her nose full on, more chemical and unpleasant than truly revolting. Its cloying intensity pushed Viv to place a tissue in front of her nose.

“Hmm, are we being poisoned or something?”

//No airborne toxins detected.

//No mana signature detected.

“So this is a normal smell?”

“Nothing normal about that,” Solar said, “but it won’t kill us.”

“I have experienced many fragrances from courtesan-made perfumes to charnel pits, but nothing quite like that,” Sidjin added in a subdued voice.

Stinky.

“Right. If we’re going to do it, let’s do it.”

They climbed more, staying close to the walls. Their silent ascent finished on a landing lit by the light of Nyil’s moon. Solfis went first but he stopped and tilted his head a way Viv did not quite understand. Solar followed and gasped, then Sidjin. Viv hurried to see what was the big deal. She regretted her enthusiasm instantly.

The sacred place around them spread to the edge of the cavern where the roof dropped suddenly into the abyss below. The weather had cleared a bit and with silvery light shining freely over the ‘garden of fertility’, its blasphemous nature was revealed in all its gruesome horror. The garden was a forest linked by patches of vegetation, except, it was all meat. Quivering planes of pinkish flesh like flayed muscle, still oozing blood with every palpitation linked together trunks of bones, leaves of sinew, fleshy fruits of purple tissue that pulsed lymph over the cartilage bark. The field of gore did not stand idle. It beat from a hundred hearts in a quiet cacophony that sent this gigantic mass of meat shivering and moaning, the exposed tibias and humerus creaking under the strain of their nerve-wracked dance, and in the midst of it all, at the base of the tallest tree, there was a single, perfect eye.

As large as a plate, the organ could have made a painter weep. The curve of its lid, the length of its lashes, the perfect, radiant color of its iris spoke of a stupendous beauty made that much more gruesome by the surrounding, grisly display. Viv watched the pupil enlarge but she could not tell if it was surprise, relief, panic, or anger. There was not enough humanity around it to determine anything more than the fact it reacted. The ungodly glare settled on Viv.

An instant later, the iris turned green.

“Oh FUCK no.”

Before Viv could react, Solar screamed and cut. The tree split in two. Phlegm-drenched ichor hit Viv’s boots on its way down. Ropes like intestines, or intestines like rope, shot from the gutted trunk to reunify both parts in a concerto of tortured bones. The eye started to regrow while the shed humor slid from the wound in a viscous mass. Sidjin screamed as well. Fire licked the fetid garden, forcing hisses and spasms, each new wound spitting more liquid until the blaze was smothered. The two men kept attacking the regenerating mass.

//Your Grace.

//Their minds are under attack.

Viv finally perceived it, an insidious strike on her soul. Something crawled and tried to revolt and attract her at the same time. Her soul was strong, however, and her own leadership and mental skills shored up the defenses. She cast a quick analysis on the pulsating mass of flesh.

[Corrupted garden of the jovial pudge. Fallen, living artifact, twisted by the fall of its maker. Extremely dangerous…]

“Wait…” Viv said, “that thing has combat abilities. Guys! Snap out of it!”

“Squeeeee!”

Arthur was less affected, trying to pull back a struggling Sidjin.

“Ok. Enough. Eldritch wall.”

Viv aimed at the edge of the cavern and cast, tentacles closed all around them. A quick spell blocked the organic dirge of the dying and reborn garden. This left the men sagging against the walls, out of breath.

Viv stood between them and the horror garden, now blocked from sight. She could feel the black and life mana behind settling down.

“Alright, everyone, calm down.”

//They are going to need a moment.

//Their vitals are returning to normal.

//Well done.

“You could have pulled them back,” Viv reproached.

//I apologize, Your Grace.

//I am not equipped to react adequately to unique events.

//I calculated that it was best to leave you the decision on how to proceed.

“Oh, yeah. Sorry.”

The two poor lads were breathing hard, their eyes staring in empty space with a thousand yards stare. Or nine hundred and fourteen point four meter. Same thing, Viv thought. It seemed that they were recovering. She hoped they were, because eldritch body-horror-induced madness aside, they were still on the necrarch’s territory.

//In any case, well done for resisting the mental attack.

She had, yes. Viv frowned. That didn’t make sense. Sidjin had better mental stats than her, for sure, and she strongly felt that Solar had soul sense. Both of them had seen some shit in their days. Hell, Sidjin had lived through them. There was little reason why she would resist better than the others.

“Why did it not work on me?” she asked.

//I suspect it may be due to your outlander mindset.

“Should it not be the contrary?”

//Your Grace, you do not see the gods as gods.

//Superior and unattainable.

//You once employed the term ‘Immature overgrown manchildren on a power trip’.

***

Back in the city of the gods, in the Palace of a Thousand doors, a man flipped a page from a book without end.

“Now that’s just rude,” he said.

Then after a moment.

“Although not entirely inaccurate.”

***

//Your lack of faith in the divine nature of the gods means that the dark ones’ horror has a lesser impact on your psyche.

“You guys going to be alright?” Viv asked.

Solar nodded his head slowly while Sidjin shook his.

“I need a little time. Such abomination. How can you not see it and witness a reflection of your own fallible flesh?”

“Because I don’t need a big monster to remember old age is a thing? Besides, it won’t happen to me. I either die or become immortal, remember?”

Viv wiggled her eyebrows under the scowl of her lover, but Sidjin chuckled a moment later and his shoulders grew just a little less hunched.

“Thank you for grounding me.”

He grabbed her hand, then kissed her lightly.

“I wish Wamiri was here,” Solar grumbled.

“Sorry, I don’t do friends with benefits,” Viv deadpanned.

“That’s not —” Solar sputtered. “Wait. You are trying to distract me.”

“Is it working?”

“Please do not mention offering sexual favor to colleagues in front of me, dear,” Sidjin pleaded.

“Alright that is quite enough of this. You are all lucky the necrarch didn’t pick this moment to attack.”

Won’t!

I am standing guard.

Vigilant dragon!

“How come you were not afraid?” Viv asked.

Lots of meat.

Not fresh, not tasty.

Blegh.

What is scary?

“Nevermind.”

//I suspect our target may not like this place, Your Grace.

Viv wasn’t sure. Why would the embodiment of undead body horror not like body horror? Speaking of, was that a living artifact? How could that happen?

“It said ‘corrupted garden of the jovial pudge’. Does that mean anything to you?” she asked.

//I have formulated a hypothesis.

//This was an altar to Gomogog.

“Aaaaah. Yeah. Clearly,” Viv said, remembering the specific mix of black and life mana Kazar tower’s cook had displayed, an eternity ago. It was the same blend as what the horrid artifact had shown.

//I suspect Gomogog may not have always been a dark god.

This shocked Solar and Sidjin, sending the two in a new episode of stupor.

“Please stop distracting them,” Irao asked.

“Ngah!” Viv screamed. “I forgot you were here, sorry.”

“I was hiding.”

“Ugh I’ll never get used to this. Anyway, Gomogog, not a dark god from the start. Wait, so the statues below…”

//The huntress with spider traits represents Octas, the Spider Queen.

//The fat man is Gomogog.

//The destroyed statue is of unknown nature, perhaps Efestar, the God of Scorn.

//The bloated one, I would not know.

//And you already recognized Enttiku.

“Wait, so Enttiku did not fall but the others did?”

//Perhaps.

