//Those are all conjectures at this point.

“Anything we can use against the necrarch?”

//My algorithm returns no viable tool.

//But perhaps you can think of something.

Viv considered the question for a moment.

“Do necrarchs retain memories from their time alive?”

//It would be better to say that they regain some.

//Natural necrarchs can speak the language they had while they were alive.

//Although they do not seem capable of discussion, only soliloquy.

//It is difficult to assess the intelligence level of a necrarch, due to a small sample size.

//And the fact that they are deadly and irredeemably evil.

“What, if the necrarch was originally a human who lived here?” Viv asked. “I mean, one of the original dwellers, not an invader. That would explain why it did not move to the deadlands.”

“It could also be due to its territoriality,” Sidjin said.

“Well, no matter what, I got an idea.”

“How about we talk about it downstairs? I don’t want to stay next to that thing,” Solar replied.

It was agreed that the proximity of what Viv judged to be a David Cronenberg wet dream wasn’t exactly conducive to a good discussion. The party reconvened near the armory.

“So, the original goal was to slowly corner it, but I think we can bypass that with a proper lure. If it’s one of the original dwellers, then it might take offense if we desecrate its territory like the invaders did.”

The rest of the party didn’t seem impressed.

“What makes you think it’s not an invader?” Solar asked.

“Because they won. The place was sacked and abandoned. They even defaced the directional signs. And winners bury their dead, especially here, on Nyil. Whatever corpse turned into this necrarch did not receive a proper funeral.”

That seemed to sway them a bit.

“Assuming it was indeed an original dweller and not, say, a scavenger killed by a trap or simply an adult necrarch migrating to a suitable den, if we do come up with something it hates, how can we use it to our advantage?”

“We draw it in a place that only has one way out, then seal the exit. That way, it can’t retreat to heal.”

“It also means that we back it into a corner and then fight to the death,” Solar observed. “That will make it even more deadly.”

//I surmise it is preferable to attrition against a necrarch.

//That is where most of its advantages lay.

“Let’s explore downstairs a bit more. Ideally, we want a long corridor with an exit at the end in case we need to flee.”

“We can use the armory again,” Sidjin said.

Viv considered that option. It was a dead end, however. It meant they would be trapped in the dark with the necrarch. She shared her concerns, but Sidjin had a solution ready.

“I’ll set a spell to collapse the floor in case we need to evacuate. I will prepare it in a way that any of the casters can activate it, should I perish in the fight.”

“But there is nothing to desecrate in the armory,” Irao observed.

Viv frowned. He was right. The necrarch would be offended if she started to go after the statues or some other significant landmark, but the statues were in a wide cavern. She didn’t think it would be a good idea to go after the garden again, since that thing could kill them. Perhaps there was another way?

“I have another idea. Instead of desecrating, we could consecrate.”

“Uh?”

“That means, let me pray for a while.”

***

The in-between.

Soul mastery had not led her to that strange space. Instead, it had placed her in a state of calm that had brought her to the edge. From there, gentle hands had plucked her consciousness from this reality to drag her into the infinite expanse of non-existence, where time and space were not laws but tricks her mortal mind used to interpret what she perceived. Once more, she stood small and bubbling next to the planet-size existence that was Neriad, the soft glow of its presence twisting the fabric around it. Another planet approached. While Neriad was gold like a dawn sun, this one was blue and deep, deeper than an ocean, a little cold as well. The darkness was a presence and a mask, not the absence of the void. While Neriad protected, this one hid and taught. There was a drop, and she was sitting at a table in a small glasshouse, flowers blooming all around.

Viv inspected her surroundings. This was reality, but she was not present here. Not really. Viv felt no need to move to take the steaming cup of tea waiting in the white, round table in front of her. Exquisite glass windows led to the outside, showing only blue sky and distant clouds. It was broad daylight here though night had fallen on most of Param. Strange architecture grew to her right where the place she was in — was it a city? — continued.

There were two men sitting with her.

The first was Neriad, easily recognizable from his aura. He was a tall man clad in golden chain and plate armor with a beard and long flowing hair. His face was handsome in an old playboy sort of way, with small crow feet and a hint of gray at the temple that lent him an air of respectability. His posture inspired calm and power. Viv looked briefly into the golden orb of molten fire of his eyes before averting her gaze. He smiled at her with gentle warmth.

The other was a man with dark hair, exotic traits, in a long blue robe that screamed ‘war mage’. He was taller than Neriad yet slimmer, and just as focused. His eyes were shifting nebulae of the deepest indigo. Viv did not manage to focus on them for more than an instant. Viv knew who it was, again from the aura. This was Maradox, the God of Secrets, one of her protectors.

“This place brings back memories,” Neriad finally said in a soft basso.

“We should have excavated them. I did warn Emeric.”

Neriad shrugged.

“Just like you to say ‘I told you so’ millennia after the fact. You know who to aim your recriminations at.”

“How convenient for him to disappear to avoid this fate.”

“Yes. Lucky, is it not?”

Neriad chuckled but Maradoc scowled. Eventually, the God of Secrets turned his attention to Viv.

“We are inclined to assent to your request, although you do not deserve this service from us, having not dedicated your existence to our worship.”

“Saying unkind words!” Neriad added.

“Stop eavesdropping,” Viv thought very hard at them.

She did not have a voice and her thoughts were hard to express and aim in a clear way. Nevertheless, she perceived the humor in the expressions of the god and expected she would get away with the tiny jab. She was proven correct.

“We are gods. It comes with certain perks,” Neriad admitted. “What my pompous friend is saying is that we messed up and you’ll have to clean for us, so we’ll do you a solid and assist as we can.”

“But bear in mind that this is a one off. There is a price to dealing with us. One we will mostly wave, except for one small detail. You will keep what you learn secret.”

“The others though…”

“You are not the only one who will learn or has learned the truth. What I demand is that you do not share this with your adopted people. Your voice is loud on Nyil, louder than many mortals. You will keep this knowledge out of your teachings.”

“The knowledge that you were the ones who razed that temple?”

The two gods smirked.

“Yes, and the rest as well.”

“You were humans then,” Viv said.

“We were. All of us were.”

The realization struck Viv as… incredible. If they had done it, then…

“You already see us as… anthropomorphized beings, prone to mortal flaws. A consequence of your upbringing, I suppose. What you have learned now is that we were humans long ago. This and the rest, you must keep quiet. The order we promote becomes more brittle with every person who thinks they, too, can become us. That we are no better than them. We are. We achieved the impossible on many levels. I also assure you that our revolt was necessary and that we were the first successes in a long, long line of failures. Civilization rose with us. It is not as stable as one may think.”

“Before we struck the old pantheon, humans lived in caves and hid in trees. We were the scavengers of this world, fighting the beastlings for leftovers. Our struggle took centuries. Do not belittle our efforts, outlander.”

“Did not mean to insult,” Viv thought.

Out of all the gods, those two were alright. She thought that very hard and let them see her true feelings.

“Thank you, child,” Neriad said. “Now return and pray to us.”

“And remember that your prayer is a binding agreement that you will not share what you learn. If you break that oath, I will shatter your soul.”

“Understood,” Viv said. “That’s fine by me. I’m not trying to cause a godly revolution.”

Her vision faded, but not before hearing a last amused comment from Maradoc.

“I used to say that as well.”

Soul Mastery: Beginner 4

***

“You just… fell asleep?” Sidjin asked in disbelief when Viv opened her eyes again.

“I got the green light. Meaning I got approval to start, but first we must set up the trap. How long until the next attack?”

//Ten minutes at most before full arm regrowth.

Viv turned to Sidjin.

“I’ll make it work,” he said.

The party returned to the armory. Viv set a semi-permanent light enchantment since it was dark and she didn’t want to have to focus on anything else but the fight. Sidjin prepared a hole in the ground spell to allow people to jump down to the level below, should all else fail, which took him only moments. Viv wondered how he knew the spell so well, but his haunted expression hinted that it would be a sad memory.

After that, Sidjin set a two-level trap. The first would collapse the tunnel behind the necrarch while the second would set up a grinder spell to stop it from digging.

“The spell denies area to several weak monsters, not a single strong one,” the mage lamented. “I made a few modifications on the fly but it will only slow it down. The necrarch’s resistance to magic has already been proven.”

“That’s fine. Even if the trap fails, so long as we do significant damage, the investment will have been worth it.”

//We need to set the trap now, Your Grace.

//Or the creature will have the time to come up with new tricks to harass us.

“Understood. I’ll start right away.”

Viv sat in a lotus position in the middle of the armory, on the cold ground. She took an instant to engrave the shield of Neriad and the symbol of Maradoc, which was a vault gate, on the stone floor. It only seemed proper.

“Right. Maradoc, Neriad, you have watched over us for thousands of years. I ask for your support once more. Please shine your light on this forsaken place and place a beacon for all that is good, so we may finish what you started.”

Viv hesitated, her catholic-trained mind naturally going for ‘amen’. It just didn’t feel right.

Besides, it was unnecessary. Her prayer had been heard.

Blue and golden light surged from the symbols, bathing the naked stone in an otherworldly light. Viv sighed in contentment, realizing that the cloud of anxiety-inducing black mana had dispersed in this place for the first time in eons. The light grew and made her spell redundant, but she didn’t mind. It was beautiful.

The humans present relaxed. Even Irao briefly reappeared to shake his shoulders. Arthur huffed, then put her snout next to the golden halo, thoughtful.

The most horrible screech Viv had ever heard shook the very mountain. A blast of malevolent black mana joined the sound attack but were dispersed by the mages’ protection backed by divine favor. This time, it was different. The necrarch’s yell did not convey the same malice and hatred as before. This time, it spoke of the maddest rage, the most insane fury. It told Viv that the hole Sidjin had prepared would be of no use, no use at all.

Either they killed it, or it would kill them. Right now.

“Guys, I think it worked!”
