“Thank you!” Sherly cried. Or at least, she attempted to. Belle moved her hand closer, offering the disgusting thing.

It was beating. Like a lump of flesh. Rotting and foul.

“Wha…?”

“Eat,” said Belle.

“Explain it first!” Kobeni interjected, massaging her butt. “Ow! Jeez! What you have here, Cowie, is a Domain Heart. It’s a waste to leave behind. So you should eat it before we get out of here.”

“Can’t you just eat it instead?” Sherly asked. But Belle insisted and she reactively held out her new hands, accepting the disgusting gift. “Sorry… If I choose not to eat this, are we unable to get out?”

“Well, the thing is,” Kobeni started, scratching the back of her head. “Ah, wait, sorry. Belle, you can go help the others. Start retreating so we can hop off quicker.”

“Roger,” said the blue cow girl before vanishing.

“Where was I? Oh, yeah, the Domain Heart.” Kobeni cleared her throat. “The thing is, we already have our own Domain Hearts. It’s basically a dimension stored near your heart. You can store a bunch of things inside, so long as those things don’t have their own Domain Hearts.

“Since you’re new, we’re pretty sure you don’t have one, so it’s a waste to just leave it. If you claim this place as your own, then we can sanctify it and abolish Taurus’ influence in this place.”

“Wait…” Sherly looked around and stared. She didn’t quite get what Kobeni was talking about, so she asked for clarification. “You mean, we’re inside Taurus’ Domain Heart? But I thought you said we can’t put anything or anyone who already has one?”

“Semantics, some antics…” Kobeni pressed her lips and tilted her head. “Actually, Zodiacs have a weird way with it, but the principle’s technically the same. There’s a better time to explain the details later. In any case, if you eat the Heart, this place will be purified and you’ll claim it as your own, then you can store a bunch of things and make it your own place.”

She pointed towards the meaty landscape. “Technically, all of this will disappear and you’ll start a blank slate. The only difference is, you’ll start with a domain size already as big as this one, because it technically belongs to a Zodiac. If nothing else, think of it as weakening Taurus. Well, it’s barely a dent, but we do what we can, ya know?”

“How big, exactly?” Sherly asked, holding the Domain Heart in her new hand. It was still beating slowly.

Kobeni smiled. “Well, just look around you. Do you see where it ends?”

“No…”

“Well, there you go!”

Without another moment’s hesitation, Sherly ate the Domain Heart. It almost choked her. Kobeni manifested a glass of water.

“Calm down, Cowie. It’s all yours.”

The purple cow girl sent another flare with her mana. Yellow, this time. Immediately, Belle and the others retreated towards them. Sherly noticed they were other cow and bull-zilims.

“Did she eat it?” Belle asked.

“Yep!” Kobeni said, hopping to her feet and offering Sherly a hand. “Time to go!”

A white portal appeared behind them.

“Enjoy it while it lasts, Sherly!” Taurus taunted, as the invaders retreated one by one. “In the end, you will all bow down to me!”

Sherly took a deep breath. If there was one thing she had always wanted to do her entire life, it was to shout back at the people who kept messing up her life.

“One day, Taurus! I’m going to take your place!” Sherly declared, putting all of her effort screaming as she was dragged into the portal. With tears, she kept yelling. “I swear, I will end you! I’ll be the holiest cow and end your life, demon!”

Taurus’ laughter was gone, but Sherly, with her incredible hearing, made out his words even through the portal.

“Let me see you try, Sherly! Let me see you try!”
