Slotting in other improvements wasn't difficult either. I gave each golem greater control of their bodies, but not in movement alone. Unlike old models, these core golems would be able to adjust their forms like I did. They'd be able to shift their forms at will as long as the telepathic points held.

I ensured that with cipher runes in the blue core. Those storm formations helped the bodies of the golems regenerate in a specified way. It operated similar to my own recuperation; every time I was blown apart, I restored with all my runes back in place. At least the cipheric ones. Schema's sigils blew apart and didn't return, but the cipher held firm even after death.

That was a necessity. Even for me, I couldn't avoid the occasional evaporation against the primevals, so I gave my golems a similar ability. If utterly destroyed, the core would remain. If even a tiny slither of my dimensional fabric lingered, the dungeon heart would remake the body from ash, good as new.

It even let my golems adapt and adjust on the fly. They needed sword arms? Easily done. What about a hammer for a head? Goofy but doable. The storm sigils instilled that kind of adaptability into each golem, and the blue cores resided at the center of that ability. They offered a foundation to return to after molding, something the golems otherwise lacked.

I didn't limit these functions to just assault golems, either. I crafted four constructor golems as well, making a few changes for them. I added the same psionic edge, ensuring they used the plentiful opals all around us. I designed them around being paired to a city, two in each protected zone. This provided enough ambient, mental pressure to keep the rainbow bones shaped correctly.

As valuable as the bones were, having glistening bones as every surface kind of overwhelmed the eye. I made the constructor golems craft cities as before, just with rainbow bone as the base of structures rather than steel. That automated the process, leaving me plenty of time for other tasks.

The constructor's quintessence-based cores allowed them to power a utility grid here, too, maintaining the central monolith. This further emphasized the mana barrier's strengths, giving it even greater longevity. With this strong foothold established, civilization was on its way to Leviathan-7, and we wouldn't be stopped.

With everything fine-tuned for the cores and prototype bodies, I mass-produced them. However, I used a changed method. I molded myself into an exact replica of whatever golem I was building. Once everything was perfect, I compressed my dimensional wake to the utmost extent possible.

For assault golems, that wake was Event Horizon. For constructors, I condensed The Rise of Eden. I slowed down my construction to two golems per hour, making sure every line, angle, and rune came out exactly as I wanted them to. This resulted in a new breed of golems coming out of the process, one I gave the title of core golems.

Within my city, I constructed these engines of destruction. As I finished the armada, I stared down at twenty titans. Each of them stood my height at twenty-five feet tall. The war golems glimmered with ascendant mana, the crimson sigils over their surfaces charged with energy. They cackled out with flares of red lightning, and they gazed forward with destroy and harvesting on their minds.

The four constructors in the back gripped and loosened their smaller fists, quintessence misting off the sigils in their palms. The dense fog radiating off them instilled inspiration in those around, each a beacon of effort and diligence. Clouds of quintessence formed around, and liquid mana poured down before swirling around them. They wished to go forth and create a habitable world around us.

It was a tall order considering the state of Leviathan-7, but I gave them the necessary tools. It was up to them to make use of them. As for me, I stayed zoned in on my own goals. I left many coreless golems outside of this reinforced city. Several already perished while I constructed their new brothers, but most of my golems kept the algae from returning overhead.

Without a constant supply of behemoth bone shards, no primevals would spawn nearby. Without needing to clear those areas, we were free to expand outward. Walking out of my workshop, I peered out into the frontier, the echoes of distant rumbling reverberating into our stronghold. The cries of far off eldritch quaked the ground, even their wails mighty.

As I stared behind, a shiver ran up my spine. The core golems showed no fear, no mercy, and no doubt. They existed like the golems before them, their purpose singular, their duty resolved. The cackling of ascendant lightning boomed out thunder, the buildings around collapsing. Before the buildings could fall, quintessent mana soaked into the stone, rebuilding the broken.

The legion struck fear into all, and I stood at their head, the Harbinger of Cataclysm. Aiming to prove my title, I hastened the flow of time around me. Gravitational augments saturated my being, and I pocketed my furnaces for later. My own ascendant lightning crackled out over my core golems.

I grimaced at far-off primevals, ready to rip them apart. Event Horizon spread over my allies, and I roared,

"We are legion, we are strong, and we are harbingers to this planet. Tell me, who here is ready for Leviathan's calamity?"

The golems roared. I shouted,

"Let's give this planet its first taste of omen, and let's make the message undeniable."
