He must have felt her because he winked. Damn, but she was completely out of touch with all the cloak and dagger stuff. Her style was… different for sure.

Viv walked down the gangplank after the false heir, then stopped next to the captain as he argued with the Important Person who’d come to ‘welcome’ them. Several guards with spears stood at attention, curtailing them but also keeping the red ranks of the Sheem away. The beaky fuckers stayed at a reasonable distance, though here they outnumbered the blue guards. There was a peppering of patrols up and down the quay. Citizens were quietly walking into shops and taverns at a savvy pace. Viv couldn’t blame them.

She quietly stood by the captain alongside the other two fake travelers. She averted her eyes and took on the default posture while fully aware that the guards were inspecting her from hair to toe, with and without their skills. She wasn’t even mad, or tempted to defy them. It was just all so exciting because it was not just new, there were stakes. If she got found out, then the Sheem would attack immediately, causing the death of many Sandsong people. It was a contest, and she intended to win it.

Viv crushed the thought that she might have invited Irao as a precaution. He was not just needed back home, it was also like trying to sneak in a powder store and bringing a flamethrower for safety. She remembered the fucking golem buckets.

“While I understand your precautions, I must ask that you at least allow my passengers to leave the ship, as I promised to deliver them safe and sound.”

The city official gave all three ‘passengers’ a thorough look. Viv felt the nudge of an inspection skill brushing her soul, but the necklace must have worked because the man spent much more time glaring at the two fake noblemen than at her.

“Very well. They may stay… in custody until they prove their identity!” the man bleated with a tremulous voice that carried all the way to the Sheem.

He and the captain talked a little more in that loud voice that was meant as much for each other as for the people around. Viv listened with some attention though she also used the opportunity to look around. The streets were almost empty except for armed men by now, some of whom were not in uniform. The official was preventing the captain from getting down on suspicion of smuggling (no surprise), yet at the same time he was protecting him. Viv also noted that the two Sheem warships were preparing to raise anchor. It was going to be a bit of a problem.

Viv followed the official once he was done posturing. They traveled up the narrow streets past the locked gates of affluent estates. The smell of flowers and wet vegetation saturated her nose, yet it was also mixed with the scents of humanity. In this case, it was piss. They didn’t have the kind of advanced sewer system Sinur’s Gate claimed. More guards watched them pass by, some in white and blue, others in the liveries of local notables. It told Viv of a rather fragmented local authority which was always a bad sign.

The small squad finally reached the keep. It looked defensible enough, but it was also clearly more a last resort bastion than a real fortress. There was nowhere near enough room for the local population to hide in, even if they were to stand next to each other. The inner courtyard had stables, and two mages in gray turbans. They watched her with more attention than they gave her companions.

They were Viziman gray mages. Harrakan files called them ‘screechers’ although it was derogatory and reflected the fact the Viziman navies had handed Harrak their own asses the few times they’d met in battle. They used sound based tricks that she had never seen in person. Right now, she was letting off some transparent mana in a polite, ‘I’m warning you I’m here’ sort of way. It would reveal her as someone with great control but little reserves which was what an arcanist was supposed to be. She nodded as greeting before lowering her eyes and it was enough to be dismissed again.

Before entering, a glint in the sun caught her eyes. Camouflaged behind a wood panel, on a side tower, was a ballista. It looked heavily enchanted. It appeared the locals were more prepared to face hostilities than she’d first assumed.

The escort brought them to a small waiting hall centered around a long, low table. Men and women in worker garbs were drinking tea on well-worn cushions. The official gestured, and Viv found herself pulled by the arm towards a corner of the room by a guard who then waited around with half-assed attention. Another sailor was kept standing under strict guard while the third was led farther into the compound.

Viv sat on one of the cushions since that’s where she was. The locals spared her a curious glance before returning to hushed conversations. Soon, the guard she was with took a few steps to the side to discuss with a maid. A kindly old woman brought her a cup of something warm. Viv accepted gracefully.

“You’re alright, young lady?” the woman asked with an amused smile.

She had used a familiar term normally used for the mistress of a house. It was a sign of respect, one that Viv reciprocated.

“I hope so, grandmother. I really do.”

“Oh don’t let old man Dar scare you. If he had any bite in him, the Sheem would be out on their butts,” she claimed.

The nearby guard frowned but decided, after a measuring glare, that it wasn’t worth his time. It told Viv that the kind old woman was significantly more important than her simple dress suggested.

“You’re a traveler, yes? From the south?” her host asked.

“Yes, from Zazas.”

Viv offered a short, polite bow. It was the neutral kind used when one was not sure of the other person’s status but wished to be polite nonetheless. It made the old woman smile.

“I’m an arcanist,” Viv offered.

“Oh you are too modest. I can tell you are on the third step — an impressive achievement at your age! You’re here to work?”

“I have been requested, yes, although I was also asked not to share by whom.”

“You don’t have to,” the old woman replied. “You came here in old Kass’ ship, and the Sandsong are in dire need of some powerful weapon, hmmm? Don’t worry about a thing, darling. You’ll be fine.”

She left without ceremony which was a little abrupt, but then a younger maid came bearing a smile and a plate of biscuits so all in all, it was a positive first interaction. Viv just hoped she wouldn’t get poisoned.

The second fake noble was soon brought in with much protest which left Viv alone with a bored guard. A short trip to the lavatories revealed nothing of interest, only that the place was tense and its people worried. It took another ten minutes for her to be called forward. The guard left her through a series of narrow corridors towards a central room with so little care she could have slipped away by simply walking in the other direction. Like the rest of the keep, the ‘throne room’ felt oppressively narrow. Five people were waiting for her there.

The guard locked the door behind her.

This time, Viv gave her best curtsy. Two of the men were Janar, elite knights of Vizim. They both wore studded armor and sabers shining with enchantments that Viv recognized well. There was also a bored screecher mage who barely spared her a glance. Those were the usual retinue of someone pretty important everywhere: the intimidators, and the arcane bullshit experts. Viv would have used the same formula were she not also the intimidator and arcane bullshit expert herself. As for the important man, he was sitting on a platform, on a folding chair that didn’t look very comfortable. Enchantments engraved in the rock protected him from assassination attempts, which was a nice touch. They looked a bit flimsy though.  He wore an even larger turban and even more gold than the customs dude, making him, without doubt, the head honcho. Thus her curtsy. The last person present was Bad News: it was a Sheem man in red robes with some casting ability given the focus wand hanging from his waist. He had a long, well-oiled beard and the hooked nose Viv had seen on Wamiri. Viv would have cast him as Jaffar in an Aladdin live action within fifteen seconds of meeting. He was just perfect as the darkly charismatic evil vizier.

One of the Janar addressed Viv with impressive solemnity. It was even more shocking when she realized his mustache and voice were familiar.

“You stand before the great Dar, Lord of Ravinport by the grace of the Council of First Families, Flame of the East, The Builder, may Sardanal bless him. Bow.”

Viv bowed again which was received in silence. The mage sighed. His Boredom the great Dar was the first to speak with obvious annoyance.

“And her, dear Kit, is she also a dangerous and seditious element I should immediately throw in prison?” he asked.

‘You have no fucking idea,’ Viv thought to herself.

It was a bit of a struggle not to smile. Fortunately, only one of the Janar was still looking at her.

“You, woman, who are you and what are you doing here?” the Sheem spat.

Viv didn’t dare inspect him though she was curious. She eyed the lord who gave her a curt nod, ordering her to answer. Viv gave another short bow as she introduced herself and considered that three days of this kind of exchange with all the genuflexions and she would be able to crush watermelons between her thighs

“My name is Sai Jaratalassi. I am a Journeyman Arcanist from the city of Zazas, on Param. I have come at the express request of certain customers in order to provide magical services.”

“And who might those customers be?” the man demanded to know.

“I fear I was asked to keep this information secret. I beg you not to force me to break my word,” she replied.

It was Dar who spoke before the red-robed and now-red-faced man could press her.

“Why would you even need to ask. Kit? This old rascal Kass carried her here himself. This is the safest western port of the rain season, his niece has a dragon problem, and the lass is a weapon maker. A child would figure out who she’s here for.”

Viv kept her peace though Kit didn’t. His eyes narrowed as he searched her face for signs of weakness. Maybe. Or maybe Viv had crumbs on her nose.

“If you’re so famous he crossed the ocean to find you, then how come I have never heard the name Sai Jaratalassi before?”

Once again, Viv waited for Dar’s permission to speak. She wasn’t sure but she thought he was enjoying the deference she was giving him, and denying his Sheem ‘guest’.

“With all due respect, lord, you cannot afford my services, therefore there is no need for me to be known to you.”

Kit took a step forward but an arm blocked him. It belonged to the Janar who was definitely Sin, Captain Kass’ son. She remained impassive before his anger.

“Are you truly famous?” Dar asked.

“There is not a king or duke on Param who has not heard my name,” Viv replied with absolute confidence.

“Hmm. It sounds like the truth,” Dar said.

“Are you really an arcanist though?” Kit asked with a growing grin. “Surely, you do not mind me asking you a few questions then? To prove you are who you claim to be.”

Viv almost shrugged before remembering that wasn’t a local gesture. Instead, she made an extending hand gesture that symbolized a go ahead.

“How many links should you inscribe between the ‘exception’ and ‘condition’ glyphs,” he asked.

“None unless you mean for it to explode,” Viv deadpanned.

“Hmph! An apprentice would know that!”

Then why did you ask, Viv thought, though an arcanist would remain quiet in the presence of a lord so she did, too.

“What is the best pattern to draw the reinforcement enchantment?”

“I free hand everything,” Viv replied.

“Hah! Nonsense. And you call yourself a journeyman? What stylus is best when working with sword steel?”

“I only ever use my basic one.”

“She is an impostor! A liar! Everyone who has ever worked in enchantment knows that a thrice stamped steel stylus —”

Viv rolled her eyes. This guy was kind of annoying but at the same time, she could understand the growing doubt in the eyes of the lord and his mage. Viv didn’t have the knowledge of specific tools the others had because she could bypass the need for most of them. She had an option to save herself, though: a proof of skill.

“Your deflection enchantment is broken,” she told Lord Dar, interrupting Kit’s tirade.

The red-robed villain was so surprised, he actually stopped telling everyone she should be flogged.

“Pardon me?” Dar asked.

“You have a deflection enchantment engraved under your seat. It has been damaged and is currently inoperative.”

Lord Dar gave Viv a measuring look. She felt something poke at her, a soul imprint that was a mix between intimidation and leadership. Some paths merged them, though not all. Obviously it didn’t latch on her. He frowned.

“Captain Sin, strike your blade at my feet.”

Clang!

Viv watched the saber embed itself between the lord’s legs. The defensive shield had fizzled before it could even form.

Damn but Sin was fast. Not Solar fast but really up there. It was a reminder not to underestimate the locals.

Dar was still looking when Viv put her backpack down. She opened the latch and made herself not react to the two sabers suddenly placed under her chin. With very slow, very deliberate movements, she removed her arcanist’s kit from the top. She ignored the small vials of powder to grab her stylus and a ‘putty’ stick, which was a stick enchanted to soften the steel without heating it but only for a few moments. It allowed enchanters to repair broken arrays without having to weld new metal in the gaps.

“If I may?” she asked.

“This is the work of the famous enchanter Ahn. What makes you believe you can fix it?”

