“Your enchantment is broken and I am not charging you for my services. What risk are you taking?” Viv respectfully said, and by respectfully, she meant that she was not obviously condescending.

“Let the lass prove herself,” the mage suggested.

“Ah, very well.”

The chair was moved, the circle revealed, and Viv went to work. The enchantment itself was top notch but the surface it had been carved on was the stone that made most of the structures here. The white mineral was too soft, and countless hours of moving chairs with metal feet had dug enough grooves that the enchantment had fragilized, then crumbled.

“If I were you, I’d forge a three-dimensional silverite-steel alloy and hire a brown mana specialist to merge it into the platform. Much safer that way,” she suggested.

“I would very much prefer to spend that many gold talents on something more useful. Like new barracks,” a sarcastic voice replied on the side.

She ignored it. Normally, she would have simply carved a new enchantment with annihilation mana as it would have been faster, but here she was an arcanist and arcanists didn’t do that. The first step was to repair the obviously broken links using the putty stick and then carving properly over that with the stylus. It helped that the enchantment was neat, clear, and streamlined. She started with the feeding arrays which she suspected the mage had to recharge on occasion, then worked her way inwards.

“Hmph!”

Viv tsked in her mind. She’d committed a small inefficiency in her haste. It was fine though, easily corrected. The next section required a more thorough cleaning because the stone was pitted and cracked. Thankfully, the putty stick worked with stone as well.

“Pfft!”

Viv bit her lips. She knew what she was doing. Her work revealed a few issues a more cursory approach would have missed. She decided to address the shield formation before she finished all the feeding arrays just so she could do micro activations.

“Ridiculous.”

Viv turned to the red-robed man whose face was dangerously close, as in, within punching distance. She addressed him in Viziman.

“Shut the fuck up while I work or I’ll shove that entire stylus up your ass.”

She ignored the choking sound of outrage. That idiot was being shushed so it didn’t matter. Micro activations soon showed the shield was functional, then it was only a matter of repairing all the links one by one. Fuck but was that enchantment a mess of damage.

“Wish I had some normal steel, at least. It would stick to the enchantment if nothing else. Maybe get another chair, one with wooden feet. Or dig little wells to prevent it from sliding.”

“It will be done,” another voice said.

One last check, then she manually activated the enchantment. A transparent shield covered her in a light blue dome. It looked sturdy.

“Incredible. It is even more potent than before.”

Viv suddenly remembered she had shield mastery and arcane constructs in the late intermediate levels, which was too high even for a journeyman. Ah well.

“You truly are an arcanist,” Dar conceded with respect.

She turned, vaguely realizing she’d been in her little zone of concentration and fun unraveling and fixing that poor array. The only person who didn’t look happy was the Sheem.

“She insulted me,” he feebly tried, but his heart wasn’t into it.

“The mark of a true mana engineer,” the screecher mage commented. “For none who ply their craft tolerate comments from the back of the temple, from people whose hands are as idle as their tongues agile. Milord, I believe we have wasted enough time.”

“Very well. You are, without a doubt, an arcanist, Dame Jaratalassi. May I call you Sai?”

Viv curtsied once again. The lord’s gaze wandered to her toned forearms, which she’d revealed when she’d pulled up her sleeves.

Ah, oops.

“And may I ask if you would like to stay for a few days?”

“Milord, I am very grateful for your offer, however my customer needs me. Urgently.”

“Ah yes, indeed,” Lord Dar huffed, though he didn’t insist.

Kit’s eyes narrowed. Viv had done too good a job. Now that he believed she was a reasonably talented arcanist, it was his duty to prevent her from reaching the Sandsong Kingdom lest she actually helped them forge a weapon that could defeat a dragon. As he was about to speak however, a blue guard burst into the room without knocking. Dar stood to all his height before this intrusion. The guard, however, kneeled and spoke immediately.

“Lord Dar! The Sheem ships have taken it upon themselves to board the Opportunity. They are preparing to attack!”

“What is the meaning of this?” Lord Dar roared at the red-robed Kit who didn’t seem too happy with the development.

“I am sure there is a reason for their decision, milord. How can one not expect treachery from such a sordid individual as Kass?”

“How dare your compatriots infringe our sovereignty with such brazen audacity? The nerve! It appears I have been too tolerant and now your gall has grown to unbelievable proportions! Is this how you repay my hospitality? Guards! Seize him!”

Before Kit could react, the second Janar punched him in the face. He fell like a rock before he could even reach for his wand. Viv watched the intruding guard pull him by the feet and thought: boy am I glad it’s not me getting in trouble with the law, for once.

“Quick! To the walls!”

Viv followed the sprinting lord, mage, and the two Janar to a side corridor, and then up narrow winding stairs to the battlements. They all stared out at sea to find that the Opportunity was still pulling out from the pier, blue guards having formed a barrier against red-dressed ones. They had not come to blows yet, nor would they need to. The two warships were converging on the catamaran from the sides. Caught in the bay, Kass would not have the time to accelerate to make use of his ship’s unmatched speed.

“They dare.”

“Milord,” Sin said, “my father…”

“Is a great man. If only we could help him!”

“I shall fly out with my men,” the screecher mage announced.

“Ahem,” Viv interrupted.

Thanks to her earlier demonstration, their opinion of her seemed to have improved because they actually turned to her when she pointed at the ballista.

“Quick, call the siege specialists from the barracks!”

“Actually I'm relatively certain I can operate it,” Viv politely suggested.

“Lady Sai?”

“I have worked on siege equipment before. I am a colorless mana expert, and they tend to use a lot of it.”

“Of course, it is perfectly logical!” the city lord roared.

In reality Viv field tested everything Lak-Tak produced because she wanted to know which specific clause of the Geneva convention her people were going to violate. She jumped on the ballista while the Janar opened the wooden panels and the screecher mage rallied two others to fly down to the port. Viv cranked the string in seconds, then she grabbed a bolt from a storage crate and placed it on the war machine with a satisfactory sound of metal sliding where it belonged.

Dar was now staring at her biceps, taut under the dress because the bolt was on the heavy side. Yeah, that might become a problem later. She supercharged the enchantment and turned the ballista towards the closest red ship. It was maybe thirty seconds away from ramming the fleeing catamaran.

Sin was blocking her way. He looked very surprised.

“It… takes a team to rotate this contraption?” he hazarded.

“Move.”

He did. Thankfully, the ship was so close there wasn’t going to be much fall off. The sights were sensibly the same as they used in Param as well. She still checked the bolt angle, and pinched the string once just to be sure. Yep, solid stuff. She grabbed the lever.

“Loose!” she screamed.

The bolt took off with a loud twang. In the distance, the red warship’s deck exploded in a shower of debris. Its main mast fell on the rear castle with a cacophony of distant screams. It veered off course, and Kass deftly maneuvered the Opportunity so it would avoid getting hit. A few seconds later, the screecher mages engaged the second boat. Arrows were deflected by gray shields. A loud sound, like an incredibly loud cicada, made the water around the ship vibrate in a surreal display. A moment later, all of the ship’s sails fell to pieces.

Viv turned to see that Dar was now standing on the wall below the largest flag. He blew his horn as guards in varied liveries flooded the port.

“My brethren, my friends, hear me! In their arrogance, the Sheem have spat on our hospitality! They have violated their word! Will we bow before them, allowing them to trample us? I think not! To arms, my brothers! TO WAR!” he yelled, his aura flooding the city.

The red guards were piled on with a ferocity that spoke of long-held resentment, including from dockers who either crated or bodied the stragglers.

Viv sat on the battlement as well. She’d been in Vizim for all of two hours. In that short span, she’d passed a trial, sunk a ship, triggered a war, and accidentally seduced a muscle-loving city lord. Things were off to a fantastic start.
