I crept past the horde of gnolls without drawing their attention, dropping small cores enchanted to explode once they were triggered throughout the fake settlement.

It was an impulsive action, one I’d felt compelled to do after remembering a previous time I’d snuck through enemy territory in my old life. In fact, I believed those enemies had included gnoll-like entities as well, though those had been sapient versions of monsters instead of merely mobs.

It had been during a time of war, though, and those individuals were planning to actively attack innocent civilians. I’d never been the type to go around killing fellow sapients without a very good reason.

The twenty-second floor was very similar to the twenty-first, but had far more hyenas and gnolls. The boss was also a gnoll chieftain, which made eliminating its minions all the more important before challenging it.

Not that I had any intention of challenging the floor boss during this run.

While the silver-ranked concealing cloak would have likely been enough to fully hide me from the bronze-ranked creatures, I also had a manually cast stealth effect active. Though Veridia assured me slotting such a skill was unnecessary, it made sense to practice anything that might give me an advantage in my future endeavors.

That was the whole reason I’d spent more than a century training to use my abilities without the system’s assistance prior to ascending, after all.

I couldn’t use it quickly, and maintaining an unslotted ability was far more draining than using a slotted skill, but that didn’t mean recreating my old stealth spell was useless. I just needed time to set it up.

Along a similar vein, the exploding cores I’d enchanted were not nearly as effective as the talismans I’d been able to craft before ascending, but that didn’t mean they were not worth crafting.

They also took far more time to create, just like pretty much every other enchantment. While that meant I couldn’t use such artifacts as freely as I had before, I still found them useful when fighting groups of much stronger opponents, so I made sure to always have some on hand.

I’d made a few other types as well, but each one took a core that I would otherwise be able to absorb, so I couldn’t make too many.

“Alright. I’m done,” I whispered into my communicator when I made it back to the rendezvous point. “I decided to drop a few bombs along the way to add to the chaos and injure some of the mobs, so we’ll need to set those off before testing our equipment in close combat.”

We hadn’t engaged with anything so far since we’d been sticking to training with stealth thus far in the dungeon. But now that we had an opportunity to gain a good amount of essence, it made sense to take it.

Considering it was just the two of us, I’d wanted to do what I could to minimize our risk, and explosive talismans had always been my go-to approach in the past.

Stephen’s mirror falcon form descended from the false sky where he’d been keeping an eye out after his jaunt through the settlement in stealth. A moment later, the handsome, green-haired shifter stood next to me wearing his new gear.

Though we’d searched as we traveled across the floor, Stephen and I hadn’t located the floor’s challenge yet. We planned to look some more once our fight with the floor’s toughest, non-boss opponents was complete, but I wasn’t feeling all that positive about our chances of finding it during this delve.

“Are you ready?” Stephen asked.

“Hold on a sec,” I replied before retrieving the stave I’d received as part of my IRT equipment.

Though most of what we were meant to do revolved around training with stealth, our secondary purpose was to test our equipment and ensure everything worked as it should. We’d already tested the stealth equipment and verified it worked, but we needed to engage in combat to test the rest of our equipment.

I closed my eyes and envisioned the outcome that I wanted before mentally grabbing the essence around me and shaping it into the desired effect. It took several moments to manifest, but I felt it when the effect snapped into place.

“Nice. You got it to work on the first try this time,” Stephen said with a hint of pride.

I opened my eyes to see a familiar, dark purple blade of essence floating just a millimeter off the tip of my stave. I’d learned that as long as there was some distance between an essence effect and the weapon, my Staves skill would still work, even if I used the weapon like a polearm.

However, if the essence blade was directly attached to the weapon, the skill would not activate, requiring me to rely on my true capabilities without the skill’s assistance.

“You went with space instead of ice?” he asked. “Won’t that tire you out more quickly?”

“It’s barely worth worrying about,” I assured him.

As odd as it might seem, using space magic was a bit more draining than ice since the ice version was just a forced modification of my Ice Blade skill. Since I didn’t have a space-related variant, the entire casting had to be done manually, making it harder to sustain.

But as I’d told Stephen, the difference really wasn’t worth mentioning since forcing Ice Blade to work in a similar way would have still been nearly as taxing to maintain. I also got a small boost to using space magic since it was one of my core magic types.

After switching to the active version of my defensive Repulsion Aura skill, I nodded at my partner and triggered the bombs I’d left behind.

The noise was deafening.

“Watch out for the boss!” Stephen shouted as we rushed forward. “That was probably enough to draw it out of its lair.”

It absolutely was, but I’d left a few surprises outside the gnoll chieftain’s lair to warn us if that did happen. While we could probably defeat the mob easily enough with our overpowered equipment, that wasn’t our purpose for today’s fight.

Sure, we’d still do it if it came down to it, but I preferred to wait and challenge the boss using our own strength instead of relying on outside equipment.

“Got it. I’m activating stealth and going left,” I told him.

“I’ll go right. Be careful.”

I’d forgotten how much easier it was to cut through opponents using stealth over the last year. I mean, sure, I saw Cora do it often enough, but since that wasn’t my role in the party, I hadn’t really thought much about how much I actually enjoyed sneaking around and killing mobs without them even knowing I was there.

Though Veridia had said it wasn’t necessary to slot a stealth skill since I had equipment that could perform that function, the fact that skills and equipment enhanced each other made me think it might be worth investing in.

However, doing so at this point would leave me with a single open skill slot, and the thought of that made me a bit nervous.

Right now, I was only using my equipment to move through the mobs, and compared to how I moved around undetected only a few minutes earlier, I couldn’t say for certain there was any real difference.

That was probably because the stealth equipment I was using was silver-ranked.

For now, I’d just use the equipment I’d been given, and maybe craft a few things on my own instead of slotting a stealth skill. Besides, it wasn’t like I couldn’t manually cast a similar effect using the magics at my disposal.

Though I was feeling a little strained from the skills and other abilities I already had active, I triggered Temporal Aura to speed my movements. As a core skill, the additional strain was minimal, but it would still add up.

My stave-turned-polearm sliced through bodies with little resistance. I’d gone with an extremely sharp blade with a slight curve, making the end product more of a long-handled naginata than a spear.

It meant stabbing was less effective than slashing-type attacks, but with how fast I was moving, that was actually an advantage.

Many of the gnolls had been injured by the bombs, making them easier to cut down than they might otherwise have been. I didn’t have time to loot anything as I fought, so I continued forward.

I could hear the sounds of combat on the other side of the settlement, so I had a pretty good idea of where Stephen was.

In his Dian form, he usually preferred to fight at range. For this fight, he was pushing himself out of his comfort zone to practice fighting in melee. Given my training, I was actually better at melee fighting than Stephen was, though I still wouldn’t want to go against him in one of his beast forms.

Truth be told, I still preferred to fight at a distance as well, even if I had gotten far more used to fighting in close combat since ascending.

Back in my old realm, I fought far more like Stephen, keeping my distance whenever possible and only fighting in melee if I had no other choice. Even so, I’d trained with professionals to ensure I was capable when the necessity arose.

I was far more inclined to get in close now than I had been before, though I usually still stunned my foes with a powerful Lightning Bolt or some other ranged attack first.

Today was no different.

Surprisingly, the boss did not emerge from its lair, even with the ruckus we’d made. After collecting the loot from the fallen gnolls, I relied on my stealth cloak to retrieve the traps I’d left outside the entrance to the boss’s lair.

“Anything good on your end?” Stephen asked when I returned to our designated meeting spot.

“Not much. I got a skillbook for Vortex, which is a pretty advanced air magic skill. I believe it’s an area of effect skill, which could come in useful. It’s too bad that I already have an air magic skill.”

“What does that matter? I know you prefer acquiring more magic types, but if you think it would be a good fit, why not take it?” Stephen asked.

“I don’t know. It seems wrong to avoid accepting Stealth but slot another air magic skill.”

“Can you recreate Vortex manually?” the shifter countered.

I frowned. “No. And I’ll admit, it would be a nice skill to have.”

It was also something that I could use at a distance while also serving to weaken large numbers of opponents. As I’d just acknowledged, that had become one of my preferred fighting approaches.

However, I already had Lightning Bolt, which could easily be used over a large area, given its upgrades.

“So? What’s the issue?”

“I guess it seems a bit redundant with Lightning Bolt,” I admitted.

“I don’t see it that way at all. They are completely different skills,” Stephen said. “One stuns and sometimes fries your opponent; the other creates widespread damage as well as injuries. In fact, it’s one of the higher-rated offensive skills that can be found in this dungeon.”

“If you like it, why don’t you slot it?” I offered, retrieving the skillbook and holding it out to him.

“I would, but I don’t think that would be fair.”

“Why not?”

Stephen grinned widely and pulled a black-covered book from storage.

“Because I wanted to slot this skill instead. It doesn’t seem right for me to take both of the skillbooks we received as loot.”

Getting two skillbooks during a single fight was crazy rare. Even considering the fact that we were technically underleveled for the encounter and weren’t fighting with a full party, getting two skillbooks as loot for a single engagement seemed a bit excessive.

I’d learned over the last year or so that Stephen and I both had significantly higher skillbook acquisition rates than most delvers.

“What is it?” I asked curiously.

“Danger Sense.”

I was instantly jealous. It was clear that while the dungeon might be generous with me, it outright favored Stephen.

Danger Sense was one of those extremely rare sensory skills that absolutely could not be learned manually. I suspected it might include internal changes as well, just like Spatial Sense was supposed to.

And I still hadn’t acquired Spatial Sense.

“I’m so jealous,” I admitted playfully.

“You know that if you really want it, I’d give it to you,” Stephen said seriously, causing my smile to soften.

“I know that, but I’ve still got my heart set on acquiring Spatial Sense someday.” Looking up at the false sky, I said, “Maybe the dungeon will be kind enough to give it to me soon.”

Though I couldn’t be sure, I sometimes thought the dungeon understood our requests and gave us what we wanted. We’d acquired several of the skills we’d openly wished for already, so it had to be possible.

Then again, I’d openly asked for Spatial Sense from the very beginning and had never received it.

“Are you sure you don’t mind, then?” Stephen asked.

“Not at all. You can even have Vortex if you want it. You have enough slots for both, right?”

“Barely, but I’d feel wrong taking both skillbooks. Besides, you said you could use it.”

I frowned and pushed the skillbook into his hands. He hadn’t said he didn’t want it, only that he’d feel bad taking it.

“You don’t have any wide-area attacks, and I do. Just take it,” I insisted. “I’m sure the dungeon will give us something else I can use eventually. And I already have plenty of skills, anyway.”

“It still doesn’t feel right.”

With a sly smile, I said, “Then how about you make it up to me?”

“And how might I do that?”

“We could always take a vacation and do a mini-trek around the Memorial Retreat peninsula like we talked about. Maybe once our training is done?”

“That doesn’t seem like a fair trade,” Stephen replied with a frown. “We already agreed to do that.”

“I think it’s perfectly fair. Please?” I asked sweetly. “You can learn both of the skills and use them to keep us safe, then we can have a nice vacation and wander the peninsula and pretend like we ascended before the whole demon mess started. It would be fun.”

Stephen searched my eyes for a moment before making his decision.

“If that’s what you really want, then I’ll accept. I’ll learn both skills and use them to always keep you safe.”

“We’ll keep each other safe,” I corrected him before reaching for his free hand. “We’re a team. Partners.”

“Yes. Partners,” he agreed, raising my hand to his lips.