“At least a thousand gold pieces each. That [Necromancer] is underselling them. They’re not cheap, hundred gold-piece wands with an expendable spell. As for the sword…if it’s good enough for Gold-rank, it’s worth a few thousand gold.”
“Oh come on. I’ve seen weapons for a few hundred—”
“Not if it’s good, Revi. Quality matters and these ones have no mana bleed. That doubles their prices alone. Add in a spellbook for a thousand…robes are probably a few hundred…expensive cloak if it can resist arrow strikes…the bow…rings…”
“Don’t forget those potions and the other items. Some look useful.”
Halrac nodded.
“Say twenty five thousand for the lot?”
“Twenty five thousand?
He shrugged.
“I’m guessing. It could be half again as much. Or half that if you have a haggling Skill. The fact that all the enchantments don’t spill over is incredibly useful. It means the Horns can upgrade their pieces without fear or swap them out. That’s worth a large amount. As for the rest…”
“Makes you wonder what the item they sold was. It must have been expensive.”
Ulrien frowned thoughtfully.
“The real question is how big the debt the [Enchanter] owes them is. Is it a small favor or…?”
They turned their attention back to Ceria as she spoke to the others, gesturing to Ksmvr.
“We have a decent spread of equipment—and more gold than we gave Ryoka. We can outfit Ksmvr with anything else he might need.”
Ceria pointed to the pile on the table as she turned to the others. She was shaking and grinning at the same time. She hesitated, opened her mouth, turned to the rest of her group.
“Should we…start dividing stuff up? Does anyone have a preference?”
“The robes, armor and so on are easily divided. However, the most powerful items—the dagger, sword, buckler, and three rings are not. I shall express my desire for the [Barkskin] ring and the ring that projects the spell immediately.”
Pisces picked up both rings, looking at the others. Ceria frowned.
“You can’t have two rings, Pisces.”
“Why not?”
“Because I want that ring.”
“Shouldn’t a warrior have it?”
“Yeah, but it’s [Barkskin]. Do you know how useful that is?”
“I do. That is why I want it.”
“Hold on, let’s not fight. We should decide who gets the easiest items to assign first.”
Yvlon interrupted the squabble between the two [Mages] as she picked up the sword. She swung it carefully as everyone backed up to let her do it. Yvlon looked at the sword, and then wistfully at the buckler.
“As much as I’d like a magical shield, having a sword like this has been a dream of mine. Ksmvr, would you let me take this one?”
“Yes, Comrade Yvlon. And I believe you should have this as well given that you are more proficient with it than I.”
To everyone’s surprise, Ksmvr handed the buckler to Yvlon. She tried to push it back, looking shocked.
“I can’t have both!”
“It is only logical. You are specialized in the sword and shield style of fighting, Comrade Yvlon. I am used to any number of weapon combinations. It would be most effective to concentrate strength in one member of the party.”
“But I—no, it wouldn’t be fair.”
“But it is I who insist. As a member of the party, I wish to make the most advantageous decision for the group possible.”
Everyone stared at Ksmvr. He shrugged. Yvlon looked moved to tears as she took the buckler.
“Call me Yvlon, Ksmvr. I’m sure I’ve told you that. And if you’re sure, I’ll gladly accept. But I won’t forget this.”
Ksmvr smiled, raising his mandibles and parting them slightly as Yvlon put the buckler on one arm and held the sword with the other. Fully armored once again and holding the two enchanted items, she looked like she was ready for another battle. Ryoka had to smile. Ksmvr’s generosity did unpleasantly happy things to her heart, and she saw Jelaqua nudge her two companions and grin as well. Halrac looked approving, and Ulrien and Typhenous were nodding in tandem.
Ashamed by Ksmvr’s display, Ceria and Pisces stopped fighting over the rings and looked at each other.
“Ksmvr’s right. You take the ring with the spell attack, Pisces.”
“And you take the [Barkskin] ring, Ceria.”
“No.”
To the surprise of all again, Ceria handed both the [Barkskin] ring and the Ring of Jumping to Ksmvr. He stared down at them.
“But if I accept these items, what will you have, Captain Ceria?”
“Call me Ceria too, Ksmvr. And I have the spellbook. I think it’s fair if I don’t take an item, right Pisces?”
She looked at the [Necromancer]. He looked startled, and then shook his head.
“One item would be appropriate, Ceria.”
“Not if Ksmvr needs it. Ryoka had the right idea with the cloak, but Ksmvr can’t wear armor like most of us. He needs protection. As for the ring…I’m not a frog, and I hate heights. I don’t think you want to leap around, Pisces, Yvlon—”
“No thanks.”
Ryoka bit her lip as Ksmvr accepted the ring. She really, really would have liked it for herself. But she didn’t want to say it out loud and spoil the mood.
Newly equipped, the Horns of Hammerad looked at each other. Pisces was smiling, and Yvlon looked like a girl with a bunch of toys. Sharp, deadly toys.
“What do we do now, oh Captain? I want to run out and challenge a Mothbear right now.”
Ceria nodded, flipping the wand over in her hands and catching it. With a pang, Ryoka realized she alone would have only two new items from all of this, the wand and ring. But Ceria seemed happy enough. She thought, and then indicated the wand in her hands.
“Practice first. We have to know how to fight with all this—this equipment! Then we’ll think about what we could do with our new gear. I’ll bet there are all sorts of new tactics we could employ…”
“You might also want to see if the Guild will recertify you as Gold-rank adventurers.”
Everyone looked at Ulrien. The big man pointed at Yvlon’s sword.
“Your gear alone could make you a Gold-rank, Miss Yvlon. And given the experience of the others and your ability, I’d say getting the Guild to confirm your rank might be easy. If not, one or two requests would certainly put you there.”
“Gold rank.”
Ceria and Yvlon breathed the words. Ryoka held her breath. Just like that. The Horns of Hammerad had approached the next tier of adventuring in a single moment. The moment lasted right up until Typhenous coughed.
“On the note of artifacts, I hate to make the request now, but before you are too accustomed to your items, I would like to ask if you had considered selling the ring young Pisces holds.”
The Horns of Hammerad stared at Typhenous. Ulrien nudged the older mage, looking disapproving, but Typhenous wouldn’t be dissuaded.
“I will pay more than the ring’s worth, enough for another magical item of similar or equal value. Such a ring could be quite useful to me.”
“Hey, if you’re bidding, what about me? I’ll pay more than Typhenous. Just show me what it can do.”
Revi crowded over to Pisces. Erin waved her hands frantically.
“Not indoors!”
Seborn stared at the table.
“If we’re bidding, I’d like to ask if you’d consider selling the dagger. No one claimed that.”
“Oh, right! No one here uses daggers. I mean, have a backup, but I don’t need one. And Ksmvr—”
Ceria wavered. She looked at Ksmvr, who shrugged.
“I could use the weapon, but if it will assist the group as a whole…”
“How much would you pay for the dagger?”
Pisces’ eyes gleamed. Seborn began to count on his fingers. Typhenous and Revi were arguing and Ulrien was arguing with the both of them. Ceria raised her hands and shouted.
“Please, not right now! We won’t sell anything until we discuss…”
She looked helplessly at the others. Ulrien nodded.
“Ease off them, Typhenous, Revi. They’ve just gotten their first big haul. You remember how overwhelming that moment is.”
“Ah, I do. To be young again.”
Typhenous sighed, looking only slightly disappointed. Then he clicked his fingers together and created a shower of sparks in every color that delighted Mrsha.
“This calls for a celebration, doesn’t it?”
“Of course!”
Jelaqua sprang onto a table with a mug. Mrsha leapt up beside her and the Selphid laughed and raised a mug towards Ceria and the others.
“To the Horns of Hammerad, on getting their first true haul from a dungeon! Erin, roll out some more kegs! It’s time to celebrate this properly!”
Everyone in the room cheered. Ceria laughed and Erin had to smile as Lyonette ran over to the bar’s counter to count how many kegs they actually had and if she’d have to buy more from Krshia.
“Party!”
Ryoka stared around as Yvlon and Ceria hugged each other and Jelaqua laughed and quaffed until Moore lifted her off the table. At once, the mood in the inn had turned festive. The Runner heard Halrac as the [Scout] turned to Revi.
“You’re not going to complain about another party, are you?”
Revi sniffed.
“What do you take me for? I’m all for having fun. Hey Erin, just leave the keg out here why don’t you?”
“Hey, that’s the best idea you’ve ever had, Revi!”
Erin disappeared into the kitchen and then came out and helped Ulrien lift a barrel onto a table. Moore picked up another one and put it on a second table, and then Ryoka had a mug in her hands. Ceria hugged her.
“You did it. We have to thank you—and talk about paying you later!”
“Oh, that’s really not—”
Ryoka didn’t get a chance to finish. Suddenly Ceria was yelling for everyone to toast her. And of course, a toast meant a long drink. And Ryoka was tired from the road, and then Ivolethe decided to make off with a mug meant for Moore…
That was how the party went. Ryoka found herself playing with the bag of glowing stones, rolling them as Mrsha ran excitedly after the glowing treasures. Somehow, the people in the city had heard about the party—perhaps it was a Skill, or maybe there was a class, [Partycrasher]—and she saw familiar and unfamiliar faces mixing and laughing.
Then the door to Celum opened. Ryoka’s jaw dropped as a familiar head poked through. Octavia blinked as the wave of sound and light hit her.
“What the fuck?”
No one had told her about the door. Ryoka’s jaw stayed open as Octavia opened the door wider, exposing her shop, and then walked through, straight from Celum to Liscor in a moment. She raised her voice, called out.
“Hey Erin, I have another question about—is that Ryoka?”
She caught sight of Ryoka and nearly ran straight over Lyonette. The [Princess] turned [Barmaid] had a tray of drinks and slopped some onto Octavia’s front.
“Sorry, sorry! Uh, want a drink?”
“Don’t mind if I do!”
Octavia promptly forgot about what she wanted Erin for, took the mug, and laughed as she came over to Ryoka.
“Ryoka! You didn’t tell me you were in Liscor!”
“How did you—”
“Oh, the door? Wonderful thing. I still think I should be charging a fee, what with Erin putting it in my shop. You didn’t know? Well, it’s not like you ran all the way to Liscor from Celum, is it? Hah! Runner joke there. Don’t scowl. Uh…so anyways, there’s this door. Let me tell you all about it!”
It was a garbled explanation, but Ryoka got the gist. After Octavia had wandered away to find a second drink—she’d downed the first one with incredible speed—Ryoka went looking for Erin. She had a magical door? Ryoka’s mind felt stretched by the possibilities it represented.
“Hey Erin. About this door—”
“Oh, right! The door! Yeah, didn’t I tell you about it? It’s amazing—”
“If you did, I don’t remember!”
“What?”
“I said if you did—”
“Sorry, let me—Lyonette! I have the noodles ready! Where’d you put the beef?”
Turning her head, Ryoka saw Lyonette scream back across the room.
“Upper left pantry!”
“Thanks!”
Erin went to the upper left pantry, and Ryoka saw to her horror that a plate of raw beef, still bloody and raw, was sitting there. She grabbed Erin’s arm when the girl went to grab it.
“You’re not going to cook that!”
“Yeah, why not?”
The girl stared at Ryoka blankly as Ryoka gabbled for words.
“It’s raw! It’s been sitting out there for…who knows how long! Haven’t you frozen it or—or—”
“Oh! I get it!”
Erin slapped her forehead, grinning hugely.
“I have a new Skill!”
“What?”
“I just got it and—hang on, I’m coming!”
Erin turned and shouted at Ceria, who was waving and shouting something about a french fry disaster and Ksmvr. She made a face.
“Sorry! Explain in a bit.”
But it turned out that little bit was a while, and when Erin came back, she had to hurry and get the rest of the food she’d been cooking ready for the hungry partyers.
“So Erin, we should talk—”
“Totally! Totally! Hand me that bowl of butter, will you?”
Ryoka did. Erin grabbed it and put a generous dollop into her pasta, making it sinfully buttery. Ryoka had to raise her voice to make herself heard above the general din.
She’d followed Erin into the kitchen, but Ryoka had to keep stepping aside to let Lyonette and Erin rush about with dishes. Ryoka fed bits of marinated beef to Mrsha as she tried to keep up a conversation with Erin.
“So what’s been happening?”
“Oh…you know, stuff. Nothing much.”
That was a total non-answer and a lie, but really, what was Erin supposed to say? The [Innkeeper] was in her element, which was to say, doing everything at once for everyone. Ryoka saw Erin find a bowl for her beef, which was excellent, it had to be said, bring a pot of pasta out for people as Lyonette cleared a table, rush back into the kitchen to find plates, forks, knives, spoons…she was so busy and yet she turned Ryoka down when the girl offered to help.
“You have fun! You just got back, so…relax!”
Ryoka tried to, but she couldn’t help but feel guilty. Because she’d intended to talk with Erin, and she didn’t seem to have the opportunity to. She kept telling herself she’d do it later, when everything was quieter.
In her defense, it had been a long time since Ryoka had last been to the Wandering Inn.
 
——
 
How does news of a party spread? It could only be magical, or so Erin felt. It was some divine providence, some kind of fate that snagged people up and told the little part of their brains that lived for trying to limbo underneath a sword while drinking shots of Thunderhammer—it was close enough to what Erin had explained, so she let it go—that there was fun to be had.
Maybe that was how a group of Humans from Celum ended up mixing with the Gnolls and Drakes from Liscor. Then again, most were adventurers, and perhaps it was one of the Gold-rank adventurers who’d spread the word. They’d come to celebrate the Horns of Hammerad ostensibly; really, adventurers would use any excuse to eat and get drunk.
