“He’s cool, though. I uh, think he doesn’t like me as much, but he’s really nice to Lyonette and Mrsha!”
“Oh. Right. He stays here.”
“That’s right!”
So she’d be seeing him around. Ryoka’s heart sank. Erin eyed her friend, and put the mugs on the table.
“Is everything okay? Are you in a big trouble with that Ilvriss guy? Because if you are, I can talk to Zel—”
“No, I can sort it out. I think.”
Ryoka didn’t want to get Erin involved. She knew a bit about the Necromancer—Ryoka had told her in a moment of idiocy. But she couldn’t get Erin involved any more. Ryoka wasn’t sure how dangerous telling people about Az’kerash was, yet. So she wouldn’t tell Erin.
There was a pang in Ryoka’s chest as she thought that. Wasn’t the key problem in every stupid B-grade film keeping secrets? Only, there were some secrets that needed to be kept.
Even from friends? Ryoka cleared her throat and looked at Erin. Her friend. But how long had it been since they’d had a chance to talk? So much had happened…
“Hey Erin, I know we haven’t gotten a chance to talk. I just wanted to say thanks…”
Erin waved a hand at her, looking awkward.
“Aw, don’t mention it. I heard an angry Drake was chasing you around the city with a sword, so I called in a few favors. We should talk—”
“We should!”
Ryoka wanted to say more, but someone—an angry Stitch-girl waving a mug—called Erin’s name and she had to rush off. Ryoka sank back into her seat. This wasn’t how she’d envisioned coming back. All she wanted to do was talk to Erin for a bit, but now here came…
“Ksmvr?”
It was still hard for Ryoka to tell the Antinium apart, but Ksmvr’s lack of a fourth arm helped in identifying him.
“Good evening Miss Ryoka Griffin. I am here to politely inquire about the magical items my party loaned you for the purposes of identification. I am not seeking this knowledge in an avaricious way; merely in order to assist and participate in my adventuring group’s success.”
Ryoka stared at him. She put her head in her hands. Ksmvr stared at her and then at her french fries.
“Are you eating that?”
 
——
 
“Dead gods.”
“Tree rot.”
“Silver and steel.”
“I lack an appropriate expression for this moment. Comrade Pisces, assist me with determining one.”
“I think, wow is probably all you need, Ksmvr.”
Jelaqua Ivirith spoke drily as she peered over the shoulder of Ceria. The other Horns of Hammerad were frozen as they stared at the pile of weapons, armor, and other magical artifacts Ryoka had taken from her bag of holding and piled on the table. The other Gold-rank adventurers in the room were watching from a respectable distance, pretending to eat. But they couldn’t take their eyes off the sparkling treasure any more than Erin could.
“Look at it all. There’s a pair of vambraces, swords—”
“A magical robe, a wand—no, two wands, and a spellbook—”
Ceria was gingerly touching the artifacts as if they might explode. She held up a spellbook, the color bright yellow and inscribed with the dark outline of some kind of bird in flight. Pisces picked up one of the rings and stared at a second sword with a frown.
“That wasn’t one of the items we recovered. Was it in the bag of holding?”
“Was all of this in the bag of holding?”
Ceria turned to Ryoka, wide-eyed. The Runner girl stood with her hands in her pockets, smiling awkwardly at the others’ dumbfounded expressions. Mrsha reached for the dagger and Lyonette grabbed her. Ivolethe did the same until Erin lured her away with a bowl full of raw meat and honey.
“There’s no way. Look at all these items! There’s equipment for me, Pisces, Yvlon—there’s equipment for everyone!”
“Amazing.”
Yvlon picked up the buckler and stared at the faint scar, the seam of metal almost invisibly merged together. She tapped the buckler and nearly dropped it when a transparent, shimmering field extended from the sides of the buckler, creating a second shield that overlapped the first, creating a magical barrier in the air.
“I note these swords are not reacting despite their apparent enchantments. May I hold both, or will I burst into flame and die in excruciating agony?”
Ksmvr stared at Ryoka. His words created a momentary hush before Ryoka recovered her tongue.
“It’s fine, Ksmvr.”
“Ah, the enchantments do not conflict?”
She shook her head.
“Some of it is lower-grade stuff, but it’s all compatible or so I’m told. That’s the real benefit here. An expert [Enchanter] did the matching up so you should be able to equip any combination of items without the enchantments clashing.”
“Dead gods.”
Ceria breathed the words out. Her hands were shaking. Erin could understand her emotions.
“I thought you could only use one or two artifacts or else they’d combine and explode!”
“Only if the enchantments are poorly woven. But if an expert in the field were to select quality pieces, an adventurer may wear a large variety of enchanted items.”
Typhenous remarked as he studied the ring Pisces had picked up with unconcealed envy. Ulrien nodded.
“That’s a service a lot of Gold-rank adventurers and Named Adventurers pay for. Your group is exceptionally lucky.”
“But how? I’m sure this all wasn’t in the bag of holding—”
Ceria turned to Ryoka, looking bewildered. Ryoka took a deep breath. This was the part she’d been worried about.
“I had to sell one of the items from the bag. It was valuable. Really valuable. The [Enchanter] I talked to agreed to exchange all of this for the item. He also says he owes you a favor you can call in at any time.”
Everyone went silent at the news. Yvlon glanced at Ceria and Ksmvr scratched at one antennae. At last, Seborn broke the silence. He and Moore were staring at one of the rings Pisces was holding with a frown.
“It must have been some item.”
“Indeed.”
Pisces’ eyes narrowed. He glanced at the array of magical items Hedault had found for Ryoka.
“The fact that you refuse to tell us is indication alone of its worth. Why not reveal its nature…unless you think you made a poor deal? Or perhaps one better than the quality of arms represented here?”
Ryoka frowned, feeling defensive and feeling that she shouldn’t feel defensive. She turned towards Pisces as Ceria and Yvlon stared at her.
“I don’t want to tell you because if I did, you might have gotten into a fight about it. It was an item two of you could use, and only one of you could have.”
Ceria and Pisces traded glances, while Ksmvr and Yvlon stared at each other. The Horns of Hammerad looked at Ryoka. Pisces’ tone was accusing.
“So one of us could have used it to great effect—”
“But only one of you. And it would have caused a huge fight, believe me.”
“So you sold it without consulting us.”
“Pisces!”
Ceria snapped at Pisces, who’d folded his arms disapprovingly.
“We agreed to let Ryoka decide what to do. If she says it was better to sell the artifact—”
“Again, without consulting us. She might have let us know what it was, first.”
“But then we’d fight, wouldn’t we?”
Yvlon frowned at Pisces. She stared at the items, thinking aloud.
“No matter what it was…I bet it would have caused issues, even if we decided whose it would be. How fair would it have been to split the loot afterwards? What if someone wanted to take it and abandon the team? I’ve seen groups torn apart over that before.”
Ceria nodded slowly, and Ksmvr stared at Ceria before nodding energetically as well. Pisces blew out his cheeks, looking annoyed, but someone else voiced their agreement.
“I’ve seen the same thing as well. It happens all the time and it can lead to bloodshed when people fight over the best artifact.”
Jelaqua crossed her arms as she sat at a table with Ulrien and Halrac. Both Gold-rank adventurers nodded as the Selphid spoke directly to Pisces.
“I think you’d better thank your Runner friend here, Horns of Hammerad. She might have spared you an ugly argument.”
Revi, Typhenous, Moore, and Seborn all murmured in agreement. Pisces looked around for support and found none. He sighed dramatically.
“Very well. I suppose I must withdraw my issue. But let us at least find out what we paid for.”
Ryoka smiled, feeling relieved and grateful towards the other adventurers.
“It’s worth it, believe me. Hedault—the guy who did all the appraising and buying—found some quality stuff for you.”
She began to list out the items from memory, handing each one around as the Horns of Hammerad clustered around the table. They were practically shaking with excitement, and the other adventurers drew close, taking the item after the others were done with it and looking it over and talking softly. Erin and Lyonette got a chance to investigate the artifacts too, although Mrsha was banned from touching, much to the Gnoll’s quiet grievance.
“The biggest items are the sword with the weight enchantment, the Flamecoat Dagger, the Forceshield Buckler, the [Barkskin] ring, the Ring of Jumping…and the ring that shoots the attack spell. There are a few potions and the bag of glowing stones and monster lure…”
Ryoka showed the Horns of Hammerad the ball with the angry face. Mrsha leapt up onto the table to touch it. It began shrieking and scared Mrsha so badly she fled into the kitchen, crying, until Lyonette went to cuddle her and pour a bit of healing potion into her sensitive ears.
“Ow. Okay, so that’s the stuff we recovered. What’s the rest of this?”
Ceria rubbed at her own ears. Ryoka smiled.
“Nothing too good according to Hedault, which means decent protective enchantments on all the gear. Yvlon—you’ve already got the chest plate, right. I have the vambraces and greaves for you…a helmet as well, and there’s gauntlets somewhere…”
“How strong are the enchantments?”
Erin remarked with interest as she peered at the plain steel gauntlets Yvlon was trying on. The woman winced as she struck part of the metal in her skin with the edge. Jelaqua struck the chest plate with the head of her flail experimentally and nodded in approval.
“This is good stuff. I’ve seen enchantments like these before. They cushion blows, not just make the metal stronger. Give me a good cuirass and I could kill a score of zombies by myself.”
“You could kill a group of Ghouls with that sword if you’re quick enough.”
Ulrien remarked as he tested the sword by tapping Moore’s staff as the half-Giant blocked. Moore grunted softly.
“A strong enchantment. Very nice.”
“You bet. And I’ve got a robe for Pisces. It only has a small protective charm, but I’m told it resists stains. And it’s white.”
“Thank the leaves for that.”
Pisces sniffed as Ceria tossed the robe at him. He was studying the two wands. There were also three rings sitting on the table next to them.
“Am I to understand these are both for us? What of the rings?”
Ryoka nodded, smiling.
“Two wands, both made of…damn, I forget. Some kind of redwood tree? Hedault said it didn’t really matter. The centers are filled with Waisrabbit bone in one, and Gazereye—the stone, not the actual eye of a Gazer—in the other.”
“Low-quality materials, but acceptable. I shall use the bone wand, Ceria, if you agree.”
“Fine by me.”
“Aw. Rabbit bone and stone? Is that really wand material?”
Erin peered dubiously at the wands. It was Pisces who answered with a second, self-important sniff.
“Both materials are decently rare and certainly useful as catalysts, Erin. Gazereye is a decently powerful hallucinogenic stone whose powers are magical and Waisrabbits have several unique abilities.”
“Like what?”
“They can teleport. And cast a form of offensive magic. They’re quite hard to catch. These wands would be costly, if not exactly hard to acquire. What of the rings, Ryoka?”
“Okay, there’s three of them…uh, I think this one has the [Lightweight] enchantment. I thought it would be good for Ksmvr and Yvlon—you won’t be slowed down by the armor.”
“That’s handy.”
“These two…Ksmvr, this ring lets you breathe underwater.”
Ksmvr paused.
“Very valuable. I shall take it.”
Ryoka sensed Ulrien and Halrac’s eyes on her. They knew that she knew the Antinium’s weak point. She cleared her throat and went on.
“And for you Ceria, I have this ring that has a catalyst built into it. It’s supposed to help amplify your ice spells. See, the outside is enchanted to insulate the inner part, because inside of it is—”
“Everfreeze Ice. I see.”
Pisces inspected the ring. Ryoka blinked.
“You can tell?”
“Oh yes. Springwalker could draw from the cold of the ice in situations where the temperature does not suit her spellcasting. It is a good choice. But where is my ring?”
“I have a spellbook. One filled with a few decent Tier 3 spells and some unusual Tier 2 and Tier 1 spells.”
Ryoka offered it to Pisces. He took it without comment and began flipping through it with desultory interest.
“And for me?”
Ksmvr stared at Ryoka. She smiled awkwardly.
“I didn’t know if any of the armor I got would fit you, Ksmvr. So instead I had Hedault find another sword. It’s enchanted to be a bit sharper and sturdier, but not much more. I’m told it’s good enough for a Gold-rank adventurer, though. I have a cloak designed to protect from mundane arrows as well, but that’s all I could find that would fit you. I got you a bow that can shoot twice as far and some enchanted arrows, but no armor. Sorry.”
The Antinium paused, and then nodded.
“That is quite enough. My thanks for the consideration you have shown.”
Ryoka paused. She had her hand over the bag of holding the Horns had given her. Now she reached into it and began to pull out potions, a scroll, a length of enchanted rope…
“This is extra stuff, but it’s the kind of adventuring gear that Gold-rank adventurers use. I’ve got strong healing potions, mana potions…enough to get you all set up.”
The Horns of Hammerad clustered around, appraising the items. Pisces looked quite impressed by the quality of the healing potions and tried to pocket one before Ceria caught him.
Revi edged over to her teammates. She whispered to them as the others kept talking.
“Hey Ulrien, Halrac, appraise how much those extra items were worth for me.”
The two experienced adventurers frowned. Ulrien started counting on his fingers.
“A full set of matching enchanted plate armor is…ten thousand gold pieces at least.”
“That much?”
“I don’t have a matching set of armor. Even if all the enchantments aren’t of the same quality, the fact that they don’t conflict is what matters. That’s why I use other enchantments and don’t wear plate at all. As for the wands, what do you think, Halrac?”
