When I asked him to find me a neutral or air elemental magic gem, thinking he should still have a few on hand, he regretfully told me his stock was entirely out. As soon as people fully realized the implications of being cut off from Olebert, those who could afford it bought everything they could. Metals, magic gems, magicite, types of yarn, and anything that our region doesn't produce itself were bought up over a period of three days.

Thankfully, kaglese ore wasn’t high on people’s priority list due to its difficulty to smelt, so Giovanni was able to set the rest of his stock aside for me along with a bit of mithril. However, the same couldn’t be said about the magic gem. Giovanni promised me he would get me the magic gem Sandra needed, but he would need to go through his darker channels to do so. That means Sandra will get her magic gem but at a substantial mark up.

Giovanni warned me that even if Kervin sells the gem to Sandra or me at cost, we would need to be prepared to spend multiple gold coins, even for a small specimen.

I complained, but Giovanni took the time to explain to me how rapidly the prices for gems and ores are on the rise. Our little corner of the world was once known for its iron mines in Red Dust Mountain, but since those dried up, we’ve been forced to import iron from other areas, areas past the blockade. There are a few small mines here and there like the one Master has dug out, but nothing on a grand scale like there once was.

The price for iron and steel has essentially tripled and has probably risen even higher since I last spoke with Giovanni. I was practically begged to sell as many ingots as I could spare when Kervin arrives in a few days. It took me all of a second to agree with the prices Giovanni was throwing at me. I can still remember Giovanni’s ecstatic voice when I mentioned I might be able to part with some magicite as well.

Giovanni said he would send extra gold with Kervin along with an additional bodyguard for good measure.

I asked if all this inflation means I'll get more for the weapons I've already completed, to which Giovanni said yes and no. I will be paid 80% of the original market value instead of the quoted 70%, but unfortunately, Giovanni couldn't guarantee me any more than that.

I was about to threaten to sell to somebody else, but anticipating my reaction, Giovanni quickly told me how he's already sold the weapons to my new Master, as Tabitha predicted. Now, I could've been an asshole and demanded more money and likely would've gotten it too, but it would've put a considerable strain on my relationship with Silver Herd, a relationship I want to keep amicable.

I know Giovanni wants to maintain a good relationship with me in hopes of expanding his business to Scholl, and I want someone reliable to keep an eye on the village after I leave. It would be stupid for either of us to throw that all away over some short-term gains. Rightfully I wanted to tell Giovanni it was okay, but I had to wait for him to finish overly apologizing for the situation like any good merchant trying to maintain their contact would.

Even without getting more for my weapons, I’ll still make some good money when I sell the extra steel and magicite to Kervin. I asked Master to help me, and while I’ve been working on finishing up my arrows, Master has been working the smelter for the last week and a half. Even right now, instead of watching me practice with Tabitha, Master is down in the mine getting more magicite and iron ore.

I can't wait to see the look on Kervin's face when he sees the couple hundred ingots we have prepared for him. Our stuff is quality steel, too, not like most of the impure stuff I saw in Grey's office. I'm so happy he's dead.

That was another critical thing Giovanni told me about. Apparently, he sent Reel and another one of his agents to track down Grey, and the two assassins found what remained of his body in a goblin camp in the middle of the mountains. The bones were picked clean, they were only able to confirm the body was Grey after they found the shredded remains of his cloak. The fabric perfectly matched what Grey was spotted wearing by the gate guards the day he fled the city.

Sandra's skepticism must have rubbed off on me because I felt the need to question if Giovanni was sure the remains were indeed Grey. I was then told Reel and his partner scoured the area and even found where Grey was ambushed. All signs pointed to two people traveling together up until that point before the trail reduced to only a single set of tracks.

In theory, it could've been an elaborate hoax set up by Grey, but based on how Reel couldn't find any of the valuables Grey had stolen, it only makes sense Grey died, and Max took everything with him. If Max had died and Grey survived, Reel and his partner would've caught up to him by now.

Giovanni said his men searched the area for any traces of Max, but he was long gone by the time they located where Grey fell to the goblins. Silver Herd is keeping an eye on the path Grey and Max took into the mountains should Max try to return, but Giovanni said he wasn't holding his breath. He believes there has to be some hidden route through the mountain; that's the only reason Giovanni could see Grey trying to flee that way. Giovanni sounded adamant about eventually uncovering the route, but sadly he was too busy at the moment re-establishing his hold on the surrounding cities to justify dedicating his men to the project.

"Man, Giovanni sure was chatty," I remark to myself as I stretch out my limbs, shaking away the dull pain from my previous sparring session. "Three or so minutes until Tabitha walks back over, ready to continue our sparring session."

I get up and move over to the spot I have my waterskin stashed. Can’t forget to hydrate, I chuckle to myself. My body has gotten to the point where I can go quite a while without needing water, sure it would affect my performance, but it isn’t a medical concern like it would be back on Earth.

Back on Earth, if I pushed my old body a fraction of what I do against Tabitha, I would sweat enough to fill up a bathtub. Wiping at my forehead, I smear the few drops of sweat across my skin. I'll work up a good sheen by the end of the day, but nothing that would make someone suspect I'd been sparring all day.

A few weeks ago, I sweated more during our fights, but I think my body is getting used to this new level of activity much like it has when I’m blacksmithing.

I don't sweat that much; I only eat once a day and rarely use the bathroom. I doubt I'd be called human anymore back on Earth, which is fine. Knowledge from my time on Earth is valuable, but I can't let myself be bogged down by the standards of a world I’m no longer a part of.

I'm strong, but there are stronger people in this world.

Stronger everything.

I pull up my status page to see my growth over the last few weeks.

LV: 74 Experience: 189,317/ 1,004,619

Health: 2,288.62/2,450

Stamina 1,489.77/1,666

Mana: 808.34/1,030

Vitality: 245.02

Endurance: 100.12

Strength: 155.04

Dexterity: 155.08

Senses: 62.52

Mind: 65.39

Magic: 103.11

Clarity: 79.07

Status Points: 0

Skills:

Tier 1:

Meditation (LV79), Running (LV78), Blacksmithing (LV74), Hammer Skills (LV66), Axe Skills (LV60), Cleaning (LV53), Chanting (LV50), Mining (LV50), Drawing (LV47), Trading (LV45), Cooking (LV41), Sword Skills (LV40), Dagger Skills (LV34), Acting (LV33), Wood Carving (LV31), Sewing (LV31), Dancing (LV19), Alchemy (LV15), Pugilist Skills (LV8), Spear Skills (LV2)

Tier 2:

Sense Mana (LV79), Double Step (LV64), Charm (LV50), Measurement (LV47), Hammer Arts (LV46), Axe Arts (LV39), Writing (LV32), Intimidating Shout (LV31), Mathematics (LV31), Steady Hands (LV29), Increase Price (LV21), Lower Price (LV20), Sword Arts (LV17), Dagger Arts (LV13), Gourmet (LV7), Marching (LV5), Shout of Valor (LV3),

Tier 3:

Expel Mana (LV63), Mana Manipulation (LV63), Weighted Strike (LV42), Precise Strike (LV41), Double Strike (LV40), Flash Step (LV31), Contract (LV21), Enchanting (LV6)

Tier 4:

Mental Resistance (LV59), Mana Skin (LV57), Inject Mana (LV54), Extract Mana (LV37), Magic Blacksmithing (LV33), Magic Threads (LV19), Air Walk (LV18), Empowered Spell (LV14), Ironclad Agreement (LV8), Appealing Deal (LV3)

Tier 5:

Sense Soul (LV40), Soul Manipulation (LV16)

Tier 6:

Soul Devourer (LV4)

Increased Skill Levels

Blacksmithing (LV74) 3,700exp

Hammer Skills (LV64-66) 9,750exp

Drawing (LV47) 2,350exp

Alchemy (LV15) 750exp

Dancing (LV14-19) 4,950exp

Hammer Arts (LV45-46) 9,100exp

Steady Hands (LV27-29) 8,400exp

Mana Manipulation (LV63) 9,450exp

Weighted Strike (LV42) 6,300exp

Precise Strike (LV41) 6,150exp

Flash Step (LV30-31) 9,150exp

Enchanting (LV1-6) 3,150exp

Mana Skin (LV57) 14,250exp

Extract Mana (LV37) 9,250exp

Magic Blacksmithing (LV32-33) 16,250exp

Air Walk (LV16-18) 12,750exp

Magic Threads (LV16-19) 17,500exp

Skill Experience: 143,200exp

Crafting Experience: 9,071exp

Fighting Experience: 2,816exp

Total-experience Gained: 154,087exp

"Solid growth across the board," I smile to myself. Working hard every day and getting beaten up by Tabitha has its benefits.

Thanks to all my sparring and working on the arrows, Hammer Skills leveled up three times. Now I’ll only need nine more levels in the skill until Tabitha lets me pick up another weapon again. However, I am getting quite used to only using my war hammer. Using Magic Threads, I anchor myself to the quarry floor and twirl my hammer around.

Satisfied with my weapon control, I decide to put it away for a few minutes until Tabitha approaches me again. Angling the hammer's head over my shoulder, I slowly release my grip, letting my hammer slid down the back of my armor. When the hammer’s head reaches the top of my ass crack, I tighten my grip and keep the hammer from slipping any lower. With my weapon in place, I weave magic threads around my weapon and secure it to my armor.

I came up with this nifty trick last week, and now I can keep my hammer with me while freeing up my hands when I need to; plus, there's no sheaths or any awkward straps in my way. It takes a bit of mana to thoroughly secure my weapon this way, but maintaining it isn’t that intensive, and I can just reabsorb most of my mana when I need to wield it again.

When Sandra saw me use this technique for the first time, she was excited to see me use raw mana in such a way while Tabitha just stared at me with a blank face and said, 'interesting.' I can use this technique with other items too.

If I want to look intimidating, I could place a bunch of daggers all over my armor. Nothing says 'don't fuck with me' than a bunch of daggers everywhere. I smile at the absurdity of the idea, I’m not like Reel and trained with daggers in that way, and I would probably just drop them everywhere by accident.

Magic Threads and Hammer Skills aren't the only skills that saw a sizable improvement. A few days ago, while I was putting the various arrow pieces together, Precise Strike finally passed its bottleneck at level 40, and that's not all, Blacksmithing reached level 74, and I can feel that it's close to reaching level 75.

I'm sure my skill will level again after I finish the arrows tomorrow. I've been putting a lot of effort into my crafting, and since I haven't considered them complete yet, I haven't received any experience for what I've done. All the crafting experience I've earned has been from practicing engraving and helping my mom fix my armor on a regular basis.

But if the experience from the last time I made a dellinium arrow is anything to go off of, I expect to see a lot of experience for my troubles. When I made that first arrow, I had to ask Master for quite a bit of help. In fact, if memory serves, he's the one who actually had to shape the arrowheads because I couldn't work the dellinium with my Strength stat at the time.

It's a good thing I've grown a lot since then; if I didn't gain so many levels from killing the soul eater, I would've had to ask for Master's help again.

It took a lot of effort, but my Strength was just high enough for me to shape the arrowheads. I had to use my skills with every other swing, but that got the job done. The arrows are 95% completed, and tomorrow I'll be spending the whole day doing nothing but going over every millimeter of the arrows working out any flaws no matter how small they are.

I’m pretty sure Pacore is buying the arrows along with my weapons, but I have no idea where they’re going from there. I just hope whoever ends up getting them appreciates my work.

I briefly considered trying to enchant the arrows but quickly dismissed the idea. I'm still a beginner when it comes to enchanting, and the number of runes at my disposal is too limiting. I'd undoubtedly just end up lowering the value of the arrows rather than increasing them.

I hear the shuffling of armor, and when I turn my head, I see Tabitha walking over to me with a happy expression. Almost nine minutes, longer than I expected. “Ready to go again?” She asks with a smile that makes the hair on the back of my neck stand up.

“Sure am,” I feign confidence, grabbing my hammer’s handle and reabsorbing my Magic Threads. Taking up my stance, I brandish my war hammer, squashing any feelings of doubt or fear. You don’t let your emotions dictate how you fight. You give your all, that’s it.

With a gracefulness hard to describe, Tabitha unsheathes her sword and brandishes her shield in a single motion. There are no verbal or bodily cues for us to start fighting; we both simply move at the same time.

Tabitha starts with an overhead slash while I swing my hammer at her ignoring her rapidly approaching blade.

