Tabitha raises her shield to guard herself, and I feel the reverberations of the strike through my arms as my hammer connects with her shield. She tries to fully deflect my attack, but I'm not the same person I was a month ago. As Tabitha adjusts her shield to try and make my hammer slide off it, I do the same and make sure my hammer stays connected with her shield, so she feels at least some of the weight of my attack. I don't send Tabitha flying, but I do get her to take two steps back, and with the new distance between us, I dance out of the way of her sword.

Stepping forward, I do what I was too afraid to do during my earlier sparring sessions; I press the attack.

My style of fighting has evolved as my skills have grown. I use a heavy weapon, and though I can move relatively freely thanks to my Dexterity, it's my Strength where my true advantage lies.

I used to think Tabitha was a berserker when I first started training with her because I wasn't used to fighting against someone at her level. But now that I can put up more of a fight, I've realized how similar her style is to Pacore. Tabitha doesn't dance out of the way exactly as the old man did, but her fighting style is still centered around countering like his is. Tabitha just uses a shield rather than relying on a freakishly high defense. I started to spot other similarities, too, like how Tabitha moves about.

I swing my hammer at Tabitha and watch as she twirls away from my strike with a few rapid steps. Time doesn't move in slow motion like in the movies, and I can only make out the rough steps that she takes; Tabitha almost mirrored a maneuver Pacore used when Master and I were fighting him. However, while Pacore evaded us by sheer skill, Tabitha has some speed behind her steps because she has a more even build.

I only have a split second to pull back my hammer before Tabitha moves in for her counterattack. She tries to throw me off guard by slamming her shield into me, but I've already anchored myself to the ground with Magic Threads and hit her shield with the butt of my hammer to reduce the force of her attack.

Tabitha still slams into me, but I'm able to withstand the attack. She doesn't let the failure of her first strike get to her, and Tabitha quickly switches to attacking with her sword, sending a stab at my midsection.

I step back with my left foot in time to dodge the brunt of her attack, but her sword's edge still leaves a cut across the front of my armor. She didn't draw blood that time, I smirk. Tabitha shares my enthusiasm as we continue to go back and forth.

After half an hour of attacking one another, there's no denying Tabitha is still winning. While I manage to hit her twice, for every time I scored a solid hit on her, she's cut me over a dozen times. Most of her attacks failed to make me bleed, but while my armor is partially stained red, Tabitha doesn't look injured at all from my two successful taps.

She hasn’t let me look closely at her armor yet, but I’m starting to think it’s enchanted to reduce blunt force damage. That, or one of Tabitha’s other magic items might explain why I can’t seem to injure her.

“Don’t tell me you’re going to ask for another ‘time out’ again?” Tabitha taunts when I pause for a moment.

“Why, do you need a break?” I spit back, dodging Tabitha’s strike. She didn’t hesitate to try and get me when she thought I was slowing down.

“I could keep this up all day!” Tabitha proudly proclaims.

I don't doubt that. Stay strong, Aaliyah, I think to myself. If you want to get over this slump and truly hit her, you need to push harder.

I won’t be happy until I see Tabitha grimace in pain. Who cares if she’s still going easy on me, I just need to improve until she doesn’t, then I’ll get Tabitha.

“Always improve,” I mutter under my breath.

Tabitha must have read my lips because her smile blossoms further.

First, let’s see if I can knock that look off her face.
