Erick hovered in the middle of the sky, seeming like an imitation of a sun, surrounded by light and made of light himself. Nine Ophiel hovered around him, some in replicas of Erick’s own sunform, others running other spells, like [Hunter’s Instincts], or one of the Sight spells Erick had recently unlocked and bought. He was as prepared as he could have been, and yet, he wondered at what else he could have done. Tried to make [True Sight]? That would have been useful. What did he need to get that one? Maybe he could have had each of his Ophiel grab a rock, and then each of them could put a weak [Prismatic Ward] on them, and then each Ophiel could each run [Pure Reflection Ward] in their sunforms, while keeping the [Prismatic Ward] at their center so they could remain high-mana.

Ah. He should have done that.

He also only had nine Ophiel around him. The last one had been watching Hollowsaur, but it was time for him to come back.

Erick had that one grab some supplies on the way, and then light step it back here as fast as he could. Shit was about to hit the fan. And yet… Erick just wanted to enjoy the view for at least a moment.

The Dead City really was quite beautiful from this angle. Erick and his Ophiel were a good 15 kilometers up, above Ar’Kendrithyst. They could see the entirety of this once-great wrought city. From horizon to horizon, where the black solid-lace Feast Barrier cut them off from the rest of the world, the crystal city glowed with radiant reds and puissant purples, almost looking like some modern city, while the space below was an arena of light, with depths far too deep to see, and sides a good 50 kilometers from edge to edge.

And then there was the Edge of the Script, up above. The barrier that held the mana of the Old Cosmology to Veird, that enabled Veird to function as a planet, hovered a scant several kilometers higher. Maybe less.

Lapis was already up there, hoping for the start of a new life. Farix had joined her, and surrounded himself with blood magic of the highest order; dark red orbs, just waiting for a target. Goldie was somewhere in that dark sky, too, but none of Erick’s various Sights revealed her location. But none of that mattered, for a part of the fight had already started.

Right in front of Erick.

Fallopolis One looked much the same as Fallopolis Two. Both of them wore tattered black dresses; the same one from the last time Erick had seen the woman. Both had a broken kendrithyst staff in their hands. Both had frazzled, burned hair, and burned flesh.

Fallopolis stared at Fallopolis, as the crystal city in the distance exploded with varicolored lights and fires, hinting at fights far out of sight.

“This bitch!” Fallopolis One yelled, “I knew we shoulda killed you first! What the fuck you doing with my face!”

Fallopolis two almost responded, but—

Erick threw a pair of [Luminous Traps] at both of them, catching both of them in the effect. Fallopolis One and Fallopolis Two swirled into utter darkness. Erick dismissed the spells right afterward.

Fallopolis Two tumbled out of the broken black void with a disjointed, “ARGglee gabble! Fuck! That HURTS!” And then she laughed, for she saw who had tumbled out of the first [Luminous Trap]. “AH HA! Fuck you, Perri!”

The grey orcol woman tumbled out of the first trap. Barely a moment later, a splash of shadows, the triggered [Dispel] that the Witch had used before to escape Erick’s [Luminous Trap], struck the Witch’s back. It did nothing.

And then she vanished into another [Luminous Trap], cast from a second Ophiel. The very second she fell back into the void, another Ophiel threw all of himself into counterspelling Blood Ooze which he then flung into the black void, while a third Ophiel, currently in sunform and running [Pure Reflection Ward], surrounded Perri’s new prison. Some of that Ophiel slipped into the black void it protected, but another Ophiel cast a [Perfect Mirror] on the black void, turning the lightless sphere into the world’s shiniest, 4-meter wide ball bearing. The reflective Ophiel settled down around the mirrored space, perfectly molding himself to the surface. Erick was barely fast enough. Three more dark splashes of [Dispel] magic struck that Ophiel’s reflective coating, soaking in, but accomplishing nothing. The blood ooze poked out from the bottom of the silver sphere, but otherwise remained inside, trapping the Witch under a great many various spells.

Erick was down to 8 Ophiel, so he summoned another, bringing him back up to 9, just in time for the tenth Ophiel to step into the space, carrying some rocks for Erick’s [Prismatic Ward] plan. He had his currently unoccupied Ophiel give out the stones to the rest, as they began enacting his will, all on their own.

Fallopolis had barely yelled her dislike of Perri by the time Erick had solved the problem. She had been about to tell Erick to do something; he could see it in her wide eyes. But now she just kinda stood there, in the air, growing more gleeful with every passing second. She laughed, then asked, “What was that red thing I saw?”

“Counterspelling ooze.”

Fallopolis gasped, then cut her gasp off. “Ah. She’s probably already out of that. Good spell, but I doubt it works well against her. I’m going to kill her now.”

A black beam ripped out of Fallopolis’s chest, to impact the reflective Ophiel surrounding Perri’s prison like a protective shell of glowing water. That part of Ophiel scattered like so much radiant rain, though the rest of him remained attached to the ball bearing. Erick almost said something —he wasn’t really sure what he was going to say, either— but Fallopolis had acted too fast, and now he just wanted to see if she could actually get through his spells. He had little hope for his [Familiar] holding up against Fallopolis, since Ophiel wasn’t exactly a real boy; not yet anyway. He had less hopes for the [Perfect Mirror].

But then the [Perfect Mirror] proved better than the [Familiar]. Fallopolis’s black beam scattered wide. She frowned. She kept her beam going for a good five seconds, before she stopped, in a huff.

All this while, Erick had been watching Fallopolis, from every angle, and with every sense he had going.

She was the real one.

Erick said to her, “Let me, Fallopolis.”

With a thought, Erick had the sunform Ophiel surrounding Perri’s prison turn real again, and stick a feathered wing through the edge of the silver sphere, and into the black void beneath. From that wingtip Erick cast a spell of pure light that bounced around inside that protected space, becoming a laser without beginning or end as it crashed through the trapped Shade.

Erick didn’t see it as it happened, for all the power of [Luminous Beam] was trapped as solidly as Perri, but he got the notification of the kill.

Special Quest Complete!

Perri, True Shade of Melemizargo, has been killed!

100% participation, FULL EXPERIENCE

+ 1,220,016,041,512,190,000,000 exp

That certainly was a lot of experience. Erick glanced at his Status.

“Huh.” Erick said, “I’m level 90, now. Shit. She was pretty big, wasn’t she?”

“Fuck your illusions, bitch!” Fallopolis cackled at the space where Perri had been, adding, “With her dead, this’ll make killing the rest of them so much easier!” She smirked, adding, “You know, if we don’t die in the process!”

“… What?” Erick imagined he would have felt his stomach drop, if he had had a stomach, at that moment. Everything was happening too fast. “What did I do?”

Fallopolis pointed north. “Do you see the Swamp from here? Well. Theoretically. You can certainly see the part that matters.”

The Swamp did lay to the far north. But from this angle, it was more a void in the kendrithyst landscape, than able to be seen. That part of the Dead City was most firmly on in the Middle Reaches. One part of it did stick up into the air, though; River Tower Gloom. It was a spike of green and black kendrithyst rising up near the middle of the Swamp.

… It was green? And glowing. Brightly. Ahhhhh.

No no no. Erick was sure that he would have noticed such a unique architectural feature of Ar’Kendrithyst. There were no green towers anywhere in the city, and certainly none that glowed so brightly.

“She’s been threatening some shit like this since before I was here. Her tower went off once, you know? That was an annoying set of circumstances. Some adventurers managed to—”

Erick rapidly demanded, “What is it?!”

“Poison, probably. But not just poison. We could solve that fast enough. We might not have [Cleanse], but Void works fine for getting rid of most airy issues.” Fallopolis called out, “Give us your worst, you dead hag!”

As though her words were meant to summon the dead, the green tower glowed even brighter. An image of a woman projected into the sky. It was the grey orcol. Her illusion was as large as one of the fake planets hanging around in the rest of the sky. She spoke, carrying a recorded message across the whole of the Dead City. “To those who finally managed to take my life: Congratulations. Have some poison, some mutative monsters, and my undying curse. Rot on this damned cursed world for the rest of your miserable, short life.”

There was a sinking feeling inside Erick’s center.

“Ha! Poison! Weak!” Fallopolis looked to Erick, “Did you get a curse?”

Erick had been on high alert this whole time, and saw nothing. He reevaluated, and decided, “… No? What would it have looked like?”

“A rainbow splash to your mana sense.”

“No.” Erick said, “Definitely not.”

“Then probably don’t worry about it. Or it might be contained into that silver sphere.” Fallopolis said, “That poison coming out of the Swamp is very real, though. Like I was going to say: we had to clear out of the city and spend a year cleaning up her messes. She was there to throw her potions around to help clean it up, but we obviously won’t be getting that help this time.” As Fallopolis spoke, the green river tower’s waters turned bright green, as a fog rolled out and into the air, like a volcano exploding. The fog spread into the air, but it was much heavier than air. It all fell back to the ground, back out of sight. Erick imagined it layering the land beyond, killing everything it touched. Fallopolis said, “Let’s murder Tania and the rest of them and then we can go save some stupid adventurers in the center lane before the poison reaches them.” She pointed upward, “And those three need to die, too.”

Fallopolis was talking too fast. Mentally, Erick could keep up. But emotionally, he was lagging behind.

Erick said, “Can’t we just [Cleanse] it? Wait. You said we can—”

“Won’t work too well. There’s… What’d you call it? Radiation?” Fallopolis shook her head, then said, “There’s Extreme Light inside there. A lot of it.”

“Fine. Fine.” Erick already knew of a few lightmasks that could block most high energy radiation; they had worked against the Toxic Hydra months ago, too. His lightmasks even seemed to work on particle decay. That was probably a result of [Ward]s ability to negate Particle Magic, more than a lightmask’s ability to block harmful light. Whatever! Erick tossed that thought aside, only to realize that he had actually created a [Lightmask] spell that specifically blocked all forms of harmful light. He moved on, anyway. He said, “I made a [Blessing of Empathy]. Hollowsaur got this Quest.” Erick threw the blue box at her. “Those three above are going after my Blessing, after this is ov—”

Fallopolis glared, saying, “What the fuck, Erick! You’re not going to kill them? I knew you were a pushover but—” She finally glanced at the Quest, and her anger drifted away. “… Hollowsaur got this?”

“Yes.” Erick said, “And he turned the minotaurs into real people— And where the fuck is Tania?”

Fallopolis deeply considered something, as she offhandedly flicked her hand to the north, where she and Tania had been fighting. “Back down there, fending off Caizoa—”

Having gotten enough answers to his most pressing questions, Erick instantly demanded, “And what the fuck was that attack this morning?! Did you throw those black beams at me while I was running away from Queen? Where’s Queen? What the fuck happened with Caizoa! How many Shades are left?— Shit. I’m panicking. And I can’t take a deep breath, because I’m not flesh and blood right now. Wow. New form of torture.”

“Oh yeah,” Fallopolis agreed. “Processing emotions when you’re in an Elemental Body is tough. I don’t recommend prolonged usage, but ya gotta do what ya gotta do.” She rattled off, “Anywho! Tania is likely cleaning up some stragglers before she comes my way. You put a map up down there, yeah? She’s using it, you know. We all are.” Fallopolis glanced down, and behind Erick, at the map below. “She’s murdering Shades as fast as she can. Faster than I ever could, too.” She scrutinized Erick, asking, “Are you not getting Participation for those kills? She’s only finding them because of you.”

Erick was suddenly torn between canceling the spell and letting Tania’s murdering continue. Too many things were happening all at once.

Fallopolis continued, “And the Caizoa-thing was a true mercenary brawl. No one knew who was doing what or how or any of that.” She breathed deep, then said, “I think we got a bit of time, so this? This feels good to talk. Relax a little! Shake out the bones and circulate the blood!” She shivered a bit, and her wounds closed, though her dress remained in tatters. “Anywho: Quilatalap was doing the memory altering, just how it had to be done, and simultaneously, Tania called the meeting and killed a bunch of bastards while I helped on my side. We actually had the upper hand! A little. Tania ran like a rookie, rushing to her next toy, rushing to Caizoa and those other three. But Quilatalap wasn’t done with the memory shit! Tania finished the memory mods herself while I tried to kill her, so it got a bit fucky… I think I accidentally killed the Cook.” She smiled wide. “Tania definitely fucked up with the memory mods somewhere along the way. When we were fighting just now, Caizoa just showed up down there, swinging her butter knife around! Actually managed to clip a few people on Tania’s side! Ah ha! It was wonderful!” She pointed upward, to where Farix, Lapis, and Goldie were. “Those three gotta die, tho. They’re not good people. They don’t deserve a second chance.”

