Lapis, Fallopolis, and Farix countered the attack in what would have been an easy way, except for the radiation. The three of them erected shadow-barriers around themselves, enacting their own analogue to a [Weather Ward], or perhaps a [Lightward]. Whatever they tried, it was not good enough. All three of their shadow-barriers instantly collapsed, though all three of them erected more with each passing moment of Tania’s attack.

Erick and his Ophiel were already made of light, so while [Pure Reflection Ward] took care of most of the incoming damage, flexing the edges of their sunforms into lightward-adjacent effects only took a thought, and that flex stopped all damage from Tania’s [Vivid Gloom].

But that was just her aura. She still had all her own power to draw upon; all her own attacks, while her aura continued to harm. Erick recognized the inevitability of his position. Tania did not tire. The shadow barriers around Farix, Lapis, and Fallopolis were already breaking down, faster and faster, as the light inside this mirrored space turned brighter, and brighter.

And then the true brilliance of Tania’s preparations appeared.

Bulgan could feed off of Erick’s magic, which meant he could feed off of Tania’s [Vivid Gloom] Aura. It was a good plan. It was already working. Bulgan and Tania became the only spots of darkness in the mirrored arena.

All thoughts of trapping either of them inside a black void vanished. Bulgan would just eat up the light that gathered inside, and Erick never expected for it to work on Tania, anyway. Even if he did trap either of them, the radiation in the space all around them would have carved holes in those black voids, and let escape anyone he trapped.

He’d still throw a trap out there and see if it worked, though.

Erick stepped an Ophiel next to each Shade on his side. Sunforms did not fully envelope Farix, Fallopolis, or Lapis. Instead, three Ophiel cast three [Lightmask]s, denying all harmful light around each of those he needed on his side.

Farix recovered the same as the other three, but Bulgan was already on him. He yelled about traitors and punched the Professor of Truedark, while Farix fired concentrated blood beams at Bulgan.

Bulgan won the contest of strength.

Farix, the [Lightmask] around him, and the Ophiel protecting him, all perished in a splash of dark-light. Bodies dispersed into fragments that then caught on radioactive fire in the oppressive brilliance, becoming ash, then nothing. Blood orbs carved tiny lines into Bulgan, but the inner light of the [Vivid Gloom] soaked into him. His flesh repaired as soon as it was cut. He never stopped moving. He aimed right for Lapis.

Three Ophiel cast 10,000 point [Hermetic Shredder]s into the radiance all around, each of them creating 9000, 9000-point wires, that they wove into the air around both Tania and Bulgan. Neither of them seemed to care. Both of them stepped through the lines in the sky without damaging themselves. The radiation all around seemed to mess with the spell, breaking the molecular wires like they were naught but cotton candy.

Inside of her [Lightmask], Lapis had half a moment to recover. She barely had time to register the new attack, but she saw Bulgan coming. Her earrings broke. She mumbled something about ‘if I ever had to use it against Erick’, as she smiled, and transformed the space around Bulgan into a fractured zone. Erick wasn’t quite sure what she had done, but Bulgan froze in place. A [Time Stop], or something similar?

No? Yes? Whatever the case, Bulgan was trapped in fractured space. He was still moving, if barely.

Erick was already moving onto his next attack. He had an Ophiel move to Tania. Bulgan’s eyes tracked that movement. Bulgan broke free of Lapis’s fractured space, but not before the Ophiel closer to Tania turned into a mandala of lightning, the halo of [Fulmination Aura] becoming much more when under the direction of a sunform.

Lightning licked off of an envelope of reflection surrounding Tania, zapping away so much water on a duck’s back. She smiled at Ophiel, right before Bulgan struck the [Familiar], turning him into broken mana.

Inside of her [Lightmask], Fallopolis had been preparing. She had been charging an attack; streaming shadows from the edge of Erick’s [Lightmask], into the center of her palm. Erick had no time to smile at that but he still felt oddly proud. Tania’s [Vivid Gloom] surrounded them all, but all that light was still blocked by Erick’s little [Lightmask], and that blockage was enough for Fallopolis to gather shadows from all of the Champion’s light. It was poetic, in a way.

Fallopolis released a carving line of darkness, directly at Tania. Some of that spell evaporated before it could touch Tania, the radiation in the air weakening all other magics. The power that managed to reach Tania did nothing except to flash off of a section of light and shadows a meter away from the Champion, to scatter into the sky like so much wasted potential.

In that same moment, with preternatural swiftness, Bulgan was already halfway to Fallopolis.

Erick reacted, perhaps unsmartly, queuing up a [Harmonic Counterspell] with his own global cooldown, preparing for Bulgan’s inevitable smash against Fallopolis by matching his spell against whatever mana was needed to counter that spell.

Bulgan struck.

His fist connected with Fallopolis; her eyes wide, his eyes narrowed and hateful. Fallopolis did not explode. Bulgan did not win that contest of strength. Nothing happened, except that Erick lost over 15,000 mana; the equivalent of at least 300,000 mana, but likely more. The [Harmonic Counterspell] worked. There was a moment of introspection between Tania, Bulgan, and Fallopolis. The moment passed as fast as the rest of the fight had gone; blink and you’d miss it.

Fallopolis became a being of tentacles and teeth. A monster of myth that Erick imagined that he would have heard about from Jane, or from one of Jane’s highschool friends. She ate Bulgan in a flashing second. A fist punched out of the old ‘woman’s’ writhing mass, while a foot kicked out of the other side, but ‘Fallopolis’ drowned the man inside of her gnashing, ripping, tearing body. She did not spit out any bones. Bulgan was there, and then suddenly, he wasn’t.

Erick got the notification of Bulgan’s death. 95% Participation. He wasn’t quite sure how that happened, but it had.

Barely 9 seconds had passed since the fight started. Erick was down to a few global cooldowns from Ophiel, but he had already used his own.

Tania screamed a lie, “BULGAN!”

Erick instantly saw through the farce. Tania had screamed to draw in someone who had yet to show themselves. Tania’s outpouring of emotion was a good lie. Well made, but still a lie.

A foot-wide sword shot straight through Tania’s body, from back to front, going right through where her core would have been. In that same instant a crack sounded across the sky, breaking the light, and breaking something deep inside the Champion of Melemizargo. Tania’s imitation [Vivid Gloom] flipped off.

The battle returned to the clear skies of Ar’Kendrithyst.

Erick feared for what he saw happening. He hoped that his fears were unfounded. He hoped that Goldie had succeeded. For a moment longer than all the others in the last few hours, Tania took three seconds to touch the plank of metal sticking out from her chest.

Goldie vanished backward. She reappeared as spiders popped out of the sky like trapdoor hunters, grabbing her out of her invisible magics, wrapping her in dark threads that Erick distantly recalled prevented all magic. (There was a way to improve his Blood Ooze in that thread, but how to do it?) That thread was the specialty of the shadow spiders, and suddenly, there were hundreds of those spiders in the air, crawling across Goldie, stabbing her with their fangs, injecting venom that would prevent her from controlling her mana as they wrapped her with more threads. Within seconds, she would likely be dead.

Two Ophiel each released a [Domain of the Withering Slime], each of them becoming an orb of light around an orb of light, while releasing tsunamis of thick air.

“Nope.” Tania said, “My victory.” With one hand, she held her chest as black blood flowed from her wound, while with the other, she splashed shadows and divine fire through the air, defining a space around Goldie where his magic could not reach. Her Domain. “My win.”

Goldie died one second later.

Erick’s Withering Domains might have caused some damage, for he got Participation in her death. 95%, again. His heart sunk at that number. He knew he did not do that much damage to her, for Shades didn’t have water inside of them, right? And yet…

The thick air of Ophiels’ spells washed over Tania, but did not touch her. They didn’t touch Fallopolis, or Lapis, either. Erick had correctly exempted Fallopolis and Lapis from those Domains, but Tania escaped in some other way.

Tania smiled at the world, and declared, “It’s over!”

The spiders retreated back into the empty air, vanishing from sight, right as Erick cast an [Electrolysis Bomb] from one Ophiel and a [Luminous Trap] from the other. Tania escaped the first by splashing shadows over herself, but didn’t bother with the second. The [Luminous Trap] just broke when it touched her. She could not be trapped.

Ah. Shit.

Erick had lost. Time seemed to speed up as he came to the same conclusion several times in the space of a moment. Even if he had ten more casts all lined up and all ready to go, that he would continue to lose, no matter how the previous moments had played out. Goldie had been right. With all his own spells, and even with Goldie’s ability to see through time, all of that was just a trick when compared to overwhelming power, and tricks were useless.

And then Tania started gloating, and Erick’s heart sank further.

“You have lost! I have won!” Tania spoke, “[Pure Reflection Ward] for most of your magics, [Weather Ward] for others, [Lightmask] for all the rest, [Dispel] for all the rest, and my own power reinforcing all of those! And no Script Seconds holding me back!” She smiled, viciously, as she said, “Whereas Bulgan was built to take you down, he does not compare to I who was empowered to murder anyone and everyone who relies on the Script by using their own magics against them! You have prepared counters for all your own skills while I have no Script Seconds to hold me down. You literally cannot win.” She pointed to the space where Goldie’s body had been. “Even the Shade of Assassination was not enough! And her [Strike]s are fatal on most everything she hits.” Tania smiled. “Mostly.” She said, “If only she had gotten two shots in, maybe she could have killed me, but My God has declared all the Shades must die, and so I work to bring about this future. Even Bulgan needed to be sacrificed to the greater good, for there was no other way to make Goldie come out of the ambient mana.” Tania faked a mournful sigh, and said, “He was a good lay, but I’ll get over it. I will simply have to raise up another to fill my needs.”

Fallopolis said, “You’re talking a lot about Bulgan for someone who didn’t care about him.”

Tania breathed in happiness as she lifted her hand away from her chest. Though her blood remained upon her like thick, black paint, her wound was gone. “I was, wasn’t I.” She said, “Apologies for the amateur gloating. I’ve never done this before. I usually just kill everyone I need to kill, but we’re at the end, and some words must be said if only for the depth of the history forming around us at this very moment.”

“Pompous!” Fallopolis asked, “What now?”

“After I kill you and fulfill my needs?” Tania nodded, saying, “After that.” She spread her hands to her sides, indicating the Dead City below, saying, “Ar’Kendrithyst is to be abandoned to the rest of the world.” She looked to Erick, and lied straight to his face, “You get to live. Hollowsaur too, oddly enough. That curse you put on him is exactly what will enable Melemizargo to transition into the fold as a proper Relevant Entity of the Script.”

Just for the hell of it, Erick asked, “And what if I gave my Blessing to Lapis and Fallopolis? Would they, too, be allowed to live?”

He felt Lapis and Fallopolis look at him, even though they didn’t take their white eyes off of Tania.

“Oh? No no no.” Tania said, “They’re dead.” She stood straighter, as if she had remembered that she left on the stove at home. “Ah. This one has to die, too. Can’t forget him!” She pointed down and to the east. A spot of light and shadow spilled from her hand, radiating as much magic as the Red Dot, before flitting down through the sky like a dangerous, impossibly fast snowflake.

The coruscating dot touched the center of the Garden. The plateau of wooded, green space, just north of the Spire, became a sphere of flickering shadows and brilliant light, ten kilometers across. Shockwaves pulsed the sky. The spell took ten seconds to end. When it was done, Treant’s Garden was gone, reduced to molten slag that spilled over the edges of crystal pillars like melted candle wax.

Up above, another illusionary world vanished. Only four were left.

“Treant was always way too passive.” Tania shook her head. “Not a good look for the future of My God.” She raised a flat palm toward Lapis. “I am SO GLAD I saved the humans for last. One final treat! Three final murders! A culmination of all my time in this city!” Light gathered in her hand.

Lapis almost flinched. She almost ran. But then she stopped herself. She stared up at Tania, and waited with her eyes wide, and her shoulders squared, facing her end head-on. She said nothing. She stood strong.

The light in Tania’s hand faltered. She frowned. “What is it? You’re taking this way too calmly.”

Lapis said, “If Melemizargo decrees it, then I must die. It was foolish of me to expect otherwise.”

“… No.” Tania said, “That’s not it. You have something else prepared.” She smirked. She said, “Let me guess. You have a backup-soul somewhere? Is that it? I’ll just find and kill that one, too, but besides that! A copy isn’t even you! What a stupid backup plan. I thought you were better than that, Lapis.”

Lapis’s breath hitched.

“And besides even that! You’re a worse actor than I am. Should have panicked properly, then I never would have known.” Tania twisted her hand, and the light in her palm turned into a shimmering, invisible force. “This here is [Chaining Soul Destruction], stolen from my time watching Quilatalap. Thanks for telling me I needed to use it.”

