“No one who has done what the Shades have done deserves a second chance, Fallopolis.” Erick said, “But I give them one anyway, in hopes that they will know how best to fight the evils that will rise in their place, and because Hollowsaur cried like a baby when someone mentioned that ‘he couldn’t hurt a cow’.”

“Hmm… Glad to see you draw the line somewhere.” Fallopolis pointed to the ball bearing, saying, “Perri would have been too much to handle.”

“… Yes. Well.” Erick had no idea why he killed Perri so quickly, compared to the rest, and now that he had done it, he felt a twinge of remorse. But then [Hunter’s Instincts] told that part of his brain to quiet-down-now, and Erick said, “She tortured Teressa. I couldn’t live with myself if I let the Witch live, especially after she tried to trick me twice.”

“She likely tried to trick you much more than that. You remember when Tania told you to stay away from her, way back when you killed Dorofiend? Tania probably had Perri looking over you this whole time.” Fallopolis asked, “What was the other time she tried to trick you? Besides just now?”

Erick almost answered, but then he asked, “When was the first time we met, today?”

“When I woke you up with the fight with Queen over your room. I didn’t throw any beams at you, though. Not on purpose.” Fallopolis looked Erick over again, saying, “You don’t sound so good.” She nodded, then said, “Tell you what: Why not hand over a few of those [Luminous Traps] attached to rocks, or something, and let me use them to trap some bad guys? I can clip them with a telekinetic push, and that seems to be all that’s necessary to trap a Shade, so when I capture them, you can do whatever you did to Perri! You can get all that experience! Simple! Effective!”

Erick answered reflexively, “No.”

Down below on the map of Ar’Kendrithyst, blue dots winked out, one by one. Tania and her posse had been mowing through the central corridor of the Dead City, killing Shades, headed generally north. By the time Perri broadcast her poison-volcano announcement, Tania had shifted west, hard. She was headed straight for the Aerie, where four moving blue dots stood their final ground.

Erick could not really see the actual action happening over there, but he was high enough in the sky to see the Aerie. It was a bright red place, a craggy mountain that stuck up from the rest of Ar’Kendrithyst like a crooked thorn. It had to be over sixty kilometers away, from the lower wall of Ar’Kendrithyst all the way into the upper sky.

Fallopolis asked, “Why not?”

Erick laid it out there. “Are you going to take on my Blessing? Are you someone who should survive this culling?”

For a long moment Fallopolis said nothing. She just watched Erick. And then she turned away, and gazed out at the Aerie, far, far in the distance. She said, “I don’t need a chain around my soul to make me do right by the people of this world.”

“Get a Quest from the gods, then.”

“I cannot do that. I will not work with them. Not now, not ever.” Fallopolis said, “A lot of people come to the Clergy to gain power over others. These are the people who need your Blessing and that Quest. These shackles will make them better people, and allow them to better serve Melemizargo’s ultimate goals of rejoining the Relevant Entities. For my own role as the Culler of Melemizargo, I can tell that what you’re doing is the proper course.” After a moment, she said, “But I came here to never be powerless again, and to especially not be powerless against the gods. They took my Wizard mother from me in a Forgotten Campaign. That was not a lie. I will never willingly go to those who took my world from me. I will never allow myself to be a part of their power.” She looked to Erick, declaring, “If I need to kill Tania alone, I will do this alone. I will likely die, but if that is my fate then so be it.”

Erick looked to Fallopolis. Then slightly left, at the kendrithyst staff floating next to her. It had broken in half, and yet she kept it. Erick inclined his head at it, saying, “Got an extra staff?”

Fallopolis scrunched her eyebrows together, then glanced at the staff next to her. “This is just an affectation. Nothing special about it. I was never one for artifacts or trinkets.”

Erick shook his head. “For the [Luminous Trap]. I need an item to bind to the trap.” He thought for a second, and added, “And for the counterspelling ooze to hold.”

“Oh!” Fallopolis hovered the staff his way, saying, “Just use this one! How long does the ooze last? Eh. No. Don’t bother with that part.”

Erick grabbed the staff with a tendril of light and held it for a moment, thinking. He had an Ophiel cast a [Mend] upon the red-purple crystal. The staff flexed out to two meters long, looking perfectly fine. Erick stopped. He turned to Fallopolis, suddenly worried, and probably for no good reason. He said, “Some rules, just so that you can’t claim that I didn’t ask you not to, later.”

Fallopolis winced, breathing out through clenched teeth. “Shit— Fine! What do you want?”

“A non-binding oath that you won’t be like the Shades everyone thinks of when they think of ‘Shade’.”

“Easy!” Fallopolis said, “I agree.”

Erick nodded, slowly, then said, “And you can’t scoop up every Shade and then run away with them under your control. I want them either dead or Blessed into accepting the new world order, where Shades are a part of a good and helpful society.”

“Also easily agreed!”

“And now, the binding one.”

Fallopolis flinched. Her voice matched Erick’s for power, as she began to speak in cadence.

“A demand you have, of me I see. I cans’t not guess what it could be!”

“A little thing I tell you true, the only thing I want from you.”

“I am intrigued. What could this be? What binding doest thou string round me?”

“I want the truth for now and ever. Deception: No. No sense how clever.”

The manasphere tumbled around Erick and Fallopolis, like churning waters, hinting at movement far below. Erick’s voice had turned hard. Fallopolis matched him power for power.

“You wish for us a bond of truth? You surely do now show your youth. Lies can also love and lift! They are not always harmful grift.”

“A point well made yet and here now, I will not be your slaughtered cow. Lies from you cannot not harm... though I will settle for alarm.”

“A binding then, between us two. Alarms for both, for me and you. Upon the timing of a lie, we shall now know each other by.”

“The bond is struck, a light-touch thing. A working barely deep as fling. But here and now and evermore, it is a part of both our cores.”

“Accepted with the grace of God! I will not ever be a fraud.”

“Then here’s a blessing struck forsooth. This working sounds ‘gainst honest truth.”

The world pulsed around Erick as it pulsed around Fallopolis. Something tiny slipped around him, as the same thing slipped around her. And then it was gone, or rather, invisible. Fallopolis smiled, as she breathed hard like she had just run around a city block.

Erick briefly returned to his human body and breathed hard, too. He briefly noticed his mana dipped down, maybe only a hundred points. Maybe less. Not much, in the grand scheme of things. He recovered faster than Fallopolis.

A blue box appeared.

Blessing of Minor Truth, 60 seconds, Sound + Understanding + Acceptance, 100 mana per person

Every member of the accepting group can tell when the others purposefully lie or obfuscate the truth.

Erick returned to his sunform. Fallopolis did the same. And then she flinched away from the air in front of her like a surprised goat.

“What the shit!” She said, “I got a box! I haven’t had a box in 400 years!” She flapped her hand through the air, wide-eyed, dismissing the box. She tapped the air a few times, and suddenly went from happy to annoyed. “Oh.” Fallopolis looked to Erick. “Not connected to the Script again. Just the one box. Damn. Thought I’d get [Cleanse] again.” She looked to Erick. “Could you…?”

Erick inundated her with a [Cleanse]. Thick air blasted away from her, while Erick asked, “What benefit does that give you?”

Fallopolis smirked. “Let’s test out this alarm.” She smacked her lips, then said, “It makes me clean—”

A soundless buzz sounded in Erick’s soul, like a buzzing bee had somehow gotten inside his chest and decided to do the mamba. Fallopolis must have noticed his reaction, because she stopped talking.

Erick said, “So that was a lie.”

“Technically, that was not a lie. It was—” Fallopolis paused when she saw Erick experience another buzz. It was smaller than the one before, but Erick still felt the Shade’s lie, and he purposefully let Fallopolis know he knew her lie by the expression on his face. Fallopolis hummed, then continued, “[Cleanse] does make me cleaner—” Buzz. “But the truth! The truth is that [Cleanse] also balances the mana in my soul and body, and enables easier manual magic.” She paused, staring at Erick; waiting. Erick was waiting, too, but nothing buzzed. Fallopolis said, “And that’s what I used your [Cleanse] for.”

No buzz.

Erick said, “Well. Okay then.”

Fallopolis looked to the side for a moment. Then she looked to Erick. “Tell me a lie.”

“Tania wants to fight for the humans.”

Fallopolis did a little involuntary dance. “Ohohohoh. That’s a lot!” She looked away. She looked back, saying, “Gimmie another lie.”

“If you destroyed the Script, Veird would be fine.”

Fallopolis frowned at him, then said, “Again.”

“I appreciate those who play games with my life and my people.”

“Getting a bit deep there, Erick.” She added, “Anyway! No buzz on that last one. Good. Turned mine down to nothing.”

“You can do that?”

“Sure. I’m not walking over dragon eggs around you, but you’re free to do whatever.” Fallopolis said, “Minor Blessing, and you even called it ‘a working deep as fling’. Here, try to adjust yours: The sun is blue.”

Buzz.

Erick said, “I don’t want to adjust mine right now.”

“Fair enough.”

Fallopolis nodded, and turned toward the north. Over the last few minutes, the fireworks had multiplied. Giant plumes of brilliant light. A sudden tempest of crawling blue. A smashing cacophony of sound that pulsed the sky, sending a visible shockwave across Ar’Kendrithyst.

All the while, the grey mist seeping from the Swamp kept going.

Erick turned away from the ongoing battle, and worked on the staff, taking his mind off the upcoming fight until it got here. Fixing up the staff took a lot less time than he would have liked. He just cast a black sphere a meter across into the air directly above the top of the 2-meter long staff, locking the spell to its position. It was done. With a twist of some tendrils of light, Erick experimented with handling the staff.

Fallopolis eyed him and the giant lollipop of dark doom. She smiled.

While he played around with the staff, Erick asked Fallopolis the same questions he had asked her before, and in much the same way, but a lot more specific. Did she promise to be a ‘good Shade’? Did she promise to either kill or convert the Shades she captured with the mobile black sphere? Did she promise not to screw Erick over when this was all over? Fallopolis answered truthfully and quickly until that last one. For that one, she paused before answering.

She looked at him, and said, “I won’t intentionally harm you or yours.” She added, “And I’ll do you one better! I also won’t, through inaction, allow bad things to happen to you without at least warning in advance, as much as I can.”

There was no buzz.

… Erick handed her the lollipop of dark doom. She took it, gleefully, careful to keep the dark end well away from herself. She cackled, just a little, and then spun the staff around like she was leading a parade.

Erick asked, “What does it feel like to get sucked into one of those?”

“Oh~ You know~ Pain beyond imagining. Doesn’t stop being painful, either, because the spell sucks in and traps all ambient light and thus you’re inundated with waaaay too much light.” Fallopolis said, “Can’t think. Can’t cast. Very painful. Worst pain I’ve ever felt, actually, because it’s not a killing pain. It’s just pain.”

“… Sorry to hear that,” Erick said, feeling a hole where his heart usually was.

“Huh.” Fallopolis looked at him. “Truth.”

“You turned it back on?”

“On and off as I want.” She waved the staff around, asking, “Have you been trapped in one of these yet?”

“Parts of me.” Erick said, “I don’t get sucked in all the way like you do.”

“I doubt you’d experience the pain, anyway. You’re not shadow-aligned.”

Moments passed.

Erick pointed at the staff, saying, “It’s vulnerable to [Dispel]. Best watch out for that.”

With a wide smile, Fallopolis said, “I’ve already fixed that.”

“… Truth?” Erick startled for a moment. “How?”

“An application of my own abilities.”

Erick willed the [Luminous Trap] to cancel. It burst.

“Bah!” Fallopolis sighed at him, then handed him back the staff. “Make it smaller this time, please. Contrary to every warrior out there, stupid-giant weapons are just giant acts of stupidity.”

Erick cast another [Luminous Trap] upon the top of the staff, shaping it to look almost like a natural extension of the crystal, but with a gap between the crystal and the magic. “Better?”

“Perfect!” Fallopolis cackled again.

Erick asked, “So what are you doing, exactly? To make it [Dispel] proof?”

Fallopolis gazed at the dark blot at the end of the crystal, and said, “I’m wrapping my personal Domain around the area. I’m glad you can’t tell, but, here: I’ll make it visible for a moment.”

Erick had been looking at the staff and seeing nothing special, but at Fallopolis’s direction, the mana around the staff and the spell at the top lit up like a bonfire made of intent. It was like glimpsing the tendrils around Poi’s head, but times a thousand. It completely occluded the [Luminous Trap] at the top of the staff. Between moments, the display vanished; returned to invisibility.

Fallopolis said, “A more esoteric use of a Domain, but one of the most useful.”

“Oh. Aura Domain magic.” Erick said, “Not one of the Elemental Domain magics. Ugh. So many things in that book that the Librarian gave me that I haven’t had a chance to try.”

