“This one is easy enough.” Fallopolis said, “You’ve already been doing this with your ball-of-light form and those spells that bounced off of it. The Elemental version is a little less strong than the Aura version, but not by much. The actual trick I’m employing is not getting sucked into the void myself. I think all the ball has to do is touch a Shade’s aura and it sucks… them… in...” Her voice trailed off.

The entire Aerie glowed white, shining like a lighthouse for all of Ar’Kendrithyst.

And then a detonation shook the top of that glowing mountain, shifting the glow from white to darker, and the entire mountain suddenly became a bright, cherry-red brilliance.

Erick felt the worst sort of panic. Maybe it was part of his enhanced Perception. Maybe it was something more primal, as though he saw his life flashing before his eyes. Whatever the case, his first instincts were for other people; those too close to the Aerie to escape unharmed.

He made six Ophiel rush forward, fast as they could possibly go, to three locations. One pair went to Hollowsaur and the minotaurs, still on the beach of Lake Leviathan. Another pair went to Hollowsaur’s plateau, to protect his little green people as much as Erick could. The last two went to those who he rescued from Dorofiend, at the Bend in the North River. Those six Ophiel barely made it in time for Erick to megaphone panicked, loud warnings of what was coming. Three Ophiel cast giant [Stillness]s, changing all sound above a whisper to bright light, causing the mouths of the people in those spaces to blink with glowing bubbles as they yelled in response to Erick’s sudden warning. The secondary Ophiel in those three spaces turned themselves into full powered [Prismatic Ward]s, like deflector shields, outside of the main area where the people were, and heavily sloped in the direction of the Aerie. Hopefully they could deflect the blast up and out, and they weren’t just blown away by an explosion that looked large enough to break the entire Dead City.

With a final touch, Erick had the surviving Ophiel in those three spaces, still in their sunforms, cast themselves as wide as they could go, stretching into the light, turning it solid, expanding themselves as they protectively wrapped around everyone they could reach.

Meanwhile an Ophiel near Erick and Fallopolis cast a [Stillness] all around the two of them, while another created himself into a [Prismatic Ward] deflector that faced the Aerie.

Five seconds had passed. Fallopolis had not been motionless, either. She had cast her own deflector, far ahead, in front of Erick’s [Prismatic Ward], as the two of them stared at the glowing Aerie. The mountain was now a structure of bright-orange iron, like it was fresh out of the forge and ready to be hammered into shape.

Erick barely had time to yell at the sky above, telling the other Shades to come into his protection, before the Aerie exploded. Goldie, Farix, and Lapis stepped up behind Erick, behind the shield he had created, while Fallopolis cast more dark magics forward, and Lapis let loose with some sort of tiny trinket that crumbled into dust and erected a massive bubble all around the five of them.

Clinically, Erick compared what he saw now to what he had seen in a documentary about Krakatoa.

80 kilometers away, the visible kilometers of the mountain known as the Aerie became fire and expanded faster than the speed of sound. The interior blast was short lived, and maybe only reached a good fifteen kilometers away from every part of the Aerie, from the peak to the base all the way down in the Lower Reaches.

The shockwave was larger.

Nearby crystal towers, themselves maybe 40 kilometers tall, broke. The smaller fragments rode the white shockwave like they were surfers. Only a few of the larger ones remained visible, as the pressure wave expanded.

A dozen illusionary planets vanished from the sky.

The shockwave grew; a white bubble of air and pressure imposing its will upon the world. Towers crashed into other towers. Crystal blasted into the sky. Erick had the Ophiel near the three locations solidify as much as possible, but he knew it would not be enough.

Erick had one spell he could cast himself, though, through those Ophiel, but to choose one area was to damn the other two. That didn’t matter. He still had to save one. The Ophiel near Hollowsaur rushed forward, into the blast, while Erick cast a [Stillness] into the shockwave. The spell slipped into the air, shaped like a plow, but not before the shockwave hit the sunform Ophiel, popping him like he was an old soap bubble.

Erick watched, from his own perch, a good distance away, as the shockwave rolled over that first [Stillness], turning some of that power into light which flashed across the entirety of Ar’Kendrithyst, like a lightbulb giving its last. The shockwave continued on as though it had hit a very small rock.

Three more lightbulbs burst, deep down inside the kendrithyst towers.

More towers crashed away from the explosion.

The shockwave continued. It crawled across the Swamp, sending up massive plumes of grey smoke, and cracking the green tower.

The edge reached Erick like an oncoming wall of force. The world turned white. The shockwave was too much. If Erick had ears, they would have burst. If he had eyes, he would have been blinded. He had none of those things, and so he merely felt as though someone fired a cannon next to his non-corporeal head. His own [Personal Ward] flashed white, but it was hard to tell that when everything else was also as bright as the sun.

The Shades did not appreciate the light. The four of them instantly went down, almost falling out of the sky. With four tendrils of light and the help of his Ophiel, he caught Lapis, Goldie, Farix, and Fallopolis, before they fell too far.

The shockwave passed. Seconds later, it struck the edge of the Shadow’s Feast Barrier and rebounded, coming back for a second showing. Instead of a cannon blast, it was merely the sound of a shotgun fired right next to his head. Lapis and Farix both screamed in pain as the world turned white again, thanks to Erick’s Stillness. Erick hadn’t heard them do that the first time. Goldie merely flinched upon Erick’s sunform platform, as she turned darker while the light turned brighter; an eclipse-like form that Erick had already seen Bulgan do when he had fought the Shade over Candlepoint. Fallopolis gritted her teeth as she similarly withstood the blast.

The entirety of Ar’Kendrithyst became a sounding bowl as sound bounced on the Feast Barrier and tore across the sky, from every direction, hitting from the left and the right, from the top and the bottom. Erick’s [Stillness] popped on the second passage.

Time passed, and eventually, the resounding shockwave had lost its power.

Erick re-summoned his Ophiel, as he was able. Every single one he had set forward was gone. He sent more forward as he could, to check on what had become of the people out there.

Hollowsaur’s plateau was gone. Simply… not there anymore; replaced by a hole in the ground where the crystal had likely broken below, and the top had fallen through. Much of the Jungle was either on fire or knocked down to the ground, or uprooted. Erick doubted that anyone on that plateau had survived. His deflector [Prismatic Ward] was not there; it had taken too much damage and broke.

Back on the beach, Hollowsaur huddled against the ground with the minotaurs and a few small green people, inside a structured assortment of bubbles, one on top of the other, while black flames grew on the sands all around them. They had layered themselves in overlapping [Ward]s, which was understandable, and some of Hollowsaur’s flames, for whatever reason. It was enough for some, but not for all. Many people were bleeding, and in pain. Some who had been outside of the center [Ward]s were dead. Erick’s [Prismatic Ward], shaped like a slope, had managed to throw much of the debris up and over the party. It might have saved their lives.

But the beach was gone. All of the middle layer was built upon dense crystal pillars. Somehow, the pillars under Hollowsaur’s particular beach-front remained strong. But all around, the supporting pillars must have been disturbed. Sand slipped through holes in the ground. Water vanished down whirlpools.

Where the Aerie had been, only 20 kilometers away, the land was in much worse shape.

Not a kilometer from Hollowsaur, the land dropped away into a crater where crystals floated in midair, like lazy rocks, and Lake Leviathan drained down into the dark. The nearby land, which had been supported in equilibrium with the weight of the water that made up the lake in the center of it all, was beginning to slip even further. Landslides started all around the Jungle as the supportive water slipped away into the dark of the Lower Reaches.

Erick’s [Stillness] had popped around Hollowsaur, so he had no trouble to shout at the Shade and his people, “You’ve got to move! That land is not stable!”

Hollowsaur flinched, but he didn’t do much more than that. He was alive, though. Some of his people were crawling toward him. Some of the minotaurs were staring at their own hands, and at the destruction all around. With a quick tendril of light, Erick saved a disoriented green person from falling down into the nearby chasm. He set the guy onto the edge of the rest of the gathering, and told them all to get moving. Some responded. Some became aware of their surroundings. The group started to move.

Erick turned his gaze toward the Bend at the North River.

It was half gone.

Erick’s [Stillness] was also gone, but people had managed to get [Ward]s into the air. It was an uncoordinated mess compared to Hollowsaur’s structured defenses, but they had been behind a lot of intervening crystals, too… Shit. Maybe Erick should have put his first [Stillness] here? And not on Hollowsaur? Shit.

But… These people had been behind a lot of intervening crystal. They should have been a lot better off than Hollowsaur, who was on the unobstructed beach. And yet...

A myriad of uncoordinated people were already running around and healing others. Some were up and walking around in a daze. The North River was currently trickling out of what remained of its aqueduct, because this area had not been that safe, at all.

Erick quickly surmised what had happened when he looked a bit further, looking for survivors. A crystal tower had fallen through the space taking out the intake and the exit of the Bend. That broken spire had crashed just off center of their defenses. Broken crystals now hovered in the air down below. People flew down into the dark below, [Fly]ing however they could, screaming out names, trying to find those who they had lost.

The intervening crystal had likely both saved many of them, but also killed just as many.

Erick had his Ophiel hover into the dark, into the center of where the crystal tower had fallen, into the center of the searching party. He cast a [Cascade Imaging] into the space, shaped for that specific area, searching for ‘People’. And then he had that Ophiel come right back.

The fight wasn’t over. The Barrier was still up, after all. That meant that Tania was still alive. The end would come soon enough. Erick just had to survive what he could survive.

Ar’Kendrithyst had changed, though. Where once there was a 60 kilometer tall spike of crystal, going from the very bottom wall of the Dead City, all the way to the top and beyond, there was now a hole, ten kilometers across at the smallest point, twenty five kilometers across at the largest, which seemed to be a crack that went all the way through to the center of Lake Leviathan. Those deep, dark waters drained into the Lower Reaches. Erick watched, as dead leviathans and other, larger monsters, fell down hundreds of new waterfalls.

He wondered if Undine had survived. Only nine illusionary worlds remained up above. Only nine Shades were left.

Erick looked down into the bowl of the Brightwater, where most of the people of Ar’Kendrithyst lived. The ever present light down there was fading. Erick couldn’t make out much of the devastation down there, but Ophiel could. Erick felt his heart sink again, but also buoy, for while there were people walking around in dazes with blood trickling from ears, there were also people helping other people.

Farix, Goldie, Lapis, and Fallopolis had all managed to regain their stance in the air. Lapis took down the bubble barrier around them; it was already broken in almost every direction, anyway. Fallopolis’s shadow barrier was gone; destroyed by the shockwave. All this time, Erick had been resummoning his Ophiel as necessary and gearing up for another conflict when they weren’t out scouting. Each Ophiel now held a rock with their own [Prismatic Ward] attached to that rock, while they were all in their sunforms, with [Pure Reflection Ward], [Hunter’s Instincts], and a few different Sights active.

Erick asked, “Does Tania still live? The Barrier is still up.”

No one seemed to want to answer Erick, which told him as much as he needed to know.

He asked a different question, “I see people walking around in the Brightwater. Are they going to be okay?”

That seemed to open the floodgates.

Farix rapidly said, “Maybe. I told my people to get to cover in the secondary bunkers.”

Goldie said, “They’re not okay. Not many people survived that.”

“I didn’t know…” Lapis said, “I didn’t know they set the Aerie to do that. Who did that?”

Fallopolis said, “I don’t know. That was news to me.”

Goldie said, “I’m guessing Rodel was involved. Not sure why.”

“Probably everyone there was involved in some way. Rodel. Spinner. Skyhook. Natis.” Fallopolis guessed, “They probably gave Tania an ultimatum and she said ‘no’.”

Farix asked, “Rodel? The Shade of Whispers? He wasn’t on Tania’s side?”

“He was human.” Fallopolis asked, “Did you not know that?”

Farix looked toward where the Aerie had been. “No. I did not.”

Erick finally spoke, “That was Evil.” He turned to the Shades, and pointed at where the Aerie had been. “That is why the higher magics should be further restricted. No one should be able to do that. Not even when there are more worlds, and more places to escape to. That should not be allowed to exist. Surely you have seen shit just as bad as that before!”

Goldie frowned. Lapis absentmindedly nodded.

Farix said, “We can argue the Script another time.”

Erick asked, “Who else has set up bombs for when they die?”

Lapis was the only one who gave away the game; she looked to the other three Shades, while nervously shifting on her feet.

Erick snapped, “WHAT THE FUCK.” He demanded of anyone who could answer, “WHO?!”

