Princess trotted quickly back to the shop and Ren helped everyone out, then unhooked the cart to store it. He took the women, the two dogs, and Princess up the back stairs to the second floor and through the back door, then up the stairs to the apartment.

“Please wait here until I come back.” Ren said to the maids. “I'll have better accommodations ready by tonight.”

“How will you do that if you're not here?” Frikara asked, a little confused.

Ren smiled. “I'll have someone else build it, of course.” He said and put Princess and the dogs in the kitchen with the fire elemental, then made Princess a nice mattress to lay on. He went back to the living room and kissed each of his personal maids on the cheek. “I'll see you all later.”

“Ooo, kiss my cheek, too!” Railyse said and turned her head to wait for it. Ren chuckled and kissed her cheek.

“There, are you happy?” Ren asked her.

Railyse nodded. “I still don't understand the significance of it, but it feels nice and kind of tickles a little bit.”

“Then you understand one of the main points of it.” Ren smiled, told her and the maids goodbye, and went downstairs to the shop. Clint wasn't there, so he went outside and ran over to the Housing District and chose a lot between the two houses on that side. He was tempted to use the Refugee Center to stay in, but he needed to alter parts of the house for it's occupants, and figured getting a new house built would be better.

Ren chose the two storey option, and expanded it to fill the lot. He could have made it himself, but he wanted to give Jen the business. He paid the fee and set the occupants as himself, his maids, Railyse, Princess, and Ruck. He added a very generous tip like he always did, and finalized the purchase. A minute later, he spotted movement at the end of the street and smiled.

“Ha! I knew it was you!” Jen laughed as she approached him with her build crew behind her. “You're the only one that always tips so much!”

Ren laughed. “I tip well because I always need some modifications done.” He said. “I need one of the bottom rooms to be solid with no windows.”

“Which one?” Jen asked as she brought up the plans, and Ren pointed. “The whole living room? That room is huge!”

Ren nodded. “I was tempted to do it on the top floor, but it's easier to waterproof the bottom floor.”

“Waterproof? What for?” Jen asked.

Ren explained what he wanted her to do, and Jen shook her head.

“You're crazy!” Jen said. “You want us to make an in-ground pool inside the house?”

Ren chuckled. “It's not for me.” He said, and told her about the Sea Dweller's Ambassador.

“Okay, that makes sense.” Jen said. “I'll tell them to leave out the floor there, and we'll start digging right away.”

“You can get the paving stones from my warehouse.” Ren said.

“So, you're back to stay, huh?” Jen asked, and he nodded. She put an arm around his shoulders and gave him a hug. “I'm sorry.”

Ren smiled sadly, and put an arm around her waist. “Thanks.” He said. “By the way, how much do I owe you for the warehouse?”

Jen chuckled. “Just knock a platinum or two off my bill for the loan you gave me to buy the land.”

“Done.” Ren said, and she looked at him with surprise.

“I was joking!”

“I'm not.” Ren said. “You don't know what a relief it was to come to shore, fully prepared to dig out a huge space to build something to store all of my stuff, only to find a big warehouse already assembled and ready to fill.” He gave her hip a bit of a squeeze. “The stable was a nice touch, too.”

“Oh?” Jen grinned evilly. “Did you meet Prancer?”

“Is that her nickname?” Ren asked, and Jen nodded.

“So... did she trick you into... well...”

“Kind of.” Ren said, and told her about the bet. Jen laughed for nearly a minute before she could catch her breath.

“Oh... oh, that's funny!” Jen said. “She did trick you!”

“How?” Ren asked. “The bet ended in a tie.”

Jen laughed again. “I'm giving her free rent and the run of the land, as long as she has her crew help you load and unload your ship. She also has to give you use of the carts when you need them.”

“Oh.” Ren said and sighed.

“You might be all high and mighty with how powerful you are, Mr. Unnamed King; but, you're still a babe in the woods when it comes to women.” Jen said, then bent down and gave his cheek a kiss. “You poor thing.”

Ren chuckled. “I'd ask you to help me with that, but I'm pretty sure you can't dedicate the rest of your life to tell me everything I need to know.”

Jen grinned at him. “Sorry, Ren. You're on your own.”

Ren nodded and let her out of the one-arm hug. “I better go. I've got an important errand to run.”

“This should be done in a couple of hours.” Jen said. “No promises, though.”

“I don't need it until tonight, so you don't have to rush on my account.”

“That's a relief.” Jen said. “See you later.”

Ren stepped back and gave her a small regal bow, and turned to walk away. A dash of fluffy red hair caught his eye, and he stopped to look at her. Jhulune was just as striking as she was all that time ago, and he smiled as he saw her strain to move several boards at once.

“Jen? Can I borrow Jhulune for a few minutes?” Ren asked.

“Sure.” Jen said. “Hey, Jhulune! The customer wants to talk to you!”

Jhulune looked up from unloading the cart and waved to Jen, then came over to Ren. “Hi.” She said, a little shyly.

“Hi, Jhulune.” Ren said. “Can we go for a walk?”

“Sure.” Jhulune said, and Ren held a hand out for her to take. Her face flushed a little red as she took it; but she didn't hesitate at all and Ren led her down the street a little ways and into an alleyway. Ren took out the ready-made tent and held the flap open for her. She went inside and turned to look at him.

“Jhulune, I'm sorry I've been away so long.” Ren said when he stepped in with her. “I've just been so busy...”

“That's all right.” Jhulune said. “You told me when we... um... you know. Well, you said that we wouldn't be dating, or have a relationship or anything.” She said, and looked at the floor of the tent. “Ren, I... I've dated other guys while you've been gone.”

Ren put a hand under her chin and lifted her head so she would look at him. “I always thought you would.” He said. “Who could resist such a beauty?”

Jhulune's face flushed red. “I... well, there was... a bit of...”

“Yes?”

Jhulune took a breath and let it out. “They never got past the bra you gave me.” She said. “You were right! It did stop their roaming hands.”

Ren smiled. “I had hoped that giving you more control over that would make you happy.”

“It did.” Jhulune said. “When I said no, they stopped.” She smiled. “Of course, they couldn't go any further without knowing how to unhook it, either.”

Ren chuckled. “I'm glad.”

“Me, too.” Jhulune said and stepped close. She was the same height as him, and her hair was the same fluffy mass, except hers was red and fluffed by hand while his was blonde and naturally fluffy. She slid her arms around his neck and snuggled into his body, and they fit together like two puzzle pieces. She sighed when she felt his reaction to her attention, and he put his arms around her back as she put her head on his shoulder.

“Jhulune.” Ren sighed. “I've got... well, a few women that require my attention.”

Jhulune put a gentle kiss on his neck. “I know.” She said. “Nathalia at the restaurant. Anabelle at the shop. Donna at the mansion. Rosie at the Library.” She whispered. “So many women that want to be with you.”

“I haven't slept with Rosie.” Ren said. “I'm pretty sure she wants me to, though.”

Jhulune kissed his neck again. “Why are you so desirable?” She asked and started to suck on his neck. Ren closed his eyes and let the sensation of her lips on his skin fill his perception.

“It's my Prince Charming title.” Ren whispered, and started to massage her back. “Some women will see me as the perfect man.”

“I don't believe it.” Jhulune whispered when she stopped sucking and lifted her head from his shoulder to face him. “I met you long before you had that title.”

Ren thought back, and his eyes widened. He'd met Jhulune when he'd bought the warehouse from Sally, and Jhulune had worked on it with Jen and the lumberyard crew. He hadn't gotten the Prince Charming title until he had been in the dwarf lands for a while.

“I've liked you since all the way back then.” Jhulune smiled. “Before you were so strong and rich.” She said and stroked the spot she had sucked on. There was now a large red welt in the shape of her mouth on his skin. “You've always been with someone, so I knew I wouldn't have a chance with you.”

“Jhulune...”

“It's all right.” Jhulune said and kissed him on the lips. Ren gave himself over to the feeling and kissed her back. She broke the kiss a few moments later and looked at him in the eyes. “I resigned myself to only hoping, to only...”

“Shh.” Ren said. “You don't have to explain.”

“Yes, I do.” Jhulune said. “After what happened with Brian, and then what you did for me afterwards...” She gave him another kiss. “I knew I wanted to share myself with you.”

“Jhulune...”

“I don't care if it will only happen one time.” Jhulune said. “One time will be enough.” She said. “I know it will.”

“I agreed a long time ago that I would do this.” Ren said. “I just wanted to let you know that I didn't forget about you... not in all this time.”

“All this time?” Jhulune asked. “Ren... what do you mean?”

“I can't really explain.” Ren said. “What I can say is that it was Adventurer's business, and I was away for a very long time.”

“I... okay, I won't ask you about it.” Jhulune said. “I'm really glad you're back.”

“I hope you can still say that after tomorrow night.” Ren said.

“T-tomorrow night?” Jhulune asked, and Ren nodded.

“I've made you wait for far too long for this to happen.” Ren said. “I'll make good on my promise with you tomorrow night. Would you like to join me for supper at Nathalia's Nourishment?”

“Wh-what?” Jhulune said, surprised. “We... we're not just... you know... gonna do it?”

Ren gave her a quick kiss. “I'd like to take you out for dinner first, if that's okay?”

“I...” Jhulune nodded. “I'd like that very much.”

“Then I'll see you tomorrow night, just before supper.” Ren said, and let her out of the tight embrace he had her in. “Shall I walk you back...”

“No, thank you.” Jhulune said and stepped out of the tent with a big smile on her face. “I'm pretty sure I can find my way back down the street.”

Ren chuckled and stored the tent. “Oh, before you go...” He took out one of the 100 blank gold rings he had in inventory and enchanted it into a Strong Ring of Storage. It gave her 50 slots of storage and +40 Strength. “I want you to have this.”

“Wh-what?!?” Jhulune exclaimed and looked at the ring, and her heart beat faster than it ever had before. “What... what...”

“I saw you struggle while you unloaded the cart of supplies.” Ren said. “This should help you with that.”

Jhulune held her hand out and Ren slipped it on her finger.

“Please, accept this ring as a sign of our friendship.” Ren said, just so she wouldn't mistake it for anything else, and he heard her sigh in relief.

“Good god, you scared me!” Jhulune said and laughed. “I'm too young to get married.”

Ren laughed, too. “Bye, Jhulune.”

*

“Bye, Ren.” Jhulune said and watched Ren walk around the building and disappear. Jhulune hugged her arms around herself because they ached to wrap around his neck again. It felt so right to have them there. She thought and rubbed her hands over her arms. What's it going to be like to... to... She shivered in anticipation. I can't wait!
