Koyabez said, “You managed to make some normal magic, and it almost cost you your life, but the spell you created has already saved thousands of lives. My head priests, all across Veird, are already holding peace talks between embattled peoples, in spaces where everyone knows there can be no hostile magic.” He pointed to Veird. The continent of Glaquin glowed all along the edges, then that light moved inside, like a flashlight concentrating to a point, down to the south east of the continent to become a bright spark upon the globe, on the southern coast of the Greensoil Republic. “The Halls of the Dead still plague the land with guerrilla warfare, but the Wasteland Kingdoms and the Greensoil Republic are debating all out war, instead of heading out to fight. This is only possible because of [Zone of Peace].”

Koyabez waved his hand, and Veird turned in the sky; several bright sparks appeared all across the surface.

Koyabez said, “There is hope for peace in many parts of the world, and there is more to come.”

Erick felt tears run down his face. He saw people around the world, helping each other, reaching out to their neighbors and lifting them up out of the dirt, or out of danger.

“I’m glad.” Erick looked back down to Koyabez, and the god looked sad. Erick had been about to ask for a Pledge of Insight, and his spell. But suddenly, that seemed impossible. “What’s wrong?”

Koyabez said, “I cannot give you the spell, and I cannot help you with a Pledge of Insight; not as you are right now.”

“Why?”

“Because you have pledged to kill all the Shades, and I am the God of Peace. If you promise to give up your conquest, I will grant you as many ability points as you want, a Pledge of Insight, and uncommon help in constructing all of your future spells. Do you want to know the secrets of immortality? Do you want to be my Champion, to try and end this war between Melemizargo and everyone else? I can grant all of that to you, if you turn from this path you have chosen.”

The mirage of a ghostly heaven all around Erick evaporated as he felt the fires of anger glimmer to life inside his chest.

The Shades were immoral murderers. Tania Webwalker wanted Jane giftwrapped in platinum chains for the ‘crime’ of killing a shadow spider who had come to kidnap her. Bulgan tried to annihilate Frontier, and before that, Bulgan's people had tried to murder Erick and Jane in the attack on the Sewerhouse.

The old, naive Erick would have said yes. But now? No. Arguing with people who wanted nothing more than them on top and everyone else bloody under their boots, was worse than futile, it was deadly.

There was a limit to peace.

Erick demanded, “Why would you try to make peace with genocidal megalomaniacs?”

“Because I was once friends with Melemizargo, back when he was a god of magic, and everything was different. I will not move against his forces, for he would rise in reprisal, and I will not have my people be the ones to cause him more pain.” Koyabez said, “Melemizargo is insane with grief, and his terror seeps out through his clergy. Fear drives them to violence. Violence begets fear. And the cycle is never ending.”

“Would Tania have killed everyone in Spur if we had let her?”

“Yes.”

"You would rather have had Spur been annihilated?”

“No.”

“If Spur wasn’t there, would the Shades spill out into the land, singing the song of Melemizargo to turn the people of the world into their unthinking servants?”

“Yes. They have before, but concentrated efforts by worldly powers have always managed to push them back to their city.”

“So you plead for peace with people unwilling and unable to try.”

“Yes.”

“… good luck with that.”

Koyabez smiled, his deific face full of understood pain. “The Path to Peace is foolish, but sometimes fools change the world.”

“I would love to believe you, but I cannot afford to be a fool.”

- - - -

Erick sat down to chess with Phagar, next to the garden.

He asked, “Do you have a problem with me trying to kill all the Shades in Ar’Kendrithyst, and… I don’t even know what to do about an insane old god of magic. How do you fight that?”

Phagar, in a copy of Erick’s body, laughed. “Does the God of Death and Time have a problem with an old god finally passing on?” He smiled, saying, “No. I do not have any issue at all with the dying of an age. Though this task you have set for yourself is not as easy as you think.”

“Thank you for your concern, but that is my cross to bear.” Erick said, “I’m in. Please give me your Pledge of Insight. I’m gonna need to think about the Champion thing, though. Where are your thoughts on all this daydropper and necromancer stuff? Will people find it strange if they find out I’m working with you?”

Phagar nodded, smiling, and said, “Gods deal in the realm over here, Erick. We help guide those of you on your side who feel like listening, but your lives are your own. That business with you— the one where we all stood around to decide your fate? That was one of a handful of times anything like that has ever happened on Veird, and the end result in every case, except one, was that we chose to do nothing. Your lives are your own.” He added. “I feel you may have a skewed view of what life on Veird is like for the average person.”

“Jane has said as much.” Erick said, “I think she’s having a much more normal life on your planet than I am. Just tell me: is working with you not some cultural faux pas? Are people gonna treat me different?”

Phagar laughed. “I won’t tell if you won’t.” He said, “But if you do: Some will come to you, others will flee, some will be terrified, some will find comfort, because, just like this conversation, sometimes everything ends before you’re ready.”

- - - -

Erick walked out of the opposite stone archway, on the other side of the Interfaith Church.

Some boxes appeared.

QUEST COMPLETE!

Ask for and receive a Relevant Entity’s Pledge of Insight, to assist in Spell Creation, 1/1

Reward: Particular Insight

Particle Mage

Spend 100 mana to discover if a Particle spell is possible, greatly reducing the risk of Errors.

If you witness a Particle spell and you understand it, you may unlock that spell for free.

<empty>

<empty>

<empty>

<empty>

Erick had a lot more to ask Phagar, but that’s life and death for you.

Poi and Abraxis were looking down the other side of the curving hallway.

Erick called out, “Over here, Poi.”

Poi whipped around to glare at him, then relaxed, then quickly walked across the room, whispering, “You were gone for 2 seconds.” He calmed, looking around. “Don’t yell in the Church.” He added, “Sir.”

Erick smiled.

Abraxis arrived in the intervening seconds. He whispered, “All is well?”

Erick said, “All is well. Thank you.” He looked behind him with Meditation active; whatever was going on before with that weird ethereal mana fire was gone, now. “I think it's over.”

Abraxis softly, saying, “If not for the dissipation of divine energy, I would have thought you [Teleport]ed.”

Erick said, “Thank you for your assistance, Abraxis.”

The man bowed.

- - - -

Erick went home and promptly took a nice nap.

When he woke up, he turned on his Handy Aura, keeping it close to his back, while he went back into town, to the Mage’s Guild, to research the god Phagar. The orangescale librarian on duty, Tamarim, was not concerned over Erick’s inquiry at all.

… From what Erick read, Phagar was the kindly old man who guided souls to their chosen, or inevitable, destinations. Of all the gods, he was the one who kept the most out of mortal affairs, because he was always there in the end, anyway.

- - - -

Jane didn’t call that night; Poi said she was busy making up for her unscheduled absence.

- - - -

Just before bed, and because he had been holding his Handy Aura next to his back all evening long, Aurify finally leveled.

Aurify 3

Transform an AOE spell into a semi-permanent effect surrounding yourself, based upon the parameters of the Aurified spell. Increase an instantaneous spell to a 1 second duration in order to create an aura.

Able to support 2 auras at a time.

You may choose who or what is affected by your aura.

Triples the range on an Aurified spell.

And a quest completed.

QUEST COMPLETE!

Reach Aurify 3, 1/1

Reward: Major Mana Shaping applies to all Spells. Altering ongoing Auras is considerably easier.

Particle Mage

Spend 100 mana to discover if a Particle spell is possible, greatly reducing the risk of Errors.

If you witness a Particle spell and you understand it, you may unlock that spell for free.

Major Mana Shaping applies to all Spells. Altering ongoing Auras is considerably easier.

<empty>

<empty>

<empty>

Erick was in the kitchen when it happened. Suddenly, everything felt more fluid. He relaxed his Handy Aura and it stayed nestled against his back. Erick smiled. He didn’t have to spend more mana to hold it in this odd configuration. Erick gently pressed outward; his aura flared full, filling the room—

Jars knocked over, silverware went flying.

“Whoops!” Erick said, “Too big!”

Erick pulled his aura back to manageable size, carefully, then went around the room, picking up what had fallen, using his handy aura like it was the most natural thing in the world to tidy up with air and thoughts. He picked up a plate, then [Mend]ed it, while also pushing scattered tea into a pile, and righting a jar of platinum coffee-tea, and putting silverware back on the table.

Erick paused.

He activated [Cleanse Aura] at the same time as his Handy Aura. The fallen tea in his telekinetic hands swirled away as thick air. Both his auras worked at the same time. Two auras at a time! He giggled. He laughed. He put everything in the right spots, and cut all of his auras, and smiled. Poi was standing at the door to the room.

Poi asked, “Something good, sir?”

“Aurify 3. We won’t have to move the temple in the farms because I can control it all quite easily.” Erick pondered, “I wonder what they’re going to say, if anything.”
