“On the other hand, it’s a fun idea. A house where you get scared on purpose? Children might enjoy it. It beats Liscor’s actual terrors. But why are you so insistent on trying to make one?”
“Well—Temile wanted to know if I had any more plays and stuff. And I don’t. Plus, I’ve run out of new foods! At least, any really new stuff. This is easier!”
Erin spread her arms, shrugging. Rufelt raised both brows.
“And you’re not making magical foods? Lasica said she could help you with that.”
“That’s a lotta work! Ingredients are expensive, you can burn a hole right through your cauldron and it might, you know, do something. And I’ve been trying to keep it calm lately. Haunted houses? That’s silly fun! Just what I need!”
Erin waved her hands vaguely. Rufelt nodded.
“But what made you think of it now? It’s such a strange idea.”
He was giving Erin a searching look, one she was familiar with. The young woman looked blank.
“I dunno. Sometimes you just have weird thoughts. Like—do you ever wonder if Selphids get itchy?”
The Gnoll [Bartender] had to process that question. He opened his mouth.
“I—well, no. But I suppose that explains that.”
“Yeah. Hey, let me talk to Temile. Be one sec!”
Erin waited a beat, and then turned across the inn. On stage, the Players of Celum—at least, the second-stringers who were making up the troupe still working from Celum were rehearsing for their daily plays. Erin got up and walked over to them. As she did, she navigated down the long room. And everyone she met along the way she knew.
“Hi there, Fleaears! What’s up, Menolit? Like the noodles? Awesome! Numbtongue! Want some bread? No? Okay!”
A Gnoll, the Drake [Veteran] with the missing tail, and the Hobgoblin all looked up from their respective tables. Fleaears, who did not currently have fleas, grinned at Erin.
“Erin.”
“Miss Solstice.”
Menolit nodded to Erin, smiling. He had a scar that had blasted all the scales clear around his neck and a pock mark under one eye along with his missing tail. For all that, he wasn’t too old—he was most certainly retired, though. At least from the army. Erin grinned at him.
“Like the pasta?”
“I might bring some back for the family. Can I get an order for tonight? Regular pasta works, actually. Just put some of those spicy meatballs in and some of the good sauce. Cheese? My kids love it.”
“Alfredo and spicy meatballs! On the order!”
Ishkr came by and obligingly noted down the details. It was a new system at the inn. Lyonette was making changes and Erin loved this one. Instead of having her in the kitchen all the time, there was a running ‘meal order’ system whereby patrons could request a dish for this night, tomorrow, or other dates and Erin would know what to cook. It worked since she was still the inn’s only [Cook]—for now. She passed by Menolit and came to a Hobgoblin who’d declined to eat cake or the other carrot-based foods.
“Hey Numbtongue, how’s it going?”
“Good.”
The Hobgoblin was absently reading a book. He looked up and Erin was impressed by how far he’d gotten already. She knew Numbtongue could read of course, but that fluently? Then again, maybe it was the other Goblin who he could call upon now.
Changes to the inn. Now there was a [Goblin Soulbard] in the inn along with a [Princess], both of whom had powers they could use only a few times a day. It meant that for a minute, Numbtongue could be Pyrite. He often shared meals with the other Hobgoblin—or used him when mining in the mountains. Or sometimes, Pyrite just appeared, to sit for a minute, or enjoy a drink.
It was sad and kind, and Erin had no idea what to make of it entirely. On the other hand, she knew exactly how to feel about Lyonette, and that was jealousy.
“[Flawless Attempt]—done!”
Lyonette came out of the kitchen with a nearly-perfectly done veggie burger, courtesy of Erin’s recipe, but the product of Lyonette’s Skill. It wasn’t perfect—Erin had seen Lasica, a real [Chef] making food in an instant and of higher quality than should have been strictly possible with her Skills.
Still, Erin would have wagered this was as good as any regular cook’s best efforts from Earth! It wasn’t perfect, again, but it was the best attempt Lyonette could conceivably do, which meant she had made a darn good burger!
Out of veggies. The Gnolls sniffed the air once and shook their heads. The Drakes looked equally disgusted, but Hawk looked delighted.
“This is great! I’m coming back to this inn more often! It’s hard to find a place besides Tails and Scales that serves convenient non-meat food.”
“It’s hard living among carnivores, you mean. Drakes and Gnolls. You should live among half-Elves. They’re more your style.”
Ceria spoke up from her table. That was somewhat ironic, and Hawk gave her a knowing look.
“Miss Ceria, I’ve seen you eat all-meat dishes three nights in a row.”
The half-Elf blushed.
“Yeah, well—I’m not a typical half-Elf. Meat’s good alright?”
“Yeah! Let’s have real hamburgers! For free?”
Relc pounded the table. Lyonette just folded her arms. Laughing, Erin turned back to Numbtongue and found he was engrossed in his book. She went on.
“Temile! Bad news! The haunted house idea might not work on Gnolls!”
“Really? Damn!”
The [Actor] looked up from the rehearsal and cursed. He was now actually a [Producer], if a low-level one. But he had taken charge of the Players of Celum and was whipping his new cast of Drakes, Gnolls and Humans into shape. Erin shrugged helplessly.
“Sorry. Unless you or the Players who went north get the [Writers] to make more plays, you might be outta luck. Because I’m all outta plays. I’ve used up all the ones I actually knew from home. I mean, you could try The Lorax or something, but I don’t think it works.”
“The what?”
Temile looked up excitedly. Erin waved a hand.
“No, no. It’s a children’s story. It’s not a good play.”
“Oh.”
The [Actors] not practicing had gathered around Erin. She was a bit embarrassed by the way they treated her—she was almost like a boss and an acting legend to them, as the person who’d helped them discover the world of theatre to begin with. She cleared her throat, embarrassed.
“Any word from Wesle, Jasi, and the rest?”
Temile sighed enviously.
“Just bits and pieces. I’ve heard they’re going north. They’re actually around Invrisil by now! They’ve been performing in each city—sold out shows once word got out. They’d stay a few days, then go by carriage to the next city! Apparently they’re making more money than they can spend! And some of it’s come back!”
He nodded around significantly to the other [Actors] and then pointed to the rest of the crew.
“See our staff? We’ve got [Builders] and [Carpenters] working with us now, thanks to the money we’re getting from working and the northern team. I’ve got apartments leased so we’re all in one place, and I’m even looking at making some sort of deal in Celum or Liscor for the same for our new [Actors]. Honestly, we could even afford to buy a place to perform and store our things if you weren’t hosting us. I might need to tell Wesle to stop sending coin!”
“Don’t do that! Take it and use it!”
One of the other Human [Actors], a woman, urged Temile. She looked at Erin.
“Miss Solstice, we can’t fall behind! Emme says their [Writers] are doing bits and pieces, but nothing as good as what we have yet. Can’t you give us anything new? Our regular crowd has seen everything so far and since we can’t all go through the door to Pallass…”
They were all looking at her. Erin winced; Shakespeare and the classics of the acting world were a high bar to force [Writers] to match. She sighed.
“I dunno, guys. I’m serious—I can’t remember any full plays. I have a Skill and I’m empty.”
“What about the story you mentioned?”
“What, The Lorax? It—doesn’t translate well.”
“Give it a try!”
Now even the Drakes and Gnolls practicing their lines were gathering. Erin held up her hands, trying not to succumb to peer pressure. And failing.
“No—come on. It’s just a kid’s story. You see, there’s this, uh, magical protector of the forests, and this guy who begins selling these uh, special, magical trees that provide a unique substance—”
The crowd listened attentively. Erin realized that the story of Dr. Seuss’ classics were actually very plausible in this world. She gave them an abbreviated version of the story, ending with the message of environmental awareness.
“And then there were no more trees, see? And so it’s terrible. And that’s the ending.”
She looked around, gauging the reaction of the crowd. Erin had thought that a message of conservation wouldn’t exactly fly in the pre-industrial world she now lived in. Surprisingly though, some of the Gnolls were nodding solemnly. They got it. Temile and the Drakes on the other hand…
One of the Drakes raised a claw, frowning.
“So why doesn’t he find another forest?”
“It’s unique, obviously. That’s the point.”
“So? Replant the damn things! Or get a [Druid] to regrow it all. Even a [Farmer] could do it, although it would take a few years. Easy. Oh! I get it! It’s a lesson about not being prepared. Duh.”
“It’s certainly not as dramatic as love betrayed, death, and the downfall of the mighty due to hubris and the follies of men.”
Temile sighed.
“And Drakes and Gnolls.”
Someone else put that in helpfully. Erin had to smile. She shook her head.
“Sorry. I tried the haunted house thing, but Gnolls smell too well. I suppose we could use illusions?”
“Maybe?”
Temile had helped set up the fake scenes with Erin. He stepped back and called into the crowd.
“Where’s Jexam?”
“Here!”
A Drake pushed himself forwards. Erin blinked; he bowed slightly to her as Temile introduced him.
“This is our special effects person, Erin. Jexam, tell Miss Erin about your abilities.”
The Drake shook Erin’s hand, beaming.
“A pleasure, Miss Solstice! I am indeed the uh, special effects of the plays. [Hedge Mage]. Self-taught. I do all the illusions for the Players of Celum—this group, at least. I know our main troupe was seeking out a real [Illusionist]. I’m afraid though that my abilities aren’t enough to handle your idea of this haunted house.”
“Don’t be modest! I’ve seen you doing effects and they’re great! I love the snow magic! It even feels cold!”
The Drake blushed with pride at Erin’s compliment.
“It’s an honor to hear you say that, but it’s just low-grade magic. Not even Tier 1. [Cooling Breeze]. Just a little cantrip I worked up. It’s wonderful on hot days. I used to get paid just to cool rooms down. The problem with illusions on the other hand is that I have to work for a long time to make them work well. And animating them? Making them real? Very tricky and I’m not high-enough level yet. Nor am I an [Illusionist], Miss Erin.”
He looked apologetic. Erin shook her head.
“Aw, that’s okay. Gnolls could probably smell that they’re fake. I think we really need to rethink how we’ll do a haunted house or put it on the shelf, Temile. I mean, we could do the creepy little girls, but can you make an entire haunted house out of little creepy girls?”
“Um…no?”
Erin nodded sadly. Temile looked around. The Players of Celum had their own area behind the stage that was more or less permanently filled with props, and some dedicated tables they could eat and drink at—discounted or free after performances! He gestured to Erin.
“What if we think over the idea? Hey, you lot, get a space cleared for Miss Solstice. We have some water—where’s the pitcher?”
“I’ll just get it! Excuse me! Water please!”
Laughing, Erin waved towards the front of the inn. That was the thing about being an [Innkeeper] with a staff! And it was Lyonette herself who came over to offer everyone a refill.
“Trouble with your newest idea, Erin?”
She sounded vaguely relieved. Erin sighed.
“Yeah. I really thought it’d be a small thing, but—fun, you know? But if we can’t make it good for all species, what’s the point?”
Lyonette nodded as she put the pitcher down. Temile and some of the ‘veterans’, who’d been acting for a few months were gathered around the table, thinking it over.
“Could we erase the smells in the room?”
“Maybe. But that’s a higher-level spell than I know as well, Temile.”
Jexam sighed. Temile slapped his thigh in vexation. Erin frowned.
“We could definitely do monsters, or costumes—although that’s hard work. But if you can’t surprise a Gnoll because he can smell you, what can you do?”
Lyonette studied Erin’s face and then smiled slightly.
“You know who’d be perfect for your plan, Erin? You-know-who.”
“Volde—oh. Hey, that’s not funny!”
Erin looked up sharply. Lyonette gave her a twisted smile, but she could at least joke about Toren these days. Erin shook her head in reply to Temile’s querying look. Then she sat up.
“I think we’ll draw the line at asking Pisces to do stuff with actual skeletons. But what about illusions? He is good at them.”
“Really? I wouldn’t be surprised given how he boasts, but I’ve only seen him—no, wait, he did them for the first plays, didn’t he?”
Lyonette frowned, intrigued. Erin nodded.
“Yeah! And I’ve seen him do great stuff as well! The first time I met him he disguised himself as this terrifying monster! That’s actually how he lived before he came here. He’d frighten people out of their money! He could do the voice, smell—and a horrifying image!”
“Do you think he’d teach Jexam, or at least work on a few spells?”
Temile was interested. Erin bit her lip, thinking. It would be a lot of work to rope Pisces into doing a haunted house, but Erin still wanted to give it a shot. She had a vision of a warehouse, or a house in say, Liscor, that people could go into and experience cheap, non-life-threatening scares!
“Maybe. If I bribe him, sure. And he likes the plays. I bet he’d love to scare people. I haven’t seen him. Lyonette, do you know where he is?”
The [Princess] looked up as she refilled the last cup.
“No. I had to have Drassi bring him up breakfast because he was in his room all day. He might be there still.”
“He missed breakfast? That’s unusual. Hold on, Temile. I’ll get back to you.”
So saying, Erin got up and wandered down the length of her inn. There was only one Horn of Hammerad today, and Ceria was finishing her lunch.
“Hey Ceria, where’s your team?”
The half-Elf looked up from her sausages. She chewed, swallowed, and nodded towards the door.
“Yvlon and Ksmvr are in Liscor. I’m just about to join them, actually. We’re all going to visit the Bloodfields. Scouting.”
Erin slapped her forehead.
