“Yes, Yvlon. I am aware. However, I perceived that last time we were similarly engaged in discourse before turning to violence. I simply wished to know if that was an option in the future.”
“No!”
Yvlon chorused with Alais and Stan. She turned to Ksmvr.
“No more fighting. That was—”
She paused. Alais looked to one side. Stan filled in for her.
“A bad scene. Lots of thoughtless words.”
“On whose side?”
Yvlon nudged Ksmvr. He looked at her, but obediently fell silent. She turned back to Alais and Stan and tried to smile. It felt about as good as Alais’.
“We’re professionals. And we’re working together, so be nice, Ksmvr. Stan? Where’s your team?”
“Just inside.”
Relieved, Stan led the other three adventurers into the Guild. Alais looked warily as a group of Drakes passed her to fill the adventuring yard.
“It’s my first time in Liscor. It’s so—”
“Different from a Human city?”
Alais bit her lip. Stan looked a bit reproving, but Yvlon hadn’t meant it as an insult! They were all Silver-ranks, having adventured for years, but not all of them had ever been down as far as Liscor. Yvlon hadn’t until recently; she’d felt that it wasn’t her area. Stan on the other hand had been doing this job for decades.
“Liscor’s alright. Good city; the Watch keeps order. You don’t have to watch your back at night most places. Can’t say I don’t like those walls either.”
He nodded towards Liscor’s four tall walls that marked the edge of the city. Yvlon exchanged a look with Ksmvr.
“They’re nice, but I’d prefer them twice as tall and thick, honestly.”
“Really? They’re already better than most Human cities. But I guess with all the monsters and undead—”
Alais stopped delicately, glancing at Yvlon. The other woman compressed her mouth and Stan glared at Alais. It was with some relief that they entered into the main room of the Adventurer’s Guild.
“And here we are.”
Yvlon saw the room was packed! More than nine teams filled the usually quiet Guild, most of them Human. She recognized the two teams Alais and Stan made for.
They were both Silver-rank teams. Thunder’s Solace and the Boltspitters. Good, solid teams, like the Horns of Hammerad had been.
Like the Silver Spears, too. Yvlon suppressed the thought, but she couldn’t help but tense. Neither could the two teams of adventurers. They looked up at Yvlon and Ksmvr and their postures stiffened.
But they’d been through this. Yvlon forced a smile as she walked over to the teams. She didn’t sit, though.
“I see all the Boltspitters are here except for Lailli. And Thunder’s Solace. Hello, Caddin.”
“Yvlon.”
He didn’t even meet her gaze. Yvlon still remembered hitting him again and again in the Adventurer’s Guild. She turned to Alais. The rest of Thunder’s Solace only glanced up at Yvlon.
A bad scene.
“Well, I think we’ll go look for Ceria. Meeting’s about to start. We’ll talk after. Alais?”
“Right.”
Unconvincing smiles. Yvlon backed away. But she’d played nice and—and that was important. She knew the other teams had seen her. Many of them were groups she recognized. Some were whispering.
Yvlon Byres. Captain of the Silver Spears. One of the leaders of the group that got wiped out in Liscor’s dungeon. It felt like forever ago, but her reputation still haunted her. She walked towards the main doors, looking for Ceria. Ksmvr stared at the Boltspitters and Thunder’s Solace. The adventurers stared at him too, but for different reasons. He edged closer and they all leaned back, staring at the Antinium.
Ksmvr glanced over his shoulder at Yvlon, paused and whispered.
“Dominance.”
“Ksmvr, stop that!”
He hurried after her and found Yvlon outside. She was leaning against the side of the Guild, massaging her arms again. The Antinium saw her look up with a grimace.
“Don’t provoke them, Ksmvr. We made up. We can at least be civil.”
“I am sorry, Yvlon.”
Ksmvr lowered his head. Yvlon instantly smiled, and then felt at her arm again. It didn’t hurt. It should, but—she felt liquid. And as she sniffed at the edges of her armor she grimaced. Foul. She shook her head.
“I’m not angry, Ksmvr. It’s funny. They don’t actually mind you as much. I think they actually respect you for taking out all those [Bandits].”
“I understand the joke. The hated Antinium is given higher esteem than the fellow Human adventurers. I will register my amusement if laughter is indicated. But I do not believe their complaint is valid, Yvlon.”
“Yeah, well—I nearly broke Caddin’s jaw. That’s enough reason to hold a grudge again. Look, just be polite when we go back in. There’ll be other teams—Ceria and I can handle them. Just as well Pisces isn’t with us. We can’t take all of them in a brawl.”
Ksmvr tilted his head as if counting and nodded at last. He stared as Yvlon cursed.
“Your arms are not well, Yvlon?”
She looked up. He was staring at her arms. Few people knew the extent of Yvlon’s injuries except for her friends. She had been injured a while back. At Albez. A fire elemental had melted her old armor. And the metal had burnt right into her arms. Lodged there.
Metal mixed with bone. It had made her arms weak, so fragile they could break if she hit something too hard. Yvlon had thought it was the end of her career—until Pisces had helped her reinforce the bone. Now her arms looked—well, she didn’t feel the alterations he’d made and they were as solid as ever. She didn’t even feel pain if she didn’t want to. She could literally [Ignore Pain]. But another complication had emerged a week back. She shook her head.
“It’s not bad. Just a bit infected. I’ve had worse.”
Pus and blood. That was what she’d see if she opened the gauntlets. Ksmvr stared at her arms and Yvlon looked away. The Antinium’s voice was serious.
“It is not good, Yvlon. Infections are very bad for a [Warrior]. A healing potion will make it worse. That is how potions work.”
“I know. I know, Ksmvr. I just can’t take a bad injury, that’s all. And if I used a potion, it might clear up.”
Or grow ten times worse in the flash of an eye. Ksmvr was pointedly quiet. Yvlon cleared her throat, looking away. He was the only one who knew about the infection, and that was because he had walked in on her dressing the wounds. She and Ksmvr were—friends. More than he was with anyone but Pisces. But only he called her ‘Yvlon’ and not Comrade like Pisces, or Captain like Ceria.
“If I need to, I can use a healing potion. It’ll make this worse, but the rest of my body will still heal, Ksmvr. Look. I’ll talk to Ceria about it, okay?”
“Does it hurt? If it hurts—”
“It doesn’t hurt. It’s strong.”
Yvlon made a fist with her right hand and pounded it into her left palm as hard as she could, feeling the shock run through the metal gauntlets. Inside her armor, her arm didn’t flex or break as it would have before. That was thanks to Pisces. He’d used his necromancy to reinforce her bone with artificial pieces. What he couldn’t do was fix her flesh and tissue, hence the infection as the metal and skin rubbed at each other.
If only he could fix the underlying bone issue. He’d told her he was working on it. But it was beyond complicated, even for a [Necromancer], apparently. A lot of Yvlon’s bone was just—gone. And the metal wasn’t exactly solid steel; it had all the strength of a…a…really thin bit of metal. A lock pick. But even they were stronger than…
Yvlon Byres stopped. She stopped thinking about her arms. She stopped worrying about them because that was an endless cycle. She stood straighter, sighed, and smiled at Ksmvr. It was her life now. And once, she had had another team. But this was hers. She turned as she saw a familiar half-Elf striding towards them. Ceria’s robes were shimmering and the half-Elf’s pointed ears were twitching with nerves.
“Yvlon! Ksmvr! Am I late? Something wrong?”
She stopped, panting slightly from her jog. Yvlon shook her head as Ksmvr opened his mandibles.
“It’s nothing. Ceria, everyone’s here. Stan and Alais are there. And some others. Let’s go in!”
She wanted to go inside with no further fuss and just do her job, which was be an adventurer. But Ksmvr lacked subtlety. He raised one hand.
“Hello. We are not late. Good to see you again, Captain Ceria. Before we engage in our mission briefing, I would like to interject a pressing fact about Yvlon’s health, Captain Ceria.”
“Huh? What? Did you break your arm again, Yvlon?”
Ceria looked alarmed as she adjusted her robes. Her eyes went to Yvlon’s arms—the woman stopped feeling at them and smiled weakly.
“I need to talk to you later. About my arms. They’re okay for fighting. Just—complicated with healing potions.”
The [Ice Mage]’s eyes flickered. She could guess what Yvlon meant by that. Still—she looked at Yvlon and the [Wounded Warrior] tried to convey that it was not a problem. Ceria nodded slowly.
“We’ll talk. Today’s supposed to only be reconnaissance. We’re not getting anywhere near the Bloodfields. Come on. I don’t want to be late.”
Together now, they pushed into the Guild. Pisces was still absent, but Yvlon felt better with Ceria by her side. She had been in the crypt too.
The three Horns of Hammerad paused as the adventurers gathered together looked at them again. They were mostly Human, mostly from up north. Ceria and Yvlon had talked to Stan and Alais about getting in on the Bloodfields contract, and word had spread. Yvlon looked from team to team.
All of them were Silver-rank. She knew some teams personally, others only by reputation or in passing. The Boltspitters. Thunder’s Solace. The all-male team of Ensoldier Shields, predictably armed with their classic shield-and-mace combination. The Whistling Bows—looking decidedly mismatched with their new recruits filling the gaps. Ceria took a breath.
“Well then. Let’s say hi. Ksmvr, be nice! Don’t say anything—follow our lead, okay?”
“Yes, Captain Ceria.”
The half-Elf put a smile on her face. She strode forwards.
“Walt! Is that you?”
“Ceria? I heard we’d be seeing you. Is this your new team?”
The Captain of Ensoldier Shields got up, and more team leaders drifted over. Yvlon saw Ceria shaking Walt’s hand. Yvlon turned and a slight woman with a rash of scales along one cheek looked up at her. She was Human, but for that one sign of cross-speciesism. She didn’t smile, but that wasn’t her way.
“Yvlon. Good to see you.”
“Kammy.”
“Please don’t. It’s ‘Captain Kam’.”
“My mistake.”
“Who’s this?”
Yvlon smiled, and Captain Kam’s lips tried to move a bit. She turned and stared at Ksmvr. He was staring back. Yvlon prayed he wouldn’t mention Kam’s sign of distant Drake ancestry. She was…touchy about it. Yvlon was amazed she’d come to Liscor at all.
“This is Ksmvr, one of my teammates. He’s a—unique member of the Antinium. Ksmvr, this is Captain Kam, leader of the Whistling Bows. She’s a [Bow Rider]. Ksmvr’s our [Skirmisher], Kam.”
“Hi.”
“Hello, I am Ksmvr.”
The two shook hands. Yvlon turned and saw more adventurers she recognized lined up to say hi. One of them, a former [Raider] with two scars along his cheeks—self-inflicted, she knew, for appearance’s sake—reached out and slapped her on the shoulder.
“Dead gods, is that an actual Antinium? I heard Liscor had ‘em. Hey! Yvlon! It’s us! Do you remember the Reddogs? We might actually buy some war dogs if we get paid enough from the Bloodfields! There’s this [Beast Trainer] in Liscor and he’s got a wonderful animal—”
“Drakes, Antinium, and Gnolls. Dead gods, this is weird. We went through that door and the inn. Yvlon, Ceria.”
“—Travelled sixty miles to get here. Just because we heard this was good work. And, well, I wanted to see what all the fuss was about! Not disappointed yet! We should have come here earlier, but we were hunting this damn Ogre for…”
“…lost six on my team. To damn Ghouls. There were twenty of them and they just leapt at us. It was just five weeks ago. I still remember it. If we’d just had caught them. Terrica was on duty and I just couldn’t work with her any more after that—”
It was a familiar scene, chaos as everyone talked and caught up on the news. And it made Yvlon feel good. This was what she’d hoped for in Celum’s guild before it had gone so wrong. If the other teams wanted to talk to her and Ceria about the loss of all the other teams—well, word had either spread about the previous incident or they were holding back.
In fact, they treated Yvlon as if she was still a team captain. Yvlon was listening sympathetically to Captain Kam’s tale of her own team’s losses. Maybe that was it. Some of these teams understood. She looked around, seeing familiar faces, new ones.
Silver-rank teams. Yvlon had been among their number, jostling for the position of ‘top team’ with the others. Now? It might be arrogance, but she felt like the Horns were above them in raw ability and magical items. Above, but below Gold-rank. Yvlon knew her brother’s team, the Silver Swords, still had that extra edge.
The gold would change that. Once they got it changed in Invrisil with the contacts the Halfseekers and Griffon Hunt knew, the Horns could gear up even further. All this was just keeping themselves busy. Some of the other adventurers were admiring her armor. Walt came up and tapped on Yvlon’s breastplate with one knuckle.
“Fancy gear, Byres! Better than our stuff. You’re not doing bad, are you?”
She glanced up. The [Armored Warrior] wasn’t trying to be mean; Walt just lacked all tact. And a way with women, hence his team. She forced a smile.
“Not bad right now, Walt. But you’ve got a new shield.”
He looked proud, gesturing at his shield.
“It freezes whatever hits it. Cost us a fair bit, but it’s solid! Your armor do anything fancy? I saw this Drake wearing high-grade magical armor! Dead gods, but I’d trade Kelvin and his useless ass for it and all my gear!”
Yvlon laughed politely as the luckless Kelvin enjoyed the punches and jeers from the Ensoldier Shields.
“That’s got to be Keldrass you saw, Walt. Captain of the Flamewardens. He got it from this dungeon. The Raskghar, actually. You heard about them? And it’s worth a lot more than that!”
“The Raskghar? I heard about them. You fought those things, Yvlon. A new monster type? No—wait, some sentient species? Tell us about it! And this dungeon.”
The other adventurers crowded around Yvlon. She was looking for a seat to explain and hoping no one was smelling her armor when a voice burst through the hubbub among the mostly-Humans team.
“Hah. Look at that. The backup to the backup’s finally arrived. Dead gods, but what a crowd.”
