“Oh. Right! Bevussa stopped by this morning. She wanted one of the mana stones. You’re going to teleport there, right? It’s not too far?”
Ceria shook her head.
“Only about as far as Celum. Even less, I think. We’re going to the edge of the Bloodfields—nowhere closer with it active. But it’ll save us from having to camp out and march all the way there while we find a route. We’ll all be back once Bevussa sets up a door.”
“Handy having her do that, huh?”
The [Cryomancer] grinned.
“I heard Tekshia made Bevussa do it. She didn’t want to pay Hawk to run out that far.”
“I wouldn’t even have charged her that much! Your Guildmistress is a skinflint! Classic Drake!”
Hawk called out from his table. Ceria chuckled.
“I’m going with the other teams to see how it looks. Oh—but Pisces won’t be coming with us.”
“What? Why? And do you know where he is?”
Ceria shrugged.
“He made a very good point that he annoys the other teams. Almost as much as Yvlon and I do with the Celum ones—”
She grimaced. Erin looked at her sympathetically; she’d heard about the Horn’s troubles in Celum.
“They’re still mad at you?”
“Well, they agreed to join the Bloodfields expedition, so they’re willing to be civil. Plus, it pays well and we’re all adventurers. But Pisces might aggravate them even more than Yvlon and me. Plus, Pisces is actually studying hard. I…don’t want to interrupt him, as the team leader, you know?”
“He’s studying?”
Erin looked blank. Ceria nodded.
“Oh yeah. And I mean studying. He was always good at focusing—more than me. I have to sit in a bathtub with Ksmvr boiling my skin off to concentrate, but Pisces studies on his own. These last few days—remember when he woke us up screaming? Ever since then he’s been in his room. He barely comes out to eat.”
“I noticed that. Huh. What’s he working on?”
The half-Elf finished the last of her meal and wiped at her mouth with the back of her hand.
“Undead? No, but seriously, Erin. He’s studying a new spell, I think. He keeps muttering about ‘puzzles’ and the complexity of it. I think he’s trying to take down another Tier 4 spell. It’s worth letting him work to do that. Me—I’m just trying to improve my spell power. Grimalkin says I’m making progress—I’m not burning myself anymore.”
She sighed. Her daily boil-baths were another facet of the new inn lifecycle. Erin patted her on the back sympathetically.
“Hang in there. And hey—cheer up. Grimalkin might not come tonight!”
“He comes every night, Erin.”
“Well, to help you!”
The [Sinew Magus] was surprisingly dedicated to his agreement with Erin. He’d come every day this week to drop Ceria in boiling water and shout encouragements at her for an hour or two. The half-Elf shuddered.
“I know he’s coming tonight. Frankly, the Bloodfields will be the fun part of the day. Look, I’ve gotta meet Yvlon and Ksmvr. It’s nearly time to head out. We’ll come back through this way. Hey, did Moore and Seborn already leave?”
“Nope. They went to Pallass, actually.”
“Pallass? But the door—”
Ceria twisted and Erin smiled.
“Moore charged it! He can do it for Seborn and him, but it tires him out. Seborn’s refusing to walk to Invrisil while Jelaqua’s, you know, seeing Maughin?”
She waggled her eyebrows. Ceria stared at them and then at Erin’s face. The young woman stopped.
“Well, it’s just as far as the door to Invrisil. What about their wagon?”
“Apparently they’re in a little fortress of vines with a bunch of food. I dunno. Seborn’s mad at Jelaqua, it’s this thing—I’m never going to get the door to Invrisil!”
Erin sighed. She needed it too, so she could find Ryoka! But that was a big thing, and this week had been pleasantly full of small things. But Ryoka—Erin wanted to find her. She had to come back. Even if she brought danger. Ceria shrugged in reply to the drama of the Halfseekers. She pushed herself up.
“Well, hopefully they sort it out. See you, Erin.”
“Oh! Wait! Can I get Pisces to help me with this haunted house thing? Or will it take too long?”
Erin pleaded with Ceria. The half-Elf bit her lip.
“I don’t know. Pisces would probably say yes—why not? He’s got time and it’s his choice. But you’ll have to knock a lot. And he might be snappish. Come to that, did he eat lunch?”
“I’ll bribe him with food. Hey, can I get some sausages and some of that pasta?”
Erin called towards the kitchen. For once no one appeared with the food. Her staff weren’t all slaves, so Erin marched in and got it herself. She’d filled a big bowl and stuck a fork in the meal, then went with Ceria. They were about to climb the stairs to Pisces’ room when Drassi caught them.
The Drake was working alongside Ishkr today. The [Barmaid] and incorrigible [Gossip] waved at Erin and Ceria and the two stopped to look at her.
“Hey, I just heard you’re looking for Pisces? He’s out.”
“What? I thought he was in his room, studying.”
Drassi grinned toothily at Erin.
“He was. But Selys got him. This morning, when you were pranking everyone. Didn’t you notice?”
Erin hesitated.
“No…what did Selys want with Pisces?”
“I think she was going shopping for magical items. You know, since she’s rich? She told Pisces she wanted his opinion. So they left. They’re not back yet.”
The [Gossip] looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked at her. There was something to be said for having Drassi on staff. If Ishkr was the dependable employee that every establishment needed, because it needed someone who brought no drama in, had few demanding quirks and whose only goal was to do his job, get paid, and go home, Drassi was the employee who knew everything and everyone. Erin sighed.
“Well, great. Selys has Pisces. We’ll have to wait. If you see him on the way to the Adventurer’s Guild, tell him I wanted to see him, Ceria?”
“Will do.”
The half-Elf adventurer headed for the door. Erin, shaking her head, went to put the food away. As she did, a thought struck her. Selys. And Pisces. Going shopping?
“That almost sounds like a date.”
Ceria paused. She looked back at Erin.
“With Pisces? No way.”
Erin laughed uncertainly.
“Yeah! I mean, Selys? I don’t see it. She’s got standards! And Pisces—”
Both paused. Then they grew thoughtful. Drassi looked between the two and broke in.
“Going shopping together? That sounds like a date to me. Hey Erin, what’s this about your boyfriend?”
 
——
 
The sword swung at her neck. She could trace the arc. Not with her eyes alone—it was too fast to visually process and come up with a thought-out plan of response. Her body moved by instinct, by training.
That was what it meant to be a [Warrior]. So she was already raising her two-handed sword, knocking the blade aside. It meant she had also seen the stab coming from the side. She pivoted, letting it slash across her armor. Her sword darted in, chopping quickly at her opponent’s unguarded side.
Normally that would be enough. But what got her each time was her opponent. He had three arms. And the enchanted buckler caught her attack and neutralized it. All the force she’d put into the blow stopped on the glowing force field of energy in the air. Yvlon Byres saw ripples as she retreated. Too slow. Ksmvr swung the dagger and his practice sword. She saw him use a Skill—
Yvlon raised her sword and Ksmvr’s sword slashed across her guard with a crack of wood meeting wood that made some of the other sparring partners glance up from their sessions. Yvlon winced and called out.
“Pause! Ksmvr, that’s good enough for today.”
Obediently, the Antinium [Skirmisher] lowered his weapons. He’d been zipping around their dueling area, using his newfound [Quick Movement] Skill to pressure her. Yvlon lowered her blade, wiping sweat from her forehead as she removed her helmet. Ksmvr hopped over to the place where they’d stored their actual weapons and came back with a bottle of water.
True to the Antinium’s practical nature, he had already drunk a few mouthfuls. Yvlon accepted the bottle, smiling.
“Thanks, Ksmvr.”
“You are welcome, Yvlon.”
The two were training in the Adventurer’s Guild’s practice yard. It was fairly full even in the morning; it was one of the few areas in the city where people were able to practice their skill at arms. And in a world where [Warriors] went toe-to-toe with monsters and magic-users, they had to practice. Now, Yvlon and Ksmvr stopped for a small break. If people were waiting they’d have given up the sparring circle, but they had time. A pair of Gnolls were exchanging artful cuts with axe vs sword to their left and no one was using the place to their right.
“You predicted my [Quick Slash], Yvlon. I am most impressed. May I ask how you anticipated it?”
Yvlon smiled at Ksmvr. She gestured with her sword to his. He had kept his Forceshield Buckler since it wasn’t dangerous in the sparring match, but he’d substituted his regular enchanted shortsword and Flamecoat Dagger for wooden ones to keep the spar fair. Just like how she’d put away her Sword of Weight and taken a bastard sword instead.
“I knew it was coming, Ksmvr. You should have gotten my back or forced me into a position where I can’t block it. I’m always ready for it.”
“Ah. But if you were not you, Yvlon, surely I would catch you by surprise?”
The two were discussing tactics. It was their custom to spar every day and they were a regular sight at the Adventurer’s Guild. Yvlon shrugged, feeling at her arms.
She was wearing armor. Enchanted steel—a bit mismatched in decoration because it had all been bought piece-meal, and a bit ill-fitting compared to her brother’s custom plate, but still high-quality. It was more expensive than anyone but a Gold-rank adventurer could field, really. But her arms—
Yvlon never took off the armor that covered her arms, from the wrist all the way to her shoulders. Never in public, and usually, not even when she was alone. Ksmvr noticed the motion and Yvlon stopped herself. She cleared her throat.
“I don’t think you should count on that, Ksmvr. People can generally expect you’ve got a Skill like that. Most [Warriors] learn one of the primary activation Skills. [Quick Slash], [Power Strike], [Counter Blow]—they’re all Skills that turn into better ones as you gain levels.”
“Oh. So my deception is already a predetermined variable.”
Yvlon paused. Sometimes Ksmvr sounded like Pisces, only without the sneer. Her lips moved and she nodded.
“Yes. You should instead circle and use it to capitalize on an opening rather than make it a surprise attack.”
The Antinium nodded. He was a skilled fighter, but unlike Yvlon, he’d only been alive for a few years. He was almost four years old. That shocked Yvlon when she thought about it, but the Antinium were adults when they were ‘born’. Even so, fighting with a four-year-old would have given her pause. But Ksmvr had nowhere else to go. The Antinium gestured with one of his three arms to Yvlon.
“May I ask what your Skill is, Yvlon? I know you have mentioned it, but I have never seen you use it in any battle.”
“What? Oh. That’s because mine isn’t good against monsters. I have [Crescent Cut]. Want to see it?”
“Yes.”
“Okay then. I’ll cut at you hard and fast. You block it, alright?”
The Antinium nodded. Yvlon lifted her sword with a smile. She saw him raise his buckler, watching her sword. She lifted her blade over her head and then swung it as fast as she could.
She slashed diagonally at his chest and he moved flawlessly to block it. Yvlon used her Skill.
[Crescent Cut].
Her blade curved in its trajectory. It swept down, like the arc of a waning moon. Ksmvr tried to adjust his shield, but the Skill slid Yvlon’s blade down, fast, fast. Without losing momentum, it curved along the arc, sweeping below his guard. It would have hit him hard if Yvlon hadn’t pulled the blow. As it was, the thwok was audible throughout the practice courts.
“You alright, Ksmvr? Did I crack your shell?”
Yvlon looked concerned as she glanced at Ksmvr. The Antinium wore no armor; he had forgone it since armor was hard to fit on his body anyways and he was a [Skirmisher], built for speed. Ksmvr felt at his side and shook his head.
“I am undamaged superficially. A splendid Skill, Yvlon. It does not slow the blade. If anything, it speeds up.”
Yvlon leaned on her sword, smiling crookedly.
“Exactly. It’s a neat trick you can use on someone expecting a [Quick Slash]. But it’s mostly good against opponents who’re trying to block, Ksmvr. Not monsters. I wish I had your Skill—or [Power Strike], honestly.”
“I don’t know about that. I’ve seen you take down a score of [Bandits] and I never complained once when you saved my life.”
Yvlon Byres turned. Her fair hair moved in the breeze. She stopped at the familiar voice. She saw a woman holding a staff, wearing chitin armor made of a Shield Spider, watching from the spectator’s side of the practice courts. Yvlon stopped uncertainly.
The man standing next to the [Mage] raised his hand. He was older than Yvlon and the [Mage]. A grizzled veteran with pepper in his hair. Crossbow Stan smiled hesitantly as Ksmvr turned.
“Hoi there!”
“Stan. Alais.”
Yvlon hesitated. The two Silver-rank captains were watching her and Ksmvr. She looked at Ksmvr. But then she put a smile on her face and walked towards them.
“Hello. You two made it here alright?”
She spoke politely to the two Silver-rank adventurers. Alais nodded. She’d been the one who’d called out. She knew Yvlon. Yvlon knew her. Once, they had been fellow adventurer team leaders. Friends, if not especially close.
Now? Well, at least they could speak civilly. Alais nodded, watching Ksmvr as he went over to put the practice weapons away. She looked at Yvlon and the [Wounded Warrior] saw her throat move before she spoke.
“Not bad. We caught the end of the session. You train like that every day? Your skill hasn’t left you.”
“Thanks. We were just finishing our spar. We’re not late, are we?”
“No, no. Our teams just got in from the—inn. We’re all gathered. Is Ceria not coming?”
“She should be here soon.”
Yvlon answered distractedly. Stan gestured.
“Good job that. Your teammate—”
“Ksmvr.”
“That is me. Hello, Crossbow Stan, Captain Alais. We have met. Are we fighting or socializing, Yvlon?”
The woman winced as she took her sword from Ksmvr. She saw Alais and Stan’s expressions flicker, but that was what was lovable and tricky about Ksmvr. He lacked subtlety. Actually, she liked that about him.
“No, Ksmvr. We’re teammates, remember? All working together on the Bloodfields request? Cutting a permanent trade route towards Pallass?”
