Valorie was running Lavinia’s plea scene again, and it was becoming obvious why the Seniors weren’t keen to practice with her, heedless of Val’s love of crop tops. Valorie Sanders had a special something—and it wasn’t just her face card or her figure. Eppie figured that it was the tragic air Val’s Lavinia exuded without effort. When Val begged, her co-actors were caught between action and reaction—and their own talents felt stifled as a result.

Across three runs, Eppie watched Valorie’s throat bob with withheld anguish. The tears in her eyes never fell, but they were there, that self-pity that seemed disturbingly genuine.

Why was Val so naturally pitiful? She was Senator Sander’s daughter, right? She was at the Grammy! She had a whole fifteen seconds on the red carpet while Sir Woodhouse was being interviewed. What would be pitiable about a person like that?

The rehearsal ended. Like flipping a switch, Valorie lifted herself from the floor and was once again bright, burning and beautiful.

Which is the real Valorie? Eppie’s heart grew suspicious of her [Script Analysis]. She realised that she had never seen Valorie act from the vantage of an audience member. Was Val Lavinia, who despaired at her father's callous love? Or was she William Chen’s girlfriend, the Queen Bee of LAPA?

The next day, in typical LAPA fashion, Eppie’s fame blew away like the Santa Ana wind—fierce for the night, gone by the morning.

Tuesday and Wednesday passed in the unremarkable manner of a long-winded narrative which had been summarised, compressed, and shrunken because the events felt too pedestrian. As per routine, Eppie met Lim at night, bantered with her roommates in the morning, attended classes, updated Excel tables, and practised vocals with the Seniors.

By Thursday morning, Valentine's Day had arrived without Eppie’s notice.

Her first bouquet was from Josefina, or more precisely, from LAPA. “From your LAPA family,” the note read. “From your beloved Operations Coordinator, Susan Carr.”

In the hall, flowers were exchanged like Dutch currency during the 1637 inflation. Single-stem roses, double-headed duets, small bouquets, giant ones, filled the hall with their perverse scent, dousing the teenage students with their pheromones.

To Eppie, the free market of love was pure chaos. Freshmen traded carnations like commodity futures to the objects of their admiration. Courageous Sophomores displayed their harvest like collectors, showcasing loot hauls at a convention. The Juniors were either crushed on by their younger peers or held crushes on their Seniors. The Seniors were appreciative, but most were far too stressed about their graduation projects to actually consider anything other than a forgetful fling.

By the second period, the lockers had become a Romantic reliquary with plastic sleeves and petals peeking out from locker grates while their cargo of flowers died ignoble deaths. The whole corridor smelled like a greenhouse mid-collapse: lily, rose, baby's breath, and beneath it all, the dizzying desperation of young people pursuing the purest of American Dreams—that of the High School Sweetheart.

Eppie received a few stems, a dozen, at most, from people she didn’t know, or cared about romantically… like Min-jun… like James Jules.

The rest of her day was routine.

Senior Theatre wrapped up after two more hours of Valorie acting in circles around the guys, after which Eppie headed out to a solo dinner.

She wanted to jog around the campus to see if the stray cats were returning and to spot any new arrivals or old tenants, but told herself that it had only been three days and nobody’s elbow healed that fast. The missed calls from “Kel” had stopped coming, so clearly, the boy was still having a debate with the angel and devil hanging on either side of his shoulder. Nonetheless, it felt wrong to be eating dinner alone. Should she call Zara? Or would Lim have brought cup noodles? The noodles sounded like a good idea.

With her calculations still swirling in her head, she aimlessly passed through the Old Music Building, making for the basement of the Stray Cat Society.

She inattentively turned the corner, then became nearly blinded by a sudden flash of high beams.

Eppie’s heart rate shot to 200. Her body instantly assumed a defensive pose. Every muscle tensed, ready to be run over by a van like Mr Biscuit, driven by a cackling Chen licking his chops.

But there was no William.

There was, however, a van and a familiar face she hadn’t seen since early January.

“Eric?!” Eppie lowered her arms. “What are you doing here?”

Eric was carrying a giant bouquet of red roses. It looked large, heavy, and very expensive. The car behind him wasn’t his usual pickup, but the Sony town car—the Mercedes they had used to chauffeur Kiritani Sensei.

“Surprise!” Her Newfoundland announced with a grin that split from ear to ear. “Are you ready?”

AM I READY? Cold sweat drenched her back at once. Her body was still pumped full of stimulants from her earlier adrenaline surge. READY FOR WHAT?

Eric came closer, his affability so authentic that Eppie found it offensive. To her amazement, her Newfoundland was wearing a suit. Not the kind for work, but the kind a body would wear to a friend’s wedding. In all honesty, Eric was a nice-looking feller. His profession notwithstanding, he wore the likeness of a masculine woodsman, the type that would build a cabin and fish for dinner. “Get in. Tonight’s the night.”

GET IN?! Eppie gulped. “Eric, does Emily know you’re doing this?”

Eric gave her a strange look. “Why wouldn’t she?”

“Emily… consented to this?” She pointed at the flowers. “Shouldn’t you be spending the night with her?”

The Newfoundland cock his head. “Sure. She’ll join us later.”

It was at this point that Eppie was seriously beginning to wonder if William had slipped something into her water bottle.

“Anyway.” Eric guided her toward the car. “You coming? Everyone’s waiting.”

“Everyone?” Eppie paced behind Eric in case he ripped off his mask and revealed himself to be a paid actor.

“Yes, everyone,” he placed the giant bouquet in her good arm. “I am glad that I am the first person to say it tonight. Happy birthday, Euphemia.”

Eppie stopped walking entirely.Her birthday was in July.

In a daze, she slid into the back of the car while Eric talked about all the people waiting for her. In the interiority of her brain, Eppie wracked and wracked her [Wisdom] to try and fathom why the hell this was happening—until her [Memorisation] coughed up the answer.

Euphemia Fontaine was born on Valentine's Day in 1992 in California, USA.

Valentine's Day.

The 14th of February.

Oh…
