“Instead, I started thinking they must be right,” she said. “I thought…you are so nice, and we always get along so well. And if you were just being shy or patient, then it was…but it turns out you weren’t!”

The cheer in her voice was forced.

They were both wearing their almost-matching sunglasses again. He pushed his up onto the top of his head and looked at her without them.

The day was beautiful, and she was being understanding even though he was sure he’d hurt her a little.

“I know you don’t need one more person telling you you’re pretty. But of course you’re breathtaking. I have noticed. I regularly notice. Hot people don’t really trigger—”

He couldn’t find an unembarrassing word fast enough. Where had all the unembarrassing words gone?

“—lust for me, but I do enjoy looking at you. More importantly than that, you are such a good friend to your friends. You’re fun and funny and ambitious. You made me feel welcome and normal when we spent time together in intake, which was an amazing feat because I was such a mess. I am such a mess. I have absolutely no idea what’s going to be happening in my life six months from now. I’m trying hard to find myself.

“And I have no clue how to dance, but I will always be flattered that you asked me to. I will take you to do that, by the way. If I’m not busy and you’re interested in spending time with me when you could be with a stable, hot, lustful guy instead.”

She slowly lifted her sunglasses.

He felt like he was awaiting judgment.

“I think you’re hot enough,” she said.

That was not the judgement he’d been awaiting.

“Do you really not…want people?”

There it was. He wondered if she was thinking his rejection of dating was a bullet dodged.

“It’s not like I’m opposed to having sex,” he answered. “I want to try it sometime. With the right person. I don’t see hot people and crave them in that way. So far. But maybe I haven’t grown into it yet. Or I’m someone who has to fall in love first. Maybe I was a late bloomer, and then Thegund shoved it back even further. Or maybe it’s just how I am.”

He resisted an insane urge to go into further detail about his hypothetical future as a haver of sex.

“Thank you for telling me,” Natalie said. “And for calling me breathtaking.”

“Just…being honest about all the things. Since you were.”

“Do you want to date people ever?” she asked.

“I’ve always assumed I would. One day. But it’s not a priority for me right now. I don’t know what I want in about twenty different life directions.”

“So I can ask you out again sometime,” Natalie concluded. “If we’re both available.”

“You’d still want to?” Alden asked cautiously.

“Not if you put that much food in your mouth at once again.”

He smiled.

“You know…I would be a horrible person to date, too,” she said. “Not right now. But in the future.”

She left that thought there and watched him to see if he would pick it up.

“Because you’re planning to spend most of your time off Earth?”

“I want to see the universe,” she said. “I’m going to. I picked my skill and all the Appeal because being a likable Rabbit is the easiest, safest way to get out there. I probably shouldn’t be asking people to date me when I’ve already jumped toward something like that.”

“You’ll still come back to Anesidora some.”

“I know. I know it’s complicated, too. I don’t want to be lonely, but I chose this, and I’m still heading that way… ”

“Here,” said Alden. “Take this.”

Natalie reached up to touch her interface. “Are you trying to pay me to cook for you again?” she asked when she saw the argold he’d sent her.

“Always. But not with this. This is the exact amount of the Earth to Sreeeakk connection fee. It’s the most expensive call I ever made.”

“Were you calling a griveck?”

“Don’t spend it, okay?” said Alden. “It’s symbolic. It means you won’t be lonely. No matter how far away you go, Earth and all the people here are only a call away.”

As long as the Systems work.

Natalie looked at her interface for a while, then back at him. “Thank you.”

She didn’t give him the special pretzel.

She did go with him to the pick-your-own produce experience to collect fruit.

And on the flight back to her apartment, just before they arrived, she hooked her ankle around his and left it there for a few seconds.

The way Alden cherished those seconds made them feel like they lasted for a much longer time.******
