“You do. I want you to actually enjoy this place, not be distracted by what I made.”

She pushed open the door, and they went inside.

******

The drudgery chest was the heart of the restaurant and the source of the food. There were no chefs present. Instead, a chalkboard listed the current meal and thanked the people who’d trained the magical device to cook it.

Alden and Natalie watched through a series of windows as knives chopped vegetables that then slid themselves onto pans. And as pans traveled to ovens, bouncing slightly like the person who the drudgery chest was mimicking had had a spring in their step.

An oven door opened and closed, a ladle dipped itself into a bubbling pot, and honey drizzled out of a bottle onto chunks of feta cheese.

A couple of people did help the kitchen out by supplying it with ingredients, but according to Natalie, it could go on cooking this meal for a week with only the resupply and occasional troubleshooting of things like dulling knives or drifting pans. Then, when the owner was ready for it to do something new, it was retrained with an entirely different menu.

Six argold bought a meal. There were no substitutions, and everything was served in carryout containers even if you were eating inside at one of the booths or the human-run coffee bar. There were multiple small dishes included, so Alden traded his feta for one of Natalie’s pitas while they talked about how full their new lives as residents of Apex were.

She didn’t want to discuss the night of the disaster and what had happened. Alden was more than fine with that. Instead, she told him about some girls she knew who were planning to break the record for making the world’s longest noodle, then they shifted to school drama. He told her about Winston when she asked if Talent Development had stupid conflicts like Arts.

She brought up Lute and Emilija, and he was prepared to offer the opinion that Lute Velra deserved a much better reputation than he had. But before he could do that, she suddenly leaped from the two of them to him.

“You’ve never mentioned it,” she said, “but did you have a girlfriend before you got summoned and everything happened?”

Alden was surprised by the question, but maybe the surprising thing was that she hadn’t asked before. After all, people who’d only just met you asked you things like this sometimes.

“No,” he said. “I’ve never dated anybody.”

“I’m surprised,” said Natalie. “You’re so mature and thoughtful.”

“Thank you.” A tiny alarm had just begun to sound in Alden’s head. He was going to ignore it. “But I’m not that mature.”

“You are, though!”

The tabletop between them was barely large enough for their spread of food. Beneath it, one of Natalie’s shoes bumped the toe of one of his own.

That, thought Alden, could have been a friendly toe bump. The kind of thing you do for conversational emphasis, like a fist bump with feet.

“Most people would probably have bragged a little about having a commendation. Or shown it off. But you didn’t mention it in intake at all, not even when that guy who Paolo brought over to our apartment said he wouldn’t mind getting stranded somewhere if he got full pay and an apology fee.”

This is a small space, too, so accidental foot bumping happens.

It was just the question about girlfriends coming out of the blue in combo with it that made it seem loaded.

Natalie plucked an olive from the salad cup beside her and popped it into her mouth. “You just ignored him. I thought he was so stupid, and I was going to tell him so.”

“He was stupid.”

“But you were calm and collected about it.”

“Well,” said Alden, “I suggested we all go play with my pinball machine so that I could beat him, so I wouldn’t say I was one hundred percent mature there.”

Her laugh was bright.

“Did you hear about the commendation at school?” he asked.

“I did. People in my classes know I know you, so they were asking a lot of questions.”

“Sorry,” said Alden. “I expected them all to ask me questions, but it seems like most people are going to be semi-normal to my face and then grill my friends when I’m not around. Haoyu and Lexi got questioned by our gym class, and then I think the gym class is gossiping with the rest of the school. So far, all I’m getting personally are stray comments, and some people who didn’t care about me at all last week are acting like everything I say is interesting. Or deep.”

“Maybe you’re being deeper than you realize.”

“I don’t think I am. There’s this one guy who says I’m deep even if the most ridiculous crap in the world comes out of my mouth. I wonder if he thinks I’m scoring him on how many times he says it. You know, for the special commended-person report I send to the Triplanets every evening, letting them know which Celena North students are the best.”

Natalie gasped dramatically and put a hand to her mouth. “The rumors are true! How is my score?”

“Top of the charts!”

“Yes. I knew I was winning.”

The window beside them was briefly shaded by a sheet of red fabric shooting by, pursued a moment later by a yellow one. They both leaned in their seats to watch the fabric weave wildly through the people walking past and then spiral upwards.

“That Shaper has amazing control,” said Alden.

Another toe-bump made him turn back to face her. She was wearing the sweetest little smile as she slurped lemon water through a straw.

Uh-oh.

I mean, she’s almost as tall as me, so long legs make her feet touching mine more like—

“The next couple of months are so full of holiday stuff,” said Natalie, setting down her cup.

Alden swallowed. “Yeah. When I was reading the dorm notice board, I saw that a group of campus carolers is being put together. And Kon, from my class, mentioned that his parents’ ballet company usually does a special show for Lunar New Year. I don’t know if they still will with everything being how it is.”

“They’ll probably do it better than ever,” she said. “Everyone seems to be thinking about showing their—our—Anesidoran spirit. The Rabbit Welcome is still happening. They just changed the location. And I’ve been invited to six holiday parties so far.”

“That’s a lot.”

“They would be more fun if I had someone to go with.”

The alarm was no longer quiet. An entire brass band was blaring warning notes. Red lights were flashing.

“And from the Rabbit Welcome you can actually get invited to other events. It’s called ‘hopping’ which I think is so cute. There’s a pretty famous dance, too. So a partner for that would be the…Alden? I don’t think that fits in your mouth.”

Alden had just shoved three quarters of a large pita into his face. This was a brilliant, subtle way to give himself more time to think before answering, according to the panicked doofus that had possessed his body for a couple of seconds.

Natalie looked disturbed.

I’m the suavest man alive. Alden winced, slapped a hand to his mouth, and tried to chew.

******

The things a person mentally typed into his internet search bubble while he was trying not to choke on, or spit out, a massive gob of dry pita in front of a girl whose toe-bumps were almost definitely, probably, ninety-nine percent likely to be flirting?

Those things shouldn’t be held against a person, in Alden’s opinion.

“How to say no to going out?”

“What is dating really?”

“What is dating for teenagers?”

“How do I know if I’m already on a date?”

“What do I do if someone ever tries to kiss me?”

“Specifically, what do people do with their tongues?”

“Will my friend hate me if I pretend I don’t know she wants me to go with her to a bunch of holiday parties?”

“How many dates before you become someone’s boyfriend?”

“Percentage of sixteen-year-old human males who don’t want to have sex today?”

“How to swallow bread?”

He wasn’t even reading the answers to any of these questions or clicking on links. Despite his ill-considered decision to shove the Pita of Delay into his face, he wasn’t actually a socially hopeless mutant. He could figure most of these out on his own well enough to function under normal circumstances.

“Do you want some of my water?” Natalie asked, holding the cup toward him.

He shook his head and tried to smile at her while his jaws worked.

Wow. Natalie Choir is asking me to ask her out. I think.

She was, even now that he was used to her, so delightful to be around. And despite him wanting to be above and beyond such thoughts, some dumb part of his psyche was preening because it believed that an extremely gorgeous girl or guy liking him meant he was winning at…

Alden wasn’t even sure what.

What even is that? It’s not like this is something I was going for, and it’s so bad that it’s happened because what if I hurt her feelings? What do I do? How much do I say?

And, even more soberingly, if he’d wanted to dip his feet into the world of dating right now, this afternoon…what came next?

When did a boyfriend reveal that he was a wizard? When did he warn someone about that and everything else that went with it?

Probably sometime after I actually figure out what the ‘everything else’ includes.

So maybe when he was thirty. The Primary seemed to think that was a good adult age.

Wait, he didn’t even ask out his own spouses until his sister—

“Why did you try to eat so much at once?”

Alden shook his head.

“Did I freak you out? I freaked you out, didn’t I?”

Alden shook his head harder

“I did!”

He waved his arms in denial

Natalie waited for him to speak.

He ended up having to motion for her water after all to make it happen. “Oh my god, Natalie,” he said, when he’d finally cleared his mouth. “I’m so sorry. I’m an idiot. I’ll get you another water.”

Her smile was awkward.

“I thought maybe you were asking me out,” he said. The words sounded crazy once he’d spoken them. He suddenly doubted them despite all the evidence in their favor.

“And so I…um…” His face was burning hot. “I loaded up on carbs?”

She blinked at him, then her smile widened, and her chest started shaking with a suppressed laugh.

Alden groaned. “I told you I wasn’t that mature.”

“It’s my fault,” said Natalie. “I should have mentioned us going to one thing together instead of so many…and the dancing was…”

“Natalie, I’d love to keep hanging out with you, but to be honest, I’m not in a great place right now for something more confusing than us just having fun together and getting to know each other better as friends.”

“Confusing?”

Alden could probably have just said he wasn’t ready, that he was still recovering from the year he’d had. Leave it simple and nonspecific. But he thought she deserved more.

“Can we talk about other stuff until after lunch?” he asked, looking around the busy restaurant. “I want to tell you some things that are a little personal. The nonagon would be better for that kind of conversation.”

******

Hovering above Apex, legs dangling over the edge of the nonagon, he told her more about Thegund than he had before. Not as much as he’d told Lexi and Haoyu the other day, but that was only because he didn’t want to make the conversation all about him, and a full recounting definitely would do that.

He told her enough to explain that he wasn’t settled back into his life yet even if he did an okay job of faking it. He brought up the fact that he was still back and forth to the Triplanets, seeing a mind healer, and focused on fighting personal demons.

“I’d be an awful person to date, I think,” he said, trying to keep his voice as light and friendly as he could. She did seem more subdued than he wanted her to be. “At least for now. Please don’t hate me.”

“I don’t hate you.”

“Or deprive me of your guacamole. Or send Emilija after me.”

He bumped her shoe with his own. His stomach clenched when he did it, and his hands tightened on the nonagon’s edge. He wanted to do something to show her he really thought she was great, and he wasn’t just saying, “Let’s be friends,” as a brush-off.

But what if it was the wrong gesture?

She looked down at their feet for a few seconds, then swung hers to bump him back.

He let out a breath, and she released a sigh of her own.

“I didn’t think you were into me. Until recently,” she said. “Because you didn’t act like you were most of the time. You didn’t seem to notice me as much as a lot of people do. But then everyone kept telling me you probably did have a crush on me, and I—”

“Everyone who?” Alden asked, startled.

“Hadiza and Paolo and my mom and dad and one of my aunts and a lot of other Rabbits from intake.”

“That’s so many people! What the…your parents, too?” I don’t even know them.

“I mentioned you on calls home.”

Alden was perplexed. “Was it because I hired you to cook for me?”

“I think that was it for my mom. She couldn’t believe another teenager would pay me that much. She thought my rates were too high.”

“I would pay you more. This week. To prove to any doubters that your rates were completely reasonable for a professional of your caliber.”

“I told her you were rich, hungry, and interested in fitness. My dad was different. ‘Nat, you’re such a sweet girl, but I want you to listen to me when I tell you there’s no way a boy his age is acting like your friend without a reason.’”

Alden wrinkled his nose.

“I should have said, ‘Yes, I know his reason, and that reason is my guacamole.’”

He laughed.

