"It was Kathereine, the Songbringer, who told me! She revealed herself, revealed herself to me, and to a few she trusted. A great scheme is unfolding, a grand conspiracy that is sweeping through the heart of my beloved Republic. And now I stand in this cell. I am castigated by an Abyssal. An abyssal I had no intention of facing, no intention of offending." Master-Inquisitor Sijik's lip curled, and a single tear fell from his eye. "And now my fellow inquisitors have given all, given all they have. Within the Ascendants’ glory, they rest. But their deaths were unjust.”

“Their deaths came as a consequence of an unneeded attack,” Uva hissed. She put on a good play, pretending to be angered. But the Master-Inquisitor simply looked down.

"Contact City Lord Stormhalt. There is much he can tell you. There is much I am not at liberty to say, but I must beg you. I must swallow my jagged pride and beg. You must release me, and you must surrender the Animancy Core to my custody. It is the only way that things will end well, that things do not escalate. This is not a threat. This is me pleading, begging. This is me asking you to spare your own lives. Sullain is beyond control—a mad dog. I know that you do not wish for the surface to descend. Please… spare your own lives. Do not let people like me enter your homes.”

The sheer passion in his words left Shiv speechless. It left Adam speechless as well. "It sounds like he actually believes all that shit," Shiv commented.

Uva drew in a long breath. "Should we give you the Animancy Core, what will you do with it?"

"We will use it to bring the travesty at Blackedge to a righteous end. We will use it to save what lives we can, subdue Roland Arrow, secure Starhawk’s Perch, and satisfy Vicar Sullain while keeping him still controlled. We must take back the Perch, take back all Sacred Phylacteries that Roland Arrow has stolen. Then and only then can this crisis be brought to an end and a civil war be averted."

"And this civil war is to be caused by Roland Arrow's ascension to godhood," Uva asked.

"Godhood?" Inquisitor Sijik sneered. "No. Even if he gained the power of the Forgotten—" He he caught himself. "O-of the abandoned Sacred Relics, he cannot be a god. He will never be a god. No faith will flow towards him. He will not be elevated by our mana. He is not remembered by the System. He will never be remembered by the System. We will make sure to strike every memory of him from the record. He will be forgotten. Utterly. Completely.”

“Remembered by the System?” Shiv muttered. He turned to Valor with a questioning look, but the Legendary Pathbearer stared through the glass with rapt attention as well.

"Forgotten like the other former Ascendants?" Uva breathed. Sijik's eyes widened.

Sijik looked at the Owl for a moment. "How do you know? What do you know?"

Uva leaned back. "A bit more than you think, I suspect. Your Educator told us much.”

And for the first time, the Master-Inquisitor seemed scared. He fell to his knees and clasped his hands together. “Listen to me. Listen to me. I beseech you. I need to secure Blackedge. I need the core. I need to bring it back to City Lord Stormhalt. There is no more time. We cannot afford a civil crisis in the Republic, not now! We are surrounded on all sides by enemies. It is not only New Albion that gnaws at us. The Atlantic, the Pacific, they are filled with nightmarish dangers held at bay only because they fear our Ascendants! The Dread North, choked by its eternal winter storm, batters at our doors, and the cruel fae carried in its wake are only held at bay by our Ascendants! South, where the orcs rage, and further south yet, where the blood-soaked empires of sacrifice run vast, constantly pushing outward, seeking slaves and sacrifices to sate their vile serpent god, we have more enemies still!”

Sijik was outright crying now. Tears ran down his face, and Shiv and Adam stared at the scene, transfixed. “The Republic is forged of faith,” he sobbed, “faith in our Ascendants! And it is all that spares our people from oblivion and damnation, that grants prosperity in strife!”

"It is not our faith," Uva said quietly, "and they are not my Ascendants."

"Oh, but we have kept you safe for so long," Sijik cried. "Without us, you would have been ravaged countless times over. Without us, the treaties do not stand, and if we are struck down, the rest of the surface nations will descend! You know my words ring true, Abyssal! They will march across the world with their armies millions strong, and they will flood down into the Abyss with nothing held back! They will butcher your peoples, and they will take what our Ascendants have once claimed, have guarded through treaty. They will take your Great One. Think of that. Be selfish if you cannot be noble, but make the right choice." And with those words finished, Sijik sagged. He looked two centuries older. His eyes were sunken, his face a mask of sweat and exhaustion.

Adam and Shiv stood frozen, and even Valor was entirely still. Uva briefly placed a strand against Sijik’s mind, but then retracted it. She rose, and with a gesture of her hand, the Owl left the cell first. As he merged through the veil, Adam shaped a spell and let the Aviary agent through. A second later, Uva followed. Only after that did they slam the cell wall shut in place.

"Shiv," Uva said, slightly surprised. "You're here. When did you arrive?"

"Before either of you started talking." He looked in the direction of Master Sijik, who was currently huddled as a ball next to the wall of the cell, as far as his manacle would allow. His gaze was distant, and Shiv could practically taste the trauma radiating from the man's body.

"At minimum, he believes what he said," Uva said. "Every single word."
