In the Green Zone, the main Citadels still stand as they once did.

However, the power dynamics of this zone are very different than they were before.

Thanks to the Legacy provided by Abby at the peak of the Primordial Tree, only available to high-ranking System users and authorized individuals for a high price, there are no longer limits to the core strength one holds and the zones they may travel to. Unbreakable barriers created by the Dryad's Legacy can be worn, concealing ones true aura throughout any zone they wish to travel.

Within the Green Zone, there are currently many Purple Cored leaders that keep the peace.

Some of which are Arie and Raven who rule over the Mensa Citadel; Torvak and Asic continue their reign over Ellipsia.

The Grand Citadel is watched over by Ava, Zashen, and a White Griffin.

All of these Lords watch over this Zone, yet rarely interfere with its daily functions.

After all, the Green Zone is a buffer zone between the Lower and Upper Realms. It has gone through an enormous transformation, too. There are many skyscrapers built from the floor of the zone that tower through the green clouds between the Citadels.

Even the old untouched domain where the Corrupted Wyvern's Citadel once was has been entirely re-shaped into a new outer city where trade, training, and assimilation up from the Lower Realm can commence.

This is a vast information hub, filled with transactions dealing in all things both Upper and Lower Realm.

All of the dungeon management is dealt with in the Green Zone. Full planets can be rented, and dungeons with many new features can be deployed on worlds.

Every few years, the Purple Cored Demon Lord, Pluto, makes an appearance to grant these businesses more kin to use in their Labyrinths. Yet, over time, these trials have been phased out. Using a real life to guard each one has become far too dangerous. Instead, new dungeon architects have found ways to manipulate luminite and form mana-based constructs that grant simulated monsters stronger than level 1,000.

This is the most popular business thriving between both realms, as it allows the new generations to grow stronger; and it farms mana and small amounts of ether from the Lower Realm to stimulate the economy in the Upper Realm.

Some store their energy in the Blue and Cyan Zones, while others directly inject it back into their home worlds to attempt to raise its class to benefit future generations.

While the Green Zone may seem like the weakest of all the zones, it is actually nearly as expensive to permanently buy residence here as it is in the Purple Zone per square meter. The Green Zone is not even 100 million kilometers wide, and it is the epicenter of commerce within this galaxy.

There are many pathways that follow the root system of the Primordial Tree, breaking down through the lower layer of the Realm into the Origin Plane.

The majority of these highways surge through into the source in the center of the galaxy, but some of the offshoots bend into strange areas of space and find themselves poking through in random, desolate areas of the Lower Realm.

Eventually, all of the roots connected with the ancient highways that connected the stars, and assimilation ports were built to allow Yellow Cores to slowly gain access to the Green Zone at their own pace.

The criteria for ascension to the Upper Realm is no longer owning a world or claiming a throne. System users don't even have to fully saturate their true cores to manually break through fragile space.

There is a small fee to pay, and anyone can ascend. Whether that is pure energy, information, or years of labor, there are many opportunities.

In the Lower Realm, the 5th to 1st Class and Noble Grade Worlds still exist. However, with enough effort and connections in the Upper Realm, one can change their fate.

There is also a new classification system of Intelligent and Unintelligent Life. Races that can get along with each other and participate in fair trade all have full access to the Upper Realms. Races that are violent and stuck in their primal, animalistic forms have been confined to their own pathways of wild planets.

It is possible to apply to hunt in these free-for-all worlds, and bounties are even placed on races that are overpopulating and breaking through to the Green Zone manually too often.

Automatic transfer pathways have been constructed for stronger races that break through on their own. They are allowed to roam free within the jungle built on the lower layers of the Grand Citadel.

Some of the larger buildings within the Cyan and Blue Zones have been designated for these wild races that continue to grow and break through. This is because, by the time they reach the Purple Zone, many have matured and gained enough intelligence to be classified as true members of society.

Stationed among the billions of star systems, there are high-ranking members formed from the Intergalactic Trade Commission that keep the peace within the Lower Realm.

All of the Admins, Commanders, and Knights have taken advantage of the resources as high ranking system users with special privileges and become Purple Cores; yet they remain in the Lower Realm to solve problems and continuously reinvent infrastructure.
