Amara hissed back, "It is, but such is the result of clashing dimensions. There is little that can be done outside of a wary compromise. I believe we may keep one another at bay, both sheep and wolves watching and waiting alike." She turned a palm to Florence, her eye centered in her hand. It pierced the albony with a sharp, suspicious glare,

"You seem quite curious about us. It's alarming."

Florence put his hands on his hips, "I seem curious because I am. You're a fascinating young lady. Besides, I know what it means to be an outcast like you. I am one as well, though under different circumstances. Since coming here, however, many have seen the good in me despite that less than enviable position."

A grin glowed from under his mask as he met her eye,

"I merely wished to return the favor and see the good in you, Amara."

Amara looked away while...wait a minute, blushing? I stayed there stunned at the prospect, Florence somehow wooing an eldritch of all things. Hod stepped up to Florence, pushing a winged hand into the albony's chest,

"Hod not like new fur man. New fur man bad."

Florence tilted his head while grabbing Hod's hand, "Did you spend time grooming your feathers this morning?"

Hod pulled his wing from Florence's grasp, "Perhaps Hod did."

Florence brimmed with confidence, "It shows."

Hod's blank, white eyes narrowed, "Hod not sure Hod not like fur man two anymore. Hod...Hod confused."

Florence gave Hod a friendly pat on the shoulder, "Take your time deciding on it." Florence walked up to me,

"I'd barely gotten my new job started before you called us into a new meeting. Industrious, aren't you?"

I turned towards everyone, "Eh, I try. You can use this as an opportunity to get to know everyone."

Florence turned towards Althea, "I would like that."

Althea looked away, and I noted her reaction. From the corner of my eye, I glowered at Florence, "Hey, man."

Florence shrunk, "Uhm...yes?"

"I understand you're friendly. That's fine, but I'd like it if you'd respect the relationship between Althea and me."

Florence nodded, taken aback, "I...of course. Excuse my impoliteness."

He deflated before my eyes like a balloon popped with a needle. He took a step or two back. He looked a bit crushed, and I was okay with that. At the same time, I didn't want Florence or everyone else thinking I hated the guy. I pinched my brow with frustration,

"Look, don't take this that seriously. We've just gotten to know each other, and it isn't like I expect every situation to play out perfectly."

I gave his shoulder a light tap with my fist, "Just, you know, listen to what I said, and we're fine, alright?"

Florence perked up while nodding, "Yes. Of course."

As everyone else arrived, I dwelled on that awkward situation. Talking with people right now was strange, and after thinking about it, I uncovered the reason why; it was my position. Because of my status as a guildleader, my thoughts and words carried weight. I could talk however I wanted before now because I wasn't anyone special. The scales tipped, and now I owned a meaningful position.

It was a strange transition for me. On the one hand, I liked being able to say what I wanted to say how I wanted to say it. Just as well, it was pleasant having my words and opinion respected. On the other hand, that was the crux of the issue - people respected me too much.

If I misplaced a word or two, people got hurt. I wasn't exactly the best at conveying succinct, concise emotions with my words anyway. Having to dance around people's feelings like this was like asking an ogre to win a tap-dancing competition. It wasn't going to happen. All this gave me a lot to think about as Torix spread out his arms,

"Now that everyone is present, our guildleader, Daniel, wishes to advise us on our guild's course of action from here on out."

Damn, I forgot about that. I took a quick, deep breath with my eyes closed, preparing to talk in front of the group. The thought of public speaking still gave me goosebumps, but it was now or never as usual. With a lift of my hand, I used quintessence to make a pillar of fortified earth rise from under me. The elevation let me get a clear view over everyone's heads, the gialgathens hanging in the back.

Looking closer, several signs of exhaustion exposed themselves on the gialgathens. They normally carried their heads high, but they drooped down in long arches. None of the gialgathens kept their chests upright either. It was as if gravity was fighting a winning war with them, their eyelids heavy.

Revising the contents of my speech on the fly, I turned towards Torix, "I'm going to be talking to the guild as a whole here. Make sure to record and stream this."

Torix leaned back, "Oh...Ahem, I certainly shall...It is done."

I turned towards the group, spreading my hands,

"We've finished our time on Giess, and I know that the gialgathens here are adjusting to Earth. I want each of you to know that you're welcome here as long as you work, and you're not breaking the laws here. That's all we ask for, and if you do that, you'll find that this will be a new home for each of you."

Krog and Chrona let out roars of approval, and I gave them quick nods to let them know they were heard. I turned towards the others,

"We've allied ourselves with the Empire, a conglomeration of planets ruled by Obolis Novas. I've met him in person, and he's willing to reward us handsomely for our services. He's already sent two members of his family to help us, and they'll be assisting us with our transition from a one location guild to a guild on a galactic scale."

I tried making eye contact,

"I know that you're all tired from the endless fighting. We've just returned, and I'm already starting another campaign against the Adairs. While I won't postpone my own duties, I understand that each of you needs rest. Because of that, I want to grant our soldiers a month off of free time. You can dispense with that how you will."

Kessiah leaned back against Krog while mouthing,

"I guess that doesn't apply to me."

I smirked at her, "No, Kessiah, it does not."

The group let out a light laugh, the kind of laughter that releases some of the nervous tension. I raised a fist,

"I'll be fighting on the frontlines until you're all ready to join me. Know that I would never ask more from each of you than I'd ask of myself. I aim to lead by example, and that means setting a good one for each of you to follow. That's also why I'm working with the dungeon clearing corps to engineer a solution for lower-tier dungeons."

I let my hands down to my sides, "I know it's a lot to ask of each of you to fight in two wars, one against the Adiars and another against the eldritch. I'm striving to lessen that burden, one dungeon at a time. It will take effort and ingenuity, but I'm confident that we're on the brink of a long term solution."

Amara spread the fingers of her palms, staring at me, "Are we eldritch a problem?"

I turned to her, kind of surprised by her speaking up. It allowed me to touch base on the subject, however,

"Some of you and your brethren are a problem, yes. I don't intend to kill indiscriminately, however. When we were on Giess, the Adairs did that to the gialgathens by abusing the espen's bias against them. Yes, certain gialgathens were a lot to handle. That didn't mean they deserved what happened to them."

I let those words soak in for a second. Many fought on Giess, and they saw the horrors first hand. The others saw it secondhand on footage, which still left a worthwhile impact. I turned to a palm to Amara,

"Just as I know all gialgathens aren't evil, I know that all eldritch aren't evil either. We'll work with those that are willing to work with us. As for the others, we'll crush them just like we crushed the Adairs. No mercy. No compromise."

The others in the group let out a hoopla of approval, and Amara seemed sated for now. I raised my fists, "We're going to continue fighting the Adairs, and I want each of you to know you'll be rewarded for what you're doing here with me. You'll be able to tell your children you were apart of a great generation, one that fought against the Hybrids and pushed them back into the depths they crawled out from."

I grinned, "So stay strong, and we'll pull through this even better than before."

I sat there with my finished speech, and everyone stared at me. Once the small crowd recognized it was over, a series of claps, roars, and shouts filled the air. It looked like everyone liked it for the most part, and as I stepped off my earthen podium, Torix gave me a nod of approval,

"I must say, that was likely your finest speech yet."

I rolled my shoulders, "Thanks. I've had some practice." I turned towards Torix, "I think it's about time we head out to Blegara."

Spear stepped up to us, along with Helios. Torix steepled his hands,

"I concur. It's time we show the Empire the might of the legion firsthand."
