“I am.” His voice was that particular blend of nerves and eagerness that usually boded well for the mental presence of a trainee.

I timed the switch. After carelessly deflecting the next attack, I dipped back to stand in the corner, while Steve occupied my space, spear raised in front of himself.

The Ravagers wouldn’t be able to see me from the air and, hopefully, wouldn’t be distracted by my presence.

Steve was… impressive. There was no other way to explain it.

I knew the Agility boosts lent me speed and the ability to dodge most enemies – well, at least enemies this clumsy. On top of that, my desperate fights wielding a shield had left me a certain level of control and sense of self in a fight. I’d earned competence.

Steve had grace. For a man who looked like he’d be the first result if you googled ‘dad body,’ probably wielding a grill fork and wearing a “Hey Hungry, I’m Dad.” T-shirt,’ he sure as hell knew his way around a weapon. He didn’t perform awkward leaps and evasions like I sometimes did. He moved with measured steps, performing an elaborate dance I’d only ever caught glimpses of.

His control of the spear, I had to admit, was impressive as well. He moved as if it was an extension of himself. The long spear, which would have seen me falling over myself in seconds, moved along with his posture shifts in tight, economical movements that were clearly rehearsed. Now and again, he’d even use the tip of the spear to deflect incoming ice or earth missiles. A few times, it looked like he visibly had to hold himself back not to impale a Ravager as it exposed itself after an attack.

After two minutes, he spoke up, breath coming in deep, but controlled huffs. “That’s one. Going for two.”

Steve didn’t repeat my actions. He didn’t risk any of his extremities. Rather, when the attacks came, he braced himself and let them strike him directly in the chest. Ballsy. But then, he didn’t risk losing a hand or something like that. Also, his leather armor likely took the brunt of the damage with this approach!

The third attack, an ice missile, struck him dead centre. He took two wobbling steps back before righting himself and speaking up with a winded croak. “I’m good. And. That was it.”

I was perched, ready to jump in if need be. “Want to switch? Or need to try anything else?”

He grunted, then nodded, dipping his head and evading an attack. “My stamina’s still decent. Give me a couple minutes to try something.”

The next minutes flew by, as I watched Steve making a mockery of the flying menaces. It became quite clear what he was doing, when, following an impressively poorly aimed firebolt, he swapped his spear for a shorter javelin. His movements definitely looked less rehearsed, and the shorter weapon did make him look like he was flailing sometimes, but he adjusted and clearly worked to make it part of his movement skills. Next up was a rapier – not the fancy silver-filigree fencing sort you expected from movies, but a blunt, slender murder instrument clearly meant to poke holes in people. It definitely looked out of sorts with him facing off against enemies way up in the sky above, and him trying to use it for parrying looked uncomfortable, to say the least.

Eventually, though, he grinned, sweat pouring down his face. “I’m… good for a swap now.”

“You hear that, Nix?” I shouted. “Swapping on my mark!”

A squeal erupted from deeper within, followed by a curse and, eventually, another frantic shout. “Ready. Ready!”

The swap was uneventful and, moments later, she stood ready, looking up at the sky as if it was about to rain death down on her. Which, obviously, it was.

I was ready to move in, in case it was necessary. Nix was quite clearly not used to combat movement, and was trying very hard to adjust for it with eagerness and putting extra force in her movement. “Try to relax.” I shouted. “When you tense up, your movements are restricted.”

She cursed under her breath, throwing herself to the ground to avoid a series of earth pellets tracking her. “Relax?” She shouted shrilly, once she’d clambered back to her feet. “Who can relax in this?”

She did manage to ease into the movements a bit. Her dodges remained awkward and clearly unpractised, but she was learning.

Still, I wasn’t feeling too good about everything. She’d gotten herself hit twice, nearly close enough that I wanted to call an end to it and interfere. Yet, she kept going, doggedly glaring at the sky as if she could kill the Ravagers with sheer determination.

Her excited squeal cut through the frustrated squawks of the airborne pests. “Yesss! Got it. Got… both, actually. Damn. I thought they’d missed me more often.”

“You ready to swap?”

“Not in the least!” She grinned. “I have something I need to try.”

“It’s not the running, is it?” She was having trouble enough dodging as it was. I despaired of what’d happen if she went racing for a lap through the open area ahead.

“It’s not the running.” She gasped. “You ass.” She stood stock still, letting a gust of blue-flecked weaponized air miss her by several metres.

I couldn’t tell what was happening. To me, it just looked like she was zoned out, all caught up inside her own head, momentarily distracted from the fact that she was in actual mortal danger. When attacks came, she dodged, badly, like she was using the majority of her concentration on something else.

Eventually, she messed up.

Too late, she realized that an ice missile wasn’t actually on a trajectory to hit her, but the spot to the right she was dodging toward.

I rushed ahead, knowing full well there’d be no way that I’d make it in time.

Nix screamed in defiance, and her arm rose to take the damage from the missile – and a blue glow emerged around the arm. “I got it. I got it! Oooow that smarts!”

I checked her health. Still at around half. “All right. I think you’ve had enough fun for now. Go heal!”

“Your turn, love!” She shouted, before hissing, looking at the blood dripping from her arm. “Will the building last?”

Haddock yelled back. “Plenty of time. I spent a lot of mana on it.” Haddock sure didn’t seem like he was in a hurry. He wavered near the back of the building, eyes closed. He didn’t look nervous, more laser focused on… whatever he was doing.

“Now.” The word came through clenched teeth, as if he was rushing home after consuming a dodgy curry. He rushed ahead, hands moving out in front of him in an elaborate gesture, like a movie wizard casting some spell.

There were three Ravagers left. One sodden, black one who was the closest they got to graceful. One with cow-shaped patches of colour, and one that was even clumsier than the others, which actually managed to fall out of the tree when Nix first attacked.

The clumsy one stalled in the air mid-dive, looking confused as its single target, me, became two. Then, out of the blue, a shape appeared above it in the air. It was a cage. An actual fucking cage emerged mid-air, bereft of a bottom, and barrelled down toward its intended target.

“Yes!” Haddock celebrated. Then his clenched fists dropped. “No!”

The cage missed. By a lot. It wasn’t even close. The Ravager, meanwhile, didn’t miss, leaving a fiery, hissing reminder of its presence on Haddock’s left leg.

“Need help?” I shouted.

Haddock waved me off, limping slightly. “I’m just getting started.” Then he got to work.

He didn’t construct anything more. Rather, he focused on evasion, just as he should, trying to earn himself the Dodge skill. Unfortunately, the key word here was try.

I’d had practice. I knew how to move. Steve had weapons practice and unexpected grace. Nix was… well, she was quick. Haddock was none of these things. And, unless I missed my guess, he was terrified of being at the forefront of the fight.

Haddock missed his timing. A lot. He froze at bad times, overreacted and, I was sure, took his inspiration for evasion from movies and games. Bad movies. He did fucking barrel rolls.

I suffered through a minute of this, watching him get hurt, as his health plummeted downward. Then I couldn’t bear it anymore. I ran forward, interspersing my shield in front of the next missile rushing for his stomach.

“What?”

“Sorry. You’re done. I’ll teach you to move later. But this is – moment.” I knelt, deflecting an earthen missile that could have struck the ground and bounced right back up at him. “This isn’t going to end up well. Did you get Resilience?”

He blinked. ”I… yes, I did. But Dodge-”

“Good. Dodge isn’t an option right now. You planning anything else? Or can I finish them off?”

“No. Construction… no. Nothing more now.” He slammed a fist at the ground and then backed away to safety, eyes at the Ravagers.

I looked up at the sky, and the three remaining winged annoyances. At this moment, I’d be able to take them all out with no issues whatsoever. I shouted. “Anybody need to train something on these bastards?”

A chorus of refusals came back. Nix expressed a desire to be the one to kill them, to improve her casting skills.

“All right. I’ll just try a few things first. Then they’re all yours.” I bared my teeth up at the ugly things and murmured to myself. This was going to hurt.

It hurt. A lot. But since I made the decision myself and knew what I was getting into, I had no-one to blame but myself!

I ditched my armor. It was unnecessary for this battle, and it actually worked against what I wanted, since I wasn’t planning on my new Ethereal Marmot bracers getting ruined by pumped-up seagulls. The scene must’ve looked entertaining for anybody unsure what was happening, as I hopped around, spending the few available seconds in between elemental onslaughts to unstrap armor pieces and place them in my Personal Universe.

Then I got myself hurt. Oh, I tried to learn Mana Shield, too, yelling questions to Nix about how she’d gotten the damn thing to work as I dodged and, occasionally, took a direct hit from the Ravagers.

I honestly didn’t believe it would click. And it didn’t. It might be due to my puny Mental Power and Control. Might be my lack of experience manipulating mana. But whatever Nix managed, I wasn’t getting. I was just getting hurt. On purpose. And I wasn’t even getting paid for it.
