About two seconds into celebrating a new milestone in my recovery, it occurs to me that the ability to feel Aura is less than ideal.

I mean, yea, it’s a sign that my health and whatever is still improving, but I still can’t use Aura, I can only feel it, which means I’m at the mercy of anyone who has Aura unless I have an Aura-capable warrior around to counteract it. Well, not entirely at the mercy of, since I think I could still move around without an Aura of my own, but that’s nothing new. Plus, it’s not like I lack Concealed guardians around, since I have more than I can shake a stick at, but when all is said and done, being able to perceive Aura again is just another item on the long list of things to be wary of.

With that, my good mood is spoiled and I pet Ping Ping while glancing over my sheets of scribbled questions and nonsensical answers. Dipping my pen in the inkwell, I add ‘Why feel Aura again?’ and stare at the pages as if expecting the answer to write itself. Maybe after slipping into a coma, I reset my... Aural receptors or something, like turning myself off and on again, but I didn’t even know I had Aural receptors, much less faulty ones. Turns out I don’t actually know much about the Martial Path, which is hardly surprising considering the Empire’s long history of hoarding secrets and obfuscating truths. Just look at the Imperial Clan. They churn out stronger warriors than the rest of the province, to the point where Imperial Servants like Luo-Luo become Martial Warriors just to preserve their youthful good looks. Then there’s Scions like Liu Xuande, Guan Yunchang, Zhang Yide, and Jian Xianhe, Experts of the Empire who use their Natal Palaces to do paperwork. Paperwork!

...Which raises an interesting question. The Eastern Province is supposedly the smallest, least populated province of all. Granted, the outer provinces having more landmass than most continents in my previous life, so this isn’t saying much, but for such a small place, the East sure seems to have a lot of Martial Warriors. I don’t have an exact figure to go on, but Luo-Luo was given an honour guard of three hundred and sixty Death Corps. That’s not an insignificant number of Martial Warriors, more than most minor factions in the Society can call upon, but after their training, the members of Luo-Luo’s honour guard were simply set aside for the better part of a decade until I co-opted them for my retinue. If the Imperials can set aside that many Martial Warriors for a mere Imperial Servant, they either have more Martial Warriors than they know what to do with, or Luo-Luo is more important than I thought.

Probably the former. When I became Minister of Finance, Shen ZhenWu gave me a thousand more, saying it would be a disgrace to my Office to not have my own honour guard, and Minister of Finance was supposedly a minor title until my War Bond scheme took off. “Question,” I begin, brushing my hair out of my eyes for the umpteenth time. “How many Death Corps Guards are there? A general figure is enough, like tens of thousands? Hundreds of thousands? Millions?”

“Not millions, though this one is unsure of an actual figure.” Involuntarily offering a small bow in unnecessary apology, Luo-Luo doesn’t even notice herself still playing the part of Imperial Servant instead of her true role as friend, partner, and advisor. Something to work on, though I have no idea how, so I simply file it away for future consideration. “Lord Husband would be better served asking Kuang Biao or another of the Death Corps, but I do know that each head of the Five Supreme Families is said to have an Honour Legion, a host of Death Corps Guards who defend the ancestral family homes. How many members serve in the legion, I cannot say, nor have I ever seen the ancestral homes firsthand, but I have read that each one is a city unto itself.” Seeing my surprise, Luo-Luo corrects herself and says, “Not a city like the ones you are used to, Lord Husband, containing millions of families each, but perhaps thousands at the very least.”

“Hmm. What about the Grand Marshal and Prime Minister?” They might well also be the respective heads of their Supreme families, but if the Minister of Finance warrants a thousand guards, surely the Grand Marshal and Prime Minister have more.

“Ten thousand each,” Luo-Luo replies, having the number already on hand before adding, “The Royal General’s Honour Guard is equal in size, with the caveat that each Death Corps Warrior is an Expert-level talent.”

Ten-thousand Experts for an armchair general who has probably never commanded a battle in his life. Just... wow. Akanai only brought fifteen-thousand Sentinels with her and left ten-thousand behind to guard the mountain passes. Mila once told me that when looking at all the villages working under the Sentinel banner, they have a higher percentage of Martial Warriors compared to the normal population, 2.5% versus the Imperial standard of 1%. This puts the total population around one million people, which is higher than expected until I remember just how large the Saint’s Tribulations Mountains really are. That’s pretty much the name for the mountain range west of the Northern Wall, which stretches all the way to the ocean shore, or roughly half the province.

In comparison, the Empire can spare twice that number of Martial Warriors as ceremonial guards for three individuals, including ten-thousand rare elites who have reached Natal Palace Formation, and probably Aura Condensation too. Either the Imperial Clan is much more populous than I first expected, or they crank out Martial Warriors at rates much higher than a measly one to two percent of the population. Probably both, now that I think about it, but I don’t really have any proof besides the fact that Luo-Luo said ‘most’ of her peers had already succeeded at Core Creation when she was only seven years old. This is the Imperial Academy we’re talking about too, a place where Imperial Servants were trained to be artists, poets, singers, dancers, and general trophy companions, so if ‘most’ of Luo-Luo’s peers succeeded at Core Creation, then that says something about Imperial methodology or genetics.

Problem is, it doesn’t sound like Luo-Luo Created her Core in any strange and unexpected ways. Her experience is fairly similar to mine, and everyone else I know too. One moment, we were all regular, mortal people, and the next, we found Balance and became Martial Warriors. Kablam.

Then again, Luo-Luo also wasn’t actively seeking Balance at the time, so there is that. Either way, the Imperial Clan’s understanding of the Martial Path probably vastly exceeds the outer provinces’, which isn’t really news to anyone, but still worth noting. Out here, it’s hit or miss, but it seems like the Imperial Clan has more successes than failures when people are taught to Create a Core, unless Luo-Luo's class was an extreme outlier, which I suppose is possible. Unlikely though, since my orphanages are lucky to meet that 1% average, even with former soldiers and Sentinels offering daily lessons for more than a year under Tanaraq’s supervision. I wonder what percentage of Easterners are Martial Warriors, and how many move onto the next milestones? The majority of Martial Warriors in the outer provinces never move beyond Core Creation, which seems like all sorts of wrong to me...

A protesting squeak brings me out of my thoughts, and I look down to see Ping Ping’s half-lidded eyes just brimming with profound melancholy as she ponders why my hands have stilled and I’m no longer paying her any attention. So dramatic, but I love it, and I love her, so I laugh and go back to stroking her smooth, rounded head and massaging her turtle cheeks as she hits me with another burst of Aura before settling in for a lap nap. Problem is, now that both my hands are occupied, I can’t brush my hair out of my eyes anymore, and I find myself blowing at my offending bangs in hopes of keeping their sharp tips from poking me in the eyeballs. Seeing my dilemma, Luo-Luo wordlessly gestures at my hair in an offer of help, but instead of just brushing my bangs aside as expected, she hurries out in a stately, yet excitable manner before returning with an armful of hair tools and products. Dumping everything onto my desk, she none-too-delicately runs a brush through my hair, though luckily, my hair is so straight and fine the tangles are few and far between. Thankfully, the first thing I did after waking up was take a bath, because otherwise she’d be subjected to two weeks worth of body stank instead of only a few hours. The bath was fun, and Ping Ping loved splashing around, though I’m a little sad Pong Pong hasn’t been around to say hi yet.

“Lord Husband,” Luo-Luo begins, perhaps professionally obligated to make small talk while playing the part of hair-stylist. “Have you given any thought to taking on a manservant?”

Doing my best not to lose myself in the intoxicating scent of her floral perfume, I furrow my brow and just barely remember not to shake my head. “No. My hair doesn’t need brushing and styling every morning, and we have servants to do the cleaning and stuff.”

“Yes, but a manservant is more than a glorified attendant.” Satisfied with her brushwork, Luo-Luo produces a pair of scissors and snips away at my sideburns before I have a chance to protest. “Hired staff is kept at arm’s length, for their loyalties can easily be bought, but a manservant is someone you must entrust with many of your greatest secrets and need not guard against, a loyal confidant who will see and care for you in your most vulnerable moments. They will manage your schedule and make arrangements with your guards, help you plan events and wardrobes, and be your voice in all matters of minor importance you yourself are too busy to pay heed to, such as purchasing a mirror for your bedroom, having the swings greased so they stop creaking so much at night, or setting ant traps to catch them on their way to the food you leave lying around the bedroom.”

Glancing at a dried apricot out of the corner of my eye, I purse my lips and resent the implication that I need help dressing or that I’m a slob. “I left that for the red panda. He wouldn’t take it from my hands, so I thought he’d chase after it if I threw it on the floor.” This was before Luo-Luo clued me in to the red panda’s unexplained origins, so I’m kinda glad the little guy didn’t go for it, else I would’ve inadvertently sent Guan Suo’s reincarnation to go fetch, which is just all sorts of weird. “Don’t worry, one of the bears or rabbits will get to the food long before any ants make their way up here.”

“All the same, it is something to consider, Lord Husband. After seeing how capable Young Magistrate Fung’s manservant is, I thought Lord Husband could use someone of the same calibre.”

Ha. She’s in for a rude awakening if she thinks there is anyone in Fu Zhu Li’s league who’d willingly become my manservant. I honestly have no idea why he would settle for being a nursemaid, but according to Fung, the overly-qualified half-weasel has been around for as long as he can remember. “Tell you what,” I say, amused by her foolish naivete, “If you can find someone of Fu Zhu Li’s calibre who is willing to be my manservant, then I will hire them on the spot. I won’t accept anyone less than his equal though, so good luck to you.” Manservant is only the most obvious of his skills, with torturer, Martial Warrior, Healer, and forbidden book collector also on that long list. Hell, maybe I should be like the Legate and find a possible Living Legend to be my seneschal. What I wouldn’t give to know the terms of their contract...

Realizing she’s been had but unable to figure out why, Luo-Luo falls silent and concentrates on cutting my hair, which I’m not entirely sure is needed. I mean yea, my bangs are poking into my eyes, but even if I pull it all back, my hair’s not long enough to tie into a ponytail, much less a bun. That’s the eventual goal, since Luo-Luo said I should endeavour to look more regal and less utilitarian, and I went along with it because Mila, Yan, Mom, and Alsantset all agreed with her and made the decision without consulting me. If I’d known Luo-Luo was going to cut it, I would’ve snuck out to get my hair cut weeks ago, but I didn’t because I wasn’t sure I’d survive through the extensive guilt trip. Besides, I don’t really care about my hair either way; it was short because that’s how Alsantset always cut it, and I went along because why not?

After putting her scissors down, Luo-Luo drops a generous dollop of something cold and wet atop my head and massages it into my scalp. Unsure why any of this is necessary, I go back to reading through my scribbled notes and try to make sense of my thoughts. The Martial Path and all the milestones make some sort of sense in my head, but when I write it down, I see all those illogical inconsistencies and have to chase them down to their inevitable end, where I give up trying to make sense of it and move on. ‘The Core is the powerhouse of the Martial Warrior’, is quite literally all I have, and I have no idea where to go from there to create a simple, understandable explanation of the Martial Path.

“Lord Husband, if you could raise your head a bit?”

