Because they’re not just weapons. They’re a part of me, or rather, they’re a part of who I was. There sits the weapons of the Undying Savage, a Warrior, Warrant Officer, and Number One Talent of his generation. He fought in the Society’s Contests and eluded his malicious pursuers, and even bloodied their noses for daring to hunt his people. Then, he rode to war against the Defiled where he slew the chieftain Vivek Daatei, before breaking free of a Demon’s mental prison to form his Natal Palace. He then went on to fight four consecutive duels against some of his strongest peers and rivals, killing three and defeating one through sheer luck and grit. Months later, during a routine sweep for bandits, he uncovered a Defiled plot in Sanshu and played a pivotal part in the city’s harrowing defence, and for his heroic contributions, he was invited to the First Imperial Grand Conference. There, in front of millions of spectators, he emerged victorious in an impromptu sparring tournament and became known all around the Empire as the Number One Talent. He then served on the front lines and led his retinue to kill more Defiled and lose less soldiers than anyone else. When others left to rest and recuperate, he camped on the fields of Sinuji and defended the fortress from wave after wave of Defiled invaders, and he counted that as a break well earned before venturing forth beyond the front lines once more.

And then, in one, disastrous, unfortunate move, he lost everything.

No... That’s not true. I shattered my Core and lost my Weapons, but I have more now than ever before. I have a family who loves me, friends who stand up for me, not one, not two, but three women who love me for who I am and a fourth who thinks so highly of me I can’t even wrap my head around it. I have a veritable horde of lovable animals who get excited when they see me, and more money than I even know what to do with, so all in all, I have no right to complain about my life.

But still... I want to be strong again. I want to wield Peace, Tranquility, and Unity on the battlefield once more, to fight alongside Yan and Mila, Zian and BoShui, Rustram, Dastan, Jorani, and the rest of my comrades and retinue. As much as I hate bloodshed and suffering, I never feel more alive than I do in combat, because like Zhen Shi said, is that not my purpose? Is this not why I am here? To be fate’s instrument in the battle against the Defiled, to stand firm against the Father’s foul minions and cast them back from whence they came? That’s how it goes, right? The transmigrated schmuck becomes a hero in his new world and saves everyone from the impending darkness. That’s me. I’m the schmuck, and it’s high time I save someone instead of just making things worse.

Hence, this work ahead of me, to simplify the Martial Path. It’s not really so more commoners can become Martial Warriors, it’s so I can figure out what the fuck I’m supposed to do to make myself better. Don’t get me wrong, if I come up with a working step by step guide, I’ll totally distribute it for free, but my motives are far more selfish than I let on, because I have always been a selfish person. That’s why I try to help others when I can, because at the end of the day, this is all about me.

I’m the hero of my own story, and I would very much like to be the hero of other stories as well, so it’s time to buckle down, put my big brain to work, and come up with a working solution to uncripple my sorry self.

Arranging my notes in a somewhat logical order, I set a blank page in front of me, dip my pen in the inkwell, and begin writing what I know. “The Core is the powerhouse of the Martial Warrior,” it begins, my characters neater and more orderly than ever. “Without a Core to hold and contain Chi, you are undoubtedly mortal and subject to mortal limits. With a Core however, there are no limits, for Core Creation is the first step on the long and arduous path towards Divinity.”

The characters fill the page in what feels like the blink of an eye, then a second page, third, and fourth, but still I continue writing what I know about the Martial Path while glossing over what I don’t know. Luo-Luo gave good advice, because even as I write, the answers unravel themselves before me, and I find myself adding notes to previous pages until it becomes easier to start fresh and rewrite everything again. Time passes, but I care not for the minutes or hours of the day, because the only thing that matters is to get the right answers onto the page before I lose them and never find them again. The pages pile up across my desk until I grow weary of seeing my past mistakes and sweep them all onto the floor, whereupon I feel inspired to start anew without all my previous misconceptions weighing me down. ‘The Core is the powerhouse of the Martial Warrior.’ That doesn’t change, because it seems right and it makes me laugh, but everything else is just wrong. You don’t need a Core to use Chi, which is just Heavenly Energy by another name. Anyone can use Heavenly Energy, the issue is doing it on command. There are limits to Heavenly Energy, but not human ones, and there is no need to belittle humanity, because Martial Warriors are nothing without ‘mere’ mortals to support them.

Balance in all things, because if everyone is super, no one is. Wouldn’t that be something? If everyone started on equal footing...

My pen scratches across the surface of a half-filled page, but no new words appear. Frowning, I go back and write the same characters again, to the same effect. Dipping my pen in the inkwell, I hear the clink of steel on porcelain, and it takes me a long second of staring and even longer minutes of contemplation to figure out why I can’t write anymore. The inkwell is empty, or dried, or something, and I...

I am tired, hungry, and exceedingly uncomfortable. How long was I writing for?

“You are a bold and daring man.” Startled out of my stupor, I shoot up into the air and turn to find the Legate reclining on my bed in his Imperial robes, with a book in hand and frown pasted across his too-handsome face. Shen ZhenWu, not the Legate, because even though both are technically correct, Shen ZhenWu is the loftier title. As I open my mouth to greet him however, I notice the book in his hand is distressingly familiar, with a spine which reads ‘Traffic Logs For Shen Huo’s Twelfth District’, followed by some weird dates and numbers before being punctuated by ‘Volume 17’.

Which is the cover on my copy of Zhen Shi’s notes.

Coincidentally, the volume Shen ZhenWu is holding covers experiment 1792, which Not-Gen mentioned while rambling on about my new Path, but that’s neither here nor there. While owning copies of those notes is not exactly illegal, it is frowned upon and grounds for suspicion, and if there’s one person I didn’t want becoming suspicious of me, it would be Shen ZhenWu.

Welp, fuck me. They weren’t even helpful, and now I’m in deep shit. Why didn’t I return those worthless notes to Fu Zhu Li the second I was done with them?

Chapter Meme
