Startled out of my thoughts yet again, I jolt upright and bump the back of my head against the softest surface in all existence, and only belated realize what I’m pressed up against. Cheeks reddening as I mumble out a muted “Sorry”, I lean away from Luo-Luo’s bosom and try not to burst into flames out of sheer embarrassment. No idea why I’m so flustered, since she’d probably welcome it if I tried to ‘take advantage’, as it were, but I dunno. It’s difficult. I have two loving wives and a sweet wifey who adores me, but I still don’t understand why any woman would want me. I gave Mila and Yan plenty of chances to get out before our marriages, and they both accused me of trying to push them away, so I just sorta accepted they were making a huge mistake and hoped they would never come to regret it too much. What can I say? I’m selfish and I’m in love with many women. Marriage is great, but the guilt is real, because while a harem seems awesome in theory, in practice, it’s less than ideal when you love your wives and want them to be happy, but are also the sole reason for their inevitable unhappiness.

So I guess what I’m trying to say is... I dunno. Luo-Luo is already stuck with me, so I should just accept it and make her happy, but... she deserves better. All the women in my life do, but unlike the others, Luo-Luo never had the option to walk away. It was me or the knife, and considering my first impression, I’m kinda surprised she picked me.

After wiping her hands clean with a towel, Luo-Luo proceeds to lift my chair with me in it and gently moves it away from the table, all without breaking a sweat or disturbing the half-asleep Ping Ping. Standing in front of me with a handful of hair accessories, Luo-Luo leans over and sets to work with a serious look across her lovely features. Closing my eyes because it’s the only way I know how to avoid staring at her cleavage, I scramble for a topic to discuss and, as per usual, land firmly on business. “I’d like to look into strengthening the district forts and maybe doing something else that isn’t strictly focused on defence at the same time.”

“Oh? Such as?”

Judging by the strain in her tone, I can tell we probably don’t have much money to work with, if any, but that’s her purview. I’m the idea man, and she just has to tell me if it’s possible or if I’m barking up the wrong tree. “Well, I was thinking we put in a large water clock in each district, so they can all tell the time. I know most farmers don’t need a clock to know the precise time, but I remember people looking lost when I told them their mayors would have office hours during which they would take meetings. Think about it, a centralized water-clock tower in every district, with a bell to toll at certain hours of the day, like morning, noon, and evening. That would get everyone on more or less the same schedule, and be conducive to community building.”

“Hmm, and the bells could also be used to spread warnings and other such messages, in addition to those along the Wall.” Picking up on my ulterior motive almost immediately, Luo-Luo continues to work on my hair for another half-minute before picking up the conversation again. “It would be exorbitantly expensive to place one in every district. What if we limited them to the district forts? Since you plan to eventually have soldiers barracked there, a clock would be of most use there.”

And we’d have to build ten times less clock towers too. Not as cool, but I suppose every district doesn’t need its own clock. Precision machinery is expensive when everything has to be made by hand, and doubly so when it’s something as large and precise as gears fit for a clock tower. “Yea, okay. That works too. I’ll send word to Diyako and see about getting a design that is less expensive for future endeavours, but this is a good start.” I really wish Dastan’s brilliant uncle was willing to come work in Central, but despite never having visited, he hates Central with a passion. Well, to be more accurate, he hates nobles, and he blames Central’s elites for the holier-than-thou attitude that infected the North’s nobility during his lifetime. To hear Diyako say it, time was, Northern nobles were a down to earth lot who worked side by side with the warriors and farmers they presided over, which may or may not be true, but considering he grew up in a city which evicted all of its civilians, I feel like Diyako is just seeing the past through rose coloured glasses.

“Is there any particular reason you only just thought to build clock-towers?”

A hint of amusement colours Luo-Luo’s tone, which makes me think she thinks I’m positioned to massively profit off this, but truth is, I came up with the idea a few hours ago. “Well, everyone is busy celebrating our successful withdrawal from the front lines, but soon enough, they’ll realize that this means the Defiled are closer than ever before.” Assuming they haven’t already. Despite a marked lack of education, peasants are not dumb, or at least no dumber than your average human. Which of course, is pretty dumb, but still not dumb enough to overlook the fact that ‘withdrawal’ is a fancy word for ‘retreat’. We’re losing this war, and I fear for the worst, but instead of saying as much, I simply say, “If it becomes known that we’re not focusing all our efforts on bolstering the districts’ defences, and are still willing to invest funds in other aspects, then it might be enough to keep people from panicking in days to come.” Sighing, I add, “We should still do something to make the districts more defensible, give the people inside a fighting chance. Dig a trench and install drawbridges maybe?”

“...Do you believe it will come to that?” Luo-Luo’s fingers on my chin force me to look up, and after a moment, I open my eyes to see her watching me with concern. “Defending the districts from Defiled?”

Oops. Guess I let my worry show just a bit too much. “Plan for the worst, hope for the best,” I quip, and I see her relax just a bit, but then her eyes flicker towards my desk in a flash of understanding.

“Ah, I see. So that’s why you wish to demystify the Martial Path, so more people can take it up to defend themselves.” Instead of scoffing or shaking her head at my absurd ideas, Luo-Luo takes it all in stride and nods as if my actions make perfect sense, which is surprising because even I think I’m reaching a bit too far. “In that case, might I make a suggestion?” Gesturing at my notes while reaching for a small mirror, Luo-Luo says, “You are too fixated on what you do not know. Better to put together what you do know first, then see how it all fits together, like picking which major chords to use before you start composing a symphony, or what colour palette to adhere to for your artwork before putting brush to paper.” Holding the mirror up in front of me, she asks, “So what do you think, Lord Husband? Is this an acceptable hairstyle?”

The person looking back at me from the polished silver mirror seems a stranger at first glance, but that’s always the case when I catch a glimpse of my youthful face. I still think of me as the other me, even though I can’t quite remember what I looked like in my past life, but the more I look into the mirror, the easier it is to pick out my familiar features. Despite knowing it’s my reflection, I can’t shake the feeling that I’m looking at a handsome stranger who looks like me, but better. I look... well, regal and stately, with my slightly trimmed hair all slicked, pulled back, and not at all out of sorts as it usually looks. A jewelled hair piece sits atop my head, looking like a circlet meant for a doll that’s been repurposed as a hair ornament, and as strange as it sounds, I’m really digging it. Even though my hair isn’t long enough to fill the ornament, it still sits snugly in place and adds an air of refinement and civility to my otherwise rugged demeanour. Throw on some expensive, embroidered robes and a smug sneer and I’d fit right in with 99% of all Imperial Nobility.

I’m not entirely sure how I feel about that, but I can’t really say what I’m thinking, so instead, I go with, “Oh wow! I barely even recognize myself.” Which is undeniably true, so it’s not my fault if she assumes it’s a compliment. And it sort of is, because I look great like this, but it took a whole five minutes to do and I refuse to put that much effort into my appearance every single day. Plus, I bet the hair goop will feel gross when I wash it out later, which would be an issue if I didn’t usually take two baths a day. Regardless of my personal feelings, Luo-Luo made me look presentable, which is almost a miracle. “Thank you. Not just for the hair, but for... you know... not laughing at my crazy idea to simplify the Martial Path.”

Beaming in undisguised glee, Luo-Luo strokes my cheek and glances at Ping Ping. “Lord Husband, you have a veritable miracle of Heaven fast asleep in your lap, while a second miracle hides in the courtyard cherry tree, and these are merely your most recent accomplishments. If you told me you meant to make the sun rise in the west and settle in the east, I would believe it possible, because you are a man beloved by the Heavens and the Mother above.”

Flattering as her faith is, I’m mildly uncomfortable being... well, worshipped. That’s what I see in Luo-Luo’s eyes, and while I’ve done nothing to purposefully lead her to this conclusion, I still feel like I’ve somehow bamboozled her into thinking I’m better than I am, and I have no idea what to say or do next. Thankfully, she takes the decision out of my hands as she steps away to pack her things, and I step in to help out of sheer instinct. Having forgotten Ping Ping was snoozing on my lap, the big girl squeaks as I wake her none too gently by standing without warning, and I’m left with no choice but to let Luo-Luo carry her own things while I cuddle petulant Ping Ping back to sleep.

God this sweet turtle is adorable, but even Mama Bun isn’t this clingy. Case in point, she’s having a snooze out in the grass with Tawny One instead of here demanding cuddles, but considering this is Ping Ping’s first day with me in her chibi form, I can’t really be mad.

Collecting my papers and inkwell, I bring them with me while escorting Luo-Luo back to her room, because it’s the polite thing to do, and not at all because I’m harbouring ulterior motives while my wives are away at war. When she’s done putting her things away, I offer to walk her back to the office as well, because there’s no way I can get any work done with Ping Ping snoozing in my lap and demanding constant, non-stop pats. Since she wants to nap, I figured she won’t miss me as much, so I leave her in Song’s able hands and ignore the tearful gaze and mournful squeaks emanating from the overly attached turtle. They don’t last long however, as Song sets the tire swing to swaying once more, and the little girl’s squeaks turn cheery and bright before I even reach the manor doors, though they cut off the second I step through the Sound Barrier surrounding the entire place. That’s one thing I love about animals, how quick they are to adapt to new emotions, rarely one to harbour a grudge or dwell over a past wrong. Ping Ping was sad to see me go, but so long as she has someone to keep her company, she won’t dwell on my absence and wallow in despair.

I could learn from how animals deal with their emotions, but alas, humans aren’t built like that. In fact, I think our... not inability, but our ineptitude at dealing with emotions is why we are susceptible to turning Defiled. Spectres can most certainly influence animals, as I saw firsthand in Ping Ping’s Natal Palace, but it’s either Demon or nothing with them. There’s no such thing as a Defiled animal because animals don’t know how to hate without reason. Sure, some animals learn to despise individuals, but a wolf won’t lie in its den thinking about getting revenge on the hunter who hurt him, nor will the chicken imagine enacting justice against the farmer who steals her eggs, and no animal would ever wholly devote their lives to the genocide of another race.

People suck. Floofify everything.

After dropping Luo-Luo off at the office, I head back to Mom and Dad’s house with Kuang Biao in tow, who fumes quietly over being ignored for two weeks. Since I was in a secret coma he doesn’t know about, I say nothing so I don’t give the game away and just focus on my footsteps. Usually, I don’t even notice it, but after my brush with Zhen Shi, I can’t stop noticing the fact that I’m aware of my Spiritual Weapons. It takes an effort of will to keep from turning off the paved paths and walking directly towards them, a route which would take me into the pond and through the now empty cattle ranch. Upon arriving at my old room, I take in the shattered remains of Peace, Tranquility, and Unity while trying to eyeball how much of the weapons have sloughed away in my absence. Even with this room locked and sealed, the circulation of stagnant air is enough to grind away at the brittle, broken weapons, and one good thump on the wall would probably turn them all to dust. It’s only a matter of time before they’re gone for good, but I can’t bear to see them go and will do whatever it takes to keep them around for as long as I can.

