“I’m not the Dark,” Erick said, and his voice reached them. “I’m just a Wizard, poking through the memories of the Dark, searching for things to salvage from a destroyed universe.”

As terror crept across the faces of the elf and alvani, the dungeon flexed again.

The pathways between Old and New widened, and like the brush of a thousand ephemeral silks, Erick felt a wind billow from the gate. Lightning flickered here and there, dancing in and out of the space, linking both sides together.

And suddenly the people on the other side looked through the gate, and saw Erick and his family. And also Fallopolis.

The elf surrounded herself with smoke—

But the alvani’s armor began to flake away. He yelped and leapt backward, crashing through wooden pews as he retreated, yelling, “It’s an attack!”

“It’s not an attack!” Erick called out, “Our realms are just incompatible. You’re in the Dark, like a shadeling.” He rapidly asked Fallopolis, “They know about shadelings, right?”

Fallopolis rapidly answered, “They’re powerful people and they know magic; they should.”

Debby whispered, “That alvani is bleeding now. A lot. Is that because of the stuff?”

She meant the switch from when the Old Demons broke the Script in order to make incani, and disallow alvani.

Fallopolis answered, “Extremely, yes. It takes an act of the Dark to keep alvani alive over here. Priestess was only able to remain together because of His actions, and only as a skeleton.”

The alvani guarded himself beside the Censer, a good forty meters away. Blood flowed freely from him, while an acolyte tried to heal him. The healing wasn’t working too well, though. The alvani cried out in pain, and the acolyte stopped, saying, ‘I don’t know! I don’t know! The gods— I don’t feel them anymore!’

Well, Erick thought, that would be because the gods you’re praying for don’t exist over there.

A double handful of people huddled behind the Censer, and near the alvani warrior, well past the edge of the mixing-of-realities effect, or whatever it was that was happening between this side and that side. The elf stayed closer, though. Elves weren’t removed from Veird by the Death of all Halves; they were removed from Veird because of systemic genocide against them.

The elf stood still, gauging what she was seeing. Erick’s mana senses now extended about that far, so she was probably sensing Erick just as much as he was sensing her. Her body was entirely made of mana, while her soul was thin, but growing stronger. A lot stronger, actually. She would soon meet the same fate as the alvani if Erick didn’t act soon, tho—

“What is wrong with your bodies?” the elf asked. “You’re made of nothings.”

Erick said, “We’re made of various forces that are present in this Cosmology, which are not present in your Cosmology.”

The priest, who huddled by the Censer with the alvani, called out, “Wizard Hewer is on his way! You better leave, or you face Destruction Itself!”

Fallopolis softly said, “I doubt it. The stabilized memory is only a cubic kilometer. Nothing will enter that space from the outside. If they come out on this side without being fully out of their fugue then you better be prepared for some raging shadelings, Erick. Or don’t let them come on this side too fast.”

Erick listened to Fallopolis, but he also watched the elf. Something very interesting was happening to her. As the woman listened to Fallopolis her soul magnified tenfold, that ephemeral thing that lay just below her skin and within the core of her body —for she was an accomplished mage, with a true core— turning from a mist to a thick cloud. By the time Fallopolis finished speaking, Erick now knew what he was looking at. He had seen the exact same thing happen to shadelings a thousand times, as they woke up from their shadow fugue.

Right on cue, the elf looked around, her eyes going wide as she blinked rapidly. And then she went hard, slowly stepping away from the gate as power flowed from her core to grab the smoke all around her, prayers falling from her lips, “What is this trickery—”

Fallopolis called out, “Girl! Take a look at your armor! Your skin. You’re in the Dark. You’re flaking away. As soon as you become fully cognizant, you will die if you retreat deeper in the Dark.”

The smoke elf paused, briefly eyeing her arms. And then she stopped and watched as a layer of silver armor flaked away from her gauntleted right arm like a scab floating away in the bath, revealing that her arms were already wounded with unfelt destruction pulling her apart.

“It’s a trick!” called the ring man. “Get away from there Shalia! Wizard Hewer is on his way!”

Fallopolis instantly said to Erick, “That’s not going to happen. That space is contained over there. Just as all their gods don’t exist over there, there is no Wizard Hewer capable of reaching that land.”

Shalia stilled. She stared at Erick, and then at Fallopolis, then back to Erick, calmly asking, “What is this?”

Erick said, “Your soul is developing far enough for you to see yourself and the world around you for what it is. With every passing moment, I can mana sense more of your world over there, and you can do the same for mine. No doubt you see that right under me is stone, but also nothing; the Dark is down there. It is the same on your side. I see about two meters of stone under your feet, and then it’s the Dark, roiling and shifting with memories and magic.” Erick said, “The light coming from those windows up there is false.” As Erick said those words, the cathedral darkened, the light of day fading beyond the windows. And now Darkness crept in, replacing the glass in the windows entirely. It spilled forth like slow tendrils. “And now your world is collapsing. Everything beyond what we have focused on is a memory. Despair if you wish, but know that there is hope. Come to this side and be reborn. And we want the Censer, too.”

Erick made sure they knew what he was really after. It might help to save them, or not. People were suspicious when you tried to help only them, but if you gave them a demand with that help, then they were more apt to believe your words, especially if you truly were after something else and only happened to meet them, in their time of need.

Shalia delayed, tensing—

The alvani man shouted, “He’s a demon, Shalia! Get away from him!”

Shalia stepped back and her silver armor suddenly frayed, blood spooling into the air, all becoming shadows.

A lot of questions occurred to Erick, as he watched the elf woman slowly disintegrate. Why was she falling apart, and not the ground, or the pews, or the walls or the ceiling? Why were the solid, dead things made of mana, surviving better than Shalia, with her soul? But the second he had that question, he answered himself. Shalia had a soul. The rest of the world over there did not… Maybe the Censer did? Erick wasn’t sure. The Censer seemed to be holding up fine—

Shalia’s right forearm broke into fragments of nothing, though her soul remained where it had been. That soul was the only thing holding her hand in position, though there was no flesh between it and the rest of her arm. Shalia stared at that fragmentation, her eyes hotly recognizing her mortality.

“I never meant for this transposition to cause pain or harm, but I can already see that’s where we’re headed.” Erick said. “Let me save you, Shalia. Let me pull you and all the others from this memory of the Dark.”

Shalia’s hand fell off. And then her knee began to disintegrate—

“Time’s up, Erick,” Solomon said, before he declared, “J, A, E, C; capture and rescue. D, B, stay and support.”

Jane, Abigail, Emily, and Candice all rushed forward, moving as an invasive unit. Beth and Debby went slightly slower. The girls moved at incredibly enhanced speeds, but Solomon’s aura moved faster. With lightning-rimmed light, Solomon sent power through the portal—

Erick briefly considered interrupting. He weighed the pros and cons of stopping this invasion, this violence. But Solomon was right. Erick understood what his brother was doing, so that he didn’t have to, so that he could remain the positive force, while Solomon did what was necessary. Erick was thankful for that, because he had been half a moment away from doing exactly what Solomon was doing.

—and Solomon’s power latched on to Shalia like a clutching fist of Benevolent Lightning. Solomon pulled, simultaneously crushing Shalia’s brief attempt at resistance and securing her soul within his lightning, for the woman disintegrated completely when she passed through the gate. All of the mana of her body vanished into the manasphere of the dungeon.

And then Solomon manually cast [True Resurrection], flashing Shalia back to life, into a physical body that was completely at home in this reality. He flashed a [Reincarnation] across her body next, taking several seconds to set her to rights, to take away her elvish body and give her a human one.

Fallopolis and Erick casually watched that happen.

And then Erick turned his full attentions back to the gate, to watch the girls' invasion.

People screamed. They tried fighting back.

The priest stood beside the Censer and called out words of power above the carved metal cauldron, but nothing happened. This distressed the priest almost as much as when Jane tackled the alvani warrior and tangled the disintegrating warrior up in webbing wrought from her hands. Jane threw the bundle of a person twenty meters, into Debby’s waiting power, who then handed it off to Solomon’s waiting aura, nearer the gate. Jane moved on to help Candice grab the priest behind the Censer. The four girls at the front moved fast, subduing and capturing, while the other two transported people out of the Darkening cathedral. Some got away, rushing forward into the Dark, unable to see the Dark ahead of them. Others shied away from the waterfalls of black coming out of the windows, only to fall into the girls’ webs.

Within two minutes there were 9 bundles of webs on this side of the gate, and Erick was resurrecting and reincarnating them right alongside Solomon.

By the time the girls came through with the last person, the land beyond was falling apart and all the rescued people had been made viable for life on this side of reality.

Some of them had been harder to bring back than others. The alvani warrior’s cocoon had completely collapsed by the time Beth shoved it through the gate; it held almost nothing, and only half of the man’s rapidly disintegrating soul. Erick had managed to bring that man back through some manually cast magics, transforming him into a normal human. Erick had needed to do that sort of transformation twice, for there had been another alvani within the Cathedral of Destruction aside from the ring warrior.

Before Erick knew it, all the girls except for one had come back through the gate.

“DEBBY!” Erick commanded, “Get your ass back here!”

Debby stared at the ceiling and at the Censer. She was wearing the Bracelet of Memory right now and she was seeing something on the other side that no one else could see. But at Erick’s voice, she obeyed. Debby raced through the gate, back into the slime dungeon.

The cathedral had been a land of white stone, filled with smoke from the Censer of Destruction. Now it was a land decayed by Dreams turning into Darkness. Stained glass windows had been replaced with portals to liquid black ooze that waterfalled into the cathedral like streams of absolute black honey that was also —somehow— alive and cloying.

The Censer remained untouched by all of that.

The timer above the gate remained at all 9s, but at Erick’s glance, the timer also showed all 0s. It rapidly showed 9s again, and then flickered in unknown symbols.

Erick knew what he needed to do, so he did it. He splashed his [Physical Domain] through the gate, bringing a Particle understanding to the other side, as he glanced at the [Stop]ed prayer sheets hanging beside him. In a flashing moment, Erick condensed what appeared to be an hour-long sermon into a quick, powerful poem,

“In cauldron’s embrace, destruction is grace

“Power and mercy, enveloping space

“Guided through pure faith, smokey aftermath

“With steadfast resolve, walk this righteous path.”

Erick’s words became an echo that vibrated along a corridor created by his power, aimed directly through the gate. Blackness splashed away from that corridor, and white light latched on to the Censer like a 10-meter wide tunnel bored through reality, to envelop the 7 meter wide artifact of power. The stone underneath the Censer fractured and broke. But the Censer remained, hovering.

All the cathedral fell to Darkness.

And the Censer flowed outward, toward Erick, to pass through the gate, its curled, white weave darkening, flashing solid as material appeared from Elsewhere, turning mana into real metal. Into black adamantium. The white stone under the Censer was unimportant, not a real part of the artifact, so that stone simply vanished, like spellwork breaking, mana returning to the manasphere.

Erick took hold of the Censer with his aura, holding up the artifact with his power, as he guided it to the side, to sit alone upon the rim of the dungeon. Erick let go of the artifact.

It sat there, black as adamantium—

And Erick felt a weakness creep into his very being. He had run another marathon, apparently, though he only felt it when it was over. He breathed hard, relaxing a little. After a moment, he stood tall. He turned around to the sleeping forms of the rescued people.

All of them were humans, resting under conjured blankets and atop conjured beds. All of them were probably not in the bodies they wanted to be in, but they were alive, and real, and somewhat comfortable, and that was what mattered. For now.

Erick informed the girls, since they might not know, “We’re not bringing back elves. It might cause Aloethag to abandon the orcols, and for the orcols to rage.”

Jane said, “We know.”

“But is that even really possible?” Emily asked, unconvinced.

Fallopolis answered, “Your father speaks of the eternal threat of elves returning, which is why everyone kills elves wherever they are found.” Fallopolis gestured to Shalia and the other elf that had been a part of the rescue; a man of red hair and red eyes. “You should kill both of them and sunder their souls if you wish to keep this threat from becoming as real as they have become. It is the only way to be sure.”

Erick seriously asked, “Is an elven soul too much?”

“Hard to say, Erick.” Fallopolis said, “I am merely giving you my professional suggestion, gifted in an attempt to preserve the stability of this world that you have built.”

