The alvani man said, “I felt a fraction of Vile from her, but there was so much…”

“Hard to say,” said the elf, completing the man’s thought.

The priest stared hard at the land in front of him, as people poked their heads into frame, far down the cathedral. The priest breathed, then said, “I think it was a demon.”

The alvani man shouted, “It wasn’t a demon! It was—”

Erick tuned them out, because Jane was talking.

Jane asked everyone, “Anyone else suddenly finding it fucking terrifying that we can understand them, but they’re speaking other languages? And that we didn’t even think about this with the others with that Purity fountain, who spoke some other language, too?”

Abigail, Beth, Candice, and Debby all tensed.

Emily, Poi, and Solomon, did not.

Poi said, “I’m already trying to understand what happened there. All I can tell right now is that Erick realized this half a minute ago, then I was next, and then Solomon, and now everyone else. There was a clarity of thought that was achieved, that had not been there before. I have no idea what it means.”

The priest and his two guards on the other side of the gate continued to argue about what they had seen. Nothing important had changed there.

Solomon gestured to the prayer sheets, frozen in time. “And those are legible. Wheatly. Come out now.”

Solomon’s staff flashed to fullness beside him, hovering gently, the white crystal at the top glowing softly, as the image of wheat fields held reflected on the silver surface. Words were also on that surface, carved deep and strong. Solomon was already reading the surface, and Erick was, too.

Solomon said, “Don’t see any words I recognize as words, except for the ones I put down myself; ‘Repent all sinners and be spared’.”

Erick didn’t see any words he recognized either, so he moved on to the sheet of paper. It was completely legible. He gestured at the paper, “That’s a prayer to Destruction Itself. No one will be saying those words out loud except me, maybe, in order to instantiate the Censer to this reality. And not right now.”

The argument beyond the gate was reaching a crescendo.

The priest shouted, “This is intolerable and unprofessional! Not only did you two see the anomaly but you let her go! I was the one who actually acted—”

Ring-man said, “And if you would have been calmer, she might have stuck around and we would have gotten answers.”

Smoke elf spoke, “Stop,” and the knee-high smoke rippled with her voice. The other two went silent, but not out of fear; but because they respected her. The smoke elf calmly said, “Might have simply been a fair folk. We can send a letter to Wizard Hewer, with our three accounts of what happened, and then we wait for him to show. In the meanwhile, we secure the area and increase the guards on the Censer, as we would do for any anomalous activity that happened around a Destruction.”

“Ughhh,” Erick and Solomon groaned at almost the same time.

Candice voiced, “That means that if we wait to steal it, it’s just going to get harder?”

“Probably,” Poi said.

“Would another Wizard even be real?” Jane asked.

“I wouldn’t risk it,” Poi said.

Solomon asked, “Chance speaking to them? Try to prevent them from doing anything drastic?”

Emily said, “Sounds to me like they have to actually call their Wizard. He can’t just appear like you can, dad. We might have a window of opportunity here that will close later.”

Emily was right, and everyone else knew it, too.

Erick thought for a moment.

He looked across a gulf of eternity and reality, from the present, to a memory of the deepest past that could be real under the right circumstances. There were many ways to create the ‘right circumstances’. There was that Name Finder artifact from Crystal Archmage Imara, from Greensoil. That red cube was good to use on people. Erick had used that small red cube upon the Riamites who wanted [Reincarnation]s. But before the Name Finder, there was the simple act of experiencing the Other and making it real through constant exposure. The Name Finder was a fast-ways to make that realization happen, but the normal method was the second one. From shadelings coming out of their fugue and realizing they were in a new body and life, to what was happening to Ophiel right now as his soul was gradually being made real…

The smoke elf’s words were grating to the priest and the ring-man’s sensibilities.

Their argument started up again.

Anyone watching the argument quickly found out that something like ‘a person appearing and then leaving without any traces’ did not happen in the Cathedral of Destruction. The smoke elf tried some old-school mana tracing, as one would use for anyone [Teleport]ing in the Old Cosmology, but her trace ended at the gate, and she had no idea what that meant. ‘It shouldn’t be possible!’ she said, more than once. All in all, they had very little methodology for dealing with what they were dealing with.

Some priest on the other side of the cathedral, watching all this happen with the others, had already calmly walked away, saying they would send the signal. No one seemed to be in a real rush, though.

There was time to talk about next steps.

Erick asked, “Beth? How was your mana sense on the other side? Cause mine ends about at the gate, or a little bit beyond.”

Everyone’s mana sense ended at the gate threshold.

Beth said, “It came back once I was through the gate, but it was wonky. Very short.”

All the other girls nodded at that. They had all experienced the land beyond the gate the other time, when it was focused on that Purity Fountain.

“Aura control?” Erick asked.

The girls all said variations of ‘not much’. Beth agreed that this situation here was like the situation before.

Jane said, “Control in the body was easy, but mostly I just attuned to the Dark as much as my slime form allowed, and tried to constrain the mana into my body.”

Candice said, “All that flesh-flaking was our mana destroying our impure body from within.”

“Expelling our particles, yeah,” Beth said. “It’s still the Dark over there.”

Erick nodded, and said, “Well let’s see if this works… and if it does, these people are probably going to awaken as real. So that’ll be fun.”

The group tensed, except for Poi—

As Erick stepped toward the gate and threaded his aura outward, forming a thin line of white glows. His aura reached the gate, and the strange surreality contained within. It was like dipping his toes into ice and knives, and not like either of those two things at all. ‘Pain’ was not the feeling here. More like Erick was touching something that was not meant to be touched.

His aura proceeded anyway, through the gate, flickering lightning—

“Something comes!” said the priest, rapidly backing up from the empty air, almost running back to the Censer. He stopped halfway there.

The warriors had other ideas. More violent ones. The smoke elf rolled smoke at Erick’s aura, disrupting his power all the way back to his side of the gate, while the ring-man’s angelic-powered ring whipped forward in some sort of attack. That ring vanished as it passed through the gate. And then the ring reappeared, slicing back through the space again, in the other direction, to return to the man’s hand.

The elf whispered, “An intangible [Gate].”

The ring man nodded, preparing himself for the worst.

Erick frowned. And then he manipulated his aura to form the words for ‘peace’, which would have been impossible because he didn’t know the words for ‘peace’ in whatever language they were speaking, but ‘peace’ was upon the prayer sheets that Beth had stolen. And so, Erick showed them ‘peace’, disregarding the fact that there was a large disconnect happening right here between how languages got in his head and how they had gotten on the other side, and how all of that worked.

… Mostly disregarding all of that.

The smoke elf almost attacked again, but her smoke pulled back at the last second when she saw the words ‘peace’.

She demanded, “You hear us?”

“… Uh.” Erick looked at the prayer song. “I can’t answer that question based on the information I have.” He looked to Poi.

Poi spoke, “I’m working on it.” His tendrils were through the gate. The people on the other side didn’t seem to sense them, either, which was some sort of miracle or something. “Okay. I’m getting it. What do you want to write?” Erick wanted to ask about how he was making his tendrils invisible, but— Poi answered, “I’m making them not able to see me, but they are on very high alert. I can’t reach the guys in the back, and they’re going to call in reinforcements soon. I'll give you 2 minutes.”

Erick told Poi, “Say ‘I can barely hear you. We’re in another realm.’ We’ll go from there.”

Poi supplied Erick with the words he was looking for, and Erick repeated those words in his aura display, just beyond the gate’s other side.

The warriors tensed as they read, turning solid in the face of an unknown threat—

Poi pulled back. “I got the full language. It’s called ‘Imperial’. They’re in the Endless Empire, in the Farundari Stretch of the Radiant Depths. Year 12,400 according to their calendar—”

“Why are you here? Who was that invader from before? That woman?” the smoke elf asked, her voice slightly louder than before.

Erick had a thought, Poi supplied his words before he even needed to ask, and Erick wrote out, “Your realm is dead. You have been subsumed by the Dark, as a memory. We’re here to rescue you and the Censer, but mostly the Censer. We are still working on how to do all of that, but those are our goals.”

Jane asked Poi, “Do they even have minds to read?”

Poi said, “I don’t know how it works either, Jane.”

Erick left the message there. The people on the other side instantly started debating amongst themselves.

There were suddenly other concerns for Erick, though.

Erick said to his family, “For some reason, as we talk with them, the barrier is getting thicker and deeper. But also thinner, paradoxically. There’s a bigger depth, but the thickness of punching through that depth is easier. Also: according to my All-Seeing Eye, their souls are brightening. I’m pretty sure I could [True Resurrection] all of them if they got close enough to the gate. So that’s one half of the translation problem solved but I still have no idea how to instantiate the Censer.”

“You’d have to [Reincarnation] both of them, too; not just [True Resurrection],” Solomon said. “Alvani cannot exist on this side. Elves are non-grata.”

Jane asked, “Are you really going to bring the people to life?”

Candice added, “They’re not real right now. We do not have to take on this security risk.”

Erick was starting to think Candice was the bloodthirsty one, but they all were like that. Candice just let it show more than the others, when she could.

“Yes we do have to take on this security risk,” Erick said, “Besides! Who else would know how the Censer functions best—”

The very second Erick announced his true intentions, something shifted in the very foundations of existence. The Dark surrounding the slime dungeon flexed. The black ocean roiled—

Fallopolis stepped out of the air, onto the grounds beside Erick’s family. The Shade of Civilization wore a masculine-cut black suit and she held her black kendrithyst crystal staff in her left hand. Her wild, curly white hair bobbed as she stepped forward heavily, her bright eyes happily shining white, as she said, “We are glad you are making the decision to rescue people from Dark Dreams, Erick. Please allow me to witness this event, and to help with the aftermath.”

The gate deepened as Fallopolis spoke.

A pathway became apparent.

On Erick’s side, nothing physically changed. Not really. But Erick’s aura control around the gate space got a whole lot easier, and a whole lot of shit simultaneously happened on the other side, for the elf and the alvani instantly backed up, taking hard stances. Erick wasn’t sure what they were seeing, for he wasn’t sure what he was seeing either.

Erick said to Fallopolis, “They’re going to Candlepoint if they—”

“Ho!” called the elf, “I hear you now!”

“We’re not going fucking anywhere!” roared the alvani.

The shadows of the past backed up, and started arguing again.

Erick put up a sound barrier, then asked Fallopolis, “Any idea how come we know the language?”

Fallopolis smiled a little, saying, “Tsk tsk, Erick. Making Wizardry and not fully understanding it? How ever will you cope with the mystery!”

“Don’t deflect,” Erick said, “This is serious. This is a memetic hazard. How do we know this language? How is Poi able to work Mind Magic on them at all?”

Fallopolis shaped right up, saying, “You separated this dungeon from the Script as much as you could, but the Script has some basic functionality with translations—”

“Well that’s one question answered,” Solomon said.

Fallopolis continued, “But not on this level that you’re working. I’m pretty sure the gate is somehow inherently full of Translation Magic. I have no idea why you haven't recognized this until now. I thought this was the point; translating things. But magic does cross the 10% divide quite often if you’re 90% there.” She turned toward the gate, saying, “All magic is about communication, too, so I’m not exactly sure why you’re that surprised. You not recognizing that you were working Translation Magic is peculiar, though.”

Erick touched the Lidless eyes hanging around his neck, beside his All-Seeing Eye. “Not very effective, eh?”

Debby pulled the Bracelet of Memory from her pocket and snapped it around her wrist. She winced, her eyes darting around for a moment before she settled.

Candice had the Crown of Self hanging from a loop on her belt, but now she put it on her head. She said, “Havuhohpwt oijqwe pjpati oqu.”

Everyone looked at her.

“The area Translation Magic isn’t working for you anymore,” Fallopolis said, somehow simultaneously in Imperial, and Ecks, the two strings of sounds coming out of her mouth like she was a dubbed actor and the audio techs had forgotten to remove the original soundtrack.

Candice shrugged. This was fine.

Poi said to Erick, “They’re artifacts and we’re in the Dark, Erick. Their effect would only ever be minimal… Though I only realized there was a translation effect after you did. So— Ah. Later.”

The guys on the other side had stopped arguing, so Poi went silent with his point.

The elf spoke up, and Erick released the sound barrier, “Can you prove you are the Dark?”

