“… Fuck.” Erick decided, “I’ll chance it.” He glanced toward the gate, and the riotous black colors of the land beyond. The timer above the gate was gone, having hit all 0s and then blinked away, and now the cathedral was gone, too. Erick hadn’t paid much attention to the final memories of that place, as they fell apart into nothing and Darkness. But now, Dream-like scenery once again flowed. “That’s enough for today.” He said to Fallopolis, “They’re all coming with me back to Candlepoint to the Wake Up House. I’ve got the resources there to bring them up to date, and so I’m going to do that.”

Fallopolis bowed a fraction, saying, “Then it will be as you say, Wizard Flatt.”

Poi interrupted, “We need to talk about all that just happened, but before that, we need the priest awake. We need him talking about the Censer in case there’s some unknown danger about having it just be here. Even if he doesn’t answer, he will mentally answer, and I will know if we’re in some sort of immediate danger.”

Erick turned to the priest on the floor, then said, “Understood. Wake him up.”

Poi flickered with a few new tendrils of thought and tickled the mind of the priest, undoing the [Sleep] he had done earlier. Because of their recent Rule changes regarding the Script, Poi didn’t have access to mana from the Script, but since he was connected to the dungeon, as a dungeon master, he had access to dungeon mana. That was more than enough for him to cast all his magic he needed to cast.

Everyone else had cores that contained the mana that they naturally produced, based on the sizes of those cores. There was minimal Script interference in this place, but they were still connected to the Script; the Script still stole their natural mana regeneration. Therefore, waking these people now probably wasn’t too much of a danger.

They should have 0 mana, or near enough to 0 mana.

As the priest woke up, Erick saw him reach for the part of himself that could contain and control mana, but instead of grabbing for a source of power within his soul and body, all he touched upon was intangible nothing.

A certain sort of tension escaped Erick in that moment.

The capture of the Censer and its people was nearly done, and nothing had gone too wrong.

The man panicked as he looked around and saw the sleeping forms of his friends and coworkers, or however it was for their working relationships. He saw Poi, a dragonkin of an odd sort. He saw Erick, Solomon, and the girls, and was afraid. And then he saw Fallopolis, and hope kindled in his heart.

“Dearest Shade of Darkness! I beseech you for salvation in this Trial of the Dark!” He was on his knees, angled toward Fallopolis, as he said, “Tell me true if what I see before me is real, or a demonic threat. Tell me the nature of my Trial.”

Fallopolis tried not to grin at being instantly thought of so positively. Something like that didn’t happen all that often. Possibly never, considering how Shades had been received on Veird for more than 1400 years. Fallopolis easily adopted her elderly-grandmother persona as she kindly, softly, told the man, “Your Trial is just beginning, but take heart, all the demons as you know of them have been dead for a long, long time.” She gave the floor to Erick, saying, “And this man is perhaps the greatest Wizard you will ever meet. A true source of good, this one.”

Erick didn’t wait for the man to fully process that. He said, “You’ve been rescued from the Dreams of the Dark, and given a new life here on this lifeboat of a planet known as Veird. We’ll get to what all of that means later, but for now—” Erick gestured at the black cauldron that was the Censer of Destruction. The priest stared at it for a hard moment, uncomprehending, then he realized what he was looking at. “—I believe I have successfully stolen the Censer of Destruction from that memory. It doesn’t look as it once looked, and the reasons for that are beyond the scope of this conversation. But, even now, looking upon it with my mana sense, I can tell my theft worked. Never mind the color; it’s still adamantium. Is there a danger with the Censer that I need to know before I hand it over to the local gods?”

The man collected himself fast… And then his eyes flickered to Fallopolis, and then the girls, and then Solomon, before landing on the Censer and then up to Erick. His face turned harsh. He spat, “You’re no Wizard! And that’s no Shade! You’re an impostor and this is all some sort of Fae trick—”

Poi knocked him out, tendrils of thought invading the guy’s mind while other tendrils turned solid enough to gently lower the priest back to his bedroll. “The Censer needs to burn something or else it burns the world around it. It appears to be burning the manasphere right now, though, so I suspect it’s fine for transport into other hands.”

Erick asked, “It only burns what’s left inside of it for a while, right?”

“Yes; confirmed as much as I can confirm.” Poi said, “It’s just about the best, controlled Destruction sort of artifact out there. Or at least it’s the one the Dark and the Well were willing to show us.” Poi said, “I’ll meet you at the Wake Up House, Erick.”

Erick nodded, and then said, “So? Preliminary plans? What are you girls going to do?”

There was time again to relax a little, but Erick wouldn’t feel truly secure until he got this thing into proper hands, and then had some proper downtime afterward.

Plans were set, people decided to go or stay, and while that was happening, Erick delivered the Censer to Rozeta, who waited above the dungeon, looking happy in her white wrought form. She was not the only happy wrought in the forest clearing.

Tasar the Summoner, the green-black human-woman-shaped wrought archmage, who had accompanied Kiri on her Worldly Path for the first half of it, and who was Erick’s friend, also stood ready to take the Censer. She smiled as she touched the black artifact, saying, “Congratulations on the Paradoxing, Erick. We have thousands of old things that are too dangerous to attempt to destroy ourselves. This… This will do a lot. It will free up a lot of resources, mostly in the form of guards ever-guarding locations or things.”

Erick smiled a little. “Glad to help.”

He almost mentioned Tasar’s lack of [Familiar], saying that now maybe she’d have time to actually commit to one. But that would be tactless, and she was probably on the Worldly Path right now, so she wouldn’t want to make a [Familiar] before she was done with that; a [Reincarnation] to Benevolence and assistance with making her first Gate Node would erase any [Familiar] she had brewing.

Rozeta chuckled a little, stepping forward, saying, “Congratulations, Erick. And thank you. It was a question whether you could do it or not, but of course you could.”

Erick felt a certain tension unwind a little bit more.

“It was kinda iffy here and there, but it worked out, and we’ll be working out the kinks soon enough. If you have specific items you wish collected, we might be able to find them, but we’ve only had luck locating big events, or important items. This particular artifact had nine tag-alongs, so that’s a complication I didn’t foresee happening, and which we’re dealing with. I’m taking them to the Wake Up House as soon as we’re done here.”

Tasar simply nodded.

Rozeta said, “I’m sure you’ll do right by them. But anyway! You should find the Enchanter’s Guile, if you can, like Atunir suggested. It is perhaps one of the best ones you can take right now, for it will allow you easier Wizardry.”

“Sure.” Erick nodded. And then he moved on, “I do have a question about language and how come we were all able to understand Imperial before we knew we were actually speaking Imperial.”

Rozeta paused, her brow furrowing. “Ah…” She thought. She relaxed, and said, “Your Wizardry with the Gate is a Wizardry of communication. So I would guess the language-understanding-capability was simply an emergent action of your Wizardry, and the Dark… I see you had questions about the Grand Translation, too?”

“I did.”

“That magic still exists, but not nearly as strong as it once was… And that’s about all I can say on that in such an unsecured location.”

Erick smiled a little. “That’s sort of what Fallopolis said already, but it’s good to hear it from another source.”

After a few smaller comments back and forth, Rozeta opened some [Gate]s of her own, to guide Tasar and the Censer along to where the artifact of Elemental Destruction needed to be.

When Erick came back into the dungeon, it was to see Poi have some quiet, angry words with Debby about taking the Bracelet into the Dark. She was lucky that it retained functionality even in its brief foray past the gate. The Bracelet was off her wrist right now and sitting on the kitchen table with the other Mind Magic artifacts.

Erick said, “I just want to know why you paused coming back home, Debby; why you lingered that long past the gate.”

Debby looked admonished, as she said, “I don’t know what happened. I took off the Bracelet already and my memory fragmented, as it always does. This time seemed worse.”

Poi said, “I don’t think you should wear the Bracelet anymore, Debby. It is an extremely strong Mind Magic artifact, with unknown side effects.”

Debby almost argued with him. But she did not. She simply said, “Okay.” Then she looked to Erick, asking, “We going to the Wake Up House, now?”

“Do you want to come? I thought only Emily was coming with me?” Erick looked around. “… But she’s back at the hotel in the city?”

The only people in the house right now were Erick, Solomon, Poi, and Debby. Jane and Abigail were out with the sleeping people, watching over them where Erick had left them, talking to Fallopolis about what had happened with the infiltration and all that. Beth, Candice, and Emily were all back in the city, going over plans for the next operation.

… Well they were all moving faster than Erick was comfortable with. What ever happened to taking a break after a big win?

This was a big win, right?

Solomon said, “Emily is going through some oddness right now. I think the next time she actually talks to any of us in a big way she’s going to be male.”

Debby gasped a little. “Oh my gods. She is?” She corrected herself, “He is?”

Solomon looked sheepish for a moment as both Poi and Erick Looked at him. And then Solomon blurted out, “How have you not noticed yet, Debby? And it’s ‘she’ until otherwise said.”

“… I have been figuring out my own shit,” Debby said. And then she strongly added, “Anyway! I want to see the Wake Up House and be there when all these people wake up. Emily said that she wanted to stick around here; she told me to tell you that.”

Solomon nodded. “Next time she’s around you and only you, expect a talk, Erick.”

“Heard and Understood. I’ll be sure to make that sort of situation happen a few times.” Erick took a moment to just stand around, enjoying the win. Then Erick moved on, “Let’s get going.”
