Show Wondrous Items. He thought. Maybe there's something there that can help, too.

Wondrous Item Recipes:

Amulet of the Spider  Amulet of Truth

Boots of Striding and Leaping  Bracelet of Friendship

Brooch of Shielding  Hand of Glory

Horseshoes of Speed  Instant Tower

Revealing Light

No, nothing there. Ren thought. Show Staff and Rod recipes.

Staff Recipes:  Rod Recipes:

Staff of Earth  Rod of Cancellation

Staff of Healing  Rod of Command

Staff of Ice  Rod of Displacement

Staff of Lightning  Immovable Rod

Staff of Size Manipulation

Staff of Water

Staff of Woodlands

Ha! Staff of Earth. Ren thought and took out the staff. The Sabertooth Rock Golem had made enough room for itself to turn around, and it pounced onto the phantom steed. Ren used the staff's Move Earth spell to backfill his own tunnel in front of himself, then used the Pass Wall spell to make a new tunnel towards the surface and he deactivated Serene State of Mind.

I think watching everything in slow motion all the time would drive me nuts. Ren thought and walked at a fast pace.

*

While Ren was on his adventure underground, a lot of Janice's neighbors had wished her well when she visited them. She was a bit surprised when a few of them just shrugged their shoulders, said goodbye, and closed the door on her. One man got mad that she was abandoning the settlement to go live in the big city, and Janice suspected that he really liked her and didn't want her to go.

When Janice explained she was actually going to a rural county several hours outside of any city's limits, the man didn't have any basis for his argument. She hugged him briefly to say goodbye, and saw the sadness in his eyes when she let go. She thought about offering to let the man visit; but, she was pretty sure that she didn't really want him to. If they'd lived so close together for this long and they hadn't gotten together already, then the chances that they would after she left were pretty slim. Plus, if he really wanted to be with her, he'd come to visit on his own without having to be invited.

Janice finished her goodbyes and looked around, and didn't see Ren anywhere. She started to panic a little, because he had her house and most of her things in his inventory. She started to search for him, but couldn't find any trace of him anywhere.

“Are you looking for that young guy that was with you?” The woman that was her old neighbor asked when Janice went back to her empty lot in the faint hope that Ren would be there.

“Yeah!” Janice said. “Where is he?”

“Down in a hole he dug in the fire pit.” She said and shook her head. “I swear he must be part gopher or something! I've never seen dirt fly out of a hole like that before!”

Janice thanked the woman and went down the closest set of stairs into the fire pit, then walked over to the hole with mounds of dirt around it. She put her head over the dark hole, cupped her hands around her mouth, and hollered.

“REN! Are you down there?”

The Sabertooth Rock Golem had just finished slaughtering the phantom steed when it heard Janice's slightly panicked voice. It growled loudly, dug it's claws into the dirt walls of the hole, then started to run up to the surface.

*

Ren quickly made the tunnel up to the surface and ended it about 20 feet away from the original hole he made and walked out of it

“AHHHH!!!” Janice yelled and fell back from the hole as the Sabertooth Rock Golem burst out from the opening and into the air. Ren ran over to her and dove to take her into a hug; then pulled her out of the way of the creature just as it landed right where Janice had been.

“REN!” Janice screamed. “WHAT IS IT?!?”

“Rock golem.” Ren said and concentrated on his Command Aura as he slipped an amulet over her neck. It was enchanted with Warding runes to give her a 100% chance to hide from view. “Be quiet.” He commanded her and rolled away as the amulet took effect. Janice disappeared from sight and it left Ren as the only thing the creature could see in the large crater. It growled loudly as it turned to look at him.

“That's right.” Ren said and walked farther away from where he'd left Janice. “Your fight is with me.” He said, stopped walking, and touched the Staff of Earth to the ground.

The Sabertooth Rock Golem lifted it's head to the sky and roared. It hunkered down to see if Ren was going to attack it from a distance. When he didn't, it huffed it's derision and prowled to the perfect attack angle. When it reached it's chosen spot, it ran and then leaped into the air to squash it's prey.
