nother hour before it’s right. You can run errands for me,” Mila said and Ruli stared at her.“Excuse me? I am not your Bronze-1 errand girl eager for some coppers and bottles of sink water for a reward,” Ruli stood to leave.“Shame, I was gonna throw in dessert and a bottle of my 55-year-old Ogre whiskey, oddly the same Ogres that might have been clubbed that I mentioned before.” Mila’s voice froze Ruli’s leg and she tried to overpower the temptation.“Having to bribe your own daughter is pretty bad on your parenting,” Ruli said between clenched teeth. Mila snorted.“Bribing your kids is parenting 101. It was taking you out hunting Gold-rank beasts that was the bad-parenting part,” her mother said dryly.If you stumble upon this narrative on Amazon, it's taken without the author's consent. Report it.“I actually liked that bit,” Ruli said but turned back to her mother who had a list of requests.“Elder duties go on despite rain, snow, and recently, falling spider parts,” Mila smirked. Ruli glared at the mundane tasks.“Elders go on despite age, time, and reason,” she muttered.The first task was simple.Collect 5 yellow flowers with blue leaves then deliver them to Mr. Dabberghast.“This is demeaning,” Ruli informed her mother.“This is having a mother and a sweet tooth,” came the curt reply.Ruli really couldn’t argue with that.“Dad would have let me kill ten-foot demon eating plants for their sap,” she tried, going for the oldest weapon in her arsenal.“Your father would have had an army following you and warned the plants that if they harmed you, he’d make them into chairs and give them to glutton demons for stress testing. Now go,” her mother waved a spoon at her.Ruli’s expression was sour and she left the cottage.She made it to the road that led to the heart of Durence. Between being imprisoned by Mr. Jones and beating up the army in the Dungeon, Ruli hadn’t really taken a look at her home.Her red eyes traced patches of flowers that were springing up, the sounds of songbirds seemed distant but faintly coming closer. The air smelled clean and for the first time in ages, the weather wasn’t mundane pleasant but looked like it might actually rain.Dungeon Mana was invasive and depending on what Dungeon you lived nearby… different things would happen.Delta had made things come to life like before, but there was something just a little different. Ruli couldn’t quite put a finger on it.A bee the size of an apple wandered nearby and gathered some pollen before floating off with a merry buzz.Ruli gave it a long look.“Dungeons were supposed to make monsters appear nearby or horrible mutants. Delta just made happy bees,” she snorted. Still, she might need to warn Quiss that things might get a bit weirder.She kept an eye out, and after ten minutes in a field she found the flower she was looking for. Ruli was sure it was the right flower but it seemed to be double the size of the average kind. Ruli decided, in that case, she should only have to gather half the amount then.She whistled as Magma easily removed the plant.After this, Ruli had to go collect ten crabs from the river and then fetch sturdy branches for no reason that Ruli could see.It was sad that Bronze rank folks lived for this kind of work.She looked up to see someone heading towards Delta’s place with an apron and a defeated posture.Wait until they saw the bar, that’d cheer them up.---“Excuse me, I need to do a shift here. Please… don’t… be angry!” Shy-Nina asked the webs from about five feet away from the room entrance.The webs parted like curtains and Nina dashed through, covering her head as she ran into a wall in her haste. She bounced back and stumbled through the actual door.The spider court all shared a look as the one holding the trip wire down slowly climbed back up.“T-thank you,” Shy-Nina said faintly as she walked on, staggering from the blow.Queen Dreamweaver the 3rd decreed that extra webbing would be used to soften the wall in the future.There was the customary vote dance where they all agreed and then the celebration dance for passing the vote.Shy-Nina didn’t see this as she took a small seat in the pond room.“Owie…” she held the bump on her head.“Why couldn’t Lazy-Nina go - or Paranoid-Nina? Why me?” She sniffed. Gruff-Nina told her why: Because out of the Ninas to form, she was the least likely to cause more trouble for Miss Fera.There was something black in front of her and she pulled her legs up on the rock as a duck stared up at her.Shy-Nina didn’t have great memory and so the original trip down was a little hazy after the Great-Split in the bar. Had they met this thing before?“Shoo! Please don’t bite me. I don’t have bread,” Shy-Nina whispered. The duck gave her a long piercing look. Nina retreated into her safe ball a bit more, face almost hidden behind her knees. It quacked once and waddled off before turning back to stare at her. Shy-Nina had a feeling it was waiting for her.Shy-Nina wasn’t sure she should follow a random duck-“Quack!” the duck said firmly and Shy-Nina shrieked and jogged to catch up.“I’m sorry!” She bowed her head and the duck walked off and lead her down the hallway away from the mudpit.The duck lead her into a room with many shelves. It looked like a dead end and Shy-Nina gave the odd snoozing mouse inside a bowl of jelly a long look. That mouse gave her a bad vibe.The duck approached the back wall that opened on its own accord. The air flowing out of this dark space was hot and made her senses grow a bit hazy.She wandered in as the duck turned once more and the red eyes had gone… a little softer.“Quack…” the duck assured her.Shy-Nina had gone mad and her madness was a duck in a dungeon.Well, after the clam monster (which all Ninas remembered quite clearly) how bad could this tunnel be?She walked for some time and odd mist began to curl around her feet. The heat seemed to seep into her body and she soon stood before a stone building of some sort.“I dare say that today is a good day to be you. You come, my little maiden, to see the fabulous rising star in action. Come closer and see a debut like no other!” a man seemed to call from the top.Nina could handle this. It wasn’t so bad.She took a step forward, sleeves covering her face as she neared a stranger. He took a few steps down and he seemed to have thick vines attached to him… or roots?The mist thinned as he walked down with a cane in hand. Shy-Nina’s body went rigid as the eye bounced between eyeholes. The odd hat she thought he wore was a part of his head. Then the rip in his face opened with dancing needle legs.Shy-Nina fell back and landed hard on her rear as she stared, eyes wide as her mind turned itself off to protect itself.“Star struck, I can hardly blame you! Welcome to the number one dungeon in the land. I shall be your man of the hour, Monsieur Maestro,” the thing bowed and Shy-Nina turned and saw the duck was gone.“Ple…plee…” she stumbled, on the verge of tears. The monster leaned down and it looked demonic in its nature. It went for her and Shy-Nina prayed it be quick.She felt something light pressed into her hands. She looked down at it.It was a bizarre piece of pottery with the words ‘I met Maestro’ stamped on the side in an elegant penmanship.“You need not beg or look so happy with tears, of course you can have my autograph!” The being said cheerfully and pulled her to her feet.“My brother made the pot, I have yet to ask for paper and ink from Mother, but she is ever so busy sometimes,” the creature nodded. It spoke and those needle lips clicked and twanged with music notes as if some insect was conducting from inside.Shy-Nina forced a question out.“Need… work… Fera?” She gasped out. Maybe if she said she was under Fera’s protection, she would be safe? The man pressed her forward and the strength was strong enough that she was actually lifted off the ground, almost gliding across the ground.“Ah yes, that lovely lass did mention hiring an outsider. Very juicy gossip. We’re all so excited!” The thing… Maestro said and leaned down. Shy-Nina nearly broke into tears at being so near to his face.“Mother will take care of you, she is very fond of people and if anyone gives you hassle you tell Maestro here and I will bring down the wrath of the likes never seen or heard before! Or I shall tell my brother and stand smugly at the side as he lectures them,” he said airily.Shy-Nina felt like crushing her body would be so easy for Maestro and his mist… it seemed to come from his body like an aura and it made things hazy in Shy-Nina’s head.“For your first shift, I shall dedicate the music for tonight to your effort! What blues sing to you? What pop makes you bob? Tell Maestro the Wonderful, what music sings to your soul?” He pressed and had her in a one-armed hug.It was so sudden of a question, Shy-Nina just answered it.“I like Orchestra,” she said and covered her mouth in horror. The demon man’s face broke into something that had to be a smile.That smile was going to be in Shy-Nina’s nightmares for many days to come.---“She’ll be fine. Maestro is not so bad once you stop looking at him head on,” Delta promised Renny. The Mime gave her that black smile that tore open his face.“Yeah sorry, after Maestro, you’re downright handsome,” she said dryly. Renny dropped the grin in a huff but he gestured curiously at the circus before them.“I’m taking the day off from battling the forces of evil and unspeakable horror to decorate,” she explained.She opened her menu and browsed the options.“I’ll share what I can do and see if we can make it closer to your home,” she offered and the Mime looked away for a moment at the statue of his father before he nodded.

Delta read these out and Renny gave her a long look. His features didn’t move but he held up a finger then no more.“First option or one at a time so we can see how it goes?” she inquired. Renny motioned to the second option. Delta grinned, eager to see how this would turn out.Dungeons could have deadly traps or godly monsters. Delta had a circus and thus, she won by default.She purchased the skeleton crew.There was a slight rumble and Delta looked around to see if she could see monsters forming or more likely, the skeletons would be considered critters, not true monsters. Then as if in unison, ten boney hands broke through the ground.Renny walked over, hands splayed, as if commanding them to rise. Nearby, Maestro’s mushrooms began to tremble with a tune.“Oh my God,” she whispered as the skeletons rose in various dirty articles of clown dress or loose leotards. They stood in a rough triangle formation and Renny flexed his fingers, like casting a fishing line. Each of the boned creatures began to stomp forward in time.“Renny… the circus is supposed to make people happy and delighted… not have nightmares,” she cried as Renny marched his warriors forward, their firm movements in time with the beat. Renny waggled his finger.“The mime is right. The circus is supposed to be unforgettable!” Maestro laughed with delight.“What kind of people want to visit a circus of the dancing damned?!” She demanded aloud.---Von frowned as he recounted the coins. The Vampire banker was not happy. People coming to the town meant the easy job of counting money that never changed was now becoming a pain. He might need to make a ghoul for this soon.All this Mana in the air was making him peckish but he had made an agreement with Mila. Von was good but Mila was… well…Von didn’t like the word ‘fear’, it didn’t quite explain things.‘Admired cautiously’ would be better suited. Still, a man had needs. Before when Mana was low, his powers barely needed food. Now? He was itchy.He could fly to the capital and grab food but those knights were so bothersome. He tapped a finger on his chin. Durence was off limits. The capital was annoying. Von needed more than one’s average blood. The problem of being old enough to have been around before some mountains was that his body tended to need a bit more spice in his meals.He opened a drawer and pulled out a contact book with addresses and dates.“Regal… oh he was beheaded a few years back. Never understood why he loved cows. Lily vanished into the ocean after climate change, that she didn’t believe in, eroded her cliff, good riddance,” Von turned the page.“Edmund is creepy and stalks teenage girls. Reported him ages ago. Roger would help but I don’t think I know where he is. Desiree was staked on her own dancer’s pole. Hamish got lost in a castle and then it collapsed. Morian went on vacation in the Abyss, lucky woman. Jolene was killed after she took someone’s man. I swear vampires are a dying breed,” he sighed.He paused at a name.“Sarah… now there’s a pity case I haven’t thought of in years. I wonder if she ever got those mirrors working. Her castle would be beyond the capital and in the woods. Well, it's either her or crazy vegan Victor. I don’t know how he turns trees into ghouls and I want no part of it,” he slammed the book shut.Mr. Von got his hat, his coat, and his apprentice he had trapped in the basement to fight some rats.“Master, they’re bigger than horses!” She screamed from below. He merely looked down at her.“I still hear chittering. Kill at least two more and I’ll let you out,” he said kindly. He then went to make some calls.---
