She and I shared a glance, and we smiled.

Thatcher eyed me down.

"He looks that way because Angela made that one mistake of finding a mutt she liked. Now look what she made - a common cur."

I remained cold and impassive.

"Is that how you see me?"

Thatcher frowned.

"I look at you as the shame of the family. Your father stole my rose, the most beautiful part of my life."

His wife, Betty, frowned when he said that. Thatcher raised a fist at me.

"And you're the reason she stayed. You should be ashamed of all you've done to destroy our family."

I raised a brow.

"Should I?"

The snarling dogs got closer to me. Thatcher took a deep breath before aiming his frown at me.

"You know Angela was ashamed of it, too? She wanted to come back, but she wanted you to have a normal childhood. We can see how that worked out for her."

I steepled my hands, not an ounce of fear in me as one of the dogs got within biting distance. I met his eye.

"You talk a lot about breeds. From what I've gathered, you consider yourself of better blood. Why?"

Thatcher furrowed his brow.

"That much is obvious. Our family has owned land for generations. We've built an empire of ranches across Colorado, and we've never lived without for centuries."

I rolled my fingertips.

"And where are those ranches now? What about that empire?"

Thatcher leaned back.

"We've been regrouping after the system arrived. And besides that, we can't be expected to recover all of the lands we lost either. It's monster country now."

I stared him down.

"If you lack your pre-system lands, why do you still have your pre-system pride?"

The pit bull snarled at me, its eyes crazed and its mouth frothing. Thatcher walked up.

"Not yet, Bullet. Later."

Thatcher petted one of his dogs.

"All these questions are rich coming from some petty bodyguard for some bimbo. If you're not already aware-"

I raised a hand.

"Althea Tolstoy helps orphaned children and educates the masses in her free time. You feed dogs raw eldritch meat to deform them into monsters. Who would you judge as better by the content of their character?"

His pitbull growled. Thatcher leaned over me.

"All these damn questions. You'd think we were in the middle of an exam. How about I remind you that this post-system world isn't ruled by words?"

I smiled.

"What is it ruled by?"

"It's conquered through real power."

I peered at the dog. It quit growling as I said.

"Real power. It's an elusive thing."

I gazed up at him, my minds all gazing from within.

"Funnily enough, you're one of the few enemies I have where I can demonstrate exactly what real power is. Palpably so, in fact."

The dogs whimpered. A bead of sweat dripped down the back of Thatcher's neck. He twitched.

"Bullet. Sick him."

Bullet peered between us before I smiled at the dog. I reached out a hand, and Bullet let me pet him. I rubbed its head, and its tail wagged. I leaned close to it.

"Who's a good boy? Don't worry. I'm not letting you guys stay here."

Thatcher snarled.

"Excuse me?"

I gazed up at him.

"Have you ever tried inspecting my status? And besides that, how long can you even keep these dogs tame as they are?"

Thatcher looked down at Bullet.

"You're hiding it with magic or something. As for the dogs, it doesn't matter. I can keep them tame as long as I want."

I tapped the table.

"That's a lie. I can feel the other dogs below us. Some are in concrete cages, and they're scrambling about like feral animals. It's an odd thing. You're so concerned with mange, yet you seem to treat your animals like tools. It's a terrible thing, but what else can we expect?"

The pit bulls whimpered as I stood up. Thatcher looked down at them and snapped his words.

"What's wrong with you two? What in the hell is going on?"

I turned to Neel. My grandfather struggled to meet my eye. I frowned.

"Neel. I'm sorry for how I've been treating you. This was a good reminder of the kind of person I'd rather not be, so thank you for coming here with me. I know it's been hard for you, but you should know it's been eye-opening for me. I owe you one."

Neel blinked, his eyes watering.

"O-of course, son...Anytime, anytime."

I turned to Thatcher. I stood a head and a half shorter, yet I loomed over him like a mountain. I interlocked my hands behind myself.

"I'd like to thank you for giving me a lot to think about. I'll be leaving after taking the dogs and learning where Jacob is."

Betty snapped.

"Not everything in the world revolves around-"

I turned to her. My eyes quieted her voice. Fear spread over her face, and tension passed over the room. I said nothing, and yet they felt the weight of their situation change at that moment. Only Thatcher remained somewhat composed. He snapped.

"I never let your mother forget the shame she brought on us. The shame she should've lived in every day. I'm not going to let you forget it either."

As he said that, I blinked. A memory flashed through my eyes. I finally remembered why Deryll had backhanded me. He was talking down to my Mom about this same vitriol. Shame upon your family. Bitterness in your heart. All of it. My Mom kept apologizing and staring down, but Deryll kept berating her.

She tried to leave, but Deryll stepped in her way. When tears started falling down her cheeks, I got tired of watching. I had stepped over and told him to, and I quote, 'Leave my mom alone, crusty old dude.' I was five years old, and I felt like Superman when I stepped to protect her.

He backhanded me hard enough to send me off my feet.

The loud crack. A flash of white. Immediate, burning pain across my cheek. I remember flying through the air and never closing my eyes. Despite the heft behind his strike, he never knocked me out. I scrambled to my feet as his jewel clattered onto the ground. Deryll grabbed his hand, wincing in pain.

"You can't hurt me."

I spoke the words with wet eyes. Wobbly. Fearful. It was the obvious fake courage of a child too afraid to move and too dumb to step down. Instead of rushing to me, my Mom hurried to him to check on his hand. I remember gawking at them, and I watched her pick up the jewel and hand it to my enemy. To her enemy.

And she apologized for what I said and for what I had done.

That humiliation was a dark ichor in my mind. The pride that had gotten me to my feet was swept out from under me, and a liquid rage poured out to replace the pride like blood out of an open wound. Hatred for her, Deryll, and the pain in my cheek spawned in my chest. I remembered spreading my arms and shouting about how it was unfair, about how he had hit me.

She walked over, grabbed my cheeks, and mouthed.

"You should be ashamed of yourself. Shut. Up."

I blinked, remembering where I was. Thatcher collapsed onto the ground, and the others were rendered unconscious. Althea already phased out of reality and back in beside me. She wrapped her arms around me.

"Are you ok?"

I smiled back at her.

"I, I'm...No. I'm not. I need a minute."

I retracted Event Horizon, the crushing aura no longer suffocating all present. Neel took a deep breath, as did Thatcher. Betty trembled in the back, and Margret sat still, the most composed of the bunch. Thatcher hobbled upright and stepped up to me to grab my shoulder and stop me from leaving.

I turned to him. I pressed down onto his core.

"Are you sure that's a road you want to walk down?"

I frowned.

"Because there's no path back, friend."

Thatcher didn't answer as he struggled to breathe. In the back, Deryll struggled upright. He rubbed his head.

"Am I...Am I hungover?"

I flicked at him, and a telekinetic wave pummeled his chest. He slammed against the wall, and cracks spread across the stone. Bones broke in his chest, and I frowned.

"That's payback with a little interest."

I walked out of the room, and Althea hugged my arm as I did. We left the room in silence. Neel took a breath.

"You know, you're mighty lucky my grandson chose to be the bigger man today. He's known in the Northeast as the Harbinger of Cataclysm, and he's killed gods before. He could've evaporated you in a second."

Thatcher trembled. Neel walked up to him and whispered.

"That's fear, boy. I'd listen to it if I were you."

Neel stepped in front of Thatcher.

"And I also wanted to say this. My grandson is the bigger man in these kinds of situations."

Neel kicked Thatcher in the balls hard enough for a pop to echo across the room. Thatcher hit the ceiling before falling down and busting their table. Neel smirked at Thatcher's writhing form. Neel seethed.

"But I ain't. I'm a small, petty, and shameless little man, and my life was built on moments of victory like this. Suck on these nuts."

He walked over to Betty and grabbed a bottle of unopened wine. He sliced the bottom of the bottle with a dagger, tossed the cut glass aside, and dumped the wine onto her face. Betty guffawed before Neel grabbed Margaret's hand. Neel smiled.

"I know we didn't say much, but it was great to see you again, Margret."

Margret coughed into her other hand.

"Likewise, Neel."

Outside, I sat down on a walkway. I grew back to a more recognizable form, and the clothes ripped into rags. Neel jogged up to me. I raised a hand.

"Sorry about the clothes."

Neel waved me off.

"Don't mind that. What happened there? You were giving him what for until something changed."

I peered at a breathtaking view.

"I remembered a part of who my mom was."

Althea murmured.

"It must've been sweet then."

I blinked as my throat burned.

"That's the problem. It wasn't."
