I met her eye.

"I don't want to terrorize them when we meet. I feel like if I did, I'd lose this opportunity to confront my past."

They nodded, not needing another reason. We walked to the front entrance before Neel knocked on the door. After a minute of waiting, a large, burly man opened the door. Instantly, I got flashbacks as I saw his hand. The guy still wore his graduation ring and the same shit-eating grin.

"My name is Deryll Hillside. Who might you three be?"

Chapter Begin

I peered at Deryll, but I kept my aura and demeanor as lanky and forgettable as I could. His eyes turned over each of us, and he looked at Althea with a gaze that sparked anger in my chest. Neel spread his arms.

"Come on, Deryll. You don't recognize me?"

As recognition spread over Deryll's face, so did disgust.

"Huh? You're...Oh. You're Jacob's grandfather."

Neel frowned.

"I'm his father. I'm Daniel's grandfather."

Deryll sighed.

"It doesn't make much of a difference, now does it?"

Neel bit his tongue.

"I suppose not. Anyways, we're here-"

Deryll raised a hand while looking at us. His eyes lingered over Althea.

"Let's talk inside. There's no reason to leave you all out in the cold."

We walked inside before he put a hand on my chest. Deryll leaned over me, his height and physical stature imposing.

"You look familiar. Who are you?"

Althea leaned onto me.

"He's my bodyguard. His name is Nathaniel."

Deryll raised his brow.

"It's good to meet you, though I'll say you're a bit short for a bodyguard. She might need someone a bit bigger than she is to help when situations get tight."

I smiled.

"I know my way around a battlefield."

Deryll nodded.

"Yup. Scars all over you. You run in a lot, I'd guess?"

I shrugged.

"More or less."

He scoffed.

"I didn't take you for someone too bright. That explains the job."

They were petty jabs from an even pettier man, and I wasn't about to miss out on a legendary compendium to entertain the slights. I peered at the inner sanctum.

"It pays the bills. What can I say?"

We walked in, and I had to admit, I was wrong about the castle thing. Though not as grand as a castle on the outside, the inner rooms oozed opulence, and the museum aspect wasn't wasted when this place transitioned from a dungeon back into a ranch. Older paintings covered the walls. Chandeliers lit the antique-laden spaces, and luxurious carpets ensured the floors weren't all stone.

As we walked in, I kept my eye on Deryll. Neel whistled and clapped his hands once.

"I'll tell you what. This place looks mighty fine if I say so myself."

Deryll scoffed.

"It really isn't much."

Neel peered at a vase.

"I beg to disagree."

Deryll gave him a wicked smile.

"I'd imagine so, considering where you came from. Louisiana, wasn't it?"

Neel stood tall.

"It has its charms. Have I mentioned the gator-"

Deryll winced.

"You have. And no, we don't want any gator steak. Keep it in the bayou."

Deryll kept chatting about the history of the place and how it could rival any castle in Europe. I still wondered why he let us inside. He didn't like Neel, he didn't know me, and Althea, well...Ohh. Duh. Althea grabbed one of her arms as Deryll kept spewing factoids about the place as if a tour would woo her over. She coughed into a hand.

"So...Where are we sitting down, exactly?"

Deryll narrowed his eyes before sighing.

"It will be the dining room. I'll let the others know we're having guests."

After an entirely unnecessary tour of the place, we walked into the feasting hall. The ceilings arched up high, and the woodwork echoed inspirations from Viking halls of the past. A spectacular view of the ranch and the Rockies spread out, visible from the windows. It paled in comparison to the view from our flight, but it still carried a sense of gravitas regardless.

As we sat down, I admired the chairs. They modified them for system users, each piece of furniture holding more width and height than a normal one. They reminded me of sitting back at Mt. Verner, though this view exceeded the one even at the peak of our home base. All three of us sat down before Deryll tilted his head to a back room.

"I'll go get the others. I'm sure they'd like to see an old friend."

The hint of a threat lingered in his last words. I held back a scoff at the outright hostility, but Neel took it right on the chin.

"I reckon we'd like to see some old friends too."

After they left, Althea leaned to me and whispered.

"That guy stares way too much. It's creepy."

I narrowed my eyes.

"Tell me about it. I wanted to hit him in the gut. Maybe break a finger or two."

She smiled.

"Really? I didn't know you could get jealous."

I frowned.

"Less jealousy and more a fiery pit of suppressed rage."

She waved me off.

"Pshhh, same difference."

Interrupting our banter, Deryll walked in with two other women. I remembered them both. On the right, the older of the two was my grandmother, Betty. On the left, my aunt Margret stepped in. Both looked better than the last time I saw them, yet worse than I expected. Neither had really fought since the system started, so their levels sat at an ok-ish 87 and 92, respectively. Someone had helped them level up.

Despite their lower levels, they invested in longevity stats like willpower and endurance. That changed their crooked backs and wrinkled faces into reasonable postures and middle-aged smiles. They'd have needed a thousand plus more levels to really reverse the full extent of their aging, but that wasn't going to happen when neither was willing to risk danger.

Speaking of danger, Betty glared at Neel as if she were a wolf eyeing a screeching cat. Neel smiled back at Betty's glare, and he put his hands on his hips.

"Ah, it's good to see you two aren't any worse for wear."

Betty raised her brow.

"It looks like you've benefited from the system as well. Lord knows you needed it. The last time I saw you, you were positively ghoulish. You were on meth at the time, if I remember correctly?"

Neel's smile tightened.

"It was heroin."

Betty waved a hand, her passive-aggressiveness radiating from every pore.

"Oh, I wouldn't know the difference. Thank you for the correction."

Neel kept a poker face on, but I had talked with the guy enough to know when something stung. That had, but he played it off as if it hadn't left a mark. Watching on, a pang of guilt spurred in my chest. I already hated these people, and yet, this was exactly how I treated Neel. If anything, I didn't like the judgmental part of them because I didn't like the judgmental part of me.

I stewed on that as the mature ladies sat down closer to the end of the table. Betty crossed her fingers and leaned forward as she glared at Neel.

"So, what brings you to our little ranch here? In case you weren't aware, we don't sell any drugs here."

The way she spoke demonstrated the venom that only an old money family could have. Neel scoffed.

"I've kicked the habit for good, so that won't be a problem."

Betty tilted her head.

"Is this the third or fourth time you've told me that?"

Neel raised his brow.

"The fifth, but who's countin'."

Althea furrowed her brow.

"We're looking for Neel's son, Jacob. Do you know where he is?"

Betty gave Althea an icy glare. A resentment built in Betty's words.

"Now, excuse me for asking, little miss, but why would a beautiful woman such as yourself be looking for white trash like him?"

Even from hearing them speak, I experienced cultural whiplash. In Mt. Verner, the older pre-system culture had largely dissolved in favor of a new system-oriented way of living. Here, these people lived as if in a time capsule, one where they threw their weight around using social expectations from a bygone world.

I struggled not to laugh at how ridiculous they sounded. Althea smiled at her, and she spoke like an angel.

"I owe Neel a favor for helping me out of a precarious situation."

Betty narrowed her eyes and smiled.

"Is he blackmailing you? We can arrange for your safe travel out of his care. Deryll would be more than willing to-"

Althea waved her hands.

"Uh, no thanks. Ughck."

Betty's smile faded.

"He comes from good blood. I can assure you of that."

Althea leaned forward, her smile sharp enough to cut glass.

"No, I really would rather not. You must be hard of hearing."

Betty sighed.

"Suit yourself, but you should know something about Neel."

Althea crossed her legs and arms.

"That he did drugs? Because I have totally heard that like a dozen times already. Apparently, that's the only thing anyone knows about the guy. Schema forbid the man tries to do anything else with his life."

Betty glared.

"You don't know the pain he put his family through."

Althea frowned.

"Yeah, well, I know the guy's trying to change. Besides, I use tons of drugs when I fight all the time. It isn't like doing drugs suddenly turns you evil. Usually, that's more of a, I don't know, character issue or something. It's that or you lose the balance behind using them."

Appalled, Betty leaned back.

"You do drugs? Like heroine?"

Althea rolled her eyes.

"Heroine is literally useless in a fight. It's a poor tranquilizer that doesn't even have a potent pain-reduction effect. I would much rather use lidocaine or epinephrine, and they'd need to be enchanted. Otherwise, my metabolism would flush them in seconds."

Neel blinked before staring at Althea. The veteran murmured.

"Is that what's in the vials?"

Althea nodded.

"Some of it, yeah. I don't keep my most potent enablers out in the open for safety reasons. Kessiah and I have actually created a few serums using her blood, and they're extremely potent. You can try a few if you wan-"

Neel hit the table and shouted.

"No."

An awkward moment passed over the table. Neel coughed into a hand before adjusting his bandolier.

"No, I-I don't need that stuff. My, uh, fighting's pretty good already. Thank yah, though."

Althea peered back and forth before making herself small.

"Uhm, sorry."

Interrupting my thoughts, Betty leaned forward to Althea, and Betty's wrinkles formed over her face as she scowled. Betty seethed.

"This is what I was going to tell you about that man. You see, we raised dogs for generations. We know how to recognize a purebred and a mutt by eye at this point. Something you should know about people like Neel, they're mutts. They'll take a purebred and turn it into an ugly, furless cur before you know it."

It was officially affirmed. She was a caricature of a human being at this point. Neel rolled his eyes.

"Oh god, not this bullshit again."

Betty stared at him.

"You call it that because you don't like hearing the truth. And you know what makes it worse? You're not just a mutt. You're mangey too. You and all your friends. You all sit out there thinking you're just fine as you abuse your body and live like heathens."

Neel frowned.

"Oh, god forbid we do something fun once in a while."

Betty stood up, her face flashing red.

"Look what happened to my daughter from all that 'fun' of yours."

Neel's expression sharpened.

"I'm mighty sorry about what happened to Angela, but you and I both know that wasn't me. That was a twist of fate."

Betty snapped.

"Now who's spouting bullshit?"

Neel shook his head, and his emotions began to get less stable. He shook a hand at Betty.

"I'm not bearing your cross anymore, and neither is my son or his son either. We didn't kill Angela. Cancer, Betty, is what killed her, and lord forbid-"

They began talking over each other.

"I don't take responsibility over a terminal illness. It's just like you to throw out accusations on me like you know who I am. Like you've ever known who the hell I am."

"You think I don't know you and Jacob forced your dope on her? I bet you put it in her food after she said no. And, of course I know who the hell you are."

Neel frowned.

"Oh really, and who is that?"

Betty pointed a finger.

"A lying, cheating drug addict who wants to think he can change when we both know, deep down, you'll never be anything more than that twisted, drug-using fiend who stole our Honda Civic."

Neel's expression changed a few times as a wave of emotions poured over him. He grabbed the sides of his head before shaking.

"I don't know what I was thinking comin' here."

One of the back doors opened, and a tall, imposing man walked in. His silver beard grew to the collar of his plaid shirt, and his muscled frame omened potential. Beside him, two altered pit bulls hulked into the room. The hounds were mutated by mana and from having eaten eldritch flesh raw.

Thatcher Hillside frowned.

"We don't know what you were thinking either, yet here you are."

Neel stood up.

"I've had enough of this. Just tell me if you saw where Jacob-"

Thatcher raised a hand, the practiced motion exposing how he almost always held control in a room. Thatcher frowned.

"You're not the one making demands from us. We do just fine on our own, and we don't owe you anything. So sit down like a good little dog."

Neel wanted to run over and kill the man. I kind of did, too, but I telepathized to Neel.

"Please sit down. Not for him, but for me."

Neel took a deep breath before sitting down. He turned a palm to Thatcher.

"What are you even here for?"

Thatcher interlocked his hands behind himself. He walked across the side of the table while keeping a predatory glance over us all.

"I'm here to see why in the hell the Stoltmans have been passing by my town."

Neel raised a hand.

"Same here. If you let us know what you found, we'll be on our way."

Thatcher looked at me.

"I'm wondering why the other Stoltman is here. This makes three if I'm correct?"

I raised a brow.

"Ah, you just noticed? It took you guys quite a while. It wasn't even like my disguise was particularly convincing."

Betty narrowed her eyes at me before they widened.

"You're that little shit? God, I never thought that someone made by Angela could end up so ugly."

Althea scoffed.

"You've obviously got some pretty bad taste."

