“I have pain tolerance in the fifth tier, if you must know,” Sidjin said with a fragile grin.

Viv placed a folded band under his head as a pillow.

“Oh. Thank you.”

“Priest Kinnir, if you could put the patient to sleep?”

“No, wait!” Sidjin screamed.

The others froze. Even Arthur squealed softly from her corner.

“Please, no sleep. I can take the pain, but I can’t…. not know. Not move. Sorry.”

“Well, alright,” Viv said. “But no fussing or I’ll have to stop.

“Agreed.”

Viv started with his left hand, which had no fingers left. The painful part was that she had to cut some of the scarred but healthy flesh to regrow the finger properly. Reattaching the tendons required her to work fast, but she had ample experience by then. One by one, Viv rebuilt his digits. Sidjin inspected them after she was done.

“I… can feel them. And this one, I used to have a scar on the last knuckle.”

Although it was possible to keep a patient awake during surgery, Viv found being talked to spooky and annoying.

“Please remain quiet while I operate, thank you. Priest Kinnir, if you would use your healing powers on the fingers.”

Blessed silence returned while Viv checked the other hand. Paradoxically, regrowing the tendons would be more delicate and require her to cut more tissue.

“This is quite a fascinating bit of magic.”

“Oh my god Sidjin, if you don’t shut up, so help me!”

“Sorry sorry sorry sorry.”

Viv finished soon enough, did the eye quickly since she had experience with those, then it was Kirrin who interrupted her.

“My apologies, caster, but the time for the night prayer comes soon, and…”

“Yeah okay, he needs to rest and recover from the blood loss anyway. One last surgery, it should be quick.”

“Yes, I was about to say, we will not have the time to heal this man within the next week I’m afraid, but I would happily stay a little longer.”

“Okay. Then, teeth. With this, we’ll have healed some of the most sensitive body parts so it should drastically improve his quality of life.”

The mage had hidden his teeth during all the conversation they’d had, but Viv had just seen the damage up close. Unfortunately, the surgery required her to pull out some pretty good prosthetics and that was a rather unpleasant moment for everyone involved. Eventually, however, Sidjin had all his teeth, both his eyes, intact lips, and functional hands.

It didn’t fix the rest but it was a start.

By then, Viv was more excited than tired, but Kinnir had duties to attend, and night had fallen. She helped Sidjin dress up since the stone had not helped with his pain. That left Kinnir hesitantly waiting for them by the door.

“Lady Bibiane. If I may. The church is willing to compensate you if you can leave the circle. We can —”

“Keep it. For free,” Viv interrupted.

Kinnir’s mouth kept moving but no words came out.

“I already told the church of Neriad they could spread the knowledge as far as they wished. Your difficulty is that you will need a black mana specialist to use the spell successfully, but I think someone may eventually find a workaround. Keep the circle, copy it, spread it, I don’t mind. Just credit me or something.”

Kinnir walked her back to the gates of the compound. From there, they only had to cross a square to get to the inn.

“I apologize for the way I treated you,” the priest said. He seemed moved. “I have been in Markeis for over a decade, trying to keep things together. Every request is a trap. Every favor comes with strings. I just… this place got to me.”

“Don’t worry,” Viv replied, suddenly mollified. “I think I understand. Arthur?”

“Squee!”

“Can you see if anyone is waiting for us?”

They could see the gates of the inn from here, but Viv was paranoid.

As it turned out, someone was waiting for them.

A female human!

With a bow!

“Alright, we’re going to cross. If she draws the bow, land on her and kill her. No flames. If she doesn’t draw the bow, land on her and bite her.”

Bite!

Scary dragon!

“Exactly.”

“I could just walk you, they wouldn’t dare attack me,” Kinnir offered.

“That’s kind but we would be bothered tomorrow.”

Viv crossed the plaza with a shivering Sidjin. As they reached the large metal doors, a piercing scream shook the night somewhere behind them. Viv didn’t turn, and a few moments later, Arthur landed quietly by her side.

I bit her ass.

Sneaky dragon!

“Well done, Arthur. Thank you for protecting us.”

“Squeeeee!”

“Thank you, Arthur,” Sidjin politely added. “You are a true terror of the skies.”

The dragonette puffed up with pride. Her chin lifted, then she blew some smoke and walked towards the doors first.

The lobby of the Haven Inn was more fortified than the average bank.

“One night, one room, please,” Viv asked.

“You don’t need —”

“Look, Sidjin, you’re shivering. Let me help, okay?”

The man didn’t protest while they were led to a small but tastefully decorated room. It had a window leading to an inner courtyard, itself covered by a skylight. Lamps cast it into a favorable light as flowers abounded. So did the guards, and they wore mail.

Sidjin refused most of the help. He was only too happy to use his intact fingers again. Sometimes, he would flex them with exaggeration. Once they had changed into something more comfortable, Viv proposed that they should sleep. The bed was large enough to accomodate them both comfortably.

“Viviane. I have to thank you. This is… I never imagined I could get better. Really better. I am so sorry you had to see me in such a state, broken and ugly. I’m no longer much of a man, and — hmm?”

Viv leaned forward and kissed him gently. She made sure to give him ample time to push her away just in case. She also broke contact immediately after. Her proposal was on the table, so to speak.

“I think you’re much of a man, Sidjin. I think you have what it takes there,” she pointed at his head, “and there,” she finished, pointing at his heart.

“As for the rest, well, it’s a work in progress.”

She’d lost him. He was blinking owlishly, the expression almost comical on his scarred knight’s face. He placed his freshly healed fingers to his lips and pressed.

“I… errr. They tickle so much.”

And then he laughed. It started as a derisive chuckle, but soon morphed into a loud, free, full-belly laugh that left him panting. He opened his eyes to see Viv’s flabbergasted expression and laughed again.

“Sorry… sorry…” he eventually managed to croak. “This was just so forward! And unexpected! Ahem!”

His expression suddenly turned serious for all of three seconds before he broke into another fit. By then, Viv was laughing by association. It was just so bubbly and contagious.

“Ahem. Right. I, Sidjin, Ex Prince of Glastia, accept your courtship. Ah, Viviane. You have no idea. Normally, I would always be the one to take the first step. You just caught me off guard, but yes. Although it is too early for me to name the feelings welling in my heart, I think I want you as much as you want me, you foolish madwoman. With all of the passion left in this decrepit frame, I long for each and every one of our conversations and your smile in the morning. Yes, I long for you. I just didn’t think anyone would fall for me ever again. Or take the first step!”

“Ok good then kiss me again to make things less awkward.”

“Gladly.”

They did so, quite chastely, then when they separated, Sidjin had a twinkle in his eyes. Both of them.

“By the way, this technically makes you the head concubine. Would you like — “

Viv mock-slapped him.

Arthur sent a chastising message from her pillow nest.

NO EGGS!

They fell asleep shortly after.

***

The trip back to the ship went without a hitch. Viv was also pleased to see that Sidjin’s appetite had redoubled now that chewing was not an exotic form of torture. He was giddy, though he knew they had to postpone the rest of the treatment until the next major city.

“I can wait a few more weeks. I’m just so happy to have some of my stuff back.”

He closed one eye and looked around with the new one.

“It works!”

“Of course it does,” Viv scoffed.

The mood plummeted once they reached the River Flower, however.

“A major faction the guild collaborated with has, ah, recently changed management. I’m afraid they have requested a renegotiation of the terms. They’ve asked us to dock at a private pier farther down the river, and I fear we might be a little delayed, but rest assured —”

Sidjin and the poor captain looked flabbergasted when Viv raised a fist to the air and screamed on top of her voice.

“What did I say? What did I fucking say? I warned you!”

It was time to test some new spells.
