Arthur left once more. Viv was getting concerned that the dragonling was spending more and more time ranging out. She wasn’t sure how fast dragons grew. Arthur’s growth was astoundingly fast, but maybe it had merely been put on hold by the complete lack of food in the deadlands. Maybe she was much older than she looked. Or maybe that was just proper stimulation. In any case, her presence in Helock might be much more troublesome than Viv had anticipated, and there, she wouldn’t be strong enough to protect her. It didn’t matter to Viv if a dragon armada burnt the place to the ground to avenge Arthur’s death. She would still be dead. Viv could not let that happen. She had to find a solution, but what? Her clock was ticking.

She would have to check with the academy. That was best. Failing that, she would find a way to make sure the dragonette had enough room not to feel cramped. She had to get to Helock. A dead Viv could not protect anything.

Sidjin joined the crew on the deck while they moored. The piers were perhaps the cleanest and most organized part of the city, according to what she could see from her vantage point near the prow of the River Flower. An official type of guy walked to Leit, flanked by sturdy men wielding truncheons. There was even a mage clad in gaudy robes keeping an eye out near the dockmaster office. Viv could perceive black and blue from here. She associated it with water and death. The mage paid them no heed, perhaps because they kept their aura under control.

“Do you want to have a stroll? I would warn you against the attempt, as I think your sinuses may not survive the ordeal,” Sidjin offered.

The mage had used a spell to make the air fresh around them for now, but had warned it could not be maintained on the move without some preparation and Viv was unwilling to risk getting too much attention from the local guards and mages. This was not the best part of Enoria, but a city that had what she believed was a third step mage playing grunt on their docks were bound to have some more serious opposition deeper in.

“I was thinking about a quick visit to the church. Unless you think it’s too risky?”

“The only people who are protected in Markeis are those who don’t need it, so we should be fine. If I may come with you.”

“I want to have a look at you for the healing spell, so yes.”

“Oh, shall we go then?”

“We wait for Arthur to return.”

Sidjin knew she was a dragon and frowned, perhaps concerned about the flammability of the wooden buildings. Nevertheless, he didn’t protest. Arthur soon returned with a pair of green-coated male harriens, their hare-like bodies intact beside the broken necks.

“Let’s go then.”

The odor landscape was just as fucking dreadful as Viv feared. Rancid waters and rotten fish piled on with the rest to lift the mix to nauseating levels. Viv had to grab a shawl to fold over her nose, which made the already warm temperature unbearable. They walked over cracked cobblestones at a slow pace to save Sidjin’s strength. That was fine. The passersbys mostly ignored the show of weakness thanks to Arthur’s presence. People didn’t need to recognize a dragon to understand fangs and scales meant fuck off. Nevertheless, she saw too many calculating gazes for comfort.

The crew of Markeis was a mixed bunch. There were workers with grim airs laboring quietly and rather efficiently, but there were also lowlives of two types: the successful and the scum. Some of the scum had appearances she would have never expected to see outside of movies, complete with missing teeth and bloodshot eyes. There were also whores and street urchins, none of whom dared approach on account of, again, Arthur. They were hailed though, and asked for alms, or offered various services. Viv thought it better not to stop for anything and Sidjin didn’t protest.

They saw less bustle farther in. Beggars and vagrants lined the streets while stalls sold patched up shirts and watery soup. Thugs seemed to be the main occupation for men. More than once, Viv saw town folks disappearing into crowded, unmarked houses. They were offered mind-altering substances on seven separate occasions.

“Dream powder, lady? A walk on the wild side, ey?”

People finally left her alone when they arrived near the temple of Enttiku. Viv judged that finding a priest of trade and fertility in this city invited trouble, but death must be a familiar presence here, and she expected the place to be neutral ground. She wasn’t disappointed. The temple occupied an isolated square around a statue sporting a cowl and a ritual mask, the symbols of the goddess of death. It was kept clean by a sweeping acolyte, and no one stood around to annoy people.

“You are rather guarded, Viviane. I may not look like much but I can defend myself and us, should the need arise. We could even find a shop for magical tools, if you wished it.”

“I’d rather not walk around too much. When I asked Leit if he intended to get slaves, he said the guild would not accept, meaning it’s possible to find some here.”

“I would be surprised if you couldn’t, though they will be called indentured servants or similar euphemisms since slavery is currently not tolerated in Enoria. Does the sight of slave upset you?”

“Yes. If I see something too horrendous, I might do something everyone will regret. Look, it’s much easier for me not to do anything if I don’t see anything. Call me hypocritical, if you must.”

“Then every person is. The correct balance between helping others in need and helping oneself is so difficult to identify. Many have tried and failed. If it’s any comfort, one woman cannot fix this cesspit, not even with your powers and all the time in the world.”

“Thanks, Sidjin.”

“We can still murder idiots if it looks like we won’t get caught. I can make the bodies disappear.”

“Thanks Sidjin, you’re a dear. That would be quite the date.”

Sidjin choked on that, and dragged Viv onward with more strength than she expected.

The church compound began with dark iron gates. Past that was one of the most lush, beautiful gardens Viv had ever seen anywhere. The terrible stench of Markeis stopped once they passed through, to Arthur’s obvious delight. Viv was tempted to walk to the large black brick-and wood edifice, obviously the main building, but Sidjin signaled to the side towards where they could hear a voice. They walked under an arched passageway laden with thorny bushes ripe with black roses, their perfume enticing. They stopped at the edge of a clearing surrounded by hedges and blooming trees. Four people occupied the center of the place near an artificial spring that burbled happily in the background. There was an old man and a younger one, both clad in dark garments and showing kindly expressions.

[Priest of Enttiku]

[Acolyte of Enttiku]

Viv’s budding soul sense revealed that the older man was quite more powerful than he let on, probably a necessity in this place. He was talking softly to a young man leaning on the ground, his skin pale and clammy. A cloak covered his chest, while one of his hands rested in the frantic grip of a younger girl on the verges of tears. Viv briefly smelled a waft of spoilt meat before the garden took back its hold.

They stayed at a respectful distance while the priest soothed his patient. The young man’s breath was frantic, but it slowed down when the priest’s voice rose.

“Forget your sins, for you are human and no human is without sin. Enttiku has weighed your heart and did not find you unworthy. Forget your mistakes, as you shall forget those of others, for only those who have never tried do not know the taste of failure. Leave without regret, because you are in the embrace of the cowled one. Sleep, now. Sleep.”

The young man gave one last rattling breath, then he died. A light glow shone under his skin and his body slowly fell apart into ashes, not like a crumbling statue, like petals or leaves in autumn. Viv felt it wasn’t so bad, though the girl cried hard. She quickly inspected her.

[Scullery maid]

Yeah, not the best option in such a lawless place. As far as she remembered, this path could lead to high administrative roles but she doubted the girl would be given a chance. The priest picked the bereaved by the elbow and gently guided her to a side door, where a nun took over, then he returned. Meanwhile, the acolyte had been collecting the ashes with a trowel and ceremonious attention. Suddenly, she could guess what they used as fertilizer. There were worse ends, she supposed. One could end up floating on the river Shal.

“How may I assist you?” the priest asked.

The man had lost his fatherly demeanor in favor of a more solemn poise.

“I would like access to a room to conduct a healing ritual, and I need the assistance of a priest. I’m willing to compensate you for your time.”

The man looked both relieved and annoyed at the same time, even more so when he cast a cursory glance at Arthur and the dragonette reacted in the normal way to being glared at: by rising on her hind legs and spreading her arms and wings in defiance. Like that, she was only slightly less tall than the priest.

It was the most adorable ‘the fuck you want’ Viv had ever witnessed. A part of her told her she should teach Arthur to be respectful but the greater part thought it was a lost cause in a dragon and she should just make sure Arthur didn’t steal, murder, or pillage. Unprovoked.

“A healing ritual?”

“Yes. If you’ll accompany me, I’ll be glad to show you.”

“Madam, we are in a place of worship. Please do not waste our time.”

Viv immediately unleashed the full extent of her intimidation. The priest did not back out and his own skills rose up in defense. The acolyte staggered, however.

“You will accept, or you will refuse, but you will do so with respect. Goddess or not,” Viv stated with absolute finality.

“I expected a man of your stature to show more discernment,” Sidjin said. “All who seek succor can find it in the embrace of the cowled one. Is it not so in Markeis?” he asked.

The priest took a calming breath, then he nodded.

“Please do not take my doubts as refusal. Our door is always open for the needy, yes, but you are not healers. Neither of you. Are you serious?”

“Quite so,” Viv said. “Look, you have two casters obviously here for a ritual. Why would we be joking?”

“Hmm. This is highly unusual. Keep in mind that any magic that violates Enttiku’s credo will be met with maximum force. I am Kinnir, and I accept. Now please, follow me.”

Viv rolled her eyes at the man’s back, clearly within sight of the bristling acolyte while Sidjin merely chuckled. The pair walked at their pace after the priest who had to slow down to match them. Viv leaned and whispered in Sidjin’s ear.

“He looked relieved before he heard our request. What was that about? Do you know?”

“I think he expected a euthanasia request. They are forced to accept, although it goes against their faith that all should meet Enttiku when their time comes, and not before.”

“Interesting.”

Viv saved this information for later. Maybe one day, she…. better not think about that. She would find a solution before black mana killed her. Had to.

The room they were offered was barely more than a clean cell. The first distraction occured when she realized she had to prepare the monster flesh first. Butchers had done it for her, back in Kazar.

“You merely need to shred this, right?” Sidjin asked.

“Yes.”

“Oh, I can shred.”

And indeed, he could. The bucket provided by the church was soon filled with reddish goop. The main difficulty had been to keep the innards from splattering on the walls. Sidjin’s spell was not nice.

“Remind me not to piss you off,” The witch mumbled.

“Oh you would need to go quite far for that, Viviane.”

By then, Viv was almost done drawing the healing spell on the ground, and the priest’ expression had gone from dubious to amazed.

“You! You are her! This is a regrowth spell! You are Bob the Calamity! I mean, Bibiane. Of Kazar.”

It was an improvement over “Great Black Slut”, Viv judged.

“Alright, lay on the table, SIdjin. Hmm. Naked.”

“I beg your pardon?” the fallen prince asked in panic.

“I’m sorry but I need to have a full analysis of your body’s current state and… you should be naked. I assure you, this is a medical procedure. I will be professional.”

“Right. Yes. Of course. I should have… anticipated that. Obviously.”

“Do you need assistance?”

“What? No! No. But, hmmm, let me cast a warming spell. This place is chilly, and my constitution is not what it used to be.”

“Of course.”

Viv recognized a stalling tactic when she saw one, but if the prince needed a moment, she would grant him one. When he was ready, he disrobed, then awkwardly lay down on the cold stone.

It was just as dreadful as she had expected. The state of the unmarred skin reminded her of death camp pictures. The rest was filled with horrifying scar tissue. He was also painfully thin, though not deathly so. Entire muscle fibers were missing, leaving a crevice behind under the taut skin. Many of the lesions were burn scars. He had also been emasculated. Shaved completely. There was nothing left.

The emotion that welled inside of Viv’s heart was not disgust, but anger. Anger that someone would do that to a person she appreciated. All of this for having saved a species from an unwilling sacrifice. She counted every wound as she checked his body and tallied them in case Glastia fucked with her one day. As for why he was still thin, it was clear to her via the diagnostic tool.

“You have severe nerve damage in multiple places. Are you suffering from chronic pain?”

