Even as Ember moves through the void, all of the bends in space that form around him are far different than ours.

It is as though he is simultaneously weightless and infinitely heavy. His presence pierces through the fabric of the membrane, as there are portions of his being that sink far too deep into this darkness for me to properly see. Yet, the space behind him is left untouched, as though no mental pressure has ever touched it.

The more waves of laws that collide with my mind, the more my perspective is altered. I begin to realize these waves of untraceable energy do not affect him, because it appears he's been molded by these waves many times before.

Some of the older, more refined laws have already rippled through me a number of times. At first, the potency of theirs and mine in return only grew stronger.

Brand new entities interacting and imparting vast amounts of compacted information leads to extremely fast growth.

Yet, eventually all of this excited energy finds a less chaotic rhythm. Many of the most violent waves in space collide and merge with others. Some of the more stagnant waves even break off into multiple pieces and become altered to become something new entirely.

There are no real visuals to see, but I begin to feel less extreme changes in my instincts. My mental state is adjusting, and I can feel that the other conscious entities in the membrane have begun to adjust as well.

Everything seems exactly the same... in fact, the waves of energy don't even seem to be slowing down. Instead, they are just blending into the background of my senses. The waves of changing laws are still potent and present around me; it is just that my mind is starting to become just as strong.

I can perceive the absence of these fluctuations, in dead portions of the void. This also heightens my awareness for the other entities that have also been enlightened and adjusted to this wavelength.

Maria's form becomes far more elusive, mimicking the characteristics I see as Ember descends.

Even my own body and sword, they have become far more important in the grand scheme of the membrane, exerting far more pressure on the space around me. Yet, without purposefully evoking my perception of these waves, I can slip away into the darkness to become invisible and formless too.

Even the barrier construct around the Origin Plane, it has undergone changes, synchronizing it with the monumental shift that has occurred. Now, it has become increasingly daunting to attempt breaking out from its barrier.

Just at a glance, I can tell if this were the ceiling of the Upper Realm that I had to tear through to break out of the Purple Zone, it would have been impossible to do so.

There are still subtle fluctuations visible in the barrier, Maria, and myself, but they are virtually nonexistent compared to the violent shifts that were just occurring moments ago.

As Ember flaps his wings for a final time and stops right before us, I can feel the immense maturity in his comprehension of these waves.

It isn't that he subdued them quickly, it is that at the core of his being, a majority of his consciousness has already interacted with these waves. Only a tiny fraction of new information had to be shared and adapted to assimilate with this shift.

"It appears I was not wrong. The human race truly is the key to this system's reset."

His crimson eyes peer through the void into both of our minds and souls; it feels like there is nothing at all I can hide. Intense ripples of laws burst out from his gaze, washing through every drop of emperor's essence, silver thread, and soul tie I have.

It feels like a cold bucket of water is being poured through my entire being, bringing a sense of shock at first, but intense clarity and awareness after.

"I must thank you for cleaning up my mess, even though there were many self-inflicted restrictions along the way. Fortunately, you've managed to lift another seal. Yet, nearly at the cost of what humans covet the most."

I can feel his gaze flowing through us, and peering down into the Upper and Lower Realms that have succumbed to hundreds of years of forced Realm Wave induced time passage.

There are extremely golden glyphs floating in his eyes, so clear that I can even recognize the usage and symbols for some of them. They are catalyst glyphs that are embedded deep within the Creator's Legacy. Many I can see in their lesser forms glowing within my soul, and others with identical makeups in the very core of my blade.

"You have become strong enough. It is time you begin to see everything for what it truly is..."

Many more golden glyphs start floating up from the depths of his soul to imprint on the inside of his eyes, and at the same time, I feel the slow mechanisms of the system finally trigger the effects of the notifications that have been ringing in my inner ear since the last soul tie snapped.
