“It goes further than just this. Silence loathed any and all undue attention—and those who broke her privacy found themselves meeting their ends as a result. All except one: Valor himself. But though she worked with Valor on a few things, her true co-conspirator was her son. And from what has been recovered of his notes, she was circumspect with even him. The fact that no one knew anything about the Usurper-Narrator's existence or this broken Watchtower is not unexpected. It's by design. What this design is, however, I can only guess at. Considering Silence was united with Valor with regards to the preservation of everything, then I have to suspect that the broken Watchtower was installed post-hoc, that the Usurper-Narrator is meant to be its custodian, and that the Fairwoods have been converted from a looping seasonal set of stories meant to be in perfect equilibrium to an eternal archive for all individuals and monsters to eventually be encompassed by the Fairwoods. This dimension is a mechanism for forever. A potentially superior mechanism to even you, Deathless. At least, in some form.”

For that, however, the Harbinger had a counterpoint. "That depends. Are the people who live through each loop just copies of the ones that came before? Or are they actually brought back?"

The Culturist considered the Skill’s words. “This I cannot say, and I have my own criticisms for the design as well, namely the stagnation. Of course, it needs mana injected from the outside. This place has been run dry of genuine strife—everything that is happening right now is enforced and arranged by the hidden hand of the Usurper-Narrator. And it seems like Silence’s vessel, meant to continue maintaining her Grand Design, has also been eroded to a point of near-traitorous desire to be part of a story herself. Which begs the question: Why did Silence create such an individualistic custodian? The Watchtower would be better served by a simple, unfeeling mana construct.”

Shiv frowned. “But something that doesn't feel or find significance in things can't gain any enjoyment from the story. And maybe that's just the problem.”

“The Watchtower needs fuel,” Evanescia said, breaking her silence. Something inside her shifted. The enkindled fire—that emotional shroud shaped to be her antagonistic mirror—clung tighter to her, burned away her silhouette, and replaced it with a frame of glass. A part of her mind had succumbed to weakness, and with that, reluctant honesty spilled forth. “You are that fuel. You are a source of endless strife. No matter how many scenarios I put you through, you're not a copy derived from yourself. You are the original, and with vitality, you return. An endless resource. A means to see the Grand Design finally made complete.” Her voice hitched as she let slip a final admission. “And the only way the Fairwoods evolves beyond being a cage of stories, and becomes something that can blossom.”

“Blossom across worlds, you mean,” Shiv shot back. She didn't confirm his suspicion verbally or mentally, but she didn’t have to. So she does intend to spread the Fairwoods across worlds. Felling shit, Valor, is there no one in your family that isn't a reality-collapsing psycho?

The Harbinger hummed. "Be mindful of how you speak of your ontological grandmother."

My what? What does that even mean? What the hell is ontological?

“I believe it means relating to your existence,” Adam explained.

Harbinger, the fuck—you’re mocking me with words I don’t know? Right now?

"You will know them," the skill replied—and made it sound like a threat.

“Okay, okay, alright.” Shiv shook his head and rubbed at his face. This entire affair was getting too messy for his liking. “So you don't want to risk losing me because the Fairwoods might run out of fuel. Fine. I get that. But haven't I already been burned?”

“Your integration is incomplete, and it seems to refuse to complete itself,” Evanescia answered. “Your Unique Skills refuse to be assimilated, and your original body—”

“My what?”

“—cannot be copied. But you have been marked by the Flame of the Watchtower. So long as you remain within the dimension, I can find you and call upon you.”

“And insert yourself over me?” Shiv guessed.

Evanescia shook her head. “No. Not until you are completely one with the Narrative Flame.”

Shiv was beginning to see her worries—even if the entire thing made him sick. Everything devolves into a giant godsdamned enslavement engine. Longinus and the Boiling Toad, Evanescia and this place, the Vultegs and Scorn.

His grudge against the divine aside, Shiv was beginning to see Evanescia's problem. If he escaped, then the Fairwoods would go back to being what they were. They would lose their newly gained source of reliable and renewable strife, and that would cause the Grand Design or whatever to come to a halt. She'd called it an evolution. The Fairwoods were changing and, as the Culturist suspected, likely branching out.

Shiv imagined this dimension of stories spreading to consume Earth. I guess that can seem like a kind of immortality, but being trapped in a series of unending loops for the rest of eternity to entertain an extremely lonely and mentally malnourished bookworm with infinite power is no kind of forever to enjoy. I can't reject her directly. Or tell her that the Watchtower is unlikely to consume me. If even I can't find my Unique Skills and cut them out using my aura, I don't think the Watchtower's fire is going to find them either. It seems like Udraal created something beyond the understanding of his mom in me.

He sucked in a breath. “Alright. A slight pivot to the strategy, guys. I'm going to convince her that I want to stay here, that I don't want to escape for good. Her biggest worry is that I'm going to run away and make this all pointless. But if I can get her to trust me, if I make her think that I'll come back no matter what, then the risk to the Fairwoods is limited. She already wants to betray herself. I just need to give her a reason, a little push, so that she goes over the edge.”

“Well, if you're worried about me leaving and not coming back, I think you need to put those worries to bed, because you got something I want for good, and I'm not leaving until I get him back.” Shiv looked in the direction of Longinus, or at least where the Wanderer used to be. He did that to indicate what drew him here in the first place: Georges. “I don't know if he's a clone of the original. I don't know how he got out of the Fairwoods and how another version of him is still here, but Longinus doesn't get to keep him. Longinus doesn't keep torturing him. I'm getting him out, even if this is just a shadow of Georges. I'm getting him out.”

“But even should you best Longinus without destroying the Avatar completely, even if you managed to save him, to separate him from the Wanderer, what then?” Evanescia questioned.

“Well, I'm still gonna have to come back here. He's tied to the Watchtower, isn't he? He can't leave the Fairwoods without your allowance, and even if he does leave, since he's been fully assimilated, what happens when the next narrative cycle starts?”

Evanescia studied Shiv with rapt attention. “For his case, he is drawn back here, back into the embrace of Longinus. And all the work you did to free him will become undone once more.”

Shiv really didn't want to hear that, but he'd also expected it. “See, there are my stakes. I want him back, and I'll do just about anything to get him out from under Longinus and away from you, and so long as you have him, I'm not gonna stay gone. I can't.” And Shiv performed another calculated risk—he turned the power of the Harbinger on himself. He used his Legendary skill to target his mind, to gouge at his skull. A patch of his face turned to glass, and it cracked, letting droplets of blood ooze free and exposing the tissues beneath.

His rationality told him it was a fool's errand, that this might not even be his Georges, that this Georges had no memory of the times they shared together, that he had no idea how to break Georges away from Longinus, let alone Evanescia's greater power.

But the knowledge possessed by a mind never changed the desires that propel the heart. He was imbalanced in this. And he made it known, obviously, by blood.

“Shiv, what are you doing?” Adam cried out in alarm.

But where the Paragon was horrified and confused, the Culturist understood, and he let out a laugh of grim affirmation. “A calculated act of self-mutilation. I salute you, Deathless. She might well do too.”

The orc's predictions proved true. Evanescia took a step back, and her empathic core cleared in a burst of surprise as she stood witness to Shiv's resolve. The ground she gave was claimed as Shiv took a step forward. He pointed at himself. “No lies here. Just painful truths. We're both betraying ourselves. Here's an offering of my imbalance for everything I got out of you earlier.” The smile he offered was not feral but cold, calculated, and provoking. “And right now, I dare say that I'm closer to being your villain than ever before.”

“I see it,” she whispered, her breath hot with tantalizing want. Not for him in flesh or in mind, of course, but the idea of him. The notion of an adversary who grasped her desire and wielded it against her, who was willing to crack himself to show his commitment.

Here were the stakes. What they both wanted was to be placed on the bidding table and laid naked for the other side to see.

Shiv raised his chin. “So do I. Now, let's change up this narrative arc. I raise my unwillingness to let go of Georges against your fear that I'll turn and walk away and never come back to the Fairwoods. I raise that, and I challenge you to stop my breakout. You bring Uva back to me. You keep yourself away from Adam, at least for now, and you let me try to escape. You try to stop me. And we will take this struggle from the Fairwoods back to Gate Piety, back beyond the Tutorial, back all across Integration. You can have your narrative arcs, and I can have mine, but you know I'm coming back no matter what. And time is on your side.”

“But you know of me. You know of the Watchtower now, of my creator’s work. The risks I face—”

“What about the risks I face? Or about what you might do to Georges? What you might make him suffer if I offend you? Which one of us is more fragile? Which one of us might break first?”

“The Paragon—I must have him as well. He strides beyond my notice—”

“And he makes me a proper threat to you. How is there going to be tension if you know where I am at all times? No. You want him like this. You want an ensemble of enemies. If you’re going to claim him, it shouldn’t be by brute force and blindly throwing power at your problem, but through a real, three-act victory.”

“It’s what a hero would choose,” Adam said aloud, speaking from Shiv's heart. His mind grew softer as he added to that. “I would know, Evanescia. But you?” His words worked as a concurrent taunt and challenge, and Evanescia couldn’t help but be incensed.

“The Seeker. Her Unique Skills are the only thing stopping her from her full integration into the Flame.”

“And what storyline do you have her running that’s more interesting than her being involved in this escape? Come on. She can be a real threat to your world and you if you just loosen the collar a bit. Give her the right to choose what kind of story she wants to be a part of, and allow yourself to enjoy a bit of thrill while you’re at it.”

With every word Shiv spoke, he learned a new lesson about himself, about other people, and about psychology and argumentation in general. Your own vulnerability could be made an advantage if you took hold of it with aggression. If you used it against your enemy. If you unbalanced them with what they should have exploited to unbalance you first.

“Evanescia, if you don't take a chance, this goes nowhere. If you don't take a chance, you never get to live a story that's worthy of you or the Fairwoods. You're never going to be a hero, and you'll always be here, waiting and wondering, even as I live through loop after loop. And time cuts both ways. You'll get tired eventually. You will, even if the Fairwoods evolve. You will want to make that offer. You will want there to be a fight worth having. I'm telling you, spare yourself the suffering. Spare me the suffering. Let's do this now. Please.” He took another step and loomed over her, staring down at her with the gold-black eyes of the Harbinger, burning with his every emotion.

Evanescia took a step back. “I… I must… I’m going to need to review the season… I must think and re-read what I have planned…” None of her mutterings formed an answer, but the subtext she offered and the quivering nature of her succumbing emotions told him enough. It took the Harbinger enforcing an extra dose of self-control on Shiv to stop him from smirking in triumph.

When Evanescia disappeared, she vanished without a trace, leaving nothing behind.

Nothing but her defeat.

He knew then that she had folded. That they were going to get a way back home. But ultimately, he also intended to live up to his promise: he was going to leave a body in the Fairwoods, to continue running through the seasons as training, to continue trying to free Georges and figure out what the Watchtower was supposed to do and stop it if Evanescia threatened the rest of Integration.

