Self-deceit is a poison flavored to the sweetest of nectars. Most of our worldviews are improperly shaped. We wear so many lenses and see the world through so many tints that the truth is far and distant, even though we live amidst reality. The same tints are layered inward as well. We are taught to understand ourselves through the world, through the union of how other people perceive us and the consensus of who we think ourselves to be. But even this is not the truth. Even this is the sweet lie.

And over time, the poison known as self-deceit will cause cracks to form in your worldview. For the lie cannot bear the enormity of the truth, and so, between the cracks, you will see things that do not conform to your understanding that you must reject. Otherwise, what else is false about your notions of the world? What else is wrong about the shape you perceive around you? How do you live if all around you is put into question? What a burden that must be! What a strain! What a great struggle!

But if you wish to be a true practitioner, you must seek the truth. You must. Even if you maul yourself, you must heal and scar, and then shed those scars to seek things as they truly are, lest you develop the terminal condition of hypocrisy.

Before a Walker of the Tripartite Way, all lies are weapons to be rendered against you. For that which unbalances your mind and destabilizes your heart can be expressed upon your flesh, and the other way around. Every flaw of the spirit you possess will be expressed in your totality, all three aspects mirroring one another. And the lie within is deceitful and clever, as clever as you can be. A powerful body might mask a crippling insecurity, a doubt instilled by a figure once respected, now a shadow of scorn—for no one can wound you deeper than a parent or a beloved mentor. And just the same, no one can bestow upon you undue arrogance, causing the very same outcome.

But though the origins of the lie within might be different, the symptoms expressed and the weaknesses they form are always fatal.

For should someone who uses the truth as a weapon face you with a brittle heart, a brittle mind, a brittle body, then your fate is sealed.

Time's entropic touch will see you broken, and so will someone who walks the Tripartite path.

There is no eternity for a flawed pillar. There is not even longevity.

And so, Pathbearer, sculpt thyself. Deface thyself to remove what has already been defaced and to replace the rotting structures with substances of truth and true strength. Ignore these words at your own peril, and know that the choice to do nothing is tantamount to suicide by the passage of time.

—Legend-Philosopher Melaia Kelhaus

350

The Truth Without, The Lie Within

Shiv's words seized the Usurper-Narrator, binding her in chains wrought from the flames of her own heart. The enkindled fires coiled around her, draping over her body like a heavy, festering shadow.

Evanescia's imbalance came in three parts: Physically, she was cracking beneath the strain of her warring insides. Her mind was the strongest portion of herself, resolute and aware of all the risks that lay ahead, but her heart was deprived, dehydrated of true passion and yearning for the meagerest of sips so that she could breathe a hit of effervescence back in her withered soul.

She had been bestowed great duties, likely by her creator, Udraal’s mother, Valor’s lover, but the Usurper-Narrator had developed her own character as well. She had her own wants. After what must have been eons of simply watching and living in someone else's skin, she wanted her own role. Her own story, a chance to finally take center stage as Evanescia, not anyone else.

“I can't…” The words escaped her with such strain that her silhouette responded. Another portion of her broke. Her hip became disjointed as the traces of her structure that lined her outsides were now plunging inward. If she were a person, something within her flesh and bone would have been run through by the substance that formed her contours. “I have a duty to the Grand Design. With the three of you here, the Watchtower's completion is almost at hand. I can't let you go. I can't.”

She wanted to say something else, but the words never left her, because if they did, Shiv suspected, that would give them too much power, and she might become undone in full. “Look, I get it, Evanescia, you got a lot riding on your shoulders. You got a lot of weight there. I know you don't really mean to torture people. If that's a byproduct of the story, fine, you'll just let it happen, but it's for the sake of the narrative. I know you're not a cruel psychopath. I know that you're not just doing this for monstrous desires. You're not like Longinus. But what I want to get is why. What is this Grand Design? Actually, if you can't tell me that, tell me why you can't risk losing us.”

But the Usurper-Narrator was still hesitant, still reluctant to give anything away. Her mind clung hard to the rest of herself. It formed a translucent veil around her emotional core. Yet the stuff of her insides that compelled her to feel and savor stories was leaking out between her every crack and crevice. That vulnerability incensed Shiv. She had a duty to enforce, but her heart was tearing her apart. It was dragging her in direct opposition. In this moment, he was simply a whispering shadow on her shoulder, just as the enkindled flames were; she was her own true antagonist.

"And fittingly so, because we certainly don't have the power to break her ourselves," the Harbinger admitted without shame.

And it was then that Shiv realized just how threatening a skill Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin was. Everyone lied to themselves in some way. Everyone had higher goals that clashed with baser wants. And it wasn't even duty that set heart and mind at odds. Shiv wanted to throw himself at Longinus. He wanted to torture the Wanderer until he was broken beyond breaking, until all the pain he'd inflicted on the world, and Georges in particular, was turned back on him. But brute force wasn't Shiv's ally, and if he acted as he was, without the guidance of his mind, balanced by only the rushing torrent of his heart, then he would have died completely and truly at the hands of a most disgusting adversary.

Instead, Shiv had mastered his emotions, had grappled with his own rage and frustrations to engineer his desired outcome. Evanescia's pent-up want was immense—and he could see that in the blackened flames inside of her. The sheer amount of emotion she felt, the intensity at which it burned, made Shiv's righteous anger pale in comparison. She wasn't just more powerful than he was in terms of skills and mana.

Her heart boiled with emotions and desires far greater than Shiv had ever felt and might ever feel, and her mind was so complex it stole his breath to even glimpse at, countless thoughts and considerations running in tandem. Shiv might as well be an intellectual insect beside her.

But this wasn't him pitting all he had against all she was. This was him redirecting the parts of her that were already loose and yearning to slide free.

“Evanescia, what kind of villain would I be if I can't inspire any kind of development in you? You don't need to betray yourself or ruin whatever it is you were made for, but there has to be a threat. There has to be. You know I'm right. You can see I'm trying to help you and trying to help myself as well.” He threw his hands up in an expression of genuine exhaustion, wielded the truth of his own emotions to fan the embers of the lie that was beginning to build inside of her. The lie that if she just indulged this once, if she read and played along, she wouldn't lose control. “If I wanted to hurt you, I would have kept going. I would have kept cracking you. I would have kept trying to make you break apart. You know how this skill works better than I do. And I know you're more powerful than me.”

Her mind stilled. She looked at him, and her self-enforced struggle briefly halted. “You openly admit to manipulating me?”

Shiv felt Adam's breath hitch, felt the Culturist tense inside of him. But the Deathless wasn't worried; this was calculated as well. He needed to take these risks and perform these less-than-optimal actions and say words that highlighted the danger of the skill so that she might be convinced that he wasn't trying to harm her, at least not directly. The moment the damage went too far and she was reminded that he was a genuine threat was the moment this path to survival and escape would be closed forever.

And I can't let that happen. Shiv's mind was resolute about what it had to do. It guided every aspect of him toward one goal: the infiltration and subversion of Evanescia's psychology and emotions.

“Yes,” he said, loud and proudly, without a hint of worry. “I am trying to manipulate you. I am trying to get you to talk to me so we can understand each other. We can't be enemies because there's no fight to have, right? You trapped Longinus here for how many seasons, how many cycles? And you probably accelerated his experience of time too. What did he do to piss you off? Try to break out one too many times, ruin your narrative one too many times?”

Evanescia didn't say, but her heart let out a coronal eruption of aged anger. The feeling was dulled, but the annoyance and genuine distaste she held toward Longinus were true. It was only balanced by how fascinating she found him, how often he became useful as a villainous figure in her many stories.

“Yeah, that's what I thought. I see how he makes you feel, and however you feel about him, know that when I feel even worse, he works as an antagonist. He works as someone I hate and want to hurt. He works. But ask yourself: do I work the same way?”

“You can't,” Evanescia admitted.

“Right, because our natures and characters are too different. But it doesn't need to be the same, right? There are different kinds of tension, right? And you don't need to hate your antagonists, right? You just need to be opposed to them. I'm opposed to you because I want to get away, and I want to get away from your Grand Design. But we can still work together on this.”

“I can't risk it. I cannot risk letting you go. You, the Paragon, or the Seeker.”

“And why not? Why can't you risk that? Tell me. You don't even need to explain to me in detail. Just tell me what I threaten so that I can properly threaten it, and you can properly protect it.”

“It's your Path. It's your nature. It's what you can provide. You do not die. The System doesn't get to reclaim you, and the strife that burns inside of you, it burns ever brighter. It combusts exponentially with every subsequent demise you experience, each feeding the Flame.”

“The Flame?” Shiv didn't understand. “What flame?”

But where he was lost, Adam wasn't. “The Broken Watchtower. The Flame at the Heart of all Things. Remembership. When the hands connected to the clock face were aligned, the Flame swallowed you and Uva. It missed me. She was feeding our inherent strife into it. She's using it to power the Fairwoods, even now. It's become like a renewable engine for this place. One that practically sustains itself. One that causes this strife to spread through all the Fairwoods.”

And with Adam's epiphany, the Culturist's heart grew cold with genuine dread. “Why the Fae don't die is because they're held in a perpetual balance of mana—attuned and not. They are effectively constrained to this place. They cannot grow in terms of powers or skills here, lest this entire place come apart under the encroachment of entropy. But with you here…”

The Legendary orc's horror proved contagious. With how fast Shiv grew, with how much the System rewarded him, just how much mana was he generating for the Fairwoods? Just how many new Fae were going to be born to him? Born to Adam or Uva, if they were all fully consumed by the Watchtower?

“It's worse than you think,” the Culturist said, guessing his thoughts. “I can feel the ambient magic staining this world. Everything here is formed from the purest distillation of stories, but the stories have been growing. I taste the mana grow denser. I've seen patches of land spread out between loops, evolve, and transform. The stories themselves are evolving. The dimension is expanding; the Fairwoods are growing larger.”

“So what?” Shiv asked. “It's going to be harder to escape? Is that what you're saying?”

“No. What I am saying is that in the end, after enough mana is accrued, there will simply be no place left to escape to.” The Culturist fell silent, formulating his thoughts before continuing. “Has Valor told either of you much about his former love?”

Both Shiv and Adam fell silent at that question.

“Valor couldn't remember much before,” Adam muttered. “He was in pieces, and his memories were fragmented as well.” He tried to think of anything substantive, but failed to recollect even her name.

“Just as well,” the Culturist whispered. “It's not my story to tell, and it feels ill to give away another person's pain—especially that of an esteemed elder’s. But there is something beyond that: Silence Valeros did everything she could to live up to her namesake. I have read notes left by her son and what other works speak of her. Valor’s Stealth was Legendary, but he was never very circumspect. When he did something, you would hear of it, and it would cause ripples across Integration. Not so for Silence. Her work as a historian of the Pre-Integration and as an Animancer, one seeking to recreate and reconstruct the nature of a soul, was beyond pure, but she wanted none of the credit.”

“But wasn't she working together with Valor on whatever they were doing?” Shiv asked. “There's not exactly anyone out to get people who want to overthrow the System, is there?”

