“What just happened? Did she just leave? Why?” Adam remained wary, nervous of any potential subterfuge. Even though he resided within Shiv and had a telepathic connection to the Deathless, there was too much nuance he failed to grasp. There were spectrums of emotionality that corresponded with Evanescia's mentality that Shiv had clear insight into, but Adam couldn’t see.

The Culturist, though, chuckled quietly with awed amusement. He knew, he saw, and he was proud. “What an evolution, Deathless. Truth be told, I did not anticipate this to be your next step, and the next step you would take so soon. But you do know the vulnerabilities that come with this skill, yes?”

Before Shiv could reply, the dimension-spanning veil of gold that held the Boiling Toad still in a bubble of unmoving time vanished.

At the same instant, a new figure was cast into the fray. Uva materialized right next to Shiv with a surprised gasp and a look of startlement. She stared around, her Psychomancy threads whipping about until she noticed Shiv and finally took stock of the change in her scenery.

Twin currents of emotion ran through her. She was glad to be reunited, surprised on top of that, but also agitated, for she had been in the middle of her own story. “Shiv. Your doing? Or hers?” She wanted to know why she had been spirited away from where she once was.

Shiv shrugged and gave her a nonchalant grin. “Talked a bit with her. I guess she decided that we were better together after all.”

“She is actually going to risk letting us leave, letting us escape, because you… you spoke to her,” Adam sputtered, beginning to be overwhelmed by joyous laughter. “You actually bloody managed to convince her. You mad, undying bastard!”

“Not just yet,” Shiv replied. “But I think we're going to get there. Once her heart finally finishes breaching the final walls of her mind.”

"The lie within has prevailed," the Harbinger whispered. "The mind no longer reigns, and so she must suffer the risk of defeat. Yet she chose this since she was already suffering. What a state to endure for all these centuries."

Just as the Harbinger finished speaking those words, a second individual was loaded into the scene. An individual that was promptly reintegrated with its Avatar. At Evanescia’s will, Georges splashed back into his captor’s embrace, and the God of Exploration and Hunger came ablaze with stolen Divinity before Shiv and his companions as he reached back into the physical world.

“DEATHLESS, YOU FUCKING PIECE OF SHIT! I’M GOING TO FUCK A CHILD INTO YOUR CORPSE!”

And as the raging Ascendant raised a hand to summon a blazing lance into his grasp, a notification loaded in Shiv's vision.

Quest Gained: Alright, Deathless. I want to see a proper audition for the three of you together. You say your companions matter—that they make you more of a threat for this coming story. I want to see the truth of it. Break Longinus in battle, without slipping out from my Fairwoods to recover or whatever it is you did before. Defeat the Wanderer, and we will finalize this… most dangerous affair you wish to embark upon.

Success: You and your companions’ lost equipment will be returned—with added gifts; a new story arc: a chance to escape, if temporarily, from the Fairwoods; +20 Levels to a Skill of your choosing.

Failure: The narrative loop reverts, and you undergo whatever storylines I so desire for a century.
