My gaze sweeps over all the maps, regional contracts, and Association Hunter names scattered on the work table in front of me.

Bri and Rodrigo are across the room, and the meeting that's been going on for about an hour floods back into my mind in full detail.

We pick up right where we left off, while simultaneously, the double that swapped places with me activates mind links with my two other doubles, and a mass farming expedition begins.

I just absorbed a large amount of mana from the densest part of the Vice Region.

Over time, the natural ambient mana will gradually seep back into the affected area, a lot of the public transport, lighting, and protective shielding of the dungeon hub won't just be fixed overnight.

This is why I've tasked my doubles, and now every available member of the Crimson Army, to help me farm pure mana as quickly as possible.

In a matter of minutes, I've organized a well-oiled machine, funneling vast amounts of mana crystals from all the rogue dungeons I have access to throughout the Dark Continent and the 8 Great Regions, farming millions of MP every minute.

Though it would take years at this rate to gather enough mana to restore the entire Vice Region to its former state, that isn't my goal.

The first thing I restore using my craftsmanship interface and my new imbuement skill is the power to the crosswalks and train systems, returning them to their former working state.

This simple fix alleviates the overall panic among the general public, and the Association workers on duty can more easily manage the civilians.

Next, I imbue the entire dungeon hub's shielding system with just enough mana to ensure that basic E and D-grade breaches won't allow monsters to spew into the streets.

I focus on the most volatile dungeons, reinforcing their shields with C and B-grade mana supplies, but it takes millions of MP just to complete a small section of shielding at this level, so I limit these high-priority areas.

To ensure I haven't accidentally liquidated the assets of all the smaller merchants in town, I discreetly drop off a few hundred thousand MP worth of mana crystals at each stall, using my stealth skill to remain unnoticed.

The larger institutions, guilds, and the Association itself likely stockpile their wealth in gold and real estate. They can handle the short term minor losses, and they can be reimbursed later by filing claims with the Association headquarters. Since I'm in charge now, it'll be sorted out after the emergency passes.

However, some smaller merchants likely hold a significant portion of their wealth in pure mana, and a few days without it could be detrimental to their families or livelihoods. I don't mind playing it safe and giving them extra now, even if they didn't lose as much as I'm gifting.

One of my doubles even heads to smaller neighboring towns and villages caught in the plundered radius and does the same.

In less than half an hour, the entire affected area of the Vice Region is stabilized, and a larger catastrophe has been averted.

Meanwhile, in my main body, I've wrapped up my meeting with Bri and Rodrigo beneath the Apex Region.

I stand up from the table we've been sitting around and nod.

"Good. You'll send out a transmission later tonight once the commotion from today's surges dies down. I want a meeting here with all registered B and A-class hunters in the 8 Great Regions. Make sure all the Regional Directors attend as well. As the new stand-in for Mr. Freeman, I'll be announcing our official trade partnership with the Flame Emperor. The 8 Great Regions and the Dark Continent will soon merge as one."

Bri finishes calculating the numbers and the estimated profit increase we'll make by controlling the Apex Region's funds and power over the other 7 regions.

Stacks of papers now tally the new demand for gear and items necessary to run this entire branch of the Association.

While much of the crafting and manufacturing is done in-house here in the Apex Region, we'll gradually replace every worker with our loyal craftsmen—citizens of the Crimson City.

New access to the thousands of dungeons across the nation will lead to far more gear and potion crafting options, and, of course, the labyrinth one floor below us.

Rodrigo taps away on his silver tablet, organizing a lot of the information discussed today on a private database. He types up drafts for the transmissions he'll send to many hunters and higher-ups later tonight to begin scheduling a meeting where I'll officially take over the Apex Region Director's identity and establish the new rules for this soon-to-be dual nation kingdom.

While everything seems to be coming together perfectly, and today's events have been contained and stabilized completely, an odd sensation tickles the back of my mind.

I don't mention it as I turn toward the door to leave, sure that neither of the others in the room can sense what I'm feeling.

It's that same peculiar well of gravity pulsing in the back of my mind. Two of them, actually...

The signal is far to the west, and the pulsing is incredibly weak.

It's so faint that, if I wasn't at full health and strength after hibernating in the Vice Region, I don't think I would've noticed it at all.

One is very familiar—it's Raven's. The other is one I've never felt before, and it's incredibly powerful. I'm certain it's another True Core...

—

Just minutes ago, as my doubles were restoring the city I had drained of mana and my meeting concluded, Raven watches the two white doors of a desolate mansion in the dark jungle region swing open.

She takes a few dozen steps up the pristine white stairs until she finally reaches the entrance, where the 20-meter-high doors come to a halt, leaving the large mansion's entrance hall exposed.

Inside, countless art pieces, seemingly crafted from the same glossy white material, line the outer edges of the room.

Enormous High Orcs, Evolved Yetis, Lizardmen, and various types of golems and humanoid monsters like Berserker Giants and unique species stand along the walls.

Some hold weapons, others wear armor, and a few are displayed on pedestals and wall mounts.

Hundreds of lifelike monsters fill this mysterious mansion as Raven steps inside and walks down the ominously quiet hall.

She calls out confidently, her voice echoing down the long corridor.

"I've got what you asked for—the Dragon from the Apex Region. Now pay me what's mine."

She doesn't slow her pace, and the mansion remains eerily silent despite its doors having opened just moments ago.

There's not a single sound—not even the buzz of insects or the calls of animals from the dense jungle surrounding this place.

It's as if all the wildlife knows to steer clear of the pristine palace guarded by marble-white statue sentinels.

As Raven makes her way about 30 meters inside, the faint sound of heavy breathing breaks the silence. It's the same rhythmic noise she heard over the transmission device long before her battle in the desert.

She speaks again, pulling out the item box from her waist as she approaches two massive winding staircases that ascend on both sides of the hall.

"It's right here. Hand over the payment, and I'll be on my way—"

Before she can finish, a piercing ringing echoes in her ears, and she violently coughs up blood onto the pristine white floor of the mansion.

Gritting her teeth, Raven ignores the pain, holding up the item box and waiting for a response.

The heavy breathing halts a moment later, and the yellow light of another True Core flares up from the back of the second floor above.

Hundreds of thin white threads, imbued with silky smooth, barely visible yellow divine energy, burst from above and curve down toward Raven.

She doesn't flinch, and, as a result, the microscopic threads stop right in front of her, consolidating into a single white strand that snatches the item box from her hand.

Common sense would dictate that as the threads merge, they'd become thicker, but the single thread remains just as thin as before.

Without enhanced senses or perception stats of at least a level 5000 hunter, and a True Core's enhancement, it would appear as if the item box floated out of Raven's hand on its own and disappeared into the second floor.

A trickle of blood drips from Raven's nose, and the hundreds of internal wounds across her body burn with an intensity that makes her wince.

At the same time, a silver containment case, held up by a nearly invisible white thread, floats down from the balcony above.

It halts as Raven lifts her hands to accept it, the bright yellow divine fragments clearly visible through the transparent top. She nods and places the case into another small item box on her waist.

As the single thread splits into hundreds and spirals back up into the top floor, an eccentric voice echoes through the mansion.

"How about the Flame Emperor? I wanted him alive too—a rogue force that pushed the 8 Great Regions to collapse right before the awakening of the throne. Now that would be quite the piece for my new collection."

His tone wavers unpredictably, mispronouncing words in a way that is deeply unsettling.

Raven shakes her head, coughing up more blood.

"It was too risky to try and capture him alive... As you can see, he did a number on me..."

Another pool of crimson liquid stains the pristine white floor as she walks away, speaking again.

"You got what you wanted. I'm not here to catch up. I need to heal for the upcoming battle. Our pact of immunity will soon be over, and I need to be ready."

She takes a few steps, but the threads from the second floor hover, poised as if to attack.

The man's voice echoes once more, and the bright yellow glow of his True Core flares from above.

"You're right... our alliance will be ending. But even so... You can't leave so soon... I must know what happened today. Tell me your side of the story—the one who saved us from the Flame Emperor's evil reign."

He pauses for a few seconds, thinking to himself, then his tone becomes even more erratic tinged with madness.

"The invisible fighter who still bleeds crimson blood like us. Raven, the savior of the Order. The valiant warrior who defended those who sacrificed their entire lives in search of the Originators offering. Yes... this is it. This is even better than having the Flame Emperor himself. Your scars tell an even more magnificent story. I've just found inspiration for my next masterpiece."

The man's tone wavers even more, and the laugh of an insane artist gets louder and louder while his yellow core illuminates the mansion.

Lining the walls of the top floor above the entrance hall, dozens of human statues are displayed.

Hunters holding swords and shields, old and young, in all kinds of styles that look like they're from recent times and others that look like they're from decades ago.

The hundreds of shimmering threads dive toward Raven, and, in response, she draws two silver blades. Her own True Core shines brightly, and the hundreds of internal wounds across her body pulse with the same dense yellow light.
