There were no monsters immediately visible, so he hopped out onto the floor and darted along the path he had picked out, carefully avoiding splinters and shards of bone and the various skitterers and worms which failed to scurry away on account of not being able to see or hear him.

The lingering stench of the vile Spitter Drones hung over the dusty dry crypt-like smell of old bone – stronger down here than on the level above. He took his time, shadowing the outer wall and making a full circuit along the perimeter of the floor, marking only a single remaining group of monsters.

Kobolds only. He carefully noted their classes and levels. Easy enough. Too quiet down here. Sure gives me the creeps – I haven’t missed anything, have I?

No. The challenge would come on the stairs. He would need to outrun them while avoiding alerting the giant Skeletal Wyvern lurking in the depths. He nocked an arrow and carefully drew his bow till the taut string pressed up against his cheek. He sighted down the shaft towards a Kobold Acolyte with prominent white horns and imbued his arrow with Increased Range and Light Damage withholding the completion of his damage enchantment on the cusp of release.

He fired.

The arrow sped away into the darkness; its target remaining completely unaware of its presence. About two-thirds of the way into its brief journey, Calen released his magic and a brief, brilliant flare shone out in the darkness before the arrow buried itself in the Kobold’s left shoulder – a perfect shot. The entire camp erupted into a frenzy of scrambling, screeching, and chirping calls as they leapt up and charged him.

Now comes the hard part. Calen had broken his stealth with that attack, and he ceased spending resources to power Eclipse and Explorer, knowing there was no way he could regain stealth with that many eyes glued to his back. Besides, he needed them to chase him to the top. He sprinted for the landing, anxiously straining all his senses for any signs of the wyvern’s fury.

They better not wake him up, he thought, glancing back at the screeching Kobolds hot on his heels. He took the stairs at speed, heedless of the lack of railing and the uneven steps. Up and up, he ran with the Kobolds in tow, careful not to outrun them by too much. Thankfully, there was no stone-splitting roar and he hit the top landing at a sprint and rushed past Mato.

“Kobolds only, two healers, three archers, and three warriors,” he announced as he ran by. Immediately, he summoned a couple of Motes of Light to hover above the landing to ensure there were no surprises with stealth, and that Mato and Malika would be able to see.

Metallic clinking sounds heralded the appearance of several steel totems on the stairs near the landing, spraying pulsing circles of lightning magic as the Kobolds reached the top. Mato roared and charged, slamming into the pack with a giant crash, his brand-new banded armor gleaming darkly by the light of the floating orbs. When Mato backed out, slowly retreating toward the green-glowing runic circle, the three warrior Kobolds were stuck with him like glue, along with a stream of arrows from the archers.

Six Kobolds on Mato. Calen was worried until he saw the soft yellow gleaming scales of Ali’s white-robed Acolytes waving their hands from back behind some shelves, already hard at work. Swords and arrows bit into Mato’s hide with splashes of blood, but the wounds closed as fast as the Kobolds dished them out.

“Healer on the left,” Calen said, aiming and firing. “The one with the arrow sticking out of her shoulder.”

“Gotcha,” Malika said, diving into the fray.

“Ok,” Ali added.

The landing lit up with the crackle of lightning and the red flames of firebolts as Ali’s minions focused on the Acolyte. The Kobold stumbled, staggered by the heavy impact of fire and punches, and the bolts and arrows raining down upon it.

“Switch to the other Acolyte as soon as it dies,” Calen said.

But right as the Acolyte seemed about to drop, a bright yellow-white pillar of light erupted from its body, pulsing with potent visible magic as its wounds all but vanished. Calen’s eyebrows nearly climbed off the top of his head as the tiny Kobold outhealed their entire combined firepower for a full thirty seconds before the glow began to fade.

“What the heck was that?” Calen exclaimed.

“A lot of holy mana,” Ali said, grim-faced as she kept firing her bolts.

Calen redoubled his efforts, firing arrow after arrow at the Acolyte. Just as he thought it was done for the second time, the other Acolyte did the same thing, flaring with a brilliant pillar of holy magic. Again, no matter how much damage they dished out, the tenacious Kobold refused to falter.

“That is a ridiculous skill,” Calen said. It must be some kind of temporary healing power boost that had a short duration and a long recharge.

As the glow finally faded from the second healer, their onslaught rapidly began to take its toll on the previously pristine Kobold. Bone armor ridges shattered, and smoke drifted from cauterized wounds. Even those wounds were still slowly closing when the Kobold finally dropped to the ground.

Wow. Unbelievable. Fortunately, the Kobolds were down to one healer now, and there was no reappearance of whatever powerful skill that was. It still took nearly a dozen arrows before the second Acolyte collapsed.

“This one next,” Calen said, using his Light Damage enchantment as a tracer to pick out an archer in the back dodging Lightning Novas while trying to shoot Mato. While he fired his arrows, he studied his enemies. All three of the Kobold archers were wielding bone bows made in a segmented design. He guessed it might offer a stronger draw. And the arrows they fired seemed to also be made from sharpened bone – something he hadn’t seen before. He moved on to the next archer, mentally noting that he should check their arrows after the fight to see if they were better than the ones he was using.

As soon as they dropped the last of the archers, Calen turned his attention to the warriors. Mato was constantly pulsing with healing magic still. There was a widening puddle of blood on the ground at his feet, but the combination of the Acolytes and his own healing magic left him almost uninjured. I hope Ali’s Kobolds have that crazy healing powerup too, he thought, curious to see what they might be capable of during the big battle to come.

While the others recovered their mana, Calen headed out once again. This time, he headed straight to the bottom floor.

Calen stepped off the bottom landing into an alien world. The reek of death and bone dust filled his nostrils and he swallowed to prevent the cough that threatened to explode from his lungs. The ground floor of the library was so densely encased in bone spines and ridges that it looked like a cavern of gray rock. There wasn’t even a single piece of stone showing, or a recognizable shape. The ceiling was covered with ridges and spines that jutted out in all directions. Bone worms crawled over everything. Even the crunching noise was far louder. He glanced towards the center of the library where he found a towering spire of bone reaching up from the floor in the center of the atrium, crawling with bone worms. Coiled around the spire was the Skeletal Wyvern.

His scalp crawled. Damn, that thing’s no less ugly than I remembered.

Skeletal Wyvern – Undead Dragon – level ??[Explorer]Category: Dungeon BossThreat Level: RaidMonster Type: Undead DragonDamage: Physical, Bone

Making sure to move with utmost silence, Calen headed straight for the outer perimeter wall and then carefully scouted the entire floor, keeping himself as far from the center and the wyvern as he could. There were only three groups of monsters, but one of them had four Piercer Scorpions. Those will be last, he thought, selecting a closer group for his first target. Let’s see how asleep that heap of animated bones really is.

He picked out his path and fired, drawing the Kobold group towards the outer edge of the giant circular floor. He wanted their chirping as far as possible from the wyvern. Keeping to the outer edge of the floor, he led the Kobolds on a long chase around a quarter of the circumference before he reached the closest point to the stairs. He fired another arrow, which bounced off a Kobold’s sword, and sprinted inward heading for the landing. He held his breath, taking the stairs two at a time as the Kobolds raced up after him. He didn’t breathe until he was halfway past the second floor. At least the foul odor of undeath was somewhat diminished as he drew further from the depths.

The battle up top went much the same way as the first one, if just a little bit better as they got used to the space and the capabilities of these particular groups. Once they were done, Calen retrieved the second to last group, and they were equally easily dispatched.

“The final group is four Piercer Scorpions,” Calen told the others. “Perhaps we should practice our strategy for the wyvern fight?”

“That’s a good idea,” Malika said.

“I need a few minutes to inscribe the remaining runic circles,” Ali said from where she was finishing cleaning up the corpses.

While Ali worked, they all spent the time discussing the finer points of the strategy – more as a refresher than anything else. After all, they all knew the plan. The restoration circle was already inscribed, visible only by a faint greenish hue wafting above the ground where they planned to have Mato tank the Piercer Scorpions. Ali had thoughtfully outlined it with some chalk marks on the stone to make it easier to find. It had been carefully placed with the massive wall between it and the atrium where the Skeletal Wyvern would be flying. Ali placed two further Inspiration circles far enough away that whoever was standing in them wouldn’t get hit by a stray scorpion strike, but also protected from the wyvern’s breath by the wall. Calen carefully marked the locations of the two circles by the soft bluish light. While they intended to use them for the healers, he decided it would be smart to know where they were just in case.

Once the circles were complete, Calen dismissed his lights, leaving the battlefield lit only by the glow of Ali’s runic magic. In stealth and silence, he descended to the bottom floor, once again holding his breath as he snuck past the dormant wyvern.

He carefully approached the last group of monsters on the floor. Four Piercer Scorpions stood about in a huddle, absolutely motionless next to a giant wall of bone. This needs to be perfect. The scorpions were incredibly fast, and he didn’t want to be caught by them on the stairs. He nocked an arrow and drew, standing at the maximum of his extended range.

Moment of truth. He breathed out and held it, aiming with his utmost focus. He released the arrow. As soon as he released his light magic, he spun on his heel and sprinted for the landing. He didn’t even wait to see if his arrow had reached its mark, the shaking of the ground was more than sufficient to tell him everything he needed to know.

Calen flew up the stairs as fast as the wind, burning his stamina as he went, but he could feel the heavy bone creatures slowly gaining on him. By the time he reached the landing at the top floor, he could feel the wind of their spear strikes missing his back by inches. He hit the landing at a dead sprint, opening up over the flat ground, gaining maybe an inch or two on his pursuers.

“Run, Calen!” Ali screamed.

What do you think I’m doing? He charged straight for the green glow and slightly to Mato’s right, not stopping until he was ten feet past and heard the roar and crash behind him.

Glancing back, he found that Mato had expertly captured the full attention of all four monsters and Calen finally breathed a sigh of relief. That had been closer than he had expected. Far too close. I should see if Morwynne can craft run-speed potions for emergencies.

Calen didn’t bother to try shooting the scorpions, knowing that his arrows would be ineffective – and unnecessary in the main fight. He was far more interested in analyzing how the fight proceeded, because this would be the cornerstone of their strategy for the main battle. Mato had comfortably locked down all four monsters and was tanking inside the restoration circle. His body flickered and pulsed with the green restoration aura and the yellow-white healing from Ali’s Kobolds, each standing in one of the blue circles.

A soft series of metallic clinks echoed through the battlefield as the shamans deployed their totems. The arcing lightning of the nova pulses was placed accurately enough to hit the bone scorpions but avoid Mato. Calen didn’t know if this was Ali’s doing or if the shamans had done that on their own, but the totems looked very effective for this part of the battle.

“Ok Ali, go,” he said.

Ali frowned, clearly still unhappy about this part of the strategy, but she executed it well. Four Fireballs began to form in a timed sequence, one in front of each mage. Three near-simultaneous Lightning Bolts etched their brilliance into his retinas while the thunderclaps deafened him. The bolts struck clean through all four scorpions before the first fireball hurtled away. There was a deafening explosion of flame and Malika blurred towards Mato, healing him, and then she dodged away before the second fireball exploded. A yellow flash topped Mato up, followed by the third explosion. Another flash while pieces of bone armor began to fly. The fourth fireball finished it and all four scorpions shattered simultaneously, collapsing in a pile of smoking bone debris.

“That went well,” Mato said, shifting back to his normal form. “Never went below half.”

“You smell half-cooked,” Ali retorted.

“Especially the armpits,” Malika added, wrinkling her nose.

“Seriously? This healing circle is only half-baked if it doesn’t soap and style my hair, too,” Mato chuckled. “Come on, Ali. I have a long list of requirements.”

“Let’s take a quick break,” Calen suggested with a wry grin, sitting down and consulting his notifications. For what was coming next, he would need every advantage he could get. He scrolled through a ton of notifications from the earlier fights, coming at last to the final few.

Your group has defeated Piercer Scorpion – Elemental – level 26-29 x4.Archer of Light has reached level 18 (+2).+20 attribute points.Radiant Archery has reached level 12.Arrows of Brilliance has reached level 13 (+2).Motes of Light has reached level 7.Explorer has reached level 14 (+2).Blessing of the Dawn has reached level 11.Eclipse has reached level 12 (+3).Eyes of the Archon has reached level 11 (+3).Cartography has reached level 5.

