Eclipse and Eyes of the Archon were leveling rapidly on this dark battlefield. He spent some time analyzing the changes, taking down a few notes in his notebook. Calen distributed most of his attribute points among dexterity and intelligence while he waited for Ali and her minions to finish regenerating. It was good progress, and the extra attribute points would come in handy for the fight with the Skeletal Wyvern. Still, what he wouldn’t have given to see his Class reach level twenty for this fight… but he had to be patient.

Once everyone was set, he calmly got up and announced, “Ok, getting the wyvern.” Inside, however, his heart was racing, both with excitement and nervousness. On one hand, he felt he had been born for this role – setting out alone into the darkness, scouting the unknown, and finding and defeating the denizens of terrifying dungeons. A true explorer, a pathfinder. On the other hand, it was an undead Skeletal Wyvern, probably close to twice his level and commanding terrifyingly powerful bone magic. And, even if just for a bit, he would be confronting it alone.

I just have to lure it up the stairs, he reminded himself. They’ll all be waiting to help me at the top. He activated his Eclipse skill and descended the stairwell one more time, wishing it wasn’t quite so long.

Time to pick a fight.

***

Name: Calen AveryRace: Half-ElfActive Buffs: Blessing of the DawnClass: Archer of Light – level 18- Radiant Archery – level 12- Arrows of Brilliance – level 13- Motes of Light – level 7- Explorer – level 14- Blessing of the Dawn – level 11- Eclipse – level 12- Eyes of the Archon – level 11- [Locked]- [Locked]- [Locked]General Skills- Bowcraft – level 6- Wood Carving – level 3- Cartography – level 5Aptitudes- Languages: Common- Mana (Affinity): Light- Perceptive (Racial): +11 to Perception- Quick (Racial): +5 to Dexterity- Timing (Class): You have an innate sense of timingAttributes- Vitality: 24- Strength: 9- Endurance: 17- Dexterity: 131 (+47)- Perception: 86 (+31)- Intelligence: 84 (+30)- Wisdom: 23Equipment- Weapon: Hunter's Bow – level 10- Body: Leather Vest – level 10- Ring: Bronze Guild Ring – level 10Evasion: 120Dodge: 19.23%Health: 240/240Stamina: 170/170Mana: 184/230 (46 Reserved)
