It was another famous ability of True Dragons that Jake hadn’t even been sure Yrelstromoz was capable of. She was using Words of Power, amplified by a potent skill known as Draconic Language that he knew many True Dragons had, though it wasn’t actually all of them. It was said to require a powerful mind and will to use the Draconic Language skill, so for Yrelstromoz to be capable of displaying it with such might… something in her mentality had definitely shifted.

One other thing was also certain: she was no longer apprehensive about using magic.

After dodging out of the impending tomb of stone, Jake had to dodge another cutting laser he felt would be a terrible thing to get hit by. Returning fire, Jake released several arrows that curved in unpredictable patterns, forcing Yrelstromoz to block them with barriers of her own.

He also saw now that she had started healing some of her wounds, primarily the ones that led to gaps in her scales, something Jake had gladly taken advantage of before she had her mental awakening.

The entire battle had shifted in an instant, but some things hadn’t changed. Yrelstromoz had still taken noticeable damage, but perhaps most importantly, she had a lot of Dragonsbane Poison in her system. Too much for her to feasibly cure herself of.

Jake knew it, and from the looks of it, so did she. They also both knew that without liberal usage of mana, which would result in the Mana Allergy effect, she didn’t stand a chance. Her only choice was to simply soldier through the damage and hope her magic would do more to Jake than she did to herself.

As for actually getting rid of the poison, Jake believed they had both reached the same conclusion once again. While she couldn’t heal it away, one surefire way to weaken the poison was to kill the person who had inflicted it. With his death, she would also be allowed to enter meditation and allow the poison to go away on its own over time.

Their thoughts aligned, Jake met the eyes of Yrelstromoz again. Their common conclusion was clear: she would have to kill Jake before the Dragonsbane killed her, while Jake had to do everything to hasten her death before he found himself overwhelmed by her magic.

A scenario that seemed to favor Jake significantly… but as he felt the mana for thousands of kilometers in all directions resonate with the True Dragon’s authority over magic, and watched the sky be filled with a hundred thousand glowing orbs of light, it quickly became clear this most certainly wouldn’t be an easy task.
