The Heavens roiled as dark clouds gathered overhead, heralding doom and despair for the Empire below.

From the bay of Suihua adjoining the Azure Sea, to the sandy dunes of Kangbashi alongside the Arid Wastes, the ponderous storm plunged this thousand-kilometre stretch into murky darkness. Day turned to night as man and beast scurried to find cover before the skies unleashed their wrath, but the new Western Wall was spared its fury as the storm proceeded ever westward. In Suihua, the self-proclaimed King of Bandits, Huanhuzi himself, breathed a sigh of relief, for there was no shelter to be had out on the open seas. Flying his signature axe-and-cutlass flag, his fleet finished burning and razing SuiHua Harbour before slipping away once the Bloody Fanged Wolf Baatar came in sight. Were they to meet on the open field, this valiant army of heroes could have easily swept Huanhuzi’s forces aside, but the dastardly bandit would not stand and fight. Instead, he took full advantage of his pirate fleet’s speed and mobility to travel up and down the coastline, striking down retreating supply ships and rallying naval forces before they could present a threat.

To the south and west, Castle Wulin sat besieged by the once celebrated Imperial Hero, Mataram YuChun of the Ten Thousand Spears. The storm had yet to reach them, but the fate of the Imperial defenders looked dire indeed, for the canny traitor’s forces had encircled the castle from all sides. Though no famed Siegebreaker like his peer and rival Gao Changgong, the Mataram Heir was every bit as effective at bringing down the sturdy steel gate, unleashing a flurry of thrusts to single-handedly open a way into the castle, wherein he slaughtered any and all who stood in his path. Reinforcements led by Southern Major General Patcha Tong had already returned to offer aid, but they were unable to break through the overwhelming military force standing in their way, one consisting of a quarter-million Mataram Clan soldiers.

Meaning every last man, woman, and child of this famed family, one which bore the blood and namesake of kings long past and given rise to countless celebrated Imperial Heroes throughout history, had joined hands to turn their backs on not only the Empire, but the Heavens themselves.

Yet dire as the situation was in SuiHua and Wulin, it was on the open fields of Central where the pivotal conflict took place, with Legate Falling Rain’s forces coming under heavy attack from traitor Bai Qi’s army of armoured Defiled and Demons. Here, the storm clouds gathered overhead as the Mother Herself made Her presence known, bestowing Insight and Inspiration upon Her children whilst readying to unleash holy retribution against any who dared to strike down Her Chosen Son, but the Legate was never one to rely upon Divine intervention. All his carefully laid plans came into fruition as the three Colonel Generals of Central convened to deal with their traitorous peer, while leading a reinforcing army of Imperial heroes into position to slaughter the invading Defiled.

All made possible by the will and foresight of Falling Rain, for though the day is always darkest before dawn, a single ray of sunshine is all that is needed to banish the encroaching darkness.

– An excerpt from ‘Darkest Before Dawn, a saga of Falling Rain’, as written by Han BoShui

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The incoming reinforcements were a welcome sight, but Zian knew the battle was not yet won.

“With me!” he called, raising a single sabre high because lifting both would be a waste of stamina. “Death to the Defiled!” Throwing himself into the fray once more, he put his burning lungs and aching arms out of mind to focus on the battle and nothing more, his sabres whirling as he once again desperately fought his way to the front. Uncle Yang was out there somewhere and Zian needed to find him, for the battlefield was abuzz with news of Akanai’s astonishing duel against Gongsun Qi. Some whispers claimed Akanai was dead, and others swore she still lived, but there was no consistency regarding how the battle ended. Gongsun Qi beat her down with laughable ease, Akanai wounded the Lord of Martial Peace at great cost to herself, the Heavens themselves struck down the Defiled General and Akanai was caught in the blast, Zian suspected none of these rumours were true and that their exchange had ended without a clear victor. All he knew was that someone had interfered, and judging from what he’d read in BoShui’s atrocious publications, Zian would put good coin on that someone being Rain’s Mother, the fearsome Dragon Lady Sarnai. He also believed that so many soldiers could not be mistaken about Akanai taking injury, but he suspected she still drew breath since Rain had yet to take personal action.

What he couldn’t believe, and prayed was not in fact true, was the rumours of how Situ Jia Yang had taken the fight to Gongsun Qi, because regardless of whatever vast improvements he might have made, Zian feared his uncle no match for the Prince of Barbarity.

Aiming a sweeping cut at the closest Defiled neck, Zian grimaced and cursed as his sabre caught the edge of his foe’s Runic helmet. Were he fresh and rested, he would never have made this mistake, but even if he had, recovering would have been easy as turning a hand. Now, after hours of fighting with minimal rest, he was barely able to keep hold of his weapon in the wake of this jarring impact, much less recover in time to avoid injury. Utilizing Balance on Windy Leaf to sway back, he felt his foe’s spear brush across his nose and almost collapsed into the dirt from surprise, but Junyi offered a helping hand from behind and pushed him back to his feet, simultaneously cutting down the offending Defiled in the process. “Step back, young master,” he wheezed, still stubbornly clinging to Jukai’s form of address alongside the rest of Zian’s father’s comrades. “Rest a spell while we handle this lot.”

Never mind that Junyi was nearing sixty and had fought alongside Zian every step of the way, no Peak Expert to be sure, but an accomplished Warrior nonetheless. A brood of clucking hens they’d become, Junyi and all the rest, nagging and coddling him something fierce ever since Jing Fei’s pregnancy became apparent. As much as he wanted to stubbornly ignore the advice and keep fighting, he had no choice but to admit the veteran spoke sense. Though talented to the extreme, Zian’s training left much to be desired in that he rarely pushed himself to his limits. While natural skill propelled him to the forefront of his peers, he was no match for those fanatics who abused their bodies on a daily basis in the name of supposed training, but Zian knew the truth. Warriors like that, the Falling Rains, Tam Taewoongs, and Rustrams of the world were all stark raving mad and masochists to boot, so Zian would be a fool to try and match up.

Taking a step back to catch his breath and survey the proceedings, he shook his head at the sheer madness of it all. Rain had somehow snatched victory from the jaws of defeat, because even with three Colonel Generals working in perfect coordination, it was simply impossible for them to have gotten so many troops in the field if they only started their work after Gongsun Qi revealed his hand. They must have emptied the Citadel of soldiers, wagons, and horses to bring an army of this size, one which had no doubt been ready and waiting all morning on the off-chance something should go wrong. A good thing too, for now that they were here, the Enemy’s fate was sealed, but still the Defiled fought on, heedless of their inevitable deaths or the deafening happenings going on as the Colonel Generals unleashed hell upon the Enemy lines.

Oh how Zian wished he could watch those Warriors at work, three men standing at the pinnacle of human strength. Seeing Akanai fight had been an eye-opening experience, her Movements so natural yet elegant, straightforward yet sublime, a dance of death set to the tune of her own intent. Each strike was the culmination of hundreds of seemingly insignificant details which, when put together, formed an imposing and ingenious strike, while Gongsun Qi’s responses were no less accomplished. The grip on her halberd, the set of her shoulders, the point of her feet, and the wind in her hair, all these and more affected how Akanai chose to attack, and Gongsun Qi read these signs and developed a suitable response in kind. Then they did it again, and again, and again, dozens of times in the blink of an eye before finally breaking away. To the layman, it appeared as if Akanai lost every trade when she was sent flying back into the crowd, but Zian suspected her ignominious exit was more of a hasty, but effective retreat, rather than the result of anything Gongsun Qi himself did. Better to keep Akanai close so his hidden Demons and Wraiths could lend aid, but the beautiful and cunning leader of the Bekhai left them no opening to strike.

Honestly, Zian was starting to see why BoShui and Rain were so enamoured by the blond, buxom beauty...

Alas, only Mitsue Juichi’s actions were visible from Zian’s location, but only because it was difficult to miss all the ground-shattering showers of dirt and blood. In response, scattered groups of Defiled were retreating from the battle, and his spirits lifted at the prospect of victory and rest, but again, his work was not yet done. The Defiled had a long retreat ahead of them, and with their cavalry already streaming off into the distance, this meant the Imperial infantry would likely be called upon to chase down their Defiled counterparts. Assuming they ever broke and ran of course, since the majority of the Defiled army fought on without a care for their own survival. It was one thing to talk about the Enemy’s crazed dedication to death and destruction, but another altogether to see it in action. Despite their human forms, they seemed both less and more in so many ways, monsters clad in human flesh who fought for the sake of fighting.

Was there any chance of ultimate victory, or was the Empire simply going through the motions of this eternal war, year after year and decade after decade?

This was the world he sought to bring life into, a bleak and desolate existence steeped in constant chaos and bloodshed. Zian had talent beyond compare, and even he had issues adapting, so what would happen to his son or daughter if they were any less talented than he? Could he teach his child to fight? Could he protect them if they failed to Form a Core? What did he know of parenting? What wisdom did he have to offer to a mortal? And as much as he loved Jing Fei, he would be lying if he claimed he was wholly confident in her parenting abilities. If he needed advice on politics, poisons, or even a suitable sparring partner, there was no one better to turn to, but how would she fare as a mother to their children? The cold hard truth was that Zian’s beautiful wife was rather eccentric and could be cold and distant even at the best of times. While he knew how to best ignite her passions, how would their children fare with her? Would they see her as Zian saw his mother, as loving and protective but admittedly cold and controlling? Was that the sort of woman he wanted to help raise his children?

No parents are perfect, but love is all you really need. So long as you have love and share it, then half the battle is already won. As for the rest? You’ll probably pick it up as you go. You’re Lu Jia Zian, super genius.

Back straightening as his burdens fell away, Zian felt curiously better thanks to the reminder of his natural talents, though he must’ve been more tired than he thought if his internal voice was starting to sound like Rain. Regardless, he knew he would do whatever was needed to ensure his child grew up safe and loved, so the rest would simply fall into place, or he would use all the power and influence at his disposal to make it so. However, if he wanted his child to grow up in a world without Defiled, then he would simply have to work harder and kill them all before his son or daughter was born. Simple as that.

How strange. He had yet to even meet this child, a person who was still little more than a concept or idea, yet already he was willing to fight, kill, beg, and even die for them.

Rejuvenated from his short break, Zian dove back into battle before the cry even went out. “Demon!” a soldier called, and the cry was repeated by several others, all of whom were retreating away from the source of the warning. Not Zian though, for he knew there were few unoccupied Demon Slayers left to them, so he would simply have to step up. Angst and exhilaration warred within his chest as the field cleared and he caught a glimpse of his foe, for standing there was none other than the black-cloaked Demon which almost took Jukai’s life. Billowing out behind it was a cape of blades, twisting and writhing in a nonexistent breeze, only to shoot out and strike at the soldiers of Zian’s retinue. Dashing in with resolute purpose, he was given a first-hand glimpse at the cavernous gap which still existed between him and his deceased Mentor. Blocking the first three serpentine thrusts, the fourth slipped through his guard and punched him clean in the chest. Reeling from the attack, he counted seven more strikes before he finally got the timing right and started using his Domain to Deflect them away.

