It pained Baatar to admit it, but the Colonel General had erred greatly by not putting more thought into the naval defences. In his defence, Nian Zu was no sailor or admiral, more used to thinking in terms of static barriers and avenues of approach, and this dastardly Huanhuzi was infamous for his ability to circumnavigate said protections, but the loss of SuiHua harbour was a costly blow which the Empire could ill-afford. Upon seeing the trail of destruction left in the nautical bandit’s wake, Baatar considered sending word to Taduk so he could set the shrimp-guzzling turtle tyrant to work, but even Rain couldn’t control Pong Pong. Baatar slept better knowing the dangerous Divinity spent his days and nights out in the wilds, for one could hardly predict the moods of an all-powerful turtle, one so stealthy he’d all but given up trying to track his comings and goings.

Still, it rankled the nerves to ride overland while watching sails flit in and out of the horizon, the pirate ships keeping track of Baatar’s army as it navigated over the fathomless depths of the Azure Sea. Suicide to travel in such a manner, the experienced sailors all claimed, but Huanhuzi’s fleet did so easily enough, their ships untouched by the denizens of the deep and free to come and go as they pleased while their Imperial counterparts were unceremoniously sunk. Thrice now, the Imperial Fleet had attempted to chase Huanhuzi into deeper waters, and thrice they’d been attacked, first by sharks, then giant squids, and most recently a school of flying pike. Each time resulted in considerable casualties for the Imperials while the pirate ships escaped unscathed, which lent credence to the rumours of Huanhuzi’s boundless good fortune, as if blessed by the Mother Herself.

A theory which could now be discarded considering the bandit’s current allegiance...

A Sending arrived to inform him their forces were all in place, so Baatar silently heaved a sigh as he readied to put Rain’s plan into action. There was nothing wrong with the plan itself, and he was proud to see the boy come into his own, first as a warrior, then merchant, then politician, and now commander, but it seemed like some things would never change, for the boy once again forgot to take into account face. Not so terrible a sin in this case, as Baatar’s pride could survive the blow, but it was still a bitter pill to swallow.

Splitting his forces piecemeal, he dispatched them to carry out all manner of tasks, from fighting fires, searching for survivors, salvaging supplies, and clearing sunken hulls along the coastline. Minutes passed by, then hours as Baatar’s forces following the pirate fleet dwindled and shrank. After long, uncomfortable hours in the saddle, the opportunistic bandit finally felt safe enough to come out of hiding, and Baatar smiled as he watched the sails emerge from behind the horizon. Left with only a quarter of his original army, he set them into formation just outside the range of ship-mounted catapults and bolt-throwers before waiting for the bandit to disembark.

A cautious one, this half-badger Huanhuzi, but hardly surprising for someone who thrived for so many years in his trade. Bandits were a bold and daring lot, but there were few bandits who were both bold and old. Skirting over the shallows as they approached the coastline, the sleek pirate ships cut a graceful, ninety degree turn to head either east or west along the coastline, a maneuver which set the soldiers with nautical experience to whistling. In Baatar’s eyes, it was only mildly impressive, but he knew nothing of ships and did not care to learn. It was clear these actions were a feint however, hoping to uncover any waiting Imperial ships veiled by Concealment, either by accidental ramming, watching how the waves broke, or any other number of ways Baatar was not entirely familiar with. It’d all been part of a briefing regarding nautical defences, but since it was not his area of expertise, he trusted Nian Zu’s judgment and let it be.

Not Rain however, who pored over those documents and brought in numerous experts to help explain them. He must have come up with a dozen difference schemes before finally settling on this one, though part of it was because the others were too impractical to put to use.

Finding no hidden ships waiting to catch him off-guard, Huanhuzi finally felt confident enough to order his pirates to disembark, no doubt seeing this diminished reinforcing army as a juicy target of opportunity. That was the issue with bandits, no discipline whatsoever, since the smart thing to do was to sail away once the damage had already been done. Had Huanhuzi’s fleet stayed out over the sea depths, then there was little the Imperial forces could do to stop him, but the greedy bandit was not yet done and saw a good chance for some bloodletting.

The pirate fleet disembarked in record time and even fell into formation without too much of a fuss, leading Baatar to raise his opinion of the bandit a few notches. So perhaps it wasn’t a lack of discipline which drew him to attack, but rather the unquenchable bloodlust which came with turning Defiled, though there were enough pirates here to give even Baatar’s full army a good fight. Still, he never understood how anyone could be so foolish as to believe the Father’s foul lies, but Rain was most impressed by his ‘stubbornness’ and how there were only two Spectres around him at his lowest, when his beloved Sarnai almost seemed lost.

Baatar would walk his own path, and no one, not even a Deity on the level of the Father Himself, would sway him.

Ever the coward, Huanhuzi’s forces stayed close to their ships in case an Imperial fleet was on the way, so Baatar happily gave the order to march out. There were no words exchanged or duels offered, because he had no time for this nonsense. The sooner he did away with the pirate threat, the sooner he could ride to reinforce Brigadier Hongji’s army, though he feared the battle would be long over before he arrived. Still, as Mother liked to say, where there was life, there was hope, so Baatar hoped his family still had life yet.

Drawing his Crescent Moon bardiche, he raised it over head and almost lost his seat as his damnable horse reared up on its hind legs. Once it had all four hooves on the ground again, Baatar shouted, “Charge!”

And to their credit, his soldiers obeyed, despite facing a Defiled force which outnumbered them at least twelve to one. Had they stood in formation and weathered the charge, this bandit army could have torn Baatar’s soldiers to shreds, but as he bounced atop his hulking war horse, he saw the first signs of his ally’s efforts as chaos broke out from within the pirates’ ranks.

For their precious ships, anchored just off shore behind them promising refuge and safe escape, were now sinking into the shallows.

Baatar’s forces struck the Defiled lines like a hammer against soft tofu, but the Enemy had begun scattering before he even arrived, for a second Imperial force had emerged from the water and was screaming bloody murder to all who would hear it. Spilling out of their sealed submersibles, rounded vessels which looked none the worse for wear despite having almost made a full circuit of the Azure Sea, these warriors were a fearsome sight to behold in action. Dark scarves covered their heads and faces but left their eyes bared, eyes which burned with a holy fire yearning for blood and vengeance. Forming no ranks and charging out in all directions, they threw themselves upon the Defiled like starving wolves upon a herd of fat, unguarded sheep. Staves and hammers were their most common weapons of choice, heavy, ponderous armaments which they used to bash and bludgeon their foes to grisly death, an effective, but messy approach which soon made it difficult to distinguish the Imperials from Defiled at first glance. More than one newcomer was crying as they fought, spilling tears of anger and relief as they dispensed retribution upon the criminals who despoiled their homeland and drove them away, and Baatar’s heart swelled with pride for his most precious son, as none of this would have been possible if not for Rain.

The slaughter went on for another hour as the Defiled fought to the bitter end, as the Enemy was wont to do. Unfortunately, Huanhuzi escaped with his life intact, or rather never took part in the battle to begin with, his ship sailing due West with half his forces after the razing of SuiHua, just as Baatar would have in his place. Still, a great victory had been won here, and even though his damned horse survived the encounter, his spirits could not be dampened. Striding over to meet the commander who helped make this possible, he offered a Martial salute to the stalwart Great General, a hero who remained loyal while so many of his former comrades turned Defiled. “Well met. I am Baatar, Lieutenant General of the Empire and Warrior of the People.”

Tearing off his headscarf to reveal a face dripping with blood and water, the bald, dusky Warrior gave him a broad smile framing a set of shockingly white teeth before falling to one knee, and every soldier who arrived with him followed suit. “This grateful one be Gao Changgong, here to pay his respects to the Legate’s honoured father.” Raising his head to look around, he asked, “Is the Legate here? May the Mother bless his fortunes. This Gao desires to give thanks in person, for without the Legate’s mercy, every one of my comrades here and so many more citizens of the West would have been found and killed on the shores of the Azure Sea.”

So, another fervent devotee for little Rain, and a powerful one at that. Gao Changgong was a Major General and almost as strong as Baatar himself, strength they would need to keep the Western General safe in light of recent events. “My son is there,” Baatar said, pointing off into the distance at the roiling storm clouds. “Fighting against an army of Defiled on the open plains.” Readying his weapon to strike should Changgong show any sign of betrayal, he added, “An army led by the traitor, Gongsun Qi.”

Blinking once to take it all in, Gao Changgong nodded and corrected, “Better to call him Bai Qi then, the name the bloodthirsty bastard was born with. ‘Gongsun’ is the name he gave himself, a homonym for ‘Prince’ in order to mock those who called him the ‘Prince of Barbarity’, a title which barely touches upon the depths of his cruelty. Even before his betrayal, no true son or daughter of the West would have called that traitorous butcher ‘Prince’.” Eyes lighting up in eager impatience, he asked, “Have you wagons or horses enough for this Gao’s soldiers? Let us ride out in support of the Legate, may the Heavens bless his name.”

“Matters are not so simple.” Or so Rain said. “By Imperial Mandate, you and yours are technically marked for death, as the Western Province has long been contained and closed off.”

Anger smouldered in the large warrior’s eyes, and Baatar smiled to see it. “So?” Gao Changgong asked, as if this were of no concern. “The Legate has already saved this Gao’s people. Do you, his father, intend to correct his errors?”

Though ready to fight, the Western Warriors all remained on their knees, as did Gao Changgong, showing remarkable restraint considering the circumstances. Good, good, these soldiers were well disciplined and could hold their tempers. Not definitive proof they were unaffected by Spectres, but a good start. “No.” Locking the borders had been the height of Imperial foolishness, though Baatar suspected someone other than Shen ZhenWu had ordered it, for the Imperial Scion seemed far too savvy to make such an ill-advised mistake. “But we will have to tread lightly, lest your presence be used against us.”

“Bah.” Rolling his eyes, he said, “What presence? This one be Gao Liang, Warrior of the North, sworn to the Legate’s personal service. Not once has this Gao set foot in the Western Province, and a pox on any who claim otherwise.”

As if anyone would believe him, considering his clothes, complexion, manner of speech, and weapon of choice, a massive, weighty staff that could double as a lance, but it was enough for Rain’s sake, since none would dare say otherwise in order to give him face. It showed that the boy at least understood the concept of face however, which made this egregious slight all the more difficult for Baatar to swallow. Imagine what people would say once they learned that he, a Lieutenant General and the Legate’s own father, had been used as a mere distraction. Oh how they would laugh, but Rain insisted Baatar be present to better ‘sell the story’. “Don’t worry, I have other plans in place, and I’d rather you went along to take charge,” Rain said. “If one thing goes to shit, I always expect more to follow, because it never rains. It pours.”

Alas, events here went perfectly as planned, or as perfectly as they could considering the circumstances. Sighing as he once again took in the growing storm, he hoped things were going just as well with Rain, and somehow, almost knew they most certainly weren’t.

That was life with Falling Rain. Never a dull moment, and Baatar counted himself blessed for having such a wonderful son.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2 Created by SassyAsses and corrected by Drak on discord
