Ignoring the urge to rub his aching chest, he gave silent thanks to Mother for somehow acquiring yet another Runic breastplate, else his life would’ve been lost a dozen times over today, not including the eight close calls he just experienced. Bringing his blades about in a rotating ring of steel, he parried, blocked, dodged, and Deflected the Demon’s dagger-like appendages as best he could. It was easier now that it knew he wore Runic Armour, as its attacks were now focused on his face and lower body, but even then it took everything he had just to hold his ground. Jukai had made it look so easy as he weathered the storm of attacks, but with the Demon’s grotesque, furrowed face and glowing green eyes so close to Zian’s face, it took every scrap of concentration he had to keep his foe at bay.

Seeing his dilemma, his soldiers tried to lend aid and distract the Demon, but its attacks had remarkable range and were growing increasingly difficult to read. At times, it felt like each dagger-appendage had its own mind, and though Zian was more practised at composing his own deadly melodies, the multitude of piercing attacks set a tempo he could ill-afford to match, to say nothing of the katars fused onto the ends of its arms. How did Jukai do it? How about Uncle Yang? Dong Ping of the Twin Spears fought with a similar, defensive style, but try as he might, Zian could not piece together how any of these Peak Experts were able to implement such a dazzling and impenetrable defence. There was no time to react when fighting at these speeds, and any attempt to act would leave openings for his foe to exploit.

You have no time to react, but the same could be said for your foe, burdened as it is controlling so many appendages at once.

Insight struck and Zian put more thought into his haphazard defence, shifting his routine and rotation so that his parries and Deflections started directing the Demon’s appendages back towards it. Immediately rewarded for his actions, the flurry of attacks slowed as its appendages tangled and inhibited its actions, giving Zian much needed room to breathe and plan his next move.

Whirling ring of death and defence sounds nice and all, but your swords aren’t the only things that move. Did you not spend the last few months taking lessons from Vichear?

Pivoting aside to avoid a barrage of attacks, Zian stepped and spun while delivering two sabre strikes to the Demon’s leg. That was all he had time for before the storm of blades began anew, but under the melodic chiming of steel and fury, he found his rhythm once again. Turning on his heel, he spun and twirled about the Demon, striking it wherever he could, the creature a mere blur of colour as the world went round and round. Deflection kept him safe all the while, his Domain deployed to warn him of oncoming attacks, and somehow stretching far enough to allow him ample time to act. Only now did he notice the Energy of the Heavens surging through him, Balance found in the midst of battle as he fought this fearsome foe, the Mother Above lending aid to Her child in this time of desperate need.

Intelligible Insight seeped out of his mind, but the lessons remained behind. Just because Jukai stood firm in the face of these attacks, didn’t mean Zian himself had to as well, for he’d been trained differently from Twinned Dragon Jukai, Situ Jia Yang, Lu An Jing, or even Dong Ping of the Twinned Spears. Unlike those great heroes, Zian had also learned to dance from his beloved wife’s Mentor, and it was high time he put his efforts to good use.

Diagonal forward, then shuffle back, followed by a spin to the right, a routine which saw him past the Demon’s bladed appendages and under a back-handed swing. Chopping the Demon with both sabres as if wielding a pair of scissors, he left the blades embedded in armoured flesh as he danced and twisted about, deftly avoiding attacks through movement and positioning alone. The appendages were dangerous at range, but limited in use up close, which was where the katars came into play, but keeping track of two limbs was child’s play after the ordeal he just went through. Drawing back as if to retreat, he allowed himself a small smile as the Demon shifted forward to chase him, only to impale itself upon Zian’s sabres as he reversed his momentum once again.

This was where his dance differed from Ishin Ken-Shibu’s, and why he knew he would surpass the Painted Dancer in time. Ken-Shibu’s compositions largely comprised of him dancing alone, while a team of other dancers supported him, but Zian had learned to dance with a partner in mind, and he danced well. At the core of it, opera dancing shared many similarities with love-making, a subject he’d immersed himself in dedicated study for many, many years.

Making a note to thank Rang Min for helping him ‘fall into depravity’, Zian skipped out of range of the Demon and took stock of his work. Tattered and worn was the only way to describe it, the Demon’s form looking ragged and worse for wear, but far from its last breath. Aside from those last two thrusts, its injuries were largely superficial, though it’d lost enough Ichor to form a blackened ring in the dirt. How many more strikes would it take to kill the thing? Invigorating as it was to find such shocking success, Zian was almost entirely spent and no longer certain of victory. Chi he had a plenty, but this did nothing to steady his ragged breaths, his head light and arms heavy as he readied to trade blows yet again.

A light touch brushed against his neck, which by all rights should’ve had him on his guard once again, but instead, he involuntarily relaxed and leaned back into the previously unseen stranger. A fragrant scent cut through the stench of death and blood, a familiar smell of tea and roses which always accompanied his mother. There she stood on the field of battle, smiling as she stroked his cheek with the back of her hand. Most men would feel ashamed by this show of affection, but Zian was starved as it was when it came to his Mother, a cold, blunt woman even at the best of times. “Well done, my little dragon,” she said, her eyes scanning the armour she’d had Jing Fei bring to him. “You look a mess though, so go freshen up while Mother finishes up here.”

Opening his mouth to protest, his jaw dropped as he watched his weak, frail, dainty Mother stride headlong into the Demon’s storm of writhing blades. Not a single appendage touched her, but to his eyes, it almost looked like the Demon intentionally moved to avoid striking her with its blades, as if even a foul minion of the father couldn’t bear to harm a woman like Situ Jia Ying. Sensing the threat she presented, the Demon retreated in the blink of an eye, jumping through shadows faster than the eye could follow. Dressed in a fine silk gown, Mother moved without haste or exertion, yet somehow kept up with the Demon’s ground-shrinking steps, always only a single step away. There was no weapon in her upraised hand as they moved across the battlefield, but the Demon refused to attack her, its katars tucked away and bladed appendages waving wildly about despite her seemingly defenceless appearance.

And when she finally laid hand on the Demon, Zian understood why, for the creature simply crumbled to the ground in a lifeless heap, its body cracked, fractured, and steaming as the Ichor spilled out into the dirt around it. Mother was back at his side before he could even blink, and all he could do was gape like a fish on dry land. “How?” he began, before his brain thought better and asked, “What?”

“Your eloquence leaves much to be desired, oh cherished son of mine.” Smirking as Zian’s cheeks heated at Mother’s use of Jing Fei’s manner of address, she casually wiped her palm with a handkerchief before discarding it to the wind. One of the nearby soldiers caught it and secreted it away, and Zian noted the man’s face so they could have words later. “How do you think I caught your father’s attention in the first place? He was as much a playboy as you are, so my feminine wiles were of little use. I had to beat him silly before he took notice, and then I beat him some more to make sure he worked for it.” Shrugging, she added, “Until recently, it served my purposes to feign helplessness, but it wounds me to think even my own son doesn’t know me well enough to see through the charade.”

Still unable to formulate whole words, Zian stood in shock and let his mother shepherd him away, his retinue cheering her name as they finally fell back to rest and let the reinforcements take their place. Today was a day for many revelations, but he would have to ruminate on them later, for off in the distance, he heard a tumultuous din which drew his eye, only to find Mitsue Juichi and Gongsun Qi trading blows in the sky.

Now was the time to see how Akanai measured up compared to another Living Legend and Colonel General. Was Gongsun Qi ridiculously strong, or was she simply lacking compared to those standing upon the pinnacle? Zian eagerly watched and waited to find out.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Horses. Crafty, despicable, spiteful beasts, which Baatar loathed with all his heart.

Whoever designed these damnable saddles also deserved equal amounts of contempt, for they could only have been fashioned with ill-intent. A Defiled artisan, no doubt, one who delighted in conspiring to create the most uncomfortable manner of conveyance in existence, the soft leather no buffer from the ridged, rugged, steely spine underneath as the beast plodded along at a jarring, uneven pace. Then there were the stirrups, which forced him to either sit with legs spread and swinging at unnatural angles, or to continually exert downward pressure and bob with the rhythm of the beast. Maddeningly distracting, especially when he had other matters to focus on, so he forsook comfort and bounced along like a fat sack of rice atop the damnable horse’s back.

It wasn’t all the stupid stallion’s fault, a hulking warhorse that was remarkably well-trained and clearly as unhappy with his rider as Baatar was with his mount, palpable disdain oozing from its eyes as it periodically turned its gaze upon him. There was no helping it however, for Colonel General Nian Zu had said this must be done to make him seem like less of an outsider, and Baatar was nothing if not a good soldier. At least he could rest easy knowing Balor was watching over Sarnai, the fearsome quin a force to be reckoned with whose dense, indestructible fur rendered him nigh-invulnerable to all but the most powerful of blows. In contrast, this dumb horse wasn’t even a Spiritual Beast, despite costing a veritable fortune to acquire, and as far as he knew, there were no such tamed beasts in existence. Another point for the superiority of roosequins, a tally which he had long since lost count of, save to say that there was no future in which he would willingly pick a horse over a roosequin.

Growling in misery and frustration, he snarled as his beast flinched and tried to throw him off, but a squeeze of his calves took the fight out of it. Neighing in protest, it gave him a pitiful, pathetic stare in an effort to elicit sympathy, but Baatar was wise to its tricks. Only after it deigned to look away and lower its head did he release his clamped grip, the beast sputtering its lips in a mixture of relief and irritation. It’d already thrown him off once before, and he would not be shamed by it again, else he would be forced to take drastic measures and send it off to Charok to be butchered and roasted. Thanks to their newfangled love of cattle, Baatar’s entire family was slowly eliminating beef from their diet, and he was fast growing bored of mutton, pork, and poultry, so horse-flesh would make for a refreshing addition.

Better if the Royal Guardians could be convinced to part with a lion or three, whether it be to ride or eat, but even the boy couldn’t sway their minds, so Baatar was out of luck.

The boy. Turning his gaze southwest, his eyes lingered on the distant storm clouds which only recently passed overhead, and for a moment, he imagined they were converging over the boy’s head. A fanciful thought, considering even a Divinity would be hard pressed to call up a storm of this magnitude without warning, if not unable to do so at all. Manipulating weather was a tricky thing, or so he’d been told, but as his beloved rose would say, the sum total of his personal understanding wouldn’t fill a thimble. Suffice to say this sudden and seemingly unnatural storm could not be Rain’s work, nor could it be the doing of anyone short of a true Deity, one akin to the Mother or Father themselves.

And yet, Baatar’s unease would not go away. The boy was a constant source of joy, concern, and frustration. How was he doing out on the field of battle? Despite knowing the boy had power lurking beneath the surface, power he had yet to understand, Baatar worried for his silly, wayward son. It felt like a betrayal, leaving his family and friends to their own devices, but little Rain had planned for this and Baatar could do naught but follow them through. Technically, the boy hadn’t planned for this specific set of circumstances, wherein pirates led by a notorious bandit attacked and razed SuiHua harbour, but he did make contingencies for possible attacks by sea and by land, and events since then proved his precautions wise.

Though still not enough.

