“But you attacked him.”
She nodded.
“Because he killed Quietstab.”
Reiss stared at her. After a moment, he nodded uncertainly. Rags nodded as well, conscious of the eyes on her. That was all there was to it. He killed Quietstab and so he had to pay.
“You bloodied him. He won’t forgive that easily.”
“So?”
The question threw Reiss. He glanced at Tremborag’s tribe again and then at the Humans.
“So you can’t attack him. The Humans will force you to stop.”
“Stop? Why? This is not stopped. This is waiting.”
Rags glared at Reiss. He opened his mouth, flicking his eyes to her, then to Pyrite, Redscar, and the others. They all stared at him silently.
They weren’t going to stop. Not until Tremborag was dead. Why would they stop? He killed Quietstab. One Hob, yes. One Goblin. But he had been of Rags’ tribes. He had been her subordinate, her trusted aide and lieutenant, even if he wasn’t the greatest of them. He had been her friend. And he was dead. So she would kill Tremborag or die trying. It was as simple as that.
Her tribe understood all of this without Rags having to say it, but Reiss didn’t seem to. He opened his mouth again, and his black eyes fixed on Rags’ face.
“What will you do?”
“Keep marching, stupid.”
The answer made Reiss frown in vexation and Snapjaw grind her teeth, but Rags was in no mood to bandy words. She turned and pointed at Pyrite.
“Get wounded in wagons. Ready to march. Use healing potions on bad hurt—so not die. Not full heal. Get food and ready rear. We march fast, ahead of Mountain City tribe. Get more bolts for crossbows and get ready.”
Pyrite nodded.
“Another fight, Chieftain?”
“Not now. Tonight. He dies tonight.”
Reiss inhaled sharply. Rags ignored him. She looked around.
“Redscar, Pyrite, Noears. Can you win if fight?”
They hesitated. Poisonbite bristled, but Rags ignored her. Pyrite looked back at Tremborag. He shrugged.
“Probably not.”
“Chieftain Rags. Are you serious?”
Rags turned and stared at Reiss. The look in her eyes was all the answer she needed to give. She turned back.
“How many Hobs you need? Or Redfangs?”
Noears glanced at Redscar. The warrior was frowning and checking the edge of his blade. Noears shrugged.
“Lots. Tremborag is strong. Saw him kill six Hobs in a fight once. When he gets big, too strong? Need Pyrite to hit hard. Or Redscar stab in eyes?”
The mounted Goblin nodded.
“Good plan.”
Rags nodded slowly.
“Lots of Hobs, then. And get free of others. Poisonbite and I will hold off others. Have to kill fast. Surprise attack.”
“Chieftain Rags.”
She turned and glared at Reiss. He was staring at her.
“What?”
He hesitated. He looked so…surprised. Why? The instant Rags had known that Quietstab was dead and Tremborag was to blame, she had sworn to kill him. Why would she wait? For a better moment? For the right time? Those were Human ideas. Rags would kill Tremborag. And she wouldn’t stop. Ever.
Reiss finally understood that. Or he realized it was fruitless to argue. His eyes flickered as he stared at Rags’ tribe and then glanced at his lieutenants. Then he stared past Rags at a small group of a few thousand Goblins, who had watched the conflict without intervening.
Garen Redfang sat on his Carn Wolf, staring at Rags and Reiss. The Goblin Lord pointed at him.
“If you continue to fight, Garen will intervene.”
“Probably.”
Rags gritted her teeth. She was trying to figure out how to catch Tremborag off-guard tonight. Could it be tonight? Or did they have to wait until he’d lowered his guard somehow? His tribe would be on alert, but if she could figure out a way to poison their supplies or take them off-guard somehow—how could she slow Garen and keep him from intervening?
“If you plan to attack at night, you’d have to cut into Tremborag’s camp and attack him in the center of his warriors.”
“Only if I have stupid plan.”
Rags muttered under her breath. Reiss paused.
“If you need a distraction, I will help you. My warriors can attack Tremborag’s tribe from the side while yours cut in. I will help you kill Tremborag.”
The small Goblin froze in her saddle. Then she looked at Reiss and narrowed her eyes. The Goblin Lord met her gaze steadily, unblinking.
“Really?”
He nodded.
“Tremborag has no…he is not-Goblin. I will help you. I can stop Garen myself. As for Tremborag—I can lend you Eater of Spears and some of my best Hobs and the Draug I have remaining for the battle.”
Rags blinked. Eater of Spears and Hobs and Draug? She remembered some of the hulking undead she’d seen. If she had those—she glanced at Pyrite, who raised his eyebrows. Redscar was frowning, but Rags had mastered her face when she looked back at Reiss and nodded.
“Yes. Thank you. We will fight together.”
“Good. Tremborag must fall, after all.”
Reiss smiled at Rags. She nodded, but didn’t smile. She saw the Goblin Lord’s eyes shift towards Tremborag. His gaze was cold as he fixed on the distant Great Chieftain. Rags knew—she thought she knew—that he was serious about aiding her. Tremborag dying would help Reiss, after all. And Rags would accept his help. But all the trust she’d had in Reiss was teetering on the edge of sudden doubt.
Not because she suspected him of lying to her. And not because she thought he’d betray her. No, it was just because of how surprised he was. Of course it was insane to attack Tremborag’s tribe. Of course it was strange, suicidal even. All of his reactions were normal. But while those reactions were normal, they were what Rags would expect from someone like Erin. Reiss was acting more like a Human than a Goblin. And that, more than anything, bothered her.
Rags turned her Carn Wolf and pointed ahead. Tremborag’s tribe was catching up at last.
“Come. We move. And plan attack.”
“I will ride with you. Snapjaw, lead my army. Eater of Spears, take a thousand Hobs to the rear of Chieftain Rags’ tribe.”
Reiss immediately snapped at his Goblins. They nodded and disappeared. Reiss rode next to Rags, looking down at her and clearly wondering how they should talk with him several feet above her head. Rags ignored him as her Carn Wolf padded forwards. Her mind was racing, trying to fit Reiss’ forces into a plan that would end with Tremborag’s death with the least amount of cost.
Because it would cost her. Who would die killing him? Redscar? Noears? Pyrite? No. Rags’ heart hurt at the very thought. But she also knew she couldn’t not kill Tremborag. He had killed Quietstab. He had killed her Goblin. Her friend. For that, she would set everything ablaze and slaughter his tribe to the last.
Like last time. Like the Humans.
Rags remembered a burning house. She remembered screaming Humans, the smell of blood, and a blind [Emperor]’s words. And she hesitated. It was the same and not the same. For a second, Rags wavered. But there was only vengeance and death. That was what she had to do.
As Goblins do. As Goblins have always done. Rags felt something familiar about what she was doing and felt uneasy. She saw a pattern in her mind, a pattern that she had seen play out again and again. But it faded as she looked back and saw him. Tremborag.
Her blood was rage, her heartbeats pain. She looked at him and knew one truth.
He had to die.
 
——
 
Lord Yitton Byres found Tyrion Veltras standing next to his mount. Yitton was on foot himself, having left his mount with a [Groom] during the break. The main company was moving onwards, pursuing the Goblins, but Tyrion had called a halt to assess the situation in light of the morning’s events.
It was something Yitton would have liked time to think on himself. He shook his head as he strode towards Tyrion. The man was alone, and several of his aides were keeping a wide space around him. From the way his lips blurred and the way Yitton couldn’t hear a thing he was saying even as he approached, he was probably under several anti-spying spells as well.
One of the men assigned to keep everyone back hesitated when he saw Lord Yitton. But for whatever reason, he let Lord Yitton past. That was a curiosity in itself, but Yitton Byres had accepted that Tyrion Veltras held him in some esteem. At least enough to let Yitton into the protective spell bubble and hear Tyrion speaking.
He was conversing with his personal aide, his [Mage], Jericha. Yitton paused with both hands behind his back. Tyrion glanced at him and gave him a slight nod of acknowledgement, then returned to speaking with Jericha.
“And the number of dead?”
“Our [Scouts] estimate it at around eight thousand dead, Lord Veltras. Mostly from the, ah, Great Chieftain’s tribe, although several hundred were killed in the…Flooded Waters tribe. Mainly from arrows, not the spells cast by our mages.”
“I see.”
Tyrion grimaced, although Yitton had only the barest inkling of an idea why. By all rights, eight thousand dead Goblins should be a step in the right direction. But the man had plans, and if what Lord Erill had told Yitton over their cups last night was true, then the man would want as many Goblins alive as possible. If it were true.
Yitton had no intention of asking Tyrion that. He stood patiently with both legs braced as Tyrion kept talking. The head of the Byres family kept one ear on the conversation while he thought about what he’d witnessed. Goblins laying traps for one another. Using formations. That had been a classic pike wall with crossbows firing over. And then one of the tribes had used mobile harassing tactics!
It bothered Yitton to see anything like strategy coming out of the Goblins. But those Chieftains seemed every bit as dangerous as the Goblin Lord. What he couldn’t understand was what had set them against each other. Yitton frowned and then realized that the topic of conversation had shifted when he hadn’t noticed. Jericha was perusing a piece of parchment in her hands.
“We’ve received several concerned [Message] spells inquiring about your grand strategy, Lord Veltras. Nothing that merits a reply, but I have just received a missive from Lady Magnolia Reinhart, and, ah—”
She paled for a second as she read the transcribed [Message]. Lord Tyrion raised one eyebrow.
“Pass it to me.”
The [Mage] hesitated only for a second before handing the parchment over. Tyrion read impassively. Yitton saw his eyebrows raise just once. For the man, it was as good as an exclamation. Tyrion stared at the parchment, then folded it up and handed it to Jericha. She silently burned it in her hands with a small spell. Tyrion shook his head.
“That was surprisingly direct. Give Reinhart my regards, Jericha. Inform her—politely—that I will not be swayed from my course. Any attempts she may make I will counter to the full extent of my ability.”
“Yes, Lord Veltras.”
“Good. I will peruse all the other [Message] spells tonight. And have we received any [Messages] from the Drakes?”
“Nothing but polite inquiries from the [Strategists] of some of the Walled Cities, sire.”
“Good.”
Tyrion closed his eyes for a moment and folded his arms. He nodded once and opened his eyes.
“Keep me informed of any changes. Now, onto more pressing matters. Lord Yitton?”
He turned briskly to the other man. Yitton Byres snatched one hand down from his beard.
“Lord Tyrion, the company is continuing to pursue the Goblins. They’ve stopped fighting although our [Mages] had to fire more warning spells, but both tribes are keeping a distance now.”
“Excellent. And?”
Yitton grimaced.
“I’ve consulted with our [Scouts] familiar with Goblins. They’ve given me their assessment, and I agree—those two tribes are about to clash, and one of the Chieftains is going to kill the other by night’s end. I intended to ask if you wished to separate them to prevent a conflict.”
Tyrion’s brows drew together. He drummed his fingers restlessly against his side while keeping still. Then he shook his head.
“No. Splitting up the Goblins would only increase the complexity of our task and make it likely that one tribe would attempt to escape. Did the [Scouts] have any speculation about why the two tribes began fighting? The conflict was between—”
He glanced at Jericha. The [Mage] raised her head briefly.
“The Mountain City tribe led by the Grand Chieftain and the raiding tribe that assaulted Riverfarm, Lord Veltras.”
A spark of interest entered Tyrion’s eyes.
“Yes, I recall that tribe. And that Chieftain. Lord Yitton?”
Yitton hesitated, frowning.
“The [Scouts] drew the conclusion that it was the death of one Hob that sparked the conflict, Lord Byres. They observed the Flooded Waters tribe gathering around a dead Goblin that had been hidden in a latrine. The [Scouts] speculate that he was killed by a member of the other tribe, which sparked the conflict. Our [Strategists] disagree, however. They believe it was a conflict over resources, as this Mountain City tribe has consistently consumed far more of the supplies we’ve placed in their way than the other tribes.”
“I see. Well, the reason matters not. This fighting will wear down both sides, especially if the Goblin Lord involves himself. As for the delays—unacceptable.”
Tyrion shook his head. Yitton waited. Jericha looked up, having sent her [Message], and frowned.
“Lord Veltras, we may be able to force both tribes to move and camp separately. It would require our [Mages] to create a neutral zone and enforce it, but—”
She broke off as Tyrion raised a hand. The [Lord] was staring at nothing, frowning. Then he looked up.
“No. This may serve our purpose, Jericha. Rather than tire out our [Mages], I intend to solve the matter directly.”
He turned and looked at his aide.
“Summon the Gold-rank adventurer captains immediately, to meet me at the front within twenty minutes. Provide them with mounts if they are marching with the foot.”
Jericha nodded and raised a finger to her temple.
“And Miss Arcsinger?”
A flicker of expression passed across Tyrion’s face, so quickly that Lord Yitton couldn’t read what emotion it had been. Tyrion shook his head briskly, his face impassive.
“No. We have an arrangement. Let her continue onwards—I will request her use of Skills as needed. That will be all. Lord Yitton, I would value your input if you would ride with me.”
He strode towards his mount and briskly mounted himself. Yitton looked around, cursing and wishing he’d kept his horse nearby, but it was already being brought. Tyrion watched as Yitton swung himself into his saddle, and then the two [Lords] were riding quickly to the front. Yitton saw the ground flash past him as he rode under the aegis of Lord Tyrion’s Skills.
“You have a plan, Lord Tyrion?”
“I do, Lord Yitton. I intend to send the Goblins and our watchers a message.”
