“Yes.”
The Drake blinked. It was still slightly amusing to Reiss how she reacted when he told her the truth. But Goblins almost never lied to each other, and Reiss lied only when he had to. The Goblin Lord sighed.
“What’s happening?”
Osthia glanced over her shoulder. She couldn’t see what had occurred with the Flooded Waters tribe, but she was sharp enough to pick up on the reactions of the Goblins around her. Reiss even thought she’d picked up a few words of the Goblin dialect. He shook his head.
“Tremborag killed a Hob from Rags’ tribe. Last night. They found the body this morning.”
The Drake went still as she processed that. Her eyes flicked to Reiss’ face, and then she craned her neck, trying to see over the Hobs’ heads. That was impossible. Her wings flexed a bit in their constraints.
“I see. Tremborag’s the huge Hob you showed me. And Rags is—the small one?”
“Yes.”
“What’s she doing about it?”
“Nothing. Yet. She tried to charge his tribe alone when she found out.”
Osthia snorted contemptuously.
“Idiot.”
Reiss ignored that comment. After a moment, the Drake glanced at him.
“Well? What are you going to do? I assume that this Tremborag violated some kind of Goblin law, didn’t he?”
“It was not good. But there aren’t any ‘laws’ against it. His tribe will celebrate it, and the other tribes will be furious. Especially the Flooded Waters tribe.”
“Which is…?”
“Rags’ tribe.”
“Ah. So they’ll want revenge. So what will you do? Unless you’re coming to me for advice.”
The Oldblood Drake glanced sidewise at Reiss. She was his enemy. And she hated him, but she hated his master more. That made them unlikely allies; Osthia would help Reiss, if only so that she could survive and escape when the time was right. Reiss had consulted her for advice, and the Drake had good ideas, even if she lied to him more often than she told the truth. Reiss shrugged, knowing she was trying to find out everything she could from him.
“I will do nothing until Snapjaw comes back and tells me Quietstab is dead.”
“Why would she do that?”
Reiss turned his head slowly to regard Osthia.
“Because I do not know Quietstab is dead and that Tremborag murdered him. Rags knows just now. I knew last night.”
The Drake frowned. Her brows snapped together.
“You knew? How?”
For a second, Reiss debated not telling Osthia. It was a risk. But he—the knowledge burned in his gut. He felt guilty, so against his better judgment, he confessed.
“I watched him die. I could have stopped it. But I did not. Because one Hob’s death will help me save tens of thousands of lives.”
Osthia’s eyes widened. For a moment, she was surprised. But then, contempt replaced surprise. She was not shocked. It was almost a relief. She had no expectations of Reiss.
“I see. You were there?”
“Invisible. I watched it happen. It was a necessity. It will make Rags’ tribe and my army allies.”
It was an excuse. And it was the truth. But sometimes, it felt like he was becoming more like his master with each passing day. Reiss closed his eyes for a second. When he opened them, Osthia was still looking at him with narrowed eyes.
“I see. I suppose I shouldn’t have expected anything else from you. Goblins betray even their allies, it seems. Just like your race.”
For some reason, that nettled Reiss. He looked over at Osthia.
“My kind does not sacrifice their own. I learned that from Drakes. I studied your wars. You send a hundred to hold a gap and know they will die. You kill your own for advantage, just like me. I did not learn such things from Goblins.”
He regarded Osthia coldly, basking in his anger for a moment. The Drake bristled, and her manacled wings stirred with anger.
“Drakes—our leaders know when sacrifice is necessary. But that doesn’t mean—”
“Spare me.”
Reiss turned his head. He heard Osthia inhale and altered his spell. The world around him grew silent for a minute. Reiss was alone with his thoughts. He bowed his head.
Quietstab had died in front of him. He had been there, on a nightly errand when he’d seen Tremborag stalking the Hob. He had watched the confrontation. The rapid murder had surprised him. But he could have stopped it. If he had so much as raised his voice or revealed himself, Tremborag would have retreated. If he had cast a spell—
He hadn’t. Reiss was sure, quite sure, that even his best spell wouldn’t kill Tremborag outright. He was a [Necromancer] and lacked the raw power of other [Mage] classes. So he had let Quietstab die because it would benefit his tribe, convince Rags to ally with him. It was necessary. But it was such a Human thing to do. Reiss felt the guilt gnawing at him. What was he doing? Was he really becoming—
He saw a flicker of movement and turned his head. Osthia punched Reiss. He staggered and saw a Hob roar soundlessly and charge Osthia. The Goblin Lord raised a claw and dispelled the [Quiet Air] spell.
“Stop!”
The Hob skidded to a halt before he could slam into Osthia. The Drake was ready. She glared at Reiss as he rubbed his cheek. That had hurt. But it was no less than he deserved. And he’d forgotten how touchy Drakes could be.
“Leave us.”
The Hob hesitated and then moved back, giving Osthia the evil eye. Reiss reapplied his silencing spell and then looked at Osthia.
“Punch me again and I can’t guarantee my Hobs won’t seek revenge.”
The Drake sneered.
“All they do is poke me with sticks. Ignore me again and I’ll hit you somewhere else.”
“Fine.”
Reiss looked around. He couldn’t see over the top of the tall Hobs he’d selected to screen Osthia from sight, but he knew that Snapjaw would be returning any moment with the dire news. Reiss shook his head.
“So you’re going to use this to tie that little Goblin’s tribe to you. What next after that?”
Osthia looked at Reiss. He glanced at her and then sighed. His shoulders felt heavy. But cold certainty filled him.
“He killed her subordinate. So I will help her bring him down. As allies.”
The Drake’s eyes widened. Reiss nodded. It was time. Whatever the Humans had planned, it would surely mean the end of his tribe. But if he could face them with combined forces—
Garen was an obstacle, but his tribe was small. Tremborag was the real threat. If he fell, his tribe would splinter. That was Reiss’ chance. The Great Chieftain had to die. Somehow.
That reminded Reiss. He fished in his pocket and pulled something out. He turned and offered it to Osthia. She blinked down at the thing he was holding.
“Here. I made it at last.”
It was a ring, a white band of wood. It had been carved carefully, and it shone in the daylight. Osthia hesitated. Reiss pushed it at her.
“Take it.”
“I don’t want—”
“Take it. I told you what it does. I didn’t lie.”
The Drake suspiciously took the ring. She turned it over, although Reiss knew she had no ability to detect magic.
“If you enchanted it with anything but what you said—”
Reiss nearly growled. That was the problem with Drakes. They were touchy and suspicious.
And kind. Some of them could be—he growled, pushing the memories back.
“I did not. Put it on or I will make you wear it.”
Osthia glared at him, but she slipped the ring on with ill grace. She blinked at the ring.
“It’s a perfect fit.”
“Obviously. It was made for you.”
The Goblin Lord sighed. He shook his head as Osthia growled. Maybe he should have made a necklace. He’d forgotten how touchy Drakes and Humans were about rings on fingers. Didn’t it mean something when they put it on a certain finger? Oh well. He dispelled the [Quiet Air] spell a second time and heard the hubbub around him. Snapjaw must have returned. The Goblin Lord glanced at Osthia.
“I must go now.”
“Don’t stay on my account.”
Osthia growled. Her face was irritated, but her tail curled up a bit, betraying her true emotions. Reiss had learned to read Drake’s emotions in their tails. He pretended to be scratching an itch as he read her body language. She was lonely. Lonely, bored, and…worried. For him?
Of course not. Reiss nodded.
“I will let you know what happens tonight. Or sooner if Rags wishes to talk.”
“Yes, yes. Go away.”
The Drake turned her head. Reiss nodded to her and turned. The Hobs parted before him and closed, creating a wall of black armor. Reiss strode back through his tribe. Snapjaw was waiting for him, anxiety clearly written on her face. In response, Reiss quickened his footsteps. But only half of his mind was on the act. As he moved, he raised his right claw and pressed a fingertip to his temple.
Master? Are you there?
He heard nothing. As usual. Reiss held the connection open, waiting. But there was no response. At last, Reiss lowered his hand. He met Snapjaw and Eater of Spears as they came to him. He became Reiss, the honest Goblin Lord. He was shocked, enraged, and then concerned. He sent Snapjaw back to speak with Rags, played his part so well that for a moment he really was burning with righteous fury. But that faded as Reiss climbed onto the back of his Shield Spider. Thereafter, he sat, half miserable, half calculating as he studied the other tribes.
All the Goblins were marching. Reiss’ army moved ahead smoothly, although he could sense the ripples spreading as the Goblins told each other what had happened. There was shock, anger, sympathy—but generally, the Goblins just kept marching. They knew there would be battle with Tremborag’s tribe in time, and Quietstab’s death changed nothing. It had just happened.
The other tribes reacted differently, though. Garen’s warriors rode ahead of Tremborag’s forces, back straight with fury and indignation. Some were arguing, but the ones around Garen Redfang were deathly quiet. Sullen. They stared at their Chieftain’s back, and Reiss could almost hear their thoughts. Again, the pride and warrior spirit that Garen had taught them went at odds with their alliance with Tremborag. Some were even glancing at Rags’ tribe now and then. That was unexpected. And promising.
And Rags’ tribe? Well, they marched fast, catching up with Reiss’ forces. Their postures were tense, their expressions dark. They were furious. Reiss saw some pausing to poop in the path of Tremborag’s tribe, but the rest just kept moving, because there was no other option.
And Tremborag’s tribe marched in the rear, as always. They laughed, in the best of spirits, and their Great Chieftain was loudest of them all. He walked amid his Goblins, proud to have killed his fellow Goblins. Reiss watched him, thinking dark thoughts. He promised himself it would be soon. He told himself that it was necessary. But he still couldn’t forget Quietstab’s gasp and the sound in the night. Reiss lowered his head.
Some days, he wondered if Garen was right. But he had come too far to stop now. Reiss waited for his moment. He waited and waited and watched Rags. Waiting for her to see what had to be done.
 
——
 
Tremborag was laughing. His huge voice boomed across the heads of his tribe as he laughed. He was eating and drinking as he walked. His feet hurt, and he considered using a healing potion. But though the Great Chieftain normally resented being forced to march with a burning hatred, he was in good spirits. He chewed on the salted beef and drank wine, feeling some run onto his chest.
“Look at them run! Cowards! Weaklings!”
He bellowed, pointing at Rags’ tribe. They were moving ahead of his tribe, marching fast. The Goblins around Tremborag laughed and jeered as well. They all knew what had happened last night, and they were all happy.
Well, most. Some who knew Quietstab hadn’t been pleased. But Tremborag didn’t care. A traitor was a traitor, and ending that wretched Hob’s life had shown everyone the truth. Sit-abouts? Working together? It was all meaningless. This was all that mattered. Defeating your enemy. Crushing them. Hurting them. The slave Goblin Lord, Garen, Rags—they could all see the truth. Tremborag felt his spirits rise.
“Look at them, running to hide behind the Goblin Lord. They’ll hide in their camp tonight. Plot and scheme like the—the cowards they are. Conspire with that slave who pretends to be a Goblin Lord. Pretend to be friends. Hah!”
Spittle flew from Tremborag’s mouth, spraying the Goblins in front of him. He could see Ulvama flinching out of the way. His [Chief Shaman] looked displeased as Tremborag waved her closer. The Hob continued, reaching for another wine flask as he walked forwards.
“The Goblin Lord will probably take the child’s tribe in. Only, she won’t be his Chieftain. She’ll be his puppet. He pretends to be concerned with the good of Goblins. A kingdom? Peace with Humans and Drakes? There is no peace. There is no working together. There is only killing your enemies. Redfang should know that. Where is he?”
Tremborag looked around vacantly. Garen’s tribe was marching far ahead of them and to the left, keeping pace with Reiss’ forces. Tremborag scowled.
“Fool. If he was half the warrior he claimed to be, he would have slain his traitors already. Ulvama, bring him here. And give me a healing potion.”
The [Shaman] made a face.
“Great Chieftain, Garen Redfang is angry.”
“So?”
“He will not come. And we have only a few hundred healing potions after—”
Tremborag turned, and Ulvama flinched. The Hobs around him drew back warily.
“Redfang. Healing potion.”
The Great Chieftain’s crimson eyes flashed. Ulvama nodded rapidly. She beckoned, and a Goblin raced over with a healing potion. Tremborag fumbled with it, watching as a group of Goblins were sent racing ahead to summon Garen Redfang. He noticed Rags’ tribe had slowed their pace somewhat.
The small Chieftain had actually tried to charge him. Tremborag had nearly died of laughter when that happened. If she had tried to attack with her tribe, he would have been only too happy to rip her apart. Her tribe was a speck compared to his. Her fancy pikes and crossbows were useless against his warriors. She’d even deployed her pikes to her rear, as if she was afraid he’d charge her. That was an amusing idea. Maybe he should try that.
For a second, Tremborag contemplated the thought, but he knew that would be a mistake. Killing Quietstab was one thing, but if it came to a battle, Reiss and the damned Humans would intervene. But if he could send Ulvama or one of his stealthier Goblins to pick off another of Rags’ lieutenants…what could she do about it?
