“This is Goblin! This is our end! We kill Humans, and they kill us! Drakes kill us, and we kill them. But they come back. Every time. This is how Goblins die.”
The Goblins looked up at her. Despair made Rags’ throat close up, but she forced herself to keep going.
“Tremborag was not-Goblin! But he died as Goblins do. As Goblins always do. But it is not how we have to die.”
They looked at her, disbelieving, but waiting for her to go on. Rags closed her eyes. She thought of burning houses, of the blind [Emperor], and of Tremborag. Then she opened them.
“I have seen our past and future. And it is a circle. It goes around and around. But if Goblins want to live, they cannot go in a circle. They have to change. They have to—stop.”
The Goblins of the Mountain City tribe stared at Rags. Her Flooded Waters tribe gazed at their Chieftain. Garen’s Redfangs looked up at Rags. And the Goblin Lord’s army looked at the small Goblin. Reiss looked shocked, Garen incredulous. But slowly, the Goblins moved. The Mountain City tribe slowly streamed towards Rags.
Not all of them. Maybe just over a half. But while some went to Garen and some went to Reiss, the rest went to Rags. They spat hatred at the Goblin Lord and shook their heads and turned away from Garen. And they flocked around Rags who wept for the Great Chieftain of the Mountain. And the Goblin Lord turned, furious and shocked and confused at once and saw a Drake was standing to one side, staring at him.
“Does she mean a cycle?”
Osthia Blackwing pointed at Rags. Reiss nodded. The Drake’s expression cleared.
“Ah. That makes a lot of sense. Looks like they trust her more than you.”
She paused, smirking at Reiss, then frowned.
“Why do you look like you’ve seen a ghost?”
“That was what he said.”
Reiss spoke softly. Osthia frowned.
“Who said?”
“Velan the Kind. Before he became the Goblin King. He called it the cycle that bound all of Goblinkind, of violence and retribution. He tried to break it.”
The Drake’s eyes went round. She looked at Rags, and suddenly, her expression was worried. Wary.
“Do you—do you think she’s like him? Could she have the potential to—Reiss?”
Reiss didn’t look at Osthia. He’d gone completely still. The Drake looked back at Rags, then at Reiss. Her nerves turned to anger.
“Well? Is she like Velan? Could she be a Goblin King?”
He didn’t respond. Angrily, Osthia reached out and shook Reiss. And then he turned his head. His eyes were black and the pupils white, as always. But someone else gazed out through the white pupils, as if they were a window.
“That child? She is nothing like the previous Goblin King.”
Osthia recoiled. Reiss looked around. Only, it wasn’t Reiss who spoke. His voice was completely different, as was the way he moved. And looked at her. The person who wore Reiss’ body turned and regarded Osthia coldly.
“I recall you, Drake. I ordered my apprentice to slay you. Another failing. Another moment of disobedience.”
That voice. Osthia remembered it. She couldn’t forget it. Her claws tightened into fists. Her tail thrashed.
“Az’ker—”
Reiss’ finger rose. He pointed at her chest.
“[Deathbolt].”
A ripple of darkness shot from his finger and passed straight through Osthia’s chest. She gasped and then, soundlessly, collapsed. Az’kerash or Reiss or some mixture of the two, idly kicked her onto her back.
Osthia Blackwing lay on the ground, her eyes opened wide in surprise. Her mouth was slightly agape. Her face was pale, almost white. Drained of life. One of her claws—the one with the black ring on it—was clenched into a fist. Az’kerash, wearing his apprentice’s face, studied the body dismissively and then looked around.
“I see much has changed since we last communicated, my apprentice. Walk with me and tell me what has occurred.”
Slowly, jerkily, Reiss began to move. He walked past the Goblins clustered around Rags, head turning to inspect the fallen form and the Human army. Snapjaw and Eater of Spears stared at their leader, and the Goblins around Reiss drew back. Garen turned his head and bared his teeth. He reached for his sword.
 
——
 
Lord Tyrion Veltras stood in front of the misshapen head that had been Tremborag. He regarded the shape, wrinkled his nose at the burnt smell of flesh, and turned away.
“Enough. Jericha, allow the soldiers to parade the head about if they wish. I doubt any of the nobility would care for it as a trophy in its current state. Now, prepare a short missive to be sent to every city in the north.”
“At once, sire.”
Jericha readied the spell as Tyrion stood surrounded by his army. Tyrion Veltras waited until she signaled she was ready and spoke curtly.
“The Great Chieftain of the Mountain is dead. He was slain by Human hands, on Human lands. Let his death be a message to all those who would threaten Izril. The Goblin Lord is next.”
He nodded to Jericha. And that was it. The [Message] spell was sent to every Mage’s Guild by magic, and within moments, it was speeding to Drake cities, across the world. The news was distorted as it went from person to person, even with magic. It captured some of the meaning, lost some of the nuance. But it was ever the same.
The Great Chieftain is dead.
Tremborag has been slain.
The Great Chieftain of the Mountains is no more.
Tremborag of the Mountain has fallen. The Goblin Lord flees ever onwards. And the Great Chieftain of Dwarfhalls Rest, the Goblin who knew Velan the Kind, the Chieftain of the Mountain City tribe, Tremborag, is gone.
Just like that.
