Another two weeks passed this way as Zac carefully pieced everything back together. Zac slowly exhaled as began integrating the final set of upgraded pieces that would become the outermost shell of his core. He could have reached this step a week earlier, but he’d intentionally maintained a slow-going pace.

For one, Zac didn’t want to trip on the finish line. More importantly, he was still waiting for the subrealm to show signs of instability. Having reached this point, he’d officially run out of time. The radiant light coming from his Cosmic Core was starting to fade. His core would soon exit its malleable state, where further work would prove impossible. Zac could rekindle the core and buy another day with the help of treasures, but he’d rather avoid it if he could.

The ominous feeling had only grown stronger over the weeks. Zac feared the source was the tribulation he’d consumed. While it never managed to escape, [Void Heart] had entered an almost comatose state. Meanwhile, his bloodline was still agitated to this day. It was like the Four Desolates were lurking in the shadows, ready to pounce at a critical moment.

Right or wrong, something needed to be done. Zac watched his finished core with a sinking feeling. Only the last step remained, where he used the collapsing subrealm’s spatial pressure to pressurize his Cosmic Core. It was a necessary step to properly fuse the assembled pieces while compressing the core to a size that could fit. His assembly had gone much better than previous time, but the glowing core still needed to be compressed to a third of its current size.

The third step was supposed to be the easiest, yet it stumped Zac before he could began. With a rock-solid space that didn’t so much as fluctuate when he pressured it, how was he supposed to finish the job? The arrays installed on the Judgment Plateau could only help stabilize the collapse while adding some outside pressure. By itself, it wasn’t nearly enough to deal with a core.

The same was true for the backup treasures and talismans Zac had prepared. It may have worked if he were a normal mortal, but his foundations were simply terrifying. The force required, especially when stepping into Peak D-grade, was extraordinary.

Was there no choice but to return to that well once more? The one filled with explosions and self-mutilating explosions. The trick was picking a set of explosives that could destabilize the subspace without damaging his vulnerable core. However, there was a change just as Zac was about to discuss options with Esmeralda.

“No!”

Zac’s roar fell on deaf ears as the Duplicity Core’s latch slammed shut.
