Laken looked past Wiskeria, at the two [Witches] who had agreed to stay. At least until more of their kind decided to come to Riverfarm. Mavika and Alevica had left, to perform their own errands. Califor was dead. Belavierr had left…
But four [Witches] remained in Riverfarm. Three stood in this room. One, who was Laken’s [General], a [Witch] and a [General] who believed in order. In law. Two more of the old kind, the old ways, who practiced their craft as they saw fit. And one…
“And how is Nanette?”
Eloise and Hedag paused. Both were sipping cups of tea now. It was Hedag who replied, easily as if they chatted. But Hedag always had an edge, even in kindness.
“Alive. Would you prefer another answer, [Emperor]-boy?”
Gamel stirred at the address. Laken just shook his head.
“No. But neither do I wish her to suffer, Witch Hedag. If it would be easier for her elsewhere—”
Eloise shook her head.
“[Witches] do not run from their pain, Emperor Godart. She cannot run from this forever. It will catch up to her slowly, in years and decades perhaps, but this is a battle she must fight.”
Hedag nodded, in perfect agreement. Laken sighed.
“What does she need, then?”
“Time.”
The answer came from both [Witches]. It felt…insufficient. Laken shook his head. Time? For a daughter who had watched…
Witch Califor.
The statue was still not finished. What could you add to it? Witch Califor, who died for us? Witch Califor, who moved fire to save a village? Witch Califor, Mother to Nanette.
Who was forced to die so that Belavierr’s daughter might live. Laken could sense Wiskeria standing still. Still as stone. What could you say?
Nothing. And Nanette? Not a word at all. So Laken just nodded.
“Of course. Keep her safe, Witch Eloise, Witch Hedag. Some in Riverfarm are still…prejudiced. After all they’ve seen.”
“And what should we keep her safe from, Your Majesty? People? She will walk among them all her days. If she remains a [Witch].”
A cool reply from Hedag. Laken shook his head. He valued their words. But it was exceptionally hard to argue with a [Witch].
“Go, Prost. Go, all of you. If you want to deal with the Goblins, take it into your own hands.”
And I hope you all get splinters.
The [Emperor] sighed. But at least it was better than death.
 
 
Day of Laughter
 
The Goblins waited through the night for the Humans to attack. But they never did. There was shouting in the night, and Humans with bows came close to the border. The Redfangs ordered all the Goblins who couldn’t fight to fall back. They were prepared to fight if arrows came out of the forests.
But they never did. The certain-death never came, and it would have been certain death. Pebblesnatch could count how many Humans there were. And yet, the attack never came. The watchful Goblins waited, as the injured [Thief] moaned as Ulvama packed an ointment into her wound and bandaged it. The [Shaman] was worried. Even though she’d encouraged the stealing!
“How else?”
She looked blank when Pebblesnatch angrily confronted her. The [Shaman] swept a hand around the Goblin’s territory. Full of things to eat—but not crops. Not eggs, or animals. How else would they get the food she wanted? That Pebblesnatch made?
Not like that! Pebblesnatch glared. What about what that angry Human had said? Trading? Ulvama scowled.
“Don’t trust Humans. They hate us. Hate you. Hate me.”
She poked Pebblesnatch. This was a fact. Pebblesnatch swatted her hand down, furiously.
“Not all bad!”
She thought of Erin. Who was so kind. Ulvama snorted. She turned away.
“Because you are small. Me? They are not kind to me. Or other Goblins who have what they want. Do not be stupid.”
She sat moodily, with her back facing Pebblesnatch. And her posture radiated…Pebblesnatch faltered. She walked back out of the hut. She thought that for once, if she’d argued, Ulvama would have actually hit her.
Leafarmor explained what Ulvama had meant. Pebblesnatch’s eyes widened as Leafarmor explained. The Hobgoblin grinned. But it wasn’t a smile.
“Lots of Humans. Redfangs who get captured. Female. Nearly happened to me.”
“Did?”
The Hobgoblin laughed.
“No. Redfangs killed them. Humans take off pants! Easy to stab!”
She laughed, and some of the other Redfangs laughed too. Pebblesnatch nodded. Leafarmor grew pensive.
“Goblins die either way. Just die later. Chance. You wait and then stab. Or wait and maybe live. Ulvama lived. If Humans attack—might live again. I? I would rather kill.”
She was making more throwing axes. All the Redfangs were. They were arming themselves. Cheerfully. They were more animated than Pebblesnatch had ever seen. As if the coming battle were something to rejoice at.
She didn’t understand. The Redfangs were even telling jokes. They were laughing. She hadn’t heard a Goblin laugh since…before. Since the battle with the Goblin Lord. But today, they were in good spirits.
“Kill at least four! At least four, or Garen will pull out tongue!”
Raidpear was exhorting the other six. The smaller Redfangs grinned.
“Four? Pull off arms and beat you if not eight!”
One of the Redfangs grinned, hefting her dagger. The others laughed again. Pebblesnatch wasn’t laughing. She was afraid. But Leafarmor was grinning. She came over to the others and waved a claw.
“Joke, joke!”
They quieted down. Even Pebblesnatch leaned in. Leafarmor looked around conspiratorially.
“Redfangs fight and Redfangs die. Garen leads to kill the Goblin Lord. And Garen dies. Redfangs fight and Redfangs die. The last are here. The Humans try to keep like pets. Shout—‘why so ungrateful?’ when get bit! And the last Redfangs die.”
She paused, looking around. All the Redfangs were nodding. Leafarmor dropped the last part of the joke.
“And dead-Garen? He sighs. He goes to Redfangs and says ‘stupid Raidpear! Stupid Redfangs’! Meant to be killing other Goblins! Not Humans! Slaughter Goblins first, humans later! Go back and do it right!”
The group exploded into laughter. Redfangs guffawed until tears came to their eyes. Pebblesnatch, sitting among them, stared around. She didn’t get it.
It was a terrible joke. A sad joke. The Redfangs began counting how many of the Goblin Lord’s Goblins they’d killed before the Humans attacked. Practically none of Reiss’ Goblins had survived. What few there were weren’t even represented among the living Goblins here. They talked about other Redfangs who’d died. Laughing.
“Why?”
Pebblesnatch burst out at last. She looked at the others. The Redfangs paused. They stared at her. Pebblesnatch pointed.
“Why?”
Why laughing? It made no sense? The Redfangs quieted. At last, Raidpear shrugged. He sharpened the improvised spear as he looked at Leafarmor.
“Not funny. Not really. But—too many tears. Ran out a long time ago. So laughter.”
He looked at Pebblesnatch, no longer laughing or smiling. The Cave Goblin paused.
“Oh.”
She went and tried the magic door. But it still didn’t work. Pebblesnatch thought Ulvama would be there, laughing right along with the Redfangs. Maybe that would be better.
 
 
Wall Day
 
The Humans did not attack the next day either. Ulvama was ready for them, though. She’d emerged from her hut after working long after her conversation with Pebblesnatch. The next day, she summoned Raidpear and Leafarmor.
She had her bone dyes ready, and a crude brush made of her own hair. Pebblesnatch watched as Ulvama traced sigils all up and down Raidpear’s chest. Leafarmor had her armor, but she hadn’t finished Raidpear’s. So Ulvama was applying…
Paint. It didn’t seem great, but she insisted on doing the same to Leafarmor’s face. And like the armor of leaves, looks were deceiving.
“Hard.”
Raidpear blinked as he struck his chest. Leafarmor tried. She punched Raidpear hard and swore. The paint was hard as stone! Pebblesnatch, awed, kicked Raidpear in the back of the head.
He scowled at her. The paint hadn’t been applied there yet. Ulvama smacked all three as she scowled and did Raidpear’s other arm.
“Magic wears off! Don’t hit! Idiots!”
It would last a few blows in battle. The [Shaman] had other tricks too. She pointed at Raidpear.
“When Humans attack, come. I make you bigger.”
“Doesn’t help.”
Ulvama hit him with the bowl. Raidpear grinned.
“Larger. [Berserk]. You will be very angry. Grow bigger.”
“Like Tremborag?”
Leafarmor blinked. She was very impressed. Ulvama shrugged.
“Smaller than Tremborag. It works best on one. A group gets only bit bigger. You don’t die, even when all the blood is gone. Won’t stop fighting or notice wounds. Then—the magic goes away. You die. Fall over, dead.”
Raidpear internalized the news silently. He nodded.
“Good. Give to me. I fight Troll.”
He looked at Leafarmor. She shrugged.
“I find [Emperor].”
Pebblesnatch didn’t like it. She didn’t like how they talked. When the Humans attacked. When. It was such a certainty, even though the [Emperor] had promised. But Ulvama laughed at his promises.
“When. When it happens…”
She trailed off.
“Some Goblins run. Maybe live.”
“Humans see all.”
Ulvama busily brushed paint over Leafarmor’s face.
“Maybe. I will cast [Camouflage]. Stupid little Cave Goblins don’t need to fight.”
Pebblesnatch glared, but she said nothing. Finished, Ulvama nodded. She’d done the sigils in red and black. They stood out on the Redfangs, but not too much. It looked much like their traditional war paint.
“Garen knew [Shaman]. Redfang paint like [Shaman] paint. But different.”
The Redfangs nodded. Ulvama looked at Pebblesnatch.
“Little Goblin runs away. Tomorrow—before Humans attack. I will give names.”
The Goblins looked up. Ulvama scowled.
“Proper names. So you have a name. And when you die, other Goblins remember you. Through memory.”
The three Goblins stared at Ulvama. She shook her head.
“That’s why you need proper names. Idiots. Hold still.”
 
——
 
The Humans were moving on the borders of the Goblin territory. Pebblesnatch saw them. The other Redfangs were armed, covered in their symbolic paint when the three Hobs emerged. They moved to the border. Out of bow-range. To see what the enemy was doing.
They saw…an army there. But not the army they expected. Ulvama, Raidpear, and Leafarmor blinked. There were many Humans there, some with bows who raised them as the Goblins appeared. But no one shot. And the Humans with bows and weapons and armor were one thing.
But there were hundreds, no, thousands of Humans busy at work. They were shouting, grabbing nails, wood, even building a crane-thing! Some had stone, and the rest were making…
A wall. Yes. A wall. It was already hundreds of feet long—well, the foundations were being dug in some places while the Humans had managed to put up actual wood and stone in others. The wall was ten feet tall at its highest. And it was facing the Goblins.
“What?”
The Goblins stared. What was going on? Most of the Humans were helping with the wall. Almost all had weapons, or grabbed for hammers when they saw the Goblins, but they kept working. They were making a wall.
“Don’t need a wall. Could kill us all.”
Leafarmor pointed out. The Humans outnumbered the Goblins by so many! But they were building a wall. Because…
It took the Goblins a long time to figure it out, but they picked up on the distant voices. The Humans were building a wall because they weren’t allowed to kill the Goblins. Their [Emperor] forbade it, but in the name of safety from evil Goblin [Thieves]—of which there had in fact, only ever been one—they were building a huge wall that would encircle the entire Goblin territory.
Off-duty. Humans came and went. They had actual jobs; this was what Laken Godart had allowed in their free time off. But every Human in Riverfarm, young and old, was helping in the spare time they’d been allotted. [Engineers], [Farmers], wives, husbands, children.
They worked together, Lancrel folk and townsfolk and strangers and Riverfarm’s original number. Mister Prost, Durene—working shoulder-to-shoulder, talking, laughing even at times, and keeping a wary eye on the Goblins. It was an outpouring of community and togetherness.
The Goblins were less-than-pleased by the neighborly spirit themselves. They did not like another reminder of being caged, and the wall was going to encircle all their territory, as stupid an idea as that was. It would stretch miles! But the Humans thought it was a good idea. If you couldn’t kill the Goblins, why not make sure they wouldn’t attack in the night? They wanted to make the wall ten feet high—no, twenty! A solid, smooth wall so the Goblins couldn’t climb over.
Pebblesnatch would have just dug under it. Honestly, if she had to, she’d have used a ladder. Or a rope. Or…it would certainly discourage that one Goblin who’d been stealing. But the arrow had already done that. Still—the Humans didn’t attack.
That relieved Pebblesnatch, but not Ulvama or the others. They watched the wall go up. The Humans were good at building. The first section of the wall was already done, well, mostly. The Humans had decided some of them would patrol at night. It was all voluntary, since their [Emperor] didn’t demand it. But they weren’t going to let the stinking Goblins get past.
The stinking Goblins stared at the wall. When it became clear no one was going to kill them, Leafarmor and Raidpear washed their faces. Pebblesnatch wasn’t sure if they were disappointed or relieved.
 
 
Doll Day
 
After a while, Pebblesnatch got used to the wall. It kept going up, and kept growing longer. At first, the Humans worked on it every spare chance, but after a solid week of building, they got bored, or tired of chopping down trees and getting stones and digging and such.
Fewer Humans came by. But there were still several hundred who devoted every day to it. And there were always Humans on the walls, sometimes with bows, but sometimes with just torches at night, keeping an eye out.
The Redfangs were annoyed by it. They opined that they could sneak up and cut half the throats on the wall before the Humans so much as noticed. Who used fire at night? They were just blinding themselves. It annoyed them, to see the smug Humans.
But the wall was well within Human territory, and the no-person’s-land between the Goblins and Humans wasn’t too noticeable. You could wander into it, and Pebblesnatch found it was easy for her to ignore most of the time. She had a vocation. Cooking.
