Pebblesnatch had changed her classes. It put a smile on her face, even larger than the one on Raidpear’s. Leafarmor rolled her eyes and poked him, but Ulvama seemed satisfied too. With Pebblesnatch as much as herself.
[Forager Cook]. It wasn’t the best class consolidation, and it was still below [Chef]. But Pebblesnatch had gotten it at Level 10. And—it had its benefits.
The first was her [Natural Oils] Skill. It sounded like nothing, but Pebblesnatch found she could distill a crazy amount of cooking oil from the animals the Redfangs brought in. Enough so that she could cook with it without waiting for the next kill. But if that Skill was ‘good’, her second Skill was amazing.
[One More Portion]. It meant that whenever she made anything—anything, there was always a bit more than what she’d thought. Like her wrapleaf roll paste. If Pebblesnatch made a huge bowl, she’d have a hand-sized portion when she was done, even if she should have just had the bowl’s worth.
It was the best Skill for Goblins. Not powerful, but even Ulvama was praising Pebblesnatch for it. She showed the little Goblin how to braid her hair as she explained.
“When higher level, bigger portions. Lots of food. Starving tribes don’t starve if you make all the food.”
Pebblesnatch wriggled as the [Shaman] braided her hair. Ulvama tapped her hard on the head and Pebblesnatch stopped. Ulvama had gotten her wish, too.
Raidpear wasn’t in charge, but between him and Leafarmor, he had a loud command of the camp. And with Ulvama, he’d gotten more Goblins to follow the Goldstone Goblin in mining ore. Ulvama wanted to make iron. She also wanted tools for her hut. Ingredients for paint, and so on. And all the Goblins were obliging her wishes.
“Tribe should be strong. Tribe needs a [Chieftain].”
“Raidpear?”
Pebblesnatch scoffed. The Goblins here didn’t need a [Chieftain]! They were still prisoners! Even if they had been here in peace, they couldn’t leave. And…they’d had Chieftains.
Amazing ones. How could Raidpear compete, even if he tried? He didn’t want to. Ulvama pulled Pebblesnatch’s hair, scowling.
“We need a [Chieftain]. Stop moving.”
Pebblesnatch didn’t argue. Ulvama did what Ulvama wanted. So did Pebblesnatch.
Her cooking ability in the Goblin camp had grown by leaps and bounds. Now, any meal had to have a sauce, or some glazing, or at least some decent spicing on the roasting meat, without burning the food. Even the other Goblins were inspired by her cooking. Pebblesnatch was no [Chieftain], but she had an influence on the camp.
And she was happy with that. So happy, just to eat and find new foods. It made her stop thinking about the inn, and Pebblesnatch visited the bark door with the glowing red mana stone in it less and less. It wasn’t perfect, living like this. But it was okay.
 
——
 
It continued, those pleasant days, for almost four days in a row. Four days of happiness. Pebblesnatch slept in the Redfang huts since she was clearly unwelcome in Ulvama’s hut. Leafarmor seemed content with the obvious relationship between the [Shaman] and Raidpear.
“Makes happy. Also, not want. Ulvama tried me too.”
She winked at Pebblesnatch as she sewed a second set of leaf armor up. Pebblesnatch blinked at her. Leafarmor seemed to know what Ulvama was doing and didn’t care. Because all was well.
Until the day a Goblin came staggering into their little village, screaming in pain. Pebblesnatch tumbled out of her hut in alarm, and Leafarmor was out of her cot in a second, throwing axe in hand. The other Goblins were on their feet too. They stared as the Goblin fell to her knees.
It was the Goblin who’d found the brown eggs. She had more now, in a little satchel. And something else.
A feathered arrow, protruding from one shoulder.
She had come from the direction of Riverfarm. Pebblesnatch was uncomprehending as Ulvama raced from her hut. She didn’t understand. The Goblin had gone towards Riverfarm? Why?
It was funny. At least, ironic. Cave Goblins didn’t steal. They didn’t even think of it, because all they’d known were their Raskghar masters. They’d been part of a tribe where they sometimes took food in secret, to live, or snatched things, but they had no concept of stealing from anyone else. After all, the dungeon had only walking suits of armor, monsters, traps. There was no one to steal from.
It had never occurred to Pebblesnatch how the egg-Goblin had gotten her eggs. Or the potatoes. The carrots. The cucumbers, or anything else. She’d assumed someone had found the vegetables. But now, Pebblesnatch saw Ulvama peering at the arrow. The [Shaman] looked around, and then the way the Goblin had come.
She’d left a trail. She had come past the line the [Emperor] had drawn in the ground. There was shouting from that way, distant, but growing in volume.
A funny thing. Perhaps the [Emperor] watched closely, even now. The Goblins had stopped trying to escape their territory—they mainly did it once every few days at most, just to see if the Humans had given up. But they were always caught.
Because the [Emperor] could sense a lone Goblin, or a small group making tracks away from his territory. But what about closer to his village? Where there were so many other Humans, milling about? If a lone Goblin crept around when he was slumbering…
Pebblesnatch looked at the wounded [Thief] Goblin whom Ulvama was tending to and knew. The shouting was growing louder, from far off. The Redfangs stirred. They gripped their weapons and the other Goblins looked up. A familiar feeling of dread engulfed Pebblesnatch.
The quiet days were over. Raidpear slowly emerged from Ulvama’s hut with a spear. He looked at Leafarmor and she sighed.
“Death time.”
 
——
 
“Your Majesty, Riverfarm’s folk won’t tolerate any more of it! I’ve talked them down, but something must be done. Please, sire!”
Laken Godart sat on his wooden throne. He waited until Mister Prost was done. The [Steward] was unusually agitated, to raise his voice against Laken. But then, this concerned his greatest objection.
“The Goblins. Tell me no one crossed their border?”
“No, Your Majesty. But we’re watching it! Beniar’s got a few [Riders] stationed there, but a few [Archers] have bows since—”
He faltered. Laken sighed.
“Since I won’t post an armed guard. Your objection, Mister Prost, is noted. And have the Goblins responded?”
“They’ve got weapons, sire. The ones with red stripes are in front. The rest of ‘em are loitering about.”
“That’s a relief.”
Laken sighed. Mister Prost stared at him.
“Your Majesty—”
“It’s regrettable. Certainly, Mister Prost. But I don’t understand why this is the straw that has broken Riverfarm’s back.”
Laken straightened and raised his voice in his throne room. Well, that’s what he called it.
The room was silent for a moment. Durene, Wiskeria, Lady Rie, were all silent. And so were the two [Witches] with the pointed hats. Gamel, standing by the doors, wasn’t going to say anything. Laken turned his head.
“One thief.”
“As far as we know, Your Majesty. But it explains all the thefts we’ve been having!”
“All of them? Mister Prost, you were convinced we had at least a dozen petty thieves in Riverfarm. And I’ve already found eighteen.”
The [Steward] faltered.
“Well—certainly it explains who’s been raiding the chickens and our fields! We posted a watch, but we barely noticed the damn Goblin. Good thing Longwain spotted it—”
“And promptly put an arrow in its shoulder. Couldn’t he have called an alarm?”
“But sire—”
“Should the [Farmers] have entertained [Thieves], Your Majesty? Goblin or not, that is how they deal with those who steal what they’ve worked hard to grow.”
Lady Rie’s voice was smooth. The [Lady] shifted as Laken turned his head, his eyes still closed towards her.
“I suppose not, Lady Rie. But I’m just a bit dismayed at the reaction of Riverfarm’s folk. I believed the village had just gotten used to the idea of Goblins…existing. Without having harmed anyone, for over two weeks. There’s been no violence.”
“But we’ve been raided all that time, your Majesty.”
“Raided. By a single Goblin?”
“There may be more.”
“True. But—raided? I’ve seen a Goblin raid, Prost.”
The [Steward] paused. The former [Farmer] tightened his hands.
“Yes, Your Majesty. You saved us. And we were there. I was there.”
Laken dipped his head slightly.
“It was not a raid, Mister Prost. It’s Goblin [Thieves]. As bad as Human [Thieves], I will grant you. But I won’t march into the Goblin territory to grab one Goblin [Thief]. What would I do?”
“Punish her. Laken, a [Thief]’s a [Thief].”
Durene was scowling. Laken looked at her.
“And this one has an arrow in her side. Moreover, the Goblins have their own territory.”
A growl from Durene.
“Which you gave them.”
Lady Rie, Prost, and Durene. None of them were in their usual accord with Laken. The [Emperor] nodded.
“We’ve argued this over. Mister Prost, if a Human stole from the Goblins—”
“Sire.”
“—And the Goblins marched into Riverfarm and demanded the Human for their justice, would you accept?”
“Sire. Are you planning on doing nothing?”
The [Emperor] shook his head.
“I won’t evict the Goblins. Because, as Lady Rie is all too quick to point out, or Beniar, or anyone else, doing so would just create another Goblin tribe. If I want to clean up my mistake—”
He paused, and his tone indicated he didn’t share the other’s belief that it was one.
“—I should kill every last Goblin. Just order the army to surround and execute them. Finish the job that should have taken place at Liscor. Am I hearing you all correctly?”
He scowled at his advisors. Rie exchanged a look with Durene, for once in solid agreement. There was a sound from behind Prost.
“Your Majesty, you’ve explained why you think Goblins should be allowed their space. But Mister Prost is correct when he says they’ve committed a crime.”
Wiskeria spoke slowly. She wasn’t as furious as the others, but she did eye the [Emperor]. Laken sighed.
“True enough. And no, I won’t ignore this. But neither will I do something that will clearly lead to conflict. I’ve been trying to prove a point! One Goblin [Thief] is not all Goblins! And if they are warlike monsters with no capacity for reason, why have we not already had to slaughter them?”
He struck his armrest of the throne. The room fell silent. Laken sighed.
“I’m tired to death of arguing over their inherent evil. Yes, one Goblin stole crops. No, I will not order them all slain. Have you looked at them?”
“Have you?”
Durene’s mutter made the room go silent. Laken paused.
“I’m glad not to be able to see them, Durene. If they look like monsters, I’d probably be more inclined to treat them like monsters. But monsters do not weep. Monsters do not grieve. And I have heard both. I would rather give up ten thousand eggs than add to my sins.”
More silence. Laken sighed. He turned his head, looking past his immediate advisors.
“You’ve been very quiet, Witch Hedag, Witch Eloise. What do the [Witches] counsel?”
The two [Witches] looked up. Eloise was sipping a cup of tea. Hedag was making a charm, her thick fingers skillfully sewing something up. Hedag, the giant, looked at Eloise, and the old [Witch] answered with a polite smile in her voice and nod. Laken couldn’t see it, but politeness was Eloise.
“They have no reason to love you, Your Majesty. Or any Humans. These Goblins have seen war. And your people have every right to fear what they’d do.”
Laken grimaced.
“True. I was hoping you’d take my side, Witch Eloise. Yes, they have every right to a grudge. But surely there is hope? Or must we slaughter them all? What of you, Witch Hedag?”
The big woman issued a booming laugh. Her axe was propped up in the chair she sat in—the two [Witches] had chairs, even if no one else did. They wouldn’t stand on an [Emperor]’s will. Hedag tipped her hat, grinning.
“If a Goblin were the same as other folk, [Witches] at least would remember, young man. But we remember them in good times and ill! Your villagers see only what they want, but they’re right that a Goblin King never embraced any other species. They’ve brought only death and the kind of death that would curl any toes!”
Her voice echoed in the room like a cheerful headswoman. Which is what she was. Hedag paused.
“True, Goblins have worked with good folk before. [Witches] remember. We’ve even welcomed them into our covens.”
“Hedag.”
Eloise nudged Hedag. The [Witch] laughed. Everyone was staring.
“Whoops! Was it a secret? Goblins can be many things. They level, so surely they have minds. But almost always, [Witches] remember they’ve come into conflict with the good folk. Because the good folk always turn to Goblins whenever the first chickens get stolen. Even if it was their neighbor! Easy to blame monsters, eh?”
She grinned around. Prost and Durene glared, and Rie pursed her lips. Wiskeria just shook her head despairingly. Laken sighed.
“So your counsel is also that there’s nothing to be done, Hedag? Eloise?”
He turned his head towards them, almost annoyed by their responses. But both [Witches] smiled. Hedag laughed as she tipped her hat back.
“I never said that. We offer perspective, little [Emperor]! But I’d not waste words on a fellow whose mind is already made up!”
Laken smiled, unexpectedly. He chuckled.
“True. You see right through me.”
“Your Majesty! You can’t be thinking of doing nothing—”
Dismayed, the council turned back to Laken. The [Emperor] waved his hand.
“No, Mister Prost. Not ‘nothing’. It’s clear that Riverfarm’s good citizens would take matters into their own hands if nothing happened. I suppose it’s time to allow some leeway when it comes to the Goblins.”
The [Witches] sitting across the back wall looked up. Durene stirred, and Wiskeria looked at Laken sharply. He sighed.
“Riverfarm will simply have to take its own precautions. As such, here are my orders as to what will happen and what may happen. Listen closely…”
The council listened. They liked it, and didn’t like it. But they acquiesced. Laken tapped his cane for emphasis.
“I hoped it wouldn’t be necessary. But by all means. I’ll allow more time in the evenings for time off, Mister Prost. But I don’t let a single hand work there when they have their jobs. Is that acceptable?”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
The [Steward] bowed. Laken sighed. But for this, everything would be fine. He turned his head towards Durene. Another argument. But…
