When I look back toward the center of the domain, through the plumes of high-quality ether, and stare into the cracked stump of the Primordial Tree, there are overlapping memories that remain in the forefront of my mind.

Marcellus' in-depth scans of the zone's floor are still fresh visions, but now I'm seeing them with far more layers of the zone revealed in front of me with no resistance at all.

There are two overlapping circles of ancient arrays that start to slowly move below the tree's stump.

One of them is far older than the other, and it appears to be made from glyphs of a strange dialect of the Originators' language. Many of the symbols look slightly off, similar in the way a branch of the Originators' language was formed to make the Demon's Legacy.

The newer glyphs forming the array on top are certainly the work of a Dryad, however, these also have strange symbols that are not quite right. I've absorbed and assimilated enough knowledge of the Dryads through every single domain in the Purple Zone to know there is clearly something different about these too.

Both ancient arrays turn in opposite directions, and a large amount of the released refined high-quality ether in the air is flowing into their centers, charging up the dormant arrays and making them glow with the bright white aura in the air.

There is so much energy in the air that this drain on the atmosphere does not affect the rate my own ether pool or sword collects energy.

Even Maria, stood right next to me, does not slow down my absorption rate.

There is far too much energy in the air to absorb all at once. I can only pull in so much, even though I'm growing exponentially stronger with every passing moment.

I watch all of the Outer Settlement lords be struck with this wave of power too, and it fills their ether pools with the most potent energy they have ever felt before.

My own Primordial Aura is still tethered to them, and my Rising Emperor's system allows me to pull energy control maturity from my links of loyalty. So, every single entity touched by this wave of energy fuels my own strength to catapult upward faster.

It is not only happening in this Zone.

Abby and Seraphel get hit with an extreme wave of potent ether too.

Their Legacies instantly break through, with all of the Advanced Primordial Aura holding their souls together, and refined high-quality ether that was trapped between the Cyan and Blue Zones' ancient protective arrays flows into their cores.

The lack of a firm stability between zones lets the roots digging down through the ravine break through the barrier to the Green Zone like glass.

Enormous manifestations of roots break downward and surround every single citadel in the Green Zone at once.

In comparison to the zones above, the Green Zone's diameter is a speck in the grand scheme of things, and the roots break downward into the Lower Realm past this zone almost immediately.

Abby has total control of her manifestation, and enormous ancient high-quality Dryad glyphs form on the outside of her roots. The life within the Green Zone becomes a protected white orb that sits in the center of the growing trunk of an enormous tree.

Almost all of the released high-quality ether in the Green Zone is trapped in this orb, and the explosions of arrays and silver glyphs from the fortress have also been contained. However, the pulsing from this fortress does not stop. It starts to coat the inner walls of this domain created within the growing tree with silver glyphs.

These growing roots continue to spread downward and find themselves seeping out into a void of wide open, empty space in the center of the galaxy. It is exactly where the full power of the Source once was.

However, the chaos that has just been unleashed into the Lower Realm makes the roots of this tree spread out into unpredictable directions in order to latch onto the new pockets of high-quality ether that have already begun spreading throughout the zone.

As the two ancient arrays in the Purple Zone begin to spin faster in opposite directions, it triggers more hidden arrays that sit within the silver reactors anchoring the center of every zone.

Beneath the roots of Abby's Primordial Tree, even the void in space where the Source should be, a circular disk of invisible gravity begins to turn.

All of the chaotic waves of high-quality ether in the Lower Realm instantly react like a center point of attraction is pulling on them. A spiderweb-like network of pathways starts to form, like echoes of the ancient highways that once connected the entire Lower Realm.

As all of this occurs, I hear the loud roar of a Dragon that is bonded to my soul.

Not only does the outline of his form appear in the sky far above me, but so does a blast of bright silver and white light.

I've only witnessed this kind of explosion in the memories I just absorbed, that happened every time he tries to burn through the soul bond of his demonic partner. Yet, I do not feel any danger or even a tug at all on my soul.

Something else entirely is happening.

His form is growing far larger than anything I saw in his battle against Marcellus. It looks like his Rank Up upgrade is complete, but there is a very unreadable serene black and white aura covering the outside of his body like a seal.

The only thing escaping is a massive amount of silver threads that decay off him like radiation. It is far more than he has ever released before, and looks almost exactly like the scenes of many other Overseers burning out their Immortal Cores fighting Marcellus in the past.

I watch black cracks form in the zone all around him. They look just like the bends on space Maria and I made moments ago, exerting too much pressure on the Purple Zone. Yet, it looks like he is doing so just by existing here.

He appears to be falling upward, like there is a mass of gravity naturally pulling him through the black cracks in space to escape this zone by force. I'm watching it all unfold with wide eyes while chaos threatens to shatter the entire galaxy apart beneath my feet.
