Spell alteration was a bit of a trick. Cale didn't have much experience with casting spells himself, but he did have experience messing with other people's spells, and he'd had enough of a minor obsession to study in-depth how different spells tended to manifest. For ones with an ongoing effect, it was most often a change in the affected mage's aura or core, and for [Alter Leylines] specifically?

It manifested as rivers of power within his core.

Just like leylines! Which meant he could use the spell to modify itself, interestingly enough, and although Cale was worried at first about the scale, a tentative test proved that it was perfectly fine. In fact, it was almost like he was just using the spell for its intended purpose, like it had created leylines in his core or something.

Pfft. What a ridiculous thought.

After about ten minutes of concentration—which felt far too long for Cale, but this was one of the times he wanted to be absolutely sure he didn't make any mistakes—he was confident the spell would do exactly what he needed and nothing more. "Alright," he said. "Stand back. I'm going to change the way mana is supposed to flow through this room, and if there's something hiding here relying on that, it's probably going to wake up."

"Should we prepare to fight?" Damien asked hesitantly.

Cale thought for a moment. "Eh, probably not," he said. "There aren't many things that can hide the way this thing is hiding, and most of them can't fight. They're dangerous in a very different way."

"What kind of way?" Leo eyed the air like it was about to bite him.

"We're about to find out," Cale answered. Which wasn't really an answer, but Cale was pretty sure any of the answers he could have given would have been even more worrying.

So, before Leo could ask anything else, he reached into the grooves that had settled into Haelforge's corridors and yanked.

A knot of power unravelled. Something screeched with a resonance that vibrated through mana itself, making both Leo and Damien flinch and stumble back. Cale didn't move—he just stared into the air intently, watching as something began to tear its way through the veil.

And then it flopped awkwardly onto the desk beneath it.

"Is that..." Leo stared at it. "Is that what you were looking for? It's tiny."

"It doesn't look dangerous," Damien added softly.

"Doesn't it?" Cale raised a brow. "Reach out with your mana sense."

He could see the moment they did. Both of his apprentices shuddered and took an instinctive step back, raising their hands as if ready to blast it. Cale shook his head and stopped them before they could.

"No point," he said. "It's already dying."

It squirmed on the desk as if to prove his point, desperate to breathe. Cale ignored this in favor of studying it carefully, trying to find any evidence that it wasn't what he thought it was. He would really, really prefer that it wasn't. Mostly because he didn't like the implications.

Unfortunately, he was pretty sure it was.

What writhed on the desk had the appearance of a small, shimmering worm, but absolutely wasn't. Cale recognized it well, in part because it registered as wrong to every single one of his senses. Just being near the thing made the magical equivalent of his hackles rise in a way that Abyssals didn't.

Abyssals didn't belong to the Great Realms. This thing didn't belong anywhere. It wasn't supposed to—shouldn't, couldn't—exist. Just like a dozen other things on Utelia.

A very long time ago, it wouldn't have appeared as a worm at all. Its creation would have been celebrated, because it marked the growth of a new branch of Yggdrasil. It would have been carefully cultivated with an assortment of high-density mana until that branch grew into something real and life flourished within.

But Yggdrasil was dead, and so the realmseeds were reduced to this. A husk imitating life, more than anything. They were a fraction of what they were, a representation of the rot that continued to eat away at the former World Tree.

Some of their old elegance remained. Fragments of what would have been the shell of the seed stuck to the worm, gleaming with silver whorls and intricate patterns. But the sense it exuded now was deeply and truly wrong to any mage with a core.

"What is that thing?" Leo asked, shuddering.

"It would have been called a realmseed, once," Cale murmured. "Now it's just what happens when you try to make one. More a remainder than anything else. Or a reminder."

He knelt by the desk, then picked up the now-dying worm. It made sense now that Haelforge's mana flows had been redirected toward it—a malformed realmseed wouldn't survive without a constant flow of ambient mana sustaining it. More importantly, it fed not only on that mana, but on the realm itself.

And there was no place where the veil was weaker than within those flows. These things were aberrant creations now, bound to an older iteration of the Great Realms, an older form of magic.

An older version of the Source.

That was the other reason they were impossible. The corrupted part of the Source had been excised and destroyed, as far as he knew. If these things still existed, and if they had been deliberately seeded throughout Utelia...

Cale crushed the worm in his grip, more to end its misery than anything else. He sighed.

Damien, watching him, bit his lip nervously. "That's not a good thing, isn't it?"

"No," Cale said. "It is not. But I was right about it being important, at least. It's a good thing we found this out now."

"Why's that?" Leo asked.

"Because it tells us that the Red Hunters—or, more likely, their Commander—are creating more of their so-called dangerous wild mages on purpose." Cale felt a sudden exhaustion that had little to do with how much mana he'd expended. "And that tells us their end goal isn't really to get rid of all wild mages. It's just a means to an end."

His gaze lingered briefly on the remains of the realmseed still sitting in his palm.

A realmseed like this, if seeded properly throughout a realm, would warp the leylines just enough to cause more exotic types of mana to leak through. It would affect the birth of every new mage in that realm, making it that much more likely that the mage would be born with a mana core no one else had.

Worse, they enabled the appearance of mana aspects that were connected to that corrupted version of the Source—all the aspects he and the Monoliths thought they'd sealed away. The best option would have been to excise them all, but the ritual to create them was gated more by knowledge than power, which meant these were likely seeded all throughout Utelia. Hunting them all down would be a losing battle from the start.

It didn't mean they were out of options, though.

"But... they hate wild mages," Leo said, his brows furrowing, and from the sudden pain in his voice Cale knew he was thinking about his parents. "Why would they be making wild mages on purpose?"

"That's the question, isn't it?" Cale murmured. "If I had to guess? Whoever's in charge of the Red Hunters is trying to get someone with a specific type of mana core to be born. If I had to make an even more specific guess, then they want a mana aspect that doesn't show up unless the world's in sufficient conflict.

"The more they push wild mages to fight back, the more they'll disturb the realm's mana. The more they do that, the more the problem caused by the realmseeds gets exacerbated, and the more wild mages get born. Eventually, the wild aspects will change to reflect the conflict in the world. You'll get mages with dreamplague cores, mindchain cores, skittersoul cores..."

Leo swallowed, and Damien made a small, worried noise in his throat. It took Cale a moment to understand why. Right—his apprentices weren't exactly used to this sort of thing, were they?

"Do you think that means they're right?" Damien asked quietly. "To be afraid of us, I mean?"

Cale snorted. "They're the cause of this, don't forget," he said. "And any of those mages on their own could learn to control their power. The problem here is that whoever's behind this doesn't care if the realm is overwhelmed with them—you can only teach so many mages at once. This is an apocalypse of their own making and not your fault."

"What are we going to do about all this?" Leo asked. "Please tell me you have a plan."

"Of course I have a plan," Cale said, reaching up to pat Leo on the shoulder. Then he gave Damien a pat as well, just for good measure. "When don't I have a plan? We should head back, though. I need a nap."

"Now?" Leo protested.

Cale gave him a tired smile. "The short of it is that we just need to find what they're looking for and stop them in their tracks. This sort of scheme takes years to execute. It won't change anything in the short term."

"I don't want to do nothing," Leo said stubbornly.

"We're not," Cale said. "Now that we know this, we can hit them where it hurts, remember? And you guys are perfect for it."

Leo and Damien stared blankly. "What do you mean?" Damien asked.

Cale hummed. "The state of the realm impacts the type of core created, remember?" he said. "Everything we do has an impact. Everything. So be yourselves, and I'm sure whoever's behind this is going to get a nasty surprise when they check their data."

Then he grinned. "In fact... I'm pretty sure they will already."

The Red Commander twitched, staring at the report.

There were more wild mages. That was good.

He did not understand why so many born in the last day had, for some infernal-forsaken reason, been granted mana cores related to bread.
