“Consider it a thank you for what just happened.” Ren said as he put a hand on her arm, and she looked at him. “Thank you for that memorable kiss.”

“Y-you're welcome.” Laurelia said, because she could see the sincerity in his eyes.

“Now, would you like to hear the story up until now?”

“I would.” Laurelia said as she stored her pants for an instant and equipped them again, then started to sit down.

“No, not here.” Ren said and motioned to the giant city. “Let's go and check out the city and see if the Library is open.”

“The Library?” Laurelia asked and stood up straight.

“Yeah.” Ren said. “If I'm going to tell the whole tale, I might as well have it recorded and made into a book.”

Laurelia stared at him as he knelt beside the cart.

“Princess? Do you want to run over there yourself, or do you want me to carry you?” Ren asked her, and he could feel her thinking about it.

“Carry, please.” Princess said.

“Your mount can talk!” Laurelia gasped, and Ren chuckled at her reaction.

“Ladies, same option.” Ren said to the women in the cart.

“Just carry the whole damn cart!” Officer Holly said. “We can easily fit in your arms this way!”

“Yes, ma'am.” Ren said and carefully picked up Princess and the cart at the same time, and nestled the cart in the crook of his elbow and held Princess in his hand. “Well look at that.” He said. “You were right.”

“Of course I'm right!” Officer Holly said. “Now get moving!”

Ren held his other hand out to Laurelia. “May I escort you home?”

Laurelia smiled and took the offered hand, and gave it a squeeze. “You may, kind sir.”

They walked hand-in-hand out of the Giant campsite and over to the entrance to the Giant Starter City. Once inside, they saw giants walking around almost aimlessly as they looked at the things inside.

“I know 5 miles isn't a lot with everything on such a large scale, but I couldn't make the thing much bigger because of the limitations of my Craft Wondrous Item ability.” Ren said.

“I can't believe you made this entire city appear in just seconds!”

“Not just this one.” Ren said and led her over to the Library. “I made one for the High Elves and one for the Humans, too.”

“Th-three?!?” Laurelia was shocked. “You did this three times?”

“Thanks to my familiars, Tee-one and Symmetra. We did all three at the same time.”

Laurelia shook her head. “I can't believe you did that!”

Ren chuckled. “It's right here in front of you.” He said and they went into the Library. It was full of books and had several giants looking through the shelves.

“I can't believe we're allowed in the Library!” One of the female giants said. “With the actual books!”

“You will need a Library card to check them out.” A harsh woman's voice said, and Ren looked at the reception desk. A female giant sat there, and she had a stern expression on her face. He led Laurelia over to the desk, and gave the Librarian a respectful bow.

“Ma'am, please excuse my intrusion.” Ren said in a soft voice so that it wouldn't be heard much further away than the desk, and he felt the Librarian's approval. “If I could get your assistance, I'd like to record a book while I tell my friend here a story.”

“Do you know the minimum words required, and the content rating system?” She asked as she leaned forward.

“Yes, Ma'am.” Ren said. “I have 5 books so far that have been published by this fine establishment, and I am also a Patron of Knowledge.”

The Librarian sat back in her chair and crossed her arms. “Are you bragging about your accomplishments?”

Ren shook his head. “I am merely presenting my credentials to prove that I won't be wasting your time.”

The Librarian huffed and uncrossed her arms. “Very well.” She said. “First room on the right, and I will be in momentarily.”

“Thank you very much.” Ren said and gave her another slight bow. “I will await your arrival patiently.”

“Are you humoring me?” The Librarian asked and squinted her eyes.

“With that last line?” Ren asked, and she nodded. “Perhaps a little.”

The Librarian gave him a little nod and Ren took the cue to step away.

Stat Change!

Etiquette Level 8 (Expert 0%)

Ren led Laurelia over to the side hallway and let her hand go to open the door. He ushered her through and shut the door behind them, then opened the first door on the left. Inside was a small room with a table and 4 chairs, and they sat down. Ren put Princess and the cart down on the table, and they all waited for the Librarian. She came into the room a couple of minutes later and sat down across from Ren.

“You may begin.” The Librarian said, and Ren started to talk.

*

Lord Tathalyn managed to get a cart and driver to agree to the several hours journey out into the no man's land outside of the High Elven Kingdom for an outrageous fee. Two guards came along to protect the driver and their high-paying client. They brought enough supplies in case anything happened, and they set off on the trip.

*

Ren told his hours long story to Laurelia, and tried his best to keep it entertaining. That wasn't difficult, considering what he had been doing since the last time he had seen her, and every now and then he would pause and add a mental image to the book. When he was done talking and told the Librarian the title of the book, she got up without a word and left the room.

“Wow.” Laurelia said. “Ren...” She shook her head. “Why aren't you dead?”

“I'm an Adventurer.” Ren said. “I did die and I came back, remember?”

Laurelia took a deep breath and sighed. “How can you live a life that's so hectic?”

“One day at a time.” Ren said and smiled.

The Librarian came back into the room and clutched the book against her chest. “I put a copy in the archive.” She said and hugged the book, then reluctantly let it go and passed it to Ren.

The Chronicles of Ren Volume 2

Mistakes in Joy and Villainy: My Adventures In and Out of Shargon Caverns

Book Rating: A (Violence, Gore, Sexual Content)

“Please make copies of this available for free to anyone that wants it.” Ren said.

“For free?” The Librarian looked at him with wide eyes.

“Yes.” Ren said and stood up to hand her several platinum coins. “I do that for all of my books.”

“O-of course.” The Librarian said. “Thank you for creating such a great book.”

“It's only great if the reader thinks it is.” Ren said and smiled as he picked up Princess and the cart that still had Xuunah, Officer Holly, Artemis, and Symmetra in it. “Thank you for taking the time to record it for me.”

“It was no trouble.” The Librarian said and paused before she opened the door to leave. “Don't take this the wrong way, but I hope you don't have such an... interesting life from now on.”

“I'll try my best.” Ren said and took Laurelia's hand. “Let's find you a house.”

“My parents are already doing that.” Laurelia said. “We just have to find them.”

The Librarian opened the door and they all left the room and went into the main part of the Library. Ren's hands were full, so he nodded to the Librarian and led Laurelia outside. He let her hand go and took out the All-Seeing Mirror and asked it for her mother's location. He stored the mirror and took Laurelia's hand again, then led her to where her parents had picked out their house. Laurelia knocked on their door, and her mother answered.

“It's next door!” Her mother said excitedly. “You have to see it!”

Laurelia went to go, and Ren held onto her hand. “What is it?”

“I have to go.” Ren said. “I need to deliver the High Elves to their new home.”

Laurelia sighed, and Ren felt her disappointment and her understanding. “I'm not going to see you again for a while, am I?”

“I honestly don't know.” Ren said. “It could be next week, or it could be a few months.”

“You're telling me not to wait for you, aren't you?”

Ren smiled. “I've been telling you that since we met.”

Laurelia chuckled; but, he felt her heart was deflating a little.

“I can give you a lame excuse if it'll help.” Ren said. “You live too far away! It takes almost 10 minutes to get here!”

Laurelia snorted a laugh.

“You're too big and I'm too small!” Ren said. “How can we ever overcome the size difference?”

Laurelia stepped close and cupped the side of his face.

“It's not fair to ask you to not look for love, only on the slim chance that I might be able to fit you into my life, maybe sometime later.” Ren said. “You deserve better than that.”

“So do you.” Laurelia said and gave him a kiss. “Goodbye, Ren.”

“Goodbye, Laurelia.” Ren said. He equipped his platinum armor and took a step up into the air, then another, then started to run.

Notice!

Trouble Recipe ingredient: 'Giant Refugees' has been completed.

Running Quest Update!

You have shown several influential Giants what you can do.

Reward: 2,500 XP

*

“What a sight.” Laurelia's mother said. “An armored giant running through the air.”

Laurelia nodded and fought hard to not cry.

“Hey, it's okay.” Her mother said and put an arm around her daughter. “He still cares about you.”

Laurelia touched the precious amulet around her neck. “I know he does.”

“Come on into the house and we can have some tea.” Her mother said. “Your father brought over everything of ours from the camp.”

Laurelia blinked her eyes and couldn't see Ren anymore, nodded slightly, and went inside with her mother.

*

Lord Tathalyn couldn't believe what he was seeing. It's not a lie or a trick! It's really here! He thought in amazement as the cart was close enough now for him to make out the tower.

“Well, I'll be damned.” The car driver said. “The crazy old man was right!”

“Ha ha!” One of the guards said. “We thought you were coming out to the middle of nowhere to get dropped off and die.”

“I just lost 5 gold coins.” The other guard said.

Lord Tathalyn ignored the chattering voices around him, because he only had eyes for the tower. I'll be there soon, my love! He thought as the cart went ever closer to the mile high structure.

*

Ren stopped a few miles away from the Giant Starter City and stood on the ground, then knelt to put Princess down. He used the spell to reduce himself back to his normal height and climbed onto her saddle. She took off through the air at a much faster speed, and they made it to the human healer's ward 10 minutes later. Because Ren didn't want to have to make multiple trips like he did to bring them all here, he had an ingenious idea.

Ren made a 10 foot wide crate and added multiple floors and stairs inside, then added in seats for everyone and wheels for when it moved. He smiled at the odd-looking thing, and thought about making it larger. He changed his mind and went into the ward instead.

“Everyone, your ride is here to take you to your new home.” Ren said. All of the High Elves looked at him like he was crazy, and he laughed. “You should save that look until you go outside.”

The High Elves started to walk out of the ward and couldn't believe what they saw.

“You can't be serious.” One of them said. “We can never fit inside something that small!”

Ren cast Permanent Air Walk on the heavily modified crate and used the Permanent Enlarge and Reduce Anything wand on it to make it the right size.

“How about now?” Ren asked, and the High Elves just stared at it. “Well, don't just stand there.” He smiled. “Hop in and find a seat.”

The High Elves boarded the enlarged crate, and still couldn't believe it was happening. Ren went to the elflings and told them to come along as well. They didn't hesitate when they saw the thing and climbed right on board without a second thought.

Once everyone was on and seated comfortably, Ren thanked the healer and her assistant for all their hard work, then attached the enlarged crate to the cart the 4 women were in. He mounted Princess' saddle and they trotted up into the sky.

They arrived at the new High Elven starter city 10 minutes later, and Princess landed right outside the main draw bridge. Ren hopped off of Princess and opened the covered cart that the four women were in, then went to the crate with the High Elves and elflings in it.

“Here it is.” Ren said. “Welcome home.”

The High Elves started to disembark from their hastily-built transport, and as they approached the draw bridge, it lowered for them.

“There's lots of living space inside, so there should be no fighting over who lives where.” Ren said. “Remember! There's no class segregation inside.”

“Ugh, are you still going on about that?” One of the female High Elves asked as she stepped off the crate. “If elflings want to be of service, you have no right to tell them that they can't be.”

“Wouldn't that mean you have no right to tell them that they can be?” Ren countered, and she stopped talking and walked up the draw bridge.

“Ren, there's a cart coming.” Teepo said, and Ren turned to see it. “It's Lord Tathalyn.”

Ren nodded. I figured it would be. He thought.

“Are you going to let him inside?” Teepo asked.

I have to. Ren thought. It's the only way to stop it, now that the tower is complete.

The High Elves continued to leave the transport and go inside the city, and Ren walked over to Princess and helped the 4 women climb out of the cart, then stored it.

“Happy faces, everyone.” Ren said to them and smiled himself as he turned around to meet the cart that had picked up speed when the driver saw the High Elves entering the city. It came to a stop right in front of Ren, and Lord Tathalyn jumped out of the back of it.

“It's really real.” Lord Tathalyn said and looked up at the mile high tower.

“It sure is.” Ren said. “Would you like to see it up close?”

“I would.” Lord Tathalyn said.

“Then please, after you.” Ren said and motioned for the High Elf to go ahead; then Ren, Xuunah, Officer Holly, Artemis, Symmetra, and Princess followed the awestruck High Elf inside.
