Taking only the moment needed to top Mato up, Malika vanished, stepping through space and teleported right behind the Sylvan Elf in his half-destroyed shop. She lashed out with a kick, pushing herself to full speed with Divine Step. Her strike connected solidly, cracking loudly, much like kicking a tree trunk. She followed up with two Soul Strike empowered punches, and then she saw the same surge of stamina flare within it, and recognized the stunning blast attack. She felt her eyes pulse from the activation of Soul Sight as she grasped the rippling flow of monstrous energy with Martial Disruption and shattered it.

Instead of the stunning bolt, the monster vanished from sight, a second formation surging through it in reaction to her disruption.

He was completely invisible, but she could still see the mana and stamina within his body. But he left her behind as he suddenly rushed past, heading toward a different ruined building with an unbelievable burst of speed. She sprinted after him, dodging the arrows that flew her way, but there was no way she could keep up, and, by the time she reached him in his new spot, four more Creep Spores and a second Zombie Dark Ent appeared.

“Another domain magic.”

The mana surge this time was darker, more menacing, and around her feet, the ground suddenly turned into a bubbling puddle as the creep and even the rubble within it rotted away in seconds. She hopped up into the air, but quickly had to run away as the toxic vapors emitted by the puddle began to choke her.

You have been afflicted with Poison.

Gaah, that’s foul! She teleported again, pressing her attack, getting in only two kicks this time before the boss vanished, sprinting away at that same ridiculous pace. Evolved monsters were on a whole different level. She had to push herself to the limit just to keep up. But both Calen and Lyeneru’s arrows didn’t let up in the slightest, tracking the invisible monster wherever he went with a stream of mana-enhanced arrows that ripped the creep at his roots to shreds, each strike filling the air with flying scorched fungal bits and the stench of ozone.

Malika sprinted, pushing herself to go even faster as her costs grew slowly cheaper, dodging arrows from both directions, and hopping clean over a second puddle of rot as she landed upon a fallen half-wall and unleashed her kicks upon the bark-like armor, allowing Soul Strike to do most of the damage as it pulsed and flickered right through the monster’s torso.

This guy is annoying, she thought. Not only could Mato not catch him, but she was continually chasing him, unable to do any sustained damage. The two domain magic abilities he had shown so far seemed rather manageable, quick reactions allowed the rot pools to be avoided, and the zombie treants were all gathered up on Mato. All she needed to do was check in on him every now and then and heal his cumulative wounds. The spore clouds, on the other hand, were much more annoying. They seemed to be summoning Creep Spores, which ran around chaotically, exploding on anything that moved, and they lingered long enough to be frustrating to navigate.

Suddenly, movement and mana shimmered out of the corner of her eye, and she barely dodged as three new sylvan monsters appeared, swords flashing as they tried to decapitate her.

Another summon? But she hadn’t seen the mana surge within the boss, it had come from the area to her left and behind her. Then, it suddenly clicked. “Respawns!’

“What? That’s not possible,” Calen snapped.

Malika ignored him, instead rushing toward Mato, dragging the warrior respawns with her. She took the opportunity to heal him, finding him surprisingly hurt considering he was actually using Brutal Restoration. Must be the poisons and the curse.

And then a second shimmer rippled through the domain, and a second group of humanoid plants respawned.

“Fuck,” Calen said. “Retreat. Retreat!”

Malika had considered the retreat plan, worrying incessantly about it all the way through the dungeon, but she had eventually settled on a rather unconventional strategy. It just hinged on whether her moderate hundred and seventy-odd strength would be enough to handle Mato’s vastly increased weight. She hadn’t had the opportunity to test it, but she squatted, wrapping her arms around his shoulder and across his back, and heaved, burning stamina like crazy to run up into the air with the massive bear.

Somehow, it worked, and she found herself struggling to dodge arrows flying from the ground while manhandling an oversized Dire Bear.

You have been afflicted with Poison.You have been cursed with Death’s Grasp.

But neither of these two afflictions did enough damage to hurt her through the damage reduction her Soul Armor provided. “Stop wriggling,” she said, trying to shift her grasp on Mato.

But it seemed he wasn’t exactly wriggling, because moments later the weight all but vanished and she found herself carrying a Beastkin with a mace and shield stuck to his hands, and a grumpy, annoyed look on his face.

“I hate flying,” Mato groused.

“Let’s return to the camp,” Lyeneru said. “We have learned more than enough for tonight.”

“That was not pretty,” Mato growled.

Malika grinned inwardly. And you sound like a grumpy bear. Exactly how I feel.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg

https://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
