Nervously tugging at his collar, the little lamb stood and drained his cup of tea before beginning. “Okay, so first, an Oath.” Using his little sword, Rain cut deeply into his forearm while channelling the Energy of the Heavens, swearing to the truth of his words. The intensity of his chi was astonishing, and a glance around the room showed that she wasn’t the only one surprised by his power, BoShui and Zian open-mouthed with shock. Throwing away all her earlier suspicions, she beamed with joy at having found one so loved by the Heavens. Impossible for a tribe of Defiled to raise one so radiant, she truly hoped to meet these miracle workers.

Pale-faced and drained from his oath, he wrapped the wound as he told his story. “On the err... twenty-eighth day of the fourth month, during a skirmish with the Butcher Bay Bandits, I was dragged out into Western Treasure’s Lake...” BoLao listened intently to Rain’s story, interrupting now and then for pertinent details. Oh how wonderful, a young hero guided by the hand of the Mother, overcoming insurmountable odds to interrupt the unholy practices of a hidden Defiled Cult. Not only once, but twice, and even surviving a clash with a newly turned Demon. How else could he have accomplished so much  if not for the Mother’s Blessing?

His story over, she was left with many questions he could not answer. Why were the Ascendants involved with the Mother’s Militia? How had Laughing Dragon escaped notice for so long? How had the girl Bei, who’d shown no signs of Defilement, turned Demon in a single day? And Gen, the fire-conjuring Defiled, how had his power grown so quickly?

Her fingers drummed across the table, the only sounds in the room. To think that the Father’s claws had sunk so deep around the Sacred Grove, seeking to pollute Her work. Unforgivable, to take so many of her children away, the vile presence of Defiled must be scoured from the earth. Slamming a fist down, she clenched her jaw and declared, “Too much time has passed, we cannot delay any longer. The Purge must begin immediately.”

Many would die, but such was her burden to bear. Though they may curse her actions and burden her with terrible titles like Shrike and Mad Dog, this was a battle for their very souls. She was a necessary tribulation, a cleansing flame here to save their souls. Through her actions, these poor victims could meet the Mother’s embrace untainted, freeing them from the Father’s grasp and allowing them to be reborn in another life

Though they may go screaming into Her arms, a few hours of suffering was nothing compared to an eternity in the Father’s clutches.

Chapter Meme
