Pyre grunted in acknowledgement, but she didn’t move her eyes away from the other demon. She cocked her head.

“That why you don’t try that with me?” A sharp grin stretched across her face. “Or do you have an age limit before someone’s too old to goad?”

All at once, the smile dropped from Pax’s face. Pale eyes met flat grey, and the temperature in the clearing seemed to chill. Slowly, Pax pushed herself away from the tree trunk and strode forward.

“I could try, if you’d like,” she began. She cocked her head. “I could mention that emptiness you feel, the hollowness that’s been following you since you first woke up. You’ve felt it. You know it’s there. And yet you can’t even begin to appreciate what you’re missing, because even that feeling is beyond you.”

She took another step closer, only stopping when she was standing directly in front of the sloth fiend. This close, Pyre could see the sallow skin of the corpse Pax was wearing, the way those translucent eyes almost looked like glass in the moonlight. She was more acutely aware than ever that this wasn’t Pax’s true form.

“You think it’s because of your soul,” the crossroads demon continued, still staring at Pyre with pale, unblinking eyes, “but I think you’re wrong. I think it’s innate, and no number of soul pieces you find will fix it.” Her voice lowered until it was barely above a whisper. “And I think part of you, deep down, knows it too.”

For a moment, it was silent. Pyre didn’t say anything at first. Without the crossroads demon’s voice filling the space, the quiet of the clearing was suddenly all too apparent.

The sloth fiend met Pax’s gaze steadily, neither one moving or looking away. Both scrutinizing the other. Finally, Pyre opened her mouth. The words that left were blunt and flat in their certainty.

“You knew me, didn’t you.”

The air thickened. Pax didn’t move or react, but Pyre could see a flash of something in those uncanny pale eyes. It was an old, deep-seated anger simmering just below the surface that seemed utterly uncharacteristic of the crossroads demon.

Then, Pax took a step back. Just as quickly as the emotion had appeared, it was gone. Her eyes were once again unreadable, and a relaxed smile replaced any expression she might’ve had.

“I should be going now,” she said, her voice once again light and casual. She nodded in the direction Daphne and Callan had gone. “Since you did give me a new spell to add to my collection, I’ll tell you this. There are three external glyph circles amplifying the main one in the sanctum. All of them are close by.”

It felt like a concession, but for what, Pyre couldn’t say for sure. She hummed, absorbing the information for later.

“Before you go, I’ve got one more question.” She cocked her head, dark hair billowing slightly in the wind. “You were the one who told us the horn’s in Magrath. Did you know a piece of my soul was here?”

Before Pyre had even finished the question, Pax was already gone. There one moment, then vanished the next without a single trace. It was as if the demon had never been there at all.

Shaking her head, Pyre strode forward, absently smoothing the crossroad etching away with her guard boots.

She hadn’t planned on telling Pax that, but the longer the other demon had spoken, the more true the statement had seemed. The surety in her voice, the subtle, simmering anger, the familiarity—none of it made sense unless Pax had known who she was before her reincarnation. Before her memories were scattered.

She’d had a theory for a while now, one silently growing in the background ever since coming across some of her more unusual past skillsets. She hadn’t taken it too seriously then, when her main evidence was an unusual proficiency with axe-fighting and the lore Callan knew about reincarnators. Now, though, she was certain.

Pyre stepped down onto the etching one last time to make sure it was smoothed out, then turned towards the forest where the human and ghost had gone.

According to Callan, all known reincarnators had lived their previous lives on this world. They simply retained their memories after rebirth while the vast majority of souls didn’t. The idea of a soul being reborn from a completely different “world” didn’t even seem to exist as a concept. It made her own status especially odd.

Now, with Pax’s unspoken confirmation, there was a new possibility that could allow some of these inconsistencies to make sense. And the longer she thought about it, the more true it felt.

Pyre strode into the forest, two thoughts ringing in her head.

This wasn’t the first time she’d been reincarnated.

And this wasn’t the first life she’d lived in this world.
