She knew when the first skeleton cut her that she was going to die. Erin stared down at the open skin on her arm and wondered if she could push the two red halves together. She raised the frying pan and hit the skeleton with all her strength.
It fell down. Erin kicked it until the lights in its eyes went out. She was strong. Strong as a man? Strong enough to kill. She’d hit a dead Drake until the iron frying pan had dented and his skull had caved in and bits had squished outwards.
But the dead were everywhere, and somehow, each time Erin turned around, there were fewer Antinium around her. But there were always more undead. Their glowing eyes watched Erin, and their clawed hands sought her life.
Once, she thought she saw Toren. Her skeleton danced among the undead, sword raised, stabbing, cutting. His fellows seemed to only half notice him, only fighting back after he’d made the first blow. But he was only one, and she couldn’t tell him apart from the other skeletons.
Erin ran back and forth, ducking under slow swings, throwing the few jars of acid she had at the Ghouls as they bounded towards her, hitting skeletons aside, and seeing the black shapes protecting her. Each time a sword thrust at her heart or she stumbled, a Worker would be there, grappling a zombie away or seizing a Ghoul by the throat.
The girl fought, and every time she turned around, another Worker, another friend, was dying.
And then she turned around and there were only the dead. The few Workers that remained struggled alone, isolated.
Erin backed up towards her inn. Eight Workers came with her. The rest lay silent. They barricaded the doors even as the undead began breaking through the windows. Erin tossed aside the frying pan that was bent nearly out of shape and realized she’d torn the skin from her palms even as she grabbed a chair.
The dead battered at the door as the Antinium clubbed at arms and heads breaking through the shutters, and outside, Skinner’s crimson gaze lit up the inn. He was close.
Erin was bleeding. Blood dripped from her arms and legs. Something had stabbed her in one of her breasts, and she was sure she’d never heard of that happening in a story. She clutched at her bleeding chest and sat down.
Just for a second.
It was very dark.
 
——
 
Zevara stood in the center of the street as the undead rushed towards her. She took a deep breath and breathed fire.
A stream of bright flame shot from her mouth, incinerating the front rank of the undead and making the others stop to claw at their burning forms. Zevara kept up the stream of bright fire as long as she could. Five seconds. Ten. And then she had to stop and gasp for air.
The world was dark. Spinning. She couldn’t breathe. Yet the enemy had been stopped for a moment. But only a moment.
They were everywhere. And they had pushed the defenders of the city back, back, until they were battling down the main street, next to the barracks, outside one of the entrances to the Antinium’s Hive. And though the battle still raged on, Zevara knew this was it.
The end. Once their lines broke this time, there would be nowhere else to go. The children and those citizens not fighting would be exposed. Already, they’d been crammed like sardines as the guardsmen had them move further and further back from the fighting. Any more and—
Were the other streets already overrun? Liscor was massive. She had lost contact with Tkrn. Was this the last area holding?
It wasn’t her fault. That was what Zevara wanted to say. She’d done her best, damn it. With thousands of warriors she’d held off tens of thousands. Who could ask for more than that? The army wasn’t here, the damn traitors. The Antinium should have been.
But she’d failed, even though she was always going to fail. The Watch had never been meant to protect the city from siege. There were over four thousand in the city that held over a hundred thousand civilians. They were able to quell fights, catch [Thieves], stop [Bandit] raids—
But never an army. And especially not an army of the dead.
How many were there? Thousands. Tens of thousands. They kept getting back up. The living became the dead, and the dead refused to die. Stab wounds didn’t slow them. Fire melted their skin but had to crack their bones before they stopped. Beheading didn’t slow some skeletons, and the Crypt Lords could kill scores before they were brought down.
If. If the walls had been held, the Watch would have prevailed. If they had held the first few streets instead of fighting in every damned alleyway, they would have held the line.
If she’d let Relc try to kill Skinner, they might have pushed the undead out of the city. And if the Antinium had joined them, they might have won.
They were still fighting. Ksmvr’s Soldiers guarded several streets leading to their Hive. More warriors stood guarding the sloping tunnel into the earth, but none had joined the Watch. They were all back, protecting their Queen.
Another group of undead ran down the street. Zevara gulped down more air.
Damn him. Damn him. She’d counted on the Antinium. They were what had been needed, but he’d refused to send them out. The Hive’s Soldiers and the Workers would have made all the difference. They could field far more than three hundred if they needed to, but Ksmvr had refused. He was heartless. Not at all like his predecessor.
A Ghoul bounded ahead of the running zombies and skeletons. Too fast. Zevara raised her sword and slashed at its chest. The dead woman stumbled, but then raised a hand. Too quick, and her sword was caught on bone.
Zevara opened her mouth and exhaled. Fire ignited in her lungs and spilled out her mouth. It burned the air, the dead, and even her. It was her ancient birthright, but it was not hers.
The world greyed out and spun as Zevara stumbled. The Ghoul was lurching back, screaming and clawing at her ruined face, but then she lunged forward. A spear tip punctured the tip of her head, and she fell down.
Someone was at Zevara’s side. The Watch Captain felt a huge arm helping her up.
“Careful, Captain Z. You’re running low on air.”
Zevara gasped and shook Relc’s hand off. She tried to inhale air, but her breath was coming in short gasps. She gasped and clawed at her throat. She could barely breathe, but she had to. She spat fire again, and a crowd of the undead went up in flames.
Coughing. Gasping. It was pain, and she couldn’t breathe. Zevara stumbled backwards as the undead seized the lull in the deadly blasts of fire and surged forwards.
Relc stepped forwards, spear blurring. He stabbed two zombies in the chest with blinding speed, pivoted, punched a skeleton down, and then raised his spear as another zombie lurched at him.
“[Triple—]!”
The zombie’s head exploded as Relc’s spear struck three times at once. The Drake caught a bit of flesh in his open mouth and gagged on the rest of what he’d been about to say. He spat, coughing, and whirled his spear around.
More guardsmen rushed forwards, and Zevara stumbled backwards. She’d given them all the time to rest she could. Any more and she would stop breathing, she knew.
She gasped for more air and then raised her voice. She had to know.
“Tkrn. How are the others doing?”
The guardsmen fought in front of her, a thin line of weary soldiers, blades and armor covered in gore. Zevara looked around.
“…Tkrn?”
The Gnoll was nowhere to be seen. She remembered she had stopped getting his reports. Zevara tried to remember where she’d seen him last. Running down a street to deliver a message? She shook her head.
Gone. They were all gone. Or going.
Relc fell back, cursing as the undead pushed forward. The thin red line grew redder and fell back as the undead pushed forwards. And this street was not alone.
Across the city, guardsmen fell back as the barricades broke. Ghouls raced over the rooftops, too many to be stopped by the few arrows and spells coming from below. They raced towards the streets where the citizens of Liscor were guarded by the wounded, sensing their prey was helpless.
“We’re out of healing potions.”
Tkrn appeared out of the chaos, limping to tell Zevara that as the Watch fell back another street. She just nodded at him. What else was there to say?
“Fall back towards Market Street. We’ll make a stand there.”
He nodded as the guardsmen ran or carried each other past Zevara. Relc brought up the rear, spear still blurring with speed. But even he was slowing down. Exhaustion was doing what all the undead could not.
“Relc. Can you…?”
He grinned at her. Everyone was running backwards—but the undead were so fast—he came to a halt.
“Leave it to me. Just save a spot for me when I get back, huh?”
She nodded and ran with her guardsmen. Back, back again. Relc didn’t need to say anything. Both she and he felt it. 
A single Drake turned in the street, and a Wight hesitated. The [Spearmaster] stood there as a hundred undead poured towards him. Holding them for a moment so the Watch could regroup.
 
——
 
Selys Shivertail was a Level 1 [Soldier]. She had been trained, once, as an adventurer. She knew how to fight with her claws, and she had been mentored by great warriors. Heroes of her species, even.
But she had given that dream up as a girl. Now—she regretted it. Regretted every second of not having a Skill greater than [Swift Strike].
“[Swift Strike]! S-swift—”
She tried to use the Skill again, but she could only do it once every five minutes. Far, far too little for this battle. She swung instead and cut a pale monster lightly on the chest. It kept coming, and the spears of Drakes and Gnolls around her forced it back. Selys felt ashamed she’d been showing off to Erin. It was one thing to surprise her friend. But she was not ready for battle.
“Wight! Kill the Wight!”
Her arms were shaking with exhaustion as she fought with the civilians alongside the Watch. There were [Hunters], Drakes and Gnolls who had experience with blades skirmishing in the streets with the undead.
Krshia had joined her Silverfangs on the rooftops, shooting Ghouls and other undead coming up at them. They were reaping dozens with each minute, precise Silverfangs from the Great Plains. Selys saw a Drake aim a crossbow up, and the bolt exploded through a Wight’s head.
“Where’s the Antinium? Where’s our reinforcements?”
He was screaming at the Senior Guard leading this group of volunteers. Senior Guardswoman Beilmark looked around as her partner, Jeiss, whirled his sword, slashing a zombie’s arm off and beheading a skeleton in the same move.
They fought well—against everything but the larger undead. Beilmark wasn’t listening. She gasped.
“My family—”
“Beilmark, focus! They’re safe!”
Jeiss and Beilmark were both parents and neither knew where their families were. Selys raised her burning arms, trying to step back into line, but the Drake with the crossbow yanked her back.
“You’re exhausted. Grab a stamina potion and rest!”
He was a [Veteran] of the army. Selys thought he’d said his name was—Menolit? The Drake was missing half his tail, but not from this battle. Grimly, the Drake reloaded his crossbow, sighting for stronger undead.
He saw one coming their way and screamed.
“Crypt Lord! Run! Run!”
It came at them in a lumbering run. This one was on all fours, and a huge head of eyeballs stared down at them past two maws of bone-teeth. Menolit fired—and his crossbow did not a thing to slow it down.
“Jeiss!”
The Watch’s finest [Swordsman] tried to confront the monster alone as Beilmark swung a club left and right, knocking down zombies running past the monster. Jeiss lunged—and his blade cut in a zig-zag motion.
“[Cross Slash]. [Swiftsilver Riposte]—”
He drew back, tail swinging wide as he stepped out the way of an arm—but the Crypt Lord opened its mouth and vomited that poison. Jeiss had to break off his chain of strikes—and he stumbled. With exhaustion? With wounds—
A limb the size of Selys’ body hit the Drake, and he went crashing backwards. Beilmark grabbed him as the Crypt Lord advanced again—and she dragged the screaming Drake back.
“Bones broken. Get to—get to—”
An apartment was sheltering some frantic fighters trying to get in. They had lost their protective cordon. Now—Selys saw frightened faces within windows slamming them shut as monsters began to claw on the residential street. The Crypt Lord was lumbering at them. 
“Get indoors! Open up! Hold them off until help comes! Barricade the doors—inside, now! It’ll smash through everything!” 
Menolit was shouting at the others. He grabbed Selys’ arm—but neither one had time to get inside. The door was locked—and the Crypt Lord was coming.
Zevara and Relc were fighting down another street. Selys whirled—and the Crypt Lord came to a shambling halt. It stared at her, and she wondered if her wavering sword was scaring it.
Then she saw the bulbous, rotten eyes focus on someone coming their way. A short Drake leaning on a spear—and a tall figure that Selys recognized. For only one person had…rabbit ears.
“Dead gods and Ancestors. At last.”
Menolit sagged against a door. Selys didn’t answer him—Beilmark looked up and groaned in relief. But all Selys said was—
“Grandmother?”
Her heart squeezed with worry, but the Drake holding the spear ignored Selys but for a single motion with her claw. One side. 
Then the Guildmistress of Liscor’s Adventuring Guild nodded to the furred man with rabbit ears. Liscor’s only Courier leapt into the sea of undead, and his fists blurred as he punched the head off a zombie. He kicked a skeleton into pieces as the Crypt Lord spat at him—but he was gone in a second.
Hawk the Hare and Tekshia Silverfang advanced as the [Spearmaster] of Liscor, one of two in the entire city, lowered her stance. She faced the Crypt Lord side-on.
“[Spear Art: Tree Limb’s Reach].”
Her jab with the short-spear in her arms elongated, and the enchanted blade struck the Crypt Lord as it lumbered forwards. The spear’s tip burst into flames, and the monster lit on fire. 
It still came on, and Hawk kicked it from one side, making the beast stumble.
“[Endless Spear Flurry].”
Selys’ grandmother stabbed and stabbed and stabbed. Eight, seventeen—Selys couldn’t count how many times she hit the Crypt Lord as it slowed, bursting into flames as her enchanted spear hit it. Then the Drake was leaping back, nimbly—before she clutched at her back. She strode back, leaning on her spear, panting.
The Crypt Lord tried to follow her and Hawk as the Beastkin disengaged, wiping gore off his fists. But it was burning—burning—
The streets cheered as the monster fell. But Tekshia just marched up to Selys and grabbed her granddaughter’s arm.
“You’re alive. Good. Block the streets! Is Jeiss alive? You idiot, we need you intact!”
“Guildmistress—”
