“Back to the barricades!”
Menolit shouted, stirring everyone from their stupor. The Drakes and Gnolls rushed back as he bowed, deferentially, to one of Liscor’s highest-level fighters.
“Guildmistress Tekshia, will you help us here?”
“Can’t.”
Hawk was the one who replied. He wiped sweat from his forehead and grimaced as he got blood and fluids all over his fur. The two of them were panting.
“We’re fighting street-to-street against Crypt Lords. We have to go. Selys, stay here with Beilmark. If this street is overrun…run into the Hive or find a cellar.”
Selys’ grandmother was grim. Hard as stone even now—but her claw was tight on Selys’ arm. The Drake [Receptionist] wanted to cry.
“Grandmother—”
“I have to go.”
“Are we going to be alright?”
Tekshia was already striding down the street. She looked back at Selys and then jerked her head. A flash of light made Selys look up.
“Guildmistress Alonna is holding them on another street. The Mage’s Guild, Runner’s Guild—keep fighting. Where are the Antinium?”
She looked for answers, but Jeiss, drinking a potion, just looked up bleakly. Tekshia gazed at him and then raised her spear.
“The Walled Cities were right about the Hives, then. It doesn’t matter. The Necromancer never took the city. To arms. Keep fighting!”
She began to run. Selys turned and ran back up the street as Hawk bounded after the Guildmistress. All of Liscor was fighting—there were [Mages] flinging spells down with the Gnolls, now. But where were…?
 
——
 
 
The guardsmen met a larger force holding the entrance to Market Street. The burned out road had been torn up again, this time so that stalls and doors could be turned into another barricade. The Drakes and Gnolls who held this spot were exhausted, wounded, but the dead clogging the street were a testament to their will to fight.
Zevara took to the front of the line and looked back over her guardsmen. She knew she had to speak, to give them hope, a reason to keep fighting. She just had nothing left to say.
A voice raised above the shouting and ever-present noise in the distance. A calm, emotionless tone.
“Watch Captain Zevara. I must speak with you.”
Zevara turned and saw Ksmvr. The Prognugator of the Antinium strode towards her, two Soldier Antinium at his side.
His exoskeleton had been crushed on one of his arms, and something had torn open his side. A gauze binding had already turned dark green with blood, but he was otherwise unharmed.
One of the Soldiers limped as he walked, and Zevara saw his left foot had been half torn off. But the Soldier did not cry out or show any sign of distress. They halted before her, and Ksmvr nodded as if nothing was urgent in the world.
“Watch Captain Zevara. I regret that we must part ways now.”
She stared at him.
“What?”
“This battle comes too close to the Hive. I must pull back the Soldier Antinium from the streets to better guard the Hive. I tell you this as a matter of courtesy.”
Zevara struggled for words. The only reason they’d held on for so long was that the Soldiers were blocking off several streets. Without them—
“Coward. All of Liscor is fighting! Guildmasters are in the streets—the Free Hive swore to fight with us! We took you in when every city in Izril refused! You fought with us against Az’kerash!”
Tkrn howled at Ksmvr. The Antinium flicked his gaze towards the Gnoll and then away dismissively.
“I regret this decision. But I must prioritize my Hive. I hope you understand. Your duties are similar to mine in nature, Watch Captain Zevara.”
She stared at him. Tkrn was growling, but she put a hand on his shoulder.
“I understand.”
Ksmvr nodded.
“Good. I wish you—”
“I understand that you’re a coward and a fool.”
Ksmvr paused. Zevara raised her voice as the Watch around her looked around.
“We’ve fought and bled for this city and your blasted Hive. If we fall here, everyone dies! But you won’t even give us more than a handful of Soldiers! Don’t you realize what’s happening? Or is your damned Queen not aware of what’s happening?”
The air around Ksmvr and the two Soldier Antinium froze. His hands touched at his sword hilts.
“My Queen completes her duties. As do I. Insults to her name—”
“Eggs rot your damned Queen!”
Zevara shouted at Ksmvr. She pointed at the destroyed streets and ruined buildings.
“We’ve kept Liscor safe! We’ve held up our end of the bargain—you Antinium swore to protect this city from attack! And where are you when we need you!?”
Ksmvr paused.
“I must protect my Hive.”
“Liscor will fall!”
“Liscor may. But the Hive shall never be taken, even if a hundred thousand undead should attack.”
What was worse, Zevara believed him. She cursed him, but Ksmvr remained impassive. He shook his head.
“Say what you will. But the Queen’s safety is—”
“Zevara!”
Relc shouted behind her desperately. A Crypt Lord had appeared down the street, from the wrong side. He must have broken through somewhere else. Guardsmen streamed towards him, shouting as Relc held off the undead coming from the other direction.
Zevara cursed and turned towards Ksmvr, but the Antinium was already striding away. She opened her mouth and then closed it. There was no point in wasting her breath.
The Captain of the Watch stared bitterly at Ksmvr’s back. She longed to plant a sword in it or strike at the Antinium, but that would just see her dead sooner. Instead, she turned. Drakes and Gnolls were already fighting the Crypt Lord as he spat black blood at them, slicing at them with claws made of broken bone.
Zevara raised her sword and ran back towards the fighting.
For the last time.
 
——
 
“Erin.”
For a moment, Erin thought someone else was shaking her. When she looked up into the dark eyes and saw the four arms of the Antinium, she remembered someone else.
“What?”
The Worker pulled her upright.
“You must not sleep. Here.”
He shoved something at Erin. She took it and stared at the red liquid. A potion…? A healing potion. Hers. That was right. Hers. She’d—bought it after that day.
“Drink.”
The bottle was at her lips. Erin swallowed, grimaced, and felt life returning. She was tired. So tired that the world seemed to call her back to sleep. But the potion made her live.
She got to her feet. The Worker helped her up, and she saw he was wounded. He was missing an antenna and two fingers on one of his right hands. His carapace was broken in places, but when she offered him the potion, he shook his head.
“Drink.”
She did, finishing the foul liquid and feeling life return with every gulp. Erin threw the bottle across the room and struck a skeleton in the face as it sought to climb in. It slowed the creature long enough for another Worker to behead it with an axe.
Erin looked at the Worker who had given her the potion. It seemed silly, with the undead clawing at the walls and howling outside, but she had to say it.
“I’m sorry. I’ve forgotten your name.”
“Bird. I am Bird.”
He nodded at her. Erin nodded back.
“I guess this is it, then.”
“We will protect you until the end.”
“Which is now.”
“Yes.”
She paused. Erin’s head was still spinning, but she looked around and saw only the dead. The undead, but also fallen Workers. Death.
Crimson light was what she saw by. Skinner’s glowing red eyes lit up the inn brighter than the light from the moon. Bird had taken his place by one of the windows, a sword in his hand, a buckler in another.
“There are few undead left. Many are moving towards the city.”
“But that thing is out there.”
“Yes. It is close.”
Erin peeked outside. She could see Skinner, his massive, obscene frame a shadow around the two red spotlights in the darkness. A guard of undead stood around him, silently waiting in the darkness.
“He’s waiting.”
“Yes.”
Bird nodded again. Erin looked at the undead. They were still bashing at the doors, the walls, trying to climb through the windows as the seven other Antinium moved around the room, slicing off limbs and bashing heads.
The inn’s walls were protecting them, for the moment. But Erin knew it wouldn’t last.
“We’ve got to go. They’ll tear this place down around us if we stay.”
Erin walked into the kitchen. She had one jar of acid left. She took it. Bird grabbed her arm as she walked towards the door. The Worker stared at her.
“It is death out there, Erin Solstice.”
She nodded. The darkness was scrabbling against the inn, breaking in piece by piece. She saw glowing eyes, fangs, baleful malice. It felt like she was dreaming again. A dark dream from which she’d soon wake. But the Antinium…if this were a nightmare, why were they so beautifully brave?
“Yeah. But it’s death everywhere.”
He paused, staring at her face. Another Worker turned.
“Better to place the enemy in check than suffer it yourself.”
Erin blinked at him and then grinned.
“Right.”
She opened the door. A zombie stared at her in surprise, arm raised to hammer at the wood again. Erin threw a jar of acid in his face, and he staggered back, screaming. She was nearly out of acid. She’d rained it all down on Skinner and the other undead.
She had a knife in one hand. It was sharp. Erin held it in her hand and thought she was dreaming. She stepped around Knight’s body, heart beating faster and faster. The knife was slippery in her hand.
Skinner looked at her, eyes projecting fear. Erin gritted her teeth.
“Go to hell.”
She ran out the door, and the eight Antinium followed her. Erin stabbed a zombie in the face, punched him, and looked up as Skinner’s massive hand flattened the undead Gnoll. Two glowing eyes stared down at her.
She raised the kitchen knife.
“Come on. Let’s end this.”
 
——
 
Ksmvr strode through the streets as the noise of battle receded into the dull roar of sound around him. He thought as he moved, considering all that was occurring and would occur.
Zevara and the guardsmen would soon fall. Perhaps the citizens in Liscor would make a stand. It was possible they might prevail—the undead horde’s numbers had thinned. But they were still a danger.
Duty towards Liscor and the bargain with Liscor obliged the Hive to send Soldiers to defend it. But as Prognugator, Ksmvr was able to determine whether such actions were wise. And with the Queen still occupied by the Rite of Anastases, he had determined her safety was paramount.
Zevara had cursed him. Shouted at him. Her anger was understandable, but there was nothing Ksmvr could do. His actions were the only sound choice.
…Weren’t they? No, of course they were. 
They were logical. He knew that. The Queen had to be protected, especially when carrying out the Rite. He was quite clear in the priorities he had been given. Her life and the well being of the Hive were far more important than the agreement made with the city of Liscor.
He spoke to one of the Soldiers accompanying him. To speak to one was to speak to all.
“Pull all Soldiers back. The streets are meaningless. We must protect the Hive.”
The Soldier didn’t respond, but Ksmvr could feel the other Antinium abandoning their positions at the street entrances. They would retreat to the Hive, guarding both entrances within the city.
There were three entrances to the Hive, only two of which were known to the Council of Liscor. The third remained outside the city, buried by several tons of dirt. It could be easily excavated, but the undead had not located that entrance as of yet.
Ksmvr continued to consider the siege as he stood at the entrance to the tunnel, watching the streets for the undead as Soldiers ran past him into the Hive. The Antinium had food and supplies for at least a month of continuous operation, which made things simple. The creature that had appeared with the undead was still at large outside the city, but it had shown little interest in the Antinium.
Regardless of the outcome above, Ksmvr estimated that the Queen would be finished with her task by the end of the night. Then he could request further orders. If she wished the city to be cleansed, the Soldiers were fully capable of doing so. Otherwise, the Hive could easily be sealed off.
She might be angry. But he had done the most practical thing in lieu of orders. She would understand that, right?
Ksmvr did not worry about his Queen’s reaction to his decisions. He did not worry. He had fulfilled his highest priority, even if it meant sacrificing lesser commitments towards the city. She would understand, would she not? She had given him no other directives.
“The city is expendable. The rogue Aberrations are of little concern and may be hunted down in time. The innkeeper—”
He hesitated. She was valuable. The city was valuable. But—
“The Hive is all. The Queen is all.”
She would understand. He dared not risk her safety by reducing the Soldiers protecting her. She had given explicit instructions not to be disturbed at any cost. At any cost. He was following orders.
And he had secured the individual known as Pawn. That was quite an achievement. Ksmvr remembered what the former Worker had said and shifted. He had been…unsure how to respond to Pawn’s words, as close to disloyalty as they had seemed.
“My judgment is not in error. My logic is sound.”
Reassured, Ksmvr nodded again. The last of the Soldiers were about to enter the Hive. But suddenly, they paused. And stopped.
Ksmvr stared as one of the Soldiers seemed to glance up at the sky, listening. And then, suddenly, he turned around and began to run back down the street.
“You. Halt!”
The Soldier halted as Ksmvr strode towards him. The Prognugator held one hand on his sword’s hilt as he stopped a few feet away from the errant Soldier.
“What are you doing? I ordered you to return to the Hive and guard the entrance.”
The Soldier stared at Ksmvr silently. Of course, he couldn’t respond, but Ksmvr sensed no difference in the Soldier’s thoughts. He was following orders. Following orders, but whose? Ksmvr hadn’t ordered—
Something brushed past the Prognugator. Ksmvr whirled, but it was another Soldier. And not just one.
Suddenly, the massive Antinium warriors were streaming out of the Hive’s entrance again. Ksmvr whirled.
“What are you doing? What is happening?”
They ran past him silently. He turned and saw them running into the city. Even as he watched, they began charging towards the undead.
“What…?”
A hand tapped Ksmvr politely on the shoulder. The Antinium turned—
A fist crashed into his face. The chitin on his cheek cracked with a loud sound. Stunned, Ksmvr fell down, hands grasping at his swords.
Undead attack? Here already? Aberration? Ab—
