Ksmvr was Prognugator of the Antinium. He had been born to war, and so he drew both swords and daggers even as he rolled. He could not die. His life was important; he led the Hive in his Queen’s absence. But he froze as he looked up.
The world was different. Ksmvr felt it. In an instant, his reality changed. He looked up and knew. He felt his Queen’s anger; he sensed her ire in his mind. She had returned. She had completed the Rite. And he—
He stood above Ksmvr.
“You.”
The world began to shift.
 
——
 
Selys had never killed with a sword. She had been trained by Tekshia and her uncle, Zel, but never actually taken a life. Undead…undead were close enough.
How many had she beheaded today? Eight? Twelve? Her grandmother had told her she wouldn’t understand what it was to be a warrior until she took a life. She wouldn’t level until she had placed her life on the line and gambled with it.
Today, Selys Shivertail understood. The Drake staggered back and watched as the zombie fell, the hilt sticking out of his stomach.
The female Drake felt sick. But Krshia yanked the sword out of the dead Human’s body and handed it back to her. The Gnoll had the experience with this.
“Have you leveled?”
Such an odd question to ask as Selys’ arms burned, as the city was filled with fighting—but the Gnoll’s eyes were deadly sharp. If Selys leveled—maybe she’d be stronger. She surely would—
But there was no time to sleep, even a second. Selys shook her head.
“Not—”
She couldn’t breathe. So Krshia lifted her bow, shot an arrow, and grinned as she reached for another.
“Maybe after the battle ends, then, eh?”
Her fingers scraped her quiver, and the Gnoll woman looked down. Empty. Krshia’s smile winked out. She looked around, then ran back, cursing, calling for arrows.
After the battle ends? That assumed they were going to live.
It didn’t seem likely. Selys was behind the main line of guardsmen Zevara commanded, but already, the undead had attacked their spot twice. They were everywhere. Overrunning the streets.
“We’re going to die.”
Krshia smacked her on the head. Selys gaped as her hand flew to cover her head, but the Gnoll just snorted at her. She had been forced to descend to the streets—there were undead swarming over the roofs now, and half the city was overrun—the population squeezed into the other half behind the fighters. Or dead and moving upon their friends and family.
“Save your weeping for when you are dead, yes? We are not done. Fight. Fight until all is lost. If only my kin had come from—”
But all was lost. More undead were struggling at the barricades, fighting to break through. It was only a matter of time.
Part of Selys wanted to throw down her sword and wait for death. But it would be a terrible death, she knew. She wouldn’t even die at the end of it. So she raised her blade awkwardly, waiting for the end. If she’d only been an adventurer, leveled in another class—
A voice. A shout. Selys turned, raising the sword. She’d long since run out of arrows. But it wasn’t another attack. Tkrn ran down the street, waving the axe in his hand. He was running at a sprint, but his eyes were open wide. And he was—smiling?
“The Ants! The Antinium are coming!”
Selys looked at Krshia. It couldn’t be. They’d retreated. But now, another guardswoman had taken up the call.
“The Black Tide marches!”
“The Soldiers are fighting in the streets!”
Wildfire ran through Selys’ veins, giving her new hope. It couldn’t be. But then she saw them. Shapes. Moving out of the darkness. Not one. Not two. A moving mass. An endless stream of bodies.
The Antinium. They came in a wave, and Selys was reminded of the Antinium Wars. She remembered the same shouts she had heard as a child.
So again, the Antinium came in a wall of bodies. Beetle shells, insect eyes—mandibles shining under the moonlight and torchlight. An army without end or fear.
Soldiers ran down the street. They crashed into the line of the undead even as Selys watched, gaping. First twenty Soldiers filled the street, rushing at the enemy, and then fifty. A hundred. Thousands.
And they were not alone. Ksmvr, the Prognugator, was among them. He slashed at a zombie with his daggers, and suddenly, a Worker was next to him. The smaller Antinium seized the dead zombie and bore him down, and two more were suddenly next to Ksmvr, stomping at the dead Drake until it was paste.
Soldiers and Workers flooded out of the tunnel, an endless stream of black bodies. But that wasn’t all. The ground and streets began to ripple, and hands thrust out of the stones. The undead paused, and then a huge spade-like hand seized a zombie and dragged it into the earth. A Soldier Antinium rose out of the ground and finished ripping the undead woman apart.
The undead in the street hesitated. They were an army without fear, an endless tide of death that bowed to neither pain nor exhaustion. They would fight on even when they had lost arms or legs. They were pitiless, emotionless killers. But that was the nature of the Antinium as well.
Out of the tunnels. Out of the darkness. Workers raced next to huge, thundering Soldiers. They didn’t even slow down as the first group of undead appeared in front of them. The first Soldier smashed bodily into a Ghoul, knocking the smaller, dead Gnoll down. He didn’t pause but ran on. The dead Gnoll struggled to get up, but a Worker trampled him. And then another. The stream of Antinium did not cease.
A crowd of zombies met a Soldier. He ripped into them, shovel-like hands punching, gouging their weak flesh. Workers swarmed over another zombie, ripping, pulling him apart from every direction.
A Crypt Lord raised a clawed hand to shield itself. A Soldier leapt from a rooftop, plunging thirty feet to smash its knee into the Crypt Lord’s face. Bone and flesh gave way as the Soldier began tearing the larger undead apart. The Soldier stood up, carapace covered in steaming black blood. His right leg was shattered from the impact, and green blood oozed around the broken black carapace. He took two halting steps forward, smashed a skeleton to the side, and then collapsed.
The Workers and Soldiers paid no attention to the fallen Soldier. They surged around and over him, rampaging through the ranks of the undead, fighting with mindless fury.
The guardsmen and warriors in the streets stared. Hundreds of black bodies ran through the streets, killing, pounding, tearing.
The Antinium. They had come out of the Hive, leaving it practically undefended. They fought, overrunning the undead with a furious advance so fast that even the Crypt Lords seemed unnerved by the attacking insects. But why? Why now when they had waited so long to—
Krshia pulled Selys out of the way as a group of Soldiers thundered past them. They barely noticed the Drakes and Gnolls. But one of them was leading the charge. Ksmvr paused as, ahead of them, Zevara blocked his way.
“You! What’s happening?”
The Drake stared at the Prognugator, but he shook his head. Selys saw the Antinium had cracked the chitin around his face somewhere. He looked—confused. She heard him raise his voice.
“We are attacking. We will drive the undead out of the city.”
“What?”
The look Zevara gave Ksmvr was incredulous, and she wasn’t alone. Selys had heard the Antinium had called all the Soldiers back. So why had he changed his mind?
Ksmvr shook his head helplessly.
“I did not order it. I did not. The Queen did not either. He—”
“Who?”
“He has gone to Erin Solstice with many Soldiers.”
“Who?”
Relc ran past Selys, his scales streaked with blood and grime. Selys grabbed at him. Relc nearly threw her off before he stopped.
“Relc? What’s happening? Why are the Antinium fighting now?”
He looked at her, wild-eyed. Selys took a step back. She had known Relc for a long time, but she’d never seen him look like that. His scales were grey. He pointed.
“I saw him. I saw—he was leading them.”
“Who was? Relc?”
The Drake didn’t answer. He sagged, staring at the Antinium as they filled the streets, fighting. He whispered, so softly only Selys and Krshia heard it.
“He’s back.”
 
——
 
This was how it ended. In the last hours of the night, Erin fought outside of her inn, the undead and the Antinium mixing into a blur. She stared up at Skinner and saw death and horrors in his face. She raised a kitchen knife, a tiny weapon, and vowed in her heart to hurt him before she died.
This was how it started.
Skinner grabbed for Erin. She ducked and stabbed at his arm. Her blade cut a few inches into his dead skin and stopped.
Erin rolled out of the way as the hand came back. It still caught her a glancing blow, but the red spot didn’t touch her, didn’t steal her skin. It had taken two Workers already. Their carapaces had been torn away by Skinner and tossed to the ground.
A Worker caught Skinner’s hand. He knocked the Antinium away, but three more gripped his arm and stopped it. Skinner raised his other hand, and Erin threw the jar of acid.
The acid splashed on his face, and he shrieked. The sound went through her bones. She covered her ears as he clawed at his face, and the Antinium did likewise.
But something moved despite the ear-piercing sound. Toren ran out of the darkness and leapt towards Skinner, dagger in hand. He leapt onto Skinner’s face and began stabbing wildly. Skinner tried to shake his head, but he had no neck.
His eyes. Those crimson eyes. Toren clung to Skinner’s face, wriggling into the sunken sockets, tearing and cutting with his dagger as the giant creature tried to shake him free.
Again, Skinner screamed and, this time, ripped Toren away with a huge chunk of flesh. He hurled the skeleton aside.
Toren fell away with something red in his hands. But no blood. Skinner howled and struck after him with a massive hand, but Toren was already gone.
One of Skinner’s eyes was gone. In its place, a huge crater of dead flesh was all that remained. Dead flesh.
It was as if all Skinner was made of were just flesh. There had to be bones or muscles or—or organs. But all Erin had seen as the Workers and she had carved bits out of the creature was skin.
Something struck her from behind. She turned, and a zombie bared rotten teeth, biting at her. Erin struck at him with her knife, but it wasn’t good for killing something already dead. It glanced off bone, and she screamed as the zombie grabbed towards her face.
A blue hand reached out and pulled the zombie backwards. A Ghoul—a long-dead Human with blue, moldy skin—pulled the zombie back.
Erin blinked. The Ghoul tore off the zombie’s head and then rushed at another skeleton. The group of the undead tore into their allies.
“What the—?”
Above her, Skinner was still clutching at his face. He was feeling at his eyes, as if he couldn’t tell one was missing. As his fingers touched the gaps, he shrieked again. His ruined face turned towards Erin.
Skinner swung at Erin, and she dove to one side. She scrambled to her feet and threw the knife in her right hand. It caught a Ghoul in the eye, and it fell back as a Worker dug into Skinner’s side. The Antinium dug at the hard, dead flesh like it dug at dirt, pulling away huge layers and pieces as Skinner thrashed and tried to reach the Worker. But they were too close, too hard to grab at.
More undead ran around Skinner, fighting Erin and the Antinium. But something was happening. Half of them seemed to be trying to kill the other half. Even as Erin watched, two skeletons bore down a Ghoul that had a sword stuck through its belly.
Erin seized the sword and dragged it out. It was heavy and unwieldly in her hands, but she hacked at Skinner’s arm with it. Bits of dead flesh flew everywhere.
Skinner backed up. He was trying to shield his body, but the Workers were everywhere, and the Human girl kept coming.
It shouldn’t be like this. She should be cowering. The Antinium should be dead. And his own undead had turned against him. It was all wrong.
But the girl ignored his fear. The dead had no minds to torment with horrors, and the Antinium were fearless. Skinner could only crush them, struggling to catch the Workers and undead.
He was just a slothful, hulking thing. He had no legs. He didn’t even have good hand-eye coordination. It was only his hands, his flaying touch and his aura of fear that were the threats. And Erin had come far. She refused to run.
She plunged the sword into Skinner’s arm. Deep. Nearly to the hilt. She hit something—something besides dead flesh. Skinner howled in agony.
He backhanded her, and Erin flew. She actually felt herself lift into the air before she hit the ground so hard she forgot everything for a second. When she looked up, he was raising a hand to squash her.
She rolled out of the way just in time. The hand smashed down, and she grabbed at it. There was no time to think. As the arm lifted again and Skinner searched for Erin, she leapt onto its head. The grotesque layers of flesh cushioned her, and she tried not to vomit.
She climbed the dead flesh, feeling it, slick and horribly cold beneath her skin. Erin raised the sword and stabbed down into Skinner’s head, clumsily sawing and hacking with the blade.
Skinner shrieked again. And only now, touching him, did Erin feel the vibrations coming from inside. She pushed the sword deeper and then cut again, levering out a square of compacted skin.
Below her, zombies began trying to pull her off. They crowded around her, but the Workers shoved them back, fighting them. Erin desperately clung to Skinner as he writhed, sawing away like she was cutting wood. She had already given herself two deep slices, but she desperately kept cutting away.
The friendly undead were fighting alongside the Workers now, and half were climbing Skinner as well, tearing into the large creature like she was.
Erin had just pulled another socket of flesh away when she saw something change. Instead of the putrid white and yellowed skin, something else shone in the moonlight.
Something red. Erin stopped. The piece of dead skin peeled away, and something raised its head within Skinner’s body and stared at her. She stared back.
“Oh.”
It was all she could say. Something inside of Skinner raised its head around the skin Erin had chopped away. Something wet and serpentine.
A dark red, eyeless face swung towards Erin. A segmented head with two long…antennae made of flesh seemed to drop down towards her, and a fleshy mouth opened, revealing sharp teeth.
Skinner—the real Skinner, the thing hiding in the puppet of dead flesh—slithered out of the ruined shell. Two long, whip-like tendrils followed the main body, long and thick roots of corded flesh. They were Skinner’s ‘hands’, and they were still coated with the black remains of the Worker he had seized.
