Erin let go of the ruined flesh of Skinner’s face just in time. The red worm-thing lashed out, its tendrils scything through the air so fast she heard the whistling sound they made. They caught a Ghoul and cut clean through his torso, shattering bone, breaking flesh.
A Worker caught Erin as she fell. Bird. He pulled Erin away, handing her a knife from one of his hands. Skinner was screaming again, the wormlike parasite emitting that high-pitched wail, only twice as loud now it was out in the open.
“Oh god, oh god, oh god. What is that?”
Bird shook his head as Skinner’s blind head moved back and forth, the fleshy antennae twisting around.
“I do not know. It resembles a Flesh Worm, but larger and it is hiding in the dead skin. It is dangerous. Please. Stay back—”
A tendril shot towards Bird. He choked, and Erin screamed as the tendril lanced through the Antinium’s side. She cut at the tendril with the knife, and Skinner screamed again and pulled the tendril out. Bird collapsed on the ground, bleeding.
Erin threw the knife. It spun towards Skinner’s head, but the red worm dodged the spinning projectile effortlessly.
Two skeletons ran at Skinner. The red worm-creature hissed and lashed out with its tendril arms, scattering both skeletons. He cast around again and struck like a cobra.
A zombie was lifted into the air, and his skin was removed in a sickening ripping sound. Only, Erin was sure that was one of Skinner’s own monsters. The crimson worm slithered back to the layers of skin and pasted the zombie’s flesh over part of the broken skin, as if he were repairing a papier-mâché doll.
“Do not allow it to rebuild. Kill it now.”
Erin couldn’t tell which Worker spoke. But they all ran towards Skinner at once, slashing at the huge segmented creature.
Skinner whirled around, and its tail sent several Antinium sprawling. It seized two Antinium with its tendrils and ripped parts of their bodies away. It was impossibly fast now, and it stabbed two more Antinium as they ran at it.
“No!”
Erin was on her feet. She scrambled for something to throw. Acid. She had to have another jar of acid in the inn. She ran towards it, but Skinner slithered forwards and blocked the entrance. It lowered its head and bit at her.
She ducked. She felt the smooth, sticky body of Skinner just above her, and then it rammed her. She hit the ground, stunned as Skinner raised its head. It regarded her, two antennae probing at her face, and then raised a fleshy tendril to spear her.
Erin couldn’t scream. She just looked at Skinner and held her breath. Waiting. The fleshy appendage rose and then scythed downwards towards her neck.
Death came for Erin and stopped halfway. A sword cut through the air; a pair of silvery blades. They flashed together, and Skinner reeled back, screaming. Yellow, pus-like blood oozed from the cuts, splashing onto Erin as she stared. She looked around.
“Wha—”
Someone was standing over her. An Antinium. But not like any she had ever seen. He had only two arms and a slim, graceful body, not like a Worker’s or a Soldier’s. In his arms, he held two swords she recognized, and he faced Skinner calmly as the red creature writhed and screamed.
Around Erin, black shapes suddenly appeared out of the darkness, grabbing the undead and tearing them apart. Large Soldier Antinium. They ran after Skinner as the red worm retreated. But that wasn’t what captured Erin’s gaze.
She was still staring at the Antinium who had saved her. He was a tall fellow. A Worker, but too big to be a regular one. Some kind of Soldier? A new kind? But—
“Are you unharmed, Miss Solstice?”
For a moment, the voice was just a memory. And then Erin’s eyes widened. Memory. The Antinium tilted his head as he regarded her. Her heart froze in her chest and then began to pound wildly.
It couldn’t be. It was impossible. But the voice was the same. The way he talked was the same. His body was different, but he—
“Impossible.”
“You have fallen. Allow me to help you up.”
She blinked. He reached down and pulled her to her feet. She clutched at him, ignoring Skinner, the undead, and the foul-smelling pus clinging to her clothing. Everything.
“You—you can’t be. I saw you dead. You were dead.”
Her eyes were filling with tears. Part of her was screaming something wordless. Erin reached out, and her fingers shook as she touched the Antinium’s black carapace.
“You—how?”
He smiled. Klbkch of the Free Antinium sheathed his swords and bowed to her.
“True Antinium never truly die. And I…I have a promise to keep.”
The world stopped. The dark night ceased. Light filled Erin’s head. She staggered, and Klbkch caught her with one arm. She felt his cold, hard chitin on her skin. Smooth, hard carapace. An alien’s touch. An unnatural feeling.
But she looked up and saw a friend.
Erin stared at Klbkch. He turned his head and raised his swords. A Ghoul ran onto one of his blades while the other beheaded it. He turned to Erin.
“It is not safe here. Remain behind me, Erin.”
Then he turned, and this time, his swords swung not at Goblins but at a Wight, chopping through a reaching hand, spearing it through the head. Striking left, parrying a jet of bile from a Crypt Lord, sending the liquid splashing back as the silver swords moved.
The Slayer of the Antinium whirled the poison back, splattering the undead, and turned his head again, checking on Erin to make sure she was alright. But this time—he was not guarding her alone.
Erin was frozen there, unable to speak or even form a thought. Klbkch seemed to gesture, and two Soldiers appeared out of the darkness. They surrounded her while Klbkch gave orders.
“Harry the undead. Pursue that creature.”
“Oh!”
Erin stared as the Soldiers ran towards Skinner. The red, fleshy, slithering thing was trying to retreat towards its dead skin, but the Soldiers weren’t letting it. They tried to corner Skinner, but it seized a Soldier, ripped his carapace away, and slithered away from them, down a hill.
Skinner screamed in fury as he ran. And he was running, slithering down the incline, a freakish worm-creature from the depths of hell. But he was retreating, nevertheless. His body of skin was gone. The Soldiers chased him, pounding through the grass.
But they were too slow. Too slow. They’d wounded Skinner. One of his ‘hands’ was missing thanks to Klbkch’s blades, and he was bleeding and torn in a dozen places. But he was too fast. Without his body, he would get away.
“Do not slow! The creature must not be allowed to retreat into the ruins!”
Klbkch thundered at his Soldiers. But even Erin could see it. Skinner was too quick. And he was—it was—
The worm laughed. It let out a ghastly, staccato chittering that made Erin’s skin crawl. It looked back as it wriggled away, as if taunting Erin and the others. It laughed, mocking them.
Erin saw the molted flesh it had abandoned still had pieces of metal clinging to it? Armor? It was vulnerable, now. 
Skinner had lost his undead. The Antinium were retaking the city. It had lost its skin—but the flesh-thing was still mocking them. It could rebuild it all. If it got away—
Erin gritted her teeth. If she had a weapon or something to throw, she would have—but it was too far away. All she could hear was that taunting, echoing laughter. That high-pitched sound. She wanted to cover her ears, but they were already splashed by blood and worse. It was so loud, so repetitive. In fact—
“What’s that sound?”
Klbkch cocked his head. Erin looked around. She heard something else, another high-pitched noise echoing across the plains. It wasn’t coming from Skinner. It was something else.
“That sound. What is it?”
It was faint, but growing louder. It was a high-pitched sound, countless…countless voices ululating and screaming wildly.
Yiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyi—
Erin knew. She breathed the word.
“Goblins.”
They streamed down one of the hills, countless small shapes lit by torchlight. Light glinted off their weapons and ragtag armor as they ran towards Skinner, faster than it could run. It halted, rearing up onto its serpentine body, seemingly unsure of what to do.
As the Goblins drew nearer, Skinner lanced out. He skewered two Goblins and ripped the skin from another, but there were so many.
One of Skinner’s red, glowing eyes still shone, embedded in the carcass of flesh. That magical light seemed incredulous at the sight it beheld. This? But something else rolled in the depths of Skinner’s gaze. Sudden—abject terror. Erin could feel the fear. The Antinium ignored fear. And Goblins—Goblins were different. Goblins were always afraid.
They swarmed the massive worm, ducking under him as he lashed out with his tendril arms. He bit and screeched, but the Goblins screamed too, louder than him. Skinner tried to wriggle away, but he was caught.
“No way.”
Erin breathed the words incredulously. But the Goblins came on, little green demons with eyes that flashed red in the moonlight. They were just pests. The lowest kind of monster.
But they were quick. And they were everywhere. For each one Skinner killed, five more were stabbing, biting.
They were no match for Skinner. No match for the undead. But they killed the wounded, attacked from behind.
They were cowards like that.
Skinner lashed out. He tore left and right, a fiend, a worm, a parasite living in dead flesh. He had come out of the Ruins, a horror from the past. He had led armies! His armor was gone, though—broken by a traitor. His remaining flesh—ruined. His endless forces—to be brought down by the lowliest monster? Impossible.
But the Goblins stabbed and stabbed, and his vulnerable skin bled.
He collapsed, borne down by the weight of countless small bodies. Skinner thrashed and screamed, but the Goblins drowned out even that. They stabbed, bit, burned him with acid and with fire.
Small jars of acid. They smashed them on Skinner’s side, leaping away as his red skin smoked and he writhed in agony. And fire—a flaming creature of fire was dancing round Skinner, burning him, making the red worm twist as the flames seared his unprotected flesh.
Rags. From her spot on the hill, Erin saw a small Goblin controlling the fire. Her hands glowed red, and her face and body were illuminated by the flame as the spell struck Skinner again and again.
She raised a sword that shone like gold even though it was bronze and stabbed him in the head. Skinner screamed then, and the dead howled with him. Then, slowly, he collapsed.
Skinner, the guardian of the Ruins of Liscor, the death of adventurers and stealer of flesh, opened his mouth to howl one last time. Rags tossed a jar of acid into his mouth, and he convulsed. She pushed the sword deeper, and his body jerked. Once. Twice.
And then he was dead.
The dead stood still, staring at Skinner’s remains. And then, slowly, they moved. Those closest to the living fought on and died. But the others walked away. Back, out of the city, away from the inn. Towards the ruins, down the long dark corridors, into dark places. Back towards the place they had died and risen. Back towards their lair.
Back home.
It was over.
 
——
 
Klbkch of the Free Antinium, Prognugator of the Hive, and Senior Guardsman of Liscor sheathed his blades as the last zombie stopped moving. That was who he was today.
Once, he had been called the Slayer of the Antinium. Centenium. True Antinium of Rhir…but today, he was Klbkch of Liscor. For it was Liscor he had come back to defend. Liscor…and an inn.
He stared around the battlefield quietly, making sure all the corpses lay still.
Erin stood next to him, not saying anything either. Just looking.
Death. She saw it everywhere. The corpses, the pieces and blood that stained the ground—
And the friends.
Knight lay against the doorway of her inn, arms stills spread outwards. Other Workers lay around him, still locked in battle. More still dotted the hill. Erin’s eyes picked out each one as the Soldiers collected the bodies.
So much death. So much grief and pain. But at least one small part of the world was right.
Erin stared at Klbkch. Her hands shook, but he took them in his hands and squeezed gently. His chitin was cool and smooth. An alien’s hands. A friend’s hands.
He gestured at her inn, still standing. Light played across its worn exterior, but it was home. Home. A place to rest. A place to be safe.
A place to protect. And after so long, her first guest had come back again.
Tears made Erin’s eyes blurry, but Klbkch just clicked his mandibles together and raised them. The closest thing he could come towards a smile.
They walked to the door in silence. Erin stared down at Knight and gently folded the Antinium’s arms across his chest. Klbkch watched her do it and saw her wipe away the tears.
Erin stood in the doorway and faced Klbkch. He looked at her and saw a girl. Perhaps a woman by some standards, but someone young. Her clothes were covered in blood and gore, and she was cut in places, bruised in others. She had been aged by violence and death and loss. But something still shone in them. Something bright.
There were many things Klbkch could have said. But none were quite right, quite fitting. So he said the only thing he could.
“Greetings, Erin Solstice. May I come in?”
And she smiled and wept and for a moment—
Everything was right again.
