He spared a brief thought to the fact that these soldiers had all been raised in ‘tanks’; indoctrinated since birth to be zealots and worse. They likely all believed that Eralis had fallen to Darkness, and since the Darkness was weak right now, it should be purged. It didn’t matter that the Shades had been Blessed into becoming better people, and that the truth of that had been confirmed by Koyabez. Erick doubted he was the only one to hear that particular revelation. That was probably why Koyabez had been included in Patriarch Xangu’s proclamation.

All that Terror Peaks saw was that the enemies of the world were in the middle of another plot to take over and corrupt the world; a plot that would succeed if Terror Peaks didn’t end them while they could.

… Ah.

Erick almost talked himself out of what had to be done.

Targeting was easy; just hit the guys in red. There were few variations of that theme, for there were illusions down there, but those illusions didn’t matter to Erick.

Ophiels moved across the sky, nearly invisible but also as tiny as [Scry] eyes. Maybe that’s why no one attacked them, as each one got into position above different enemy clumps. By then, it was too late for the red warriors below.

[Luminous Beam]’s text had changed a little, since Particle Magic became a part of the Script.

Luminous Beam X, instant, super long range, 500 mana

Conjure a coruscating, tightly controlled plume of severing light that deals extraordinarily massive physical damage and lasts for 5 seconds. Anti-magic properties. Anti-life properties.

Particle Mage Only.

Bright white physical light, empowered by [Lodestar], exploded from ten points in the sky, lancing down like beams of erasing power, carving through red soldiers.

- - - -

Shuu Grey Cloud and her Clan had come in from the Eastern Border hours ago, responding to the main family’s call to arms. They had fought valiantly on the front lines of the defense of Eralis. She had survived a single hour of fighting, but she did not expect to survive a second hour. Her team had been wiped out in the last push. She was alone, fighting on a white road, outside of land that was neither Grey Cloud’s, nor Star Song’s.

Blood dripped down her forehead, fouling her vision in one eye. Her wound had opened up again, and she doubted it would ever close. Her Healer was dead; the Young Master was dead.

The corpse of the Young Master of Grey Cloud burned on the right side of the road, alongside the red warrior who had killed him. She had failed to protect her charge. Oh well.

She would try to honor his memory and power, but she doubted she could kill any of the people in front of her; not anymore. The enemy had worked in concert to mitigate her power, while they also swung around and killed the weakest members of her group, first. She had been the Head Guard of Grey Cloud, but Terror Peaks had made her look as superfluous as tits on a man.

The enemy team was down to 10 out of the original 15 though! Small mercies for whoever came after her; maybe they could take down the rest. Probably not, though.

All of the red bastards were scattered in scouting formations across the land in front of her, but only four of them advanced on Shuu. She was alone; they didn’t need to come at her with their full strength. They were preparing for the next pocket of resistance… Wherever that was.

The entirety of Grey Cloud’s strongest warriors had been as nothing to them, and Shuu had no idea where to retreat to gather more forces, or to join a different defensive line.

Ahh… She would be joining her sister, soon enough. And her brother. This was fine.

She would end at least one of them on her way out of this world. The war wasn’t going to end today, for Terror Peaks was not going to win, so Shuu had to do her part to soften up the remainder. Songli would survive, but she would not be a part of what was to come.

Shuu hefted her sword and shield, and prepared to meet her end.

The red whore who would be Shuu’s death, lifted her spear—

Severing white light came down from the heavens, like a pillar. It touched upon the spear woman before she could react. The plume of light moved on like a hyper child, tracing a quick squiggle across the road, into the clan mountain on one side, before crossing the road and passing through the red-armored warriors on the other side. Where it touched, nothing survived.

Some of the red warriors had fantastic [Reflection]s. Shuu had seen them reflect high-tier [Force Beam]s from her own people, and even the Young Master’s Decay spells.

The enemies’ reflections were as nothing to the light from above.

As the smoke cleared, Shuu barely understood what had happened.

All she saw was a dark line of burned land that started at the spear woman and ended up in the clan mountain on the left. She did not see the warriors of Terror Peaks. They were gone. The spell could not have lasted more than a handful of seconds, but those scant seconds had been enough.

In realization, Shuu whispered, “Ah. A dragon is here.”

And then her mana ticked up past 125; the minimum amount for a Clarity-assisted [Teleport].

Shuu got the fuck out of there.

- - - -

Erick got through three iterations of [Luminous Beam], having Ophiel cast the spell a good thirty times, killing about 250 people over the course of 15 seconds, before there was a response.

Red warriors poured out the clan mountains that they had occupied. Some took to the sky, trying to kill or disperse or control the Ophiels above them. Their various spellworks touched upon full-form [Animadversion]s, and reflected.

Erick’s response was more [Luminous Beams]. He took another three hundred lives in a tenth as many seconds.

The physical power of radioactive light briefly splashed when it touched upon those with stronger reflections, but Erick’s light punched through anyway, carving death out of life. A few people cast mirror spells, which Erick suspected were stronger attempts to mitigate Ophiel.

Those mirror spells helped for half seconds, briefly scattering [Luminous Beam]s wide, but those mirrors broke, too.

In less than five minutes, Erick had killed thousands of soldiers of Terror Peaks.

A portal appeared in the sky above an Ophiel. On the other side was a man with a soul spear in his grip. The pitted metallic weapon was bright red to Ophiel’s [Mana Sight], but it shifted white in the single second it took the man, and three others with reflective mirrors, to step through.

Ophiel turtled underneath [Animadversion]s as the spear struck without moving.

A thousand thousand spear points touched upon Ophiel.

And reflected.

A million phantom lances of force and soul-killing power disco’d across the Alluvial District.

When the attack ended, and the soul spear proved useless, Ophiel retorted with [Luminous Beam]s. A second disco ball briefly appeared in the sky as the white light touched upon the spear-wielder and his protective entourage, but those protections broke, and Erick reaped four more lives, quick as a cast.

With the main threat gone, Erick went back to breaking Terror Peaks’ offensive.

It only took another two minutes of utter domination in order for Songli to regain a strong footing in the Alluvial District. Another minute was spent securing that footing.

When there were no more easy targets and Songli rallied, Erick moved on to the Void Temple.

The white bell buildings in the corners of the temple had been broken, the massive white bells themselves were smashed to the ground. Red blood painted white stone, everywhere. Thousands were dead. Grey robed initiates and white robed Singers were dead in equal numbers. The main cathedral was half rubble.

But the other half was covered in a dense barrier of Song that concentrated here, as a Solid Ward of some sort, while also vibrating out into the rest of Songli.

People were still fighting, absolutely everywhere. There was only one defensive line here, and that was at the bubble in the remaining half of the Void Temple.

A countersong was going on outside of that bubble. Red-robed people surrounded the bubble, keeping a good hundred meters away. They sang, and their song kept the Singers of Songli controlled.

For a brief moment, Erick watched.

It was like seeing toads in a pond, warring with each other based on how strongly they could vibrate the waters around them, except so much more deadly.

The Singers of Songli chorused, sending out a massive ripple of power.

The Singers of Terror Peaks sang back, ripping apart the ripple, and sending their own forward.

The bubbled area of the Void Temple diminished, slightly, before rebounding back to size.

Erick ended the stalemate with beams of light, killing a hundred red-robed people in five seconds.

And then he moved into the city, to where land burned and people died to red-armored warriors.

Occasionally, Erick had to resummon Ophiel because his [Familiar] had spent all of themselves in order to move as fast as they could, to kill as many red army forces as possible. Soon enough, the battle turned, but only after thousands had died.

The battle would have turned anyway, without his interference. Eralis was merely the weakest of the cities of Songli, and it showed in their defenses.

Erick soon discovered that Alaralti and Holorulo had both experienced their own, simultaneous attacks, but they had repelled those forces, and were now blipping into Eralis. Here and there, white-armored archwarriors scythed through Terror Peaks forces with as much aplomb and power as Raidu had displayed last night, when he carved through Hangzi, and had received no wounds in return. Other casters appeared with power similar to Erick, but in vastly different forms.

There was brilliant gold fire that burned only Terror Peaks, and black ice that raced like oozes to swallow enemies whole, and a thousand summoned flying swords that found hidden red soldiers and took their heads.

Erick moved on into the rest of the city, cleaning up what he could, paving the way for the smaller forces of Eralis to survive and push back against Terror Peaks. While he did that, he wondered about war crimes. This right here? This attack from Terror Peaks? It was a war crime, right? Harming civilians like this? And Terror Peaks did it anyway. Was the idea of a ‘war crime’ truly that ephemeral?

Did Nelboor not have the concept of ‘war crime’? No. Impossible. They had to, right?

That hundred versus hundred soldier battle last night? That whole thing had been very formal, as though to prevent this exact situation, to prevent the mass casualty of civilians. That pageantry had seemed custom-made to prevent war crimes like this.

But also...

If the one committing the crime won the war, then who would bring those criminal winners to heel?

No one; that’s who.

And yet, Kaffi and even Ari had both spoken and acted like Terror Peaks would not win a real war; they would lose if they fought openly. Kaffi and Ari had been right. Terror Peaks was already getting routed. Erick had sped up that process and saved tens of thousands of lives in doing so, but Terror Peaks was always going to lose.

So why did they choose to fight?

Why did that woman cause her own death when she attacked his projection, above that city of Terror Peaks?

Something didn’t seem right.

Also, there had been a lie earlier in the day. A lie of ignorance, perhaps, but Ari had said that the soul spear had been designed to kill him. She said that it had been built with a resonance to his own soul, which was why it was so deadly.

But the mana light of the first and second spears both started off red. They attuned to Erick to become white, before attacking. Erick wasn’t sure, but it seemed like those spears were not made for him, specifically. He suspected that they would work against anyone.

Eh.

Terror Peaks had a plan beyond losing the first battle, for sure; they were going to win this Chelation War. No one went to war to lose, right?

Goldie or Queen would know more.
