Teressa nodded. She summoned her full defensive gear, just in case what she saw was a trick.

Everyone had seen how ‘Odin’ had exploded in [Force Beams]. They had seen the bomb before Erick had removed it. They saw the damage that the bomb had done. They knew the enemy. A few had thought Erick was attacking them, but that was quickly shouted down by Elders with calmer heads, who were in the know.

The time for subterfuge was over. Everyone knew that Erick was Erick.

And Elder Arilitilo was running up the stairs of the Southern House, holding a spot of anti-magic in her grip, like a thin knife. Was she a savior, or would Teressa murder her before she could do damage? Teressa still had her little [Sanguine Charm]. The Blood Mage was in for a shock if she tried shit.

And yet, any second now some main attack would happen. Teressa felt giddy with burgeoning Rage.

Just give her a target. Any target. Someone was going to die.

Clansmen gathered in clumps on the courtyards and staging areas of the mountain, prepared for the main forces of Terror Peak.

And then war broke loose.

Another portal opened up a kilometer to the left of where the previous one had appeared, but Eralis was watching for it, this time. Everyone seemed to know that they were under direct attack at the moment. Terror Peaks wished to press the advantage.

The second and the third bombs met the fate of the first. Or maybe something else happened. All Teressa knew was that there was a lot of sudden shit happening outside, and bombs were being windstepped far away, before they exploded.

They weren’t fast enough for all of the bombs, though.

On the other side of three intervening clan mountains, a green explosion washed across the world, Decaying everyone in sight and poisoning the land with Extreme Light. Defenses fell across the Noble District in the next second. The barest bit struck Clan Star Song, striking the Southern House full-on.

Teressa was already in the way, between Erick and the window, holding out her tower shield in front of her. Windows cracked. Half of the dense air in the room vanished under green light. The [Prismatic Ward] remained around Erick, but everywhere else it was in tatters.

Down below, the rest of the Southern House had been abandoned; Devouring Nightmare was elsewhere. They had left pretty damn fast after the first bomb had failed to detonate. Teressa was glad they were gone; less variables to think about.

Elder Ari had made it past the empty second and third floor to reach the fourth, when the explosion hit. Extreme Light ripped through the doors and windows down below, right underneath Elder Ari. She didn’t care. She yelled as she reached their rooms, “Let me help!”

Poi was already opening the door for her.

She held an antirhine knife in her hand.

Teressa glared at Poi, but before she could Rage at letting the Blood Mage clanswoman in the room, she understood why the antirhine knife was necessary. The room still held [Prismatic Ward], and the Blood Mage had not been given permissions. Elder Arilitilo rushed into the dense air, knife leading the way, slashing and cutting a path through magic that she could not get through otherwise.

Ari paused, barely, her deep violet skin paling a fraction as she saw Erick, hovering in the center of the room, still supported by Ophiel. And then she rushed forward, slashing away the intervening Solid Ward.

Ophiel sang in tired flutes upon seeing Ari, and then he gave the last of himself to cast one more [Greater Treat Wounds] upon Erick, his body breaking up after the spell took hold.

Teressa whispered, “Good [Familiar].”

Ari reached Erick and laid a hand upon his chest, and his head. Red light filled the room, latching on to every piece of Erick’s soul, helping it to come together, faster, and faster.

“The spears are gone. But…” Ari grimaced. “This is going to be difficult.”

- - - -

His world was agony.

White hot and cold as tundra, sparking and dying all at once. He felt the world outside of his own body.

He denied the End, and that helped.

He divorced himself from that fate, and that helped, too.

His mind swirled with variations on a theme. Of meditative techniques and ways to ignore the pain. Of ethyl ether and other ways to mechanically separate pain from being received. It didn’t help. That was the wrong method.

He got back on track, saying that the pain didn’t exist, and that he was not under attack, and that his soul was perfectly fine, and that the terror that gripped him wasn’t real.

A red light tried to help him, but he denied that too.

The red light was rather persistent, though. What was that damned red light doing out there, anyway? Where did it come from? Ah! Oh. Well, whatever. It was useful, no matter where it came from. It was a distraction. He needed that.

The pain was still there; it wasn’t going anywhere. But the red light was a nice diversion. A space to focus on that was not his agony-filled existence. He still denied the pain, of course.

There is no pain.

Now what the fuck is that red light doing.

Oh. It’s just moving around. And… It’s…

The world around Erick became more than pain, as the red light moved between scattered white clouds. Erick hadn’t noticed the clouds before. But they weren’t clouds, either. They were… something else.

The red light glowed bright and hateful.

Well fuck you, too.

Erick reached out to bat away the red light, but he touched a cloud, and suddenly he was more. He saw more clearly. He recognized… Something. Oh. All those clouds were soulstuff. It floated around him, broken and scattered. Kinda pretty to look at.

The red light rushed behind a particularly large cloud, illuminating the cloud from behind in a red rim. Oh. Now that was really pretty.

… Hmm. Erick felt an odd…

Need?

Did he need to touch that other cloud?

Well... Sure. Why not?

Erick grabbed the larger cloud, and he became more.

Oh. Now he saw.

The red light was Ari. The clouds were him. They were memories, and more. Erick needed to grab them all! But they were all so far away. Some looked to be vanishing altogether in the distance.

But that cloud right there is close. Erick reached—

[Call Lightning]. That was the cloud he had touched, and reabsorbed into himself. It was glorious, and now, Erick saw something new. [Call Lightning] had connections to everything else, for each cloud was not just a cloud, it was also a part of a web. Erick reached for one of the webs from [Call Lightning] and followed it to another cloud. Oh. This was easy. Erick reabsorbed [Lightning Aura]. [Exalted Rain] was next. From [Exalted Rain], he reached for [Grow].

[Grow] led to another massive cloud; a spanning power filled with light and roots and branches that Erick had not yet recognized until that moment.

Erick met Yggdrasil in his soul, and was once again joined to his largest [Familiar]. Yggdrasil exulted in recognition, and then he did what he did best; he grew. Roots spread from cloud to cloud, showing pathways that Erick didn’t recognize as pathways until Yggdrasil had revealed them.

Erick pulled inward from a dozen directions at once.

Ophiel!

Ophiel sang in vibrations that filled this odd place, and Erick remembered. Vibrations touched upon the world, and revealed even more pathways that had not been there before then.

With quick wings and vast eyesight, and roots ever-spanning, Erick re-captured the separate pieces of himself. He remembered Jane! If he wasn’t in so much pain he c—

No pain. Only healing.

Erick remembered Earth, and everything back home, and then his memories flooded with his time on Veird.

With the help of distant red light, he found memories that otherwise would have drifted away; too disconnected to be found otherwise.

He recognized that every piece of his soul was imbued with a bit of the whole, and as more came together, he saw that Constitution kept edges from fraying, Intelligence kept linkages intact, Perception revealed distant pieces, and Dexterity gave him the ability to retrieve it all. Strength and Vitality kept his body intact, but Willpower and Focus were not what they appeared to be.

There was a hole in his soul that led to somewhere else, where mana flowed like water, and reality became subjective Reality, allowing the soul to exist, at all. Willpower defined the edge of that hole. Focus defined the rate at which mana flowed.

The hole wasn’t truly a hole at all. And yet, it was.

As more and more of his soul coalesced, more and more of his sight dimmed, as though he was waking up from a dream.

The hole in his soul was lost in that half-waking, and Erick doubted he would ever find it again. It certainly hadn’t been there in [Soul Sight]. But he knew what lay on the other side, anyway.

It was the Script.

Erick tore his attention away from the entrance to Veird’s manaminer, and allowed himself to wake.

- - - -

Erick opened his eyes.

Agony.

And yet, that wasn’t the most concerning part of current events.

The room was on fire. Someone struck someone else nearby. Blood flew.

Teressa yelled at the enemy, “Come on, fuckers! I’ll kill y—”

Poi yelled, “He’s awake! We’re escaping!”

Hands and a sapphire mind touched Erick, and Erick could do nothing but assent. Sapphire light surrounded him, once, twice, thrice, each time the sky reappeared with a different cloud formation beyond. And then finally, Erick flopped, boneless, to the grassy ground, shutting his eyes tight to hide from the waves of pain overtaking his body. People moved around him. He couldn’t see for shit. He almost tried his mana sense, but that seemed like a bad idea. And besides—

Poi said, “We’re safe! Heal him more!”

Teressa grunted, and something heavy slammed to the ground outside of sight.

Elder Ari poked with healing hands, saying, “Heart and brain looks good. Nerves are shot to shit but that can heal over time. He’s in no shape to fight. Soul is heavily damaged, but he healed through the attack. It’s so much easier to heal unnatural soul damage—” She stopped talking, and breathed out. She said, “Gods.” She tapped his cheek. “Wake up, Erick. Open your eyes. Can you see?”

Erick opened his eyes. With his right eye he saw blood. The left eye saw nothing.

“Ah. Shit.” Ari cast a [Cleanse], removing that blood, then she tapped him with controlled healing magics, focusing on his left eye. “Dammit. Let’s try...”

Erick blinked, and his full biological vision returned. The sky was bright blue, and half cloudy. Warm air flowed from the north, dancing through the grasses all around, playing with Erick’s hair and touching his skin, eliciting both a comfortable warmth, and a chain reaction of needles jabbing all the way through his exposed face and forearms. He winced, and that brought about more pain.

Okay.

The pain was back, in full force.

“Shh shh.” Ari said, “Calm down. You’re going to be in pain for a while, but it’s just soul pain, and we can work on that. We’re safe, for now. Can you speak?”

He tried. His throat didn’t move how he needed it to move. He barely breathed.

Ari said, “Now that you’re awake, we can proceed with the rest of your healing. I’m actually a Soul Mage, but don’t go telling people. That’s a closely guarded secret of Star Song. I need your active participation in order to heal the rest of the damage done to you. Can you give me your active consent?”

Poi moved into frame, to stand over Erick. “She helped you this far. I suggest you give consent, or else we might not make it the rest of the day.”

Erick turned his eyes toward Poi, wordlessly telling him—

Poi said to Ari, “Do it.”

Ari got to work, saying, “The nerves of the skin are perhaps the most distracting, so we’ll concentrate [Soul Restoration] in your skin, first.”

With red hands, Ari touched his skin, and Erick felt a question weigh him down. It was a wordless inquiry, made all the more profound for its lack of nuance, and for the vastness of what his answer would mean. Ari was asking to be let in.

Erick formed the words with his lips and his breath, but nothing came out as he tried to say, “Yes.”

That was good enough. Red light flooded his eyes and his soul, and the knives in his skin slowly vanished. Ari’s breath hitched. One minute passed, and then another. Erick watched as sweat dripped down Ari’s forehead. He felt as her hands tensed on the skin over his chest, and over his shoulder.

Suddenly, the pain vanished.

It was like taking a bath after mowing the lawn on a hot summer day; Erick just wanted a nap.

He relaxed—

“Stay with me, Erick.” Ari said, “No sleeping. That’s a bad thing right now. I need active consent, all the time. Keep it up.”

He grogged out, “Okaaghy.”

Ari smiled, saying, “And now we can work on your nausea before it gets here. That’s always the second part. Can’t have you vomiting in the middle of treatment.” She mumbled, “Patients never realize the nausea until it's upon them.”

Erick felt his stomach settle. Ari had been right. He didn’t realize he was about to puke until all the other pain went away. He almost chuckled at the oddity of the situation, and the seriousness of it all.

“And now for the difficult part.” Ari said, “Enabling the soul to heal in three minutes what normally takes three months. I’ve done this many times before, for many people the world over. To do this part, I need you to talk. About anything at all. How about your daughter? Or Particle Magic. Or Earth? We’ll switch topics as you heal. I’ll tell you when to switch. And don’t worry about saying weird stuff. You’re going to be saying weird stuff, and I’ve already heard it all. I promise to never transmit any secret you say. Do you want to do this?”

Erick felt the wind, and saw Ari was telling the truth. He said, “Yes.”

