The sword was a weapon of noble finesse, while the axe straightforward and overbearing, which perfectly suited his low-born merchant boy’s tastes.

With his seventh opponent lying dead in the dirt, Dastan stood and waited for the next foe to approach, his arms leaden and lungs burning. A few minutes of rest would be enough to recover, but the Defiled had caught on to his ploy and dispatched their next duellist forthwith, a hulking giant of a man who dwarfed Dastan’s one-hundred and eighty-five centimetre frame. Almost three times wider than most men and bearing a massive, obsidian sledgehammer over his shoulder, this was an opponent Dastan probably couldn’t overwhelm with sheer power, even with his Domain-Enhanced Reinforcement.

But still, Dastan gave it a try. One should never judge by appearances.

Roaring in defiant fury, he leaped forward and brought his axe to bear in a powerful, overhead swing. Eking out every scrap of strength he had, he brought the full force of his Reinforced blow arcing down towards his opponent while the obsidian sledgehammer moved to intercept. Power against power, strength against strength, but muscles and Reinforcement was not all the strength Dastan had to call upon. Chi surged throughout and around his body, both Internal and External alike, converging around his battle-axe in invisible harmony. He brought not only all his strength to bear, but all his focus as well. While his Natal Soul wielded the battle-axe in their hands, Dastan wielded his Domain in similar fashion, a weapon he was still not wholly familiar with, but one which had already proven its power and versatility many times over.

When in use, the Domain passively defended his body, and while it wasn’t enough to stop even the thrust of a mundane spear, he found it mitigated impacts and warded against casual slashes, allowing him to weather a pummelling or close his fist around a knife with minimal damage. How it did this, Dastan wasn’t entirely sure, but from what he could tell, it wasn’t his Domain blocking or mitigating impacts, but rather it was boosting the defensive properties of his skin and muscles, toughening his physical body without changing it in any discernible way. While it was possible to fashion his Domain into a physical barrier or platform to attack or defend with, this wasn’t the most effective use of Chi since the cost-benefit ratio leaned heavily in favour of cost, so it was best to use one’s Domain in a more indirect fashion.

Axe met hammer and Dastan’s Chi exploded upon impact, Amplifying his attack to colossal proportions, but he was not yet done. Solidifying his Domain beneath his feet, he formed a solid platform of Chi to stand atop and afford him the advantage of height. Even as it crumbled beneath his weight, he braced his feet and used the split second of stability to push his full force into the blow. A minor thing, to stand taller than your opponent when attacking, but combine his height advantage with everything else he’d learned, such as the push-pull method used when chopping, bringing his weight down on his heels to add to the strike, aiming to cut through the opponent instead of simply hitting them, and a dozen other minor tricks he’d learned throughout his lifetime, all of it was enough to overpower his gargantuan foe.

The sledgehammer flew out from the Defiled Champion’s numb fingers and smashed into his chest, bruising flesh and cracking bones a split second before the axe-blade kissed his flesh. Unfortunately, the blade didn’t cut deep enough to kill and its Honed edge glanced off the loose, obsidian sledgehammer, but this only meant the Chieftain would bleed out in minutes instead of immediately dying. Standing over his kneeling, defeated foe, Dastan took a moment to collect his strength before raising his axe once more, the bloodied blade gleaming in the torchlight on the fields of Sinuji. Defeated but still defiant, the Defiled Chieftain locked eyes with Dastan and –

Shimmered.

Unable to stop himself from dealing the final blow, Dastan leaped back and his axe cut through empty air as the Chieftain’s body rippled and undulated in inhuman fashion, a tell-tale sign of Demonification if Dastan had ever seen one. Had he continued with his strike, it’s possible he could’ve killed his opponent and halted the process before it began, but the margin for error was so thin he was more likely to destroy his Spiritual Weapon and end up just like Falling Rain. The sky darkened and temperature dropped as the Father’s gaze fell upon His latest creation, but Dastan held fast to his faith and rooted his feet in place, unwilling to retreat from this challenge while all of Sinuji watched on. Screams tinged with pain and excitement, the hulking Chieftain’s torso swelled to twice its already considerable size while the sledgehammer melted away into his flesh, his pallid skin darkening until it matched the pitch-black obsidian of the Defiled Weapon.

Three extra arms burst out from the Demon’s meaty torso, two below his original arms and the third stemming from above the left shoulder. Each one was black as night and misshapen to the extreme, bearing two joints and contorted at inhuman angles. Instead of hands and fingers, the extra limbs each ended in a fused, rectangular lump of hardened flesh, reminiscent of the melted sledgehammer's head. Frightening weapons which could strike from multiple angles in close combat, and Dastan’s mind reeled as he tried to work out how to best defend against it. Calves bursting apart at the seams, the Demon sprouted six extra feet to scurry upon, but its thighs remained whole which made it look like it was walking upon two giant hands with four fingers a piece. The Chieftain’s scarred face disappeared into the gloom, blending into the darkness so well Dastan could barely make out its features until it opened its mouth to howl, announcing its birth into the world with a bone-shaking screech.

To which Dastan responded with a second overhand strike, almost exactly the same as the one which claimed the Defiled Chieftain’s life.

Ichor sprayed through the air as his axe bit deep, but Dastan was well prepared in advanced, manoeuvring his Domain to Deflect the Ichor away. A few globules still splashed upon his skin and clothes, but the pain was a small price to pay for inflicting a grievous wound upon a newborn Demon in his first ever battle against one. He still had much to learn, as the Demon was not dead and he wouldn’t emerge unscathed, but even as he took a glancing blow from its twisted hammer hands, he roared in glorious celebration of how far he’d come.

Reining in the urge to continue the battle, he put his fancy footwork to good use and backpedalled away from the fight at top speed, but the Demon was not yet finished. Maddened by rage and hunger, it scurried after him with swinging fists and would’ve caught him if not for its unbridled greed, slowing to gather up the corpses of Dastan’s fallen opponents. Unwilling to leave Imperial soldiers to such a grisly fate, Dastan halted his retreat and lashed out on instinct, a course of action he would’ve been better off thinking twice about, but it was already too late. The attack had been made and the Demon was upon him, so now all that was left was kill or be killed.

No. Death was not an option. Falling Rain, a man who treated Dastan like a brother instead of a slave, had commanded him to survive, and survive Dastan would.

Cut. That’s what he needed to do in order to survive. Cut through the Demon and kill it with a single blow. Only then would his survival be ensured and his orders adhered to, so cut through the Demon he would.

His Domain responded to his thoughts without effort, One with the Weapon, One with the Self, and One with the World.

Cut.

His Chi gathered about the axe-blade and Honed it to perfection, but this wasn’t enough.

Cut.

The air buckled and burst as his weapon cleaved clean through the atmosphere, his Chi manifesting into the world as an invisible blade, formed for one purpose and one purpose only.

Cut.

His axe struck two of the Demon’s misshapened arms and one of the original ones, all three raised in defense while its remaining arms hurtled towards Dastan’s throat.

Cut.

Ichor sprayed as severed limbs flew through the air, and the Demon let loose with a bestial shriek, one laced with terror and reluctance before it ended abruptly. The Demon’s head joined its severed limbs in flight even as its attack landed on Dastan’s chest and sent him flying backwards into the dirt.

Manifesting his Chi into a physical blade drained Dastan’s Chi reserves to near nothingness, though the Energy of the Heavens quickly surged into his Core as he reached and found Balance. Head ringing and body aching, he found his battle-axe still in hand and used it to push himself slowly to his feet. Heaving with exertion, his chest surged with pride as he stood over the remains of his defeated foe, pride which quickly drained away as he watched the Demon’s caustic Ichor spill across the dirt and stone, seeping into the blackened dirt underneath and rendering it untillable for the foreseeable future. Even in death, the Father’s foul minions sought to destroy the Mother’s Creations, but so long as Warriors like Dastan Zhandos and Falling Rain stood on the side of the righteous, then the Mother would always prevail.

The worst part was, victory would be theirs in the end, but even this might not be enough to save Falling Rain from Imperial machinations. The Empire was worth saving, but the Imperial Clan? Not so much.

Chapter Meme
