The velnar nods and does not ask any more for a moment, giving her time to mourn.

He had already witnessed Starless Sky's awakening, the reincarnator's battle to hold off Ignis, and Envy’s bloody retreat. He saw the Hornless Demon vanish from sight and watched the Rulers of Temperance, Patience, and Wrath clash with the godking, only for the deity to break away wholly unscathed.

"Victoria Gwyn bears the stigma of Starless Sky now," Kyralon says.

"She does."

"Nathaniel Gwyn used the opportunity to gather blood samples of that extremely pure Empyrean Ichor from the descendant the Last Elf found."

"He did. As angry as I am with him, I almost admire that greed. Little fucker."

"And her imitation?"

"Simply put, she and the wyvern used the dagger to link themselves to the real Labyrinth of Xyphos. They hooked it up to the tutorial, starting with Group 4's instance, before it bled out into the rest of the tutorial. The 11th floor has been replaced by the real planet that hosts the Labyrinth of Xyphos, which is still in the same place it always was, but it’s been spatially cut off from the real world, sitting right on the brink between the tutorial and reality. The imitation took inspiration from Beyond, and the wyvern created its own version of the Main Defensive Array of Beyond and has already spread the domain throughout the planet. And of course, it’s already begun calling for more wyverns."

"Oh."

"Yes, oh. All the people and all the Corporations that were on the planet at the time getting talnium to sell to Domus and other worlds or Corporations are now trapped in the tutorial as well."

"OH."

"And all the goddamn tutorial attendees currently on the 11th floor got moved to the real Labyrinth of Xyphos."

"And her replica?"

"Well, she went into the Labyrinth of Xyphos, obviously. She wants to meet the avatar our master left there before the fall of Eladore and take her heart. You know that Xyphos only ever creates one avatar, a single replication of something. But this time it hasn’t acknowledged the imitation as the same being as our master. So you know what? It created an avatar of her as well, the moment she entered. Now there are three of them in there."

"And this is what you and Diligence were able to limit things to?"

"Trust me, Kyralon. It could have been much worse."
