Three Days Later

Ken peered into the rift, pondering the ever-shifting patterns flowing along its surface while wondering what lay beyond.

Paul stood beside him, cloak flapping in the arid breeze blowing across the badlands. The archer must have been following a similar train of thought because he turned to Ken and said, “The Shroud of Protection will come down when the year is up. Then we will find out for ourselves.”

“Nick and Kenji should be back before long,” the swordsman replied. “The Silver has that recording device with him. I can’t wait to see what the Labyrinth looks like, along with shots of the planet that issued the emergency quest.”

Ken wasn’t the kind of guy to second-guess his decisions, but he’d made the wrong call when he tried to assassinate Nick at the base of Darkstone Tower, following Jim’s mistaken belief that the only way to survive in the new era brought about by the System was to sacrifice the weak to nurture the strong.

We never would have defeated the Guardian if Nick and Sophia hadn’t stayed Jim’s hand, let alone everything Elizabeth has accomplished since.

As if summoned by his musings, Aurora’s mayor called down from atop the wall. “We’re ready for the trial run! When you hear the sirens, begin.”

Ken fell into formation with the rest of his team—a dozen elites who were playing the role of invaders during this test of the biome’s defenses.

When Nick discovered the rift, the System had cautioned him that Earth’s guardians needed to prepare themselves for threats emerging from the conduits, and the Silver had passed along that information before entering the Labyrinth. Elizabeth and the planning committee had taken the warning to heart, forming a new team that oversaw fortifying the area to ensure the settlement was ready to respond at a moment’s notice.

The Promethean Coalition had made contact with over a hundred alliances and unaffiliated settlements over the last few months, creating an informal communication grid that spanned a fair fraction of the globe. There were three other rifts leading to the conduits bordering Earth’s node, but only one was accessible through Aurora’s portal network. His people were working in concert with the settlement constructing a bulwark around that entrance to the Labyrinth, pooling their resources to bolster the planet’s defenses before the System’s year of protection came to a close.

The planet’s champions were doing everything in their power to ensure they were ready to engage anything that emerged from the rift, including elite opponents like the Guardian of Darkstone Tower and the Armada Wurm. That brought Ken back to the purpose of today’s exercise—evaluating Aurora’s fortifications from an invader’s perspective by pretending his team had set foot onto this world with hostile intentions.

The rift in the Bladewind Badlands was located between two towering crystal spires. The crimson mineral was incredible durable, so the builders had decided to use the pillars as the foundation for the extensive installation they had constructed to contain any threats that arrived from off-world.

The earth shapers had created a massive maze of stone walls, forming a series of partitions that stretched on for the better part of a mile. The barriers were a hundred feet tall and twenty feet thick. They made for an imposing sight when staring up from the ground. The default configuration was designed to corral intruders, funneling them into a winding series of narrow switchbacks lined with murder holes where the fighters manning the walls could open fire from fortified positions.

While that was impressive enough, the engineers had gone above and beyond. Some of the walls could be raised or lowered as needed, letting the defenders dictate the pace of the enemy’s advance. The design included killboxes where warriors could emerge after a partition was sealed, trapping their enemies in bite-sized groups that would be easy to overwhelm.

Before they reached Aurora’s second line of defense, hostile forces had to survive the gauntlet, an open courtyard running between the spires. Siege engines and snipers were positioned on the top of the crystal pillars, along with prototypes of the magitech turrets the researchers had reverse engineered from designs humanity had encountered while climbing the tower of Rizzen.

The early models were designed to repel any flying or climbing creatures that threatened the ranged specialists, but heavy artillery was in development, which would be perfect for dealing with swarms. Or anything else for that matter.

Some people thought the extensive setup was overkill, but Liz was adamant that the rift’s bulwark needed to be as defensible as humanly possible. In addition to the ever-present threat of monsters, the Mad God had vowed to destroy every world seeded by the System, and there were certain to be other dire threats lurking in the Labyrinth’s depths. Whatever variant of horror emerged to attack the Earth would find its guardians ready.

When a siren rang out, Ken drew his sword and charged alongside his team, scanning for weaknesses in the fortification’s design. Illusory attacks rained down as he darted though the gauntlet and into the maze, certain that one way or another, it wouldn’t be long before the next enemy appeared.

***

You have learned Battlefield Awareness.

A new skill may be acquired in 30 days, when Skill Master’s cooldown expires.

“That did it!” Nick reached out and bumped fists with Kenji. “I still want to hear the rest of this lesson, along with anything else you can teach me regarding large-scale combat.”

The strategist nodded and gestured to the illusion stretching out before them. The representations were crude—nothing compared to what Sarah could do—but they were sufficient to outline the positions, facings, and movements of the troops Kenji was simulating to serve as a visual aid. The man had learned to create simple illusions by free casting light mana, which was a useful trick Nick hoped to acquire when he had time to spare.

Kenji nodded and continued to narrate while the tiny figures engaged one another. “Battlefield Awareness goes beyond reading the current conditions, although that is an important aspect. You need to gauge the momentum of the melee and understand what variables can be tweaked to achieve desirable outcomes.

“For example.” He pointed. “This unit is in danger of being overrun. If that happens, the enemy will penetrate our flanks, disrupt the ranged specialists, and threaten the supports, causing the front line to collapse.”

The interactive lecture continued for another half hour. Nick and Bandit paid close attention to every word. Lurk was vaguely interested, although she was far more concerned with the rack of meat grilling over the firepit. The dinosaur consumed most of her food raw but had developed a taste for fried meat as a garnish.

While they ate, Nick reflected on the events of the past few days. The party had made incredible time after leaving Yarren’s world. Thanks to his explosive gains in Psi, Predatory Domain coaxed every monster they came across to run for its life, and they were almost back to the node containing the Hall of Heritages.

They were pushing themselves hard, which meant Nick hadn’t had time to advance his abilities, train his skills, or take his trials of mastery, although he’d partitioned a portion of his awareness to start preparing while on the march. He didn’t want to waste the opportunity afforded by Skill Master, so he’d spent what little downtime he had learning tactics from Kenji, as Nick had a hunch that obtaining Battlefield Awareness would save lives later down the road.

He hadn’t decided which skill he wanted to learn next, but with thousands of elites living in Aurora, his options were myriad. He planned to consult with his peers and come up with a list as soon as he made it back. There was one last objective he wanted to tackle first, investigating the Hall of Heritage. If possible, he wanted to clear out the monsters infesting the node so his people could access it too, though he wasn’t sure he could defeat the Tier-3 spider despite his recent gains.

Either way, learning what the hall has to offer is critical. If we can’t kill the monsters, we will gather enough intel to conduct a raid at a later date. Nick was getting ready to slip into his bedroll when a message wavered into existence, bearing an update that sent adrenaline coursing through his veins.

System Message: Imminent Invasion

The Mad God’s forces have entered the fringe, seeking to destroy the worlds seeded by the System. His pantheon has unleashed a stampede of monsters that will be forced to pass through the Shrouds of Protection. The shrouds were not designed to deal with a threat of that scale. Repelling the horde will eventually cause them to fail, letting the pantheon’s elites pass through and raze the planets beyond.

Taltos’s actions are in violation of his agreement regarding the year of protection. As such, the System has been authorized to provide direct assistance, although its influence is limited within the Labyrinth. While it cannot prevent the invasion or bolster the shrouds, it will provide offer tactical support until the crisis is resolved.

The invasion is divided into three distinct waves. The weakest monsters, which have been displaced by the creatures Taltos released to create the stampede, will arrive first. A smaller wave of powerful monsters will appear next, followed by the pantheon’s armies, which are comprised of the strongest forces the fringe can support.

If left unchecked, the shrouds will fail when the second wave is driven through the barriers, letting Taltos’s troops pillage the worlds beyond. In this sector of the fringe, they are the minions of Slaughter, also known as the Red Lady.

To prevent this scenario from playing out, the Shrouds of Protection have been set to wavelet mode. At set intervals, the barriers will come down, letting the monsters pass through instead of draining the forcefields. Staggering their approach will make their numbers more manageable, letting the residents of the besieged worlds gain experience and essence from defeating them. The shrouds will still have some energy when the Mad God’s elites arrive, forcing them to bring down the barriers themselves and face defenders who were strengthened by defeating the first two waves.

Additional countermeasures will be deployed, and more details will be made available at the appropriate time.

Earth’s Invasion Countdown

Time until the first wave arrives: 48 days.

Time until the second wave arrives: 72 days.

Time until Slaughter’s forces arrive: 95 days.

Be advised: These timetables are estimates based on the waves’ trajectories. They will be updated in real time, and members of each group may arrive before the main mass.

Fortify your defenses, train your armies, and advance as fast as you can. When the ravenous storm breaks over your head, only the strong will survive.