Inferior creatures, beasts and the like, mere fodder for humanity to bolster their strength, a mindset which the dog continued to prove with its subsequent actions. In its opening attack, the Predator Devoured a single Transcendent Divinity whole, but whilst doing so, it sat on its haunches and worked its jaw maniacally for a whole half-second. Not a long time by any measure, but enough for a rational Divinity to respond with force enough to assure mutual destruction, if not for the Wolf Divinity reinforcing reality to keep the destructive forces of Heaven in check. What a curious skill, one this Sovereign had only just noticed that his Natal Soul had been striving to keep from him. There would be a reckoning for his Natal Soul’s insubordination, but now was neither the time nor the place, nor did he care to dissect the Wolf’s miraculous skill just yet. A cursory glance showed that it contained elements of all eight basic Chi skills paired with a working of Materialized Domain, so this Sovereign was confident he would uncover the secrets with ease. Instead, he focused more on the dog, who finished Devouring its prey before giving the Wolf Divinity a pointed look rather than run off to attack yet another Transcendent Divinity.

Because the dog lacked the confidence to attack on its own. This was no bloodthirsty Predator hunting down its prey, but a cowardly Scavenger lurking in the shadows for an opportune moment to strike. Not entirely out of character for a dog, but given the vast disparity in their strengths, this dog possessed strength enough to Devour every Transcendent Divinity in the blink of an eye, yet was too scared to act alone. A single exchange was enough for this Sovereign to lose interest, and he almost declared his intent to resume hostilities with Falling Rain when the dog struck again. Fortunate timing, for this Sovereign spotted a detail which he previously overlooked, the fact that the Transcendent Divinities all scattered as soon as the dog arrived. An expected turn of events, given how they were wholly outmatched before their natural predator given flesh, yet despite knowing there was nothing they could do against the dog, the mindless Transcendent Divinities made no move to retreat from Shi Bei and flee for safer pastures in the outer provinces.

Upon Devouring its second target, the dog stopped to fawn over a half-beast Divinity, yet another curiosity worth studying, but this Sovereign instead focused his attentions upon the lone Transcendent Divinity which just narrowly escaped death at the jaws of the Predator and its allies. A chitinous creature with four legs, six arms, and a fanged mouth encompassing the entirety of its head, the Transcendent Divinity in question fled directly away from the Predator while avoiding all others in its path. This continued for the span of a single Cloud Step, then the mindless creature circled around Shi Bei thrice before forgetting its panic and attacking the first target it came across, a human Divinity armed with a Runic Shield and mace and bearing a cloak with the character ‘Situ’ embroidered across the back. Hardly important save to say that it happened, and not through any effort on the human Divinity’s part either, as the Transcended Divinity simply stopped running in circles to resume fighting without warning.

The work of a Formation, this Sovereign soon deduced, one laid out by the Predator’s powerful soul. Using its Materialized Domain and the natural terrain to direct the flow of Heavenly Energy around Shi Bei, the dog created an illusory trap overlaid atop the city and its surroundings to fool the Divine Senses of every Transcendent Divinity trapped within. The Transcendent Divinity in question did not so much forget its fear, but rather truly believed it had escaped far enough to be safe, only to come across a second, entirely different battle with Imperial soldiers and Divinities to feast upon. Truly a work of miraculous conception, this illusory Formation, something this Sovereign knew was theoretically possible but had yet to wholly understand the details. A formation was essentially a metaphysical Rune, one which could be laid out in reality or the Void. Through use of one’s Domain or specially crafted Runic markers, one could guide the ambient flow of Heavenly Energy to carry out a predetermined Will, which sounded simple enough but contained countless complexities within. The pattern of flow required for example, varied largely from location to location, for it was not as simple as creating a set pattern for a set reaction, as in the case with Runic Inscriptions and Dharmic Icons. Those were powered by the Prana and Will of the wielder, whereas a Formation was powered by the Will of the Heavens themselves, albeit one which had been subtly coerced to perform a specific task.

The geography was merely the beginning, for a Formation required one to account for countless variables alongside it, which in Shi Bei would start with the shifting of the sands and only grow in complexity from there, but this Sovereign dared not claim himself a master in the art. There was power in Formations, to the point where even mortals were aware of such things and had developed a profession around it, where so-called Diviners would read the flow of Heavenly Energy and structure objects and plants in a way to best harmonize the surroundings with the natural flow. Ninety-nine out of a hundred Diviners were charlatans and swindlers, but much like how this Sovereign was unable to surpass his Five Sworn Brothers in their areas of expertise, there were Diviners in the Empire whose attainments outstripped this Sovereign by far.

Not a problem, for he only needed to wait until their lineages progressed to a point where their knowledge was worth harvesting in one fell swoop, and generations of accumulated knowledge would be his to peruse.

A flood of scorn and derision welled up from within as this Sovereign reminisced of a Formation of Spectres in Meng Sha, one which generated fear and despair to overwhelm the harbour defenders. It took many months of careful planning and preparation to set up this trap, and while Falling Rain ultimately ruined his efforts, this Sovereign’s chest filled with pride to look back on his accomplishments, only for him to ruthlessly stamp down on his Natal Soul’s awareness in an ultimately futile effort to suppress him. An unexpected benefit to be harvested from his Natal Soul, one which pleased this Sovereign so, but something would have to be done about the troublesome Zhen Shi.

For now, this Sovereign was too engrossed in his study of the Predator to be bothered however. When had the dog laid down this subtle and effective Formation? There’d not been time enough for it to calculate the wind speed, change in temperature over time, slope of the shifting dunes, and the thousand other variables which needed to be accounted for, nor was the dog capable of such a feat if given all the time in the world. This could only mean that this Sovereign’s own meagre understanding of Formations was so woefully incomplete that he could not see the forest for the trees, and that there was a much easier way to deploy them. Each and every Formation he’d ever placed had been painstakingly crafted through trial and error which spanned multiple generations of Emperors, yet they all paled in comparison to this hastily constructed masterpiece made by an Elemental Spirit of Water inhabiting a scruffy dog’s body. Twice the work for half the effort, like a fisherman carrying his catch home in his arms instead of finding a bucket to hold it all, that was how he felt at this very moment.

Despite the dog’s complete and utter lack of actual fighting strength, it had proven itself to be a formidable practioner of the Dao, its canine mind hiding a wealth of knowledge which this Sovereign coveted. Had he been too quick to dismiss the Dao of beasts and Ancestral Beasts alike? Between this illusory Formation and the subtle workings he’d already seen from the dog, the evidence pointed towards a resounding yes, but he’d long since concluded that there was no way for a human to wholly embrace the Dao of a beast or Ancestral Beast. It was a form of Balance impossible for an intelligent mind to accept, one of complete indulgence in all emotion both positive and negative, without ever losing sight of one’s self. At any moment, a beast could succumb to emotion, yet they rarely ever did, for once an emotion was experienced in full, then they simply moved on to the next. Living in the moment, as it were, where concepts like logic and rationale came second to instinct and intuition, with one’s focus on survival and nothing else, and their actions in accordance with this simplistic Will.

So how was a fully functioning human mind supposed to adhere to so primitive a mindset? The answer was it wasn’t possible, as evidenced by how half-beasts were unable to Ascend to Divinity. They were creatures caught in between two distinct and conflicting Daos, or so he believed until he remembered the half-beast Divinity here in Shi Bei, which was even more evidence of this Sovereign’s incompetence. Add in Falling Rain’s denunciation complete with memories of another world, and this Sovereign felt his foundation unravelling beneath his feet, a foundation he once believed rooted in sound logic and proven reasoning.

Closing his eyes to reality, this Sovereign retreated inwards to seek Balance while struggling to rein in his emotions and suppress them once more. A mistake to come all this way and waste his time with the dog, but one he’d made in desperation. Though it appeared as if this Sovereign had weathered the effects of Falling Rain’s world-shattering revelations and rallied back to his senses, he knew that he held firm to Balance through Will and determination alone, with more than a little distraction to keep his thoughts occupied and away from introspection. A confluence of chance and calamity, except how could it be chance if Falling Rain was at the root of this once more? This foreign transmigrator was this Sovereign’s dark star, a plague upon his lifetime of Heavens’ fortune and blessing, and one he would do well to stamp out, but greed and wrath combined with his Oath of accord prevented him from crushing this jinx out of hand.

This Sovereign would overcome this tribulation and emerge stronger for it, of this, he had no doubt. Once his emotions were in check however, a decision would need to be made, whether to risk keeping Falling Rain alive to study in death or kill him and make do with his soul and nothing more. Even if it meant giving up on the Predator, which might not be the case seeing how it had a mind and body of its own now, this Sovereign had a plethora of other promising subjects to examine, such as the Ancestral Hare and half-beast Divinity, but how could they compare to a complete entity who originated from another world? Difficult to say which way his decision would fall, but as this Sovereign strove to keep his emotions in check, he consoled himself with one simple, irrevocable fact.

Though today was the most trying day in living memory, one of highs and lows aplenty, this Sovereign had undoubtedly won more than he lost, so much so that the sting of losing his throne was almost negligible in comparison. Liang Wu Di would pay for his affront, as would the remaining five families to boot, for already, this Sovereign could see a future in which he would overturn everything he’d built up in order to make way for a new beginning. A new Empire as it were, one built upon all the hard-learned lessons of the old without any of the flaws and defects which could be traced back to the formative years.

Yes, his vision would be made true, an Empire free of Supreme Families, stand-in puppets, and false conflicts to inflate his subjects’ sense of self worth, but just as the autumn leaves must fall to nourish the plants come spring, so too must his Empire be destroyed in order to create perfection anew.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As I watch my dog run through the sands of Shi Bei, Devouring Demonic Divinities left, right, and centre, I am struck by a curious malaise of envy and depression over just how happy Buddy truly is.

The furry little idiot is stuck in the middle of the greatest battle in living memory, yet he’s having the time of his life. It’s not because he doesn’t care that the defenders of Shi Bei are in danger, nor is it that he’s unconcerned about the Enemy Divinities taking action to stop him. He understands this because he knows I am concerned and afraid, afraid for my family, friends, floofs, and everyone else over there fighting for their lives. Buddy can sense my concern for him, shares in my anxiety and dread as I watch him weave in and out of battle with the agility only a dog can match and narrowly avoid death or injury time and time again. The doggo I know would be terrified with me, because he is a bit of a coward if I’m being honest, a sweet and stupid creature who hid whenever I vacuumed and during each and every fire alarm.

This doggo before me, however? Same dog, just too overcome with greed and gluttony to have the good sense to be afraid.

