It’s so stupid. One wrong move and he could be crushed underfoot as he weaves through and around the old wolf’s legs, who is caught in a match against three Defiled Divinities striving to kill my furry little son before he can dart out and Devour another Demon. Buddy knows this, and watches his foes with a wary eye, yet it’s not enough to stop him from pouncing through the air onto another unsuspecting Demon and Devouring it whole, only to escape by the skin of his teeth as the Mataram Patriarch’s spear skewers the space Buddy’s furry butt only just vacated. If it was me down there, I’d be cool as a cucumber over having just narrowly avoided death, but I cannot stand to look as my stupid doggo risks his life time and time again, nor can I bear to turn away. Is this how Mom, Dad, and Alsantset feel when they see me fight? Probably not, because if it was, they’d have locked me up and thrown away the key just to keep me safe, and knowing what I know now, I would probably let them.

And yet, despite the grave risk to his life and the panic he senses from me, Buddy is having the time of his life.

You can tell by the giant doggy grin stretched across his snout, so smug and happy that I could almost melt. I have yet to see his tail stop wagging for even the blink of an eye as he navigates the battlefield with surprising familiarity. He’s not drawing on my experience or any of his, but rather doing so based solely on bestial instinct, making sense of the chaos with little more than a glance and sticking close to the old wolf fighting to keep him safe. More than Buddy’s joy, greed, and gluttony however, his sense of adventure truly blows me away, a general merriment and satisfaction in the moment that I myself could never match, not even on the happiest days of my life. Just sharing in his joy threatens to unbalance me where I stand, caught in the grasp of the Eternal Emperor who could snap my neck with a thought, and yet despite the dire circumstances and high stakes at hand, I cannot for the life of me stop smiling.

Is this what it feels like to be happy? Truly, deeply content, without nagging fear or uncertain doubt to spoil the mood? Even on my wedding days, I was nervous throughout it all, and not because of the stupid feats of strength I was supposed to perform. No, I spent the whole day fretting because despite knowing Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin wanted to marry me, I had all but convinced myself they were going to change their minds at the last second and my world would come crashing down. Even after they said yes, my nerves refused to settle down and I fixated on other things that might go wrong, like another assassination attempt or a malfunction in the bedroom that would leave my confidence and manliness shattered beyond repair. The former was understandable, the latter wholly incomprehensible, because the only issue I’ve ever had with my penis is getting it to stay down, so why was I worried about the opposite? After the deed was done and I was alone in bed with my wife, my nerves settled down for a bit due to sheer exhaustion, but regardless of how happy I was to marry Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin, even those singular moments of my greatest happiness cannot compare to how Buddy feels right this very moment.

Because not only is his belly full, but he has even more food to eat, circumstances which are so commonplace yet bring him so much joy that I cannot even begin to describe it.

The heights of his emotions are almost too much to bear, and I fear to ever lose this sensation even as I realize I must put it aside, because happiness is a drug I find difficult to procure even in the best of times, and one I cannot allow myself to grow addicted to. I am someone who finds happiness in misery, because without misery, I would be too paranoid to enjoy my happiness, which is why I love to complain. Only through complaining can I affirm that I am already miserable, and thus I can only fall so far into the pits of despair. In truth, my life is pretty awesome most of the time, but I find reasons to complain so I can feel safe and secure, which is why I have long since learned to hope for the best and expect the worst, so that I can invariably be content in my disappointment.

That is who I am, a core facet of Rayne, Rain, Baledagh, and Amigui, one that is inexplicably tied to my Dao. I see this now, Insight or just plain, honest observation making this clear as day. I pursue strength so I may remain free, free from conflict, free from strife, free from worry, free from anything and everything that might concern me, yet I know the freedom I seek does not exist. Not for me, at least, because I bind myself in chains of my own devising, chains of love, obligation, honour, and empathy, and in doing so, I enable myself to be miserable over an unattainable goal which I wouldn’t really want to begin with. The truth is, even though I seek freedom, the freedom I want is not ultimate freedom from all earthly affairs, but the freedom to be the person I want to be and do as I please. That’s how I’ve lived my life up until now, because even though I complained almost every step of the way, I am here where I stand now because I have stayed true to my own desires.

As Amigui, I refused to struggle and compete once it became clear I lacked strength, ready to resign myself to death and just try again, but then my brother Baledagh showed me I was not yet ready to die. I didn’t want to kill him, but I didn’t want to die even more, and though I will live out the rest of my life steeped in regret over his death, I don’t think he would blame me. He’d blame our father, who he hated with all his heart, because unlike me, Baledagh was a son worthy of love and affection, yet he received nothing but scorn and apathy. That’s why he saved me, a tiny act of rebellion against our father, and a desperate gambit for the familial love and affection he desired so much, one which ended up costing him more than he expected, but he didn’t regret it even at the end.

No, he was glad he wouldn’t have to kill his own brother, glad I’d found the will to survive, a bittersweet memory which will haunt me for the rest of my days while ensuring I strive to make the most of what I’ve taken. Most of the time. You know, aside from that one little hiccup we had in JiangHu, but we all have our highs and lows. What’s important is the fact that I rallied back and will never make those same mistakes again.

In the mines, I learned what it was like to have no freedom whatsoever, even less than what I had as my father’s son. When I emerged as Falling Rain, I took a long time to figure out who I was and what I wanted to do, but once my mind was made, I never deviated from my chosen Path. I wanted to be a powerful Warrior capable of calling down fire and lightning upon my foes, a dream I still hold to today, but more than that, I wanted the strength to control my own fate, to never be enslaved again. A simple dream, but a tall order in a world like this, so I pursued strength with all my heart and took every opportunity presented to me. Join a Sentinel training patrol en route to the city? Sounds like fun, which I didn’t even dare admit to myself. Represent the People in a contest for talented youths? I was eager to see how my skills measured up, because getting beaten up by Mila, Akanai, and Dad all the time was hardly satisfying. The trials which followed? I forced myself to fight first because I wanted to make it up to the People, to keep the others from possibly dying, but truth is, I was also enraged by what the Society had done and wanted to personally make them pay for their affront.

Securing the rank of Warrant Officer, capturing bandits in Sanshu, my clash with Han Bo Lao over the Purge, becoming the Number One Talent in Nan Ping, everything I’ve done since leaving the mines has been in total accordance with my Dao. I do as I please, and complain the whole way so that I don’t get too big for my britches and take what I have for granted. I’m not truly miserable about having too many wives, even though I do feel guilty about it, no more than I am annoyed at having wealth, power, and status in spades, because if I didn’t want any of that, I would’ve made different decisions and gone about things in a less flashy way. When I was made Legate, I could’ve just rested on my laurels and let the Marshals and Colonel Generals do their thing, but I didn’t. I butted heads with the Marshals and demanded the Colonel Generals provide me with advisors to weigh in on decisions no one wanted me to make, but why? Regardless of my unending complaints, I have never once shirked my responsibilities, not because I believe it is my duty or because I think I’m some hero destined to save the world, but simply because I think I can do better.

That’s my arrogance speaking, and though it is difficult to say if things would’ve turned out for the better had I taken a backseat, no one can deny the benefits I’ve brought to the Empire thus far, you know, minus this potentially devastating loss of life wherein my entire army is killed in battle against the Enemy here in Shi Bei.

I would be the first to admit that much of my success is accidental, but the things I’ve intentionally done show my true nature as a man who does not necessarily seek out the spotlight, yet does not shy away from it either. Would I be happier living a life of obscurity in the mountains with my family and loved ones? Probably, but then I might never have married Mila, Yan, and Lin-Lin, or saved Li-Li and met Luo-Luo as well. Then of course there’s all the pets I would’ve missed out on, like Ping Ping, Princess, Noodle, Guai Guai, and of course Buddy, to say nothing of the Abbot’s adorable menagerie with Rakky, Kukky, and Tai-Tai who I intend to abscond away with. Then there’s all the friends I made along the way, and all the friends I’ve lost, but the truth is, if given a second chance, I wouldn’t change the major decisions I made except to make them more intelligently.

Do I have regrets? Sure. Everyone does, but this is the Path I’ve chosen, the one most suited for me, and I will see it through to the end, no matter how difficult or bittersweet that end might be.

The Energy of the Heavens neither surges nor withdraws, with no change in the flow around me, but there’s a buzz in the air which I cannot identify, an almost excitement or trepidation that is almost too much to bear as I come to terms with who I am and why I walk this Path, and in doing so, discover the truth I need to proceed. After so many years spent fighting to find my place, I am finally at peace with myself, One with Rayne, Rain, Baledagh, and Amigui, all in accordance with my Dao. I seek a freedom that does not exist, so that I might find purpose in my existence here in this strange world, one made all the more vast and ineffable due to the memories I have of my past life. I’ve brought a part of that with me, made Manifest in Buddy, and I share in his joy as he bolts around in the sands while simultaneously sharing the fear and anxiety I harbour for my friends, family, and comrades down in Shi Bei. The surge of conflicting emotions threatens to sweep me away, but I straddle the divide with one foot on both sides and ride the waves out as best I can, never wholly at rest or able to achieve the Balance I am familiar with, and at times only a hair’s breadth away from complete imbalance, but I endure and indulge my emotions regardless. The forgotten colour wheel of emotions springs back to mind as I organize and identify this unending deluge as best I can so that I can better understand my feelings and make sense of the next step.

One I’ve been too afraid to take, yet now have no choice but to, because if there is to be a chance of victory here in Shi Bei, I must first Ascend.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
