As the sun touched the western horizon, Erick had an Ophiel skip around to renew the spellwork on his new Blessed, and he thought. These people were likely destined to die for crimes committed, but Erick would have a few answers first, for sure, and he would speak to Songli to let them go, or something… Erick wasn’t still sure about all that.

But anyway!

He needed answers about the soul spear, and the necessity of this war, and above all, Terror Peaks’ endgame.

The outcome of today’s terrorism was never in question.

Terror Peaks had lost.

So why did they fight?

Why did they continue to fight?

Even now, new pockets of war erupted every few minutes, as hidden forces came out of hiding here and there, detonating brilliant and deadly spells in more attempts to murder the most people they possibly could, before moving on again. It was a horrific tactic, because it worked, and it was hard to find those who did it after they moved on. Sometimes the terrorists moved too slowly and were caught.

And Erick didn’t understand them!

What drove these people to this?

Fanaticism? On the surface, that’s what it looked like, but was that truly the reason for this war?

Erick wanted to believe that there was something more going on, that even a nation like Terror Peaks was capable of rational thought and action, and that something else was going on behind the scenes to drive them to this suicide. But… Maybe there wasn’t.

Maybe the reasons Raidu had given in that ‘argument’ with Hangzi were the real deal.

Whatever the reason for the war, at least Jane was doing okay. Erick had checked in on her several times during the fighting, to make sure. He had no idea where she was at the moment, but she was fine.

She was fine.

She was fine.

She was fine.

- - - -

Jane had reached a transcendental level of anger that she had never known possible.

And her anger had changed.

Instead of a sharp radiation boiling her brain and blood, where she was offhandedly worried that she might break a tooth one of these days if she clenched her jaw any tighter, she was calm; the anger had simply become a part of her.

She stood amid a squadron of dead terror troops, their red armor dissipating with their deaths, leaving them in peasant clothing that anyone could have bought anywhere in Eralis. They bought their clothes over here. Which made sense, since these people knew where to hit to do the most damage; they had effectively been scouting this place for their entire lives.

[Teleport] made entry and exit into Eralis rather simple, after all. Maybe not into the city proper, but in these outskirts? Completely undefended.

Gore glistened on Jane’s white armor. The colors of Songli were marred with blood, shit, and hair. She had killed a lot of people in this recent push, and she would kill more before the day’s end. She was tempted to spend a little mana on a [Cleanse], but this battle was not a sprint. Those who had made the mistake of going low Mana, or low Health, laid dead all around her.

She took a moment, forcing herself to Rest with Meditation. She had recovered a lot more Mana and Health than was healthy, even with Scion of Balance allowing her to mitigate Health Fatigue and Mana Exhaustion. Her movements were starting to slow, while her mind was starting to fray, but she dared not stop, for everywhere she went, there were people in need of her sword.

She looked up, and watched Ophiel in the sunset sky, in the distance. The [Familiar] was practically invisible against the orange of the setting sun, but [Luminous Beam] was the most visible thing for kilometers around. That line of white light danced downward, swiping this way and that, and then Ophiel moved on.

Jane had noticed a change in the fighting ever since her father took to the skies. White-armored forces walked openly, hunting for terror troops, who had themselves hidden inside buildings or turned to guerrilla tactics. Rare was the red-armored soldier caught under the open sky, for those who were out in the open, were soon killed by the roaming [Familiar]s of one of the strongest archmages to ever exist.

That’s what Elder Mirizo was telling her through their telepathic connection, anyway.

She had linked up with Clan Star Song after—

Jane discarded that thought, and let her anger flow through her mind, telling her who to hurt, and who to help.

She hefted her sword. It was not her usual sword. It was a simple steel weapon she had picked up off of the corpse of a commoner several hours ago, back when the fighting was heaviest, and an enemy captain had ripped apart her usual conjured sword with uncommon ease. That man likely had a skill like her own [Force Weaver], or maybe he had a style that was good at [Dispel]ing Force constructs. After she dispatched that one threat, and moved on, Jane hadn’t switched back to her usual sword.

She barely understood why she held onto this metal thing in her hands. Part of her liked the heft and the craftsmanship. Part of her wanted to honor the commoner who had held onto it in his one remaining hand, even after he had been bisected from shoulder to groin. That man had been gripped by the corpses of two children, who had only become corpses due to a bladed weapon strike from behind, while they were hugging their father. The story on display in that small scene was easy to put together, and it was only one scene out of hundreds of thousands happening all around Jane, all the time.

Perhaps Jane liked this sword because it was the perfect tool with which to wield her anger. It was just a simple sword, taken from a man who failed to defend his children, so Jane had picked it up, and killed every terror troop that she could.

Speaking of which.

The lull was over.

The elites had found her again.

While she hunted them in the ruins of Darzallia, they hunted her in return. They had found her in the middle of a burned out mansion that seemed built more for parties and less for simple living. Bodies floated in the pool, and hung over the railings, while the remnants of fine wine bottles laid broken, all around. The air stank of shit and alcohol, but at least the fires hadn’t reached here yet.

A gentle breeze flowed from the north, rustling the trees.

The enemy arrived in a whisper, standing suddenly right beside Jane. A slash scraped across her neck. She narrowly avoided decapitation with the application of [Force Weaver], disintegrating the weapon before it could complete the [Strike]. It was a sloppy parry; [Force Weaver] didn’t always work, and it didn’t work that well when the enemy had well-made spell reflections. Jane had been out of position. She would curse at herself for being out of position some other time.

She slashed upward, shadows trailing her sword, protecting the metal and extending her reach.

The red enemy danced away, briefly turning to water to escape her counter—

[Watershape].

Jane twisted the man’s insides to the outside. Intestines and organs exploded out into the field, shredding apart. The red man turned into even more water, in an attempt to control his death. The second [Watershape] encountered heavy resistance, likely a reflection, but enough damage had already been done. He died, while Jane’s metal sword met the water sword of the second elite, deflecting the sudden blow into something ignorable.

The second man picked up red water in his own slashing attacks —A blood/water hybrid warrior?— to extend his reach, too, hoping to force an opening, but Jane parried with shadows as she disengaged, wary for the next attacker. These people liked to work in threes, unless they were really strong. Jane didn’t want to test herself against anymore of the really strong ones since they tended to have as many tricks as her, but since there were probably three people here—

Noxious green air filled Jane’s vision, succeeding in both blinding her, and then dissolving her eyes into sudden, bloody holes. Any normal person would have died right then, to the coordinated attack of both assailants, as the decay mage struck from behind with a spear made of her specialty.

But Jane had Surround Sight. She didn’t actually need her eyes. Jane deflected the two elites with a dozen sudden slashes of shadow, from every angle, getting herself out of their flank by digging deep into her mana as she sought to turn the battle. It worked. Their offense suddenly became a defense, as Jane locked in the reversal with her own [Pure Reflection Ward]. The green cloud that had grabbed onto her body suddenly flexed away, unable to touch her through her reflection. Her eyes stopped dissolving, but the damage had already been done.

In three short seconds, Jane spent a thousand mana, causing tiny cuts against both the water warrior and the decay mage. Neither of them looked worried, and they shouldn’t be. Jane couldn’t keep up this level of attack for long. They were drawing her out.

Jane wasn’t going to let that happen.

[Blood Weaver].

The decay mage looked weaker than her compatriot, so after Jane’s shadow slashes shaved off enough of the woman’s Health, there wasn’t even a delay as the Queen Blood Weaver’s power took hold. Blood controlled blood. Power swelled inward. The decay mage suddenly panicked, but she was between Script Seconds; there was no escape.

The decay mage died, and broke inward, becoming a hovering sphere of blood and resources, as the rest of her unwanted gore sprayed away. Jane only needed the blood, after all.

True to form as the excellent soldier he was, the water warrior did not panic. His sword strikes became more wary, but it was too late for him, too. With sudden swiftness, Jane moved the floating blood orb to flank the warrior. Her hatred flowed as she turned her new resources into cutting beams of power, exactly like the Queen Blood Weaver had shown her, exactly how she already knew how to do with [Greater Shadowalk]. Beams cut into the warrior’s back and legs, and a little reflected, and he dodged some, but some got through. Enough got through. The water warrior no doubt was built for Health, so 50,000 Health would not be uncommon.

Jane ate through enough of that Health, though, and faster than the warrior thought she could, enabling her to use the same [Blood Weaver] on the man.

Jane turned the water warrior into a second sphere of blood.

The fight was over. It had only taken a minute. A few mistakes here, some overconfidence there, and Jane’s monster tricks had overcome what had likely been three decades of training, taking into account all three elites. Jane ended her [Pure Reflection Ward] and then replaced her lost eyes with shadow spider eyes. [Mana Sight] without needing to spend the mana was a great boon in this situation.

Polymage was literally the best Class, because monsters were so varied, and deadly. Jane had a little bit of trouble deciding which of her abilities she liked the most. One ability that had stood out far and above most others, though, was the Queen Blood Weaver’s [Perfect Body].

With [Perfect Body], all healing at all seemed to act as [Greater Treat Wounds], giving Jane what orcols seemed to naturally possess.

Detrimental status effects seemed cut in half. Duration, power, everything. When an elite had showered Jane in fire, everything around her had burned, while she was only slightly hurt. When a frost mage had caught her in a Stop effect, Jane had managed to throw it off seconds sooner than the frost mage had expected, according to the wide eyes of the frost mage’s corpse. Jane’s body was ‘perfect’, and nothing affected her for very long.

But those were small potatoes compared to what else she had experienced today.

She was immune to Blood Magic.

Immune.

Her father’s [Sanguine Charm] still wrapped around her wrist; it had never been used. Made sense, though, for a ‘Queen’ Blood Weaver would need to be immune to the Blood Magic of other spiders, considering what Blood Weavers did to each other when they were hungry, or when they just felt like it.

Which came first, though? [Perfect Body], or queenliness? A question for an academic, for sure.

Jane was still very much not immune to soul attacks, though. A good reflection could take care of those, as Ophiel had shown. Jane was sure that her Nacreous Weaver’s [Radiant Presence] could be used in her human form, and thus make her naturally reflective, but she had tried to do that for a day back when she was hunting monsters, and she still couldn’t figure it out. She likely needed to have chitinous skin in her human form… Or she needed another monster that had really fine scales. Then she could incorporate [Radiant Presence] into those scales, and then those scales onto her body.

She also needed to find some monster that would make her immune to soul attacks.

If [Perfect Body] existed, then surely [Perfect Soul] must also exist.

Immunity to soul attacks would have been nice, before today, and before the reveal of that soul spear that had almost killed her father. When that spear had failed to kill him, they came for Jane, with another spear.

Jane shuddered, remembering the sight of a million soul spears suddenly appearing all around her, each aimed for her soul. If she had had her own reflective powers, up and active, then she would have been fine. She was still fine, though, but not because of anything she did.

The Darkness had saved her.

The Darkness still watched her from nearby shadows, too.

Jane didn’t know what to make of that.

She probably wouldn’t be telling her father; not about Melemizargo, nor about the soul spear.

Or maybe she would, if he had lost his anger. That was one sure thing that Jane knew about her father: Erick could not maintain his anger while he was winning. But! She could be wrong. Her father had certainly killed a lot more terror troops than she had. He kept up the battle. He didn’t falter. As long as one red-armored soldier was on the streets of Songli, he would keep going. That made sense, for he had always fought with all of his strength for those who were in pain.

But when the fighting was over, and the time came to cleanse Terror Peaks from this world...

Her father would falter.

Jane sighed out into the putrid air as she checked her Status. She had recovered enough mana to continue, and continue she would. Terror Peaks seemed to be retreating, and she had not killed nearly enough of them.

She sent out her shadows to see—

Ah. Shit.

The world turned to white fire—

Jane reappeared in the plains east of Eralis; an emergency [Teleport] having saved her ass once again. Her right arm was still on fire but— Yup. There it goes; extinguished all on its own, taking her arm with it, and the sword, too. Even metal burned away into nothing. Jane was lucky for her [Perfect Body], though; other people just disintegrated.

