Moments passed in terrible, blessed silence.

Erick said, “I can’t.”

Jane breathed in. She exhaled. She said, “Okay. Then I am going to get together with the High Clans and offer my services on a more permanent basis. I cannot watch you harm yourself like this, so I will stay behind while you walk your Path. I will help cull that which needs culling, so we don’t have elites hunting us while we sleep.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “Jane—”

“I am very angry, dad. You are who you are and I love you. But I need—”

“Just stop. Please. Stop. Let me speak, too. You had your turn.”

Jane waited.

Erick said, “I’m not going anywhere. Not until the fight is actually over. I am expecting there to be a lot of terrorist-like attacks after today is done, for many red soldiers have escaped, and they’re going to come back. At that time, I am expecting the High Clans and whoever to alert me of threats so that I can help end them. I won’t leave this land like this. I won’t leave these millions of people to die, just because—” Erick had so many thoughts, he had no idea where to go with them all, so he ignored them and skipped ahead to the end of the discussion. “Just because I won’t murder our shared enemies all in one spell does not mean that I’ll let enemies live. I recognize the threat.” He said to her, “Do not ever ask me to kill two hundred thousand people with a single action ever again.” Now, he was angry, too. “Never, ever ask that of me. This is too much, even for you.”

Jane raised her head a fraction and looked her father in the eyes. She said, “Okay.”

“… Okay? Just ‘okay’?”

“I’m sorry, dad. I... I didn’t mean for my words to be that harsh.” Jane said, “I’m just— I’m very angry right now, and I didn’t mean to take it out on you.”

“I get that… I get that anger.”

Words trailed off. No one said anything.

Teressa was pointedly looking away. So was Poi. Jane sat back down in her chair and turned to face the night. Erick’s heart hurt, but there was no time for sadness right now. There would be time later, but not now.

He asked Poi, “What about Goldie and Queen?”

Poi startled all over again, then said, “They’re not here, according to the people I’m talking to.”

“And what about according to the Mind Mages?”

“They’re not here.” Poi said, “If those Shades are here, then we don’t know about them, which is possible, but highly unlikely.”

Erick felt a tiny weight drop off of his chest. He said, “Okay. Good. I will be searching for them later, but until then...” He decided he didn’t need to hear the full account of deaths, yet; Jane had spoken enough and it had broken him to hear it. He couldn’t be broken right now, not when the red soldiers were surely coming back in the day. Erick switched to the next topic, “How can I help Songli? Have them place me somewhere, or on some task.”

Poi explained how Songli wished for Erick to help.

Erick did so.

- - - -

The day dawned with a sky full of smoke and dark clouds. The heavy rains were over, but the light rain had never stopped, for it still helped to put out fires here and there.

The Wanzhi River glowed with red lights as tiny fish swam up the river. It was a pretty sight, but no children appreciated the view today, and Erick barely paid any attention to the procession. The white bridge where Erick had first watched the red glows laid broken in the river.

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye came back to Erick, and Erick had a rough moment almost crying for having lost the big guy. Erick had no idea why the emotions hit him so hard at that specific moment, but they did. He kept Yggdrasil’s eye on his other shoulder, instead of trailing behind him, from then on. He’d have to recast Yggdrasil’s second body back into Spur’s lake, later, but for now, there was work to be done here in Songli.

Ophiels were but the smallest of helpers, carrying the largest of loads. [Cascade Imaging]s went up everywhere they could. The initial hunt for red soldiers was over. Now it was time to hunt for varied threats, and thanks to the close cooperation of Songli, Erick found them rather well.

They had set up a system. Soldiers supplied intel to higher-ups. When the higher-ups collected enough intel on a target, it was deemed ‘good to go’, and was then sent to Erick. Erick then populated the maps around Songli, and the South Central Tribulations, and even in the skies over Terror Peaks. Maps went down south, too, to the pirate-infested waters of Eralis Bay, and then further.

Erick lightly warned, “Some of these targets are around others who are not targets.”

The new Matriarch of High Clan Void Song, the former Grand Elder Lingxing, spoke with restrained anger in her voice, “Do as you see fit, Erick. I believe that all the pirates should die for their predations upon our shipping fleets and coastlines in this trying time, for they have taken advantage of the confusion of this war to strike at us directly. And besides that, you might not have noticed them with the main war happening all around us, but there is a secondary war of opportunism as well. These reports are clear: Terror Peaks is working with pirates.”

“… The targets are where they are on the maps. Do as you will.”

“We shall. Thank you for your assistance, Erick. Please come to Holorulo for a proper visit when this all quiets down.”

Maps appeared above the scattered Warlord Clans north of Songli, in the headwaters of the Wanzhi River.

Erick said, “It appears these warlords are working against Songli, too.”

The surviving Matriarch of High Clan Severing Crescent, the dragonkin Tipanri, said, “Not all of them, but some are, for sure; they always have. We can do surgical strikes, but if you could help with [Teleport Other], it would save us a lot of trouble, for we would prefer to keep our relations with the scattered tribes intact. We must look to the future, always.”

“… Acceptable. Done.”

“Please come to Alaralti when this is over. I wish to thank you for your assistance and would appreciate a talk in person. [Viewing Screen]s are proper, but they are too impersonal.”

Maps extended all the way into the Dry Prairie east of the Highlands, then into the South East Tribulation Mountains.

Erick said, “Easy targets. All of them are pockets of soldiers.”

The new Patriarch of High Clan Devouring Nightmare, Hangzi, said, “Please eliminate them for me, Erick. I am trying to hold together my Clan at the moment.”

“Done.”

The day ended with another three thousand kills to Erick’s count. His new total was 17,000. A far cry from the two hundred thousand it could have been. For all of his feelings of smallness, he had some of the greatest impact in this fight of any one person, reaping the lives of many of the elites of Terror Peaks and almost single-handedly breaking their offensive.

The counteroffensive began that night.

Songli hunted in Terror Peaks territory, but Terror Peaks ran for the mountains, and to the prairie, and to the Underworld, to hold up in hidden locations all over. Children were left behind in the care of those too old to fight. Searching the Underworld was a nigh-impossibility, so for now, Songli focused on the lowest hanging fruit.

The destruction of all of the resources of Terror Peaks.

In the Tribulations, and in the open spaces, Erick searched for ‘people’ and found them all. A quick [Scry] was all it took to check on those targets, to see if they were enemies. Half the time they were. The other half, Songli sent out missionaries to see what was going on there.

Specific tracking requests came in all the time, but less so than on the previous day. Erick found most of those targets.

Most of the time, after they had been found, those targets went right back to Eralis, or Alaralti, and in rare cases back to Holorulo, in order to use their death to kill as many people of Songli as possible. They usually succeeded for about four seconds, and then Erick, or someone else tasked with looking at his Imagings, found the target again and put an end to their wanton destruction.

The third day eventually ended.

Erick’s new total was 21,000 kills.

He had never stopped running [Hunter’s Instincts]. In the back of his mind, he worried over what would happen when he turned off that Skill, but in the forefront, he saw enemies, and he ended them. Three times, Jane brought back food. Erick [Duplicate]d it to get more, for there was not a lot to go around. This war had disrupted everything, and that included food supplies.

Day four and five were much the same as the previous two days, except Erick added some platinum rains to farmlands around Alaralti.

The second city of Songli was the breadbasket of the Highlands, and they had been hit hard. Nobles and merchants opened up the granaries that hadn’t been exploded or desecrated in order to supply food enough for everyone to at least live, but it was not enough. Platinum rain, both from Erick, and from the Church of Atunir, helped to bridge the gap.

People got fed.

The world turned.

When Poi was awake, he helped Erick coordinate. But when Poi slept, Erick worked instead with the Mind Mages of Eralis, directly. He didn’t know any of these new people except by their strange names and the feelings of their connections as somehow more solid than normal. There was Blue 81, and White 13, and Orange 108, and a host of other people, but while Poi slept, Blue, White, and Orange were the main voices inside Erick’s head.

Early on, when it appeared this would go on for a while, Erick made a bunker.

Their original bunker had been compromised almost immediately. When Jane went to get food she came back accidentally wearing a tracker spell, but Erick had noticed and was ready for the ambush. When that was taken care of, Erick moved them all to another location, and set up his defenses again. This second location remained strong.

In the five days following the dirty bomb attacks at Eralis’s Aluvial District, Songli had lost an estimated three million, four hundred thousand people. On day five, though, no one died to war, for there were no more attacks. The cities of Terror Peaks and a dozen smaller allies were broken and gone, and many of their hidden locations had been scoured from Veird.

Erick watched as children were spared, but only a few of those children went along with the [Teleport]s back to Songli. Songli left some people behind to care for the kids, but after the seventh carer was stabbed in the neck by the seventh nine year old, and that particular pattern of stabbing looked to continue, most of those people pulled back.

Two more days passed. Two days filled with putting out fires, and healing people who needed healing, and rescuing those who needed rescuing. Two days of stomping out the final remnants of a culture that had invaded Songli and fought to the last man and child standing.

Erick had not yet slept.

Two more days passed, nine days total from the start of the conflict. Erick still hadn’t gotten a chance to look at the soul spear, but all his prisoners had been taken and questioned and then imprisoned.

One odd thing to come out of that: Raidu did indeed have some sort of prepared block on his soul to prevent the Crystal Star’s Empathy from taking hold. Elder Arilitilo removed that block. With Erick’s Blessing able to fully take hold, Raidu collapsed into a weeping mess, and then he took his own life inside his cell. Right in front of his interrogators, too. Erick reviewed the [Witness] of that himself.

Raidu had simply reached into his own rib cage and ripped out his own heart.

Patriarch Xangu was still missing. The Mind Mages believed he escaped to the Underworld, but there was no way to know for sure.

Erick found four more soul spears. Each one looked the same. Exactly the same. He suspected they were all [Duplicate]s.

There were only a few possible explanations. Either an artifact that copied artifacts, which was on one end of the extreme, or there was an original soul spear out there that was capable of creating lesser copies of itself, which seemed more reasonable.

Or, someone made a base, unenchanted spear, and then they copied the unenchanted object to then enchant the copies. This was the most likely possibility, but that would mean that there was a rogue duplicator running around out there. If that were true, the Headmaster would have something to say about that.

The facility where they built those dirty bombs was uncovered and plundered.

The books of Terror Peaks were burned and the ashes scattered to the winds. That culture might survive in the minds of those who didn’t fight, for those were the only ones spared, but the base of the culture had been broken beyond repair. Whatever rose from the graveyard of Terror Peaks would not be Terror Peaks.

Erick had not slept yet, for there was always something more to be done.

On day ten, with the sun shining overhead and half an hour between emergencies, Erick collapsed from overwork.

- - - -

The sky was blue, the clouds were white.

Rozeta, in her human form, sat on a nearby cloud, faced to the side, typing at a laptop that floated on another tiny cloud.

Erick blinked, then startled, and said, “I have work to do! I can’t be here! Put me back!”

“You brought yourself here, Erick. I did no such thing, this time.” Rozeta said, “You’re delirious in a very dangerous way, and that has kicked your mind into odd spaces. Used to be, when a person did what you have done, that person went to higher realms, or odder realms. This was the one surefire way that a mortal could contact the divine whenever they wanted. Usually, people only did this to themselves because they had no other choice, and they needed answers, for there are so many risks to what you did that no one in their right mind would choose this path.”

“… I didn’t mean to come here.” Erick said, “Or to do this. Please send me back.”

“I can’t do that.” Rozeta said, “Not because I don’t want to, but because your body is desperately trying to heal itself, and thus, we are both forced to be here for a little while. This was one of the reasons that people would contact the higher realms in this way; the gods so contacted can’t simply send you back.” She said, “So sit back and relax, or, if you want to talk, I’m working but I can multitask.”

For a brief moment, Erick watched as Rozeta was both a human in a pantsuit, and also an impossibly long, sky-spanning dragon. And then she was back to being a human, sitting on a cloud, and typing on her laptop.

Tap-tap-tap-tap-tap.

