Obolis blinked, confusion spreading over his face. He scratched the back of his head as I stated into the ether,

"Leave me be."

A hint of frustration spilled into Mesmera's voice, "You're little more than a speck on a corpse...You know this, and yet you speak back to me."

I stepped aside from the other rulers and spoke aloud, "Everyone, give me a minute. I need a moment."

One of the rulers raised a concerned hand, "Are you alright?"

Obolis answered, "Is his attention so important that he's no longer allowed a second to collect his thoughts?"

The ruler raised his clawed hands, "What? No, I-"

Obolis walked down the stairwell, "Then leave him."

The ruler followed the entourage before I remained there, alone on the stairs. I condensed my dimensional wake until it blistered at the seams, and Mesmera hissed,

"You run from me, but it's only a matter of time before I've set in. I am poison. I am memory. I am that which you hide but is behind closed doors...I will remain until you are weak."

My dimensional wake reached my skin, pulling down like a cloak of lead. I held the weight for a moment before sighing. After ensuring her presence was dispersed, I returned to the other rulers. Once I passed the stairs and reached the vault door, I found the rulers waiting on me. While walking up, I locked eyes with Obolis, an entire conversation taking place with that glance.

But what was spoken, I didn't fully know. While I tried parsing out what just happened, the rulers and I waited in front of a vault door. Graphene covered and interlaced the entire structure, the dull gray contrasting the sheening metal. A small, mongoose ruler walked up to the terminal, its claw brandished. Several rulers, including Obolis, walked by as the mongoose took blood samples from them.

Once collected, they placed the blood onto the terminal, which exposed a retina scanner. That unlocked a code, one built in the cipher. It required a lot of work to pop open the door, and as it hissed from air pressure shifts, the giant doorway swung on smooth hinges. It opened my view as it passed.

And a wealth of treasure piled within, all of it ripe for the taking.

I stared at it, a smile popping onto my face. The grin whittled as I remembered Mesmera's contact. With a quick collapse, I stood in place with my wake compressed. If my guess was correct, that expunged her presence once more.

It made me wonder if the Old One read minds or the thoughts of everyone present at all times. There was no way for me to know, and that thought unsettled me. After taking a few deep breaths, I regretted contacting Shalahora. Getting away from him took top priority, though I had no idea how to break it to the Sovereign. Or if I even could.

After all, his alliance became odder by the second, and Shalahora's psionic abilities weren't tested yet. He could be reading this entire planet's minds for all I knew. Questions mounted, and the more I asked, the more they needed answers.

Without any means of finding info, I put myself back in the present. I gazed at the treasury, one full of mismatched supplies. They organized the relics and artifacts onto various shelves, piles, and pods. The majority of the rewards were the blue cores and rainbow bones, but a few dungeon rewards stacked until they reached the vault's roofing.

Each set of piles served a different purpose. Bladed weapons, dulled tools, and shining armors stacked up high in one mass. Another pile of blue cores and rainbow bone sheened in the side. The rulers here dedicated the last portion of this room to over a hundred vases stacked on a shelf.

I pointed at them, "What are those holding?"

Obolis stayed quiet before the mongoose ruler adjusted its glasses, "Ashes."

I furrowed my brow, "Ashes? Why?"

"The dead."

A wave of dread passed over me, and I peered to the side, "Ah...Sorry for asking like that."

The glasses-wearing mongoose paced over to the wall, lifting one of the vases. Under each vase, a picture rested. The ruler lifted one of the pictures, showing the uneven smile of a gray, elephantine alien. The mongoose shook its head before setting it down,

"These are so that we can return them to their loved ones." The mongoose bowed its head. The other rulers in the room made similar gestures, each of them coming from different cultures, yet all of them respected the dead. I raised a fist to them before lowering my hand.

Up until now, the deaths of the rulers were intangible, like some esoteric stat that exposed how dangerous this planet was. Staring at the hundred-plus remains drove home the sheer scale of death on this planet. Most of these aliens were good people, and Schema sent them here to die so he could rob them.

And I did nothing.

I tapped the side of my head, quelling a rising sense of guilt. I wasn't responsible for every outcome. After letting out a sigh, I paced over to the pile of armor and grabbed a cerulean scale-mail at the top of it. It weighed more than iron, which explained why no one wore it. It was far too heavy for practical use here.

Pretty much everything here shared that distinction, all of it heavy in this gravitation. For that reason, Leviathan-7 invalidated the vast majority of these resources. Even worse, few of the materials matched my dimensional fabric regardless of weight, making them worthless for me. Rulers wore the lighter armors already, and I paid little attention to the rest of the weapons.

However, the tools interested me quite a bit. Most of them held strange functions for specific purposes. Some carried more generic goals, and I picked up one of the best embodiments of that practical ideal. I stared at a large, rugged hammer of black iron. Cipheric runes traced its sides, and the flat of it looked like raw stone. In my palm, it radiated heat and temperature magics. I lifted it overhead while murmuring, "Hmm, some of this stuff is interesting."

Once more, the mongoose answered, "By all means, take it. Schema knows no one here can use it."

I turned to him, the ruler acting as the effective treasurer. It wore circular glasses, mainly for style, and its body reminded me of a speckled otter. With its mouth closed, it was adorable. When its mouth opened, sharp fangs ruined that illusion, and its raspy voice added to its newly predatory appearance.

I pointed at him, "What's your name?"

The creature adjusted its glasses and straightened its jacket, "Ohzah."

I raised a brow, "Do you manage the survivor's supplies?"

"Effectively, yes. I do."

I smiled, "We'll keep in contact then."

From a pocket in its sleeve, the adorable predator opened its jacket. In three pockets, different-sized business cards waited for the right situation. Ohzah handed me the largest card, the paper slip the size of a fingertip to me. I floated it up before swiping it into my dimensional storage.

That left the black iron hammer. Not having room for the mallet, I placed the maul onto my back, and a band of dimensional fabric interlocked with the handle. Once planted in place, I shuffled through the other tools. I found a panel covered in cipheric markings. Giving it a quick skim, the pad acted as a short-range teleporter. I put it on my back before finding one just like it.

A quick bolt of mana verified my assumptions; these pads were a pair of twins that connected two different spaces - warp pads, in other words. Turning to Obolis, I tossed one of them over. The Emperor clasped the panel in his palm before inspecting it. He murmured,

"It's a rather poorly optimized warping panel. While useful in a richly energized environment, it's been useless...Until now."

I put it on my back, "We'll be keeping in contact, that's for sure. Anyways-"

With a bit of gusto, I pulled up all of the cores and rainbow bones with gravity wells. Turning to the rulers, I gestured to the piles,

"I prefer accepting payment in the form of blue cores instead of the rainbow bones. What's the ratio of exchange you guys use?"

The glasses-wearing mongoose walked up, "Ahem, it was ten-thousand pounds of rainbow bone per blue core, roughly speaking."

They didn't know it yet, but that was essentially free blue cores. I rubbed my temples, "If I'm guesstimating here, you guys have about three hundred thousand pounds of rainbow bones piled up here. 40% of that is one hundred and twenty blue cores worth of the stuff. I'll trade that for the blue cores. Sound good?"

Nearby rulers dwarfed the mongoose, yet no one argued with it when it stated, "That's a worthy trade. We can all accept that." It adjusted its glasses, "We'll also assume you'd want recompensation for the cores you used to remodel the actual base here as well?"

I pointed at him with a finger gun expression, "Exactly."

The mongoose rubbed the edges of its eldritch leather jacket, "We have 436 blue cores, and 40% of that is roughly 174. You used 157 cores in the remodel as well. That's 331 blue cores owed in total, which we can send as our initial payment. We'll continue with this conversion ratio moving forward, and we can send over supplies weekly until the day of warping away."

It tilted its head at me, "Is that acceptable?"

I pulled the mass of blue cores towards me, "Oh hell yeah. That's perfect."

While I put the cores into my dimensional storage, an enigmatta ruler walked up, its pressurized suit showing wear and tear from staying on Leviathan for so long. It raised its palms and bowed,

"Hello...We can't send the data yet...We're putting it in a mobile form for you...It will take a few days."

Each pause in its speaking came about from wheezing breaths. It reminded me of Darth Vader. Either way, I frowned, "Don't you already have a network up and running? It should only take a few days for the data then, right?"

"We do...But the amount of data is very high...It will be useful for the data to be robust...And incorruptible as well...Given Leviathan's conditions."

I raised a palm, "Ah, understandable. Thanks for letting me know."

It wheezed, "No, thank you...For making this hell livable." Its gaze lingered at the urns lined on the shelves.

I blinked for a moment before smiling, "Not a problem."

Walking out of the vault, I closed the door behind everyone. Once at the outskirts of the floor, the rulers dispersed to their various duties. Obolis stayed behind before grabbing at the fur under his chin like it was a beard. He mused,

"If I were to guess, you're about to leave."

I nodded. Obolis turned a palm to me, "Then can we discuss the conscription of more golems in the future, among other things?"

I waved a hand, "I'll be putting them onto a galactic auction house for certain contracts with them. And for the other things, discussing it could incite certain parties."

Obolis raised his brow, "Such as?"

I murmured, "Old Ones."

Obolis's eyes glossed over before he nodded, "Ah...Then, then I'll compete with the other rulers. Thank you for helping us all here, and I-I'll leave you be."

He gave me a slight bow, "We'll see you at another time, Harbinger."

Even with all his worldly wisdom, Obolis was shaken by certain things. It turned out that Old Ones were some of those unsettling factors. They were for me as well, something I noted while we parted ways.

It was time to get the hell out of here. I searched for Entilla and Drelex, finding them on the terrarium floor. Drelex lounged in an algae pit while Entilla bathed under a sun lamp a couple of feet away. They gazed up at me, both of them looking nervous. Drelex coughed, his body rustling the still water he waded in,

"Ah...It's good to see you again. What do you want?"

I raised a brow at them, "You guys ready to go?"

Drelex winced, "Already? I just finished my work."

I leaned back, disgust spread over my face, "What? That was hours ago. We're wasting time."

Drelex shrugged, "What are hours to immortals anyhow?"

I frowned, "There's nothing immortal about us. Come on. Let's go."

Drelex leaned back into his algae pit, "Of course...Once I finish my algae bath."

I gazed down at him, and the catfish man crossed his arms over his head. He blew into the pit of algae, "Ah...This place is finally comfortable."

I pulled molten dimensional fabric from my pocket dimension. With it floating above, Drelex sneered,

"Ahck, what are you doing with that? It's molten."

I rolled my eyes before swiping him and his algae pit into my pocket dimension. As I paced up to Entilla, the blue lizard peered back and forth. Once I stood beside him, Entilla squeaked out,

"Uhm, where does that portal lead?"

Swinging the portal like an ax, I smiled,

"A surprise."
