End of the Last Chapter

Iona raised her hands and wings in tandem, "They're dying from barotrauma."

Answering my confused expression, Iona snapped, "You depressurized everything too quickly. Their tissues were already weakened, and they ruptured when you fixed everything so fast."

I tilted my head, and my eyes turned to slits, "Oh...Really now?"

Chapter Begin

Iona simmered, "Yes. It's the obvious aftermath from the rapid shifts in gravity and pressure." She raised her hands, "I don't have time to explain it."

At this point, I questioned a lot about the situation, but as she explained, there wasn't time for that. Medical intervention was necessary, so I frowned, "How do you fix it?"

She closed her eyes before sighing, "We need...pressurization chambers, preferably with higher oxygen levels."

I furrowed my brow, "Uhm...What do they do, exactly?"

I was way out of my depth here. Iona waved a hand, "They put people back under pressure-"

I raised a hand, mana shifting through my palm in a coursing flux. In an instant, this floor's pressure rose. I pulled back on the rise, not wanting to reinjure everyone. I shrugged, "How much pressure do they need?"

She looked around, "Er, enough to match Leviathan-7's standard pressure, whatever that is."

I glided the compression of the ground floor up until it reached the normal pressure of Leviathan-7. Iona paced over towards a medical apparatus, a patient already in a dire state. The ruler reminded me of an archaeopteryx, a mix between a raptor and a bird. Sores covered the body of the dying ruler, and many tubes ran into her arms and throat.

Iona peered down at her while rubbing her temples. I pointed at her and raised a brow, "She's a ruler, so she must be systemized by Schema already. Why isn't she healing?"

Iona pinched the bridge of her nose, "You literally don't know anything. She's been exposed to radiation, and it's destroyed her metabolism. I don't have any method to establish functioning DNA here, so she's stuck with her baseline state. Cells can't multiply properly."

Iona glared at me, "She was stable while in stasis, but the damage from the barotrauma has compounded with her initial wounds." Iona bit her lips while peering away, "She's...She's not going to make it-"

I swooped the patient into my pocket dimension, machine and all. I put a hand on Iona's shoulder, "Show me anyone else who's unstable."

Iona hit my hand before gawking at the captured pod. Where I swiped my pocket dimension, a perfect, polished slice reflected back at us. It looked like someone scooped the person out of existence and the area around her.

And that was because I had.

Iona narrowed her eyes at me, "What did you just do?"

I raised a palm to her, "I don't have time to explain. Let's save the patients first."

Iona squeezed a hand into a fist before pointing to a specific direction of the medical bay. She blew a strand of hair off her face while saying,

"All of those rulers are metabolically limited. They'll need intervention, or they'll die."

I flung myself towards them, readying my pocket dimension. I bounced between each stasis pod before scooping fifteen rulers into true suspension. They all fit within the confines of the space, though a particular swollen sensation crossed over my sense of the area; the pocket dimension neared its limits of space.

I took note of that as Iona watched. She shook herself out of her stupor before turning to a different group of rulers, "These members are partially compromised, but they're lower priority cases. Can you use that magic on them as well?"

I shook my head, "I could, but if it's not urgent, I'd rather not."

Iona gazed in disgust, "People's lives are on the line."

I waved off the insult, "You mentioned them being a lower priority, so I've done just that. Anyways, what can be done for them outside of that?"

She bit her tongue before waving an arm, "We need power, updated machinery, etcetera."

"Then let's get to work."

Entilla worked with us to help power up the machines asap. Drelex got out of his algae pit, the situation's severity calling him to action. The maroon catfish rode the elevator up to the actual mana battery, and he established the language cipher to smooth over general operations. That eased the situation while I supplied the mana and manpower on the bottom floor.

The complex machinery was well beyond my general crafting abilities. However, I constructed my own enchanted medical devices like I had for Kessiah and Althea. Several syringes, specialized scalpels, and resonating rings lined several overbed tables, all made from my dimensional fabric.

We got the rings on the patients, bolstering their regenerative abilities. Regaining consistent power stabilized their conditions further, and Entilla worked with another ruler to create some software. The developed app monitored people's vitals and sent messages if anything was awry. Combine that with the boosted equipment, and we suffered no casualties.

Having the immediate situation handled, the other rulers took a break. Iona did the same, leaning against one of the old stairwells. I walked over towards her before crossing my arms, and I tilted my head,

"Why didn't you mention the barotrauma when I depressurized the facility? You were there when I did that."

Iona crossed her arms, "Look, a lot was going on, so I forgot about it."

I tapped my arm with a fingertip, "Then why didn't you mention it while I crafted upstairs?"

She raised a hand, "I got caught up with some other tasks. I ran down here with the machines going haywire because of your rapid fixes. Mmkay?"

I leaned over, "Isn't it your job to handle the medical bay? What other tasks could be so consuming?"

She met my eye, "Look, macho man, I'm exhausted, and I don't feel like being interrogated. Can we do this later?"

I frowned before lowering my arms, "What you're doing doesn't make sense, and I'm not the only one thinking that. You can choose to explain or not, but it degrades your reputation each time you hide something like this."

While I walked off, I shrugged, "But if that's your choice, so be it."

Stepping away, I understood her excuse of being tired. Even I hid my own exhaustion. The stressful situation left me on edge, though that arrived from the novelty of the case, not the difficulty. Practice made perfect, but I lacked experience in healing or anything medicinal.

Staring down at my hands, I remembered Kessiah's composure in this environment. She'd changed into an entirely different person than when I met her, shifting from a lost cause to a reliable pro. I nodded, remembering to be a pro myself.

I found Drelex and Entilla, both of them eating food delivered from above. They munched on the mutant meat my runes created, but I failed to mention that when I leaned over,

"Hey, you guys have a minute?"

Entilla leaned his head sideways, the lizard wiped out. Drelex snacked away before nodding, "I think we do, though Entilla may not be in his right mind."

Entilla jested, "Tired or not, I'm still better than your lazy self."

Drelex licked his fingers before shrugging, "That 'laziness' is why I'm not tired, and you're exhausted."

I waved my hands, "Alright, you definitely have a moment. I wanted to hire you both to install language ciphers and wiring into my settlements. I'll give each of you three blue cores apiece for the job."

Drelex leaned forward while Entilla wiped his eyes. Entilla yawned before shaking off his fatigue, "Err....Ah. Ok, how much work is this going to be?"

I waved a hand, "It's many cities' worth of installation. It will be difficult, and I'll be making more of them later."

Entilla raised a clawed hand, "Make it five, and I'll do it."

I nodded, "Done. What about you, Drelex?"

The maroon catfish leaned back, considering for a while. I stood up before grabbing my chin, "I wonder how many of your resources Schema will take once this is over? It would be a nasty situation, one that three blue cores could sweep away."

Drelex peered at me, "Hm, if it's five, I'll do it, same as Entilla."

Time was more valuable than pinching pennies, so I smiled, "It's a deal."

Before I stepped away, Iona murmured from behind me, "Oh yeah, I forgot to say this earlier. What did you do to the people and the machines? It wasn't dangerous, was it?"

I weighed my hands back and forth, "It was...Er, I used true stasis, and I'll be keeping them within it until after we return from the lottery."

Drelex frowned, "Gah, that's bloody awful. They won't even be able to donate to the cause then. That puts them dead last."

I shrugged, "They're several hundred slots above last place at a minimum because of how many rulers have died. Besides that, bankruptcy is a lot better than death."

Drelex grabbed his whiskers like a beard, "True enough, I suppose."

I scratched my head before turning to Iona, "Is there anything else we need to finish here?"

Iona pulled a strand of hair out of her face, "No. We're good."

I walked off, heading over towards my elevator. Several people used it at once, many of them trying to figure out the best way of managing the resource. Opting out of waiting, I sprang up the stairwells built into the building. A few hopping skips later, I landed on the upper floor, finding my director golem keeping everything in order.

He saluted me while I walked past. Behind the mana battery and guardians, the rulers of the base chatted away about various endeavors, from exploration protocols to escape routes. On a table in the corner of the room, Malos rested in silence. Above him, the Emperor performed magic on the frog ruler's mind.

Obolis pulled his fingertip off Malos's forehead, and a tailing wisp of green magic trailed behind the Emperor's movements. As the green wisp faded out of existence, Obolis let out a deep breath before wiping his brow,

"Ah, Daniel, well met. If you're wondering about Malos, he'll be fine. He simply needed a wipe of the implanted memories to restore his functioning self." The Emperor tapped the side of his head, trying to recall something. After a sigh, he returned to normal,

"It would seem like you've utterly rectified our position within the last few days. That's more than merely impressive; it's given us a foundation to stand on."

The other rulers chimed in, so I raised a hand to interject. They silenced, and their respect loomed over me as if I carried some sort of gravitas. The bizarre sensation faded before I put my hands on my hips,

"I'm pretty much finished with the rehauling. This compound's been reconstructed from the ground up. Golem guards, infinite power, no radiation, stable gravity, clean food, clear water, fresh air, normal pressure, decent housing, technical wiring, you name it, I gave it. As agreed, I'll need you guys to hand me the information slotted into a viewable format. Someone also needs to help allocate the resources from the treasury for me...You know, whichever way that's done."

Obolis flourished his cape as a blanket over Malos before walking over. His caring surprised me, though it was probably to get an alliance with Malos after everything was done. Obolis worked like that, balancing the pros and cons of every situation. The Emperor lifted his hand and waved it, several of the rules following behind him.

We stepped towards the stairwell before walking down. As we did, Obolis put a hand on my shoulder while striking up a telepathic conversation,

"That attack used against Malos was insidious. The implanted memories dwarfed the size and scope of Malos's life, which is extraordinarily difficult to do."

"Why tell me all of this?"

"Because you need to be aware and careful around Shalahora."

I frowned while thinking, "You don't have to remind me. That guy's a real mystery."

From nowhere, a raspy, feminine voice scoffed into our psionic conversation, "Is that so? He should present himself differently then. I shall tell him such."

Obolis and I froze in place, a shiver racing up our spines. A ruler bumped into us before falling back. They snapped, "What was that?"

The Emperor and I ignored him while the voice laughed. It oozed,

"Hah. Hah. Hah...There's nothing to fear. I take no offense from caution, and it is warranted. However, there are no thoughts that hide from me here, no matter the time or the place. I know of them all, and they know of me."

Obolis closed his eyes while closing a fist. The Emperor murmured in a firm voice, "Who is this?"

"Mesmera."

The Emperor's brow furrowed while he snarled, "Cease your bantering and quiet yourself. Gawking at our conversation as if we were animals-"

I grabbed the Emperor's arm hard enough to stumbled him sideways. He peered at me, "Now you act with indecency...as well."

His words trailed off as I stared at him with wide eyes. Fear traced my expression, and the Emperor's attitude changed instantly. Mesmera whispered to us,

"Continue walking as you were."

I ground my teeth, but I followed the command. Obolis kept pace before he coughed into a hand and thought back, "Ahem...What is it you want to know?"

Mesmera whispered, "There is nothing you know that I do not, child. You are merely a method of speaking with the one beside you...So be quiet."

My minds clanked into high gear, and a few facts became obvious. Firstly, Shalahora told Obolis about Mesmera. Second, she used the conversation between them to find me and make contact. Third, this Old One-

"And you are correct, little one."

My eyes narrowed before I thought back in a low boil, "Stop talking. I don't want to hear what you have to say."

Mesmera cackled, "Hah. You haven't heard anything I wanted to say, have you?"

I answered with silence. She radiated her words like poison, "I can tell you how to return home, how to message your loved ones, or even guarantee your victory in this lottery. I know many things, and those may be yours...If you tell me-"

I spoke with force,

"No."

