The winged ogre had discovered a new game, one that was obnoxious enough to make Ranthia almost regret Dimlit’s failure. The ogre flew over Remera—high enough that their archers and [Mages] couldn’t readily retaliate—and dropped things on them. It began in autumn with him dropping rocks and—after exactly one stray arrow that fell back into Remera—the base commander promptly ordered the cessation of any and all attempts to counterattack.

Ranthia’s frustration aside, the rocks admittedly weren’t exactly a major problem. The base defense [Mages] could intercept them more-or-less reliably, and even when smaller rocks slipped past Remera’s defenses, they seldom inflicted much harm. A large rock was easy to intercept and redirect harmlessly past the walls, while the smaller rocks seldom managed to damage even the basic, standard-issue Legion tents. The worst harm that the winged ogre wrought was an infrequent bruise, aside from one cracked piece of arcanite—which Avyna mended as a ‘favor’ to the base commander.

Then, after a blissfully twin-free winter spent prying Remera out of escalating layers of ice, the twin returned along with the warmth of spring, bearing a horrible twist on his original strategy: instead of dropping rocks, he dropped pieces of men and women.

His preferred arsenal were legionaries that had served in Remera before they were reassigned to another base or Legion. By then, the defense [Mages] were an impeccable aegis against his bombardments, but morale undeniably suffered each and every time the winged ogre appeared. Few people were so jaded that the sight of a friend’s desecrated remains failed to affect them, and the interminable wait between his appearances was almost as debilitating as his so-called attacks were.

The anticipation had its own form of dread—were their friends and comrades safe, or was the winged ogre visiting death and dismemberment upon them?

Yet the winged ogre refused to prey upon Remera or its scouts, and the base commander refused to accept the ‘risk’ involved for any further attempts to try to bring the thrice-cursed monster of a twin down. And so, morale continued to diminish, until the winged ogre stopped appearing shortly after summer’s ferocity arrived in earnest.

It took some time for Remera to accept that the fragments-of-friends bombardment had come to an end. But, by winter, it was clear that the winged ogre had ceased to be a menace, at least for the time being.

Then one night, in the dead of winter, Ranthia found herself shaken awake by Glorine. She had to swallow a surge of frustration, but she carefully extricated herself from spooning with Avyna, settled her adorably protesting elf, grabbed her mistweave tunic, and steeled herself for whatever was happening.

“Message arrived for you, ma’am. Sentinel Aurora dropped it off.” Her friend explained once they were safely through the curtain, while she held out what looked to be a solid, seamless metal tube with the starburst insignia of the Sentinels.

Opening the message proved to be a bit of an ordeal—the scroll was finally released with a touch of her Sentinel badge. Which, honestly, really should have been one of the first things she tried since her badge had been a key (and/or the primer for traps) in the Sentinel-exclusive hidden areas throughout Ariminum. But she was still drowsy, and critical thinking was the domain of those that were awake.

The message bore good news, but it was news that absolutely could have waited until morning. An unfamiliar, clean hand—self-identified as an assistant to Sentinel Bulwark—reported that Sentinel Jolt had successfully eliminated one of the shimagu twins. From the description, it was probably the same spear-wielding ogre that Ranthia had seen years ago.

Still, Ranthia had to smile. Each victory over a veteran shimagu twin was worth celebrating; it would take years for the shimagu to make another that was their equal. Sure, she was somewhat haunted by the unfamiliarity of the Sentinel that had performed the deed—yet another mark of the passage of time—but it was welcome news.

How many more twins could the shimagu afford to lose before the tides of war changed irrevocably?

The war became strangely quiet, at least as far as Remera was concerned. There were battles fought elsewhere, but Remera had engendered an uneasy, lingering peace. Which made even less sense than usual—they were, technically, deep behind enemy lines.

Remera had always been aggressively positioned, but the lines of battle had become… scattered in the eight years since their base was founded. After the Disaster of Flame—the setback that might have cost Remus the war, if not for their allies that had joined the Coalition—the once mostly-sensical map of the varied fronts of the conflict reflected the attention of Xaoc Himself.

The survivors of multiple Legions had claimed a shimagu fortification to the northwest and, against all odds, held it. Spearpoint was a testament to the logistical power supplied by Sentinel Aurora: a stronghold deep in the heart of hostile territory. The problem was everywhere else. When Launchpoint 5 fell, the shimagu had pushed into territory formerly controlled by the Coalition, stymied only by Remera and three other forward bases.

As time passed, it became clear that Remera was within hostile territory—though generally left uncontested—with a slim finger of ‘secure’ territory that was used for Remera’s supply line. No one truly believed that the situation could last, and Ranthia had more-or-less stoically preemptively shouldered the burden—when the shimagu came for Remera or tried to close its supply line, she was the crux of the Coalition’s response.

Yet, when the shimagu returned to Remus, it wasn’t with a force of twins or a base killer, it was yet another army, roughly sixteen thousand strong, comprised of regular shimagu [Warriors] and [Mages]. It wasn’t the existential threat that anyone had expected, which was welcome.

But Ranthia had been looking forward to her fortieth birthday, so there was a certain peevishness accompanying her when she joined Remera’s response force in striking against the enemy.

The shimagu army—visibly depleted—was retreating, but Ranthia had regrets. By Xaoc, she swore the vile taste still coated her tongue, even after she shifted to a fresh image. Ranthia waited through the [Healer]’s screening while she scraped her abused tongue against her teeth, then set out for Avyna’s shop once she was cleared.

“I’m being ridiculous, potions don’t just go off like that. Surely it can take longer than eight years for them to sell.” Ranthia tried to convince herself.

Her irate tongue insisted that she was mistaken.

Ranthia plucked another potion from her pouch and flicked the hard, flaking wax off the top, before carefully pouring some of the contents of the vessel into her other, cupped hand. Instead of the expected amber hue, the liquid that splattered across her palm was dark and oily, with congealed, glistening chunks floating in it.

“…Lesson learned.” Ranthia announced far too loudly, as her stomach threatened to rebel—she had choked down one of those! Ignoring the stares she had summoned, Ranthia threw out another image and shifted yet again to get the sticky substance off her hand, while she tossed the rest of the bottle into a nearby barrel of refuse.

Honestly, she should have known that anything sourced by the Legions would be a cheap, inferior product! It was no wonder they had gone off so quickly, truly. Sure, she knew that she could ask the quartermaster and wait for an eternity to get more of the most bottom of the barrel junk Remus could muster. But she intended to abuse the fact that she was intimately acquainted with a certain beautiful elf that could work mercantile magic. She might have largely out leveled the necessity of potions, but she had survived entirely too many conflicts to discount even a minor boon.

“<Gemheart, love of my life, dearest beloved?>” Ranthia called out in a singsong voice the instant she entered Avyna’s shop.

In High Elvish, of course. Ranthia wasn’t about to give the legionaries an opportunity to giggle at her. And she was stubbornly ignoring the fact that her singsong tone was apparent even to those that hadn’t understood a word she said.

“<Oh my. It seems that my love is trying her best to butter me up. What do you want, my sweet?>” Avyna answered with obvious amusement. There were other people in the shop, but no one was at the counter.

“<Even though it’s been only eight years my stock of potions is… erm, I’m not sure if they’re even safe, let alone giving me their full benefit anymore? I was kind of getting low anyway, so I was hoping Pallos’ greatest [Merchant] could help me out.>” Ranthia explained, fluttering her eyelashes flirtatiously as she neared her heart’s desire.

Avyna wordlessly held her hand out. Ranthia blinked, then finally withdrew one of the little clay vessels from her potion pouch, more-or-less at random, and handed it to her elf. Avyna accepted the fragile container and carefully pinched the failing wax off so she could sniff it—though she recoiled away from the bottle the instant the wax was cleared.

“<Oh, dusted diamonds! Please tell me you that you have not been drinking those!>” Avyna cried out, trying to seal the bottle as best she could with the dried-out wax. Moments later, she gave up and called out to one of the legionaries, offering him a free item from the baked goods case if he would dispose of the “vile item” somewhere far away from her shop.

“<Er… Well, they had begun to taste a bit off for a while now, I guess? But today seemed worse than ever, or maybe I got a particularly bad one by chance…?>” Ranthia offered once the bemused man was away.

She was absolutely refusing to admit—not even to Avyna—that it’d been a couple of years since her experience with them tasting slightly off. It wasn’t (…not) her fault that she seldom thought to use potions, unless the situation was dire!

“<Ew, my love. Just… ew.>” Avyna muttered quietly. After that, she signaled her request for a moment to think, and her face fell into her trademark—and eternally beautiful—far-away contemplative countenance.

Ranthia hadn’t exactly expected Avyna to need to think quite so deeply about the issue—honestly, she was just hoping Avyna could get some decent dwarven or elven potions added to the next [Merchant] caravan—but she knew that look. The bulk of Avyna’s attention was focused inward, which meant she had little to spare for her shop. Ranthia was flattered, but it also meant that she needed to help out around the shop while her lover was preoccupied.

After she had made a few tiny mistakes running the shop while Avyna was distracted by that probably not actually cursed book, Avyna had taken measures to properly train Ranthia on running the shop. And she, unexpectedly, found herself putting that training to use—even as moments passed, Avyna remained transfixed by her own thoughts.

Which left Ranthia fretting about if she had inadvertently asked too much of the woman she loved. It seemed unlikely that Avyna somehow had zero contacts with any [Alchemists]; at the very least Ranthia would have expected her trading house to have associations with a few. …Which raised more dreadful concerns. Oh Xaoc, what if Ranthia had unwittingly asked Avyna to interact with another terrible ex?!

With silent dread weighing on her mind, Ranthia concluded two transactions, then spent some time explaining to a newly transferred legionary how the book rentals worked. She even recommended a few of the spicier books she had enjoyed to the woman when she seemed hesitantly interested at the mention of them. By necessity—it wasn’t like Ranthia was bored enough to force herself to read anything that involved men—they were all women-only romances (or tales of passion, sans romance), but it was at least a place for the young woman to start.

Ranthia left the kid to browse and returned to the counter. Just in time for Avyna to finally nod and visibly resolve herself to some path she had chosen.

“<I have made up my mind, my love. You need to have a set of proper alchemical concoctions created by a true immortal [Alchemist]. Not terrible tinctures like whatever had rotted in those. I will call in a favor. …Please throw those out in the meanwhile, they will only do you harm.>” Avyna announced. Though Ranthia was mildly distracted by the adorable way that the elf’s nose wrinkled when she added that last bit.

“<I’m not worth that!>” Ranthia protested a moment too late, once the realization set in.

She was still new to the whole immortality thing—twelve years was not enough time to acclimate and learn all that she needed to—but one thing that Avyna had emphasized was that ‘favors’ were a huge deal for immortals (and she was doing her best to smash its casual use out of Ranthia’s lexicon). Avyna had even called them more valuable than any gem. Which meant that Avyna was offering to give up something incredibly precious. For her.

“<You shall graciously accept it. It is mine to give, my love. The potions will undoubtedly arrive long after spring is done, though you may consider this to be your birthday present, if that helps.>” Avyna answered, her tone serious.

Ranthia, unable to think of anything better to do, chose to kiss the woman she loved while she struggled to get her emotions back under control.

The shimagu continued the cycle of violence through the summer. Each clash lasted a matter of hours to a few days, then the shimagu withdrew and regrouped somewhere out of sight. If necessary, they awaited reinforcements, then returned. The once-green newly minted legionaries were blooded, and the survivors began to grow strong.

By autumn, casualties on Remera’s side were at a new low. The base commander still refused to allow them to pursue their enemies when the shimagu withdrew, claiming that it could be a trap (in spite of the scouts confirming it was a legitimate withdrawal and regrouping, each and every time), but Remera had largely adapted to the new standard of the war.

Which left them vulnerable to a sudden change. After a day and a night of nonstop combat, a new self-professed twin ascended the shimagu’s still-present wooden tower. Which meant that Ranthia was obligated to quit the battle, in spite of the shimagu reinforcements that arrived alongside the new ogre.

