But at this point, Valeterisa began fighting back. She was spitting out more soot, coughing—but her finger rose even as she staggered around.
[Parallel Thoughts]. One part of her spun off to cast and uttered a spell.
“[Dispel Magic].”
The [Siege Fireball]…winked out. Fyres blinked at his empty hand, then he hissed.
“Cheap trick! [Fast Fireb—”
“[Dispel Magic].”
Valeterisa pointed at his staff. The Drake’s eyes bulged, and he raised his staff.
“[Flame P—”
“[Dispel Magic].”
The audience watched, suddenly amused, as the onslaught of magic stopped. This time, Fyres tried to cast a Tier 2 spell, without incantations, but Valeterisa was just repeating the spell.
“[Dispel Magic]. [Dispel Magic]. [Dispel Magic]. [Dispel Magic]. [Dispel Magic]—”
Someone began laughing. Montressa watched, open-mouthed. It was stupid—but it proved clearly the difference between the two. Combat-readiness or not, Valeterisa had the technique and mana reserves to dispel Fyres at range.
It was hard, exponentially harder to use that spell the further you got, let alone on a [Mage] directly casting, but she was doing it. Fyres grew angrier and angrier as the audience laughed, but he wasn’t done. Nor was he a one-trick [Mage].
Well…he was a multi-trick [Mage], and all his tricks were ‘fire’. His eyes narrowed, and then he let go of his staff, pointed one claw at Valeterisa, swept his tail across the ground, and kicked the air lightly.
He cast four spells at the same time. Montressa’s eyes widened. A spell from his stave, one from his claw, and his tail gathered a wave of sparks that morphed into a wall of fire as his foot flicked a fourth tendril of magic out.
That was impressive! Without a catalyst, spells were harder to cast; they also ‘cost’ more mana, hence most [Mages] needing a wand. Even Ceria used her bone hand, and while Pisces could cast free-handed, he acknowledged it was less effective than a wand.
Fyres, though, needed to get some magic past Valeterisa’s counterspells. And she got three of his attacks. The fourth—
The kick of the tail morphed into a [Fire Orb] that shot at Valeterisa’s face. It didn’t strike her; she had her barrier redeployed. Instead, it burst in a dazzling spray of flame and smoke that blinded Valeterisa. She blinked, lost focus—and Fyres aimed his staff at her.
“[Rivet-Lance of Flames].”
“No!”
Montressa saw him cast his trump-card, drawing on his stave to send the Tier 5 spell straight at Valeterisa. The Archmage blinked at a lethal jet of white-hot flames aimed at her, a barrier-breaking molten spell—
It fizzled out. Fyres stared at his staff. He blinked. Then he began gulping hard. He spoke in a choked voice.
“What—[Fireball]—”
He pointed again, and Montressa saw his staff spark—then suddenly stop, as if the magic were dead. But Valeterisa hadn’t cast [Dispel Magic]. She had flinched when he went for his final spell, but now she watched with an academic interest.
“Ah, it does work.”
Fyres was clawing at his throat. Eyes bulging. It took Montressa a moment to understand what was going on, then she realized.
There wasn’t any air. The [Mage] toppled to his knees, gagging, trying to breathe, but suddenly his magic and, indeed, lungs were betraying him! Valeterisa stood, thoughtful, then she clicked her fingers.
“Well, that was disappointing. I thought he’d produce some fire that didn’t rely on air. Perhaps it is a viable strategy after all? But I didn’t enjoy getting knocked about for a few minutes. I need more of a quick dispersal. A vacuum?”
Fyres inhaled, and the confused crowd saw Valeterisa turn, sigh, and rub at her back with a wince. At this, someone demanded to know what was going on, and it fell to Montressa to explain as Fyres gulped air.
But what had happened? She had a vague idea, but Valeterisa elaborated.
“Oxygen. A component of air, or so [Alchemists] tell me. I met a naked Drake who once told me that most non-magical flames need air to burn. The concept is thus simple: any fire can be defeated by removing the air. I tested my theory with this helpful [Mage], but it seems as though the method is too slow. Also—magical flames do exist. Apprentice, healing potion.”
She looked rather disgruntled, and Montressa suspected getting burnt hadn’t been the plan, but Valeterisa had risked her life for that idea. She brightened up when she realized she would get the staff, though. Montressa was just about to lower her barriers when Fyres sprang to his feet.
“I haven’t lost yet! I neither yielded nor fell, you—you treacherous cheater!”
“I cast that spell at the beginning of our encounter. You were about to asphyxiate.”
Valeterisa looked annoyed. Fyres raised his staff, and Montressa saw a dangerous blue flame gathering in his claws and the staff.
“I don’t know what that word means, but this battle isn’t over. Have at you!”
He snarled and lunged, claws burning. Valeterisa’s eyes narrowed.
“Very well.”
“[Blue Blaze]!”
“[Howl of the Blizzard]. [Deathbolt]. [Chain L—]”
The last spell went thwoom as it struck the magical shield in the air. Crackling bolts of lightning blasted Montressa’s spell apart, and the [Aegiscaster] staggered in the backlash, but Valeterisa stopped casting and glanced irritably at her. Then she looked up.
The audience throughout the battle had been mocking Fyres, cheering on Valeterisa, then laughing—then asking in confusion what the trick had been. When he’d gone for round two, they’d been shouting in excitement or calling him down.
Now—they were silent. Silent, because as Montressa’s barriers flickered away, the puddle of red robes and frost-covered Drake was lying on his face. He had dropped his staff, and Montressa pulled herself up and wondered if he was dead.
He wasn’t moving. Valeterisa strode forwards as a cone of ice made the ground crack with the sudden temperature change. She slipped, frowned, then levitated up an inch. She pointed, and the staff flew into her hands. Valeterisa inspected it, shrugged, and tucked it into her bag of holding. She then began to float upwards, leaving the stricken Fyres behind.
Was he dead? Montressa hurried forwards as someone shouted for a [Healer]. She bent down and heard a rasping breath.
Not dead. Frostbitten and almost—the [Deathbolt] hadn’t killed him, high-level as he was. The lightning would almost have definitely done so. Montressa gazed up, shaken, as a Watch [Sergeant] arrived at the scene and saw the damaged street, unnerved bystanders, and fallen [Pyromancer]. He glanced up to see Valeterisa flying ahead, and, with commendable foresight, placed a claw on Montressa’s shoulder before she could slink off.
 
——
 
Guess which faithful apprentice had to sort out that mess? Montressa had to explain the circumstances with witnesses, file paperwork for the Watch’s records, pay a fine for the street, and pay for the street-cleaning service. She would have washed the damn flagstones herself, but she just wanted to find Valeterisa.
Then she had to talk her way into the Gemstone tower and get directions to Valeterisa’s meeting with a Wall Lord Ilvriss, which most of the company was not aware was going on. But for a Gnollish [Administrator] who personally came down to retrieve her, she might have been arguing for hours at the front desk.
“Archmage Valeterisa didn’t mention me?”
“I don’t believe she recalled, Mage Montressa. She is speaking to the Wall Lord in the Gemscale family’s personal apartments. Just across that bridge; the guards are aware you are coming, now.”
By the time Montressa arrived, it was forty-one minutes later. A fact Valeterisa informed her of.
“I was nearly about to leave, apprentice. [Message] me next time you have personal business.”
“I did!”
“You did? Ah. So you did. I was devoting all my attention to the Wall Lord’s discussion. I will have some projections for you…um, by the end of the week. My apprentice will remind me.”
Valeterisa turned and put a huge smile on her face, and Montressa saw a familiar purple-scaled Drake wearing an expression of pure sympathy. Ilvriss turned it into a smile as Valeterisa bowed to him.
“Thank you, Archmage. Your fee will be waiting for you upon delivery of your first projections. May I ask about my second offer?”
Valeterisa hmmed.
“Staying? I have a mansion which I am eager to return to. Frankly, having seen the Meeting of Tribes and Belavierr…I have had some interesting, nay, fascinating insights from those ghosts who were capable of such a mass-terraforming spell, but all the [Shamans] appear to be too busy to answer [Message] spells. Or dead. I do not know if I have business that will keep me in the south long enough for your undisclosed matters of Salazsar’s security.”
Ilvriss winced with each sentence Valeterisa uttered, starting with ‘Belavierr’. From the look he and his surly, blue-scaled bodyguard shot Montressa—this was clearly private. Unfortunately, as he seemed to know full well by now, Valeterisa was a leaking faucet. Attached to a sieve.
“Please give it as much thought as possible, Archmage. I am prepared to be exceedingly generous. And discretion—”
“I have committed it to my most secret categorization, Wall Lord. Mentally.”
Valeterisa smiled again, and Ilvriss looked at Montressa. He bowed slightly.
“Mage Montressa, I believe?”
“Yes, Wall Lord? I mean—yes! I don’t know if we’ve ever met, personally?”
Montressa didn’t think so, aside from the Meeting of Tribes, and that had been a battlefield. But he clearly knew her name, and she had a sinking feeling she knew from where. Ilvriss gave her a curt nod.
“I have heard your name from The Wandering Inn. A slight unpleasantness…which I was pleased to note was resolved. I hope everyone is well, Erin Solstice especially? Did you have the chance to see her after her resurrection…?”
He sounded hopeful and nostalgic, and Montressa was sorry to shake her head.
“I’m afraid I left before that, Wall Lord, but I have heard from a friend, Bezale, that she is mobile. On two legs, even.”
“I did hear about that. Excellent recovery…I don’t know if you are planning on staying in Salazsar tonight? I should like to invite you—invite you both to dine with me if you have time.”
The Drake smiled, and Montressa’s mouth watered at the idea of cooked, fine food, and someone as sane-sounding as him. Plus, he clearly held Erin in some regard! But then her heart sank as both she and Ilvriss looked at Valeterisa.
She was fidgeting, like a child clearly bored with the conversation. Now, she broke in hurriedly.
“I regret to say that is impossible, Wall Lord. We will be flying out immediately. With all due plaudits for your offer.”
“We will? I mean—yes, Archmage. At once. Wall Lord, I am so sorry…”
He lifted a claw as Valeterisa nodded to the nearest balcony. He leaned over and shook her hand as he murmured.
“Not at all. Or rather, I should say, the apologies are all mine. For…your sacrifice.”
 
——
 
Montressa gave him a wan smile, and then she was striding to catch up with Valeterisa. The two were flying from Salazsar’s balcony, and Ilvriss swore he heard Montressa begging the Watch not to shoot them down as they exited the City of Gems as fast as they’d arrived.
He turned to Shield Captain Osthia. The Drake was watching Montressa go with much the same expression Ilvriss feared was plastered on his face.
“And that was the first [Mage] you hoped to recruit, Wall Lord? I hope we have…backups?”
Osthia was tactful, but she couldn’t hide how off-putting she’d found Valeterisa. Ilvriss sighed, rubbed at his neck-scales, and cursed quietly.
“A few. But she was the best one. All this time—wasted? Perhaps we’ll get lucky.”
His tone suggested how likely he thought that was. Osthia hesitated and then peered at Ilvriss.
“May I ask why the Archmage of Izril, Wall Lord? From the sounds of her ‘duel’ earlier, she didn’t seem the most capable, and there are fine spellcasters across Izril, if not so famous. Fissival, for instance, although that’s tricky.”
Ilvriss nodded. He threw himself into a chair and was somewhat glad Montressa hadn’t taken him up on his offer. He’d have had to reshuffle a meeting with Salazsar’s [Generals], and that would have been a bad look.
After all—Salazsar was at war with Fissival. He’d struck the first damn blow at the Meeting of Tribes, and while their armies weren’t marching into open combat yet, all trade had ceased and both cities were calling on their allies.
Actions had consequences. He would have to pay for his, but he didn’t regret what he’d done. Ilvriss answered Osthia curtly as he rubbed at his forehead.
“She might not be the most ideal candidate in some—many respects, but there was one reason I wanted her, Osthia.”
“Which is?”
Ilvriss glanced thoughtfully out the window. The Archmage of Izril had already vanished, and she should have been visible for miles. Interesting.
“…Of all the [Mages] you could name, she truly is a daughter of Izril. North and south. She belongs to a noble house in the north, but she grew up in a Walled City. Scatterbrained she might seem, but she would be a cunning ally. I think.”
 
——
 
Ilvriss was not wrong. Nor was he completely right. Valeterisa teleported Montressa and herself within minutes of leaving his tower, just as soon as she left Salazsar’s aegis that prevented hostile teleportation spells.
They popped into the air, and Montressa nearly threw up—then saw the same damn campsite they’d been at this morning!
Well, it proved Valeterisa’s new teleportation network was in order. She’d laid spots across the continent and could now leapfrog across Izril. It wasn’t like Eldavin’s [Grand Teleportation] spell, but it would facilitate travel.
“Archmage! I protest! I told you there are boundaries, and not only did you get me into a lot of trouble, you insulted Wall Lord Ilvriss, and now we’re on the road again? Where?”
Valeterisa landed on the ground as Montressa began to shout. Even for her—this was a lot, but Valeterisa sat down on the dirt, took out Fyres’ staff, and began to inspect it, probably gauging its worth before she sold it for coin or dissected it for knowledge’s sake.
She replied slowly, but her eyes glanced up as Montressa glared. Even Valeterisa had to wait to recharge her mana after a teleport.
