He had killed four hundred and twelve animals, and the four hundred and thirteenth was sitting in a crystal garden at the bottom of a hole in a ridge.

The number was not approximate. A hunter who did not count was a hobbyist. Dorric Kael had started counting at fourteen when his father handed him a skinning knife and a lesson that took the form of silence — his father had simply pointed at the carcass and left the tent, and the lesson was: this is yours now, from the killing through the cleaning through the carrying. The count was part of the carrying. If you did not count, you did not own what you had done.

He counted: twelve deer in his first year, working the birch stands north of the settlement where the deer bedded in autumn. Then the boar contracts, which paid better and hurt more — he had the scar on his left forearm from the second boar, the one that had turned when it should have run, and the scar was also part of the count. Forty-seven boar over six years. Then the wolves, when the wolves came back to the northern valleys, and the wolves were different because a wolf watched you the way you watched it and the space between you and the wolf was a conversation you were having with something that understood the conversation. Eighteen wolves. Then the cats, the plains cats that the southern ranchers needed removed, and the cats were different from the wolves the way a sentence is different from a paragraph — more compressed, more information per moment, fewer chances to revise.

Four hundred and twelve. He was forty-one years old and had been hunting professionally for twenty-seven years and the number was his resume and his confession and the way he organized time, because years were approximate but kills were specific.

The pull arrived on a morning when he was between contracts, sitting in a waystation common room with a plate of eggs and a map of the eastern lowlands where something had been taking livestock in a pattern he recognized. The pattern was a cat — a big one, working a circuit, hitting the easy targets first and then adjusting when the easy targets learned. He had been planning to take the contract.

The pull was not like the cat. The pull was not a pattern he recognized. It arrived as a pressure behind his sternum, directional, pointing northeast, carrying the specific quality of something that needed to be killed. Not hunted — killed. The distinction mattered. Hunting was the whole process: reading sign, understanding territory, predicting movement, closing distance, choosing the moment. Killing was the last part. The pull was offering him only the last part.

He had finished his eggs. He had paid his bill. He had walked northeast.

---

The camp was three days' walk. He arrived on the afternoon of the fourth day because he had stopped to read the ground around the ridge, approaching from the south, mapping the terrain the way he mapped any terrain before a job: elevation, sight lines, wind patterns, the places where something large could move without being seen and the places where something large could not. The ridge was limestone, old, with a basalt intrusion on the northern face that did not belong to the geology. He had noted this. He had noted the fire at the base of the ridge. He had noted the man sitting at a table near the fire, writing in a book.

He entered the camp the way he entered any client site: with his equipment visible, his purpose clear, and his first question already formed.

"What is it?"

Osren looked up from his book. The man was younger than Dorric had expected — younger than the camp implied, which implied permanence and patience and the kind of occupation that aged a person past their years. The man looked at Dorric the way a clerk looks at a delivery: noting the contents, checking the manifest.

"That depends on how much you've heard."

"Nothing. I'm here because something needs killing."

Osren closed the book. He put both hands flat on the table, which Dorric read as a gesture of organization — the man was arranging what he was about to say.

"There is a creature at Depth 3. It's called The Patient. It has killed eight people."

"Eight."

"Seven confirmed. One unconfirmed — she went in and did not come back, but the dungeon did not produce a death tally count, and the depth and manner are unknown."

Dorric sat down across from him. The fire was between them. The fire was maintained, which meant someone maintained it, which meant the camp was not temporary.

"Tell me about it."

Osren told him. The telling took forty minutes, and Dorric did not interrupt, because a hunter who interrupted a briefing was a hunter who missed the detail that killed him. Osren was thorough in the way that record-keepers were thorough — organized by chronology, cross-referenced by detail, with the specific caveat at each point where he was reporting someone else's observation rather than his own. The creature was large, sessile, crystal-shelled. It occupied a garden of luminescent crystal growths at Depth 3. It killed by sudden displacement — not speed but rearrangement, a transition from stillness to contact that did not pass through the space between. It had a detection range of approximately twenty-five meters. It had been damaged.

"Damaged how?"

Osren opened the book to a specific page. "A mason cracked its shell with a plumb-line weight. His companion widened the crack with a chisel. The marks from an earlier entrant — a dyer — mapped three structural weaknesses on the shell. The crack follows one of those weaknesses. The left flank seam."

"What's in the crack?"

Osren looked at him.

"In the crack," Dorric repeated. "What's under the shell."

"No one has reported what's beneath the shell. The crack was visible but the interior was not described."

Dorric nodded. This was the information he needed and the information he did not have, and the gap between those two things was where the hunt would happen.

"The spear," he said.

"Against the eastern wall. Military-grade, manifested by the Warden — Death #7. The head is loose. The shaft is marked with structural analysis from the Brand — Death #14. The shaft will break at a specific point."

"How far from the creature?"

"Approximately eight meters. Within detection range."

"What's at thirty meters?"

"The western wall. There's a bypass route — the last entrant, a courier, mapped it. Thirty meters minimum distance from the creature. The creature tracked his movement but could not reach."

Dorric looked at the entrance. The basalt intrusion was darker than the surrounding limestone, and the warmth coming from it was the wrong temperature for a cave — too warm, too consistent.

"The chisel," he said. "The plumb line. Where are those?"

"At the death site. Center of the Garden, near the creature."

"Within detection range."

"Yes."

Dorric stood. He looked at the blank cloth hanging from the post. He looked at the geometric annotations — the cartographer's work, precise and recent. He looked at the older marks, the names and observations and the careful charcoal lines.

"I'm going in the morning."

"Most entrants go in immediately."

"I'm not most entrants."

---

He spent the evening at the camp. He spoke to Dalya, the rope merchant, who confirmed the floor conditions through Depth 2 and mentioned that the crystal growths in the Still Garden cast enough light to work by but not enough to read fine detail at distance. He spoke to Osren again, asking specific questions about the creature's movement pattern — how long between stillness and strike, whether the compensatory asymmetry from the crack was observed by anyone after the cracking, whether the creature had ever been seen moving between kills.

Osren did not have answers to the last two questions. Dorric noted this. The absence of observation was data — it meant no one had survived long enough in the creature's presence to observe its recovery pattern. Every account was either from outside detection range or from inside detection range for a very short time.

He sharpened his knife. It was not a hunting knife — it was a killing knife, the distinction being that a hunting knife was designed for multiple functions and a killing knife was designed for one. The blade was seven inches, narrow, with a point designed for the gap between ribs. He had used it on the eighteenth wolf, the one that had been the most dangerous because it had been the most patient, and the knife had found the gap between the ribs because that was what the knife was for.

He thought about the gap between ribs. He thought about the crack in a crystal shell.

He slept. He woke before dawn. He ate. He sharpened the knife again, not because it needed sharpening but because the motion was part of the preparation, the way a mason checks his level or a courier checks his straps. The hands needed to know what they were about to do.

He entered the dungeon at first light.

---

The Gullet was what Osren had described: a passage through living stone, ribbed, warm, lit by phosphorescence that had no source. He walked through it at a pace that was neither fast nor slow — the pace of a man who was covering ground without wasting energy, the pace he had used on every approach to every kill site for twenty-seven years.

The inscription wall. Nineteen names and a gap. He read them without stopping, the way he read game trails — not for the words but for what the words indicated about the thing that had made them. Each entry was a person, and each person was a data point about the place that had killed them, and the accumulation of data points was a map of the thing he was hunting.

He noted: Depth 3, Still Garden, eight times. The creature did not roam. It stayed. A territorial predator in a fixed territory, which was the easiest kind to kill and the hardest kind to approach, because a territorial predator knew its territory the way a hunter knew his knife — completely, without needing to think about it.

He entered the Warrens.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 2 REACHED: THE WARRENS

RESOLVE: +1
Dorric Kael: Current Resolve: 10
```

```stat-screen
DESIGNATION: THE CULL
GIFT: CULLING STRIKE

You may deliver one strike with perfect force.
The first blow to reach its target lands at the precise angle, depth, and velocity
required to inflict maximum structural damage to the point of contact.
One strike. One chance.

Each subsequent strike on the same target carries diminished force.
The reduction is not fatigue. It is the Gift completing its purpose.
The Cull is designed for kills, not fights.

COST: CERTAINTY
The conviction that you will succeed does not diminish after the strike lands.
It does not update.
You will believe the target is dead regardless of evidence.

ATTUNEMENT: 0

STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 16
Resolve ............... 9
Attunement ............ 8
Fortune ............... 14

Note: Entry type — Compelled.
Compulsion type: Prey-drive amplification. Arrival latency: 4 days.
The entrant has killed 412 animals. The 413th is at Depth 3.
The Maw extended the count.
```

He read the screen standing in the first junction of the Warrens and understood several things about it immediately. The Gift was not complicated. It was the simplest Gift he had encountered in his understanding of tools, which was extensive — a tool for one job, perfectly suited, with a cost that was the tool's shadow. One perfect strike. The certainty that the strike had worked. These were the same thing described from two angles, because a hunter who was certain the kill was clean did not check, and a hunter who did not check walked away from wounded prey.

He understood the cost. He understood what it meant. He filed it.

The Warrens shifted around him. He had been briefed on this — the corridors changed when you were not looking, the architecture reorganized according to principles that the cartographer had partially mapped and that he did not need to fully understand because he was not here to map. He was here to go through. The Warrens were the terrain between the approach and the kill site, and terrain was something you moved through, not something you lived in.

He moved through it. The shifting did not bother him. He had tracked cats through reed marshes where the reeds closed behind you and the path you had taken no longer existed, and the method was the same: don't retrace, don't look back, keep the direction and let the terrain be what it was. The Warrens could rearrange themselves. His direction did not change.

---

The Still Garden opened before him like a clearing in a forest — the sudden cessation of enclosure, the expansion of space, the change in light. The crystal growths caught the phosphorescence and held it, and the room was bright in the way that winter fields are bright: cold light, long shadows, the air holding still because there was nothing to move it.

```stat-screen
DEPTH 3 REACHED: THE STILL GARDEN

RESOLVE: +1
Dorric Kael: Current Resolve: 11
```

He stood at the threshold and did what he did at every kill site: he looked.

The crystal growths were arranged in rows — not natural rows, something older and more organized, a garden in the original sense of the word. The phosphorescent light came from the growths themselves, not from the ceiling, and the light was uneven — brighter near the bases, dimmer at the tips, the gradient creating a landscape of light and shadow that a predator would know how to use.

The Patient was at the center of the third row. Thirty meters long, low, wide. Crystal-shelled, gray-white. Sitting on the stone floor with the particular quality of stillness that Dorric recognized from the most dangerous category of predator — the kind that did not need to move because the prey came to it.

The marks were visible. Dark lines on the shell — the dyer's structural analysis, permanent and legible. The crack on the left flank — the mason's plumb-line strike, widened by the Joint's chisel. The compensatory asymmetry that Osren had not been able to confirm was immediately obvious to Dorric's eye: the creature's mass was distributed differently on the left side, the cracked shell sitting at a slightly different angle than the intact shell on the right. It was favoring the damage. Not consciously — not the way a wounded animal favored a leg — but structurally, the way a building with a cracked foundation settled toward the crack.

Twenty-five meters. Detection range.

He was at the threshold. The threshold was more than twenty-five meters from the creature. He had time.

He looked at the spear against the eastern wall. Eight meters from the creature. Inside detection range. The head was loose — Osren had said so, and the Brand marks on the shaft confirmed the structural analysis: it would fail at a specific point if struck at a specific angle. It was a tool with one use left in it.

