He looked at the western wall. The bypass route. Thirty meters minimum.

He looked at the crack.

The crack was the target. Not the creature — the crack. A hunter did not aim at the animal. A hunter aimed at the place on the animal where one strike would end it. The gap between the ribs. The soft place behind the skull. The nerve cluster where the spine met the brain. Every animal had one, and the hunter's job was to find it before the animal found him.

The crack was not the kill point. The crack was the access point. Beneath the crack was something the shell had been protecting for three hundred and forty-two years, and whatever that something was, it was the kill point.

He started moving.

---

He went left. Not toward the creature — along the western wall, the bypass route the courier had mapped. Thirty meters minimum from the Patient. He moved at the pace of a man who was not approaching a predator, because he was not approaching a predator. He was flanking.

The Patient tracked him. He could feel it the way he had felt wolves track him in snow — not a sound, not a movement, but a change in the quality of the space between them, as if the air had developed a direction. The creature's attention was on him. Its body had not moved.

He reached the midpoint of the western wall. Thirty-two meters from the creature, by his estimate. Outside detection range by a comfortable margin. He stopped. He looked at the crystal growths between himself and the Patient, mapping the gaps, the sight lines, the places where the light fell and where it did not.

The spear was on the far side. Eastern wall. He could not reach it without crossing through the creature's detection range. But the spear was not what he was here for.

He drew the knife.

The knife was seven inches of purpose. It had killed the eighteenth wolf and thirty-one subsequent animals that required close work, and it was the tool for this job because this was a close job — not because the crack was small but because the crack needed to be entered, not struck. A spear struck. A plumb line struck. A chisel struck. Those tools had done their work: the shell was cracked. The next tool needed to go inside.

He began his approach.

He moved through the crystal growths the way he had moved through the reed marshes — using the terrain as cover, not as obstacle. The growths were tall enough to break his silhouette. The shadows between them were deep enough to hold a man. He was not trying to be invisible. He was trying to delay the moment of recognition — the moment when the creature's attention shifted from *watching* to *striking.*

Thirty meters. Twenty-eight. Twenty-six.

At twenty-five meters the quality of the creature's attention changed. He felt it: a sharpening, a resolution, the difference between a wolf that had scented you and a wolf that had located you. The Patient knew where he was. The Patient was deciding what to do about it.

He kept moving. Twenty-three meters. Twenty. The crystal growths were thinner here, the shadows shorter. He was in the open.

Eighteen meters. He could see the crack clearly now. It ran along the left flank seam, from the forward sensory cluster toward the dorsal ridge — a dark line in the gray-white shell, wider than he had expected, the edges slightly irregular where the chisel had widened it. The interior was visible in the phosphorescent light: not hollow, not solid, but layered — like the cross-section of a tree, growth rings in crystal, each ring a different density and a different age, and at the center of the rings, something darker.

He was a hunter. He had been a hunter for twenty-seven years. The dark thing at the center of the growth rings was the kill point.

Fifteen meters. The Patient had not moved. This was wrong. Every account said the creature struck within detection range. Every account said the transition from stillness to strike was instantaneous — not fast, instantaneous. The creature had not struck.

He knew why. He understood it with the part of his mind that understood predators: the creature was learning. It had killed eight people — seven confirmed — and the last three had damaged it. The last person inside detection range had cracked its shell. The one before that had mapped its weaknesses. The creature was not striking because the creature had learned that the things inside its detection range might hurt it.

The Patient was afraid.

Not the way animals were afraid — not the freezing or the fleeing. The way a predator was afraid when the prey changed the rules: the specific, intelligent caution of something that had been dominant for three centuries and was now, for the first time, uncertain.

Dorric raised the knife.

Culling Strike activated.

The Gift was simple. One strike. Perfect force. Perfect angle. Perfect depth. The knife would find the kill point the way the knife had always found the kill point — not because Dorric aimed perfectly but because the Gift took his aim and removed the imperfection, the way a lens removes distortion. One chance.

He drove the knife into the crack.

---

The blade entered the seam and slid between the growth layers and found the darker thing at the center of the rings and the strike was perfect — the angle was exactly right, the depth was exactly right, the velocity was exactly right. He felt the blade seat itself in something that was not crystal and not stone and not flesh but something between all three, something that had been growing in the dark for three hundred and forty-two years, and the knife cut it.

The Patient screamed.

It was not a sound. It was a frequency — a vibration that came through the crystal growths and the floor and the air simultaneously, and the crystal garden rang with it, every growth resonating at a pitch that was not audible but was felt, in the teeth and the bones and the back of the skull. The light in the room changed. The phosphorescence flared and then dimmed and then flared again, pulsing with the frequency, and the shadows moved.

The Patient moved.

Not the instantaneous rearrangement. Not the saccade-gap strike. A lurch — asymmetric, compensatory, the movement of something in pain that was not accustomed to pain. The cracked side of the shell ground against the intact side and the sound was stone on stone, geological, ancient. The creature swung toward him and he was already moving — rolling left, away from the strike, the way he had rolled away from the eighteenth wolf when it turned faster than he expected — and the Patient's mass passed through the space where he had been.

He still had the knife. The blade was wet with something that was not blood — a clear fluid, viscous, faintly luminescent. The kill point was open. The first strike had been perfect.

He raised the knife for the second strike.

The certainty was there. The conviction that the target was dead — not dying, dead. The Culling Strike had landed. The Cost was active. He could feel it: a warm, complete assurance that the work was done, that the kill was clean, that he could walk away and the thing behind him would fall.

He knew it was the Cost. He had read the Designation screen. He had understood the warning. And the understanding did not help, because the certainty was not in his thoughts — it was in his hands. His hands, which had killed four hundred and twelve animals and had never once been wrong about whether the kill was clean, were telling him the kill was clean.

The Patient was not dead. The Patient was turning toward him, slower than before, the lurch more pronounced, the crystal shell grinding, the crack wider than it had been — the knife had opened it further, the Culling Strike's perfect force had done what a plumb line and a chisel had started. But the creature was alive and it was turning and it was going to strike.

He struck again. The second blow landed on the crack — same target, same angle.

The force was halved. He felt the difference immediately. The knife that had penetrated three inches on the first strike penetrated one inch on the second. The blade met the same layered structure and the same dark center and it cut, but the cut was shallow, tentative, the strike of a blade that had already done its work and was now doing someone else's.

The Patient struck.

The impact caught him in the right shoulder and spun him. He hit a crystal growth and the growth shattered — twelve pounds of force at the midpoint, the number the Brand marks had specified, and his body had supplied the twelve pounds without trying. He was on the ground. The shoulder was dislocated. He could feel it: the specific wrongness of a joint that had left its socket, the bone sitting where bone should not sit.

He still had the knife. His left hand. He was right-handed but the knife was in his left hand because his right arm was not holding anything anymore and his left hand had closed on the handle with the autonomic grip of a man who had held a knife through worse.

He got up.

The certainty was still there. It was louder now — not quieter, louder, as if the Cost was responding to the evidence by increasing its volume. The creature was dead. The creature was certainly dead. The thing in front of him, turning, grinding, luminescent fluid leaking from the widened crack in its shell, was dead. His hands believed this completely.

He struck a third time. The force was a quarter of the first. The knife slid along the surface of the shell and caught the crack's edge and skipped. He felt nothing enter. The blade found no purchase. The Gift was done. The Cull had been delivered.

He was standing three meters from The Patient with a knife that could no longer cut it and a conviction that it was already dead and a dislocated shoulder and the knowledge — the cold, clear, professional knowledge that had killed four hundred and twelve animals — that he had failed.

---

The Patient struck him.

He did not try to dodge. There was no technique for dodging something that did not cross the space between. The creature was there and then it was here and the here included him.

He was on the floor. The crystal growth behind him was in pieces. The knife was on the ground beside him, and the clear luminescent fluid on the blade was already dimming, losing whatever light the creature's interior had given it.

He looked at the crack. From the floor, at this angle, he could see inside it clearly — the growth layers, the dark center, the place where his knife had cut. The cut was there. Real, physical, permanent. The Culling Strike had reached the thing inside the shell and had cut it, and the cut was not healing, and the fluid was not stopping.

He had hurt it. The first strike had been perfect and it had hurt it. The kill was not clean but the cut was real.

He thought: *four hundred and thirteen.*

He thought: *no. Four hundred and twelve. And one I wounded.*

The certainty was still telling him the creature was dead. His hands were still sure. The gap between what his hands believed and what his eyes could see was the width of the Cost, and the Cost was the whole distance between a clean kill and a messy one, and a messy one was still a contribution.

The Patient settled onto him. The weight was the weight of something that had been sitting in one place for three centuries and had not needed to move and was now, for the first time, moving with intent that was not clean. The creature was in pain and the pain was new and the settling was not the precise, efficient weight of previous kills — it was heavier, less controlled, the settling of something that wanted the threat to stop.

Dorric Kael felt his ribs compact. It was a sensation he recognized from the second boar, twenty-seven years ago — the specific, informative pain of being pressed by something that outweighed you by a factor that made resistance a category error.

He looked at the crack. He was under the creature and the crack was above him and the fluid was dripping. It dripped onto his chest and it was warm.

*Four hundred and twelve,* he thought. *And one I cut.*

The Patient's weight increased. The last thing he saw was the crack, and the dark thing inside the crack, and the thin luminescent line where his knife had been.

---

```stat-screen
DEATH REPORT — ENTRANT: DORRIC KAEL
DESIGNATION: THE CULL
DEPTH REACHED: 3 (THE STILL GARDEN)
TOTAL KILLS THIS RUN: 0

FINAL STATISTICS
Vitality .............. 16 -> 0
Resolve ............... 9  -> 11 (+1 Depth 2, +1 Depth 3)
Attunement ............ 8  -> 9  (+1 Culling Strike activation)
Fortune ............... 14

GIFT ATTUNEMENT AT DEATH: 9
Culling Strike activations: 1 (first strike on Patient shell crack)
Note: Culling Strike is a single-activation Gift. The first strike was the only true activation.
Subsequent strikes were diminished echoes — the Gift had already completed its purpose.
ATT accrues only from the activation, not from the diminished follow-ups.

COST STATUS AT DEATH: Certainty — fully engaged.
The entrant believed the target was dead at the time of his own death.
The Cost did not disengage. It does not update. This is not a malfunction.
Certainty is the specific cost of a tool designed for one use.

CAUSE OF DEATH: Creature. Patient.
Note: Entrant penetrated The Patient's cracked shell with a bladed weapon.
This is the first time a weapon has reached the interior structure beneath the shell.
Culling Strike delivered perfect force through the existing crack to the growth-layer core.
Damage: single deep incision in the central growth structure. Luminescent fluid loss.
The Patient's internal structure is now exposed and wounded.
The wound is not healing.

The Patient's damage is now cumulative across four entrants:
Death #14 (Brand): Shell weakness mapped.
Death #15 (Keystone): Shell cracked.
Death #16 (Joint): Crack widened.
Death #20 (Cull): Interior structure penetrated, incised. First internal wound.

MEMORY CRYSTAL: Red.
Stat bonus: +2 VIT.
Quality: force. The specific quality of directed violence applied with professional competence.
Not rage. Not desperation. The clean, practiced certainty of a man who has done this
four hundred and twelve times and understood, in the four hundred and thirteenth instance,
the difference between a kill and a wound, and did not find the wound insufficient.
Warning: Consumption will produce, temporarily, the sensation of absolute physical capability.
The sensation is earned. It does not confer the experience that earned it.

