Seeming to find his feet, the guard said, “You were not misinformed. It’s just… odd to hear it so openly stated. It’s refreshing.” He shook his head. “Look. You seem like a decent Scion, and Rozeta knows we need more of those. I’m gonna level with you. It’s odd for people to come in here and say all of what you said. Sets off all sorts of alarms, because people come in here to try and steal, instead of ask and bargain. Here’s my advice. Check-in at that Teleport Square. Get some directions to some places. Maybe go hunt for some cores in the Central Tribulations and get yourself some money, since you’re obviously capable. Make your way over to the Void Temple and see about getting a meeting with the Songstresses. All roads lead to the Void Temple, so it’s not hard to find. Maybe even take a look at the Noble’s District. Maybe you might meet someone you know there. But do not make a fuss about being denied at every turn and threatened with bodily harm. Please do not press any issues with the people of Eralis.” He stressed, “In the very best case, don’t expect anything to happen right away.”

Ezekiel said, “I will accept your advice in the honest spirit of cooperation in which it was given. In the matter of money, hunting for some cores was already a part of the plan of regaining—” He paused, then said, “Well. Those are personal matters. Whatever happens, we will not be destitute for long. Thank you.” Ezekiel stepped back.

The guard bowed, and then his people bowed, too, but not too deep, and not for too long. The guard nodded once more, spared a long glance at Tiffany, then moved on, a tendril of thought already connecting him to others, out of sight. He seemed like a busy fellow.

Ezekiel turned toward the intake-building next to Teleport Square, and started walking. Behind him, Julia smiled as she followed, Tiffany eyed everything while people suddenly started eyeing her now that she was out of her armor, and Paul walked at Ezekiel’s side.

Getting through ‘customs’ was fairly straightforward, and while there weren’t any visible truthstones, there were still glowing rocks under the desks. This led to some careful evasions. Eyebrows were raised, but the woman behind the counter didn’t seem too interested in pressing any particular issue; she just asked the questions as an automated quill wrote down his answers, in duplicate. By the end of the three minute interview, Ezekiel gave his Clan name of Clan Phoenix, of which he had to spell for her since she had never heard the word before, his goals, which were hunting some monsters for some money and then looking into what the Songstresses were all about, and his expected length of stay, which he tentatively put at a week or a month. He wasn’t sure.

In return, he got a quick explanation that open displays of magic were highly discouraged (but not illegal!) and that approved Clans, of which he was not, according to her own ‘list of approved Clans’ she kept behind the counter, might take umbrage with him for so openly flouting accepted custom.

“Why not just make it illegal, then?”

The intake-lady spoke in a bored tone, “Because we value those who can still cast under the Void Song as they are sure to some day be the very people who will move against our enemies and keep us all safe.”

“Ah?” Ezekiel asked, “So the other Clans will take umbrage with me not because of actual anger, but because it looks like I am intruding into their territory by defending myself? That I am insulting their hospitality, or something? Or am I misunderstanding that?”

The woman’s bored tone momentarily vanished. “Who is to say what goes on in the minds of our betters.” She slapped a piece of paper down in front of Ezekiel. “Please sign here, and we can conclude this intake.”

Ezekiel did so.

He got one paper, which he was to keep on himself at all times. Since he was not a citizen, if he was found in the city without those papers, there would be a fine. The duplicate set of paperwork went into a large box behind the intake lady, where, after Ezekiel asked, he found that it would go to the Records Office, and that all black marks he might accrue during his time here would be added to that paperwork. If the Records Office discovered something heinous, then he would be tracked down and evicted from the city, or worse.

Ezekiel said, “Well… I’m rather confident that my Clan has never been here before…”

The lady waved him off. “Not my problem. Enjoy your stay in Eralis.”

She shooed him and his people away, and Ezekiel went. He hadn’t even gotten the chance to ask about hotels. He didn’t really need to, though, since he heard a majority of the conversations happening around him, but he would have liked to have had the official recommendation. None of the other people at the other check in counters were Scions, so their recommendations would obviously differ from his.

“That seemed to go okay,” Julia said, as they walked past the Teleport Square.

“Decently enough,” Paul said.

Tiffany asked, “Bar? Hotel? Just to find the place, then we go kill some monsters? Make some money.”

Ezekiel said, “Yes. All of that.”

They walked down a road lined with massive trees that showered pink flowers with every gust of wind. The air was cool and filled with the sounds of a major city, with cows clopping down roads and groups of people walking this way and that. It wasn’t long till they came upon the aptly-named Hotel Street where every place was five stories tall and lit with wardlight signage.

“And there’s the hotels!” Ezekiel said.

“Good.” Tiffany said, “Let’s go fight some monsters.”

The group turned right back around.

On the way back to Teleport Square, Ezekiel wondered how close he was to being found out.

Paul sent, ‘They don’t know who you are, and ‘Clan Phoenix’s name is currently flowing up the channels, but if we’ve tripped any protocols, I do not know them. We are known to the local Mind Mage network because… Because we are. But they would never give away that sort of information.’

Ezekiel smiled, sending, ‘That’s an awfully strong word, ‘never’.’

‘Even if we are found out, the culture around here seems to leave powerful people alone, and the powerful people around here tend not to care about anyone aside from themselves.’ Paul sent, ‘It’s all rather stratified. A lot more polite about it all, too.’

‘I wasn’t expecting so much politeness, either.’ Ezekiel sent, ‘I know you don’t want to, but how do you feel about murdering some monsters and ripping out ‘cores’ for profit? Just a bit of that and then we can get to drinking, and possibly talking about your sister, if you want. I’m here to listen.’

‘I'm fine with hunting monsters.’ Paul cracked a smile. ‘And… Thanks, Erick— I… Dammit.’

Ezekiel gave no outward sign of mirth. Erick, though, was laughing.

‘I don’t really want to talk about my sister, but I will go for those drinks.’

‘Fair enough.’ Ezekiel nodded, then looked over at the oddly-acting member of his party, asking, “Are you okay, Tiffany?”

Tiffany cautiously whispered, “It’s the eyes. They’re all looking at me. I do not like this part of small-people cities.”

Ezekiel had already seen the problem. Yes; Tiffany was drawing a lot of looks. But there was nothing to be done about that right now.

Soon enough, they were back at the Teleport Square. Crossing the barrier into the white-tiled football-field sized space was like walking out of the rain. Everything felt nicer; less disruptive to his body and mind. His heartburn ceased. He smiled.

Lightforms went out from Odin, and then Odin blipped them all out of the city, to the west, to a spot already scouted; a field in between two villages where there was nothing and no one.

In the distance, the Central Tribulation Mountains lifted up from the rising land like the very surface of the world had been broken and piled on top of itself. Sheer cliffs. Daunting peaks. Clouds caught upon stone, like ripped fabric. Greenery grew where it was able. There was a certain wild beauty about it all.

Tiffany let out a massive sigh of relief, exclaiming to the much quieter world, “Fuuuuck! I forgot how awful cities are!”

Ezekiel smiled, saying, “We’ll get you covered in unsightly blood and guts soon enough.”

“Eh…” Tiffany frowned. “The point is to be less sexy. Not more.”

Laughter drifted on the breeze.

As Tiffany said, “Maybe I need a veil, or something.”
