Stay out of Clan business, for they are in the business of keeping the city safe and prosperous, and they are legally allowed to murder anyone that gives them just cause; the only check on their power is the other clans, and their own codes of honor.

And yet…

Ezekiel heard the negatives, but what he saw were the positives.

A city of millions. Two dozen million, if you counted all the surrounding lands, which many people did.

A city of trade, where billions of gold flowed in and out every day, where you could buy almost anything you could ever want.

A city where most people were under level 20. Which… was honestly a good thing. How had a place like this survived with beings like the Shades active in this world? Where people were able to cast Red Dots at a whim? Ezekiel needed to find out.

And he could already hear one of the reasons for Eralis’s prosperity.

It was a song, barely heard, like a pulse to the world late at night from a bar across town that was still going strong. That song stayed, ever present, not increasing in volume or clarity, as the carriage rolled closer and closer.

The driver opened the partition, saying, “Here’s the Void Gate, master Scion! You only ever get to experience this once!”

Ezekiel chuckled as he made a show of looking through the partition, but he had already seen the Void Gate from the air. The driver’s excitement in showing off his home to a foreigner was infectious, but that did not diminish the fact that this land was honestly impressive, and in so many ways.

The white wall was a dozen meters tall and set a good kilometer past the edge of the end of the wide, wide, delta, but the ring of the Void Gate itself raised half a kilometer high, a ring of white stone that arced up and down. It reminded Ezekiel of a certain gateway made of silver metal, in a faraway land named after a dead king. This Void Wall was more than just a simple sculptural building, though, and it was also more than the sum of its magical protections.

This Void Wall was not named after anyone in particular, for there were no need for names in this particular situation.

Like a dragon sized to a city, laying down in a protective circle, the Void Wall was a sculpture of Rozeta, the Dragon Goddess of the Script, without beginning and without end, adorned with a scale pattern that shimmered rainbow in daylight. If there was a head or a tail in that sculpture, Ezekiel had not seen it; perhaps both were hidden in the city somewhere. If there were legs, those were similarly hidden.

All that was visible was the endless body of the Dragon Goddess, the patron of this great city of trade and civilization of the Songli Highlands.

Far to the south, Eralis opened up to deep water, where the Void Wall dipped under the waves, allowing boats to pile into the piers to bring goods to and from the city. Kilometers out to sea, the wall arced out of the open water, up and over the main channel, like some great sea serpent's body. To the north, another arc of Rozeta’s body formed another Void Gate that led to the cities and villages to the north, where the two other major cities of the Highlands lay; the farming city, Alaralti, and Holorulo, the seat of power of the Songstresses.

To the west was another arc of the Void Wall, but that one merely opened up to the coastal road, and to all the other ‘villages’ like Redflood on the other side of Eralis.

They drew closer to the Void Gate.

The song increased. Wordless words came and went in an endless choral flow. It was not uncomfortable, but it was… Not comfortable.

Ezekiel asked, “Anyone else hear that? It’s… kind of annoying, actually.”

“Hear what?” “Nope.”

Paul rapidly said, “You shouldn’t be able to hear that.”

The driver gave a good-natured chuckle, then said, “You truly are a Scion!”

“Is that the Void Song?” Ezekiel asked. “I thought you couldn’t hear it.”

“You’re not supposed to be able to hear the Void Song, but people do, all the time.” The driver happily said, “You can almost always get a Clan sponsorship if you can pass the test that proves that you are actually hearing the song. Just be careful. They don’t like people faking that.” He rapidly added, “And here’s where the denial of magic starts!”

Right after that warning, Ezekiel felt something clash with his soul. It was as though he had eaten too much pizza, but back when he lived somewhere far, far away from here. He struck his chest, trying to get rid of what felt like a sudden case of heartburn.

“Is it supposed to feel like… nausea?” Julia asked.

“The feeling will pass. They sell pills in town that’ll ease the feeling for a week but after being here for a month most people don’t feel it.” The driver said, “There’re shops that sell those pills right beside the Teleport Square, and that’s where we’re headed”

Julia asked, “What’s the full list of denied magics?” She tapped her own chest, saying, “I can’t hear it, but I can feel it.”

Tiffany smirked as she said, “I feel fine.”

Poi seemed similarly okay. He nodded, and indicated that yes, he was fine.

The driver said, “This Void Wall is not some simple, set-it forget-it magic, like them runes and oils they use in smaller places. There is a list of spells that don’t ever work right, of course.” He rattled off, “[Blink], [Teleport], [Invisibility], [Force Trap]. A lot of esoteric [Teleport] spells. All the Shaping spells. [Polymorph]. [Hunter’s Instincts]. [Strike]. A lot of esoteric warrior spells and skills…” His voice trailed off. Then he came back strong, saying, “The Void Song focuses on those spells, and it can change from day to day, but it actually hits all magic.”

Ezekiel’s eyes went wide. “All magic? You can do that?”

“Yes, master Scion.” The driver said, “Practically all spell or skill costs are doubled, at the very least. Most are increased by tenfold.”

“Which ones aren’t banned?” Julia asked.

“[Telekinesis], [Telepathy], [Cleanse], [Mend]. Most healing magics. Still doubled costs, though.” The driver said.

Ezekiel asked, “Is there some way around those restrictions?”

“Oh! Sure!” The driver perked up. “Everyone knows the guard ain’t restricted. It’s cause they got them badges, but those badges are theirs only; non-transferable. If you’re part of the Clans, you might get a badge, too. Apply for a worker license for a Shaping spell, and you can get a badge for that. A lot of people go in for [Metalshape] in order to work their jobs and that’s a pretty easy license. Ain’t no one I know ever got a [Stoneshape] license, though. [Woodshape] is also pretty easy to get; houses still gotta get built, after all.” He brought a necklace out from under his shirt, saying, “This here’s just a [Rejuvenation] license so my girls can run as much as they can. That was pretty cheap to get, but the paperwork! If’n you can make [Papershape], then you’re sure to get a good paying job in Eralis. High class of life, that, and— Opp! And here we are! The Void Gate!”

As the driver talked, the carriage passed under the archway of the Void Gate. The white-stone sculpture of Dragon Goddess of the Script arced high above, so far out of reach.

Ezekiel felt the world shift, like a part of him was cut off from the whole. A small part. It hurt some. But not really. Odin squeaked on his shoulder. Yggdrasil’s orb continued to follow behind; [Scry] didn’t seem to be affected, or maybe it was, if all spell costs were increased. From what Ezekiel felt, blocking any spell at all seemed to be easy enough, but he knew it could not be that easy. In order to interact with a magic, one needed to have that magic, first. You can’t enchant a spell you didn’t have, for example.

But…

This Void Wall was able to increase the costs of all spells… How did they do that?

It was probably exceedingly difficult.

At least it didn’t affect spells that were already active. His magenta armor and [Personal Ward] seemed to be fine. He did feel a burning in his chest, though. He asked, “When will we arrive at one of those pill shops you mentioned?”

“I’ll take us right there! Don’t you worry. It’s just uncomfortable; no lasting harm.”

Julia rolled her eyes in the most cynical way possible.

Ezekiel almost laughed. The driver hadn’t been lying about anything, as far as the driver understood the world, but Julia was paranoid and saying something like that around her would always set her off.

Beyond the Void Gate, the city appeared like buildings stacked on buildings surrounded by cultivated nature. There were round buildings and square buildings, buildings with upturned roof corners and buildings stacked like ever-smaller bricks up as high as they could go. Everything was browns and whites, with lots of colorful reds, greens, and blues, and nothing looked rundown at all.

The city had a flow to it, too. One that Ezekiel couldn’t quite grasp, but that he could certainly hear in the hustle and bustle of so many people and so many carriages, all moving along with each other, and mostly not getting in each other’s ways.

… Not that impressive of a sight, for a man who had come from a land where ‘carriages’ did this on much larger roads, but here, in Eralis, this was impressive. There were no stoplights here, after all.

The carriage came to a massive roundabout, well past the Void Gate, where a great many sidewalks and side roads split off, to run throughout all of the rest of the city. From the air, Eralis was well organized into blocks, but each of those blocks was like a tangled city itself.

The driver discharged Ezekiel and his people on the side of the roundabout, in an area meant for such, right beside a large courtyard that was obviously the Teleport Square. This one was twice as large as the one back in Redflood. People blipped in and out of that space, and according to Ezekiel’s Sight, there was something going on in the guard towers that ringed the Square, that allowed [Teleport] to happen inside that space, but not outside the square. It was like the towers were holding back… floodwaters, perhaps. Perhaps… Like a withheld shockwave? Maybe.

The driver quickly walked Ezekiel and his people to a kiosk that sold the pills he had spoken of, then he paid a silver of his own money for a small bottle. He handed the bottle to Ezekiel, saying, “Farewell, master Scion. Enjoy your stay in Eralis.” He pointed to the left. “That’s the Teleport Square, as I am sure you can see.” He gestured to the blocky, white building beside the square, saying, “Get your papers and your interview over there, and they’ll let you [Teleport] in and out.”

Ezekiel took the bottle, and said, “Thank you, driver. As soon as I get some gold, I’ll pay you for the information.”

The driver rapidly shook his head. “No need for that. Have a good day!”

He high-tailed it out of there.

Tiffany said, “He seemed like an alright guy.”

Ezekiel turned, and saw the reason that the driver had moved so fast. Some mean-faced guards were staring at him from ten meters away. He put on his best impression of a young noble and went to greet them, noticing all the while that quite a few random people all around them were glancing his way, and then rapidly specifically not looking his way. The guard with the mean face, a male dragonkin, spoke before Ezekiel could.

“I don’t care if you’re destitute. I do care that you’re openly wearing expensive magics.” He said, “Turn them off, right now, lawbreaker.”

“… Ah. You are testing me. I can appreciate that.” Ezekiel turned off his magenta armor, revealing nice, peasant-ish clothing, and his Silver Star pinned to his chest. He had disguised the artifact with normal silver, layered in tinfoil-thickness over the crystal core. A lightward would have been seen as a lightward, and even this wasn’t the best solution, but this was what he had decided upon. His shoulder-pad shaped Odin was revealed for what he was, but then he morphed, and mimicked the other Odin, turning bird-shaped. Ezekiel felt an actual chill for the first time, now that he was out of his armor and the wind was getting into his sleeves. He was reminded that it was barely Water Season. He said, “As you can see, I can follow rules.” He looked to his people.

Julia, Tiffany, and Paul, each dropped their colorful armor, revealing similar peasant clothing. Each of them briefly gained goosebumps from the chilly air.

The guard and his men, and the other guards hiding around the area in case this meeting didn’t go well, all seemed to relax a fraction. He said, “Good. Now that shield and the [Personal Ward].”

“No.” Ezekiel offered, “I can make the shield less obvious, if you wish.”

Not wanting to argue, and likely deciding he had won enough, the guard said, “Fine. Do you have a place to stay, foreign Scion? Did you come here with a plan? How can Eralis assist you in not becoming a problem for the law, or for our people?”

“As you can see, we are destitute. We came to Eralis because we heard of the power of the Songs, and we want to listen. Broadly, we come seeking allies and magic for personal matters of little importance. If you have any directions to those ends, I will listen.”

The guard blanked for a second as he tried to understand what he had just heard. For Ezekiel to outright state that ‘he came to Eralis for aid and secrets’ seemed to have short circuited the man. Maybe it had.

Ezekiel asked, “Is it truly such an odd concept to want to broaden one’s horizons with travel to a land that—” Then he changed tactics, softly saying, “We were told that the Highlands held great magic. Were we misinformed?”

