“Pardon Scion, but we will be speeding up now and there’s a bump when that happens. Just wanted to let you know.”

“Thanks, good driver!” Ezekiel said.

The vehicle lurched, as the cows began to speed up. Within moments, and likely because the cows somehow had [Swift Movement], and the driver had [Rejuvenation] to keep them high Health, and also the skill, or perhaps the Spell to make the cows use their Skills, the carriage joined the speedy line of traffic headed toward Eralis, in the unseen distance.

The driver shut the partition again, but Ezekiel had Julia open it. The driver startled, briefly.

“Good driver?” Ezekiel asked, “How did you get the cows so well trained? Some [Husbandry] spell?”

“Oh? Uh.” The driver was clearly nervous, but he managed to get out, “Oh, no! Just good old training, Scion. Uh? You’re not from around here, I take it?”

“Not even a little bit.”

The driver went silent. Julia almost went to close the partition, but Ezekiel shook his head, and it stayed open. The window provided a nice breeze in the cabin, as the carriage rolled west, to Eralis.

Ezekiel stared out the window, watching as the city rolled by. Tiffany and Julia seemed equally engrossed in watching the massive, multi-million person ‘suburb’ around Eralis. Ezekiel had seen this land from the air, but those Odins were way too far to see what he was seeing now; he didn’t want the magenta [Familiar] to trigger any alarms over the city, after all. Those high-flying Odins took great care to avoid the [Alarm Ward]s strung across the sky that were only visible to [True Sight]. But… It was almost to the point that having Odin way up there wasn’t actually helpful, at all.

It was a nice ride. But...

Paul stared out the window, slack-faced, and possibly worried.

Ezekiel asked, “Are you okay, Paul?”

Paul blinked a few times, then said, “I had heard certain things about this place. I expected certain things about this place. I expected we’d need to fight off marauding bands of clans or soldiers, I did not expect a sprawling metropolis. I did not expect a carriage ride into the city.”

Ezekiel nodded. He turned to the open window, and asked, “Driver?”

“Yes, Scion?”

“Do you mind if I bother you for some information?”

“Never be a bother to me, Scion!” The man spoke happily, but falsely, saying, “Ask away!”

“What’s the population of Eralis? Are we actually in Eralis right now?” He asked, “Could you give us some basic information that you think we might want?”

A small chuckle came from the driver, as some of his worries seemed to evaporate. He relaxed a fraction, and said, “I’d be happy to do that, Scion. I haven’t given a proper tour in a long time, but I’ve lived here all my life. Let’s see… I’d start with this: If someone asked me where I lived, I would say Eralis, but that’d be a minor lie. We’re actually in the town of Redflood. There’s towns like this one scattered all along the Wanzhi river. Rich farming land, you see? We’re nary a stone’s throw from the Delta right now, and though that place still floods, this Water Season is drier than usual. The rains are just late, I suspect.

“Once we get past Redflood and the Wanzhi Delta, we can enter into Eralis directly. Right through the Void Gates! Very impressive sight.

“And though you’d have to take a different road out of the west side of Eralis, it’d look the same as this one, and you’d eventually find more towns like Redflood, but smaller, for sure. The Army and the Border Clans tend to keep us safe as newborns, but outside of the borders and such… Yeah. You’ll find the usual warmongers.” He paused. He asked, “If’n you don’t mind me asking sir. What’s yer goals here in the Highlands? I might be able to direct you somewhere specific.”

“I want to talk to the Songstresses. I heard they’re famous for how they make their magic, and I want to know more about that.”

“Ah!” The driver happily said, “Then you’ll be wanting to go to the Void Theater. Center of Eralis. You seem like someone who could see the sights from the air, and in such a case, you can’t miss the Void Theater. Only building that looks similar to the Void Gates. But. Er. Don’t be flashing— Er. I have been told that the guard don’t like people being flashy with magics like that, er… Scion. They reintroduce the ground to fliers rather painfully, if’n they can. Probably best not to go flying in the city limits… if you even could— Which I’m sure you can!”

“Then we will search on foot once we get there.” Ezekiel tried to make his tone as nice as possible, without being weak, as he asked, “Anything else we should know?”

“Oh! Sure! There’s lots! Let me tell you about...”

- - - -

‘Julia’ found herself grinning whenever she forgot to stop herself, ever since the encounter with the guards of Grey Cloud. But now, as she watched peaked-roof buildings and so many people roll past her window, and she heard her father speak like a real Scion for about the fiftieth time, she let herself smile. He was good at this, and this was fun. This was really fun.

She sent him, ‘You’re so much better at this than I expected.’

‘Ezekiel’ paused in his words to the driver, briefly, but then kept talking to the driver as he simultaneously sent her, ‘I paid attention to you kids and your role playing games, and all those movie nights you and I shared when you were a kid.’

Julia almost laughed. ‘There’s no way that those things prepared you for this. I read books about blending in. Joined a club in college. I didn’t think you had a subterfuge-bone in your body.’

‘A large part of blending in seems to be more about reading the room and filling in a story about yourself that other people expect you to follow, and I have seen a lot of different stories. But yes. You’re right. I’m only able to do this, here, because I’m listening and watching everyone around us, and working to adjust my actions to what I see and hear.’ He added, ‘This part is a lot easier than I thought it would be, but I fear we might have come in too strong. We might have to fail at something in order to be knocked down a peg by the people who we do not want to meet, but I’m getting the impression that all we’ve met are low-ranking people who would never gainsay anything we do.’

Julia blue-screened.

She felt like the world had shifted under her feet. Her father had just said that. Her father. The naive pacifist… Well. He wasn’t that anymore, was he? And he hadn’t been that for a long time. Probably still too much of a pacifist, though. He should have just Blessed those Hunters. A jail of the soul was better than death, especially if those bastards could actually make good on their threats to come back from the dead, but Julia suspected that that was just them posturing for their lives.

‘Well you’re doing a great job, dad.’

‘Thanks!’ He sent, ‘You are, too.’

Julia scoffed a small laugh, then stopped pestering Ezekiel. She could be doing a lot better, but she was fulfilling her ‘role’ right now, and that was what was needed. Julia let her father engage with the driver, while her mind turned toward a different direction. Back toward a thought that had been on her mind for a while, now; to the New Stats.

Perception would allow her to unlock her mana sense much easier, but Intelligence is what allowed her father to make sense of what he was seeing, wasn’t it? What boon would she want to take for herself? Which was actually better?

She asked her father for his thoughts on the question.

‘It’s the Intelligence allowing me to make sense of all this, but I wouldn’t notice all the social cues without Perception. So it’s a tossup. If I could only pick one, I’d do Perception for the mana sense. But Tiffany’s better at that than I am, and she doesn’t have Perception, so Perception is obviously unnecessary. Therefore Intelligence might be better in the long run.’

… Another point in Intelligence’s favor.

Julia went silent, and contemplated.

- - - -

‘Tiffany’ relaxed in the back of the carriage, sitting beside ‘Ezekiel’ as he spoke to the driver. She had a lot of legroom in this vehicle, though the carriage was still half the size it should have been in order to make this a comfortable ride. It would have been overcrowded if her original team was with her. They would have needed to take two carriages! Ah. What a fun thought.

Ah. And look at that. She could think of them without crying.

She smiled, faintly and to herself, as she looked out the windows. The city was full of small people, and the journey was perilous and full of unknown dangers, but that suited Tiffany just fine. In truth, it was better than ‘fine’. This was great. She would have liked to see some other orcols walking around or whatnot, but outside of the Forest, and outside of Glaquin, her kind were treated more like beautiful giants and less like people. Thank the gods she was able to wear her armor into town, otherwise she would have felt so uncomfortable. It was the undressing with the eyes that really got her. Wearing unflattering armor helped.

The Red Bitch’s curse was one of the many reasons that orcols didn’t venture very far from the Forest.

… Unless they were into that sort of thing. Tiffany had a hard time understanding that urge to fuck someone who found her pretty, but some people were into that. Besides that, though, fucking around with non-orcols was odd by the very logistical nature of such an event. It was the sausage-in-the-canyon problem. Or the barge-fording-a-stream problem. Or the fact that non-orcols were just… tiny and easy to break. A little blood in the act was fine and expected…

Sometimes a lot of blood made the whole thing a lot more fun.

But the smaller races were very concerned about blood. Logically, Tiffany understood the problems that small people had with blood being outside of their bodies. Their blood didn’t come right back. Their skin… and holes… didn’t heal like they were supposed to heal.

Across the carriage, ‘Paul’ flushed a deep blue. He closed his eyes, and breathed.

Whoops. Too sexual for you, ‘Paul’?

Hey, now. Why do you think the city is named Redflood? Because of blood? Because the city has flooded before and killed a lot of people? Or because there’s some ‘time of the year’ for the Wanzhi River, and all of a sudden it’s just a flood of blood, like, out the cooch?

Paul steadfastly looked away.

Tiffany grinned and looked out the window. She watched the world roll by.

City Redflood ended in another north-south road that was lined in white tiles, and then a short, wide white wall, that seemed more like a staging area than a divider.

The driver said, “This wall protects Redflood from the seasonal floods when the red flits swim upstream to spawn, and the entire river turns sparkling red.”

Tiffany eyed Paul.

Paul slowly turned and eyed the partition, and the driver beyond that opening.

The driver continued, “Beyond here is the delta for the Wanzhi River.”

And it was.

They passed the dividing wall and the road began to rise. Not too high, but high enough to give the river below all the space it could ever need. Behind them, two and three story blue-roof buildings, and their individualized courtyard-like properties, dotted the city of Redflood. Here, beyond the wall and below the bridge, the water flowed like a lazy wanderer around banks of grasses and mud, and people fished or bathed along the white wall of Redflood. It was all rather idyllic, as far as Teressa saw. Very peaceful.

Kinda nice.

The driver spoke of speeding up and the carriage began to move faster, to keep up with the rest of the traffic, racing toward or away from Eralis in the distance. The cows were practically galloping, now, but they made less noise than before.

The driver said, “We’re coming up on the Noble District, to the right. You might be wanting to go there, master Scion, but I can’t help you with that. I don’t try to reach the stars and the stars don’t cast me down into an early grave.”

Ezekiel asked, “Does that saying have something to do with the Clan Star Song you were talking about?”

The driver suddenly shut up. Then he went, “Uhh.”

“Should I steer clear of Star Song?”

“Uhh…” The driver sputtered, “Uh. They’re fine people! Couldn’t ask for a better Head Clan, and I mean that, too, Scion. They’re great. They keep the roads and they keep the peace. But people like me don’t reach too high because… We just don’t. I should shut up, now.”

“Thank you for the talk, driver.” Ezekiel said, “If I had any gold on me, I would love to pay you for this, but maybe I’ll strike it rich soon enough. What’s your name?”

“… Uh. Dohzi,” the driver said in a happy, completely fake way. “Dohzi is my name, Scion. Thank you.”

Tiffany smirked. That’s a fake name. Everyone was using fake names today.

Ezekiel said, “Thank you, Dohzi. We’re Clan Phoenix.”

“Oh! I wouldn’t presume to ask your names, good Scion.” ‘Dohzi’ said, “Don’t worry none about me. I can best be forgotten.”

Ezekiel nodded, then said, “If that’s what you wish.”

… The driver slowly reached over and closed the partition.

Tiffany looked out across the waters, and saw the ‘Noble District’, and was awed for not the first time. Traveling just did that to a person. Seeing new sights was awesome. Too bad she couldn’t have done this with her own family. Ahh… Oh well.

At least it didn’t hurt to think of them, anymore.

- - - -

Ezekiel gazed out the window at the Noble District.

The island sat upon the center of the Wanzhi Delta like a scattering of minor mountains, filled with ancient houses, pagodas, and temples. The entire land was surrounded by a white wall, then further surrounded by the scattered banks of the river.

Their current highway did not join that kilometers-wide place. Instead, this road kept well clear, as it went on toward the west bank, where the white walls of the city stood, like a much larger cousin to the Noble District.

Eralis, the first city of the Songli Highlands. Home to millions of every race that existed on Veird, though the populations were not very balanced at all. There were human districts and incani districts and other segregations within that massive city, but most of the city was a land of mingled powers, where the guard came down hard upon rule breakers and every neighborhood had at least one guard capable of [Witness].

Try not to upset the order, or you might get drafted into the military if the arresting guard thinks you’re worth a damn.

Otherwise, don’t walk down streets that you don’t know. Don’t flash your gold. Keep track of your pockets.

