The towering Monk pauses and shakes his head, though I sense it more than I see it. “You’ve got his rude mannerisms down, if not his image, but as you so aptly pointed out, one’s mind’s image does not always match reality. Come, spew your lies and play your tricks, apparition. Mahakala will see through them.”

“Ugh, I don’t have time for this. You’re dying and I can save you, but I need you to bring me to the edge of the darkness so I can cleanse the Demon Goop from your body.”

“Ha.” Gesturing around, the massive Monk asks, “Why must I bring you? The darkness has already arrived.”

Fuck. Apparently, while lost in my meditative trance and subsequent cleansing, the darkness snuck up behind me. The pillars, once distant landmarks, are now almost close enough to spit on, or at least hit with an arrow, and my fears are proven true as I spot the Spectres squirming about the void. How long have I been here? Has the Demon Gunk reached the Monk’s head, and therefore my foot too? Damn it, how am I supposed to explain a missing hand and foot to the Legate? ‘I touched the Monk by accident, then took off my shoes and poked him for good measure’?

Whatever. One problem at a time.

Seeing how I no longer need the Monk’s help, I head towards the void with my eyes averted, unable to stomach the unsavoury, twisting patterns of the writhing Spectres, so different from what I expected. These Spectres have no cunning or intelligence behind their eyes, a silent, uncoordinated horde pushing and clawing at an invisible barrier, driven to madness by ravenous hunger as they seek to consume the Monk’s Spiritual Body. Mine too, judging by their heightened frenzy as I approach the barrier, but luckily, I came prepared.

Wishing I knew a better way to transport it, my Spiritual Body regurgitates all the Water-Chi I have stored, which turns out to be less of a flood and more of a trickle. Granted I only bound one container of water, but Blobby is a droplet and he flooded Yo Ling’s Natal Palace. Still, disappointed as I am with the volume, the results are everything I hoped for and more. Crashing into the darkness, my Water-Chi washes over the tightly-packed Spectres and sweeps them away, dissolving them into sweet, Heavenly Ene -

Hey!

What the fuck?

Where’s my Heavenly Energy? Why are the Spectres dissipating into nothingness? I was banking on the Heavenly Energy to keep the Monk alive, help Mom get back on her feet, and maybe give myself ten or twenty centimetres if there’s still some left over. Why isn’t it working like before?

It gets worse. I didn’t consider that Blobby is an endless font of Heavenly Water whereas my Water-Chi is both finite and consumed in the cleansing process. The maddened apparitions hardly seem to notice as more surge forwards into the space left by their dissolved comrades, and I’m forced to retreat before the darkness engulfs me. Taking shelter by the Monk, I massage my forehead and try to come up with another solution. “Okay,” I say, thinking out loud. “That didn’t go as expected. You ran out of Water-Chi, because Blobby is a butt and left on sabbatical. Also, there’s something wrong with these Spectres. Usually, you kill a few Spectres and the rest go running, but this time, these ones don’t give a flying fuck. So aside from being weird, creepy, and contorty, these Spectres have no sense of self-preservation. Now I know. Don’t know how it helps, but you know. So what next?” Eyeing the unsavoury horde, I wince and say, “Devour them? I could always cleanse them later after I bind more water or find Blobby.” Oh, I could get Pong-Pong to do it!

“No Brother SanDukkha.” Engulfing me with his massive hands, the Monk gently lifts me to eye level and treats me to a glimpse of his face. It’s younger and thinner, one suited for the body it sits on, handsome but not to excess, with an honest smile and carefree gaze. “You are truly a child of many mysteries,” he says, studying my Spiritual Body with a keen eye. “How did you make your way into my Natal Palace?”

“It’s something I do. Mostly involuntarily, but I meant to do it this time.” Waving away his questions, I continue, “There’s no time for this. I came up with another way to save you, but -”

“Do not devour these apparitions, Brother SanDukkha. They are not the Spectres you’ve faced before.”

Thanks, I realized. “No, but -”

Heedless to the time sensitive nature of our plight, the Monk continues “These are the itinerant souls I spoke of, and it seems the Enemy has found a way to weaponize them. They are Anathema to matter and life itself, driven to consume everything in their path until nothing remains.”

“...Then why does it need sunlight to work?” My question gives the Monk pause and affords me the opportunity to keep speaking. “Whatever, we’ll figure it out later. Right now, you need to send me away. I can still save you, but I need to go get something first.” How do I hide Pong Pong’s presence from all the Experts outside the door? One problem at a time. “Hurry, we don’t have time to spare.”

Unfazed by the urgency in my tone, the Monk continues to lecture me. “Brother SanDukkha, this too must reach the Abbot’s ear. What I warned of was nihility in a spiritual sense, but this weapon, this ‘Demon Gunk’ as you’ve termed it, this will bring nothingness on a more tangible scale.”

“Got it, will tell him, but first, send me out so I can SAVE YOUR LIFE!”

Smiling at my desperate pleas, the Monk shakes his head and refuses to do as I ask. “Waste not your efforts. My time is at an end, for even should Mahakala survive, he lacks the resolve to continue. Pride was my downfall, and to believe myself capable of mending my ways would be to make the same mistake again.”

“No! You can’t quit, not now. You can tell the Abbot yourself, and you can help right the Balance or whatever you think you’re doing. Don’t give up, the world needs you.”

I need him... Who else can I talk to about Baledagh?

With a contented sigh, the Monk leans back to stare at the sky, peering past the impenetrable cloud of Spectres at something I can’t see. “Perhaps it is selfish to leave this mess to you and others, and for this, you have my heartfelt apologies, but Mahakala is not strong enough to see this through. The Heavens call to me Brother SanDukkha, but your trials have yet to end.” Looking at me once more, the Monk smiles and says, “Mourn not for my passing, for death is merely a new beginning, a chance to start anew.”

“Mourn you? You’ll be lucky if I don’t curse you! Stay and fight, you coward!”

“Then Mahakala can only beg your forgiveness.” Though still smiling, the Monk is hurt by my condemnation and a single tear drips down his cheek. “Do not let your disdain affect your decision. The Abbot must be warned. One last matter, Brother SanDukkha: Never reveal this ability to the Legate or any member of the Imperial Clan, else they will stop at nothing to control or destroy you.”

And with this ominous last warning, the Monk sends me away, and I open my eyes back in reality, my foot still resting atop his fat bald head while I lean against Taduk’s chest. Blinking tears out of my eyes, I right myself and Send, “I couldn’t save him, but Pong-Pong can. We need to go get him quickly, there isn’t much time.”

“Rain my boy,” Taduk whispers, patting my head. “I’m sorry, but he’s gone.” Clearing his throat as I stare at the Monk’s corpse in disbelief, he adds, “I know you’re in shock, but you need to lop off your foot first else you’ll soon join him.”

And to think... this morning, I thought things were looking up.

Chapter Meme
