The Goblin adjusted her disguise until a bit more of her face was showing, and the Lizardfolk’s form became baggy around her legs. She pointed at some of the Tallguard.
“Seh! Fraershi an. To Ihumina an.”
They stirred. That first part of the word was definitely their name, however oddly said. Now, Cotm was feverishly checking his books.
“Commander, give me a second—”
His voice was lost in the clamor of shocked voices.
“It’s a Goblin. It’s a fucking Goblin. I thought they were killed on sight.”
Dawson’s incredulous voice. Ekrn’s—
“Do not lower your guard! It’s highly dangerous. Resk, translation spell?”
“That only works on writing! Verbal translation is a lot harder and there are no actual translations of Goblin for—”
“I have something! Just give me a second—”
The figure was getting antsy. It hopped a bit closer, froze when a dozen fingers twitched on their triggers, but not with exactly enough fear as one would like. And again, it pointed at Erin.
“O he elame Mirake an? Se o kava cha.”
“I…don’t know what you’re saying. I’m Erin Solstice. Are you looking for…another Goblin? Ulvama? Someone else?”
None of that registered. The Goblin’s eyes narrowed slightly. She seemed frustrated and stamped her foot.
“Mirake! Elame?”
She pointed at herself, then Erin. The [Innkeeper] saw everyone looking towards her, but she shook her head.
“Great. The Goblinfriend of Izril doesn’t know Goblin. Miss Solstice, we have a problem. Goblins are monsters to all of Baleros. I’ve seldom run into them, though—they’re executed on sight by most mercenary companies. Bringing one into Talenqual now isn’t a good idea—this is one is as dangerous as any Tallfolk I’ve ever met. And it doesn’t seem to know the common language.”
Ekrn growled. Erin agreed.
“I know. But it—she is here for me. She wants me to go with her.”
“Your funeral. And by that, I mean denied.”
Erin was hesitating, but Cotm was tossing books down, and they were landing on Noa, who was on a lower branch.
“Ow, fuck, ow—Cotm, what are you doing?”
“Hold on, just hold on! Sentry Commander, I have an idea! Let me just find the right book—”
The [Almanac Captain] didn’t know Goblin either. No one exactly wrote books on it, even in Fraerling cities, but he did know one thing. And it wasn’t in the books he used for his job; the book-loving Fraerling finally found what he wanted as Ekrn growled in his ear.
“If you have an idea, act on it fast, Cotm. The Goblin’s getting antsy.”
Sure enough, the Goblin was hopping closer, and Siri launched a crossbow bolt at her feet to keep her skipping back. She kept looking over her shoulder and motioning Erin to ‘come with’. Was something following her?
However, Cotm had found it. He rifled through something he’d bought a long, long time ago. A rare translation of a proscribed text. Even in the Fraerling settlements, they’d almost all been burned, but he found it at last.
“There’s a book, Sentry Commander. A book written by—the Titan of Baleros! It has something you’re supposed to say to Goblins.”
Noa’s head rose, and even Erin looked around. Ekrn’s voice, already stressed, grew irate.
“You have that book?”
Goblin [Mercenaries]. Leading Goblins and being led by Goblins, by Niers Astoragon. One of the most uninspiring titles ever titled for a book that was considered more contentious than other books written by actual [Warlords] and, in Cotm’s opinion, espousing far more heinous things.
A fascinating, if depressing, read about one of the few examples of Goblins interacting with the rest of the world in a non-violent manner.
Velan the Kind’s company. Back in the brief window when he had been a respected, nay, the respected Goblin. It had a lot of stories about Goblins being…well, odd people. Negotiations. History. Some tactics and commentary, because the Titan was the Titan.
But there was one section right at the start Cotm wanted. Even the strange Goblin had noticed him as he thumbed through it, a light spell illuminating just one page.
“‘—if you should ever…the various tribes of Goblin around the world are each unique and blaah blah’…yes, yes! Right here! Listen! ‘If you should ever meet a Goblin of Baleros, consider uttering the following before engaging in combat or flight!’”
He looked up. The Goblin gave him a blank stare; she had gotten none of that. Erin, however, had.
“It’s a phrase in Goblin, isn’t it? Read it.”
“Will do!”
He was lucky there was a phonetic guide to the words. Cotm began speaking, and the Goblin’s head instantly snapped up with recognition. Her crimson pupils went wide, then constricted as Cotm said with an unsteady voice:
“Um…van he elame zelmalaile Velan an.”
What he’d said, he couldn’t actually tell, but the Goblin’s head recoiled so fast that some of the Tallguard actually fired. She hissed—then stared straight at Cotm.
“Alchimagus Resk here with an observation, Captain Cotm. You said the wrong thing.”
Resk hissed as the Goblin stamped her feet. She seemed ready to charge now, but drew herself back as she saw Erin watching her warily. At last, she choked back a reply to Cotm that dripped with emotion.
“Velan Fasna he arek!”
“Er…”
The glower he received made Cotm decide not to repeat whatever he’d said. However, strangely, this seemed to convince the other Goblin that whatever was going on from her perspective—these people, Erin included, had no idea what she was talking about. She sighed, kicked at the ground, and stood there.
She had a blank look on her face, which Cotm, as a Fraerling who’d survived Tallguard training, knew exactly. It said ‘what the hell do I do now?’
As it so happened, where Fraerlings faltered, Siri broke in.
“Captain Daly, Commander Ekrn, permission to approach and try to communicate with her? I think we should begin with sign language. Anyone have a paper to draw on?”
The Swedish member of the Bushrangers understood communication blocks. In fact, the United Nations company as a whole did. One of them was already fumbling for a piece of paper.
“If you want to risk it, Siri—someone get Ken. He’s got a translation Skill. Maybe it’d work?”
Siri was about to approach when Erin called out.
“Give me the paper. I’m willing to try to talk with her.”
Ekrn hissed back.
“Absolutely not. You’re what she wants, and she is trying to get you to go with her. I wouldn’t put it past that Goblin to grab you and run.”
“Fine. Then let Siri—”
The Goblin was inspecting the Bushrangers and Tallguard with a raised eyebrow, but she was still looking over her shoulder. Then, suddenly, she groaned, sighed, and Cotm realized something.
In this strange, surreal standoff, his attention had been drawn to the strange Goblin. Everyone had been whispering, or whisper-shouting in Ekrn’s case, but it wasn’t as if it had been quiet. It was Baleros, and with the end of winter, there had been insects buzzing and even the distant sounds of Talenqual by night filling the air.
Except…for the moment when suddenly every insect had gone quiet. All the animal noises suddenly ceased, and something rustled through the forest.
Something big. The Goblin glanced over her shoulder apprehensively, but didn’t run.
“Weapons up. Something—”
Ekrn’s voice was tensed, but it was too late. They had just a second to hear the rustling, see a tree sway, and realize everything had gone quiet.
And then—it was there.
A Goblin appeared behind the first Goblin, far more imposing and dangerous—every ounce of Cotm screamed danger—standing with a clawed hand resting on a tree. The other was lightly gripping the ‘hood’ of the first Goblin’s costume.
Taller than Daly and Siri put together. Hunched—but only because of the gigantic contraption on its back. Black metal, muffled and bound by ropes, the same that secured a vast bell to the Goblin’s back.
Oddly ceremonial looking clothes, black, almost like the Goblin’s darker skin, one crimson eye—the other was missing—and a vast scar over one side of a huge face.
“Ah! Awhhh! Ahoro he pach! S’ho va tizan viti Mirak-Elame na. Masku tok is naefoma?”
The shorter Goblin shrieked, but the larger one was silent. The Bushrangers and Tallguard stared up at it, and Cotm said something in a trembling voice he had no proof for, but knew to be true.
“G-Goblin Lord.”
Goblin Lord? Siri’s crossbow was frozen, aimed at the giant Goblin’s chest. Did Baleros even have a Goblin Lord?
The Goblin Lords on Baleros would be…Velan the Kind, or maybe one of the others who’d gone with him to Izril, like Tallis the Stormbreaker. All of them were supposed to be dead, and no one had reported even a strong Goblin Chieftain so this couldn’t be a Goblin Lord.
Yet Cotm had the strong belief that if they started firing on the Goblin in front of them, they would quickly be dead.
“Hold.”
Ekrn breathed in their ears. They could hear the smaller Goblin swinging from a claw, now, kicking, protesting in a rapid spatter of Goblin to the Goblin Lord as it began to drag her back the way they’d come.
How had they gotten here with no one noticing? How did you hide a thirteen-foot Goblin carrying a gigantic bell? Then again—the real question was what they were saying.
“Pexa! Is he elame Mirake an! Uro faira o tizan elame Gredathe Pasai, Kanadith Pasai?”
The shrieking Goblin protested, and the Goblin Lord looked back once. Erin Solstice stood there, crossbow half lowered, staring into the eye of the Goblin Lord. It looked her up and down, slowly, then snorted and said something in a booming voice:
“Uro is Elame-Mirak. Stan is zan aimaste.”
The smaller Goblin had been trying to climb up the arm and yank her hood free, but her mouth fell open at this, and she gawked at Erin. She pointed at Erin, at the Goblin Lord—then started laughing. With a sigh, the giant Goblin dropped the small one, nudged her with one foot, and pointed.
The little one scrambled up and, with something resolved or revealed, gave Erin another look. Then the same searching stare as the first. She shrugged her shoulders.
Then waved a hand. The taller Goblin was already marching back through the trees, slower, now, and Ekrn didn’t seem minded to stop them.
“What the fuck is going on?”
Dawson really wanted to know. So did Cotm and everyone else. But the other Goblin just pulled her hood back on, and a Lizardwoman grinned glassily at Erin. She shrugged, pointed at the giant Goblin Lord as if to say, ‘what can you do’, and then pointed at Erin.
“I am the Goblinfriend of Izril. Do you…want something from me?”
That was all the [Innkeeper] said. Her eyes fixed on the Goblin Lord’s back as they vanished, on the grinning Goblin disguised as a Lizardperson, and though the two couldn’t understand each other, the Goblin paused. She put a claw to her mouth, thinking, then glanced over her shoulder and raised a claw to her mouth and whispered.
“Sku o he elame, Mirak-Elame kufa, te mota. Sku o he kiskai, tere tarek o zifu. Aho razivin Naga an si—”
Her eyes twinkled, looked alarmed, and she made a hop to the side—and the Goblin Lord reappeared, grabbed her by the back of the head, and dragged her away through the forest. The heavy tread of the footfalls were all anyone heard for a few seconds. Then…silence.
“Tallguard—find out which way they went. Do not get close or aggravate either.”
Ekrn snapped, and the spell broke after a moment. Cotm saw Tallguard flit into the trees as the Bushrangers advanced—but within moments, they responded.
“We’ve lost them, Sentry Commander. [Detect Life] spells, nothing, [Heat Vision] spells, nothing, [See Invisibility] spells—”
“They can’t have gotten away that fast! Did you see that thing? It was massive!”
Dawson exploded, but as the Bushrangers began spreading out, both Goblins were gone. Leaving only a mystery, some very puzzled Fraerlings, and—once again at the heart of it—
Erin Solstice. And the one comment she made as she lowered her crossbow was…
“I really wish I’d studied Goblin.”
 
——
 
The altercation with the Goblins was not discussed within the United Nations company that night. Nor was it mentioned to most Fraerlings of Paeth when Erin went back to the city to sleep.
Of course, Ken, Luan, Paige, and Kirana all got the full story, and the next morning, Ken got the same information that the Fraerlings had told Ekrn. Ken was speaking with someone else over breakfast at a table just outside one of the United Nations buildings. The [Diplomat] listened as he was told the same thing Resk had said last night.
“No one speaks Goblin. At least, there’s no [Translation] spell or anyone who claims to be an actual expert. The only living experts forswore all their research, and they were all affiliated with one company. Guess which one?”
Ken shook his head. This was a problem for this world; if they had translation spells on Earth, every nation would have invested into it. As for the company, he didn’t have to guess.
“Forgotten Wing. Can’t we translate it ourselves?”
Ken had wished he’d been there, or at least that someone had had the foresight to record everything said. But it had stunned the Fraerlings, who had never run into a linguistic barrier before. Much less…a Goblin Lord?
If true, that made Erin’s situation all the worse because one Goblin Lord had nearly gotten her killed already. If people thought she was in cahoots with another Goblin Lord…
Ken didn’t even know which one this was. They were almost all supposed to have been dead or confirmed killed in the last big war with Velan. The only one who’d even been possibly alive because they hadn’t found his body and seen his exact death was Greydath of Blades.
So either this was a new Goblin Lord…or one had faked their death…or an old Goblin Lord. Either way, Ken had resolved to put his team on it. Historical research was harder given the lack of an internet and the lack of good libraries and books being in limited print circulation, but he could try.
Ken nodded at the person sitting across from him.
“Your job is to find a translation text if one exists and look into Goblin Lords. Appearances will do; they weren’t all that tall.”
“Oh. Great. What about looking into the Jungle Tails company?”
Ken gave his subordinate a friendly smile.
“Do both. You’ll have to travel. What is new about Jungle Tails? Forgotten Wing is moving a lot of troops around.”
He was having breakfast while they waited for Erin to come out of Paeth again if she wanted to visit. His companion at the table was Asher, who was hungover and a bit shamefaced.
“Is it because I messed up with Erin? She completely wiped me out, Ken. I legitimately cried, man.”
