Especially with a damn [Polymorph] spell of that magnitude; Ilekrome doubted the Fraerlings could even alter Erin that much except in height, something the Death of Magic had clearly accounted for.
But sometimes…he gave a nod to Erin and cast [Measure Distance]. Perfect. Erin Solstice strode towards the person who’d come to pick her up, and Dawson blinked and gave Erin a second look.
However, he didn’t quite figure out what was off either because he’d never met her. He’d seen Erin in the scrying orb multiple times, but what was so different now only Ilekrome and Erin could say.
To be simple…they’d restored her to her height and just…kept going for a tiny bit. Erin was actually a slightly above-average Fraerling in height. As a Human woman? Well, Ilekrome understood in general she was shorter.
The Fraerlings had made her six feet tall. It suited her stare, and she had a long-legged stride, a half-smile as she went to shake Dawson’s hand and…
Ilekrome’s smile faded, and he winced. Alchimeer Straestra gasped.
“Ooh! That’s a bad fall. Maybe we should have let her try her new size? Eh. She’s fine. Wait, she’s not a Fraerling. She’s probably fine. Someone get her a healing p—wait, how much Eir Gel do we have left…? She’s fine.”
 
——
 
The United Nations company of Talenqual gathered that evening for a celebration.
Give them this. For however much they had changed since their initial, ideal founding and grown apart and closer together, the United Nations company had endured war and struggles to get to this point.
Even if they were closer to their actual namesake than anyone would have wanted, they were, at the end of the day, a bunch of Earthers from various continents.
Australia and India actually had the largest headcount of any nation. Many were solo members from their respective places, though they kept finding new members. Sometimes, too often, in memoriam.
They kept a list, they sent the Bushrangers down to hunt plausible leads, but mostly what they did was grow and expand. When the woman of the hour actually appeared, the Gravetender’s Fist—the regular [Mercenaries] who weren’t explicitly the Bushrangers, the elite division of Earthers and their closest allies—locked down six streets.
And the actual party took place along six interconnected buildings down their headquarters’ way. Almost everyone was present; everyone who could attend.
“Dead gods, look at the Tallfolk. Keep our people off the streets. They can stick to the Fraerways, but if any of them get trampled trying to get a snack, I’ll have them booted back to guard duty in Paeth.”
Ekrn still didn’t like the city. He stood on a rooftop in camouflage gear, providing the Fraerlings’ security as he watched annoyed [Mercenaries] shoving back and catching curious Lizardfolk, always a hazard when anything interesting was going on.
If he stared down, he could see nigh on a hundred Earthers down there. Eighty? He forgot the exact number, but reading their levels and classes was enough for him.
Some, like Ken, Kirana, or the top leaders of the company, had learned to disguise their classes or been helped by Paeth, but most were too low-level to bother doing that to. Then again…low-level meant something different here.
Ekrn’s eyes kept roaming the streets, checking for unusual faces among the throng, but he had dozens of Tallguard deployed for just that job, so he paid less attention to surveillance. The Architects needed to know as much about the Tallfolk as they could. Especially the one being practically besieged in the center of everything.
Erin Solstice looked oddly clumsy in her Tallfolk form. She’d tripped twice on the way here, though you could argue being enlarged to the size of a giant did that to one. Fraerlings had Signim training for this very purpose; she had a drink in hand and kept speaking to people jostling for her attention as music—Earther music—played.
It was a loud party, and Ekrn had put in earplugs to filter sounds so he could hone in on conversations. The [Innkeeper] didn’t look that overwhelmed by all the people—but her not-quite-glare hadn’t left her.
At least she’s consistent across species. Ekrn tapped his earplugs, filtering across conversations.
 
“—so glad I called off work today! Hey, what’s she like?”
“Intense, Anders! Like Geneva!”
“Really? Maybe I don’t need to talk to her—has she got any scars?”
 
Most of the Earthers were actually eating, drinking, or catching up with each other. That conversation was…Ekrn glanced down, and his synced goggles identified the speakers.
Ah, right. Anders. Finland, wherever that was. Talking to…Blake. New Zealand. Ekrn was more familiar with the latter as Blake worked at Geneva’s former clinic, taken over by Fraerlings and the United Nations people she’d helped train.
Blake was working with Fraerling [Doctors] and [Healers] to migrate techniques and methodology across species; he even kept in touch with Geneva herself. Former nurse…
Level 21 [Medical Liaison]. Principle capstone Skill: [Crossworlds Utility (Medical Equipment)]. It meant that he could actually use and adapt Fraerling technology for a variety of species so long as they gave him a version of the stuff large enough for him.
He was speaking to Anders, who was a Level 18…[Organized Harborworker]. Both were technically low-level, but if you considered each had had a single year to get to this point? Besides, Anders had an interesting capstone himself.
[Automated Hauler Lift]. Ekrn listened a second to their conversation as Blake grabbed another plate of food.
 
“Where have you been, Anders? Still working at the docks? I thought you hated it.”
“Yeah, well, I was going to quit. But remember when Talenqual was a mess? Half the dockworkers fled, and the old [Harbormaster] was Featherfolk Brigade. Things were a mess, and it paid well—then I realized Lizardfolk didn’t organize how they loaded and unloaded. You know, with cargo docks and teams?”
“Right, right. Wait, are you the reason they have those painted loading places?”
“Sure am. You know the Naga who’s taken over? Quatalis? She says she wants to keep promoting me, but I don’t know if I can stand the hours. Still—it pays pretty nice.”
“Sounds like a big job.”
“Yeah, well, there’s this other [Sailor] who keeps coming into port, so I’m mainly sticking around for her—”
“Ah. Wait, what species?”
“Human. She runs on the Keelhauled Spriggan. You know, the two-masted schooner?”
“I don’t know what you’re talking about, man. What color is the ship?”
 
The conversation turned banal, and Ekrn, accordingly, switched off of it. But that was the thing; for every Earther he could spot below Level 10, who hadn’t done much with themselves, he could find someone who’d passed Level 20. Of course, that still put them as ‘low’ by Fraerling standards or some of their peers, but how quickly they rose.
Talenqual had certainly benefited from the unique perspectives shaping it. There wasn’t enough magic to go around, of course, but Resk had begun teaching prospective students spells like how to cleanse areas for sanitation, cast cooling spells more efficiently, or just do runecraft, something you had to apparently go to an academy for.
The only issue was the students kept leaving with the magic they’d learned, but the Architects had to balance that problem. Ekrn was more concerned with security.
Speaking of which—someone waved at him, and he jumped—Siri and a group of the Bushrangers had spotted him. They were relaxing in their own group, like a permanent eddy in a sea of moving people.
Even the regular Earthers had a distinction between civilians and soldiers—the Bushrangers, like the Tallguard—sat apart.
“I think Siri’s trying to make all of us that she can see, Commander. She’s spotted eleven of us so far.”
One of Ekrn’s subordinates spoke dryly into his earpiece.
“If a Tallfolk can spot you, you’re not in position. Keep alert, Captain Cotm.”
“Yes, sir. But we taught her how to do our job.”
Ekrn decided not to respond. Yes, they’d armed the Bushrangers. Given them weapons on par with Tallguard gear, and the Bushrangers had already established themselves as both Gold-rank adventurers—and dangerous [Mercenaries]. Baleros often let the two classes intersect, and while the Bushrangers didn’t often take contracts to hunt down other people—Ekrn knew it was causing a rift within the United Nations group.
Certainly, Daly, their [Mercenary Commander] and the leader of both Gravetender’s Fist and the Bushrangers, stood apart from most of the other Earthers. It was…well, it was like Erin Solstice. Ekrn supposed it was like himself.
Small talk got hard, sometimes, when you’d just had to cut your way out of a snake’s intestines and then butcher it for meat while giant bugs landed around you.
Ekrn listened in on Erin Solstice’s conversations and found them—illuminating. In a sense. After a moment, he coughed.
“Noa.”
“I’m not eating anything! I was offered a plate—”
“Go pass out food to the sentries not on overwatch. Make my dish extra spicy.”
“Yessir!”
 
——
 
“This is good food. What is this?”
“Uh—that’s a paneer, those are—what’s gulab jamun in English? Fried milk cakes. That’s ondatami—a kind of fried muskrat that’s Lizardfolk. And I think that’s nalihecca. Coconut, nali-sticks, and, uh—I think that’s actually mostly it.”
Erin kept eating as one of the Earthers around her, Priya, energetically listed the foods. She was eating as she stood in the evening, the sun setting over a much balmier ‘winter’ night than she’d expected.
Someone was playing loud pop music in a language that definitely wasn’t the one she knew, and there were Earthers everywhere. Erin?
Erin was mostly chomping down on her plate of food. The Fraerlings had fed her, of course, but they’d regulated her diet to make sure she wouldn’t get sick. The United Nations company? No such compunctions.
Priya was actually fairly impressed; Erin had begun at a spice that half the Earthers refused to eat regularly and went up from there. She was sweating profusely, but for every spicy bite, she took one of something sweet.
“Do you want another lassi?”
“Please. And water?”
She seemed to be enjoying the suffering of spices, which, of course, was how you best enjoyed this kind of thing. Erin even said as much when Priya handed her a drink.
“I love spices like this. Thank you. And you eat like this all the time?”
“Thanks to Kirana. She’s a [Housekeeper]—or rather, that was her first class when we got here. It’s a lot higher. She’s nearing Level 40.”
Priya whispered conspiratorially, and Erin glanced over at Kirana, who was currently hauling off by their neck-frills a Lizardperson who’d gotten into the party.
“She’s one of your leaders?”
“Yep. Head of finances, housekeeping, cooking—don’t get on her bad side unless you want to sleep in a tiny room. Some new people try to give her lip because she’s not as shit-your-pants scary as Siri or like Ken. Asher here, North Dakota. What’s up? Americans from home!”
Priya rolled her eyes as a new Earther tried to enter the small group around Erin. But once again, Erin Solstice glanced over at one of the few Americans to reach the United Nations company—and smiled.
“Hi.”
Then she turned back to Priya.
“So you were here from the start?”
“Almost. We weren’t there for…Gravetender’s Fist. That was horrible. Someone can tell you about it. Like Dawson…no, he’s drunk. Daly could, or Ken. Or Luan. They’re all leaders, and they were there from the start.”
Priya tried to point each one out to Erin, and the [Innkeeper]’s gaze flitted from person to person. She nodded, drinking deeply.
“What are their classes?”
“Ah—”
Priya began to list out the classes of each leader as Asher tried to re-enter the conversation.
“So—Erin, right? I’ve heard of you!”
She gave him a blank look, and Asher floundered, flush, and clarified.
“I mean from home! You’re on the list! The Spirited Generation!”
Erin took a longer drink from her cup. She frowned—and Asher glanced at Priya.
“Doesn’t she know? Has no one said—”
“I’ve met other Earthers, but none of them are from…when did you get here?”
“2022.”
It was how a lot of them talked. They would come up, tell Erin where they were from, but like how people in this world sometimes appended levels and classes to their names, they were defined by the time they had arrived—and their nation.
Blake. 2019. New Zealand.
Priya, 2017. India.
Stuff like that. In Asher’s case, Erin paused, and Priya read her expression.
“The year is apparently at least 2023. Maybe later since it’s the new year for us. I know it’s strange since you arrived…”
“…Way before that.”
Erin’s voice was a murmur. Priya stared at her, and Erin blinked, shook herself, and frowned at Asher.
“So we’re on a list? How many of us?”
“Right—I thought you knew! Maybe all the others weren’t—it’s the Spirited Generation stuff!”
Asher began to explain the conspiracy theories, list of missing Earthers, and all that Erin had missed. She listened, intent, as he waved his hands.
“Right, so then an actual fucking war began. After everyone was sick and refusing to wear those fucking masks, much less get a shot—which is the most crazy thing because the government was lying to us about what they knew—Russia invaded Ukraine! They said it was to investigate all the missing abductions and because of, like, Nazis, but that’s crazy, right?”
He looked to Priya for confirmation, and she nodded, a bit dubious though. The problem with having Earthers from other countries was that they lacked specific information about countries beside their own a lot of the time…unless something horrific had happened.
Luan was at least lucky—a young woman pushed forwards. She had black skin and introduced herself to Erin; she was panting, but not just from the heat.
“I just got here—hello! I’m Ezelda. Are you—are you Erin? Hello! Sorry, I was getting back from work with Ken. South Africa! 2023!”
“You’re from…Luan’s country, right? Hello.”
Erin shook hands with Ezelda, and one of the newest people to reach the United Nations company, who had given Luan news of his home, if not all he craved.
“Yes! I’m a former law student—well, I was studying for the bar exam. Now I’m a [Contract Scribe]—I suppose that’s the closest word for it. I do documents in magic for the United Nations company.”
Asher was once again left behind as Erin blinked and began to ask Ezelda about what that entailed. Not every Earther who’d come here was bereft of applicable talents, even if they had to land on their feet.
