“I do that. I’m sorry—I don’t think I even realized it until afterwards. But that is…who I am. I’ve made an enemy of nations, and they are hunting me. I appreciate Paeth’s help saving my life, just like I’m glad you don’t see me as an enemy. But honestly—I almost wish you’d decided to keep your distance. I can’t stay and endanger you all.”
Erin almost began to rise, then sat back. She looked around, and Ken exhaled. So that was what it was. Paige frowned, biting at her worn-down thumbnail.
“Endanger us? Do you think they’ll send assassins after us just for associating with you?”
“Maybe not for tonight. But if I stayed under your roofs for more than a day, how do you think it would go?”
The question threw the others. Daly gave Luan a half-nod, and the Courier felt goosebumps on his skin. He recalled mercenary companies breaking every law to win a battle to the point of madness. He could believe it.
“So you never intended to stick around Talenqual? Is that what I understand you’re saying, Erin?”
“I intend to go and find my friends and make any amends I can. But mostly—I intend to survive whatever retribution is coming. Because it is coming. Find the survivors. Settle my debts.”
It was the most concrete and the most nebulous plan. Luan stirred, looking at Erin, then at Ken. And his first thought was actually something of a relief.
Oh. Then we can’t have her here, can we?
He was under no illusions about how well the United Nations company would do against hired killers. Paeth was another matter, but the thing Luan got most strongly from Erin was—trouble.
She sat there like she was expecting to die, and her intensity and the wall her responses put up were not what Luan expected. Not what he wanted.
It reminded him all too much of Geneva. Even so, Luan felt compelled to reach out again and try for a branch, be it olive or any other kind.
“Can you tell us anything else you could—either give us, as information goes, or we could help you with, Erin? We’re not without means entirely.”
Paige gave Luan a warning look, but the [Rower] hadn’t meant her explicitly. Erin blinked at Luan and sat back. Again, she stared at the ceiling, as if running down a huge, complicated list in her head.
“Let’s see. Let’s begin with what matters most to…me. We beat the woman at the Solstice.”
“You did? How? You really did?”
Luan jerked and sat forwards. He remembered her among the others, and Erin lifted a hand.
“Speaking her name—”
“I know. And I know…there are six. Kirana’s careful. We all are. It seems like that Blackmage guy in Wistram’s on their side or something. But if you beat one, can all six be beaten?”
Erin spoke cautiously.
“As I saw it—she’s not really dead. I was kidnapped right after that by Roshal.”
Paige cursed as more pieces fell into place.
“Fucking slavers. Of all the things to have in this world—did we have to have that?”
The others listened as Erin ticked off points on her fingers.
“Yes, we could win. We beat her—but it required miracles I don’t fully understand. Ryoka would be able to say more. Her friends…it cost too much. We beat her. She ‘died’, but it sounds like she’ll come back.”
“Fucking hell, man.”
Daly felt at his crossbow, and Erin glanced at it. She nodded.
“Then I was kidnapped by Roshal. The less said about it, the better. So if you’re making a list, Roshal knows about us. Put them on there. And the six.”
“Then you went to sea. Why?”
“One of my guests was there. I couldn’t let him die.”
She said it so matter-of-factly. A battle at sea between the world’s deadliest [Pirates] and a Terandrian fleet. She had to go—so she went. Erin took a heavy breath.
“It was all too much of a cost. But I paid it. I saved who I could. Rabbiteater—Ser Solstice is his fake name—is alive. Yes, I think Goblins aren’t monsters. The same for Antinium. Throw Sariant Lambs on the list of my allies. That’s who I am. As you see me now, I am paying for my choices. But I did choose, I think, almost each step of the way. Here I am.”
She unclasped her hands and looked around.
“Any questions?”
 
——
 
Of course, they had questions and clarifications. So did Erin. One of her questions was when she pointed at Daly’s belt.
“Do you know where I can get one of those? I think I might need one.”
He’d held up his crossbow and let her inspect it, unloaded, warning her about how powerful it was. Erin had looked the crossbow over.
“I lost my knife. I could use one for when I’m one of the tall people—excuse me, normal.”
In response, they’d looked at each other, and Paige had shown Erin to one of her workshops. Not the one down the hall behind a huge metal door; she’d avoided mentioning what was inside.
“Here are the crossbows Resk works on. We keep only a few that are tuned up as dangerous as Daly’s. His might be better, but if you take this to them, Paeth might be able to re-enchant—”
She handed Erin a hand crossbow, and the [Innkeeper] checked it. Then she inspected a bunch of steel-tipped bolts and touched one.
“Sharp.”
She felt at one tip and winced. Paige hesitated.
“I get it, you know. You think you’ll get us killed, and believe me, I respect you not wanting to endanger us. I…I wish I could get you something better. But I don’t really want to at the same time.”
Erin looked up as she found a holster and began to tie it to a belt.
“I might need to practice with this thing. Don’t worry about anything—else. Unless you think it’ll really help me, I don’t want to endanger your company.”
“Yeah, well, putting a target on us is a bad idea. Crossbows it is. Do you want two?”
“I asked for a wand. Crossbow and wand will do.”
“Really? I thought you were a knife-girl. You got that [Prince] pretty good, even with armor—sorry.”
Paige saw Erin grimace-smile at her.
“That was a masterwork knife by Pelt, a famous Dwarf [Smith]. I lost it at sea.”
“Oh. Sorry. A Dwarf? I’ve never met one. What’s he like?”
Erin thought about the question as she checked the little quiver and the weapons at her side. She did look like Daly now; she was seeing how fast she could pull the hand crossbow and wand out.
“…He drinks a lot.”
It was an entirely unsatisfactory answer, but it completely fit her character so far. She was so—grim. In fact, Erin was even more Geneva than Geneva had been in a way that made Paige, who’d been unwilling to talk about her black powder experiments or anything, draw Erin aside.
“Listen—you can ask for help. I know we said we’re grateful for you not wanting to endanger us, but what kind of people would we be if we met an Earther, someone who helped cure the Yellow Rivers disease and who looks like a good person, and just—left her to wander off and die? Can we help?”
She looked Erin in the eyes, and the [Innkeeper] paused. Erin glanced at Paige, around her workshop, and her lips moved.
“Daly and Siri are your two [Warriors], right? The Bushrangers are your elite adventurers?”
“[Mercenaries]. It’s all [Mercenaries] here. Daly’s—he’s a good guy, but he’s changed. He’ll do whatever it takes to keep the rest of us safe.”
Including bombing the Featherfolk Brigade to bits. It had won the battle, but Paige still couldn’t look at Daly like before. As for Siri—she was also someone who wouldn’t hesitate to pull a trigger.
“Every group needs someone willing to fight. If they’re willing to help me, I won’t turn down some backup.”
Erin glanced out the door, then turned to Paige.
“…But if they want to help, I can’t promise them anything but an early grave. Level or die. All the enemies I’ve made at sea are not stopping, Paige. From the moment I reached Paeth, I knew they’d be after me, and the Fraerlings are…”
She hesitated.
“…The one group I don’t want to endanger. Small folk. Good folk.”
Her eyes softened one second.
“No, they don’t deserve it. I do. I’ll let them hate me as much as they want, and if they get me—”
Her eyes glinted with something like satisfaction.
“—I’ll win if I leave them with scars.”
As they said in this world—dead gods. Paige just stared at Erin, lost for words. She had never actually seen someone give a speech of the damned before, let alone with a straight face, meaning every word.
It made Paige feel like Daly and Siri weren’t so hopeless after all.
“What—what are you going to do?”
Erin was fiddling with the crossbow’s safety and glancing around for a target range—which certainly wouldn’t be here.
“Practice. Ask for more enchantments or artifacts, maybe. Then—I know Ryoka’s around. I’ll find her, then Rabbiteater and anyone else who’s washed up on Baleros. Once I find them all and get as many to safety as I can, I’ll think about leaving Baleros.”
Another solid, concrete set of objectives. Though someone else agreed that Erin Solstice was currently winning the award for ‘most intense person of the year’ award. And that included himself.
“A fine plan, Miss Solstice. Does that include meeting with the Forgotten Wing company? The Titan of Baleros is one of the groups demanding—loudly—that he get to talk with you. Paeth’s been denying him, but he’s louder than the other Great Companies.”
Sentry Leader Ekrn appeared in the Fraerways, and Erin twitched. He nodded as she lowered the crossbow.
“So long as we’re about, you won’t need that. But our authority ends past Talenqual, and I’m not minded to assign any Tallguard to you.”
“I don’t want to endanger your people, Sentry Commander Ekrn. I respect them more than that. Your city’s seen enough. Besides…Enchanter Ilekrome thought I might be the highest-levelled person in the city. You don’t have the people I need.”
The [Innkeeper]’s response made Ekrn twitch. Fraerling levels were higher on average than Tallfolk, but anyone over Level 50—and Erin had to be saying she was over Level 50—were still rare.
“Well, the Titan will be the highest-level Fraerling you can hope to meet. Should I respond that you’ll have a word with him?”
“Tomorrow.”
Ekrn jerked his head in a nod.
“If you want to shoot those things, you won’t have any luck in Talenqual.”
“Do you have anywhere I could use these? Just outside?”
Ekrn grunted.
“It’s late. If you really want to walk outside the walls…you’ll need to give us thirty minutes to clear a zone. You are not safe. The Death of Magic may have warded you from spells, and we’ve tried to keep it secret you’re here, but that won’t stop the naked eye. Do you know how many spells we’ve had to deflect searching for you? And how many were actually friendly?”
The [Innkeeper] just shrugged.
“Hence why I’m trying to leave.”
Ekrn couldn’t argue with that. He sighed and snapped into a speaking stone.
“Captain Cotm. Find somewhere with foliage. Not the burnt forest; secure a zone. Have the Bushrangers help us in case there are some big damn cats or something. The [Innkeeper] wants to try out her precious crossbow. Thirty minutes.”
He turned to Erin, folding his arms.
“It’ll be good practice for the Bushrangers to work with us which is why I’m agreeing. And so you know, we likely do have one or two people over Level 50 in the city. Just not combat classes.”
“Over Level 60?”
Ekrn was silent. Erin shrugged.
“There we go, then. The Titan and Three-Color Stalker are that high-level.”
“…Probably.”
The Sentry Commander allowed grumpily. That was the level of the most dangerous and influential people in this world. Mars the Illusionist, the Titan of Baleros—Erin Solstice nodded.
“I suspect at least a few people in Erribathe and the Blighted Kingdom who want me dead are close to or around that level. Roshal as well. I am counting on it. So this?”
She loaded the hand crossbow, but kept the safety on.
“—I’d better be ready because this is the least of what I’m going to need.”
Even Ekrn could grudgingly appreciate that kind of resolve. He sighed and muttered.
“I’ll get you a set of gear for when you’re Fraerling-sized. And frankly, I’d advise you to be Fraerling-sized when possible. If you’re out among Tallfolk, it will be worse, but anywhere there are Fraerways like the Titan’s own citadel, you’ll be safer with my people.”
Erin nodded and began to ask Paige about the features on her crossbow and anything else the Bushrangers had that she might use. In the end, she took some of their climbing gear, and Paige went looking to see if they had a backup set of leather armor. And what she thought was—
If that was an [Innkeeper], Izril had more wars than Baleros had ever dreamed of.
 
——
 
[Almanac Captain] Cotm missed Kessice. Even after months, he kept thinking about what they could have done…differently.
What could have been done right? Or at least better? Obviously, the entire situation had been a disaster that no one could have anticipated at Feiland. But if you, or rather, he, let it happen again, he was a failure.
He was sure Ekrn thought the same way. It was harder to say for Noa. She was just a kid and attached to the Tallfolk. For all the trouble it had brought, she saw Luan and the United Nations company as an unabashedly good group.
Sometimes, Cotm envied her confidence. But Erin Solstice was different.
The Gnomes had interceded in Paeth’s last moments for her. That made it an obligation to help her. Not all the way; but Cotm had seen her sailing into a firestorm of spells sent by nations trying to kill one Human. Kill her for the crime of aiding a Goblin and killing a [Prince] of only one species, and maybe, specifically, just one gender.
He couldn’t say he had no sympathy for someone with the world out to get her, so he did his job to the utmost; not that he would have slacked off even if he’d hated her.
[Almanac Captain] sounded like a stupid class, but there was no such thing as a bad class, just bad usage, at least, in Cotm’s books. And it was books he called for.
“Alright, people. [By the Book: Hanging Cat Overwatch]. Anything moves, I want it tagged and dead before it closes a hundred feet.”
A forest was not the best place to run sentry duty, but the Bushrangers had spread out and were keeping the larger animals at bay. Cotm opened the Tallguard of Feiland’s strategy manual, and Fraerlings moved into position smoothly and set up a perfect formation.
Hanging Cat Overwatch was a tactic wherein you had bait or an object in the center of a formation you were sure was going to draw trouble. Fraerlings nestled in the curve of leaves or peeked over branches, covering each sight line.
That wasn’t Cotm’s only contribution, either. He flipped to another book that was practically vibrating with how many bookmarks and spells were in it.
