“So—Erin. Whaddya miss most about home? Cars? I keep asking the Fraerling people to help make us a car. I could do transport and stuff if we had one. Having a working phone? I guess speaking stones work, but they’re not that handy. Got any questions about things that have happened in the good old US of A? Lay them on me!”
Asher broke into the conversation again, and Erin paused. She looked at him, not entirely flatly or visibly impatient, but he hesitated as Erin…studied him. She looked Asher of North Dakota up and down as other Earthers listened into the conversation.
Including Ken. He’d come over and hadn’t joined the conversation itself, but had been trying to get a feel for Erin, and he’d noticed something.
Most people had been introducing themselves to Erin. She’d done very little talking herself. The fact they were Earthers, from home, had trumped even the fact that she had just been at sea fighting the Bloodtear Pirates.
Now? He wondered if Erin would blast poor Asher into the ground, lose her temper, or just ignore him. Dealing with other species and their idiosyncrasies—Dullahans would ignore you, Centaurs would dress you down and humiliate you, and Lizardfolk would push you out of a group to generalize—made Ken wonder. In Erin’s case—who was she?
Ken had no idea what an [Innkeeper] had for Skills or what Erin’s other classes even were. He’d paid for information that said she was almost definitely a [Witch], and he imagined she had social Skills beyond his. But if she were using them?
Well. Asher didn’t exactly flinch, but the glower he got from Priya and some of the others had made him aware he was pushing his luck. Perhaps he hadn’t seen Erin Solstice covered in blood knifing Prince Iradoren.
—He jumped slightly as Erin reached out, putting a hand on his shoulder, and Ken hoped she wasn’t about to hit him. But the [Innkeeper] just adjusted her hold on her plate and…
“Tell me. How rough was it? For you?”
The young man looked at her—young. Nineteen. He might have only been two years away from Erin, but suddenly, they looked completely different. The older woman looked at Asher, and though she had no visible scars, Ken thought he heard one in her voice.
“F-for me?”
Asher’s voice stuttered, and Erin met his eyes, unblinking. Then she looked at Ezelda, Priya, and at the others.
“Yes. What did you leave behind? What did you lose? How did you get here? What was home like? For you?”
She disarmed Asher’s tongue and the conversations around him so much that they left a pocket of silence despite the music around them. Asher stared at Erin. Then—when he remembered to breathe—his indrawn breath was shuddering.
“I—you know. I got lucky landing where I did. I was just in this city, and Ken actually found me really quick. I sold off this watch I had, and I was scraping by for only two weeks. I, uh—I was going back from college. Driving, actually. I guess my parents figured out I never made it. Right?”
Ken flinched at that. It reminded him of how he’d been taken—at an airport. Asher had stepped out of a gas station and vanished. How long would it take for someone to realize he wasn’t coming back? Would they realize what had happened?
Would his family…?
“Where were you coming from? And going to?”
It was hard to describe her voice. Erin Solstice’s tone wasn’t unkind. But nor was it exactly kind. It was…searching. Intent, perhaps. She listened as Asher listed places that no one else here had ever been.
His voice was breaking down within a minute. When Erin let go of his shoulder, it looked as though she’d literally pulled some of the life out of him. Or maybe unearthed it. Because he swiped at his eyes and had to step back—
Kirana caught him. She murmured something, and some of Asher’s shaking halted. Ken saw the [Housekeeper]’s eyes light up with a force he didn’t understand.
Faith.
Erin noticed it too. She swiveled and nodded to Kirana.
“I know an Antinium like you. So. You pray.”
“Not to any one god. Even if they are alive.”
Kirana’s voice provoked another silence, and Ken rolled his shoulders uneasily. Erin’s eyes flickered, and Kirana showed her the beads.
“I pray to anyone friendly. Anything willing to help—without a cost or catch. Some of us disagree. I know what you said—do you think I should stop?”
The [Innkeeper] paused, and she glanced at the beads and Kirana’s set face. When Erin glanced down at the food on her plate, she indicated it.
“Did you put some of your faith in this? It tastes better than anything I can remember eating. The best cooking I’ve had.”
“Maybe a bit.”
Kirana admitted with a quick smile, and Erin slowly nodded.
“Be careful what you pray to. Pawn, the Antinium I know, is one of my dearest guests and friends. If I let him be himself, I won’t lecture you. The rest? Kas…the ones I’m against are my business. Do what you have to do to survive.”
Ken let out his breath. It was a complex answer. Not a meaningless one. Kirana relaxed slightly, and she offered a hand to shake. Erin took it.
“Kirana, right? Where are you from?”
“India, but specifically Nagpur.”
“Will you—tell me about where you came from?”
Kirana drew in a breath and looked at Priya. Then she motioned.
“There are couches inside. I would be delighted to. You know, only Luan can remember home all the time. He has a tattoo for it…”
Erin glanced at Kirana and smiled as she followed them inside.
“Really? I suppose it’s easier for everyone else to forget.”
“I wish we didn’t have to. But if you can remember all the time—”
Erin shrugged slightly.
“I have too much to do in this world. But tonight—I’d like to know what it was like for you. Home.”
That word lingered. Home. Ken watched as Erin went inside and sat, and more people milled about and went to speak with her. And that was what they did, he realized. She spoke, asked questions—but she listened.
By the time it came to introduce himself to her, Ken knew little more about Erin than when the party had started. Except perhaps this:
Every instinct he had as a [Diplomat] was that if she was a prospective client or another party at the table, her guard was raised. She was wary. Alert.
He wished he could have said that she didn’t have to be, here.
 
——
 
When she met the United Nations company’s leaders, she found them—split. Like branches of a tree, each one had diverged a while ago and become distinct.
Fully-fledged people and classes, not a hodgepodge of similar people working to the same goal. That was how she could define it.
She’d spent two hours listening to Earthers talk and eating. Not so much dancing or playing games on the various devices the Earthers had—socializing.
When Siri had appeared and asked if Erin had a moment to speak with a smaller group, the [Innkeeper] had gotten to her feet and climbed the stairs.
Their private meeting room looked like many others: there was a sock underneath a sofa, and the six members of the United Nations company were there.
Ken, Daly, Siri, Paige, Luan, and Kirana. Ken was standing before she sat and introduced himself again; Daly smiled as he fiddled with his leg until Siri punched his shoulder. Paige gave Erin a wary smile and Luan a genuine hug. Erin glanced at the golden tattoo on his arm, and the [Rower] held it up.
“My family. So I don’t forget.”
“Good.”
That was all she said at first. The [Innkeeper] took a seat, and they sat in silence for a beat, but Ken broke the silence easily.
“Miss Erin, we’d like to welcome you to our small company. We were unable to visit in Paeth, but everyone wished to meet you. If I may, I will introduce you to Paige, our [Engineer]. Daly, our [Commander]—both are from Australia. To their left is Siri, from Sweden, also in the Bushrangers, our military force. You know Kirana from India, who keeps everything running, and there is Luan from South Africa, who is our Courier. I am Ken, Kenjiro, a [Diplomat]. We represent the United Nations company. Geneva is no longer a part of us, but we are the same group you talked to a long while ago.”
Only a few months, really, but it felt like ages. Reminded of this, Daly sat up a bit.
“Hey. Good to meet you, Erin. We already owe you a great debt for the Yellow Rivers thing. If there were any Earther we wanted to meet and help out if we could—it’s you. If Geneva were here, I’m sure she’d be hugging you.”
“If she hugged anyone.”
Paige muttered, and Siri nudged her with a foot. Erin glanced at Paige and smiled faintly at Daly. But that air of reserve didn’t really lessen.
“I’m glad anyone thinks of me that way after the events of the Solstice. Thanks, Daly. Where’s…Geneva now? Has anything changed, rather?”
The United Nations company leaders looked at each other.
“Nothing from us—you might not know this, but she’s with the Titan of Baleros.”
“Ah.”
“Right. And he’s one of the people looking out for you. But that’s one of the big things that we have to discuss—uh—”
Daly massaged his temples. They had too much to talk about, actually. It would have been easier to just talk about home. Where to begin?
Well, to start with, here was someone who’d just killed a dude that had been described to Daly as ‘the [Prince of Men]’, which sounded like a class you either really liked or raised alarm bells. Certainly, no Lizardfolk had been mourning him in the streets.
She’d also defended a Goblin Lord—another problem for people other than Daly. He hadn’t ever met a Goblin and knew them only as one of the monsters an adventurer could run up against. But he’d never seen one while hunting, a fact he was grateful for given Erin was here.
She was also the [Innkeeper] who’d been on the news constantly, had some kind of insane battle in Liscor, and had connected everyone via group chat to warn them about the gods themselves.
And she’d once sent the cure for the Yellow Rivers across the world.
So they owed her, and she was an extraordinarily complex character. In person? She didn’t seem like some goliath of danger—but then again, she was pretty intense.
Erin rested her arms on her knees as she regarded them all. Ken took over for Daly.
“I suppose beyond welcoming you, the first thing to ask is if we can get you anything? Get you in touch with anyone or…do you have any questions?”
His smile was friendly and relaxing, and he was their [Diplomat] supreme. Erin did seem to relax at the question.
“Paeth’s forwarded me a lot of [Messages] from people. I haven’t been able to respond right away. Aside from Geneva’s whereabouts…I was more curious how you managed to end up here. We’re all from home, and any one Earther landing in the middle of nowhere sounds difficult to survive. How did you all gather like this? I heard some of it, but few people were there from the start.”
Luan chuckled, and they realized she didn’t actually know the full story. Paige motioned for Daly, who turned to Ken and Luan, who he regarded as having the best version of events. Luan met Erin’s eyes.
“It’s never easy for anyone. Ours—I guess it is a big tale. I’d love to know how you made it by yourself, though. We had each other. You were just by yourself, weren’t you?”
Erin paused.
“Yeah. But I almost feel like my story’s more public news. At least, the interesting bits everyone saw. Sorry, I know you have a lot of questions. If it takes too much time—”
“No, we can give you a cut down version. You were talking to Priya, right? She’d know everything after the company formed. How do we describe the rest in a short way? Ken?”
They had some practice. Ken gave Erin a cut-down version of their story, just the highlights, which was still fascinating—and interjected another part.
“Ah—when Geneva was first starting her clinic, that was when we had the Yellow Rivers epidemic. Thank you for sending the cure with Courier Seve-Alrelious. You felt like the one person we could—trust.”
Trust. The word hung in the air, and Erin Solstice stopped again. Luan was dying to know how her inn had begun.
“Right. How did you get in contact with a Courier like that? And—sorry, I guess you can start where you want. How’d you get to be an [Innkeeper] to begin with?”
Erin Solstice sat back on the couch again, and her legs were folded. She glanced at Luan—and then stared ahead for a second. Her lips moved…and then she whispered.
“Ah. Right. Seve-Alrelious, the Hundredfriends Courier, is dead.”
It was like a stone smashing through the fragile glasswork of their conversation. The [Innkeeper] stared ahead, suddenly miles away. Luan saw Ken bite his lip and tried to speak.
“We’re—sorry about that. Really.”
“It was my fault. It’s another debt I owe.”
Erin broke out of her trance and shook herself. She looked at him, then checked her pocket. Something crinkled there.
“—His friends might still be alive. Erek and…”
She trailed off, then looked around.
“You’re taking a great risk even meeting with me on friendly terms. You know that, don’t you?”
It wasn’t really a question. She met Ken’s eyes, and the [Diplomat] only hesitated a millisecond before nodding gravely.
“We felt like we owed you at least hospitality, Erin. To greet you and welcome you and—perhaps ask why you did all that. We don’t want to judge. As far as we’re concerned, you’re one of the Earthers we can trust. And we cannot say that about—everyone. Even the ones on the first call. You know about that, right?”
Erin half-nodded and rubbed at her face.
“…During the fight at sea. I think—one of the people I saw—no, I killed. Were Earthers. They said they were from home.”
Daly’s hand twitched, and the United Nations company leaders fell silent. They had not been expecting that admission.
“Wh—when was this?”
Paige breathed, staring at Erin. The [Innkeeper] closed her eyes, trying to think.
“Rhir. They came aboard the ship during one of the firefights. I’m almost positive it was…they nearly killed Ceria. She went overboard. They were going after the Horns, and I…killed one of them. The rest retreated.”
She was recalling it, but her voice was dispassionate. When she opened her eyes, Erin Solstice’s gaze didn’t have the regret he searched for.
“Rhir. The Americans. They went after you? But they had to have known…”
“Maybe they had orders.”
Siri put in quietly. Daly spat.
“Orders. And you killed them because they were going after your friends.”
