“Recovery’s almost complete. Not really any Galas muscle development. But she’s got stronger magical circuits than she claimed.”
Alchimeer Straesta also knows how to read the outputs of the displays and is running commentary. Enchanter Ilekrome grunts.
“Privation for…how many weeks?…will do that to you. I almost suspect the [Polymorph] spell reset her.”
“Good point. It might have literally undone any Galas if it was full-restructuring. But she’s got enough mana. Probably below-average for a [Mage], but all that magical exposure almost definitely created those circuits.”
Ilekrome shakes his head.
“Bad way to do it. The amount of magic we had to purge from her body would have killed her eventually—being a bit better at casting magic isn’t worth that.”
Guidance Heish has no time for the two talking biology. She turns from expert to expert; her field of mastery isn’t actually technical, like the Alchimeer, Enchanter, or Farspeaker. Even Civitican Loust and Judiciary Honst are experts in their respective fields. Guidance is a job for morality and leadership; Heish was a former Tallguard. A rare Fraerling who left Paeth to see the world. Her eyes linger on the young woman.
“Is this the final test?”
“Oh, it was the final test two days ago, if we needed it. These are follow ups. It’s been a long time since we had a Human in here; eras, if you go by our history. We can’t tell if our diets, the magical treatments that work on us, or anything else is affecting her. Plus, we had to see if her body is affected by our growth spells.”
Straestra replies airily. Guidance Heish gives him an annoyed look.
“The Titan’s getting impatient.”
“The Titan is always impatient to hear Ekrn complain about him. She needs rest. He has no sway in Paeth, Heish.”
Citivican Loust shoots back. His tone is impatient. Heish’s is not.
“He’s also the Titan of Baleros, and we are talking to the Forgotten Wing Company, Loust. She can’t sit here forever.”
“If she wants to, who are we to send her out into the world? With entire nations screaming for her blood?”
Citivican Loust’s job is the welfare of people. He glances around, looking agitated at the thought. He’s never been outside of Paeth, and the idea of anyone ordering someone killed—weighs on him.
Ilekrome thinks of the image of the young woman running a [Prince] through the chest with a knife. His fingers drum on the armrest of his chair in the observation gallery.
“—Paeth can’t shelter her forever.”
Heish inclines her head, and the Architects nod. They mutter to each other. Humalepre keeps glancing down at the young woman, then away.
“She still won’t say why the Gnomes mentioned her.”
Honst glances down, refusing to look away instantly.
“Maybe she doesn’t know? She’s keeping matters hidden. Normally, we would respect that, but Heish is right: we’re caught between powers. Paeth has obligations to the Gnomes. And to the city.”
Loust.
“Give her time. The girl’s been through a war. Are we still Fraerfolk or rabid cats?”
Straesta shakes her head.
“She’s killed her way through a war. The [Healer]’s almost done with their tests. I say we let her decide. Give her full access to Paeth. She can walk now, and she’s no longer going to melt into a pile of ooze.”
“Was…was that actually a concern?”
“Yes, Loust. She has her Tallfolk comrades to be concerned about. If she wants shelter, then we debate.”
Below them, the [Healer] steps back, puts the Lens of Manifold Sights away, and gives the Architects a thumbs-up. They stand there, looking at the young woman. At last, Loust mutters.
“She’s not what I expected. I watched all the recordings of her in her inn. I thought she’d be more funny. She just…she won’t stop staring.”
Ilekrome runs a hand down his arm and finds his hairs are standing on end. He mutters faintly.
“Yes. You know, she might be the highest-level person in Paeth. I think the [Healers] have done all they can. She’s not healed, but—there’s nothing they can do.”
The other Architects look at Ilekrome, then down.
In the box, there is a young woman. She has hazel eyes, brown hair—not tied back, but hanging loosely—and sits, flexing a bare arm. She’s Human, or at least, she would be if she were tall enough. As a Fraerling, she’s six inches tall and in good enough shape, especially considering how they found her when she was teleported in.
Gone are the cracks in her skin from both sunburn and magical radiation. The burns have faded, and she can breathe without coughing or needing magical help. Her limbs are strong and healthy, with no trace of damage from her recovery from being frozen—perhaps her rehabilitation worked, or again, perhaps the [Polymorph] spell simply reset her.
What’s curious is that her new levels have not resulted in a transformation, Galas muscle or otherwise. It doesn’t for every class—but perhaps the way she sits, elbows resting on her knees, hunched, is the transformation.
Perhaps that’s just her. The young woman’s eyes are shadowed despite the pleasant light in the room meant for her. She glances upwards, unsmiling. Meeting the Architects’ eyes.
She sits and stares; the first few days, she could barely walk without falling head-over-heels. Clumsy as a newborn lamb from the spell, no doubt, and being stranded at sea, near-immobilized from her wounds.
Even now, her movements are clumsier than she would like, as if she’s getting used to this body. Perhaps given her changed size.
Until she turns her head, she doesn’t look like one of the most infamous people in the world today. Then? She stands and accepts her clothing from the [Healer]. A curtain draws itself for privacy. When she emerges, the clothing of Paeth is upon her, a light forest tunic that ends not with sleeves, but with curious strands of thread that wrap around the arm like a web, and soft leggings made of blue squirrel leather and fur.
Brown boots reinforced with roach shell and four rings, two on each hand. No knife at her side; nor have the Architects armed her—yet. Paeth is a safe place, and the young woman ties her hair back with a headband.
She doesn’t smile. Her feet are slow as she looks around. When she stands there and looks you in the eye, then you might see who she is.
Her gaze makes the Architects of Paeth shudder. Within the depths of her eyes is a grim woman, a weight, though she has said nothing yet, and something is still burning there a month after the battle has ended.
For her, the battle has not ended yet.
Her name is Erin Solstice.
 
——
 
She wasn’t what people expected of her.
Obviously. But it held more true of Erin Solstice today than…ever. Well, what did you expect? If she had come out of weeks at sea after a sea battle, abduction by Roshal, and seeing her friends dying—after the Winter Solstice—and had been a ray of happy-go-lucky sunshine, that might have made her more terrifying.
Even so, she had a kind of weight about her that seemed to crush smalltalk. An unapproachability about certain matters. No one could go up to her and ask whether or not she thought her socks made of wooly aphid fluff fit well. It seemed clear that if they didn’t fit perfectly, she was not going to raise a fuss about them at this point in time.
Part of it was the stare, which, yes, was intense. But the rest of it was more palpably like an impatience or pressure about her. The question in her eyes or stance of, ‘does this matter?’
No, not at all like the Erin Solstice they expected. When the Architects met her just outside her living quarters of the last week and a half, Ilekrome himself, an older Fraerling with grey hair, a slightly harried smile, and very trippable robes, gave her the bill of health himself.
“You are quite well, Miss Solstice. The tonic and spells from yesterday had no adverse effects on your body. And I can state that while you may have lost any developing Galas muscle due to the Death of Magic, your magical capacity has increased substantively. Put it down to your [Witch] class, I believe. Or all that magical exposure. Galas muscle will return in time.”
She nodded. Ilekrome paused at this juncture, perhaps hoping for an elaboration on her exact [Witch] levels.
He couldn’t tell, you see. Ilekrome could cast [Intensive Appraisal]—but Erin Solstice was warded. Not just by the rings on her fingers; those were a gift he’d personally whipped up. Ilekrome coughed and went on after a moment.
“I can also assure you that you’re completely scry-proof within Paeth, so the run of the city is open to you. But I imagine even if you leave Paeth, you’ll be relatively safe from regular [Scrying]. Your, ah, gear was almost completely trashed, but even without our artifacts, the Death of Magic, Silvenia, has done a remarkable job shielding you from spells.”
“Doubtless, that saved you from being sniped at sea.”
Alchimeer Straesta put in drily. She seemed somewhat envious, as did Farspeaker Humalepre. The Farspeaker peered at Erin with his enchanted spectacles.
“Yes, she truly is the last [Archmage]. I did try, just as a matter of interest, to [Appraise] you, Miss Solstice. Impossible. I daresay the [Polymorph] spell was part of that. Changing your species to Fraerling made you difficult to locate in multiple senses. But then—the fact that we can likely restore you to a proper height speaks to her genius!”
He nodded at the other Architects, and Heish shifted from foot to foot. Erin’s brows rose; hearing anyone speak of the Death of Magic in complimentary tones should be unthinkable—but this was Paeth.
Farspeaker Humalepre knew of Silvenia, the Death of Magic, but had little baggage attached to her, remote as Paeth had been.
“A genius. You see, I’m no transmutation specialist, but—what did you say the spell was? [Fantastic Polymorph]? I wondered—haha—about that, pardon the pun, but then it hit me when we were working on your height issue. Seamless transition from small to large. None of the need for Signim; we can just cast [Enlarge] or [Giantification]—if we had the latter spell—and you wouldn’t burst every muscle from your body lifting something. Which is what happened in the old experiments back in the day. Horrific stuff.”
Alchimeer Straesta blanched; she had access to those medical files. Ilekrome sighed.
“Too much, Humalepre. But it would be amazing—if we had a chance of copying that magic. It might allow for Tallguard to essentially become as tall as, well, Tallfolk. Semi-permanently!”
Imagine! And all of this unlocked with a spell that only a true [Archmage] of old would know. Heish had been trying to interrupt and cleared her throat meaningfully.
“I’m sure that’s a project for all our [Wizards] and [Librarians] to work on—later.”
“[Wizards]? Hah! What are they going to do? Wave a wand at the problem?”
Humalepre grumbled, but he desisted. Heish turned and bowed slightly to Erin.
“We’re done poking and prodding at you, Miss Erin. We’re now delighted to offer you access to all of Paeth, not just the top floors. I apologize for the restrictions, but we were worried you might catch something or that our different food and magic would be harmful.”
The Architects nodded, trying to look distinguished, and Heish went on.
“Paeth may officially welcome you, and you have any number of people who would like to meet you. Of course, if you have other priorities, we will accommodate you as best we can. There are many Tallfolk—excuse me—many of your people wishing for a word, as I’m sure you could guess. However, no one will bother you in Paeth as long as you stay here. What comes next is up to you.”
With that, she waited for a response. Erin Solstice stood there. The first guest of Paeth in ages, a true guest here in her very flesh. [Innkeeper]. Public enemy number one to Erribathe and numerous nations.
Goblinfriend of Izril. To the Fraerlings, that too was abstract, but it made Ilekrome shiver. He eyed Erin, wondering what she might say or do. She’d hit Level 50; he was almost sure of that, though she hadn’t confirmed it. Frankly, if she hadn’t hit a capstone after that battle…
Erin Solstice looked from face to face, then around the room that had been her home for the last week and a half. It was larger on the inside; dimensional magic made most of Paeth quite spacious for the countless Fraerlings within.
The first thing she said was this:
“I owe the Death of Magic a favor. I owe…many people a debt. Including Paeth. I doubt I can repay them all, but I will remember each one. However. Paeth will be in danger if it takes my side.”
She paused, then smiled crookedly. A cynical turning of the lips.
“I put a lot of people in danger just for being friends with me. If you’d like me to leave, I can go today. This is more than I could ask for.”
The Architects exchanged glances. After a second, Ilekrome coughed into a fist.
“With respect to Sentry Commander Ekrn—the Architects of Paeth are in no hurry to expel you, Miss Erin. You are a friend of the Gnomes. Of Zineryr the Stellar Explorer. I met him. Briefly, but I’m sure it was him. If there’s anything to help him—or you—it is a debt we have to repay as well.”
He flushed at this little speech, but he still remembered the Gnome standing in the ritual spell—of course they’d looked up who he had been. The other Architects nodded, more or less hesitantly, but they did not disagree with Ilekrome’s statement.
Erin exhaled slowly. Ilekrome hoped she’d say something about Zineryr, something inspiring, or reveal his great mission for her. But all she said was…
“Just be sure you know how big a debt you’re taking on, Enchanter Ilekrome. I know how large mine are.”
His face fell at this, but the Enchanter raised his chin and nodded slowly.
“I do. Paeth may not—we are the Architects, and Paeth is our responsibility, and I’m sure the Gnomes would approve of that. But speaking for myself, I take on that debt willingly.”
So. The [Innkeeper] met his eyes and offered him another bleak smile.
“Good. I like that.”
 
——
 
In the end, they decided they should let Heish and Ilekrome take Erin Solstice around Paeth and show her their city. Seven Architects was a crowd, and if they were more honest—Erin Solstice wasn’t the most fun Tallfolk they’d ever had in here.
The other Tallfolk were vastly entertaining, and they’d done this routine before, so the novelty had actually worn off a bit.
First, of course, had been Luan. Then they’d shown Ken, Paige, Kirana—a lot of the Earthers who were to be trusted above all else. After some debate, even Marian and Umina had been admitted as they were members of the Forgotten Wing Company who’d helped save Paeth.
