Kissilt, as a Drake, had been ‘overlooked’ mostly because their analysis said he’d almost definitely tell everything he saw to the Walled Cities.
Showing Tallfolk around Paeth was fun. Of course, what you had to do was enchant an eyeball or use a spell to let them ‘puppet’ something, like a corpse or other object, so they could see around the city.
Erin, as a legitimately Fraerling-sized person, could walk around, but she was in something of a mood. Nevertheless, Ilekrome and Heish did their best. Speaking of walking, actually—they were relieved Erin was moving around at a good clip.
“You’re not having more issues, Miss Solstice? Your post-recovery shock after we teleported you to Paeth was—well, rough. You were crawling around on hands and knees and barely able to speak. Unintelligible, really.”
Heish elbowed Ilekrome hard, but Erin didn’t seem to mind. The [Innkeeper] looked a lot better than she had been.
“I had to adjust. I had time while I was floating, but…I was badly hurt.”
Exposure, magical damage, oh, and all the trauma of everything else. Ilekrome had read a rundown of Erin’s injuries, and he nodded hurriedly as they walked. At first, he was poised to catch her if she fell, but she seemed fine. So Heish led the way at a gentle pace out of the Architects’ offices.
“—First stop! The galift tubes! Your people call them ‘elevators’, which, I grant you, has something decent wordplay-wise…our city is quite comparable to yours in some ways. Futuristic, I’m told, in others.”
Ilekrome was just a bit keen to show off, and Erin stepped onto the platform that shot down from the Architects’ top floors so fast that her feet left the ground. She floated—then hit the ground hard enough to fall down when the lift stopped.
“Sorry about that, they’re overtuned.”
“I’m fine. It didn’t hurt?”
Erin felt at herself, and Heish chuckled.
“Fraerling physics, Miss Erin. You could leap off a cliff and you wouldn’t get hurt unless you fell onto something sharp—or your head. I forget Tallfolk are always worried about falling.”
“It is a concern. I’ve worried about tumbling down the stairs a lot.”
Erin muttered. Ilekrome shook his head.
“Imagine. Stairs.”
Fraerlings were light enough that most falls and accidents of a similar nature weren’t the worst for them. Now, a Tallfolk door could mash their bones, but Fraerlings were proportionally very strong for their size. Being half a foot sucked when most of the world considered you edible or squishable, but it helped in other ways.
They were also more magically and technologically advanced than other species. For proof, the moment Erin looked around the 7th floor galift pad, her eyes widened.
“Ah. My people don’t…ah…fly. At least, not like that. We have planes. Giant metal birds.”
Ilekrome nodded.
“So your people keep telling me. I think this is more fun, personally.”
Fraerlings were flying through the air. In fact, a group stepping out of a lift tube realized they’d gotten off at the wrong floor. With a sigh, one walked over the edge of the pad and swan-dived down to the sixth floor, pulling up at the last moment.
“Not everyone flies. You can get airsick. But go ahead and try! Just hop off and—”
Ilekrome did just that and hovered in the air. He could zoom around rather quickly, and Erin saw a lot of people were content to walk. Heish explained.
“Flying actually promotes laziness, since it doesn’t burn your energy. You exercise some in the air—but we only turned it on given all the work around Paeth. Also, there’s a cap on how fast you can fly or we have too many street-races.”
“Just hop into the air?”
Erin, as someone who did not fly, looked incredibly dubious, but both Architects nodded. Erin hesitated…then took two steps forwards, hopped over the side of the galift—
And plummeted.
“Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaah—”
Heish had to dive after her and catch Erin. By the time she had pulled an Erin clinging to her arm back up to the 7th floor, Ilekrome had figured it out and snapped his fingers.
“Ah, you’re not technically a Fraerling. Or part of Paeth, I suspect. Maybe you are a Fraerling—or Human—but the [Polymorph] spell…I’d just have to add you to the list. No flying. Terribly sorry about that.”
He’d forgotten, again, the part about death from falling. Erin did not look happy as she rested on all fours, panting.
“I’ll walk.”
Even that seemed to freak her out a bit—probably because Fraerlings loved skybridges. Paeth was very vertical, so they had built—between skyscrapers or blocks of the city—huge suspension bridges. They had railings, but again, because of the lack of danger from falling most of the time, Fraerlings would literally hop or skip around.
Erin, as a person trained to know falling from great heights meant death, looked queasy at a straight view to the bottom floor from what must have felt to her like a skyscraper’s height magnified two or three times over. However, the city itself still drew her attention.
“Is that…”
She began to ask ‘is that a giant squirrel’? Then decided the answer was obvious. A huge, furry rodent was crawling up the wall of Paeth, hauling up an entire crew of Fraerlings with goggles and helmets.
“Ah, [Beast Tamers] love taming animals like that. That fellow’s helping rebuild one of the districts lost in the attack.”
Erin was about to ask why the crew didn’t just fly to their destination when she saw the squirrel heading towards what she’d assumed was glass. It was actually a bubble; a rounded dome let in sunlight but no sound from outside of Paeth. The squirrel climbed through the bubble, and then Erin noticed the damage.
“Something punched through your walls?”
There were massive holes in Paeth still, even with magic and reconstruction. And while the city from above looked gorgeous—a tower they were striding over was ringed by square walkways each floor down, which spread out and connected to other buildings, forming a metropolis here, leading to what looked like residential districts to the north and literal slides down to a glowing city that Erin guessed was for commerce or fun—
There were also telltale signs of devastation. Destroyed buildings had been cleared, leaving conspicuous gaps. There were three holes in Paeth, two largely patched, and the city had a purposeful air in many parts.
Rebuilding. Erin saw any number of Fraerlings staring at her; they must have known who she was even though she looked quite normal.
Then again, many Fraerlings had dyed hair or more magical or interesting clothing, so Erin might have stood out a bit from her lack of flying or casual ease with this city. She stared at a fuzzy aphid walking past her on a leash, at the security forces armed with paralysis batons, and at everything else until her eyes hurt.
—But she recognized the suffering. Paeth by the Coast had looked better before it met Tallfolk, not after. In fact, many of the Fraerlings that Erin saw lining up on lower floors had what was unheard of in Paeth—but she recognized at once.
“I thought you said no one carries weapons here.”
She pointed down, and Ilekrome sighed, and Heish’s face fell as she murmured a response.
“Those are Tallguard. We’re stationing the Tallguard of Feiland here, Miss Erin. Normally, no one has a weapon here. Ekrn brought a sword in one time and caused such a fuss—Paeth is normally safe.”
The Tallguard were lining up for deployment at one of the galifts. Unlike City Fraerlings, Tallguard were armed to the teeth; they were used to fighting things larger than themselves and served outside of Fraerling Cities so that trouble might never reach places like Paeth.
“Can they protect Paeth? They have…Signim, right? Which makes them grow until they’re large as Humans?”
Ilekrome winced mildly.
“That’s a secret to most non-Fraerlings, but yes, Miss Erin. It’s an expensive tool we can’t produce much of. Mostly, Fraerlings have to fight as they are. You can see why, in many cases, we prefer not to meet Tallfolk at all.”
Erin nodded.
“Which company attacked Paeth again?”
“Nominally, the Featherfolk Brigade. But the true masterminds were the Jungle Tails company. We have mostly destroyed the Featherfolk Brigade, but Jungle Tails is still active, despite fighting with the Forgotten Wing company. That’s continental politics for you, though. Paeth is one aspect of the war, and we have the Forgotten Wing Company’s protection, of sorts. And our own.”
Heish tiredly leaned on the balcony, brought back to reality. As Erin seemed never to have left it, she looked around Paeth and smiled tightly.
“It’s a beautiful city. Please, show me around, Enchanter Ilekrome, Guidance Heish.”
I don’t belong here. Every implicit line of her said that. The two Architects exchanged a glance.
They couldn’t help but agree.
 
——
 
It would have been nice to show Erin Solstice around Paeth and have her wonder at the strange things a people with too much free time had invented. The more they gave her a tour, the more Ilekrome wished that he had met the Erin Solstice who would have liked the tour.
“—And this is our room that lets you dive and even harpoon fish. No risk of drowning.”
He showed her a vast pool that stretched out and down with glass walls such that you could dive down into an underwater world and fish or just swim as you pleased. An entire ecosystem they’d made since swimming in a real pond or the sea would have been dangerous.
“Do you want to take a dive?”
He turned to Erin, and the [Innkeeper] peered into the water and shook her head.
“I’ll pass. Large bodies of water make me nervous. I’m not that good a swimmer.”
“Huh. Well—”
They’d been showing her around for forty minutes and gotten through a lot of the city’s highlights—mostly because Erin hadn’t wanted to stop for karaoke or sample some honey or check out the Fraerlings’ recreation of the Adventure Rooms.
She was content to just see things and move on. Not as if they weren’t objectively fascinating; this was Paeth. But it was even more Paeth right now, if that made sense. Because of the reconstruction.
“Everyone back a bit! Fliers out of the air! We’re bringing in a building—[Valmira’s Personal Spacing]!”
The two Architects and Erin both had to stop as they walked through one of the entertainment sections of Paeth. A Fraerling in bright, luminescent green was shouting and blowing a whistle, and then a [Mage] cast a unique barrier spell that pushed everyone back to clear a huge radius around a cordoned off building.
“Oh look, they’re replacing one of the destroyed towers. You’ll want to see this, Miss Solstice!”
 
——
 
Heish pointed. Erin saw what had clearly been a mostly-stripped building cleared down almost to the foundations by Fraerlings with mundane tools like pickaxes, shovels, and so on. But where it got…Paeth…was how they shoveled the rubble into bags of holding or literally teleported smaller grit and stones away.
Then they had fussy [Engineers] checking the site, sweeping it until it was clean of even dust with what looked like wind spells. They gave an all-clear to the Fraerling shouting orders, and he bellowed.
“Alright! Clear the area!”
The spell that had already kept the onlookers and fliers back expanded slightly as Fraerlings hopped out of it. Erin watched as a teenage Fraerling smacked into the bubble, rubbed their head as people laughed, and fled skywards.
Then…Ilekrome, watching, saw the Fraerling reach for a speaking stone. He’d wondered how they were going to replace the building.
Modular blocks with bags of holding was one way. You just ported premade sections there and joined them up. Or they’d considered asking a Tallfolk to simply haul over stones and whatever they needed to Paeth, but given the location of the building in this busy district, Ilekrome remembered an approval he’d written last week.
He was glad he hadn’t missed this; even he watched with interest as the Fraerling’s voice was clipped.
“Teleportation, we have a clear space.”
“Roger, Ground! Give us two more seconds! We’re just draining the last Tallfolk mana potions for energy…alright, we’re set. In ten! Nine! Eight. Seven…six…five…”
The count went down, and Erin, staring at the cleared foundation, narrowed her eyes—then jerked back.
“Dead gods!”
The teleportation spell was slow this time. At first, only the outline of what was coming was visible, then it slowly seemed to phase into reality. And what was appearing?
A tower, sixteen stories high, topped by a literal glass dome and with three different retracted walkways for entry at different points, was appearing in the middle of the street. It was sleek, nearly built, and Fraerlings oohed in appreciation of the magic.
This was big, even for them. Ilekrome ran commentary for Erin as she stared at him.
“This is going to be our new scrying center; routing the spells from Wistram and other places is difficult, and Fraerlings want to talk to Tallfolk outside. We worked up a system like we heard they have in Wistram; we’ll be able to connect Fraerlings inside Paeth with the outside. Input, output. Very simple.”
“…You’re teleporting a gigantic building in?”
Ilekrome and Heish tried not to look too pleased at Erin’s staring.
“Well, it was finished in the Engineering district, and we just moved it—barely a dozen feet by your standards, really. You can’t do this kind of thing on the fly unless you’re Level 60 yourself, but this is just coordinates. I fancy that Archmage Valeterisa could do it; she’s got a head for numbers. Plus, we have a lot of magic. A single Tallfolk potion fuels a lot of spells.”
The teleportation spell finished not with a bang, but with a pop that made everyone rub at their ears. Less impressive, but then Fraerlings were flying up, inspecting the building, then connecting the walkways, and the safety barrier collapsed.
“The Scrying Tower is open for business! Someone update the address, would you? And let’s get the magical equipment in—”
The lead [Engineer] was very pleased with himself as he shook hands with his team. He was turning away when he spotted the Architects and Erin. The Fraerling cupped his hands to his face.
“Hey, Enchanter Ilekrome, approve my project request for a hot springs outside Paeth!”
“—And that’s our cue to go.”
Ilekrome groaned. Heish laughed and fended off the team, who all had projects. Erin walked after them.
“Hot springs?”
“Everyone thinks that since we’re now filled with space they can build whatever they want outside of Paeth. Which…maybe? But I am not approving a three-story hot springs resort with a gigantic beach! This is your fault, by the way.”
