There is a box. A hidden box; one of the hardest places in the world to enter, let alone spy into. Kingdoms could break their magic on the protections surrounding the box long before they reached it.
The box is a room, a tiny space barely a foot across. It is hardly empty, but all of the interesting things surround the box. For instance, inside of it, the walls are layered; one is a lacquered layer of laminate woods. The most interior wall, and thus, the visible one is Chemath marble, one of the most powerful materials for holding magic. But it simply looks like drab stone; therefore, pillows and blankets and more amenities have been added to the room.
The box has multiple layers to each wall. Magicore, for instance, runs between two layers, creating an insulating barrier to magic. Another is a literal void to do the same for temperature and air.
The box is a room. It sits, not in the heart of the city, but high above it, near the top. For the city is a tree, and when the tree was first planted, they made it.
Or rather, they made a room, the most secure, magically isolated place they could find, that could survive a Tier 7 spell, perhaps even Tier 8—just to hold another box inside of it. That was how much they thought the other box, The Last Box—mattered.
Perhaps that was how much Fraerlings feared it. Each city that sprang up around the last gift of the Gnomes made this room differently, each and every one, but with the best protections they had. Safeguards to deny it from anyone’s hands. Even, if need be, methods to purge The Last Box, though no one could break it.
A sacred trust; one of the secrets of species. Like the Minds of Selphids, the knowledge of Lizardfolk, or Dwarves—like hidden Dragons of Drakes, the box and the room itself weren’t things most Fraerlings would even know about.
The Architects—the ruling body of this city, Paeth by the Coast—were the only ones with permanent access to this place. Of course, in regular times, any number of the best [Engineers], [Alchimagi], and countless other classes would be allowed access to this place.
To test their mettle against the puzzle of ages, The Last Box, and unravel a new secret or theorem of magic left by the creators, the Gnomes. Of all legacies, The Last Boxes were one of the most enduring and powerful, and the reason Fraerlings never entered into dark ages of magic. They were teaching mechanisms, puzzles, and annoyances all wrapped into one.
Normal days. That was what Paeth used to look like; you would enter into this secure room and find the real treasure suspended in the air, a thousand rooms and puzzles contained in a strange cube. But today?
The Last Box is gone. It has vanished, leaving behind only an empty room. The charge of Fraerlings is over, and with it, some of the knowledge of the world. More than one of the Architects, like Enchanter Ilekrome, have moments of quiet despair over that fact. Then he wonders, should it be a celebration?
Paeth was saved by the actions of the last Gnome, Zineryr; he teleported the entire Fraerling city into the heart of Talenqual, and the only cost was the ghost of a long-dead species and the box itself. Where it went and what it now contains—not even the Fraerlings could say.
But the lesser box, the room which now had no purpose? That one is now filled again. The Architects are all present, looking down at the interior of the room from an observation room that used to let them watch the teams trying to solve a Gnome puzzle without disturbing them.
A glass window, reinforced a hundred thousand times stronger with magic, lets Judiciary Honst crane his head to stare over Citivican Loust’s shoulder.
Seven Architects, the ruling body of Fraerling Cities, as close to world leaders as Fraerlings have. Each settlement is independent, but Fraerling Cities are a magical and technological peak compared to villages or Tallguard forts.
These ones are all tired. Being an Architect is normally tiring, but in a civic way of managing expectations, fulfilling requests for public interest, backing research projects, politics, figuring out the damn Allotment—the magical cap to avoid being noticed—difficult, unenviable tasks.
But easy if you compare it with being the first Fraerling city in contact with the Tallfolk’s world. Easy compared to having to defend your city from [Mercenaries] trying to tear it down. A thirteen-hour public forum would be easier than deciding whether to let any Tallfolk who want to visit into Talenqual—or informing Sentry Commander Ekrn he has a killzone of eight hundred feet. As in, anything unauthorized that comes eight hundred feet within Paeth’s radius dies.
 
——
 
That was not something Farspeaker Humalepre, an expert in communications spells and negotiation with other Fraerling cities, had ever had to grapple with. Obviously, he asked when Ekrn demanded an actual range on his killzone, ‘what about children or people who enter by mistake?’
Obviously, that would require safeguards, signs, warning spells—dedicated Fraerlings whose sole job it would be to shout at idiots trying to get close and warn them. Even a barrier spell? Maybe a simple Tier 4 one that could literally stop people from getting closer?
That required Tallfolk help given how huge the radius would be: eight hundred feet around the giant redwood tree that was Paeth. It was in progress, and Humalepre would rest easier when it was done.
Then, they could have Fraerlings roaming around a ‘safe zone’ around Paeth. Right now, it was mostly rubble; they had appeared in the center of Talenqual and laid waste to everything in sight. It had been a war, but still—the churned ground and cracked and blackened remains of buildings was no pleasant vista for Paeth’s inhabitants. Not that Fraerlings had often looked outside; they’d been happy with their cities, and outside was often dangerous to city-Fraerlings.
…They were looking outside every day now. One of the things they’d seen were Tallfolk trying to kill them. So Ekrn had demanded a killzone. Cross this line and die unless you’re one of the United Nations company or a rare friend or guest.
Eight hundred feet. Farspeaker Humalepre asked Ekrn point-blank what he would do if a child somehow passed the barrier spells. To which Ekrn responded—
“If they got past a full barrier spell and ignored the warnings, Farspeaker, I would assume someone’s coerced the child or using them as an attack or scouting vector. I would have to assess the situation. My worst case scenario is that the child is loaded with Vortex Bolts or Tallfolk weapons and headed for the city.”
“Yes, but what would you do if you were forced to make a decision?”
To which Sentry Commander Ekrn had stood there before the city-Fraerlings.
“I am asking for limitations on what I cannot do, Architects. I can’t gauge every hypothetical, but I need to know what my rules of engagement are.”
The killzone, incidentally, had been activated three times already. Most Tallfolk took the warnings; some did not. But Ekrn, in the interest of saving lives, had told the United Nations company, who were guarding the radius, it would be kinder to shoot someone with a crossbow bolt in the legs than let them breach the killzone. The one time an idiot had ignored the warnings and run at Paeth, Ekrn had them taken out at 50 feet from the killzone limits with [Homing Fireballs].
Tiny ones, but the Tallfolk wouldn’t stop screaming until they were dragged off. The killzone hadn’t killed a person yet.
It had, however, sniped one Golem, a poor horse, and a dog. Farspeaker Humalepre still remembered the animals.
A horse bolting the wrong way when someone crossed the barrier—well, you couldn’t reason with that animal. But the dog? It was just curious, and no one was there to stop it. The Farspeaker had actually been talking to Ken from one of the communication windows when it had happened.
It was clearly not a disguised [Rogue]…[Saboteur Beastmaster]’s ploy to attack Paeth, but Ekrn had still activated one of Paeth’s ray spells. [Inferno-Lance of the Solar Giant]—a massive spell by Fraerling standards. Small by Tallfolk ones, but it had killed a lot of Tallfolk [Mercenaries] in the past battles.
An orange-white beam of light that made everything else look dark—collecting above Paeth’s wide branches, then shooting down like a precise scalpel of magic.
A dog.
Fraerlings didn’t have dogs, and in fact, normal Tallfolk pets like cats and dogs were exceptionally dangerous to them. Humalepre got the anguish and consternation.
The Tallguard were remarkably unsympathetic. In fact, Humalepre had overheard one remarking that this might ‘send the message’ instead of having to kill the first intruder into the killzone. Which meant Ekrn was anticipating…!
This was why the Architects of a Fraerling city, and Fraerlings of cities in general, didn’t mix with Tallguard that well. Ekrn’s people seemed entirely bloodthirsty—but then, Paeth had been attacked, and the Tallfolk would have killed them all.
—Fraerlings were still forming quorums and having debates on the ethics of it in the city below. In some places. [Thought Healers] were working overtime, and the Architects had elected to institute areas with [Calm] spells as a public service since the Allotment no longer mattered.
Tallguard recruitment had spiked 1207%. Fraerlings requesting cohabitation permits or pregnancy magic had also risen—one in six Fraerlings under the age of thirty were resuming vocational school for magic.
These were the figures that the Architects had to take and make something out of. Paeth by the Coast now had no Allotment. It did have a city to worry about, which meant it now had a…budget.
Fraerling currency was not Tallfolk currency. Paeth had [Mercenaries]—the United Nations company and Gravetender’s Fist—to pay. It had to worry about loyalty, Talenqual’s destroyed economy and civilians, laws for Tallfolk…of course, Paeth could let someone else handle it.
But a city with crime might lead to trouble for them. A weak Tallfolk army meant Paeth was undefended. Paeth had the authority to demand…a lot. A magical, Tier 6 laser was a lot of authority. However, friendship and trust were also essential.
They needed to export goods; they had [Engineers] working with [Enchanters] to make rings of magic for Tallfolk. In fact, they had [Designers], blueprinting specialists working with [Engineers], and gemstone experts not to improve the quality of a magic ring, but to decrease the quality.
You wanted a ring that makes you invisible? Fraerlings could do that. But Paeth could make one ring for a Tallfolk that would take four months of dedicated work by their best [Enchanters]…or they could make forty in a month that had magical interference, needed recharging, and would break if you hit them with a hammer. But Tallfolk would still buy those forty rings because they were better than most.
Economy, local politics, and let’s not even start with all the interviews or catching up with world politics. Everyone ‘knew’ about the Demons of Rhir, even Fraerling cities. But it was one thing to know, vaguely, that Rhir had demons about, and it was another to get an invitation from the Blighted Kingdom to join the Accords of the Creler Wars. The Accords were a contract guaranteeing support to the Blighted Kingdom.
Or, what about having the King of Avel call your city up for a chat and have to deliberate between humoring the man or screening his call?
So, Farspeaker Humalepre was a stressed Fraerling, and he had decided that the next time there were elections, he’d happily step down. If anyone suitable wanted the job. Perhaps Paeth needed him more than ever.
Especially as he looked down from the observation deck at the latest problem to reach Paeth. In this case? Not so much a problem that had come to them as one Paeth had taken on. It was, after all, a sacred obligation. Or as close to one as Fraerlings had.
 
——
 
On Baleros, there is a city on the eastern coast, slightly below the median of the continent. A harbor city called Talenqual, a Lizardfolk-centric settlement.
At the center of the city of Talenqual, there is a tree, which sits in a radius of a thousand feet of destroyed ground.
The tree is called Paeth by the Coast. In the tree of Paeth, just below the canopy of branches, there is a network of magical defences and spells.
At the heart of all that magic, there is a box. A room meant to hold something valuable or dangerous.
In the box, there is a young woman. She sits in a chair, holding her arm out as a Fraerling [Healer] runs a complex magnifying glass over the arm, scanning down the layers of skin, sinew, bone, refracting through each layer with a flick of a finger. Then the [Healer] continues the process, tracing a network of glowing lines throughout the Human’s body.
Seven Architects watch from above. The room has pillows, a bed, even a functioning, portable bathroom, books, a whole pile of letters—a place to live.
What isn’t present are Tallguard, either in the observation deck or in the room itself. They’re not needed; there are Tallguard outside the box itself, but that’s to keep people from entering. The question Sentry Commander Ekrn asked, when the newest occupant of the box had arrived, was whether guards were needed inside.
For…the Architects’ safety? For the safety of the [Healers] and magical experts? For Paeth? Ekrn never said.
It’s not as if the door to this room is even locked. The young woman is free to come and go, within Paeth, as she wishes. Nominally. But she sits in the box.
It fits her. Within the box, she, the [Innkeeper], is safe from any conceivable scrying spell in the world. Even the Death of Magic…probably…can’t see her, or so Enchanter Ilekrome assures the others. Curse magic and killing spells won’t be able to harm her; obviously, she’s rather impressively warded already. But this is the safest point in the entire world, one could argue, for the young woman at this time.
Safer than even Eternal Khelt at the moment. Safer than a Walled City. Certainly safer than her inn. So long as she sits here, she is protected from the rest of the world.
So long as she’s here, the rest of the world is safe from her. 
Enchanter Ilekrome knows that’s just a bit of wordplay, an exaggeration at best. But he leans forwards, almost bumping into Guidance Heish. She mutters a distracted apology and leans aside.
The young woman has a towel on for modesty, obviously, but for this final test, she’s mostly uncovered. The [Healer] checks her arm again, and Ilekrome, an expert of enchanting magic, knows the [Healer] is testing the magical circuits across her body.
Making sure there are no breaks or abnormalities in the flows.
