But she still captivated Fraerlings who realized what she had. And that was—honesty. She was like the torn-off veil. The wound without a scab. Raw, even ugly, truth.
There was something comforting about that in a painful way. Of course, it meant that some people wanted even less to do with her than before.
And conversely, some people got her, even if it meant they wanted her out of their city twice as fast.
Sentry Commander Ekrn gave Erin a nod as she returned to the upper floors for a break. She was in the Architects’ suites, which were very office-like, and he found her staring out one of the windows at the city below.
“Just so you know, the United Nations company would like to speak with you, Miss Erin.”
She paused and nodded.
“All of them? Which ones?”
“—Since Geneva Scala isn’t present, that would be Daly, Ken, Luan, Paige, Kirana—their leadership. But I do suspect all of them. We can prep the [Enlarge Person] spell if you’d like, and provide guards, but even their headquarters in Talenqual is less secure. We’ve reinforced it, but the moment you leave Paeth, you’ll be in more danger.”
“I’m ready.”
That was all she said, and Ekrn nodded. He paused, offered her a cup of something.
“Coffee? We found some of the damn bean things you Tallfolk can’t shut up about.”
“Sure.”
Erin took a sip, and Ekrn drank more of his.
“So do you command ‘Feiland’? Do I have your rank right, Sentry Commander?”
The Fraerling rolled his shoulders.
“Sentry Leader was my original title. A lot of the leadership perished when we lost another city—I’m technically a stand-in, but functionally, yes. My duty is keeping Paeth safe, which you can imagine is much harder with your presence and its current location.”
Erin nodded.
“I half expected you to all kick me out.”
“We owe you a debt for the Gnomes. Apparently. What that debt consists of…would you mind sharing that or is it classified?”
Erin considered the question.
“As far as I understand it—it’s both. I don’t know the full problem, let alone how to fix it. And classified. For your own good.”
The Sentry Commander was rapidly losing his enjoyment of the coffee. He set his cup down.
“You do sound like the Titan. My recommendation to the Architects was to transfer you to his custody, like he wants. But even I would feel bad about it.”
That caught Erin’s attention.
“Not a fan of the Titan of Baleros?”
“You play chess with him. I would have thought you’d get who he is by now. Maybe it doesn’t come across on a board.”
Erin exhaled.
“Ah. Chess. Not a priority right now for me. What am I missing about the Titan of Baleros?”
“How dangerous he is. You seem to be like most of the Architects. You know he’s a threat. You’re from Izril; you must not realize how many bodies he’s piled up to get here. Just remember, when you meet him, that he crushed an entire Great Company to get where he is. Nevermind that they’re trying to come back. He’s fought bloodier battles than the one at sea.”
Erin just sipped from her cup. Ekrn went on; he was tall, white-haired, with a dark tan from years outside, and restless.
“Do I have a grudge against him? Maybe. But I have met him. He’s got Fraerling support because our interests align, but remember this: up till now, he had Fraerling cities under his protection. But no Fraerling settlement claims him.”
“…The difference being? Wait, I see. His home city exiled him?”
Erin frowned, and Ekrn paused.
“No. They never had the chance. His home city’s gone.”
The [Innkeeper] looked up sharply.
“He destroyed it?”
Ekrn grew uncomfortable here and averted his gaze as he looked out the window.
“Not…intentionally. It’s a long story. Have him tell you it. He had enemies; the Forgotten Wing company took a long time to get where it was. His city didn’t always back him, but it did enough times.”
“Familiar story.”
The [Sentry Commander] glanced at Erin and, to her vague surprise, blushed.
“I’m not insinuating you and he are the same there. I apologize for that.”
“No, it’s fair.”
Erin put her own cup down on the windowsill and leaned on it. She looked at Ekrn sharply.
“Your job is to defend Paeth. I’ll go. I was mostly wondering if they could actually make me bigger again. Being stuck as a Fraerling would be inconvenient. Dangerous.”
The Sentry Commander warmed for the first time to Erin and chuckled.
“Thank you.”
“For…?”
“For not beating around the briar patch and saying being a tiny Fraerling would make you a lot weaker. We all know it.”
Erin smiled faintly.
“Oh, I’d never lie about something like that. Being small has its advantages. And drawbacks. Being able to switch between the two?”
“…There are a lot of dangers at our height. But yes. That’s an advantage. Before you go, we should at least give you access to an armory. The Architects hate weapons. Do you actually know how to use a sword?”
Erin shrugged.
“I’m too clumsy for my own good. I’ll take a crossbow and a wand. I like crossbows.”
Ekrn briskly turned and touched a speaking stone at his wrist. He looked back to Erin.
“Good. Most of it’s not Signim-capable, so it’ll just be for when you’re Fraerling-sized. But you can ask Paige for a bigger one. Planning on fighting more, are you?”
The [Innkeeper] leaned against the wall. She closed her eyes a second.
“I’m planning on being hated.”
 
——
 
“The [Innkeeper] will be with you shortly.”
Funny how that made the hairs on the back of Luan’s neck stand up. He glanced down as a tiny Fraerling gave him a salute. Luan was still dripping from the harbor, a fact he knew Kirana wouldn’t appreciate, but he’d come running—er, rowing—when he’d gotten the call.
“Noa, does that mean as a Fraerling or…”
His contact, who’d sent him the message to get here, was six inches tall. And beaming. She waved energetically as she descended from the ramp that led up into what looked like a tunnel running the length of the room. Her own way in.
“Hey, Luan! Long time no see!”
“It’s been three days.”
“Long time no see. Hey, Daly! Long time no see!”
“I saw you yesterday.”
The little Fraerling looked around with a frown.
“—Well, I haven’t seen Ken in a while. And I haven’t seen Kirana in two days. Anyways, Erin Solstice is arriving in an hour.”
Luan almost slipped as he sat down. The private room in the United Nation’s headquarters was really just a remodeled apartment room—but it was spacious, air conditioned, and frankly, nice given the amounts of Fraerling magic in it. He gave Daly a single nod, and the leader of the Bushrangers gave him a grimace of a smile. But there was no time to get into it. Luan focused his attention on Noa, who was easily distractible.
“She’s coming out of Paeth. As a Fraerling?”
“Nope. That means as a tall…big person. They’re just figuring out, uh, a blanket or cloaking spell.”
“For what?”
“Clothing. Well, they’re figuring out if they can enchant hers to grow with her. It’s harder than it looks!”
The tiny Tallguard marched on a table in the United Nations headquarters, and Daly stopped massaging his fake, prosthetic leg and sat up.
“I thought she’d take her time—and what’s this about being huge? She got turned into a Fraerling!”
Noa sighed dramatically. The little Tallguard was critically inspecting the revamped headquarters of Talenqual’s head mercenary company.
“We were going to have a meet-and-greet more safely if she was small, but since she’s condescending to be big, I guess this place is safe. Ekrn’s going to have a team sweep this place. You might want to tidy up this room a bit. There’s a sock under that couch.”
She pointed, and there was indeed a sock under a couch where Talenqual’s defenses and even governance was planned out. Luan still didn’t quite believe it.
No-name company of a few Humans—now in charge of an entire city. Nominally; of course, they had the former Gravetender’s Fist company, and most of their power came from their allies in Paeth, but here they were.
Here he was, too. A Courier, Luan the Olympian. Of course, he’d been that for seven months now. But Erin Solstice?
It felt like he was about to meet a celebrity, and he, Luan, had some experience with that already.
He still could see her on that ship. Daly, though, was more concerned with the practical. He began reattaching his leg with a series of clicks as he frowned at Noa.
“Explain how she can just change sizes.”
“Sure thing. Uh. Uh—Resk?”
Noa called into a speaking stone, and Alchimagus Resk sighed noisily—then ran through the Fraerways built into the company’s headquarters. The building was not that large, but for a Fraerling, it was still a mile run, especially if you came from the other side of the building where Paige had her workshop, ceramic tiles and all—and blast doors. Luan didn’t like going in there these days, even with a protection charm. Paige’s own personality didn’t help much, either.
Resk, though, was only happy to kick about, especially if it meant free food from Kirana. He was one of Talenqual’s liaison Fraerlings and was panting when he arrived, pink beard and robes akimbo.
“This place is a workout! Phew! I was just finishing enchanting one of Paige’s doodads…yes, we figured out her size is quite mutable! It’s the most advanced spell we’ve ever seen outside of The Last Box itself; and we can’t even tell what spells those are made of! In theory, if it was cast on a Fraerling, I could be tall as you, Luan, all day!”
Luan whistled. Signim gave Fraerlings five minutes.
“If it’s so powerful, can’t you copy it?”
“Nope! It’s a tier or two above the best thing I could hope to cast! But it’s probably deliberate. This way she’s not bound to Tallfolk or Fraerling sizes. It makes her downright unique. Every Fraerling city will want to talk to Miss Erin Solstice, if only to see if they can copy her enchantment. Much less to ask about the—”
Noa coughed noisily, and Resk broke off.
“—The other thing. Which we can’t discuss at this time—and wouldn’t matter if we could because it doesn’t! Matter.”
Luan eyed Resk as the Alchimagus put his hands behind his back and gave the [Rower] an innocent smile. It made Luan hide a smile of his own, but he felt a bit sad.
My little friends have secrets. And he quite appreciated he couldn’t have access to all of Paeth’s goings-on, but it made everything feel less like a fun adventure and more like…life.
Then again, it had been life, gritty and hard, from the moment they’d all met Quallet Marshhand. Fraerlings had been a return to the fantasy for a time. Erin Solstice?
Daly gave the two Fraerlings a longer, more narrow-eyed look than Luan, but he only paused a moment to nod and stand up. He walked over to the door, kicked it open with his fake leg—another action that would get him in trouble with the ruler of this place—and bellowed down the hallway.
“Hey, Dawson, spread the word—no, wait. Get Paige, Kirana, Ken, Siri, and tell them Erin Solstice is coming. But don’t shout it all over!”
Daly shouted at Dawson, and the other Bushranger shouted up with a groan.
“Fucking hell, Daly. Are you going to do a secret meeting with her? Can’t we just all say hi, get a drink, and slap each other on the back?”
“Sure, if you want to try, be my guest. But I bet she’s either a completely insane person, like they say she is, or she’s going to be like Geneva—except an [Innkeeper]. She might be something.”
So saying, Daly checked himself, reflexively, and Luan saw him touch a crossbow hanging at his side. A hand-sized crossbow—and one of the most dangerous weapons in Talenqual, at least, owned by a Tallfolk. It could kill someone at eight hundred paces, shot regular crossbow bolts like they were flung from a weapon many times its size, and had a scope, heat vision, night vision, and…
The same weapon Daly had carried since the battle for Talenqual. He grasped it absently—turned when he saw Luan looking at him with a frown, and let go. Daly raised his hands and, again, grimace-smiled. Luan said nothing as Noa looked between the two.
“She’s, uh—she’s pretty intense. Ekrn said that. So a party would be nice.”
Noa’s voice was nervous and distracted the two. Daly relaxed—his hand sprang away from his crossbow again, and Luan nodded with a smile.
She might want something, and with respect to them all being Earthers, Luan had just seen a pretty good example of what happened to Erin Solstice’s friends…and enemies. He wanted to meet her, but the [Rower] would not deny that Daly’s precautions were the least the United Nations company should take.
Here comes trouble. The two nodded at each other, and Dawson stomped off, shaking his head. Daly went back to checking his leg.
He had a new one, now, and it looked…well, like if you took a prosthetic leg on the bleeding edge of Earth’s technology and replicated it with wood and magic rather than metal and circuitry. Not the iconic running blades that Luan knew, either; a fully functional replacement that looked close to an actual leg. Daly had lost his original leg fighting Fezimet during the battle for Talenqual.
His new leg was strong, adaptive, and arguably an improvement over the old one, but Daly would fiddle with it constantly. He gave Luan a grin and indicated his leg.
“I reckon we can use this as a conversation piece if we have an awkward spot. I guess it’s just as well the other one—Ryoka Griffin, the Wind Runner—isn’t here. Any idea where she is?”
“Forgotten Wing company, I think. Erin’s friends are landing all over. They still haven’t found some of them. Like the…Goblin [Shaman]. And the other ship’s gone. The one with the Goblin Slayer.”
Daly rubbed at his head.
“…And they still want to kill lots of them, yeah? What a mess. What are the odds she’s just waiting to get on a ship to go home?”
Luan hesitated. The leg didn’t make him feel better than Daly’s crossbow. Especially because he was pretty sure Daly could kill someone just by kicking them. Before they could begin another crossfire of words—Luan wouldn’t survive any other kind with Daly—the door opened.
Paige walked into the room, wearing a soot- and oil-stained jumpsuit, like a mechanic’s. She was followed by Kirana, who wore a sari—an outfit from her home country of India. Patterned fabric, which Dawson had uncharitably described as a rug you wore. They were certainly that complex in pattern, and the weather was warming enough to go back to them. Especially since a lot of people around Talenqual were copying Kirana’s style.
