The two had completely different reactions to seeing the other two members of the United Nations company here. Kirana checked Luan over, eyed his sweaty and drenched appearance getting water and mud on her carpet—and clicked her tongue.
“[Traveller’s Welcome]. I told you to find me first, Luan. Here.”
She handed him a lassi drink, sweet yogurt, as Luan felt all the water on him evaporate and the mud and grime—vanish. The [Rower] gave the [Housekeeper] a shamefaced grin.
“I ran here when I thought I’d be late. Sorry, Kirana.”
[Rower] and [Housekeeper] were the classes Luan and Kirana gave out when someone asked what theirs were. They did not—accurately represent their current classes. By the same token, they’d call Daly a [Mercenary] and Paige an [Engineer].
Speaking of which—Paige’s first reaction was to snap at Daly.
“Stop fiddling with that in here. You know how dangerous it is.”
“Chill, Paige.”
“Hands off the leg. I helped them design it. I know exactly what it does. Resk, you left the door open to the workshop.”
Daly lifted his hands from his leg in an exaggerated motion, and Alchimagus Resk sighed.
“Oops. Sorry, Paige.”
He flopped himself down as Paige checked herself, went back out into the hallway to see if her door was locked, then sat down away from Daly. Kirana gave Luan a slight widening of the eyes, and he grimaced.
(How bad’s she been?)
(Like you wouldn’t believe. But she won’t go on vacation either.)
Paige noticed them using Kirana’s [Meaningful Look] Skill and glowered at the two of them. Luan gave her an apologetic smile, and she relaxed. Kirana inspected Daly critically.
“I knew I heard Dawson around. You didn’t say you’d come back. [Traveller’s Welcome]. At least we have your rooms ready.”
“Sorry, Kirana. You know how it is.”
Daly accepted a snack; he must have been hungry, and the room settled back down again. At this point, Paige looked around.
“What was the question, Daly?”
“What are the odds Erin wants to go home right away?”
Paige raised her eyebrows as Kirana produced something and sat on the couch. She was rolling a link of beads around in her hand, starting at the top, rubbing it with her thumb and then moving to the next one as she listened to the others talk. She wasn’t saying anything, but Luan eyed her a second before returning to the conversation. He liked Kirana, and it was unobtrusive, but every time she prayed near him, it made his skin prickle.
Paige went back to Daly’s question.
“Odds of Erin wanting to go home to her people? High. But I think the better question is: what are the odds she’ll get on a ship to go back home?”
Daly glanced towards the harbor.
“Well, the seas are a bit of a mess, and she’s got a bounty—”
Luan interrupted.
“Yes, but people want to talk to her here, Daly. Not just Paeth. The Titan and, I heard, the Iron Vanguard wants to meet her. She’s not like us.”
Paige and Kirana glanced at Luan. He meant all of them, except maybe Geneva, who was now part of the Forgotten Wing company. Bigger than this place by far.
Resk chuckled out loud, but the United Nations company leaders didn’t get what was so funny. Luan went on.
“Erin’s someone who matters to big players. I think we should learn as much as we can from her—but keep some secrets close to us. I’m not sure what we actually have that’s so secret, but be careful.”
Paige nodded instantly as Kirana hesitated, and Daly closed his eyes until someone new spoke up.
“Sorry we’re late. I kept saying hello to people—is she here yet?”
Ken entered the room with an audible clacking sound. He was wearing a suit of armor…but Luan would have rather taken the Bushrangers’ leather gear over the lacquered, brightly-painted wood. Added to that, Ken had two necklaces, one made of glass beads, which clacked over the armor, and another with a hanging set of talons around his neck.
The [Diplomat] of the United Nations company looked exhausted—probably because of the Dullahan armor. But he bowed to Kirana, then sat down as she performed the same [Traveller’s Welcome] for him and then frowned around the room.
“Siri! You scared me to death.”
Paige nearly shot off the couch, and Daly glanced up as Luan nearly leapt out of his seat. The last member of the United Nations company leadership had arrived without anyone seeing her—except maybe the Fraerlings.
“Sorry. Force of habit.”
Siri sat perfectly still, like an owl, legs drawn up on one of the chairs. Like Daly, she wore the armor of the Bushrangers, tailored to be easy to wear for long missions in the jungle. Unlike Daly—she had no magical legs. Two of her fingers were ceramic, though, but painted black.
Siri did have a pair of strange-looking goggles attached to her helmet, and like Daly, she went armed. But her crossbow was long, had no visible limbs, and Siri didn’t bother lying about her class. Rather than [Ranger]…
[Sniper].
It was rare to get all six members of the United Nations leaders in one place, these days. Of course, they now had a lot of people who’d stepped up to various leadership roles, but they had never quite expanded the inner group beyond their original members. If anything, Aiko had deliberately chosen to step away from wanting to know and do everything.
She was happier with colors and ink on her hands. Instead of a crossbow like the old days. Similarly, Ken seemed to have put on a bit of weight. Whether that was muscle from having to lug around the armor or just weight from too many guest dinners, Luan couldn’t say.
“You can take off the armor inside, Ken. You sound like a bunch of firecrackers.”
Paige jumped and glared at Daly about the analogy, but Ken just sat back with a sigh.
“I have to get used to it. You’re not supposed to take off the armor…ever, Daly. It’s a huge honor.”
“It’s a pain in the ass, and it looks like shit.”
The [Diplomat] was unfazed by Daly’s comments; he seldom was. He gave Daly a smile that made the Bushrangers’ leader relax.
“I think it’s meant to be. The Dullahans have no time for someone who wants to pretend to be like them. I could go to them in regular clothes, but I want to be accepted. The Centaurs are actually harder.”
He indicated the glass beads.
“This doesn’t mean anything if I can’t keep up with them on horseback.”
Luan grimaced, imagining the saddle sores Ken had to endure to keep up with Centaurs, literally born to run. Definitely muscle, then. Kirana tried to produce a liniment or something for Ken, but gave up and had to fetch one manually rather than use her Skill.
“What’s with the necklace of claws? Lizardfolk or did you actually get in with the Gazers or Selphids?”
Siri was curious, and Ken laughed. He held up the last necklace, which was new, and showed them three long claws. It looked more like a trophy necklace from a hunter than a diplomatic gift, but Ken explained.
“Oh, this? Some of the Lizardfolk I was talking to realized their species doesn’t have a signifier like the other two. So one of them ended up gifting me a part of her claw. The others liked the idea so much they keep giving me a claw if I do them a favor. They think it’s a good idea.”
“…That’s Lizardfolk for you. What the fuck’s up with Jungle Tails? I haven’t run into their forces, but the entire jungle’s hopping with them clashing with Forgotten Wing. They took another city on the western coast, yeah?”
Daly shook his head, and Ken’s eyebrows snapped together.
“They’re rallying across the jungle. Every Lizardfolk around here is more loyal to Forgotten Wing—or so they say. But they always hesitate before declaring Jungle Tails as completely…wrong. It’s fascinating. They’re willing to admit that the attack on Paeth was inconceivable. And they’ll badmouth everything Jungle Tails does, but they won’t condemn the ‘Nagas’ in general. I think it’s historical. Something about their Great Company has this loyalty even in the most outlying—”
Siri cleared her throat, interrupting the chatting.
“Boys. We’ve got Erin Solstice coming if Dawson’s right. Leave the discussion for later.”
Luan had been about to add in his own observations from his sea trips, but sat back, nodding.
“She’s arriving, and we should put on a good show. But—carefully.”
“How carefully does that mean? Restrict access to my workshop, obviously. But are we not going to welcome her in?”
Paige wanted to know. Ken tapped his fingers together.
“Being overtly friendly with her…would put us against multiple nations, Paige. The Blighted Kingdom, Erribathe—”
“Do we not welcome her in or make a statement or something that she’s not explicitly our ally?”
Daly put his head back, and Ken shook his head instantly.
“No, no! Just greet her as if there’s nothing wrong with her meeting us. That’s the smartest thing to do: play innocent. Some nations won’t appreciate it, but so long as it’s just meeting her, that’s fine. And the ones who understand—are the ones to watch. Like the Blighted Kingdom.”
His eyes glinted, and Luan sat up.
“Oh. So they’re the ones who’d have Earthers and get it.”
Ken nodded, pleased the others had cottoned on.
“As for Erin, being careful what we tell her is something only we have to worry about. And only when it comes to Paige, perhaps, or committing to anything.”
The others hesitated before nodding, and Daly put his legs up on the couch and groaned.
“Right. Agreed. Fuck me. I never thought I’d have to meet someone from home I couldn’t trust.”
Paige murmured.
“I’d like to trust her. I don’t get the Goblin thing…Baleros doesn’t have that many Goblins. I’d like to hear her out first. Carefully.”
Everyone else nodded. Ken raised a hand, nodding to everyone in turn.
“Obviously hear her out. But Luan is right. Miss Erin Solstice is…someone to watch. As a friend and if she were a foe. Let’s talk to her honestly and openly and be good hosts. About everything except the gunpowder.”
Every eye swung towards Paige, and they could all nod about that. Paige began nibbling on a thumbnail again. Kirana broke the silence, voice bright.
“Then we should prepare a big welcome for her! I’ll see what we can cook!”
She paused to stow the string of prayer beads and strode for the door, and Siri got up too.
“Yes. I wonder what she’s like. She’s the first person we’ve ever met who’s…been here but lived somewhere else.”
All the Earthers in the room stopped at the thought. It was true. Erin had survived on another continent. What was she actually going to be like?
 
——
 
They had already run a growth test on Erin Solstice before. So they knew they could do it. This wasn’t Tallfolk mad alchemy where you tossed a brew down and hoped like hell it only gave you horns by accident.
The biggest problem was actually more mundane.
“Okay, privacy spells up. Clothing?”
“Ready.”
Guidance Heish watched as Fraerlings marched Erin outside of Paeth and towards an area they’d set up where she could grow to appropriate size and dress. They could issue her Signim-capable clothing, but it wasn’t the same effect.
They also had female Fraerlings working as technicians just in case of mishaps, and the Architects were mostly there as a formality. And maybe in case something hilarious or tragic happened.
Ilekrome had a more…interested stake in Erin’s first journey into the world of the tall. Of course, he made the mistake of saying that out loud in front of Alchimeer Straesta, and the Fraerling gave him a very serious look.
“If you think there’s a chance you’re going to see a giant nipple or something, Enchanter Ilekrome—”
“Not the interesting thing I meant!”
Ilekrome snapped and turned red as the other Architects and magical experts gave him a suspicious look. He edged over to the more sympathetic Farspeaker Humalepre.
“Just so you know, and you, Honst—I see you giving me the side-eye—it’s a request from Miss Erin Solstice. Not anything untoward.”
The Judiciary cleared his throat as Humalepre went ‘oh’.
“I never thought otherwise, Enchanter Ilekrome. Though you do hear things like your favorite hotel project—you know we’d have to have only the older [Engineers] working on the uh—uh—props, right? Apprentices should not be doing that kind of work.”
“Not. My. Project. I’ll forward you a copy for your desk. Then you can see how many people ask you about it.”
Ilekrome ground out. He pointed at the huge [Blackout] spell that was shielding Erin and the more mundane…curtain of cloth that Fraerlings had installed as a backup. Just in case.
“As it so happens, Erin asked me for a small adjustment she had in mind. Rather smart, too, really. Completely within spec; I ran it past all the official channels.”
“For her clothing? Or you mean—this?”
The Fraerlings were calling out ‘test successful’, which probably meant that Erin had drunk the potion and was growing at a steady pace. Nothing as fast as Signim; she’d be in the middle of a towel so there wasn’t even that much risk of tasteful nudity the entire time.
Yet Ilekrome’s smile was earning him more suspicious looks from his fellow Architects. The Enchanter leaned over as more all-clears were called, and while they waited for the [Innkeeper] to emerge and a representative of the United Nations company was called over to escort Erin towards Talenqual proper, Ilekrome whispered.
“She asked me to alter one thing. Which if you think about it—if we’re making her a Tallfolk again, there’s one factor you can eminently change since her ‘real’ form is currently polymorphed into a Fraerling.”
“…Which is?”
Honst didn’t have much imagination for magic, but Alchimeer Straeta’s eyes lit up. She whirled as someone rustled the curtains, and the Fraerlings, safe behind barrier spells, looked up. There she was. Pushing out of the curtains, the same intense stare—only magnified by a giant.
There went a Tallfolk. Erin Solstice, and she paused just once to nod at a tiny Enchanter Ilekrome, who gave her a thumbs up.
Guidance Heish was striding back to Ilekrome, a puzzled frown on her face. The thing was—Heish couldn’t articulate what had happened instantly, because Heish was Fraerling sized, but she still could detect something was off. But Ilekrome just smiled smugly.
You didn’t mess around with people’s bodies much. If Erin had asked, say, for longer hair, different colored hair, or another finger, he would have respectively referred her to an [Alchemist] for hair tonics, a [Hairstylist] for a good dye, or a [Thought Healer] to ask if Erin really needed another finger.
