[Spell Storage: Book]. Cotm ran his eye down the list of enchantments on Erin Solstice or just the area around him. He touched his earpiece.
“Captain Cotm here. [Dimensional Lock] just shot down another two entry attempts into the area, Sentry Commander.”
“Damn. Who the hell keeps trying to get to her? That’s Tier 5 magic. Rare Tier 5 magic. Tallfolk shouldn’t have access to it. Wistram? Are you sure it’s not Fraerlings?”
Cotm stared at the two black spell tags disintegrating in his personal book.
“…Nope, it fried both locks, Sentry Commander. It’s a Tallfolk trying to portal in somehow. [Teleport] can’t even get in, unless it’s a Tallfolk somehow boosting past the lock.”
“Keep me posted and have Enchanter Resk reapply both spells at once.”
“Got it. Looks like they’re trying a third time, Sentry Commander.”
“I’m recasting, I’m recasting!”
Resk shouted, but there was no hurry. After all…there were four locks on Erin at any one time. No one was getting to her with Fraerlings around.
Making some Tallfolk’s day unpleasant wasn’t the worst use of Cotm’s time. He ran through the list of other spells, which included a bug repeller as well as more mundane spells, then closed his book. Below him, he heard a soft thunk and the sound of something hitting the tree he was sitting on.
The impact was heavy enough for Cotm to decide to use his magical grappling hooks to move elsewhere. As he leapt into the air, he saw the shooter; Erin Solstice was practicing with her crossbow and wand.
All this effort to let her get some target practice. Then again…Cotm looked down.
“Huh. She’s a pretty bad shot.”
The glowering [Innkeeper] was adjusting her aim as she tried to hit the broadside of a tree, or more accurately, a target she’d tacked up.
“Beware friendly fire, folks. That [Innkeeper]’s got a powered crossbow, and she’s going wide.”
One of the Tallguard half-joked into the speaking stone. Erin must have heard that, because she paused in shooting. As it happened—someone was giving her tips.
“No, no! Hold your arm out straight. Don’t bend it—like that. Hey, Cotm, how’s her form?”
Tallguard Noa was egging Erin on as the [Innkeeper] tried to shoot two-handed rather than use a wand and crossbow in both hands. Cotm sighed when he saw her.
“That’s correct. If you had a larger crossbow, you’d be braced and sighting, but if you’re going to shoot from the hip—steady that hand.”
“I have practice. I used to be better—there. How about a wand in my other hand?”
Erin tried to use the two akimbo, and her hand crossbow began to automatically reload for her. Cotm eyed Erin’s ‘style’.
“…It’d probably keep you safe from most monsters if you shoot fast enough. Don’t you have magical fire and a bunch of [Innkeeper] Skills? That might be more…powerful?”
He hinted to her, and Erin frowned at him.
“[Innkeeper] Skills generally require an inn. I can rely on these weapons since my knife is missing. Actually, I think I need a knife, too.”
Cotm sighed, but he thought the [Smiths] in Paeth would relish a challenge to make anything even approaching Master Smith Pelt’s work. At least Paeth didn’t have to send Tallguard out to mine iron deposits and haul them back to the city, one gram at a time.
“Just as long as you know a Level 50 anyone can probably beat someone at Level 20 if they have an applicable Skill. Crossbows or not, if you did reach Level 50…”
I’d really love to see what your new Skill does. All the Tallguard probably did, including Noa, who nodded rapidly, but Erin just stopped a second, then shook her head.
“Skills are a good thing to keep hidden, Tallguard…Cotm, isn’t it? Even if I could use any of my Skills or witchcraft abroad.”
Her eyes glinted, and Cotm sighed.
“Fair enough.”
He settled back on his haunches to watch and, after a moment, pulled out his book.
“Resk? Two more blocking spells.”
“Argh. Really? Hold on, I’ll get Ilekrome to help. I’m running out of mana! I’m going to have to skinny dip in one of the inferior Tallfolk mana potions if this keeps up.”
Resk grumped as Cotm grinned. People really wanted to get at Erin Solstice. And that was his and Ekrn’s mistake, in a way. The Fraerlings’ mistake.
They got it. Or they thought they did.
People hated Erin Solstice. Join the club. Take a number. Then wait for a tiny boot to kick you in the ass. They were treating this like Erin was just some ordinary war criminal or enemy of nations.
Not…the [Innkeeper]. Not the Goblinfriend of Izril. Not the person who’d fought a being at the Winter Solstice and who had called Eternal Khelt to action.
Not a woman who claimed to have met the greatest of ghosts. She didn’t attract just the standard ‘blood runs out of your body’ spell—which, yes, kept being applied every hour by a hopeful Blighted Kingdom, but the [Warlocks] there didn’t even have a target to aim at. They were low-grade.
The woman who stood in the buzzing, chirping, and occasionally heckling forest of Baleros knew some of what was coming for her. She was resolved. Even, perhaps, happy that the chance had come for her to do what must be done.
But not even she quite understood who Erin Solstice was to the rest of the world. For, as Cotm was about to call another tip down to her, someone spoke.
“Contact.”
Cotm’s head snapped around, and the Tallguard fell silent. The Bushrangers muttered into the communication spell.
“Daly here. We see nothing.”
Commander Ekrn’s voice was low and tense.
“Tallguard Locks. We have sightlines on nothing.”
The Tallguard who’d spoken whispered into his speaking stone, and Cotm’s headgear said he’d activated a [Muffle] and [Camouflage] spell.
“Something’s moving. I barely saw it—the ground rippled, and I swore I saw something, but it’s camouflaged or invisible.”
“Eyes up. Deploy [See Invisibility] spells, Tallguard Locks.”
“It was already on, Commander.”
Silence. Cotm checked his headgear, and someone else spoke breathily in his ear.
“I have, uh—[Eyes of Clarity]. Enchanter Resk here. And I believe Sentry Commander Ekrn might have—”
“I do. Apply your spell and keep your eyes up. Innkeeper, do you hear that?”
Cotm glanced down and saw, to his gratification, Erin Solstice had put her back to a tree. She was braced, wand and crossbow at the ready.
“We have her.”
“Prepare to teleport out. Captain Cotm, your team is Signim free.”
Ekrn wasn’t playing games. Cotm swung his crossbow up, sighting ahead of him, but all he saw were Tallguard indicators, the forest…nothing. Then he heard another snap.
“Contact! I see something moving! It’s gone! Tallfolk!”
Tallguard Lisonte. Ekrn snapped as Tallguard around her called no sightings.
“What was it?”
“I barely saw it, Commander. It was fast.”
“Assume Level 40 or higher. Teleport on my mark.”
Ekrn’s voice was deceptively calm. Erin spoke out loud.
“It’s coming for me. Do you want it haunting Paeth? Let it get closer. I have ward spells on me.”
Ekrn paused.
“Enchanter Resk, double any ward spells you have on the innkeeper. Tallguard, do not open fire until you establish what’s coming your way.”
Now all was quiet—except for the insects that buzzed in the distance. Cotm breathed in and out as he listened, and he heard voices.
“Contact. Lost it.”
“—Faster than I could see! Behind that tree—”
“Spotted me. Commander, my position’s made.”
Whatever it was, it was tagging Tallguard positions? The hairs on Cotm’s neck rose. Ekrn breathed.
“Fall back if you’ve been made. Identity?”
“Slitted eyes, Commander. I think it’s a Lizardfolk. But it’s fast.”
Well…that wasn’t good. Then it penetrated the lines of the Bushrangers, and there was an oath.
“It grabbed me! Fuck—where did it go? It got right behind me!”
“Dawson! Are you okay?”
“I’m okay! I’m—it’s fucking fast, Daly.”
Dawson’s voice was unnerved, and whatever it was began slipping forwards. Now, more Tallguard were seeing it.
“Commander, that’s a Lizardfolk. Faster than anything I’ve seen.”
“It’s darting from tree to tree. I swear it just saw me—”
Commander Ekrn lost his patience for this game of hide-and-seek. He roared.
“Hold fire. Intruder, you are within the aegis of Paeth on the Coast! Halt or we will consider you hostile and attack!”
Cotm, at last, saw something pause at the very edge of his sight line through the forest. A slim, thin shape halted, and Ekrn saw it was indeed a long, tall figure. Cotm squinted, magnifying his vision with a spell. Was that…
A Lizardfolk?
Yes. It was just—a Lizardfolk. Unmistakably; thin, neck frills a bit ragged, and peeking around a tree at them. It stood there, then hopped forwards a bit.
“Tallguard. Prepare to fire!”
Ekrn roared, and Cotm aimed his crossbow ahead. At this, the figure recoiled almost comically. It waved its hands in a pantomime of fear. Then hopped forwards a step.
“Identify—”
Bushrangers moved forwards, crackling through bushes in some cases, and the figure recoiled again—but not in real surprise. It shuffled forwards, hands raised now, and Erin spoke.
“Let it get closer. Who are you? Friend? Foe?”
The figure tilted its head left and right. It took another cautious step forwards, and its destination was unmistakable: Erin Solstice. Cotm was hesitating. They should attack—but it was fast, and if this was some ploy to get closer to Erin—
Well, it was working. Ekrn wasn’t about to take that risk.
“[Illumination] spells on it! Warning shot, Bushranger Tofte!”
The Earther took the shot, and a crossbow bolt thunked into the ground in front of the Lizardperson. They leapt back—before the crossbow bolt had even landed, Cotm thought, and then shielded their face as a sudden beam of light illuminated them.
Now that everyone could see, they saw, well, a Lizardperson. But possibly the most unkempt Lizardperson that Cotm had ever seen in his life.
It was a female Lizardfolk, that much was clear from far away. She—had on ragged clothing, and her scales and body were a mess. Grimy; she had tattered neck-frills, the colorful skin around her neck that could expand or contract was torn, and she looked distinctly battered.
A survivor of some kind? Or had she been fighting already to get here? Something was…odd about her, Cotm realized. She stood a bit lopsided, and when she faced Erin, there was a glassy look in her eyes.
“Commander, I have an option on a [Slave], possession, or maybe another controlling spell. Drugs? Or we’re staring at a Selphid. Or an undead.”
Her scales weren’t quite pale enough to make Cotm decide the latter, but something was off, and he rattled his concerns into Ekrn’s ear.
“I hear it. If she gets any closer, go weapons free. Intruder. Identify yourself!”
The bellow, once again, made the Lizardfolk flinch and clap two claws to her earholes. Which put paid to Cotm’s undead theory. She reacted like Ekrn’s operatic voice was loud and tilted her head. Then she waved her hands at Erin. She beckoned with both hands.
Come, come.
Every eye swung to the [Innkeeper], and Ekrn hissed.
“Erin, don’t move—”
“Who are you?”
Erin called out, taking a step forwards. She had her crossbow trained on the stranger as well, so it was clear she didn’t know who it was. But she was brave enough. Cotm saw the figure sway back. Then tilt its head at her.
Slowly, left and right. The figure bent forwards, swayed back when another crossbow bolt landed in the ground, and beckoned.
“What do you want?”
Again, Erin spoke, and this time, the Lizardwoman paused. She put her claw to her earhole and tilted her head, and Cotm noticed her eyes staring blankly ahead rather than shifting to follow Erin. But the gesture was unmistakable.
“What. Do. You. Want? I am Erin Solstice. I’m right here. Are you a friend or enemy?”
Erin spoke louder, enunciating each word. And the figure heard. Yet she tilted her head and, to Cotm’s surprise, began hitting herself on the head. The Lizardwoman hopped from foot to foot, annoyed, as she lightly banged on her skull. Then she put her claw to her ear and shook her head.
“Sentry Commander, do we have a [Silence] spell on the intruder?”
Cotm hazarded a guess. Resk answered for Ekrn.
“No magic…at least, not a spell from us. There’s something awfully odd about that Lizardfolk. Lots of subtle magic. I’m barely seeing it myself.”
Resk was one of the best Alchimagi in all of Paeth. The figure beckoned again, and when Erin failed to move, it sighed. Then—to everyone’s shock, it spoke.
“Kru o naefoma?”
The stranger put two claws to its mouth and called out in a soft voice, higher-pitched than Cotm expected. Almost playfully. Certainly with interest. But the words—made no sense.
“What was that?”
Daly spoke up, and Siri muttered.
“Must be Drathian or some dialect. Doesn’t—sound like it. Someone get Ken.”
“That’s not Drathian.”
That came from Cotm himself. He knew Drathian, or enough of it to instantly place that it wasn’t that. The words, though…tickled his brain, and the [Captain] lowered his crossbow to feel for his personal library in his bag of holding.
“What did you say?”
“Kru o naefoma?”
Again, the Lizardwoman repeated the words, louder, sounding hopeful, but when Erin stared blankly at her, she sighed.
“Aspat.”
That wasn’t a word Cotm recognized either. But his flipping through the book was the only sound among the confused Fraerlings and Tallfolk.
The figure seemed as nonplussed as the rest. A third time she beckoned, and when it was clear Erin Solstice wasn’t moving, the Lizardwoman glanced over her shoulder. Then she shrugged as if to say, ‘oh well’.
So saying, she reached up slowly, and as Cotm began to suspect who, or rather, what she was—
The Lizardwoman pulled off her face. 
Her features stretched and distorted—and then her glassy eyes, her dead eyes, Cotm realized, pulled off her head, twisting as the Tallguard and Bushrangers shouted in horror. No one fired—but every weapon rose and trained on the figure who stood there.
Lizardfolk body. But suddenly—emerging from the fake head—no, the costume—the ‘Lizardfolk’ suddenly had a Goblin’s head.
A dark green face, closer to black. Pointed ears. Red eyes. Braided black hair, and—the Goblin cackled with laughter as she pointed at Erin. Then she slowly and casually began to pull off the thing she was wearing.
A costume. A Lizardfolk. And—the reason why Cotm’s crossbow had locked onto her—
“Commander, that Goblin’s wearing a dead Lizardfolk as a costume.”
Now Cotm understood what was so off. The glassy eyes, the slightly off-kilter way the Lizardfolk had moved…from a distance, it was a perfect replica.
