“Don’t worry about it. None of us got much from her anyways. Just find out what’s going on while you travel and keep your head out of Lizardfolk politics. They bite.”
Ken was wondering if he should offer to introduce Erin around; she had no limit of people wanting to talk to her. But if mystery Goblins were popping out of the forest right next to Talenqual, he doubted Commander Ekrn wanted to let her go anywhere else.
And it was Paeth that was protecting Erin. Or perhaps, Fraerling cities in general. Ken had heard that on the grapevine by letting Noa chat. Fraerlings, in general, were interested in Erin besides her height, and not even Luan had an access pass to other cities.
He could envy Erin, pity her, or…do so many other things in reaction to her personality and deeds. But mostly what Kenjiro Murata did was wonder what her goals were. Her stated goals were genuine, he would bet, but she had left a lot unsaid, especially about her.
Well.
Ken was about to get up and find Siri and ask if she was serious about wanting to go with Erin, for a time, or quiz Captain Eldima about how she thought the Iron Vanguard regarded Erin after the sea battle when he heard it.
Another unexpected thing. Or highly expected, if you thought about it. Ken’s head rose as he heard a trill of sound breaking the hustle and bustle of Talenqual.
“What was that?”
Asher looked around and stopped in the middle of the street. The sound rang out again, and this time, Ken recognized it.
A drum?
Ken had heard it coming from the northwest, in the direction of the road. Rather than run to the gates, like every Lizardfolk was surely doing, he walked into the United Nations building and strode upstairs to the roof.
He could barely see past the walls, but Talenqual was no Drake city. And what Ken saw was enough to stop him there. He glanced towards the tallest ‘building’ in the city of Talenqual. Paeth. If he had a partial view, the Fraerling City had probably seen this group coming.
Or…not seen them coming? Ken stared at the horizon, heart suddenly pounding. How did you hide the flashing column of steel on the horizon? How did you hide a figure so large they were visible beyond the walls, albeit small?
“War Walker.”
He had no doubt; the armor and size could only be a half-Giant or one of the Dullahans who grew to incredible size. And that column…
Someone began ringing a bell at the gates, but the notes faltered off after a few chimes. Nevertheless, Paige slammed out of her workshop.
“What’s that? Are we under attack?”
“No…I don’t think so.”
Ken called down, and Paige stormed upstairs.
“You don’t think so? What—what’s that coming this way? An army?”
The column was growing larger, slowly, and Ken, with his speaking stone tuned to the Fraerlings’ chatter coming from Paeth, as well as the United Nations channels, heard a flurry of voices.
“There are fifteen, counting, fifteen regiments on the move across the entire region. The cities of Ranxel, Yoill, and Oftered are all opening their gates—”
“General Gloriam and General Diomedes, the Cyclops, are both on the trade road from Elvallian—”
“Someone answer the speaking stone! Get an Architect! Commander Eirnos is on the line!”
Paige halted as Ken let her listen to the flurry of voices from the speaking stone. She squinted, and Ken reached for a [Message] scroll. The [Diplomat] had a better understanding of what he was seeing.
Ranxel, Yoill, and Oftered were all cities further inland of Talenqual. If what he thought was happening was right…the Forgotten Wing company was marching its troops across the continent. Turning them out of garrisons in their controlled cities and forming a line. If you drew on a map, you might make a lovely little line across the main trade routes straight from Talenqual to…
Elvallian.
Ken wasn’t a [Strategist], but he bet it was less obvious if soldiers moved around Forgotten Wing territory. This was the very obvious column of Forgotten Wing company soldiers.
“I think the Titan wants to meet Erin Solstice.”
Ken commented to Paige. She gave him a goggle-eyed look, and he counted.
“That’s four War Walkers. I’m pretty sure those are Centaurs, not [Riders].”
Lizardfolk, Dullahans, Selphids, and sometimes Humans and other species. Ken glanced at Paeth, the Fraerling City. Too dangerous and magically capable for even lesser mercenary companies to take a shot at them. He eyed the War Walkers slowly advancing on Talenqual.
“The Titan doesn’t, uh—doesn’t go for diplomacy much, does he?”
Paige gave Ken a pale-faced attempt at a smile. In response, Kenjiro suppressed the flutter in his stomach and gave Paige a serious look.
“I’m pretty sure this is his diplomacy. And I think Erin Solstice has somewhere to be.”
“What do you think happens if she tells him no?”
Paige looked over Talenqual’s walls, and Kenjiro couldn’t resist a smile.
“I’d love to see it. In someone else’s city.”
He and Paige listened a while until the [Engineer] flinched and sighed.
“Oh, great. They’re blowing horns.”
