Ilekrome was sick and tired of Fraerlings on the engineering teams pestering him about it. Erin was largely guiltless, but Heish hesitated.
“I didn’t see those requests.”
“They go through me, first, or Civitican Loust.”
“Well, a resort like that would be good for morale, Ilekrome.”
The Enchanter gave Heish a sinister look.
“How about a hotel for couples or parties of sensuous delights? With over two hundred spells—not to mention over a hundred items for the engineering department to work on—as well? Does that sound like a good use of Fraerling time right now?”
Heish thought about it as Erin stared at Ilekrome and then at the [Engineers].
“Which one of them asked for that?”
“The one waving her hat. Don’t make eye contact.”
“She put her name on the project? I say…let them have fun, Ilekrome. If not right now while we’re rebuilding, put it in front of the council.”
That was Guidance Heish for you. Ilekrome closed his eyes a second. Then brightened up. Well, if she was going to back it, he didn’t have to take responsibility. Some of those ideas were really interesting. Perverse, but interesting…
 
——
 
The tour continued, and while nothing was as dramatic as the tower, Fraerlings were both operating completely untouched businesses and repairing their city. They had [Repair] spells, so it was mostly reconstruction or, as Erin noticed, reinforcement of buildings.
“I keep seeing the slimes in Talenqual. We might get them in our sewers, so I’m recommending an anti-slime policy, or we start recruiting adventurers along with earthquake proofing…”
A bunch of Fraerlings were standing over an open sewer grate; there was no foul smell keeping Fraerlings away. A simple scent charm did for that, and Erin remarked on the Fraerlings’ magic.
“You really are the most magically advanced species in the world. Can you really make me into a Human—a Tallfolk again so easily?”
“With an [Enlarge Person] spell? No problem. Your form takes it remarkably well thanks to being polymorphed. Our trial last time proves it works; we’ll give you a draught, but it won’t be hard changing you from tall to small. Brewing enough of it for you as a Tallfolk is actually the only prohibitor as a cost.”
They were striding past a museum of Fraerling history that Ilekrome wistfully observed Erin didn’t even seem inclined to stop for. The [Innkeeper]’s eyes glinted.
“Really? Well, let’s see how I do when you make me a Tallfolk, but I have a request for you when that moment comes…”
Ilekrome blinked, and Erin just kept walking faster. Heish waved at a very sad [Museum Curator] in apologies. For all of Paeth’s sights—Erin was quite literally speed walking through most of the city.
It wasn’t that she was dismissive of Paeth; Erin’s head didn’t stop turning. It was more like she had priorities. What they were, Ilekrome didn’t understand at first, and he was beginning to get a bit hurt on behalf of his city. That was until Erin ran into some of Paeth’s citizens.
They were all about, mostly just staring at her, but again, with less of the…intimidation, awe, hatred, or any other emotion than, say, a citizen of Pallass or Liscor or even another species of Baleros might view her with.
She was a Tallfolk more than she was the Goblinfriend of Izril. So, really, many Fraerlings came over to shake her hand.
“Miss. What’s it like being tall?”
“…Normal? I think.”
Erin gave a child a blank look as they stopped by a huge shop run by a [Confectioner] of all people. The boy stared at Erin.
“Don’t you fall over your feet being so tall up?”
“I try not to.”
She went back to watching the proprietor at work. A single piece of sugarcane made a lot of sugar, and so a Fraerling running the shop was currently making taffy that was, to Erin’s view, longer than she was. He kept stretching it out, and when the children queuing up for it with huge eyes finally got the hot taffy—bright yellow—the [Confectioner], with a wink to Ilekrome, began dicing the taffy up into little cubes.
Then he added some powdered sugar so they wouldn’t stick together, put them in a bag, and there you had a lovely snack. Ilekrome got a bag, and so did Heish. The man leaned over the counter at his next, small client.
“Taffy?”
“Yes, please! Here’s my sweets allotment! It’s my first time having one.”
Fraerlings didn’t generally have many worries about food beyond tooth rot, but one still couldn’t ask for the most expensive dish all the time. So there were tickets for special treats one could get per week. The [Confectioner] gravely inspected the ticket, and the boy danced from foot to foot, waiting for a bag of taffy.
“Very well then. Here you go.”
The [Confectioner] slowly measured the taffy out, then cut what looked like a foot of it—relative to Fraerlings—off and passed it over the counter. The little Fraerling boy’s eyes nearly popped out of his sockets.
“…That’s a lot of candy.”
Erin saw the other children go wild with delight, and Ilekrome munched on his much smaller, bite-sized pieces.
“Ah, to be young again. Don’t eat it all at once! I’d ask for it in a few pieces or share it with your family.”
He called off to the boy, who was holding the egregious amounts of taffy as if he didn’t know what to actually do with it.
“Can I offer you a huge piece or more bite-sized ones? The huge piece is actually hard to eat; the children love it, though.”
The candy-maker addressed Erin as he divested himself of most of his recently-made taffy. He had bright green twists on the ends of a huge mustache, and with his outfit, he seemed like the spirit of candy himself.
“A small bag of…I’ll take the taffy. And some of those honey orbs. Why not?”
He obligingly packed them up, and Erin began to chew on one of the pieces of honey with a liquid interior. You would have thought she’d grow tired of honey, but sweetness was eternal.
“I hope it’s the best taffy you’ve ever had in your life.”
“I think you could say that. I can’t really say how much taffy I’ve had in my life, though.”
“Good enough for me!”
The [Confectioner] knew she was the Tallfolk, but they chatted at his counter as Erin asked the obvious questions.
“So you don’t get paid, but you run this shop.”
“Money’s not the same with Tallfolk as it is with us. I enjoy my work. I had to work hard to level up—that’s a reward in itself. I thought about changing jobs, but Architect Ilekrome actually talked me into reopening after the war. Everyone needs sweet things.”
Ilekrome was a regular here and waved a hand as he and Heish murmured about next locations. They had an eye on Erin and saw her politely resting her arms on the counter, not quite smiling, but looking—amiable?
She was supposed to be an [Innkeeper], though. Ilekrome expected Erin to have the same kind of charisma as a [Bard] at that level, but he didn’t sense it. The [Confectioner] was all too hospitable, though, and let Erin see how he worked and talked over the craft of making a lot of sweets.
“—Cake, now, we had variants of before we heard about the Tallfolk craze. But we have a lot of the goods—I think your inn made some of it? Cookies? I’m no [Baker], so I just supply some of the sugar to associates. I specialize in taffy, spun sugar, and the like. Do you have any recipes you could teach me?”
Erin hesitated as he turned to her.
“I could…there were a few in my inn. I don’t know if we have the time for me to do more than describe. And I have a cooking Skill, so I don’t know if it’s replicable.”
“That works.”
She began to describe a few items on her menu, but midway through stopped. Erin peered at the confectioner’s bright shop, then out his windows. She seemed to lose interest, again, in all the sugar and delights of a Fraerling city that had seldom known scarcity. Erin stopped chewing on the honey orbs she’d been relishing and looked at the [Confectioner]. She hesitated—then cleared her throat.
“So. How rough was it?”
The Fraerling taking notes stopped. Ilekrome and Heish’s heads rose from the table they’d found, and the [Confectioner] turned to Erin.
He had been—politely fascinated by his visitor, keen to show off. But their conversation had been light. Now—like someone throwing a bowling ball onto a piece of stretched-out cloth—it grew heavy.
“—I’ve certainly never lived through anything like it.”
That was what the man managed after a while. He felt at his mustache’s frosted tips and laughed. Hoarsely.
“The first thing I thought, before I knew how bad it was, was how annoying it was that I couldn’t get my hair dyed because of the curfew. I like the look, you see. Then I heard the Tallguard were dying—this was before anyone found Paeth. When we were under siege, I don’t think I washed my face for days. Funny what stops mattering.”
His head went to a window. The man pointed aimlessly.
“When I saw a hole appear in the walls and someone poke their head through…a gigantic face covered in blood. That was the kind of thing you hear about in horror stories. The kind of nightmare you have, but it was real. Compared to that?”
He looked around.
“This is a pleasant dream. I’m still wondering if I’ll wake up. It makes me feel wrong, making taffy like before.”
Ilekrome was inhaling and exhaling at his table. He hadn’t brought it up with—everyone in Paeth had a story like that. Guidance Heish was half-turned, as if ready to get up—but the young woman resting at the counter just nodded.
“What’s your name?”
“Booste.”
She offered him the faintest of smiles, but it faded away as the [Innkeeper] leaned there. After a while, she spoke.
“So they broke into the city?”
Booste’s smile didn’t quite vanish, but it was as if he saw something else through the window besides the sunlight.
“Oh, yes. Everyone was getting ready to evacuate, but—well, I gave up my ticket. Then they were right at the entrance there. Swinging a sword around. Tallguard flying about, and I thought the next thing I’d see was the entire city wall going down. But it didn’t happen. And then we teleported—ever since the cleanup, it’s felt more like a dream.”
He paused and looked at Erin.
“I suppose it’s strange to hear us talk about this kind of thing. You…you’ve lived through a lot of disasters, haven’t you? They were playing them on one of the big screens in the main plaza. All the times you’ve nearly died. For us, there was only ever this time.”
Erin half-shook her head.
“I don’t count how many times I nearly die. If you say it was the worst moment of your life or any other—it was. Comparing it is pointless, isn’t it?”
“True. True.”
Booste took a breath. Then he looked at her. A few more people had come in for treats, but they’d stopped when they heard the conversation at the counter.
“—How do you get through it?”
The question came out suddenly, but Erin Solstice didn’t flinch. She turned and rested with her back to the counter, staring at that hole in the city. As if imagining a giant with a sword there. Face covered with blood, a snarl on the Lizardman’s lips as he slashed, trying to kill everything. Fear and madness—
Ilekrome remembered that. Erin could only imagine, but the young woman seemed to know. Booste asked her one of those impossible questions. Asked her to…make some sense of it. A job for a [Thought Healer] or [Philosopher].
Or maybe an [Innkeeper].
She took a long look at the walls being rebuilt, at where Tallguard were mustering, at the city—which was being redeveloped to keep population centers further from the walls, which would be reinforced. What Erin said was this:
“It’s not my place to talk about…defences. Or the Tallguard’s tactics or equipment. I’m sure your Architects have made contingency plans. More escape routes. Even bases to evacuate to.”
Ilekrome twitched, and he and Heish looked away innocently as they sat at their table. Booste and the other Fraerlings glanced at Erin. The [Innkeeper] paused.
“Next time, I hope Paeth is prepared.”
The [Confectioner] paused in cleaning off his work stations.
“Next time?”
Erin nodded.
“Because there will be a next time. That’s what I’d say. Next time—no one will be ready. But if you were to do anything in this pleasant dream, prepare for next time, Mister Booste.”
She turned her head, and he paused, a spatula for cutting taffy in one hand. Erin’s eyes had that same look as before. Ilekrome began to rise, but Heish tugged him down. So he listened.
“If you’re lucky, you’ll die of old age before the ‘next time’ occurs. But if you want to do anything? Learn to fight. Plan an escape route; prepare yourself. Whatever you feel is best. That’s what you can do.”
It was Confectioner Booste’s turn to lean on his counter. He paused, and his voice was low.
“By that logic, it seems we should all join the Tallguard, Miss.”
“Maybe. If next time comes, everyone being in your Tallguard would be better, wouldn’t it? But that’s your choice. When you’re satisfied with whatever you’ve done—learned to use a sword, bought a crossbow—I’d go back to work here. The sweets are good. Great.”
Erin took a bite of taffy, and Booste looked at her.
“What purpose does that serve, Miss? Because we have to work? You lived through multiple…and you went back to running an inn?”
He seemed to be trying to parse through this logical inconsistency. For a reply, Erin paused, stared at the ceiling, and spoke slowly.
“Well, this time, I’m not going back to my inn in a hurry. But in general? You can learn to fight. Or—be the one who takes care of the soldiers, the adventurers, the heroes. Someone has to. Feed them as well.”
Again, the Fraerling man paused to stare at Erin. The [Innkeeper] flexed one hand, opening and closing it, and staring at her fingers. She turned to Booste.
“That’s what I do. It’s a choice. You? You may only live through one horror, if you’re lucky, Booste. I’m the [Innkeeper] of The Wandering Inn. I will see all of theirs. Do you envy me?”
She gave him a searching look, and he laughed hoarsely.
“Not at all. But I think I see…”
His voice trailed off, and Erin nodded. She sat back again, and her eyes roamed the shop, found Ilekrome’s eyes. She gave him a thin smile.
“Caring about people is hard work. It’s easier when I don’t have to.”
In the silence, Enchanter Ilekrome finished chewing on his taffy, and it was sweeter because for a second he thought he’d tasted a world without it. He swallowed, and Heish leaned over.
“Ah. There’s a dark charm to her.”
“Yes.”
Ilekrome agreed.
 
——
 
That was her appeal. Perhaps the [Innkeeper] had…lost something during the Winter Solstice and the sea battle. She certainly seemed changed.
