He had expected her to say she lured a group out of the room and fought them quickly, but killing the entire room in the brief window of time that she had been gone was… ridiculous. The amount of power she would need to do that was immense, and to do it so quickly and so quietly that they didn’t notice… He needed to see it for himself.

“Well, it’s getting late,” he said, recovering his composure somewhat. “So we should get going.”

“Hell yeah, bro,” said Leo. “I’m getting hungry.”

“I’m ready to go too,” said Eleanor.

“Then let’s head down.”

On the way down to the enormous cavern, the atmosphere somewhat returned to the casual, cheerful one they had before. Leonidas, at least, seemed like his usual self. Cassian knew it was a front though. Leo had no filter, and often spoke before he thought, which made him seem unintelligent, but in many ways, he was much smarter than Cassian. He certainly had better instincts, at least. He had definitely had the same thoughts about how impressive killing every single monster in the cavern was, and he was just hiding it better.

However, even Leo couldn’t maintain his attitude when they saw the scene within the cavern. Cassian had been expecting carnage, based on the state of the first spider that Eleanor killed. Blood and body parts everywhere, painting the floor and walls red, dismembered corpses strewn about, bloody roots piercing everything they could reach… Things like that. What he saw instead was an eerie scene of hundreds of monsters gathered in a circle that were simply… dead. No wounds, no signs of struggle. If not for the fact that they weren’t breathing, he might have thought they were sleeping.

Not all were completely unharmed, but he noticed that the only injured monsters were the bats, and they only looked like they had been injured falling from the ceiling. None of them looked like they had been directly attacked.

What the hell happened in here? he thought.

“There should be room around the edge,” said Eleanor. “So we can walk by without stepping on anything.”

Cassian stared at her for a few seconds, then gulped.

“R– Right,” he said. “Let’s get moving.”

They walked in silence for a few seconds, then she spoke again.

“I can only do this to weak monsters.”

“Ah,” said Cassian, not sure how to respond.

“And it won’t work on people,” she added quickly.

“Right.”

There were another few seconds of silence.

“Please don’t tell anyone what you saw.”

This last sentence was much quieter, and when Cassian looked over at her, she looked mortified.

Cute, he immediately thought.

Then, he mentally slapped himself. As cute as she looked, she had just killed hundreds of monsters in mere minutes, seemingly without even touching them or using any mana. That wasn’t cute. That was terrifying.

…But she’s still cute.

“I won’t tell anyone,” he finally said before nudging Leo.

“Sure, I won’t either,” said Leo.

Eleanor breathed a sigh of relief.

The rest of the journey down to the silver checkpoint was much quieter. Both Cassian and Leo were a bit shellshocked and it was very clear that Eleanor didn’t want to talk about it. Cassian still had no idea what she could possibly have done to kill an entire room of monsters without even injuring them, but he almost didn’t want to know. He was scared of the truth.

When they reached the checkpoints and were awarded their silver badges, he and Leo quickly bade her farewell and they went their separate ways. When they were sure that she was well outside of earshot, they both stopped and turned to each other.

“Bro, what the fuck just happened?” asked Leo.

“I wish I knew.”

Elise speedwalked the whole way home, extremely embarrassed. Her original plan was just to tell them that she had gotten a look at the monsters, and that she agreed they would be too difficult to get past. Unfortunately, she had failed to notice that her bloodless slaughter hadn’t been quite as bloodless as she thought. That bat that landed next to her had shattered its skull, and apparently a few drops of blood splashed high enough to hit her face, and she didn’t notice.

Of course, she still could have recovered from there, but with one cat out of the bag, she started debating the merits of letting the rest out too. Or at least some of the rest. She still wanted to get down to the silver checkpoint as soon as possible, and if she turned back then, she would have to wait at least another day, and probably more. Additionally, Cassian and Leonidas’ Skill had intrigued her, and she wanted to do another subtle test or two, if possible. Ultimately, she decided to attempt {Fey Bargaining}. If it went through, she would tell them the truth about how many she killed, and if their Skill blocked it, then she would lie, and they would just turn back.

She was actually surprised when the Skill took hold, and now bound by her own deal, she had to tell them the truth. For a few minutes, she hoped it would be fine, but those hopes were dashed as soon as they reached the large chamber. The two of them never looked at her the same after that.

I shouldn’t have done that.

That phrase was one she had been saying on repeat for hours. She barely even remembered how she had tricked herself into thinking that was a good idea. It was something about how everyone in Aetheric Illusions would find out at least some parts of her abilities, and that it wasn’t a big deal. Clearly, though, her flustered mind was not to be trusted when making logical decisions, as evidenced by their attitudes afterward. The only silver lining was that she had managed to use {Fey Bargaining} to keep them quiet, but even then, she wasn’t sure if that would actually work. For all she knew, the Skill could only take hold, but the consequences of breaking the deal would be blocked by their defensive Skill.

There was nothing she could do about it now though. She would just have to live with the consequences of her own foolishness. At least not all of those consequences were bad, though. After all, she had killed quite a few monsters, and that was worth something in the System's eyes.

When she returned to the Grays’ house and got to her room, she flopped into her bed before finally pulling up her System interface and looking through all the notifications she had gotten. The vast majority were kill notifications, and annoyingly, only one was a leveling notification. Even as easy as it had been, she was a little annoyed that the entire cavern of monsters was only worth a single level. It was mostly understandable though, considering the levels of the monsters she killed.

Alongside the kill notifications and the single level notification, there were also many Skill level-up notifications. {Royal Presence} had shot straight to level 27, {Royal Decree} had somehow gotten to 32, and {Forced Feeling} made it to 71. She suspected that those three Skills would continue to level rapidly if she spent more time in the Dungeon.

The last type of notification, however, was one she hadn’t expected. Buried beneath the hundreds of kill notifications, Elise had unlocked, not one, not two, but three Skill Quests, and one was already completed.
