She used her potent death bolt spray, this time adding amplification, extra range, and maximizing the damage. A vastly more potent blast erupted from her elemental as bolts flew everywhere, joining a dark swarm as the other operators began to figure out their minions.

Next, she proceeded to sweep out across the battlefield while continually blasting her bolts. As soon as she encountered the cluster of monsters Sabri was picking up, she unleashed her melee abilities.

Ooh, I have Cleave! Her minion wielded a great scythe that sliced across the arcane spawn, shredding them, leaving a spray of splinters while applying a devastating healing reduction debuff. I wonder if I can use the Death Infusion support on the melee attacks? No sooner had she thought of it than she put her idea into action, discovering that yes, indeed, she could. This guy is awesome!

A few more swings and she verified she could also use Amplify Casting and Maximize Damage on the infusion, but not the enhanced range. She was still trying to figure out the metamagic skills when her minion chased a monster across into the arcane circle. Instantly, Malika felt a shift in her connection, but her control never wavered. Instead, she found herself suddenly controlling a Theuronic Crystal arcane elemental with an entirely different set of abilities.

Grinning, she released the powerful Arcane Blast, but every single uncontrolled enemy was an arcane elemental, entirely unbothered by arcane damage, so, after a few more experiments, she moved it back across the line, observing how it shifted forms yet again.

Easy enough, she thought, growing more familiar with her borrowed abilities and skills. Death damage could hurt the arcane elementals, and it grew progressively more powerful as she and her fellow operators drove the Death Amplification higher and higher. Somewhere, she was certain, Seth would be cackling.

She was still experimenting when she suddenly ran out of mana. The Reaper of Ruin imploded, collapsing in on itself with just the crumpled remnants falling to the ground. Moments later, the crystal above her head shattered, and the platform disintegrated below her feet, and she found herself falling, the connection to her elemental snapped like a twig.

“Retreat,” Lyeneru called out. “Mato can’t take much more.”

Malika’s head snapped to the side, taking in Mato’s wildly oscillating health, and she teleported instantly to his side, pouring her healing magic into his body. She kept up the continuous stabilizing stream, but even with her relentless abilities, there was no way she could keep it up for long.

She summoned a pair of recall potions to her hand, waiting only long enough for the closest adventurers to retreat before she evacuated Mato and herself.

Ali glanced down, studying her minions, but everything was just as ready as it had been the last six times she had checked, not to mention all the prior attempts. Her only change this time had been adding two Eyes of Agnor to her army, lightning and arcane damage to hopefully balance out the Soul Well Corruption that was healing the undead spawned by the boss whenever it was in its death phase.

She ranged wider with her senses, verifying that her bosses and monsters within the town limits of Myrin’s Keep and the refugee elves’ forest just outside the battlements were still despawned. She hadn’t been mind-controlled in more attempts than she could count now, but she wasn’t about to take chances with the lives of low-levels, crafters, or the classless townsfolk.

She grimaced as she downed yet another of Basil’s foul-tasting concoctions; nasty, but they really did help with the nausea induced by the Soul Well Corruption. She chased it down with a marginally more palatable Death Protection Elixir, trying to wash away the lingering foulness with the goopy black syrup.

“Begin,” Lyeneru announced.

The tanks rushed forward, Mato in the center, with Sabri and Havok flanking him. The mind-control crystal operators followed closely behind, their movements light and agile, contrasting dramatically against the power and weight of the tanks. The Avatar of Annihilation reacted the same way it always did by blasting everyone with its powerful arcane energy, an opening move everyone was well familiar with. With a minimum of wasted movement, the tanks split the Mana Echo minions, peeling them off to leave Mato alone in the center with the boss. The operators vanished in rapid succession, and the deafening cracks of the black lightning arced down to dominate their chosen elemental minions. A perfect dance of teamwork, practiced and honed over days of grueling, repeated failures.

“Attack,” Ali commanded. The platform operators had perfected their technique; nobody had missed their targets in many attempts, and it was now reliable enough that both Ali and Seth were risking bringing a full complement of minions in an effort to boost their group’s damage and shorten the duration of the fight.

A roar of berserk fury shook the air, and several tons of giant troll leapt into the fray, landing with a crash of ice and blood, twin mithril greataxes biting deep into the crystalline arcane elemental. Dark shadows opened and coughed up a black-scaled kobold assassin, bleeding trails of midnight-black void magic from her eyes and the wicked daggers she wielded. From below Ali’s aerial vantage point, ice mages and sylvan storm archers unleashed their magical maelstrom.

The Avatar of Annihilation belched up a swarm of buzzing, chittering, crawling arcane spiders that flowed across the corrupted ground like a relentless wave.

“Bolts!”

The single Malevolent Lirasian Oak lurking at the back of the raid unleashed a veritable storm of dark bolts, filling the air with the putrid stench of composting vegetation and joining the hail of pure death orbs from the four mind-controlled Mana Echoes. Balls of holy fire detonated high in the sky amid the clashing swarms, blasting elementals and launching rapidly disintegrating purple limbs and shattered carapaces whizzing through the air.

Deciding on specific minions for this fight had been a real challenge. On one hand, the steadily building Death Amplification made death-affinity magic extraordinarily powerful, but the moment they switched the boss – which was now a core part of their overall strategy – those death-affinity attacks suddenly became worthless.

If only I had switchable affinity monsters, she thought, glancing at the Mana Echoes below covetously.

The giant rot treant was Ali’s only affordance to take advantage of the greatly enhanced power of death magic. Really, she had included it primarily to boost the healers’ mana after it composted the summoned elemental corpses – essential in a fight where the corruption flowing from the Well of Souls constantly ate the raid’s mana. Besides, Seth had brought far more than enough death magic for the entire raid.

“Main tank Rend is at fifty percent,” Calen announced.

“Main tank Arcane Amplification is at three hundred percent,” Ali said. Her job was to track the magical amplification debuff. Her own did not matter – she blocked most of the hits with barriers anyway – but every single attack from the arcane form of the Avatar of Annihilation stacked another percent, and Mato was running quite high already. She could probably gauge the level just by the grimaces, winces, and narrowing of eyes among the furiously casting healers.

“Begin the switch,” Lyeneru announced. “Destroy the minions.”

The death bolt storm from the four mind-controlled Reapers accelerated, suddenly taking on a much darker, more potent aspect as the controllers unleashed every available metamagic skill and enhancement in an effort to burn through their remaining mana pools. The rest of the raid’s support casters had learned to save their buffs for this moment, loading the Mana Echoes up with transient power as they went out in a final blaze of glory. The arcane elemental swarms melted under the onslaught, and the health of the boss fell rapidly.

Suddenly, something clawed at Ali’s mind, twisted insanity trying to worm its way in. A brilliant flare of light ruled a perfectly straight line from Calen’s bow into the sky, and a sudden flash and detonation destroyed a crimson eye that had come to spy on her.

It never gives up.

But Calen’s vigilance never faltered; she trusted him to keep the corrupted eldritch eyes off her back and focused on the most challenging aspect of the fight. The featureless black reaper elementals imploded, followed shortly by the spontaneous disintegration of the mind-control crystals, dumping their operators out in mid-air.

Mato carefully backed up, drawing the giant arcane elemental out of the concentric glowing runic circles. The instant he crossed the outer border, a powerful transformation took hold of the towering boss. Domain mana surged through the giant elemental, and Ali counted three distinct domain magic skills triggering in rapid succession. The giant, glowing purple elemental filled with darkness from within, and in moments, the outer form of the elemental bubbled and warped. A broad chest appeared as an expanse of featureless black, a shrouded face emerged, and powerful arms sprouted, hovering above a black cloud. A giant black scythe extended rapidly from its ‘hands,’ culminating in a sharp, gleaming, curved blade that dripped death mana.

Four identical Reaper of Ruin minions appeared in a ripple of domain magic, followed by four new crystal platforms that shot up into the air at breakneck speed.

The death aspect of the Avatar of Annihilation drew back the massive scythe, intent on the dire bear backing away before it, but a shining figure, clad in mithril and steel, stepped between the scythe and the bear and shouted. Sabri’s shout boomed out across the battlefield, making the ground shake and the air shimmer to the rolling timbre of her voice. The sheer power of her skill arrested the scythe for an instant, and by the time the monster struck her with it, she was already blocking.

Ali found herself nodding in appreciation. Perfect.

“Tanks switched successfully,” Lyeneru announced. “Resume damage.”

Havok expertly collected all four Mana Echoes by himself, giving Mato a healthy buffer of time for his Rend debuff to drop, and dragged them back across the threshold, triggering them all to transform to arcane simultaneously within the center of the rune circle.

As the boss and its minions inverted their affinities, arcing bolts of lightning burst downward, and Ali began to redirect her minions as the entire raid pivoted strategies. She stopped her treant from shooting; death magic was worthless now. And just in time, too. The boss reacted by summoning waves of ghouls and skeletal mages, in dark contrast to the prior swarms of glowing purple elementals. While Mato and Havok scrambled to collect the freshly spawned undead, Ali sent her Berserker on a Blood Vortex jaunt through the entire pack.

“Switching to curses,” Seth announced calmly as most of his undead minions backed up to create a protective wall of creaking bones and rotting flesh around the squishier healers and mages.

From the center of the runic circle, vast spheres of purple arcane explosions burst out as the controllers began their assault.

“Arcane bolts,” Ali said, speaking demonic to the Eyes of Agnor that loomed large behind her, adding a powerful slew of arcane damage to the rest of her onslaught. Then she erected barriers to soak up extra damage and collect mana, and began channeling Empowered Summoner.

While the two forms of the Avatar, death and arcane, seemed mostly symmetrical, the presence of the corrupted Well of Souls tipped the balance dramatically in favor of the undead spawns. They were far harder to kill, with their mana and health being continually refreshed by the aura flowing out in foul waves. Holy fireballs were excellent, but they hadn’t proved quite enough last time.

This time, however, Havok managed to get a solid lock on the bulk of the undead monsters, with Mato gathering up the stragglers and dropping them into his consecration aura, and so, Ali and the rest of the raid unleashed all their area damage into the crush. But it was when her Eyes of Agnor teleported in and breathed Arcane Mana Burn across the clumped up skeletal mages that the tide suddenly turned. Skeletons flattened like wheat in a hurricane, and to her immense surprise, the raid stabilized.

She studied Sabri carefully and then announced her findings. “Main tank Death Amplification at two hundred and fifty percent.” It was not quite critical yet, but there was the additional death damage from the corruption itself to consider. Calling the switch early would not be a bad idea.

“Main tank Rend at forty percent.”

Oh, Sabri avoided a lot of hits, she thought, hearing the unexpectedly low number for the physical armor rend.

“Begin tank switch,” Lyeneru announced. “Burn the Mana Echoes.”

She agrees, Ali thought, approving of Lyeneru’s early call.

“Compost now,” Ali instructed. The healers were beginning to get a little low on mana, and so was she, and she could clear the battlefield of undead corpses for the next round while they managed the switch. Dark roots burst from the corrupted ground, hungrily consuming the undead corpses, and clearing the path for Havok and Sabri to reach the center of the arcane runic circle, where Mato waited for the switch.

The switches were by far the most dangerous moment in the fight, but for Ali, it simply meant holding her minions back so they didn’t mess with the tank swap, and studying the domain magic a little closer.

And so, with so much of her mind suddenly freed up, she did not miss the faint, unmistakable taint of undead entering her domain hundreds of kilometers from ruined Ciradyl. Lots of them. Eyes widening in surprise, Ali shot her awareness outward, rippling across her mana and minions searching everywhere to find it.

Myrin’s Keep! The town is under attack!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
