“Ali, can you slow down?” Calen said. “I got less than a third of that.” It was late, and they sat in a crowded private meeting room with the guild’s best strategists, all exhausted after a frustrating day. There had been no lack of ideas, but none of them had shown any real potential, and after the first hour of discussion, they’d begun circling the same patterns, going around and around like a dog endlessly chasing its tail. We need a break.

Ali stopped, staring at him with a perplexed expression full of exasperation. She was obviously very excited about the strange golden crystal she was waving around emphatically – enough so that she had barged into the strategy meeting she had initially declined, and launched a soliloquy of incomprehensible magical theory.

“Ugh, sorry,” Ali said. “Here, see for yourself.”

She handed him the golden crystal she had been waving around like some talisman against doom. It nestled in his hand with a deceptive weight, glowing under its own power with the characteristic signature golden hue of Ali’s magic.

“Err… I can’t –” he said.

“Sorry, here,” Ali said, sharing the details.

Arcanite Disruptor – level 175Single-use crystal, designed and crafted for a specific task.Charge: Linked Magic. Cast Dismantle followed by Runic Script. Charges: 1/1.Requirements: Intelligence 100.Created by Aliandra Amariel.Artifact – Arcanite

He eyed it skeptically. Whatever this was, its dense, incomprehensible magical formations were far beyond his ability to discern.

“This doesn’t help,” he said, trying to be patient, but his willpower was waning. Ali had clearly made some sort of breakthrough since the fight, and he really wanted to understand. He just hoped it would provide some advantage in the fight to unblock the stalemate – nothing he or the others could think of had allowed even the tiniest iota of progress against the dangerous elemental boss, and without defeating this one, they would be barred from entering the inner areas of the dungeon. Failing here would allow the dungeon time to reclaim its territory or leave it battling Ali’s dungeon forever. Allowing his hope to reach for the best outcome, he asked, “Will this somehow neutralize the mind control crystals? Is that what you’re saying?”

“No…” she said, exasperation leaking through her voice.

Calen frowned, and his hope vanished like a popped soap bubble. He glanced down at the extremely expensive thing in his hand and then back at Ali’s expectant face. “So, what does it do then?”

“That’s what I was trying to tell you,” she said, her voice rising emphatically as she gestured with both hands like she was miming shaking him. “It dismantles a few key runes, and then the linked magic takes the formation I created with Runic Script and fills the gaps. If you use this on the platform, you should be able to mind control whatever you want.”

“Wait, are you sure?” he asked, stunned for a moment, unsure if he was understanding her revelation properly.

“Yes, of course,” she said. “I got control of one of the minion elementals for a fraction of a second before the other crystal platform took me out. I have its skill sheet; you can use it for strategy planning. Here.”

Race: ElementalActive Buffs: Elemental Ascendance, Mana Echo, Champion, RespawnClass: Theuronic Crystal – level 245- Arcane Slam – level 159Mana: Make up to three melee attacks using blunt or piercing arcane protrusions that do weapon damage +3697% [skill + strength].Physical, Melee, Strength- Rend Armor – level 135Mana: Empower a Physical, Melee attack to do weapon damage +3673% [skill + strength]. Empowered attacks rend your opponent’s armor, applying a 1% reduction per hit. Duration: 30 seconds.Physical, Melee, Strength- Melee Prowess – level 105You are proficient at fighting with blunt or piercing natural weapons and forms. You gain +250% to critical damage.Physical, Melee, Mastery, Intelligence- Arcane Blast – level 91Mana: Release a devastating blast of Arcane energy, hitting all enemies around you. Range: 410.3 feet.Mana: Empower an Arcane spell with a known meta magic.

Known Metamagic: Amplified Casting, Increased Area of Effect, Maximize Damage.Arcane, Area, Intelligence- Arcane Infusion – level 123Mana: Enhance a Melee attack or Spell to do additional Arcane damage.Arcane, Support, Intelligence- Elemental Ascendance – level 108Mana: Your Strength, Intelligence, and Wisdom are increased by +249.3% [40 + skill + base strength / 10]. Reserve: 20%Physical, Buff, Strength- Theuronic Vision – level 81You can perceive mana, damage, and injuries, and share the perception skills of your minions. Arcane, Perception- Arcane Armor – level 100Armor +7678 [class x 12 + skill x 12 + strength].Resistance +8104 [skill x 7 + intelligence x 2].Mana: Summon an arcane Barrier within your body to reinforce your armor.Arcane, Defense, IntelligenceDomain Magic- Damage Multiplier: x2.5 to all attack and spell damage- Alternate Form (Reaper of Ruin)- Damage Amplification (Arcane)Aptitudes- Arcane (Affinity): +150% spell power to Arcane magic- Immunities (Racial): Arcane- Mana Echo (Racial): You can use mana to pay for any costs. You have no health or stamina. Effects that apply to health or stamina apply to mana instead- Flight (Racial): You can flyAttributes- Vitality: 679- Strength: 3538 (+2525)- Endurance: 476- Dexterity: 536- Perception: 382- Intelligence: 3702 (+2642)- Wisdom: 3122 (+2228)Armor: 11206Physical Damage Reduction: 62.02%Resistance: 11044Magical Damage Reduction: 61.68%Mana: 513240/641550 (128310 Reserved)

“Holy… Ali! Is that…” Calen gasped, positively reeling with the implications. They had been struggling so much with the random mind-control magic, with no approach anybody had come up with that he considered could be viable. With this, he could use a powerful elemental minion against the boss. “Did you… mind-control the boss’s minion?”

“Err, yes, that’s what I was trying to tell you,” Ali said. “I used the platform and took control of the Mana Echo. The minion.”

“This changes everything!” Calen said. “It’s like… cheating!”

“Cheating? You, Calen?” Malika snickered.

“Yes! No! I mean – you know what I mean!” Calen cried, pretending to swat her as she held out a placating hand, chuckling at her own joke.

“One minor problem. You have to get it before they control you,” Ali said, frowning. “But the statistical approach seemed to work…”

“Statistical?”

“The cloud of minions I made. My theory is that, in the absence of a controller directing it, the mind-control spell picks targets at random, biased toward closer targets,” Ali said. “I had just enough time to get on the platform without being caught.”

“Is this thing a single-use item? A consumable?” Vivian asked, picking up the crystal with considerable interest. “This must be worth more than two hundred gold.”

“Yes,” Ali answered. “It requires such a large amount of mana to subvert a domain magic formation that I could only give it one charge. That’s also why I needed so much arcanite to make it. It burns the charge entirely, which was the only way I could avoid having it require an intelligence attribute somewhere north of two thousand.”

“So, we get one minion for one try?” Vivian asked, pursing her lips in thought.

Calen’s heart dropped again. He had been so excited about the possibilities that he hadn’t seen the obvious limitations.

“I can do a little better than that,” Ali answered, reaching forward with her hand, and suddenly, a pile of glittering golden artifacts spilled out onto the table. “I spent a grimoire variant on it; I can make more if we run out. I was thinking we could give them to people like Malika, who have unlimited combat teleportation and fast reflexes. The platforms have inertial damping using some really neat gravity runes, so once you’re on the platform, you can just concentrate on controlling the monster. I’m pretty sure these crystal platforms are magic artifacts repurposed from something else – there’s no real reason for the platform and the inertial damping unless it was originally intended for an operator to drive it, but the magic of the crystal is inextricably entwined with the platform itself.”

Malika nodded slowly. “Sounds like a plan.”

“The beginnings of a plan,” Vivian corrected tersely, but there was a hungry gleam in her eyes. “Details, people – I want contingencies, counter-arguments, failsafes. You all know the drill.”

Why do I ever doubt her? Calen wondered. Then, he turned his attention to the skill sheet of the monster Ali had revealed. Now, let’s see. What secrets can we exploit?

Malika hopped on one foot and then took off at a light jog behind the tanks, leading the group that had volunteered for mind control duties. Every single one of them seemed focused, brimming with fresh energy inspired by the new changes to their strategy.

From behind her, a glittering cloud took to the air, filling the skies – Ali’s swarm of golden flying shards.

She tracked her strike team with Soul Sight, keeping her eyes and her Infinite Perception trained on the boss and its minions. Her focus tightened as Mato approached that familiar invisible line, and the instant he crossed it, the Avatar of Annihilation reacted by unleashing an enormous blast of arcane energy and surged toward them, minions in tow, releasing echoes of the blast, most of which she dodged.

You have been afflicted with Arcane Amplification.Your Arcane Amplification has increased to 2.

When she saw Mato’s muscles flooding with an infusion of stamina energy to power his Charge skill, she shouted over the noise, “Go!”

She and her compatriots all took off, suddenly accelerating to maximum speed, for once allowed to pass the tanks. Malika sprinted through the air beside Devan, briefly jealous of the two mages who had enough range to simply teleport directly to their assigned platforms, but in less than a second, she was in range and stepped through the intervening distance as if it were simply not there.

Suddenly, she found herself standing on a purple glowing platform about four feet in diameter with a shining crystal hovering overhead. Jagged bolts of black lightning were already arcing between Ali’s flying minions, searching for the strong or powerful to dominate. The platform beneath her feet was strangely stable as the inertial damping effect clamped down to support her, just as Ali had explained, but the world outside was teetering and spinning crazily. She tuned out the disorienting scene, summoned the Arcanite Disruptor, and placed it carefully in the center of the runic formation. Right under the floating tethered crystal, just as instructed.

Here goes nothing, she thought, and triggered the charge.

It let out a stunningly bright flash of golden light, disintegrating into powder, and the magic shot into the platform like rain soaking into a parched landscape. Then, it twisted. The crystal above her head darkened dramatically, and she fixed her eyes on her assigned Mana Echo, which was contending with the tanks far below. Suddenly, she felt a mental connection to something.

It was an indescribable sensation, and yet Ali had prepared her for this moment. Without hesitation, she reached through it with her mind and searched the ground below, grasping with a sense she had never had before. Her vision and the synthetic perception suddenly aligned, and she found Havok tanking two of the minions just outside of the arcane circle. She reached for the nearest one through the bizarre connection, and the crystal reacted with a surge of dark power. A crack sounded as a black bolt of lightning shot toward the ground, piercing the minion Reaper of Ruin through the center of what passed for a head, and her connection shifted as the monster’s will fell beneath her control.

“Yoink,” she said, and then frowned at the rush of embarrassment at her childish response, but the stunning joy of finding herself controlling one of the boss’s own minions burned that away in a flash. Besides, nobody would be able to hear her over the crash of battle.

Focus, she told herself. Her job was to figure out how to control this monster and see how they might use it in battle. Calen had copied the abilities of the arcane Mana Echoes onto a study packet for each of them, offering suggestions for what they should try, but for this first attempt, she was controlling a death affinity elemental: a Reaper of Ruin. She would be flying blind, so to speak. The first thing she did was call up its status and skill sheet, recording it with a second experimental device Ali had given her. While it worked, she rapidly scanned through the skills. A melee attack, anti-heal melee support, melee mastery, aah, there it is, she thought as she found the death bolt area damage and death-affinity enhancement support skills. Oh boy, this guy is powerful!

She switched focus to the battlefield to take stock, discovering a disorienting blend of her own vision, Soul Sight, and the minion’s bizarre perception of mana, but the battle seemed stable at the moment. Mato tanked the boss in arcane form in the center of the runic circle, and thousands of arcane elementals were pouring skyward or crawling along the ground as it lit the world with consecutive arcane blasts. Ali’s swarm contended with the boss’s spawns in a sky-spanning aerial conflict that staggered the imagination. But most importantly, Malika counted four dark crackling arcs of lightning tethering flying platforms to Reapers of Ruin, and the freed-up tanks, Sabri and Havok, were now rushing around collecting the lesser, ground-based summons.

Malika activated her first ability, choosing the death bolt spell, while simultaneously enhancing the damage with the support skill that claimed to add additional death magic damage. A vast surge of power rippled through her minion as a veritable storm of dark energy burst outward, blasting toward the cloud of elementals in the air and the boss itself.

Holy shit, I’m a mage!

Mana drained through her connection in a way that drew her mind to her healing skill. Quickly, she studied her minion again, verifying that the death elemental also possessed only mana – a bizarre state without health or stamina. Most likely, it will die if I empty its mana pool.

She studied the death bolt skill a little closer, suddenly realizing that it had several metamagic options similar to the skills taken from the arcane version, and she hadn’t bothered to use any of them.

And it has no recharge!

