Not having time for this, I raised a hand without looking up from my status, "You know what, don't worry about it. I'm not joining anyone. Do whatever you want, guys. Don't mind me."

I stayed busy sending a variety of messages. Valgus let out a laugh before reaching out a hand and grabbing one of my shoulder spikes. He lifted me up, the ground around us cracking and fissuring. Valgus tilted his head at me, "I changed my mind. You're interesting. Join me or fight me. I'll let you choose."

I blinked, kind of stunned by his response. I frowned, "You just said I was disgusting. Now you want me to join you?"

Valgus gave me a warm grin, "I've been wrong far more than I've been right. Eldritch or not, you carry a strange smell and aura. I wish to test it or have it on my side."

I raised my brow, "Uh, any other options?"

"No. I told you what is acceptable. Speak only to answer what I've told you, nothing else, child."

I shoved his hand off me, taking a step back, "You know what, I'm kind of busy organizing my guild right now. Do you mind chatting once we're on Leviathan-7? We both have a lot to handle before we head out, and this is a waste of time."

He bent down, mana filling into his tattoos. He scoffed, "Then you've chosen to fight." He dashed forwards and struck my torso. His fist and arm bone snapped while I dragged several feet back. I narrowed my eyes at Valgus and stated,

"Alright, you made me an enemy."

He dashed in with a regular punch. I parried it with one hand while reaching out the other. I grasped his neck, strengthening myself with a dozen gravity wells. The Asura's skin sizzled at my touch, my mana causing heat to build in my arm until it sheened white. Mana kept siphoning in until the glow turned a deep blue in color.

I lifted Valgus off the rocky floor. Valgus smiled down at me, "You don't like to fight? Hah. Lies."

He raised his arms, his cipheric runes empowering with Baldowah's strength. Valgus swung his fists down. My arm broke and cleaved apart, the metal rupturing while silver blood splattered onto the ground. My heated blood melted the stone beneath us, and both splintered remnants of my arms hemorrhaged.

He ignored the density of my body, kind of like Althea did. Unphased by him, I tilted my head, keeping Valgus off the ground. I scoffed,

"Is that how you're going to stop me? Swinging your arms?"

Tearing my arms off stopped my physical hold, but my grip on gravity remained intact. Wires jerked into place, reconnecting my arms as quickly as he split them apart. I tightened my grip without missing a beat. Valgus growled out with joy, "Then once more."

Like an unstoppable force, Valgus waved his limbs with empowered ascendant mana and his cipheric runes. Whatever method he used worked well. He cleaved through my dense body with ease. In reality, it did nothing, like a child attacking a puddle. I reformed quicker than he could kill me.

Even subtle attacks of his turned me to pieces, yet those parts of myself crawled back to my body as if alive. My blood lurched back onto me, and my hand kept tightening even as he splintered my arms a dozen times over. Viens expanded on Valgus's neck. Other rulers gawked as a moment turned into several, Valgus struggling while I held him up.

My helmet grinned at him while I stated, "You're strong, Valgus. Far stronger than I am."

He kept swinging in futility. I pulled him close and murmured, "But I am beyond strength...Remember that."

The Asura loaded himself with ascendant mana, his entire body hardening. The shackles over him tethered out with psionic augments, and my gravity wells weakened before dispersing. Valgus reared his arms back and snapped three fists against my stomach. I keeled over, the physical impacts like Lehesion's tail smacks.

Portions of Valgus's mana spiraled with such density that plumes of it erupted at his sides. Those crimson streams laughed and cackled with a palpable bloodthirst. Engorged with energy, he uppercut my chest, and an ear-shattering boom echoed with a shockwave in all directions. It destroyed the ruins, the cipheric incantations, and me. I erupted out my back, my insides turned outwards.

Several rulers flew off into the distance. Valgus ripped my hand off of his neck. A bit of blood leaked off his lip, and the Asura licked it up with his tongue. He shouted with joy, "I was right. You're just an eldritch. No wonder that Overseer saw you with such disdain. Eldritch or not, you're a good fight, and that is something I crave."

With a gravity well, I pulled my body back together in a flash. I frowned, "You still have normal blood, huh?"

I frowned at him. I raised a hand, summoning a gravity well over him. Valgus grinned at me with a manic look in his eye, his body unaffected. He shouted, "No magic will ever touch me again."

I frowned, "Is that the psionic tethers or something?"

Valgus pounded his chest before roaring, "It is Baldowah's grace. It is over me, always and forever."

I held him in place with gravity wells seconds ago but whatever. Not having time to fight it out, I melted the ground beneath him, Valgus's feet sinking in. I lifted my hand, pluming the magma over him before turning it to rock. At the same time, I snapped my fingers and formed a singularity in front of him.

An explosion radiated into our surroundings, casting a thick, igneous cloud of ash over us. I melted the stone beneath me before sinking into it.

Once surrounded by rock, I melted the stone while shooting myself away. I kept myself in a magma bubble to silence the process, melting and solidifying stone as I passed through it.

Staying focused, I opened my status and went back to winning over my guildsmen. I'd handle this Valgus guy later when I had the time. Above, the ground quaked as Valgus blew up the rock above. I heard him through the stone and got a picture of him from his gravitational fluctuations. Valgus laughed before yelling, "You have powers I've never seen. Did you perhaps reincarnate? You smell of the Ruhl's, so perhaps you were possessed by one? A lich of one, perhaps?"

Shalahora murmured, "You intend to fight your way to victory then...And like this?"

Valgus turned to Shalahora with a wild smile. Valgus spread his hands, "Of course. To fight is to live. We do so for Baldowah, the ruler of the cosmos."

Shalahora dispersed while haunting out, "And his cosmos...He wishes for you to destroy it?"

Valgus swung where Shalahora was, "No. He wishes for its rejuvenation. He wants us to bring about change, and that change manifests in battle. In finality. In consequence. In outcome. Baldowah exists as a reason for our immortality granted by Schema."

Shalahora ebbed from the ether, "This is no battle, however...We must bring Schema resources."

Valgus scoffed, "And where there is a battle, there is plunder. But do as you wish." Valgus stared where I was, "Both of you, wherever you've gone."

Valgus turned around and walked back into his group of rulers. He wrapped his arms around the shoulders of several other rulers while laughing. Valgus wanted another fight on Leviathan-7 with both of us.

Great. Just great.

Even from that initial contact, it was hard to say who'd win since we both carried many powers, trump cards, and fallbacks. The only way to know who'd be victorious was a fight to the death or multiple deaths because of the luck perk revivals. Either way, I wouldn't let him derail me anymore.

With only two minutes left, I got my guildsmen over to my side. I even avoided the survivalist's attempts at recruiting me by staying in my rocky capsule. As for Iona's economists, they sent over a few messages while offering quite a few furnaces, a fringe planet, and even a warping specialist for me to use after we got back.

They really wanted my help, but in the end, I rejected the offer. None of that mattered when compared to the real jewel of this lottery; the planet itself, Leviathan-7. The world rested in a patch of compressed time, and unlike an eldritch rift, this was a planet in our actual dimension. If we established a long-term settlement in this place, we would gain an immense advantage.

This was because Leviathan-7 carried the benefits of a dungeon but lacked the disadvantages. Sure, some rifts manifested weird time scales, but if someone snatched the dungeon core, the rift collapsed. I locked away one of Yawm's followers doing just that. Losing a settlement to that was an enormous risk. Schema could put a dungeon somewhere else as well at random. That happened to BloodHollow.

Leviathan-7 lacked all these risk factors. Best of all, Schema wasn't even on the planet. I could finish the research for Plazia there in relative peace. As the last seconds ticked down, everyone finished any last-minute casting. Breathable air, atmospheric pressures, even some antigravitational enchantments, they readied themselves for the ensuing struggle while I readied myself for triumph. The countdown reached a few seconds, and a strange wave of nostalgia passed over me.

5 Seconds remaining...

4 Seconds remaining...

It reminded me of being locked into BloodHollow, where I barely survived and time again.

3 Seconds remaining...

2 Seconds remaining...

But I was a different person than then. I changed from the ground up and inside out. I wouldn't be sitting there, wallowing in a dark pit like before.

1 Second Remaining...

I was the Harbinger now, and it was time to prove it.

Initialization complete. Welcome to the New World: Leviathan-7
