Lady Magnolia and Ressa retired to a personal sitting room after Erin had gone. It was a mark of Lady Magnolia’s abilities as a [Lady] that she did not seem to notice the shouting young men and women who were trying to attract her attention. Her servants and a glare from Ressa allowed Magnolia to make her way up the stairs unimpeded.
The truth of the matter was that no matter how upset Joseph and Rose and the others were, they didn’t quite dare shout in Magnolia’s presence. And neither were they able to force themselves to push past the polite maids and manservants to accost her physically. They were held back by Lady Magnolia’s sheer presence.
It was a skill as well as a Skill, and Lady Magnolia had mastered both. She let Ressa close the door and muffle the last indignant protests echoing through her home and sighed.
Even that was graceful. Lady Magnolia was known throughout the continent—well, by Humans at least. Any Drakes and Gnolls who paid attention to Humans knew of her, but Humans were by and large identical to the majority of Drakes and Gnolls. Still, those who knew anything of Lady Magnolia knew that she was a [Lady]. At all times she was graceful and polite.
And in her own room, away from the eyes of the world, Magnolia was no less composed. Her diction did not slip even in private. She was elegant, thoughtful, deliberate, never offered an unkind word—
“Ah. I am exhausted, Ressa. Do you think we were quite so impudent and annoying when we were children?”
—Is what people expected. The truth was rather different. Lady Magnolia very nearly flopped back into her couch. She picked up the tea cup, drained it, filled it, and drained it again in quick succession.
Ressa eyed her mistress and childhood friend disapprovingly. Like a good maid, she had said nothing in Erin’s presence, but she had made her feelings about the tea Magnolia drank quite explicit numerous times before.
Raspberry tea. It was a delicious and even healthy beverage as enjoyed by most people, but in this case, it had been sweetened with so much sugar to make the drink practically poisonous in and of itself. Magnolia drank it like water, as much for the caffeine as the sugar high.
“She was quite spirited.”
“Spirited? Hah! I’ve met Minotaurs with less gall. Still, I think it turned out for the best, don’t you?”
Ressa shrugged. She deftly whisked the pot full of sugary tea away from Lady Magnolia. The other woman scowled, but made no attempt to retrieve it.
“I believe Erin Solstice will return to her inn safely.”
“Oh, I think so as well. There were no reports of bandits on the road, no monster sightings, Reynold is there, and if worse comes to worst, she is quite a resourceful young lady. I did mention the combat skills she had to you, didn’t I? She had [Unerring Throw] as well. Quite a powerful skill, if used right.”
“Indeed, milady.”
“Stop that.”
Lady Magnolia mock-glared at Ressa as the maid began inspecting the room for any signs of dirt, dust, or failure on the part of the maids who had cleaned it. Magnolia sat back in her couch and stared up at the ceiling.
“Only the gods may decide what is right and wrong, eh? Such strong conviction. It reminds me of our youth, doesn’t it?”
Ressa shrugged slightly. When she was out of the presence of others she acted far less formally with her employer, but she was still quite diligent in her duties. She lifted up a pot and regarded the spotless underside.
“As I recall, you were even wilder than Erin Solstice as a young lady, Magnolia.”
“And so were you. Do I need to recall the incident with the granary to you?”
Ressa made no reply. Magnolia sighed, louder. It was hard to poke fun at Ressa. Either the woman took it, or she hit you. Either way, you lost.
“Do you think I was too harsh on the girl? I placed a tremendous burden on her shoulders.”
“I believe she will be equal to the task.”
Ressa said that thoughtfully as she paused in opening a drawer. She looked at Lady Magnolia.
“Do you know, I found myself talking to her quite naturally after only a few minutes. And she was able to befriend Reynold over the course of their trip.”
“I noticed. That is a valuable talent, and no doubt one of the reasons she survived by herself.”
Magnolia nodded and stretched out on her sofa like a cat. She put her feet up, which made Ressa stare pointedly at them. They did not come off the couch.
“It simply proves what I said earlier. Wild cards are far more useful to play with when the deck is stacked against oneself. I anticipate her causing quite a lot of trouble for the Queen in Liscor, and the Antinium delegation who are so stealthily making their way towards the city.”
“Indeed.”
Ressa casually pushed Magnolia’s feet off the couch. The [Lady] of the manor stared at her maid.
“I do own this couch, you know.”
“It’s unenchanted and you have a tendency to kick things. Use the other couch if you want to lie down. I won’t have you causing hundreds of gold worth of damages.”
Lady Magnolia grumbled, but she sat up.
“What happened to the other one that’s normally here?”
“You spilled food all over it. It’s being cleaned.”
“Ah. I suppose we should have hired the enchanter to prevent stains as well.”
“It is enchanted against stains. The maids are trying to wipe all the food off.”
“Oh.”
After a moment’s silence, the convivial, chatty atmosphere passed. Lady Magnolia sighed and sat up, and Ressa knew she was back to work. She never took long breaks.
“Now that our guest is gone, tell me about that Goblin Lord. No one has gotten close enough to give me a description, but those reports of dead Goblins being part of his army are disturbing. He must certainly be strong if he managed to defeat Zel Shivertail.”
Ressa nodded. She closed her eyes, and then spoke from memory.
“The [Scouts] put his army at something close to the equivalent of a Walled City’s standing army. He has over a hundred Hobgoblins and at least ten [Mages] or [Shamans] in his army.”
“He is that powerful already?”
Lady Magnolia made a disgruntled face. Ressa nodded.
“Other details are still coming in and we will know more after Shivertail returns to one of the cities and makes his report.”
“But none of the mages have found out anything else? The [Scouts]?”
“They cannot get close and the mages do not have a good fix on his location. The few that can [Scry] do not know his name.”
“What about Teriarch? He could find anyone he wanted if he weren’t so lazy.”
“He has…ignored our messages to him.”
“He’s probably sulking. I gave him quite an earful after he gave Ryoka that ridiculous delivery.”
Lady Magnolia scowled and sighed.
“Very well. The Drake cities will take this seriously once they hear Ilvriss’ testimony along with Shivertail’s. But what about the northern Goblin tribes? They have a leader, but do the other families know of it?”
Ressa hesitated.
“Many of the aristocracy are aware of trouble with the Goblins in the south, but no more than that. Only Lord Tyrion’s spies have realized the northern tribes are moving, and they have only said that they suppose the Goblins may be organizing.”
Magnolia’s face spoke volumes.
“They ‘suppose’ the Goblins may be organizing? Ressa, the next time you meet Lord Tyrion, do endeavor to smack him on the head a few times, would you? His scouts are nearly worthless if that is all they can report.”
“I shall do so if possible.”
It would be Ressa’s pleasure, although the odds of her actually laying hands on Lord Tyrion were low. Magnolia sighed as she put her fingers together.
“No one pays any attention to Goblins until it is too late.”
“Except for you.”
Lady Magnolia laughed.
“Yes, well, Teriarch did convince me rather thoroughly of that point. It is hard to ignore them when you know the truth, is it not?”
“It is.”
“Well, we shall let things play out. The Goblin Lord is not an immediate threat unless all the northern tribes join him at once, and I very much doubt that Garen Red Fang will bow so easily. But this does present us with an opportunity.”
Magnolia stood up and walked over to a window. Ressa joined her, noticing a smudge on the glass and frowning hard at it. Lady Magnolia spoke to the window as Ressa produced a cloth and began to clean.
“Zel Shivertail is too important to ignore, but his defeat – even though it came after an incredible victory over Wall Lord Ilvriss – will no doubt lead to a period of disgrace as fools seek to belittle him. A shame some of those Drakes are so close minded, but it is exactly what we have been waiting for.”
“It would appear so.”
Slowly, Magnolia nodded. She stared out the window at the setting sun.
“Now that he is in disgrace—or rather, will be—it is the opportune time to persuade him to come north. I only wish it were as simple as offering him riches or power.”
“Shall I send a message by [Courier]?”
“No—I believe I may send a [Message] spell instead. This is too important to be subtle about. We need a general of Zel Shivertail’s caliber.”
Ressa nodded in agreement. Magnolia sighed.
“And what of Ryoka? Is she still alive, or should I have told young Erin not to wait?”
“She is alive.”
“Good. And she will return in…?”
“Two days. Theofore has located her.”
“Really? I would have thought the other [Assassins] and [Scouts] would have had more luck. Then again, perhaps he understands Miss Griffin better than they do.”
“Or it could just be chance.”
Lady Magnolia glanced over. Ressa’s face was completely straight.
“Pragmatic kill-joy.”
“As you say, milady.”
“Make sure she arrives at the inn safely. Until I have a chance to speak with her, she must not die, is that clear?”
Ressa hesitated. She looked at Magnolia for a moment, wondering if she should add this detail.
“She is injured.”
“What?”
Magnolia had been thinking of something else, but now she focused on Ressa.
“How badly?”
“Theofore reported that two of Ryoka’s fingers are missing, and she appears to be moving far slower than normal. She is not alone, either.”
The calm expression on Magnolia’s face disappeared. Her brows shot together.
“Who else is with her? A survivor of the Goblin Lord’s attack? The Winter Sprites? Teriarch did say they were attracted to her, but I thought it was just because they enjoyed tormenting the girl.”
“A young Gnoll cub. Theofore believes Ryoka may have rescued her.”
Lady Magnolia closed her eyes, and pressed her fingers to her temples tiredly.
“Of course she did. And lost her fingers and got hurt in the doing, no doubt. She is ill-suited to be a Runner in temperament. She is far too sympathetic.”
For a second the two women stood and stared out the window in silence. Magnolia put a finger to her lips.
“But a cub…? There must have been a Gnoll tribe caught in the mountains.”
Ressa nodded.
“The Stone Spears tribe was wintering in that region. It is likely that Ryoka Griffin’s paths would have crossed with theirs.”
“Are there any survivors?”
“Possibly. Half the tribe was camped out while the warriors and miners travelled higher, searching for ores and gems. The [Scouts] and [Assassins] reported a higher number of Gnolls travelling with Zel’s army—they may have been saved.”
Again, Lady Magnolia closed her eyes.
“And the mining group?”
Ressa would have liked to pretend she didn’t know, but no one could lie to Magnolia Reinhart. She spoke quietly.
“One of the highest-level [Assassins] sent with the scouting group slipped past the Goblin Lord’s army and located the mining site. She found no survivors. It appears the Gnolls were ambushed and slew over a hundred Goblins before being overwhelmed.”
“I see.”
More silence. Ressa spoke into it.
“The Gnoll cub seems to be unusual.”
“How so? Is the child injured? If so, have Theofore—”
“No. She has white fur.”
Now Magnolia looked at Ressa. Her eyes were serious.
“A Gnoll with white fur. That is no coincidence, Ressa. But what does it mean?”
“It is a portent of some kind?”
“I would have to ask a Gnoll [Shaman] or Teriarch. My memory is fuzzy. But yes, it is.”
Lady Magnolia thought for a few more moments and then sighed. She let her hands drop to her side.
“We must hurry. Things are happening too quickly now. If we had another year—but of course we do not. Very well. The Goblins will keep for a while longer. Now, onto armies. I know Lord Tyrion’s army just smashed two other armies in that little spat of his. Do you have numbers on how many of his soldiers perished?”
“Very few, or so the rumors state. Eyewitnesses saw only a few bodies in his livery after the battle, so it is safe to assume he completely routed his enemies.”
“Only naturally. His soldiers are splendidly well equipped and trained. They are peerless among the armies of the north. A bright and shining jewel that needs only the correct setting to become perfection. It is a shame the same cannot be said of their lord and leader.”
Magnolia sighed. But then she smiled.
“And what of our little project, Ressa? Where do we stand at the moment?”
Ressa nodded.
“Discounting the city-states and their private armies as well as the personal retainers and forces available to other lords and ladies—”
“Of course.”
“—Then, at the moment we will be able to call upon two thousand individuals with combat-classes above Level 20. Over six hundred of that number possess levels above 30. Six Named Adventurers and eight Gold-rank teams are available, and we have at our disposal at least three hundred and fifty irregular units.”
Lady Magnolia smiled wider. She looked at Ressa, but the woman was done. Gently, Magnolia prompted the maid.
“And…?”
Ressa sighed.
“…And one unicorn.”
“Most excellent. Now then, I believe we should send another letter to a certain [Strategist]. If we do manage to obtain Zel Shivertail’s services, then we will have a peerless army with a general to match. But to make them public and start training them in earnest, I would need a second hand for Zel of equal ability.”
Ressa sighed. She knew who Lady Magnolia was hinting at, but here at least she believed her mistress was wasting her time.
“Thus far all missives to him have been ignored.”
Lady Magnolia waved that fact away like an annoying fly.
“He can’t keep ignoring me forever. Send fifteen more letters off this instant. If we keep bothering him eventually he will have to talk with me.”
“Keep telling yourself that, milady.”
Ressa muttered the words, but Magnolia wasn’t listening. She was quite good at that—she had been since they were children. The [Lady] began asking more questions, and Ressa continued to answer.
