“That's quite simple to prove.” Ren said. “Ms. Stanford has already forwarded you my extensive medical files from when I was first admitted to the hospital. If you cross-reference my testimony with those records, you'll find they contain descriptions and pictures of all the corroborating scars and scar tissue, bone damage, and wounds... both partially and fully healed. It's all the physical evidence you will ever need.”

The elderly man nodded and looked over at the man that controlled the video equipment, and didn't see him. “Someone get Jensen, please.”

A woman stood up and her legs were weak, so she stumbled to the door and hollered for Jensen. He came back in and helped the woman sit back down.

“I'm sorry, sir.” Jensen said to the elderly man. “I... I just couldn't...”

“It's all right.” The elderly man said. “Finish your work.”

“Yes, sir.” Jensen checked everything and shut it all off, then removed the microphones from in front of Ren.

“Make... make copies for...” The woman tried to speak, and she shook her head.

“I'll have copies for all the departments, and everyone that has an open case pending.” Jensen said. “Send me your cell phone recording, too.” He said and took a shallow breath, then rubbed his face with a hand. “Even though I want to destroy it and burn it all.”

“Me, too.” The woman said. “Such... horrible things...” She looked at Ren. “I... I am... so very sorry that...”

“I want you to use what I've said as judiciously as you can.” Ren said. “When you transcribe it, I'll sign it if necessary.”

The elderly man slid a folder in front of him. “Standard affidavit form. You claim what you said was the truth... to the best of your knowledge.”

“Considering I can remember what I had for breakfast every morning growing up, I'd say the best of my knowledge is the best that anyone is ever going to get.” Ren said as he opened the folder, then read the form quickly. Someone handed him a pen, so he signed the form and passed both things back.

“Good luck.” Ren said.

“Luck?” The elderly man shook his head. “Young man, this is going to destroy everyone that has ever harmed you.”

“Now you know why I wanted this on record.” Ren said, and let a smile appear on his tear-soaked face.

“Let's get you home.” Barbara said in a normal voice, but her face was just as wet as Ren's was. Ren nodded, and everyone on his side of the table got up and prepared to leave the room.

“J-just a second.” A woman's voice said, and everyone looked at her. “What... what did you have for breakfast every morning growing up?”

“The same thing I've had every morning since then.” Ren said. “Hope.”
