"The espens have leveled over the last 30 years. They've grown in might. Now the most powerful espens rival the most powerful gialgethens. It's created a rift. Some Gialgathens embrace the change. Others look at it as if the espens are stepping out of line."

Caprika put her hands on her throne's armrests, "Those giant monsters don't understand. They will be eclipsed by the espens over the next few years. The oppressed will become the oppressors."

I waved my hand at caprika, "I have a question. Is this what you do all day?"

Caprika tilted her head, "What?"

I gestured to her throne, "Just, yenno, sit in a throne room and do nothing."

She shook her head, "No. I have an assigned meeting time for two hours every day. You've only seen me during those times."

I frowned, "Sounds like you'd waste a lot of time like that."

Caprika sighed, "It's customary. The Empire follows tradition more than even law. As a member of royalty, I must have meetings with commoners."

I snickered, "Yeah, commoners. Anyways, when and where is the tournament?"

Caprika leaned forward, "Did you...gain levels?"

Torix raised his hands, "Oh do get used to it. Daniel is the most industrious sentient that has ever existed. He never sleeps, and he is always moving."

I shrugged, "Life is movement, and yeah, I gained a few levels."

Torix cupped his chin, "Would you mind telling us how many quests you've completed in the two days we've been here?"

"Two."

Torix waved his hands, goading me for more information, "And I don't mean to pry, but which quests might those be?"

"The highest ones available. Why are asking?"

Torix grinned at Caprika, "Oh no reason. Just curious."

Caprika shook her head, "You cleared the silvers and destroyed the hidden cult...in two days."

I nodded, "I did. I don't spend time sitting on a throne. I've heard that helps."

Caprika stayed silent for a second. Her red mask brightened, steam coming from the black holes in it. She leaned down, covering her face with a hand. Torix raised a hand, "Are you alright."

She put a palm up to him, "I'm fine..."

I leaned towards her, "Wait a second...you're embarrassed."

Caprika shot up, "No. I'm not. Silence."

I waved my hands, "No, no. It's no big deal. I didn't mean it like that. I was just teasing. I get you to have to do your daily rituals or whatever. It's your life after all."

She shook her head, "I...It just made me aware that I was on my throne. You make the sheer idea of a throne sound ridiculous."

She stood up, walking down her heightened stairway, "I have no guests here besides for you two. I'm sure you wouldn't report my lack of throne sitting to higher authorities."

Torix gave her a thumbs up, "Your secret is safe with us."

She cracked her neck, "Good."

The throne room's doors opened, Aric walking in, "Excuse me Caprika, but you have a visito-"

Kessiah pushed him out of the way, "Move it spineless. Hey Daniel."

Caprika propped her weight on one hip, looking annoyed. Caprika looked up at me, "Is she your mistress?"

Kessiah narrowed her eyes, "The fuck did you just say?"

Torix covered his mouth, snickering with absolute glee. He pointed at Kessiah, "This is good. I wish I had some popcorn."

Kessiah pointed her finger at Torix, "I'll talk to you later."

Caprika shrugged, "What did I say?"

Kessiah stormed up to Caprika, "What makes you think I'm a mistress?"

Caprika pointed at all of Kessiah, "You're obviously not a combatant. I just assumed that was your use."

Torix's expanded into outright chortling. Kessiah blushed a bit, "Why don't you think I'm a fighter?"

Caprika looked between Kessiah and me, "Isn't it obvious?"

Kessiah raised her eyebrows, "My level is plenty high enough to kick your ass."

Caprika busted out laughing, her noble voice turning cruel,

"You? Even if our levels matched, you don't stand a chance against me or anyone for that matter. I can tell by the way you walk. Your footsteps are heavy and unbalanced. It's like watching a hunchback step through the mud."

For some reason, Kessiah always brought out the worst in Torix. He  nudged my elbow, "Oof."

Kessiah poked Caprika's chest, "You wanna go?"

Caprika pointed around, "Why not? You seem as though you need to be humbled anyways."

I  took a step forward, putting a hand on Kessiah's shoulder, "This isn't a good idea. She's double your level."

Kessiah slapped my hand, "You said it earlier right? You do you. Well, I'm doing me."

I frowned, "Uh, I don't think-"

Kessiah spread out her hands, "The point is, I'm making this decision, alright? Back off."

I took a step back, "Ok."

Torix and I walked back towards the edge of the room. Once there, Caprika and Kessiah walked towards the opposite sides of the throne room. I grabbed the sides of my helmet, dragging my fingers down the tinted glass,

"This is a fucking awful idea."

Torix rubbed his hands together, "Oh yes it is. I can't wait for its conclusion."

Caprika turned towards us, "I won't kill her. She'll need healing when I'm done though. Is that acceptable?"

I raised a hand, "Go crazy. I'll be the ref."

I walked up between them. Kessiah pulled her galactic storage. She pulled out three plastic pouches full of her blood. She ripped them apart, the blood flowing in circles around her. It siphoned into white runes that glowed on her body.  Her blood sacrifice was massive this time.

With that strength, she smashed her fists together,

"I'm going to crush you."

Caprika scoffed, "Good luck, little one. You're going to need it."

The albony royalty leaned back, inviting Kessiah to charge. I raised a hand, "You both ready?" They nodded. I swiped my hand down,

"Let's go."
