The southern gates had been blocked and the City Runners hadn’t been able to leave through them. Ryoka felt goose bumps erupting on her skin as she saw someone standing there, shrouded from head to toe in black. He was staring after the Couriers.
 
——
 
“Damn. They noticed. One of them must have perception Skills or spells. Perhaps Salamani. Tell the Guildmaster I’m done.”
The [Assassin] sighed. He pulled at one of the thin, invisible strands of steel he’d webbed the southern gates with. Sharp and thin enough to decapitate anyone moving at speed through the gates. If the Couriers had come through…
But they hadn’t. And the [Assassin], the master of wires and traps, wasn’t really in this assignment. It was all show. He spoke to one of the disguised [Guards] who’d maintained the blockade to prevent anyone else from killing themselves going through the gates.
“Pack it up. I’m done.”
“You won’t follow them?”
The fake [Guard], one of the junior members of the Guild, looked startled, but knew better than to question a master. The [Trapmaster] yawned.
“How?”
Even he couldn’t catch up with Couriers that fast. The [Assassin] lazily wound up the steel wires. He’d rather fight Magnolia Reinhart’s servants than try to catch a Courier. They were the worst kind of prey.
[Dangersense] and the speed and reflexes to instantly run away from trouble. How did you catch that? Well—he’d made some effort. The [Assassin] spoke curtly.
“I’m done. Fighting three Couriers is too much for anyone but a master. So. Send in the fodder. Maybe they’ll get lucky.”
He walked off, taking off his signature clothing. Silly politics. He’d enjoy taking down one of the Couriers if someone posted a personal bounty. Later. You didn’t rush a proper assassination. He saw the junior [Assassins] scrambling. As numerous as flies. The [Trapmaster Assassin] shook his head.
Well, that was the purpose of rookies. At least it would be interesting to watch. He wondered if he could find a scrying orb. He liked the Wistram broadcasts.
 
——
 
The Couriers had only a few minutes of relief after avoiding Reizmelt. They were headed north, halfway towards their destination when the real ambush began. It started with an unsettling empty patch of road. On a trade route, no less.
The Couriers looked at each other. That almost never happened except when something was up. They glanced ahead as Salamani’s magically enhanced vision spotted something.
“Carriages incoming! From ahead!”
“Here they come. Damn, damn, damn—”
Hawk saw nearly a dozen dark coaches speeding down the road. Tritel gritted his teeth.
“Salamani, escape or go through?”
“My [Dangersense] isn’t tingling hard. Looks like lower-level enemies. Split up. We’ll make it out the other side.”
The Couriers nodded at each other. They split, Hawk going right, Salamani left. Tritel continued down the road. And here came the first wave of [Assassins].
In carriages. Not the legendary pink coach of Magnolia Reinhart, but clearly enchanted. Panting horses were flinging them across the ground, towards the Couriers. Some were approaching from the rear as well!
One appeared from behind as the Couriers began to split up. Hawk saw Tritel pull out a crossbow.
“Courier on delivery! Back off!”
He had to shout that. But the painted coach just gained in speed. Definitely enchanted.
The carriage doors opened, revealing dark-clothed figures all holding glittering metal. Crossbows. Also, throwing weapons. They fired and threw their poisoned darts.
It was a good ambush. More [Riders] on horseback with movement Skills were circling, trying to cut at the Couriers. And the coaches were coming from both directions. The [Assassins] had wands, and were firing lightning bolts, homing arrows—
It was a good ambush. The kind that would get a City Runner, even the best of them. But a seasoned Courier? The [Assassins] were aiming at Ci, thinking to take the rider off his mount. But Tritel was a high-level Rider. And he had a Skill.
[Mount and Rider: Shared Skills]. The short man’s teeth flashed as he howled.
“[Flicker Dodge]! [Blinding Flash]!”
The horse flickered. She reappeared to the left, neatly dodging all the projectiles. And then—Hawk was far enough to see only a flash. But it was bright enough to make him shade his eyes.
Ci’s horseshoes and the metal on Tritel’s clothing lit up. The [Assassins] went blind, and cursed as even the horses and drivers lost their vision for a few crucial seconds. By the time they recovered, the Moonlight Mare and her rider were gone.
The other [Assassins] chasing Salamani saw the [Mage Runner] had unsheathed his wand. He was using a [Haste] spell, and he’d turned [Invisible]. But some of them could see the invisibility, or track him through the grass and they surged towards his location. But the [Mage] wasn’t just trying to hide.
“Arrows of Light, come to me in gathering storm!”
The Courier shouted as he raised his wand. He reappeared and lights flashed into existence around him.
Magical [Light Arrows], a Tier 1 spell began appearing around Salamani, dozens with each second. They flew after the [Mage], like a vast cloud of light, spinning, weaving together. One hundred, two hundred, three…
The [Assassins] wavered. And they understood too late why just one master-assassin hadn’t tried to stop all three Couriers. Beyond their speed, and disinterest in the contract—
It was really hard. Salamani charged with hundreds of magical arrows following in his wake. He ran towards a carriage and pointed. The [Light Arrow] storm engulfed the coach. Black shapes, horses, wood, all were struck hundreds of times by the spell. The coach exploded and the other [Assassins] peeled back, avoiding the deadly hail of magic.
Salamani vanished again as the spell conjured more of the arrows. He was loosing more in every direction, exchanging fire with the [Assassins]. And a magical barrier was deflecting every crossbow bolt and poisoned dart that reached him.
“Hurry up, Ci! They’re on us!”
Tritel was being pursued by more [Assassins] on horseback. He’d dodged most of the coaches, but a few of the [Assassins] were able to catch up for a few seconds. One had a sabre and was riding hard at him. The [Rider] saw Ci accelerate and reached for his side. His turn.
“[Rope Trick]!”
The man flicked a long, enchanted rope out of his saddlebags. The [Assassin] wasn’t prepared for that. They slashed wildly, but the rope twisted through the air.
Tritel snagged one of the riding [Assassins] by the leg. He yanked them off their horse as Ci outdistanced the others. The [Assassin] hit the ground and was dragged behind Ci at insane speeds. He—no—she thrashed wildly for the first hundred feet, trying to cut the enchanted rope. After that, nothing.
After three hundred feet, Tritel undid the knot. There wasn’t much left of the [Assassin] as the corpse rolled to a stop.
There was one last group of [Assassins] riding at him. Tritel ducked as a crossbow bolt flew past him. He swore as another hit him in the shoulder. But it didn’t penetrate his enchanted clothing.
“Bastards! You alright, Ci?”
The mare snorted. Her sides had deflected a few projectiles. Worried, Tritel checked her. She had an [Enhanced Hide] Skill, but she was bleeding. The [Rider] shouted in fury as he looked ahead at the [Riders] shooting at them.
He pulled out a crossbow and fired once. The enchanted bolt detonated and blew a group of riders to bits.
“That was a hundred gold bolt you bastards!”
He shouted as he and Ci raced past. And they were clear. So was Salamani, whose magical arrow cloud had fought off his pursuers. And again—that only left—
Hawk.
He was still just running along. He hadn’t slowed to fight and instead had just sped up. The other [Assassins] on wagon or horseback were having trouble even catching him. The Courier leapt over rocks and other obstacles, like, well, a rabbit. He was maneuvering, keeping them from drawing close.
But you could only run so long. The [Assassins] chasing him suddenly stopped. A pair of carriages moved forwards, blocking his route. [Riders] from the left, closing in—and the carriages were opening, disgorging black-clad figures ahead. They were clambering on top of the roof, aiming weapons at him.
“Oh shit!”
Hawk tried to swerve, but he was being boxed in. He saw [Riders] to the left, a group aiming wands with [Lightning Bolt] to the right—and the [Assassins] in the wagons ahead of him.
“Gaaaaaaaah!”
He screamed as the bolts flew and the [Assassins] rode through their own fire to strike at him. Left—right—ahead—the Rabbit [Courier] shouted as he ran at the wagons.
“[Physical Overdrive]!”
The [Assassins] saw him blur. The ones braced blinked. He was coming even faster. Twice as fast—
Hawk leapt into the first coach, a blur. [Assassins] drew their weapons. The others raced around, to trap—
The Courier exploded out of the other side in less than a second. The destroyed coach and [Assassins] with broken bones crashed to the ground around him. He hit the ground. And ran around a horse, an extended blade—
The world was in slow motion compared to the Beastkin Runner. He hit the ground and sprinted past the carriage. For a second, five, ten, he was racing faster than anything around him. He caught up to Ci and Tritel as Salamani used [Flash Step] to close the gap.
“Bleeding hells, Hawk! You don’t mess around! Did you get tagged? Ci’s hurt!”
“One of them scorched my ass! I’m going to kill you, Tritel!”
Hawk shouted at Tritel. Salamani was swearing.
“I think I’m poisoned! Hand me an antidote!”
“Slap some potion on Ci!”
The three Couriers tossed potions and vials at each other on the run. They were nearly clear.
The [Assassins] made one last attempt. The fastest coach rocketed forwards. It was on a collision course! The Couriers stared at the wagon. Hawk raised a fist. Salamani pointed his wand and Tritel turned Ci after Hawk.
“[Steelbreaker Punch]!”
“[Lightning Bolt]!”
“[Bull’s Charge]!”
The wagon exploded. The three Couriers raced forwards as debris landed around them. Tritel was shouting at the others as he took lead again.
“[Wild Gallop]! We’re nearly in the clear! Let’s go!”
They left the [Assassins] behind. Salamani panted.
“They didn’t send a master? We got lucky! We must have avoided the one I saw at Reizmelt.”
“Let’s go off-road! We can’t run another encounter! I’m already a hundred gold down plus the potions!”
Tritel pointed. They were headed towards the hills. That way led to monsters, rougher terrain. The Couriers didn’t even think.
“Off-road! Salamani, lose whatever scrying spells are on us.”
“I’m trying! I think it’s Wistram! Let me send a [Message] spell. Hey, cut it out! You’re giving away our positions you—”
 
——
 
“—inbred, half-baked [Seers] with all the sense of a slug! I’m a [Mage] of Wistram and your hedge-mage brains are getting me and my fellow Couriers ambushed! If you don’t cancel that spell now, I’ll run back to the Academy, find the idiot who thought it was a good idea to put a damned scrying spell on us when we have [Assassins] up our asses and rip their lungs out! Cancel that spell now you worthless, worm-addled—”
The stream of invectives didn’t slow for a good minute. The [Seer] receiving the spell kept wincing and looked at the [Diviner] in charge of the broadcast.
“Should we…?”
“Um—cancel the scrying spell. And cut off Mage Salamani. He’s made his point.”
The man in charge coughed a few times. Salamani’s oaths cut off. So was the image of the three Couriers, much to the disappointment of the viewers who instantly began sending Noass angry [Message] spells.
But the point had been made. The Couriers had broken through one ambush. The Assassins’ Guild had made a good attempt, but—not their best. Better to make the effort than do their best and still fail. The delivery was going to succeed. Unless…one of the master-assassins was willing to intercept?
…No. They had a problem with being on the scrying orb. Besides, some of them got deliveries from Couriers. You didn’t kill your favorite Runner.
 
——
 
Three Couriers. They kept running, and without any eyes on them, they could slow down. It was still a long way north. But they only took one break, once they’d reached the hills. They drank more stamina potions, bandaged wounds, excreted—and they were on the run.
It wasn’t pretty. In fact, apart from the adrenaline-inducing fights, their run was still long. Exhausting, hard—with moments of extreme danger.
But they ran. And finally, they reached the city of Weisel. By that point, the scrying spell had been reinstated, due to popular demand. Salamani was swearing a blue streak, but they were in range of the city.
“Couriers on delivery! Where’s Lady Dealia?”
Tritel raced forwards on Ci, shouting at the [Guards]. They stared wide-eyed at the panting Couriers. One pointed.
“She’s in the city, that way—are you the Moonlight Rider?”
“You see anyone else with a better horse? We’re nearly there, lads! And Ci! Let’s go!”
The three Couriers raced through the gates. Hawk was at the end of his rope. He’d been running for—he didn’t know how many hours. And he was full of nerves. Nearly there, nearly—
The streets were full of people. Weisel’s inhabitants. They turned to stare as Tritel rode Ci down the road, ignoring traffic laws. The other two Couriers were hot on Ci’s hooves. Hawk stared at the crowd.
“Couriers on delivery! Clear the damn roads!”
Hawk screamed at max volume. People jumped and obeyed. The three Couriers raced down the street shouting.
“Lady Dealia! Where is she?”
Tritel looked around. Some people pointed. Salamani leapt up onto a roof and squinted.
“Tritel, Hawk! Over there!”
The two Couriers pivoted. They raced down a street, pelted right. Towards the frozen convoy of minor nobles. Lady Dealia and her house watched as the Couriers ran at her.
The [Lady] of House Zolde blinked as the three Couriers bore down on her. Her two brothers and their bodyguards reacted, reaching for their weapons. But Tritel rode down on all of them, full of lather and adrenaline.
“Are you Lady Dealia Zolde?”
“I am. Are you—the Couriers?”
Lady Dealia’s eyes were wide, darkened with eyeshadow. She was indeed one of the most beautiful [Ladies] of Izril and her makeup accented her Chandrarian features. Her brothers looked at Hawk with wide eyes.
The nobles had been sitting around a table with a scrying orb on it. Hawk glanced at the image. Tritel was dismounting as Ci panted. The horse walked over to a cup one of the Zolde [Lords] had been drinking from and stuck out her tongue. He stared as she lapped up the water.
