“Delivery for you. From Lady Hetessana. If you have a seal, we’ll take it. Otherwise—here. Direct delivery. Apologies for the delay. Some idiot got his legs broken. What?”
The [Lady] was staring at Tritel.
“You—you’re on the scrying orb. You’re still running—we’ve been watching your progress.”
She pointed weakly at the orb. Hawk saw that he was being shown on the orb, running. Some Drake—Noass—was commentating in the corner.
“…Looks like they’re nearly to their destination. I understand this will be very unfortunate for Lord Bein, but I don’t think anyone will stop the Couriers at this point. This is of course, hah, all Human politics. But er…not that we have anything against Humans. Salt of the earth. Good if they don’t steal your cities, all that…”
“They must have delayed the spell.”
Salamani jogged up. He wiped at his forehead as the nobility stared. Lady Dealia saw the short man thrust the little locket at her.
“Your delivery, Lady. Will you take it?”
She hesitated. And the dramatis personae of this event, the tired Couriers, the crowd who realized they were going to be on the scrying orb and began waving at the sky—all of them had forgotten.
At the heart of it all was a love story. One of those classic ones. Lady Dealia’s eyes shone as she inspected the amulet. One of her brothers uttered a quiet oath.
“Sands take us. A Terland amulet.”
“Do you need to have it tested?”
The other brother, the eldest, looked at his younger sister. Dealia shook her head silently.
“I—I know it’s real. It’s Bein’s.”
Hawk saw her bow her head. And he realized the young [Lady] was truly heartbroken. Tritel stepped back. He elbowed Ci and the mare stopped lapping water from the cup. Everyone turned to Dealia.
“So it’s true. Lord Bein was unfaithful.”
The older of the Zolde brothers leaned on the table. Dealia nodded silently. Her younger brother, who might have been seventeen, stood up abruptly. He took the locket from Dealia and hurled it onto the ground. He stomped on it—but the amulet was an artifact. With a curse, the [Lord] kicked it across the street, into the crowd.
“Hey. We delivered that.”
Hawk protested weakly. Salamani elbowed him and whispered.
“We’re done. Watch the show.”
“Lord Qiam! Lady Dealia! Do you have anything to say about this delivery? We’ve been following the entire affair—I’m with Wistram! Excuse me, let me through!”
A voice in the crowd. A [Mage] from the local guild was holding a scrying mirror over her head. Noass was shouting through the mirror, at the nobles.
They stared as the Drake addressed them. And then they became part of the entertainment. They weren’t used to it. Television, being broadcast. So—their reactions were genuine. The younger brother, Qiam, addressed the mirror stiffly.
“The engagement’s off! And this filthy Terland rat—who thinks he can play games with my sister’s heart? He owes us a blood debt and our family won’t rest until it’s met!”
The crowd erupted into shouts, mainly in support of the heartbroken Dealia.
“You heard it here first, folks! The Zolde and Terland Houses are at war! Lord Bein’s unfaithfulness has provoked a conflict between Izril’s nobility!”
“Wait, we didn’t say war—”
Alarmed, the older [Lord] of House Zolde tried to speak. Dealia herself said nothing. The [Lady] was in tears. Noass kept shouting, mainly recounting the lurid details of the affair within earshot of Dealia herself.
Hawk glanced at Salamani. The [Mage] poked Tritel. The [Rider] elbowed Ci. The mare snorted and nodded. They backed away as Noass and the crowd and the Zolde family became the center of another drama. Because that was news, right?
The Couriers had done their job. Suddenly, they were out of the public eye. Forgotten. But that was how it worked. Hawk examined his feet. He elbowed Salamani.
“I’m never doing that again.”
“Come on, Hawk. It’s good exposure.”
“I don’t work for attention. I want gold.”
“Well, we’ve got that. Drinks are on me, lads. Let’s find a good inn and sleep with our ears to the doors. We’ll have to find a place where Ci can eat with us too.”
Hawk rolled his eyes. But he walked off with the other Runners. And from their run, Lord Bein was outed as a treacherous philanderer, the Zolde family and the Terland House were at war.
And the Runner’s Guild pushed back on the Guild of Assassins. They may be threatened. But they did their deliveries, come rain or shine or poisoned blades in the night. You could stop a City Runner. But one of Izril’s best? You were taking a risk.
Couriers. Selys Shivertail gazed into Rufelt’s mirror. She shivered, as for a second, the image focused on Hawk and the other Couriers. She stared at Hawk. The silly, affable Rabbitman who wooed Drakes in Liscor with carrot-related foods. Who had smashed through a carriage of [Assassins] with his bare fists and feet.
She looked around. People were watching the broadcast. The Drake [Heiress] leaned over.
“You know, I’m actually dating him.”
The Gnoll [Bartender] gave Selys a blank look.
“Congratulations. I serve him drinks.”
 
——
 
That night, Hawk was one of the talks of the city. The three Couriers…well, four counting Ci, were feasted. And no [Assassins] came to kill them. Or if they were poisoned, it was so subtly none of them could tell.
Lady Dealia’s heartbroken grief was almost overshadowed by the drama of everything. The Couriers were stars that shone for at least a little while. Hawk himself received a number of offers for companionship that night which he declined; he had a special someone.
Salamani was another case. He certainly enjoyed the attention. But Tritel was, like Hawk, taken. Ci had to approve any female companionship. And she did not, by and large.
And Lord Bein was in a lot of trouble. And that was what this was all about, wasn’t it? A love story. The world had focused on the matter of [Assassins], the pride of Couriers, the private drama of a young [Lady]’s heartbreak with lurid fascination.
Because it was the most important, topical thing in the world. More than the King of Destruction’s ongoing war with Jecrass. More than any other major event, like possible conflict with the Kingdom of Ailendamus, the eternal struggle of the Blighted Kingdom.
This was the most important thing. Because people were focused on it. Ergo, it was important. Right? Noass and his broadcast illuminated what mattered. That was how it worked.
…Right?
At the same time as Ci was stealing food from Hawk’s dinner plate, a completely unimportant person was watching Noass through the scrying orb. Her head twisted right, left. As if trying to understand.
“Curious.”
Belavierr looked at Noass. Her immortal eyes narrowed on his face. Noass shivered for a second in the broadcast—after a ten minute delay. But he kept talking.
“…wonders what will become of the drama. Obviously, this is a scandalous affair. Also in the news, we have a wedding between one of Calanfer’s [Princesses] and a [Baron] of some other Terandrian Kingdom. I’ll find the names in a moment. Hopefully the planned nuptials won’t be disrupted by another bout of infidelity. Males, cover your tails! Ha, ha…that was a joke…”
“Strange.”
The Stitch Witch looked at the scrying orb. Here was…importance. Weight. And yet—this Drake wasn’t talking about the village that had been slaughtered. He was focused on a spat between lovers.
Not her…evil. The Stitch Witch stared.
“Strange. Is this what matters in this era?”
Something in her spoke. It has always been so. Always. This is just another way, another version of the same.
She could slaughter a city. But would it matter? The Stitch Witch thought. And thought. And then—she smiled.
“The Couriers.”
She had seen them. Running about. High-level for who they were. But they had been on the scrying orb. They were thus…important.
The [Witch]’s logic was very simple. If this was what the world cared about, then doing something to them would attract attention. There would be consequences. But she had accepted them. For her daughter, she would dare death.
So she stood. That unimportant, unremarked upon person. Who had never featured in one of Noass’ broadcasts, or Sir Relz’s snappy commentaries. They might not even know she existed. Might not even know her name. That unimportant [Stitch Witch]. Whose level was higher than any two of the Courier’s put together. Who had existed for time immemorial.
They told stories of her in Chandrar. They refused to speak her name in Terandria. She had laid low armies, made terrible pacts. She crept in and out of myth and legend. The [Witch] the hero went to. The dark thread that laid low dynasties by their hubris and greed, through dark magic.
She was not Az’kerash, who dominated the world’s stage. She was the Spider, whose talent was laying webs. Surviving. But such an old spider. And the world was so small these days.
The Stitch Witch smiled.
“So. Small.”
She began to walk. Or ride her dark horse, stitched together of midnight. Was it both? Neither?
A shadow crossed Izril. A traveller on the road turned his head, and saw an old woman walking past him. He nearly called out. But fear chilled his tongue as he saw the tall shape. The moving shadows. He looked into her ringed gaze. And he beheld his mortality.
For a moment. Then he blinked and she was gone. But the memory stayed with him. On dark nights. He remembered that gaze and knew with certainty he would one day die, and his bones and flesh would rot in the ground.
A silence descended in a forest. The creatures of the night stopped making sound. Stopped moving. A rabbit’s heart burst as it hid in its den. Because it had seen a passing thing that scared it out of its mind.
A [Witch] walked and brought the old world with her. Old evil, which remembered lost glories.
Evil, crawling across Izril. But—Belavierr herself didn’t realize it. Something funny was happening. Her steps…curved. And her voyage through the darkness was twisted. She did not notice it at first, so confident was she.
Somehow, she was going the wrong way.
 
——
 
The evening was almost given way to pure darkness. The clouds were out. A fitting day for it. Lady Ieka Imarris stared pensively out of the coach’s windows as she rode. The [Mage Lady] rode in her personal spell-coach.
Again, not the famous pink carriage of Magnolia Reinhart. But she wasn’t the only one with magic. This wasn’t as fast as the legendary carriage, but so what? It was comfortable, shielded. Protected.
And Ieka’s bodyguard rode with the coach. Armored bodyguards, wearing spelled plate armor that she had enchanted herself. Ieka would have trusted them to go up against a group of [Knights]. And if it came to it, she herself would cast magic.
She was a [Mage Lady], one of the [Ladies] you would have to list if you named Izril’s most influential. Not the best in say, beauty. The top splots were always in high competition by the youngest [Ladies]. The only person above twenty six was Lady Wuvren, who was always third place at worst. And she was over sixty.
Not the most famously passionate either. Lady Bethal or Lady Pryde came to mind, even though Ieka was known for her temper as well. But those two…grandstanding [Ladies] were somehow more iconic.
And Ieka was not considered the most powerful, despite her talent for magic, amplified by her noble class. Point to Lady Magnolia Reinhart herself for that. Or the aged Zanthia.
Ieka ground her teeth together. She was not the first ‘anything’. And that made her bitter. Not that it mattered. It was just the will of the masses. Social gossip.
But it also did matter. She bore Magnolia Reinhart a grudge. So deeply that Ieka was opposed to her. In public, and private.
She was part of a group known as the Circle of Thorns. In daylight, she was also an ally of Tyrion Veltras—the Imarris family was a traditional ally of the Veltras family, but Ieka was even more so. She was influential and had connections beyond those simply afforded to her by her station.
She had gone to Wistram. She knew their world as well. She could, at her whim, use her power. And Ieka was generous with her allies. She valued magic, resourcefulness.
And she disliked Magnolia Reinhart. Not just because the other woman was famous; that was just a quibble. Magnolia Reinhart, to Ieka, was shallow, manipulative, controlling. Izril did not need her. Most importantly, though, Ieka truly wanted a better future for Izril. She had fought the Goblin King. She had lost her sister at the Sacrifice of Roses.
Everyone had lost something. That day lingered in the mind of Izril’s nobility. A terrible day and night when they had marched against the Goblin King. A decade past and still, Ieka could close her eyes and remember.
They marched out of the city dressed like a field of flowers. Bright clothing, while the men wore armor and clashed with the Goblins. Outnumbered. Outnumbered by Goblins and outmatched.
The Goblin King himself took to the field after the long siege. His Goblin Lords assailed the defenders of First Landing mercilessly. Slaughtering. Even the champions of Izril were too few.
So the nobility walked, dressed for a ball, because armor would have stifled their abilities. [Ladies], on procession. Shielded by nothing but their Skills and flimsy lines of [Soldiers]. Turning the tide.
They threw the Goblins back. Again, and again. The Goblin King himself fought their wills. They had power, the [Ladies] in their fine dresses. But he had another sort. So he rode into their lines and cut down the flowers by the dozens. Until he was finally hurled away. They halted the Goblin King’s advance that day. But the ground ran with the blood of the flowers of Izril.
She could remember it if she closed her eyes. Lady Ieka felt her eyes stinging. Tears, unshed. Everyone had lost something.
Perhaps none more so than the woman who sat across from her. Lady Rie Valerund, last of her name. More than one noble house had died that day. And those that remained…
“The bidding war is over, Ieka.”
“What war?”
For a moment, the [Mage Lady] did not know what was being said. She was still there. Drenched in gore, holding her wand, looking around for her sister as the [Soldiers] pushed back the Goblins. Hearing the screams of the dying nobility and the Goblins’ war drums.
Then she was back.
“The bidding for the Potion of Youth? Who won, then?”
Lady Rie Valerund was consulting a scroll that Ieka used to follow the bidding of valuable items. She hadn’t bothered even making a bid for the Potion of Youth. For one thing, she hadn’t needed it. Her star had yet to fade. But the item’s purchaser was another matter.
“Guess.”
Lady Rie’s face told Ieka everything. The other [Lady] paused.
