“This is what age looks like. Afraid? You have many decades to go until this moment, you little brats. But remember it. You do not have forever. Now—listen to what I think ails the Five Families. Including our house. Where shall I start? How about…Wellfar. They’ve been in my ears. Why, Zedalien?”
“The scandal between Lady Dealia and Lord Bein, milady. As well as Lady Hetessana Wellfar’s claim.”
The half-Elf smoothly bowed. The old woman nodded.
“Ah. And the [Assassins]. Yes. Wellfar. Coastal holdings. They control trade, and they are rich. Far richer than our house.”
She chuckled with dark humor and the children shifted uncomfortably. The old lady mused.
“They led our navies to Izril in the first days. And they were always powerful at sea. They still are. But as I said—cursed. Wellfar’s navies are rich still, but their family shrinks with each passing year. Infertile, the lot of them. Also cursed by their holdings; they ruled the seas, but they never expanded far inland. Do you understand?”
She glanced at the kids again. The young nobles hesitated. One seemed to take this as a challenge. She stood up and recited in a loud voice.
“The—the Wellfar family has earned money in trade from sugar and Eir Gel this year. Their profits are 13% up from last year, and they have ordered four new galleon-ships as a result. They—”
A slashing motion from Desinee. The girl tried to keep talking for a good ten seconds after she’d been silenced. The old woman rolled her eyes.
“What idiotic attempts. Thank your parents for disgracing yourself, girl. Hm.”
Her eyes roamed the group of children. And she picked out a dozing boy. This time the matriarch’s eyes narrowed.
“Zedalien.”
The half-Elf smoothly stepped forwards. The awake children jumped as they heard a smack and a howl. The young [Lordling] shot to his feet.
“He hit me!”
“Do it again, Zedalien. Unless he shuts up. And the rest of you—this will not take long. If you can’t stay awake, Zedalien will hit you. And if that doesn’t seem to work, perhaps I should cut the funds to all your houses, hm? The House of El does not have money for idiots who cannot listen for twenty minutes.”
That silenced everyone present, even the howling boy. And he went pale with fear. The old woman looked around.
“Desinee, the fire is growing low. Put more wood on it. The scented stuff.”
The younger [Lady] silently did as the old woman bid, manually adding a log to the fire, even as Zedalien pulled the sniveling boy to the side. And the old woman nodded. She sat back in her chair. And she couldn’t have stood to give the boy the back of her hand, even if she’d wanted to. Or else she would have done it already, rather than waiting for her servant.
She was old. Not as old as a certain Grand Strategist, but she was as old as her actual age. And her skin was frail, her body failing. But her eyes were sharp. And in them burned the same woman who had lived all this time.
Once, there had been a fire they called a [Lady]. And she had burned like the sun. Now, she sat in the carpeted room as the heat rose. In her magical wheelchair, pointing now and then as she spoke. Dozing or distracted children were made to stand. But the old woman still spoke, because it was important. Because they needed to know, and because she was running out of time.
Her name was Maviola El. And she was the leader of the House of El. When she spoke, it was with authority. And the children were afraid, because she could, at her whim, cut their families off from much of the gold that they so desperately wanted.
Gold flowed through the El family’s coffers, as much as came in these days. But the matriarch or patriarch of the family controlled the distribution of wealth with an iron fist. It was their way. So, each year, every family received a stipend on top of their own funds, and contributed money to the family’s ventures each year as well.
What was given was usually more than what was received. And those with value received the most. Hence the children on their best behavior.
“Where was I, Zedalien?”
“The House of Wellfar, Lady Maviola. You had described their affliction.”
“Ah, infertility and reclusiveness, isolation. For all they’re rich still. You could say they’ve done the best out of all of us. Except for the Terlands, maybe. Well—the Terlands.”
Maviola’s eyes glittered. Not with fond memories either. The Five Families were allies, but not friends.
“The Terlands. Plagued by idiots like their Lord Bein, but more than that? Victims of their success. They did well, settling their lands. Too well. Their descendants keep to mage-towns and spell-castles and the fruits of the past. And they look outwards little. So little. But the same could apply to us all. And they did better than Veltras and Reinhart—what’s that, young man?”
A boy had raised a hand.
“Isn’t Lord Tyrion the leader of the north, Great…Great Grandmother? I mean to say, he led the armies against the Goblin Lord.”
Maviola’s finger twitched. The boy looked crestfallen.
“Don’t call me Grandmother. You may all call me Lady Maviola, or Lady El. And Tyrion Veltras? That boy? One might as well compare him to Magnolia Reinhart. Two identical children always butting heads. No, they have their own woes. Lord Tyrion? I wouldn’t duel him on a tourney field, but anywhere else, he’s nothing much.”
The boys and girls stirred, the boys especially. Everyone knew of one of the most famed [Lords] living, Tyrion Veltras, renowned for his prowess on the battlefield. But Maviola was dismissive as she spoke.
“The Veltras Family is cursed by many things. The Veltras fury, aye, when it crops up, and their land as well. They never quite settled the untamed wildernesses. The vast Forest of Vail. But then—they preferred it back then. They were magnificent [Beastlords] and tamers of the wild. In ages past. But time changed them.”
“How, Lady Maviola?”
A hand. The old lady stared at the young girl who’d asked her question. She narrowed her eyes, but decided to reply.
“They stopped raising as many animals. Turned to war, rather than just hunting and coexisting. Radivaek raises better dogs than Veltras hounds, and it used to be that Radivaek didn’t even exist. The wilds and their holdings mean the Veltras scions learn to fight. They make excellent [Generals] and [Warmasters]—poor leaders of men.”
The children scratched their heads. They didn’t appreciate the difference. Well, most of them. Maviola’s eyes flicked from face to face, seeing which ones were thinking over what she told them, which were just vacuous.
Well, that left only one of the families left, besides their own. Everyone waited as Maviola accepted a drink. Because the last family’s name made some shudder, even in this safe place.
“Reinhart. Richest and most powerful of the families. At the moment. The Reinharts were always snakes. Masters of tricks and poisons. Magnolia Reinhart is the most honest of the lot. She pulled her own fangs. But her family?”
She looked around. The children shivered. You heard stories of Reinharts, even in the other Five Families. They had a…reputation. But what had they been cursed by? Everyone waited. And Maviola smiled bitterly.
“You might think a house like Reinhart would slit each other’s throats, but they’ve always been rather loyal to each other. They play deadly games, but they have few of the faults of other families. Their only curse was Regis Reinhart. He preserved them. But he took from each generation. They should have buried him when he died the first time.”
None of the children knew who that was. But that seemed to be all Maviola wanted to say. She sipped from her drink, paused.
“And that leaves only one family left. The House of El.”
She gestured towards the grand door, the study full of knowledge. The children looked up, awed by their past. And the old woman smiled as they stared at ancient weapons gleaming on racks, tomes of knowledge. The power of one of the Five Families.
“Don’t get sentimental. All the weapons are replicas.”
Heads snapped down. Maviola leaned back in the custom-made chair.
“We are great crafters, artisans of magic. There was a time when we raised [Magelords] and [Spellweavers] who created the artifacts adventurers fought for, armed our armies with magic and sorcery as well as steel. We were mighty. But our curse has left us low. Lower than the other Five Families. And that curse is most pressing. Most dire.”
Silence. The children’s minds raced with apprehension. What could it be? Maviola sighed.
“Our curse…is that we are completely out of money.”
Everyone stared at Maviola. She sipped from her teacup and looked around.
“What? A curse need not be intangible. The House of El is poor. Not destitute, but we have lost almost all of our great artifacts of old. All our investments. Everything. And we have been poor and growing more so over the thousands of years. Remember that, when you beg your parents for a new horse.”
No one said a word. They were all rather uncomfortable, the young scions of the El family, about what was being said. No one had ever spelled it out for them like this. Hence, Maviola. She drummed her fingers on the armrest of her chair.
“No doubt, one of you will ask me why we don’t simply make more money? Well, it has been attempted. But the truth is the Five Families are shadows of what they were. Strong shadows, but we do not have Giants employed as [Mercenaries], for instance. Or [Dragonriders] from the Veltras families, or fleets of twenty thousand of Wellfar’s ships. We had these things. And they faded. Now, the nobility of Izril is in a crisis. We lack leaders. We are fewer than any can remember. Even our best [Lords] and [Ladies] are…”
She flicked one wrist.
“Did I hear one boy who seemed to be a fan of Tyrion Veltras?”
A girl pointed.
“It was Lord Iminel, Lady Maviola.”
The old woman smiled pleasantly at the girl.
“That was a rhetorical question, girl. Stand over there.”
The girl shuffled off, feeling that she’d been tricked. Lady Maviola El sighed.
“Tyrion Veltras and Magnolia Reinhart. A Wyvern wearing a wolf’s fur and a deadly flower with all the thorns in the world. They replaced their parents. And they are fierce. I’d never deny that. Thanks to the two of them, Izril’s north survived the Antinium by aiding the Drakes and fought off the Goblin Lord. But beyond that?”
She shrugged.
“They’re two monsters who know war better than peace. Even Magnolia, for all she tries to keep her family—and herself—in line. When she was a girl, she spilled blood to get her way like a [Hydromancer] calls water. She manages her estates well, and her allies. But she has a conscience. And that makes her weak.”
“Comparatively, Lady El?”
Zedalien bowed from the side. The old woman grinned at him.
“Comparatively, Zedalien. Thank you for reminding me. Magnolia Reinhart is the best of the Reinharts today. But listen, you little children. We have had deadlier. Magnolia Reinhart is one of the most dangerous women in the world. Better than her mother and even grandmother. But compared to her ancestors? Suvelta Reinhart ruled Izril and when she died, the entire continent cheered. She drank the blood of her enemies and consorted with immortality for over three centuries. She was a Reinhart among Reinharts, and she’s but one of the monsters their family has produced. But—”
Maviola began to cough. Zedalien hurried over and helped her. The children saw the old woman gasping, and then Maviola sat back, exhausted by the sudden fit. It was a familiar scene.
“Immortality has its price. But so does old age. Did I say Magnolia and Tyrion Veltras were flawed? They’re well enough. But we’ve lost so many of our great leaders. During the Antinium Wars.”
The Antinium Wars. They echoed still, as the children shifted. The House of El remembered those days. They had anniversaries, death dates.
The March of Flowers was remembered. Was still fresh. Maviola was nodding. Her eyes flashed bitterly as she recited names.
“Fulviolo El. Petria Terland and her sister, Ulva. My brother and the Terland twins would have been magnificent leaders. But losing Petria broke Ulva in half. So now there is me. And two children who snap at each other while the other families take sides. The family of El cannot duel the other four families like we used to. And there are too few of us left. The nobility of Izril. Too few to manage all the land.”
“Something can surely be done, Lady Maviola.”
It was Desinee who offered that. She was hardly immune to the dire talk coming from the House of El’s matriarch. The old woman glanced at the [Lady]. She snapped, irritably.
“You want to fix it, Desinee? Go to your husband, lie in bed with a fertility potion, and give birth to a child a year.”
The [Lady] recoiled. Maviola laughed.
“Don’t like that, do you? None of the new [Ladies] do. Pryde, Magnolia, even that harlot, Bethal, and all the others like Ieka, don’t want to birth eight children. Which is what we used to demand! But that’s what’s needed.”
She looked pensively into the fire, which was fading again. And Maviola’s voice was cracked with loss.
“We lost too many during the Sacrifice of Roses. Too many. Not just that our families decline. The Goblin King took a terrible toll.”
This the children understood. Missing links of a family tree that ended suddenly could be traced back to one day, or to one year. Izril’s nobility had lost too many and had yet to rebuild their numbers.
But what could be done? The new generation waited as Maviola looked about. Perhaps, perhaps, the future lay with them. They would become the hope of their House, rebuild it to glory. The children looked at each other.
And then—realized something. All of them were standing. They had been disqualified during the little history lecture. Silenced and made to wait by one side.
Only one of them was left. And she sat in front of Maviola. The old woman nodded.
“One made it? Better than last time. Have the other children go back to their families, Desinee. I’ll speak to…this one alone.”
The other children were herded out of the room. The double doors slammed shut and the girl got to her feet. She stood very properly in front of Maviola. The old woman eyed her, sardonically.
“So, just you, girl? Your parents tell me you are a prodigy. They shout it, rather. Zeci, isn’t it?”
“Yes, Lady Maviola.”
The answer came at once. The old woman studied Zeci and the girl braced herself for any question in the world. But the one that came at her still caught her unawares.
“Do you enjoy your studies, Zeci? Horseback riding, calligraphy, finances—your parents have you studying at all hours, don’t they?”
“I enjoy it, Lady Maviola.”
