“You are not welcome in Izril, Belavierr the Stitch Witch. You will not haunt my lands any longer. I demand you gone, as Lady Magnolia Reinhart. These are my lands, Witch. Not yours.”
The words cracked the air. Ieka felt a push and joined in. Belavierr rocked backwards. Her heels dug into the ground, as if resisting something. All the [Ladies] pushed, but the Stitch Witch held her ground.
On Magnolia’s territory no less. Ieka felt sweat beading down her back. That was…the Stitch Witch eyed Magnolia. And she seemed to wake up even more.
“Banishment. You cannot exile me, girl. You are too small.”
“I eat too much sugar, according to my maid. And I have every intention of tossing you out like the trash you are. Do you wish to make this difficult? Because I could spank you like a girl if it helps change your mind.”
Magnolia’s smile was flinty as she taunted the [Witch]. And Belavierr’s eyes narrowed. She did not like the insults, silly as they were. Ieka felt the presence deepen around her. She looked down and wished she hadn’t. Her shadows were crawling. As if something was moving in them.
The moonlight vanished from the sky. Belavierr seemed to grow taller. Her voice…changed.
“I have met [Ladies] before. Those who grasped immortality. Those who stood against monarchs. You are neither. You overestimate your power.”
She flicked her hand. And a needle flashed across the distance. It shot at Magnolia’s face. And snapped in midair.
Magnolia lowered her hand. She’d crooked a finger. Belavierr stared at the broken needle. Then she shrugged. She reached out towards Magnolia’s face. Her hand made it halfway.
Then it twisted. Gravity snapped it down. Invisible thorns pierced it. Something cracked it backwards. The [Witch]’s hand moved back. For a second Ieka thought she saw broken skin, twisted bone and—
It was the same hand, unharmed. Belavierr regarded it. She looked past Magnolia.
Bethal, Pryde, and Ieka stared at her. The [Lady of Thorns] was vibrating. She opened her mouth, eyes flashing, but Pryde beat her to it. Lady Pryde Ulta sniffed, and shook her head.
“How ancient, Temptress. And yet, you’re quite weak for someone so old. I am disappointed. All this time and effort for what?”
She tossed her head. Belavierr looked at her. Pryde met her gaze with a small smile on her lips.
“Ah. Pride. And passion. Beauty? Magic. And you?”
Belavierr looked from face to face. Pryde, Bethal, Wuvren, Ieka, and then Zanthia. The old woman narrowed her eyes and folded her arms.
“I am not a word, Spider. Begone.”
“Nor I. Begone.”
Ieka murmured. She held a wand in her hand, though this was not a duel like in Wistram. Magic hummed in her very veins. Wuvren nodded.
“We refuse you, Belavierr.”
“Walk away now, [Witch]. We threw back the Goblin King and his armies at First Landing. We will do so again.”
Bethal’s voice hummed in the air. Belavierr regarded her.
“You are unguarded, child. You should have brought armies. Champions.”
The shadows moved behind her. Needles of every shape and size flew out of her robes. The [Ladies] flicked their hands. The needles bounced off Ieka’s barrier, snapped in the air. Pryde’s Skill, [Pride is Weight], broke the others.
But more than that—the magical needles were ineffective. Weaker. Belavierr paused.
“Ah. This is formality.”
She glanced around, as if staring at something. Magnolia smiled.
“You are giving offense, Belavierr. But your presence is already one. I say again: begone.”
Both sides stared at each other. Belavierr was breaking a rule. Neither side struck at each other. They were…
[Ladies]. And this was their place. This was their power. The same force that had thrown back the Goblin King.
Not just First Landing’s armies. They had thrown him back, forced him to order the retreat. But they had been fighting too. And because of that—because of his strength, he had walked among them, cutting them down with his blades.
Belavierr was the same. Ieka was trying to push, but it was like moving…her eyes flickered to the High Passes in the distance. Like the Goblin Lord.
“But weaker.”
Bethal was biting her lip hard enough to draw blood. It was Belavierr who laughed.
“Weaker? You do not even know what I am. And you are too few.”
She laughed at the other [Ladies] behind the six. Three dozen. A fraction of a fraction of those who had died at the Sacrifice of Roses, let alone all who had stood there. Belavierr turned her head, counting. She looked at Lady Rie for a moment and smiled. The [Lady] was frozen, her face a mask of defiance and concentration.
It was to Magnolia that Belavierr looked at again. The [Lady] was smiling slightly. But an invisible blade was trying to drive itself through Belavierr’s head. Still, the Stitch Witch resisted. The shadows were roiling. And then she began to whisper.
“Your thread is mixed. Part woven by ancient fire. Yet you stand here. There is no one to protect you. And I remember when your family first stepped onto this land. You are unguarded, girl.”
The words made Ieka start. They meant something. Magnolia’s eyes narrowed.
“I do not need outsiders to oust you, Belavierr. For armies, I trust to [Generals]. For other threats, I hire or find those to do the job. But for a spider in my house? We need no other.”
No man. No outsiders. The [Ladies] pushed. And Belavierr laughed. She was gathering her strength. Ieka felt sweat sliding down her back, now, and beading on her forehead. Composure. She could not lose it. She could not be the weakest one! She refused!
“It will be your death. I make no bargains tonight. I have only one will in my heart. And that is—evil.”
What a ridiculous word, coming from her. The very incarnation of it. But she said it like it was a mystery. A children’s word. Magnolia spoke, enunciating each word.
“We are the [Ladies] of Izril. And we need no other save for ourselves to deal with threats like you. The day we do, this land is lost to our people. And if it is evil you seek—end us now, Belavierr. And doom the north.”
It was an invitation. A challenge. The six [Ladies] and those behind them stood, locked in a silent battle of wills. And the Stitch Witch waited. She counted their numbers. And then—
She smiled.
 
——
 
Under the obscured moon and stars, they fought. And the darkness moved. First, only the air rippled. Then, high above, the clouds began to swirl. Echoing the forces clashing below.
On one side, the [Ladies]. They held their ground at first, and then began to move. Not in retreat, but graceful steps. As if they danced among the empty field. Their dresses rustled, and they shone.
Like fireflies in the night. Flaring, fading. Flowers in bloom before they wilted.
And on the other side was the Stitch Witch. She smiled, a Spider who had woven her immortality out of threads made of life and time. She too moved slowly, bound by the rules of the engagement.
The night began to change. Shadows grew and rose. Along the edges of the field, figures began to stir. Trying to break the dance. They were unwelcome, and they suffered the breaking of the rules. But still they moved.
“What level is she? She is ancient of years.”
Wuvren’s voice trembled with the strain as the [Ladies] circled the [Witch]. She was reaching for them, slowly, and they were stepping out of the way. Dancing. And invisible, in the sky, the forces collided.
“Old. She is breaking the rules of hospitality and still she remains. Hold her. Our escorts will keep the circle.”
Magnolia’s voice was calm. She watched, as along the edge of the fields, a pink carriage began to move. [Maids] walked at the shadows which revealed figures, sewn into shapes that ridiculed reality.
“They cannot do so alone. Leave the interlopers to him.”
A whisper. It came from Zanthia. And out of the darkness stepped a man with a blade. Ieka hissed. But it was not Bethal’s husband. If it had been, they would have been damned.
Yet it was a he. A glowing figure, stepping out of forever. As Lady Zanthia danced, gracefully amid the moonlight, he appeared.
[The Eternal Partner]. He bowed and she nodded to him. Smoothly, the Stitch-man stepped into the shadows. And they parted at the touch of his sword.
“You cannot kill me with memory alone.”
A whisper. The [Ladies] turned their heads. The Stitch Witch stood at the center of the dance. And she refused to move. She laughed at Zanthia, mockingly. Her voice was a scratching in the head, a worming whisper, trying to undermine their wills.
“You fade. You will die and be forgotten.”
“That may be so. But I crave nothing you offer.”
Zanthia replied. Her will was beyond steel. She looked at Belavierr, unafraid of anything the Stitch Witch held. She flicked her hand and Belavierr staggered. The [Witch] narrowed her eyes, seeking another target.
“Beauty is fleeting. You disguise your age. Time will unravel you.”
An older woman flinched. For a moment, Ieka saw a lined face, white hair. Flaw. And then Wuvren smiled, gracefully.
“I am very vain, it is true. But do not mistake my vanity for weakness. I have refused you once. And you are quite rude. Begone, please?”
She pointed. Belavierr’s foot moved. She looked past Wuvren, frustrated. Her eyes alighted on Bethal.
“Passion burns out. Your love will abandon you.”
Bethal’s head jerked. She faltered in her steps.
“Not so long as my heart remains true. And it is I who choose to love. Go away, Witch. I have faced true monsters.”
“The Goblin King is only one threat. The others will snuff your second heart out. You cannot protect him or yourself.”
Bethal’s footsteps changed. She began walking towards Belavierr. Fury burned in her.
“Bethal.”
Ieka tried to warn Bethal. She raised her wand, straining. Pointing it at Belavierr—
No. No magic. She instead conjured a wall of glass. It rose to Bethal’s midriff, blocking her. The [Lady] looked at Ieka. But then she moved back.
“Your magic is so weak, little [Mage]. I could give you true power. It is all locked away. You know how weak you are.”
Belavierr was in her head. Ieka closed her eyes, trying to resist it. The worst part was that she knew it was true. She tried—but the whispers were in her.
“You will never know the magic of old. But I have lived it.”
“I refuse your—I will not—”
She was drawing closer to Belavierr. Ieka saw the other [Ladies] looking at her. No! She tried to resist, tell herself it was a flawed offer. But the allure.
Power. Ieka looked at Belavierr. And she knew. She wanted to take the Stitch Witch’s offer. Even for the cost.
True magic. Ieka was drawn towards those eyes. Into that smile. She saw Magnolia raising a hand, calling out—
And then—a woman stood in front of Belavierr. Standing tall. Her hair was black. Her eyes orange, like Belavierr’s. But burning orange, not the unearthly glow.
Pryde. And she looked up at Belavierr as the Stitch Witch stared down. Pryde’s eyes were contemptuous.
“I have had enough of your whispers, creature. Begone.”
She raised a hand. And slapped Belavierr across the face.
“Pryde!”
Ieka stumbled. Belavierr’s influence on her faded and she stepped back. But Pryde—had broken one of the rules.
She stood there, the picture of arrogance. Pride made flesh. Belavierr stumbled. The blow had knocked her backwards. The [Ladies] paused uncertainly. And the Stitch Witch laughed.
Mockingly. She stood over Pryde. And the Lady Ulta’s vainglorious ego faltered for a second as Belavierr spoke.
“Pride is fleeting. It dies. And you? You do not even know how small you are.”
One of her hands swung downwards. A blow. Pryde braced herself, using her greatest Skill.
[Pride is Unbreak—
The blow drove her down. Into the earth. She lay there.
“Pryde.”
“She’s alive. The idiot. Wuvren.”
Zanthia swept forwards. They lifted the [Lady]. Pryde’s head was lolling. Her ego—extinguished. And the six were five.
That was enough. Belavierr smiled. And she seemed to grow taller still. Until she was far, far too large for her mortal frame. A dark giant staring down at them. The [Ladies] backed up and the darkness closed in.
Magnolia was the last. She stared up as Belavierr leaned down.
“You walk with those who would live forever. But you cannot follow our paths. Take my hand. And you will know no fear from time.”
The woman stared at the hand reaching towards her. And her hand twitched. But then she sighed. A bit ruefully, and smiled.
“Belavierr. You are indeed powerful. But you are a constant. You do not change because you know nothing. You lose nothing and gain nothing. I would prefer to live, rather than to never die. However brief I may have, it is my time.”
She stepped back. The Stitch Witch’s eyes narrowed.
“Then die.”
She raised a hand, as tall as the heavens. Ieka looked up. And Magnolia nodded. She glanced past Ieka and nodded.
Now. The [Ladies] turned and beckoned. Ieka called out and felt that she was heard.
The jaws of the trap swung shut. Magnolia spoke as Belavierr’s head twisted. Too late, the Stitch Witch sensed…something. She looked down as Magnolia waved at her politely.
“Belavierr. You are many things. But first and foremost. You are arrogant. We are small compared to you. But that is our strength. We do not stand alone.”
The shadows moved. The clouds opened and moonlight shone down. The Stitch Witch turned her head. And out of the darkness rolled…
A carriage. First one, and then two. And then dozens. Led by horses, stopping, opening. But no [Assassins] burst from them. Instead, came figures in dresses.
Tall and short. Young and old. Rich and…richer.
[Ladies]. Ieka turned and saw a young girl, walking with her peers. Lady Eliasor of House Melissar. Last of her line, like Rie. The girl stared at Belavierr, and then Lady Zanthia. The regal old [Lady] nodded, smiling.
One of many. The coaches let out more and more [Ladies]. Over a hundred, and then two hundred. Minor houses. And major.
The last coach to stop and the last passenger was the oldest. A wheelchair moved across the bumpy ground. And the [Lady] was exhausted from her trip. Dying.
But her eyes blazed. As Desinee pushed her, the matriarch of the House of El, Lady Maviola El, looked up at Belavierr. And only now did the Spider realize she had been tricked. She had walked into someone else’s web.
“Why do you come here? There is only death here for you.”
A woman, a [Witch], but no giant, stood in the center of the gathering of [Ladies] as they spread out around her. Encircling her. Staring at the [Witch]. She raised her hand, threw needles. They broke in midair from a dozen different angles. She looked around.
Lady Maviola smiled. She saw Magnolia nod to her. And she inclined her head in return. She spoke, in a voice as soft as a whisper, but carried across the field.
