Three Couriers walked out of Invrisil’s Runner’s Guild into a crowd. Everyone in earshot had rushed to see them when they’d heard. Tritel waved as he mounted onto Ci’s saddle. Salamani produced a wand and bowed with a flourish. He’d already cast some spells on Hawk and Ci, to Hawk’s relief.
“Hey everyone! We’re delivering Lord Bein’s damn amulet! Or Lady Hetessana’s gift! Fuck, it might be fake! But we’re doing it and no [Assassins] are going to stop us! Because we’re Couriers!”
Tritel bellowed. The crowd cheered. The Guild of Assassins produced worried looks and stares, but most just cheered. And even Hawk stopped his nervous pacing to wave.
Because it was true. He’d realized the same thing the other Couriers had. The Assassins’ Guild had a choice. If they went after Couriers on the run, it was one thing. But if they made it personal, it was war. Hawk, Salamani, and Tritel just had to believe that they were out of the crosshairs once they delivered the amulet.
So it was a contest. One with the Courier’s lives on the line and the finish line was Lady Dealia. Until then? All bets were off.
But that was how they lived.
Three—no, four of Izril’s fastest Runners walked towards the gates. And—if the Players of Celum were famous, their fame was newly-won. A fad that might become permanent. But here were Couriers. And even the Players were in the crowd that followed them out of the city.
Invrisil’s people followed the four. And they began to shout. Because the first, the original celebrities of Izril weren’t just adventurers. In fact—you saw these ones more often.
Hawk. The Rabbit Beastkin was trembling with nerves. But the people were shouting his name.
“Hawk! Hawk the Hare! The Hare of Liscor!”
“I hate that name!”
Hawk shouted back. Salamani laughed. He raised a wand, flicking it out of a wrist-holster. And the [Mage Runner] got his own cheer.
“Salamani the Haste Mage!”
Last was Ci with Tritel riding her. He adjusted the strings holding his hat to his head. And the short man flicked out a crossbow. A newfangled weapon, not as good as bows. Or as honorable. And Ci reared and he laughed.
Tritel the Moonlight Rider, and Ci, the Silver Mare of Izril.
“Ready?”
Tritel grinned, with that wild adrenaline coursing through his veins. Hawk nodded tightly. Salamani whispered.
“[Haste]. Let’s do this.”
“Alright. One, two, three, go!”
The Couriers exploded out of the gates to wild cheers from the crowd behind them. They ran. Hawk’s arms and legs were pumping and Salamani was right next to him. The [Mage] was whispering spells as he ran. One of Wistram’s graduates had really taken to running. Tritel and Ci, though?
They stormed ahead. Ci’s silver mane and tail flashed in the sun as she accelerated. Tritel was laughing and riding low along her back. Hawk saw them gaining away and increased his pace.
“Move it, you slow rats!”
The four shot down the road like arrows, and they weren’t even at full speed yet. Heads turned on the road as they shot north and east. People began to move out of the way, but the Couriers surged right, off the road.
“We’re not stopping until we get to Lady Dealia! She’s north and east of here! We’ll go by Reizmelt’s way!”
Tritel was the only one with breath to bellow. The wind snatched away his voice as he pointed. Hawk just ran. Faster and faster, gulping oxygen, feeling his muscles explode with energy. And he saw Salamani grinning as the [Mage] sprinted. Hawk couldn’t resist a smile. After all, they were Runners. And Hawk liked his job.
 
——
 
Three Couriers were taking on the contract. Word spread from Invrisil like wildfire. But it was barely faster than they were, even with [Message] spell and the speed of drama. In fact—Lord Bein and his escort were riding towards Invrisil when they got the news.
From the north, heading south. After trying to reassure Lady Dealia that this was all a complete misunderstanding, the young [Lord] had been making haste to recover the item in question. But he was too slow.
“Three Couriers?”
The young man gave one of his family’s retainers an incredulous look. He was riding with a large escort, as befitted a member of the Terland family. The [Captain of Horse] winced as the young Lord Bein raised his voice.
“Yes, Lord Terland. Three of them have taken the contract. They’re headed north. Hawk of Liscor, Salamani the Mage, and Tritel the Moonlight Rider.”
On the very same trade route as Lord Bein. The young [Lord]’s mouth opened and closed.
“But there’s a bounty on their heads. The Assassin’s Guild got Lacel the Leaper! Didn’t they receive the—the message?”
“Yes, Lord Bein. But—they’re Couriers. I believe the Runner’s Guild is now sending a message too.”
“They can’t do that!”
The [Captain] bit his tongue on the fact that they could and were. And at that moment—one of his [Riders] pelted down the road.
“Lord Bein! The Couriers are headed this way!”
“What? No—that’s excellent! [Captain], marshal your men! We’ll force them to stop. With me!”
Lord Bein reached for a sword and the [Captain] panicked. Because he knew Couriers.
“Lord Bein, I would not advise that!”
But the [Lordling] was already shouting at the escort. They were sizable in number; to fight off attacks and possible kidnapping attempts, nearly a hundred of Terland’s private guards were accompanying Lord Bein. They were also of a decent level and armed with good steel. They looked up as Lord Bein shouted.
“Spread out! Block the road! No one goes around!”
The escort spread out slowly. The other travellers on the road, already forced wide of the Terland group, were forced to stop as the [Soldiers] deployed with efficiency. Travellers backed up. But the [Captain] was arguing with Lord Bein, urgently.
“Lord Bein. My job is to keep you safe and to obey your orders!”
“So?”
“I cannot keep you safe if we attempt to stop the Couriers! Not three of them!”
“Keep me safe?”
The young man looked astonished. Then he saw the [Captain] nervously glancing down the road. And there they came.
The first thing Lord Bein saw was a distant cloud. No—a dust cloud, chained to the earth. It was rippling their way, against the wind. And then he realized. It was following the Couriers.
They were just specks in the distance. Lord Bein stared. So did the people on the road. Some began to cheer. Because three Couriers running at max speed was a sight you only got to see once in a year.
“Captain! Stop them! You, Couriers! Halt!”
Lord Bein grasped at a voice-amplifying stone. His voice cracked across the open trade road. Loud; the [Soldiers] around him were deafened and clasped their hands to their helmets, swearing. But the distant figures didn’t even stop.
“I am Lord Bein Terland! By the House of Terland, I order you to halt and turn over my—turn over your illegal cargo! If you resist, my men will use force!”
The [Lord] howled. And he saw one of the distant Runners raise something.
Salamani the [Mage]. Lord Bein saw a flash of light. And then a spear of light shot at him. It blasted about ten feet over his head. The [Lord] ducked as his horse reared. The [Soldiers] stared as Lord Bein galloped behind their lines.
“Captain!”
“Brace! Apprehend the Runners!”
The [Horse Captain] was swearing and sweating. Lord Bein stared at him.
“They’re not stopping!”
“They’re Couriers, Lord Bein! They answer to no one on a delivery! Not even the Assassin’s Guild!”
The [Captain] snapped, not in the mood to argue. Lord Bein turned pale.
“What? But they promised me—stop them!”
Lord Bein shouted desperately. His escort braced. They had [Riders]. [Pikemen], who were laying down their long spears, ready to impale the Runners. But—the Couriers were just running at them, followed by that giant cloud of dust generated by the speed of their passage.
“Halt in the name of Lord Bein Terland!”
One of the [Soldiers] shouted desperately. The Couriers might have heard him, but they didn’t stop. Instead, they sped up.
“Here we go! Let’s not kill any of the escort!”
Tritel laughed as the three Couriers ran at the blockade. All three Runners saw the [Riders] racing around the lines of spears and infantry, moving to intercept. No [Archers] though, or [Mages] aiming at them; the [Captain of the Horse] was making a half-hearted effort.
So the Couriers replied in kind. The [Mage] raised his wand.
“[Invisibility]. [Flash Step]!”
Salamani vanished. Hawk saw a small explosion of dust as the [Mage] kicked off. The [Soldiers] lost him in an instant, unable to stop the invisible, hasted Runner. They looked around, shouting. And then saw Tritel and Ci riding at them.
He was just one rider, on a horse. And they were behind a line of pikes. But Tritel never slowed. Ci raced along the ground, running silver, like her name. The Moonlight Rider had one hand on his hat and he was aiming straight at Lord Bein.
“Brace! [Pikewall Formation]!”
The [Captain] was covering Lord Bein as he saw the [Rider] shooting towards the line of pikes. And still—Tritel didn’t adjust his course. He was going to ride into the pikes with Ci! The [Soldiers] stared.
And then, just before he reached the wall of pikes, the [Rider] pointed up.
“Ci! [Gazelle’s Leap]!”
Tritel roared. Ci leapt as the first ranks of spears approached. The [Soldiers] stared as the horse flew up, up overhead. Tritel waved his hat in one hand, laughing. The horse cleared the escort, Lord Bein, and then Ci was landing, running, scattering clods of dirt. One hit Lord Bein in the head, just missing the young man’s open mouth.
The second Courier cleared the blockade. Tritel was laughing as Ci landed and shot forwards again. Salamani reappeared with a flourish, leaping over a stationary wagon. He front-flipped through the air, winking at the travellers stopped on the road. They went wild, cheering as the two Couriers flashed past the stunned Lord Bein.
Showoffs. But that was a Courier. And as for Hawk?
He just ran around the [Soldiers] blocking the road. A dozen [Riders] tried to catch him, but he ran past them and the slower horses couldn’t even turn fast enough to catch him. It was a blockade of a hundred soldiers. Just run left for a few seconds and you were clear.
But it was a show. The Couriers rejoined their formation as they ran down the road. People were shouting, waving. And the Couriers kept going.
“Did you see his face? Hah!”
“That was just the easy bit! Don’t get a stuffed head!”
Hawk shouted back at Tritel. The [Rider] laughed and nodded. The hard part was to come. Because word was spreading. The Couriers were on the run.
 
——
 
Two hours later, the real action began. Two hours was enough for the news to spread. From Invrisil, from the tweaking of Lord Bein’s nose—the three Courier’s delivery was making headlines. Or rather—it was appearing in scrying orbs.
“They’re headed this way!”
Every Runner in Reizmelt had heard about the run. They were clustered around the Mage’s Guild’s scrying orb, staring at the projection. It was an aerial view of the three Runners.
“It appears that three Couriers are attempting to complete the request. From Invrisil to—this is a Human drama, so we’re not too up to date on the facts, folks. Lord Bein Terland? Who’s that?”
Noass was trying to cover the story, but the Drake was woefully out of touch. But everyone in the north knew the score. And one of them stared at the Rabbitman who was racing alongside a…[Mage] and a man on horseback.
“Dead gods. Is that—Hawk?”
Ryoka Griffin stared into the scrying orb at the three Runners. Well—for a moment. Even the spell was having trouble keeping up with their speed.
“Hawk the Hare! There’s three Couriers taking the delivery? Is it that dangerous?”
Melodie was excitedly pointing into the scrying orb with all the City Runners. They were clustered around the orb, but a crowd was gathered, demanding to see. This was the kind of drama that occupied Izril’s consciousness.
“Who’re the other two?”
The other City Runners stared at Ryoka. Todel blinked.
“Ryoka, you don’t know them? That’s Salamani, the [Haste] Mage! And Tritel and Ci! The Moonlight Duo! The Moonlight Rider?”
Ryoka gave him a blank look.
“Sorry, I know Hawk, but the others don’t come near Celum.”
“Not often, but they’re Couriers!”
“And they’re passing by Reizmelt! They have to be if they’re heading north—this is the most direct route! Look! They’re nearly here! We might be able to see them! Let’s go and see!”
Caawl shouted excitedly. The other City Runners ran for the doors. So did Ryoka. She had to see this herself. And she saw the dust cloud headed towards Reizmelt. Ryoka stopped and stared. Even the wind was taking notice. She saw the City Runners milling about the southern gates and then heading towards the eastern ones. There was a blockade around the south gates. And—Ryoka ran out of the city. She saw the Couriers.
“Holy cow. They’re moving!”
She had seen Charlay running. And other City Runners. But this? Ryoka ran, the wind at her back. She never caught up.
 
——
 
The Couriers saw Reizmelt in the distance. They were tiring. Two hours of running at full speed was taking some of the wind out of their sails. But—they had stamina potions and mana potions in Salamani’s case. Hawk pointed.
“Reizmelt! A break?”
“You tired, Hawk?”
Tritel laughed. Which was sort of unfair since Ci was doing all the hard work. The mare was running without looking fatigued at all. Hawk gave Tritel a hand-gesture and the man laughed.
“Straight through Reizmelt?”
The Couriers agreed. This was a show, after all. But as they approached the south gates—Salamani wavered. People were streaming out of the city from all the gates, waving. Other City Runners, shouting, trying to keep up. Most couldn’t even catch the Couriers, let alone keep pace. Hawk saw a young woman with black hair he thought he recognized. But then—
“[Dangersense]! Go around!”
Salamani bellowed as he reappeared. Instantly, the three Couriers changed course, avoiding Reizmelt’s gates. Hawk thought he saw a figure in black standing at the south gates, which were invitingly open. But the instant the [Mage] shouted, the Couriers made tracks.
“What is it?”
“Assassins! They’re on to us! Get ready!”
Salamani was pointing. Hawk saw the motionless figure for a moment as the Couriers ran right, going wide of the city. They shot towards the road heading northeast out of Reizmelt. And Hawk felt it too.
Danger. But the Couriers had avoided whoever that was. They kept running. And in Reizmelt, Ryoka slowed, panting. She wondered why the Couriers had suddenly changed course. She looked over her shoulder and saw—
