The girl replied after a moment’s hesitation. The old woman looked at her and rolled her eyes. It was a gesture that indicated complete disbelief.
“Really. You enjoy your studies? And all these costly [Tutors] and such?”
“…Yes, Lady Maviola. I enjoy learning.”
“Hm. Interesting. Approach me, Zeci.”
The young [Lady] did so, tentatively. She stared up at Maviola’s face, but without letting the imperious look deter her. The old woman smiled. Then she lifted a hand.
And there was fire. Brilliant, white fire. It rested in the hand of the old [Lady]. And she looked at Zeci’s wide eyes. There was no heat, but the flame was intense.
“Do you know what they called me, girl?”
Once, there had been a fire—Zeci gulped. She stared at the fire and then at the woman’s face. Only her eyes burned with the same radiance.
“Y-yes, Grandmother. I mean…”
“Fire. Look at it. Isn’t it beautiful?”
It was. But—Zeci was also afraid. The matriarch of the House of El had lived for a long time. And—she had not always lived kindly. She spoke as she leaned down in her chair.
“I have a Skill that tells apart little girls who lie to me. Even if their parents give her tricks to avoid truth spells. Put your hand in the fire, Zeci El.”
“But—”
The girl stared at the flames, terrified, and then at Maviola. The matriarch grinned.
“It will only burn you if you lie, or try to lie. If you are truthful, you will feel nothing. But lie? And you will mourn that hand for your entire life. Like so.”
She lifted her other hand. And Zeci saw an old, old scar that travelled down Maviola’s hand, all the way up to her upper arm. The girl recoiled, but the old woman pushed the flame towards her.
“Go on. Put your hand in the fire and swear that you enjoy your studies. Do it now.”
The girl flinched away. She reached for the fire with her left hand, stared at it, and then, abruptly, burst into tears.
“I lied! I don’t want to study all day! Don’t make me touch the fire, Great Grandmother!”
“Ah.”
The old woman sat back. Abruptly, the fire winked out. She looked at Zeci.
“Did your parents make you study?”
“Yes. They told me it would be good for our family. And they told me to say—”
The girl, tearful, confessed everything in a rush. Only after she had let it all out did Zeci realize it might spell trouble for her family. She choked on her tears.
“Lady Maviola—”
“Do not be worried, Zeci. I will deal with your parents. And they will not be rendered entirely poor this year. But your lessons will cease and I believe you will take only the ones you enjoy—and perhaps some that are necessary.”
“Thank you, Grandmother!”
The girl threw her arms carefully around the old woman. Maviola patted her on the head.
“There, there. And remember—do not lie to me!”
She pinched a cheek and Zeci nodded obediently. Maviola waved a hand and a shadow moved. Zedalien led the girl towards the door. Only when he had escorted her outside did he return.
And only then did he address Maviola more casually, as the two sat in silence.
“Tormenting children with illusionary fire, Lady Maviola?”
She laughed, tiredly.
“Someone must. It keeps them honest. Well, I’ve hopefully put some wisdom into their heads, which is a fine day’s work. Take me to the workshops, Zedalien. Let’s hope we have good news to go along with resolving little Zeci’s ridiculous situation.”
“Yes, Lady El.”
The wheelchair moved softly across the carpet as the half-Elf pushed Maviola’s chair. She drew the shawl around her body as they left the warm study. Maviola saw Zedalien glancing at her as they left.
“Don’t mind me, Zedalien. I don’t need to be coddled for long. I plan to announce my retirement…within the week. Sooner, if I can do it with one last triumph.”
The half-Elf’s face was eternally youthful. Beautiful, with an immortal’s features. Otherworldly as well. But he was older than Maviola. For all that—she was the more aged of the two, in body and in soul. Yet the half-Elf was the one who ducked his head.
“So soon, Maviola?”
“I can’t do this another year. Or a month. My bones hurt. I could cough and break my ribs again. I’m tired, Zedalien. It’s time.”
The woman’s voice was frank. The half-Elf looked as though he weakened with each step.
“And yet, your predecessor—before Lord Fulviolo, if you will pardon my lapse, Lady El—she felt strongly enough to continue into her ninety-eighth year…”
“My body gave out before my spirit, Zedalien. That’s all there is to it.”
“My apologies, Lady El. I—forget myself.”
Zedalien shook his head. With effort, he took a firmer grip of the chair as they moved down the hallway. The old woman continued, almost cheerfully.
“Forget? You remember everything, Zedalien. And you—don’t age. Half-Elves. Half-Elves were the finest idea we had, employing your people as aides. You remember. I am counting on you to teach the next leader. Which will likely be Deilan, for all the girls think I’ll favor them. He’s pretentious. But cautious. He’ll do, until someone with the will takes over.”
The two nodded. They’d discussed this. Even so, Zedalien looked wan. He closed his eyes as they reached another set of fortified ironwood doors. The keep that had been built for the House of El had been fashioned as a grand living space, fortification, and workshop.
Master crafters and artisans that had rivaled the Dwarves. Some of that remained. But so little. The half-Elf, who had been hired in the tradition of the El family—hiring half-Elves for their personal aides and servants—looked at the third head of the House of El he had served. And he knew it was her time.
And his.
“I believe I will tender my resignation, once Lord Deilan is comfortable in his office, Lady Maviola. It has been an honor. Until that moment…I hope to serve you as faithfully as my father.”
That was all he said. The old lady snorted as he opened the workshop doors. But fondly. Sadly. She reached out and touched his hand as he paused to bend and bow.
“Half-Elves. Hearts like glass. But loyal, so loyal. You should have never stayed to watch me grow old.”
The doors opened as the half-Elf straightened. And he silently wheeled Lady Maviola into the workshop.
It was empty for the moment. The artisans and [Mages] employed were not needed. Their work was finished. A [Lord] stood in the room. He had on a workman’s vest. And he was holding a curious stick. A rod, rather, with a curious little button on the side. When he saw Maviola and Zedalien, he bowed.
“Lady Maviola.”
“Deilan. The products are finished. How go the negotiations?”
The old woman sat up in her wheelchair, looking at the [Lord]. Lord Deilan was a member of the House of El, but he kept to their old ways. He was a [Lord], but an [Artisan] as well, one who worked with magic and material. It was the reason he was going to be the next leader of the House of El. He was thirty-six years old.
And he was a bit pretentious. A bit…enamored with the House of El’s legacy. But he did know the work. And as he straightened, Maviola saw his expression darken. No platitudes about the craftsmanship of their goods from him now.
“…Poorly, Maviola. There is no interest.”
The old woman took the news with steady acceptance. Just a grimace.
“Wistram fell through? And the Iron Vanguard? And…?”
“It seems the [Mages] have something to occupy their interests, Lady Maviola. I was in negotiations with Archmage Nailihuaile just last week, but suddenly—she’s no longer interested. And the other buyers…the same.”
“But why? Two hundred blades we made. And no one will buy a one?”
Pained, the elderly woman gestured at the object that Deilan was holding. He handed it to her and she held it carefully. She pressed on the side.
There was a click. The blade was attached to a bit of spring-loaded metal. It shot out from the concealed hiding spot. A rod of metal, rather than a blade, even. But as it extended, there was a flash of light.
A glittering, red-green blade made of magic, transparent at the edges, appeared. Lady Maviola regarded it.
A glowing, magical edge, shaped like a sword’s blade. But light! Light enough even for her!
“Kaalblades. Artifacts, crafted artifacts from another era. We put all our resources into it. All we could spare. It’s a weapon fit for—and they said no?”
Deilan shook his head. He regarded another of the finished Kaalblades. He activated it and carefully cut the air.
“This could cut through most mundane metals, and even weaker enchantments! Not as smooth as butter, but the sharpness of the blade! If only it didn’t run out of power…”
“Ah.”
Lady Maviola looked at Deilan.
“You told me, Deilan. So the individual adventurers? [Merchants] wouldn’t buy because…”
“Adventurers don’t want to pay for mana stones, Lady Maviola. If they were cheaper on the market, perhaps—but as it stood, no [Merchant] would pay our prices. And I went as low as you would allow…”
Maviola disengaged the magical blade. She bowed her head as Zedalien gently took the weapon. Or tried to. The old lady hung on. When she raised her gaze, her eyes were shimmering.
With tears. It was so unexpected that both the half-Elf and [Lord] averted their gaze. But Maviola just brushed at the tears, as if surprised they were there.
“I’ve failed you, Deilan. I hoped I could leave you with the profits from something. But it’s just another venture…Fulviolo had a gift for knowing what would sell. I do not. I’ve made your job harder, when I should have left alone. My arrogance.”
“Lady M—Great Aunt. Nothing could be further from the truth.”
Lord Deilan sank to one knee in the workshop. The old woman smiled at him.
“You lie well, Deilan. But let’s not lie; this was an old [Lady]’s last folly. Keep them, Deilan. Hold onto them until you can find a buyer. Don’t sell them cheaply, mind. We can afford to tighten our belts another generation if need be. Or rather, you can.”
The [Lord]’s gentle grip on Maviola’s hands tightened for a moment. He blinked at her, around the grime on his face.
“You mean…?”
“It is not official. I may announce it later this week. But it is time. You will be the next patriarch of the House of El. Zedalien is my witness. Has been for months now, despite the squabbling. I am done, Deilan. It is time.”
The [Lord]’s grip was tight—before he remembered and released. Slight bruises were already appearing on Maviola’s hands, and he turned red with shame. But Zedalien was already opening a healing potion. And Maviola took no notice. She reached out.
“Do well, Deilan. Listen to Zedalien. And try to avoid Goblin Kings. You’re a bit arrogant. But that’s good. Just lead us well.”
His eyes were shining with tears.
“Great Aunt, I will. I swear it.”
A smile. And for a moment, she was young again.
“Good. Time enough for ceremony later. I don’t know how I’ll do it. Part of me wants to just—vanish. Keep the idiots guessing and let you fight to take charge. But I won’t, I think. Stop crying, young man. I’ve been planning my end for over a decade. Stubbornness kept me around.”
“And now I’m to be…”
The [Lord] stared, suddenly aware of his burdens, for all he had coveted the power. And like that, the drama involving the House of El’s succession came to a close. Maviola El smiled.
“Why do you think I’ve had you negotiating and taking my job for the last two years, Deilan? Ah, well, we will discuss the rest before I go. Not much to say, really; Zedalien knows my job. And he will be with you for a year or two.”
“Not—”
Deilan looked at Zedalien. The half-Elf bowed slightly.
“I plan to retire myself with Lady Maviola’s…retirement, Lord Deilan. I have not the heart for another generation. But I will accompany you until my replacement is ready and you are secure in your post.”
“Of course. Of course. You have my thanks. And—”
Deilan looked at the old woman. It struck him. There went Maviola El. And Zedalien. Two of the House of El’s oldest members. And here he saw. He trembled. But his spine straightened. And Maviola saw and approved.
Not just yet would the Five Families slip away. Not yet.
 
——
 
“Lady El. A [Message] from Lady Magnolia Reinhart.”
Later, as Lord Deilan was sitting in the study with Maviola, asking what questions needed asking, and avoiding discussion of what came next for her…the old woman looked up. Zedalien had a [Message] spell in his hands.
“Hm? It must be urgent. She’s not normally so direct otherwise. Let me see. Ah—”
Maviola’s brow wrinkled. Deilan looked at her.
“Great Aunt? Is something…?”
A troubled look crossed the matriarch’s brow, and then vanished. In fact, Maviola’s gaze almost looked—relieved. Or happy? She nodded at Deilan.
“Nothing that need concern you, Deilan. A [Lady]’s business. Just like you [Lords] and your clubs. Magnolia has an issue. And of course, she’s decided to take the lead on…”
She paused, drumming her fingers on the armrest.
“Reinhart. And what did the other [Ladies] say? No—Ulva Terland wouldn’t accede no matter what. Veltras’ get are terrified of Tyrion, although some might…Wellfar?”
She looked at Zedalien. The half-Elf bowed.
“Refusals, Lady El. At least to move in concert. So Lady Magnolia has come to you.”
“Does she think I won’t survive the trip? Well—I might not. But for this? Yes. Ulva is a proud idiot.”
Maviola winced at the brutal acknowledgement of her own health. Briskly, she shook her head. Then she paused again.
“It should be done. I can send…no. It’s very fitting. Tell Magnolia I will accede. But not without something in return.”
She looked directly at Zedalien. The half-Elf paused.
“What should I relay to Lady Magnolia?”
The old woman felt at her side. For…three objects. She clutched them urgently, as she sometimes did. Only, now?
Now. She felt a specter at her back. Not yet. Not yet. The fire was dim. And Lord Deilan, heir to the House of El, looked at the old woman as she bared her teeth. She stared at Zedalien.
“Tell her…tell her I have a price. As the El family has always done, we serve our clients and our interests. Let her give it to me. And Deilan?”
“Yes, Great Aunt?”
The old woman smiled at him.
“Let’s make the most of today. Because when you become our House’s leader, I will not be there.”
And he saw her breathing shallowly. The effort of even telling a story had taken a toll on her. And the [Lord] bowed his head and spent his last hours with Maviola El well.
 
——
 
