That made Hawk give her a second look. Any City Runner could become a Courier, but some were earmarked for the position because of the Skills they had, or natural talent, etc. She didn’t look particularly athletic, so he guessed she had a Skill.
“Well, I hope you make it. It’s a bit dicey around here.”
“Absolutely. Did you hear about Lacel the Leaper? He was intercepted while running a delivery to Lady Dealia! In the Player of Celum’s inn!”
Hawk’s fur stood up, although Persua didn’t actually seem that bothered.
“I heard. Legs broken, right? I should pay a visit to him.”
“Oh, he left the city. Wouldn’t stay. But the package for Lady Dealia is still here.”
“Really? The Assassin’s Guild didn’t get it?”
No, it was to send a message. Hawk remembered that a beat before Persua informed him of that fact. The word was all over Izril, especially the Runner’s circles. The Guild of Assassins was back. Well, they’d never left, but now they were accepting contracts on Runners. And they’d done it in Magnolia Reinhart’s own city. To a Courier.
I’d better not sleep before I deliver the damn plays or whatever they are. Hawk resolved to himself as Persua cozied up to him. He reflexively stepped back.
“Too bad about Lacel. But he’s only good when he’s on the move. I’d love to chat, Miss Persua—”
“Can’t you stay? I’d love to get a drink together. Ask about the Courier’s lifestyle?”
Hawk hesitated. He eyed Persua, searching for the most amenable way out of the conversation. Did Persua know Ryoka? Or…Valceif? Hawk’s stomach twisted. Poor fellow. He was about to ask when someone spoke up.
“Hawk? Good timing! The lady said you’d be here! I need a word!”
A loud voice. Hawk turned and saw another Courier striding his way. A Balerosian, at least in skin-tone, although Hawk happened to know this fellow was all-Izrilian to the core. The new speaker spread his arms wide.
“Hawk! Don’t hide! I’d recognize those ears anywhere!”
“And the fur? Good to see you Trit.”
Hawk greeted Trit, or Tritel, was a stocky fellow. Short, rather good-natured, and surprisingly aggressive for his height. He was a small fellow compared to Hawk, but he stomped on up and punched Hawk in the side.
“You giant inconsiderate rabbit! I haven’t seen you in ages! Where’ve you been? Around Liscor still?”
“That’s where I live.”
Hawk wasn’t one of the more dramatic of personalities that made up a Courier. But Tritel…was. He had a very flatfooted walk, surprising for a runner, and he wasn’t dressed in the loose clothing they liked. He had on boots, heavier clothing, and even wore a hat. He was also very short for a Runner, but it fit the way he travelled.
He was also a Courier. And he grabbed hold of Hawk’s arm with surprising strength.
“You’re coming with me. I need a word.”
“Trit—”
“No buts! I’ll buy you a drink! Actually, I was just going to meet Salamani too. You heard about Lacel, right?”
“Yeah. Salamani’s here?”
Hawk was distracted. It was rare to find multiple Couriers, even in a city like Invrisil. They were always on the move. Tritel nodded.
“He’s here. On the same business as me. Come on, we’re at this bar I like. So’s Ci.”
“Ci? They let her in there?”
“It’s my favorite bar. Come on.”
“Excuse me. I was talking with Hawk. Who are you?”
Persua blocked Tritel as he steered Hawk towards the door. The shorter man stared at Persua.
“Sorry, Miss. Who’re you? City Runner? Must be if I don’t know your name. This is Courier’s business. One side.”
With that, he put a hand on her midriff since her shoulder was too high and shoved her out of the way. The outraged squawk didn’t even make Tritel break stride as they left the Guild.
“Was that someone you were interested in, Hawk? You could do better either way.”
“No. Not my type. Also, I have someone I’m seeing. I want to get her a gift, Trit. If this is going to take long…”
“Relax, relax. I forgot. Nothing without scales for my fur-friend. I know Invrisil. I’ll help you get her the best gift before we go. There’s these new song-crystals that are all the rage. From Terandria.”
“Before we go?”
Hawk didn’t miss that. He narrowed his eyes, but Tritel had a grip on him.
“Come on, it won’t take long to explain.”
He led the Rabbitman down the street. Hawk sighed, but he followed Tritel—you had to trust fellow Couriers. Well, some of them. And Tritel was good, if pushy. As the two walked on, they heard a group arguing. Young men and women.
“What do you mean, we’re out of money?”
Rose was shouting at Joseph. He flung up his hands.
“I don’t know! She said it would last until Liscor! It’s not my fault you all kept buying snacks! And tipping!”
“You have to tip people! What do we do? Send her a [Message]?”
“Kids these days.”
Tritel shook his head as he led Hawk past. The Rabbitman felt a bit sympathetic; it was a common scene, kids coming to Invrisil and losing all their money. He wasn’t about to give them any, anyways. But even so…
 
——
 
The bar that Tritel liked so much wasn’t…the best. It wasn’t bad, but it had that ‘live and let live’ attitude towards its clientele. Drinks were cheap, and the owner accommodating.
Very accommodating. Hawk spotted Ci and Salamani by the bar. He would have recognized them at once.
Salamani because the Human was a fellow Courier. Only—his clothing was silk, and had the embellishments most [Mages] loved to put on everything. As he turned to greet the other two Couriers, part of his heritage became obvious.
Salamani was descended from a Lizardman and a Human woman. Fertility spells made the cross-species birth work, but as often happened, there was a bit of mixing of genetics. In this case—Salamani’s only nod to his other half was his eyes.
They were vertical slits, like a lizard’s. But the man was normal in every other respect.
“Hawk! Tritel said you’d be coming.”
“Coming? For what?”
“I didn’t say. Hi, Salamani. Thanks for keeping my place, Ci.”
Tritel greeted the fourth person at the bar. He got a snort in reply. Hawk glanced over at Ci, whom he was also familiar with. And…part of the ‘live and let live’ atmosphere of the bar was added to by Ci’s presence.
She was a horse. A white mare, some exquisite Terandrian breed. Hawk didn’t know horses well, but even he could tell Ci was a horse among horses. She was also standing at the bar and drinking out of a bowl.
“…Is that alcohol?”
“Of course. You think Ci’s drinking water?”
Tritel gave Hawk an odd look. The Rabbit Beastkin was giving him the same, but that was Tritel. The short man was one of the mounted Couriers. And he and Ci were a pair.
“What’s this about, you two?”
“Sit down. Have a drink. But nothing stiff.”
Hawk didn’t like the friendly way the other two Couriers were glancing at him. Tritel had a stiffer drink than the other two, but then—he didn’t need to be sober to run. And Salamani was drinking milk. Hawk’s senses began to tingle.
“So—Lacel the Leaper got his legs broken. That fat idiot probably thought no one would stop him at night in a fancy inn. Thing is, the Assassin’s Guild is off Reinhart’s leash. And Lacel didn’t even get the damn amulet that may or may not be Lord Bein’s stolen.”
Tritel spoke cheerfully, not bothering to lower his voice. The two Couriers listened. Hawk ordered some juice. Ci gave him a sideways look with one of her eyes. He waved at her. Tritel got mad if you didn’t.
“It was a message. The Assassin’s Guild is back. We’ve all got to start sleeping with one eye open again.”
Salamani grumbled. Hawk nodded. It wasn’t good, but prices would go up with the danger. It was life. Tritel was nodding.
“Yeah, but the thing is—the delivery could still be done. In fact, some people reckon it ought to be done. Because the Assassin’s Guild might be back—but that was a Courier’s job. And we don’t fail. Not even if all the Demons in hell were chasing us.”
He gave the other two a sideways look. Hawk instantly stood up.
“That sounds great. But you know what? I uh, have the important delivery I have to do. For the Players of Celum.”
“The Players of Celum? You wouldn’t happen to know them, would you? I’d pay for a signature!”
Salamani perked up. Hawk reached for one of the monogrammed autographs.
“Take it, Salamani. I’m going to—”
“Not so fast, Hawk.”
The Rabbitman stared at the hoof in front of his chest. He stared at Ci. To his relief, he realized it was Tritel who’d spoken. The [Rider] was motioning him to sit back down.
“This is a matter of pride. The Assassin’s Guild made its mark. We make ours. Runners will deliver that package to Lady Dealia, even if Lord Bein puts a hundred thousand gold piece bounty on our heads.”
“Not if Lady Hetessana doesn’t pay us. And that’s a personal choice. Excuse me, Ci—”
The mare snorted and gave Hawk a look. He hesitated. Tritel had a [Beast Tamer] class, or something close. And Ci was as intelligent as animals got. He slowly backed away to his seat.
“I know, it’s about money. But this is different, Hawk. Hetessana’s raised the price of delivery.”
“Even so—”
“Three of us are going to deliver the package. And if the fee’s not enough for you, it’s being doubled. To send a message. And you know who’s doubling it?”
Hawk hesitated. He had a bad feeling. He glanced over the bar. He could jump over it, burst out the back door, and be gone even if Ci and Salamani tried to stop him. Hawk was a cautious Courier, as they went. He did not risk his life. Not with the Goblin Lord’s army, not with anything else. He tensed.
“I’m sorry, Tritel. But even for twice that, or four times—”
“Guildmistress Godfrey wants it done, Hawk.”
Salamani spoke up for the first time. He was lovingly staring at the autograph that had some of Jasi’s lipstick and signature on it. Hawk paused.
“She…does?”
“That’s right. Mihaela herself. And she knew you were coming north, Hawk. You’re in on the delivery. All three of us going together. It’ll be safer. Not even hard with three of us. But you’re in it. Or you get to explain yourself to First Landing’s Guildmistress. And you know how she gets.”
Hawk did. He hesitated. If it had been Tritel or Salamani asking him, he’d already be running for the gates. But…
Mihaela Godfrey. One of the most famous Couriers to ever run across Izril. Guildmistress and rarely active Courier of First Landing’s Runner’s Guild.
Mother of Valceif Godfrey. Tritel raised his glass.
“She’s not in a good mood, Hawk. You know how she’s normally? Double that, and then double that. You can run off and we’ll do it alone. But she’ll pull off your ears and tail if you get within a hundred miles of First Landing.”
The Rabbit Beastkin hesitated. He had a healthy self-respect for his life. He wasn’t an adventurer. Being a Courier was dangerous, but he didn’t take suicide missions. He weighed the dangers of going against the Assassin’s Guild to deliver the amulet with Tritel and Salamani versus Mihaela Godfrey’s wrath.
“I hate you both.”
He sat back down. Tritel grinned and raised his cup before draining it.
“Do you think she gave us a choice?”
“Soonest done, soonest ended. The Assassin’s Guild has rules. We get the amulet to Lady Dealia, they lay off.”
“And if they don’t?”
“Then all bets are off and it’s war. And I bet even the [Assassins] will think twice before going up against all the Couriers in Izril. Or Mihaela. She’s squashed a hundred times more Ants than I have [Bandits].”
Salamani drained his cup. Tritel nodded. He slapped Ci on the side.
“Drink up, girl. We’re about to do some work.”
The mare snorted alcoholic fumes all over Tritel. He laughed. Hawk pushed back his drink. He shouldn’t have come to Invrisil. Damn, damn—
 
——
 
The amulet of Lord Bein’s sat in the Runner’s Guild. Lord Bein was on the way himself to pick it up. Not that it was actually his amulet! More like a clever fake!
Lady Hetessana’s claim of her relationship with Lord Bein was in jeopardy. Lady Dealia had sworn vengeance if it turned out Lord Bein had been unfaithful.
And the concrete ‘proof’ of all this lay in Invrisil’s Runner’s Guild. Hawk grumbled as the three Couriers walked through the doors.
“Can’t they make Lord Bein swear on a truth spell?”
“Ah, but that would be dishonorable and crap. Or he might refuse. This is how the nobles play, Hawk.”
Tritel laughed. Ci trotted through the doors after him, ignoring the looks she got. Tritel strode up towards the counter where the [Receptionist] was giving him a very long look.
“Hey. We’re here for the amulet of Lord Bein. Or Lady Hetessana’s delivery. Whatever. You know what it is.”
The words provoked a silence around the guild. Everyone turned to look. Hawk wondered if there were any [Assassins] here. There had to be. Informants at least. He looked around nervously. But he was committed.
“The—the amulet? You three are…?”
The man’s eyes went round. Someone immediately ran out the side doors. Hawk turned.
“Easy.”
Salamani looked relaxed as he limbered up. The [Mage], who was also a [Runner], nodded. As Tritel leaned over the counter.
“You got word from First Landing. The amulet. Give it.”
“But—”
“You’re a [Receptionist]. We’re the Couriers. Hand it over. Or—Ci?”
Tritel was too short to reach over the counter. So Ci, the horse, leaned over and clicked her teeth in front of the [Receptionist]’s face. The man backed up.
“I’ll—I’ll get it.”
“Good. Did someone spread the word, Hawk?”
“There’s a crowd gathering. Tritel…”
“Don’t worry. Salamani’s going to cast on us before we leave the doors. I doubt they’ll get us before we leave the city. If they do—improvise. I’ll take it. Unless one of you want it?”
“No.”
“Nope.”
Tritel nodded. He patted Ci’s flank as the mare snorted. She could sense the mood in the room.
“Anyways, Mihaela wants a crowd. There’s the amulet. Let’s roll.”
The [Receptionist] had it in a box. He unlocked it with a secret passphrase and key as the Couriers waited. Hawk was dancing from foot to foot.
“Are we doing this now?”
“You want to take a nap like Lacel? Yep, here it is. Nice looking, right?”
Tritel dangled the locket at the other two. Salamani leaned in.
“…Looks genuine. There’ll be hell to pay once we deliver it.”
“If. You mean, if.”
“Hawk, you’re the most terrified giant rabbit I’ve ever met. Relax. You’re a Courier. Let’s do this.”
