“The Five Families stand united when we must. For Goblin Kings. For war. And threats of your ilk. You are not welcome here, Spider.”
And now Belavierr knew. Her eyes narrowed and she cast about. Searching for a crack, a weakness to use. She spoke, as some of the youngest girls stared at her in horror. At the oldest of the [Ladies]. At them all.
“This is Izril’s might? It is a wilted radiance. Dying. All things fade. You are fragments and wisps of the [Lords] and [Ladies] who claimed this land. They walked with Giants and slew Dragons. What are you to them? Children of a faded dream. You will wither and your families turn to dust. But I could give you power.”
She reached out. [Ladies] drew back. And none took her hand. They looked at her. Afraid, wrathful, fearful—
But contemptuously. Refusing her. The Stitch Witch’s face was changing. Her contempt for them was bared. A twisted expression of distaste, mirrored across both classes.
Lady Zanthia spoke, her voice ringing across the field, reaching all of the women gathered there.
“Ladies of Izril. Behold the Temptress. She will come to you as you age. Each and every one of you. And she will offer you immortality, beauty. But what she asks is your very soul. We remember those who have fallen into her web. So we call her. So all races name her, the wretched creature creeping around legends and time. Temptress.”
“Spider.”
Bethal stared at Belavierr, her eyes blazing.
“Threadstealer.”
Wuvren murmured.
“Stitch Witch.”
Ieka whispered. And Magnolia Reinhart smiled. With all the gestures of welcome and none of the feeling.
“Belavierr, we are young to you. But the flowers of Izril still bloom. And we stand united. It is you who forget; you have trespassed and given offense on our lands. You are not welcome here. Begone.”
The other [Ladies] echoed her.
“Begone.”
The whisper picked up. Eliasor spoke the word. Ieka said it. Rie whispered, staring in hate at Belavierr’s face. The Stitch Witch’s form…trembled.
From her resting place, Lady Pryde coughed. She stared at the [Witch] and mustered some defiance.
“I have seen more impressive sights. Begone.”
“You have nothing we wish for. Begone.”
Zanthia’s voice was steady. Maviola El gazed at Belavierr.
“You are withered in turn, Belavierr. Begone.”
The Stitch Witch threw her head back and shrieked in fury. The sound made some of the [Ladies] start. But it did nothing. Bethal raised her head and pointed.
“You are not the Goblin King. Begone.”
Magnolia Reinhart’s eyes bored into Belavierr’s.
“Begone from my lands.”
She raised her hand, and the Ladies of Izril pointed as one. They spoke a word.
“Begone.”
Belavierr trembled. And then the air broke. The clouds split. The word rang and the Stitch Witch howled.
The shadows fled. Belavierr’s own shadow flickered, banished, fleeing southwards. Thrown by the word. But the Stitch Witch remained.
For a second, she lingered there. Refusing to leave, clutching at the ground. Her eyes blazed and her face twisted. But then—she couldn’t hold on.
Slowly, unwillingly, the [Witch] straightened. And she turned. Without a word, she began to walk. Away. Not just out of Invrisil’s lands, but further still. Helpless. Her hatred raged against them. But it was done.
Lady Ieka collapsed onto the ground for a second, breathless, covered in sweat. She felt the dirt that had crept under her dress, her tired legs—all of it suddenly. The other [Ladies] rocked back, feeling the backlash as well.
“Did we—did we do it?”
Bethal was panting. Lady Zanthia nodded, tiredly.
“It is done. She will not haunt Izril’s north for months. Perhaps longer. We threw the Goblin King and his armies back from First Landing, but she is just one monster.”
“One? But as terrible as he was.”
Wuvren murmured. The others nodded silently. Even so, it was done. Wherever a [Lady] or [Lord] of Izril claimed land, Belavierr was unwelcome. There were more powerful deterrents. But few as complete.
She had been vanquished. But not slain. The irony of that was clear to Ieka as she glanced around. The [Ladies] of Izril had thrown her back—with less effort once they had gathered in their true numbers. But only that. So many women, who had come so far at Magnolia Reinhart’s request.
But then—this mattered. Threats like Belavierr were what the [Ladies] of Izril gathered for. And…the most notable guest slowly approached Magnolia.
Lady Maviola El did not look too tired from the act of banishing Belavierr. But perhaps that was because she had little left to give. Her breathing was slow as she raised her head. Magnolia came towards her.
“Lady Maviola, you do me a great honor. But for you bringing so many, we might not have triumphed as easily.”
The old woman nodded. Just that. She did not look at Magnolia with fondness—but not with open distaste, either. Just…tiredness.
“We do not stand in agreement often, Magnolia Reinhart. For this, though, the House of El walks with you.”
Magnolia took it as simply that. She curtsied slightly. And the old woman inclined her head. She was grand, Maviola El. Ieka had heard stories of her youth, which had promised to outstrip even Bethal and Pryde’s exploits. But she also recalled Belavierr’s words and looked at Maviola with sadness.
Fading.
“You did not need to come yourself. Although I appreciate the gesture.”
Magnolia looked at the old woman with concern. And she heard a laugh in reply.
“I wanted to see the Spider in person myself. A second time.”
Ieka started. She looked at Zanthia and Wuvren. The two older [Ladies] nodded, their eyes glinting. And their words ceased to become hyperbole.
She will come to every one of you. In time. Ieka shuddered, remembering the temptation of Belavierr’s offer. How many had taken her bargains?
But Maviola—it was she upon whom all the [Ladies] looked. Because they sensed it. So too had Maviola, at the beginning of it. The end of it. She spoke, raising her hand weakly to her chest as she looked at Magnolia, around at the others.
“I will not live to repel another such monster. I have made arrangements. The House of El will endure. But I…will not.”
The [Lady] behind Maviola, Desinee El, stared at her grandmother. And her eyes filled with tears. Magnolia’s face was grave. Maviola looked at her, urgently.
“Do you have what I asked for?”
“Of course. I would not betray our bargain.”
“Hah! An honest Reinhart. Will the world survive such a thing?”
The woman’s laugh was mocking. But her eyes fixed with longing on the vial Magnolia withdrew. It had been sent by Courier. Won in an auction.
Ieka saw viridian light. A small vial. And she gasped, knowing what it was.
“Ah.”
Bethal started. She realized too. Pryde, wincing, but rapidly regaining her massive ego, stood.
“What is that, Bethal?”
“The…Potion of Youth. I bid on that.”
The other [Ladies] looked at her. Exasperated, forgetting the moment, Ieka snapped at the woman.
“What do you need it for, Bethal?”
The [Lady of Thorns] met Ieka’s gaze challengingly, and smiled.
“Ten years, Pryde. It would have been a fine time, with Thomast and I younger than when we first met. I’ve always regretted not knowing him in his youth. Besides, it would last for ages with us.”
The other [Ladies] sighed. Bethal Walchaís.
Maviola, for her part, ignored the chatter in the background. She took the potion as Magnolia carefully offered it to her. And she smiled. Magnolia carefully spoke.
“You know it cannot reverse anything. It is temporary. If you wanted a potion to reverse your age, I could find something…”
Maviola cut her off with a shake of her head.
“The El family lacks the coin to pursue a mad dream of immortality, Lady Magnolia. Nor am I worth the cost, even if we could pay it. I am not like your old ghost of an ancestor. I know when I must exit the dance floor, and I intend to do it on my terms.”
She eyed Magnolia, and almost all the [Ladies] knew exactly what she meant. Magnolia nodded after a beat. Her lips quirked slightly.
“I will tell Regis that. It is like him to cling to life. And his wife gracefully left the stage.”
“Even so.”
The two women exchanged a look of understanding, at least in this. Maviola regarded the potion. And for a moment there was genuine regret in her eyes.
“Ah, but the potions that Drake makes do work. And yet it is just youth. If he could make Potions of Reverse Aging…perhaps. But how many years would it reverse? Three years? Four? Even if he could make one that took ten years away, he is just one. This world has lost the ability to make powerful artifacts. And we lost our Mirror of Eternal Vitality. One wonders if Regis Reinhart keeps it. Do you know yourself, Magnolia?”
“If he does, he won’t share it.”
Magnolia remarked drily. Maviola laughed.
“Your curse is a troublesome one! Ah, but we all have our curses. Belavierr is Terandria’s. So many nightmares come from that land. And the ‘perfect’ kingdoms we left. But enough. I say: enough. I am done. I do not wish the Stitch Witch’s cursed life forever. It is time. Desinee. Bear witness.”
The old woman looked at her descendant. And the other [Ladies] drew back. Lady Zanthia found Eliasor and the young girls under her tutelage. She spoke, as she watched Maviola. And Eliasor saw Zanthia’s face. Longing, and afraid.
“Look at her, Eliasor, young [Ladies]. And hope that you have half her grace as you pass. I do. And remember. Those who enter into a covenant with the Temptress are not worthy of walking in Maviola’s shadow.”
Maviola sat alone in her wheelchair. The old woman’s fingers slipped on the cork of the vial as she tried to open it. At last, Desinee helped her. Maviola grunted, irritably. Then she looked around.
“I have been planning my end a long time. I do not have the will to cling to life. Nor the interest to spend my years waning. I have lived. Made mistakes. I have many regrets. But it ends as it should, with time. I did not know it would be today. I did not know how I would die. I still do not. But I do not intend to waste away. To die quietly.”
She raised the vial with a trembling hand. The women looked as Maviola brought it closer to her lips. She spoke, quietly.
“I am Lady Maviola El. And this is the death I choose.”
She drank the entire vial down. A full potion’s dose. Ieka gasped. And she saw the old woman change. Her features shifted. In a moment.
One second, an old woman sat in the chair. The next—Ieka blinked. And she saw a woman standing there, regarding her dress. Someone else.
A young woman with sparkling orange hair, like embers, mixed with black. She had a smile made of mischief and passion, and her eyes blazed. She turned, and Desinee was the older of the two.
“Grandmother…?”
A laughter, infectious, crackling with humor. The young woman stretched.
“That’s only what you call me, Desinee. But all my life? I’ve been Maviola. And—I’ve forgotten how it feels to stand. Look at me.”
With some dismay she looked at her body.
“My clothes don’t fit. That I forgot to prepare for. But enough, enough. I have my bag of holding. And that is enough.”
She twirled. And the [Ladies] looked at her. Magnolia Reinhart blinked. Bethal nudged Pryde.
“I did not expect that. I thought she was going to sell it. Isn’t that a waste of money?”
The [Lady] smiled. She looked at Bethal and turned around.
“This is my selfishness. I told you, I’ve prepared for this day for decades. With my own funds. Look. Magnolia, you were only one more piece to my ending. And for that, I thank you. Even the Stitch Witch in her way. But I have been prepared.”
She reached for her side. And pulled out the three objects she always carried with her. And Ieka’s jaw dropped. Because she saw three glowing vials. Each the same color.
Three potions. Each the same as the last. Even Magnolia blinked.
“Saliss of Lights sells his potions rarely. But he does sell a number of them. I used only the money I had. Nothing remains but this.”
Maviola El looked at the three vials. Each one a Potion of Youth. Temporary Youth. She looked around.
“Each one will last a week. And after that?”
She spread her arms. And she smiled.
“That is all. But it is my ending. Youth, a dream. Now, look at me, Desinee. Magnolia Reinhart, you [Ladies] of Izril. I am Lady Maviola El. And I relinquish my position as leader of the House of El. I give it to Lord Deilan El.”
A gasp from Desinee. And the [Ladies] stirred. Maviola turned her head. Looking around. Staring at the ground, the sky, as if it was all new again. She turned.
“What will you do with your time? My estates are open, and my carriage, if you have any wish.”
Magnolia looked at Maviola respectfully. The [Lady] laughed, younger than Magnolia by half. Almost scornfully.
“I don’t need wealth. I want something else. Something new. I will not trouble any of you. I am no longer of the House of El. I will be just Maviola. I will be…”
She paused.
“I had a name, once. A nickname. ‘Lady Firestarter’. That was what they called me, when I was a girl. But only I remember why. Yet, for a moment, let me be her again. Goodbye, all of you. I hope you live the lives you want.”
Nothing more. She turned and began walking out of the field. And the [Ladies] of Izril—knelt.
They curtsied, or bowed, some of them. And they knelt as the young woman passed them by. To age, to the passing of the House of El’s scion.
To her. And a word that Ieka held in her house, that chased away Belavierr’s whispers.
Grace. Maviola El walked. She left her years behind. And she strode over to a hitched, waiting horse, and mounted it as nimbly as could be. It had no saddle; the horse danced as she steadied it. Then she began to ride away.
South. Smiling and laughing in the night. The [Ladies] watched. In silence, in awe, in mourning.
Only one voice broke the silence. And it was Bethal’s. She started. And exclaimed.
“Oh. She stole my horse.”
 
——
 
On Maviola rode, on burning, magical time. To find her death. Leaving her life behind. South.
She rode like fire, her hair, black and orange, waving in the wind. Lady Firestarter. Lady El. A figure from an old tale, another era, riding into the night. Out of her story and into another for one last time.
She passed a shadow in the night. A walking monster. A [Witch]. The banished figure turned her head. And she whispered. Her voice rose as shadows circled Maviola.
“You have left your lands. You are dying. I can let you live forever.”
A nightmare’s voice. Reaching hands. An immortal stare. Maviola turned her head. And in the midnight’s darkness, she raised her hand.
Fire blooming in the night. Belavierr screamed as the magical fire, made of memory, shot into the sky. And Maviola El laughed.
