“What does Reinhart need with another potion?”
“Leverage, no doubt. Any number of [Lords] might jump for it. Lord Pellmia, for instance. Ieka—are you certain this is wise?”
The [Mage Lady] returned to looking out the window. She had been in the carriage all day. It was a difficult business, travelling fast in Izril. Couriers—even Couriers—took days to travel the continent. Damn Magnolia’s carriage, with all its ancient magical enchantments. It was yet another thing the Lady Reinhart had over her enemies.
Ieka had also made a stop to pick Lady Rie up. She was living in Riverfarm of all places. In a terribly tiny house. But Ieka understood the sacrifice.
“Some things are more important than…differences, Rie. You know it. As do I. The Circle opposes Reinhart in so much. But this?”
Lady Rie bit her lip. If Ieka hated Magnolia, Lady Rie Valerund blamed Magnolia Reinhart for so much more. However…
“I understand. I communicated the necessity. But we are risking our lives.”
“And? This is the very thing the Circle was made of. The old ways. Not Magnolia’s new ideas. Peace with the Drakes? But she is right in this.”
Lady Ieka’s eyes flashed. She did not like this any more than Rie. And she was more powerful than Rie, in every sense. The other [Lady] sat back.
Silence. The carriage rolled on. Eventually it stopped and one of the armored bodyguards, [Spellarmor Warriors]—a weaker class than Ieka wanted, she would have preferred [Mage Knights]—rapped on the glass window.
“Lady Imarris. We have arrived.”
The voice behind the helmet was female. And all of the [Riders] were. Men would have not been appropriate tonight. Ieka rose, her legs sore from inactivity.
“It is time. Keep your forces back, Celaene. Unless we signal.”
“Yes, Lady Imarris.”
The leader of Ieka’s bodyguard was restless. Rightly so. But the two [Ladies] were controlled. That was what being a [Lady] was. To Ieka, it was grace, even in the face of death. Other people had different ideas.
“Rie?”
The other [Lady] exited the coach. And Lady Ieka found herself standing in a field.
A wheat field, perhaps. Recently cleared for harvest. It did not jive with her shoes at all. Ieka frowned; Rie had a much more sensible shoe on. But both [Ladies] wore dresses.
They made their way towards a group not far distant as the [Bodyguards] retreated. And there, standing in the splintered rays of moonlight and under cloud, was a gathering.
[Ladies] turned to watch as Rie and Ieka approached. Just…around three dozen [Ladies]. More than Ieka expected. All of them she knew on sight. And the ones in the center made Ieka’s jaw tighten. But she ignored them, looking about.
The [Ladies] had brought their own escorts. Bodyguards, small groups like Ieka’s elites. The [Mage Lady] saw groups of female [Guards]. Higher-level individuals. Personal aides—a group of [Maids] standing by one pink carriage.
And to the side—[Knights]. Dressed in flamboyant pink armor. The Knights of the Petal. Ieka scowled at them. And she stared at the [Lady] who had always claimed her elites were better than Ieka’s.
Lady Bethal Walchaís stood in the center of the circle of [Ladies] in their dresses, in the field. Well—she was not wearing a dress. Contrarian as always, she had on riding clothes. For once, her husband was nowhere to be seen.
She was not the only one. Standing next to her was arrogance personified. Pride, embodied in [Lady] Pryde. Never more suitable a name existed. The [Lady]’s eyes flashed imperiously as she shifted her stance, but she would never have acknowledged Ieka first.
Next to her, a woman in her twenties, in full youthful bloom. Or she might be a woman in her thirties, next. Older, younger—Lady Wuvren, the most beautiful [Lady] in all of Izril, had an appearance which always belied her age. And she, too, was not surrounded by her suitors. Her male suitors, at any rate. Ieka nearly sneered at Wuvren’s clothing. But then she saw a face that did give her pause.
Lady Zanthia was the only one there for whom Ieka had any respect. And the old woman was unchanged. Dignified, standing in the loose soil and fallen stems of wheat like she stood in the most noble of receptions. She nodded slowly towards Ieka.
In the center of them all was her. A shorter woman than Ieka, by a bit. A bit plumper too. But then, her sweet tooth was legendary. And her smile and expression was welcoming, open. But the most deadly of the flowers of Izril did not fool Ieka one whit.
“Lady Ieka. I’m so glad you could make it. And Lady Rie as well.”
“Magnolia. And I see the others have gathered as well. I was delayed in gathering Lady Rie.”
Ieka inclined her head slowly. Stiffly. The other [Ladies] smiled or nodded, but Bethal didn’t give even that pretense. She just stared.
So did Rie. The Lady Valerund had turned into a statue upon seeing Magnolia. Ieka looked at her. Well, they did not have to stand together. But Ieka drifted forwards as Rie sketched the most rudimentary of curtsies and held back, among the outer circle.
“Lady Ieka. I was most gratified to hear your response. And that you came. Despite our…differences.”
That we’d stab each other to death on any other day. Ieka nodded at Magnolia.
“Special circumstances. Do you want to say something, Bethal?”
The other [Lady]’s gaze was burning a hole in the side of Ieka’s head. The [Mage Lady] turned her gaze and acknowledged Bethal at last. The Lady Walchaís spoke slowly.
“I received a flower.”
Ah, the black flower. Ieka had sent it with others a while ago. But Bethal would not forget. The black flower of cowardice, a symbol sent to those who had not been at the Sacrifice of Roses.
But Bethal had. Ieka felt something of a pang of guilt. But the gesture had been calculated. And they had sabotaged Tyrion’s conquest of Liscor. But for them, the south of Izril would have been opened. All that work, money spent, time, for nothing.
“And, Bethal?”
“How dare you? We were both there. I can understand the other cowards, but you? Have you forgotten your own sister?”
Bethal’s voice was low, a hiss. And the air around her was jagged, like thorns. Ieka’s head jerked, as if she’d been struck. And she might have been—
Their auras clashed in the night. The other [Ladies] didn’t draw back, but guarded themselves. Bethal’s was thorns, almost physical. They could cut and tear flesh.
Ieka’s? Hers was magic. Power. It made the air charged, and spellcraft more potent around her. Now, she clashed with Bethal.
“Forget? You forget yourself, Bethal.”
“Ladies!”
Magnolia’s voice was a brisk snap. And she clapped her hands. Both Bethal and Ieka felt a third presence bearing down on them. Neither one stopped pushing—Magnolia was strong, but she couldn’t overpower Ieka so easily.
A shift. Ieka’s [Bodyguards] sensed the conflict. How not, when two [Ladies] were clashing this fiercely? They were all women too—that mattered. Bethal’s female [Knights] moved, regarding their counterparts. And amid the carriages, one of the [Maids], the most powerful of the lot, practically a [Lady] among the common folk—moved.
Magnolia stopped Ressa with a hand. It was Zanthia who spoke, and her aura cut the other auras down to size like a precise blade.
“Bethal. We can quarrel later. But we do not fight here.”
The [Lady of Thorns] stopped. Her cheeks flamed with fury and righteous outrage, but her [Aura of Thorns] that gave her such fame, subsided. Ieka relaxed as well.
“Thank you, Zanthia. [Ladies], all present. We have our differences. But those of you who have laid aside your grudges, I thank you. For our purpose is above squabbles.”
Ieka herself nodded as Magnolia called out to the other [Ladies], some in their own circles. Even she agreed.
“We are fewer than I would like, Magnolia. And if we are not allowing our retainers to enter battle…”
Wuvren’s voice was charm incarnate. But Pryde spoke, harshly.
“If we were, you would have been better served bringing that Troll of yours, Wuvren.”
“The Baron? Yes indeed. But I was informed to bring only female bodyguards if any. And Magnolia sent her carriage for me…”
The [Eternal Beauty] sighed, smiling mischievously at Pryde. The other woman had her arms crossed. She was even more competitive than Ieka. She also had a grudge with most of the [Ladies] present. Bethal, for winning Thomast, Wuvren for her title as most beautiful…but Pryde was a girl still. Defined by one attribute.
It was to Zanthia that Ieka listened, and Magnolia herself, however grudgingly. And Zanthia spoke.
“Men are not welcome here. Not for this purpose.”
“They were when we pushed back the Goblin King.”
“They interfered. They were necessary, but this is not a combat, Bethal. Not in the same way. Our retainers will stay back, unless they are needed. And they are only needed if we have lost.”
Magnolia cautioned Bethal. The [Lady] considered this.
“…I will speak to Truvia.”
She stomped away from the circle, brushing past two other [Ladies]. The inner circle stood, with Ieka as the outsider. But Ieka Imarris refused to leave. She was one of the most high-level [Ladies] here. And she counted. Including Bethal…Pryde, Wuvren, Zanthia, Magnolia, herself.
“Six? Wouldn’t seven be more appropriate to confront directly?”
“Six will do, Ieka. As I said, the plan does not require direct victory. We will follow the plan. And seven might play into her hands. Numbers matter.”
Magnolia smiled, but tensely. Ieka nodded. True enough. Still…she cast her eyes over the three dozen or so [Ladies].
“How long?”
“Soon. I invited her, and she is coming. Whether she wills it or not. Take your places, [Ladies].”
The group changed. The retainers moved back, to the edges. The younger [Ladies]—and they were all of their majority here—stood behind the older, higher-level ones. And Magnolia and the circle of five…six as Bethal came hurrying back…were in front.
A semi-circle. Awaiting something. Zanthia stood shoulder-to-shoulder with Wuvren and Ieka. Magnolia was in the center. Fittingly enough, although that irked Ieka. She put it out of her mind. There was no room for dissension here.
No scrying orb portrayed the [Ladies] gathered here. Noass had no idea it was happening. Few people did. So this event—with many of Izril’s foremost [Ladies], each one some of the most powerful individuals on the continent—was not important. Not at all.
And neither was the dark shadow who walked out of the night. Slowly, quickly, taking singular steps but travelling far with each one.
Belavierr paused as she came to the open field. She looked around. This was not where she had intended to go. But her footsteps carried her forwards. Towards the waiting [Ladies] in their dresses.
“Ah. I was summoned.”
That was all she said to herself. She studied the [Ladies] in the center, noting each one. Dismissing them. The noblewomen stared back. Bethal through narrowed eyes, breathing heavily. Pryde appraising and dismissing the [Witch]. Wuvren frowning, troubled. Ieka watchful.
Zanthia gave Belavierr a singular nod. From one enemy to another. And Magnolia smiled.
“Ah, there is our guest of the hour. A spider crawling through my domain. Through Izril. Welcome, Belavierr. Or do you prefer another name? Also—and I hate to be a bother. But would you kindly end yourself? That would save us all some trouble.”
The [Lady] extended a hand. Those gathered here, all female, stirred. And a word ran through them unspoken.
Witch. Old power, older even than theirs. Belavierr tilted her head. She regarded Magnolia Reinhart.
“You called me here. Summoned me to this place. Someone here remembers the old ways. But has forgotten caution.”
She stepped forwards. First a shadow, distant. Then—Ieka felt her heart jolt.
The Stitch Witch stared down at her. She was tall. Her hat impossibly wide. Her eyes orange, glowing, ringed. Her clothes were not black. Black was passé, clichéd. Her clothes were dark blue. So dark you might have assumed they were black. But dark as the abyss in the sea.
“Why have you brought me here, children of Izril?”
The Stitch Witch’s voice made the [Ladies] stir. There was not one ounce of acknowledgement of their station. Or even comprehension of their nobility. It was flat. Not disinterested. But…perhaps superior was the word.
Bethal’s eyes narrowed. But Magnolia spoke, cheerfully. She was in charge of the…negotiations.
“I couldn’t help but notice the slaughtered villages in my lands. The flesh giant you sent towards my city was most unwelcome, Miss Belavierr. And you have not stopped. You do not seem to realize there is law. Surely you did not think you could do as you pleased without repercussions?”
The [Witch] glanced at Magnolia. Then she stared at Zanthia’s face. Wuvren’s.
“I know you two. Do I not? Of old.”
“Not as allies. Hello. Belavierr, was it? I never got your name the first time. I’m quite displeased to meet you again.”
Wuvren smiled, but with effort. Zanthia just met Belavierr’s eyes.
“I warned you the last time we met. Izril has no place for your kind.”
“But I have been here longer than you. I do know you.”
Belavierr’s voice was low. And something—changed in her. An awareness. Immortal distance vanishing. Something else stared at Zanthia. And the old [Lady] closed her eyes. As something peeked out of Belavierr’s face. The Stitch Witch looked at the two and Wuvren shuddered. She nearly took a step back, but Pryde and Bethal steadied her.
“You both refused. But here you stand. And I have no offers to make. Just darkness. Evil.”
Her body twisted. Hunched. Her hands reached out, towards Wuvren. The [Lady] recoiled and Ieka felt herself being sucked into those rings. That smile—she fought, but the [Witch] was laughing in her head—
Magnolia snapped her fingers under Belavierr’s nose. The Stitch Witch recoiled slightly. Ieka felt her presence lessen. And she felt it in the air.
Something like a slap, only done without sight or sound. But a slap nevertheless. One comprised purely of presence. Aura. The Stitch Witch backed up as Magnolia smiled at her.
“I was told you were quite rude. I didn’t imagine how much.”
“Hm.”
Belavierr’s head twisted from side to side. Ieka saw Wuvren draw closer and the other [Ladies] watched, appraising. It hadn’t even moved the Stitch Witch. In Ieka’s head, she wondered if someone else would have actually been sent flying. She shuddered. Suddenly, all her reservations about aiding Magnolia were gone.
“What do you want? Woman.”
Belavierr looked at Magnolia. A tall spectre. The [Lady] stood there, in her pink dress, and smiled coldly. Her eyes flashed as the other five [Ladies] held their ground next to her. Giving her their authority.
