A great pillar of yellow-white light bloomed from the Kobold Acolyte like a spotlight shining down on her as she invoked a spectacular construction of holy mana. Ali would have stared in amazement at the increase in power and speed of the Kobold’s casting if it weren’t for the fact that she was desperately trying to summon her barrier magic faster than the deadly spears.

“Attack there!” Ali instructed, eking a little more focus from who knew where to pay attention to the strategy of her minions’ attacks. “All of you.” The spot she had selected, on the Skeletal Wyvern’s torso, just under the left wing, suddenly bore the brunt of every single lightning strike and firebolt. In seconds, Calen and Malika both adjusted to target the same location. Bone splintered and smoking shards flew in all directions. Malika was fighting in the thick of it, heedless of the spray of sharp bone and the blood streaming down her arms.

As their combined bludgeoning opened a hole in the outer layer of bone plate armor, and Ali saw the firebolts striking the inside of the wyvern’s ribcage. Good thing he’s mostly hollow. Recalling the strategy she had used so effectively on the Spitter Drones and Piercer Scorpions, she commanded her mages to switch to their fireballs.

The three Kobold mages began summoning their most powerful magic, bathing Ali’s skin in radiant heat while she still poured her mana into her barriers. With a loud sizzling hiss, the fireballs shot across the battlefield like a trio of burning meteorites, passing through the rapidly shrinking hole they had created as the monster tried to regenerate.

Three simultaneous detonations rattled the Skeletal Wyvern’s ribcage, igniting it like a bonfire exploding behind a metal grating. The explosion sounded muffled by the sheer bulk of its body, but its deafening roar of rage was certainly loud enough, accompanied by an explosion of flaming chunks of bone that scattered across the atrium.

“Yes!” Calen shouted. “Now that was some damage!”

“Again,” Ali instructed calmly. I just hope they have enough mana.

The great wings flared wide, surging with mana, and the Wyvern took to the air, leaving Mato slashing uselessly at the air and roaring in frustration. The lead fireball detonated on the outside of its armor, spraying fire everywhere. Mato and Malika had to dodge smartly. In the giant maw, the monster’s mana began to condense, forming the terrifying maelstrom that signaled the rain of bone spears was imminent. Once more, the increase in power was palpable, visible as the wyvern inhaled mana from the entire breadth of the atrium, compressing it all within the gaping jaws.

“Hide!” she screamed, sprinting for cover, while at the same time her Storm Shamans unleashed their Lightning Bolts, ripping through the rapidly closing hole in the Skeletal Wyvern’s armor, tearing chunks of bone off to fall into the abyss below.

She felt a rush of heat on her back as the final two fireballs completed, launched high over the atrium as they shot toward the slowly rising wyvern. Both fireballs flew true, passing right through the hole to be swallowed by the monster’s enormous bulk. A shockwave of compressed air and heat rocked the room as the wyvern voiced a shuddering roar.

From nowhere, a flying plate of bone slammed into Ali’s side, knocking her to the ground and shattering her arm with an audible snap. She cried out as her head slammed into the shattered shards of the bone spears littering the ground. Dazed, she desperately tried to scramble to her feet, but she stumbled again. She was vulnerable out in the open, and the potent spell the wyvern was about to unleash would leave her as little more than paste on the ground.

As she turned over, Ali froze, staring aloft. From her spot, sprawled on the ground, she could see the vast bulk of the stricken Skeletal Wyvern weaving above the atrium, now spewing flame from various holes blown through its dense armor. Had the bone itself ignited? One wing was entirely missing, and the bottom of its ribcage had been blown away. It bobbed and lurched erratically as it struggled to fly with just one wing, and then began to plummet toward the stone floor in an uncontrolled spiral. Her eyes flew wide.

Then, the wyvern smashed down with a ground-shaking thump accompanied by a strange clattering sound that she belatedly realized was snapping bones. It twitched once, twice, before collapsing. Thick tendrils of black smoke rose slowly from the crumpled heap of shattered and broken bones.

The purple mana fire in the huge eye sockets flickered with one final, baleful glare as if the beast contemplated some hideous eternal revenge, before it was snuffed out. Ali’s chime sounded in her mind.

Your group has defeated Skeletal Wyvern – Undead Dragon – level 37 (Bone).

Distantly, she heard Mato’s triumphant roar, and surprisingly, an uncharacteristically exuberant whoop of joy from Calen.

It’s over. Finally.

Ali flopped onto her back and just lay there staring at the smoldering wreck of the undead dragon and the lingering remnants of flame that clung to everything. She was wrung out, drained, and could barely move a muscle. Her head hurt, and her arm throbbed with pain with every pulse of her heartbeat. Even from this distance, her eyes began to water from the acrid smoke and the sulfurous stench of Kobold fire. She almost didn’t notice her Acolyte scampering over to her side, but the relief as the gentle healing magic filled her body and repaired her arm finally got through to her.

“Thank you,” she said, glancing over at the Kobold, who looked very much the worse for wear, covered in soot with smoke still rising from blackened scales. The Kobold simply bowed her head and sat down nearby, her previously pristine white robes covered in dust and debris and splatters of blood.

She worked hard in this fight. Even right through to the end, when Ali had been certain Mato would die from the accelerated ferocity of the wyvern, this little Kobold had saved the day by pulling off a powerful magic enhancement and keeping pace with the unfathomable damage output of an enraged dragon.

Ali’s friends emerged from the burnt wreckage of sundered bone, moving like wraiths through the haze of smoke, but the exhaustion etched on their faces couldn’t hide the smiles. Everyone made it. I have no idea how, but I’m just… grateful.

“That was a fight,” Malika said, grunting inelegantly as she flopped down onto her back beside Ali. Malika had almost given Ali a heart attack several times during the fight when she had stepped directly into harm’s way to heal Mato. A stray claw or spear would have been all it took to end it, but she had dodged everything, saved Mato, and waltzed out looking cool and graceful.

“You can say that again!” Mato said. He was still grinning from ear to ear, the silly man. “I couldn’t quite hold that wyvern, blasted wings, but you still managed to shoot him out of the sky!”

Calen sat nearby, part of the circle, but kept quiet, just sharing smiles with everyone.

We won. It finally began to settle in her mind. They had beaten the monster. And it had taken outstanding teamwork, a healthy slice of luck and basically everything they had to do it.

Grove Warden has reached level 28 (+5).+50 attribute points.

“Holy sh …” Ali trailed off at the sudden looks of alarm from her friends. “I got five levels.” Her tired mind balked, refusing to believe it. However, the notifications didn’t vanish as she half believed they might. She had really gained five levels – and they weren’t the easier early levels either. I didn’t shoot a single thing.

“Wow,” Mato said.

“I think we all did,” Calen said. “It was a raid boss, after all.”

“I got six,” Malika added, a little awed.

Mato nudged her with his elbow, “Didn’t know we were in a competition?”

Yet he sounded so chuffed for her that Malika’s expression cracked into a grin, banishing the weariness. “Next time, I get to stand around and slap their faces while you run around like a rabid rabbit, alright?”

Focusing on her breathing for a moment, Ali let her mind clear. Each of her friends had the distant expression on their faces that implied they too were studying their notifications. Ali turned her attention back to hers.

It was level 37. And if Calen’s Explorer skill was to be believed, it was a boss for the dungeon and a raid-level threat. Not that Ali doubted it for a moment – certainly not after experiencing the fight first-hand.

Perhaps the levels aren’t unjustified.

Arcane Insight has reached level 17 (+3).Barrier has reached level 21 (+3).Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 16.Runic Script has reached level 12.Sage of Learning has reached level 13.Martial Insight has reached level 14 (+2).Empowered Summoner has reached level 12 (+4).Inspiration has reached level 5 (+4).Imprint: Bone Elemental completed.

Even her skills had grown dramatically, especially the ones she had been heavily using for the full duration of the fight. Three levels each for Arcane Insight and Barrier. Four levels for Empowered Summoner. And her newest skill – Inspiration – had skyrocketed too.

In addition, she had fifty new attribute points. Thinking carefully, she spent five more points on dexterity, just for general usefulness – for instance, catching potions in mid combat. Her most crucial skill in the fight had been Arcane Insight – without the ability to see magic, they would have floundered. She spent thirteen points on perception, noticing a sudden sharpening of the ambient mana around her in response. The remaining thirty-two points she split evenly among her primary attributes: wisdom and intelligence.

But there were reams of golden glowing text still marching across the parchment of the tome in her mind.

Requirements met for skill advancement. Barrier has reached level 20.Intelligence has surpassed 85.Used Barrier continuously to protect yourself and allies for more than half an hour.Saved an ally from certain death with your Barrier.Barrier gains Automatic Defense.(Choose an ally. Half of your barrier capacity will be reserved to automatically block any magic targeting this ally.)Requirements met for skill advancement. Barrier has reached level 21.Intelligence has surpassed 120.Dexterity has reached at least 20.Used a Barrier to prevent yourself from falling to your death.Used a Barrier to stand or sit on, or to levitate your body. Defeated a flying raid-level threat higher than your class level with a team of only four.Barrier gains Barrier Mobility.Barrier gains the Movement trait.(You can move your barriers freely.)Choose one advancement.

An advancement for Barrier? Ali sat up, intrigued and excited, reading through the options. They both look so good!

“Did you get something good?” Calen asked.

“One moment,” Ali said.

It seemed that she was being given the choice between two different directions. The first advancement – Automatic Defense – seemed to be directly related to her challenges in the battle to defeat the Skeletal Wyvern. It would free up a lot of her focus and attention by automatically defending anyone she selected.

On the surface of it, she loved the idea. She had struggled to focus. But the limitations might be tricky. The change would sacrifice half her capacity, and she had to choose an ally. Wouldn’t I just have the same trouble? she wondered. Part of the problem, and the reason she had struggled, was that the wyvern had intelligently switched targets if she summoned her barrier too early. If she picked an ally, what would stop it from simply blasting a different one? Oh, it may work well if she applied it to Mato while he was tanking, but how often would there be little to no risk for the rest of them?

Her second choice – Barrier Mobility – seemed to have been earned earlier and only just unlocked now as her barrier had reached level twenty-one. Clearly, the requirements referred to her accident with the lake when she had blown herself high into the air and had to catch herself from falling with her barrier magic. It was there that she had learned to split her magic too. And ever since then, she had been using her magic as a stepladder or a seat. But there was also the reference in the unlock requirements to defeating a raid-level threat monster.

Seems a little frivolous? She struggled to see how it might be useful in battle other than that she could move the barriers to adjust when the enemy changed their aim. Although, the more she thought about it, the more she felt that might actually be slightly better than the first option.

“What do you guys think about this?” Ali asked, sharing her two choices.

“You can fly?” Calen asked.

“What?”

“Barrier Mobility gives your skill the Movement trait,” he said. “That implies it can be used to move you.”

“Oh.” Several thoughts collided in her head at that moment. It would not be the pretty wings she had so envied or dreamed of, like the ones her mother had, but she had always admired the people flying around the library on levitating platforms, flying carpets, or other rune-inscribed devices of cunningly wrought artifice. Or, if they had the skills, conjured wings and flying spells of endless varieties. And if she was hovering a few meters above the ground, how was a rogue going to sneak up on her?

Without hesitation, she chose Barrier Mobility.

Barrier – level 21Mana: Summon an arcane barrier shield. The barrier is a freeform arcane magic surface that resists physical and magic damage. You can move your barriers freely.Arcane, Defense, Movement, Intelligence

Eager to test it out, she summoned a barrier. Much to her surprise, she instantly felt a dramatically increased capacity, and she easily produced a horizontal disk of dense golden light a little larger than three meters in diameter.

Wow! That’s more than doubled in size.

“Impressive,” Mato said.

She reached out with her will and tentatively pushed at the barrier, half expecting the stubborn immobility of before, but the barrier responded instantly, sliding sideways smoothly. She made it move up and down, sideways, and then even flipped it over. It was easy and remarkably intuitive. She simply willed it wherever she wanted, and it moved.

With rising excitement and a little trepidation, she willed it to settle on the ground beside her and gingerly stepped out into the middle.

“Perhaps sit down to start?” Malika suggested.

Calen added, “And take it slow.”

Ali couldn’t help noticing all their eyes were on her.

That’s good advice. She settled down sitting cross-legged in the middle of her barrier and then reached out with her will once again. Without a hitch, the barrier smoothly rose about a meter off the ground. With her still sitting on it.

I’m flying!

