However, if anything, this guy's rumors fell shockingly short of what Valgus was actually like. He didn't want to win. He just wanted rampant death and chaos to please the whims of Baldowah. It was a petty, small existence for such a grand and powerful person, but the more I learned about avatars, the more they followed that pattern.

They were tools for a hollowed god.

It left me sad and resolved. My helmet pulled back while I rubbed my temples, "Shalahora...I can't kill him physically. Can you warp him away or restrain him?"

"He exists without physical limitations. Baldowah has blessed him with some kind of...Immunity to harm and eternal power. We are blessed that he battles with a brain the size of a walnut."

I smiled, "Now, wait just a minute. What did walnuts ever do to you?"

Shalahora cackled before my face sharpened. I frowned at Valgus,

"What's the plan?"

Shalahora simmered, "We will strip that psionic protectant bare and lay his soul under siege."

"Then let's get to it."

Valgus found another ruler trying to escape, so he slaughtered the member. By then, his side was demoralized to the point they were nothing more than headless chickens. My golems and primevals gored and gouged them apart while their lines collapsed. After all, a reckless charge had merit, but a disorderly retreat was destined for failure.

And so, they were slaughtered. Valgus continued battling with a grin on his face, and in time, my golems joined the fray. Primevals of mine also arrived in mass, and we coordinated our assaults to get the most out of our efforts. I lobbed out my strong magic, Shalahora sent out shadowed slices, and the rest distracted the asura.

It wasn't enough.

He continued pressuring our entire army without any signs of struggle. No sweat. No fear. No racing eyes or heaving breaths. Valgus wiped dozens of primevals apart with each swing of his arm or kick of his leg. He tore through the rainbow bone with ease, and he decimated the shield of my city with a single swipe. If anything, he showed fewer and fewer limitations as we fought.

Outside of his psionic barriers, that is.

Shalahora and I joined forces with my golems and his shades. We pressed down with the might of many, whittling those protectants down. We tore through one splintered eldritch soul after the next, peeling the multi-layered defense back one layer at a time. We even found the shattered souls of the Kalat; the entire race turned into a piece of Valgus's psionic securities.

Grotesque as it was, we dismantled those trapped within. When I found a large enough hole in the psionic bulwark, I glimpsed at Valgus's psyche underneath. An eerie feeling washed over me like diving into an ocean of red. Valgus was an embodiment of war, and his mind carved itself until nothing but battle remained. That, and some strange, warped presence that seeded in the back of his mind.

I probed towards it, finding some kind of dormant titan. It hibernated without any inkling of stirring. It satisfied itself with the actions of its host, and that kept it slumbering soundly. I grimaced at the feeling before thinking back to Shalahora,

"Something's off about this."

Shalahora's body dispersed as Valgus wrought him apart. The shadowed Sovereign menaced, "This will not be the first mind I've slaughtered. They all carry an oddity or two, most of them fabricated for their defense. This is no different."

I shook my head, pulling myself back from Valgus's mind. I tugged at Shalahora's telepathic tether while thinking, "We need to stop until we know whatever that thing is in the back of his head."

Shalahora shoved my mind aside, and the shadow radiated confidence, "There has never been a mind that has equaled my own. No individual. No construct. No entity. I will pull this beast apart from the inside out, and your fear will not stop me."

My eyes narrowed, "Tell me then. Were you Mesmera's equal?"

Shalahora's mental battle ceased. He seethed, "What did you just say to me?"

Before Shalahora's anger manifested, a curious entity arrived in an instant. Its aura conquered the entirety of the battlefield, muting sound, heat, and even light. Shalahora simmered, "Why would you send that abomination an invitation?"

Mesmera suppressed the roar of battle and turned it into a whisper. It murmured, and the low sound radiated through us,

"Ah, you remembered me, little one."

Shalahora trembled before his shifting form shrunk. His eyes closed, and he molded into a shadow nearby. Mesmera spoke out to me, "You are still here. You've called me with cause, no doubt-"

I condensed my dimensional space while standing still. The thing bounced off of me, unable to slide into the depths of my mind. I let my thoughts hone in on Valgus, who still battled beside the city. He smashed a primeval apart before laughing at the eerie presence.

The asura howled out, "You feel of Baldowah but weaker."

I had to give Valgus some credit. He had balls.

Valgus kept howling, "Little Old One, what brings you to our domain? Were you whispered of? Or are you observing us to witness time's passing as well? To feel the intensity. To relish in finality as Baldowah does."

Mesmera spoke with a deep chill, "What has been done to you is disgusting. You're a shadow of what you were, aren't you? You...Are shattered, and what is left is simply sad."

A flash of confusion spread over Valgus's face before a smirk replaced it. The asura smashed his fists together, "You use words to weaken me, for you are little else. Come. Tell me your name, and we will battle."

It replied, "Others speak for me and of me. You and I shall speak no longer. Goodbye, shattered one." Mesmera turned its intent toward me, "And we will see how long that little trick of yours works, little one. I learn from our every encounter, and I will change. Remember that."

As Mesmera left the battlefield, my mind raced at the possibilities of the conversation. Connecting to Shalahora, the shadow shouted at me, "Why would you summon forth that thing-"

"I needed you to stop prying at those psionic restraints, and I didn't have time to think of other things to say."

Shalahora's anger dampened before he murmured, "Psionic restraints? They are defenses."

I shook my head, "I don't think so. They aren't meant to protect Valgus's mind from someone's attack. They stop his mind from becoming unsettled."

I gazed at the asura, "He's not a warrior."

Shalahora's eyes widened as well, and the shadow whispered,

"He's a prison."
