Elerlyth took her time, and walked at a slow pace across the chamber. She turned back to look when she reached the tunnel and saw Ren step through a portal.

Oh, Ren. Elerlyth thought. Please, be careful.

Elerlyth turned and walked down the tunnel, and brought up the popups she had received when Ren had commanded her ability to open.

Notice!

You have been given a level up through your ability by The Unnamed King (Dark Elves). While you are a subject under his domain, you cannot refuse a direct order.

Elerlyth ignored the other level popups and concentrated on the important ones.

Notice!

WARNING: Your ability Emotion Siphon has had it's limitations removed. Without it's limitations, you can easily kill with this ability if you are not careful.

Notice!

You have gained a new restricted ability: Emotion Death Level 1 (Beginner 0%). This ability allows you to drain emotions to the point of death from those that have a similar ability.

WARNING: Your target will know it is you doing it, because it creates a temporary emotional link between you.

Notice!

Your ability Emotion Siphon has had it's limitations reinstated.

I still can't believe it. Elerlyth thought. Ren is the Unnamed King of the Dark Elves.

“Hey, thare.” Clint said, and Elerlyth was brought out of her thoughts.

“Um, hi.” Elerlyth said.

“Wha's up?”

“We killed all the large ghouls in the factory.” Elerlyth said.

“That's great!” Billy said.

“Then we had to kill everyone in one of the cages.”

“That... sucks.” Dillon said.

“Ya don' seem ta be too shook up abou' tha'.” Clint said to her.

“Why would I be? They were ghouls.” Elerlyth said. “We were about to come and get you when a group of Dark Elves showed up out of nowhere.”

“Aw, man!” Tommy said. “We missed the big fight!”

“We didn't fight.” Elerlyth said, and she felt their surprise. She didn't feed on it, though.

“What happened?”

“Ren made this tunnel thing in the ground. They fell in it, he closed it, and it shot them up to the ceiling.”

“Whoa.” Hank said.

“Most of them died, and I finished them off when they landed on the ground.” Elerlyth said. “Now I'm here to tell you to get healers trained in treating ghouls, if they have them in the town. If they don't have at least one...”

“Tha othahs are gonna turn, too.” Clint said. “Dillon, Billy. Git to the town. Ask fer tha bes' healers they got.”

“And a Clergy.” Elerlyth said.

“Tommy.” Clint said, and he nodded. The three men mounted their Phantom Steeds and took off towards the town.

“What can we do?” Hank asked.

“There's not really anything we can do except wait.” Elerlyth said.
