Meng Ruo rolls her eyes. “They only buy them to keep the good products out of the hands of new clans trying to rise up, it is their orders from their main clan head in the Nine Rivers City. They are not drawn to me at all. I have 7th-grade roots, they wouldn’t risk their bloodline falling further by taking me as a wife… And living as a concubine does not interest me. I turned 50 this year, Lan Xin… and I’m only an 8th-level qi refiner. If I don’t hit the 10th level of qi refinement before I turn 60, this realm will be my peak. It is likely that will be the case. I am content in making profit for my family and supporting the children of my brother’s many wives and concubines. One of them will surely be our Meng family’s next foundational pillar.”

Lan Xin listens on and off to her reply; she’s more interested in looking at her own reflection in the containment case on the counter.

“Well, maybe you’ll snag one of them at the wedding next week. I’m sure there will be plenty of other options too.”

Meng Ruo sighs, realizing most of her words have been ignored. She looks up at the beautiful Lan Xin, feeling an even more oppressive aura than usual.

“Did your innate physique grow stronger? Is this from some kind of reward after performing so well in the war?”

Lan Xin shows a beaming smile, and fire flickers on her skin out of excitement from the praise.

“Something like that. Let’s just say, foundation establishment cultivators will be my equal soon.”

She lifts her chin to the ceiling, then a thought hits her and she turns back.

“Actually, maybe I do need something. Do you have any of those soul harmony talismans? Something to help with seduction, or getting someone in the mood for what they really want.”

Meng Ruo shows a thin grin and turns around, setting down what she’s working on to walk into the back of the shop.

“The Third Ranked Beauty of the Azure Cloud Sect, having trouble seducing someone?” she mocks in a playful tone. “Follow me, I have some old product from the capital still lying around in the back. It may be exactly what you need.”

Lan Xin keeps her chin high and crosses her arms, clicking her tongue, then follows after Meng Ruo into the back room.

“No- no way, it’s not for me- It’s uh- I just think it would be an appropriate gift for the wedding, don’t you think?”
