"So, wait, I have a question. Shit, I have too many fucking questions," Jessica said. "Does Chandler know about this?"

"About what?" Maia asked. “She does not know about me, but she does have an arrangement with that one there." She eyed Shiv briefly. "It was one of the few wise decisions he made, wielding what favor he could between two benefactors against each other. It will not matter in the end. He likely over-estimates his capacity to dance the edge, but I will allow him to humor himself and feed his ego with false hope."

"I'm right here," Shiv growled.

"So you are. What difference does it make?" Maia regarded him with a faint hint of scorn.

"Perhaps you are the one who commits an act of folly now," Can Hu said smoothly, striding toward the new arrivals. Its mechanical voice was severe and heavy in defense of Shiv. The Educator regarded the Penitent with narrowed eyes, but Jessica had an entirely different reaction.

"Holy shit, is that a Penitent? And an elite recon model?!"

Can Hu paused, its green optics shrinking as it scanned Jessica. "Indeed. It has been some time since someone recognized my exact model. You have knowledge of my make?"

"Hah! More than knowledge—we encountered one of you back in the day while we were operating near High Harbor. You know Delta-V? Looks a little bit like you, but had long, pointed wings. Its sensors weren't working that well. I think it was working as some kind of curator or storyteller or something? Some minor celebrity there."

A whirring noise came from Can Hu's processors, and its skull-like head lifted in recollection. "I think I know of the one you speak of. Before, it called itself 9.8. It must have updated its name later."

"9.8?" Jessica asked, befuddled.

"It is a reference to an object's standard acceleration due to gravity, unaffected by those unnatural factors born of the System."

"Huh," Jessica said. She didn't get it. Shiv didn't either. "I've got to say, I didn't know there was one of you in our Rubix Well."

"It wasn't in the Rubix Well," Shiv said. "Well, not in a cell. It came there to help me."

"Help you?" The Giantsbane did a double-take. "Wait, so it's been with you? Even before the breakout? How the hell did you find a Penitent?"

"The System moves in subtle and vulgar ways," Can Hu answered. "I was a resident of Weave, by the Composer’s grace, but I spent my time languishing, dreaming of reclaiming my past, of reforging my ruined soul and body. It was but a dream for a long time, and I yearned to serve, even if it meant my destruction. However..." The Penitent's optics glowed bright as they settled on Shiv. "Just as my former masters saw fit to destroy me, the System saw fit to offer me succor and hope—even if only to further my capacity for war."

Jessica looked at Can Hu’s powerful frame with something close to awe. Its state was clearly different from other Penitents she knew of. "How many of your skills were damaged before?"

"Not damaged. Shattered. Utterly destroyed," Can Hu corrected. "And to answer: practically all of them. All except my non-combat and most tertiary skills. And then, after he reached into my core and fused his being to knit my soul back together, they went from shattered to merely damaged. A great deal of my rehabilitation took shape at the hands of Udraal Thann thereafter, but the inception was only possible because of the Vitae within the Deathless.” Can Hu’s optics flashed knowingly. “If it is a restoration you seek, then perhaps your salvation is at hand as well.”

"Okay… Holy shit." Jessica stared at Shiv and now regarded him with newfound appreciation. "If you’re a scam, you’re running one hell of a con game on me, kid. But… if you’re the real deal… Felling hells, no wonder the System wants you dead. You're going to make a godsdamn mess of everything. If you can fix anyone—resurrect anyone…" And there was a sparkle of hope in her eyes as well. A lightness to her words and actions. "Alright, alright, fine. Maia. Let's go over a few things, some ground rules. I need to hear from you what you’re all trying to do and…”

After that, she hesitated. She stared at Concelhaunt and Merrielmel, who were slowly backing away, terrified that this would be their last day.

"And after that, I know who or what I need to cut."

"Oh, oh dear," the elven Enchanter stammered. His legs were shaking, and the scent of someone relieving themselves filled the room.

“I knew this shit was gonna get me killed,” the goblin Smith moaned.
