If Ra’thala could create skills as easily as he said, he might be able to make the most simple physical boosting spell again, but instead of just delivering one copied spell, he might be able to pause mid-way at important breakpoints and create a permanent record of how to build out the skill by storing each step in a blank skill shard.

Though his skills being slightly larger than average might make that impossible. Matt had no idea if blank skill shards had capacity limits, and made a note to get his hands on a few to find out.

Still, Tur’stal had given him a very interesting idea he was keen to look into more, but now wasn’t the time for that and Rusty pulled him out of his musings.

“Interesting timing with this, don't you think?”

Frederic nodded in agreement, but Tur’stal disagreed. “It can't be possible. Even if the Emperor had warning, his future sight wouldn't pinpoint the arrival time of the ascender until they had arrived. Future sight doesn't work without all the information. Coincidence, nothing more.”

Matt raised an eyebrow indicating his confusion and Rusty leaned over and faux whispered, “The Emperor pushed a final proposal to us just a week before this guy ascended. Feels like a really good distraction, not an accident.”

“But we’ve been on the lookout for over a year now. Seems like a coincidence to me.”

Rusty shrugged. “And I don’t buy that for a second. We’ll likely never know but it's a good reminder that future sight or no, Emperor Emmanuel is a force to be reckoned with.”

Frederic nodded at the statement before saying, “True enough, and a good warning to heed. That said, we all need to get back to the party. Matthew, thank you for passing on the news. You are welcome to join us if you’d like.”

None of them seemed to expect Matt’s agreement and they all gave him odd looks when he started walking down the hall towards the party instead of away.

Tur’stal asked, “Are you looking to sponsor an Order yourself?”

“No, not really. I’m already a bit stretched thin as-is these days. The guild got sued again for a perceived infringement. It will probably fail even before it sees a courtroom, but something Kees said stuck with me. If I, as a guild leader and a noble, worked on forming connections then less people would be willing to cross me socially now that it's clear I won't just murder anyone who tries to sue me.” Matt gestured to the ballroom they were heading for, “So I’m trying.”

To that end, Matt joined the gathering and mingled, doing his best to be friendly and open.

It wasn’t easy.

Almost immediately half a dozen nobles— weaker dukes— sidled over to him and tried to strike up a conversation.

He deeply, desperately wanted to blow them off but instead spent some time chatting with them before he saw a Knight he actually wanted to talk to and made his excuses.

Jophseph Ior was the Knight Commander of the Arcane Order, an Order which specialized in neutral mana attacks thanks to their signature Natural Treasure, an Infinite Diamond. It being a Natural Treasure he had taken and used himself had given him an interest in the Order.

Stepping into the circle of participants, Matt was amused as the closest two people, a Tier 45 Knight and a Tier 37 duke, both shifted away from him despite his vastly lower Tier.

When he had first interacted with the Knights, he had expected them to look down upon him for both being lower Tier and being not of hereditary noble background, but his status as an Ascender overwrote any of his otherwise perceived flaws. For some it went even further than that and they treated him like a dangerous animal they didn’t want to be too close to.

Part of him was almost insulted by that but considering how these people treated anyone they saw as lower than themselves, Matt was happy they treated him with fear rather than disrespect.

Most of these Knights were not good people. In fact, few of them were even close to being decent people and Matt could only hope the next generations were better.

If not… well, he’d deal with it if it came to that.

He wouldn't allow a monster to be created under his watch, let alone help resurrect one.

Jophseph wasn’t that bad according to his information, however.

They had only talked once but the reports Matt had read on him stated his main face had been trying to keep his Order intact after Agatha’s purges, but part of the reason they had survived at all was that they hadn’t been that bad in the first place.

Not that bad in the context of the old Orders wasn’t a great look but Matt was at least willing to give them a chance.

Once there was a natural break in the conversation, Matt stuck out a hand to shake. “It's nice to see you again, Jophseph. And in better times, with the successful deal being worked out.”

Jophseph smiled and while he could have been faking, Matt thought he saw true happiness in his eyes as he said, “Much better. It's been a dream of mine to see our Orders no longer ostracized, and with our status restored, it's like a weight has been lifted off my chest.”

Matt smiled and nodded while keeping his thoughts to himself.

Instead he said, “Now is the fun part where you get to rebuild.”

It was amusing as the Knights flinched at his comment like he was about to demand something of them but that wasn’t what Matt wanted here.

“Your Natural Treasure, the Infinite Diamonds, are powerful but fairly undirected in how they manifest, correct?” Jophseph nodded but was waiting for the other shoe to drop. “I won’t call myself an expert by any means but as someone who has used the Treasure, I’d be interested in an exchange of information. I’ve pushed my Infinite Diamond in unique ways and I’m sure that you yourself have done the same and your new generation of Knights will do so as well. It could be good to see what we can learn from each other.”

Matt could see Jophseph felt like he was being pressured by some combination of Matt’s status as an Ascender and his political importance so he didn’t let the moment linger even if he would have enjoyed seeing the Knights squirm. “I’d be willing to pay for the exchange or at least swap some of the Diamonds I have.”

That caught the interest of everyone in the circle and Jophseph vibrated as he increased his perception to a higher Tier for a moment to give himself longer to think. “An acceptable offer, Ascender Titan. I can’t agree to anything specific at the moment but I am interested in working with you, both in general and in this particular instance. Your methods share some overlap with a few of my former fellow Knights that are sadly lost to us. At least in some small ways.”

Another Knight also of the Arcana Order snorted. “Like he has any knowledge of value to offer.”

Matt turned his smile onto the woman in question. “You think I don’t know any interesting tricks, Knight Sara.”

I’m sure you know some things. I just doubt you know anything us of a 200,000 year old lineage doesn’t.”

A number of people had been listening in and even those in their little circle took a step back to clear themselves from any potential lines of fire.

Not that Matt would try to fight the Tier 45 who specialized in large scale magical attacks.

That didn’t mean he would back down. “I like to think otherwise. Not many people use neutral mana in quite the way I do after all.”

There was a long pause where no one said a word but after a moment Knight Sara smiled. “While that may be true, not many is not the same as none. I know of at least one, Charles the Endless Blade, who was also part of our august order some 100,000 years ago. ”

“We shall see then, once we have compared some notes. But now I must continue my rounds. I hope everyone has a fruitful exchange.”

As much as he wanted to leave immediately then and there, he didn’t want to look like the exchange had impacted him and instead moved to another three groups chatting about anything and everything.

It wasn’t fun or easy but his careful handling of Knight Sara’s provocations hopefully earned him some respect, not just from the Knights but from the gathered nobles.

His trek came to another halt when he saw a familiar face. Several in fact. Dominus Maniake stood with Sciath hEachaidh, Kiri Winiata, and Marco Winiata. All nobles who were working to take over their parents' fiefs in the coming years.

With an actual smile, Matt moved over to join them as they talked about the Orders they were interested in potentially sponsoring, their parents having left the decisions fully in their hands.

Matt and Liz weren't interested in fully sponsoring an Order but, as he had set up here, they were willing to tie some level of connections to the Orders. His current idea was more centered around his guild in fact.

These Orders burned through a lot of Natural Treasures. Not necessarily more than any other large organization like the army, but they burned through one or two specific Natural Treasures at a rate that was unlike any other organization.

It was a bit far-fetched of an idea but Matt hoped his guild would eventually reach the point where they could create specific enough rifts that they could allow for target farming of Natural Treasures either through rift rewards or creating the correct rift environments that allowed for the Natural Treasures to naturally form. Both were possible but so far the guild hadn’t even fully cracked Tier 8 skill rifts, let alone anything more complicated, but they were making progress and it would be both helpful to the Empire and the Orders as a whole if they were able to achieve any more success.

He wouldn’t mind selling Natural Treasure rifts to specific Orders to make them more self-sufficient. It would also allow him a degree of leverage over the Orders which would help keep them inline more than an iron fist would.

Carrots were just as important as sticks.

Thankfully his excuse to leave came before too long as Allie signaled she was about to leave and he didn’t want to get stranded halfway across the Empire.

Back at the Capital, they spent a few more hours dithering in their suite before they met back up with Ra’thala who was absorbing his [AI]. Being a Tier 26, he was more than capable of doing things while absorbing a skill and so they spent the remaining two days the skill would take to fully absorb exploring the Capital.

Having visited a number of times and lived on-world for a few years, Matt was mostly immune to the sights that made up the Capital and its massive ever-present city but with Ra’thala leading the exploration, it was fun to view things from his perspective.

It brought back a sense of awe Matt hadn’t realized he had lost.

And Ra’thala found the most unusual things interesting.

Yes, he was impressed by the spatially expanded buildings, and spent half an hour talking about the enchantments and how they were implemented. But they then spent two hours going over the metallurgy of the framing used to build the building. His people had discovered steel and its more common composites but they hadn’t seemed to delve into metal layering like the Empire used for super massive skyscrapers and he seemed eager to get his hands on some of the stuff.

That led them to a smith where they hit their next unexpected roadblock as Ra’thala started comparing the tools used to what he was familiar with.

Not everything was so flattering.

Ra’thala was thoroughly unimpressed with the Empire's stance on things like office work. While he wasn’t dismissive and Ra’thala clearly understood the need for such jobs, he saw them as useless at the scale the Empire used them.

Matt could sort of follow the logic but people needed to do the jobs even if they weren't glamorous and people needed money. Both sides got what they wanted, which was where Matt typically stopped thinking about such matters.

Ra’thala was even amused by the idea of things like public libraries that housed most non-cultivation knowledge, but freely shared that such places wouldn’t have existed in his Realm and that their cultivation manuals were far more readily available. At least a number of basic ones were so widely spread they were practically the beginner’s choice.

Overall, it was a fruitful and interesting two days that abruptly stopped when Ra’thala’s [AI] finished being absorbed.

Pausing, Ra’thala wobbled slightly before looking around. “Now that is interesting.”

Flexing his hand, he started feeling his way through the various functions while they called out helpful tips and tricks.

New toy in hand, they spent another day getting Ra’thala up to speed on his [AI] before Ciceron nabbed him to complete a more thorough debriefing that could now be backed by [AI] oaths.

Aster, despite being interested, ended up being the first to leave as she got a priority message from her just-formed duchy that two of her nobles were feuding and needed her to intervene.

Matt and Liz took the free time to go on a few dates and just relax but even that ended when Ra’thala was freed from his obligations a week later and was able to travel.

His first stop was Matt’s guild, which was exactly where Matt wanted him. They had so many things to go over.
