“Because you would have burned down my world to save it. I won’t give you peace after such wanton destruction. I will put you in the ground now.”

Confusion briefly flitted across the all-too-human face. “But… you could have helped, redeemed the harm you’ve already caused.”

Regardless of its potential internal conflicts, it still struck.

Just as the bodies of the sergeants were superior to those of the lessers, the lieutenants were better crafted yet again, their design perfected, their materials with fewer impurities.

It wasn’t that the standard legionnaire was flawed, far from it. It was simply that the officers were a cut above.

If the soldiers were ninety-nine percent pure silver, the sergeants were ninety-nine point nine, and the lieutenants point nine nine.

It seemed like minimal improvement, but weren’t such things precisely what separated more advanced Archons from less? Their magic was more pure within their bodies and from their gates, their control more precise. When compared to what mere Mages could do, it could seem like an inconsequential difference, but it meant so much in reality.

Similarly with arcanes, where the ability to retain and increase magical density was only fractionally different between grades, but it was the cornerstone upon which everything else rested.

So it was for the Legion. The lieutenant's superior form elevated its speed, power, and maneuverability above the sergeants. Its skill was possibly greater than that of the sergeants as well, but both outclassed Tala in that regard, so it was difficult for her to really tell.

The result was that the lieutenant was able to meet her blade to blade for three exchanges while Tala was holding nothing back… well, nothing in regard to her sword fighting.

It charged her, thrusting for her heart, and Tala slipped sideways, executing a rolling chop, where Flow slammed down on the extending blade before taking most of the momentum to sweep along with the redirected thrust and roll back around to come down again on the hand, arm, or even head of the attacker.

In the space of an eyeblink, the automaton pulled its thrust, and twisted, getting in position to block the secondary downward strike.

Tala hit like a collapsing battlement, the impact flinging the lieutenant downward to crater the ground and blast most of the looser dirt away in a wide area around them.

Tala had been lifted up a bit from her own downward strike, but she fell after the automaton all the same.

The thing contorted and uncoiled with supernatural speed, barely coming to its feet in time for the second exchange.

Tala came down with a powerful overhead chop, Flow striking the raised, angled blade and deflecting to cut deeply into the ground to the right.

The lieutenant struck forward from its high guard as her feet hit the ground, and Tala bent under the sweep, twisting forward and to the side out of the way of the follow-up strike.

As she straightened, she punched the thing with her offhand, blasting it away to slam into the crater wall and send up yet another plume of dirt.

Tala bent and launched herself after the automaton, coming in with her own thrust.

The lieutenant recovered a bit slower this time, but it still rose up quickly enough to execute its own rolling parry.

Tala didn’t allow Flow to be knocked aside. Unfortunately, the automaton’s blocking strike was powerful enough that it moved itself instead, if only barely, causing Flow to pierce its shoulder instead of its chest.

As the black blade tried to come around in the too-tight space, Tala headbutted the lieutenant, driving it down into the ground once more and tearing Flow free, ending the third exchange.

Tala sighed and shook her head.

She might have said ‘good fight,’ but it really hadn’t been, not at the end.

So, without a word, she bent down and gripped the things head, using the contact and the authority that such granted her to tear apart the soul-core and free the soul.

Despite a bit of confusion still on the lieutenant’s face, Tala saw contented acceptance as the spirit was separated from the soul, the former dispersing as the latter passed on.
