That didn’t even include the new Skill, Iron Skin, and all the PP he could earn from it to push himself along other Paths. Perhaps the Skill would even give him an edge against the frog’s acid vomit.

However, no matter how useful Randidly’s arrogant stubbornness was in the Safe Room, he’d learned his lesson about attacking monsters. Based on how quickly his Acid Resistance Skill Leveled compared to his hours of grinding Physical Fitness, Randidly doubted withstanding a direct blow from the acid would be possible, Skill or no.

Randidly put the 4 PP into the M. Supp Path. As expected, he received two freely distributable Stats and two M. Supp Stats.

Randidly see-sawed between his options, eventually adding both to Control, hoping it would increase the accuracy of his Mana Bolt. At the very least, with the boost of two, he’d gain a better idea of Control’s effects, because it hadn’t changed his Health, Stamina, Mana, or Regenerations.

For the two distributable Stats, Randidly was once again torn. He already experienced a huge boost in survivability with the End increase, but he was beginning to believe the Health he was accumulating was just a drop in the bucket. A direct attack would kill him several times over, even with 10 more End.

Decision made, one point went into Agi, and one into Per. Hopefully, he would have a little bit more of an edge avoiding the vomit next time. Sighing at his still growling stomach, Randidly reviewed his Stats.

Randidly Ghosthound

Class: ---

Level: N/A

Health(/R per hour): 12/98 (34.5)

Mana(/R per hour): 12/22 (9.25)

Stam(/R per min): 5/52 (14)

Vit: 9

End: 14

Str: 3

Agi: 9

Perception: 5

Reaction: 5

Resistance: 5

Willpower: 5

Intelligence: 5

Wisdom: 3

Control: 4

Focus: 3

Paths: Newbie 7/7 | P. Def 10/10 | M. Supp 4/10 | Risk Taker

Skills: Running Lvl 5 | Physical Fitness Lvl 3 | Sneak Lvl 2 | Farming Lvl 3 | Mana Bolt Lvl 2 | Heavy Blow Lvl 2 | Acid Resistance Lvl 4 | Poison Resistance Lvl 4 | Sprinting Lvl 2 | Iron Skin Lvl 1

“Too close…” he muttered, shifting himself into a sitting position. For now, he ignored his hunger. His life was much more important than going without a meal for a few hours. Logically, he understood the human body could survive a day or two without food, so long as he had plentiful water.

Plus, Randidly was tired. He needed to rest and steady his nerve before he returned to the outside world.

Randidly pressed his eyes shut and felt the strange automatic lights switch off as he did so. One thing at a time. First, I need to recover. I can think about the rest later.
