“I don't know.” Another goblin who wore ornate robes similar to those of the magic user in the battle. “(squeaks and clicks) even summoned Anansi to take revenge on the other animal spirits.”

“How did he...” The armored goblin sighed. “Damn him and his sacrificial rituals.”

“You've got that right.” The mage goblin said and pointed to the Viewing Cloud, and the armored goblin saw the remains of the other magic user.

“At least he doesn't have to face the others because of his failure, now.”

The mage chuckled. “Just you, then.”

“Yes, just me.” The armored goblin said. “They even managed to kill Anansi?” He asked as he saw what had crushed the magic user.

“Yes.” The mage said. “He won't be happy that we have to grow him another body to inhabit.”

“I wonder if he was really there or just sent it.” The armored goblin said, then sighed. “I knew I should have delayed visiting my brood.”

“So that's where you went.” The mage said, his curiosity satisfied. “How are they coming along?”

“We should have another battalion of troops with armor proficiency in about a month.”

“Good, good.” The mage said and made a note of it. “I'll have the makers start right away on appropriate pieces.”

The armored goblin nodded to the mage and left the room. He headed over to the others to face the consequences of losing a battle so soon, even though he hadn't been there for it.

*

Lara sat in the back room of the Library in Ren's county and tried not to laugh as she watched the Far-Seeing Mirror at Ren's antics. “I'm glad telling him that he needed to go with them didn't get me a warning.” She said and stored the mirror. “I couldn't let a new expansion happen and not give Ren the gift of being the first one to go there.” She snorted a laugh as she stood and walked over to her closet to log out. “I'm also glad that I was right about him not minding a woman being a little hairy down below.” She thought about what she just said and burst out laughing. “Beast Races are a little hairy! Ha ha ha!”
