Like an executioner wielding an axe, I continued hacking away at our sanities. I no longer defended my mind, content to put this avatar in a state of pain. It ripped away at me, but my mind was strong. I regenerated with each passing second, an endless well of will.

It roared,

"What kind of abomination are you?"

I held myself in that perpetual torment, knowing this avatar had never experienced something like it. It shivered and trembled, its attacks becoming feeble and weak. It pulled into a shell of sorts, the mana and its willing aggression stifled. It growled out, "You may...You may keep me here, but-"

It seethed, "You will stop this onslaught, and when you do, I will wash you away."

It was right. The mass of bones below pulled me down, entrenching itself deeper into my body with each passing second. At the same time, it got used to psionic splintering. It would take time, perhaps months or years, but it would adapt. When it came back, I'd be back on Earth with the lottery over.

And it would destroy everything.

It laughed at my fear. At the same time, something coursed below us, larger than a river. I punched the ground, using the vibrations to feel whatever this underground river was. It weighed as much as something I'd seen before, so I smiled.

The avatar jeered, "A return to your deathly grinning, I see."

Instead of psionically defending myself, I sent my mind to the bone. I removed a portion of the shards and opened it, pulling us deeper. About thirty feet below, one of the many tunnels in the rainbow bones opened up. However, they were no longer hollow; the shining psionic liquid coursed through them like blood through arteries.

Or perhaps more like poison.

It drenched us, the psionic substance empowering us both. The avatar once again cachinnated before saying, "And you've decided to give me more strength yet again? I thank you-"

Spines erupted from me as a creeping psionic death invaded us both. The avatar shivered, its mind eroding. It growled, "What have you done?"

It tried pulling us away, and I fought it. We wrestled in an unseen battle while the liquid killed us both. It destroyed my will to resist, but the avatar wasted away with each passing second. It scrambled to get out of the juice, but I pulled it down. In my body, I breathed the liquid in and swallowed the poison. It envenomed us, and I embraced the creeping call of death.

The avatar did not.

It shouted in anger, "You wish to die?"

I responded with a grin, not my armor's but my own. The avatar snapped,

"You will still be manifested within your body, and you won't even be tormented like that other incarnation was. You will still exist, but this guarantees we will both be disintegrated."

I kept a bloody smile on my face. The avatar screamed,

"No. Let us go."

I returned its howls with silence. It bellowed,

"I don't wish to die. Let me be. I will leave you, but you must let us live. Please. Please."

And I held on as the poison continued ravaging us. As the avatar lost control, its howling became incoherent. It trembled in rage, becoming a storm of hatred. As death crept closer, the avatar's anger melted into the most primal emotion of all - fear.

It trembled. It quaked. It shivered as mortality crept into its mind and laid the seeds of finality into it. This being believed in its own eternity, but now it found the final page of its own book. It gazed at that last page, and it dawned on this avatar what death meant.

As understanding infested it, it screamed in fear.

I held on, hearing the being's final chorus and drinking it in. This entity didn't know dread. It didn't know what terror was as it had been invincible since its exception. Within the vessels of a planetary-sized monster, it found its end creeping in, and this all-powerful entity uncovered what an end meant. It also revealed what its true character was.

A shallow, fearful creature drunk on its own power. Take that power from it, and it was nothing.

As we faded, it reached toward me with feeble, grasping threads. It touched my mind, and its firm grasp turned gentle from its newfound frail form. It found me relishing in my victory, one where we both perished. It murmured,

"You find joy in your end. You are truly insane."

It was my turn to laugh. I shook my head and murmured,

"I find glory in victory and sacrifice."

As my own mind faded, I held onto my previous struggles. I remembered my many fights in BloodHollow and when Baldag-Ruhl tried to rob my body then. I reminisced on the torture of facing Yawm and finding my hometown eroded. Visions of killing millions on Giess flashed over me, and I recalled my fears of having my home planet violated by the Hybrids.

I struggled through hell and high water to get here. As I kept those thoughts close to my chest, I continued persevering. Even if this was my demise, I wouldn't be the first to go. As I had before, I would face whatever this world, avatar, or Old One threw at me. They didn't understand, but what they tried to burn, they merely forged.

And from fire, I would remain.

As I held on, I found my mind quiet. I peered through the sanctuary of my psyche, seeing it clean and cleansed. Nothing remained but me within. I opened my eyes, finding my mind, body, and soul intact. The avatar had died, unable to tolerate the hell I put us through. As my vision faded, I remembered I might not live either.

Panic raced through me as I found myself dying. I tried pulling myself out of the vein of the colossus, but rainbow needles embedded into every inch of my body. Remembering my abilities, I pulled myself out of my shell, soaking my psyche into my dimensional wake. The emptied husk I left behind dried up as it lost what gave it energy and life.

I floated out of the giant bone colossus and walked back into reality. Standing in the sea of writhing bones, I found the waves lessening in height and impact. After a while, they turned back into the shining hills from before. The solidified mass fell back into shards of rainbow bones, and the algae began regrowing overhead.

As the algae encroached from all sides, I stared at the black hole Leviathan. It gazed back at me, its endless void indifferent to the struggles on this planet. I closed my eyes, breathing in the poisoned air and finding it fresh and inviting.

Once more, I had endured.
