Logging station three was wedged in the crags of the south bank of the Grand River, several days travel from the last little village they had visited. It was composed of seven small cottages and one longhouse, each log-built with peaked, shingled roofs. Most of the loggers, the bachelors, lived in the longhouse while the cottages were reserved for the men who’d been granted leave to bring their families with them.

The logging station had been established two springs ago with a manifest to send their harvest downriver to Riverton, the seat of Magistrate Putnam. But since their establishment, they’d met resistance from a man claiming to be the local game warden. He and his rangers had their own manifest from Magistrate Putnam. The conflict hadn’t yet become violent, but tempers were high.

Sweep could feel the frustration, like a plugged kettle over an open flame, fit to burst. Every injury, every misfortune, every bad turn was blamed by the loggers on the rangers and by the rangers on the loggers. Men with tools began holding them like weapons.

• • •

Sweep pulled her eyes open with concerted effort and a gasp. Desperate, she looked around, trying to pull reality from fancy.

She sat on a thin cushion in the back of a cart, surrounded by their supplies: bags of beans, several tightly rolled blankets, a set of small, dented pots, and so on.

Father Vytal had purchased the cart and donkey from Farmer Kaver. He had insisted on paying, though the farmer had wanted to gift them. Temperance had named the donkey Steady.

“If he’s going to carry all our stuff, he ought to have a name,” she had reasoned.

The cart trundled along, Steady keeping his slow, constant pace. To the right, the Grand River splashed along in its bed. And on the far side of the river, the bank had turned steep and rocky, unlike the smooth bank on the north side where they traveled.

Blinking hard, Sweep looked to the fore of the cart, where Father Vytal sat on the bench, holding the reins, and Temperance sat next to him, showing him a small white flower.

But Temperance stopped and looked back at her.

“What’s wrong?” Temperance asked.

“I thought I heard something,” Sweep said. But that wasn’t quite right. She hadn’t heard anything but the rattle of wagon wheels and the clop of hooves and the song of birds. Instead, what she knew about logging station three had been felt, perhaps experienced, perhaps thought.

“Father Vytal, is there a logging station ahead, on the south side of the river?”

Father Vytal shrugged. “Not that I’m aware of. I took the north road to the Valley and haven’t been on the river road for several years now.”

“What did you hear?” Temperance asked.

“I don’t know how to explain it. It was… I just know…”

“Ah,” said Father Vytal. “I think I know what’s happened.” He tugged at the reins, pulling Steady to a stop, then turned on the bench to face Sweep.

“Is something wrong?” Temperance asked, an edge of panic coloring her tone. Sweep wanted to assure her friend she was fine, but doubt forestalled her.

“Girls, do you know what a telepath is?” Father Vytal asked.

Temperance nodded. “It’s a person who can share thoughts or read another’s thoughts. Saint Ruth was a telepath.”

Father Vytal nodded.

“So that’s it then. Piety’s a telepath, isn’t she?” Temperance said.

“Yes.”

Sweep looked from Father Vytal to Temperance and back again. “How long have you known?”

“Since we helped Catherine. I spoke into your mind so as not to frighten her. I didn’t expect you to speak into mine.”

Sweep was stunned and not a little hurt. “But, why didn’t you tell me?”

Father Vytal spread his hands, a conciliatory gesture. “I didn’t want to frighten you. I am a healer and a telepath. When I arrived at the High Temple, I was the first person with more than one power in several decades. Powers are rare. Having more than one is rarer still. Outside the Scriptures, it is unheard of for a person to have more than two. I had hoped to introduce you to your other powers over time.”

“Powers?” said Sweep. “You mean there’s more?”

“When you told me how you healed me, you described a purple light.”

Sweep nodded.

“Oh,” said Temperance. “Does that mean she’s also an aura-seer?”

Sweep took a deep, careful breath. Her whole body went numb and she closed her eyes. She felt as though she teetered upon the edge of a great precipice; on one side grounded reality, on the other the infinite unknown cosmos. She didn’t know if Father Vytal still spoke to her. Instead, she wondered what would happen if she fell into the cosmos. Would she fall forever? Would she meet with the cosmic divine? Or would she simply open her eyes?

“Piety?”

Sweep jerked from the precipice and opened her eyes. Temperance knelt next to her, face lined with worry.

“I’m fine,” Sweep said. “It’s just… I don’t know what to think.”

Temperance smiled at her. “Me neither. Just remember that if you need anything, I’m right here.”

Temperance drove the wagon while Sweep and Father Vytal sat in the bed with the supplies and Father Vytal talked to her about telepathy and aura reading. And when it was time to try it on purpose, she sat at the desk in the room in her mind and summoned the bowl of water. Dipping her fingers into the water, she closed her eyes. Immediately she saw the yellow and green swirls of Temperance and the silvery purple nimbus of Father Vytal.

“I see you, but how do I contact you?”

“Sometimes, it’s easiest to start with a metaphor. Reach out to me as though your thoughts were your arms and knock upon my aura as though it were a door.”

Put that way, she found it easy enough. She reached her thoughts to the silvery purple light and encountered the hard glass shell she’d noted before. She tapped at it, and the shell wavered a bit.

“Well done, Piety.” She heard his voice both within her mind and without. “Telepathic contact is easier with other telepaths and even easier with physical contact. But the strongest telepathic bonds I’ve seen were between close friends.”

Sweep reached out to Temperance’s green and yellow swirls.

“Piety?” Temperance’s voice was clear in her mind. “That’s you, right?”

Sweep nodded.

“You must understand though,” Father Vytal interrupted, “telepathic power comes with vulnerability to telepathic attack. You’ve noticed my mental shield?”

Sweep returned her attention to Father Vytal. “Like glass armor covering your aura.”

“Indeed. Many choose stone or iron, but I prefer the metaphor of glass because it reminds me to be open to my surroundings, not closed off.”

“But glass breaks,” Sweep objected.

“True. Against a physical attack, glass is brittle. But in the mind, the image is what we make of it. To spread your telepathic sense beyond the most immediate, you’ll have to lower your shield. Some, however, learn to stretch their telepathy with their shield in place. We define the metaphor, not the other way around. Glass allows me to see further than the immediate.”

Sweep nodded. She took a breath, closed her eyes, and slipped to the mindspace. There she sat at the desk and dipped her fingers in the bowl of water. She imagined a glass shell around herself, a shimmering, gossamer protection, flexible and translucent and yet stronger than steel.

“Again, Piety, I must say, I am impressed.”

Temperance interrupted them.

“Father? There’s a bridge ahead. And there’s a man there waving at us. He has an ax.”

His name was Thomas, and he had waved them over hoping they’d have some medical supplies they’d part with; a logger had stepped the wrong way when a tree was felled. It had fallen upon him and broken his leg.

“We’ll do better,” said Father Vytal. “My apprentices and I are healers. Show us the way.”

The small collection of buildings was just as Sweep had seen it, seven small cottages and one longhouse. She clutched at her new mental shield as though it were a warm blanket on a cold day. As they disembarked from the wagon and made their way into the longhouse, Temperance grabbed her hand.

“It’s all right. Your powers are nothing to be afraid of.”

“Aren’t they?” Sweep returned. “What if there are other things I can do? Some powers are terrible. What if I exhaust myself? Father Vytal said it could kill me.”

Temperance shook her head. “Stop that. We’ve got Father Vytal now. He’ll help you.”

She ought to enjoy this, Sweep told herself. She was away from the Mother, she was on an adventure, she had powers. Like the Saints, she could be a hero, or, like the saints, die tragically.

• • •

The wounded man had been lying in bed for three days, bandages inexpertly wrapped and infrequently changed. When they arrived, he had a fever and his wounds were infected. He smelled of brandy because, as Thomas explained, alcohol cleaned wounds.

“I’ll make the tea,” said Temperance, going to the nearest fireplace and setting to work.

Even pale and shuddering under several blankets, the logger was a large man with arms as big around as Sweep’s head and a chest like a trunk. He looked like he should have been able to withstand anything, even a tree falling on him.

Sweep helped Father Vytal remove the bloody bandages, revealing several scabbed-over abrasions, and one large, oozing gash that smelled sickly sweet. It twisted at the thigh, broken and left unset.

Without prompting, Sweep opened herself to the young man and let some of his pain ease into her. Her legs cramped and she sat with a thump on the floor. Though imbibing the brandy had subdued his pain, the logger shuddered in relief.

Father Vytal knelt next to her.

“Are you all right?”

She nodded. “It’s not so bad. I didn’t take all of it.”

Father Vytal sat next to her and steadied her with a hand on her back.

“Well take this slowly, no need for mistakes. Focus on his wounds. What do you feel?”

Sweep took a breath, slipped to the mindspace, and colored light swelled into visibility. This man, like most, was filled with an orangish yellow light. The aura was strong but labored against something she couldn’t see.

“There’s something in him that doesn’t belong. His body is trying to remove whatever it is and fix itself at the same time.”

“Indeed. There are still wood slivers in the wounds. We’ll have to help the body remove them as we encourage it to heal.”

“You can fix me?” the logger asked, his breath heavy with brandy.

“We can,” Father Vytal assured him.

Temperance presented her tea to Father Vytal who sniffed it before nodding his approval. She gave it to the logger who drank, though not without grunting at the taste. Then Father Vytal and Sweep healed him. They set the broken bone, expelled the wood slivers, killed the infection, and closed the wounds. When they finished, their patient shuddered, sighed, and fell asleep.

Sweep sweated with the effort.

Father Vytal helped her stand. He wasn’t sweating; he didn’t even look tired.

The door banged open and a large man entered. He was taller and broader than any man she’d ever seen. His hair and beard were thick, white stubble. His arms were bare and likewise covered in thick white hair, like a winter bear who’d decided to wear a man’s form. He was clad in thick leather.

“Where is he?” demanded the snowy-bearded giant. His eyes lit upon Thomas. “I heard the sheriff had come. Where is he, boy?”

“Uh, not the sheriff, sir. This is a Holy Father. He healed Lon.”

The large man frowned. “Well…” he turned and stomped from the building.

“He’s the man in charge?” Father Vytal asked mildly.

Thomas nodded. “My father, Dakkon. He’s… uh… a bit blunt.”

“Why does he want the sheriff?”

“There’s been some fighting about who has rights to the land.”

“The game warden and his rangers,” Sweep said.

“Yes,” said Thomas. “How did you know?”

Sweep looked at Father Vytal. “This is what I knew when I meditated this morning. The game warden and his rangers are fighting with the loggers because each has a manifest from Magistrate Putnam.”

“Theirs is a falsified document,” Thomas said quickly, voice edged with anger.

Sweep scurried behind Father Vytal, Temperance at her side. Sweep tried to slow her hammering heartbeat. She chided herself for her sudden cowardice.

Father Vytal kept his calm. “Girls, what do you say we look into the situation?” He followed Dakkon from the longhouse and the girls stayed close behind. Sweep turned to keep her eyes on Thomas, who looked nonplussed.

Dakkon stood on the rocks next to the river, shouting incoherently. Three large men, not quite as large as Dakkon, stood nearby, their logging axes held at the ready. Father Vytal strode toward them, Sweep and Temperance in his wake. Thomas hurried on ahead.

Dakkon stepped away from the river and toward Father Vytal. The large logger reined in his temper with obvious effort.

“Holy Father, you have my gratitude for healing Lon and my apologies for our abrupt introduction, but I am in the midst of dealing with brigands. I had hoped the sheriff had arrived so as to put the matter to rest.” He gestured at the river where the remnants of a small wooden structure and several supplies bobbed downstream.

Father Vytal glanced at the river then extended his hand to Dakkon, and as he did so, Sweep saw him shift subtly from the kindly, travel-worn teacher to the distinguished, implacable cleric. When Dakkon took Father Vytal’s hand, though he was larger than the cleric, he did not loom over him. Father Vytal’s stature and authority were evident in the way he stood, the set of his jaw, the way he extended his hand, no matter that he wore simple traveler’s clothes.

“Dakkon, my name is Tristam Vytal, and I am a member of the Church Council. I am aware of your conflict with the game warden, and though the local sheriff would be ideal in this situation, I have often served as a mediator. I would like to offer my service before the situation escalates.” He looked meaningfully at the loggers behind Dakkon. Abashedly, the men thrust their ax handles through the loops on their belts.

Dakkon looked at his men, irritated, then back at Father Vytal.

“That old sneak thief has sabotaged our lawful operation for nearly three years now, ever since we arrived. Our manifest is valid. I watched Noble Putnam sign it myself. Rory’s claim is as false as the signature on that old rag of a manifest he waves about. It looks nothing like the one on mine.”

