While Father Vytal spoke to Dakkon, Sweep felt her attention pulled in another direction. The feeling held the thin edge of disaster, like bread left just a little too long in the oven, but not yet burned, and if she could get to it, she might be able to pull it from the fire.

Temperance squeezed her hand and looked at her meaningfully.

“What?” Sweep whispered, distracted by the not-quite-yet disaster.

But Temperance shook her head and tapped her temple.

Sweep felt a small knot of excitement and couldn’t suppress a grin. She closed her eyes and slipped to the mindspace. There, she felt an immediate calm and concentration. She reached for her power and for the yellow and green swirls of Temperance.

“It’s Thomas. There’s something else going on and he’s got something to do with it. Do you see him?”

Sweep cast her gaze about the craggy clearing of logging station three. The wood here on the south side of the Grand was thicker than on the north. The trees were closely packed, had thicker trunks and reached taller. Thomas stood on the far side of the clearing, furthest from the river, and peered into the woods, an anxious cast to his posture, while everyone else’s attention was on Father Vytal.

Sweep nodded. “Let’s go talk to him.”

The made their way across the clearing, giving wide berth to the large logger loitering nearby, but not too near. They walked close together, taking comfort in each other as they left the immediate proximity of Father Vytal. Sweep tried not to clench her jaw.

Thomas jumped as he noticed their approach and tried to pretend he hadn’t been peering off into the woods.

“What’s going on?” Sweep asked, trying to sound calm and confident like Father Vytal, but certain she sounded like a nervous little girl.

“Nothing,” Thomas replied predictably.

“There’s something more to all this. Something you’re not telling us.”

Thomas glanced into the woods and Sweep followed his gaze. She couldn’t see anything, but she had an idea. She closed her eyes, and opened herself to her power. Immediately she could see auras. Temperance’s green and yellow was near and bright, but also near, and not as bright, was Thomas’ orangish yellow and further on, hidden to her normal sight, another orangish yellow. Someone hid in the woods.

Sweep opened her eyes. “Who is she?”

Thomas hunched his shoulders and looked away. “I don’t know what you’re talking about.”

Sweep looked over her shoulder at Father Vytal talking with Dakkon the logger. They argued. Or rather, Dakkon shook his head and grumbled while Father Vytal spoke in measured tones.

“It doesn’t look too bad,” Sweep said, turning back to Thomas, “But it could become so.” She remembered what she had learned while meditating and shook her head. “No, it will become so. I… I’ve seen both sides’ frustration. I’ve felt it. The tension is ready to burst. Someone will be hurt. You don’t want that, do you Thomas?”

Thomas shook his head, looking at them reluctantly.

“Who is she?” Sweep repeated.

But before he could respond, a tall young woman in leather clothes and a mottle-patterned cloak emerged from the wood, a quiver on her back and bow in her hand. She looked carefully over their heads at Dakkon and Father Vytal.

“Are you a cleric?” the woman asked, not quite looking at them, casting her gaze this way and that.

Sweep shook her head. “We’re apprentices to Father Vytal.”

The woman glanced over their heads again. “He’ll be furious if he sees me. My name is Amelia. I’m Rory’s granddaughter.”

“Rory the gamewarden? What are you doing sneaking around the logging station?” Sweep asked.

Temperance squeezed her hand. “They’re in love with each other,” she said.

Sweep looked at Temperance, confused for a few moments more before she understood. She looked back at Thomas and Amelia. “You’re in love?”

They looked at each other and nodded.

Sweep shook her head, stunned. “Well, that’ll make it harder.”

But Temperance shook her head. “It might not. In history, sometimes warring nations would marry their heirs together, combining the nations and stopping the war.”

Sweep felt a sudden swirl of thoughts from the two. Thomas was stunned at the thought of marrying Amelia, but almost immediately thrilled by it. Amelia, on the other hand, was skeptical their relationship could be more helpful than harmful. The thoughts intruded upon her own, and Sweep tried to hold them at bay. She slipped to her mindspace and pulled her gossamer glass shield over her mind. The outside thoughts were shut out immediately.

Sweep blinked at the two blearily.

“I have to go,” Amelia said. “I’ll see you tonight, my love?”

He nodded. “Of course, dearest.”

They shared a quick kiss and then she disappeared into the wood.

Sweep looked at Temperance and both rolled their eyes.

• • •

Father Vytal declined Dakkon’s invitation to take luncheon with them.

“I think we’ll go see the game warden. There’s no sense letting this situation stew any longer than it already has.”

“He’s a slippery bastard,” Dakkon said. “You’ll not find him if he doesn’t want you to.”

Father Vytal smiled and nodded. “Even so, we’ll give it a try.”

Once away from logging station three, Father Vytal asked, “What did you learn from Thomas?”

Sweep smiled, unsurprised Father Vytal had noticed their clandestine conversation. “Thomas is in love with the game warden’s granddaughter, Amelia.”

Father Vytal chuckled. “Well that complicates things. Love often does.”

“Temperance thinks it might provide a solution actually. Like a truce when heirs get married.”

“Interesting. Very clever, Temperance.”

Temperance blushed and hunched her shoulders. Sweep nudged her and smiled.

“Piety, we’re going to search for the game warden and his rangers now. Likely, they’ll see us before we see them. But, we’ve got an advantage.” He tapped his head. “I’m going to lower my mental shield and listen for any thoughts out there. I’m keeping my mind open, just as I might keep my ears open for stray conversation. I imagine, with a little practice, you should be able to do the same.” Then he stopped and gave her a serious look.

“There’s an ethical concern. Digging through someone’s thoughts without permission is a gross violation of privacy. But sometimes in order to protect someone, you have to know things they’d rather you didn’t.”

Sweep frowned. “How will I know when it’s all right?”

“Trust your judgment and the judgment of your peers. I have faith in you.”

Sweep found it difficult to focus on her telepathy without closing her eyes, and after the third time she stumbled and fell to her knees, even with Temperance guiding her, she replaced her mental shield and let Father Vytal conduct the telepathic search.

After hiking for nearly an hour, without any logical course Sweep could figure, Father Vytal stopped and said, “Ah. We’re about to have guests.”

Sweep closed her eyes, slipped to the mindspace, and touched the bowl of water on her desk. In a blink, she could see the orangish yellow auras of three rangers approaching cautiously.

“Just stay by me,” Father Vytal said. “They don’t mean us any harm.”

Sweep opened her eyes. One ranger approached openly, short bow in hand but not at the ready.

“Are you lost, Holy Father?” the ranger asked politely. He was clad in mottled brown and green leather. His hair was short and sensible, his skin darkened with long days in the sun.

Father Vytal spread his hands. “Not at all. My apprentices and I happened upon the logging station and couldn’t help but hear about their conflict with the local game warden. As a neutral party, I offered to mediate.”

The ranger stiffened. “The game warden has a contract from Magistrate Putnam himself. The only conflict is in the mind of that block-headed logger.”

Sweep whispered, “Sounds familiar.”

“That’s what we intend to find out,” Father Vytal said, giving no indication he’d heard Sweep. “If you’ll escort us to the game warden, I think we can get this sorted out.”

But the ranger shook his head. “He’s on a long tracking mission. I’m afraid it will be weeks before he’ll be back.”

“Don’t lie to me, young man,” Father Vytal said, his voice shifting to become grave and stern. “The game warden sits at camp and awaits your report on me.”

Sweep smiled as the ranger blinked in confusion, and she wondered if she’d be able to read him as Father Vytal did. She leaned into Temperance and grasped her hand. “Don’t let me fall over, all right?”

“What?” Temperance whispered back.

Sweep didn’t take the time to explain. She closed her eyes, slipped to her mindspace, and reached for her power, pulling it about her. Immediately she saw the orangish aura of the ranger and his companions, still hidden in the wood. With a breath and a thought, she touched the smooth plane of her mental shield and let it fall.

The ranger’s thoughts weren’t clear like when she spoke with Temperance, but rather a muted babble, like someone speaking in the room next door. And though she couldn’t pick out individual words, she could tell he was conflicted, both resistant and willing.

“I don’t need you to show me the way,” Father Vytal said. “Come along, girls.”

The ranger escorted them though Father Vytal behaved as though he didn’t. Sweep replaced her shield and opened her eyes, but Temperance held on to her hand anyway. It wasn’t long before they entered a small meadow housing a cluster of tents. A grizzled old ranger with short white hair and stubble sat cross-legged outside his tent, bow across his knees, waiting for them. Behind him knelt Amelia, not looking at them.

The ranger nodded. “Holy Father. I understand you’re here to mediate.”

• • •

For nearly a week, Father Vytal and his apprentices trekked back and forth between logging station three and wherever the game warden had decided to make camp. Sometimes he switched camps several times in a day, sometimes there was no camp at all, and Sweep got the impression he was testing Father Vytal.

At each day’s end, they would return to their own small camp and Father Vytal would ask them what they thought about the day’s discussions.

“They’re stubborn,” Temperance said.

“So how do we get them to stop being stubborn?” Father Vytal asked.

“We’ve got to show them if they don’t compromise, they’re going to ruin themselves as much as the other. We have to get them to talk”

“It’s like Saint Weston and the Burning Willows,” said Sweep. “All the sides in the war lost what they were fighting for because they wouldn’t stop fighting.”

“But that one ends in tragedy,” Temperance said.

Sweep nodded. “It’s Saint Weston’s Lament. ‘If I had been decisive, acted sooner, I could have stopped the war before it started.’” She looked at Father Vytal. “I’m not sure what to do, but I think we’re going to have to do it soon.”

• • •

Finally, on the ninth day, Dakkon and Rory agreed to meet in a small clearing by the road on the north side of the river, where the bank was smooth. They had agreed to each bring only three men. They had agreed, at Father Vytal’s insistence, there would be no trickery, sabotage, or violence at the meeting.

Dakkon and Rory faced each other, the tools of their trades firmly put away. The men they’d brought stood at their backs like bodyguards. Father Vytal, clad in his formal black clothes and white coat and red stole stood between them so he could face them both. Sweep and Temperance stood behind him, hands clasped.

“Gentlemen, you know this must stop. Someone is going to get hurt, and no one wants that. Furthermore, after examining both manifests, I have come to the conclusion that both are valid.”

Dakkon and Rory began shouting at once, but Father Vytal held up a hand and the shouting stopped.

“I know the signature of Magistrate Putnam, both the current and the previous. Dakkon, yours was signed by the current magistrate; Rory, yours by his father.”

Both men stared agape at Father Vytal, nonplussed. The men at their backs muttered quietly.

“Furthermore, I’m sure if we work together, here and now, we can work out a mutually beneficial agreement.”

But Sweep felt an odd tug at her mind, a thought, a memory, an inkling demanding attention. At the same time, Temperance squeezed her hand, leaned in close, and whispered.

“I think I saw Thomas.”

“Where?” Sweep whispered back.

“There, in the woods,” Temperance gestured with a faint nod.

Dakkon’s deep voice filled the clearing. “Both legitimate,” he rumbled. “Well now, that puts a different spin on it.”

“And as mine’s older, it holds precedence,” Rory said.

“As mine’s signed by the current magistrate, mine holds precedence,” Dakkon countered, his claim a bellow.

Father Vytal interjected. “Not in this case, I’m afraid. Neither manifest dictates a precedence and neither a period of service. Both are valid so long as they’re not invalidated by the current Magistrate Putnam.”

Sweep closed her eyes and took deep, even breaths. She emptied herself of self and felt her surroundings. She touched her smooth mental shield and let it drop. Immediately, auras filled her vision and mental babble filled her ears, the thoughts so close to being spoken they may as well have been.

These old fools have been fighting over nothing.

The old man’s been good to me, I’ll protect his back.

I don’t trust those shifty bastards, best stay sharp.

“Piety?”

“I’m all right,” Sweep whispered back.

She took another deep breath and tried to sort through the voices and auras. Like sorting through socks, pairing a mental voice with an aura, Sweep laid them aside until she found the pairings she wanted. Temperance was right, Thomas was, indeed, in the woods, and he wasn’t alone. Amelia was with him. They whispered to each other, worried the meeting below would end in disaster.

“Fools,” Sweep muttered. “They should have let Father Vytal handle it.”

“What are they doing here?” Temperance whispered.

“Fretting.”

A sudden shout broke her concentration, and Sweep staggered, kept upright by Temperance’s arm around her waist.

“There’s someone in the woods!”

“Sneak!”

“Betrayer!”

She blinked against the chaos. Father Vytal was trying to get Dakkon and Rory to calm, trying to separate them as they’d gotten nose to nose, shouting incoherently. The rangers had drawn arrows pointed at the loggers, the loggers had their axes at the ready.

