“I’m not mocking you,” Shiv said before she could respond with anger. “But you’re not that good at hiding your heart. You should know that.”

Kura almost seemed to flinch, and she stopped talking right after.

Shiv’s thoughts, however, continued to race. What Kura said about Udraal—and how Adam described his power earlier—both left Shiv feeling raw. It took Udraal Thann little time to copy one of Shiv's Unique Skills. And now he was learning its nuances. Something told Shiv that Udraal would be using Vitaemancy better than he could in a relatively short time. That offended the Deathless. It was his skill. He got it through sacrifice, death, and constant pain. And here was Udraal, coming back and simply copying it without paying any dues.

Psycho-Cartography: He did create you. Technically, everything you've achieved is partially attributed to him.

Yeah, and I would be completely fine with giving him props if he weren't such a sociopath.

Psycho-Cartography: Psychopath. Between the two of you, you are closer to a sociopath, though you are slowly veering more towards becoming a slight psychopath in terms of behavior. Our capacity for incredible violence has been consistent throughout, but we’re getting much better at figuring out what people think and feel. But it’s also making us more empathic. And making you more mature. You do feel remorse for things you did wrong, and you wish to be more responsible for the lives of others. There is a balance here.

Shiv frowned. Why the hell was I a sociopath?

Because previously, you were guided by anger and brutality in battle. You had almost no close attachments other than to Georges, Uva, and Adam. You cared little for what the law says, and your morals carried—and still carry—deeply rooted double standards. You lied constantly, and your aggression was your defining trait. All of these things are technically accurate. And you do have tendencies. But it is not the whole picture. Just as it's not the whole picture for Udraal. Do not underestimate him.

I won't.

"Shiv, Kura! We have an opening. Are you ready?" Adam called.

Shiv shot a look at Kura, and she simply gave him a nod. Just then, her Chronomancy flashed out from her body, and her golden shadows sprouted curving fingers from their chests.

"What's that for?" Shiv asked.

"To clamp onto the Avatar," Kura said. "It takes a few moments of contact for another to be pulled into one of my temporal clones. It won't be as easy for your golem.”

"Yeah, but Cripple will realize which is my golem; it'll probably just try to strike your clones down," Shiv said. "Either way, we just need to get our hands on Cripple and bring its Avatar across. We do not fight it. We absolutely do not fight Cripple. We got that? I need its ass alive." The Deathless eyed the orcs and Kura.

“I will refrain so long as it does,” Kura said with a slight hint of disgust. It was about as much as Shiv could expect from her, considering the Ascendants were part of the reason she was in this hellish pit in the first place.

"Alright," Adam said. "First arrow is about to be fired. A path will be opened up to where the Ascendants and the Avatars are. We have five seconds to secure the target. Udraal’s stopped casting for a moment. The moment we go across, I'm going to fire another arrow to connect us to the next cube. We move—we keep moving, and we don’t stop even with Cripple secured. Not until we are certain our trail is clean. Is that clear?" Adam looked around at their assembled force, and a unified grunt of affirmation came from the orcs.

The Gate Lord drew his bow back. Two orc Vanguards bearing large, mana-infused shields stepped forward; Shiv followed in their wake.

"In three, two, one,” Adam breathed. “Firing!”
