"What was that?" Five said. He stared upon the Vitae Golem and studied it with a rapt fascination, much as Rebis did. "The mana here, the composition of this clone of yours, I've never quite seen it."

"Yeah, there's a reason for that," Shiv said, but he didn't elaborate. "I have a surprise planned for whatever Ascendant comes to get us. Do you have a Necromancy Skill?" Shiv looked at Five first. The wolf-man shook his head, but he pointed toward Rebis, and just then, a flash of corrosive energy filled the air. The automaton half of the amalgamated Pathbearer came aglow with that decaying taint, and a spirit-tipped piece of its mechanical wings detached. A rush of green mana danced along the other wing, mutilating the propulsion with festering hues rather than bright white emissions. The fragment of Necromancy danced beside the amalgamated Pathbearer and trembled in the air, building up kinetic energy.

"Alright," Shiv said, holding his hand up slightly as he winced. "Don't release it yet, but if you can potentially prime it somehow or just keep it pinned to something—keep the Necromancy active inside of it—I’ll have the golem slam into it when an Ascendant or some reinforcements arrive."

"What will that do?" Five asked.

"Make a pretty nasty bang. The kind that sets your soul on fire."

Five blinked. "You’re jesting."

"Nope," Shiv replied with a vicious chuckle. "Orichalcum should be able to contain the explosion, or at least I hope it can."

"Only if there are people making contact with the soul-bronze," Five replied. "Orichalcum feeds off of willpower. Without it, it's scarcely harder than adamantine, and when given to someone with a weak will, often brittle."

"Good thing that one of the Ascendants will be standing in this room. Or several of them," Shiv said. It was a guess, but probably a good one. He couldn't see the Ascendants wasting wardens on him. Not unless they particularly liked killing their own soldiers. But by this point, who knew? They were already willing to do twisted experiments with Rebis and run what was effectively a nightmare prison. Wherever the hell this place was. He hoped it was at the bottom of an ocean rather than out in the void. The latter might prove a bigger issue.

I guess I really didn't know my own Republic at all, Shiv thought to himself. But that gave him another thought. He couldn't blame Roland for this, either. Roland probably had a better understanding of the Republic and the Ascendants than most Pathbearers or citizens. But Tran wouldn't have believed this, neither would Heather, nor most of the people at Blackedge, if he'd told them.

No, Shiv was firmly in the "knows too much about the Republic" category now. It didn’t make him feel much better.

Just then, another warning klaxon sounded. "Unauthorized teleportation detected." Shiv saw motes of Dimensionality spilling out from the teleportation anchor, and a surge of incandescent mana followed.

And they’re already here. Fuck.

"Shit. Figure the rest out later. Everyone inside my cape, now."

Rebis responded immediately, vanishing from sight. Shiv had assumed he was in the cape, but the floating shard of Necromancy remained in place, hovering where it was. By the time he turned to his Vitae Golem, Five dove into his cape as well. Bonk let out a loud cry of greetings, and Shiv had briefly heard Five call out to Rebis, telling him not to kill the orc. Shiv had ignored all that chaos for now. He activated Creeping Void to flood the room with darkness, just as an incandescent presence entered the room. The jingling of chains sounded aloud, and rather than Havel’s reverberating basso, the gleeful laughter of a young girl greeted Shiv's hearing.
