A headbutt collided with its skull, and although Orodan suffered damage in the process, his head did not shatter or splatter this time. And it was sent flying off into the void. A departure of shame which it made no effort to stop. A retreat which Orodan allowed as he had no particular quarrel with it and in fact considered the towering metal warrior a good training partner.

The void was eerily empty, though Orodan got that familiar feeling of something in the corner of his Vision of Purity, at the very edge of it. He was too preoccupied with the prior battle to notice it before, but he did now.

[Vision of Purity 98 → Vision of Purity 99]

A familiar giant eyeball. As though someone had plucked the eye from a mountain-sized giant and let it flow through the void and go about its own business. And it was staring right at him.

[Identify 15 → Identify 21]

The skill failed and Orodan received a wave of backlash as usual, but it was one he weathered with ease.

“Rude. Identifier will refer to Orodan Wainwright as the rude one. The rude time looper,” the Identifier spoke.

“You were the one watching my battle the entire time without saying a word and you call me rude?”

“Of course. Identifier did not cast any skill upon the rude time looper. Identifier has manners. Rude time looper, Orodan Wainwright, does not. Or did rude one wish to use Identifier for training like he did metallic one?” the Identifier inquired.

Orodan’s guilty look was the only answer.

“As Identifier said. Rude.”

“Is this all you do? Watch and make snide remarks about my manners? Why are you even spying on me?” Orodan asked.

“Identifier simply watches, and identifies. Why would Identifier not? Rude time looper has broken galaxy and expects everyone will not watch?”

“Who else is-”

“Rude time looper has no more time for questions. Bright one approaches, and then, rude time looper’s true test.”

Much as the giant eyeball’s weird mannerisms irked him, he did appreciate the warning for it was right.

The already torn dimensional boundary—devastated by the prior battles—offered no resistance as the void turned bright with white fire. The very horizon glowing so luminously that the eyes of most folk would go blind. And an approaching wave of pure white flame came for him.

A wave which Orodan met with his own soul energy and mana empowered Draconic Fireball, sent via a Burst Cast.

[Draconic Fireball 94 → Draconic Fireball 95]

[Fire Mastery 41 → Fire Mastery 43]

[Fire Magic Mastery 77 → Fire Magic Mastery 78]

[Burst Casting 73 → Burst Casting 74]

His own fireball was the size of a large planet.

He had never charged the spell up this powerfully before when actually casting it externally. He had fueled Elemental Living Enchantments with it, but not hurled it directly at a foe.

Now, as the incoming nuclear fire met his own overcharged fireball, the two met in an explosion which shook the very fabric of reality.

His allies were smart enough to separate Alastaia, Vylrystia and Thazrivin into another safe dimension since before the battle. But even if they hadn’t, the fusion slime would have kept them safe.

Orodan’s fireball, although matching more than half of the slime’s fire, was still overpowered. And it hadn’t even been a particularly powerful attack from it either. And before the explosion could go out of control and destroy any neighboring star systems, the Embodier drew both its own flames and Orodan’s into itself.

This was the power of a being built for producing and absorbing fire as the particles it was composed of continually roiled and combined within like a furnace to produce flame. A true being of the white fire.

“Usurper. Your flames are decent, but require much tutelage. Now, duel me not with flame but with your Cleanining abilities. The loser shall cede their control over the concept we all fight over,” the fusion slime demanded, now becoming visible to the naked eye as its fires pulled inwards, revealing an amorphous form.

“And what if I wished to test myself against both?” Orodan asked in turn, his hands roiling with flame.

Unlike his physical abilities combined with Elemental Living Enchanting and magic, as a pure spellcaster Orodan wasn’t anywhere near as powerful. So while he would not be shattering star systems anytime soon, it was still an important opportunity to train his flames for who knew when that mad zealot would arrive?

The fusion slime said nothing else, roiling with flames which were not just hot, but purifying as well.

It was a Transcendent when it came to fire, but also possessed that esoteric ability to produce white fire by combining certain charged particles within itself. What an odd phenomenon that was too, this fusion. However, what made its flames powerful was their purifying nature.

[Domain of Perfect Cleaning 180 → Domain of Perfect Cleaning 182]

[Draconic Fireball 95 → Draconic Fireball 97]

A power of purity which was utterly overwhelmed as Orodan’s Celestial skill weaved into his flames, matching the fusion slime’s power of purification and outright eradicating its flames.

At the last moment he pulled back as Cleanliness thought of going too far and erasing the Embodier outright, but Orodan would not allow it.

The slime was dazed, spent of a great deal of its power… but still alive. And in utter awe.

“I-incredible…! For one so young to contain the concept so thoroughly…” the slime muttered. “Cleanliness… it practically worships the ground you walk on.”

“Rude one’s Celestial skill approaches the threshold for peak-Embodiment soon… what an oddity,” the Identifier spoke off to the side. “None of the other failures reached so far. Skill at 190? Near 200? Must identify…”

Other failures? This thing must have meant the other time loopers. Had none of them ever gotten as far as he did?

Orodan allowed the Identifier to scan him with its eye, and as it did, the creature shook imperceptibly.

“…time looper far stronger than level. Full concept control not possible unless near peak-Embodiment. Even devil Administrator not peak-Embodiment. Lacking full conceptual control.”

He was an anomaly then… as always, and ever since the beginning of it all.

And he was tired of waiting, for by the looks of it, nobody else was coming to face him after that display. And not since he’d bested Kharadun Voidfortress early on.

Which meant there was only one foe left. One who had not presented themselves yet for some odd reason.

“Come out zealot! Your corruptive ways end today!”

For a while, no return came and Orodan was feeling rather stupid and on the verge of tearing right into the dimensional boundary in search of his foe. Then, something silently and calmly stepped out of the ripped boundary between planes.

It was tall as a Fallen Void Archon, possessed six arms, although was still an uncannily human-looking being. Most unsettling of all was the fact that it was covered in purple-gray corruption as though it was armor.

Eldritch.

In its hands was its holy book, the Prophet’s Administrator Mantle, and in its other hand its sceptre, a tool with which it channeled its powers of wicked light.

It looked different. Not donning the usual guise it wore, but also not in its natural monstrous form. In the past, a closer look would reveal a veiled madness behind its eyes, even while in its human guise. But now? It looked… far better put-together than he ever remembered it being.

And Orodan wasn’t sure why it had not made an appearance all this time until now. There was ample opportunity for it to arrive when the Conclave did and perhaps sway those light-bearing paladins to its side via the dimension of light. Or even when numerous enemy Embodiers had shown up it could have chosen to get involved and gang up on him and his allies.

But it had not.

And Orodan had to wonder just what effect that drawing Edrosic had shown the Prophet had done.

“Oh, I just tried showing it what its real desires were. Oddly conflicted fellow that one. Trying to play at being a man when it could just embrace the duality directly. Brute force wasn’t going to work, nor a painting which attacked its mind. So I had to show it something that would get it thinking real good.”

Its real desires?

Was that why it looked both human and monstrous? Why it had fully embraced the Eldritch openly and wore it as an armor?

Had Edrosic… given the Prophet a power boost?

That lazy fool…

…Orodan would have to thank him for it in the next loop.

This would be the ultimate test and challenge for his abilities thus far.

Fighting an Administrator one-on-one while it held its Mantle and he had none of his own.
