Orodan’s eyes opened as he saw Kharadun Voidfortress channeling as much power into the giant crystal as the dwarf could. Being an Embodier with access to some of the rarest and most luxurious resources in the cosmos, the dwarf’s soul was stronger than most beings he had seen. The power going into the shard was titanic.

It would certainly destroy his System.

But Orodan simply ignored that, pressing onwards and right into the beam as his sword was gripped with both hands.

The dwarf’s eyes widened in shock and then narrowed in suspicion as he uncaringly dove right towards him without heeding the beam. But it was too late.

The beam struck, and for a moment Orodan saw the vision of a being so large that its very eyes were the size of galaxies and its body was a cosmos of yellowish-pink horror and unending sadism and agony. But he brushed off its mental confrontation with him, shocking it.

He needed to draw its notice.

And as he returned to the real world, vision ended and System utterly wiped out.

Orodan cared not, simply recreating it within moments, the insights and powers from his skill solidified in his own mind regardless of whether he had a System or not.

His sword was the tool. Not only a weapon but also a pickaxe, a chisel and a shaping knife. Elemental Living Enchantment was pushed to its very limits as the Draconic Fireball he wove the enchantment in his right arm with was fueled by not just soul energy but also mana, both pools of energy being let loose with the Burst Cast.

The sheer amount of flame coursing through him was so extreme that he gained multiple levels in Fire Resistance. His opponent’s body was like stone, metal and precious jewels… so Orodan had simply brought forth his skills related to dealing with those things and treated him like material to be mined and shaped.

His sword, given just that extra edge from the insights of Calligraphy, and with VItality Destruction added on top, struck. A roar of rage and commandment leaving Orodan’s lips, that the dwarf’s body would falter here and now.

Kharadun Voidfortress only had a moment to look on, agape, as Orodan utterly trivialized what should have been the ultimate weapon to kill time loopers.

Right before a sword entered the dwarf’s chest. And with it, the combined fury and wrath of a plethora of Orodan’s mightiest skills.

[Combat Mastery 146 → Combat Mastery 148]

[Calligraphy 28 → Calligraphy 30]

[New Title → Calligraphy Apprentice]

[Sword Mastery 99 → Sword Mastery 100]

[New Title → Sword Grandmaster]

[Commandment of War 61 → Commandment of War 62]

[Tool Mastery 83 → Tool Mastery 85]

[Fire Magic Mastery 74 → Fire Magic Mastery 77]

[Fire Mastery 34 → Fire Mastery 41]

[Elemental Living Enchantment 50 → Elemental Living Enchantment 53]

[Burst Casting 70 → Burst Casting 73]

[Jewelcrafting 68 → Jewelcrafting 69]

[Stonecutting 59 → Stonecutting 62]

[Mining 56 → Mining 60]

[Smelting 25 → Smelting 28]

[Recycling 22 → Recycling 25]

[Vitality Destruction 61 → Vitality Destruction 68]

[Draconic Fireball 91 → Draconic Fireball 93]

[Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 97 → Smite of Abrupt Deliverance 99]

[Fire Resistance 79 → Fire Resistance 82]

[Physical Fitness 99 → Physical Fitness 100]

[New Title → Physical Grandmaster]

His hot sword shattered the dwarf’s armor and sheared through Kharadun’s body like a red-hot pick through paper. And then, with the blade still lodged inside the dwarf’s chest, he recycled the dissipated energy and brought it right back in for another explosion of power with the weapon still inside the wound.

Ruin and cataclysm.

Orodan himself was reduced to mere chunks, only his hand somehow holding on. The attack had been so monstrously destructive that despite his Fire Resistance and the past five loops of toughening his body and increasing his strength, he still suffered grievous damage.

The ominous and nightmarish plane they were fighting within didn’t just suffer damage, it’s very dimensional boundaries completely disintegrated and space utterly tore apart. He didn’t know how widespread the damage was… but he could plainly see that there was no more of this odd dimension left. Just the real world, the material plane.

So far reaching was the destruction that Orodan could see no surviving dimensional horror whatsoever, nothing left of that nightmarish place they’d done battle in. An entire dimension, gone.

Kharadun Voidfortress made no noise of pain or agony. The dwarf’s eyes merely held shock and then the acceptance of a warrior as they sailed through the void and back unto the material plane.

Their flight path caused them to be intercepted by a capital voidship, specifically, the floating mountain-fortress of Kharadun himself. With a crash which shook the entire thing, Orodan landed, reformed, with his hand still grasping the sword embedded in the dwarf’s chest.

“You… you survived the beam… the crystal. It should be impossible…” Kharadun spoke, resigned. “I… I lost…”

“You are without a doubt the single sturdiest foe I have ever faced. Even I did not come out with as little damage as you have,” Orodan said, taking the significantly-sized crystal from the dwarf’s now-limp hand. Kharadun would die soon if not tended to, for not only was the wound fatal but he had little vitality left within thanks to Orodan specifically targeting it with Vitality Destruction. “Will you surrender?”

“…why? I came to kill you.”

“A lot of people come by trying to kill me. You’re a warrior. Surely you understand the difference between a fight and a vendetta?” Orodan asked. “Besides… my friend stole your crown and started this problem in the first place… at my request.”

Orodan’s revelation came with a quick usage of his Celestial skill to heal the dwarf, though the warrior was still drained of vitality and energy and would not be fighting at peak capacity anytime soon.

“Why?”

“I needed the shards you already possessed.”

Kharadun coughed, but looked appreciative of the gesture, and far more receptive to speaking now.

“What use do you have for them? They’re a mere collector’s item. Using them within System space will only draw the ire of the Administrators. The Boundless One they are tied to is actively hostile towards all who dwell under the shade of the System.”

“And it’s precisely for that reason that I require them,” Orodan explained. “Now. You did not answer my original question. Will you surrender?”

The King of Kings weakly laughed.

“As you can see… you have me at your mercy. I am no honorless cretin… I yield. With strength like yours… what chance do the coming Embodiers have against you?”

“It isn’t them who concern me,” Orodan honestly replied.

“I see… know then that they have never been bested by anyone not of their ranks or of the System. You are the mightiest time looper I have ever seen, but none of your kind have ever bested one. I do not know if you will fail as the rest have, or succeed where none other has… but may fortune be with you.”

“I’ll need more than luck for what I’m about to do,” Orodan solemnly spoke as he envisioned the true foes yet to come. “Farewell Kharadun Voidfortress. Fighting you has been good training, and has given me a new benchmark for my might.”

Groups of Transcendent-level dwarves finally rushed to the outside of the ship ready to assault Orodan and defend their monarch, but the dwarven Embodier simply raised a hand and gestured for them to halt.

“Enough. We leave now. I have been fairly defeated.”

Orodan hopped up into the gravity-less void just in time for the mountain-fortress voidship to blur away and into the dimensional boundary. With it, the forces that the King of Kings had brought along departed too, leaving just the Hegemony.

Orodan himself was yanked back to the relative safety of their own side by a grasping mage hand belonging to Destartes.

“You… you did it!” Almyra exclaimed, sounding excited and hopeful. “We may just prevail.”

“Don’t celebrate too soon. I have the feeling that the worst is yet to come,” Orodan warned.

“Honorless craven! The faithless oathbreaker forsakes us!” Agrimon, lord of the Hegemony declared in rage. “But we are not alone Embodier, you shall learn that the Hegemony has ancients of its own who will descend to aid it if the consequences are truly dire! Alongside those divines who your allies have aggrieved!”

It was apparent in its tone and mannerisms that the lord of the Hegemony was terrified. Orodan could sense the fear in its very soul. But that didn’t change the fact that Agrimon was right.

The battle between Kharadun and Orodan had torn the very dimensional boundaries apart and ruptured space as well. Already he could see things from the void and other parts of the cosmos coming in.

Galaxies in general must have had some manner of defense system which stopped creatures from the deep void from invading. Hells, even worlds didn’t just have extraterrestrial creatures invading and dropping from meteors on a regular basis. The only thing which invaded Alastaia was the Eldritch and without that the only other thing was perhaps demons from the hells but that was manageable as well.

The battle between the two Embodiers however, had ruined this. Creatures of the void began crawling through, hungry for something to feed on, and the two opposing forces were looking quite tasty from their perspective. Furthermore, space and the dimensional boundary being weakened meant that Gods could now cross over freely.

And the Hegemony gained reinforcements in the form of the divinities—now purged of Eldritch—who resented Almyra and the direction she took in leading the Blackworth Collective against the plague. Of more personal significance to Orodan though, was the arrival of four Gods who he had banished from Alastaia altogether.

“At last. To be allowed to return home,” Agathor spoke, alongside him Eximus, Ilyatana and the northern blood God Agorhiku. “I have not been in the material plane for thirty-thousand years…”

More ships of the Hegemony began arriving too. Void-faring craft carrying all manner of troops. Vampires, werewolves, warriors, battlemages, magical beasts and the like. The enemy was a powerful faction in their own right, and the Alastaian alliance couldn’t exactly underestimate them.

Most important however, was the arrival of a dragon which was a tenth the size of their solar system. And while that might have seemed unimpressive compared to the Living Crystal he’d fought a while ago, the fact was that this dragon was stronger.

Its mere appearance was enough to put the Alastaians in a state of panic and cause the morale of the enemy to soar. If they had been shaken by the defeat and retreat of Karadun Voidfortress’s forces before, then the sight of this new Embodier emboldened them once more.

A snort of arrogance and annoyance left its gigantic nostrils which were the size of planets. It looked as though a mere sneeze from it would put out the sun.

“So this is the one who bested Kharadun Voidfortress? Impressive… I sense no limit to the energy roiling off him. For a human to spend so freely of energy in quantities which would make even a dragon tremble…” it muttered. “You have done well to summon me, little Agrimon, my loyal servant. Long have I left such petty galactic matters behind, but in the face of such a threat it will not do to remain idle.”

Its words caused gusts of wind to impact the Alastaian forces and their voidships.

However, the alliance’s troops were not alone. just as the tears in the void brought enemies… so too did they bring allies.

Reality rippled as a thin eight-legged being came through the ruptured canvas of space. Orodan almost missed it, but the familiar golden bow of light which fired a whole bunch of arrows towards the enemy dragon which was forced to conjure gravity wells to absorb the shots.

Alagameth had arrived. The spatial spider, upon conversing with Almyra and Alstatyn had been convinced of the dangers of the Prophet and the threat it posed to the Conclave. Furthermore, Orodan’s cleansing of the Eldritch had proven to it that the plague could be defeated, which was an additionally persuasive argument for joining the Alastaians.

A fleet of machine-beings and the Unity’s prime combat unit, the planet-sized A1, tore out of the ripped boundary as well.

“Directive: Capture Gregory Hannegan. Multiple threats and potential allies identified. Solution: Alliance and elimination,” a familiar voice intoned, floating near their ships.

“W78!” Orodan exclaimed, joy in his heart at seeing the trustworthy metallic being once more.

“Information: subject possesses improbable knowledge of unit. Solution: query and analysis.”

“No time for that,” Almyra interrupted. “Orodan. You must set about your work immediately. Alagameth and I will hold off the dragon, but you must bring us further allies before the Embodiers pursuing you arrive alongside any Administrators.”

And that was the truth of it. For even if they won this particular battle, Orodan still had an entire suite of enemy Embodiers after him. Unlike Almyra who simply didn’t have any noticeable control over the concept she embodied, Orodan was the cosmos’s greatest cleaning talent. Just by existing he ruined the control other Embodiers of his concept had over it. Even if he didn’t want anything to do with this silly concept, the fact was that the concept of Cleanliness itself refused to listen to anyone else once he had reached Embodiment.

“Alright. Hold your ground. This will take a bit of time,” Orodan said as he leapt to the air.

This is it then?” Zaessythra asked. “Am I truly to be brought back?”

