immediately, a hundred Grandmasters and Transcendents of the Collective and Magocracy were Blessed. The sharpshooters and mage-lords, with divine illusory power backing them, found their shots and spells landing flush when they had not before. Immediately, scores of enemy cultivators fell under the onslaught, prompting the Celestial Emperor to angrily try and murder Ozgaric on the spot, sending a powerful blast of the Dao of Domination and Supremacy towards him.

Of course, Orodan had fortified the minds and souls of all the alliance’s forces with the Incorruptible Being aspect of his own Celestial skill. Jian Huangdi’s attempts to sway the minds of Alastaia’s forces failed, but the power of the peak-Transcendent’s dao could still kill them on the spot.

Something Ozgaric weathered, throwing divine power against the oncoming attack. And although the God trembled under the strain, he barely made it through the barrage, joining the group of Transcendents fighting the Celestial Emperor. The northern God was Alastaia’s mightiest divine. With him joining the fray that fight wasn’t nearly as desperate any longer.

Malzim was next.

“Orodan Wainwright… can you truly unshackle us? Is Ozgaric’s new form… stable?”

“Come try it and find out.”

And the death divinity did, as Orodan repaid a debt he owed from one of his earliest loops where Ilyatana threatened to permanently enslave him in mind and body. Knowing what he did now about his will, it was uncertain whether she would have succeeded, but Malzim had saved him all the same.

Talricto wove the web and established the dimensional boundary, Malzim flooded the newly forged dimension with his deathly essence, and Orodan forced the death God’s domain from the divine realm into this new plane of his own.

“The God of Death comes! Let none call me a coward any longer!’

Halor was empowered, as were Cithrel—who was a little too elated at the thought of being near her husband physically—and Athandelu. Faraine too was given her own dimension, making a beeline directly for the section of battle containing Vespidia, as was Athandelu.

Finally the remaining minor Guzuharan Gods and Goddesses were granted power and they all charged forth to join the battle.

By the end of it all, Orodan received a final message.

[Reality Alteration 89 → Reality Alteration 90]

The culminating result of forcing the essences of all those divines to become a permanent and irrevocable part of Talricto’s newly created dimensions. He hadn’t pushed past level 100 of Dimensionalism, but that he knew would take time. Especially since he had only functioned as the assistant for Talricto who had done most of the fine-tuning work while he merely provided the raw power.

More importantly, pulling those divinities and their respective domains of power out of the realm of the Gods and into dimensions of their own had not gone unnoticed. With each God and Goddess he had empowered, Orodan felt the divine dimension tremble and the gigantic veins of System energy and Eldritch tremble in fury.

The Boundless One was certainly not happy. But far as he was concerned, its opinion was irrelevant when it shackled divines to a dimension where they were forced to act as System energy purifiers and eventually become corrupt themselves.

Orodan also considered that these divines he’d empowered couldn’t exactly be referred to as Gods in the same sense as other divines under the System. They were now entirely independent, capable of existing within their own dimension or the material plane as they freely chose.

Now, the dozen newly empowered beings had joined the fight against the Celestial Emperor, and despite how monstrously powerful Jian Huangdi was, the Celestial cultivator wasn’t faring very well when a central facet of his power—mind control—was rendered useless and he was getting swarmed by all of Alastaia’s empowered divines and some very powerful Transcendents at the same time.

“Tch! Like ants daring to swarm a lion. These wicked powers you unnatural Gods have acquired will avail you not! My dao shall never bend! The truth shall not be suppressed!” Jian Huangdi roared in rage, facing the assault of dozens now. “Elder! This junior beseeches you for aid!”

And on the Unity and Conclave’s side, the Overking of the hells wasn’t looking satisfied with the progress of demonkind either.

So as Almyra and Alagameth were fighting a losing battle against the goat-woman Embodier—her abilities proving too much for them—their situation became two times worse as additional figures came through the torn dimensional boundaries.

One, an ancient woman, daintily holding a teacup in her hands within that cup, death. The other from the opposite end, a wiry-looking Arch-Devil with some truly lethal looking hellfire emanating from its body.

“Wait just a while longer, Zaessythra. Once I deal with these coming foes… I shall see you returned.”

“Orodan… just what are you planning?” she asked, confused and more than a little worried as to why she had not been brought back yet.

Both Almyra and Alagameth’s spirits sank, struggling against the Embodiment of Purity as they were, but their woes were about to come to an end.

“Embodiers run amok and Transcendents lay dead in scores. A battlefield worthy of a true devil,” the Embodiment-level Arch-Devil declared with a smile.

“What’s this nonsense little Huangdi has called me for? I was just enjoying some tea…” the ancient cultivator complained.

“More allies. Excellent,” the goat-woman Embodier spoke. “Endless Cup Empress. Aid me in slaying my rival Embodier, and I shall gift you one of my orchard worlds full of rare tea leaves and herbs. And as for you, Devil Overlord Maathramaz, help me slay these pests and you may collect their souls to use in making more Embodier’s Sacrifices.”

“Why that sounds acceptable, let-”

“I do ever have need for more of those. Very well, allow-”

Both the new arrivals suddenly froze.

The Embodiment-level cultivator’s teacup began swelling to the size of a star system, the liquid within spilling forth and promising instant death. And the Arch-Devil’s hellfires immediately burgeoned out, threatening to incinerate his home world entirely.

Yet Orodan’s Elemental Living Enchantment fueling his Smite of Abrupt Deliverance cared for none of these things.

[Elemental Living Enchantment 53 → Elemental Living Enchantment 55]

[Draconic Fireball 93 → Draconic Fireball 94]

The fight against Kharadun had been the impetus many of his skills needed to increase in power. He was now a Sword Grandmaster and a Physical Grandmaster. His sword and shield were also of the finest possible make his world could produce, which further amplified his battle power.

All these combined, even with these Embodiers arrayed against him, Orodan now felt more confident in facing them head on.

The King of Kings had been correct. If he managed to beat him of all people… then what chance did these other Embodiers have?

He lined both the new Embodiers up in a straight line and unleashed his might. He directed the force carefully, ensuring it was away from the direction of Alastaia, Vylrystia and the star system of the Magocracy losing a significant amount of power in the process, but the end result didn’t change.

The teacup completely vaporized, and the hellfire spiral surrounding the devil was blown out of existence. The old woman’s body was reduced to nothing and the Arch-Devil disintegrated as multiple star systems behind them vanished from the force despite Orodan’s best attempts at redirection.

Damn it. Fighting at the Embodiment-level was fraught with more danger than he thought it would be. Collateral damage was a real concern when his allies weren’t covering for him. Such destruction was a natural consequence of battles at the Embodiment-level, but to Orodan it only made a sick feeling of guilt and responsibility take root within. He had not even intended to strike the star systems behind, but the force of the attack was simply too much to contain perfectly.

He would make no excuses… that was entirely on him.

The Embodiment of Purity who witnessed his immediate and instant killing of two other Embodiers paled. Suddenly the confidence and arrogance on her was gone.

Both the cultivator and the Arch-Devil were slaughtered on the spot and she was the only one remaining.

Almyra and Alagameth too did a double take at the destruction.

“Warn us before cutting loose next time… that’s fifty star systems full of life you just obliterated,” the previous looper lectured. “But… I suppose such things happen during battles between Embodiers.”

It was a weak justification which Orodan refused to accept. He vowed to never again repeat the error if he could help it.

“T-thief! Deceiver! You should not be so powerful!” the enemy Embodiment of Purity frothed in rage. “Give it back! Give back the concept you have stolen from us all! More will come until you do!”

“I know that. I have fought you many, many times by now. And I have grown,” Orodan replied. “The warrior you faced five loops ago is not the one standing before you now.”

“Loops… loops… unbelievable. A time looper, one who has achieved Embodiment too…” the Embodiment of Purity muttered. “You may win against me, but you shall not win against us all. And certainly not against the Prophet. He knows that your ally here has used one of the Mantles belonging to an Administrator… and he comes.”

Orodan knew that. In fact, he was counting on it.

With all the chaos occurring right now, he wasn’t sure if the Custodian could even afford to show up. But he knew for sure that at the very least the Prophet would come. That zealot was far too invested in acquiring the Reject’s Mantle. Although, Orodan wasn’t entirely sure what effect the glimpse of Fenton’s tailor-made drawing had upon that wicked corruptor.

With that said, she too, fled for her life, and Orodan allowed it.

She would either return in force with more, or would truly stay away having seen his strength. In any case, he, Almyra and Alagameth and the remaining forces of the alliance got to work in sweeping the battlefield clear now that the enemy’s Embodiers had been bested.

The Alastaian alliance alongside the Unity and Conclave got to work in slaughtering large portions of both enemy forces who refused to retreat.

The Celestial Emperor and the Overking of the hells retreated in disgrace, their forces utterly shredded once their respective Embodiers had been defeated. He had a feeling they would not be returning anytime soon this loop.

After recovering their casualties and doing a headcount, eventually, the arrayed forces of his home world and its allies gathered in the control chamber of the ancient machine, where one particular young man was furiously working upon the device, accounting for the new addition to it.

“Mister Orodan!” Fenton exclaimed, sounding quite frantic. “You won out there?”

“For now. We have more coming however,” Orodan answered. “How goes work on the machine?”

“It… it’s a little complex ser. That crystal you gave me is big, and firin’ it out the way you intend is goin’ to take quite a lot of power,” Fenton explained. “I’ve been makin’ adjustments on the fly best I can, but it’ll still take a bit more time. And… somethin’s blocking us from firing at those secondary coordinates you gave me. System energy, based off the readings I’m gettin’ here.”

Almyra frowned, looking down at the sleeves of the Mantle she was wearing. She closed her eyes in concentration as though searching for something.

“He’s right. It’s the Prophet. It is… close.”

She sounded fearful as she said it.

“Couldn’t we just get Mister Talricto to clear the block?” Fenton asked, and even Talricto seemed amenable to the idea. The spider’s skill in Dimensionalism

“For what I’m planning, I can brook no interference,” Orodan denied. “I shall need multiple pathways opened to various places.”

“What an odd requirement. And of course that means you shall have to fight it,” Destartes spoke. “Orodan. You have told none of us what it is you intend to do exactly. This is the farthest we’ve ever gotten in one of these loops, and you have consistenly spoken as though it shall not entirely end. I believe I speak for everyone here when I say we want answers.”

Orodan surveyed the room, noting that his dependable and loyal allies had indeed trusted him thus far but looked more than a little tired of being left in the dark.

“And not only that you but you have evacuated Vylrystia and not even resurrected Zaessythra yet. Just what are-”

“I intend on bringing you all into the time loops. Permanently.”

Silence met his most insane declaration. A quiet resulting from shock which Almyra was the first to break.

“Impossible. Even if you supposedly empowered the time loops yourself, adding more than one person to it should be completely impossible. The energy requirements would be entirely unfathomable and who knows how the loop mechanism even works?”

She couldn’t be blamed for harboring such doubts. For too long had she operated under the shadow of the Prophet’s oppression and had to deal with the truth of being stripped of the time loops. She had also only known him for this loop and hadn’t been with him as the others had.

But where she doubted his insane endeavor, Adeltaj stepped forward, laying a hand upon Orodan’s shoulder.

“I admit, it’s entirely reasonable to doubt this fool,” Adeltaj spoke. “But, for as much of an idiot as you are Orodan, I have seen the depths of your determination over the past five loops of working and fighting alongside you. At this point, if you told me you’d turn the sky green, I would believe you.”

