And surprisingly enough… Talricto shushed the doubters.

“Idiots. Not an hour ago he helped me divest Gods from the System’s yoke while still maintaining their divinity and the Blessings of their followers,” the spider spoke. “Now, it was of course, I, the illustrious Talricto who did most of the work. But Orodan here helped. As he has been helping all of you, myself included for all these loops. Yes, he might be a brute, and an savage of the lowest order. A man who knows but the barest touch of civility and good manners… but he has never once lied about what he intends to do. Losing faith in him now would be entirely silly.”

“Talricto…” Orodan muttered, surprised. “You-”

“Do not let it get to your head. You have a tall task ahead of you,” the spider interrupted.

“And Vylrystia? Why have you evacuated our entire world?” General Vaelrosaan the half dragon commander of Alastaia’s former moon spoke.

“As I have learned, true soul genesis requires two things. The conditions for life, and events of significance. However, my trip to the elemental plane of lightning showed me that what we believed necessary for the conditions of life and significance need not come from material things.”

Destartes looked thoughtful, and then the ols wizard’s face paled.

“You mean to forge her soul anew using a Boundless One…”

“What more fitting a rebirth than to use the very same one which ruined her soul in the first place?” Orodan asked, and he could already feel that he had outright stopped the half dragon inside his soul from thinking with how ridiculous his idea was. “With the ancient machine, not only will I be able to reach the time loop mechanism, but mainly, I’ll be able to open a hole in the cage leading outside System space.”

Both of which were things he could potentially do himself, but not without causing mass casualties and the destruction of many, many things. But with the machine? He could directly open a pathway to the bowels of the System where the Boundless One lay, and also open a direct dimensional pathway outside.

It wasn’t normally meant to do such things at all, but with the crystal sourced from Kharadun Voidfortress as a beacon, and Fenton and Clyburn’s work upon the device, Orodan held confidence that it was now capable of standing up to the rigors he intended to place upon it.

“You are a mad man, Orodan Wainwright. In no reality should I even be entertaining this thought… but your insane plan has some logic to it, in a deranged way. And if all these people believe in you, then I suppose Alstatyn and I can as well,” Almyra said, finally looking less uncertain about the entire thing. “What do you need us to do?”

“Just keep Alastaia and Vylrystia safe. The destruction from the coming battle shall be great… I’ll need you lot who are specialized in spatiomancy and Dimensionalism to keep us from destroying everything.”

With that singular request made, his allies seemed a little less apprehensive about it all. Much easier when they realized that they would have to participate in none of the fighting.

His disciples hadn’t looked happy about that at all, and neither had Adeltaj, but they understood and respected his decision that certain fights belonged to him and him alone. Although of them all, Wainroach seemed the most dissatisfied about this. The forest roach had an almost unsettling look in her eye.

“Well, Orodan,” Edrosic spoke. “Thanks for leaving me to deal with her tantrum now.”

“I think you’ll be fine, Edrosic,” Orodan replied.

“Easy for you to say when you’ll be off getting torn apart by that priest, prophet or whatever it calls itself,” the militia man replied.

“Speaking of… I never did ask what exactly you drew that caused it to leave so abruptly. Looked like a normal, if incredibly detailed, portrat of it.”

“Eh? You couldn’t see? Right… of course you couldn’t,” Edrosic muttered. “I tailored that sketch for that preacher specifically.”

Orodan showed no surprise at the fact that Parthus Edrosic’s drawing skills were good enough that the man could tailor a drawing specifically for a singular person.

“Then… what was in the drawing? What did you intend?”

“Oh, I just tried showing it what its real desires were. Oddly conflicted fellow that one. Trying to play at being a man when it could just embrace the duality directly. Brute force wasn’t going to work, nor a painting which attacked its mind. So I had to show it something that would get it thinking real good.”

Orodan wasn’t sure what to make of that. The Prophet hadn’t even been harmed by the painting Edrosic had drawn either. Just deeply contemplative as though it had seen something important to itself.

But all the same, the final preparations occurred.

Orodan would have liked to say some climactic ambush occurred, or that the other Embodiers after him tore through the void to interrupt them, or that the Prophet itself rived through reality to take them by surprise…

…yet nothing but the steady hum of Fenton’s work could be heard. The spatiomancers’ preparations took place as they shielded, obscured and warded Alastaia and Vylrystia to the best of their abilities alongside assistance from their respective world cores.

Ten minutes after everyone was done, Talricto perked up.

“Embodiers coming through the boundary. Not that there’s much of one left after all that.”

The cataclysmic battle Orodan had against the King of Kings had ensured that the line between the material plane and other dimensions of the cosmos was very thin indeed.

“Right then. I’ll be off,” he replied. “The lot of you may want to leave this mountain… it’s coming with me.”

“Orodan…” Talricto spoke. “Best of luck.”

He simply nodded. Luck would not be the determining factor for what lay ahead of him.

Fortitude and all the work he had put in thus far would be.

Mount Castarian itself was now reinforced and fortified. A mountain of finely carved stone with runes etched into it. A true bulwark which could now support the ancient machine and bear much of the load of its activation. His gathered allies slipped out of the mountain so that Orodan could cast a gigantic Spatial Fold all over it, pulling it directly onto Vylrystia. Specifically, right onto the green plains directly behind the World-Queen’s citadel. This was the place of greatest significance to Zaessythra.

Her home and where she had officially raised the crown and herself above her world, claiming rulership of it. This place would solve one of the issues of significance, half the required recipe for true soul genesis. And with that solved, he had only one place left to go.

One enemy whose presence was blocking him from using the ancient machine the way he intended.

Space trembled, Teleportation far easier due to the chaotic rupturing of it in various places due to all the fighting. And he found himself in the void between stars where he sensed the very first Embodier of the next wave coming through.

A towering twenty-foot tall muscle-bound golem made purely of metal. An Embodier who had pulverized and crushed Orodan time and time again, to the point that it had driven his skill growth in Physical Fitness and Body Tempering, making him stronger.

An Embodier who espoused the purity of strength. One of the rare few who was a dual Embodier, although not as high-level in each skill as some of the older ones.

“Impressive… not just purity but strength as well,” the metallic giant spoke. “While fleeing for her life like the craven she is, Yarathagal told me that you are a time looper. Is this true?”

It was no machine like the beings of the Unity but a true living thing somehow made of metal. For the past five loops Orodan had tried to understand how such a being cvould exist and what secrets he could glean from it. But he was no scholar like Destartes, nor would he bring the old wizard up against something which could smash Orodan into paste.

Chiefly, the main barrier to studying its biology was that he was continually rendered into paste. Made focused research just a little difficult.

But this time things would be different. He was a Physical Grandmaster now. His mightiest attack had surprised and dealt even Kharadun Voidfortress a fatal wound.

“Indeed. I’ve fought you a few times now. Your strength is prodigious,” Orodan answered, flexing his arms and causing shockwaves to erupt from his form. “But I have gained a level. So come, let us match our might against one another one more time!”

Two of his five deaths when fighting the pursuing Embodiers came at the hands of this towering paragon of metal. It had utterly pulped him within a compressing metal cage once, and another time it had simply fired a star system sized beam of liquid metal at him.

But it also had a sense of honor and fair play.

“To be the whetstone a time looper grinds their blade against…! What an honor!” it roared as its metallic muscles flexed, causing the noise of groaning metal and snapping cables to reverberate throughout the void. “I was going to offer you a place at my side as a disciple of mine, but to test myself against one of the System’s beloved… let us lock grips and test our might warrior-to-warrior!”

Thus, even as Orodan’s skull shattered thanks to its headbutt, and his fingers crunched into pulp as he locked grips with both its hands, he couldn’t really bring himself to dislike this particular Embodier. He was in fact somewhat fond of it.

It was an absurd scene. A near-seven-foot man standing in a grip deadlock against a twenty-foot tall and far larger metallic being. And yet, Orodan was managing to hold. Especially now that he was a Physical Grandmaster and the strength gap wasn’t as wide as it was in the past. Furthermore, Orodan was much smaller than it, which meant it needed to work far harder than he did in order to overpower him.

For it, wrestling him was the equivalent of a man attempting to wrestle a short steel pole. Difficult.

[Wrestling 92 → Wrestling 93]

“Hmm! Not bad!” it praised, having to exert true effort now. “A Physical Grandmaster? A rarity even in the wider void. Too many Embodiers are lazy and unwilling to commit to the physical pursuits. Especially among the softer, fleshier species such as humans.”

It was still stronger, but no longer overwhelmingly so. And if there was one thing Orodan was quite good at, it was facing uphill odds and somehow reaching upwards to challenge even an absolutely superior opponent.

“I see you underestimate me for being human… then allow me to show you, the power of a weaker race.”

He would not be ignorant enough to claim that it didn’t know pain, struggle or the feeling of having its back pressed against the wall. For nobody got to the Embodiment-level, especially as a martially inclined individual, by being soft.

But that didn’t mean that this metallic warrior wasn’t used to being an apex species. Orodan had met dragons, Arch-Devils, true vampires and the like. Species which were doubtlessly superior to his own kind. Humans just weren’t meant to face certain kinds of beings at their own game. No sane warrior on Alastaia would face down a demonic berserker or death roach in melee at the same tier. No sane mage would face a Fallen Void Archon in a magical duel head-to-head. Humans weren’t built for being the greatest in any particular field. They were versatile, that was their strength.

It was a strength Orodan threw out the window as he violently and brutally flexed his muscles, the desperation of being the underdog, of being the weaker party, gave him a sort of strength this metallic warrior would never have.

This Embodier had never walked into a fight with the knowledge that whatever it faced in melee was intrinsically superior to its species. Orodan however, had. He had faced demonic berserkers and death roaches in melee. Dragons and Arch-Devils in close-quarters. As a mere man he had dared to challenge those greater than he. And he had come out on top despite fighting them at their own game.

As his muscles gripped its metal fingers hard enough to leave the barest of dents, he wound his neck back…

…and delivered a headbutt of his own.

[Iron Body 93 → Iron Body 94]

His own skull shattered yet again of course. But if there was anything Orodan was exceptionally good at… it was battering a wall with his head thousands of times until either the wall broke or he did.

And he had never been broken.

It was proud, honorable and possessed of a fierce warrior-like temper which he quite respected. On the next pass, it reeled its own neck back, meeting Orodan’s headbutt in the middle with its own.

The two heads collided, causing a shockwave of such power that the spatial and dimensional defenses erected by his allies trembled briefly. His head splattered yet again, but reformed quickly enough. Just in time to meet the metal-warrior’s next headbutt with another of his own.

Again his head exploded, but Orodan cared not.

[Iron Body 94 → Iron Body 95]

[Body Tempering 81 → Body Tempering 82]

This was good training.

In earlier loops the physical gap had simply been too wide. The other Embodier of Purity, the goat-woman Yarathagal, had also been present and happily threw cheap shots at him while he fought this one. But now? With the strength gap narrowed, his other abilities increased and a proper one-on-one?

Orodan would show this metal giant the mettle of humanity.

Ten headbutts in, his opponent’s skull had an angry-looking lump and the beginnings of a silvery liquid flowing out.

“Grah! You honor me with your zeal time looper! But I shall not break! Show me the heart of one anointed by the System itself! Show me what the Boundless One sees in your frail species!”

