“Orodan. We have come, although how long my compatriots can stand to remain here when the blood of our peoples are being spilt out there is a matter of contention,” Ozgaric spoke.

“Time looper, I respect all you have done but my people will die without me aiding them out there,” an anxious northern God added in emphasis, her divine energies roiling with fretful worry.

“Then let us waste no more time. For the past five loops have Ozgaric, Talricto and I been working upon this,” Orodan said. “Now, we shall see it made reality.”

Indeed. For long had Orodan pondered the question of how to empower Alastaia’s divinities further. It was a cold truth that a divine and a Transcendent of the same level and rarity were not equal. Divines were those who had failed their trial of ascension, relegated to serving as part of the System’s ecosystem for filtering Eldritch power into System energy.

But how could Orodan help these Gods go beyond their limits? How could he liberate them from the ceiling placed above their head by the System?

He could not replace it with his own System, not yet and not reliably. He would not use them as test subjects when he did not have full faith in the outcome. The thought of reverting their divinity and allowing them to enter Transcendence even passed his mind, but that too was not feasible. These divinities liked their way of life. Their followers depended on them and so too was that dependence reciprocated.

Being a divinity was to lose the ability to walk upon the material plane directly. It was to become a shackled being used for something one did not understand. It was failure made manifest as one could no longer see their world, let alone their loved ones if they had any.

They were, by nature, somehow dimensionally tethered to the divine dimension.

And over the past five loops Orodan had carefully studied Ozgaric, seen that tether and formulated a method of not just preserving the way of life these divinities had, but also cutting them off from that wretched dimension where they were no more than tools.

In fact, he would have to thank the Prophet whenever that zealot showed up, for Orodan had partially drawn inspiration from how it had merged with the dimension of light.

How did he plan to solve the problem of the divine?

Simple.

“All of you… sever the connection between Alastaia’s world core and yourselves,” Orodan ordered, gesturing through his world crown to the spirit of his home world that it should do the same on its end too. “And when that connection severs… grab onto mine. Talricto, be ready.”

“Need you even remind me?” the dimensional phase spider asked, sounding almost offended.

“But Orodan Wainwright… cutting the connection shall drain power and force us into the divine realm the moment it runs out. Do you intend to supply the power necessary to keep us here yourself?” Malzim asked.

“No. I intend to help each of you craft dimensions of your own and then merge with them, that you might escape the System’s oppressive yoke.”

It was the most creative and also the most mad thing Orodan had thought up in a while, inspired entirely by the Prophet. Yet unlike that zealot who had merged with an existing dimension—something which came with limitations and involved much dirty work—Orodan intended to help each of these Gods and Goddesses make their very own.

Talricto was on standby, the spider’s unfathomable dimensional skills being critical to this endeavor. And Orodan himself, while being aide to the eight-legged wanderer, would be providing the power necessary for such a thing.

Naturally, having been aware of this the longest, Ozgaric stepped forth first. The divine—the young boy really—had determination in his eyes.

Orodan knew of the northern God’s plight. A boy of such utter talent for mischief and illusions that he had reached Grandmastery while still a youth. But this talent came at the price of his people forcing him into divinity during a bad war of the time, even if that choice was made under duress.

Still, the God of Illusions and Trickery did not resent his lot in life. For tens of thousands of years had the northern God protected Guzuhar and its people. He had also aided Orodan when he’d needed it most, allowing for the time looper to enter an academy and acquire an education without being disturbed for most of that process.

Orodan owed Ozgaric a debt. And now, as the northern divine was on the precipice of taking the next step towards power, Orodan intended to see that debt repaid.

Ozgaric dropped the connection between him and the world core of Alastaia which had been keeping him directly in the material plane all this time. And now, the divine grabbed onto the connection offered by Orodan, that of his Blessing of endless power.

Immediately, the God shook, still needing a few moments to acclimate to the utter surge of energy. Despite being used to channeling and directing large amounts of divine power, despite the past five loops of work, grabbing onto that thread of connection from Orodan was difficult to ignore. Not when he was sending large amounts of soul energy through it already; preparation for the feat.

As Ozgaric adjusted, Orodan could only look to the battle which was ongoing.

In the void, the battle between the invaders and the Alastaian alliance had begun in earnest. Jian Huangdi’s cultivators surged forward upon flying swords and other magical beasts to meet the forces of the Collective. Almyra and Alagameth met the goat-woman Embodier, and the forces of the Unity and Conclave met the hells. Skirmishes occurring on multiple fronts.

Even down on the surface of Alastaia he saw Old Man Hannegan making his own contribution to the battle by directing smelters, metalworkers, smiths and alchemists to work overtime in order to produce weapons, arrows, bolts, bullets and shells. And although it seemed minor in nature, the weaponry and ammunition made under the guidance of the old foreman’s new Celestial skill was drastically better than whatever the forces of Alastaia had existing prior. Needless to say, an entire team of supply runners were furiously rushing the freshly crafted war materiel to the front as quickly as it was made.

While the Unity and the Conclave managed to hold evenly against the hells, Alastaia and the Collective were struggling against the Celestial Court. But this boost from Old Man Hannegan allowed them to hold their ground even as Jian Huangdi caused casualties and the loss of morale.

Alstatyn was facing the Celestial Emperor while Destartes and the High-Orast supported him, but it was still a losing affair. A Celestial skill at the peak-Transcendent level was no joke.

Furthermore, in the army-to-army conflict, the Celestial Court had far more Transcendents and divinities than Alastaia did. Their dragons—long serpentine creatures without wings—matched Alastaian dragons easily enough, though the cultivators’ dragons had less physical aptitude while possessing more of an elemental one. The Magocracy’s battlemages however—up until the Grandmaster-level—were superior to elemental cultivators. In exchange of pure spellfire and elemental slinging, the mage-lords handily won, which quite rankled the pride of some of the cultivators. However, on the other hand the cultivators’ martial types held a clear advantage over Alastaia’s warriors. Though this was due to their usage of Qi and in some cases, soul energy. Without these, and Orodan might’ve been biased for feeling it, but Alastaia’s warriors had technique just as good if not better when it came to pure melee.

“I am prepared, Orodan,” the northern God signalled.

“Alright, my most esteemed master of Dimensionalism. I believe it’s your turn,” Orodan spoke, maintaining a constant but endless flow of power to Ozgaric. The next part would require a lot of energy.

Talricto simply harrumphed as the spider began mnipulating not just the dimensional forces… but webs. Specifically, the natural silk it produced. The wanderer must have trusted Orodan or not been as shy of such a thing as the spider dragons of Xan’Coran were, for it simply began producing and preparing a large lattice of web all around Ozgaric before even thinking of forming a dimensional boundary.

Orodan had trained Dimensionalism under Talricto, but the spider itself had carefully looked at the silk produced by the spider dragons and learned a thing or two from them. Its species wasn’t naturally web-weaving, which meant that Talricto had a lot to learn from Ashganruk and its ilk beneath the Dokuhan Mountains.

Knowledge that the wanderer now put to use as a perfectly formed lattice of dimensional silk right from Talricto’s soul was layered perfectly around the northern divine. It cost a tremendous amount of energy to produce so much silk, borrowed entirely from Orodan, but the end result was a lattice which would not be breaking anytime soon even under the most calamitous of forces.

As the final touch, Talricto placed a dimensional boundary over this web, and before their very eyes…

…Ozgaric vanished. Cut off from the material plane. A new dimension created on the spot.

But Orodan’s Vision of Purity and Dimensionalism skill still allowed him to see the Guzuharan God. Using their connection, he spoke.

“Now, Ozgaric. Flood it with all your power.”

And so the God of Illusions and Trickery did.

Divine power filled this new self-contained dimension the divine was within. And in tandem, Orodan and Talricto focused, ensuring that the energy containing the God’s very nature and essence was evenly disseminated throughout every bit of this new dimension.

But more than that, that the energy warped the dimension itself.

For if there could be a dimension of light, an elemental plane of lightning, and one of where dimensional horror roamed freely…

…then why couldn’t there be a dimension of Illusions and Trickery?

[Dimensionalism 97 → Dimensionalism 98]

[Reality Alteration 86 → Reality Alteration 87]

The feat of making an entirely new dimension with its own nature was an expensive one. So it was no surprise that Ozgaric quickly rn out of divine power and was forced to borrow purely from the connection between him and Orodan.

So as Orodan felt his soul energy go to Ozgaric through that connection, so too did he devote massive amounts of power towards solidifying and making real this dimension of shifting afterimages and mischievous tricks. Ozgaric’s divine power and essence, poured into the newly made dimension, was made a permanent and inalterable part of its very nature by the hand of Orodan Wainwright.

And near the end, just when it looked as though Ozgaric would falter…

…Orodan targeted the tether deep within the System portion of the divine’s soul.

The tether connecting the northern God to the divine dimension.

He felt great resistance, as though the System and its very source felt what he was doing, tampering with a critical part of it. But Orodan cared not. All his problems had come to a head anyways, and he was too committed to care about earning any more ire than he already had.

With a yank, Ozgaric’s entire divine domain from that realm… was pulled into this one.

[Dimensionalism 98 → Dimensionalism 100]

[New Title → Dimensional Grandmaster]

It was a titanic amount of energy contained in a small dimension, and Talricto’s personally produced webbing the only thing keeping the dimensional boundary stable and intact.

“Compress it, Ozgaric, and return to us,” Orodan instructed.

And the other divines could only watch, jaws agape as the northern God of Illusions and Trickery returned to the material plane, the boundaries of his personal dimension compressed and wrapped around his very skin like armor.

A state of being which allowed the divine to not only be his own dimension, but also remain freely in the material plane, and perhaps go out of it as needed.

He had done it.

Orodan had just made a new classification of being which was neither God, nor Transcendent nor Crusader. One which solved the problem of the divine ceiling and shackles placed upon all Gods and Goddesses.

“Incredible… I have never felt so… so powerful.”

“Given that I have taken you out of the System’s ecosystem and into a new one of your own, the passive drain you felt upon your divine power as part of it was used to filter System energy is no longer present,” Orodan explained. “Hmm… the first part of Almyra’ theory was right then.”

In her tome which she’d given him in the last long loop, the previous looper had guessed that a divine free of the System’s yoke would be far stronger than a divine still shackled to it. She had just been proven right.

“Yes, yes. I am incredible and all you divines may direct your followers to pay tribute to me at your leisure,” Talricto boasted, preening at the fact that the remaining divines were now staring at the spider with awe. “Now then, who is next? We don’t have all day and there’s a battle in need of reinforcements.”

“And the God of Illusions & Trickery shall join it!”

Ozgaric shot off the moon with such force that the God’s form blurred through the void like a shot from a Blackworth cannon. Immediately, multiple Blessings went out from the empowered Guzuharan divine, his newly acquired power giving him even more room to provide power to the troops of the Alastaian alliance.

