This was where Vylrystia began to look not as utterly forsaken as it had before. In fact, Orodan noticed some extremely old, decaying and desperate enclaves of half-dragons who were brought back, still rewinding in time of course, but brought back all the same. These must have been the final people, the very oldest half-dragons or their descendants who had used forbidden magics, enchantments or warded vaults to preserve themselves for as long as they could from the hellscape above.

Furthermore, the atmosphere was now slowly starting to return. The four-hundred-thousand-year mark after the world core’s destruction and Zaessythra’s death must have been when the last vestiges of it went out. But no longer.

More of the soul-devouring monsters on the moon’s surface began vanishing, reverting to merely helpless spirits who were near the cusp of mutating into the monsters littering the moon’s surface but not quite yet. And the ruins began gaining slightly more color to them, and the golems looking even livelier.

So Orodan pushed and pushed.

[Time Reversal 97 → Time Reversal 98]

[Time Mastery 97 → Time Mastery 98]

His mind strained, his cells died under the strain, but he held on even as the blood began pooling around his feet from how much strain his body was under.

But that strain came with results. Two-hundred thousand years reverted.

Now the ruins were looking almost habitable and the golems nearly as deadly as they should have been in their prime. Furthermore, by this point there were almost no soul-devouring monsters at all, just wandering spirits. The atmosphere was thin but present too, and the vestiges of life remained as flora, fauna and even very faint bits of lingering world energy began to come back.

Two-hundred thousand years ago there were still small communities and scattered tribes upon the surface. Although even as time continued rewinding under his power he could see that these peoples were considering escaping to warded underground vaults even then as the atmosphere had begun to grow far too thin for life.

So he pushed farther, going past three-hundred thousand and then onto four-hundred thousand years of reversed time.

The Hegemony’s forces attempted a desperate rush, but the forces of the Alastaian alliance were making them pay for it the entire way. Still, when an entire army was rushing a position, it was difficult to keep them away from it entirely.

Multiple squadrons of the Blackworth Collective’s voidships jumped into range, attempting to shield him. He wanted to protest that it wasn’t necessary, that he would be fine, but having fought alongside him upon Lonvoron many of these men and women felt indebted to him for saving their world from the plague.

And he gritted his teeth as many of the ships were destroyed and the crews killed as they fell defending his position. They reaped double the enemy’s number, selling their lives dearly to take out large numbers of the charging Hegemony. But they died all the same and Orodan could do little to stop it when he was so deeply immersed in reversing time. Despite the noble efforts of these brave men and women, the enemy finally reached him.

“Stop him now! Immediately! Kill yourselves in the attempt if you must!” the Embodier dragon roared, restrained by Talricto and suffering a barrage from Almyra’s clones and Alagameth’s arrows as it was.

With less focus on damage and more on interrupting what he was doing, a continent-sized dragon tried ramming right into him. His fist turned it into red mist even as he retained his focus for the last leg of this titanic endeavor. More came, trying to tackle him, slice him, crush him or even teleport him.

A chronomancer squad even tried interfering with his work actively, seeking to rip the threads he held a grip on from his grasp.

He simply closed his eyes and ignored the physical ones. Those attempting to tackle him found it akin to moving a mountain. Their shoulders broke and they could not move him as he used spatiomancy to anchor himself in place. The attacks simply bounced right off his body, trained by fighting Embodiers as it was. And attempts to remove him via spatiomancy ended in futile failure as the enemy mages ran out of mana and potions trying to surmount the energy cost.

And the chronomancer squad? Orodan, for the smallest instant possible, used his own Time Mastery to forcibly shove a mere hundredth of all the time threads he was accounting for into their minds before retracting them back into his grasp.

[Time Mastery 98 → Time Mastery 99]

[Time Reversal 98 → Time Reversal 99]

The minds of those disruptors shattered entirely.

Yet even then more came, and with the way things were going, it seemed more than likely that he would be taken out of the endeavor via some disruption or the other. He could resume after dealing with it… but did he have the time when the Embodiers after him and the Administrators could show up at any moment?

He was so close!

Orodan’s frustrations with the Hegemony’s interference were cut short as he noticed a small but important detail.

The sun, ordinarily shining its rays upon both Alastaia and its fallen sibling world of Vylrystia… was now glowing.

Glowing a little too bright to be natural.

He soon understood why when an arrow of incinerating flame came down upon the foes attempting to harry him, rendering them down to a state of matter where not even ash remained.

“Hahah! The sun aids us!” Eldramir, patriarch of the Soaring Ember dragon flight roared, his flames growing even hotter. As did those of every fire user on the side of the Alastaian alliance. Furthermore, beings made of pure flame descended unto the battlefield, aiding the Alastaian forces by burning right through Hegemony voidships and rendering them to slag.

Orodan briefly looked to the world crown secured around his arm and through the connection that the world spirit of Alastaia was awfully proud of its achievement in securing aid from the sun itself.

How had it even managed such a thing?

“Our eldest sibling detests intruders to our local star system. World Conqueror, leave the battle to us. Focus upon restoring our fallen sibling.”

And Orodan did, deciding to trust in his allies and their network of connections. Alastaia and its peoples had come far. Alongside reliable allies who brought their own strengths to the field of battle, they were holding their ground and had a real chance of winning.

A chance he intended to improve by bringing in potential reinforcements from a time long since past.

Four-hundred thousand years back, Vylrystia now had an abundance of flora and fauna still. Although, he could see the beginnings of what would be the ecological disaster that would befall them soon enough. Life was upon the planet’s surface and in its depths, but the world energy was waning. The ruins still existed, but it was now his first time seeing some actual cities for not everything had been destroyed by the Hegemony when they descended.

He saw heavily damaged cities and large towns, but not entirely abandoned. The populations within them were greatly reduced, and the half-dragons were having a difficult time repopulating due to the lower levels of world energy, but live they did. A fallen people still reeling from the war a hundred-thousand years ago, suffering a slow decline due to falling birth rates and lower world energy. Unlike humans who could repopulate with relative ease in a twentieth of that timespan, half-dragons needed far more time to grow into full maturity. That and plenty of food, a requisite amount of world energy and more resources.

Without a world core, with most of their number destroyed during Zaessythra’s slaying a hundred-thousand years ago, these people were doomed. Even four-hundred thousand years ago with the atmosphere relatively good, the flora and fauna abundant, Vylrystia was a doomed planet.

So Orodan delved deeper and finished the job.

All of Vylrystia rolled further back, crossing the remaining hundred-thousand year gulf with frightening speed. His chronomancy powers had grown over the course of this endeavor, and his mind was now holding steady despite the immense mental load.

Flora and fauna returned to their near-peak levels, there were no soul-devouring monsters formed the mutated souls of the deceased. The dilapidation and decay of ruins and golems reversed entirely, the barren rocks and deserts returned to sprawling plains, vibrant forests and healthy oceans full of greenery and life.

And near the end of the Time Reversal he saw the defining event which truly spelled doom for the survivors. When the remaining Grandmaster half-dragons banded together, gathering Vylrystia’s best and brightest onto a ship capable of inter-planetary travel and heading for Alastaia…

…where they had been betrayed. Killed by the local dragons of Alastaia at the time who hated hybrids, and the remaining members then captured and used as experimental subjects by a wicked empire of the time who created the spider dragons.

Orodan reversed it all, bringing all of Vylrystia’s children back to it, reverting all the wrongs they had suffered while still upon their world and then the ones they had suffered upon leaving it. He also made sure to carefully avoid ruining the timeline like he had when erasing Ilyatana in the past.

The fighting had stilled below. The Embodiment-level dragon fighting the trio of Almyra, Alagameth and Talricto had stopped as well, too awestruck by the sight.

The Hegemony had backed away from him entirely, and by the looks of it, had no morale left.

The crown of Balastion Novar, formerly corrupted by Eldritch, now glowed with the telltale cycling of world energy.

And before the eyes of everyone present upon the battlefield…

…the world core of Vylrystia returned to a whole.

[Time Reversal 99 → Time Reversal 100]

[Time Mastery 99 → Time Mastery 100]

[New Title → TIme Grandmaster]

The Embodiment-level dragon shuddered, and then turned around, dislodging itself from Talricto’s bindings meant to stop its motion in a particular direction. Its power over gravity was mighty indeed, but what did that matter when it suddenly turned the entire other way and began fleeing?

Just like that, an enemy Embodier ran for its life.

And just like, the Hegemony’s remaining bits of morale shattered entirely.

“Stay and fight, cravens!” Agrimon demanded, the divine beginning to get overwhelmed in its battle as more of its forces fled.

All around them, units of the Hegemony were losing morale, some even opting to take their voidships and flee. In contrast, the Alastaian forces were swiftly getting their casualties resurrected, something which unnerved the enemy.

But the most important thing which caused enemy morale to swiftly plummet…

…was the resurrection of an entire world of half-dragons.

The atmosphere had returned. Vision of Purity told him how the battle in the void was going, but his direct eyesight wasn’t as helpful when the previously pitch dark void above was now sky blue, replete with clouds and flying creatures of all kinds.

The barren, lifeless gray rock he was previously standing upon was now green grass, healthy soil underfoot. In fact, he’d had to take a step to the right near the final moments lest he chronomantically rewind a tree to be where he was standing.

Some of the Hegemony’s troops assailing him weren’t nearly as lucky and had entire trees, vines and brambles get rewound in time, the positions overlapping with their bodies and causing grievous injuries.

He was in a grassy plain, with some confused half-dragon farmers looking on in shock. They were of course seven and eight-feet tall respectively. Unlike most places he went where he was exceptionally tall for a human, here, amongst even the average half-dragon a human didn’t stand out for their height.

But they were certainly staring at him. After all, from what he’d seen throughout the course of his Time Reversal, humans were an extreme rarity upon Vylrystia, existing only in the form of visiting dignitaries from Alastaia.

All of that was put to the side however, as the emotional and raw voice of someone within him spoke, breaking the silence.

“It… it smells like home. I have no nose, but I can smell… I have no ears but I can hear, these woods… I grew up flying over them.”

“And you shall wander them once more, Zaessythra,” Orodan sternly promised.

“But how? The loop, it will all end soon yet again and then-” she choked, pausing to regain her bearing. “Perhaps it was better I never got to see this again. Just… just bring me back that I might walk the grassy fields once more before this loop ends and I go with. You’ll… you’ll ferry my memories over, won’t you?”

“There will be no need for that,” Orodan replied as his eyes tracked a large group of flying half-dragons making their way towards him.

“What do you mean? You will bring me back now, will you not?”

“In a manner of speaking…”

The ground quaked as the heavily armored half-dragon warriors slammed down like meteors from the air. These beings looked much like Zaessythra, tall sturdy and winged, with scales covering certain parts of their form and horns jutting from their head but looking like very large humans otherwise. Or elves, he supposed, given the pointed ears some of them had.

A third of the group split off before hitting the ground, flying off to slay the Hegemony’s dragons and troops that had come by to stop him. But the leaders of the group were extremely confused, their eyes wary and their hands upon their weapons as they closely scrutinized Orodan for answers.

