“Human. Identify yourself immediately,” the leading golden-armored half-dragon demanded. “You are upon the territories of the Irithustran Monarchy. We are currently in a state of emergency with numerous agents of the foul dragons upon our lands. A massive energy surge was detected, the cosmos beyond our world is entirely changed and roils with battle, and your energy signature is at the center of it all. We are not reassure us of your intent.”

“General Vaelrosaan, Commander of the First War Flight… my old mentor,” Zaessythra said, and Orodan immediately felt his own disposition towards the old Grandmaster-level half dragon softening. The one who had taught her was someone he could only be thankful towards. “How many milennia has it been since I have seen him…”

“I am Orodan Wainwright, the time looper,” he bluntly and directly revealed. “Now, you might not know what that is, and I am sure you have many questions, but in short, I’ve rewound your world through time to restore it.”

He then held the world crown of Vylrystia aloft.

“What madness do you speak?” the General asked. The old half dragon then froze as the world crown caught his eye. “T-the crown! That belongs to my discip- the Queen herself! Return it lest we smite you where you stand!”

This, he had no problem with. He simply tossed the thing right at the old draconic general.

“Hold onto it will you? I have one already and have little desire for another,” he calmly replied. “That crown’s original bearer will be wearing it soon enough.”

“What…? What have you done to-”

“Enough. Stand down, General Vaelrosaan.”

The voice came not from any divine or the world crown of Alastaia. But from the crown Orodan had thrown towards the draconic warrior. The world will of Vylrystia, now restored.

The nearby half dragons all fell to a knee in reverence at hearing the voice of the world spirit itself.

“Vylrystia speaks…!”

“The world graces us with her voice!”

“Otherworlder… no, child of our sibling. What brings you here?” the world spirit asked, but then a flash of power from his own world crown went out and the Vylrystian crown pulsed in return. “Alastaia has a World Ruler at last? An honor… but we do not recall such a thing occurring, or any being of power as great as yours rising. These children do not know, they cannot see the signs of chronomancy on a scale which even Gods would kneel in worship of. Who are you? What has happened?”

But it was his own world crown that decided to take over, almost demanding that he touch it to the crown held by General Vaelrosaan. And given how the half dragon was reluctantly walking closer to him, it seemed the crown of Vylrystia had the same thought.

The two world crowns touched, and a spark of energy went out. United, harmonious… powerful. Vision of Purity told him that thousands of words and multiple conversations were taking place in a small period of time. A method of communing with one another that only world cores were capable of.

Soon, the half dragon took a step back, the link between the two crowns ended.

“V-Vylrystia… are you certain?” the General asked.

“Your World-Queen is within this human’s soul. If you wish her returned, then you shall follow this man’s instructions,” the spirit of Vylrystia spoke. “Orodan Wainwright. Time looper. Our sibling has explained much to us. You have our gratitude for reversing the tragedy which befell us and taking battle to our enemies. Vylrystia is yours to command.”

“Vylrystia is Zaessythra’s to command. And frankly, she can have Alastaia too, for I grow weary of having to dispense orders and pretend as though I am some King,” Orodan said. He technically was a King now, but genuinely preferred not to dwell on that matter. “Now then, as you can see, the void is rife with battle, and though I would like to join it, I have responsibilities which keep me from doing that.”

“We see it… invaders.”

“Aye, the ones who destroyed your world in the first place, and their dragon corps are proving rather difficult for our alliance to handle in aerial combat,” he explained further. “Some assistance on that front would be appreciated.”

At this, the half dragon general bristled with pride and outrage.

“I see it from where I stand! Dragons! Daring to assault our sister world!”

“We have allied dragons on our side as well, though fewer in number. Do try to avoid killing them.”

An unhappy snort left the warrior’s nose, the only indicator that it had heard Orodan and would listen. It flew off soon after.

Within five minutes, multiple squads of half-dragon warriors and battlemages took to the air, soaring past the cloud layer of Vylrystia and into the void above.

The Hegemony’s units of dragons had a singular moment to realize what was occurring before they were set upon by nimble flying troops who were a lot better in the air than they were. The forces of Vylrystia made a very immediate and noticeable impact on the combat from the moment of their arrival.

They had no Transcendents, but their sheer volume of hundreds of Grandmaster-level flying warriors quickly made the aerial battle a lethal prospect for the enemy’s dragon corps. Hegemony-aligned dragons were not only outmaneuvered, but in some cases, swarmed outright as multiple half dragons piled on and tore their limbs off. Or other times they would pin a dragon down so that a Collective voidship could unload its firepower into the large target, the Transcendent-level firepower of the cannons killing it instantly.

With the inclusion of Vylrystia’s forces, the battle which had already been swinging in favor of the Alastaian alliance began turning one-sided.

Zukelmux, Aliya, Edrosic and Wainroach together ganged up on and slew Ilyatana, the Goddess of Fate. Agathor was slain by Malzim and Halor, and Ozgaric, Alastaia’s mightiest divine, killed both Eximus and Agorhiku by himself. The vengefu Gods of the Collective were forced into fleeing by the Collective’s warships and King Alstatyn himself, and the Vakan Almante the ruler of Narictus had Adeltaj’s halberd enter his heart while the High-Orast and her elemental overlord allies kept the bloodsucker pinned down.

Agrimon and Excromon were the only remaining members of the Hegemony and they were the only ones who managed to disengage and flee the field in utter shame.

The Hegemony’s stranglehold over their world had been broken. But the fight wasn’t over.

Space and the dimensional boundary warped as four of Orodan’s allies felt the battle managed well enough that they could leave it. Alagameth, Almyra, Talricto and Destartes joined him upon Vylrystia’s surface.

“Thank you for coming,” Orodan greeted. “And Talricto, thank you for getting us out of there before we broke everything.”

“Given that you ended up breaking an entire dimension in your fight against the strongest being after the Administrators, I’m not sure I succeeded,” Talricto replied, although sounding quite jubilant about the whole ordeal. “Now, I doubt you called us to give us a pat on the head.”

“Right. I need this entire world evacuated.”

Destartes sighed and palmed his face while Almyra simply looked at him as though he was crazy. Not that he could blame the woman; the others had time to get used to him and his antics. She hadn’t.

“Come again?” she asked.

“Vylrystia. I need everyone moved off of it,” Orodan clarified. “Every living being. I can move them, but can’t set up a safe space for them afterwards. And then, Talricto, you and I have some work to do alongside our divines.”

“Well… I shan’t even ask. The less I know of your mad schemes the better for my sanity,” Destartes replied, eyes glowing with power as he began considering the task of moving everyone off an entire world.

Almyra simply shook her head and got to work as well, as did Talricto and Alagameth.

The battle had ended and thus the movement of all Vylrystia’s population, flora and fauna to Alastaia, separate habitable dimensional planes which Talrictro knew of, onto habitable pockets upon A1’s body and gigantic voidships of the Collective’s went smoothly. It also caused Zaessythra to grow increasingly agitated.

“What in the System’s name are you thinking? Why are you removing everyone off of my world? Do you intend to use it as bait in a gambit of yours? A weapon? At least resurrect me that I might help spot some of the inefficiencies in this plan of yours.”

Thing was… in a manner of speaking Orodan did intend to use Vylrystia as a weapon.

Even the world spirit was incredibly reluctant about this plan. Hells, Alastaia was too.

Still, mad as this seemed, these people, these world spirits, they trusted Orodan for he had gotten them this far. And if this mad plan went right, then not only would he bring someone very important back, but the Alastaian alliance would gain an ally besides himself who could fight on the sort of level that he did.

“Is Fenton ready? Did you give him the crystal?”

“He is, and I did, though I cannot even begin to fathom what use that thing would have in the ancient machine,” Destartes spoke.

“Good. Then we had best start our work with the divines, right Talricto?” Orodan queried, and the spider nodded.

Of course, they had all known that defeating the Hegemony wouldn’t be the hard part. The overlords for their section of the galaxy were but chaff, ants in the face of real power. And while Old Man Hannegan’s acquisition of a Celestial-rarity skill had gone noticed by only two factions, the calamitious battle involving Embodiers and the Hegemony’s assembled armies had spread much further.

Spatial rifts tore open in the distance and Orodan saw robed figures riding flying swords shooting out. And from another direction, hellish crimson flames which produced scores of demons.

“Information,” W78 intoned as it stepped out of a spatial rift upon the restored planet’s surface, accompanied by King Alstatyn. “Faction, Celestial Court and faction, hells, approaching. Solution: defense of subject: Gregory Hannegan and destination: Alastaia.”

“So these are the robed daoists you spoke of,” Destartes said, interest piqued. “I should quite like to see how the arcane knowledge of a mage matches up against this dao.”

“And I’m keen on finding out if those swords can stop the twelve-shooter on my hip,” the King of the Blackworth Collective spoke.

They certainly could, and his allies would be foolish to underestimate the Celestia Court. Especially when it was being led by Jian Huangdi, the Celestial Emperor. In that long loop where it had all gone to the hells, that man hadn’t really had a chance to display his true potential. But the truth was that Jian Huangdi was the strongest Transcendent in their galaxy. A peak-Transcendent Bearer of a Celestial skill.

Still the forces of the alliance had Embodiers, though those were looking to be tied up by the first of the Embodiers after Orodan who had also arrived. The goat-woman Embodier who espoused the purity of nature.

“Can you hold for a while?” Orodan asked. “This will take a little bit of time, but not too long.”

Almyra simply snorted.

“You forget that I possess an Administrator’s Mantle which I have not even begun to use. But be warned, once I do, it will not be long before the Prophet arrives,” she cautioned, and then gave him a nod. “Though, I do dearly hope you succeed in this divine experiment of yours. If it works, then that will have proven one of my theories about the nature of divinity in the System.”

Alagameth too, joined her as she winked away with spatiomancy to meet the enemy Embodier in battle, seeking to buy Orodan time.

Every fiber of his being detested having to let others fight on his behalf in such a manner, but Old Man Hannegan’s unexpected Celestial skill had caused their plans to begin a little too early. And everyone he cared for here was depending on him to succeed in this mad endeavor of his.

Everyone save Talricto and he left to confront the approaching factions which sought someone not belonging to them.

“A fine battle you have engaged in prior to my arrival. Alastaians, your resistance is noble but your alliance weak and spent. We have Transcendents and divines, and we are not without ancient elders who are willing to aid us. Turn over this Gregory Hannegan and we need not come to blows,” the Celestial Emperor spoke. “With the sacred restrictions of Embodier non-interference broken, I too can call upon aid. Do not force me to bring forth the daoist who taught me all I know.”

On the other side, so too did the current Overking of the hells approach. Beside him, the Script King. Their differences put aside in the face of acquiring a Celestial talent by force. When Orodan had drawn the attention of the hells before, they had only sent Devil King Gutriyaz. Same for the Celestial Court who had only sent Jian Song.

But when such cataclysmic battles had occurred and the very bounds of the galaxy had been shattered? These factions had not thrived for as long as they had without knowing an Embodier or two. The level of force they were willing to bring in order to investigate and acquire power for themselves was much higher.

Thankfully, the glowing golden light of the Conclave spilled forth through another rift, arriving in time and summoned by the order of Alagameth. Leading them was Captain-General Ryzlan, their leader.

All in all, the battlefield looked as though it was about to become very, very chaotic.

Which meant that Orodan and Talricto needed to work quickly alongside the twelve divines who just now arrived upon the surface of the emptied world of Vylrystia.

