Like two stubborn mules dead set on shoving one another and losing track of everything else, Orodan and the metallic giant continued meeting in the middle with headbutts.

Dozens of collisions occurred. And slowly, Orodan’s body began to toughen.

[Body Tempering 82 → Body Tempering 83]

His insights in the physical arts were good enough that he could apply the insights which led to his head being tougher to the rest of his body.

Another dozen more rang out, and now his foe was profusely bleeding.

[Iron Body 95 → Iron Body 96]

It was tough, but nowhere near as sturdy as Kharadun had been, for Orodan would never have been able to wound that dwarf with mere headbutts. Furthermore, this Embodier might have been made of metal, but had little in the way of regenerative prowess. Its extremely tough metallic form not lending well to such things.

“For all the frailty you ascribe to my kind, yours isn’t all too good at recovering from injuries is it?” Orodan asked.

It seemed humans were not entirely inferior to such beings after all. Dragons and Arch-Devils, while strong, also couldn’t heal their wounds nearly as effectively as a human could.

“Tch! You provoke me with your words time looper! I give you your honors, your resilience and endurance outpaces mine… but can your frail form of flesh withstand being crushed by metal?”

“Dare to try and see what happens.”

The outrage in its eyes was very real. As was the clearly intentional provocation from Orodan.

The coming foe, without a Mantle to rely on, would need each and every bit of his strength and insights. He needed to acquire as much strength as he could here and now.

Though that acquisition of strength would matter little if he was pulped into oblivion.

A cube of living metal formed around him and began compressing inwards. Like the Eldritch Avatar had done long ago, this being also sought to ground him into paste and even beyond.

But for Orodan… this time he was ready.

Using spatiomancy or Dimensionalism to escape would have been the cheap way out. He was a warrior, and this would be the crucible through which he forged himself to greater heights.

The cube collapsed inwards, beginning the crushing process. Orodan, strong and tough as he was, could not resist.

But what he could do…

…was close his eyes and meditate even as the extreme pressure of metal bore down upon him.

[Body Tempering 83 → Body Tempering 85]

Immediately, gains came. Especially since he strained, focused and thought through thousands of possibilities for how he could rebuild his cells to be even sturdier in the face of such raw force. Facing elemental assault, acidic disintegration or other manner of esoteric attack was good but not quite the same as raw physical force.

And it had been difficult to find enemies capable of threatening him in such a manner. So when he’d discovered this Embodier was one of them, this manner of self-improvement had always been the end goal.

Body Tempering, Physical Fitness and Iron Body, all of which were now improved, allowed him to survive for just a little longer this time. Even as Orodan was squeezed into a grotesque cube of meaty cells, he still resisted. And unlike the other time he had died to this method of attack, this time he made the cube struggle to completely finish the job.

Which meant more time. And the longer he survived under such pressure, the more gains he made.

[Iron Body 96 → Iron Body 97]

It was the most rapid slew of gains to Iron Body and Body Tempering he had made in a while. Furthermore, Harmony of Vitality amplified the training process as the healing meant that each cell he reformed was born under an extreme amount of pressure. Thus, each new cell had to be just a bit stronger than the last as the pressure kept intensifying.

[Body Tempering 85 → Body Tempering 86]

“The Inevitability of Metal can form black holes with the amount of pressure it can exert, and you withstand even this? I retract my claims about you humans, if the rest are anything like you then they are a fearsome race indeed!” the metallic giant declared, continuing to exert pressure.

But for Orodan whose Harmony of Vitality was now exerting enough outward force that he was slowing the cube’s inward compression, he knew that this opportunity for training was nearing its end.

[Body Tempering 86 → Body Tempering 88]

He could hear the Embodiment of Purity & Strength straining and struggling outside. It was exerting maximal pressure upon the cube it had him trapped in. Yet even then, it could do nothing as the inward gain of the cube’s compression finally halted…

[Body Tempering 88 → Body Tempering 90]

…and then began reversing.

“From where does this strength come?” it demanded, in disbelief as it was previously overpowering him with the cube.

“From you. Thank you… for the training.”

As he spoke, his body began to slowly reform too. From a crushed cube of meat and bone he began taking the shape of a man once more, his arms and legs extending outward to force the cube to expand instead of compress. Pure raw might driving him.

Body Tempering reaching the Master-level had made him far stronger now. In tandem with his Grandmaster Physical Fitness and the toughness Iron Body granted him… this crushing prison was no longer the death sentence it initially promised to be.

Except, there was one minor problem.

Orodan was nearly seven feet tall, yet as he pushed the cube outwards to his maximum height, he realized he could not exactly push it any further through mere extension.

“Hah! You will remain trapped! Cursed to eternally bear the weight until you surrender or end your loop!” the giant roared, realizing that it had him right where it wanted him. “Already I see your arms lowering. Shall you allow… eh?”

Orodan’s arms and legs were indeed bending, allowing the cube to compress…

…only for them to fully extend once again, his muscles straining against the force.

They bent, and extended yet again. And after the fifth such motion the Embodiment of Purity & Strength looked incredibly confused.

“If you seek to find weak points through stressing my prison of metal, you shall find none! Even stretched to the size of a star it loses no power whatsoever!”

“Good. Then I will get to have many reps of exercise before your power wanes.”

For he had no interest in finding a weak spot. Rather, he was now quite invested in using this cube as a method of physical conditioning. Alastaia had no suitable weight to challenge him, and throwing the planet about could get dangerous for everyone upon it.

But this? A cube which had power enough to crush matter into black holes? Excellent training, and the source of many reps of work.

“Y-you dare use my cube as a glorified weight?! I shall show you! You will never break it this way in a million years!”

Which was, in his opinion, false bravado. Already he could feel his strength growing as he pushed up and let it fall down. Harmony of Vitality repairing his cells and muscles to the optimal state with the gains made from each rep.

The crushing force went up and out as Orodan’s arms and legs extended, and then it came down again as he let it compress inwards. And he experimented with different methodologies too. Sometimes doing paused reps at the very limit of the crush before exploding outwards with force. Sometimes doing very rapid half reps in a short range of motion where he trained his rapid-fire might. And other times he simply held the weight at the very bottom of his range for an extended period of time before focusing on doing a very slow and controlled lift where he ensured his muscles didn’t tremble or deviate at all; even shifting to a single arm and a single leg to test his strength under delicate balance conditions. And finally, he would end the circuit with some explosive throws, where he hurled the walls of the metal cage outwards as far as he could.

This would of course cause the walls to fly right back inwards with even greater force, overwhelming him with the momentum. But that was just further opportunity for conditioning.

There was nobody upon Alastaia, Thazrivin or the Collective who was more proficient at the physical arts than he. And just as he had trained his students and the others in the loops in rigorous conditioning drills, so too was he now conditioning himself. It was some exhilarating training and really underscored how badly he had missed the simple joys of being weak enough to enjoy things like helping unload Old Man Hannegan’s cart after doing his daily morning run. He had been looking for a way of properly testing himself physically for a while now, and this particular Embodier had been a stroke of true fortune.

[Body Tempering 90 → Body Tempering 91]

The crushing fall of the cage as he threw it a mile high gave him one more level of benefit in Body Tempering, and then…

…the reps became even easier.

His muscles moved with not just brutal efficiency, but passion.

Orodan had the physical sort, big, hearty and prone to activity and violence from a very young age. If he wasn’t fighting, then he was out in Ogdenborough trying to survive. There was no real idle time as a street rat. His body had needed to be strong, enduring and capable of tolerating stresses which would break or injure a more conventionally honed child his age who also pursued the physical arts.

Running from the militia, getting into brawls with House Argon guards who he stood no chance against, doing chores and manual labor for the Lady Sashwari Home for the Wayward from a very early age so that he could earn a bigger portion during meal time… it all came accompanied with the physical honing of his body.

Even before focusing on the fact that he had a Physical Fitness skill, Orodan had been physical. It was his only way of survival.

Then, what was Physical Fitness?

It couldn’t just be strength and endurance, or flexibility and agility. For Orodan, Physical Fitness was the bodily ability to withstand whatever was thrown at you.

Be it life’s curveballs or a gigantic metallic cage whose walls were now zooming in towards him at frightening speed since he’d thrown it a few hundred miles out.

Thus, with the next flexion of his arms he understood.

That Physical Fitness meant being fit enough to weather even this. Fit enough to draw from all his insights

[Physical Fitness 100 → Physical Fitness 102]

[New Title → Physical Transcendent]

The metallic walls of the incoming crushing cube stopped. His muscles, perfectly disciplined and still. Right before they exploded outwards using the principles behind Burst Casting.

His training partner was too shocked to see the walls of its metallic cage skill fly so far out that they exceeded the diameter of a star. Its skill was weakened and it was too caught off-guard to react in time as the walls hit it directly in the face and caused the walls of the cage to fall apart as the distraction caused ts concentration to slip.

“Now that was some good training. I shall have to enlist you from my future loops… this has been quite the breath of fresh air,” Orodan spoke as he walked towards the metallic Embodier.

“You achieved Physical Transcendence…? Of course you did. The System would not favor you unless you were a true monster who deserved to be anointed as time looper,” his opponent replied, face setting into a grim look. “Come then! I, Vylladium Athranium shall not go down without a fight!”

Their grips deadlocked once more. An utterly illogical manner of fighting, yet one both sides had committed to out of pride and the desire to test their raw might against one another.

Except this time, Orodan was holding nearly evenly. The strength gap still favored this giant, for not only was it larger, but it was an Embodier of some physical skill too. But that was its weakness. Its apex race, likely favored for physical confrontations, had made it complacent about forging its flesh to be even stronger like he had.

Orodan possessed not just Physical Fitness, but also Body Tempering and Absolute Body Composition. As a human he intrinsically knew he was at a disadvantage and so actively worked to forge himself into a better weapon and overcome those shortcomings.

This Embodier however did not. And it was aghast at the fact that it truly struggled, even at full strength, to overpower him.

“H-how?! I am stronger than you!”

“You are…” Orodan gritted through clenched teeth as his frenzied eyes locked onto the foe’s. “But you have not known the desperation of being weak. That defiant refusal to accept inferiority even when matched against someone overwhelmingly stronger!”

And it was this natural weakness of his kind that was one of the reasons for Orodan’s rabid ferocity. Yes, an Embodier was no joke, but this being was low-level in both skills it was an Embodiment in. And it didn’t use its strength with the same weaponized brutality and desperation that he did.

Something which was apparent now as the strength gap was even narrower.

It exerted overbearing pressure upon him, its weight looming above his shorter form. But he exploded with more violent force, opting to destroy his very musculature in a bid to match and exceed it at certain local points. He was smaller too, which meant it had to put in more work and could not as effectively bring its twenty-foot tall frame’s full strength to bear against his smaller form.

Thus, it came as no surprise when Orodan’s smaller but proportionally stronger hands caused its wrists to creak ominously.

It grunted in pain and realizing that the physical match might not go its way, opted to pull out its last trump card.

Its abilities as an Embodiment of Purity.

Which were promptly slapped aside by Orodan’s own Celestial skill, its attempt at purifying his cells to become weaker, utterly ineffective.

