Orodan however simply remained quiet, refusing to let his thoughts be visible to her.

She was going to be brought back alright. But the manner of going about that was up for contention.

“Ozgaric! Be ready!” Orodan ordered as he winked into a teleport and arrived upon a barren landscape.

Lifeless gray rock, a place utterly devoid of atmosphere and full of nothing but hungry creatures, ancient automated golems whose power and capabilities had been greatly reduced by time and the ruins of old places which once had life upon it.

They were upon Alastaia’s moon. Otherwise known as the fallen world of Vylrystia.

“Alright. Now if you head towards the palace you should hopefully be able to find some keepsakes tied to my old life. From there, using the river of… of… Orodan?” Zaessythra asked, wondering why he made no move to go anywhere and was instead channeling power into his chronomancy. “What are you doing?”

He answered not mentally, but with his own words.

“Setting right a wrong that should have never occurred. Now… my Time Mastery is high, but I don’t think anyone has reached back a few hundred-thousand years and brought an entire world back from extinction before.”

The broken and tattered half-dragon soul within him barely had time to react or even protest at this insane course of action before Orodan’s power was channeled to its limit.

The moon and its surroundings were entirely empty of any combatants. Below, nearer to Alastaia, the battle had already begun.

Voidships of the Blackworth Collective fired deadly salvos of steam-powered magical gunfire towards the voidcraft of the Hegemony. However, the Collective’s ships with superior firepower were matched by the flying dragon corps of the Hegemony, led by the Crusader Avraxas and Excromon, a Transcendent dragon of great power. These dragons were gathered from across all the worlds under the Hegemony’s dominion, and while the dragon flights of Alastaia tried to contest them alongide the pegasus knights of the Eastern Kingdoms, the truth was that the alliance was outmatched in aerial joust.

The ships could put out far greater damage and power, but the units of enemy dragons had many Grandmaster and even some Transcendent dragons. And although the Collective’s sharpshooters and artillery specialists did a good job of massacring any dragon that got too close, the fact was that these aerial creatures were the monarchs of the void and could eaily maneuver to dodge the gunners’ aim if they were far out enough. Their aerial superiority stopped only by certain flight-capable combat units of the Unity.

Still, not everything favored the Hegemony. Outside of the aerial skirmishes and harrassment of Blackworth voidships by the nimbler dragons, the Alliance’s boarding crews were deadly. Alastaian warriors and Magocracy battlemages combined their melee and magical prowess with Blackworth Collective assault troops who, once they rammed a Hegemony voidcraft, swiftly got about to murdering the vampires, necromancer and werewolves within.

Of particular help were Silestor Lumenarin and the diviners of the Cathedral who had shifted from serving Ilyatana to serving the people of Inuan in general. Their light magic and exorcism capabilities proved exceptionally potent against the dark forces of Narictus aboard the Hegemony’s vessels. Guarded by the warriors of Alastaia, the mages of Thazrivin and the close-quarters assault specialists of Lonvoron who wielded firearms which let loose hails of deadly shot, no Hegemony vessel stood a chance once they were rammed and boarded.

And of course, the elites of both sides matched one another. Thazrivin and Alastaia, with the former’s help, had secured some powerful contracts with elementals. Which led to the sight of Grandmaster-level spirit mages from Guzuhar and Eldiron directing Transcendent-level elemental overlords to fight the Transcendent combat elites of the Hegemony.

The Transcendent battles looked fairly even. A1 of the Unity and King Alstatyn of the Blackworth Collective fought Avraxas the world-devouring dragon a battle they were winning. The Transcendent core guardian of Alastaia—a bat—teamed up with Adeltaj and Balastion against Agrimon. A fight which wasn’t going too well despite the three-against-one, but they were still holding out. Destartes, Ozgaric and Cithrel were fighting Excromon but that battle too didn’t look favorable for the Alastaians either. And Vakan Almante, Narictus’s Lord of Night, was facing off against a team of elementals led by This-One-Who-Electrifies-Horizons and the High-Orast. The only high-level fight which was going somewhat well due to the fact that fighting a group of elementals being commanded by a skilled mage was an exceedingly difficult matchup for a melee fighter.

And finally, Almyra, Talricto and Alagameth were stalemating the gigantic Embodier dragon which continually threatened to eradicate their entire star system if not for Talricto helping ward off its gravitational attacks with his skilled Dimensionalism and Almyra and Alagameth taking advantage of the openings to punish it heavily.

The fighting was good in some aspects and bad in others, with both sides taking heavy casualties in the initial minute until they began adjusting to the others’ tactics. Of course… Alastaia held one critical advantage.

Its world core.

And the crown upon Orodan’s arm glowed hot as the world spirit of Alastaia channeled copious amounts of energy towards allied chronomancers and soul mages who were already working overtime to get the dead back into the fight. Furthermore, having control of the soul nexus and afterlife meant that casualties were replenished at far less energy cost.

World cores, like regular non-divine beings, couldn’t exactly grant power directly in such a manner. Of course, for Orodan who could grant Blessings to people, it was a different matter. And he refused to let the world core of his own home world slack off and not participate in training. So he had taught it how to manipulate world energy and form direct connections to people as he had.

And as Orodan watched a particular Collective voidship containing his students display exceptional success in every boarding, he focused on his own work.

The restoration of an entire world.

Time, and the threads of it were all around him. This was no case of needing to carefully find a singular item, follow its thread down the river of time carefully and then rewind it. He was on Vylrystia with ruins, ancient bones, weapons and mementos all around.

Like a fish seeking water in the ocean, he had an abundance of what he needed. If anything, his goal wasn’t to grab one particular thread…

…but to grab them all.

And so he did.

[Time Mastery 96 → Time Mastery 97]

His eyes glowed, his jaw clenched in focus and blood began leaking out of his eyes and nose almost immediately. Bringing Zaessythra back across the gulf of a few hundred-thousand years was one thing. But having to bring an entire world and all its peoples, objects and things back was another.

He could hear her shouting, almost pleading for him to stop. Whether it was concern for him or fear at the feelings it would dredge up in her heart, he didn’t know. But nor did he care. For too long had he heard her speak about her fallen world with lament and longing.

With Absolute Body Composition, each cell of his body could do what all others could. Sight, hearing, taste, feeling and even thinking. So it was no surprise when Orodan began to feel many cells of his body die as the sheer strain of reaching so far back into the past for an entire world hit.

Not only did he have to wrap around the thread for each and every thing and manually account for it, a gargantuan feat of mental capacity. But he also had to then ensure he uniformly reversed it all when that step came.

But this was nothing. He had embraced the entirety of the SYstem’s central repository of knowledge before. He had faced down Boundless Ones before. Compared to all that, compared to what he intended to do soon after… this was nothing. It was a mere warm-up, it was good training.

And so Orodan wrapped his mind and awareness around each and every little thing comprising the fallen world of Vylrystia. He even went a step further, tracking objects which had been lost or broken off throughout the many millennia of the barren moon’s existence. Chunks of rock, debris, buildings and ruins which had broken off and then somehow been dragged out to the void during fights between beasts. Orodan tracked it all and accounted for it with his mind, even as blood began dripping down his face and body from the mental exertion.

Once he had every single thread of time grasped with his mind, there was but one thing left to do.

“Orodan… stop… you need not. This is… this is…”

“This is the bare minimum for the woman who gave it all up repeatedly throughout her life,” he spoke as he pulled out the crown of Balastion Novar. The object which had originally been the world crown of Vylrystia. “And today… this crown shall rest upon the brow of its rightful bearer once more.”

[Time Reversal 89 → Time Reversal 95]

One moment the moon was still, lifeless and barren. And the next… it began moving.

If anyone were watching, to them it would be the eeriest and most unnatural movement they had seen. Rocks began reversing position, first moving back to where they were before a creature had knocked them around the prior day, to then the prior month. The ruins, the creatures, the tunnels beneath the ground comprising the depths. Not much changed as time reversed months, and even years. A trifling reversal for a dead world that had lain desolate and untouched for hundreds of thousands of years.

Even the soul-devouring creatures of this lifeless rock were a product of the utterly energy-starved ecosystem. But they had to have come from somewhere. And it was with no lack of pity that Orodan realized these poor things were the fallen and mutated souls of the world’s former denizens themselves.

Denied an afterlife after the Hegemony came by and utterly annihilated their World-Queen and world core. The planet had died a slow death, with some escaping to Alastaia as refugees, while the overwhelming majority had died. The escaped ones had no happy ending either. Captured by a dark empire of the era, the half-dragons were tortured, experimented on and the product of that eventually became the spider dragons wandering Alastaia’s underground today.

A miserable fate.

So Orodan pulled upon them too.

The natural beasts and monsters of the barren moon shrieked and howled as he forcibly reversed them in time. Unlike the Time Reversal of someone who has the System, his could in fact reverse their very minds and souls. And so he did.

As years became decades, and then centuries. Not much changed. Even multiple Embodiers of Time working together would be forced to stop here, the energy cost far too steep.

But for Orodan Wainwright, no amount of power was too much. The past five loops of tempering his body had made him incredibly tough. His work with Elemental Living Enchantment had allowed him to direct and tolerate extreme amounts of energy better; in ways which damaged him less while being even more effective.

So when the reversal began reaching into the ten-thousand year mark, some small changes could be seen. Certain ruins became a little less dilapidated. The most perishable parts which had fallen then, began reverting into place. Ancient defender golems began to regain just a bit of their power, and many of the soul-devouring creatures became unmade, their souls reversing the mutation and reverting to just wandering spirits.

By now, the battle below had begun to slowly still. The voidfleets, armies, Transcendents and leaders of the Hegemony looking upwards at the moon and finally noticing the utterly impossible amounts of chronomantic power surrounding it. Even the forces of the Alastaian alliance looked upward, incredulous at what they were seeing.

After a heartbeat, a voice roared out.

“Stop that Embodier at all costs! Whatever he does with that planet has more energy than a black hole!” the Embodiment-level dragon fighting Almyra, Alagameth and Talricto ordered. Sounding utterly desperate.

It even attempted a furious rush right at Orodan, but Almyra, Alagameth and Talricto had accounted for that possibility and the dimensional spider simply wrapped the tattered remnants of the shattered dimensional boundary around it, restraining it and allowing the other two to rain down furious assaults upon it.

“Heed the ancestor’s orders! All forces charge the moon at once!” Agrimon ordered.

On one hand, the battle began turning sharply in their favor as many of the Hegemony’s forces paid the ultimate price for getting distracted or needing to turn their backs towards the Alastaian alliance’s troops in order to rush Orodan. On the other hand. he now had the equivalent of an entire army charging him.

And while that wasn’t an issue even at the worst of times, they would certainly disrupt his delicate grasp over each and every particle composing the moon.

Which meant Orodan could only do what he did best in such situations. Double down.

[Time Reversal 95 → Time Reversal 97]

Swiftly, time reversed beyond the ten-thousand year mark. Twenty-thousand, then forty, sixty, eighty and finally a hundred-thousand years.

