…But they were ghosts. The cleverest, the bravest, the most magical and mightiest—everyone was here.
Even Fraerlings. They were so tiny that Erin gasped as the little people chose a single Seamwalker to damn into oblivion. The confused beast saw millions of souls charging it.
Another great horror with no solid bones, only a mass of ever-shifting properties, hesitated. It gazed upon…
Kin?
The Selphids of Baleros had joined together to create a vast amalgamation of ghosts. It grappled with the Seamwalker, and Erin saw a puddle of…she stared at a little Selphid oozing past her on the shores of Baleros and complaining loudly.
“Of all the places not to have a body! I am a Level 69 [Master of Swords and Sorcery]! Give me a body!”
The angry Selphid rolled across the ground as Erin bit her lip. Not all ghosts got fair treatment. Probably a design flaw.
Another Selphid lifted a little appendage.
“To arms. [Construct Vessel: Human].”
A very naked body of a man crumpled to the ground. Instantly, fifteen Selphids began fighting over it. Erin covered her eyes.
“Whoa! Hey! You can do that?”
“Obviously. What, no Selphids thought of it? Are you all fools? Just make a body—get out of my vessel!”
The angry Selphid began to battle the others for control. Then all the Selphids and Erin looked up as a shadow passed over them. Erin looked over her shoulder and saw a familiar horror.
A ravenous coffin-carnivore trapped within morbid layers of rotting skin turned, a gesture of open embrace as a centipede might offer.
The drooped, thin thing with a carnivorous opening fell on the Selphids, and Erin dove away with a cry. She looked back, and the Seamwalker she’d seen first writhed. Serept swung a fist into its side and grappled with it, forcing it back.
“It has followed us! Keep running!”
The half-Giant was smaller than this foe, but it was an enemy he could actually fight! Its teeth and cilia were as sharp as razors, though, and tried to slice his being. Serept’s Skills must have given him skin like steel, because they only cut him lightly.
“Serept!”
His-Xe howled, but he pulled Erin back. Elucina had seen the fighting, and Velzimri hurled down a bottle that exploded into a pillar of smoke and ash. The Rebel of String dove and lanced the beast with her shining sword—
But they were all so small. A few angry Selphids that had survived the attack climbed on the Seamwalker, trying to kill it. But it threw Serept and ignored Elucina carving into it.
“Foul beast! In the name of Elves—”
A Dragon landed. It was far smaller and younger than Xarkouth. She exhaled frost over the Seamwalker and did a double-take as the writhing beast barely felt it.
Thousands of Lizardfolk charged the horror on the beach and tried to stab it, but their spears did no damage to its hide. Serept staggered back, clutching at his damaged ethereal body as Elucina floated upwards.
“Keep going. We can’t kill them, nor be trapped. More are coming.”
Indeed—some of the Seamwalkers had bypassed Chandrar entirely and followed the ghosts into the sea.
No…Erin realized they were following her. They were attracted by her [Immortal Moment].
And some were—fast—
Erin saw a stick-like Seamwalker running at them. This one had not only figured out how to move around as a biped—it had figured out how to run. It crossed the distance, running through the open ocean terrifyingly fast.
“Dead gods!”
Gerial had a bow fashioned by one of the Djinni. He shot an arrow; Erin didn’t even see if it hit the Seamwalker. The spray of water it left probably deflected it, and even if Gerial hit the vast creature—what damage could it do?
This was too much for an [Innkeeper] with a frying pan and some magic fire. But then—this part wasn’t her war.
Not yet. And the ghosts knew it. Sprigaena, flying overhead, pointed at the marshal leading Baleros.
A single Dragon broke from the ranks of those flying to aid its younger kin and the Lizardfolk trying to stab two Seamwalkers to death. Two more on the way…but Erin heard a strange sound and heard a voice from above. Then…the sharp retort, the rhythmic sound that was so familiar she flinched.
It sounded like a strange power tool going off. Only louder, scarier. It sounded like—Erin looked up. Cawe blinked.
“What is that?”
A Human man holding a gun opened fire as the Dragon dove. Erin’s jaw dropped.
“What the—”
A ghost had a gun. It looked real—and it was firing actual bullets! Not that Erin saw them, but she definitely saw the Seamwalker flinch at the impacts. Then the man, the soldier, was ejecting a magazine and reloading.
“Hey there. Do y’all need a hand?”
He had on very familiar combat gear, and his accent and voice…Erin locked eyes with a Human from Earth. He looked as amazed to see her as she did to see him.
“Hey! Are you from Earth?”
“I am!”
That was all Erin could think to say. The ghost of a soldier from her world broke into a huge grin.
“Well shit—how did you die?”
“She’s not dead! Focus!”
The Dragon was green-scaled and angry. She snapped at the Human and he nodded.
“Supply drop! Lizardfolk! Get ready for new weapons!”
“Huh?”
The Lizardfolk below looked up as the [Soldier] shouted at them. Then a second passenger uncurled, and a [Quartermaster] looked down. One of the world’s finest campaigners grabbed the [Soldier]’s shoulder.
“[Temporary Armory: Every Weapon I Ever Held]. Catch!”
The soldier jumped off the Dragon and landed, fearless of the heights, as Lizardfolk grabbed a small mountain of weapons. A few ordinary things like knives, even what looked like a replica of a sword…but mostly?
Guns.
Lots of guns.
Every gun the soldier had ever held in a shooting range, combat, or training. And unlike regular [Soldiers], who might have one sword in this world—
He had held lots.
Lizardfolk grabbed the strange weapons as the warrior from Earth landed. He gave them a twenty second crash-course in the basics. Nothing about safety. Just—safety off. Load, aim, and—
The first Seamwalker was thrashing about, obliterating hundreds of Selphids. Then it ran into a new concept:
Lizardfolk with guns. A few even had RPGs. The soldier opened fire and winced as the recoil and terrible fire lanes caused the ghosts to hit each other—but the bullets did no damage to the ghosts. They were, after all, spirits, and gravity didn’t hurt them. The only thing these simple projectiles of metal propelled at incredible speed could hurt were…
The Seamwalkers. Erin’s mouth was still open as the Lizardfolk riddled one side with fire and began reloading.
“We’re going to need someone who can replenish ammunition. Get a [General] with piercing-projectile Skills!”
“On it!”
The [Quartermaster] was summoning someone with the Skills. Elucina’s eyes brightened.
These were tactics that neither world had ever conceived of. The green Dragon was already snarling.
“Next position! Get moving, Jackson!”
The man was already climbing onto one wing. But he looked back at Erin.
“Are you the one with a body to get back to?”
“That’s right. I’m Erin. Erin Solstice. From Michigan. Where are you from?”
He saluted her.
“Jackson Carver, Virginia. I landed in Baleros. If you go back home…”
His pale, ghostly gaze searched hers. A hint of light grass-green, a story she’d never know. Then a wide smile.
“…If you go back home, tell my people that I did the best I could. The Lizardpeople welcomed me with open arms. It was their Naga who made them knife me. Tell them I rode a fucking Dragon and fought with ghosts!”
“I’m letting you ride me!”
The Dragon growled, but Jackson just looked at Erin. She saw his regrets, his longing for a second chance, all laid out in the young man’s eyes. He was barely older than her, maybe a year at most. Like every ghost…and he was from her world. He had died not long ago.
His voice caught.
“Tell them I was here.”
“I will. I promise.”
The Dragon lifted into the air, and then they were flying. Fighting across Baleros. Erin lifted a hand as she flew on. Below her, a Seamwalker bled ichor so dark it stained the waters black as midnight. They were dying. Fighting.
“Come on.”
She was just one [Innkeeper]. Erin wiped her eyes as the ghosts fought across this world for reality. It was an end in Baleros. The Timewalker bled. And the blood fell across Baleros, touching even the land of the living.
 
——
 
It was the final battle. But final battles took a long time. The last stands, the desperate flashes of defiance even before the end…surrender or running down the fleeing survivors.
The battle never ended with a single white flag or peace treaty.
Perorn Fleethoof had seen both sides before. The sinking feeling in her chest was familiar too. But even though she had raced across a hundred battlefields before she was even twenty, following legends…
She still thought they could win. She always did. The Forgotten Wing company had been formed from the survivors of the Named-rank team who had conquered the Labyrinth of Souls with an army of soldiers. Niers Astoragon, Foliana, and members of Stalker’s Wings had been fighting in a war when their detachment had gotten lost while fleeing a losing battle.
They had survived, battling the dungeon that would be called the Labyrinth of Souls. Survived—when they emerged, the soldiers who would go on to form that legendary company fell upon their foes with the levels and fearlessness that came of surviving a Named-rank dungeon.
Later…far later, Niers Astoragon would lead one of the greatest raids with adventurers, [Mercenaries], and [Soldiers] into that dungeon. He had never told Perorn all of what he saw.
She had been a girl in those days. A filly racing after the heroes of her day, the Gold-ranked team she knew personally. Then Named-rank. Then—Perorn had served with them and gotten to know all of them. They were more than just names and myths.
But the glory had always stuck there a bit. Now?
Foliana was too injured to fight. Niers was stranded a continent away, and the Jungle Tails company was besieging Elvallian. The [Strategist] who stood against them was Perorn Fleethoof. No matter where Perorn looked—all she saw were Lizardfolk.
Jungle Tails. The largest company that the world had ever seen. They had survived Foliana’s traps. Made it past Perorn’s lightning-strike campaign. Now they were on the walls, and Perorn was determined to make them bleed.
Lizardfolk were putting up ladders and climbing up as the Forgotten Wing fought them. Disciplined Lizardfolk on their side, even their own Nagas, but Dullahans, Centaurs, Humans, and Selphids. Even other species served in their company.
Elvallian was a city built after that principle; it was uniquely suited to the Forgotten Wing’s fighting style. For instance, there were ramps that let Centaurs charge up and down, and the battlements were far wider than normal to let them maneuver. Every strategy and fighting style in the world had been stolen and tested. This was the Forgotten Wing’s heart, and while Perorn had sent some of its greatest defenders to the front, she had kept an army.
Now—the army unleashed everything.
Screaming Lizardfolk fell as Selphids knocked ladders down. The symbiotes of Baleros ignored arrows sinking into their bodies, fearless of slings tossing stones—only magical arms which blew their bodies to bits could harm them.
Lineholders. Niers’ favorite vanguard. When one locked blades with a Lizardfolk and traded an arm for a mortal thrust, the Selphid bent their rotten Human corpse over the Lizardfolk body. Within a minute, the [Soldier] was standing up, a new, stronger body ready to fight. They Rampaged without fear of damaging their bodies, performing incredible leaps and throwing armored foes off the walls with one hand.
When Lizardfolk did take the walls, the Dullahans were waiting in armored groups to charge the breaches. The last species, Centaurs, raced from danger point to danger point. Perorn led them herself, loosing arrows into knots of fighters and watching them crumble.
Their own Nagas and Lizardfolk battled their kin, trading blows, Gorgons and Medusae freezing their foes. It should have been the most costly siege in history. The Lizardfolk had taken few siege weapons in their rush to besiege the capital; they were making siege towers on the spot with Chests of Holding providing some weak catapults.
The Forgotten Wing Company had catapults of their own. Giant stone boulders smashed down, some hitting their own walls and crushing anything climbing up. Others unleashed showers of enchanted projectiles or just…stones, a deadly spray that forced anyone below to raise a shield or have their skulls crushed.
“Spells. [Cross Flameblast]—there!”
One of the enchanted towers drew a cross in purple flame where the Jungle Tails company was clustered too tightly. Perorn heard the shrieking as she galloped down the walls. She was unleashing everything against the Lizardfolk.
Yet they kept coming. The first wave of Lizardfolk were still struggling against the walls when they began their actual assault. The Nagas had flooded Perorn with targets. Now—she looked up and saw feathered shapes gliding towards her.
“Quexals! Quex—”
The [Soldiers] looked up and saw the feathered serpents leap. Hundreds landing on the walls and beheading surprised soldiers. As fast as striking serpents, and one of the strongest forms of Naga—they had no arms, but they didn’t need them. One bit the head off a Centaur, ignoring steel spears which glanced off her scales.
Perorn shot one through the neck. Then she saw the Gorgons coming up stone ramps.
“Hold the line! [Swift Reinforcements: Thunderstrike Division]!”
A magical battalion of soldiers ran towards their position as Gorgons took a portion of the wall—and held it. They were garbed in armor from head to toe. Each one was at least seven feet tall, and the serpents combined the humanoid arms and dexterity of a Naga with the magical gaze of a Medusa and added pure strength.
A Selphid grappled with a Gorgon, throwing the full force of their Rampage against the Gorgon. They were deadlocked—then the Gorgon swept a barbed tail around, captured the Selphid’s leg, and tossed the Selphid behind them into the sea of Lizardfolk.
“Take them out! Lightning spells!”
A dozen [Lightning Bolts] checked the Gorgons’ advance. The screaming Nagas raised magical shields and tried to keep the Forgotten Wing Company from recapturing the walls. Perorn galloped away from the fighting.
She had to. The Quexals. She had to see the entire battlefield, and she saw the Quexals retreating. They were gliding off the walls, blades covered with blood, circling, looking for another weak spot.
“[Speed Formation: Archers 3]. Follow those Quexals and take them out!”
