“…We must kill her before she can activate the crossroads. It must not be a true loop or conflict. But killing her resolves every issue. That [Mage] must die before he spreads a plague of them.”
Zineryr nodded.
“Exactly. The [Mage] has to die. But if Erin Solstice survives, you know what will happen.”
Emerrhain caught himself mid-nod. Wait, who could predict that aside from someone who had seen what would happen? Not even the fae or Gnomes could do that.
“…What, exactly?”
The Gnome’s solemn look turned into a mischievous smirk.
“Something you can’t predict. Heh.”
The God of Magic gave him a blank look, then lunged. Zineryr just sank into the water and shot out of it, grabbing Erin and towing her away. Cursing, Emerrhain whirled. Nereshal was fleeing Erin, looking for more ghosts he remembered.
“That damned—”
Emerrhain hesitated. But even his hatred and fear of Zineryr weren’t a match for…he whirled.
“Kasigna! Kasigna, I invoke your name in desperation! Heed me!”
The three-in-one turned from capturing another Gnome.
“I should destroy you, Emerrhain. Give me one reason to—”
“You must kill that ghost. Now. Destroy it, but do not absorb it. Just obliterate its essence.”
Emerrhain pointed at Nereshal. Kasigna frowned at him.
“Why? They all belong to me!”
“Causality. It comes from the future.”
Her eyes widened.
“Ah.”
Emerrhain was speaking rapidly, watching Zineryr flee as Erin flew north. The other Gnomes were following him, what few remained. Nine. They’d bought the [Innkeeper] time.
“Just make sure it dies. I will finish the Gnomes.”
Emerrhain blurred off after Zineryr as Kasigna called after him. Furiously, she turned. Nereshal looked back just in time to see Kasigna crook a finger. He threw up a shield of magic, and a hand of bone reached out of the sea and caught him. The [Chronomancer] struggled as Kasigna approached, to end one problem.
But the other time paradox ran on. With wrath, vengeance and petty spite—
Four dead gods followed.
 
——
 
The Gnomes bought Erin every moment they could. Half were fleeing with Zineryr from Emerrhain, who was locked onto them. Erin was flying as fast as she could, but the flight spell that Zineryr had cast was no match for the dead gods.
They were fast. First came Tamaroth.
“I may have ceded your body—but not your soul. Come, child. I will lead you to salvation.”
A ghost saw Erin flying overhead and shot a spectral arrow upwards. It hit Tamaroth in the side, and the arrow just…bounced. He was proof against mundane magic, against Skills. Even the Gnomes hadn’t even so much as tried to hurt them.
But they did stop him. The female Gnome who had gone skydiving had returned. She flew on Tamaroth’s left as he caught up. She was too slow to catch the God of Leaders, and she had no weapons. So she used the one thing she could.
“Tamaroth. Tamaroth. It’s so good to see you again. That beard hasn’t changed. Did you pluck it from the ass of a troll or did someone hex you to permanently carry a rat’s nest on your face?”
Erin’s eyes bulged, and she saw Tamaroth’s face change. He turned and dove at the Gnome. She dodged him with a laugh. The God of Rulers cursed and turned back to Erin—just in time for the Gnome to reappear behind him.
“Remember Oltevij? Now there was a fine story. I think we made a great play about it.”
She made a pose in the air.
“Oltevij, he did roar as the gods fought, and Tamaroth, courage he had not! He shat himself so mightily that the stench of it reached across the divine. Then he fled and hid under a child’s bed while better gods fought above his head—damn, what a terrible last poem—”
She shrugged as she sped backwards—too slowly this time. The God of Rulers caught her, and she vanished. But she was smiling.
Erin Solstice was getting away. More Gnomes were flitting around the other gods, calling out insults.
“Laedonius, how does it feel to be the only god to be so inept he has to flee two realities?”
“Tamaroth! Oh, wait, sorry. That’s a brown bush. Tamaroth! Wait, no, that’s some seaweed…”
It worked on all but two. One was the God of the Lost. Norechl walked after Erin Solstice, ignoring the taunts of the Gnomes who had little to throw at it.
The other…was Kasigna. She ignored a Gnome floating just out of reach, daring her to go after them. Nereshal was gone.
“Hey, Kasigna. Kasigna?”
Her eyes were locked on Erin. Even the other Seamwalkers were getting out of her way. The Gnome pulled a face, floating in front of her a second. She swiped at the Gnome, and the immortal flew left, but she never broke stride. The Gnome called out.
“Diotrichne made a better afterlife, and she did it twice as fast. Not that we should be surprised they went with yours. Tamaroth always lacked taste.”
Kasigna’s eyes narrowed, but she never stopped following Erin. The Gnome cursed—and vanished as Tamaroth touched him.
“I will have you. You cannot escape me twice, Erin Solstice.”
The Gnomes were vanishing. Laedonius Deviy realized he was too far and broke off the chase. So did Tamaroth, pursuing other ghosts. But Norechl and Kasigna came on. The last Gnomes fled, pursued by Emerrhain, calling out luck to Erin.
Four had given their souls to buy Erin time. The [Innkeeper] was watching Norechl catch up.
“You.”
Me.
She didn’t know why it wanted her. Kasigna made sense; Erin had defied her and bested her at chess. But Norechl?
She didn’t know she had frustrated it before. If only by proxy. Two gods were left. They reached for Erin, floating through the air. Norechl had no true fingers, just a body. Focusing on any one part was like…static. Haze. It was the God of Nothing and frustrated attempts to pick out any one detail.
Kasigna mocked Erin. She wore Erin’s mother’s face. Shauna Solstice, in her middle years, reached for Erin before the old face of Maviola El, her true age, held out a hand.
“This can all be over. Take my hand, Erin. Do not resist any longer.”
No. Take mine. I offer oblivion.
Two gods reached out for Erin as the ghost tried to fly, shake them from her trail. Norechl was closest, and it greedily reached for her leg. It strode over the water—and Xarkouth’s head rose from the waves. The Void Dragon and the dead god faced each other—then Xarkouth exhaled.
“Wretch.”
Norechl went stumbling backwards, keening in agony as the Void Dragonlord, wounded, flew up.
“Fly, Erin Solstice!”
He turned the flame of the void on Kasigna. It was almost anti-substance, a void that drew in everything. Deepest purple flames that shone with the stars itself, a constellation burning and wrapping around her.
And…it did nothing. Kasigna walked through the flames.
“I am beyond Dragonfire, little creature.”
Xarkouth backed away, disbelieving. Erin gulped.
Oh no. She had absorbed enough souls that Dragonfire didn’t work? At least not one flame. It hurt Norechl, even if it did no lasting damage. Kasigna? It was more like an irritant.
“Erin Solstice—flee! I will keep this one back!”
Norechl was hissing and retreating as Xarkouth breathed more flame. But the Void Dragonlord couldn’t do it forever. The flame that could have scorched the stone of a Walled City, his mightiest weapon—was only hurting one of the two.
“Erin Solstice! Keep running!”
More ghosts appeared through the dark waters of the ocean. Erin looked up and saw a ship. [Pirates] were sailing with her friends!
The Sage of a Hundred Thousand Secrets, Velzimri, Elucina, Gerial, Cawe, even Serept perched aboard the boat like a Human man trying to ride a toy vessel. His-Xe…none of the [Witches], but two of Khelt. Even Abel, the Human from Earth.
Her friends.
“What are you doing?”
Erin landed on the boat. It was going faster than she could fly, and the [Pirate] at the wheel was laughing. Erin stared at Serept and His-Xe.
“You should defend Khelt! Where’s Khelta? Califor?”
“They are following Fetohep. We hope to bring you to Izril—but Khelt’s power has been subsumed by the strength of the dead with levels and classes restored. We two of Khelt chose to honor our vow. And it seems we will be needed.”
Serept boomed as he looked at Kasigna. She was still catching up. A [Pirate] desperately slashed at her; she touched the Drowned Man, and he vanished. Then she was on the deck.
“Nothing in this world can stop me. This is my place. I created it—and no force shall oppose me. Not even that.”
She stared at the Devourer of Time, engaged in a terrible battle overhead. Erin Solstice looked at Kasigna, hands balled into fists.
“Oh yeah? Well…I’ll hit you first! I know it can happen! Come on!”
She hopped from one foot to another like how she imagined a boxer would. One punch! One…
The rulers of Khelt and her ghostly friends blocked her, but Kasigna ignored a spear Serept threw. The magic Velzimri conjured didn’t even touch her. She walked forwards until someone hobbled into her path.
“That is enough. Leave this woman to me.”
The effrontery of this ghost was enough to make Kasigna stop. She lifted a finger, but the old man blocking her way didn’t flinch. Erin gasped.
“Drevish!”
He glanced over his shoulder.
“Remember what I told you. Now…Kasigna, is it? I don’t doubt you could erase me in a heartbeat. But you will not.”
“And why is that?”
The God of Death’s finger rested on Drevish’s cheek, but like another ghost—Zel—he didn’t immediately vanish. She was curious. Drevish batted her finger down and shoved his finger in her face.
The three-in-one blinked as the Architect, one of the King’s Seven, and the grumpiest old man Erin had ever met began to speak in a quick, raised voice.
“I heard you designed this place. And I used ‘designed’ as a pejorative, because this is the most disgraceful afterlife I could fathom. Did I hear the name right? Kasignel? Even the name is wrong. As for functionality—this is disgraceful. No order—we were left to just hang about, and you patently cannot even round up the souls afterwards. A blank slate would be less embarrassing, because this clearly took effort. And it is misguided.”
“How dare you.”
Kasigna halted. Erin had seen the God of Death angry—but never offended. Yet Drevish had struck a nerve. He lifted a quick finger as she reached for his face with a snarl.
“Listen to me. As a fellow architect—the best in any time, frankly—I have ideas. Proposals. You needn’t carry them out, but I have drawn up a list of possibilities if you intend to redesign.”
“Huh?”
Erin’s mouth was open wide. The ghosts, including the [Pirates], stared at Drevish in disbelief. And Kasigna…hesitated.
“What proposals?”
Drevish straightened his back. He looked back at Erin, nodded to her, and then strode over to the railing.
“The most comprehensive overhaul of an afterlife. But if you want to listen—you will have to hear me out. Erin Solstice—would you run already?”
She saw Drevish whirl. Kasigna glanced up sharply, and Erin leapt into the air, and her friends followed. The [Pirate Captain] yelped as Kasigna touched her, and the ship vanished as its owner did. The other ghosts shouted and fled, and Kasigna went to grab Erin—until Drevish grabbed her arm.
He hung onto her leg, dangling there. He looked at Erin, as Kasigna hissed at him.
“What makes you so certain I won’t destroy you, impudent little man?”
Drevish looked up at her calmly.
“Because you are a designer, Miss Kasigna. And anyone who doesn’t even listen to criticism—even if they hold to their vision—that is a poor artist. Erase me and be curious forever. I am Drevish, the genius who should have lived a hundred thousand years. Which is more important? Your vengeance or the Work?”
The God of Death hesitated. Then she lowered Drevish to the water and snapped her fingers. A dais of dark stone rose, and she stood there.
“Speak swiftly, then. The first worthless proposal will be the last you utter. Then I shall catch that girl.”
Drevish reached up and straightened his robes. He had never bothered to comb his hair or pay attention to many of the things that Mars did. His hands were covered with liver spots, and he was balding. But for all that, he stood straight, and his ink splotches on his comfortable clothes were badges of honor.
The Architect of the King of Destruction looked Kasigna in the eye.
“In that case—Erin Solstice will never know any danger from you again.”
And Kasigna, the three-in-one, the Goddess of Death and the Afterlife…smiled at that. Just for a moment, the sheer bravado of one creator to another. Drevish began to speak, making his final stand the only way he knew how.
“Let’s begin with the basic outline of what an afterlife should look like. Not a copy of the living world—rather, it should fulfill more functions than just ‘waiting space’ or eternal forever. Punishment and reward should be shown. But how? Hear me out: you’ve obviously considered subdivisions, but the entire idea of multiple layers of reality is messy. Hell is a term thrown around, but are you then dealing with a hell, heaven, and afterlife? Three entire realms you must administrate? More? Why complicate a system where you might have to send souls from one area to another, however infrequently? Also, do correct me if there’s terminology I am lacking—I am working with concepts hither-to unknown. As I was saying, multiple administrative realms increases inefficiency in organization and communication I must imagine. Yet one conjoined space where those present can witness the other modalities solves that issue…”
Kasigna hesitated. Then she began to listen as Drevish began to draw on the air with a Skill.
 
——
 
Then they were flying into the air, passing by Baleros as the dead gods were all distracted for a moment. Velzimri had cast [Levitation] on all but Erin, who still flew under the Gnome’s magic. Across Baleros, in the sea and on land, Erin Solstice saw the Seamwalkers doing battle with the ghosts.
There she was. The wounded ghost of an Elf lifted her sword as Erin’s small band passed by. Elucina dove to strike at a Seamwalker, and Sprigaena met Erin’s eyes again.
It was like a shock, but the Elf just pointed.
“Go, mortal child! Go, child of Earth! Bear warning to any who will listen. To arms, spirits of the dead! Do not let that one die!”
She turned back to face her foe, the Timewalker itself. Erin Solstice saw the ghosts of Baleros rising after her. For the six dead gods were not the only foes they had to fight.
The Gnomes had set themselves against gods, but the advent of Norechl’s kin?
They had left that to the Elves. They were leading a charge, ghosts clinging to the gigantic horrors, stabbing, drowning them in sheer numbers. Yet some were impossible to kill with mere blades or bare hands. Some ate magic.
