“The United Nations company and their allies are fighting the Featherfolk Brigade. That’s why the Tallfolk have pulled back. They…they might lose there too. They are trying to take the city.”
Ilekrome just looked at him. He had some idea of the battle that their friends were going through. Luan the Giant, their Tallguard, Alchimagus Resk, who Ilekrome personally knew.
“Tell them to hurry.”
“They’re fighting for their lives, Ilekrome!”
Humalepre shouted back. Ilekrome just looked down at the city, his city. His voice was very steady.
“I know. But tell them to hurry. Paeth does not have very long left. Can you communicate with Sentry Leader Ekrn and Heish?”
“Yes.”
Humalepre’s voice was trembling. Ilekrome wiped at his eyes, then began running to tell the mages to take out that catapult. If they weren’t trying already.
“…Tell them not to come back.”
 
——
 
What did the Tallfolk see? No…what they saw was very little.
The Lizardfolk, the Featherfolk Brigade who were fighting here, had any reason they wanted. Selfishness, obeying orders, a lack of care for the lives of Fraerlings, vindictive hatred, jealousy—
It didn’t really matter, did it? They were here. They had made their choice, and if they thought this would have been easy, the Fraerlings had long ago shown them that wouldn’t be the case.
So they saw almost nothing.
Bodies. They saw the bodies of their own. Littering the ground, rising as [Necromancers] among the small folk of Baleros encouraged them to spawn.
And that single huge tree, standing among the burnt ash of a forest cleared for a thousand paces in every direction.
Pure destruction. What the Tallfolk saw of the Fraerlings was so very little. Most [Soldiers] had not seen their foe. Perhaps a single, tiny corpse.
Or they would see a single flicker, like a bug, and then someone’s head would explode in a shower of magic. They would gaze upwards as a cluster of leaves on Paeth’s branches began to shine—and little spells would stab across the ground and earth themselves in a Naga’s brain.
Terror. The Fraerlings’ magic was so much more advanced than the Featherfolk Brigade’s. It could kill anyone.
Especially you. The officers were in hiding. Every Naga in range of Paeth was in danger. They had hidden behind shields only for Paeth to fire a railgun spell that melted through them. They camouflaged themselves only for Tallguard to snipe them.
Any single soldier was dead. That was the terror. If the Fraerlings wanted you dead—you were dead, and the commanders of the Featherfolk Brigade attacking Paeth were hiding.
But Paeth could not destroy an army. So each [Soldier] knew they would die if they didn’t destroy Paeth. That they went was because they were threatened with execution if they didn’t. Their superiors threatened them, reminded them they were Jungle Tails.
Mostly—they were in too deep. Talenqual had lost its forest. They had made enemies of every company around.
They had to have something, or they would have nothing. So the Lizardfolk charged and wondered who would die next. That horrifying settlement of Fraerlings.
Their home was in danger as well. So the Featherfolk Brigade had to hold both places. Or they would have no home and no future.
 
——
 
Luan arrived in Talenqual to find the city in chaos.
Gravetender’s Fist had taken the western walls and parts of the city. Kissilt’s forces, Marian, Cameral were all coordinating with the United Nations, even enraged citizens of Talenqual, and fighting the Featherfolk Brigade’s forces in the streets.
Part of their troops were holding off reinforcements coming from Paeth, but Fezimet’s troops were clashing with the United Nations.
Luan arrived in a contested zone. Contested—because Dullahans were storming the docks.
“The Iron Vanguard?”
The Courier was shocked to see their armor and the seasoned Dullahan troops from one of their smaller warships fighting Lizardfolk. Someone was directing them.
“Umina! There!”
Noa saw the Lizardgirl issuing orders and holding the docks. Umina herself whirled.
“Luan! Do you have reinforcements?”
“No! Just Noa—where is Daly? Where’s Resk and Ken and—”
Kirana! The United Nations company who wouldn’t fight! Umina strode over the decks.
“They’re safe! Do you have a weapon? If not—stay here! [Company: Free Dodge]! Get away from that Gorgon group!”
She pointed, and Dullahans fell back from a charge. Luan hesitated. He saw the Iron Vanguard’s [Captain] watching the fighting. Counting the casualties as he reported in.
“Where’s Tulm the Mithril? You said—”
“I know what I said! He wouldn’t come. This is all we have!”
The Lizardgirl screamed back. Luan looked around.
“Are we winning?”
It was a stupid question to ask, but he couldn’t tell. Talenqual was burning. Umina’s gaze was bright.
“We aren’t losing. Not yet.”
Luan nodded. He hefted the crossbow—one of Paige’s with Resk’s strings, not the customized one. Daly had that. Umina saw the man begin to run.
“Luan! You’re not a warrior! Get back here!”
But the man was already running. He looked around wildly and saw chaos.
Talenqual was a port city. Not made of stone in many places, so it was burning. Lizardfolk were fleeing, trying to salvage their homes or protect themselves, adding to the confusion.
Amidst them, the Featherfolk Brigade were fighting in the streets. They had gone mad. Talenqual’s own citizens had taken arms against them in part, and the Featherfolk Brigade, under attack by Quallet’s forces, had decided anyone who wasn’t a Lizardfolk—wasn’t them, even—was a threat.
The city was a mix of panic and no fighting at all as Luan ran down the streets. He saw Landowner Hastel, hiding with her newborn child and a group of civilians, staring out of their houses and a barricade they’d built on one street. They recognized Luan and called out, but he kept running.
On another street, it was a straight battle. Kissilt was leading a force of Drakes with spears, holding their ground as Lizardfolk and Nagas attacked them. Quallet’s forces were advancing down a third, forcing Lizardfolk back as a War Walker advanced.
Bastiom.
A fourth street had nothing but dead bodies. Gravetender’s Fist had lost it.
And—the United Nation company’s headquarters had no fighting at all. Luan sprinted down the street and saw bodies on the ground. Mostly Lizardfolk. But no fighting. Had they…? Had they…?
“Hold fire! That’s Luan! Luan!”
The man looked up and saw a figure rise slightly from a rooftop. Tofte and a group of Bushrangers and Earthers rose slightly—then someone shouted.
“Snipers! Get down!”
An arrow bounced off the roof, and they ducked. Instantly, crossbows rose, and they shot back. Then Luan understood why no Featherfolk Brigade were here.
The Bushrangers were fighting from rooftops, the walls. While the mercenaries fought on the streets, they were picking off anyone in the open. Luan hefted the crossbow.
“What can I do? Tofte?”
“Stay under cover! The Featherfolk Brigade will slaughter you—get into the headquarters! Daly is holding the north side, and Quallet’s in there. Fezimet’s still alive—we’re fighting a running battle.”
“What about Paeth?”
“I don’t know! Resk, Cotm, and Kessice are all fighting with Daly, Marian, and Siri!”
Luan ran into the headquarters. He found himself with the Bushrangers. Noa was trembling. She had a crossbow in hand, but she couldn’t join the Humans. She looked around.
“I—my Signim is still here. We have to find the fighting. Paeth is in danger.”
Her voice was distant. Luan looked at her. He hefted his crossbow and looked for a target. Tofte pointed.
“Lizardfolk patrol.”
“Ours?”
“I don’t think…no. No. Fire!”
Luan saw the Earthers raise their crossbows. He saw Myron, an aspiring [Mage] from Greece, aim one of Paige’s crossbows through a slightly-opened window. Luan raised his crossbow, but when he saw the distant Lizardfolk hurrying along, shields raised, he hesitated.
His finger was on the trigger. But Luan hadn’t truly killed—
Tofte fired and put another bolt in the crossbow. Myron fired, and the Lizardfolk went down screaming. The Earthers reloaded.
“Two left—”
“I see them. Kill the Naga. Kill the Naga!”
A Lamia was screaming as he tried to flee, a crossbow bolt sticking out of one arm. Tofte took another shot and hit a Lizardwoman in the back of the helmet. She went down without a word. Luan aimed at the Lamia. He squeezed the trigger.
The bolt missed. The Lamia still went down, three more bolts buried in her back. Luan was panting as the other Humans looked at him.
“You don’t have to be here, Luan.”
Tofte’s voice was slightly accented as the Norwegian adventurer looked at Luan. The Courier was sweating harder than he had from the run and desperate rowing to get here.
“No—I have to fight. Where’s Daly? I need to get to him.”
“We’ll find out. We have speaking stones. You sure?”
Tofte grabbed Luan’s arm. He had a burn down one arm; the Featherfolk Brigade were launching spells at the snipers. Luan hesitated—then met Tofte’s eyes and nodded.
“Yeah.”
The Bushranger’s grip tightened. He snarled back.
“Then fucking aim.”
 
——
 
The Featherfolk Brigade were winning. Or were they losing? They had so many Lizardfolk, and their Nagas fought like lions.
Daly didn’t know. He wasn’t Kissilt or Marian or Cameral, who were in charge of the entire battle.
All Daly knew was that they were dying. They were a major company, Quallet’s forces were far less experienced, and this was their city.
But where he saw them—they died. There were two things they lacked.
Gunpowder and Fraerling magic. Daly raised the hand crossbow, far smaller than the ones the rest of his people were carrying. But this one was made by Fraerlings. The bent metal was pure steel, and it would have been as smooth as a mirror, beautiful.
If not for the blood and grime. It moved like perfect clockwork, the pulley moving back automatically. Magic. It reloaded on its own, and when he squeezed the trigger—
Click. He felt the slightest kick, and it punched through two Lizardfolk. Daly reached for a crossbow bolt in slow motion. He inserted it into the crossbow. Aimed.
Click. It was such a fast motion. Sometimes he fumbled or dropped ammunition, but he had an entire quiver. An experienced [Arbalest] with Skills could put up to eight shots into the air in a minute at Level 30.
How fast could Daly shoot? Ten shots a minute? Eighteen?
Click. Click. Click.
Draw a bolt, place it in the groove, aim—pull. A Medusa savaging some Drakes with glowing eyes that ignited the metal on their armor dodged the first shot. And the second. And the third. She raised an enchanted shield, and the impact from the forth made her wobble. Then Daly shot her through the head.
“Advance. Advance! Daly—you’re too far forwards!”
Marian was trying to catch up, but the Bushranger knew he wasn’t. He was just leaning out of cover, shooting down targets in the battleground.
His finger was trembling. He felt like he was right back where he had started. Amidst the fighting companies of Baleros. It didn’t feel real.
But he was here. He had chosen to be here. Here—it ends.
“Kill that Human!”
A Gorgon came at Daly, and the young man stepped out of cover. He saw Siri shoot a [Mage]—saw the crossbow bolt hit the Lizardman in the chest. But Daly’s focus was only on the Gorgon.
Magnificent armor. A writhing charge, mouth open. A look of pain. Surprise and fear.
Click. Click. Click. Click. Click. Click—
“Daly! He’s dead!”
Someone was shouting in his ear. Daly stopped shooting the corpse as Lizardfolk fled, screaming. A Naga, someone who had achieved everything they dreamed of. Dead in seconds.
A Human with a crossbow advanced as Resk stood on his shoulder. The Alchimagus was [Appraising] targets, stopping the spells from killing Daly. He had saved the Human several times. Daly’s skin hummed with magic.
“Where?”
“A-advance with us. Down the street and right. Quallet is falling back.”
Daly ran. He smelled blood. But he wasn’t even hurt. Luan had given him the Fraerlings’ crossbow. How many of Quallet’s people had died? How many of the United Nations?
Daly didn’t know. Just—he skidded around the corner and brought the crossbow up.
Just kill them.
Click, click, click…
 
——
 
Siri watched Daly advance. He was holding down an entire street by himself. His face was perfectly blank.
They were all changing. Talenqual would never be the same.
Baleros wouldn’t. She was aware of the rest of Baleros being in danger—but it seemed far away. All she had was this battle. And…Kessice, whispering in her ear.
“They’re at Paeth’s walls again. Cotm—where’s Cotm?”
He was surely with Marian. The Centauress was galloping around, loosing arrows, but she was intelligent enough to know that the battle was more than just the fronts. That was why Siri had abandoned her position to lead a team under Cameral’s direction.
The Dullahan’s voice was quiet in her earpiece. The Featherfolk Brigade couldn’t hack their speaking stones. But the same was not true for Resk.
“A force just retreated. Now is the time, Strike Leader Siri.”
“Understood. Dawson—cover me.”
“Got it.”
The Australian man lifted his crossbows as Siri strode for the door. She stopped there a second, and two Bushrangers fumbled with their bag of holding.
We will never be the same. If she listened, the [Ranger] could hear voices from inside. Lizardfolk. They had no idea the Bushrangers had infiltrated their position.
“Ready?”
Kami and Tobi whispered. Siri nodded. She saw them fumbling with the long string of oiled cord. Kami held the cord far away from the keg. Tobi’s hands were shaking as he watched her murmur a spell.
“[Spark].”
The oil ignited. The fire would take a few seconds to burn—as many as ten, fifteen? But the Bushrangers reacted instantly.
Siri kicked the door in, and Dawson and three Bushrangers fired. They saw a barracks, one of the garrison points full of Lizardfolk. The bolts cut off the laughter and chatter.
“Attack! Humans!”
They screamed as Tobi heaved with Kami and pushed the keg inside. Then Siri shouted, and her humming blood exploded into fear and terror.
“Run! Run!”
The Lizardfolk charging at them took another crossbow bolt and hesitated as Siri swung the crossbow up. But she was running, arms pumping. She heard their voices.
“What’s—alchemy weapon!”
“It’s on fire! Put it out! Put it out! Kill the Humans!”
Siri waited for the sound, but she didn’t hear it. She looked back and saw Lizardfolk stamping on the cord. Oh. Dawson cursed.
“Siri—”
“I have it. Run!”
