Foliana was blinking up at Perorn. One of the Selphids almost tripped as he looked from Three-Color Stalker to Perorn Fleethoof. But Perorn was directing them down the servants’ quarters. To a place they had never heard of.
“They’ll kill you.”
“If they catch me. We will try to break out of the postern gates at the end. But Forgotten Wing doesn’t collapse because it loses one battle, or three. You know that. In here.”
Perorn touched a door and opened it. She trotted into one of the regular rooms with a bunch of spare clothing. Coats and so on. The Selphids halted.
“Commander?”
“In here.”
The Centauress bent over a carpet and pulled it aside. She revealed…nothing but stone. She muttered several passcodes as she trotted around. She got it wrong and had to do it twice.
“Foot there.”
“I know. It’s designed for you, not me. Hooves are—there.”
The Selphids watched as a hole in the ground opened. Just a long rectangle of space. One recognized what it was at last and looked at Foliana.
“A Dead Woman’s Coffin?”
“Correct. [Rogue] spaces. Put her in—gently. There’s food and potions.”
Foliana glared at Perorn as the Centauress gently inserted her and put a pillow in.
“Don’t—”
“You’ll recover. And Three-Color Stalker will haunt Elvallian and the Jungle Tails company in a week, a month’s time.”
The Centauress was smiling at Foliana. The [Rogue] tried to spring up, but Perorn pressed her down.
“I will see you later.”
Then the stone closed. Perorn stood calmly and felt the last burden fall from her shoulders. Fleethoof turned and nodded at the Selphids who bowed.
“Time to eclipse even the Titan’s legend. Who rides with Fleethoof?”
She began to walk from the room. Then trot. Then she galloped down the ramps and stairs as Jungle Tails advanced. Above her, the Fraerlings watched. Sentry Leader Ekrn muttered.
“There’s one tactic that the Titan could ask of us.”
Emissary Vuul whispered.
“Madness.”
Ekrn nodded.
“I told you. I tell everyone. Niers Astoragon is a mad bastard. But he wins wars.”
 
——
 
Hope and despair. The Featherfolk Brigade’s headquarters shook. A tower fell, and a [Chamberlain] vanished before it hit the ground. The Featherfolk’s Company gazed up in horror as the dust cloud rose, and Gravetender’s Fist and the United Nations’ side cheered wildly.
But Commander Fezimet was not dead. A single Quexal emerged from the ruins of his home, his pride, his work. He looked around blankly, taking in his colorful little city turned grey with ash and rubble. His grand tower, shattered and lying across his home. His ruined company. The Quexal shuddered.
Then Fezimet went insane with fury.
 
——
 
Gnolls fighting Gnolls. Hope as allies came to the rescue. The despair of long treachery.
One person was not embroiled in any of it. She watched and pointed it out to her daughter like a tourist showing a newcomer the best sights.
No…like a connoisseur staring at the finest vintages in the world. Belavierr the Stitch Witch had never been happier. She was many things. A merchant, an artisan—but she had and ever would be…
A witch.
“Look at it, my beloved daughter. You will never see emotions like this for a generation in this species. Betrayal. Fear. Would that Wiskeria were here to witness it, she would surely level and learn something of her craft. Hold it. Can you feel it?”
A dead girl laughed.
“Yes, Mother! It’s so sad and furious and…and everything.”
“Take as much as you can. From this—from these moments, you shall spin the stuff of myths. This is why we do such things. It is part payment and why I took the Drake’s offer. Of course, one must be paid for the doing in itself.”
“Yes, Mother.”
The Spider of Terandria smiled. It was a cruel smile, one that savored all of this. That rejoiced in putting it into practice. Then she turned her head as she walked across the ground.
The Titan of Baleros’ army slowed as Belavierr appeared. One woman, confronting tens of thousands of warriors.
But they shuddered. Antinium, Goblins, Gnolls, Drakes, even the Fraerling.
Even a bee who gazed at her opponent, ready for round two. Belavierr’s eyes flared malice at Apista.
Yet she smiled.
“Stitch Witch! Stand aside or die!”
The Titan of Baleros called out. He was wary of her, but he knew [Witches]. He was prepared for bargains and threats.
He was not prepared for Belavierr to raise her arms and the skies to turn dark. The Stitch Witch whispered.
“For I have been wronged once and yet again, I call to ye, the specters of my wrath. [Summon the Swarms of Nerrhavia’s Gardens].”
Niers Astoragon looked up, and Apista, buzzing, beheld someone else’s pets. Wretched, malevolent, fed on flesh and bred to be a weapon for the Immortal Tyrant. Nerrhavia had been a very good client of Belavierr.
The Titan’s army came under attack, but the Fraerling was at least good enough to handle one spell. He halted his army’s flight, ordered them to turn and face the monstrous wasps bred with the essence of Wyverns and far worse.
Belavierr felt someone tug at her dress as she watched.
“Mother. I thought we weren’t hired to take part in the fighting?”
The Stitch Witch’s smile did not abate. Her gaze flicked backwards, and that orange glare focused on a little white Gnoll at the center of all this.
“Sometimes, my daughter, vengeance must have its say. But you are right. Follow me. Watch the Goblin with the Dragonblood crystal sword.”
“Yes, Mother.”
Belavierr strode into the chaos, past Gnolls, a Goblin loosing arrows upwards. She saw an arrow flicker towards her and grabbed it. She didn’t slow.
 
——
 
Bird loosed another arrow without any feathers, and it burst into flame. A strange young woman smiled and pointed as it turned to ash before hitting either.
“Mother! Mother, look! An Ant-person!”
“Pay it no mind.”
The [Bird Hunter] reached for another arrow as the Stitch Witch walked past him. But she didn’t even glance at him. And Bird—Bird hesitated and dropped an arrow.
“…Maviola?”
“He knows my name! Mother—”
“Keep up, Maviola.”
Like a moment of horror, the familiar lady hurried after her mother, pouting.
Like a bad dream. Numbtongue’s head turned, and his expression turned to one of horror. Incomprehension.
But she was so quick. Belavierr strode through the fighting, into the gap she had opened. Towards a single person who saw her coming.
Niers Astoragon raised his finger, hesitating.
Hesitating, because his greatest Skill could only be used once. Hesitating because—
His [Foe Sensor] hadn’t picked her up. Could she dodge that even in an open battlefield after ambushing him? Why was the Stitch Witch smiling?
“Take her down!”
He shifted his finger and pointed at Maviola. The undead girl squeaked, and Belavierr’s gaze snapped to the Fraerling. A Goblin with a crystal sword charged her from the side as Ulvama leapt up, fire blazing from both claws, ready for round two.
Yet Belavierr just raised her robes and put them around Maviola, who hid in her dress.
“Unchivalrous.”
The Titan just howled a curse. He drew his sword. Wavering between Belavierr and the Meeting of Tribes. What was she up to? Belavierr did not make enemies lightly. Why was his [Foe Sensor] not going off? 
He did not want to make her a true foe. She could reverse any battle. But what did she want? Vengeance? No…no.
He looked at her, and his mind raced to a wild conclusion. Suddenly—Niers saw Belavierr.
Stitch Witch.
Manipulator.
Temptress.
Spider.
So many names—but one of her core personalities—something he had forgotten? Niers bellowed.
“No!”
And he dove. He dove—as a flurry of needles destroyed his pedestal. They lanced through the air, a flurry whirling around the tiny Fraerling like lances. But Belavierr was a master of her craft.
She only needed one. It was a single needle that was as white as bone, for it had been made of a Unicorn’s horn, attached to a single thread redder than blood. It struck Niers Astoragon in the shoulder, and the Titan howled in pain.
He looked at the red thread, and Belavierr whispered.
“[The Red Thread of Destiny].”
Numbtongue leapt, and something that had Maviola’s face caught his hands with an impossibly strong grip. Niers’ voice was a howl.
“[Battlefield: No—]”
He was too slow. Numbtongue tore one arm free and slashed for the string, but his sword couldn’t cut that. Belavierr laughed, and Niers Astoragon—
Vanished.
She stood there a moment and then snapped her fingers. Maviola released Numbtongue, and the Goblin staggered back.
The summoned horrors vanished. Belavierr took Maviola by the arm and tugged her away.
“There. Now we go, my daughter.”
The Stitch Witch walked out of the army, smiling. She walked back towards the Meeting of Tribes. Her contract was ever fulfilled. Now—
She walked towards Chieftain Xherw. Belavierr whispered in his ears and Ulcre’s.
“It seems you have a terrible engagement, sirs. Do you need the services…of a [Witch]? My magic is yours for a small fee. Even a discount.”
Her eyes flashed malice at the white Gnoll girl staring at her, but Belavierr said not a word. It was just…every other Gnoll she might be paid to target.
That little warlord thought he was the only one who could play every side? She was a [Mercenary] far older than he. The Stitch Witch laughed as Gnolls looked up at her.
“Sometimes, my daughter, vengeance is the only reward.”
 
——
 
Commander Fezimet climbed out of the rubble of his home. The Quexal had no weapons. Just his teeth and armored body. He had no words. The leader of the Featherfolk Brigade simply leapt into the air with a scream that echoed his company’s.
They charged among the rubble. Lizardfolk fighting Dullahans.
Gravetender’s Fist were fighting alongside Niers’ students. Alongside the Bushrangers. The United Nations company.
The officers of the Featherfolk Brigade stood there, two dozen of them, across from Daly, Quallet, even Luan, Siri, Fraerlings, and Humans pitted against their company.
“Your precious Fraerling city is about to fall. You have nowhere to hide anymore, Humans.”
They had all pushed in to destroy the tower. They were caught in the open by the Featherfolk Brigade.
Daly raised his crossbow, but the standoff wasn’t over. Not yet. The Lamia was shaking with fury.
“You have destroyed Talenqual. Everything…everything.”
She aimed a trident at Daly, but someone interrupted her.
“No. You destroyed it yourselves.”
Noa stepped onto Luan’s shoulder. The Tallguard had drawn her sword. She pointed it at the Lamia.
“We never attacked you. We never wanted this. Paeth…”
 
——
 
Paeth was falling. A Lizardfolk was stomping among the shattered roots. Just…stomping as Fraerlings clung to her legs. A single Fraerling raised a sword.
“[Great Slash]!”
He chopped her leg off, and the first giant fell. The Fraerling was no Tallguard nor security. He was just…someone who liked to practice with the sword.
Who had leveled ten times in less than that many days. A single Fraerling, howling with madness and grief as he climbed and launched himself into the air. Another Lizardfolk was bashing his way into the city. He looked up, and the sword bit into his helmet.
“Tallfolk! Tallfolk—”
It was a curse. The Fraerling leapt off the collapsing shoulder, sword swinging.
A third [Soldier] swatted him out of the air. The Fraerling, who had learned how to cut a beast ten times his size, landed. He looked up, and a foot stomped down.
Terrible giants. The Lizardfolk were breaking into the base of Paeth. Trying to topple the city. Enchanter Ilekrome stood in front of The Last Box.
“Give the evacuation order. Paeth is lost. Tallguard. Defend me for ten minutes. Use everything you have left. Signim free.”
 
——
 
Signim free. It was the last resort of the Tallguard. From Sentry Leader to Noa—it was the most valuable object any Tallguard was issued. An object they could only use at last resort because even the best Fraerling Cities could only produce a little bit each year.
That rare, expensive weapon of the Fraerlings.
Signim was a little, shatterproof bottle marked with a simple sign. Because each bottle was reused—enchanted to keep the magic—it could be stylized more than a cheap potion bottle.
It looked…like a little Fraerling, sword raised to the sky. Like the boast of young Fraerlings.
I will slay the sky.
Noa lifted the one Signim she carried as Sentry Leader Ekrn flew away from Elvallian on a hawk. He looked at his Signim.
 
——
 
“Noa. Give it to me.”
Someone interrupted Noa. She looked up and saw a Fraerling with no Signim.
Alchimagus Resk reached for the bottle as they stood amid the two sides facing each other. Noa’s eyes went wide.
“No. I have to—”
“I am a Level 35 [Mage] and a Level 32 [Alchemist]. You are lower-level than me. Give me the Signim.”
Noa looked at Resk. Then, slowly, she handed him her Signim. The Alchimagus cradled the little bottle in his hands.
“It’s so little. I hated making it whenever we got enough ingredients for some. I resented it every time you Tallguard used it. How silly. I see it now. Signim…it’s the only thing that makes it fair. Stand clear, Noa.”
He lifted the little bottle, ignored by the Tallfolk in their drama, even though they were fighting over Fraerlings. Resk drank the potion down and laughed.
“It tastes like chicken broth. You know? It tastes like—”
He leapt from Luan’s shoulder as the Human looked at the two Fraerlings. Luan met Noa’s eyes and saw they were sparkling with tears. Then Luan saw Resk falling through the air, tumbling.
Luan reached out to catch him. But the tiny Fraerling just met his eyes.
Alchimagus Resk landed on the ground. He caught himself, stumbling, as the Featherfolk Brigade whirled to stare at him. The Fraerling mage with pink hair brushed at it, felt at his robes, and then looked up…then down, slowly.
He looked down at Luan Khumalo as the Fraerling straightened. Alchimagus Resk turned and gazed at the Lizardfolk.
“I was tall all along!”
He was six-foot-five. A barrel-chested man who could have wrestled a Minotaur. The Fraerling felt at his body and then whirled. He looked at the tiny young woman gazing at him.
“Signim.”
It was a whisper of awe. Luan saw Daly and the other Tallfolk turn in sudden shock. But Resk just straightened.
“Yes. Signim. I am Alchimagus Resk of Paeth. In the name of my city—you are all dead.”
He pointed at the Featherfolk Brigade. Signim.
A Fraerling’s last resort.
 
——
 
“Tallguard of Feiland.”
A single warrior in bloody armor stood in front of the scared Lizardfolk and Nagas. He was wounded, but one Fraerling had a single Signim that the Alchimeer had managed to create.
One Signim.
