Someone shouted in Siri’s ear. The [Ranger] saw a little woman anchored to her shoulder raise a bow. Kessice fired a single glowing crossbow bolt into the barrel. A tiny little enchanted bolt…which exploded into a bloom of fire.
Her aim was good. The bolt of fire burned straight into the keg. Siri whirled—and something kicked her across the ground.
—She got up and kept running. Blood was running down her face. Her nose. Kessice was still clinging to her shoulder, dazed, but anchored to her with her grappling hook. Both women turned, ready to fight.
But the Bushrangers had no pursuers. All they saw when they looked back was a broken building and soot.
And smoke.
 
——
 
Peclir Im flinched when he saw the detonation.
“What was that? More Fraerling magic?”
He whispered—to himself. There was only one person in this tower, and he was in no mood for conversation.
Commander Fezimet was losing his mind. He leapt to the window.
“My people. How did they—?”
“Some kind of alchemical weapon. They’ve been using it across the city.”
So stop clustering your forces in barracks! They had struck towers, parts of the wall, and places like this six times already.
Peclir had not expected this. The [Chamberlain] was wondering if this battle were lost. He pulled something from his robes as Fezimet howled.
“All forces! Advance—no—no, rally on me. Where is that Human who is slaying my officers? Where are they concentrating? I will kill them all. Is that Fraerling city not down yet?”
He was screaming at his subordinates. Breaking under pressure. A Titan he was not. Peclir Im saw the Quexal whirl on him.
“You—you must give me reinforcements! Where are my reinforcements?”
“They cannot arrive. Destroy Paeth, Commander Fezimet. Those are your orders.”
“They are in my city!”
“You will have a dozen cities once this is over!”
Peclir Im was watching Fezimet’s face. The Quexal didn’t think the battle was lost. As far as Peclir could tell, it wasn’t.
Yet…Peclir did not like uncertain battles. So he hid the scroll he was holding behind his back as Fezimet clutched at his chest. He had healed from the two crossbow bolts that Daly had put through him, but the damage must not have been gone.
“Strike them. Strike them dead. We cannot be stopped. We will not.”
He was losing his mind. Peclir Im debated whether now was the time to use the [Teleport] scroll. He did not have to be here to win or lose, and he had few Skills that could have done anything. But he waited—Fezimet’s nerve might break without him. The Quexal was ranting at his subordinates when Peclir Im looked out across Talenqual and raised his voice urgently.
“Commander Fezimet.”
“—find me that Quallet Marshand. Identify them, and I will kill them myself. There are only a few dangerous ones. Find—”
“Commander Fezimet! Are there any Dullahans in your forces?”
Slowly, the Featherfolk Brigade’s commander looked up.
“…Only in the hundreds. None here. Not more than sixty. Why?”
Peclir felt his heart sinking. He stepped back and pointed out of the dome tower towards the east.
“Reinforcements.”
 
——
 
Kenjiro Murata had a crossbow in his hands, but he had not killed anyone yet. He was ready to. But he was standing with Aiko, who had created a nursing tent and was trying to save lives.
She was no Geneva, but she was trying. Ken was no warrior, but he was here.
That was all he could do. So he was also poised to see the four hundred Dullahans coming their way. Kenjiro ran towards them, ignoring calls to get back.
They could be the enemy—but Ken took one look at the Grasgil Blockade and knew.
“Diplomat Murata. We have arrived.”
Ken stared first at the Dullahan wearing Grasgil armor and then at…
“Kirana? Why are you here?”
She was back. The [House Keeper] and over half of the Earthers that had left had suddenly come back. Not alone either. The four hundred Dullahans were not the only force. Centaurs, even other Lizardfolk and Humans were joining them.
A combination army. They were only about two thousand strong, but they were made up of over half a dozen companies.
“Our leader has directed our forces to enter the battle for Talenqual. We are preparing for danger from Seamwalkers. But we are poised to render aid. Where is your battle commander?”
“Strategist Cameral! Reinforcements!”
The Dullahan came running out of a tent as Kenjiro felt his heart soar. But he turned to Kirana.
“Why are you here?”
For answer, she pointed at the Centaurs.
“They saw us and demanded we come with them. Some [Mages] are also here to protect us. They said they wouldn’t march if we didn’t.”
The mercenaries from the Stormhooves Company pawed the ground, ready to enter the battle. Ken shook his head.
“But you’re not fighters.”
“If you wish us to die for another city and your company, you will have to risk this much, Human.”
A Centaur tossed his head. But he was already following the others as they headed into the city.
We can win this. Ken was sure. In fact, Cameral was looking from the veterans to Talenqual.
“This is it. We must strike—Paeth is in imminent danger of falling, according to Enchanter Resk. We must force the Featherfolk Brigade into believing the battle is lost.”
“Why are they still fighting?”
Aiko had emerged to see what was happening. She had blood on her hands, but she was looking towards the city in ruins. The company engaged in two bloody battles they might never recover from.
Cameral had his head under one arm. The [Strategist] spoke for the mercenaries’ benefit as well as Ken’s. He pointed one hand.
“Only one figure can inspire them to keep fighting. Commander Fezimet is more than just a leader. His Skills may keep them in line. If he dies—it is a shame Adventurer Daly did not kill him. But it must be done. Moreover, there is a sign for the Featherfolk Brigade to see.”
He raised a speaking stone to his lips.
“Strike Leader Siri. Are you safe?”
There was a pause, then Siri spoke.
“—skirmishing. What?”
Cameral looked at Kenjiro Murata, then up calmly.
“I am going to send an advance force towards you consisting of War Walker Bastiom and our new forces. They will punch through the Featherfolk Brigade’s lines and buy you time. My orders to you and Engineer Paige are conditional on one thing: how many blackpowder explosives do you have left?”
Slowly, Ken looked up. Aiko, Kirana, the Earthers, all followed Cameral’s gaze. The new [Mercenaries] didn’t know what Cameral was talking about, but explosives…
“Alchimagus Resk here. How much do you need? What are you intending to destroy?”
Cameral just looked up at the most notable landmark in Talenqual. The Featherfolk Brigade’s headquarters and Fezimet’s tower.
 
——
 
Hope amidst despair. The Gnolls were fighting as the Drakes advanced on them. Numbtongue’s heart was racing out of his chest.
That maniac was laughing. Mrsha could be dead with those Gnolls fighting each other.
Yet the Titan of Baleros laughed. He laughed, with his company burning behind his eyes. With his people dying.
It was that kind of laugh. Part of Numbtongue was glad to hear it, because their motley force, multiple tribes, a Goblin army, and the Fellowship of the Inn—they were no Walled City.
But with the Titan behind them, they might be.
The Fraerling was riding on his pedestal as the Goblin [Bard] played a marching song. It sounded like the growl of lightning on the wind.
Antinium, The Crimson Soldier, Infinitypear and Rasktooth, Goblins, and Gnolls ran after the Titan. They were racing to be the first to the Meeting of Tribes across the Gnoll Plains.
“Fissival is hot on our heels! Titan, what is our strategy?”
The Lomost Chieftain was howling with nerves. Niers Astoragon just pointed ahead.
“We cannot fight a Walled City alone. We strike the Meeting of Tribes first. We’re barely an hour outside of range. When we arrive—I will join forces with Weatherfur. Take out Plain’s Eye and pivot! The Gnolls have enough warriors to fight each Walled City if they plan it right, especially if Oteslia isn’t hostile.”
He looked at the armies preparing for one of the greatest battles Izril had ever seen, and there was a confidence in his gaze. No—more than that.
A lust. A hunger that even Snapjaw had never seen in Reiss, the Goblin Lord. The Titan had been here before. His teeth were bared, and his eyes were locked on the distance.
“Can we beat Plain’s Eye that quickly?”
The Gnolls were worried. They knew that famous tribe, and they had all seen the truth. Numbtongue’s skin still crawled when he thought of the Daemon of Luck. Like Facestealer—there were some things that were not meant to exist.
The Titan just shook his head. He calmed slightly and reminded them all of one fact.
“I am Baleros’ greatest [Strategist]. Let him use luck. Is it fate, or is he just that unlucky? Because I accept no luck in my battles. I will have more targets when we reach the battlefield, and I see the situation, but—Bird!”
“Me?”
The Worker sat up on the wagon he was riding on. Niers turned to him.
“You are going to wait until I use my Skill. Then—I want you to shoot that damn Gnoll through the head. We go from there. No luck. No magic. If we are very lucky, someone will be able to recharge my Skill. In which case, I intend to rout Fissival—then Zeres and Manus can negotiate on the tip of a sword. If they don’t want to play, the Antinium Queens can make a bid for an alliance on the spot, or the Five Families.”
“Are you sure you can win?”
Bird asked the question that was most pressing and most annoying to the Titan. The Fraerling threw his shoulders back and calmed. Numbtongue was relieved to see it; he wasn’t mad with glory.
“I can. Whether or not I do? We can never know. But if I laugh—it’s because I have a hand full of cards, Bird. Because I see the enemy’s best card, and mine counters his. Because I finally can fulfill my promise to that girl. And…”
The Titan stood there, grinning like a madman.
“…because I leveled up last night. At last. And I am going to use my new Skill to hammer everyone to pieces.”
The Level sixty-six [Grandmaster Strategist] exhaled. Fighting the Witch of Webs, surviving Peclir’s treachery, the High Passes, leading an army around—plus all of what he’d been doing before this?
It took a lot to level at his stage. But the rewards were worth it. Even the Antinium goggled at him.
“What’s the Skill?”
Ulvama sat up, eyes narrowed with inquisitive interest. Niers just smiled at her.
“You’re going to have to wait. Nothing like a surprise element.”
He didn’t dare say it aloud just in case. It would not end the battle single-handedly—but it was a Level 66 Skill. Even he didn’t know entirely what it did without testing, but if it was as good as he hoped—
It might change the Forgotten Wing company forever.
So he spoke fire and promised them all glory, the people racing with him. That glorious horn call still rang in their ears. Niers Astoragon promised it victory. He promised it…hope.
Until they saw the antithesis to such things. The dark web that ensnared every magical blade. The end of every last charge. The ending to every good tale.
Belavierr, the Stitch Witch.
 
——
 
Perorn Fleethoof ceded the walls to Jungle Tails, and the gates opened. The army poured into the city, but slowly. The academy was also a fortress, and it punished them as they grouped up.
But they were too tough. Thusly, Perorn prepared for the worst even as her forces formed up in the last place to make their stand.
The practice fields, where young [Strategists] learned from their teachers. A fitting end.
The Centauress herself trotted through the academy and found some of her students waiting there. Young cadets, some on the cusp of graduating.
“Professor Perorn. We want to fight.”
The teacher slowed a second and looked at her students. She was limping, her old injury acting up, and only willpower kept her on her hooves. She smiled as she saw the young [Princess], terrified Lizardfolk with swords, Dullahans, and Centaurs who looked at their professor and saw her at her lowest.
“No. This isn’t your battle.”
“But—”
“We don’t make our students take the consequences of losing. You will all surrender; you’ll be treated well or Jungle Tails will make an enemy of every company and nation in the world. We will surrender too, some of us.”
If it came to it. Perorn trotted on. She would have liked to make a lesson of it, but she had no time.
There would be no surrender for the Forgotten Wing’s top officers. Even if she thought of it—Perorn doubted Jungle Tail’s integrity. She just had one thing left to do.
“Fraerlings, I must apologize. I believe the battle is almost lost. I have hopes to turn it around… but I must prepare, as any [Strategist] does, for the worst.”
Perorn strode into their midst, the war room, and saw them turn. They were watching the battle and the news. No doubt following Paeth.
Ah, Paeth…Perorn bowed to Sentry Leader Ekrn and Guidance Heish, and the Sentry Leader just nodded to her.
“You fought well, Strategist. We understand. If you only had four species of Baleros, you might have won.”
“Four…?”
“Centaurs, Dullahans, Selphids, and Fraerlings.”
They were looking at each other. Perorn’s smile was bitter.
“I’m afraid I am no Titan. And I have no idea what Fraerling tactics he might use, Sentry Leader. Only he could ask it of you.”
“Yes.”
Ekrn met Perorn’s gaze, but she had no time for that.
“Where is Commander Foliana?”
The [Rogue] was half out of her bed when Perorn found her. The Centauress and three Selphid soldiers picked her up; Foliana had put on her damaged armor, and she had her daggers.
“I will fight. M-meh. Give me a booster.”
“You will tear your body apart.”
“Yes. And kill them. You need more officer killers. Too many.”
The Squirrel Beastkin woman was still bleeding from the hexes and curse Skills that had prevented her healing. Perorn found the ruined object Foliana had pulled from the last group. She put it on Foliana’s chest.
“Not you. And not today, Three-Color Stalker. Come on. Carry her.”
The Selphids picked up Foliana’s bed, and they trotted after Perorn. Foliana’s head rose dizzily.
“You…is this treachery? Mm.”
Perorn slapped her with her tail, but gently.
“Don’t be stupid. You silly nut-hoarder.”
“Mm. Racist.”
Perorn actually laughed. She threw her head back and walked a bit straighter.
“You have been so aggravating all the years I’ve known you. Ever since you took in a lost little Centaur girl. Time to repay the favor.”
