Counterplay. Perorn hated sieges. Her Skills were devoted to mobility, quick attacks, and escapes. She wasn’t favored in this confined terrain—but it meant she deployed and pulled wounded groups of soldiers out with a speed that Jungle Tails had to keep up with.
Or…they did something she couldn’t counter. Perorn heard a warning horn, and the speaking stone exploded into more chatter.
“Commander, they’re at the northern gates! New Naga type—we can’t stop them! They’re going to break the gates without reinforcements!”
Those gates were reinforced such that Trolls with enchanted sledgehammers would take hours getting through. But Perorn realized—it wasn’t the structure in danger, it was the actual control mechanisms. She looked up and saw a head rising over the walls.
“Hydras! Get me every [Slayer]! Enchanted fire arrows!”
Jungle Tails had unleashed their beasts of war. The eight Hydras were so large they were able to attack the defenders on the battlements while Lizardfolk swarmed up. Perorn took aim as she galloped with reinforcements towards the fighting.
“Garuda! Garuda—drop your bags of holding now!”
Fliers and the few carpet riders dropped their cargo—acid and fire from alchemical weapons that the screaming Hydras struggled to recover from. One Hydra’s head was melting, covered in the most potent acid the Forgotten Wing company could buy.
…But they had so many heads. Perorn slowed. Her enchanted longbow came up. Fleethoof’s Wrath. She put a sparking arrow to the tip.
“[Perfect Shot]. [Arrows: Doubled Magnitude]—”
The enchanted arrow flew into a screaming maw of a Hydra about to blow poison at a group of struggling Dullahans and blew it into a rain of flesh as a lightning bolt exploded out of the maw. Perorn saw the Hydras trying to retreat as their handlers ushered them onwards. But where were those Nagas? Her people knew almost every Naga type.
Then Perorn realized something. There were too many serpentine heads snaking across the battlements, even for eight Hydras. She spotted a nest of serpents, twining around like a sea of snakes, fighting terrified [Soldiers] who hacked at them. Then she saw they were connected not to a Hydra—the far smaller serpents were attached to a single body. She took one look at it.
“Scylla! Scylla—kill the main body! Shapechangers! Don’t let—”
Too late. One leapt off the battlements, landed among the surprised [Soldiers] streaming towards the battlements—and changed shape. A gigantic serpent rampaged across the interior of Elvallian, trying to open the gates from the insides.
It died fast, riddled with arrows. But there were more and more. Perorn left the north gates as the eastern wall fell silent. She looked up and saw Medusae by the hundreds freezing the [Soldiers] with their sheer magical glare. They fell back as she ordered the catapults to turn and unleashed artillery spells on them.
But something was wrong. Perorn came to a halt and didn’t know how long she’d been fighting. She saw more fighters ready to go, the wounded accessing their deep stockpiles of potions. Her hooves were covered in blood and grime, and the walls were red.
Something was going wrong. The Jungle Tails soldiers were still coming at the walls, but there was a change occurring.
The Naga were few in number, and when they began to die, they fell back and let their Lizardfolk fight. Their younger cousins were weaker and made up for that with numbers, albeit with good steel or iron, but they did die.
Perorn had always hated how Jungle Tails fought. Niers had bested them for that weakness. Lizardfolk would refuse to fight and enter a slaughter zone.
But…they weren’t dying.
 
——
 
A Selphid [Battle Warden] realized it first. She was mid-rampage, a Naga’s body scything around and attacking the Lizardfolk with a pair of wicked steel hatchets. She hacked down at one Lizardfolk, a blow that caught the unguarded warrior across the neck and shoulder.
It should have been a mortal blow. A straight slash into the collarbone that cut straight into the chest. The Selphid was already turning when she felt the sting of metal on her side. She whirled and saw the Lizardfolk, teeth bared, stabbing into her side.
The cut was only an inch deep. The Selphid reacted instantly. She swept the sword tip away and hacked with her axes. Four blows—six, and the Lizardfolk went down, neck hacked apart. The panting Selphid stared at the [Soldier].
“Strategist Perorn. Enemies are getting tougher—they’re stacking armor Skills!”
She looked around her section of the walls and saw the same thing happening. [Soldiers] were backing up, stabbing at Lizardfolk whose scales were suddenly as hard as steel itself. It wasn’t one Skill—it was multiple, multiple Skills from various commanders overlapping.
Not just any Skills either. Skills from Lizardfolk’s fighting.
“[For Every One That Falls, Our Scales Grow Stronger]!”
The Lizardfolk were screaming what had to be their [General]’s Skill. One of their [General]’s Skills. The Selphid tossed one axe aside and drew a backup weapon. She lunged at a screaming Lizardfolk and buried the magic-piercing dagger into a chest.
“Switch to magical armaments! Commander! They’re too tough to stop!”
The Selphid heard a crack—and the Lizardfolk screamed.
“Incoming! Get away! Get—”
A boulder from a catapult smashed into a cluster ready to climb the ladders. They screamed as they rolled the boulder off them and got up. The Selphid looked down.
“Grandmother’s tits.”
They had broken bones, dislocated shoulders, and some had died—but they had survived that? She looked down and saw ten thousand Lizardfolk as tough as steel-coated Dullahans grinning up at her.
The Forgotten Wing Company began to lose the walls.
 
——
 
“It’s not going well.”
Sentry Leader Ekrn was no [Strategist]. His training allowed him to defend Paeth, even fight in mass-battles. Unlike Tallfolk, Sentry Leader was a prestigious position that allowed him to even muster Crelerbane forces at need. Still, he didn’t do armies like this.
But he didn’t need to, to report to Guidance Heish and the other Fraerlings stuck in Elvallian. Even a blind man could have told you what was happening, and there were no blind Fraerlings. At least, none who visited a First Founding city.
[Explorer] Gindal was watching the scrying orb of worldwide news. He had every right to; his home was…gone.
But the other Fraerlings were watching their greatest Tallfolk allies, the Forgotten Wing company, and the Titan’s home, falling.
“How are they doing it, Sentry Leader?”
“Too many [Commanders]. They’re overlapping Skills. Three-Color Stalker didn’t get enough of them. The Skills might expire—but until they do, their Lizardfolk are as tough as metal. We should prepare to evacuate. They still have an air cordon, but we can punch out and risk interception fire.”
“And do nothing?”
One of the Fraerlings, [Emissary] Vuul, who Ekrn had detested as being a fool from a city, protested in shock. Ekrn hesitated.
“There is little we can do.”
There were some things, but the sheer fact was—this army was so vast that Fraerlings had no place in this battle. And Paeth was falling.
No…everywhere was falling. At first, Ekrn had thought the treachery of the Fraerlings had meant that Paeth and Oierdressql were the only cities that had actually been in danger. Now—now he looked up and saw Fraerlings without a home.
Theirs had vanished in a single moment. Explorer Gindal wasn’t focused on the battle. He was just…looking at the flicking viewpoints of battles, waiting for them to cover his home.
The Dyed Lands.
“Torteth of Colors. Explorer Gindal. Is there any word?”
“None.”
The Fraerling didn’t look up. He had Ekrn’s crossbow in his hands, but it was unloaded. His voice was steady.
“There were two Fraerling settlements caught up in the—effect. I haven’t heard from them. If they were stranded out of time for hundreds of years, they would have given up trying. The Dyed Lands are overrun. If they’re there, I will find them.”
Ekrn had seen the predators from that magical zone attacking everything in a ten mile radius. It was a wave of monsters. Yet Explorer Gindal just kept watching.
He would find his home. He only looked up once.
“Paeth. Is it falling?”
“Yes.”
That was all Ekrn said. He sat there, watching Perorn pulling her forces from the first layer of walls. When it ended, they would pull back to the cleared space around the academy. Then fight in the hallways. Some Fraerlings would join the fighting. Most would flee or surrender.
“Has Strategist Perorn called for aid?”
Emissary Vuul demanded. Guidance Heish nodded.
“Commander Foliana has—but she diverted so many forces…and who could break through that army?”
They had some kind of last plan—the Titan always had a plan. But Ekrn couldn’t see it. Even if they won here…
Paeth was falling.
 
——
 
Paeth on the Coast was shaking. The dimensional magic that kept them contained in the tree held. Even as Lizardfolk assaulted the walls, threw [Fireballs]—even when they began to break into the city itself, it held.
The dimensional magic was the most important thing in Paeth. If it failed, the entire city might end up compressed into the tree. And there was no surviving that.
So it held. But the tree was shaking. The Featherfolk Brigade had found their home.
And they were trying to destroy it.
They came in waves. Screaming Lizardfolk, spells striking the tree, and Nagas. The Nagas had to lead the Lizardfolk; they refused to advance into that slaughter without a Naga. It wasn’t a vast camp around Paeth. The rest of the Featherfolk Brigade had pulled back to form a thousand-foot camp, which launched assaults day and night.
They had to.
There were so many dead bodies around Paeth that they had begun to turn into undead. Zombies and ghouls were already rising, and the Featherfolk Brigade had to kill them to get to Paeth.
But they did. They advanced through spells that blew entire groups apart. Into the lull where Paeth’s magic had to recharge, ignoring Tallguard taking shots at them.
To kill one Tallguard, the Lamias would burn an entire tree. So they concentrated on Paeth instead. Lizardfolk ran battering rams into the tree. They hammered on it with weapons, tried to climb it and tear at the branches.
It was almost laughable. Enchanter Ilekrome would have laughed, but the laughter would have been hysterical.
They had no idea how to break the enchantments on Paeth aside from pure brute force. Some tried to cast [Dispel Magic] as if that would work—then they did what a Creler would. They just hit Paeth. He felt that hysterical laughter in his chest because—it was working.
Paeth was made with great magics, but Fraerling magics. Even the best spells failed, had limits when it came to something of this size. Paeth was not a suit of armor; the magics would fail with enough stress.
So an army of Tallfolk just had to hit it until it broke.
“Savages.”
Ilekrome watched as the first Gorgon cracked the walls. It was curled around Paeth’s tree, though Paeth was far too large for a single Gorgon to encircle. But this one had used some kind of enlargement spell, and it had hammered on the wood.
A single piece of the wall shattered inwards, and the Gorgon stared into a city of terrified Fraerlings. It opened its mouth wide, shrieking satisfaction as it saw an entire city in miniature, made of magic and technology. It reached in—
“Volley!”
Over two hundred Fraerlings loosed crossbows. Not Tallguard, but the security forces and volunteers. The Gorgon screamed as tiny, enchanted bolts blew away parts of its face and body.
But it kept trying to reach inside. Kept slamming itself into the wall. The enlarged Gorgon took another volley of magical armaments—then Paeth ignited and burst into blue flames.
Still, the Tallfolk refused to die. Ilekrome, watching from the Architect’s Perch, looked down in horror as it took a third volley. Then a fourth.
Then…he saw the Fraerlings stop firing. Ilekrome was confused. The Gorgon hung there, mouth open, poised to—
“It’s dead.”
Alchimeer Straesta breathed. Ilekrome realized his hands were white on the balcony. The dead Gorgon hung there, the oversized corpse draped across Paeth. Fraerlings were trying to fill the gap, repair it—
Then there was fire. It burned through the hole, and Enchanter Ilekrome raised his hands.
“No! Barriers! Barrier spells! [Prismatic Wall]!”
The flames halted as [Mages] created a wall. Fraerlings raced towards the opening, to find survivors, to close the gap.
It was the first gap. There would be more.
Alchimeer Straesta and Ilekrome were the only Architects watching from this place. Their Farspeaker was coordinating Tallguard and petitioning anyone for help. Trying to see where their Tallfolk friends were.
Judiciary Honst was fighting below. He had taken command of Paeth’s security forces, switched their paralysis batons for swords and archaic weapons, and ordered them to fight once the Tallfolk began to break in.
The Tallguard of Feiland were still fighting. So were the last Crelerbane forces, less than a dozen. The evacuation ship had launched. The other group was making its way through the emergency tunnels; they would be marching for miles.
Paeth was standing. Standing and hoping it could still push back the Tallfolk. Ilekrome had been asked if he wanted to leave. The survivors would need an Architect, a powerful [Enchanter], which he was.
But he had refused. The Last Box was here. The repository, their gift from Gnomes. If Paeth ended…Ilekrome had told the others he would remain if Paeth had to be evacuated. Like Oierdressql, the Tallfolk would have only ashes to pick through.
He still thought there was a chance. There had to be. But another shudder ran through Paeth, and Ilekrome saw a building collapse, throwing down debris.
“What hit us?”
Farspeaker Humalepre raced into the room. He was bleeding—Ilekrome looked at him and almost called for a healer on the spot. Then he closed his mouth.
“Catapult. They built a catapult. It’s launching enchanted munitions.”
“We have to destroy it. I will muster the spells. Can the Tallguard—?”
“They are almost out of Signim.”
Alchimeer Straesta was trying to make just one more as they spoke. She looked up.
“They’d die. The Tallfolk are guarding it.”
Ilekrome looked at her, and Paeth shook again. All the Fraerlings stumbled, and Ilekrome saw a crack appear inside Paeth. He looked up.
“Ask for volunteers. We will unleash everything we can. But they’ll make more. Ask for volunteers. Farspeaker. What’s happening at Talenqual?”
The Fraerling shook his head without a word. His voice shook.
