The last Gnome, Zineryr, stood there, slouched slightly so he stood taller on his left side, head tilted slightly. Grinning with the purest spark of mischief in his eyes. He had lines of age, and his hair had gone white, so he had dyed it silver and combed it into a frizzy spike of hair and made it stay there. He aged, but he refused to grow old.
He was the first Gnome to ever see the stars. The one who had built a vessel to defy gravity. His clothing was like a jumpsuit and tinkerer’s vest, where old tools hung, the collar and sleeves strung with metal to lock his gloves and a helmet into place. He had made everything he wore, from his all-terrain boots to the pouches and zippers built into his suit.
If he had flesh, he would have had a gadget for any moment. A surprise for children. A bit of hope in half a dozen pockets.
The magic illuminated him fully, and Zineryr winked at the Fraerlings. He lifted a hand in a casual salute, one last farewell.
“Silly cousins. Helping people never needed a reason. It was just fun.”
The magic activated. Zineryr vanished with a laugh, and a god screamed as he was cast away. The Tallfolk looked up as the Great Tree of Paeth on the Coast shone. Soldiers ran back in fear—and they all looked up as Paeth vanished.
One last trick. But because he was a Gnome, Zineryr managed two.
 
——
 
The Titan of Baleros stood. At first, they didn’t see him. Then he leapt from Perorn’s shoulder and drank the Signim.
There was a reason for his name. It told people what Signim was. It wasn’t that big a secret.
The Jungle Tails company saw Niers Astoragon walk to the head of his army. Calling out to [Soldiers], clapping hands.
Apologizing for being late. He had tears in his eyes.
At first—they thought he was a double. A fake. But the Titan just looked at them. He raised a speaking stone to his lips.
“Tallguard. I will repay every debt.”
“Shut up, Titan. We weren’t doing this for you. Avenge Paeth.”
Sentry Leader Ekrn barked back. Niers Astoragon looked up at the birds circling the carrion fields.
“I swear. Forgotten Wing! To me! Prepare to charge!”
The empowered Lizardfolk were squaring up as their officers quashed the sudden dismay and fear. Perorn trotted forwards.
“Niers. We’re still outmatched.”
“We have the momentum against them. I have one last trick. I need you to take Centaurs—and some of your finest. Your personal command; not a generic vanguard, but skirmishers—and do a suicide charge straight at their [General].”
Fleethoof looked straight into Niers’ eyes. She didn’t hesitate.
“Of course.”
She was already mustering when Niers pointed ahead.
“Wait for it. Wait…”
The Centaur galloped across the field at the Lizardfolk, who looked at her death-charge with her personal forces. They were never meant for close-combat fighting—hit and runs. She was headed straight for their command. Niers Astoragon looked up at the sky.
“Tallguard. Drop.”
 
——
 
Sentry Leader Ekrn was already falling. They had already begun the Fraerling combined tactics that Niers had once invented.
Not for him. For the Forgotten Wing. For vengeance and Paeth.
Explorer Gindal hadn’t given Ekrn back his crossbow when the Tallguard asked for it again. He was falling too. Ekrn couldn’t see him.
He was falling alone. One little Fraerling, diving into a sea of Lizardfolk. But he had a target. He saw the Lamia [General]. The former Great Company of Balaeros was all focused on Niers. Even then—
How did you stop a man as small as a cup? With an arrow? Could you even see him?
Ekrn was laughing as he fell. Fraerlings didn’t fear falling. They were too light.
He landed as softly as could be on the Lamia’s head itself. The Naga recoiled.
“What the—”
She grabbed him and saw the grinning Fraerling looking at her. The Lamia blanched, and she began to squeeze.
Ekrn had already drunk his Signim.
The Fraerling saw the Lamia recoil as he exploded out of her grip. He landed on the ground.
“Fraer—”
He lifted the spare crossbow and shot her through the chest. For good measure, Ekrn beheaded the armored Lamia and stabbed her twice more. He looked around as Jungle Tails officers recoiled.
The Fraerling took one breath.
“Tallguard of Feiland! For Paeth on the Coast!”
Around him, Fraerlings were landing. Changing size. An officer recoiled as Gindal fired a Vortex Bolt straight into his face. After that, nothing was left of them at all, nor a fifteen foot space around them. Then—Ekrn stabbed another Naga through the face. He whirled his blade, saw them coming for him, and felt the microdose of Signim wear off. He was shrinking as they stabbed at him.
Gindal was bleeding as he shrank. Another Tallguard was already dead. She had missed her target. But enough—enough officers had died. Ekrn knew he had to wait. A bleeding, six-inch-tall Fraerling lay on his back.
Then he activated his [Teleport] scroll and vanished.
 
——
 
The Titan saw Jungle Tails losing their officers. He pointed ahead.
“[Charge of the Strategist]. Follow me!”
The Titan began to run, sword raised. It was a stupid, Venaz-intelligence move. But sometimes you had to do it. Just to show the enemy they needed to be afraid.
The Forgotten Wing Company was right behind him. The Titan locked eyes with Perorn as her forces fought in the middle of Jungle Tails’ company.
“Fleethoof! Deliver them our wrath!”
The Titan of Baleros screamed. Perorn saw him point his blade at her. She was stumbling, surrounded by foes, but her force waited, fighting the Lizardfolk as they began to surround and tear them apart.
Skirmishers. Centaurs and mobility experts, the worst forces to have in a siege and close-quarters. So why…?
Then she heard it. The Titan’s lips moved.
“[Brigade: Castling the Pieces].”
And Perorn saw the Titan vanish. She saw a Gorgon poised to strike her turn into a stranger, whirling, a guitar singing with electricity in his grip.
“Chieftain Shaik?”
Numbtongue met Perorn’s gaze in astonishment and confusion. She raised her bow—then looked around. Her forces, an entire brigade’s strength, had just…swapped places with another force under the Titan’s command.
Across the entire world. Numbtongue saw the Centauress whirl.
“Are you the Titan’s allies? I am Strategist Perorn. Give me an appraisal on the situation.”
He lowered his guitar as his eyes went wide.
“No way.”
 
——
 
Goblins looked around as they appeared in the middle of the Jungle Tails formation. The Naga recoiled in surprise and horror. Niers just bellowed.
“Chieftain Shaik! Ghost mushrooms! Take them apart!”
A surprised Goblin riding a giant spider whirled. She didn’t know where she and her tribe were—but Goblins could see a threat. Niers bellowed.
“Charge!”
He led the way forwards as Jungle Tails began to panic. A continent away—Perorn Fleethoof found herself galloping across the Gnoll Plains.
 
——
 
Commander Fezimet was eating the Centauress and Human. Slowly. He was starting with their legs.
He raised his head, dripping with blood, lost in a class so dark it would soon whisper to him in his sleep.
His city in pieces. Yet he would slaughter them all and take Paeth. He would rebuild Talenqual! He would make it the greatest, most beautiful city in the world and restore his tower with Jungle Tails.
Yes—he could almost see it. A shining city of great magic. Fraerling technology. A tower, like the one they had destroyed.
Only not a tree.
The Quexal looked up as his vision of the future, his delirium, was replaced by…
A strange reality. A confusing one.
No, he was imagining the future. But he wasn’t imagining…a tree. A huge redwood, so wide you had to walk around it. Taller than his tower.
What was…
Then Fezimet saw into it. Saw that promised city, half in ruins, but free of danger for now. As his company looked up—as the fleeing mercenaries and Gravetender’s Fist gazed up at the sight of Paeth by the Coast, Fezimet’s eyes drifted upwards.
He heard someone laughing at him.
Daly. The Human looked up at Fezimet as a bright light shone on the Quexal’s head. The Commander of the Featherfolk Brigade gazed up at Paeth for one more moment.
“How did it come to…?”
Then he vanished. A laser of magic pierced him, and he evaporated without a word.
Just…like that. The Featherfolk Brigade looked up as Paeth began firing spells in their new home.
They could go anywhere with a [Grand Teleport] ritual spell. But to hide and be found again? Leave the Tallfolk who had fought for them behind?
They were done hiding. Umina led the charge of mercenaries through the rubble as Fraerlings began to attack the Lizardfolk as their morale shattered. Daly lay there, looking up at Paeth.
“It’s beautiful.”
Then he covered his eyes and started crying for all the people he’d gotten killed. Paeth stood amidst the ruins of Talenqual as the Featherfolk Brigade fled, and the Jungle Tails forces withdrew from Elvallian in dismay as the Titan reappeared. In Izril, Perorn Fleethoof rode towards the Meeting of Tribes.
In the lands of the dead, the dead gods realized Emerrhain was gone. The last of their smallest foes had vanished. But when they looked around in fear, trepidation, and uncertainty…
They could still hear the Gnomes laughing.
