The first omens of the end appeared for all to see, and not even Wistram could deny it. Ilvriss murmured as every eye turned to the scrying orb.
“Ah. How do we fight that?”
 
——
 
Five gods stood on the water. That was but a parlor trick for them. Erin hovered in the air as the Gnomes regarded their old enemy. Zineryr nodded.
“…That makes five. We’ve eliminated one option. Good. You’d look terrible with a beard. Knowing him, the first thing he’d do would be brewing a potion to give you one—and other appendages I don’t think you necessarily want.”
He pointed at a bearded man standing in the waves, his eyes narrowed like thunder. They were the very eyes of a tempest, a swirl across the irises of brilliant lightning-yellow, hazel-grey, and the cloudy-blue of storms.
The eyes of the God of Rulers, and of course—the beard.
Tamaroth.
“Gnomes. So this is what caused Kasigna to change the nature of her realm.”
“Not I. The fool, Emerrhain. See what you meddlers do. Norechl and Emerrhain will both suffer. I swear it upon my name.”
Kasigna hissed as she hobbled forwards, an ancient crone of a woman. Literally…if there was any stereotype, she played into it. Hands so gnarled they looked like grasping roots, skin that a corpse would call pallid—and two burning eyes with pale pupils as close to white as Erin had ever seen.
Laedonius Deviy, Emerrhain, Norechl. Why were they all here? Perhaps because the others were.
Probably because of the Gnomes. Zineryr hung in the air, face calm, even smiling, but watching them all.
They were untethered. Like the ghosts, the dead gods were free to move and use magic. And oh—some could.
Emerrhain held a glowing orb of light that produced a thin ray of the kind that had pierced Xarkouth’s body with ease. It writhed in his hand, as if the deadly magic were trying to escape.
“I will see your end, you meddlesome tricksters. Then I shall devour every soul. Beginning with that girl.”
Kasigna hissed at Zineryr. He scratched at his beard.
“Interesting. You annoy them almost as much as we do, Erin. I knew I liked you.”
He grinned and looked around. The other Gnomes floating in the air were nodding at each other. One sighed and conjured an imaginary wand. She aimed it up and shot a beam of cascading colors into the air, like a rainbow.
A flare? A beacon. She shook her head as the dead gods recoiled.
“Time’s up, I guess.”
Another nodded and squared his shoulders.
“Zineryr, would you finish your business with the young Human? I think this is it.”
“It is indeed, little meddlers. Come.”
Kasigna spoke, and all five gods went for the Gnomes. Reaching greedily for the oldest of souls. They were, Erin realized, worth more than even a Named Adventurer.
“Back up! I’ve got fire! Zineryr—how do I fly?”
Erin conjured some flames of glory and waved it dangerously around, but she was caught in Zineryr’s spell. One of the five was going for her.
Norechl. It reached out with terrible malice. But the Gnome who’d spoken first just laughed. Then he flew through the air, shouting at the others.
“Farewell! Get clear—in death, I strike one last down!”
The other Gnomes turned and fled, and Erin yelped as Zineryr and she flew backwards. The laughing Gnome dove at the dead gods. They looked at him barreling towards them and—
—Dodged.
The Gnome plowed into the ocean and shot out of it, trailing water. He zoomed left, flying straight at Laedonius Deviy.
“Touch me, Laedonius—”
The God of Dance and Love ducked the Gnome. Erin saw his expression. It had gone from eager avarice to uncertainty and…fear…in a moment when the Gnome went for him.
Especially when he said that part about striking them down. Erin saw the other Gnomes flying away rapidly. She didn’t know what that Gnome had done, but she wondered what would happen if a god ate him.
And clearly—so did they.
All five dead gods backed away from the Gnome as he dive-bombed them. Norechl reached out and hesitated. Emerrhain backed away with a snarl.
“What have you done?”
“Nothing! Touch me, oh glorious gods! Rulers of all! It won’t hurt—me. Touch me. What’s wrong? I thought that was what you wanted!”
He had a wide, manic grin on his face. Erin saw the Gnome reach for Tamaroth, and the God of Rulers blocked his arm. However—the Gnome didn’t vanish. Like when he’d been headbutted by Sserys or Zel had stopped Kasigna, it seemed they had to concentrate to devour souls. And even he wasn’t certain.
“This is a trick.”
The God of Rulers glared at the wide grin on the Gnome’s face.
“Sure it is. Go ahead. Absorb—”
The Gnome dove, and a ray of that killing light hit Tamaroth in the chest. Emerrhain lowered the orb as the God of Rulers snarled at him.
“You coward.”
The God of Magic hissed back.
“I do not see you taking his soul. I will destroy this one.”
“Enough. They are fleeing, and that living girl is leaving!”
Kasigna howled, and all five realized Erin was getting away. They began to stride after her, and they were fast. However, the Gnome blocked their way, and they recoiled from him.
“It’s a trick! They cannot do anything that would harm us.”
Laedonius Deviy shouted, but Erin caught the note in his voice. All five knew it was probably true. But…the young woman looked back and saw the Gnome give her and his kin a huge wink.
They weren’t certain. They, the greatest of their kind, the divine, weren’t certain. Even in death, they feared the world’s finest tricksters. The unpredictable foes.
Gnomes.
Erin was sniffing again. Zineryr looked at her. His smile was as wide as the horizon itself.
“You see? They are so arrogant. But it seems that even they remember how badly we beat them last time. It is never the end.”
The first Gnome vanished as Kasigna touched him. The three-in-one flinched—but then she smiled cruelly.
“A trick.”
The God of Death looked around archly at the other gods, and they glowered at her. Then they turned ahead.
The Gnomes snorted and scoffed at them. Emerrhain lifted that deadly orb of magic, but before he could unleash the magic, he hesitated. Tamaroth’s head rose, and his gaze narrowed. Kasigna cursed.
“That damned pestilence—”
Behind them, the Devourer of Time took one step.
 
——
 
As gods and Gnomes warred and the ghosts assailed the rot of heaven comingled with the world’s filth, the entity that had feasted on the body of the God of Time rested awhile. It had journeyed far to feast on the marrow of chronology itself.
Even time grew weary. Yet this child without a name, kin to Norechl, was young, and it was surrounded by the bounty of souls.
Curious sights that it had never dreamed of in the darkness. Time captured in a bubble. Six strangers.
A strange half-world connected to others.
It had no name. But perhaps—it began to understand that a name was meaning. The other, lesser spawn had little conception of names and meaning yet.
But if they did, they would begin a path far longer than even this long climb. A great journey that twisted around fate and nibbled at the edges of things.
The Devourer of Time stood at the beginning of that long road, and even the six dead gods were no match for it.
It had eaten the body of time itself. It had flesh—though the skin was pale as chalk—it had eyes that stared and drank in the world around it.
It even had hands, feet…a copy of the titan it had eaten, piece by piece, fighting with its kin to devour the whole of.
A squiggling line for a mouth, drawn across melted flesh that was the barest approximation of a face. Rotted flesh…and so the copy of malformed features. A misshapen head as if struck a hundred times and left to further deform.
It stank of that deep carrion, of darkest waters and filth accumulating so far down in the consciousness that thought mired in corruption. Even a single step was pain. Pain and the screaming of time as it was nibbled upon. 
One step. It was an eternity of slow movement, for the Devourer was slow—compressed into a microsecond. After all—it had power over time, and it was learning.
Learning, for instance, that the little flying Dragons were too quick to catch, but that most did not swim through time except one way. So they were impossible to catch in one sense—and flew straight into its grasp if it but moved through the order of events from the end.
In the same way—it stepped. Stepped curiously as an infant from sea to land, in one stride. Sensing the world invisible, beyond this one. Like a child…wondering what would happen.
Time stepped onto Baleros.
 
——
 
What Ilvriss saw in the scrying orb had taken over an hour to be reported. Though it had been noticed almost instantly. However—the [Mages], adventurers, and even armies who dared approach the place where a town once was had taken that long to get there for two reasons.
The first was fear. The second was because there was no one there to report what had happened.
Only…overgrowth.
“I don’t know what we’re seeing. Named Adventurer Kositer?”
Kositer the Lazy stood. A rarity, for the overweight Naga rarely moved. He was curled around the floating dais that moved for him. Now—he heaved himself up with a slow dignity.
“Stay behind me.”
His swords were still dancing, clearing the way for the army and [Mages] showing the world what had happened here. Kositer the Lazy had twenty-nine swords.
Dancing Swords, and not just swords, but other artifacts that fought for him. He had magical rings and amulets, artifacts, and he had devoted his entire class to a curious combination of sloth and adventure. What people forgot was that he had survived long enough to be called lazy.
He had also been daring enough to lead the expedition there. The Naga was watchful. He gazed around. One of the [Scriers] looked around at the thick overgrowth. Towering trees stood overhead, and the foliage had been so thick it had been practically a wall.
It was visible for miles away—a huge patch of overgrown forest had just…shot up. Some claimed to have seen it happening. Trees growing, withering, blooming, being overtaken in moments. And stranger things still.
“…There should be a town here.”
The Naga leaned over his dais and stared down.
“There was.”
“Are you sure?”
For answer, he just pointed, and a telekinetic hand swept something aside. The Naga lifted something and showed it to the [Mages].
It was…well, just a piece of glass. Broken, fragmented, and mildewed beyond belief…but glass. The Named Adventurer gazed about.
“We are standing inside the town of Yoirthe. The people…they were here.”
“Did they die?”
The Named Adventurer just shook his head.
“Perhaps. But they might have died of natural causes.”
“Natural…”
“I wonder how long it’s been. We may be in danger. My [Dangersense] hasn’t stopped going off since yesterday. But we have to know.”
Who had lived here? What had they done over…how long? Kositer’s scales were already crawling. Then he heard a Gold-rank team under his mentorship calling in.
“Adventurer Kositer, we need you here—now.”
“More monsters?”
“No, sir. It—we found a memorial. They were here. This entire—they built a dungeon. They said the rest of the world vanished. They were here for centuries.”
The Naga spun. The dais lifted, and he shouted.
“Take me to them. And evacuate any city nearby! There is no telling where this could come next!”
The Wistram [Mages] hesitated. One covered the scrying mirror.
“Named Adventurer! We have no idea what happened! A panic—”
There was a shrill scream, and the viewers saw a dancing sword as the hand jerked away. The Named Adventurer pointed down at the scrying orb, eyes flashing.
“Khelt is shouting the alarm, you fools! This is the first wave! We—”
Then they felt it. Kositer looked up, and his eyes bulged. He lowered his claw, and the speaking stones were suddenly chattering with alarm. He fumbled at his waist—then tore something free.
“Sound every alarm.”
The scrying orb swiveled, and the entire world saw it. Kositer looked up as a wave of…creatures began emerging from the site of the second step. His voice trembled.
“I am Named Adventurer Kositer. I call on every Great Company to send forces—and evacuate every settlement in ten, twenty miles or prepare for battle. The time distortion effect has just struck—the Dyed Lands.”
That strange land of contaminated magic and colors, a place for [Explorers] and true adventurers, akin to the Bloodfields, had always been dangerous, but contained. Growing, but watched.
The Devourer of Time stepped onto it, and six hundred years passed. Six hundred years of change. Kositer the Lazy left his dais.
“Sound the retreat. Every adventurer, get to safety. Now.”
“But—”
“[Teleport].”
He vanished, leaving his dais behind. The swords and his artifacts began to float away as the [Mages] captured an image of the first monster emerging from the Dyed Lands. From the chalk ghostlands of white oblivion came something the size of a young Dragon. It had a lot of teeth. That was all the audience saw—one freeze-frame of it—before the [Mages] were screaming and running.
It caught them four minutes later.
 
——
 
Two steps.
Two steps, and it had changed parts of Baleros forever. Erin felt it. She was screaming as time twisted—all the mortal ghosts were. Even the dead gods and Gnomes felt it.
The wrongness as time was compressed, partitioned off, and forced to advance. Or swallowed—entire parts of it, eaten away, leaving only the future.
Change. It was deliberate. The Devourer had sensed the potential in the Dyed Lands and walked onto it. Time mattered in some places more than others.
It had no idea what it was doing. It was like…a Fire Elemental with no conception of how thermodynamics worked, experimenting with its true nature. There were consequences it could not predict and cared nothing for. Time was linked to more than just time itself. It was space and a fundamental part of the world! It was magic, and this thing was pulling at everything every time it stepped. Every time it moved.
A foe for the six, but only Kasigna seemed inclined to challenge it. If…she could even win.
It could eat them, too.
“You’ve destroyed us all.”
Emerrhain hissed at the Gnomes. For answer, they just shrugged.
“Weren’t you going to do that? If we lose, everyone loses. Otherwise—we fight.”
Indeed, the ghosts and even some of the Seamwalkers were turning on a common foe. Kasigna hissed in hatred as the Timewalker paused, choosing where to step next. It seemed to recognize it was in danger, because it was looking down.
Straight at the dead gods.
Straight at…Erin.
