“We were dead.”
“And you didn’t have kids? You said that. Why?”
Zineryr scratched at his beard.
“You know, children are delightful. Ours would have been too intelligent. They would have asked too many questions, you see? We were tired. Every door was shut. Some of us chose to leave, before the war, and the rest after. We bade them best wishes wherever they went. But we eighteen chose to stay. Just in case. The last Elves, Sprigaena included, died out, and their children became half-Elves because only two Elves can create another Elf. Sort of a genetic flaw, that. But the doors were sealed, so nothing could leave. You see—they were alive, but starving.”
“The dead gods.”
The Gnome nodded.
“Exactly. They would have fled—if they could. So no children. No great magics—the world was shattered. We had won the war, but they were not dead…yet. Dying.”
“I don’t get it. How did you win if…how did it end?”
The Gnomes still on dragonback shook their heads. Zineryr looked at Xarkouth.
“Dragons fell from the skies, screaming defiance by the tens of thousands in the first battles. The greatest spellcasters struggled with the divine, and other lands pledged to do such battle that it engulfed multiple realms. The Faerie King and Queen fought, and the Fae were forever wounded as Titania, Queen of the Fae, fell. Elves died. Gnomes died. We slew them one by one, and there were traitors and great battles, but at the end, we had one last plan. We had no more weapons. Literally—only a few things of such magical power or similar scope can kill them. Only a few stood at the end, so we enacted our great plan. We won—but a handful survived.”
One last move in a chess game where all the pieces were on the other side. Erin could almost see it. Her voice trembled.
“How…how did you do it?”
Zineryr just gazed at her.
“You already know. You come from another world. You must be able to guess, young lady. It is so obvious you understand it already. Or does your world lack such ideas altogether? I know it doesn’t; I’ve talked with your people.”
Erin Solstice’s heart raced. She did know. It was so obvious that she had heard it from the start. She had only put the pieces together later. Begun to think it was by design…she murmured.
“The gods are dead.”
Xarkouth gasped because he had just figured it out. The Gnomes just smiled. Zineryr resumed his tale.
“They were not dead when we killed them. They rotted. Starving. We hoped they would die out, but six must have clung to life. Here—we didn’t know they could come here. Eating each other, struggling to survive. Six…well. Six and a half.”
“What’s the half? Rhir? What’s…”
The Gnome tapped at the side of his nose.
“Having never seen who it was, I can only guess based on who would have fallen and been buried that deep. Not the genuine article. But close—she would have been the product of when gods like Tamaroth took lovers among the immortal or mortal. Spawn of gods. I think you’d call them…”
“Demigods?”
“Ah, a lovely word. Yes, and more dangerous because it has a body.”
Erin was trying to contain all of this. She had every answer—now Zineryr was looking at her.
“You have the history. Now—understand this. When you wake up, you will find all the explanations. All the regrets and sordid history. We left clues, but the clues only appear if there’s a need. Well—some of them. The last of other species left their confessions and treasures, but look for our designs. Each old race had them. Dragons, Elves, Gnomes, Dwarves—each one safeguards. Pull weapons to fight them. The gods can die. They can lose. Remember that.”
Was he talking about…Erin frowned.
“Dungeons?”
“Hopefully more like helpful vaults, but whatever you want to call them—I am sure they are overgrown, protected well, and remote. Now…”
The Gnome was reaching for something, conjuring it out of magic and memory. Erin Solstice leaned over as he produced an object and opened it for her.
“…here’s a map. I’m sure the geography’s changed, but we can do some correcting as long as no one’s messed with the landscape too much. Then again, your High Passes make me think this might be a chore. But they’re not all possible to move. Just hard to get to.”
Erin’s eyes went round.
“You have a map?”
The Gnomes were insulted. One put her hands on her hips.
“Do you forget where you build a gigantic vault? What, did you think we’d give you two riddles and a puzzle box to open? What are we, faeries?”
Zineryr chuckled, then fixed Erin with an eye. He glanced over her shoulder, frowned at something. Erin looked around, but the [Immortal Moment] was still going on. She wanted to go back to everything. Dwarves. Elves…what it had been like. The Gnome was rushing on.
“Just remember—it’s not you alone. Just tell them.”
“But what about you? Can’t you come back to life? Aren’t we going to—win?”
Every ghost in creation was fighting. Yet Zineryr laced his fingers together and gazed up a moment in contemplation.
“…Winning takes many forms. It’s not just a chess game. This is a far more complicated battle. Yes, we have many plans. Some were more drastic than others. But they are still what they are, Erin. Gods. I am afraid we will not last; they will hunt us down, you see. Nothing like being responsible for killing them once to make them hold a grudge. Don’t worry—we’ll go out fighting.”
“One trick left. You just go back to life and do your best.”
“But how do I fight that?”
Erin looked up at the army of Seamwalkers. The great Devourer, still striding through the waters. Was it looking their way? The [Immortal Moment] shivered as Erin’s spirit quailed. The Gnomes just laughed. One nudged Erin.
“You’ll figure it out. As we said—it’s never just you. There’s never a reason to give up. In the darkest hour, we can turn it around. When it’s pitch black, cast fireball.”
She winked at Erin.
“You’re like us. You escaped Kasigna’s clutches yourself.”
Erin smiled faintly and sadly. She looked at a little flame glowing in her hands and wiped at her eyes.
“With help. I couldn’t do it alone.”
The Gnome nodded seriously, still smiling. There was a depth to those smiles. They smiled rather than wept for all the comrades they had ever known. Smiled—because they would not give their enemies the satisfaction of anything else. Zineryr murmured as he glanced about.
“Everyone needs help. But hold onto that. It is the most valuable skill you will ever learn. More valuable than all your Skills. You are like us, you know. You try.”
“I couldn’t do this!”
Erin pointed at—everything. The Gnome pinched her cheek.
“Don’t be silly. Of course not. I said you are like us. Like those [Witches] who took you in. We’re all the same. Meddlesome folk, across species. But we’re the best. We’ve been doing it for thousands and thousands of years. And while you claim you can’t do anything—one girl is currently holding this entire world in check. Believe me—they’re noticing.”
Erin started.
“What do you m—”
Then she looked up at the Great Devourer and noticed it had moved slightly. Of course, it was an immortal moment. But every single eye on that vast being had shifted. All of them were staring at…
Erin gulped. Then she saw an [Archmage], frozen in battle, looking her way, mouth open in wordless disbelief. She peered over Xarkouth’s back and saw the Seamwalkers gazing up at her. Xarkouth muttered.
“Void consume us. They’re all looking our way.”
Zineryr nodded thoughtfully.
“D-did I do that?”
The Gnomes were chortling. One slapped Erin on the back as hard as he could.
“Yes. Did you think your Skill just stopped time for us? This is clearly a mistake. The grand design is stopping everything. Hah! Even the gods! This must really make them mad. Unfortunately—I don’t think we can tell you all the stories.”
The Gnomes were nodding. One look up explained why.
The [Immortal Moment] was…shaking. It was ending, or trying to. Erin felt something tugging at it, trying to eat it. The Devourer of Time was eating her Skill!
She clung to it, forcing more power into the Skill.
“Not yet! I have so many questions.”
“And we have answers. Map!”
One thrust it in her face. Zineryr spoke from the side.
“You will need to find allies. Go to Drath. Find the clues; they’re irrefutable proof, weapons, tricks, no matter who made them. Ours are very helpful, but I’m sure the Elves left some. Dwarves and other species. Ah—other species. The Harpies are all but gone, they tell me. But the last ones might be your allies. On Rhir. They call them Demons now.”
“Demons? But I’ve heard they’re bad guys…”
Another Gnome lifted a finger.
“According to whom, exactly? There are always two sides to every argument. To hear those six tell it, we were the disobedient children who rebelled for no reason other than ignorance and spite. I suggest you make your own informed decisions.”
“I—who else?”
Zineryr tugged on one finger absently.
“Djinni went both ways during the war. They have all been enslaved, and their children were wiped out. It would be a mistake to generalize across species, and we are not up to date on the entire world. Although…”
His eyes sharpened. One Gnome nudged him.
“—She can trust the fae, can’t she?”
“Of course. But are they even there? The Winter Court wouldn’t have kept bringing winter after all this time. Not after all they lost…”
Erin’s head snapped up.
“You mean Winter Sprites?”
She was not prepared for the way all the Gnomes sighed suddenly. One took off a pair of goggles and wiped at her eyes.
“Ah, those loyal idiots. They kept their word? How are they?”
“U-um, mischievous? They throw snow, and they called my friend—she’s a half-Elf—a whore…”
The Gnomes just exchanged looks. One shook her head.
“They never forget. They will be your allies. At least—Oberon’s lot. But he’d never open a gateway. That was one of the plans if they started winning. Just open a gate and hope the Faerie King would end this war here. It would mean the destruction and contamination of his realm—but he might dare it. No. No…keep them out of this. They have sacrificed far too much.”
Zineryr rested his tiny chin on his hands.
“That will be up to them. The Winter Sprites know more, though they have great rules.”
“I—I think we’ve got that. My friend, Ryoka? She’s friends with one of the fae.”
The Gnomes blinked at Erin. She tried to tell them about Ryoka—but then they were rolling around on Xarkouth’s back laughing. One fell off the side and had to fly back up.
“Friends with one of the Fae? Which one? Ivolethe—ah, that’s hilarious! Which one is that?”
“I know her!”
Erin looked around wonderingly. The Gnomes caught themselves quickly—the [Immortal Moment] was shivering. Zineryr nodded.
“Then they are in this battle. For better or worse. Who else?”
“Witches.”
“[Witches]?”
The Gnomes were all agreeing.
“Nothing like a pointed hat to command respect. They went to war with us—and they are always a sensible lot. Talk to [Witches]. Who else? Who can we actually recommend? Drath, [Witches], Fae…”
Erin felt there were two crucial species they had forgotten. And it was a great question, one she needed to know. She timidly raised a hand like she was in school.
“Excuse me. What about…Goblins? Antinium?”
The two monstrous people who she had realized were just people that had no friends. The effect on the Gnomes was…profound.
As one, they all lost their smiles. Wordlessly, they looked up and about. And Erin remembered something.
There were no Goblins in this entire land. Not one. Perhaps, then, the Gnomes had forgotten Goblins. But the name alone clearly made them remember. Zineryr and his kin hung their heads.
“No. Not Goblins.”
“Why not?”
Erin was mystified. Zineryr shook his head.
“Leave them be. Do not make them face this cruel destiny. Not twice. They were never on either side, just victims. The youngest deserve nothing but peace.”
They had no idea. They…Erin looked at them. Goblin Kings. Goblin Lords and Goblins, hunted across the world. Her voice shook.
“But they’re called monsters. Each Goblin King who rises—”
She saw the blank look in Zineryr’s eyes. He didn’t know. It slowly turned to horror. And then Erin saw a sight she never wanted to see.
The Gnomes wept. Tears ran from their eyes as the old ghosts cried. One tore at her hair, and Zineryr covered his face.
“Is this one last spiteful act of gods? We saw them not, and I only believed they were excluded from this place or sent elsewhere. Monsters? They are not monsters!”
“I know.”
The Gnome lifted his head. He fixed Erin with a gaze.
“Then you have done us all a service. Goblin Kings? There was only ever one. His wrath has endured this long? No…they were never matured as a people. Memory. Memory and Goblins…”
He looked at his kin, then turned to Erin.
“Tell them, then. Tell them who you are facing and reawaken a Goblin King.”
“Or Queen.”
The Gnomes were clustering around Erin. Zineryr grabbed Erin’s hands. He waved at the others for silence.
“Of course! That is why they become Goblin Kings. She needs to tell them nothing. Their King will remember everything. If there is one true ally—it is the species truly wronged by gods. So. Goblins.”
He looked so wretchedly unhappy. Then Zineryr turned.
“She should meet one of the Elves. Sprigaena—if only we could arrange it. If only…”
He looked up as the [Immortal Moment] shrank. Xarkouth was now silent, flapping along, and Erin felt the…bubble…of immortal time shrinking as it was eaten away. One Gnome cursed and stepped back, giving the others room.
“Almost time. And I suspect this moment will cost us.”
Zineryr murmured. Erin cried out. She held the little Gnome’s hands in hers.
“I have so many more questions! What about Antinium?”
Four Gnomes crowded around her, then three. Zineryr sighed, scratching at his hair.
“I have never met them. Some ghosts whispered of new species—but they can appear organically. Ant-people? Good for them. We had spider-folk, once. Remember they are people.”
He gazed at Erin and smiled.
“What am I saying? You know that.”
The Gnome looked around and shook his head.
“I wish we had all the time to give you answers. But there is one last thing I wanted to tell you: we are sorry.”
The two Gnomes nodded solemnly. Erin looked from face to face.
“Sorry?”
A female Gnome gestured around.
“This is not your affair, Erin. This is our mess. You’ve been dragged into their games, and we are sorry. We will take responsibility. But we cannot end this ourselves. We tried once, and we will do all we can again. But we failed.”
