Foes and such a curious food. Something that had generated nigh-unlimited time. Erin gulped as the hungriest being of all looked at a very tantalizing snack. Using [Immortal Moment] in front of a time-eater suddenly seemed like a bad idea.
That great foe was so wrong it was tied for the dead gods in Erin’s head. No—worse? They might be abhorrent, rotting things, but this thing was consuming reality.
It was wrong.
“Stop, stop, stopstopstopstopstop—”
It wasn’t just Erin saying it. It felt like everything was screaming. Zineryr was looking around.
“Does anyone…feel that? I think I feel magic distorting.”
“Another trick!”
Kasigna hissed at him, and the Gnome rolled his eyes.
“This is the problem with being known as a deceiver. No one takes you—can’t you feel that? Or are you so atrophied that—”
“What is that?”
Emerrhain sensed it too. Erin, raising her head as she pressed her hands against her ears in a reflexive attempt to limit the cacophony in her brain, realized—
Something was happening that neither the Gnomes nor dead gods had expected.
Like a shrieking wound in the fabric of reality, the world itself screamed out as the Devourer of Time walked across it. A howl of pain that everyone in the deadlands and even mortals sensitive to it in the living world felt.
A building crescendo that had begun the moment the Devourer of Time had begun its climb. It reached a peak now. A siren, a scream before the tears multiplied and became a death-wound.
Louder, until it rang through Erin’s soul. So loud she felt her existence shaking before it. Until, for one moment, it became a peak which she could not tolerate or even exist in. But it was an eternity and age and so short a span—
The scream ended, and there they were. Erin Solstice looked up and saw them, standing in the air, stumbling, waking from their rest.
Summoned by this hour of need. Just as they had sworn.
The defenders of time itself.
[Time Mages].
 
——
 
There were less than a hundred. They appeared all at once, some screaming, others jerking up in surprise. Many old. Some whirling in the height of battle, or at peace.
As they died.
Erin Solstice saw an ancient Garuda lift his head and catch himself in midair, and saw—for a moment—a bed and children, grandchildren, and great-great grandchildren. The Garuda’s eyes opened wide.
“…so that is how I knew.”
Another figure stumbled, screaming, skin burning as he lifted his hands to ward off a spell. He ran out of a battlefield, and the last words he had ever spoken echoed.
“Thresk! Thresk! They came from behind—”
The warmage looked around, the magical fire on his robes extinguishing. A terrible wound down his shoulder that had literally severed his arm from his body and eaten into his very lungs—slowly unwound. The burning spell reversed, until only whole flesh and the robes of a Warmage of Albez remained.
The [Temporal Mage], Udatron, lowered his hands and whirled in confusion.
“Where am I? What is this? Thresk!”
They knew. Most of them knew. They had felt their deaths. Another [Mage] appeared, a half-Elf so old she had all but turned to dust. She lifted her head and gasped.
“What is this? It is destroying time itself—”
“What? What? What is going on? What has the design done?”
A voice exploded amidst the appearing [Time Mages]. Emerrhain was tearing at his hair. Even the other dead gods were shocked. But the answer was obvious.
“The Oath of Time! We have sworn to protect it!”
An [Archmage] holding an actual clock—an old-fashioned watch—looked around. He called out amidst glory and wonder and horror.
“A second chance! We have been moved through the river of ages itself! But—dead gods! The Clockmakers themselves!”
He goggled at the Gnomes, one of whom waved at him. It was the answer to one of magic’s great mysteries. Why no one had ever found the body of a [Time Mage], no matter how they died.
In every age, from the beginning to the end, they were appearing. Erin’s eyes widened as she saw more appear. A furious Human man.
“I almost ruled Wistram! Almost but for that damned half-Elf and Goblin!”
Another [Mage] was shouting.
“Archmage, the Drakes have our flanks! That Truestone Golem is throwing s—”
The Lamia ducked—then looked up. The Devourer of Time looked down and swatted the Lamia out of existence. The other [Time Mages] recoiled.
The Timewalker did not like this. It sensed some kind of danger and went to attack again. Reality twisted—
And stabilized. A dozen [Time Mages] threw up their hands, and time refused to skip. They dove, some splashing into the water, others just diving. One tried to [Teleport] and was hit.
“What is going on—”
Udatron was still gazing around, but more [Mages] were arriving. One appeared with a howl of magic.
The Great General of Ailendamus, the General of Ages, Dioname, opened her eyes. One hand was still reaching out, stealing the last of Tyrion Veltras’ age. She raised her head and looked up.
“Ah. Rhisveri never told me about this.”
The half-Elf gazed upwards with a terrible fear…and a kind of satisfaction. Indeed, the other [Time Mages] might panic or take time to understand what was happening as their personalities dictated, but they had all known it.
They had all sensed their end. Dionamella saw the truth she had sensed.
Her end.
So the half-Elf glanced around, then took aim at the Timewalker. She lifted a hand.
“[Disintegration Ray].”
The colorless, nigh-invisible beam hit the Timewalker in the leg, so tiny as to be a speck taken out of a mountain beyond Giants. But…part of the Devourer of Time vanished.
It had not learned how to eat magic. It was still a child. The other [Time Mages] saw that. Most acted instinctively.
“[Ritual of the Cataclysm: The Storm of the Lightning Emperor]! Cover me!”
An [Archmage] rose into the air, bellowing as other [Mages] dove. One was swimming towards the Timewalker until an exasperated [Mage] cast [Levitate].
They were not all of the same level. But they knew their foe and duty. Udatron snarled and raised a hand.
“[Grand Fireball]. [Magnify Spell]. [Infuse Spell: Poison]. I will not die here! Thresk!”
They were casting magics from the beginning to the end. The surprised dead gods saw the reinforcements light up the lower half of the Timewalker as it stopped walking and began attacking them.
It was in danger. Seamwalkers were trying to eat it, and the enraged ghosts of every time were assaulting the great horror. Erin Solstice looked up in awe at the terrific battle as Dionamella lifted her hands.
“[Summoning: Avatar of the Wyrm-Queen].”
She was conjuring something big. Spells of such magnitude were flying through the air that the lesser [Time Mages] contributing their [Fireball] spells quickly realized their best bet was to guard their higher-level compatriots against the Seamwalkers.
They didn’t know where this was. And many were simply transfixed by the strangeness. Their death, this land, the Seamwalkers—they all but missed the dead gods but for the Gnomes, Elves, Dragons, and ghostly heroes.
In fact—it was crushing. Daunting, as Erin had felt when she had met the legends of ghosts. They had died. Some hadn’t expected it or thought they could get back, have another chance.
But some were crushed by their despair. Or just the great Timewalker, who had taken enough damage to obliterate a Walled City in a minute and hadn’t even begun to flinch.
Erin Solstice was backing away from the gigantic, spectral form of a Wyrm charging the Devourer of Time and trying to strike and lash its body when she nearly tripped over a man. Out of all the terrific ghosts, especially the half-Elf [General], he was hardly impressive.
In an ordinary room, he would have stood out. The high-backed collar of magical cloth, a suit tailored for someone in one of the high positions he held, the magic swirling around him, and those eyes that had seen centuries only half-Elves could match would have made him the center of any ordinary company.
His hair was swept back, styled faintly indigo to match his eyes, white at the tips, and his face was gaunt. Yet for his age, it was held back by his magic itself. He was young and old. Weathered, but devoid of any lines or wrinkles. He stared up, tears running from his eyes.
“It was all for naught. Why were we so weak? We never matched the magic of old. What was the point?”
He had a single bloody stain under the lapels on his suit. A mortal wound from a dagger. Erin had never met him in his life.
Nereshal, the Blighted King’s most trusted advisor and the great [Chronomancer] of the Blighted Kingdom, looked up at the Timewalker. Someone patted him on the shoulder.
“Hey, buddy. I get it. But there’s sort of a crisis. So…if you’re not fighting that thing, would you mind helping me punch those guys?”
Someone offered him a hand and a big smile. The [Time Mage] looked up into Erin Solstice’s face as she jerked a thumb over her shoulder.
The dead gods were watching the fighting and clearly wondering if they should help or kill the Gnomes or what this meant. Nereshal stared at them in confused horror—then fixed on Erin Solstice’s face.
“You.”
“Me? Oh, I’m sort of alive. Hey…are you here? Here? Wait a second—you have a body!”
Erin poked Nereshal in the cheek and felt it! He had a body! They weren’t just the souls of the [Time Mages]—they had actual bodies?
“Uh oh.”
One of the Gnomes had heard that. She made a sign, and the dead gods jerked out of their stupor.
“Bodies?”
“We’re going to have to ash all of them. Actually…let them take them. With our luck, they’ll be stranded in time or vaporized.”
Zineryr made a quick calculation and grinned. Then he clapped his hands, and a directed flash of light blinded Emerrhain. He skipped across the water and grabbed Erin.
“Time to go—head to Izril and your friends! We’ll try to draw the five off, but we have to put our plan into motion. Good luck, Erin Solstice.”
“Zineryr—”
Erin rose as the five dead gods split, chasing after the Gnomes as the immortals opened up with magic, blinding, creating illusions, dodging the dead gods. She took a step—and Nereshal grabbed her leg.
“You!”
“What? Hey, let go, buddy—”
Erin tried to shake him off, and Zineryr slowed, frowning. But Nereshal was staring at Erin. Staring at her with…recognition.
“It’s you! I—I am Nereshal! The Blighted King’s [Mage]. He betrayed me at the end! His madness—you—you’re Erin Solstice!”
“Let go—this isn’t—hey!”
Erin was watching Emerrhain head towards them. Zineryr cursed and lifted a hand. A wall of light appeared, and Emerrhain walked through it, evaporating the magic. The Gnome pointed a finger at Nereshal’s head.
“Let go, mage.”
His finger was about to unleash something that would kill Nereshal twice—but the [Chronomancer] was babbling.
“You—don’t you know me? No—when is this? You’re…you’re Erin Solstice.”
“Yes!”
He’d clearly heard her name. Why was he saying it like that? Then Nereshal burst out.
“The Goblinfriend of Izril!”
Erin Solstice froze.
“W-what did you just say?”
Zineryr’s finger wavered. The Gnome fixed on Nereshal as the [Chronomancer] babbled.
“You’re too young! And you and I have met—you don’t remember?”
“No. Who are…?”
Erin was sure she’d remember this guy. Had she tossed the memory at the dead gods? No—Nereshal had a sudden, desperate look on his face.
“Then I died after whenever this is! Time! Time can be changed. Please! You must listen! The Blighted King will go mad! I will be slain when I oppose him! Stop him! Warn me!”
“Hey—hey—I don’t know what…”
Erin’s mouth was dry. Wait. Was this really what she suspected?
A time paradox? Why not? With the Timewalker…the man was holding her.
“Listen. I know what you will do. But the Blighted Kingdom will not be your ally in the future. The madness…you must warn me. I can change the future. Tell me and I will give you anything you desire, Goblinfriend! We will meet! I will throw my power behind you.”
“I—I—Zineryr?”
She looked around, but the Gnome was striding off. Straight towards Emerrhain? Erin looked at Nereshal, but didn’t know what to do. So she listened.
“I…how would I even convince you?”
Nereshal hesitated. He looked at Erin and then burst out!
“A code! Something so secret that I would believe you. Tell me…yes. Tell me this: ‘The Blighted King will betray you.’ I should trust you—trust the [Clown] even, damn him. Convince me! Tell me this. ‘By the sin of Arruif Yal, he was not worthy to serve!’ Do that and the terrible fate for us all can be averted. Or else the Blighted Kingdom will destroy your land and other continents in his mad war, with his army of children from another world, once the Demon King dies.”
Erin staggered back as the [Chronomancer] beseeched her. His words fixed themselves in her head. But could she remember? Would she even survive…?
Time changed. The Devourer of Time saw it splitting off and tried to focus on Erin Solstice. But the Great General of Ages engulfed one arm in bright flames.
“[Holy Flame of the Agelum]!”
That hurt it. Dionamella stared down at Erin and Nereshal.
“What is he doing? Time is…”
She swooped lower, staring at Erin Solstice and the split in time Nereshal was causing. The possibilities…
 
——
 
Emerrhain, the God of Magic, sensed the disturbance, but vaguely. Time was not his aegis. Besides—
He had his enemy. He was advancing on the Gnomes. Another vanished with a curse that faded into a sigh as Tamaroth caught her sleeve.
They had to die. These dangerous foes…but why was Zineryr coming towards Emerrhain? He had always been devious, that leader of Gnomes who had built a contraption to let him go into space.
The first stellar voyager. Emerrhain refused to be tricked again. He reached for the Gnome, confident there was little Zineryr could do to harm him without his gadgets. The Gnome halted in the roiling sea. He raised his hands.
“Time out! Stop!”
The God of Magic sneered at him. But Zineryr just bellowed in his face.
“Infraction in time! Hold on, you fool!”
The God of Magic hesitated.
“…What? If this is a trick—”
However, Zineryr was naming what he was vaguely sensing. The Gnome pointed at Nereshal and Erin.
“Time paradox. That man is from the future.”
Emerrhain wavered. The God of Magic peered at Zineryr with deepest suspicion, then Nereshal…then he began cursing.
“Time paradox?”
The Gnome and dead god exchanged glances. Zineryr lifted a few fingers.
“He’s just created a temporal crossroads. You know what that means.”
The God of Studies and Secrets’ eyes flickered as he parsed this.
