She gave Erin a terribly guilty smile, and the young woman shook her head. She looked at the Gnomes. Eighteen Gnomes, where a people had once been.
“The others were all eaten, weren’t they? Some left. But that’s why there are so few Elves. Gnomes, Dwarves…they were all eaten.”
Zineryr shook his head gently.
“No. Some just died. Died in such a way that they left nothing behind. Many were consumed, yes.”
“Then—then—why do you call it your fault? This isn’t your responsibility. You didn’t do any of this, did you?”
The Gnomes looked at each other, and one froze. Two left. Male and female. Zineryr and a Gnome with bright, pink hair. They both shook their heads and looked at Erin.
“No. We spoke against them when they proposed their grand design. When the Elves rebelled, we stood with them. Then we fought until our people vanished and the world was destroyed. We won—we did not begin this.”
“Then why do you say it like that? Why are you still here?”
Taking responsibility for the folly of gods? Zineryr held Erin’s hand and looked up at her as that immortal moment faded away.
“I suppose it’s simply…this is our world. They were our gods. We worshiped and loved them, once.”
Erin drank in a world of sadness, a time long gone in Zineryr’s kindly, weary eyes. The Gnome’s gaze sparkled.
“They were like our parents, in a way. We take on none of their sins, Erin Solstice. But it does fall to us to stop them. Because someone had to. When something ill happens—someone must step forwards. We refused to run or look away.”
It was the answer that Erin Solstice could understand in her very heart. She took Zineryr’s hand in her own, trembling.
“Thank you, then.”
He beamed at her. Then the [Immortal Moment] was at its end. Zineryr nodded.
“You truly were worth coming here to meet. Erin Solstice—look. What you see here, now?”
He pointed across the lands of the dead as they fought horrors from the edge of the world itself. Ghosts of every species. Zineryr captured Erin’s eye.
“Make it a reality. For they will have allies, and there are always simply those who will profit or do wrong. For there will always be…”
He hesitated. One of the Gnomes looked over Xarkouth’s wing and swore.
“He pierced our spells. Dragon, dodge—”
Xarkouth roared, and Erin saw Zineryr push her urgently. Then a ray of light flashed past her face. It had gone…straight through the Void Dragon’s body. She shouted, and then they were falling as the Dragon roared again and fell out of the sky.
Straight down. Erin slowed and hovered, flailing, and saw Xarkouth plummet into the ocean. The other Gnomes caught themselves and turned. Zineryr grimaced.
“Ah, wonderful. Here comes the first one.”
Emerrhain, the God of Magic, stood in the air, holding an open book in one hand. He pointed at Erin Solstice, face alight with malice.
“There you are. KASIGNA! NORECHL! Your prey.”
He called into the void, and two figures turned, one standing over a collapsed giant of flesh, a Seamwalker. Kasigna turned with Erin’s mother’s face on hers. And the God of the Lost slowly began to smile again. Erin saw Zineryr meet Emerrhain’s gaze.
“Such petty people. Can you believe he ever ruled over anyone?”
Khelta turned as she saw, in the distance, Erin Solstice and the Gnomes facing Emerrhain, with two gods following.
Then another god appeared, and Zineryr sighed.
“Well, that answers that question. We may be saying goodbye sooner than I wished. Time for one last battle.”
 
——
 
There was a kind of grand finality to it. A delightful ending to all the strife and worry. Now, at last, they could put it to rest. The Gnolls and their damned quarrels, unrest in Izril—all of it wrapped up with a neat bow.
To Wall Lord Dragial, the Meeting of Tribes, embroiled in civil war, was the perfect moment. A chance to end it all.
“I don’t intend to wipe out the Gnolls, of course. They are not all there. However, the time has come to finally reclaim the Blade of Mershi. To put an end to Gnollish aggression and claim our land. The Great Plains of Izril. Should they surrender, I will happily spare every Gnoll—we are drawing up a proposed way to funnel them into cities and designated tracts of land. Make no mistake, though—this will be an end to it.”
He smiled, and his words were met with polite applause. No less than three [Generals], one a [Mage-General] of Fissival himself, and two more from the lesser Drake cities, were commanding the joint army led by Fissival.
Fissival’s army was marching towards the site of the fighting, which was widespread and growing as the Gnolls fought each other. They would be within range by the end of the day. As far as Wall Lord Dragial, who had assumed command of the army, knew, only two other forces would be poised to interfere.
Manus was still on the march from the opposite side, and they might make it, but Oteslia and Zeres would both be delayed getting to the battle. Zeres was moving to counter Oteslia, who had declared they were intending on supporting one of the Gnollish factions.
Since that was plain idiocy, Zeres was mobilizing the two halves of its army to cut off Oteslia. The City of Growth had the weakest army of all the Walled Cities by far, and supplemented by Liscor’s mercenary army, Zeres would keep them in stalemate unless Oteslia were mad enough to attack.
Which they might be, given they’d nearly started a war by breaking the siege on their city. But that was a move that weakened the City of Waves and City of Growth, and so Dragial was quite content with having no enemies at his back.
In fact, he would be marching on the Gnolls with not only Fissival, but Salazsar, whose smaller force was moving into a spot on Fissival’s flanks. Wall Lord Ilvriss Gemscale was apparently leading them, as was right and proper.
A Wall Lord to lead an army. A [General] commanded, but they were the scions of their cities. And this Ilvriss had been a sympathetic ear to his cause.
The Blade of Mershi. With it, his disgrace would be forgotten, and he would be welcomed to his city.
Dragial could almost taste it. If there was one thing that made him frown, it was the last force moving into the Great Plains. Ahead of Fissival.
“A ragtag army of Gnolls, Goblins, even Antinium fighting together. Following…the Titan of Baleros. It is just like a Balerosian [Mercenary] to do something like this.”
“It is extraordinary that Antinium would follow anyone, Wall Lord. Perhaps we should attempt to take prisoners?”
Dragial lifted a bejeweled claw as one of the [Generals] murmured.
“Appropriate, General Hexa. The Fraerling himself. A sufficiently small bottle should do. We can mail him to the Iron Vanguard.”
Chuckles. Wall Lord Dragial turned back to the map of the battle. They were on the move, of course; he was not resting on his laurels, even though he stood in a rather resplendent war room.
It was just that the war room was moving. If you stepped outside or into the room like a [Messenger] did now, you exited the outside world and entered the huge, mobile Moving Rooms that Fissival was famous for. Rather like the Moving Cities of old—but all they could do was compress a room into an oversized wagon that could be ported about.
“Sir, Wall Lord Ilvriss has sent a runner requesting an immediate conference with Fissival’s leaders and an agreement to cease hostilities from any Walled City until we can come to a mutual plan of action.”
The [General] reported after a second of scanning the missive. Dragial snorted.
“It sounds entirely like the City of Gems. Do they want a contract as well? Inform Wall Lord Ilvriss I will happily meet with him if he will join my position. Indeed, I invite him to coordinate our assault. But I will strike the Gnolls to pieces while the moment is ripe.”
They were fighting each other over some traditional foolishness. Dragial turned back to the map.
Now—now was the moment. He dismissed the [Messenger] and looked ahead, towards the Meeting of Tribes. Even if the Gnolls had not their civil war, every Walled City was marching on them save one. This was it. The Wall Lord murmured the catchphrase that had led him these last few years. This would be his great victory.
“In the name…of the City of Stars.”
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss was cursing. He was not a Drake prone to it, but he couldn’t help it.
“Pour quartz dust into your eyes, you ceiling-scraping cave-roach! What about Manus? Can’t we go faster?”
He wanted to ride ahead, but General Greex of Salazsar only shook his head.
“Wall Lord, we cannot cover a mile in moments! If we run our soldiers, they will have no strength to fight!”
Ilvriss knew that was true, and marching Skills and speed Skills only worked so well. But never before had he ever considered Salazsar an impoverished, weak nation.
Yet clearly—they lacked the ability to just buy speed like Khelt or a nation like Jecrass. He fumed every slow step of the marching Drake [Soldiers]. And to be fair—they were marching at a fast clip.
“Then—Manus. Zeres is pivoting to face Oteslia? Can we intercept either army, or move towards them?”
General Greex shook his head, but Captain Osthia interrupted.
“Wall Lord, Manus is coming from across the Great Plains. We could send a rider, but you would not be able to meet with them unless you went yourself.”
And I am needed here. Ilvriss saw his plan collapsing for a number of reasons. The sudden fighting in the Meeting of Tribes had begun—and it was Gnolls killing Gnolls.
Disastrous. Worse—it had inspired Wall Lord Dragial to prepare for his attack. All for Fissival’s grudge against Gnolls for things they had done and his desire to take the Blade of Mershi. Ilvriss had been angling to meet with every leader he could in private before the battle.
Instead, it looked like only Fissival and Zeres would be in close range before the battle began. And of the two…
I could meet Wall Lord Dragial in private, tell him about Az’kerash and why this battle plays into the Necromancer’s hands. Indeed, I could, if I didn’t think that Drake had actual gravel for brains.
The one authority among Drakes he could easily speak to was a Drake who had not only been exiled from Fissival, but been condemned for attacking Gnoll tribes, Drake cities, and pursuing a Named Adventurer for some relic.
Worse, it was clear he had many allies that supported him in Fissival. Enough to let him assume command of a Walled City’s army.
Ilvriss was grinding his teeth as he rode.
“Not Wall Lord Dragial. Call for an immediate meeting with the Admiralty of Zeres. All three of them. Two Admirals and the Sharkcaptain. I will speak with them all directly.”
He sent another [Message] spell off and looked ahead towards the Meeting of Tribes. He thought he smelled smoke.
The fighting had begun last night. He had actually seen some of it. The revelations about the nature of Doombearers and the treachery of the Plain’s Eye tribe were all easy for him to grasp. The shocking part was the revelation of this Daemon of Luck. What was that thing? The worst part, though, was…Mrsha.
That little Gnoll that was too precocious by half, caught up in the middle of the fighting. It would be midday at least before Salazsar was able to intervene. Ilvriss ground his teeth together.
“Wall Lord? Response from Zeres.”
“That was fast.”
“We are communicating on military channels, Wall Lord. Admiral of the Land, Admiral Horsthe, has indicated that Zeres is too busy to engage in diplomatic channels with the Admiralty. He is directing us towards their [Diplomats]—”
Nerul looked up as Ilvriss lost his temper. He grabbed the [Message] spell. Then he shredded it.
“Inform Admiral Horsthe that if Zeres does not want to be flanked by Salazsar to the rear, they will arrange a meeting with me now. Or we will engage in an immediate alliance with Oteslia.”
“Sir?”
General Greex paled. He checked his shoulder.
“They are marching with Liscor’s army. And they have a force twice our size—”
“Send the [Message], Captain Shieldscale. I will not have more idiocy. We are not bound to attack Gnolls. Why can no one see this?”
Ilvriss was panting with frustration. He looked around and saw Shriekblade watching him. Ilvriss straightened, catching himself. Xesci was not going to be in the fighting, obviously, so they had asked her to wait with his sister and mother. Ilvriss closed his eyes.
“Someone must stop this madness. Why do we need to fight the Gnolls? Just what did they do to us to warrant this? Not as a species. Not one tribe—all of them. Why are we marching armies on them?”
No one had an answer at first. It was Nerul, sipping from a wine cup as he watched the fighting, who grimaced and turned to his nephew.
“Isn’t it obvious, Ilvriss? We’re afraid that once they stop killing each other and think about how they came to it—we are afraid of what they will do to us with every right.”
Ilvriss shook his head, but what had he expected? Everyone knew why they were attacking. It was just so damned pointless with the Humans in the north.
Shortsighted. That was it. He felt like he’d been living in a tiny shell, a single city as small as could be, and forgot there was a world outside. Drakes and Gnolls fighting over half of Izril.
“…forgetting even the Antinium are here. Forgetting the end of the world is coming. If there ever was an answer, Uncle, we’ve found it.”
“Hm? What answer?”
Ilvriss had a bitter smile on his face as he looked around.
“Fetohep of Khelt, the Empire of Drath, the Blighted Kingdom, and countless nations are sounding the alarm. Here we are, fighting each other.”
To that…there was nothing to say at all. Ilvriss’ head turned, and he looked southwards. Not that he had a perfect sense of direction, but he had asked.
South, towards Chandrar. That was where he had heard it.
That glorious call, echoing across the world yesterday as dusk set. Ilvriss could have ridden into the sea to follow it. Yet he knew that it was not calling him to the location, but to arms.
Many doubted their memories already, Ilvriss was certain it had not been a figment of his imagination. Somehow—somewhere—he knew who had blown that horn.
“Even in death, they won’t stop haunting me. Shaming me by doing more in months than I have in my entire life. General Greex?”
The Drakes were watching him. Ilvriss broke out of his stupor.
“March your [Soldiers] faster. This is the end of something. I will not have it said that when the world called, the City of Gems failed again. Hurry.”
He turned his head to the scrying orb. Osthia Blackwing looked up slowly; she had gone pale as the chatter of news showing the war among Gnolls, Khelt’s dramatic armies crossing the land, war in A’ctelios Salash suddenly…switched.
