Eighteen…now three. The Gnomes were no longer smiling. They just kept running, splitting up. The God of Magic spoke, taunting them.
“You will interfere in no more plans. No more schemes, tricksters. How does it feel, to know that I was ever the victor? I play games far longer than you can imagine.”
One of the Gnomes leaping through the air raised a hand.
“Serious question, Emerrhain? Ere I end? Will the God of Magic answer me one last thing?”
Zineryr ducked away as Emerrhain turned, gracious, condescending in victory.
“Ask. Calispe.”
The Gnome hovered there as Zineryr and the other Gnome looked at each other. She and he nodded and headed to their goals. A location. The Gnome spoke, staring Emerrhain dead in the eye.
“Are you scientifically, biologically, truly ‘gods’ or a kind of advanced divine amoeba? Because spiritually—you are not gods. Gods are a concept. Other religions had them as omniscient. You are all too real and too fallible.”
The God of Magic met her dancing smile and snarled. He reached out as she saluted her kin.
Then there were two.
Zineryr wondered if he would be the last one. He waited—but the God of Magic had chosen the other Gnome as his second-to-last target. She led him on a merry chase as Zineryr did what had to be done.
“You defied us. Did you not see the grandness of our ideas? Truly, Ameitp?”
The Gnome swept him a smile as she swung through the branches, her burnished skin glinting over tattoos she had been given from a dozen realities. A sad, contemptuous smile.
“Your grand ideas, Emerrhain? Don’t blame us. Blame yourselves. You all created us to be intelligent, then grew upset when we grew bored of your playground. We looked up in wonder at the stars above. Then we took a closer look and discovered that the constellations were mere orbs you hung in the night sky because you didn’t understand how it worked.”
She dodged one hand, slipping around him.
“We went to other worlds to laugh and see what wonders lay in all realities. They suffered for it. They suffered for your entertainment. Have you forgotten what it is like to stand against cruelty? Or did you never kn—”
He touched her, and she vanished. Panting, shaking with fury, he turned to the last Gnome.
 
——
 
Now, Zineryr was walking. He couldn’t help it. He knew the urgency. He knew his time was up.
But still…he walked a moment.
Walked and shed no tears for the last of his kin. They had all died long ago. If he did weep—it was because they had failed, in the end.
“We should have been cleverer. We have left you such a burden, you children of another world. My little cousins. The world has never been kind to the small.”
The last Gnome in existence came to a stop at his destination. He looked at the broken city and came to rest where the world was just a bit warped.
Folded over, so if you were careful…you could see the weeping Fraerling kneeling there. Zineryr bent down. He sighed, and whispered as the God of Magic came for him.
“The Smallest Folk in the world have ever been the bravest. Little cousin, little cousin. I have a favor to ask you.”
 
——
 
Enchanter Ilekrome was waiting for the end. Paeth was evacuating, but many Fraerlings were just trapped. Waiting for him to finish the ritual that would deny the Tallfolk their secrets.
And bury The Last Box deep.
He thought he was dreaming. How else to explain…the figure who stepped out of the air. He was actually shorter than Ilekrome, because he had sized himself down. A sad smile on his face, and as transparent as a thought.
Yet the Gnome waved to Ilekrome, and the Enchanter looked up.
“The Clockmakers?”
His breath caught, and Zineryr smiled at him. He looked into the distance. There was a world of things to say and no time.
The Lizardfolk were trying to chop Paeth down. Each blow made the tree shudder. The Gnome looked into the eyes of his greatest foe. There was only one thing he could say.
One thing to ever say.
“Open The Last Box.”
Enchanter Ilekrome’s head rose. The Gnome slowly pointed and traced something on that cube of infinite dimension, countless puzzles.
It was something they had learned from the fae. It responded to him. The Gnome’s finger traced a square—and the door was there. Enchanter Ilekrome saw it appear, before all the other puzzles. A single door.
He looked at the Gnome, and the figure waited. Enchanter Ilekrome ran to the door. He grasped at the little handle and threw it open. He looked into the greatest mystery of the Gnomes, and his breath caught. The tears on his eyes, the despair…
He looked up at the Gnome.
“Is this a joke?”
The Fraerling slowly dropped his hands to his sides as he stared into The Last Box. There was nothing there. Just…blank space. He turned to rage at this apparition, this—this cruel trick! This ghost who mocked Fraerlings in their last hours.
Then he saw Zineryr smiling. The Gnome was smiling and laughing. He leaned forwards, and despite his fury, his despair and shock—the Enchanter leaned forwards. Zineryr whispered in Ilekrome’s ear.
“No. It’s a trick.”
 
——
 
Emerrhain, the God of Magic, didn’t know why Zineryr had stopped. Perhaps the Gnome had given up? Or was he preparing a final gesture?
The God of Magic expected a trick, but he was drunk on victory. The Gnomes had practically walked into his grasp. It was so easy.
Of course it was. Zineryr looked up calmly as his kin’s sacrifice was realized. He stepped sideways, and Emerrhain saw it.
“What is…that?”
He beheld The Last Box and the Gnome’s final trick. It was just…a tiny cube hidden away in Fraerling cities. So small that even the dead gods wouldn’t notice it, and hidden from the rest of the world as well. A series of puzzles. An instruction manual in the form of the greatest riddle.
And one more thing.
There was a little door that was open in The Last Box. Fae magic—perspective. Emerrhain stared into the blank space and saw a void the size of infinity beyond. Great magic—but Gnomes had always made amazing things.
Then he realized he was inside the white space, staring out. The world flipped suddenly, and Emerrhain was inverted. He stood in a blank space and saw a tiny little door in the distance.
“No—”
The God of Magic whirled. Then he leapt for the door.
Zineryr slammed it shut. The opening vanished, and Emerrhain realized—
He was in the box. This wasn’t just a puzzle. It wasn’t just a cube. It was…
A container. A container made so well and hidden for so long no force in the world could destroy it. A prison for something greater than a soul.
A box meant for a god.
What was in the great secret box of myths? It depended on the story, but it was usually symbolic. A revelation. Or all the evils in the world—that was one of the bad options.
Usually, though, the cop out from the divine entity, the wise master, was something pithy like ‘nothing’ because the answer was inside you all along and they couldn’t live up to expectations.
The Last Box was sort of like that. Except…instead of nothing? It was exactly nothing.
Nothing. Including a way back out. Emerrhain had nothing to hold. Nothing to grasp. There was literally nothing here. He had no magic. No access to the grand design.
This place was nothing. The God of Magic looked around, speechless…then he did realize—hold on! There was something.
He whirled and found the one thing in this entire void. Desperately, the God of Magic approached it. It was…what was it?
Letters. Just magical letters. They drew themselves in the air, and Emerrhain read them. It was the old language of Gnomes, Taeric, which they wrote in. The words cycled, and he realized it was also a simple spell.
It was…sorting itself. Trying to determine which one it had.
 
Dear Tamarooth…
Dear Laedonius No Last Name…
 
Deliberately misspelling their names. To deny them even that…Emerrhain stared at the words as they finally locked into place.
 
Dear Emerrhoon. You are a fool.
Sincerely,
 
And below it was Zineryr’s name. Calispe’s. Hundreds of names, thousands…
Every Gnome who had ever lived. Had ever fought in those wars.
One last little service from the greatest tricksters in the world. Emerrhain looked at the words as they glittered. Then around his new home of forever.
 
——
 
Enchanter Ilekrome didn’t know what had happened. One second he had been about to rage at the Gnome. Then he had sensed something entering The Last Box. Then—the Gnome had shut the door.
“Wh-what’s happening?”
For answer, the Gnome just sat down. He was smiling, but tiredly.
“Victory, little cousin. Victory. Thank you for safeguarding it so long. Now…it is over.”
Paeth was over. And so…so was The Last Box. As Ilekrome watched, the door vanished. The Last Box shifted—and then a calm voice began to speak.
“Hello, Fraerlings or whoever has found this box…we are the Gnomes. We congratulate you on solving thirty-four thousand, two hundred, and twelve puzzles. However, we must regretfully inform you that this object is about to vanish.”
“Huh? No—”
The Last Box was beginning to shimmer. The bright voice kept speaking.
“This box is going to teleport itself into a space no one will ever find. Please stand clear. You have…four minutes. Three minutes fifty-eight seconds. Three minutes fifty-six seconds—I am speaking slowly. Now three minutes fifty-three—”
Ilekrome saw panels sliding open. Little portals appearing. He looked into thousands upon thousands of rooms and saw the puzzle that the Fraerlings had been working on so long.
The portal activated as stones flew into place.
The Last Box opened up, exposing every secret it had ever contained. As it prepared to vanish.
“No! No! Why is this happening?”
“We have to get rid of what’s inside it. I’m sorry.”
The Gnome was tired as he sat there. Ilekrome looked at him—then he was running, shouting.
He burst into the rooms where [Mages] were preparing the last ritual. They looked at Ilekrome as he pointed at The Last Box—then saw what had happened. The Enchanter was screaming.
“G—get me charcoal and paper! Take recordings! Look––look!”
Fraerlings ran, staring at answers to every riddle and magical question, formulas, alchemic secrets…frantically writing everything down. Ilekrome ran through the rooms as the Gnome greeted his cousins and looked down into the destroyed Paeth.
Then Zineryr followed Ilekrome. He found the Enchanter running from wall to wall, staring up at it.
He was looking for something. The Gnome tapped Ilekrome on the shoulder.
“Not that wall. Try two rooms back, through the secret wall.”
Ilekrome whirled. The Gnome was smiling at him. He ran and found what he was looking for.
“…two minutes and eleven seconds…”
The Fraerling stared up at what he needed. What he was sure was there. He turned as Zineryr walked into the room.
“Is that what you want?”
“Yes! How did you know? Have you been watching…?”
Zineryr looked around as Paeth shook again. He shook his head.
“I’m sorry, little cousin. We have been battling other things. Even we forget about you. But we left you these just in case. It will vanish—and the others probably won’t fall for the trick. But remember everything. Prepare for war. Tell all your kin—this is it. Oh—and look out for a Human named Erin Solstice, would you?”
He snapped his fingers with a smile that made him look as young as Ilekrome’s children.
“Hah! Now there’s a contingency plan.”
He laughed, and the Fraerling clung to the laughter. As if…everything could be solved.
Then he was running, calling for the ritual spell to be disbanded. Ordering Fraerlings to maneuver the spells and draw new lines out of magic.
The burning magic spell in his brain. He tried to copy it, improvising with magic. The Clockmakers had made their knowledge easy to understand. It wasn’t one specific way of doing things, but the theory.
So Ilekrome wrote the most complex magical spell he could, taking every shortcut he knew how. Ignoring questions from the other Architects. They fell silent as Zineryr walked among them.
He watched Ilekrome write as Fraerlings looked upon the last Gnome and asked all the questions. But Zineryr had only a short amount of time.
He spent the last words he had simply.
“You made a mistake here, here, and there. You need to edit this magical channel like…”
[Mages] were running around as Zineryr flicked his fingers, showing them how to complete Ilekrome’s magic. He told them nothing of what to do. Just watched and corrected their work like a teacher.
“…thirty-eight seconds…”
“Is it done?”
Ilekrome stopped, and Zineryr squatted down. He double-checked the spell.
“It will work. Nice location. Ah, but you’ve made one mistake.”
The Enchanter was stepping into the center. Zineryr smiled at him as Ilekrome, sagging with relief, went to fuel the spell.
“You can’t sacrifice yourself to activate it.”
The Enchanter saw the other Architects and Fraerlings looking at him. He was standing in the center of a circle meant to fuel this great spell. Zineryr had not stopped him, but he did walk over.
“Sacrificial magic was made by fools. It gives more power than you put into it, but even so—you do not have a fraction of the magical potential to fuel this spell.”
“Then I will do it.”
Farspeaker Humalepre raised his hand. Zineryr stopped him.
“No, no. Every Fraerling in this room couldn’t fuel this spell. You are all regrettably small, and your bodies don’t contain enough magic. To move this tree?”
Ilekrome tasted bile. He stepped back and went to retch—then call for every relic and reservoir of magic they had. Until he noticed who was standing in the center of the circle, lighting it up by his presence.
Zineryr, the Last Gnome, stood there, whistling innocently. He glanced over his shoulder.
“Fifteen seconds. Do it now, before the distortion ends. We were never the most magical—but I’ll do.”
“Clockmaker.”
Alchimeer Straesta whispered. Enchanter Ilekrome looked up, then raised his hands.
“Activate it! All Fraerlings! Inside Paeth! Prepare for distortion!”
His voice sounded throughout their home. Fraerlings paused in confusion, and Zineryr smiled around.
“I’m sorry. The tall folk can be cruel. No one likes people who laugh too loud.”
He smiled, and Ilekrome’s eyes were running as the spell activated.
“Why? All this? All these gifts? This?”
He looked at the Gnome as the spell activated. For answer, Zineryr just threw back his head and laughed.
