The sword flashed six times, and she diced the Garuda into pieces. This time—they lingered only a moment before fading away. Pieces of the Garuda, bloodless but separated, fading away as they tried to stay together. A whole concept, a soul, too badly damaged. Vanishing with a sigh.
The ghosts of the Spriggans who’d been summoned stopped appearing in midair. They called gratefully to Elucina, some weeping. The Rebel of String just smiled up at them. Then she turned.
“Rebel of String! What madness is—”
One of the [Slavers] began to shout before Elucina strode forwards. She was a blur and planted the sword in the chest of another [Slaver]. Without a word, she cut, lightning-quick, slashing the body to nothingness.
“Elucina! We are fighting the end of the land of the dead! Enough!”
Khelta cried out, but the Rebel of String raised her sword. She aimed it at Roshal’s ghosts, and an army flocked to her. Freed [Slaves], the [Rebels] and chainbreakers of every age. The Rebel of String shouted.
“Even at the end of the world, I will not join hands with those who enslave others. If all will fade away—I will see Roshal die first, screaming. Never again! CHARGE.”
She said nothing more, but charged the next [Slaver] and cut the screaming ghost into pieces. Roshal’s ghosts fled as an army followed them.
A far larger force whose fury had not waned over however long they had been dead. Some of Roshal had the levels to fight—but they were the people who enslaved. Roshal’s victims had fled the [Slavers] after death, but they had never forgotten the wrongs. And the worst of Roshal’s get were not here.
The Rebel of String began the first battle between ghosts for the best of reasons. Against all of Roshal’s monsters, each and every one present. However, she was only the first ghost to strike.
As soon as the ghosts of Chandrar realized they had Skills and a means to kill each other, they remembered their grudges and failed dreams and regrets in life. They looked at their parents and loved ones and remembered—
Those that had killed them were here too.
Most did not have Skills to summon weapons. Erin saw a pair of [Kings] who might have been twins square up and begin punching each other, reenacting the very moment of their death with fists instead of swords.
Cawe herself had seized a blade Elucina had tossed at her and was pursuing Igheriz, who was screaming for a weapon. Other ghosts were pursuing their own vengeance.
Amidst the chaos, Khelt’s rulers tried to restore order, but their authority had vanished as Skills returned power to the dead.
“Hear me! I will have no fighting! I am the [Archmage of Sands]! I demand—”
A Stitch-man flew into the air, booming, and his arms rose and the sands whirled up around him. Geysers of whipping sand that became the hands of giants, walls, and a city of sand, rising ever-higher. Other ghosts backed away as this one lifted his arms, creating a city in a moment. A power supreme even among other ghosts to command them all by force and might. That certainty shone bright in the [Archmage]’s eyes—right until he saw another [Archmage] rising into the air.
“We shall finally settle our match without tricks, you wretched coward!”
The Archmage of Fire howled, a dagger wound still in the Stitch-woman’s back as her cloth-skin burned with the fire of her magic.
Chaos. Their unity was gone in a moment. Erin looked around and saw someone sneaking behind a boulder as the ghosts began to fight.
Nerrhavia, the Immortal Tyrant, the most hated ruler for over a thousand years…peeked around the boulder. She looked very nervous. She scuttled left—straight into someone standing there. The [Tyrant] looked up.
“Ah. Queen Merindue.”
Queen Merindue of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the kingdom that had sprung up with Nerrhavia’s death—one of the women who had seen Nerrhavia die—looked down with arms folded.
Her people stood behind her. All of Nerrhavia Fallen’s ghosts, the army that had perished trying to slay Nerrhavia, her successors, and champions.
Nerrhavia looked around for her legions and armies, but many had been so depraved they had not even come here. Others had simply forsaken Nerrhavia, having died cursing her name or betrayed, executed for treachery.
She straightened and slowly adjusted her gown. Nerrhavia flicked her hand and reapplied the poison to her nails with a Skill. She gave Merindue a bitter, contemptuous smile.
“Do what you will, little successor of mine.”
For a reply, Queen Merindue simply reached out and grabbed Nerrhavia’s arm. Her gaze was cold, dispassionate, and resolved. The Tyrant hesitated, and Erin saw Nerrhavia produce a little dark dagger out of nowhere. Nerrhavia hid the little dagger as she tensed. Merindue’s grip tightened and Nerrhavia lunged like a cornered snake. Erin was already shouting.
“Nerrhavia, Merindue! Don’t—”
Queen Merindue had seen the dagger coming. She rotated, grabbed Nerrhavia’s other arm, and thrust the dagger up before it plunged towards her breast. Nerrhavia looked bitterly content as she waited for a blow that would end her—but it never came. Merindue held Nerrhavia’s arm aloft with her own. Then she turned and shouted as loudly as she could to the assembled ghosts.
“Nerrhavia’s Fallen—to me! We march with the Immortal Tyrant against the end of things! Abandon your grudges! To arms—to arms for the end of the world!”
She turned, and Nerrhavia found herself facing an army of millions upon millions. Many howled her name, but no one attacked. Merindue pointed towards the first Seamwalkers walking onto Chandrar’s eastern shores.
“To battle! Tyrants shall ever die!”
The ghosts of her nation began to march. Nerrhavia turned to Merindue in surprise, and her painted eyes flickered.
“You—are a practical ruler.”
“We have forever for you to answer for your crimes. I will not have the living land of our people despoiled by those things. If we survive—there will be a reckoning.”
Merindue met Nerrhavia’s gaze icily, and the Tyrant smiled.
“Ah, practical. I knew there was a reason I found your company tolerable.”
Indeed—as the two looked around, they saw many quarrels ending. Some went to the death, like Roshal and their foes, but many ghosts had possessed eternities to resolve them. And these Seamwalkers…
However hated someone had been in life, they were nothing to the wrongness coming. So, for every ghost that went to pursue a grudge, ten thousand turned and set themselves against their foes.
They had much to do in so little time.
One of the Giants boomed downwards at the ghosts. The Ash Giant was watching her feet, flexing her hands, but the ghost who had died and given her body to Khelt was now looking around.
“Little folk! The time has come to let go all grudges. You have slain my kind—now we fight together. So I ask for a weapon. Have you any great [Smiths]?”
King Serept of Khelt looked up. His eyes brightened.
“I have a halberd made for a Giant!”
“Oh dead gods, not that eyesore.”
Queen Xierca muttered, and Serept looked hurt. But the half-Giant was looking around.
“It is functional. If only I had the Skills to pull it from the living world—can anyone conjure a copy of it?”
Another ghost was staring at his bare hands, frustrated.
“I am a [Scythemaster]—without a scythe! How am I to fight without a weapon?”
Few ghosts had the ability to conjure weapons. Erin was lifting a ball of fire in one hand and admiring the glow. Zineryr whistled.
“Oh, quite lovely. Is that the emotion of glory? The grand design does do such interesting things…a shame it was never completed.”
She blinked at him.
“Huh? What—what are we doing? Hey! Anyone want free glory-fire? Got any piece of wood? You could make a torch!”
“Give it to me, and I’ll cover myself in it.”
A stranger strode over with the most amazingly strange skin Erin had ever seen. Oily? She looked at the strange man as he seemed to grow—no, not seemed to. His body changed. The Jinn accepted Erin’s fire and passed it over an arm.
“Ah, it burns my magic. But it will be a fine little weapon. My kin! Lead us to one last battle!”
Erin Solstice looked up, and there they were. The Ash Giant who had called for a weapon looked up and laughed.
“Oh, the great smiths of magic. Unchained. This is a great day.”
She held out her hands—and a Djinni dropped a mace gleaming with blue fires of forging into her hands. A Giant’s mace.
Another threw down blades that ghosts scooped up, exclaiming in awe. The Djinni! They were creating blades and weapons, even bows and arrows!
Out of themselves. They were purely magical beings, and they were expending their very essence in death to create weapons. One tossed a scythe down, and the [Scythemaster] instantly picked up the long, wicked blade and frowned at it.
“Wait. This is a farmer’s scythe. I need a warscythe—”
Chandrar was mobilizing itself to war. The more impetuous ghosts flew ahead, [Archmages] and flying Garuda, [Heroes], [Champions], some determined to fight alone.
A thousand thousand [Generals] were arguing over tactics, trying to form the army of dreams. Every [King] and [Queen] in Chandrar wanted the Excalibur blade.
Erin Solstice was standing with the rulers of Khelt as they held a conference with Nerrhavia and a number of other ghosts. Khelta turned.
“…We will have to spare some of our number to remain. Khelt’s power is still present here. And we will have to let most ghosts stay on Chandrar. We cannot fight by sea. Who will follow Fetohep? Some are pledged to aid the Gnomes.”
“What? What is going on? Why are some leaving? To flee?”
The Rebel of String arrived, panting. Wounded in several places—but she had driven Roshal’s ghosts into the sea, and she had not forgotten Erin.
“No, Rebel of String. We are still committed to restoring Erin Solstice to her body. Moreover…I am still convinced our great battle is not just here. See. We are preparing to join other continents where they make their stand. A first conflict shall occur here, but we must all fight together. Especially against the greatest Seamwalker of them all. The one that consumes time. See—it is almost risen.”
She pointed to the edge of the world, and every ghost turned and saw the Devourer of Gods. Even looking at it was dangerous.
It was stealing time. It was…Erin Solstice looked at the chalk-white ‘skin’ and a hundred million eyes gazing outwards.
Each eye was a well into which time was sucked and distorted. Each one so unlike a normal eye. Some bled, others had too many layers. Others were simply blind.
It was standing, and even Dragons and other Seamwalkers fled its advance. Khelta glanced at Erin and the Gnomes, who were nodding. Then she pointed to their route off Chandrar since no one could fly.
“Erin Solstice—come with us. Let us cross this sea.”
Elucina followed her finger, and even the Rebel of String gasped. For what she saw was…an armada.
An armada and a great bridge across the world.
“The [Pirates].”
Erin remembered their saviors at sea, and it was Califor, adjusting her hat, who agreed.
“They will ferry some ghosts and harass their foes. We shall walk across the greatest bridge this world has ever known.”
She pointed, and the Witch Somillune, the Witch of Ashes, alongside the gigantic Witch of Trees, that woman with a body like a vast oak, and the Shark-Witch strode onto the water. They walked into the water…and the earth rose around them. New land, rising from the depths to form a walkway a thousand paces wide.
The greatest [Witches] were passed by a figure skating on the waves. The [Pirates] who had reclaimed some vessels cursed and sailed out of the way of a [Cryomancer] who froze the waves and water itself. On the right, the world’s most legendary [Carpenter] and Drevish were literally building a bridge and arguing about construction.
“We go after Fetohep. Who will join us? To Terandria, to Baleros—to Drath or wherever the ghosts unite for a final stand!”
Khelta called out, and Erin Solstice saw a second legion following her. Erin hurried to catch up—but a hand tugged at her arm.
“Not you.”
“Wh—”
Zineryr tugged Erin Solstice away as Khelta called out, daring the dead gods to assault them as more Seamwalkers and Norechl itself turned to catch them at sea. It would be a terrible battle—but the Gnome was pulling Erin away.
“But Khelta—”
Zineryr nodded at the great ruler, and Erin saw a young woman shuffling next to her, waving a pan and beaming in a stupid way. The Gnome grinned as Erin Solstice looked at Erin Solstice. He gave her a wink as the God of the Forgotten locked on the fake Erin. Then he patted Erin’s hand.
“Illusion spells. We have a different route. Time to finish telling you everything.”
“But the battle—”
The Gnome looked Erin in the eyes as she wavered. Everything in Erin yearned to join in and fight along Chandrar’s legends.
“Yours will be harder because it will continue when you wake up. You have a life to get back to—and one of the six in your body could be the greatest disaster of all. Please, join me? My kin and I have another route.”
“Oh…okay.”
The [Innkeeper] forced herself to turn away from Khelta and followed Zineryr. She was about to ask what their route was when she saw it.
“How many of you? Nine and a Human? Very well…but I am headed to Baleros first! You will have need of my kin, and a thousand Dragons can stop even those six.”
“Yes, yes. Now lower a wing, would you?”
Gnomes were striding up Xarkouth’s wing and sitting on his back. The Void Dragonlord looked at Erin with the most grumpy expression in the world. She put her hands over her mouth.
“I’m gonna ride a—”
“It is for a dire emergency and the oldest of species. Do not think this is because of you, ghost-girl.”
“I’m going to ride a Dragon?”
Zineryr just laughed as Erin stared up at the Void Dragonlord. He gestured to his chuckling kin.
“Everyone should at least once. If only to learn that Dragons are terrible vehicles.”
Xarkouth growled, but then they were flying. The great battle for Chandrar began as Erin Solstice flew with the Gnomes. Into the air, laughing and then immediately getting queasy because she had forgotten she didn’t like heights.
Below her, the battle for the lands of the dead had truly begun.
 
——
 
The reappearance of gravity and magic and the sudden opposition of their food did not seem to dismay the Seamwalkers. Did they even understand what was going on?
It was unclear. Mainly because so many were different. Some clearly shared common traits, but as Erin had seen—
They were so wildly outside of biology that they were literally impossible. And she realized something.
