Some really weren’t experiencing gravity that well. As the young woman looked down, she saw a Seamwalker with an upper torso connected to a lower, crawling half by a rail-thin spine waver…and fall.
It snapped itself in half, and a horrific ooze infested with parasites gushed out. Both lower and upper half kept trying to crawl on the ghosts. Erin gagged as she looked down.
“Oh my g—did you see that?”
“One down. Two more crawling about. Plus parasites. Just as well we’re all dead or decontaminating everyone affected would be a nightmare. They’ll rot some souls…well, Kasigna gets to clean it up if she wins.”
One of the Gnomes commented. Zineryr just shook his head as Erin looked downwards in horror.
“That thing was never meant to survive the open air. Norechl has led most of its kin to a demise. If we were in an oxygen-rich environment, they’d suffer more. Some of them.”
It was true; gravity alone was the downfall of some of the Seamwalkers. Others seemed to drink in the surface and grow stronger. Even as Erin watched, a giant pillar of flame hit the two halves of the downed Seamwalker and cooked it. A flying [Mage] was hitting every Seamwalker they could find.
“Look at that. All that free mana—I heard they had the design backing them up, but it’s still something. Wasteful magic, but an ocean compared to even Dragons.”
One of the female Gnomes observed, watching the [Mage] direct another hurricane of fire at a second Seamwalker. This one barely burned, encased in a rubbery hide. The [Mage] dove as Xarkouth banked left; thousands of splinters of flesh shot from the thing’s gaping maw and obliterated several ghosts in the air.
They nearly hit Xarkouth as well, but the Void Dragonlord growled an oath, and a little hole opened up in the world and sucked all the projectiles coming their way into it.
He could cast magic! However, the Void Dragon’s second spell failed; he uttered a few magical words, then flapped his wings and cursed.
“Take us away from the fighting.”
Zineryr called down, and Xarkouth complained.
“I cannot teleport! I tried to blink-teleport across—”
“Yes, yes. I saw. You can’t access other dimensions here. Or else we’d all be able to leave. Teleportation is out or we wouldn’t need your slow wings. Take us away from that Seamwalker! Now!”
Xarkouth and Erin turned and saw a third one coming their way. Fast. It was lunging through the ocean in huge flops of motion. It had neither arms nor legs, and it was…what, bone? Something between the two, flowing and solidifying by turns, slick with liquid.
Solid matter, sickly yellow, forming a lattice of a body, and a lower half that oozed into the water. However, the upper half was just that strange, almost geometric lattice and a single ‘heart’ exposed to the world. Like a skeleton.
Forewarned, Xarkouth flew as fast as he could away from it. When Gnomes sounded urgent…
The powerful pyromancer spotted a new target and conjured a gigantic, green fireball the size of a house. They tossed it down, and Erin saw the beating heart, too spherical by far, laced with diseased blue and purple flesh—
Pulse.
The magic spell vanished. The fire went out, but Erin swore she saw something being sucked into the heart. As if it, like Xarkouth’s magic, were a maw, and it was eating…
“Magic. Is it—?”
“Uh oh.”
The Void Dragonlord flew faster, and Erin saw the ‘heart’ was no heart at all. The center of the Seamwalker expanded as the mouth opened, and it ate the magic around it.
The ghostly [Mage] flew out of the sky helplessly, and Xarkouth flapped desperately. At the edges of the anti-magic zone, he lost momentum but stabilized after gaining some ground; the devourer was circling the waters behind it.
“How are we supposed to fight that?”
The Gnomes were watching the Seamwalkers as the others caught up, using it as a kind of shield against the powerful magic.
“Some will be immune or devour magic. I suppose you get one of your high…level warriors and have them hit it. Giants will do. Or an Elf. Is Sprigaena still dead?”
“I don’t see her. Eyes out for Kasigna, Emerrhain? Norechl’s still back there. Tamaroth or Cauwine? Even if one got the body, I can’t believe they’d share.”
“That would be a hilariously short-lived scenario. Bets on who got it? What’s our optimal scenario here?”
“Kasigna ate Emerrhain?”
“Ooh. I like that.”
They were…calm. Chatting and clearly still on Plan A, whatever Plan A was. In fact—one pointed.
“I see more of Chandrar’s ghosts! Dropping!”
One of the nine Gnomes leapt off Xarkouth’s back as he spotted some [Pirates] on a ship. She adjusted a pair of goggles as she skydived downwards. Erin saw her rotate, give a thumbs up, then land on the ship in front of the startled ghosts.
They were so cool. And they spoke like they’d seen everything, even the Seamwalkers, before. Then she felt a tap on the shoulder.
“Alright, until something comes up, we’ve got time. Back to what you need to know.”
Erin gulped as Zineryr spoke to her. Other Gnomes were chattering, running commentary, giving Xarkouth sass, or preparing to visit more ghosts for reasons yet unknown. But her Gnome was eying her.
“Are you sure? I mean—everything’s happening! Shouldn’t we fight?”
Zineryr shook his head.
“Every ghost in existence is down there, fighting. What would two more do?”
“But you’re a Gnome…don’t you know super-magic?”
He grinned toothily at her.
“You’re thinking of Djinni, Dragons, even Elves, Erin. We’re Gnomes. We make things. If I had to fight, I’d make something to fight in. Besides, you know Norechl’s kin aren’t the real enemy. If they get loose, it will be one thing. Those six…that is our job.”
The other Gnomes nodded, and Erin gulped.
“S-so what, I should listen, and you’ll tell me everything?”
“Yep. You are by way of a contingency in yourself. Someone who might live…isn’t it worth arming them as best we can?”
The young woman opened and closed her mouth. Erin hesitated.
“But what if I forget?”
Another Gnome hopped off Xarkouth’s back with a laugh. Zineryr shrugged.
“Then you forget. Frankly, it’s a huge possibility. Death, trauma, someone eating you before we manage it. Don’t worry. You are not the only plan in motion. I’m the one out of eighteen devoted to you. We have a plan. So just listen and do what you think you can.”
He patted her hand again cheerfully.
“That’s how plans work. The best ones adapt for failure. For instance, we didn’t know Emerrhain had a backup way to access the design. We just suspected it was in his nature.”
Erin was surprised.
“Oh? What would you have done if he didn’t turn on Skills?”
Zineryr winked slyly.
“Ah, well, Kasigna could do it too, I bet. If Emerrhain didn’t succumb to fear, we’d have hoped Kasigna would restore that function once she started losing to that.”
He nodded at the Timewalker. Zineryr raised a finger.
“Failing that? We’d tear a hole straight into the lands of the living. But that would escalate things. Our goal is to find the best outcome. Back to stories.”
Erin and Xarkouth’s heads were both fixed on the Gnome.
“Wait! You can’t just—”
“You can do what?”
The Dragonlord roared. The [Innkeeper] saw the pure mischief on Zineryr’s face. He waved a hand airily.
“Come, come, you two. Focus.”
That was a Gnome for you. Erin began to get it. Stories about Gnomes always made them clever. These ones were the cool grandparents, skydivers, inventors with goggles. Pranksters.
And they made the dead gods nervous. Because…because the Gnomes had humiliated them before. Because they were smart. And they had been there at the beginning.
Zineryr looked across the lands of the dead, so unlike the world he had known. He sat there, legs dangling over the scaly side of the Void Dragonlord as wind blew around them, but the ghosts felt no cold. Such a tiny Gnome, second-shortest of all.
When he had lived, they had been the smallest race. He spoke in a far-off voice, losing the mischief, his tone longing, nostalgic and regretful. He frowned as he looked at the fighting below them, ghosts versus Seamwalkers.
“Drat, if only we had time. If we had a month, a week—but they just had to end the world now.”
Time. Erin saw the largest Seamwalker of them all, dwarfing even the Giants, so large it didn’t fit on this world. Reaching out with the eyes of a thousand hands to swipe at a Dragon who dodged the slow blow—then appeared in its grasp, screaming—and vanished.
“Time?”
They had mere minutes to relate a story across lifetimes. The Gnome frowned—and glanced at Erin.
“Time magic is always dangerous. Your Skills can do things even the greatest magicians of our era couldn’t. Create new matter at no cost. Even creating a speck of dust from nothing would give Elves a great challenge. Why? You sound like you have an idea.”
“What about…an [Immortal Moment]?”
The Gnome blinked at Erin. For the first time, she saw an expression of pure surprise on his face. Then he whirled.
The great Devourer of Time was halted in midair. Xarkouth kept beating his wings, but the Void Dragon realized—he wasn’t going anywhere. Everyone was fighting below—Erin saw magic bloom across a Seamwalker who looked up at her…but it seemed like an eternity for the magic to lash its body.
The world froze a second. The Gnomes looked at each other, then burst into merry laughter.
“What a completely ridiculous ability! And how fortunate!”
Zineryr was nodding. He looked at Erin in approval.
“I think we have time for our chess game after all. But just in case—let’s begin.”
Erin Solstice beamed in pride at her first special Skill as the Gnome waved at the world around him. His eyes lost focus, and he looked backwards. His voice grew nostalgic, since they had the time for it. He spoke less quickly than the patter of words, because these ones mattered. With too much meaning and context left unsaid. But he did tell her—
Everything.
“When the people of this world rebelled against the gods, it was Elves who stood first, though they were divided. The vast majority would strive against the gods, but some, like Sprigaena, became their champions, and empowered, they were the greatest foes besides the gods themselves. Yet it was Elves who opposed gods first. Some of their own kind as well, in time. They were never united. For instance, Tamaroth, Emerrhain, and Cauwine belonged to the same pantheon. Laedonius Deviy stood apart, and Kasigna and Norechl were part of their own pantheon. Do you know that term? Those are the six to remember as they seem to be the ones that held onto their identity.”
Erin sat there a moment.
“…I do. Are you telling me…?”
Zineryr regarded Erin cheerfully.
“Everything but the dangerous parts means everything. I can skip it if you want only the details, but I find most people want to understand it.”
“I want to know. I want to…I’m not sure I’m ready.”
Erin Solstice took a shaking breath, and the Gnome shook his head.
“Just listen, Erin. It isn’t a long story. When we strove against them, it was the oldest races who made war. Some proud mortal kingdoms, but mostly the immortal species who could see the grand design taking place. You understand? What you have…Humans did not have. Skills, levels, classes. There were other reasons, but that was the greatest of them. We went to war. Gnomes, Elves, Dwarves, Dragons—everyone. War engulfed the entire world.”
“Is it—wait. Is it—round? Isn’t there an end to the world?”
Zineryr snorted.
“It’s round. They weren’t stupid enough to make a square, and it’s not one of the ones where you can actually fall off. We just…tore a part of it away.”
“W-what?”
The trembling voice came from Xarkouth. Zineryr shushed him.
“That is getting ahead, towards the end. Suffice it to say, it wiped out so many people…it was a blow that should never have been struck, but it had to be. The Kingdom of Drath was the only one that survived even part of the destruction, and their descendants pledged never to forget. They might be allies. But that was one of the last great blows of the war. I wept when I felt it.”
He looked out into the distance. Erin grabbed at her head.
“You were—?”
“Yes. All the way to the end. Past it, actually. As I said—”
The Gnome looked at her, and his eyes glinted.
“We won. It is not an original story. To summarize it: long ago, before the grand design, before your…system of Skills and classes, creation fought creators. We did it because of that very issue. They put in place the grand design that shapes this world. Elves, Gnomes, and other species objected. The gods imposed their will and we argued, then began to fight.”
A Gnome looked up wistfully and brushed at a lock of hair.
“So long we argued upon that brink, hoping it would not come to it. But they would not relent. We were their subjects. When the Elves stood against them, the gods smote them with armies and magic and the wrath of heaven. So the Gnomes joined our kin, the Dwarves made weapons beyond the likes of which any had dreamed. They were laughing until we slew the first of their number. Then the blood of god and mortals ran into the oceans.”
The Gnomes looked at Erin. Zineryr’s voice was low.
“…In time, every kingdom was all but rubble and the pantheons emptied. Gods took sides. So did every mortal race. Realms beyond this one joined the fighting and suffered for it. They died, but so did we. It was a war.”
It was just a war. Like every one Erin had known…and greater than she could imagine. She sat there, heart beating, as Zineryr took a long breath.
“And in the end, we won. The gods died, leaving only mortals to pick up the pieces and decide what came next. The survivors of both sides, Sprigaena’s loyalists and the few like we Gnomes, stood in the aftermath and the death of gods, and we knew it was over. They kept fighting, a while, after it ended. Sprigaena hunted us—and killed some.”
“She got me.”
A Gnome waved his hand from the front. Zineryr nodded.
“…The rest of us made preparations as the mortal world forgot and rebuilt. A world without gods was our victory. A world without gods or Elves or my kin, and so many others.”
A tear dripped from one of Zineryr’s eyes, but no more. He had wept it all long ago.
“I lived for thousands of years after that, mostly helping rebuild, battling loyalists, making sure all was safe. Making what amends we could to the other worlds. I spent my last centuries with the tiny people that appeared. Fraerlings. We meddled, made plans, and died. I regret to say that while we made a lot of preparations, we completely missed Rhir. That one was buried so deep we didn’t realize for countless ages something was wrong and then…”
He sighed.
