My old friend.
That was how it felt. Like an old friend walking through your door when you least expected it. It might be foreign to other worlds, but all the peoples of this one had lived every day with Skills, such that they were as familiar to their owners as a hand, as unconscious as taking a breath.
It was not just the voice, that dispassionate speech that almost sounded a bit like…you. That announcement, which could be terrible or welcome, that arrived while you were on the verge of sleep or lying on the borders of consciousness with plague or blood loss or fainting in the middle of some great effort.
Skills and classes made people who they were. A [Blademaster]’s Skills gave them some of their legendary talent with the sword. A [Mage] matched Dragons by dint of their great reservoirs of mana.
Now, they returned. Like that friend, walking through your door when you did not look for them. In this case—as the doom of the deadlands bore down on them? An old friend walking in with a shotgun.
A magical shotgun. With silver bullets.
Of course, not everyone in the lands of the dead received levels or classes. Some just felt gravity reassert itself, and their benefits were different.
Dragons faltered as they suddenly realized they had to fly, using magic to keep themselves upright, wings beating with effort. But they roared in triumph, because they felt their hearts beating. And the magic…
The magic was back. Dragonfire took on qualities that had been lacking before. A plume of silver frost became more than a memory. A howling blizzard froze everything in its path, icy storms summoned around the core of magic emanating from a Frost Dragon’s mouth. A Dragon of the forests exhaled, and the magic of green and nature grew stronger, and the Dragon chanted a spell which demanded the earth rumble and heave under his foes.
Force, the power of their magic—and the glorious weight that enabled them to slam into their foes. Rend with talons and maneuver, rather than glide at the same, slow speed.
Magic was back. So was entropy, the power of gravity and other elements this land had never felt. Skills and classes were restored.
Erin Solstice felt it, and she felt…stronger. More complete, and she had only lived with her classes a short time. Her head rose, eyes wide with wonder as she looked at Emerrhain, the God of Magic.
Had he just adjusted the system? Clearly—yes. He had used a backdoor so old that it was built into the foundation of everything, a secret weapon. An unwelcome one, to hear Kasigna rage.
“Emerrhain! You fool! You cowardly wastrel—I will tear your essence apart and spread it across my lands! You have given them that which I forbid. From when did you hide this, you pathetic schemer?”
She was pursuing him as he fled—and it seemed like the two might actually come to blows. Emerrhain was laughing in triumph even as he fled, for Kasigna’s rage was impotent.
It was done—and, clearly, she could not undo it. Laedonius Deviy and even Norechl were incredulous. The oblivious Seamwalkers continued their advance on the souls they intended to devour.
For a moment, at least in Chandrar, there was only silence as ghosts looked up and listened. Listened as their classes were restored, Skills re-enabled. Erin Solstice couldn’t help but feel tears spring to her eyes. However, she kept looking at the figure standing next to her.
The Gnome, Zineryr. He was smiling wanly at Erin. It was a complicated expression on his face. A bit of satisfaction for a trick, a plan in motion. Sadness for some reason, and a strange kind of envy and regret.
He knew what she had to be hearing—but he heard not a thing. He flicked his hand, and the ball of magic he had conjured went out. For a moment it shone with every color he had ever known, and there were far more colors within than any rainbow Erin had ever seen. The very color of magic, lights seen only in deep space and places not from this world or hers.
Then he put his hands in his pockets. Erin gazed at him, speechless. They had helped bring it back. Sprigaena and the Gnomes had reignited hope and given them a fighting chance. But all Zineryr did was nod.
“Tell me one thing, Erin Solstice. Does it make your life better, having Skills or classes? Your world has neither. If you could go back home with them—would you?”
It was a strange question, but Erin answered automatically.
“I—yeah? It makes things so much easier. It’s so cool. It’s amazing. It…it might make things too easy, y’know, and it can do bad things too.”
She hesitated, catching herself, and the Gnome’s gray eyes fixed on her searchingly. Erin bit her lip.
“…But it makes everything magical. Especially the actual magic. Earth needs more of that. The good stuff, not the bad. I don’t know about everyone getting Skills—but I’d like to keep them.”
She didn’t know if that was a bad answer. A few Gnomes in earshot looked at her, and one hmmed, but Zineryr just patted her hand.
“That’s a wonderfully fair answer. I would that Sprigaena could hear it. Her and all the others. It lacks context, but it makes me glad. I will admit—it certainly makes things easier. Something to bear in mind.”
Erin blinked at him, but the Gnome was already stretching. There was still no other sensations, smell, touch, taste, aside from the emotions bubbling up in Erin’s chest. Yet she felt like a person again, almost. She was standing on earth, and if she wanted to get to another continent—she was going to have to swim.
In that sense there were problems—if Erin were alone. She doubted she could drown or get tired, but she was now limited by her speed in life, and she had never gotten running Skills.
But the other ghosts…ah. One finally broke the stunned silence.
A Named Adventurer. She had been wearing spectral armor of memory. The bones of some great beast, fashioned into armor. The Named Adventurer, the woman who had slain Jaws of Zeikhal and armored herself in their bones, one of the greatest warriors of her era, lifted her hand.
With a trembling voice, she spoke.
“[Ever-Prepared, Ever-Vigilant. Ever Armed].”
Erin Solstice’s head turned as she saw light engulf the adventurer. Her eyes went wide.
There used to be periods in Skills?
The dazzling light faded. Zineryr grinned as he lowered his hands, and the Named Adventurer, the Jawbreaker of Zeikhal, was wearing armor and carrying a great, fanged axe.
Real armor. Not a memory, but something realer than even the frying pan Erin could conjure. The [Innkeeper] boggled.
“Did—did she just pull that from—”
“Oho. Interesting. The grand design has no limits on where or what it captures. I wonder if that’s genuine armor or a copy?”
One of the Gnomes was watching with great fascination. And amusement. The ghostly adventurer felt at her armor.
Then she began to laugh.
“Aha. Ahahahaha. My weapons! My armor! I feel it. I am not naked and unarmed any longer. Time—time for vengeance.”
She looked up at the Seamwalkers, and even with her weapons, she blanched at their numbers. But no longer with that helpless resignation—now as an adventurer, seeing a battle she didn’t know she could win. She clenched her jaw—then remembered another foe.
“You treacherous six. A reckoning comes to you!”
She whirled and leapt into the sea with a splash of water. Cursing, the woman realized she couldn’t fly and waded into the waters towards one of the dead gods. At this, one of the Gnomes called out.
“Hold on. That’s a bad idea. Don’t attack them—”
But the Named Adventurer was too enraged to listen, and she had a target. Laedonius Deviy was still floating there. He seemed untouched by the law of gravity’s return, and he slowly rotated as the Named Adventurer lifted the gigantic weapon with one arm.
“Die, you things. [Axe of the Gigant]. [Earthshaker’s Blow]!”
She swung the axe down as it grew. Even the Giants stepped back as an axe that something a quarter of their size—so something as tall as a hill—would have wielded crashed downwards.
The impact as the axe hit the sea and Laedonius Deviy caused a geyser that blinded Erin as water fountained up into the sky and rained down—then dissolved around her. Erin’s mouth was open as she witnessed the greatest attack she had ever seen in her mortal life. The most devastating Skill.
That could have killed multiple Skinners with one impact! It was an attack suited for someone who slew Jaws of Zeikhal. It could have changed an entire battlefield, annihilated hundreds in a single swing.
However—Zineryr just looked through the downpour of rain, and the Named Adventurer stared up, and her expression of triumph faded.
“No.”
The God of Dance and Love had been struck by the axe made of bone. As water swirled around him, he pushed it off his shoulder. There was not a mark on his body or clothing, which looked like formal attire for the grandest of balls in Erin’s world hundreds of years ago. He could have strode out of a play from the ages of Shakespeare. Or—alternatively—he was the one that had hired the Bard of Avon for a party.
Not even a flinch. He stepped forwards as the Named Adventurer recoiled. She tried to leap back with a warrior’s reflexes. But the God of Dance and Love was—
Faster. He didn’t move with that timeless motion like the ghosts. He leapt like someone descending from the stage, as swift as a swallow darting across the water, and his fingers touched her face.
The Named Adventurer vanished. Her armor, her helmet, and her axe fell to the ground. Erin stared at it, and the God of Dance licked his lips. He whirled and leapt to touch another ghost unawares.
“Back! Back behind Khelt’s protections!”
Khelta shouted. A wall of sand rose, blocking the God of Dance as ghosts fled from him once more. Even now—even now. Nerrhavia called out in frustration.
“Can nothing harm them?”
One of the Gnomes shot back.
“Of course something can. Just not your Skills or weapons you have access to. Great magic. Their own gifts. Someone get that sword.”
Laedonius Deviy looked up and stepped back as a ray of light burned down from the heavens. The memory of Excalibur rose, and he frowned at the ghosts.
“I can see now why Kasigna rages. This is…inconvenient. But it may be for the best.”
The God of Dance trailed backwards a single step, then two, turning left and right to regard the army of Seamwalkers. He pivoted and turned the motion into a bow to his opponents. The Gnomes. They rolled their eyes as he whirled, retreating.
“Ponce.”
“Trust Deviy to put a good face on anything.”
“That one could trip and pretend he was angling for a way to kiss the ground.”
“He has bad fashion sense.”
Erin’s mind was racing, but that moment had told her…she was staring at the armor. And the gigantic axe. It wasn’t vanishing. It was…here. Lying on the sand and burying itself with each wave that washed over it, heavy as stone. Real—but its owner would never return.
“We can’t hurt them. But our Skills and classes are back. What…what are we supposed to do?”
Zineryr turned. He looked at the ghosts of Chandrar, and even Xarkouth and Rhisveri’s brother, the great Wyrm, suddenly were focused on him.
The Gnome brushed at his spiky silver hair and nodded. He walked a few steps up into the air. Erin saw shimmering steps made out of light magic appear as Zineryr cleared his throat, walking as casually as if the steps had been there all along. He called out, and his voice was magnified.
“Attention, everyone. Stay away from the six. You can’t hurt them unless you bear what you’d call something beyond most Relic-class weapons, or an object that has at least a partial connection to the real world. Weapons connected to a throne or bloodline. That kind of heirloom, Dragonfire, or what you’d call Tier 8 magic will hurt them. Temporarily. Devote your attention to the rot from the edge of the world. Make your stand where you want—and watch for them. But we must stop Norechl’s kin or they will begin to tear their way into the living world. If we need your help, we will ask. Otherwise? This is your chance. Do what you will.”
Erin had expected some great speech, but the Gnome simply hopped down and landed next to her. All he did was warn them that they couldn’t kill the six—and then?
“You’re not going to lead us in some big…counterattack?”
Zineryr shrugged.
“We never liked being generals or leading armies. Besides—that lot would feast on an army. There is a plan, and we will try to carry it out. But you, my dear, are my only concern. Let the dead fight or flee. That is called free choice.”
He grinned unexpectedly. Erin Solstice blinked at him as the Gnome nodded to the right. He was looking at some ghosts present here.
Roshal’s [Slavers]. They were arguably less empowered, with only the Skills they had in life. And their slaves and command and chains…
But those they had tormented were here, too. Some of their [Slaves] had followed Roshal even in death. Other ghosts long freed in death looked up in a sudden terror. One of the [Slavers] shouted in exuberance.
“I have gained my power! Now—now, Roshal shall return! We shall capture these invaders and turn them against each other! To me I call my old servants. [Summon Slaves: The Spriggan Consort of Roshal].”
Erin Solstice looked up as the world flickered. The [Slaver] was trying to call on other ghosts. Did he say…?
“Huh. It’s warring with itself. There was never any plan for this, I’m sure. I wonder what it’s going to do.”
Zineryr muttered grimly as he watched space bend. Erin thought she saw figures beginning to appear, shouting in terror, some weeping with memory or cursing the [Slaver] who was holding a handful of…chains? Leashes made of dark metal?
Cold iron? He was laughing and the other [Slavers] rejoicing, pursuing their captives, when someone tapped the [Slaver] on the shoulder. The Garuda turned. Then his triumph turned to pale fear.
“You—”
Elucina beheaded the ghost with a sword made out of blazing fire. Fire, for the first String-folk to break their bonds of servitude.
Fire, for the Rebel of String who had slain the Threadmakers.
The head floated off the body as Erin gasped. She lowered the pan she’d been about to throw as the rest of the [Slavers] whirled in shock and terror. This time—the ghost didn’t vanish instantly.
His head trailed wisps of color, of his…self. It tried to return to his body, not floating back, but trying to rematerialize, yet he screamed, a shriek of pain.
Elucina squatted next to the screaming [Slaver], watching him intently.
“So magic cuts you—like ghosts. But you die a bit harder. Good to know.”
