Four minutes. For four minutes…the Tallguard laughed and charged the Tallfolk. They surrounded him, stabbing, eating spells, outnumbering him—
But it was easy.
So easy. He had fought giants all his life. Cats killed Fraerlings. They had trained to be stronger than their size!
Signim let them keep that. It was more than a Potion of Growth. Fraerling-made gear, from a sword to armor, grew with him. He locked blades with a Naga and threw the entire Naga backwards. Then the Tallguard swung his sword through a Lizardfolk’s guard. Stronger. Fearless.
He staggered as someone ran him through the side. The Tallguard whirled as his kin watched him die.
Signim.
 
——
 
Alchimagus Resk stood, facing the blustering Lizardfolk, who had retreated a step. He was flicking his fingers, flexing his shoulders.
Cotm watched. He and Kessice had their Signim too, but Resk was just…talking.
“You dare claim this was their fault? You—do you not see how we die? Do our lives mean so little?”
The Lamia had a cruel smile on her face, but she was flicking her eyes to the others. She sensed how much magic the Fraerling had in him.
It was little threat when he was six inches high. But now? His magical power had just magnified tenfold. He might be the highest-level person in the city.
But he had a time limit. Resk was shaking with fury.
“You hoard magic like this like a Wyrm, Fraerling. If you only shared—”
“Enough excuses! Enough lies! Fezimet! Face me!”
Resk lifted his hands over his head, but the Quexal was nowhere to be seen. Luan was still stunned, but Daly realized the same thing as the Lamia.
“The Signim wears off—”
Enchanter Resk jabbed a finger at the Lamia.
“Pull your forces back or I will destroy you all! My oath on it!”
She made a show of looking around, distracting the civilian.
“Only Fezimet could do that. Perhaps we can parlay?”
She smirked, and Cotm was counting.
Forty seconds…forty-six…Alchimagus Resk closed his eyes, and one of the Lizardfolk raised a bow. Instantly, both sides raised their weapons.
“Do you really want to die so badly, Fraerling? There is only one of you, and that potion has a limit. Parlay.”
“We are beyond that, you foul Tallfolk.”
Resk was wiping at his eyes. But when the Alchimagus raised his head, he was dry-eyed. And his magic burned. The Lamia tensed, but she sneered at him anyways as she raised a pair of wands.
“We may be fools—but we are warriors. You’ve wasted your valuable potion.”
Resk just blinked at her as Cotm shook his head. The Alchimagus closed his eyes and took a deep breath.
“Tallfolk Lamia. You are a poor [Mage]. I would fail you out of my second-year classes. I am an [Alchimagus] of Paeth. The entire time we have spent talking? I have been casting spells. Including now.”
The Lamia blinked at Resk, mouth open. Then the cobblestones under her glowed.
The first [Fireblast] obliterated her and three officers. Resk lifted his hands.
“[Chain Lightning].”
Daly recoiled as the air ionized and dozens of bolts of lightning struck the soldiers across from Resk. Panting, he touched his chest.
“[Mithril Body]. [Magnesis—”
He ran over to touch a fallen wagon. He was an Alchimagus, not a warmage. The Featherfolk Brigade charged.
Lizardfolk fighting in the streets. Daly shot one through the chest, but there were so many that his bolt went through two and didn’t slow the oncoming rush. Then a dozen Lizardfolk ran into the open ground and—
Bounced.
The leaping spell that Resk had cast on that span of stone hurled them up like cartoon characters. Daly saw them fly up, screaming, and land—
There were no cushions or spells to catch them. Alchimagus Resk whirled. He pointed.
“[Magnesis: Attraction Polarity]!”
What was he doing? Luan swung a short oar like a razorblade, keeping Lizardfolk back. Then he saw the wagon begin flying through the air. It was—
Magnetized. It crashed into the first rank of Lizardfolk and kept going. They were knocked off their feet. Then the press of bodies struck a wall. And the wagon kept…going…
Until it stuck to the wall of a building.
The Alchimagus looked at the blood and death from the spells, but he kept going. The armor of the Lizardfolk ignited, heating up until it was white-hot. He raised his hands and howled Paeth’s name.
And Cotm…drank his Signim. The Tallguard [Arbalest] grew into a thin warrior with tears running down his cheeks. He fired his customized crossbow once. Then tossed it aside and drew two blades.
“Paeth! Kessice! Your Signim! Kessice!”
His partner wasn’t anywhere Cotm could see. Was she injured? Where was she?
“Tallguard of Feiland!”
Cotm had four minutes. Four minutes—he leapt into the Featherfolk Brigade. Lashing around him so fast they were dead as fast as he could swing the Fraerling-made blades.
Their levels were greater than the Tallfolk. The Tallguard were meant to die for their homes. Cotm was shouting.
“Kessice! Kessice—”
One versus a hundred. Not like fighting roaches or other monsters. These Lizardfolk—
One bit his arm, a Naga grinding his bones under his leather armor. Cotm stabbed him in the head. He felt someone try to take him down by the legs.
“Cotm!”
Kessice swung through two torsos with an axe. She pulled Cotm up. The two partners looked at each other.
“Paeth on the Coast!”
They charged.
Four minutes. Four minutes was a long time. Or a short one. It was maybe longer than you needed to kill a single monster or have a really hurried romantic rendezvous if you were absolutely ready and had low expectations—
But it was so short.
Cotm was counting, but he lost track. He was bleeding, but he had wedged a potion bottle in his teeth and drank it. It didn’t matter.
Once the Signim ran out…
Two minutes? The Featherfolk Brigade were screaming. Resk’s magic ran through them. The Alchimagus was killing a score.
Then—then Cotm saw him. A single Quexal. The others were dead.
Fezimet leapt into the battle, screaming without end. His eyes were wide, and the Quexal’s mouth was bloody, frothing, as he tore and bit like an animal.
Cotm pointed at him, and Kessice tried to line up a shot, but Fezimet was surrounded by berserk Lizardfolk. He surged through the battle, and Resk pointed a finger at him.
“[Paralysis Ray].”
The Quexal dodged it. Resk lifted his hand.
“[Wall of Flames]. [Chain L—”
Fezimet leapt on him, and the Quexal’s teeth closed on Resk’s throat. The Fraerling Alchimagus staggered—and fell. Cotm heard a scream from Luan.
“Resk!”
The Quexal whirled. Cotm saw Daly aim a crossbow at him, and the Quexal leapt. He flew into the air, and the Bushranger shot him.
His body had been mithril. Fezimet didn’t care. He had shattered his teeth on Resk’s throat to crush it. He took one volley of crossbow bolts, then another, jerking with the impacts. The bolts stuck out in Fezimet’s body, but the commander kept charging. He didn’t care. His wings spread, shedding blood and yellow feathers. Cotm looked for Resk.
He didn’t see the Alchimagus. Resk…
The magic was gone.
“Fezimet!”
Luan was screaming. He aimed a crossbow up and saw Fezimet crawling over a howling figure larger than any other. Bastiom, the War Walker, tore at Fezimet, but the Quexal had done something to his body.
Razor spines. His scales were coated in razors. And blood. He encircled Bastiom’s head and squeezed. Cutting…cutting…a blow struck him hard enough to crack his bones, but the Quexal kept screaming.
Blood fell as the War Walker’s head slowly toppled from his body. Bastiom’s lifeless gaze met Luan’s as his head fell to the ground.
Fezimet leapt again at a third target. Quallet Marshhand looked up and raised his axe and shield. Luan was looking for Resk. He couldn’t find…find…
In the distance, he saw Cotm slowing, blades red. Noa was firing crossbow bolts, shouting something at him.
His time was up.
 
——
 
The Fraerling felt the Signim wearing off. Tallguard Cotm threw one of his swords, then whirled. He was shrinking.
The Signim activated in a moment but gave him seconds to hide. To run. It…it did no good.
The screaming Lizardfolk were around him. Cotm shrank. How many had he killed? Two dozen? Three?
“Tallguard of Feiland.”
He lifted his sword, a six-inch-tall man looking up at a Lizardfolk as a foot rose to stomp down. Everything he had ever trained for. All their magic. Erased just because they had been born bigger.
Cotm raised his blade to stab the Lizardfolk through the heel. Then a hand scooped him up. He stabbed it.
“Ow, you idiot.”
The Fraerling looked up into a familiar face, far larger than his.
“Kessice?”
His partner smiled down at him, bloody and panting. Cotm looked up and realized—she had activated her Signim after him.
Oh. Of course.
It was on purpose. Kessice lifted Cotm up so they were eye-to-eye.
“Look after Noa, would you?”
“Kessice—don’t—”
The Tallguard spun. She lifted her partner as the Lizardfolk tried to drag her down. She was shrinking too. Then she threw Cotm.
“Kessice!”
He saw her before the world blurred. His partner, fighting alone. Cotm was spinning, flailing. Trying to—
He hit something and fell down.
 
——
 
It was all going wrong. Umina looked around.
“Where are you going? Where’s…?”
Bastiom, one of the War Walkers, was dead. Two of the Fraerlings—three?—were dead.
The Iron Vanguard were retreating to their ship. They had left half their company behind. The [Captain] turned to Umina.
“We have done all we can. We cannot keep fighting. That Quexal—we cannot stop him.”
He pointed across the shattered city, houses burnt or leveled from the explosions and fighting.
One Quexal. Just one. Leader of the Featherfolk Brigade.
Fezimet had transformed into a bloody serpent, eyes glassy with hatred, blood and flesh dripping from his fangs.
He met Quallet Marshhand, towering over the Human man as the two fought. An axe cut into his side, and Fezimet buried his teeth in Quallet’s shoulder, crunching into bone. The [Mercenary] swung his axe into Fezimet’s side again and again, but the Quexal bit and bit.
The two fought in silence, trying to tear and cut each other apart. Quallet’s arm rose, and he buried the axe so deep it nearly cut Fezimet’s tail from his body. Then he looked up as a hissing mouth of fangs opened. He stared up as the teeth closed and let go of his axe. He drew a dagger and stabbed once. The Quexal jerked as the dagger went into his side.
Then he lifted his head. The United Nations Company gazed at a familiar sight. A warrior of Baleros. A mercenary who had forgotten everything. Nothing was left in his eyes, not gold, not power or survival.
Just death and murder.
Quallet Marshhand was dead. One his axes was buried in Fezimet’s tail. Yet the Quexal didn’t stop. A single healing potion began to knit his wounds as he shrieked and charged.
“Bushrangers—fire—”
Siri took aim, but the Quexal barely flinched as the bolts slammed into him. He was charging them.
“Siri! Tofte—”
Dawson whirled. He yanked a sword free as a monster faster than they were dove into them. Its scales deflected his sword—it felt nothing. It fought like—
Fezimet ripped Siri’s arm off, and Tofte went down as the razor blades lashed him.
They were all dying. Someone ran Dawson through from behind, and he went down, roaring and screaming, trying to drag a potion out as Siri lay on the ground, staring at the blood rushing from her arm.
“Fezimet!”
Someone was screaming his name. The Quexal looked around. Dawson knew that voice.
“No—no—”
The Quexal leapt again. Dawson dragged a potion out of his belt as someone killed the Lizardfolk on top of him. Ken dragged Dawson up. The young man bent over Siri and poured the potion on her and Tofte. Then he looked up.
Daly and Marian were waiting for Fezimet. The Centauress had her bow raised, mithril string gleaming. Daly raised his crossbow and held a little blackpowder bomb in one hand. Fezimet dove at them.
Dawson closed his eyes. He looked around and finally realized it. He saw Gravetender’s Fist retreating, the mercenaries falling back.
“We’re losing.”
 
——
 
The Titan reappeared, still screaming.
“Belavierr!”
He stood, howling in the middle of his company. In Elvallian, as Perorn lifted her arm to signal a charge.
The Centauress turned her head, and there he was. Clothing ragged and improvised, only holding a shortsword. Terrible desperation on his face.
Defeat.
“Niers?”
She breathed it like hope, but the Titan just looked up and knew.
He had lost.
She had done the one thing that she had been hired for. That damned [Witch]. That…
Not her. His mind was spinning to a conclusion. The Stitch Witch’s strange actions. She was a meddler, but she seldom did things for no profit. This? Her revealing the Daemon of Luck, her sending him to Baleros—
It was all part of someone else’s scheme. One that had outmaneuvered Niers. Someone had hired Belavierr for all of it.
Him.
“Chaldion!”
Only one person could have hired Belavierr to do all this. Reveal the treachery in the Meeting of Tribes. And…erase the greatest threat to the safety of the Walled Cities.
 
——
 
Yes. Chaldion of Pallass sat, watching the fighting at the Meeting of Tribes. Belavierr had joined Plain’s Eye.
He hadn’t hired her for that. But he had known that any deal with Belavierr could go south. Yet the Cyclops of Pallass had still chosen this path.
His [Path to Victory]. Chaos among the Gnoll tribes who could discredit Pallass. And the Titan—put back on his board. Killing him made too many enemies. He was necessary.
“But not on my continent. This is my land.”
The Drake with one eye exhaled a plume of smoke, smiling like a devil in the darkness.
 
——
 
Daly and Marian were down.
“What’s he doing?”
Ken looked up. Dawson was staggering forwards, but everyone was running. He looked at the Lizardfolk charging them. Ken answered once as he fired his crossbow.
“He’s…eating them alive.”
The immortal Quexal couldn’t be killed. Dawson drew his sword and tried to fight towards Daly’s screaming voice. Kissilt turned to call for Marian and a Naga leapt on him.
 
——
 
Some days you lost.
It was not just the Titan who tasted despair, but his people. Sometimes, with all the help in the world…
Even their great inspirations, their mentors and protectors—
Even Gnomes died.
First there were seven. Then there were six. Five…three…
They were fleeing across the ocean. Then they were running through the jungles of Baleros, dodging behind trees, flashing and leaping nimbly through the canopy, blinding their opponent, conjuring illusions.
But it was just magic.
He was their god.
Emerrhain was hunting them down. Zineryr saw the beatific pleasure it caused Emerrhain each time he caught one of the Gnomes.
