Viv skirted the edge of the Viziman Ocean, over white cliffs and long expanses of wind-swept grass, where herds of beasts grazed. Shepherds and patrols spotted her but none moved. The nearby Zazas was an allied city, and its javelin throwers knew her well. Soon, the cliffs abruptly dove towards the natural harbor of Zazas and its many fishing boats. Stone buildings formed a nicely ordered town in the middle of the wilderness.

“Wait, is that…”

Two familiar shapes had dropped anchor near the largest piers. She recognized the distinct squat shape of ancient Harrakan ships, though those two had been renovated to be slicker. Where a bulky aft castle once stood, now a flat deck gave the old carracks the appearance of more modern frigates. Their deck enchantment circles were recognizable even from up here. They also flew the Harrakan flag. And to think they had once been decrepit relics of a bygone age rotting in Frostbay’s harbor. She immediately dove to greet them, recognizing some of the Remnants sailors as she approached. A figure stood on the deck running calibration.

“Sidjin!”

“Viv! Hahaha.”

She hadn’t seen him in a while. He looked good. More confident.

“Welcome aboard the newly renovated Neriad’s Mercy, and Efestar’s Redemption. What do you think?” he asked, pointing at the ships.

“They look amazing. I can’t believe they’re already fully functional. Didn’t you have issues with the sails?”

“Yes, but I found a solution. A very fancy solution, I might add. We have decided that the looms would be used to provide more thread for the distant villages, so they could have better cheap clothes. To get the sails, I visited my old friends the merl.”

Viv watched the white sails neatly folded on the masts. They glittered in the noon sun. She could have worn a dress in this material, so neat and tightly woven it was.

“Wait, don’t tell me…”

“Spider silk! It turns out that it’s an amazing material. It’s even a little bit elastic. We’ve enchanted it with reinforcement to avoid tears. It’s still very vulnerable to fire though, so it’s a work in progress.”

Sidjin continued the tour.

“The enchantment circle to control various functions. Sadly, the ships were not designed around that so we won’t get great results, but it should still significantly help with navigation. Ah, and we haven’t had the time for gun ports, or even a gun deck. I have decided to remove the ballistae for now. We won’t need them anyway.”

“Those look good for transition ships.”

Sidjin gave her an offended look.

“You know what I mean. You turned those ancient carcasses into functional boats,” Viv said.

“Don’t talk about my babies that way.”

“Come oooon.”

He laughed, the pretend annoyance falling away.

“I am just feeling hopeful seeing all those things we thought lost getting revived and improved upon. The Old Empire once stood as a reminder that we fall just as we rise, that much could be lost in an instant. Things have changed now.

“They sail well, and we needed that. Zazas will trade with us.”

“You sailed north and then east, right? From Frostbay? That means you saw the other side of the deadlands?”

Sidjin’s expression turned serious. North of the remnants were strips of land that should have escaped the disaster, nestled between an ocean and the high mountain peaks that surrounded the Harrakan heartlands. Solfis did have Imperial records that spoke of this place but Viv had been in no hurry to check if there was anybody there. New Harrak was still in the process of digesting the Remnants, and checking a new place was a sure fire way to get embroiled in a new ‘adventure’ that would leave her with a new group of people to drive Lady Azar crazy.

From Sidjin’s expression, it didn’t look like it was going to be the case.

“We found empty villages, very few bodies but… nothing else. Harrakan estates overgrown with small trees, barns collapsed, empty villages surrounded by crumbling fences. No humans that we could see. The “End of the World” town referred to in ancient texts was completely empty, the walls still standing tall over a coffin. There were minor spots of fire damage… it could have been anything. We didn’t stop to explore.”

She nodded. There should have been a couple of thousand people spread there across a limited strip of arable land. The “End of the World” used to be the local equivalent of a resort town, mostly for exiled nobles or people seeking a reprieve from the world, but not its luxuries. The fact they disappeared without a trace hinted at something sinister.

“Welp, not urgent, not my problem.”

“It might become a problem one day.”

“One thing at a time. First, Rakan, then the next disaster.”

Sidjin nodded.

“I have taken it upon myself to start building ships, the kind that can travel far and carry much so that we may trade with cities as distant as Helock. The portal network is working but we are starting to have issues: the world doesn’t have enough mages.”

“What do you mean?” Viv replied with a frown.

“It takes a significant amount of mana to power a single portal,” Sidjin explained with a pained expression. “Major cities can afford to have mages activate it at set times, but the farther the network reaches, the more mages must dedicate themselves to keeping it alive. There are limits to how many places we can reach. There is also the matter of carried weight. It is much easier to transport large shipments by boat than by cart. It might just be more profitable to use ships to trade with Zazas, for example, especially since portal use is taxed when used by traders.”

Damn. It looked like Viv wasn’t getting away from having to introduce trains. It was logical though. Magic was too caster-dependent, and casters were in very limited supply themselves. If she wanted to introduce modernity to Param, then she would have to find other sources of energy.

Unfortunately, it looked like it was going to be coal, at least at first. They were still too far away from electricity. Hell, she was still trying to figure out how to make accurate instruments.

“If only I’d been an engineer,” she bemoaned.

“Ah but then you would have been a terrible politician!”

They chuckled. Viv was just happy there weren’t any engineers in earshot. That was a real issue though. The yries were great at improving existing design, and they also had a kind of placid patience that lent itself well to the pursuit of perfection. Innovators they were not. Well, except for Lak-Tak. But he was only interested in weapons.

“Let’s just take things slow. More ships wouldn’t hurt. We can get good money from trade tariffs.”

“Yes, and now…”

The two of them turned to see Rakan approach with someone Viv hadn’t expected: Lana, the blue mana specialist. The short woman had picked a simple blue travel robe for the slightly chilly weather, yet even in a more rustic garb, she still looked pristine and perfectly composed. Only her expression broke the flawless persona: she was clearly worried. They both were.

“Ready to fix your leaking core?” Viv asked Rakan.

The genius mage nodded with frenetic energy. It had been years since that fateful day on the sand of Helock’s arena. He had to be more than eager.

“As well as can be. We brought some more money — along with what you already have. I just hope she won’t ask me to go on some quest to slay a giant or some such nonsense.”

With Viv’s luck so far, she wouldn’t be so sure.

“Don’t worry. I’ve got some nice slaying-related titles. I’d help!”

“Yes. I hope it doesn’t come to that.”

He shivered.

“Just imagine. It could be an underwater monster!”

“Oh yes, I remember that you do not like the sea very much.”

It was the understatement of the century. Even now, he was a bit pale.

“Some cosmic irony, this is. My salvation is in the middle of the ocean! Why would I be tossed in a place so hostile to human life?”

“I know how it feels,” Viv said, nodding vigorously.

“I will retire to my bunk for now. Let me know when the ship departs, so that I may say farewell to the land,” he added.

“He’s being a little bit dramatic,” Viv commented as they left.

“Hallurians have warm blood, even the exiles,” Sidjin said. “I will check the inventory, but do come see me later?”

That sounded like a polite withdrawal. Viv returned her attention to Lana, who was doing her own version of squirming by staying perfectly still.

“You’re going to see the elemental as well?”

“Please do not be mad,” Lana blurted. “About my last minute decision to come.”

Viv studied the blue mage. She was doing better since helping her fellow mages, but the specter of Elunath’s abuse still hung over her like a shadow. There was no magic to erase years of conditioning. Even now, she was steeling herself to face Viv’s explosion of anger — an emotion Viv wasn’t feeling at all.

“I think I’ve made it clear that my lieutenants have a lot of autonomy. If you think it is best and someone is holding the fort at home, then I have no objections to you coming. Is this about magic? I imagine our would-be host knows as much as any person in the world.”

“There is… there is more.”

Viv waited. It seemed important, but Lana started by deflecting.

“It is true that we mages rely more on academic research. I am one of the only blue mages in New Harrak, so my progress has… somewhat stalled. We do not have a very good reputation with the academic circles of Helock.”

“Yeah, I’m partly to blame.”

“But the truth is…”

She hesitated. Viv drew a circle of silence, which only made Lana smile bitterly.

“Oh, why am I being so silly? I have… the potential to be like her.”

“A blue elemental archmage?”

“Yes. Not any time soon. Sardanal’s blessings, I will be lucky if it happens before I become white of hair, but it could happen, and I would like to prepare. Ask questions. If she will allow it.”

“Of course, I understand. Have you talked to Abe? He helped me.”

“I did. Of course.  Unfortunately, every aspect change is different. Abenezigel was able to help you because of his deep familiarity with black mana. His insight was truly interesting. Did you… really die?”

“He stabbed me in the heart!”

“That would often do it, yes…”

Her eyes grew worried for a moment.

“I shall ask more. It is said that the Azure Lady harbors mages who wish to withdraw from the world, not just blue mages but others as well. Perhaps she is receptive to talking.”

“Lady Azar mentioned it,” Viv said, recalling one of their many briefings. “She is otherwise reclusive and refuses to be involved in the affairs of the continent. I hope she will talk to us considering those are personal matters.”

“I hope so too. I really do.”

Lana remained guarded for the rest of the conversation while Viv did her best to calm her down with small talk. Lana progressively relaxed once it became clear Viv wasn’t going to berate her. The blue mage was really eager to meet the Azure Lady.

“It is said her palace is half made of water, which flows according to her whim, yet also behaves in ways not dissimilar to stone!”

What a nerd.

***

The talks with Zazas’ ruling couple proved to be relaxing. Those were the only two human leaders actually happy to see Viv show up. It was a refreshing change. Of course, the fact that they only remained independent because of their defensive alliance with New Harrak wasn’t exactly a coincidence but who cared? They had nice biscuits. After a meal where people chewed with their mouths closed, the two ships sailed off west towards its destination: the floating city of the elemental mage.

***

Efestar’s Redemption sailed back to Helock laden with goods, but Neriad’s Mercy traveled due west, past several cities without stopping. Viv specifically wanted to avoid Helock on account of being an escaped criminal there. And also perhaps for massive damage to their keep and reputation. The trip started without issues, though Viv was missing Arthur, who had elected to go back muttering about her investments. She spent a lot of time floating around to practice her mobility since the gray mages had proven she had a lot of room for improvement. Rakan was waiting for her by the railings one fine evening. He looked tense.

“Worried about the treatment?” Viv asked.

It was like the dam had opened.

“I’m worried she would refuse, and I’m also worried she can’t do it. That I’m hoping for nothing, but you know what concerns me, yet should not? I’m worried she might accept.”

“Uh? Why? I thought you really wanted to be cured.”

“Because I have grown used to my handicap. I am compensating adequately now. I have Abe’s staff, which allows me to store mana I can use thus acting as a secondary core. I have my techniques, my habits, my ways of facing the day. I have spent so much time telling myself that I am more than just a broken core, that now that I face the possibility of recovery, all those buried fears are resurfacing. What if she botches the operation, and I end up unable to perform magic at all? I would have sacrificed a good life for the chance of a great life, and lost both. I am… scared.”

Viv came to stand next to him, unsure of what to say.

“Hmmm. It’s normal to be afraid.”

“I know. And I know you’re looking for something to say to make me feel better. That is fine. Not every problem has a solution. I will be afraid until we end this, one way or another, and that is fine.”

“Then I’ll just be here for you.”

Rakan’s fingers gripped the wood.

“If I don’t make it, tell my sister —”

“Don’t start.”

