The ballroom was strange, and reminded her of the entrance’s mosaic with its ancient stone appearance. It wasn’t any architecture she’d seen in this place so far. If she had to draw a parallel, it would be with Mesopotamian cultures: the style was heavy, unadorned except for large statues. The entire palace appeared designed for a race of titans, yet the stairs were definitely for human feet.

Quietly now, Viv followed the blade master deeper into the heart of the Azure Lady’s domain. She could feel the presence of the elemental archmage everywhere around her. She was walking into the maw of an ancient and powerful caster. It was strange how quiet things were, considering. Barely a whisper. It was peaceful but in a cold way, like a drowned man was peaceful. She shook that metaphor out of her head. The throne room stood at the top of the stairs and it was surprisingly cozy compared to the rest. Lacquered wood blocked the view of most of the surrounding water.

Waiting for them on the throne was the azure lady. As soon as Viv laid eyes on her, she was convinced this might be the oldest human she’d ever come across by an order of magnitude. It wasn’t her face, because her mature elegance shared the high cheekbones of the blade master. Her smooth pink skin even looked healthier than that of her compatriots. Long black hair flowed over her scalp as if borne by an unseen current.

It was the mana. It bled from every pore, especially from the eyes which were two deep blue sapphires, unfocused for now. Power radiated from her in a cold wave. Viv felt like she was watching a glass statue painted over with the appearance of humanity, but none of its substance. It was therefore a surprise when the woman addressed them. Her voice was deep and pleasant.

“I bid thee welcome.”

Viv blinked at the use of ancient Harrakan — not Imperial, but the slightly different language used in historical records Solfis had kept in his memory banks. Even the intonation felt strange to her ears.

“Welcome, yes, to my domain. Prithee, excuse my lack of reaction, for I was in the depths of a meditative trance. I am informed that thou didst not herald thy coming? Fret thee not. I shall not take umbrage, for I am certain thou didst not seek to cause any manner of grief. Thine chambers shalt be prepared erelong where thou may refresh thyselves. I shall invite thee to a… a…”

She frowned. A look of concern finally changed the blade master’s expression from sour to something less aggravating.

“A banquet, yes. There we shall sup on the finest of cod, kelp soup, and seared mollusks for thine enjoyment.”

That didn’t seem too bad. Viv just didn’t think they had butter here, sadly. Unless it was, errr, whale butter.

Was that even a thing?

“Thank you very much, Azure Lady,” Viv said in the ensuing silence.

It sounded like the right thing to say, though Viv couldn’t be sure. The woman really didn’t move at all. She wasn’t even breathing.

“Thou are quite pleasant for a killer. I must inquire, why hast thou sought out retreat?”

“We came to request your help,” Viv said, stepping to the side to point at the two Harrakan archmages. “Lana wishes to consult you, while Rakan here needs your assistance.”

“Thine core leaks most direly, young man.”

“I was hoping you could help,” he whispered. “Though your time is precious. If there are any tasks I could accomplish to convince you to heal my core…”

“That is within my power…”

The lady frowned, perhaps trying to remember something.

“We have not come empty-handed. Although your help is not something that can be valued with mortal currency, we are still willing to compensate you adequately for the time spent.”

Viv grabbed the box in her side bag. showing the glint of gold. She handed it to the blade master who received it with feverish fingers.

“Thou wouldst offer gold?”

“Two hundred and fifty gold talents, payable immediately. We understand the value of your work, and believe this is a fair and respectful price,” Viv said.

She stopped herself from smiling when the Azure Lady gave the blade master a slow glance. Whatever passed between them, it wasn’t done with mana.

“I assent,” she said.

Viv knew it. The old immortal monster was flat broke! No quest for thee, Rakan!
