Rakan chuckled. Mana danced around him as it poured and then leaked out of his damaged core. The blue core glowed on his borrowed staff.

“I just love magic so much. Every time I see my pupils make progress, I feel a pang of jealousy that they can so easily do what I have lost the ability for. I love them. I love teaching. I just want to be rid of this bitterness eating at me. I just don’t want it to cost me everything. Does that make me a bad person?”

“I don’t think feeling things ever make you a good or bad person. Good and evil are always about choices. You don’t choose how you feel about things, only how you react to them. You’re a good man, Rakan, and it was a pleasure watching you grow. Now let’s get you fixed, then you can be free again. One way or another, yes?”

“I changed my mind. Sometimes it really helps to talk to someone, after all. Now go and get your dinner. I’ll be looking out for monsters.”

***

It was colder. The deep rains of an early fall flailed the deck without mercy, drumming on the spider sails in a constant effort. The ship bobbed up and down upon waves in its path taller than it was, and the power of the wind forced the sailors to reef the sails or risk capsizing. Protected in a shield bubble, Viv enjoyed the sight of the unleashed elements while she kept an eye on things. Mana echoed what her eyes could see when the world roared, and this was a danger in itself. At night, old sea dogs spoke of creatures who could call the storms and swallow islands whole. She wasn’t sure but this storm seemed natural enough. In fact, the chaos unfolding around her held a wild beauty of its own, a constant change without purpose, not even its own survival. Many of the young recruits were a little green around the gills at night, while they ate a thankfully warm meal. This made their crusty seniors laugh.

“‘twas a time when our ships traveled all the way to Vizim! It will happen again, you’ll see.”

Viv was just happy they had ships now. That night, she fell asleep in Sidjin’s arms while old wood groaned around them.

This was nice and lasted all of three days before Viv got bored to tears. Fortunately, the Mercy was making good time, and they soon ranged north of Halluria. Viv watched the desolate sandy beaches and rocky expanses wondering if there would be people here one day. The villages were few and destitute, though whether it was due to the invasion or just the normal state of things, she couldn’t say. The next morning, the navigator came to see her.

“The floating palace should be around. We will travel to find it. It is said that if the lady wishes to—”

“Oh it’s there,” Viv interrupted, pointing to the north east.

The navigator didn’t seem convinced.

“It’s magic,” Viv explained.

“Your majesty, far from me to —”

“Her presence lingers in the froth above the waves as they crest, in the humidity carried by the damp wind blowing without pause. Long tendrils of power, like grasping branches, spread out across the infinite vastness of the ocean. None can approach without her knowledge for she is the sea itself, her skin like the surface, her bones like tidal currents, her sinews, great beasts that swim in the dark depths where the sun never reaches. I, another elemental archmage, feel her attention like a hand upon my neck. Okay?”

“Setting course, milady.”

“Okay, great.”

The agile shape of Neriad’s Mercy turned, picking up speed as Lana climbed to the deck. She, too, felt the overwhelming presence of the elemental archmage of the blue. Viv wasn’t lying when she said she felt the woman’s essence seeping through reality. The mana all around was blue and gray merging together. Viv made no efforts to hide herself. Instead, she pulsed her mana from time to time as a polite greeting. There was no response but nothing came to stop them, and so Viv deducted they would be tolerated for now. A chill crawled down her spine when she thought about all those people she cared about aboard this ship. The Azure Lady was not known for her violence, yet it was also true that no one had been able to threaten her in a long time. What if she took exception to Viv? After all, one elemental archmage had already fallen at her hand.

Her mood didn’t improve once they spotted a dot on the horizon: the palace, at last. A long view spell offered an image that didn’t make sense at first. As they approached and the image grew clearer, Viv couldn’t help herself but whistle in admiration. Now that was why she loved this place despite all the dickery and monsters: magic wielded to create something wonderful.

The palace stood at the center of a sphere of serenity on an unruly ocean, a pearl sitting on the horizon, untouchable. Mundane material merged with strange columns of solidified water so placid they looked as if made of glass. Wilder tubes danced slowly between islands of strange architectures that defied both gravity and the properties of the materials that composed them. Here, the difference between fountain and sculpture grew hazy until Viv couldn’t tell which was which. It was a land of impossibilities frozen in existence by the will of someone truly powerful. The entire structure shone like fireworks in Viv’s mana sight.  Shock and wonder traveled across the crew until everyone had gathered on the deck, mesmerized by the otherworldly beauty. Viv couldn't blame them when the ship slowed down, unattended. She was just as caught as they were.

“Alright, enough ogling. Get us in,” she finally said when it was clear nobody else wanted to.

“You heard the lady! Move!”

Neriad’s Mercy approached its destination at a slow speed, Viv eager to see if something would happen. Lana, Sigjin, and Rakan stood by her side near the prow. She felt a tickle once they entered the bubble. The Azure Lady’s presence grew so overwhelming that Viv felt like she was reaching into her personal space, like touching the face of a stranger. Once again, Viv pulsed her aura softly, but received no response. There was a clear floating wooden pier at the edge of the maze of water structures, and that is where the ship stopped. Viv saw there was a welcoming committee but that wasn’t what got her attention.

From up close, the palace definitely lost its charm. She was a child in an amusement park who accidentally walked into the staff area. The marble revealed itself to be stucco, the sparkles, cheap glitter, and Prince Charming was an underpaid employee on a smoke break. Yes, the water constructs were breathtaking, but the wood panels and other real stuff hung by a hair. It was all old and decrepit. In the distance, she saw men and women in strange suits carrying baskets of fish. The material was weird and ropey.

Wait, were those made of kelp?

A movement brought her attention back to the welcoming committee. One of the people was leaving. A woman from her gait. Viv didn’t recognize her, but she was a mage. Before Viv could consider her options, the head of the delegation stepped in.

He was a tall man with wiry muscles and a great saber at his back, of an ethnic group Viv had never seen before. His skin was grayish under a healthy tone. His high cheekbones made him look gaunt, though he seemed healthy.. He also possessed this sharp presence Viv had come to associate with blade masters like Solar or Selyen, the so-called Dragonslayer Reborn. Hostility radiated from him in great waves she felt in her soul, though it didn’t feel personal.

“Who comes? Who dares approach our sanctum without permission?” he asked in the northern tongue.

Anger rose in Viv’s chest, though she quelled it. He was merely defending his home.

“My name is Viviane of Harrak,” she said, going for the least pretentious option. “This is my paramour, Sidjin the Red Mist, and archmages Lana the Tide-Weaver and Rakan of the Four colors.”

“Actually, those are nicknames,” Sidjin whispered in her ear.

“I know I’m just trying to avoid dropping too many titles. Stop interrupting me in front of the thug. Ahem. We come seeking the assistance of the Azure Lady for a… medical reason.”

This seemed to take the man aback.

“A medical reason? Pah! It matters not. Do you not know that you must seek approval with our representative in Helock before approaching this sanctum?”

“We’re personae non grata because of some terrible diplomatic incident. It involved a town official abusing his power and me taking grave exception to it.”

Dammit! She was trying to be diplomatic! The threat didn’t go unheard. A wave of intimidation pushed against her, though it felt more like an instinctual response than a real attack. She was interested to feel that this guy had his own expert skill! It felt like he got it slaying great beasts, somehow.

Her own soul replied with the uncaring cold of the scale. He could bark. It was all the same to her.

She could bite.

Wait, no, bad Viv. Diplomacy.

“But I digress. I am sorry I could not offer advance notice,” she lied. “I was hoping we could talk to the Azure Lady regardless. We meant no disrespect. We will wait here for her decision,” she said, sensing that being too assertive would piss the guard off even more.

The man didn’t exactly mellow, but at least the intimidation pulled back. Viv was wearing her crown in a clear display of her rank, yet she was being very polite. It was enough to avoid escalations. Before he replied, a single pulse expanded through the air. Most of the people on the pier shivered, a sign many were at least a little sensitive to mana. That was an impressive number. Viv wasn’t sure but she guessed there might be as many as five hundred people spread out across the multiple structures. Even now, she could see many going about with their days.

“The lady will receive you,” the blade master whispered between gritted teeth.

Viv allowed herself a smile. They were off to a great start! She didn’t wait for the gangplank to walk off the railing, followed by Rakan and Lana.

“I’ll stay with the ship!” Sidjin said.

He and the blade master exchanged glares. It was probably wiser to keep someone near the ship, just in case.

“Follow me,” the blade master said.

Viv didn’t try to inspect him; it would be foolish. The grim warrior guided them out of the pier under the curious gaze of the crowd. As Viv had felt, many were mages, some used to fighting. They wore an eclectic collection of clothes that had mostly seen better days. Some used a strange, dry fabric that Viv was sure was some sort of algae, but the process had obviously not been perfected yet. Now that Viv was paying attention, she realized the mages were just as unusual. She noted Northerners, Enorians and Baranese, quite a few Vizimani and some of those ashy gray people with high cheekbones Viv was starting to suspect were Shadowland dwellers. They were an extremely reclusive bunch who rarely left their faraway continents, so it was strange seeing them here out in the maritime boonies.

Nobody from beyond the isthmus. It looked like the Nemeti had complete control over the population there.

Viv returned her attention to the group when Lana leaned towards her, speaking in Imperial.

“I think I saw… but no, nevermind. I must be mistaken.”

“Recognized someone?”

Lana merely shook her head, and Viv didn’t press the issue. They’d reached the first main water building. She took the steps up trying not to show how cool she thought it was that the water barely rippled under her boots. Monumental doors opened to a circular stone vestibule adorned with a magnificent mosaic, a work of art that covered the entire floor. Viv didn’t want to think about the power required to keep this thing afloat. Where the windows ought to be, flowing figures made of crystalline waters showed detailed scenes. Those were actually enchanted into the stone walls rather than maintained through sheer force of will, and Viv could see why: they were incredibly detailed. One showed a brilliant civilization building cyclopean structures, the second, a terrible civil war with both sides using strange machines. A third displayed volcanoes erupting in the background while the beleaguered people rushed to a flotilla of ships. The last showed a flourishing city floating on the ocean.

Viv got the impression that the last one might be a tad embellished. The place was damp, cold, and it didn’t smell particularly good either. The stones of the mosaic were dulled by age. Some were missing.

The blade master walked confidently through another set of doors. Outside, the ocean was flat as a mirror. One of the tendrils floated lazily over the placid surface. It looked uncomfortably like a tentacle.

The blade master walked in. A strong current carried him to a larger island with surprising grace.

The Harrakans gave each other looks. Viv was the first to go in. If anything went wrong, she would be fine.

Her first experience of the fast waterway was that fuck, it was cold. Her second experience was akin to someone grabbed by the collar. It only took five seconds for her to land again and she hated every moment of it. She was completely dry on arrival though, every drop of moisture reabsorbed by the strange conduit.

Ok so yeah, it was cool, but what was wrong with stairs? Or a nice bridge? Fucking gimmicks. She pushed down her annoyance by telling herself it was all novel and fancy but seriously, did people just dip their nethers in cold ocean juice every time they wanted to go greet a neighbor? And she thought commuting in Paris was bad. Jesus.

The blade master was waiting with a smirk. Viv’s poker face irked him, which provided a nice soothing sensation to Viv’s bruised patience. Before her stood a palace of flowing water and ice that only used a minimal amount of material. Steps formed under her feet.

