Erick felt his heart go out to the woman, for she had been outed as a Soul Mage because of him. Not directly; no. But somehow, someway, Ari had been outed as a Soul Mage, and now she was here in Holorulo, in Court dress. And, it was not hard to see that she wasn’t exactly happy.

Ari asked, “Is there anything else you would like to ask?”

There were a few things. For starters: Did she need help with something? He hadn’t expected this practical interrogation when he asked her to come over, but maybe he should have?

“There is one thing.” Erick said, “I’ve been working on this spell for a while. It doesn’t have a name, but I’m calling it [Renew]. It’s to be a Basic Tier spell that anyone can purchase, that will allow them to renew and reinvigorate any ongoing magic. The goal is to allow laypeople to [Renew] the ongoing magical effects that others can cast; to allow a normal guard to upkeep the [Grand Shield] that an archmage can cast upon a city, for instance.”

Ari asked, “Do you mean, like a City Shield?”

Erick smiled. “Yes! Exactly like that.” He added, “City Shields are the normal magical items, but the artifact is known as the Tears of Aloeth; they’re Old Cosmology artifacts. City Shields were the New Cosmology creation. Apparently they’re not that good, but I haven’t seen any, so I don’t really know.”

“We have some City Shields. Back in Eralis.” Ari said, “Here, too, no doubt.”

“You do?” Erick smiled wide. “I need to see one.”

“This is easily accomplished; I can direct you to a Border Clan, or you can ask after one here, in Holorulo. They might even be able to sell you one to experiment upon, if you wish. They’re not very useful, but Border Clans use them sometimes against monster waves.” She said, “They’re terrible at stopping people, though.”

“Ah! This is great. First good news I’ve had all week, it seems.” Erick asked, “But let us talk a little about expanding that functionality to more than just a simple shield. Let us speak of a [Renew], a new Basic Spell that would work for anyone to restore any ongoing magic.”

Ari went silent for a moment, thinking, then she said, “Everyone’s individual spellwork is different; everyone’s soul casts a little bit differently. This is only the first problem with this [Renew] spell. Even City Shields collapse if people don’t attempt to harmonize their mana to the same colors.”

Erick smiled, then said, “This is all new information for me, so let us talk about it for a while.”

Ari seemed to relax a little; becoming less stiff under Erick’s enthusiasm, perhaps.

She began, “Well. Spells work off of parts of the soul, which is different for everyone, which...”

They spoke of souls and magic.

A few hours later, and just as Ari was starting to smile and Erick was able to tell a terrible joke that elicited a laugh, Hangzi called upon Erick for an evening meal in a few hours. When that happened, Ari turned cold again. She decided to return to her duties as a Soul Mage of Songli. Though she had never said so, Erick saw that Ari was not happy here in Holorulo.

Erick saw her off, saying, “If you need help with your new life, or whatever may come, just send to me, and I’ll be there.” He looked to her, the seriousness of his words evident in his eyes. “I mean it, Ari. Ask, and I’ll be there. You deserve this much and more. Thank you for saving my life.”

Ari smiled, a sad expression, then she discarded that emotion, and said, “Thank you, Archmage Flatt. Perhaps we can share another pot of tea and discuss magic again, some other time.”

“I would like that.”

As Erick watched Ari blip away in red light, he had a sad moment.

It was the way in which Ari had said ‘Archmage Flatt’, and not ‘Erick’.

Ahh. Dammit.

Erick missed ‘Ezekiel’. That was a simpler time, for sure.
