Lingxing stepped forward. “The Songli Highlands would welcome you as a member of our land, if you didn’t already have obligations elsewhere. But if ever you should change your mind, please consider this land that you have helped to save. You’ve already done so much for us, so we would like to do whatever we can for you. Is there anything you wish for that we could provide?” She did not step back; she waited for an answer.

A moment passed, with Erick unable to speak for the lump in his throat. And then a second moment passed, and the lump lessened.

Erick had an answer for Lingxing, so he gave it, “I wish to ensure that proper chelation is refined to the point where it can be administered without risk of death. I wish for something kind and generous to be done with the remaining people of Terror Peaks, because there are still children over there, and they are just children… Even if some of them have proven to be as violent as the adults. And I wish for proper answers as to why this war happened at all, and where those soul spears came from. Terror Peaks was heavily prepared to desecrate proper war protocols, with many allies willing to follow them to their deaths, but none of the people I captured have given satisfactory answers as to why they enacted this war.”

As he spoke, Erick watched the reactions of those in the room, but the only major reaction he saw was one of quiet contemplation. There might have been a few people with guarded looks, but as for what was beyond those guarded looks, Erick could not say.

Lingxing, maybe because she was the eldest here and because she was the one to ask, answered, “Chelation will be created; of that there is no doubt. The children and elders of Terror Peaks will be accounted for, but as for what that accounting will look like, only Phagar knows that future. We had tried carers and missionaries for those children who refused to [Teleport] to Songli, but those missions failed when those children killed our missionaries. We are trying a new plan of dropping off supplies for known groups of kids, which seems to be working for now, but there will undoubtedly be changes with that plan as our understanding of the problem improves.

“But we will not leave the true threat of Terror Peaks to regrow, ever again, so, unfortunately, some hard lines might need to be taken for some extreme cases.

“For Terror Peaks will regrow if we allow half-measures. They were zealots, all of them. The reasons for this war might be what we have told you already, Erick, but which we are not sure you have heard: Terror Peaks was becoming socially unstable. In enacting war with us, they sought to cull themselves to a more manageable population, and to drag the rest of Nelboor to war with us, if they could. This war was an opportunity for them to better control their own people, but when they struck at us, and you were here as well, they struck at two dragons when they meant to strike at one.

“Nelboor and Veird is better off for them being scoured so thoroughly. We are all better off for the justice that your own Imaging has allowed Songli to enact across our little part of the world, and we will not allow such opportunity to disappear.

“As for the soul spears: We have some of these soul spears, as they were used against us as well as they were used against you. We seek to discover where these came from, as well. Whatever might have happened, Patriarch Xangu escaped to the Underworld with the answers we all desire to have. We have already sent enforcers to find the man, but the Underworld is vast. We can only hope they find Xangu before he resurfaces with a second army at his back.”

Erick took in her words, and he diplomatically said, “I thank you for your words, and look forward to accompanying actions. And you are right; I do not accept that answer for this war. But I will talk to you in private about this, if I may.”

Lingxing graciously said, “We will always appreciate your company. Call on Void Song in your darkest days, or in your brightest joys, and we will be there.”

Tipanri said, “Severing Crescent will always welcome you into our halls, either here in Holorulo, or in our residences and fields of Alaralti.”

Hangzi said, “Devouring Nightmare recognizes Archmage Erick Flatt as a valued friend. We three High Clans would like to call upon you and yours for a private dinner in a few days, here in Holorulo, where we can discuss details of minor and major importance to the realm.”

Erick said, “I accept your invitation.” He said, “I was in the middle of… Something, when I collapsed. Is there anything that you would wish for me to continue? I believe I was raining on some lands of Alaralti.”

Tipanri smiled softly, then said, “You have been of great help, but we are past the worst of it. We can take it from here, Archmage Flatt.”

Erick got the distinct impression that he was being dismissed. So he took the offered out, and after a nod from him and a returning nod from Lingxing, Tipanri, and Hangzi, he turned around and headed back down the ramp. Behind him, people started talking to each other once again, though some of those in that room never stopped; they had just kept it quiet with their words being those of the telepathic kind.

Also! Erick didn’t buy for one second that Terror Peaks had done this war as an extension of a ‘population control’ thing.

That was just too far-fetched, but it was an idea that seemed to be gaining traction. None of the higher-ups had openly spouted that claim until just now. Until Lingxing’s words in that room, the only ones to really speak of that horrific reasoning had been the underlings, and some middle-manager types here and there.

Lotta loremasters claimed that Terror Peaks used this war to control the population of its citizens, though, so maybe that’s where this line of thinking was coming from. It didn’t make much sense to Erick.

Anyway.

It was time to go back to bed. Time to take another nap.

On the way out, crossing the bridge back to his rooms, he asked, “Do you guys believe that this was a ‘population control’ thing?”

Teressa said, “The majority of the red army expected to get away, I think, so Lingxing’s words were… True, but only in a certain sense.”

Poi hummed, noncommittal but also disappointed in some way.

Jane said, “But they knew dad could find them. Didn’t they?”

Poi spoke up, “That’s easy to explain. They were delusional. They believed what they wanted to believe. They didn’t believe what they had been told that Erick could do.”

“But a whole society that believed incorrectly?” Erick asked.

And the second he asked, he thought of climate change deniers and the people in power who empowered those incorrect beliefs.

Poi added to Erick’s little revelation, saying, “You’re asking me to distill the movements of an entire society down to a series of easy-to-understand events.”

“Okay. Well. Yes; that question was unfair of me.”

“I can do it, though.” Poi said, “This war was because the people in charge made it happen.”

Teressa laughed, once; it was not a happy laugh. Erick shared her sentiment. Jane just frowned.

Erick said, “There’s probably a dozen reasons for war, and the people in charge of Terror Peaks probably used all of them to get this to happen, as well as twisting truths into lies. But maybe someday, someone will write a history book about this and I can find out all about it, then. Rozeta gives out points for history books, right?”

Teressa’s face bunched up.

Poi said, “Yes. But that’s a whole thing.”

Erick waved him off, “I’m tired right now. We can talk about that later.”

Jane asked, “Are you going to write down anything? A primary source for those historians?”

“… Oh.” Erick said, “Maybe I should.”

- - - -

Erick did not write.

He remade the spellwork around the room, and then crashed and didn’t wake up for dinner.

In his dreams, he was a butcher, and the meat was people.

- - - -

Erick woke drenched in sweat and breathing hard. Ophiel twittered on the headboard, his many eyes looking down at Erick, as his body softly glowed like a nightlight in the darkened room. Erick sighed, blinking long. Then he sat up and gazed across the room, to the other nightlight; the water clock sitting in the corner. The clock was an ostentatious work of swirling metal, with two pools for water, several connected chambers that were out of sight, and a [Gravity Ward] that kept the water moving properly. Erick liked the simpler ones, but this one looked like it kept good time.

Daylight was hours away, but he was awake now.

A [Cleanse] got rid of the smell of his night sweat, but not the wetness. Erick got up and left the damp behind, and then he discarded his shirt and pants, and just stood there, naked, allowing himself to air dry, taking his time to get redressed. He looked down at his stomach, and noticed that he had lost more weight. With a glance through Ophiel’s eyes, he saw himself.

Ah. He was pretty damn skinny at the moment.

He was starting to like how he looked, but that was before Shadow’s Feast… Before all this shit. He wasn’t muscular like he had been when he was Jane’s age, but he was getting there. Stats seemed to help guide the body into certain shapes, but if you didn’t work and grow into your Strength, usually through exercise and fighting of some sort, then that Strength didn’t really show.

Erick had let himself get skinny, and it had happened when he wasn’t watching. This last week of bad food had drained him, but it had only been the latest in a long line of improper self care.

Ha. ‘Self care’. When there was a war on. What sort of messed up outlook was that? There were people out there right now that could use any care at all, and here he was—

Erick went to his clothes and put on something simple, and then he glanced around through the light, and with his mana sense, to see who was awake. No one was awake. Poi and Teressa were asleep in their rooms. Jane was asleep on the couch in the living room, having passed out while reading.

Erick worked through the paranoia that rapidly came with witnessing such a situation. Four days ago, he had also seen everyone in the household asleep at the same time. He had almost had a meltdown at being the only one awake. He didn’t wake anyone back then, either. He just checked them to ensure they were okay.

A subtle [Cleanse] on everyone didn’t disturb their sleep, via erasing the poisons that could have put them to sleep. No one had any magic active on them that wasn’t supposed to be there. Ophiels were watching over everyone and Ophiel seemed perfectly at ease. The spellwork defenses had never been breached.

Everyone was perfectly fine.

Erick worked through his paranoia, and discarded it.

Then he went into the living room, passing by sleeping Jane, and then to the kitchen. It was a tiny kitchen, meant more for the convenience of the guards and servants of the people staying in the room, than for the actual person of interest staying here. There was still room enough to cook something, though. But what to make? Mmm…

Oh! And since it was so early!

Ohh!

Erick decided he wanted deep fried donuts.

Or. No! Cronuts. And with magic, it would be easy to laminate the butter into the dough. He had tried once, and failed, but he could try again. Ohhhh! This was going to be good. Erick smiled, and started fishing out some supplies from the cold stora—

Erick collapsed to his knees, then laid himself out upon the cold floor, tears streaming.

There weren’t any supplies to make donuts.

- - - -

Jane startled awake when something made noise in the kitchen. She glanced over through the shadows—

Jane bolted upright and rushed over, softly saying, “Dad. Dad. What’s wrong? What’s wrong?” She touched his shoulder as he sobbed, and then he seemed to realize there was another person there, so he shut down his sobbing. And then he looked up, and saw Jane.

Her father blinked out tears, and pushed away, getting up as he said, “I’m good. It’s—” He snorted a laugh, and gestured at the cold box like it had offended him. “There’s no—” He turned away, saying, “I’m fine. I was just having a moment.”

Jane let him have his moment, but her heart ached to see him like this. So she asked, “Did you come in here for dinner? I had them make you some fried boneless chicken and rice and that sauce I heard you liked.” She went to the storage, and yup, her father’s dinner was still sitting down there under [Cold Preservation Ward]s. Not much else was in there, though; some wines, some smaller desserts— “Oh. Did you want to make breakfast?”

Erick sobbed once, but said nothing. He was still facing away.

“Hard to get anything around here without talking to a servant first.” Jane went to him and hugged him from behind. His bones unexpectedly poked her when she laid her head upon his shoulder. She adjusted, and tried a light joke, “You can’t be skipping meals, dad. You’re wasting away to skin and bones.”

Her father cried at that, and Jane had no idea why.

And then Jane felt water in her own eyes, and a terrible hole opened up in her own heart. She cried a little, too. She couldn’t really help him through this. All she could do was be there for him. She said, “I’m sorry.”

Erick kept turned away.

After minutes, her father stopped sobbing. Jane had already stopped a while ago.

Jane let him go, and stepped back, asking, “What did you want for breakfast?”

Erick breathed in, deep, and sighed. He turned to her, red-faced, and with a sad smile. “I just wanted to make some cronuts.”

Jane laughed once, loud, then again, softer. Erick smiled.

Jane said, “Well we need a fuck-ton more stuff than what’s in that larder, don’t we.”

