“… Eh. I don’t know about that.” Kiri offered, “But you could build an antirhine room and test some of this out, if you wanted? Do some experiments? It’s ungodly expensive to make, but I bet the guard or Silverite has some leftover antirhine walls that came out of that Daydropper stuff, maybe?”

“Eh.” Erick said, “Maybe.” He waved off the idea, saying, “Not important. Too many things to do already. [Renew] is a large enough problem to work on, especially if I could make it possible to use on a person, to restore their mana reserves.”

“This talk has me thinking...” Kiri said, “I think I’d like to make a [Mana Generator] spell. One that actually produces new mana.”

“Pff! Why?”

“Because...” Kiri looked a little shy, as she said, “You once told me of the size of the universe, but I’ve already read about the size of the Old Cosmology, and all the old planar systems and how they worked, and how you could journey from one end of known space to the other, and never reach the end.” She said, “But the Script is the only thing that keeps Veird alive, that keeps the mana here, and allows magic to happen. And that’s… Well it’s terrifying. As far as I know, new mana is never made; it’s only recycled. But if we had a way to make new mana we could make those spaceships that you talked about. Once we got that, we could plant [Script]s on the other rescued planets of this New Cosmology, and expand to places untouched by Melemizargo and other monsters.

“Maybe, one day, we could even travel around our Sun System, like they used to in the Old Cosmology.” She shrugged, adding, “Maybe the universe wouldn’t seem so impossibly large and scary, if we could explore more of it in the safety of the Script.”

Ophiel chirped on his perch, as Sunny flickered different colors, and Erick felt a swell of pride in his chest for his apprentice.

“Kiri!” Erick smiled wide, then said, “I never knew you had such large ambitions!”

She laughed, saying, “I don’t! Not really... But it’s a nice thought.” Her eyes got a little wide, as she casually stared off into nothing, saying, “The universe is too damn big and too darn small, all at the same time.”

Erick said, “You know: There’s that quest for a spaceship on Candlepoint’s quest board.” He warned, “If you worked toward such a goal, then it would likely get stolen by Darkness, and made into a weapon so the Shades could escape Veird, and destroy everyone left behind.”

“… Oh. Right.” Kiri, mortified, said, “Then maybe I won’t work on Mana Generation.” She added, “But… Now that I think on it... Someone else has to have solved this problem, already, if for no other reason than for the thrill of new magics. Maybe Melemizargo already has this spell?” She added, “Melemizargo likely already has every magic there is, and a lot more besides.”

“Ah. Yeah. Maybe? He is the old god of magic… But he’s been insane for a long time, so...”

“Maybe his magics never got used to their greatest effects?” Kiri said, “Melemizargo’s plan for ending it all has been going on for a long time, but he never really succeeds, thank the gods. But. Maybe… Maybe he already has many of his pieces, but they’re all over the place? If that is his true goal? To burn it all and then return to the Old Cosmology?”

“Scary thoughts! But ultimately, unsolvable, as of this moment.” Erick smiled, saying, “I made some lemon cookies while you were out. Let’s talk more about goals over some snacks.” He got up from his chair, asking, “And then, perhaps, a spar?”

Kiri smiled, enthusiastically agreeing, “Yes.”

Erick led the way out of the library, but paused at the archway, and turned back for a moment. With a quick Handy Aura swipe, he marked ‘[Teleport Object]’ off from his own list of goals.

One down! Many more to go.

- - - -

Over lemon cookies and honeyed tea, for it was too late for coftea, Erick and Kiri spoke of magic and spell formulas, of monsters and mysteries of the world, and about allies, and enemies. Tomorrow would be the first day of the last month of the year. In three weeks, Festival Week would begin, and after all of those celebrations, Water Season would come to Spur, once again. Erick kinda wanted to visit Teressa’s people for Festival week, for there was something fun going on there, for sure, and Teressa seemed enthusiastic about the idea.

… He also needed to get around to talking to Archmage Syllea, and visiting her then might be a good idea.

Sparring with Kiri was a rash idea, soon forgotten; it was too late. Sitting and sharing stories was much better.

Erick said, “I’ll have been on Spur for a year, in about forty five days. [Call Lightning] will come into the Script in, like, 65? Something like that. Maybe sooner. Particle Mage, too.” He added, “It was the beginning of summer in my world when we popped over, but it was spring when we got here. Or… the end of winter, actually.”

“What was your climate, like? Where you lived?” Kiri asked, refilling her tea, and Erick’s. “Right now, it’d be snowing back in Tower Town.”

Erick picked up another lemon cookie, saying. “Snow. I miss the snow. Great fields of soft white that crunched under your boots, and all the forests had a deep, cold sound. Lakes cracking under ice freezes. Cold so deep it shattered trees, sometimes.” Erick looked away, thinking of another time, and place. He said, “There was a softness to that sound, that I’ll never see again. I would never be comfortable enough to enjoy such a vista on Veird, I think. Too many monsters.”

Kiri smiled softly, to herself. She sipped her tea. “I would like to visit a world without monsters. I had an older brother when I was four— I still have a lot of brothers. But… He had just Matriculated but it was heavy winter. He went out into the snowfields one day, searching for monsters to fight. He never came back.” She said, “Someone found his body the next day. He was about four kilometers north of the city walls, in the ditch beside the road. We think bandits got him and dumped the body where it would be found.”

Erick felt a lurch in his chest. He said, “That’s awful Kiri. I’m sorry that happened.”

“At least they dropped the body where it would be seen.” Kiri said, “Some people don’t even get that.”

Erick shivered. “That’s… terrible...”

Kiri said, “Yes. It was.”

“How’s the rest of your family, these days?”

“They’re all in Odaali, now, working on—”

Erick heard someone walking to the kitchen, moments before Poi walked into the room, wearing loose pajamas. He rubbed his eyes with the back of his bluescaled hand; he was not fully awake.

“Si—” Poi yawned, huge, then said, “There’s an Ancient Stone Elemental coming toward Spur, from the north east. Estimated time of arrival is 3 hours. Either of you two, please kill it?”

Erick said, “I’ll take this one.”

Kiri giggled, asking, “You will?”

“I have a spell I want to try out, and a walking mountain is the perfect target.” Erick said, “[Teleport Object] and [Stoneshape], like you said for [Comet Swarm] however long ago you said.”

Poi said, “Here,” as he sent Erick a telepathic image of the location, and added, “Back to bed.”

Kiri asked, “Where is it?”

“Nope.” Poi said, “You get to watch Erick.”

“Ah.” Kiri looked down at her cup. “Right. Yes. Of course.”

Erick asked, “And that reminds me. Either of you two know if there’s someone in Spur who looks out for falling rocks and blips them away? To stop them from impacting the city? And if so, why was that boulder allowed to fall on my house?”

Poi rattled off, “There are several people like that, and there are velocity attuned [Alarm Ward]s cast high above the city to warn of any lethal, major attacks. The stone triggered nothing because it was below the threat threshold.”

“… Really?”

Poi said, “Yes. The dropping of stones is a minor problem that we usually just deal wi—” He yawned again, then continued, “That we usually just deal with, as any city would deal with attempted murder.” He lazily added, “Or attempted… whatever. The Guard can’t, and shouldn’t, protect from every little thing.”

Erick smiled. He said, “Go back to bed, Poi. Thank you.”

“Aye, sir!” Poi half-mocked, as he smiled and walked away, scratching his belly as he turned the corner of the kitchen archway.

Erick looked to Kiri. “This might not take long.”

She smiled, and refilled her cup. “I want to see the aftermath, though.”

“Of course.” Erick summoned another Ophiel, and sent him blipping away in a flash of white light.

- - - -

Stars glittered above in the black expanse of the sky, while half moons held on the horizon, casting silver and pink light across the dune-filled land. Cold winds blew from the north. And the world vibrated under a thousand thousand stone legs.

Because down below, a mountain walked the land.

A hundred meters wide, and fifty tall, the three peaked, minor mountain range of a monster rolled across the dark dunes. Faint orange glows held in the deeper cracks of the stone beast, a cross between lava and light, revealing the magical nature of the moving mountain; as if its movement wasn’t revelation enough. Down on the ground, in front of the roiling dust storm that the beast threw into the air with its travels, glowed bright orange orbs, each the size of a person’s head, or smaller. They were the creature’s eyes, and they were focused on the prizes ahead of them; not only the bounty far ahead, in the city of Spur, where countless people vibrated the ground with their tiny lives, but even right ahead of the monster, where smaller monsters tried, and failed to hide their true nature as food.

Crystal mimics tried to run away from the oncoming mountain, but they could not get away, either from the immensity of the Ancient Stone Elemental, the monster’s power, or from the multitude of orange eyes around the edges. Those orange eyes locked on the mimics, but the mountain did not change course; it did not need to. Spikes of orange stone lifted up around each fleeing mimic, trapping them and pulling them down into the dirt, to feed the mountain.

Far in front of the monster, Ophiel’s wings whistled on the wind, as he flew down to the ground, and cast, chunking a huge hole into the floor of the Crystal Forest.

Another, fainter whistling carried on the wind.

In the open sky above, the black expanse of night was briefly altered by a subtle addition; a bit of stone, raised high above, that caught on the lights of the moons, turning that ever-so-small part of the sky to something other than darkest blue.

The stone descended.

- - - -

The stone fell to Veird, crashing into the mountain, exploding through the Ancient Stone Elemental, transforming the monster into a volcano erupted.

When the dirt and dust cleared. There were two mountains, now, and a lot of smaller orange eyed elementals wandering around, searching for enemies. Ophiel watched, as Erick’s mana refilled, and elementals rejoined, reforming the moving mountain. Ten minutes later, the mountain was back, but it only had two peaks, this time.

- - - -

Erick spied the spell notification, among all the kill boxes.

Stone Fall, instant, super long range, 6000 mana

Teleport a large sized stone into the sky, to fall upon a target, dealing massive physical damage.

Well that was less than optimal. Erick tried again, but slightly different, adding [Force Crash] and Mana Altering to the spell, to create something new.

Force Crash X, instant, long range, 100 MP

Rain small destruction in a medium area, dealing 15 + WIL damage per crash. Lasts 1 second. 15 crashes.

- - - -

A minor moon appeared in the sky, then blasted apart into a hundred smaller orbs of compacted stone, that suddenly descended with whistling strength. The shotgun attack filled a minor part of the sky before it crashed against the entire mountain and the surrounding land, scattering elementals to the air, but breaking nothing. The mountain continued, slightly smaller after the barrage of stone, but still two-peaked, and headed for Spur.

… Ophiel threw out a [Withering], just to see what would happen.

Nothing happened. There was no water in rock elementals, after all.

- - - -

Erick looked at his second, new spell.

Stone Crash, instant, super long range, 6500 mana

Cast a large size of stone into the sky, breaking it into a hundred rocks to fall upon a super large area.

Erick showed both his new spells to Kiri. “Do these look good?”

Her eyes went wide. “Uh.” She said, “But?” She collected her thoughts, and said, “You could try for smaller, fire imbued [Comet Swarm]s. Elementals are hard to kill because you have to change their element to kill them. Throwing stone at stone is fun, but ultimately you’re doing a lot more than you need to do. You could be spending mana more efficiently.”

Erick said, “I knew that.”

Kiri raised her eyebrows, as she looked away. “Sure.”

“I did!” Erick laughed, then said, “I’m just having some fun, testing out magics.”

“Those stone spells are fine.” Kiri said, “Not very useful for smaller scale fights, though, or actual damage, unless you manage to directly hit something.”

“The next experiment should fix that.”

- - - -

Ophiel flew wide, around the reforming mountain, while Erick recovered his mana. It didn’t take long. When he was ready, Ophiel descended, back to the ground, to hover over a boring, normal dune. The dune did not remain boring for very long. Dune turned to stone, and flaming light, and then vanished, all at once, only to reappear in the sky like a minor sun.

The sun broke into stars, then stars descended.

Stars met stone, and exploded into light and fire, turning the night briefly to day, as shrapnel littered the land. A mountain became flaming, bright debris. Stone elementals burned, or flashed to dust, as white firelight held the night in its tight, relentless grip. Ten seconds, thirty, a full minute. Elementals died, returning to the land from whence they came. When the white fire finally passed, there were no more orange eyes in the dirt, and the mountain was no more.

The mountain was barely a small rise in the normal features of the Crystal Forest.

- - - -

None of the monsters Erick had killed were high enough level to give him anything close to resembling a level of his own, but the spell he had gotten out of the night was pretty good.

Firelight Comet Swarm, instant, super long range, 8100 MP

