“You don't 'handle' him.” Nathalia shook her head. “You love him; and that's all that needs to be done.” She turned away from the woman she'd vowed to take care of when she was 10 years old, and went to the small bedroom to spend the night with the man she loved.

*

Ren had just settled down in the bed, when Nathalia came in and asked him to move over.

“I don't think so.” Ren said and smiled. “If I move over, I'll fall out. This bed is barely big enough for me to lay on. You'll have to make other arrangements.”

Nathalia stored her clothing, which left her with just the thin slip on, and slid under the blanket to lay down on top of him.

“How's this arrangement?” She asked, as Ren wrapped his arms around her to hold her steady.

“I think that's just perfect, My Love.” He said and kissed her. Nathalia snuggled down onto his chest and they drifted off to sleep.

*

Narhilda went into the large bedroom, got undressed and laid down on the bed. Riley and Stacy took up their positions on either side of it, like end tables. Narhilda hugged herself with her arms and rolled over onto her side. Tears formed in her eyes, and she wiped them away.

“This is for the best.” She said softly. “Even if he earns another invitation to come back, we... we still can't be together.” Narhilda tried to convince herself. By the time she had cried herself to sleep nearly an hour later, she believed that distancing herself from him was for the best.

*

Ren woke up early the next morning, and his body was quite ready for some friskiness.

“Mmm.” Nathalia said as she felt Ren stir. “I think someone is 'up' early.”

He still didn't know how Nathalia had managed to have her slip ride up and got it tangled over and around her chest again; but today he didn't worry about it, as it gave him easy access to her. He took full advantage of the opportunity, and Nathalia appreciated his attention as they had fun for almost an hour. They played and teased, and tried their best to not fall out of the tiny bed as they got down to business. When they were finished, they got dressed and went out to the main room. Ren took out the icebox so they could eat breakfast.

“I can't believe you've been carrying that around.” Nathalia said as she took out some food and set it on the table. “Thank you.” She said. “The cooks here have no passion. They just make the meals and serve them.”

Ren nodded slightly. “If I had more time, I'd ask you to teach me everything you know.”

“I really want to teach you, too.” Nathalia sighed. “But after your 3 month sentence, you only have a month to finish everything you've started. It would take a lot longer than that to teach you.”

“I know.” Ren said. “I just have to prove my value to the dwarves again, and try to earn another invitation back.”

“After everything you've done here, do you really think there's something else you can do to prove your worth to us?”

“I'm sure I'll think of something.” He grinned as he ate.

“If you can top saving the people from Lord Lodur's strangle-hold, I'd like to see it.”

Ren chuckled. “You'll be the first person I'll come to see when I get back.”

“I'm sorry, but that won't be possible for a while.” Narhilda said as she came out of the bedroom. “I think Fritz was right. We need to fix everything here before opening our borders to other people that don't understand our ways.”

“What are you wearing?” Nathalia asked her. “Where's the dress Ren made for you?”

“In the closet.” Narhilda said. “I need to start wearing more appropriate clothing for receiving visitors to the castle.”

Nathalia frowned. “You shouldn't do that.” She said, and noticed something missing from Narhilda's neck. “Where's your pendant?”

“With the dress.” Narhilda said. “That's what the meeting was about last night. My Advisor said I should adjust to living in the castle, and not keep living in the past.”

“That doesn't mean abandoning everything Ren made for you!”

“It's all right, Nathalia.” Ren said. “If she's decided that her own House doesn't mean as much to her as it does to me, then that's her choice.”

“Ren!” Nathalia exclaimed. “She can't do that! Not after everything you've done to make House Neram mean something again!”

“She can do whatever she wants.” Ren said. “She's running the Kingdom now, after all.”

“Only because of you!”

He nodded slightly. “Yes, and now that I have, apparently I'm not needed anymore.”

Narhilda took in a deep breath to speak, and Ren raised a hand to stop her.

“I don't need your excuses or explanations.” He said. “I get it. I understand.” Ren stored the icebox, then looked at Nathalia. “I won't be coming here to sleep at night anymore.”

“REN!” Nathalia yelled. He stepped close to her and gave her a quick kiss on the lips.

“Just call if you need me.” Ren said. “I'll get to you as fast as I can.” He looked at Riley and Stacy. “Come.”

The two dogs went to him and took up positions at his side. Narhilda looked at him with surprise clearly on her face.

“I won't leave parts of myself around you, when you don't want me around.” Ren said. “You'll have to use your own guards from now on.” He said, turned away, and left the apartment with the dogs following him. Teepo was tempted to hang around and listen; but, he didn't want Ren to get too far ahead of him. He flew out of the apartment and down the hallway, to continue his scouting job.

*

“What, by the gods, are you thinking?!?” Nathalia nearly yelled.

“I told you last night.” Narhilda said. “I need to distance myself from him.”

“That's not what you just did!” She said. “What you did was cut him off! Not only from you; but from me, too!”

Narhilda's eyes widened at Nathalia's tone, then she frowned. “I don't think I like the way you are speaking to me.”

Nathalia laughed. “I don't like the way you're acting, so I guess that makes us even.”

“Nathalia.” Narhilda said, sternly. “You swore an oath...”

“Yes I did.” Nathalia said. “20 years ago. After all that time with you, this is the first time I've ever regretted it.”
