Ren worked hard for the next 4 hours. He dug where he was told, helped build supports, installed cart tracks, and even went so far as to enchant the lanterns with glyphs of the Illuminate rune. When Teepo told him the first 4 hours were up, Ren told the miners that he was going for lunch and left the main tunnel. He went to his workshop beside the blacksmith shop and took out the large icebox he'd taken from House Neram Keep. It was nearly full of food; so he helped himself to some of it, then stored it again.

When he was done eating, he made a chair and a workbench for himself and sat down. Ren looked through his inventory and saw he had over 400 bundles of spider silk, 200 poison glands, and 150 venomous fangs from the spiders. He used Identify and Appraisal on them all, and leveled both skills up. Identify was now Intermediate Level 3, and Appraisal was at Intermediate Level 6. He didn't even bother counting the money, and just shoved it into his coin vault without looking at it.

“That's half an hour, Ren.” Teepo said.

Thanks, Teepo. Ren thought, and left the workshop. He worked for another 4 hours straight, doing everything the work crew needed him to do, and when Teepo told him the time was up, Ren had a feeling of relief and happiness spread through his body.

Wow, that's weird. Ren thought. I just felt happy and relieved for no reason.

“Maybe that's your reward for finishing the day's work.” Teepo said, wisely. “After a while, I'll bet you're going to start looking forward to it.”

Yeah. Ren thought. Positive reinforcement is always a good motivator; but, I didn't think a bracelet could provide it.

“I guess if you don't fight it, it's not so bad.” Teepo said.

It shouldn't be needed at all. Ren thought. Not for normal workers, anyways.

“You're already changing things.” Teepo said. “You can't expect it all to be fixed overnight.”

Ren sighed as he walked to the mine entrance. I don't want the feelings to be produced artificially. I should feel them myself. He went to the medical tent and went inside.

The healer's eyes widened as she saw him, and he held a hand up in a surrender gesture.

“I just wanted to apologize for what happened earlier.” Ren said. “I should have told you a complete physical examination wasn't necessary in my case.”

“It was more complete than I thought it was going to be, that's true.” The healer said. “I... I never imagined...” She shook her head. “You must have quite the sex life, if you can react that quickly from a woman's touch.”

“I definitely have a lot of adventures in that regard.” Ren said. “Much to my own surprise.”

“And theirs, too.” The healer smiled crookedly. “I know I was surprised beyond belief.”

“I really am sorry that it happened.” Ren said.

“You don't have to apologize.” She said. “It was my fault for putting the both of us in that situation.”

“I'd say we both contributed to it.” Ren sighed. “I hope we can get past it.”

“I'm a professional.” The healer said. “I can move past it.” Once I get the feeling of having it pressed against my skin out of my head. She thought.

“I'm glad.” Ren said. “Goodnight.”

“Goodnight.” The healer said.

Ren left the tent and ran down to the guard at the gate, who opened it as Ren approached. Ren ran through it and down the road, and was back in the city a few minutes later. He concentrated on his personal Aura and the House Neram pendant, then ran over to the Main Keep. The guards let him pass the short line of dwarfs still waiting to go inside. Ren walked through the lobby and down the hallway to the hidden passage, went through it, and then made his way back to the royal apartments. No one questioned or stopped him, and he made it to the apartment without incident. He went inside and Teepo scouted for a minute, then told Ren that no one was there.

“I've got to go for a bit, anyways.” Ren said, and sat down on a couch. “See you when I get back.”

“Bye, Ren.” Teepo said and flew out to the hallway to keep watch.

“Logout.”

********

Ren took off the VR headset and Stella was there with a grin on her face.

“Okay, tell me what happened.” She said. “I saw the blue screen, and her face afterwards.”

Ren sighed, and relayed what had happened.

“How stupid can she be?” Stella laughed. “You're supposed to stand up and away from the area when you do a check like that.” She said. “And that's mainly because of your reaction.”

“Really?”

Stella nodded. “If you'd made a mess like you said you almost did, she would have been well out of the target zone.”

Ren sighed in relief. “Thanks, Stella.”

“You don't have to thank me.” She said. “If the healer wasn't prepared to accept the consequences of her actions, then she shouldn't have inspected you so closely.” She grinned. “Of course, she had no idea about the time bomb she might have set off from all of that poking and prodding.”

Ren chuckled. “I'm just glad I don't have to do it again.”

“Did she tell you that?” Stella asked, and Ren shook his head.

“I just assumed that once I passed the physical, I would be allowed to work.” Ren said.

“She might need to check you every day.”

Ren's eyes widened at her, and Stella laughed.

“Sorry.” She said. “I couldn't resist teasing you.”

Ren rolled his eyes. “So she won't want to see me like that again?”

“She should let you keep your underwear on if she does.” Stella said and grinned. “She won't make the same mistake twice.”

Ren nodded. “What's for supper?”

“What else?” Stella said, and put a tray with a bowl of plain white rice and a glass of supplement in front of him. Ren laughed, and sat up in bed to eat.

“It was still worth it.” Ren said, and ate the rice. When he was done, he looked at Stella. “Stella... I know an engineering student that might be able to help us with the technical side of the medical experiments.”

“You do?” Stella asked, and sat down. “How do you know...” She looked at the VR headset. “Stupid question.” She smiled. “What makes you think whoever it is can help us?”

“She's modded the old headsets well beyond their technical specs.”

Stella's eyes widened. “Really?” She asked. “I wonder...”

“What?”

“Nothing.” Stella said. “When can I meet her?”

“Hopefully on the weekend; but, I won't know for sure until I send her a message.”

“We can't work out the details of her salary and things until I meet her.” Stella said. “See if she can come over here on Saturday.”

Stella took the tray and Ren opened the laptop. He typed up a message to Gloria and sent it off.

“Hold on.” Ren said as he thought about Stella's schedule. “You're not working on Saturday.”

“I'll come in to meet her, so we can discuss what we need from her; and what she can expect from us.”

Ren nodded, and his laptop beeped. He checked the message and grinned. “She says she can be here bright and early at noon.”

Stella laughed. “Tell her that's fine, and to bring anything she thinks she might need to work on a headset.”

Ren typed up the response, and sent it. A moment later, he got her confirmation. “She'll be here.”

“Great.” Stella said. “You might want to use the bathroom before logging back in, too.”

Ren reached into his cubby hole, grabbed a foil packet, and went to the bathroom. He did his business and came back to bed.

“I don't know if I'll log out tonight or not.” Ren said. “If not, I'll see you on Saturday.”

“See you later.” Stella said and grinned. “Have fun.”

“That's the plan.” Ren said.

Stella helped him put on the VR headset, and he relaxed in the bed.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Ren woke up on the couch, and looked around. Teepo?

“Hi, Ren.” Teepo said. “Nathalia is waiting for you in the bedroom.”

Thanks. Ren thought, stood up to stretch, and went into the bedroom. Nathalia was sitting on the edge of the bed, looking at the door. Her eyes brightened as she caught a glimpse of Ren, and she ran to him. He caught her in a hug, and she kissed him desperately. They stayed embraced for several minutes, then Ren broke the kiss.

“I'm not complaining about it, but... what's with the urgency?”

“Narhilda is still in a meeting, and we don't have a lot of time.” Nathalia said. “I was worried you wouldn't be back before she was.”

Ren cupped the side of her face. “We haven't had any alone time in a while, have we?”

Nathalia shook her head. “Now that your days here are numbered, we're going to have less and less.”

“I know.” Ren sighed. “I don't know how I'm going to deal with not being able to share a bed with you after that.” He smiled sadly. “I've gotten used to having you by my side.”

“Me, too.” Nathalia said. “I love you.”

“I love you, too.” Ren said. “There's also something I need to ask you about.” He told her about Donna, the cook at the mansion, about her infatuation with strong military men, and about her asking him to visit with her occasionally when he was in Aurora.

Nathalia chuckled, but Ren could hear the sadness in her voice. “With you having to leave, you can't fulfill the marriage contract. Why are you still asking for my permission?”

“Just because I won't be able to complete our agreement, doesn't mean I should ignore it, or you, before it's nullified.”

“Even if we were still going to be together, I wouldn't object to it.” Nathalia said. “I wouldn't like it much... knowing you were filling another woman's idea of a dream man; but...” She sighed. “You can do what you want.”

Ren chuckled. “I know what that phrase means.” He said and kissed her. “It means you're not happy; but, you'll forgive me for it eventually.”

Nathalia laughed. “Yes, Ren. That's exactly what it means.”

Ren picked her up and laid her on the bed. She looked at him expectantly, and he smiled.

“Do you remember what I said, that very first time we admitted our feelings for each other?”

Nathalia shook her head.

“I said that I had a hard time stopping myself from kissing every inch of you, every time we touched.” Ren said, as Nathalia's eyes widened. “Can you guess what I'm going to do to you right now?” He asked her as he stored his clothing. Nathalia grinned as she stored her clothing, too.

It took Ren about half an hour to do what he said he was going to do. There was much giggling and laughing from her as he did kiss every inch. Nathalia kind of thought he was joking, and it would eventually turn into sex, once he got to certain spots. He didn't do that, though. Ren kept his word to kiss every single inch, then finished the task by kissing each of her toes. He held her ankles, and because it was tickling her so much, she tried to squirm and pull free. He held her firmly but gently, then kissed the pinky toe on each foot and let her go.

“I... I can't believe... you actually did it!” Nathalia said, trying hard not to keep laughing.

“I've wanted to do that for a long time.” Ren said. “It was about time that I finally got to do it.”

She looked at him, and sighed. “You're not even gone yet, and I already miss being with you.”

Ren lay on top of her. “Then let me ease your suffering for a while.” He said as they joined together, and he proceeded to please her as many times as he could in the time he had available. Nathalia kept saying that she loved him, and cried a little bit after each time he made her go. He asked her to concentrate on her House Neram pendant, and he let the tears flow as well when their Aura's merged. They made sweet, sad, and passionate love for nearly two hours. By the time they were done, both of them had cried themselves out, and they held each other in a tight hug.

“Thank you.” Nathalia said, and stared at him. “For loving me so much.”

Ren stroked the side of her face. “We've gone for longer than that before.” He chuckled at the indignation he felt from her. “I'm teasing you.” He said. “You've been the best thing that's ever happened to me.”

“That part I remember telling you.” Nathalia said as she felt his sincerity. “That this would be the best thing that either of us had ever had, marriage or no marriage.”

Ren nodded slightly and kissed her forehead, the tip of her nose, then her lips.

“Narhilda's coming down the hall.” Teepo said. “She'll be here in a minute.”

“Teepo says Narhilda's almost at the apartment.”

Nathalia nodded slightly as their Aura connection faded. They got out of bed, equipped their clothing, and went out to meet her. The apartment door opened and Narhilda came in, wearing the dress Ren had made for her. Riley and Stacy were on her heels as she strode over to stand in front of Ren.

“I'm sorry I'm late.” Narhilda said. “These meetings are taking up more and more of my time.”

Ren smiled. “I told you.”

“Sometimes, I hate it when you're right.” She said, then took in a sharp breath. “I didn't mean... I shouldn't have said that.”

“It's how you feel.” He laughed. “Just so you know... I hate it sometimes, too.”

Narhilda sighed. “Ren, I... I don't feel like... um...”

“I assumed you didn't.” He smiled. “Especially since you didn't hug me when you came into the room.”

She had a surprised look on her face for a moment, then sighed again. “I guess I really am too tired, if I don't want you to hold me.”

“Going to bed and getting some rest, sounds good right now.” Ren said. “Am I staying on the couch?”

“Of course not!” Narhilda said. “There's a perfectly good bed in the other room.”

“Then I will see you in the morning, My Lady.” Ren said. He bowed slightly, walked across the room, and entered the small second bedroom.

*

“What was that all about?” Nathalia asked.

Narhilda covered her face with her hands. “I have to start fighting my feelings for him.” She said. “If I don't start cutting him off right now, when he leaves I'll... I'll never get over him.”

Nathalia shook her head. “All you're going to achieve by doing that is hurting yourself, and him, long before it's necessary.”

Narhilda sighed. “What can I do?” She asked. “He's done so much, changed everything so much. I don't know how to handle all of it, and him, at the same time.”

“Handle him?” Nathalia laughed. “You don't have to handle anything with him.”

“Wh-what?” Narhilda asked, surprised.

“I just spent the last 2 hours sharing all of my feelings with him, and he shared his with me.” Nathalia said. “His heart is so filled with love and longing, that it's nearly busting at the seams.”

Narhilda stared at her.

