Rane stood up, brushing off his pants and smiling. “We were in the area, after all. We couldn’t ignore cries for help.”

That caused the woman’s smile to turn more genuine. “Indeed. It is a pleasure to meet more Paragons of humanity and to find that our own aren’t unique in their views.”

Rane’s smile grew into a grin. “We are glad to not disappoint.”

The healed victims were saying their thanks and moving on with their days, clearly hoping to get away from whatever was happening with the gross sphere thing. Thankfully, one of them had, indeed, come forward as the boy’s mother, taking him and the dog away from the insecticide.

The street had cleared, and Tala wasn’t surprised given the continued gruesome nature of her solution.

Still, in less than a handful of minutes, she was left with an inert, highly compressed ball of mass.

She couldn’t detect any life within, but even still, she wanted to be sure.

Mistress Charlet seemed to be of the same mind. “What are you going to do with that?”

“This.” Tala grinned, then let out a thin stream of dissolution breath, confined and contained to only hit the no-longer-insect mass.

Her aura had long-since laid claim to the whole area, and her will and authority refined her strike to the point that it wouldn’t even hit the street on which the remains rested.

The entirety turned to dust-sized particulates, breaking free of her working as its form so radically transformed.

That resulted in a momentary horrifying potential. The dust might have exploded outward in a great, disgusting cloud, but Alat imposed her will through their aura and directed it all to be shunted toward the park on one side of the street. “There, fertilizer.”

Mistress Charlet frowned briefly. “And you certify that that is free of any lingering writhe lice?”

Tala nodded once, decisively. “I do.”

The older woman smiled. “That’s good enough for me. Thank you again, Mistress, Master. Take care, Miss.”

Tala, Rane, and Lea each gave appropriate bows in return, and the two groups parted ways.

Terry cracked one eye before rolling it at not being acknowledged a final time.

Tala patted his head, only hitching a moment when her stump patted him instead of a palm. Still, she didn’t hesitate for long. “You were amazing, Terry. Thank you.”

He shimmied, settling further in, squawking happily.

Lea licked her lips as they walked away. “Mom, Dad?”

“Hmm?” Tala turned to her.

“Yes, sweet?” Rane smiled down at their daughter.

“Can we get some more food? I think I’m hungry.”

Her parents hesitated a moment before laughing.

“Sure thing, Lea.” Rane pulled the girl into a side hug. “Let’s get some food on the way to the Archon Compound.”
