Aika nodded. “Yes. I mean, it’s strange. And I miss my computers and processing power, but I can fly and touch things, and I have you.” She beamed and took off, flying in little circles.

Kindra looked up and shivered. “I’m glad.”

Aika landed on her shoulder. “So, what is magic? Is it like that stuff that I couldn’t detect?”

Leaning back, Kindra’s thoughts drifted to the ship. Is that what ruined everything? She shivered, and little arms wrapped around her finger. She looked down.

Aika frowned. “I need you to level so I can get big and hug you.” She smiled and blushed. “And so you can hug me,” she said softly.

Kindra looked at her. “I have no idea how to hug you.”

“It’s a problem,” Aika said, sighing. “But you can level and fix it.” She smiled.

“Thanks. Do you remember what happened to the ship?”

Aika swallowed. “Sort of? There was a lot of interference. I downloaded a backup of myself into your bracelet, and that’s all I remember.”

“So, you lost the data from when we jerked through the wormhole?”

“I only remember up to the point that the first wormhole started to collapse for no reason. It didn’t make sense.” Aika fluttered into the air. “It was strange, and I prepared some backups just in case.”

“It was magic. I’m sure of it now.” Kindra forced herself up, gathering the bolts and crossbow. She turned and headed for the stairs. Aika is right, though. I need to get stronger. That means it’s time to slaughter everything so we can leave.

Opening the door and walking out onto the roof, she looked across the village. The animals continued murdering each other.

“Eww. That’s gross,” Aika said, pointing over to the side.

Kindra turned and saw a massive puddle of blood. Turtle things had taken it over and were warring in the makeshift pond. “Horrifying. Keep an eye out for any birds, please, Aika.”

“Sure.”

Kindra loaded the crossbow and propped it against the ramparts, aiming at a nearby snake and firing. The bolt sunk through it and snapped. Well, that’s one I’ll have to replace.

Minutes passed, and she got stuck in a loop, firing off bolts, collecting them, and adding more to the supply as they broke.

After several hours, the sun had arced across the sky, and a massive pile of corpses filled the courtyard and surrounding streets. The smell of blood permeated everything, and a crusty layer of blood and grime covered her body. This is the grossest thing ever. Reaching for the connection in her mind, she tried it. “Aika, let’s go.”

“We can talk like this? That’s amazing!” Aika zipped over to the door.

Kindra walked inside and headed down the stairs, walking into the dining room and grabbing some strange fruit from the pantry.

She tried it, biting down on it and nearly gagging. It tasted like ash mixed with a tiny bit of cinnamon. Why would they eat this?

Aika flew up and looked at it. “Can I try?”

“Sure. It tastes horrible.” Kindra stuck out her tongue.

Aika flew up and scooped up a piece, chewing it. “It tastes sweet and spicy.” She grinned. “I like it.”

“It tastes like dirt,” Kindra replied, shaking her head and forcing herself to take another bite.

“Why is there a cloth wrapped around you?” Aika asked, frowning at the bandages.

“I got hurt.” Kindra frowned. “Maybe I can make you a little knife or something.” She grabbed a metal plate and triggered her skill, burning ten mana to create a tiny knife and fork.

Aika flew up and grabbed them, returning to cut off pieces of the fruit. She then happily began eating.

Does she need to eat? This is strange. Kindra turned and stretched. How much mana did I manage?

[Your mana has increased: 18.9 → 45.9.]

She smiled. How much to level up?

[60 mana is required for level 4.]

And that’s not so far off either. She smiled and put the fruit on a plate, leaving it for Aika.

Walking through the rest of the pantry, she peered into bags and barrels. Most contained various grains, fruits, and vegetables. One barrel was full of water, and next to it was one with pickled meat.

Grabbing a fork, she fished out a piece and bit into it. The taste of vinegar and ash hit her tongue. Grimacing, she forced herself to eat it. “Are my teeth really different?”

Aika looked up from her fruit and nodded. “Yes. Magic must have changed you. You look like a carnivore.”

“Does magic just do that?” Kindra considered it. “Can it do that?”

Aika shrugged. “It made me into a fairy with wings and a body. So, I’m going to say yes.”

“So, you aren’t nanites?”

“Nope. I have blood and everything. It’s strange.” Aika continued eating. “Hunger is strange.”

“I’ll bet.” Kindra smiled at her, forced down another bit of meat, and walked out of the room. “Aika, I’m going to head back to the roof.”

“Wait for me!” Aika zipped out and landed on her shoulder.

Kindra walked back to the roof. Peering out, she didn’t see anything.

Aika joined her, flying up and peering through it. “More shooting?”

“Yes, but I don’t trust myself to get the bolts. Not with that mess out front.” Kindra opened the door and looked into the air. Scavengers continued to fly in.

A vulture looked at her and dove, its black and white feathers rippling in the evening sun. Pulling out her crossbow, she fired, blowing a hole through it and sending it crashing to the ground. Maybe I can get enough mana for a gun and a bike. That’d make it easier to travel. A lot easier.

Loading another bolt, she turned to a side street and fired at a large cow that was chewing on a corpse. The bolt flew, bounced off the cow’s skull, and clattered on stone. The cow wobbled and fell.

Kindra examined the street and courtyard. There are fewer animals. I should cleanse and get the bolts while I can. She turned back to study the red dot on the horizon. It was gone. Mystery for another day.

Looking up, she saw a plume of birds erupt from the forest. And I had better hurry. She dashed for the door.
