The Wandering Inn was laundering real money. The Silver Swords were starving in the New Lands of Izril. Nerrhavia was teaching herself to play the piano. Roshal was rebuilding its harbor and convincing nations not to hold a grudge.
The Lizardfolk were plotting something in Baleros’ jungles. Goblins were being Goblins. House Reinhart was emerging like a slumbering nest of vipers. Terandria was mobilizing in outrage for war and colonization.
But the real question was—where were the survivors of the battle at sea? One month on and how was Erin Solstice? What about Ser Solstice? They had captured all the attention, then vanished.
What had ever happened to them?
Erin Solstice. And obviously, more importantly—
The Horns of Hammerad?
 
——
 
Despite the Death of Magic, Silvenia’s, claims, Colth and Pisces did, in fact, wash up on the shores of Chandrar in a rather grandiose style.
It was a [Saltwater Farmer] on the shore of Medain who saw them appear. He was filling his buckets—which automatically desalinated their contents, a necessity on dry Chandrar if you didn’t live near water—and he saw a ship heading for the beach.
His first thought was [Pirates], and he began to run for his hamlet. Then he took a better look and thought—sinking [Pirates].
To be more precise, it wasn’t so much a ship as the outline of one actively crumbling away as a pair of figures ran back and forth, clearly trying to keep the damn thing operational. By the time the ship was close to beaching, an hour later, the entire hamlet was staring and pointing.
Pisces Jealnet and Colthei Lacment were sunburned, flecked with salt everywhere except Pisces’ enchanted robes, and shouting at each other.
“We’re not going to make it! Use more magic!”
Colth shouted at Pisces. The [Necromancer] shouted back.
“I’m out! You use more magic, Adventurer Lacment!”
Weeks at sea had been enough time for the two to learn important details like last names. Colthei added as much mana as he could to the ship—and was rewarded with a wave cracking the hull. A beam went down, and he dove to safety, cursing.
Pisces’ magic could reanimate ships, but this one was, ah…akin to a five-year-old zombie exposed to bad weather. It was actively breaking.
To be fair, it was a miracle it was even a ship. The piece of driftwood it had initially been had transformed into an actual vessel. Albeit the most cursed ship Pisces had ever ridden on.
“We’re going to sink a mile from the shore! Get ready to swim! This is all your fault, by the way, Pisces.”
Colth paused to jab Pisces in the chest. The [Necromancer] spluttered.
“Me? We would have made landfall weeks ago if we’d just stuck to her plan. She said the tide would push us to shore! You’re the one who speculated we could animate the driftwood to have a safe ride!”
“Yeah, and you’re the [Necromancer] who failed to animate sails. [Sailor] Skills don’t work without canvas, idiot!”
This was manifestly unfair, and both of them were sick of eating fish they’d had to grill on parts of the deck. Pisces’s mouth worked as he searched for a retort.
Neither of them had realized that if they animated the driftwood plank to get a less-soggy place to rest on…Silvenia’s magic would cease propelling them to shore. It had been a very unhappy realization, and thus, the two Horns of Hammerad were a month late to Chandrar.
They were shoving each other and largely cursing the Death of Magic and the sea when Pisces turned.
“Ah. The wheel—”
They’d forgotten the wheel. Now, moved by the natural action of the waves, the ship had swung dangerously to starboard as it neared the actual coast. A wave hit the broadside of the vessel, and the poor ship, already maligned, tilted. Colth ran for the wheel, but the vessel had never been that gainly; tidal action had mostly carried them this far.
And as if the Death of Magic had heard them, a large wave rose, and Pisces saw it smack into the ship—and toss the two adventurers like flies into the surf. Pisces’ last conscious thoughts for a bit were that this was a terrible way to die, this was all Colthei’s fault, and robes were a terrible article of clothing to wear while attempting to swim.
 
——
 
For the hamlet of Perricstead (recently renamed), it was perhaps the worst ship landing they had ever seen in their lives. After watching the ship crumble into pieces, several villagers realized the two adventurers weren’t immediately coming up and dove into the water.
By the time they hauled two half-drowned adventurers onto the beach, Colthei swearing and Pisces spewing water, it was clear that this had gone far beyond their humble village. So they sent a message to the provincial magistrate, who identified the two adventurers by name and instantly reported it to the local governor, who skipped the chain of command and reported to His Majesty.
…Of Western Medain. Who then reported to High King Perric, who had absorbed two other kingdoms into his aegis. Thus, the High King instantly announced he had located two of the Horns of Hammerad, who would be conveyed to meet their friend and honored guest at his capital forthwith, immediately! He sent a royal escort out and hurried to tell their worried teammate that the last of her friends besides Ksmvr and Vofea had been located.
Yvlon Byres took the news quite well, having arrived on Chandrar a full week before the other two. She had just learned Ceria was alive and well, having been picked up by a [Fisherman]. The half-Elf had been defrosted recently, and Yvlon thanked High King Perric, declined two invitations for a celebratory drink, and waited to meet Pisces and Colth.
She took the news about the raid on the ceremonial convoy a lot less well. So did High King Perric. When he demanded to know who had attacked his people, let alone a Named-rank and Gold-rank adventurer, it became obvious that mysterious bandit raiders had absconded with the two across the border to Jecrass.
The same mysterious riding warriors who’d been attacking Medain for months ever since King Raelt of Jecrass had been returned to the Realm of Jecrass. In fact, the leader of said riders had apparently recognized Pisces and escorted him to Jecrass.
Obviously, that wouldn’t have been anyone in Jecrass like King Raelt Leysars himself, or that would have been an act of war. And if it was war…well, Medain had had enough of that with Fetohep, and a third of Jecrass was now Khelt’s.
The High King stewed, then sent immediate word to Queen Jecaina about this unfortunate mess, demand—er, insisting his guests be reunited properly. He had a banquet ready and everything.
He sent largely the same message to the people hosting Ceria Springwalker.
Neither the Claiven Earth nor Jecrass replied to his messages.
 
——
 
Yvlon Byres was used to the Horns being split up. They’d get together again. And she was calm, in fact, delighted to have someone hospitable instead of a blade at her throat.
She’d walked for two weeks underwater to get to land, and it had been a miracle she hadn’t run into a monster or fallen into an abyss underwater. Or died of the pressure or something, come to that.
It had been agonizing at first, and Yvlon had been reaching upwards for that distant light. Falling, twisting, in the suffocating waters, her breath straining in her lungs.
She’d known she would never pull herself up, not with the lead weights Rosech had conjured pulling her down. Wishing she had the strength—the will to say something important at the end.
Four hands, holding onto her breaking arm. Trying to let go before she dragged Ksmvr down with her, because she knew he’d follow her down.
Then—suddenly—feeling the water around her change. Her escaping bubbles of air ceasing to become the suffocating desperation, and her unconscious exhalation had let in…air.
She’d known what he’d done. Put a ring around her finger. Then—let go. The [Armsmistress] had reached up, mouth open in a wordless shout, flailing now, as her beloved little Antinium drew his swords.
Falling—falling—flailing wildly, covered in silver, as she plunged downwards. Down and down—until she landed and watched a Kraken dying above. Purple blood filling the water. Walking forwards as ships rained down around her. Passing by a [Witch] at the bottom of the sea.
Daring her to try something. Then—walking out of that dark world.
 
——
 
Even with Ksmvr’s Ring of Waterbreathing, the first few hours of enduring that pressure and depth had been agonizing, and only Yvlon’s level and her ability to change her body to silver had kept her alive. Then…she had either acclimated to the pressure or something else had happened. Yvlon almost suspected she’d been enchanted, because the crushing pressure and watery hell had become a lot more bearable.
Part of it was the ring. Hedault’s ring might not have been a relic of ages, but the [Enchanter] had made it far superior to a regular ring. He had studied waterbreathing, and Yvlon didn’t get the sickness in her body that she’d heard [Divers] sometimes felt.
It also let her open her mouth, even eat underwater, without flooding her stomach with water; there was a kind of bubble that would stop water from running down her throat.
Even still, the journey had been the hard part. Yvlon had picked a random direction and begun to walk, hoping to find something that would allow her to rise or get her bearings. Swimming was impossible; she was too heavy to manage it.
—As she walked, she saw sharks, fishes by the tens of thousand, and sea creatures flocking upwards towards the body of the Kraken. Pieces of it had fallen around her, raining down onto the sea floor where creatures in the dark nibbled at them and glowing jellyfish or weird sea cucumbers wriggled about for a feast of the ages. Yvlon walked past them, a stranger in the depths, ignored due to the bounty of a Kraken’s passing.
Two weeks was a long time to walk. Yvlon’s experience of sea life was critters swimming up, staring at her metal arms, and deciding she wasn’t edible. Of course, Yvlon made the same appraisal.
Two weeks. Catching fish and eating them raw underwater. Slowly, slowly striding upwards until she burst onto land. She’d made a bit of an impact.
By coincidence or…again, something else, Yvlon had walked out of the water almost right into the center of Medain’s capital harbor, Homgrasse.
The sight of a scowling woman with silver arms rising from the water, seaweed and fish bones tangled in her hair, still wearing filthy armor as a [Net Fisher] was about to cast off, had caused…an alarm. After spitting lungfuls of water out onto the pier, Yvlon’s first words to the alarmed crowd had been—
“Is Admiral Rosech still alive? I need a ship. How many Bloodtear Pirates are left to kill?”
High King Perric himself had come down from his palace in the midst of the parade they were throwing her and invited her to his palace. Since this was a better reception than her first visit to Chandrar and being unjustly arrested, Yvlon had of course accepted.
Then a week had passed while she recovered and [Healers] pronounced her oddly fine—it seemed Yvlon’s ability to change to silver had done a lot for her.
“No pressure damage, not much malnutrition—there were a few worms you get from fish in her, but they’re dead. Murdered by the silver in her arms or body, it seems. Incredible, Your Majesty.”
Yvlon was still considerably worse for wear, but High King Perric feasted her after some mandatorily nutritious meals. He, personally, escorted her around his palace, introducing her to his [Royal Smith], the lesser [Kings], [Queen], and other people dying to meet her, and wouldn’t hear of her paying for anything.
“Adventurer Yvlon—you mustn’t let these people call you Miss Yvlon—you are a famous Gold-rank adventurer and my guest. We will have that armor of yours repaired, re-enchanted, and while I can’t do better than your two rings from the Village of the Dead, I insist you avail yourself of my treasury.”
She did not, because a free pass to someone else’s treasury was just…not something Yvlon would take advantage of. Which probably put her apart from her team, but High King Perric struck her as someone it was wise to keep as a generous host.
He was a broad-shouldered man with a combed, thick beard the color of bronze, and he wore voluminous, expensive clothing, often golden, and he had twelve artifacts on his body at all times.
His ostentatious dress and glossy hair might have been to help distract from the fact that his form, a former Gold-rank adventurer’s, had slipped slightly over the years. He was still in good shape for a man in his forties, and he was young, vigorous, a High King who had unified the Thalassocracy of Medain from being a lowly [Prince]-adventurer in a smaller kingdom after the King of Destruction had gone to his slumber.
Perric told all this to Yvlon, or his courtiers did, and it was abundantly clear he was a fan of adventuring. And rich.
His palace was huge and the most eye-poppingly exorbitant place Yvlon had ever been to, including her aunt’s mansion, save for perhaps Nerrhavia Fallen’s palace itself. And that was old architecture and wealth, a bit faded; Perric had new richness.
Medain was, in fact, four kingdoms that Perric had assimilated down the coastline, and the High King had done it through military conquest, if less bloody and world-newsworthy than Flos Reimarch’s wars. He had his Golden Ranks, former adventurers who signed up to become well-paid, elite soldiers, and Medain had three dungeons, which meant it was one of the adventuring nations even Yvlon had heard about.
One could wax eloquent about Yvlon’s stay, first devouring cooked food, then asking about the fate of Erin, the Horns, and everyone else and processing the deaths at the Solstice—several pillars in Perric’s palace showed evidence of that.
But that might have been a waste of time and words. So here was what mattered: High King Perric took a look at a terrified servant pointing out the imprint of a fist in the marble pillar. He considered Yvlon Byres’ reputation, her involvement with Erin Solstice, now a pariah, and the Horns of Hammerad as a whole.
He threw her another parade.
 
——
 
Perric loved adventurers. That was it. Yvlon woke up the day after he had told her that Pisces and Colth had been kidnapped, stretched, and wondered whether she should go to them or if they’d come to her.
“Alright. Time to find my team.”
She’d been content to wait around for news of them; it had seemed like Perric had been searching everywhere at sea for the two, but now that she knew where her team was, Yvlon had a job to do.
