Dead gods. Yvlon extricated herself from that conversation after five more minutes and hurried away, trying not to have anyone stop her for a word.
How did these people in Chandrar live? Like that? She hoped not everyone had that many concubines. And the worst part was—
“Hey, you. Finally awake, eh?”
Twitch. Yvlon Byres turned, and someone grinned right in her face. The desire to hit whoever said that faded slightly as Yvlon saw a half-gaseous figure floating in the air, flicking a bangled arm of dark, magical skin at her.
The Djinni. The most unique—and dangerous—member of Perric’s harem winked at Yvlon, and the adventurer hesitated. They were standing by some curtains at the edge of the party, and this woman was idly wiping something on the red velvet.
It was…a rotten orange? Yvlon had noticed a few stains around the palace, but she hadn’t commented on them.
“Name’s Maef. Enjoying Chandrarian hospitality?”
“Er. Hello. I am Yvlon Byres. It’s a pleasure to meet you. I am a Gold-rank adventurer of the Horns of Hammerad. You must be one of High King Perric’s concubines. A Djinni.”
Even the Djinni, Maef, did a slight double-take at Yvlon’s speech. But when Yvlon offered her a hand to shake, the Djinni laughed.
Several servants ran over and hurriedly blocked Yvlon.
“Adventurer Yvlon! The Royal Consort, Maef, is slightly unpredictable despite her bindings. Take care when offering her anything. Let alone shaking her hand!”
Before Yvlon could reconsider, Maef grabbed Yvlon’s hand in a strong, but feather-light touch. She looked, at this moment, like a woman with ebony skin, hooped earrings, bright violet eyes, her lower form turning to gaseous clouds, wearing jewelry and golden clothing that barely covered her chest, leaving her midriff bare.
She had a piercing on her belly. Yvlon stared at her, and the Djinni’s eyes were magic. She was old; they all were, though how old this one was…was relative. Gold-rank threats, each. And yet, Maef eyed Yvlon with real interest for once.
“You shook my hand. Even if your arm’s silver, only an idiot in Chandrar does that.”
“I apologize. I’ll remember it for later.”
“And you talk like the most generic [Guardswoman] with rocks-for-brains. Despite being called the Silver Killer. If I hadn’t seen an image of you ripping [Pirates] apart with your bare hands, I’d scarcely put the two together. No wonder even Perric, His Majesty of Infinitesimal Girth, isn’t leaping to jump into your bed. Rare a female adventurer of your rank escapes, you know. Frieke of Khelt only got away because her Seahawk pecked his genitals when he tried to hide in her bed.”
There were a number of unpleasant things being said, from revelations about Perric to insults to her character. Yvlon began to scowl, remembered who she was talking to, then kept her face straight and pleasant. Maef grew more amused.
“Does it hurt to make that expression? You’re the second most interesting Human I’ve met in the last decade.”
“I’m being polite. I apologize if I sound…stilted.”
Yvlon grew a bit embarrassed, realizing in hindsight all the people who had given her space had found her boring. But Maef chuckled.
“There’s a reason even High King Perric of Dreamleaf still pursues you. He’s smart enough to see who you are when you’re not pretending to be a good little Yellat. I almost wish he’d try your room.”
“I hope not. I might have killed him by accident.”
“…Yes, that’s why I hoped that. Dead gods, you’re amazingly boring. Is it a Skill?”
Maef was endlessly rude, probably because she was a consort with nothing to do all day. She was a slave…Pisces had suffered in Chandrar. Pisces shouldn’t be here, and Ksmvr was on another continent.
Yvlon’s smile was considerably more clenched as she thought of all that.
“I’m trying. To be. Polite. If I offend people, I will get my team in trouble.”
“Oh, I know.”
Maef twisted around, as if bored, like a cat and rotated sideways until she was reclining in the air. The servants backed away, and the Djinni winked at Yvlon.
“The problem is, a boring woman is a boring woman, even if she can rip holes in ships. They’ll treat you like me. A Djinni to be seen, not heard. Perric of Numerous Bodily Functions will be polite to you, but never listen.”
That…struck a chord with Yvlon, and she glanced around for a drink. Instantly, more champagne appeared, and Maef eyed it.
“Not spiked with an aphrodisiac. You’re fine to drink that. He doesn’t invite me to functions often because I perform helpful services like these for his prospective wives.”
Yvlon almost spat the drink back out. She was growing significantly less enamored with Perric’s kingdom and the man himself by the second, and she was worried.
There were high-ranking adventurers and people here, and if she really was as boring as a lemon—no, wait, lemons were interesting—a Yellat, then what was she to do?
“I could be more…forthright. But that doesn’t tend to work. Diplomatically. It works fine on [Bandits] and my teammates.”
Yvlon recalled hitting Ceria with an ice bucket. She had to stop that—stop unleashing her temper, because it was a choice—but she couldn’t bridge the gap between ‘interestingly piqued’ and ‘bland socialization’.
Maef eyed Yvlon with genuine interest, and maybe it was the handshake or boredom—it was probably boredom and mischief—but she smirked.
“Well, Djinnis are said to be masters of wordplay as well as magic. It comes with trying to wiggle out of our bonds. I saw you twitching at the way they were addressing you. ‘Finally awake’ is light ribbing in Chandrar.”
“It…reminds me of how I first got here. When you hear everyone saying it to you, it grates after the hundredth time. And I don’t know how to make small talk.”
Maef put her hands together, thoughtful.
“I see. You’re not good at being interesting, is it? What you need is…a good way to introduce yourself. Something that defines you. Helps you show them who you really are. Chandrar loves history as well as stories. You need to tell people who you are in an economical way.”
Yvlon Byres hesitated. She missed Maef’s twinkling eyes and completely forgot all the warnings about Djinni doing everything they could to trick someone within the rules they had been given. She listened as Maef began workshopping something with her, and Yvlon’s eyes lit up.
This was a great idea! When she told Maef it was perfect, even the Djinni gave her a flat look—then snorted.
“Are you real? Are you serious?”
That was when she noticed the glint in Yvlon’s eyes—and sat up in the air. The [Silversteel Armsmistress] gave Maef a smile…and shook her hand again.
“There’s a benefit to being ignored, Master Berr once told me. It means you can catch them off-guard and kick them in the nutsack.”
 
——
 
High King Perric had lost track of Yvlon for a bit to tell the story of her escapades properly. He hoped she hadn’t left; for one thing, there was a task he wanted to talk to the Horns of Hammerad about…
And there were other adventurers who wanted to scope out one of Izril’s most famous teams. Even if they weren’t the highest-ranked…they were famous.
Medain had a few Named-ranks—fewer, with Frieke the Traitor’s absence. But among them were Requiel, the famous Three of Arms with his extra magical arm salvaged from Medain’s dungeons.
There was also, today, Chorteal the Djinni Master accompanied by both of his primary Djinni guards. Both Named-ranks wanted to meet Yvlon Byres.
Adventurers could be fine allies—or enemies—and they were all competition. But the group currently introducing themselves to Yvlon wasn’t just scoping her out.
“Adventurer Yvlon! It’s good to see the only other team close to Named-rank! Besides ourselves. Everyone’s been walking in your shadow, but it’s good to finally meet you in person!”
An energetic Stitch-woman seized Yvlon’s hand and shook it vigorously as the Silver Killer broke away from Maef. Yvlon was accosted by a group of four, and Perric scowled.
“Why are the Conquerors of Rameid here? They were not invited.”
He snapped at his [Majordomo], who cringed and said they’d bluffed their way in. Perric watched, ready to intercede—he knew this team had an axe to grind against the Horns.
Named-rank was a difficult position to get and almost never vanished once acquired. Only Elia Arcsinger might lose that position; getting to Named-rank might set you for life. Gold-rank was impressive. Named-rank was legendary.
Teams and individuals wanted it. They campaigned for it. The Conquerors of Rameid were famous for, well…the Stitch-woman was explaining it.
“I’m Raava. That’s Lorllemdron, Itpiv, and Orsenor. We’re a Gold-rank team who reached the lowest depths of Medain’s Dungeon of Rameid. The Crystal Caverns, where Gold-rank monsters eat the magic gems growing there. See?”
They all wore the harvested crystal from down there that made amazing magical gear and that Wistram bought up. Raava was a Cotton Stitch-woman who’d upgraded to Silk; her team was young, hungry for success—and the Stitch-woman’s hand was tight on Yvlon’s.
“We’ve been campaigning to apply for Named-rank or have the Adventurer’s Guild set us a task, what with Torreb gone. But all they can talk about are the Horns of Hammerad. I hope you’re all they say. Lost your tongue, Adventurer Yvlon?”
High King Perric was about to have the Conquerors tossed out on their ears, but he also sort of wanted to see if Yvlon Byres lost her temper. He watched, sipping from his cup, as Yvlon took in the team.
She gave them her polished, bland smile, and Perric wondered if her genericisms would work on the Conquerors. Then he heard Yvlon’s newest weapon come out swinging, a polished, nay, perfect delivery thanks to Maef.
Yvlon looked Raava straight in the eyes, holding a half-empty champagne glass, a smile on her face as she spoke.
“Hello. My name is Yvlon Byres. I’m a member of the Horns of Hammerad, a Gold-ranked team. Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but I assure you, the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous. I got my name fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs in Chandrar, and my team has fought everything from Adult Crelers to monsters in dungeons like the Ruins of Albez. I am delighted to meet you, Adventurer Raava, and I hope, if circumstances allow, we can adventure together.”
Then she shook Raava’s hand. The other Gold-rank adventurer was so stunned Yvlon was able to get free and walk away. High King Perric found wine dribbling down his front.
Perric saw Raava open her mouth—turn sideways to stare at her team incredulously, ball up a fist—then just scratch her head. Yvlon’s smile stayed fixed where it was, and after a second, Raava edged back a step or two.
High King Perric leaned over to his [Majordomo].
“…Get the [Healer] back in. Perhaps oxygen deprivation from that Ring of Waterbreathing? Or she was cursed in…?”
“Absolutely, Your Majesty.”
Then Perric saw King Magores of West Medain stop Yvlon.
“Adventurer Byres! A delight to meet you. I am King Magores—could I trouble you for an introduction?”
He was a lesser king, and his duties were mostly governance, but still, an important enough man. Yvlon swiveled around and gave him a smile. Like a man having a bad dream, Perric saw her open her mouth, and…Magores had been close enough to hear her the first time.
His face slowly drained of vitality as Yvlon spoke.
“Hello. My name is Yvlon Byres. I’m a member of the Horns of Hammerad, a Gold-ranked team. Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but I assure you, the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous. I got my name fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs in Chandrar, and my team has fought everything from Adult Crelers to monsters in dungeons like the Ruins of Albez. It’s a pleasure to meet you, King Magores. I am sure my team would be delighted to take any requests you have, time permitting.”
Somewhere, Maef was laughing so hard she was rotating in the air. Yvlon Byres shook the [King]’s hand, and…and then it was like a game.
“Hey, you there. Finally awake?”
“Hello. My name is Yvlon Byres. I’m a member of…”
“I, ah, wondered if you had an opinion on the Crossroads of Izril?”
“It is indeed a dangerous and exciting locale. I would recommend being at least a Gold-rank team when trying to explore it.”
“Were there any monsters there? How did you appear in the skies over Izril?”
“My team and I did indeed fight in the Crossroads. I am unsure how our images were shown over Izril, but we live in very exciting times. This champagne is excellent. Are you also here at High King Perric’s invitation?”
A cluster of admiring [Servants] holding out autograph cards visibly eyed each other. However, a girl who’d begged her parents to meet the Silver Killer looked visibly delighted; the girl’s parents shook hands with Yvlon, then hurried their daughter away to whisper to her.
Perric realized he hadn’t stopped staring at Yvlon for the last thirty minutes. He began mouthing each word she said and realized both [Kings] were doing the same, one to laughter, another with a look of great concern on his face.
You had to hand it to her. That was definitely Yvlon Byres, member of the Gold-rank team the Horns of Hammerad, sometimes known as the Silver Killer of Izril.
High King Perric didn’t know what to think of that night as he lay in bed, too confused to even call for one of his concubines. He decided that the feature was…attractive? Though he might go crazy if every time they greeted each other in private she had the same dialogue.
The High King made one large mistake. And it was that he had forgotten Yvlon had developed this new speaking style thanks to Maef. Just as the two had observed—
If they stopped paying attention to you, it was a prime opportunity to sneak over and kick them in the nuts.
 
——
 
Yvlon took a two-hour nap after dinner as everyone was turning in. She wouldn’t get a full night’s sleep; she had timed when she’d wake up with a little [Alarm] spell under her pillow.
But that didn’t mean she was idle. There was a limit to how much she could train with her body a mess from her ocean voyage, and besides, Perric would come by and watch at some point.
In sleep, though…Yvlon opened her ‘eyes’ and found herself in a white world.
Familiar, now. Her dreamscape had little in it.
“Good. Let’s get to training.”
She’d observed the power of her dreams was more significant than she thought. So, Yvlon had been training the last week and even in the ocean.
Yvlon took a dream-breath, dropped down, and began doing pushups. One, two, three, four…
