She was getting good at it. Every sleep, she did a hundred pushups, a hundred situps, ran for what she felt like was ten miles, and swung a sword at least a hundred times.
Her dream body didn’t usually feel the effort. But Yvlon reasoned that dream-her had to have muscles of some kind. Or some way to improve. Her record was two thousand nine hundred and eighty-one pushups before she woke up.
It was hard to focus that long; she’d lose cohesion and start dreaming if she weren’t careful. Also, Yvlon had begun adding weights.
At first, she’d tried to do a pushup with a literal mountain on her back—and she had! Very gratifying…but the mountain hadn’t really been real. The more she’d focused on it, the less she understood it. Like a blurry painting; there were no details, and it had no weight.
Yvlon had realized that she didn’t really believe she could lift a mountain or know what a mountain…felt like to lift. Everything in dreams needed understanding, so she’d begun doing pushups with real, tangible things on her back.
Mrshas. Yvlon knew exactly how heavy that rascal was, so she concentrated as she did pushups.
One Mrsha. Two Mrshas. Three Mrshas…ten Mrshas…
Her dream-arms strained as fifty Mrshas sat on her back, waving their wands and writing notes that showered down around her.
Forsooth, I’m Mrsha!
Get swol, idiot!
Can you even lift?
“—ninety-nine…one hundred!”
Yvlon wearily stood up, then began to go for her run. The white landscape of her dream was everywhere, but she was running with a harness attached to a sled with a pile of Mrshas on it.
Yvlon could not have told you her destination when she ran. The ground was flat and white, and she had no destination, only the run. But the sweat running down her brow traced a furrow down one eye socket, past her nose, and dripped from her chin onto her tunic.
The leather harness had a widening fracture, and it was cracked from weeks of pulling that much weight; she’d reasoned it had to be in bad shape, so she’d have to stop and repair it, maybe patch the spot or replace the entire section of leather.
Then she’d take a look at the skids on the sled; she felt like all that Mrsha-weight was deforming the steel on the left side…Yvlon stared ahead as Mrshas threw red balls at the back of her head. She would have liked more scenery, but unless you ‘visited’ other dreams, this place was really boring.
After a while, she woke up.
 
——
 
It was around midnight when Yvlon Byres got up from her bed, silenced her alarm spell, and dressed herself. She picked up a pack by the door, checked under her bed once, and then began to leave Perric’s guest wing.
Yvlon Byres repeated her dialogue tree six times on the way out of the palace. She had left a very polite letter on her bed, and the servants who stared at her with glazed eyes completely forgot to ask what she was doing after she gave them the most banal greeting ever.
In fact, the palace guards assumed she was out for a night stroll, and she audibly heard them laughing to themselves about the ‘silly adventurer’. She made it all the way to the city gates on horseback when a [Guard] stopped her.
“Hey. Are you going out on an adventure? What’s with the horse? It’s curfew thanks to the Jecrass raids!”
He didn’t recognize Yvlon, but he was grumpy about having to open the gates and gave her a hard time. Yvlon pointed ahead.
“Is that way Claiven Earth?”
For the first time, she got spit at her horse’s hooves instead of people who knew she was Perric’s guest.
“Sure, if you’re dumb enough to bother the half-Elves. It’s miles away. What’s your rank? I’ll write you up to the damn guild, see if I don’t. No one’s getting out unless you have a damn good reason.”
He saw the armored figure dismount and walk up to him. She stood there, a strange, smiling woman in the night, and said:
“Hello. My name is Yvlon Byres. I’m a member of the Horns of Hammerad, a Gold-ranked team. Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but I assure you, the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous…”
“Wh—huh? The—”
The man didn’t get a word edgewise as she went on, still smiling.
“I got my name fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs in Chandrar, and my team has fought everything from Adult Crelers to monsters in dungeons like the Ruins of Albez. Right now, I am looking for my teammates, the Horns of Hammerad. If you don’t open the gates, I will beat you to death with my bare hands. Please, open the gates.”
At some point, he realized she was right in front of him, and her silversteel hands were clasping one of his arms. The [Guard] stared into her bright, blue eyes and made a small sound. He called to the others on watch.
“O-open the gates!”
That was how she left the capital city of Medain. Yvlon Byres rode across Medain, stopping twice to trade her horse at a stable, until she estimated she had quite a lead on any pursuers by daybreak.
 
——
 
Of course, High King Perric had an entire kingdom to call upon, so people came from ahead of her to ask her to go back. She told them who she was and where she was going. Opposition cleared out when a Gold-rank adventurer politely gave them a ternary set of options to reply with:
 
“Halt, in the name of High King Perric!” (Begins fight).
“May I ask further questions?” (Loops dialogue tree).
“Farewell!” (Leave).
 
Two days later, she stopped at a forest and stared at an arrow that had magically sprouted from the grass just in front of her feet. A figure appeared on top of a tree branch of an impossibly tall conifer tree.
“Begone. The Claiven Earth is not for your kind.”
The half-Elf [Sentries] saw a woman dismount from her horse, take a few steps forwards—and they recognized her silver arms as a trio of arrows landed at her feet. She smiled, looked up, and said:
“Hello. My name is Yvlon Byres…”
It was amazing how being polite and stating your name, backstory, and purpose cut through problems. Yvlon had decided she was going to do this a lot more. Especially when she was annoyed. After about ten minutes of repeating her introduction phrase—at increasing volume—the [Sentries] eyed Yvlon and the group from Medain watching the Silver Killer, and got word from their superiors.
They allowed her—and only her—to walk onto the grass and into the Claiven Earth’s forest by the coast. Yvlon trudged through a forest that grew increasingly denser and more humid until she saw a vast city of tree-based houses and half-Elves pointing down at her from impressive walkways that stretched up thousands of feet.
A city far more elegant than Medain—but a far smaller nation, too. Half-Elves, some young, but most as old as Ceria or far older peering down at her as she shaded her brow with a metal hand. Then a familiar voice shouted from above.
“Yvlooooon!”
Ceria Springwalker ziplined down a line of ice she created, causing chaos among half-Elves, who stared up at her as several minders pursued her. She still had a bandage on her chest and thigh from where she’d been wounded, but her eyes were alight with joy—and Yvlon saw her stop, spraying ice everywhere.
“Whew! Sorry about that! I thought I was going to die. Like the trick? I saw that guy die in Pallass and thought ‘I could probably copy that’. It’s cheap on the ice as opposed to a ramp. I think we’ll need it in Chandrar. Did you join Perric’s concubines?”
Yvlon admired the length of ice, which was indeed the world’s stupidest thing to zipline down. It was already melting, and Ceria had sent magical ice water spraying down across the Claiven Earth—she shook something out.
“Sorry. My zipline anchor’s hard on the hands!”
What had she used to carry herself down? Hopefully nothing as fragile as a piece of steel, which could abrade! In fact, Ceria had used something far sturdier. She had tied two pieces of cloth to a…circlet…which she now hung from an impromptu necklace.
Yvlon stared at it. Ceria leaned over.
“It makes a great doorstop too. Indestructible. Some of the older half-Elves keep trying to get me to toss it into a volcano or something. Anyways—”
She got no further because Yvlon hugged her. She swung the half-Elf around, and her arms were so tight Ceria instantly lost the ability to speak.
“Yvlon, you’re choking—”
The [Armsmistress] didn’t let go. Her metal arms were shaking. She had known Ceria was alive when King Perric told her. Believed Pisces and Colth and Ksmvr and Vofea would be fine—but Yvlon hadn’t realized up till now how tough she’d been making herself.
The half-Elf was patting Yvlon’s head, ruffling her hair when Yvlon finally put her down. Then Ceria inhaled—but rather than laugh at Yvlon, she looked up. The two adventurers who’d survived Skinner looked at each other.
“Made it one more time. I knew you’d make it. I wasn’t worried at all.”
The lying half-Elf with her lying pale eyes lied. The same eyes had buried friends, and Yvlon stood there a moment, breathing in and out roughly. Ceria let Yvlon collect herself. Then Yvlon tried to say something to break the awkward silence. The only thing she could think of was…
“Hello. My name is Yvlon Byres. I’m a member of…”
She got halfway through the speech when Ceria began cackling, and Yvlon gave up and hugged her again, but lightly this time.
“I hear Pisces and Colth are in Jecrass. You survived.”
“Takes more than a [Hydromancer] and a sword to kill me. Did anyone get that asshole? I knew you’d make it…but how’d you survive being drowned? Ksmvr’s ring? It had to be, right?”
Then they were both talking, and Yvlon saw an exasperated woman jump off a bridge hundreds of feet up and land, soft as a whisper, on the ground.
The Herald of the Forest folded her arms as Ceria jerked a thumb at her.
“So…funny thing, Yvlon. My brothers and sisters are, uh, really hospitable. But they keep calling me ‘sister’ and talking about the Crossroads. Looks like they want a favor or two of us. A paid job.”
She waggled her eyebrows at Yvlon, and the [Armsmistress] raised her brows.
“So that’s why you didn’t come get me. Here I thought you were stuffing your face.”
Ceria snorted.
“They get weirded out when I try the local bugs. So…thoughts?”
Yvlon eyed the Herald of the Forests, one of the living legends of half-Elves and considerably more dangerous than the other adventurers she’d met. She gave the half-Elf a big smile and held out her hand.
“Let me try. Hello. My name is Yvlon Byres. I’m a member of the Horns of Hammerad, a Gold-ranked team. Some may call me the ‘Silver Killer of Izril’, but I assure you, the truth is I’m hardly so dangerous. I got my name fighting in the Coliseum of Monarchs in Chandrar, and my team has fought everything from Adult Crelers to monsters in dungeons like the Ruins of Albez. Ceria and I must find our teammates. If you don’t let us leave…I’ll be upset.”
She swore she saw Herald Ierwyn’s lips twitch before the woman’s brows rose. Ceria began laughing harder, and Yvlon nodded to herself.
Ah, yes. Now this…
This was what the Horns of Hammerad were all about.
 
 
[Dreamer Level 9!]
