She checked her arms and then her stomach and legs, and they didn’t look as shrunken as they had been from her sea voyage. Yvlon checked the gleaming chest plate on an armor stand, found her bag of holding, pulled out her gear, from the Goblin pillow to adventurer supplies, grimaced, and made a list.
“Food. Lots of food, good for a long time. No pemmican. A healing potion or two if I can get any these days…I’m going to need water for Chandrar if we’re here long. But if we sail for Baleros, that’s simple. Anything else? I could use a bow, maybe. Bograms was a problem. Spell scrolls…”
She wondered if she could buy any or ask High King Perric for an introduction to a shop. Then again, the man might offer it all to her wholesale.
She didn’t want to be in debt to him. But if she could get a horse and ride for Jecrass or the Claiven Earth…which group needed her help most?
“…Probably Ceria. And I think I’m closer to her. Right.”
Yvlon cracked her neck. She opened the door, and a servant bowed to her.
“Adventurer Byres, the High King is awaiting you for breakfast.”
“Ah. Right. I was going to buy…”
“Anything you wish can be procured, Adventurer Byres. Anything. Shall we deliver it to your person or your rooms?”
The servants were unsettlingly helpful. Yvlon wasn’t really used to them; House Byres didn’t have that many servants, but she awkwardly gave them a list, and one nodded. She proceeded down the carpeted corridors of the inner palace, nodding to people.
“Hello. Morning. Good morning.”
Almost all of the people she passed were women. From servants to…wives. Or concubines? Yvlon Byres had never run into a real harem before, but Perric had told her that was what this was.
A [Princess]—well, two [Princesses]—three noblewomen, a whole host of common folk—including the [Royal Blacksmith]—four former adventurers, two [Mages], and apparently even a Djinni, though Yvlon hadn’t met the Djinni. Of almost every species in the world.
Yvlon had opinions on that, but she kept them to herself. Find my team, get out.
The problem was, High King Perric was generous right now, and Yvlon was aware the man could probably turn nasty, so she had gone along with all of his parades and talked to him extensively. She was worried about bringing up her departure.
That was problem one. Problem two was more prosaic. As Yvlon descended the carpeted staircase into a private dining room, she saw High King Perric sitting at a vast table adorned with dishes he probably was only going to sample at best. He rose to his feet, beaming.
“Ah, you! You’re finally awake, eh? Good morning to you, Miss Byres!”
Yvlon twitched slightly as that familiar refrain greeted her. It was apparently a Chandrarian thing.
“Good morning, King Perric. I was just thinking of leaving to find my teammates. How are you doing this morning?”
The problem with High King Perric was that he was somewhat pushy and treated her better than Yvlon really needed or wanted. He was overly generous—and Yvlon sat down and gave him a polite smile. She only half-noticed his smile wavering because it had never occurred to her that there might be a problem with her.
 
——
 
High King Perric loved adventurers. This was the actual truth. He admired anyone crazy and skilled enough to take on famous challenges, and the Horns—and Yvlon Byres herself—definitely qualified.
There was just…one problem. Social niceties must not have been something they taught Izrilian [Ladies] or her time as an adventurer had made her amazingly, uh…
“—Leave? Why, I’ve sent word for your teammates to arrive here, and if we locate Ksmvr of Chandrar and this Adventurer Vofea, I will personally have them sped here, Adventurer Byres! I heard you had a request for supplies. You’ve finally availed yourself of my offer!”
She ducked her head.
“I didn’t want to impose on your hospitality.”
“My hospitality is only offered to be imposed upon, Miss Byres. I won’t hear of you leaving tonight. We have more guests—both [Kings] of Southern and Western Medain wish to meet you, so there’s to be a banquet by luncheon. As for Jecrass—”
He flicked his fingers, trying to keep his face straight.
“I will press the matter firmly.”
I will have this matter settled with Jecrass. His Majesty of Khelt is one thing…but Raelt Leysars and I are not finished. Nor the ‘Arbiter Queen’.
Whether Yvlon noticed Perric’s scowl—or sudden expression of worry—she was good enough not to show it.
“You really needn’t honor me so much, Your Majesty.”
“Nonsense! Why, it’s the only delight I’ve had all year!”
He meant that. They were still cleaning up the disaster on the border where the Jaw of Zeikhal had begun rampaging. True, it had gone after both the Claiven Earth and his forces, but…Perric’s stomach was in knots still remembering that day on the Winter Solstice.
He must have offended King Fetohep somehow. But the ruler had not responded to his many apologies and requests seeking clarification. There were reports the Jaws of Zeikhal had attacked A’ctelios Salash—even Reim! And rumors they’d attacked Khelt too, but that was nonsense.
Fetohep of Khelt was not a man…undead to take lightly. Perric had once; never again.
Compared to that touchy, dangerous ruler, Yvlon was a breath of fresh air. Even if said air sometimes felt as boring as…
Here was the problem. Perric leaned over his table as he dug into a roasted partridge.
“One hears more than just news of teammates in my palace, Miss Byres. I’ve invited several adventurers to meet with you now that you’ve recovered your strength. One even faced off against His Majesty of Khelt—ah, but the news is always fresh these days. Have you heard the King of Destruction has smashed another Nerrhavian army? His Seven—well, four—together are ludicrous.”
He grimaced, but it was a worthy conversation topic.
“—Or what of that Terandrian fleet sinking a Dullahan trading vessel? Ostensibly trading, but they fought hard. I cannot imagine what that will do for shipping…”
He drummed his fingers, concerned himself about trade routes. What did you think about all that? Yvlon Byres sat, posture immaculate, eating with the training of a former [Lady]. She chewed, drank some water, swallowed, and gave him a polite smile.
Fair-haired, muscled—her silversteel arms showed that in very pleasing fashion. Fine features for an active adventurer, despite some scars, and a pleasant voice. A quintessential adventurer’s adventurer, the kind he’d read about in Tales of Adventure and Woe.
What did she say?
“The King of Destruction’s war seems quite damaging to Nerrhavia’s Fallen, Your Majesty. Incidents at sea would of course affect shipping negatively. I fear for the economies of port cities. House Byres does not have much sea trade, but everyone needs sugar. I note the weather is clearing up. It looks to be an early spring.”
High King Perric kept sawing on his partridge as he stared at her. One of his servants, able-bodied and adept, stared a bit too long at Yvlon Byres as he refilled her drink.
It wasn’t just the subject matter. It was the…the cadence and that slightly-fake smile of interest and…everything else just congealed in some manner to make her delivery of all that the most bland and generic conversation possible.
“Ah, yes. Quite? You’ve met the King of Destruction yourself. Did you have any insight into his character?”
Yvlon thought about it.
“At the time, he was wearing bandages. If I had known he was the King of Destruction, I would have been initially very wary. By the way, High King Perric, would it be acceptable to request a healing potion or two from your treasury? I understand this is a significant request, but I feel I need it for my future endeavors.”
Polite smile. High King Perric stared at her and decided he had time to review some court documents today. Or perhaps look at taxation law himself.
Dead gods, for the Silver Killer of Izril…well, he supposed everyone had flaws.
 
——
 
Yvlon’s inability to make interesting small talk was close to an actual power. She didn’t realize this, of course.
There they were, [Kings], Gold and Silver-rank adventurers, and former adventurers who Perric liked, standing around the huge reception hall with golden pillars, hanging on her every word. [Merchants] standing at the back, drinks being passed around.
“—And then you entered into the heart of the Village of the Dead. Alone. Other adventurers falling back, a [Sword Legend] hunting down giants—and what happened next?”
Perric introduced the scene. Yvlon swallowed some champagne and thought for a second, frowning.
“Well, my team and I passed into the heart of the city relatively unscathed. There were quite a lot of insects and other creatures.”
“Carrion beetles. Hordes of plague rats.”
The High King was doing his best, keeping his voice ominous, and the audience shivered. But Yvlon’s voice was—flat. Not flat as in exasperated; lacking intonation. Not even matter-of-fact.
“We ran into a being in the center of the Putrid One’s lair and the master himself. He was already dead, and it seemed we disturbed his stasis spell. The [Necromancer] was guarded by a powerful minion who nearly killed us until Pisces activated a Scroll of Greater Teleportation at random.”
She murdered the lede and buried it. She sucked out the climax of the story and spat it out with the ending so fast her audience wasn’t left hanging…they hadn’t even taken a step up the ladder of suspense.
They stared at her, and Yvlon sipped from a cup.
“Then I woke up in Nerrhavia’s Fallen where I was arrested on false charges. After that, I was transported to the capital of Nerrhavia’s Fallen. You may have heard of my erroneous nickname, the Silver Killer, but it was a pure exaggeration, I assure you—”
Perric clutched at his head with one hand.
“Adventurer Yvlon, go back to the fight, the fight! I got a quite salutary tale before that. Tell me about—tell me about Ksmvr of Chandrar fighting the minion.”
That was his trick after a week of enduring Yvlon’s tales. Then, the [Armsmistress]’ face changed. The audience, who had been looking at each other and wondering if this was really the famous adventurer, saw Yvlon scowl, and her hand crushed the glass of champagne in a moment.
“He kept attacking even when there was no chance. If I was back there, I would have—”
Yes, yes! Everyone looked at her, and Perric held his breath. Then Yvlon glanced at the champagne glass.
“Oh, I do apologize. I’ve been learning to control my temper from Berr the Berserker. It’s been an issue this last year, you see, and—”
Perric’s eyes rolled up in his head. Dead gods. Why couldn’t it have been Ksmvr of Chandrar? Or Ceria Springwalker? Well, that’s why he wanted them here.
 
——
 
People found her stories acceptable; the crowd around Perric broke up and let her go, though he was gesturing them to the side.
“I have a reenactment with my War Golems of the entire battle. And I’ve pieced together the events—I have a [Bard], sadly not Barelle the [Bard]—who will declaim it. This way—”
Which left Yvlon standing there. People would soon introduce themselves, and she sighed.
She hated this. She had to master that temper, too. She’d almost let it slip.
Yvlon really didn’t know how to hobnob. Everyone thought she did, but she’d always been off-kilter at events like these.
Ylawes, now, he could be impressive, and Ysara was interesting. She did her best.
“Let’s see. Two fingers pinched, pinkie like this…”
She fiddled with a cup, taking a good few minutes to copy what other people were doing. Yvlon joined a conversation about the King of Destruction’s war.
Don’t make the same mistakes as last time when you were twelve. Right. No asking any [Ladies] or [Lords] whether they’d actually go to war instead of talking about it.
Don’t go up to Lady Ulva Terland for stories about the Antinium Wars. Yvlon kept a polite smile on her face. No controversial opinions.
“The King of Destruction is indeed a greatly upsetting force in this world, isn’t he?”
That was the kind of rational statement she felt was safe. Everyone gave her a long look, but they nodded. Whew. Perfect. She was getting the hang of it. Yvlon had been worried about the tips she’d been giving Ksmvr to help him blend into polite society, but they were paying off splendidly here.
Remember your manners. You might have to be in Chandrar a while, especially if we’re getting Ksmvr’s sword.
“Ah, you. Adventurer Yvlon. You’re finally awake and about High King Perric’s banquet. Might I have a word?”
There it was again. Yvlon’s shoulders tensed. Did they ever get tired of that stupid greeting? She turned, and the man who bowed to her was…one of High King Perric’s higher-ranking flunkies.
“I am indeed awake. Can I help you…Majordomo?”
The [Majordomo] bowed and motioned a few people away as they walked towards an open balcony, which was warm despite the winter due to heating spells. It had an impressive view of the city below.
“High King Perric has been delighted by your company, Adventurer Byres. On his behalf—these things are best done with intermediaries—he wishes to express his heartfelt admiration for your prowess with the sword and as a fellow adventurer.”
“That’s very kind of him. I must be leaving soon, but his hospitality has been most welcome.”
Dead gods. The [Majordomo] might have mouthed that, but he regained his stride.
“—Yes, well. With all due deference to your desire to leave, the High King has wished to express to me the most delicate matter of…I am sure you have seen his most varied consorts. It would not be remiss to him if you were to join that illustrious number—as first and foremost, of course! And while one must travel, he would offer you a permanent place, or perhaps just the title? One may return to a home away from home on one’s adventures. There is also a generous stipend for—”
Yvlon Byres stared at the man for quite some time until she got what he meant. The [Majordomo] kept going as Yvlon cleared her throat.
“I am, er…not interested at this time.”
“Absolutely understandable, Adventurer Byres! Such courtships take a while, and High King Perric understands superior adventurers have so many obligations…bear it in mind, and I will be here to answer any questions.”
The [Majordomo] backed off instantly, which relieved Yvlon. She had almost got a bit annoyed there. She was about to excuse herself when he hesitated, and the man lifted a finger.
“Would you—purely as happenstance—happen to know if Captain Ceria had ever mentioned His Majesty in a positive light? There is a bounty for anyone inducted into His Majesty’s harem…”
 
——
 
