Finally, seeing as the two were independent gods that didn’t belong to any major faction, it was probably nice to have a friend. Especially when said friend could help scare off potential troublemakers, as they could risk making both enemies by going after one. Not that Jake saw that happen, as the two were definitely towards the top of the “most annoying gods to deal with” list.

As Jake sat there waiting with Minaga, the Seeker, and occasionally Nature’s Attendant chipping in, he decided to ask Artemis something else he’d been wondering.

“Exactly how strong is the Seeker? Like, I know he’s not a fighter, but if he wanted to fight, do you reckon he could beat a Godqueen?” Jake asked curiously, admittedly still lacking when it came to knowledge regarding gods at that level.

“He’s not a fighter compared to others at his level, not compared to someone like me. While I’m proud to be a Godqueen and believe in my newfound momentum to surpass myself, I’m also fully aware I’m nowhere near beings like the three other gods present,” Artemis candidly explained. “The Seeker is a god often spoken about in context with other non-Primordials who are at their level, nevertheless. He stands side-by-side with Umbra, the Autarch of the Altmar Empire, Gwyndyr of the Crimson Flame, and a handful of other gods who dare proclaim themselves beings at the pinnacle of the multiverse. So, to your question if he could beat someone like me in a fight... it would be an effortless endeavor for him.”

Hearing Artemis’ slightly somber explanation, Jake realized that the Seeker really was an outstanding god in more ways than one. It also made more sense why Villy had suggested that he look at Jasper, as someone like the Seeker, even the Viper cared about making an ally.

Ultimately, the Seeker being truly powerful was only good in Jake’s eyes, as the stronger Jasper’s Patron was, the better. Of course, to get that Blessing, Jasper needed to escape from that cube sooner rather than later, as Jake guessed his speed would be the main determining factor of the tier of Blessing the Seeker would offer.

All Jake could do was hope that Jasper would soon pop out... a sentiment he strongly felt Nature’s Attendant shared, so the Seeker would finally leave.
