“It works because the Outsiders the System has already colonized are simply aberrations of specific concepts. They're metaphysical abnormalities, and though they strain to be limitless and infinite, there is something they can't escape either—they have experiences, and they become parts of someone's story. And once they are exposed to mine, once they are drawn closer to the fires of my Watchtower, their personal design and the System's desires can be met—it allows them to maintain their strangest nature, to be boundless in so many ways, yet anchored to a single narrative trope. It's the path of least resistance, after all.”

“And in time, do the Eldritch become Fae?” Shiv asked.

Evanescia tilted her head. “Time? It's not time that makes Fae. It's narrative novelty and the new people that are processed by the Watchtower's fire. And I have to say, you're a hard one to burn, Deathless. You and the Seeker. The only one still in question is our wayward Paragon—who’s currently still hiding inside you. And I absolutely cannot wait to integrate him with our story and figure out what his new deal is exactly. Well, perhaps giving him to the Watchtower is less about integrating and more about uniting, if my suspicions are correct.”

“Well, maybe it'll be the other way around,” Adam spat. “Maybe your Watchtower deserves a better master.”

“Oh, very snappy line.” She snickered and rubbed her hands together. “Shiv, can you say stuff like that when we face each other?”

“Yeah, sure. I can say all kinds of things. But that’s what I want to talk with you about—Evanescia, you know you're getting a little too excited, right? You're kind of spoiling your own story.”

The Usurper-Narrator cocked her head and stopped circling Shiv as his words filled her core and mind with the smoke of doubt. “What do you mean by that?”

“I mean exactly what I just said. You're damaging your own reading experience. Look, I understand you not intervening while I was beating on Longinus.”

Adam shuddered with alarm inside him. “Longinus?”

Shiv grunted in acknowledgment. “Long story. I'll explain in a minute.”

Shiv turned his focus back to Evanescia. “But you had the excuse of wanting to figure me out, wanting to understand how I managed to slip out of your Fairwoods. On top of that, as you said earlier, me grinding Longinus down over days of skirmishing is entertaining—but come on, what kind of story arc is this, right? I've already deviated. You told me so.”

“You have,” Evanescia admitted, and her heart sang a note of genuine mournfulness. “And you lost a lot of things. The armor I made for you—”

“Wait, I thought the Princess made that thing. The armor with all those tooth fairies that was actually awakened and alive, right? The one that had its own Path.”

Evanescia nodded animatedly. “Yes! I had that arranged to be given to you. The Princess herself has no capability to make such armor. The Summer Court as a whole might indeed be able to create something like that, but this is tailored for you specifically. You were supposed to put that on and explore the Path of the Chef where you never got the chance before. You were supposed to level that over years and focus on overcoming rival chefs who were duplicitous and ran their kitchens like cruel prisons. And you were supposed to face down this one terrible, despicable rival chef that's long held the Princess's highest regard, and struggle against him in a series of cook-offs before finally, maybe after years of struggling, beat him and manage to free your mentor as your final reward!”

The Usurper-Narrator's voice was innocent and jubilant, but her words still roused a ravenous anger inside Shiv. She had planned this, in some regard. She'd allowed Georges to suffer—allowed so many people to suffer—at the hands of Longinus, a monster beyond compare. If Shiv knew one thing for certain, it was that the Wanderer was a monster that needed killing. Evanescia didn't care, however. She just let him be. She let him play Shiv's villain, and so many people suffered for it.

"But she doesn't care about that. Moral outrage and personal feuds are beneath her interest. She is only driven by what might make someone turn the page." The Harbinger paused and considered something. "But though we might not be able to shame her lack of genuine virtue, there is something we can use to rattle her: She loves giving people spoilers. She can't help but share her thoughts and her plans. She remains the Usurper-Author rather than Usurper-Reader. Yes, focus on that. Spoilers. If she holds any pride in her title as reader at all, this would likely cause her harm."

A weakness was identified. Shiv zeroed in on it. “Whoa, hey, whoa! What the hells, Evanescia!” He threw up both hands and sighed in offense. “Honestly, this is why dealing with you can be so annoying. You always do that. Always. It's like you don't respect yourself or this place at all.”

The Usurper-Narrator didn't say anything at first, but her emotions rang clear. The sphere at her core turned bruised as her ego took a genuine hit, but she remained confused as to why. “Well, can you at least elaborate—”

Shiv laughed humorlessly. “Sure. I’ll elaborate. Can't believe you didn't notice what you were doing all this time, though. Makes me wonder how many other people you did this to.” He was dragging a knife across her metaphorical flesh now, making it hurt a while longer before he sank it in. “Spoilers, Evanescia. You love giving people spoilers.”

And then, almost to Shiv's disbelief, he felt the Harbinger's powers activate. A shadow formed behind Evanescia. It was a faint thing, a midnight fire that danced and flickered, but was almost akin to a mirage in how thin and weak it manifested. Even so, the shadowy effigy tied to the Harbinger ran a hand along the Usurper-Narrator's silhouette and a portion of her outside. A thin bit of epidermis began to glisten and crack—like compromised glass.

A detonation of power went off inside Shiv for the rhetorical feat he just performed.

Harbinger of Tripartite Ruin 208 > 213

Rhetoric 25 > 32

Deductive Reasoning 24 > 27
