Jake was already well underway in learning this lesson with the study of the tome within his Soulspace. He wasn’t all the way yet, but he was getting there. For now, he would just be happy with what he’d achieved.

After spending the next few minutes cleaning up rotting pieces of fake flesh from the floor, not to make the room, which he’d randomly chosen as his training room, too disgusting, Jake headed back to the living room to rest and fully recover his resources. Doing so was also a good opportunity to engage in a bit more meditation and reading from the First Sage tome.

On the way there, Jake went over plans in his head. He felt like he was getting close to B-grade, despite technically still being a good distance away. However, he felt that it was still good to ensure he got everything done by the time he maxed out his class and profession so he could fully focus on any potential evolution quest, even if it would be optimal to simply have already completed said quests during his preparation phase.

Hunting down a dragon should at least make doing the class one easy, right?

Before he could kill a dragon, Jake still had a way to go, as he’d struggled with some weak Chimera that barely knew how to fight.

Once Jake had fully recovered, he returned to his usual schedule of alchemy, meditation, visiting Nature’s Attendant, and spending quality time with Artemis here and there, although she was only ever available with an avatar, as her real body was occupied.

Like this, days turned to weeks turned to months as Jake burned through alchemical materials like there was no tomorrow. It hadn’t been one of his original plans, but with all his recent improvements to his alchemy, Jake had resolved himself to also get an upgrade to his Concoct Poison skill before evolving.

To achieve this, Jake had started working on a new type of poison that was considered a notch harder than the ones Jake regularly made, and doing something new definitely paid off. In about four months, Jake had significant results... if one ignored the waste of materials, that is.

’DING!’ Profession: [Heretic-Chosen Alchemist of the Malefic Viper] has reached level 317 - Stat points allocated, +35 Free Points

’DING!’ Profession: [Heretic-Chosen Alchemist of the Malefic Viper] has reached level 318 - Stat points allocated, +35 Free Points

’DING!’ Race: [Human (C)] has reached level 319 - Stat points allocated, +45 Free Points

Two levels had ticked in, and Jake was already working toward a third one, as his daily rhythm was broken that day. Artemis had come by only a few days after she’d fetched him to visit Nature’s Attendant for the bow business, and the moment Jake saw her, he had a good idea what this was about. Her words confirmed his suspicion.

“The Mother Tree has asked for your presence.”
