The stars slowly spun overhead, bringing different constellations, nebulae, and other interstellar phenomena into view. “Do you choose how this looks?”

“Not really. For the most part it’s just a clearer view of what is actually above us.”

He grunted at that. “I know you say that, but I’ve never seen half of these features up there.”

She shrugged. “It might be a bit embellished, but if it is, it isn’t conscious.” She felt tears build up and one slid down her cheek. “You know, he took me to a specially curated park, before he got really bad. I could only have been three or four, but I still remember it.”

Rane turned to regard her, giving her his full attention and not interrupting.

“It was a place ringed by magic to remove light pollution for those within, and it was the first time I really looked up and saw the sky.” She swallowed, shaking her head and giving a half-hearted laugh. “It was easy to get such a view at the Academy, so I had the wonder of the view dulled over time, but this?” She gestured upward. “This is how it looks in my memory of that night. Not exactly, obviously, but the sense of it.”

“The wonder of a child, experiencing something with her dad.”

Tala swallowed, more tears flowing freely. “Yeah.” She took several heavy breaths, mastering herself. “He was such a broken man, but there were times…” She swallowed again. “There were times that he was an incredible father.”

Rane squeezed her hand again, letting the silence speak for him.

As they looked up, her Reforging was completely set aside. There would be time for that—likely centuries—and she needed to properly process this. Tala calmed herself once more, closed her eyes and spoke the words she’d wished she’d said before the end.

They didn’t change how she felt, nor did they erase the hurt and anger, she doubted anything would ever fully remove that, but they did need to be expressed. She wasn’t speaking for him, that time had passed. This, she said for herself.

“Thank you for the good times.” She didn’t fight it any more, allowing the tears to truly stream free. “You were right; you influenced me more than I wanted to admit.” She swallowed, strengthening herself before the final utterance. “Goodbye, Dad.”
