At this point, Major Howkless realized something else was going on, but he was not, in fact, an officer familiar with civilian law. He shrugged.
“Disorderly conduct.”
“Right, but—okay, this is hard. Disorderly conduct for what? Mirn’s got a job as a supplier of goods. He’s working right now on 3rd Floor, probably, or 1st Floor. Follow me here.”
Saliss got up, closed the door fully, and found the ink, quill, and paper. He nailed the paper to the wall with the quill—Howkless didn’t know how the hell he did that. The walls were supposed to be reinforced. But the Drake began drawing with one inky claw.
“Okay, so let’s assume people hear he’s been arrested. He goes to jail. Then he has to go out because I throw myself on your mercy, ‘oh, please, don’t arrest my friends!’ Right?”
He made some illustrations showing the flow-chart of events, drawing a bunch of crude, smiley people with big heads. Howkless tried to interrupt.
“How is this—”
“The excuse matters. Disorderly conduct? They know Mirn. He’s actually a former [Soldier].”
“I know that.”
Saliss gave him an appreciative nod.
“Then you know he’s actually straight-laced. Doesn’t get into fights, runs a tight ship. So you have some people who know him—not his true identity as a Turnscale—and they get to thinking. ‘Well, I didn’t see him doing anything wrong’. But he gets hauled in by, what, some officers? By an entire squad? Disorderly conduct for what? Then they might get to asking questions. Do the [Guards] arresting Mirn know he’s a Turnscale? Because they talk.”
“If you coop—”
Saliss’ finger was at Howkless’ lips, and the [Major] recoiled. He was fast. Howkless didn’t like his smile. Was he…flirting? Turnscales. Howkless had dealt with the issue a few times in the ranks, amicably, which was why Edellein had forwarded him for this job, but—Saliss continued.
“Sh—shh. Stay with me, you sweet, stupid thing. Let’s assume someone knows the truth. Well, how important do they know it is? What if they get to talking? Then—”
He crossed out the smiles on the other people’s faces.
“—Mirn’s secret is out. And that doesn’t go away because Pallass hasn’t perfected the mind-control serum I bet some Walled City has. At the very least, the mind-erasing dust. And I know that one’s in our secret records. I made it once.”
“The what? Alchemist, this isn’t a concern if you’ll just act as part of the squad.”
Saliss spun, putting his claws behind his back.
“Oh, but it is, Howkless. Because if this scenario occurs, even once, Mirn’s dead. No, not figuratively. Literally. Have you ever seen a group of ‘patriotic civilians’ corner a Turnscale or ‘degenerate’?”
His eyes were suddenly serious, and Howkless, reflexively, answered with the truth.
“I oversaw a judicial committee in 4th Army on that subject and broke up a fight with a suspected Turnscale and regular infantry.”
“Did they survive to the trial?”
The [Major] didn’t reply. Suddenly, he saw Saliss’ point, and his eyes flickered across the diagram. Saliss strode around him.
“See? You get it. Now, here’s why I took the time to remind you and High Command of this fact, Major. Obviously, we can’t have Mirn arrested and revealed as a Turnscale. You can’t because you’d lose the biggest hold over me for a stupid mistake. I can’t because Mirn is my friend.”
This was all true. Howkless gave a grudging nod. Saliss popped up by his right shoulder.
“Chaldion got all that. The old man didn’t have to be told this. If he arrests Mirn, I’m certain it’ll be because someone started a fight with Mirn, but Mirn accidentally swung first, or some other reason like he was part of a brawl and got swept up in the arrests. But the old man doesn’t ever arrest Mirn, and you know why? He’s too good for stupid threats like that.”
He poked Howkless a few times in the shoulder, in a friendly way, but the [Major]’s feet skidded with each poke.
I am losing control of the situation. Howkless’ instincts told him it was time for a retreat. His stupid brain told him he had orders.
“Saliss. This is all hypothetical.”
And then the Named-rank adventurer gave him a sad look.
“No, it’s not. You see, the threat was made. It wasn’t intelligent—High Command didn’t listen to Esor, because he would have told them ‘don’t do it’. But they didn’t listen and, worse, didn’t ask him why or let him explain. Now, I’m here, having to explain to them why it’s a bad idea for reasons Esor and I both know, and the old man knows, and probably most of the Eyes of Pallass with a brain. Which is some of them.”
He nodded to the fake wall again, and Howkless’ neck spines began tingling. He tried to go on, but Saliss held up a finger under his chin.
“So here’s the part I have to spell out: the old man never threatens Mirn. He relents on the pressure on Turnscales, but he goes carrot and stick. You know why? Because if Mirn were to die tomorrow—and even that one, nasty word is death—bad things happen. Not ‘Saliss is upset and we have to renegotiate’. Read the file on me. Don’t read the first page. Read the file.”
Major Howkless was trying to speak. He couldn’t move his jaw, and every time he tried to pivot backwards, Saliss moved with him.
“And this…is the point where I remind you that you don’t give me orders like I’m some [General]. I remind you what happens if negotiations break down. Which side of your face do you like, Howkless?”
Don’t—don’t—a claw had his shoulder, and someone barked.
“Someone get in there and stop—”
Saliss had Howkless’ arm in a grip. His eyes were very steady as Howkless’ mind flashed across Saliss’ record. He’d focused on the Turnscale part. Forgotten the rest.
Held off an entire weyr of Wyverns. Dueled Wrymvr the Deathless on three different occasions solo. Thousands of Drakes killed or maimed in his one battlefield deployment against Manus. Destroyed most of Izril’s Guild of Assassins in a single blast. Slayer of two confirmed Old Ones.  Killed three Named-rank adventurers in combat.
Saliss of Lights. He lifted Howkless, and the [Major] twisted with an [Extremespeed Reaction]. But Saliss was stronger than he was. He heaved the Drake at the wall, and the Drake moved at speed towards the wall in a simple alchemy where one thing had to give. The enchanted wall or his face—
His cheek touched the wall and halted there. The cold, yellow pastel of the wall and Howkless’ face kissed lightly—but Saliss had halted the throw. He let go of the [Major], patted the Drake on the shoulder, and Howkless sat down.
In a chair that Saliss had pulled over. The [Alchemist] dusted his clawed hands. He addressed the far wall.
“I was waiting to see how smart you were. Dead gods, I’m tired.”
He stretched, yawned, and walked towards the door. Howkless was staring at the wall. He didn’t move as Saliss began to saunter out, then turned. Howkless was not surprised; the Drakes, Gnolls, and Dullahan rushing into the room were, but Howkless had seen the look in Saliss’ eyes.
“Catch.”
 
——
 
Saliss kicked over one of the stunned [Soldiers] after his ears stopped ringing, despite the earplugs he’d inserted. There was a hole in the wall of the room, and he was pleased with himself.
No one was dead. Mind you, High Command were probably deaf and really unhappy about being showered with masonry, but they had protective spells. Saliss peered at them and nodded.
General Edellein, Senator Errif—old faces. Too many new ones for his liking. The [General] had a sword half-drawn, and Saliss hoped he’d actually go for it.
Imagine what would have happened if I’d tossed the new vial I was working on. Ah, well, that wasn’t the point. Saliss wished he were happy, but the burning feeling in his chest never felt better.
It wouldn’t have if he’d carried through and splattered Howkless across the wall. He knew from experience. If it ate, it only grew hungrier, a maw of…
Saliss paused as he began to leave High Command, currently in alarm mode.
“Oh. Hey, Esor.”
The Garuda had been the figure on the left after all. He was giving Saliss a pained look as he dipped his head, a piece of paper with notes in one hand. He looked halfway satisfied, and Saliss threw him an ironic salute.
Esor wouldn’t have been that stupid.
Probably. Saliss turned and sauntered out the door. The [Receptionist], Innia, got the door for him.
“Thanks for the earplugs, Saliss.”
She had them in. Pallass had good people. It was just a shame the good people could sometimes drown in the rest of it. Saliss walked outside and took a breath.
“Okay.”
Now he knew.
 
——
 
High Command was not going to take that lying down. At some point, they’d stop being shellshocked enough to stand up, presumably.
So Saliss moved fast. He doubted the military and surveillance arms were as coordinated as they had been; the Eyes of Pallass were the only people who could stop him in any meaningful way, or follow him at least, and they still followed orders, even if they had their own chain of command.
They were likely fighting over Saliss with High Command, so they wouldn’t stop this next part.
Saliss found Mirn on the 3rd Floor, right where he’d said Mirn was: overseeing a group of [Haulers] working one of the many storehouses filled with preserved goods.
“Hey! Are you the person with my salamander skins?”
Mirn jerked around, and the entire work crew stared as an angry, naked Saliss of Lights stomped up. Saliss was pointing at Mirn.
“Dead gods, it’s Alchemist Saliss. The naked weirdo! He just blew up the 9th Floor!”
A Gnoll groaned, and one of the Drakes stared at Saliss with open-mouthed disgust. Mirn just threw up his claws.
“Alchemist Saliss? What? I’m doing a bunch of goods for the New Lands—”
“No, you! I know you! You’re Melm! I’ve been waiting on those salamander skins all day!”
“It’s Mirn. I—”
“Excuse me. Excuse me. ‘Mirn’ and I have to have a word. If he’s not Melm, I bet he knows a Melm.”
Saliss barged forwards and dragged Mirn out of the group. Some people tried to stop him, but Mirn just waved a claw.
“Damn—tell the [Warehouse Manager]—well, just tell him!”
“Careful, Mirn! We’ll call the Watch!”
Mirn’s crew was genuinely concerned, and half-tried to stop Saliss, but Saliss webbed one’s feet down with a vial. Mirn shouted back.
“Don’t bother! I’ll sort it!”
He let Saliss drag him down an alleyway, then Saliss deployed silencing spells, and Mirn hissed at him.
“Saliss! Did you really blow up your workshop? Why are you using our emergency meeting routine?”
“Yes. Doesn’t matter. Mirn, I just met with High Command. The new group that’s taken over for the old man.”
Mirn knew more about the inner workings of Pallass’ military than most commanders. He blanched.
“Oh, Ancestors. It didn’t go well?”
“I blew a hole in their walls. Guess. Mirn, tell everyone to lock down this month. No parties, nothing, until I give the word.”
The [Protector]’s eyes widened in horror.
“What? They’re not negotiating at all?”
Saliss gave him a grim smile.
“Oh, they are. But their first move was to arrest you. They don’t get it.”
“Fuck.”
“Yes. So here’s what we’re going to do. Call off work—I’m harassing you and the entire Loader’s Guild until I get my damn salamander skins. We’re going with one of the plans. Give me thirty minutes, and I’ll meet you in my house.”
Mirn’s eyes flickered. He might have been a retired soldier, but the war hadn’t really ended for him. It had just changed nature.
“Got it. Make it forty in case I have to fake Melm.”
“Just have them look around. Melm’s a long-dead [Trader]. I’ve probably been scammed.”
Mirn nodded. He stepped back, and Saliss stormed off. He didn’t even have to pretend to be angry. But then again—citizens of Pallass stared at him, asking what he’d done now. 
Hero. Annoyance. Nudist. He was many things to Pallass, and Saliss tried to smile. He was the funny one, the one they took for granted. Their version of the crazy Human of Liscor.
He wondered if he’d made a mistake, being it for them all that time ago.
Well, today?
Today…
Things were changing.
 
——
 
Mirn had a key to Saliss’ house and was inside when Saliss arrived. Saliss was checking a Chest of Holding he’d lugged in.
“Careful. Don’t touch it; I just salvaged everything I could from my workshop.”
“Seith?”
Mirn heard about alchemy projects, too, when they met and Saliss complained. Saliss grimaced.
“It’s unpredictable. Well, I take it back. It’s predictable, but it makes timings and power go off the scales. I blinked.”
“Seems like a normal problem for an [Alchemist]. Dead gods, Saliss. Are we doing this?”
Saliss shot Mirn a sardonic look.
“Stop panicking. They called my bluff only to realize they made a mistake. I’m calling theirs. Need more gold?”
“Eh, I just looted your supply. I hope I pull it off.”
“Just do it long as you can. Put out the word?”
“Three dead drops and it’ll spread. Saliss…how bad are the new ones?”
Mirn stopped Saliss, who was trying to expedite this part of things to stay ahead. The Named-rank reluctantly slowed down. Sometimes, he forgot Mirn was the more nervous of the two.
[Protector], not adventurer. They were both, in the Turnscale system of governance, which was decentralized, ‘Architects’. People who built safe places. However, there were also Sentries, and Mirn doubled as one of them.
Saliss was more of a Sentry for all of Pallass, but he was also the liability. He wasn’t a Mason who could build things up day-by-day for a few people. Few knew he was even a Turnscale, but those who did—got it.
“We’ll work it out, Mirn. At the very least, I can maintain the status quo. But I can’t let them push back—hence all of this. I was working on the seith as part of it. So long as they need me, they have to give me what I want. Maybe more with the old man gone. But first, we need to set expectations high as can be. The highest.”
Saliss waved a claw at their preparations. Mirn gave him a steady nod.
“Got it. I can do it, Saliss. It’ll be like a vacation from the job. I…”
He paused a second and grinned.
“This is so stupid, but it’s probably good I was getting out of Pallass a while. Do we have five minutes?”
“Mirn. If this is about something like your grocery association or you wanting to adopt a new dog or something—I am really not in the mood.”
