“Potion of Features Change and a tonic of Husky Voice. Well, it can do any voice, really.”
“Impressive!”
Mivifa had always known Saliss could do a variety of potions, but she was so used to his battle array that this made her do a double-take. Mirn took another sip of potion and sighed.
“Yes, well, if you’re willing to have me, I’ll be here all week. I’ll actually turn back to normal if that’s okay, or into some random Drake, and hit the town.”
“Be my guest. Seriously, what did they do?”
Mivifa had never seen Saliss get this annoyed, but Mirn just shrugged.
“I can’t actually say, but you know Saliss. He loves his city despite everything they put him through. I think it’s because the Cyclops has retired.”
“Ah, right…can you tell me what he’s like? Chaldion’s not dead?”
Mivifa and Feathi sat down for a talk as Mirn put aside the paperwork. After a while, she asked to see the potions, which really were high grade.
“I never knew Saliss could make potions like these.”
Mirn’s smile was sad.
“They’re silly, useless potions, he calls them. Only good for spies. Not what he thinks he’s good at. Imagine how many silly potions he could make if he actually quit?”
The Oldblood of Feathers looked up and dipped her head.
“Yeah. So where is he?”
Mirn shrugged.
“I think he’s sitting in a basement.”
“…Why?”
 
——
 
At the same time as Pallass was having a bit of drama, a bit of worry, a Goblin was in love.
“It has a magnifying glass here. See? With notches to show where to shoot. And look at how it reloads!”
The click of a Paige-quality crossbow was a delightful thing to Rags. She was inspecting Calescent’s gift and seeing modern ideas in the design. Everyone was patting Calescent on the shoulders.
The [Spice Chef] had obviously shared the design around, and a bunch of Flooded Waters Goblins had come by to check out his new crossbow. Rags already had a bunch of ideas, but what she really wanted was to speak to the inventor.
“She very nice. They all are. I have many recipes. Paneer. You eat?”
Rags nodded instantly, and she reflected the inn wasn’t without things to see, even with Erin gone. But Erin…well. That was another thing distracting everyone.
Everyone except one Goblin, who had left the main party of Rags and her followers to sneak downstairs.
She was a creature of the night, a being of shadows and malevolence.
She was…Gothica.
And she had levelled up. The Goblin flitted from shadow to shadow, smirking as she noted the inn was busier than usual. But she had only one thing in mind, and that was the basement.
Ishkr, the [Head Server of Tales and Fables], had a weakness. And that was the terror of having a Goblin jump at him out of the middle of nowhere. Gothica had terrorized him for weeks, and he wouldn’t be expecting her now.
She knew he regularly moved around the inn, so he was likely to go to the basement any moment. She flitted into the basement and saw a glowing lantern was set next to the organized kegs and food bins and rubbed her claws together. Perfect! She began to find a good hiding spot and crept into a space between two huge casks of ale. She wiggled in, turned her head—and saw a naked Drake, mouth open, eyes bulging, right next to—
“Yeaaaaaaaaagh!”
Gothica’s shriek and wiggling out of the barrels to run until she slammed into a support beam was the high point of Saliss’ day. When the [Goth] finally got her words back, she pointed.
“What you doing here?”
“Working. Shoo.”
Gothica stared at Saliss as he went back to his desk. She gobbled—and then stomped off to find a better hiding spot.
Saliss got back to work. He was trying to alter his Inferno Gel recipe to give himself the time he needed to complete the reaction, or just skip the usual process. He didn’t have to mess around with ingredients and risk the inn; his methodology allowed him to do most of the planning on paper first.
After a while, Ishkr came downstairs.
“Alchemist Saliss, can I get you anything to drink?”
“The tears of Gothica? Or just some water.”
The Gnoll grinned smugly as Saliss raised his head. He got Saliss some water and a snack of something nice—that paneer Calescent was trying with some chips—and Saliss went back to work.
He was actually pretty boring while Mirn covered for him. Obviously, even with the empty inn, Pallass might notice him here, so Saliss had come here, asked to use the basement, and just gotten to work.
Let Pallass sweat. Of course, he’d really asked to use the [Garden of Sanctuary], but funny thing—Lyonette had been cagey about that. She’d asked Saliss if the basement was fine, and he’d agreed not to meddle in her thing if she let him do his thing.
Naturally, Saliss knew something was up. He didn’t miss that access had been cut off for most people or the odd sounds he heard—or the fact that if he looked up, he could see recently-replaced floorboards above his head.
“How much force does it take to snap a floorboard?”
There’d been some of the replaced ones downstairs. Saliss had gone to snap one, then thought about how much power Erin’s [Reinforced Structure] Skill gave to an inn.
How much pressure did it take to snap them like that? Also, why were there gold coins in the basement, rolled behind a few objects? There were probably logical reasons for all of it.
Saliss was interested, he really was. But going upstairs was pointless in a sense; the events would envelop him when they did, and he could put his time to better use. And also…
It was harder being upstairs.
The old man was there.
 
——
 
Chaldion sat in a chair watching the coverage of the news. Erin Solstice was giving an interview, and everyone was hooked on it. Lyonette kept dashing into the common room to make sure her few guests, like him and Hethon and Sammial, were fine.
“Mrsha, you promised to play chess with Chaldion!”
A howl from the [World’s Eye Theatre] said that this was not the time. And Chaldion just sat there without a glint or the intention to move. He just watched…as did Rose, Joseph, and, a rarity, Imani. The [Chef] remarked as she sampled the new dishes.
“This is so good. That girl’s definitely Indian. Who were the others, Rose?”
“Aussies.”
“Huh. I should have known they’d survive in Baleros.”
Joseph commented as Rose fiddled with some paper and ink. Imani gave Rose a sharp look.
“And here’s Erin in the news. She’s not even stopped. Rose, are you sure you wanted to come back? Are you ready? For this?”
She tapped her white eyepatch, and Rose hesitated.
“I’ve got to, guys.”
“No. You don’t.”
Joseph looked up seriously. He seemed older than before, and Rose hesitated. She put down her quill.
“—Well, I want to help! I’ve done some stuff with Adetr, but I haven’t levelled up hugely. I want to make a difference here.”
“Got any useful Skills?”
“I was talking a lot about Earth with Adetr—I even helped him with diagrams and stuff. See?”
Rose had been sketching a profile of Chaldion. It wasn’t bad…but it wasn’t the greatest thing the other two had ever seen. Imani put her chin in her hand.
“That’s not bad. Did I know you could sketch, Rose? I found cooking, but I already knew I was good at it.”
“I had an art major, and I was in college for it. I didn’t know if I wanted to get into, like, designing for a company or anything else.”
“Huh…not a very applicable skill here. Maybe you could take over Solar Cycles?”
“I can draw, not do…bicycles.”
The table fell silent. They went back to watching. After a moment, Imani almost smiled and Joseph sat back in his chair.
“Damn, Erin. Are you trying to get killed?”
“Maybe she is.”
Imani stared at the scrying orb. They looked around, but Chaldion didn’t even smile as his minder ate from their snack bowl. He just…watched.
 
——
 
Hard to go above. Saliss wondered about Erin, but in truth, he was just tired.
Still not sleeping right. Regardless if I get this right…
He was thinking, as the hubbub above died down, about the future. In a strategic, yes, damn strategic sense.
Pallass would sweat when they realized, yes, he was going to get a dual citizenship. Not just High Command. They would know he probably wasn’t serious, but the average citizen would look at that small thing and feel less secure.
It implicitly pressured the Assembly of Crafts and High Command, and it was a good move.
Saliss had never pulled it before in his entire time in Pallass for one reason: the old man would have never fallen for it. Seeing how this High Command reacted? Whether they went to more threats when ‘Saliss’ returned or were more cunning or conciliatory?
That was the goal. He was still, in the end, waiting. Saliss sat there, crossing out ideas and checking his note on alternate reactions, until he was interrupted.
It was The Wandering Inn. Of course he was interrupted.
 
——
 
Empathy and curiosity were linked in The Wandering Inn. Someone had to check on you to see if you were doing okay—or if you were doing something interesting.
The first to come, in lieu of the [Innkeeper], was a tossup. Saliss almost expected Lyonette but she was busy with some scheme. So it was the other one.
The rapscallious, the impudent, the annoying child who tried to sneak up on him. He reached down, grabbed her by the head, and messed up her hair before letting her go. In reply, Mrsha furiously kicked his chair, which showed the level of forethought that went into her decision-making.
Hey, hey, Saliss. What are you up to? Did you blow up your workshop again? Moving to Oteslia? What about Liscor? I could get a finder’s fee, I think. For me.
Mrsha prowled around Saliss’ desk, but for once, he didn’t play ball. He just kept working, and the notations he was writing down made no sense to her.
“Not interested, Mrsha. I’m actually busy.”
It’s cool! Mrsha tried to pose by his desk and fell and splatted onto the floor. She got up, sniffling.
You want to know what we’re up to? I’ll trade you…for some seith. Want some food? Deathspice? It’ll only cost you an [Invisibility] potion. Something cool is coming. Might be profitable. You want in on it?
She rubbed her thumb and forefinger together. Saliss looked up briefly.
“Is Lyonette actually intending to pay me for my seith?”
Maaaaaaaybe.
“Then I don’t need to go through you. Sort of answers my question. Also, you have gold dust on your face.”
Mrsha went cross-eyed and then scowled. She sat there a second, thinking.
I could tell Pallass you’re actually here! Come on, spill the beans! Or I’ll spill them—on you!
She posed dramatically, and Saliss cracked a smile. Not a fake one. But the one Mirn described, like laughter, that had a weight to it Onieva lacked.
“I do like you, you annoying, little menace. Don’t you change for as long as you can.”
He meant it and tousled Mrsha’s head. She looked outraged at being treated like what she was: a child.
I’m getting older! I walk around on two legs already! I’m not a child any longer!
Saliss gave her a long look. He kept working as he replied absently, too tired to tell a joke or lie to her.
“That’s true. You’ll be a terror to the Walled Cities when you lose the next battle. A Doombearer, a child of this inn. When Doombearers need you, you’ll be there.”
Something about the way he spoke wiped Mrsha’s silly, confident expression off her face. She hesitated, then wrote.
What do you mean, pray? We won for Doombearers! Forever! Now we’re Doombearers instead of Doombringers.
“Sure you did. You won a battle. War’s not done. Maybe there’s a truce, but Doombearers will need you. Just wait. You’ve got time, I hope.”
He sat there, writing, a nude Drake with yellow scales and, Mrsha knew…more. What she knew, exactly, of Turnscales and all of this mess, Saliss didn’t know. She knew Elirr and Hexel’s secret, but she was a child.
She didn’t know enough about hate to be the best at appreciation, if that made sense. He should have left it there as Mrsha scribbled a response, but he felt like his old man today.
He felt like the positions were reversed, and Mrsha’s indignant words stung him.
We won. How could the war continue? Everyone knows Doombearers are good! Innocent!
“Yes. You won a battle that cost Gnolls some of their greatest protectors and heroes. Even if he was a bastard, Xherw was one of the forces that kept the Walled Cities in check. Even if you discount him and every ‘bad Gnoll’, your people lost as much as they gained.”
Mrsha stared at Saliss.
It was a good thing. We beat the Drakes! A bunch of Walled Cities!
Her paw shook a bit, and she glared at him fiercely. Lie, abort, his mind told him. Saliss’ tongue went on.
“Oh, you did. You foiled their plans and sent their armies packing. Killed a lot of [Soldiers]. You know what the old man upstairs calls that? Phase 2. And that’s probably the plan he inherited from his predecessors. I’ll bet you that we’re on Phase 17 of the plan, all within the ALM.”
What’s the ALM? Mrsha was staring at Saliss, no longer having fun. He read the unspoken question.
“Acceptable Loss Margin. Drake term. Look it up, Mrsha. Take a long look at the history books, not ‘now’. And ask yourself why Doombearers one day became the bad guys. Are you better off than Gnolls were four hundred years ago, or worse? Did last year change things for the better? Or did you take one step up back a slope you’ve been sliding down for centuries?”
He sat there, lantern-light playing off of still features, lips moving, naked, but handsome enough. Attractive enough to be a leader. An inspiration for the Walled Cities. The old man had such dreams for his offspring and found, in a grandson, the one Drake who hadn’t yet died.
A shame Saliss had turned out to be on another side in a war that had been going badly. Why were they fighting? Wouldn’t peace be easier?
Better Drakes had thought that and tried for it. And watched themselves slip further down the slope. Saliss?
Saliss was just hanging on. He met Mrsha’s eyes, and she tried to write something down. Her little face wavered, and he saw her grow up, again, in a second. Then she fled.
 
——
 
Saliss felt bad about that. Bullying a kid was easy and low.
Thus, he felt less bad about the second person to appear.
Nanette.
She was older, slyer, if only by relative margins, and came with another helping of food and some questions.
“Octavia’s upstairs. She’d never want to bother you, but should I have her come down, Alchemist Saliss? She wants to learn. Oh, and Rhaldon’s going to be back in a week. He could get something for you, if you want, up north?”
Saliss glanced up from his notes.
