“Cute. Hey, which one is this? The actually smart witch? Or the girl pretending to be smart and getting away with it because she’s young and thinks she’s cute?”
Nanette’s self-satisfied smile winked out, and she hesitated. She took a breath as she smoothed her skirts unnecessarily and in a perhaps egregious motion.
“…I’d certainly prefer to be the former, Saliss. What’s the difference between the two?”
Saliss’ eyes glinted as he grinned at her.
“The smart witch isn’t stupid enough to push her luck and knows when I’m willing to joke and when I’m not. The girl thinks she’s better than Mrsha.”
Saliss hadn’t been there for the Mrsha versus Nanette war, or gotten to know the girl as well, but he thought she was cute. Especially when she tried to come back at him as if he were a Grimalkin, a Bird, or anyone less than an Erin Solstice.
“I can tell when someone needs my help, and I am the only witch in this inn, Adventurer Saliss. I don’t think you’d underestimate Erin…again. And Erin wouldn’t leave you alone.”
In response, Saliss laughed once, and his voice was direct as a crossbow bolt.
“Erin is capable of helping or hindering me in any way.”
The witch retreated. Saliss was now aware he was in a bad mood, but the lack of a third, immediate visitor let him process the fury in him.
Fury was an emotion that befit someone who saw death, loss, setbacks, and had to endure. Movement. Cause. These were such poor words.
War.
It felt, to Saliss, like his anger came from his prediction of the future. Look ahead at the best case, if his ploy with Mirn won him concessions. They were concessions to the same deal. Perhaps…
“Was it Kaligma? The old man? This unchanging city? I was so happy when I had the idea for a private space in a damn beach, even though it was never enough. It would never fit everybody. Now?”
That was the heart of his angst. Onieva. A reduction in Pallass’ policies. Best-case scenario all around and it was a few skirmishes won in a war being lost. But he was afraid to draw new battle lines. He’d gone to war and seen the dead pile up, and now…
Hence his mood.
The Drake sharpened a quill in the basement until the third fool descended into the Den of the Alchemist.
Act 4, Scene 5.
Enter the Innocent Rose. And here the crowd gets up and leaves the theatre. Saliss almost did himself.
“Oh, come on. The order of progression is supposed to go up after Nanette, not down. Get Lyonette.”
“Um. What?”
Saliss’ glower almost stopped Rose dead in her tracks. She flinched; it was hard to approach someone with even a passing awareness of how to use their aura when they were tetchy, but she managed another step.
“Mrsha and Nanette said you were mad, so I—”
“—Decided to give it a shot? Please. Oh, by the way, ‘hello’. I thought you were with the Gnolls.”
They hadn’t seen each other since she’d returned, and Rose’s return had not been significant enough for Saliss to comment on.
Mirn would be happy. But Mirn liked to protect people in need of his help. All Saliss saw was a liability to herself, to people she might spot or who’d endanger both by approaching her—
He saw another kid; worse than Nanette and Mrsha because she was older and far less adorable.
“I—I just wanted to see if I could help. Because I’m here. You know, with—”
Finish that thought and I will throw this quill at you. And it would pierce skin and bone if he hurled it right.
She didn’t know about Onieva. But she did know Saliss was a Turnscale. He and Mirn had gotten Rose aside and quizzed her about things, but she’d gone off to the tribes, and frankly—she was a liability.
“I thought you wouldn’t come back. I expected you to write that you had a Gnoll kid in your belly and were marrying that nice Adetr Steelfur. Go back somewhere you might be needed.”
That did make her flinch. Rose. She had ties to the Players of Celum, but hadn’t left with Galina. She wasn’t a Kevin and hadn’t found her thing like Joseph. She was certainly no Imani. She was just Rose, in a way. Even Troydel was tied to Pallass, now.
“I—I sort of wondered if that was going to happen. Not the kids thing. But I felt like…am I doing this? Y’know? I was there, and I was getting to be part of everything, and Inkar definitely was, but then I had this moment of ‘wait, what about the inn’?”
“And you left. I applaud your ability to avoid finding a good spot for yourself. Was Adetr Steelfur that uncharming? I heard he’d changed. He was a simpleminded idiot when I met him, but you could work with that.”
Saliss went back to writing. Rose paused and looked to the stairs, as if thinking of escape, but she folded her arms and tried to lean against the bannister.
“I liked him. A lot. We had a bunch of discussions about Earth. Not all him nerding out about tech and stuff. I wasn’t going to make kids with him, but I was trying to explain things from Earth. And I was talking with Theikha, Feshi, other Gnolls. Theikha says she’s met you.”
Saliss pictured the old [Shaman] of the Gaarh Marsh tribe.
“Amazing. Small continent, isn’t it? Named-rank adventurer Saliss knows everyone.”
“Yeah, well…a term kept coming up that Adetr only sort of knew the entire time. Turnscale. I ended up talking a lot about that. About my world. And this one. It was a shock to see how many things were the same, here. In my world, we don’t get killed for being a Turnscale and walking down the street. At least, not all the time.”
Oh, and here it came. Saliss hadn’t been dreading this; he’d forgotten Rose existed and lived his life happily to this day. He wondered what would happen if he just tossed her out of the inn, maybe through a window. He’d open the window first.
Would she get the hint? This was not what he needed. The Drake took a firmer grip on his quill.
The Wandering Inn’s basement wasn’t great. Oh, it had been refurbished, but the stacks of crates of food instead of grain sacks with rats living in them and kegs stacked next to each other made it a glorified storehouse.
A single lantern cast a dingy light over the entire area. Saliss could have illuminated it with something better, but this place that rats were too good for, like Haldagaz and Rhata?
It suited him. He didn’t miss the hidden tunnel with some fake pieces of stone at the far wall. Saliss didn’t care about a lone Acid Fly crawling around; it had tried to spray him with acid twice, and he’d spat on it.
He was suited to this spot. Rose was not. She was fresh-washed, with reddish hair he noticed she’d dyed violet in parts to match her eyes. She had on some Gnoll-themed clothing she’d gotten dyed—pale green fur around a jacket’s leather lining, for instance. Or maybe Gnolls just had green sheep. She was eighteen, young, and she had not a single scar he could see on her fair skin.
It was weathered a bit from living outdoors with the Gnolls, and she had callused hands and could probably ride a horse, but she did not fit here.
Saliss?
Saliss was the gremlin-Goblin who knew this room. Who fit in a miserable place with roaches that no one else wanted to even sit in, drinking and watching the door, with an escape route in mind. If he looked around he could almost see shades of people, laughing and living as loud as they could amidst whispers because it was the only time they could breathe and exist.
Now came Rose. She realized, mid-explanation, that he was continuing to write and broke off from her explanation of her time with the Meeting of Tribes.
“—about the gay rights movement and there are even historical documentaries you can look up. I showed the Gnolls a bunch of stuff. Hey, are you listening?”
Saliss’ head slowly rose. He glanced at Rose and exhaled.
“Are you still here? Seriously. Go get Mrsha or Calescent. Please stop talking about your lovely Gnoll boy. Why did you come back? To annoy me? Or would it just not have worked out with him?”
Rose shook her head instantly.
“Oh, no. I swing both ways. I think I told you that, rem—”
Saliss cracked the quill in a claw, and Rose jumped.
“Are you trying to piss me off? Didn’t Mirn warn you what would happen if some friendly Drakes ever heard you say that and understood what it meant?”
He stared at her, and she flinched.
“I got it! I know. We’re safe, here.”
“Oh, we’re safe. You’re certain Lyonette’s safe and everyone else in the inn is. You’ve checked upstairs, and there were no guests who might remember what they hear, like Chaldion’s minder or anyone else. Good for you. So Adetr wasn’t a problem and you probably weren’t leading him on. Why did you come back?”
At this point, Rose looked ready to actually run, but she burst out.
“I came back because I thought I’d be needed. By you and Mirn, if no one else! Adetr agreed! He even got mad I’d come to the tribes!”
The [Alchemist] had been calculating a throw from his belt and wondering how much six silver’s worth of ingredients was measured in units of Rose. Not a very economical tradeoff in his opinion.
Getting rid of her, though? Priceless. However, that comment drew him up.
Oh, so that’s why she came back.
Wonderful.
His claw itched, and he reached for another potion at his belt before stopping himself, but barely. Saliss’ mind ran ahead of this conversation, and it gave him a simple picture. Of a dead young woman and, perhaps, a lot more.
Here’s another soon-to-be-dead one. She’s going to take Mirn with her. Maybe me. I should send her back to the Gnolls. 
Help. Him and Mirn? It fit her, it made sense, and of all the things she could have said, including shouting expletives at him and grabbing a metaphorical pitchfork—this actually made him the angriest.
Saliss had already activated privacy spells the moment he’d gotten to the basement, but he still checked the stairs.
Where the heck did Tessa go? I forgot to ask since I was in such a pet. She’s not here, anyways; I’ve checked. He snapped at Rose, dropping even the veneer of civility.
“You aren’t needed. Turn around, go back. Marry that Gnoll or find a position in a tribe. Become a [Chieftain]; go to Wistram. Stay in the inn if you have to. Never speak to me or Mirn about what you think you know again. You don’t get it.”
“I do.”
Rose’s chin jutted out. Saliss closed his eyes a second.
“You are going to kill yourself. By which I mean get yourself killed. Suicide by stupid actions. Which is fine, but I won’t have you killing Mirn or anyone else. You do not understand—”
“I do, alright?”
Rose shouted back. Saliss paused, and she lowered her voice.
“I do. I didn’t at first. I thought it really was a fairy world, even if things were as dark as home. Then I realized it wasn’t even that. It’s not even ‘now’. It’s fifty years ago. A hundred.”
She had a faraway, scared look in her eyes, and Saliss of Lights pushed his notes aside for a second, and his ire faded as he saw something he appreciated.
Fear.
Real fear and understanding. If not complete, enough for him to not chase her away and enough to give Rose a bleak, dark smile.
“Well, that’s just dandy. Sit down, then, and pull up a chair.”
There was a wooden stool down here; Saliss got it, and Rose sat down on top of it. Then she squeaked.
“Hey! Wait—”
Saliss picked up the stool and began to carry it upstairs with Rose on it. He dumped her on the ground, closed the door, and locked it, then dusted his claws and went back to his desk.
…Unfortunately, Rose was already there, panting, having used the [Garden of Sanctuary] to get back in. Saliss eyed her.
“The second time, I throw you as far as I can manage. Want to find out how far that is?”
“Saliss! I’m on your side!”
Rose protested, and Saliss’ claw was at her face, poking her nose. The Drake’s voice was very calm and direct.
“First. I didn’t ask. Second. You’re useless. Third? I don’t even need a third reason because the first two make you completely helpless. You’re not Erin. You’re not even Joseph. You’re certainly not Kevin. Go away. Become a Galina and disappear from the inn, or a Troydel who gets to be marginally useful to the actually competent people. Why did Adetr let you return? If I were that idiot who met someone actually willing to put up with me, I’d have begged you to stay.”
Rose was pale-faced, and Saliss could just see it. Adetr—a thickheaded Gnoll kid who knew how to fight—and a young woman who lacked his metal fur, but made up for it with her own level of obtuseness. Let them learn, grow up—and do it all away from him.
However, Rose, who backed up until she was against Saliss’ desk, didn’t run off. She had just enough backbone to be annoying, and she retorted.
“Go back? Adetr didn’t beg me to go! He got mad when I wasn’t sure if I should come back! He said I had a war to fight instead of helping him with his!”
The second time she said that, Saliss blinked.
“What?”
Rose was breathing in and out.
“My people. That is—Adetr didn’t really get it. It isn’t as bad a problem with Gnolls, Turnscales, that is. They have a really unhealthy viewpoint about still having to have kids for the good of the tribe, but they’re not stoning anyone for being different, most of them. When I explained it to him, and I showed Adetr how hard it is on Earth, and Theikha told us about Turnscales here—he said that I should come back and fight for my people. Rather than spending all my time with his.”
The wording was similar to how Saliss talked, but it was such an Adetr-way of framing things that it made Saliss even more annoyed. So she had the Gnoll’s blessing.
“And you told them you were going to help Saliss and Mirn, your best friends in Pallass?”
Saliss picked up the quill, and Rose spoke quickly.
“No! I didn’t mention anyone!”
The Drake tossed the quill down. Then he sat, annoyed, angry, as Rose looked around and then sat on the stairs. She faced him, across the basement, sitting with light from the closed door filtering down around her. It made the sputtering oil lantern’s radiance grungier by comparison.
Saliss sat at his table, inhaling, exhaling. Fine. They were doing this. It wasn’t like he wasn’t curious…his voice rasped.
“Okay, start talking. At the very least, I can finish collecting the facts.”
“About Earth? You know about Earth and everything else, right?”
Rose looked at him, and Saliss rolled his eyes.
“Please. We have Grimalkin and Troydel. I’ve read the reports. I’ve talked to Erin. But you know what they never mention?”
He tapped his chest and spoke that word he almost never did.
“Turnscales.”
It felt so fragile coming out of his mouth. So…dangerous. And Rose? He didn’t trust her. He didn’t like her. But Rose sat down, and when she spoke—
