“For us, it’s…most people outside the community would just call it being gay or LGBTQ+. It’s not as bad as it is here, at least, not where I grew up in Los Angeles. I realized this isn’t…believe me, I figured out how things are over here.”
The young woman leaned forwards, eyes flashing with indignation.
“Plus, there’s no way anyone else but maybe Kevin or Imani would tell you about that. Because Troydel doesn’t know anything about us besides lesbian porn.”
Saliss stared at Rose blankly until she clarified.
“It was on the computer until I deleted it.”
He started laughing then. Bitterly, and then shook his head. Then—Saliss listened.
 
——
 
“I wish you could have seen the [World of You and Me]. That would have answered so many questions.”
Saliss wished he could have seen it too. The first thing Rose told him was of the Gnolls’ secret on the condition he swore himself to secrecy. Which he did. High Command would not learn of this from him.
Perhaps it was a sign of how incautious Rose was to tell him the Gnolls’ greatest gift, but they were of the same nature, the same side, and no matter how much he wanted to deny that, and her, they could talk in ways few people could.
Yet it was no gift. The more they sat there, the more annoyed Saliss got. It was not just the way Rose had a term for everything he had half-understood, had to figure out and talk with the few people Saliss had ever met who understood—and they were all different in their own ways—
It was how she was…incautious. How she talked.
“—So, we won equal representation. Gay marriages. And after that, um, we didn’t get more legislation. There were a lot of challenges, actually. Like this thing about a wedding cake. Okay, I need to explain more about our political system. So we have this Supreme Court—”
“Hold on. There’s that word again.”
“Which one? Queer? Transgender?”
“No. ‘We’. You said you grew up after all these protests and movements. Where’s this ‘we’ coming from?”
Rose blinked at Saliss. She hadn’t said she’d been marching or rioting. She’d gone to protests and organized events, but she was young.
“Well, I’m talking about us. You, me, everyone.”
“Excuse me. I’m a Drake Turnscale. You’re a Human of Earth. Not the same. And from how you define Mirn and me, we’re not the same either, are we?”
Rose was energetic and had missed how Saliss was growing less and less animated. She nodded.
“Okay, so Mirn’s gay. Just pure, awesome, gay. And you’d be what we’d call a transgender woman. Someone who—well, you know. I see you. Most people in this world, even back home, might not, but I get it.”
“Oh. Thanks. And what are you?”
Saliss’ voice was dangerously saccharine. Rose smiled and pointed a thumb at her chest.
“Bisexual. I go both ways. I like the boys and the girls. If they’re hot or cute enough.”
At this, Saliss clapped his clawed hands together and sat back, smiling.
“Aha! Got it! So that’s why. You’re one of them.”
“Them what?”
Rose hesitated, and Saliss gave her a pointed smile. He gestured around the basement, as if it were a Turnscale bar.
“You’re someone who’s a Turnscale when she feels like it. When things get too uncomfortable or you don’t feel like it, you get to be an upstanding citizen. Great. Can I get a refund on Earthers?”
The young woman went pale, and Saliss waited for her to cry or protest. But Rose took a long, shuddering breath and put her hands on her knees.
“Okay. Wow. That’s a bit too much like home. Fuck you.”
The response was spicier than he anticipated, and Saliss raised his brows.
“Mirn and I don’t need someone who wouldn’t pass muster as a full member of one of the bars here, much less on Earth.”
“Go fuck yourself.”
Rose snapped back, and she stood up, red-faced.
“You sound exactly like—! I thought people here would be more accepting since everyone’s in hiding, but wow! I hear that all the time back home. I’m not ‘actually queer’ because I can ‘pretend’ to be straight and pass for it. I get it. I’m white. I’m—well, that’s normal back home. But I can’t help being bisexual. It’s not like I’m choosing it.”
Her eyes flashed, and Saliss blinked at her.
“Still makes it easier.”
Rose twitched.
“Yeah? I can’t help liking boys. I can’t help liking girls, either. Sure, it means I don’t get insulted to my face as much. If I kiss only boys I can hang out around ‘normal’ people. If I pretend I only like girls, I can hang out around ‘real’ people. But guess what? That means I don’t fit in aside from other bi people. Turns out even outcasts hate us.”
She gave Saliss a betrayed look and one he had to admit seemed genuinely hurt. The [Alchemist] sat there a second and remembered a similar conversation with an upset Drake…
He refused to apologize. The rest of his points stood. Here was a kid, and she spoke like a child.
“Pipe down. Fine, you’re a Turnscale. If they catch you, they’ll lynch you, same as us. You didn’t have to come back here. What, do you think you can wave a white flag and undo Watch raids and change public sentiment across the Walled Cities?”
Rose spread her hands earnestly.
“I want to help, Saliss.”
“We don’t need you.”
“You need my perspective. I come from a world that’s ahead of this one—at least for equal rights! And it’s not perfect! I wish you were back in my world, actually! We’re still fighting, and you would be amazing if you were there.”
Rose burst out, and Saliss raised his brows.
“Me?”
“Yeah. You or Mirn.”
Rose gave Saliss a side-long look, and he began to grin, thinking it was a joke.
“A naked Drake waving a sign would be funny.”
“No, no. I meant you. Because people fight, but there’s no one like you. Someone scary. Someone who could blow up anyone who gets in his way. People fight, but they’re…people. They can get killed. If someone like you were there…”
Rose gestured, and Saliss blinked. He forgot, sometimes, that Earth was a world without levels. Or healing potions.
“I can die.”
“But you’re Saliss of Lights. We have people who lead the charge, but they can’t punch a hole in a wall or destroy the Assassin’s Guild of Izril! Instead, we’re people who have to sue and demonstrate, and if something really bad happens…someone rolls in a tank or opens fire with a gun.”
Ah. Saliss didn’t understand the analogy, but he got the other part. Regular Turnscales when a Watch squad kicked down the door.
His claws twitched. 
“But they do fight.”
It wasn’t a question. Rose tried to explain.
“Yeah. There’s not as many riots—well, there are riots, but not like it was when there wasn’t any legal protections for us. Now, it’s more peaceful. More. The police will attack sometimes, but the laws mean they have to protect us. Even if they don’t actually do their jobs.”
“So a mix of both?”
“Yeah…sometimes it feels like—like—”
Rose frowned, and Saliss answered for her.
“It sounds like they found a good way to make sure you didn’t do as much damage or fight them as much. What, do they tell you when you’re allowed to protest?”
“They don’t tell us. But you can get a permit. Otherwise, they’ll shut down a protest—”
“Ah. That’s Drake tactics. You let them protest where it doesn’t matter. Nothing’s scarier to a [Guardsman] than a bunch of really angry people who hate your guts and know it’s you or them. It’s the same here.”
“What? But Mirn said that no one recognizes Turnscales, and you have the bars he has to change—”
Saliss laughed as he put his legs up.
“Oh, sure. We’re still not anything legal. But I used to tear the city up with Mirn and some others back in the day. It wasn’t bars, it was us finding a member of the Watch and going to their bar. Torching shops.”
“Whoa.”
He hated that she sat forwards, eyes shining, as she stared at him like that was something…Saliss averted his gaze. Stared up at the ceiling.
He was recounting the most banal of stuff that any Turnscale could tell you, or anyone with an understanding of what that actually was, in the cities. Nothing personal. Saliss went on, keeping his voice light as he could.
“The old man cut me a deal. Now, it’s an uneasy truce. Sometimes someone calls in a tip, but the Watch gets slow, and we don’t do much fighting.”
“Is it—why do it that way?”
Saliss shrugged his shoulders.
“Tearing up the city loses its appeal the hundredth time you do it, and if you’re caught, it’s over. I…Mirn and I lost people. It’s life-or-death like that. Mostly? I realized some of the idiots I was hitting didn’t even know why they were fighting us. Some did. Others? They were good people except for this, or they were just following orders. They had families.”
He fell silent.
“I wish I’d never figured that out. That was why I cut a deal with him.”
A nod skywards. Rose’s head lifted, and she began to see the full picture. The deal. The deal now in question or worse…being renewed.
Saliss was staring a hole in the wall.
“You can’t murder your way out of a problem like this.”
He paused, and Rose saw his eyes flick to her.
“They’re lucky I believe that.”
The young woman held her breath, then burst out again.
“I love you. You’re like—a hero. Only twice because you’re a Named-rank adventurer! You do all this, and no one knows, no one—Theikha told me Zel Shivertail was one of us!”
And there it was again. It was hard to be mad at someone who was giving you the hero worship treatment, but Saliss was doing a good job. He was more annoyed now than purely angry. He saw why she had come back. She thought this was going to be something.
Saliss thought of Theikha and cursed that bossy, meddling…rather nice damn [Shaman]. The nicest leader of a species he’d met.
“Yep. Figures she knew.”
“And General Sserys?”
“Most of Liscor’s army knew. Or if not knew…they’re a weird bunch. Liscor was always weird. It doesn’t matter, kid. Those two were as Turnscale as you get, I heard, and look where we are.”
Rose was gabbling, trying to push words out as fast as she could think them.
“But what if—what if Zel Shivertail had said he was Turnscale! Or Sserys? Or—you?”
The question hit Saliss straight between the eyes, and he sat up and growled.
“People did know. Why do you think Zel Shivertail, the Tidebreaker, hero of the Antinium Wars, never had command of all the Walled Cities? Leaders found out about him and Sserys and distanced themselves until he was in the north, alone, with Magnolia Reinhart as his biggest ally.”
“But if everyone knew, not just the leaders—”
“—Maybe they would have torn him apart. It’s not your world, Rose. Having someone toss a bottle at me for being a Turnscale? Sounds like a dream. Over here, they’ll be outside my house with swords.”
Rose caught herself, and her head fell, but again, lifted.
“—That’s how it happened in my world. People started coming out. It wasn’t easy. They got attacked, persecuted, and you know what? We attacked right back sometimes. But it started, and when it started, it wasn’t stopped. They can pass all the laws they want and argue all day, but the genie’s out of the bottle. It’s never going back in.”
“You sound like Mrsha. The Djinni can always go back in the bottle. You have no idea how cruel they can be.”
Saliss turned away, arms folded. The young woman stood up excitedly.
“Saliss! I wish you could see it! It’s not perfect. It’s not even great, sometimes. But we have—culture! Drag shows, and we dress in ways, yeah, they say are ‘gay’ or we get stereotyped into, but we have songs and celebrities—and stories and movies made just by us. We have parades, and we get attacked, but there is a community out in the open. Not this. Not—”
She kicked at a gold coin in the basement of the inn and looked around. The [Alchemist] half-turned, and Rose studied him.
“I came back because I wanted to tell you what it looks like back home. If we can do it, a bunch of Humans—so can you. I live in a world that got this far. And it’ll get better.”
She gave him a  huge smile, and Saliss stared at her and realized she was even more of a kid and, in her way, cuter than Mrsha. What a stupid smile. He had half a mind to toss her headfirst in a keg of ale.
Saliss of Lights was curled up, unhappy, a bitter ball of it, but when Rose was done, looking at him, a part of him uncurled. He sat up a bit and he managed a sigh.
“Okay. You got me. That’s a good fairy tale. But saying how it went down in your world and expecting it to go the same here is different. The instant the Walled Cities found out I, even a Named-rank, was a Turnscale, they’d hush it up, excommunicate me, and go back a hundred years. Believe me when I say this is far better.”
Rose gave him a serious look.
“I know. But you know what helped the Turnscales in my world, Saliss?”
“What, having five words instead of one?”
“No! Television was what helped us. It could do the same here, as well. If we had a moment where someone sits down, explains what being gay is, millions of people maybe go ‘wait, that’s me’, and other people listen and realize that we’re not monsters.”
Rose spread her hands, framing an imaginary box in the air, and again, part of Saliss’ head lit up.
Mass scrying spells. The Walled Cities had learned how to censor some of it, but they couldn’t block all the broadcasts. And this very inn had proven how pernicious knowledge was…
No. Stop it. He averted his head, but his mind was racing.
And the Earthers had brought it here in its exact form…
“What if Saliss of Lights told all of Izril he was a Turnscale?”
It flickered in Saliss’ mind. One last gigantic middle finger to Pallass. Better or worse, even if it meant nothing and they covered it all up, a rallying cry. And you could keep people shouting it.
For a second, he indulged in that fantasy, and his heart lifted. Then a thought sent it crashing down to earth, and Saliss began to laugh.
Oh.
Oh, he’d just had a thought. Rose looked at the [Alchemist] as he slipped from his chair and landed on the floor. Then covered his eyes.
“Ah. Aha! Got me one last time, old man! Damn it. Damn it…I never win.”
Saliss was staring up at the ceiling. Rose blinked at him.
“What’s wrong with you doing it?”
The Drake looked up at the rafters, a bitter smile on his face.
