This was a tale about Saliss of Lights, not Onieva Oliwing. It was about a Drake who didn’t sleep well.
You’d think that wouldn’t be a problem for a Named-rank adventurer used to venturing into the wilds of the world and fighting, sometimes for days on end, without sleep. Saliss had done that. Of course, the ‘wilds’ of the world used to be few and far between.
Now that the New Lands had opened up, walking into Medain’s magical dungeons with a pickaxe, nude after being tricked out of all your clothing, without any [Mercenaries] or adventurers to back you up, a lone [Apprentice Alchemist] with a grudge—
Well, it just wasn’t as cool as the kids these days. Not Archmage. Saliss of Lights had every expectation that by the time the dust settled, there would be a new crop of Named-ranks with stories to tell that blew the old guard out of the water.
It was like Archmages. He’d pantsed two in his lifetime so far. Or if they had robes, underpantsed them.
Criminal, really. The fact that he could even lay his claws on them. If the stories about Zelkyr back in the day were true, Saliss should have been hunted to death across the continent by three Truestone Golems over the matter rather than just had to dodge a few [Lightning Bolts].
The Drake’s mind was wandering. He absently added some red dust to a film of liquid that had an ocre quality to it already, trying to parse where the dust settled on the already-vibrant mixture.
Close. Close…if the liquid within turned orange, he had to instantly let the dust break the oxygen-formed barrier and nullify the reaction about to occur. Then the mixture would turn purple.
If it kept getting brighter, it was a sign he had added too little of the red dust that suppressed the internal combustion effect and that the vial was about to explode.
Now, this much liquid—he had only a tablespoon’s worth—wouldn’t be as dangerous as you thought, not really. Oh, it had about enough force to blow a hole through the side of a regular person’s face if the charge was angled right, but normally, Saliss could probably take the hit without even dodging and be fine.
The problem was that this wasn’t ordinary stuff. A tiny—and by tiny, Saliss meant ‘measured in Fraerling units’—piece of white seith was mixed into the ampule of liquid.
It had sped up the catalyst effect, and he added more of the red suppression dust made of a spore from the Bloodfields, ironically enough.
Saliss estimated that if he got this primer liquid right, then, after he added all the regular enhancements to the alchemy vial, akin to someone piling up wood and kindling to enhance a [Fireball] spell—
“…Potion go boom big.”
The problem was—he hadn’t slept right. Poor sleep, a restlessness that had dragged him back to the alchemy lab despite knowing it wasn’t a good idea.
Thoughts whirling around his head. Saliss hated them.
I should go to the New Lands. What am I doing here? Discovering seith, you idiot. Far more valuable.
Am I an adventurer or an [Alchemist]? Irrelevant, really. Where am I needed most?
Answer…here. I’m just killing time. And perhaps myself.
The problem was—the red liquid was not changing to orange, and if he broke the seal and mixed the dust early, he’d render the precious ampule of liquid useless. It normally had a four-second window for this dangerous maneuver, but the seith was unpredictable.
The damn stuff was powerful. So powerful that Saliss had not given Lyonette the box he’d been jokingly waving around, and he was legitimately scared of what might happen if it reacted with something magical.
It was the most magically dense and reactive substance he’d ever encountered. The fact that Warmage Thresk’s buddy, the [Chronomancer] Udatron, had had this stuff sitting around showed he’d been a real old-school [Alchemist]. In other words, completely insane.
Real corn. That was a Saliss term, by the way.
Change, damn you! Saliss’ eyes hurt. His claw, holding the tip of a simple, non-reactive pair of mithril tweezers, was a fraction above the red liquid, ready to dip and stir.
His mind hurt. He was in his lab for reasons he damn well knew.
“Can’t go until I see what the new situation with Pallass is. Can’t go until I see what the inn’s got cooking. Can’t go in case the old man bites it?”
Saliss blinked. He didn’t die in the moment it took to do that and winnowed his excuses down.
“…The old man’s gone. The inn’ll be fine without me.”
Ruthless. Cut down the routes, that was how you did it. Narrow out what mattered from what you wanted. Sacrifice anything for victory.
The old man—Chaldion, the Cyclops of Pallass—had once said that when Saliss was a kid, Saliss had never forgotten how he said it. Eyes narrowed, making an eleven-year-old Drake child make a battlefield decision with [Soldiers] about to die.
Then executing on that choice. Saliss wondered if Chaldion would be happy that Saliss could deprioritize his existence.
Serves him right. 
The red liquid didn’t move, and Saliss’ exhausted brain refused to stay locked on target. Bad sleep.
Saliss had given up on visiting the old man in his home or at the inn. As far as Saliss could tell, he really was…
He can’t be gone. Someone just has to shake him hard enough, but Healer Demerra’s got a fast right hook. He’s gotten more Drakes killed before and had lunch afterwards and complained about the bill.
It could be the sheer damage. They’d patched him up with a potion, the idiots. If he hadn’t died of having his throat gouged out and being savaged by a Draugr, he wasn’t about to die before they assessed his condition.
Maybe they got his brain? Whatever Kasig…Kaligma…did to him didn’t let him die. It’s conceivable even with healing he’s just gone.
“Or maybe it’s his grand exit, failing and getting a [General] killed. Almost, old man. You almost got to be a hero. You deserve this.”
Chaldion didn’t speak. He could still do things like choose clothing or play chess, and he had an appetite and desires. But all the cutting incisiveness, the inability to remain silent, the strategic genius that had carried the Walled Cities for eighty years as [Grand Strategist]? Gone.
It was something seeing Pallass scramble to replace him overnight. Chaldion had contingencies for his death; he’d had them for decades. But his affliction had put Pallass in the uncertain position of not knowing if he’d come back to himself, and his actions had hugely discredited his own reputation within Pallass’ military itself.
Nevermind that most of the [Strategists], including Chaldion’s grandson and his replacement, the Garuda Esor, recognized what he had been doing. If Saliss had spotted it earlier, he’d have had Chaldion locked up.
The play was classic: get a bunch of Drakes too stupid to recognize when it was time to fall back and ignore bad orders killed. Or have them counter-level in a suicide charge that bought the inn time. At the same moment, have the smart officers identify themselves and force them to level by taking command from him. Make them the heroes of the day and pull the Cyclops off the board with a real hero’s moment.
“Who did it right? General Shirka…that snot-tailed Drake from 8th Army, Lieutenant Caoraz. Olesm.”
Saliss was waiting for the red liquid to change. It had never taken this long, but he wasn’t about to go and fetch anything to see if the effect was happening. He knew he’d precisely replicated the explosive reaction that was the basis for his Inferno Gel, which went into a Potion of Blast, a Firestorm Bottle, or so many of the dangerous things he could make.
He, like Rhaldon, controlled the variables. The Earther had said Saliss had the best understanding of Earth principles. For instance, the idea of isolating all the things that could go into a mixture and removing the element of chance.
He was probably just talking Saliss up, but the [Alchemist] had appreciated the compliment. The seith was literally the only change, and it should have been a pure energy catalyst.
If Saliss was right and Valeterisa’s and his research corresponded, this stuff was better than Unicorn horns. It was like a fable: all energy, no drawbacks aside from the fact that it was all energy.
It was a rediscovery equivalent of Sage’s Grass, and he’d had fun keeping his sample away from Valeterisa. It beat doing covert research into getting more of the stuff, wondering if he should help Pallass get a monopoly or tell other [Alchemists] about it—and wondering how the hell Erin had known what she was giving him. And whether he was worthy of it.
Ghosts. Where was he?
Oh, right. The survivors. Saliss’ eyes hurt again. Nothing for it but to blink. Now, the right thing would b—
The red had turned yellow. Now, the mixture turned white, and Saliss swore as his tweezers dipped.
“F—”
 
——
 
It wasn’t the first time he’d had to pull himself out of a pile of rubble.
It just really sucked when the rubble was your workshop.
Saliss of Lights sat up, and his first question before his brain even really processed a thought was—should he be dodging? He looked around and saw some intact cupboards made of steel. Hole in the ceiling; blast must have vented up. His claw hurt.
He stared down and saw soot running down his yellow scales. Judging from how they tapered off in distinctive trails, he’d tossed the vial up—Saliss’ brain clicked a few more times.
“Ow.”
He pulled a piece of mithril out of his cheek and spat another fragment out. That was what happened if enough force hit a pair of mithril tweezers. You could make a damn dangerous object with just the force alone.
And that was just the primer. Saliss heard horns blowing and voices shouting.
Alchemy suppression teams. He stared up at the hole in his ceiling. Bigger than all the rest. The first genuine explosion from attempting, well, to make something with seith rather than figure out what it was.
Saliss blinked around and calculated costs, assessed how close to death he’d been…then just completed his thought.
“Right. The smart thing would be to take all the Drakes and Gnolls who made the right call and promote them on the spot. Duln got himself killed protecting the wrong Drake. Harsh, but true. Oh, and the seith now shortens the changeover time to half a second. Great.”
He lay back in the soot and ash and tried to get forty winks. He couldn’t sleep. That was the main problem when you thought about it.
 
——
 
Two hours later, Saliss sat in an office in the secret headquarters of High Command in Pallass.
7th Floor. Set against the walls; it looked like any one of their checkpoints, but this one let you into the place even the top [Senators] only got access to if they were well-connected and important enough.
The [Secretary] knew Saliss liked coffee and put some milk and sugar in for him each time. He stared at his empty cup.
He was still sooty. Definitely naked. They’d asked him if he’d been working on something dangerous this time. To which the answer was…did you not see the blown up workshop?
Saliss yawned. Surviving a blast like that and having to assess the damage to his workshop was going to suck. He’d rather be staring at another yellow vial of seith-enhanced Inferno Gel than be doing this, though.
Things happened when the former [Grand Strategist] was replaced. A military was still, well, a military. If it panicked, it did so in a military way and restored order using the chain of command and procedures it knew. Pallass’ military was a logical beast, and Chaldion had helped raise it.
Shame he couldn’t cull stupidity out of it entirely. For proof of that, Saliss upended his coffee cup into his mouth and snapped his toothy jaw shut a few times, savoring the dregs of liquid.
“The smart thing to do would be to have Esor take Chaldion’s old role. Not as [Grand Strategist], but [Head Strategist] or whatever stupid class it is. Promote Shirka to 1st Army. No, wait, 1st Army sits on their asses all day. Keep her in 3rd and promote someone useless to the role. So you got that right. Then bump Caoraz up in his post, and hire Olesm and everyone else who acted smart.”
He spoke, not for the benefit of them, but for the watchers. The room was nominally empty; it had that military office feel. Yellow, pastel walls, which was Pallass’ national color but looked horrible, a framed image of Pallass being constructed on one wall, a simple wood desk facing a chair—
Saliss had, of course, chosen the desk. He sat behind it, opening and closing drawers and pulling out paper files.
Just for show, usually; the Eyes of Pallass filled this room with props. The other rooms in the High Command’s little headquarters were more utilitarian; they had places to meet or interview people, but this was their ‘tough negotiations’ room. They brought people into this cramped space, intimidated them, and any observers peeking through the fake wall got to watch the show.
In this case, Saliss assumed at least one of the Eyes of Pallass was listening in, and probably some of the head honchos. That was [Senators] with the right connections, [Generals], but also influential members of Pallass. Like the Guildmaster of the Engineering Guild—surprising people sometimes.
Pallass was a democracy. So was the High Command; it was just a democracy of people worthy of being in the democracy, and they voted on who to let in. Chaldion had been, in Saliss’ eyes, a de facto leader for decades, even after his mind began slipping a bit.
No one reacted to Saliss’ comment. The Drake paused as he began folding an origami Drake out of paper.
“You know, I can almost see you through the wall, right? Hey, you on the left. Wave. Whose stupid idea was it to put me in here? You don’t intimidate Named-ranks in this room, scales-for-brains. This is the room for a scared [Senator], not someone who helped build it.”
They didn’t wave. Saliss went back to folding. Here was the problem.
Sometimes…the right person didn’t get the job. Even if you had Chaldion writing it down and underlining a command like ‘make Esor my replacement you unbelievable morons or I will rise from the grave and shove my wrinkled testicles down your throat’.
Even if you did that…you had idiots who thought they should reinterpret Chaldion’s command. You had politics, the bane of every democracy.
You had Drakes who looked around and said, ‘wait a second, Esor’s a Garuda’. So they ignored him, which they couldn’t do when Chaldion was alive.
