Saliss checked around his house, tossing things he thought he might need into his bag of holding and dividing some more gold and a few potions up for Mirn. They had both been part of a squad that had specialized in using alchemy in battle back in the day, so Saliss trusted Mirn with his gear. Mostly.
Mirn drank his first potion, and Saliss avoided looking at him as Mirn spoke.
“No…okay, don’t get mad. It’s just—you know how I have to sometimes take care of a neighbor’s kids?”
Mirn lived in a neighborhood, not like a pariah, like Saliss, and people liked the former [Soldier], who was respectable, just as Saliss claimed. The [Alchemist] rolled his eyes.
“Is it more drama with the mother who keeps drinking?”
“No! Well, sort of. She was having this huge argument with one of her kids, and I was babysitting that Dullahan couple’s child. Which they trusted to me for the first time ever—”
Saliss’ glower forced Mirn to expedite the conversation.
“—and they were arguing because one of the things the Drake boy, Lessil, had to do in class—he’s eleven—was write a complimentary letter about someone he appreciated. You know, good writing, etcetera? His mother wanted to help him, but he was writing a letter about his best friend…another boy.”
Saliss had stopped packing up some clothing. He squeezed his eyes shut as Mirn went on, and the [Protector]’s voice was excited.
“His mother wasn’t having it, and she kept wanting him to write to a girl—you know, a good opportunity? But Lessil kept saying he liked his friend, Heord—a Dullahan—more than any girl. And his mother said he’d learn, but Lessil was getting upset and saying ‘no, no, it’s the same’. And I kept thinking if I could just get a second to talk to him—”
The [Protector] was excited, smiling—right up until the point that Saliss grabbed him by the clothing and slammed him against the wall of his house so hard he almost cracked the stone.
“Are you stupid, Mirn?”
“Wh—”
Mirn gasped for air. He struggled, reflexively, and Saliss hissed at him.
“Do you want to kill him? That boy? No, both of them? Are you trying to kill yourself?”
“Saliss! I wasn’t going to do it! I was just thinking—”
“Thinking is the first step to doing something, Mirn. You have a word with that boy and the best case is he reports you. The worst case is that he writes a letter with what you told him. Then he’s dead. His friend’s dead. And you. Are. Dead.”
The [Protector] managed to grab Saliss’ claws and force him a step back.
“I wouldn’t. I know all that.”
“Why are you talking about it? This is how Alcasi died, Mirn.”
“I know. I just—wanted to say something.”
The passion in Mirn’s flashing eyes went out like a candle being snuffed and he stood there, unclenching his claws. Saliss was breathing in and out, and fear…genuine fear had replaced the other emotions. He grabbed Mirn.
“It’s good you’re not staying in the city, then. Neither am I. Get it out of your head.”
“It’s out, Saliss. I—just—maybe I’m wrong. Maybe he’s just best friends. I can’t stand to think how miserable he’ll be if—”
“Stop babysitting.”
Saliss was ruthless. Mirn lifted his claws.
“I will. If I have to listen to—I will. Calm down, Saliss.”
“I am calm. I need more sleep. Did I break anything?”
The [Alchemist] paced around, then turned back to Mirn and, again, averted his eyes. Not in shame…at least, not for slamming Mirn against the wall. A different reason. Mirn produced the second tonic, took a swallow, and grimaced.
“Doesn’t feel like it. Okay, am I doing this? Are you doing this?”
Saliss of Lights looked at his friend, who said not a word of complaint in all of this despite having to quit his job and—
They were asked to do a lot. Turnscales in hiding. Too much. All of it necessary and important, but all of it…extra. To just the job of living. Saliss breathed out, closed his eyes, and felt like he was still staring at that blob of red, waiting for it to turn orange.
This next part was easy. Even enjoyable, arguably. But what came after that? The old man was no longer in charge.
Huzzah. Nothing changed?
Saliss was tired, but he mustered a smile for Mirn.
“Let’s do it. And I’ll buy you all the drinks when this is done, huh?”
Mirn nodded and punched Saliss’ shoulder. Saliss let it happen.
“And let Onieva have some fun, huh?”
He meant it, but Saliss hesitated for once. He shook his head, thinking of the Faerie Flower drink that let Onieva return…but without any knowledge of Saliss.
“Onieva’s different these days.”
Mirn paused and nodded.
“I know. Actually, I like the old Onieva more.”
“What? Why?”
Saliss grew a bit annoyed, and Mirn explained.
“This Onieva’s too hopeful. Too…happy. I know that’s the most cynical, selfish thing to say, but when she laughs, I think it’s easy. I hate that. Sorry.”
Saliss blinked at Mirn, then smiled.
“No. I’d hate that too.”
 
——
 
Saliss of Lights walked into the Alchemist’s Guild of Pallass, then the Adventurer’s Guild of Pallass.
He did not get very friendly looks. The smoking crater of his workshop on the 9th floor was, uh, sort of proof of the contentious relationship Pallass’ top [Alchemist] had with everything in the city.
Their pride, their embarrassment…the same for the Adventurer’s Guild.
However, Saliss didn’t stay long. He strolled in, naked as could be except for his belt of potions and bag of holding.
“Hey, you. And you. And how’s it going, you?”
“Adventurer Saliss. You don’t have any salamander skins waiting for you at the docks. The Loader’s Guild is lodging a complaint.”
The [Receptionist] at the Alchemist’s Guild was trying to be polite; normally, Saliss wasn’t that bad. But today? The yellow-scaled Drake gave her a blank look as he sauntered over to the counter and grabbed a piece of parchment. He reached for an inkpot, and she sighed.
“Oops. Sorry.”
“No, go ahead.”
He never usually asked. Saliss gave her an apologetic grin and wrote something down with neat handwriting. Probably a request for salamander skins. The gloomy Garuda waited as Saliss muttered.
“This isn’t about the Loader’s Guild…here. Sorry for the inconvenience, and have a good day! Hi, you, and you. I’m naked.”
He handed her the slip of parchment, and she stared at him as he sauntered out. [Alchemists] sighed, averted their gazes, or asked what he’d done to cause such an explosion as the Garuda stared at the piece of parchment.
“What did he want this time?”
The new [Guildmaster] asked as he cracked the door open. He was nervous, especially since the last time Saliss had appeared, the old [Guildmaster] had lost their job in dramatic fashion.
Wordlessly, the Garuda showed him the note, and the [Guildmaster] started laughing. She…did not. And she stared at the parchment again. It said:
 
I quit.
—Saliss of Lights.
 
——
 
The same message went to the Adventurer’s Guild, and by the time Saliss had reached the Mage’s Guild, word was spreading. But he just waited in line, then decided to skip the queue and stood at one of the [Receptionists]’ desks with a stack of papers.
And spectacles of all things. The Drake wrote for about forty minutes, grimacing as he handed over a stack of documents, including a passport.
“Okay, if you copy all that over…that’s thirteen documents. To Oteslia’s Office of Immigration.”
The [Scribe] at the desk stared at the documents and then at the completed papers. The Dullahan cleared his throat.
“So you intend to send—”
“Now. Here’s the payment and tip.”
Saliss lifted the spectacles and gave the [Scribe] a harried smile. He ignored the people pointing at his back, some incredulously, others worried.
“Now? So you are planning on—”
“I believe that’s between me and Oteslia. But yes, that should be the entire application for citizenship. If they have any other forms, please tell them I’ll be able to fill them out in person rather than bouncing a [Message] to me in the city. Thank you.”
Saliss plonked gold coins down, and it was a very generous tip. Then he strode out of the Mage’s Guild. He took a lift down to the 1st Floor, walked towards the gates, and rented a horse from the stables. Then he rode out, ignoring a few people asking for a quick word. Only the Alchemist Guild’s [Receptionist] and the Adventurer’s Guild’s Guildmaster, really, and a few others.
The High Command had already heard about the stunt, of course, but that was what they considered it.
A stunt. They were considering a course of action carefully and had the Eyes of Pallass monitor Saliss’ progress. And indeed, he came back after less than an hour, before news had even begun to spread, and more than one person, including General Edellein, remarked that it was just as well they hadn’t wasted a thought on it.
The Eyes of Pallass were told to relax. Then, one reported losing sight of Saliss before relocating him…on board a carriage of the fast-moving transportation service, Wonders of Izril.
 
——
 
Saliss was fifty miles out from Pallass before he saw the [Driver] doing a double-take at his passenger and raising a speaking stone to his lips.
So he guessed that was how long it took before they’d noticed. It was sad, really. The Eyes of Pallass weren’t to blame; they had a weak spot: when the top agents watching you were rotated out for the regulars, there was a window when neither group was on top of you.
It wasn’t supposed to function like that, but if High Command gave orders and the regular procedures were bypassed, you got that sloppy overlap—ironically, almost only in Pallass, where the agents were ‘in the same city’ without the acknowledgement that it was a big damn city.
Saliss knew that because he had served in the Eyes of Pallass for a while. He hummed to himself as, with breeches on, he finished autographing the other passengers’ cards.
“Thank you, Alchemist Saliss! And for putting pants on.”
He winked at one of the gratified Drake ladies sitting in the carriage and drew a smiley-face on a card for her son.
“I do wear pants, especially on rides like this, Miss Aldatail. I’d hate to inconvenience the other passengers.”
“Well—we do appreciate it! Would you be willing to tell us some tales of your adventures?”
“I don’t often—but I suppose to pass the time.”
He’d brought a book, but Saliss elected to speak for a while until he had to have a sip of something and some snacks. It was a two-day carriage ride to Oteslia, after all. Nearly nonstop.
 
——
 
When he arrived at Oteslia, there were people at the gates waiting to stop him. Or maybe just have a word, but the Oteslian contingent just shoved them aside.
“Adventurer Saliss! We received your application! May I ask, ah, how serious it is?”
“Hello! I’m naked. What application? Oh, that…well, I was thinking I’d like a dual citizenship. You know, when you’re adventuring, times get tough. And if you had two passports to wipe your ass with, that’s better than one, right?”
First Gardener Shaerrha Brasswing’s smile grew a bit waxy as Saliss sauntered out naked, but she nodded.
“Well, we would be delighted to let you fill the application out in peace—and I believe one of your friends offered to put you up, unless you have accommodations?”
“Mivifa! And her nag of a Pegasus! There’s my favorite Oteslian Named-rank adventurer who rides a Pegasus!”
“Saliss.”
Mivifa tried to smile, but she gave him a worried look—Saliss just kept walking, ignoring someone fighting now to get at him.
“Some peace and quiet is all I need. Oh, whoops—”
Saliss tossed a [Sticky Webs] potion and nailed a group of bystanders and a cluster of Drakes shouting his name. He waved a claw.
“Sorry, folks! Hey, nice city. Where’d you get it?”
 
——
 
He was joking all the way to Mivifa’s spacious home, and when he got there, Saliss accepted a small bundle of paperwork and thanked Shaerrha Brasswing.
“I think I can complete this tonight. Then it’s Saliss on the city! Lock up your valuables!”
Mivifa watched him with great concern. She knew Saliss, and something about him was…off. Oh, he was the same Drake, not much worse for wear despite surviving the Solstice battle that had been a lot hotter than she’d thought it would be.
He was slightly flushed, though, as he posed naked, and a few scrying mirrors had to manually censor his lower nether region. But she took that to be rage.
What did Pallass say to him? When he got inside, Mivifa’s best friend and mount, Feathi, gave the Drake a odd sniff, but didn’t instantly go to kick him. She snorted, and Saliss turned.
“I can stay out of your spines if you want, Mivifa, or find another place. It’s going to be annoying for a bit.”
“No, it’s fine…do you need anything?”
“I’ll just fill this out first. I might as well get it over with.”
It was only when he was sitting on a cushion, spreading the papers out and wearing spectacles, that Mivifa’s instincts finally honed in on what she had realized from the start. She gave Saliss a narrow-eyed stare, then traded a glance with Feathi.
Wait a second…Saliss sat there, filling out the forms with a steady hand, and Mivifa checked his neat penmanship. Then stared at Saliss.
Then she punched him.
“Ow! Hey, don’t make me use this!”
Saliss recoiled and waved a potion at her, but that was all the confirmation Mivifa needed. She folded her arms.
“You’re not Saliss. He’d dodge that. Who are you?”
For answer, ‘Saliss’ grinned and removed his spectacles. He held out a clawed hand.
“Mirn. Friend of his. I think we’ve met?”
“Oh, from the adventuring days—you were staying with Lyonette back with all that chaos! Ancestors, is this a prank? Did Saliss put you up to it?”
Mirn gave her an apologetic look with Saliss’ features as he shook his head. Feathi came over and sniffed him again; she must have sussed him out that way. Saliss’ more subdued antics, his handwriting, actually filling out forms rather than making someone else do it, and his poorer aim in hitting the civilians had all been clues.
“It’s real. He’s actually having me apply, which I suspect is fraud, but he filled out the other forms already, so I guess it’s good enough.”
“Dead gods, that’s a great disguise. If it wasn’t for you blushing in front of all the people and not being as quick as he was—I’d never guess! How’d you do it?”
Mirn grimaced as he rubbed at his slightly-red scales.
“I don’t know how he does the naked thing. I don’t think I fooled all the Eyes of Pallass, but I’m not sure how stupid the people he’s feuding with are. As for this? Here.”
He showed Mivifa two vials.
