The Watch Captain of the 8th Floor was currently Watch Captain Qissa, who knew Saliss of Lights, sadly. When Kel sent Saliss up to her office, she put aside her work and tried to smile.
“Saliss! Come in, have a seat. You’re not quitting Pallass, are you?”
“Oh, thanks, Qissa.”
He put his feet on her desk as he sat down, and she tried not to react. Don’t give him what he wants. She let her smile grow as Saliss sighed.
“High Command has all these things. They like to throw their tiny testicles around now that Chaldion’s a Yellat. So, how can you help me today?”
“How can I h—I am rather busy, Saliss. Not that I don’t have time for Pallass’ Named-rank adventurer.”
The anti-Saliss measures weren’t working. Saliss grinned at Qissa, then…took his feet off the desk, stood up, and began pacing around the room. He looked oddly stressed, but turned and smiled hugely.
“Hey, I was just here to greet my favorite Watch Captain! And you, Kel!”
He opened the door and blew a noisy kiss downstairs. Desk Sergeant Kel did not dignify that with a response, but Qissa saw Saliss rake a claw through his neck spines, hesitate, then lock the door. Then he cast a silencing charm.
“Okay, fine. Listen. The old man—that’s what I call Chaldion, use it if you like—isn’t in charge any more. Everyone knows that means a shakeup.”
Qissa nodded, hesitant. General Edellein was now 1st General, a big shakeup, and she’d been to meetings with him. She was just a Watch Captain though…she was hoping she might edge closer to Watch Commander with Venim gone, but why was Saliss here? The Drake paced another step and swung around.
“It’s not my job to rein—listen. If she threatened you, lock her up. Chaldion used to do it. House arrest. I’m not endorsing her because she’s crazy, and I’m saying that. But she’s dangerous. Okay? She’s…dangerous, and the old man’s not here to stop her anymore.”
“Uh…who?”
Did he mean Erin Solstice? Was she back? Qissa had just seen her on the scrying orb, so she doubted that, but she had no idea who Saliss meant. The Named-rank adventurer stared at her. He coughed into a claw after a second.
“Er…she didn’t come here and cause a fuss?”
“Not that I know of. Was this today? Yesterday?”
Saliss hesitated and raked at his neck spines.
“Maybe it was another Watch House? Or she didn’t get through the front desk. Onieva? Onieva Oliwing? Cousin of mine? Not that attractive? Dabbles in alchemy and steals my notes? Brings potions to auction? You know?”
Now that rang a bell. Onieva Oliwing? Qissa sort of recalled her. Yes, right. She delivered Saliss’ potions sometimes; everyone had to have a hanger-on in the family that was made rich by the principal family member. And she’d been at the Festival of Blades…
That was all Qissa knew of her, but the impression of a female Drake with a confident smile and a lot of sass—that probably ran in the family—made her shake her head.
“She wasn’t here. Why? Is she in trouble with the Watch?”
Again, Saliss hesitated, which went to show even he had problems with family.
“No…but listen. I’m taking her side on the thing.”
“What thing?”
Saliss glanced at the door and leaned over the desk.
“The thing. Obviously, I’m not joining her, and it’s her affair. But listen up. If she’s hurt getting into a brawl with the Watch, that happens. And frankly, the poor [Guards] are getting in trouble. She’s. Dangerous. Gold-rank. The old man taught her to fight. But she doesn’t die or get maimed, got it?”
Now, a ton of alarm bells were ringing in Qissa’s head. She didn’t like this. Saliss never, ever leaned on the Watch for personal favors, even when they arrested him.
He stood back as she sat up straight and put on her best, most official tone.
“Adventurer Saliss. If your cousin gets in trouble with the law, we will do our duties to the best of our ability. But I cannot do you favors due to her position. May I ask…which event you think she’ll be entangled in?”
Saliss paused, and his eyes flickered. He hesitated—then looked at the door.
“Watch raids. On bars?”
He said it like a question. Qissa, who had been jotting notes, underlining ‘Gold-rank’, paused. She glanced at Saliss, and he peered with his head to stare at what she was writing.
“Ring a bell?”
“I…believe I understand what you mean.”
“Good. What did I mean?”
Saliss gave Qissa a blank look, and her scales began to itch. Wait a second. Did that mean—she forced a smile at Saliss.
“Listen, Saliss. I like to think we have a decent relationship. You annoy us—but you’re a good Named-rank. If your cousin’s thinking of causing trouble with the Watch, I get family is tough. But we can’t do allowances.”
“I understand that, Watch Captain Qissa. But she had a word with me and—”
Saliss paced back and forth, and Qissa saw him turn.
“She’s family. Annoying family. Family who thinks she’s as good at alchemy as #1. But I can’t talk her down, and she told me people get killed.”
“They hardly get killed if we’re enforcing public order, Saliss. This is slightly—complex—”
She had orders not to discuss it. Did Saliss count? Now, Qissa really wished she had a moment to talk to other Watch Captains, get a pulse on this. Wait. Was Onieva…the Drake with the club? The one who’d trashed more watch patrols than…
This was huge. Saliss’ eyes were fixed on Qissa, though, and they seemed to draw her back.
“She doesn’t get hurt. Or die. And if those raids are half as deadly as I think they are—what are we talking about, Qissa? Kids getting stones hucked at them? I was in Oteslia when she called me up and shouted my earhole off. I had a word with Mivifa, and she says it’s ugly.”
Damn Oteslians. Qissa made her voice as stern as possible as a knot of complex emotions ran through her chest. It could get ugly if there were rumors—
“Listen, Saliss. As I said, I cannot promise you anything or give you favors. I am doing my job, and I give no one special treatment. Not you, not [Senators], no one.”
That was true, at least, if she didn’t have any orders. Qissa smiled at Saliss—
And he pulled her across the desk so fast her chair went flying. In one motion, they were snout to snout, and the crash of a chair hitting a wall must have alerted someone downstairs. There was a sound of alarm—but Saliss’ eyes were locked with Qissa’s.
She was frozen as Saliss grabbed her with a strength she didn’t know he had.
“Qissa. I am taking her side. Got it? I’m the jolly, silly [Alchemist] all the time. If you see me in front of a bar or whatever the stupid things are—turn around. Because I’ve just lost one family member, even if that’s probably an improvement for the world. I am not losing another, no matter what she decides she is.”
He let go, and Qissa sprawled on her desk as the door opened. Kel stared at Saliss and Qissa—and the Named-rank [Alchemist] turned.
“That’s all. Hey, Kel. Bye, Kel.”
“Saliss! What are y—”
The Drake checked Kel with his shoulder and knocked four more [Guards] bodily out of his way. He stormed out of the Watch House, and Qissa, gasping, croaked.
“Don’t go after him. Someone—get me every Watch Captain on duty. Tell them I want a meeting now. Don’t sound the alarm. But get someone with eyes on Saliss. Carefully.”
Rattled beyond belief, she grabbed a speaking stone and stared down at her smeared notes. If Saliss of Lights was making that kind of threat—he liked her, or so she assumed.
Onieva. She circled the name, then worriedly added Saliss’ name and underlined it five times. Then she wondered what Saliss was doing next.
It wasn’t like she enjoyed that part of her job—and if Saliss of Lights was taking a stand, she knew where she wasn’t going to be.
 
——
 
The plan was simple. Rose was nervous about it, but it was mostly on Saliss, who knew the city. His city, his people, his war.
If he thought it was best to move the needle slowly…he was willing to sacrifice himself for it. Not Onieva; in the Drake’s mind, the two were not one and the same.
“That’s so unhealthy. I need to figure out, like, proper therapy for him. And talk to Mirn and—”
There was so much to do. Yes, she was afraid, and yes, she was worried because Saliss had given her very frank warnings about what they might do to her, even in this ‘better’ day and age.
But she had volunteered. In fact, Rose had a pretty good idea of how she could be valuable. Not as the heroine of the tale.
That was Onieva. If anyone was the heroine, it was that sad, amazingly dangerous, hot—well, Rose wanted to see what else Saliss’ potions could do. She had ideas.
So no, Rose decided as she finished checking her clothing and walked downstairs. She couldn’t be Saliss or Erin or even Mirn.
But she could be Rose, that kid from Earth.
“Hey, Ishkr, thanks for getting the clothing so fast for me. You’re a gem.”
The Gnoll [Waiter] gave Rose a smile and, perhaps, a knowing look as he walked her downstairs.
“You need someone to walk you to Pallass?”
“Nah. I’m good. I…I’m meeting with Saliss, and I’ll be fine.”
Rose’s heart was beating faster than normal as she walked through the inn. Mrsha was whining about working ‘in the goldmines’ to a sympathetic Ser Dalimont as they had lunch. Something big was about to happen on television with Erin.
But Rose? Rose just walked past the few guests, and a couple very busily into each other looked up.
Lady Ieka Imarris and Fierre sometimes went back to the inn. Just for a change of pace, even if the beach garden was gone. Fierre kept complaining she could smell garlic, even if it wasn’t in the kitchens, and she was busy wiping at some lipstick on her neck.
Ieka caught her breath, looked around, and her eyes widened as she spotted Rose. Distractions or not, she rose to her feet.
“My word. Um. Young lady! Young lady! You there! Excuse me!”
Ieka pulled Fierre up. The partly de-oxygenated Vampire caught sight of Rose and—stared.
The duo saw Rose turn, and the young woman tugged on something.
“Yeah?”
Ieka glanced down at a file Fierre showed her.
“Miss—Rose, isn’t it? I love the attire. But maybe you should consider, ah, toning it down a bit? What a remarkable idea, though.”
Her eyes lingered on Rose, looking her up and down until she noticed Fierre doing the same, and the two elbowed each other. Rose?
Rose just checked herself in the reflection of a polished glass mug and smiled. It actually hadn’t been that hard for Ishkr to find what she wanted.
It was a white, long-sleeved, button-up shirt and simple, black slacks with a belt. Rose had added a formal coat and a striped tie, but she hadn’t bothered putting her arms in the sleeves of the jacket because it wasn’t that cold.
It was a look.
A very strange look, which the guests of The Wandering Inn didn’t parse as odd. At least, the Goblins and Antinium didn’t. Mrsha gave Rose a second glance as Lyonette came marching out and stared at Rose in a kind of abject horror.
Ieka’s glance was far more appreciative, but she read in Rose far, far more than just the attire. And one of the things that was reflected in her eyes was concern.
“I think it doesn’t suit you, Miss Rose. Why don’t I provide something from my wardrobe? Or I could have someone nip down to the [Clothier]. I should be delighted to help.”
Fierre hesitated, about to take umbrage with what Ieka had said—then she saw Ieka, a [Lady] who understood fashion and culture of the north, and nodded wordlessly.
But all Rose did was wink.
“Sorry, gals, but I have a meeting with a certain Drake in a second. It’s not always my style, actually. Or my look. But with respect to my sisters—”
She walked towards the door that Ishkr held open, and a very grumpy Liska who wanted a lunch break stopped in the corridor, then zoomed back to her station to be very helpful. Rose marched down the hallway as some people standing in line turned to stare at her with bewilderment, confusion, outrage, a total lack of interest—or that glance that couldn’t tear itself away.
Rose blew them a kiss and finished her thought. Target on your back. She knew what she was getting into, and still…
“—Someone’s got to show people how to dress well.”
 
——
 
After twenty minutes, Saliss stood on the 4th Floor, sauntering towards a young woman. For once, the [Alchemist] was looking visibly uncomfortable. In fact, he’d put pants on.
He was inspecting, well…a bar. An empty bar; the door was smashed in, and it looked like it had been vacated in a hurry. Saliss kicked over a mug by the entrance.
“Cheap mug. Hey…you. Is this the spot?”
“Adventurer Saliss! Yeah, totally! It’s me!”
“You!”
Saliss turned, and there she was, and in her way, she attracted more stares than he did. Of course, Rose was a Human, but she strutted along in her pants, waving at Drakes and Garuda and Dullahans and Gnolls who turned towards her, and at Saliss.
Completely fearless of the Watch or the city. Why shouldn’t she be? She was, after all, a young brat. Not from Pallass. Not even from this world.
He had to admit, she’d chosen her role well. Brave girl. Soon-to-be-dead girl, maybe.
Not if he could help it. But Saliss just pointed as if trying to remember her name.
“You! Person!”
Rose pouted, and Saliss gave her an unconvincing pair of fingerclaw guns.
“Yep! My 16th-favorite Human! Wait, the digits are in the wrong order. Anyways. Is this the spot?”
“I think so. I, like, totally don’t know the scene here. But want to check it out?”
The young woman stepped forwards eagerly, but Saliss, observed by at least a few people, be it random pedestrians or for other reasons, including him exploding his shop or just being Saliss of Lights, hesitated. He lowered his voice.
“Look, Rose. Maybe let’s do this later? I don’t actually have to know what she’s up to. Onieva’s crazy.”
“What? She’s not. Don’t be a bigot.”
“Me? Me?”
Saliss looked outraged. He hesitated again at the door.
“—Okay, fine. I have a pretty strong stomach, and I’ve seen that kind of thing in Nerrhavia’s Fallen. How much disinfectant do I need?”
“They’re probably just drinking, Saliss. Listen, just be chill. Can you be chill?”
“I’m totally chill. Here, I have a Frost Potion right here!”
Saliss huffed. They began to inspect the bar, and he shoved his claws in his pockets, rolling his shoulders.
Both he and Rose spoke, like actors on a stage. Clear, carrying voice, framed so they were visible to the crowd. Saliss was the unwilling one, but the one who listened. Rose was the knower, the outsider…
It was a team effort that put both in danger, but not as much danger. Rose had more, and Saliss?
