Saliss was relieved. It was almost fun making a show of inspecting the Turnscale bar as if he knew ‘something’ inappropriate occurred here. Then gesturing to Rose.
“It’s just not something I fussed about.”
“Well, people are going to get hurt. Your cousin included. Or killed.”
Saliss took a breath. He lingered in the doorway and stared at the winter skies, clearing for the new year.
“…Well. That’s why I’m here. We can’t have dead people for just—being weird. Or they’d have killed me a long time ago. Okay, explain away, Rose. Breath mint?”
He offered her something, and the two began to talk. Rose kept giving Saliss earnest sideways glances, and he was shaking his head in bewilderment—until she brought up the deaths, in which case he was, well, Saliss of Lights.
Offended. Shocked for the basic decency which had been violated. Angry on behalf of a people he, Saliss, wanted to understand.
He could do anger. And Rose? She stood like Magnolia Reinhart had once stood on the walls. Not nearly as well, certainly without as much aplomb or gravitas—but with a style that caught the eye. Something so odd, so iconic, that it made you feel like the winds were shifting.
Something new.
Theatre kid. She did pretty well despite having zero Skills, so he supposed she was playing her role for all she was worth. As for him?
Saliss of Lights was the star role, and it had swept the Walled Cities for decades. Hold your applause, please…the act was just getting started, and it was the role of a lifetime.
Saliss felt light. Light and relaxed…he ended up shaking his head and having to get back to work, and Rose chased after him before giving up.
She’d get him back here another time. Or after someone got hurt. There was only one part of the moment that went off-script.
“Saliss! Saliss, wait, I have something to show you! Guess who levelled last night!”
“Sweet! I knew [Layabout] or [Useless Eater] was a viable class! Lay it on me, kid.”
Saliss turned, and Rose looked genuinely hurt. But then she pulled something out, and Saliss froze and fell over as he pulled off his pants. He stared at something she held in front of him, fluttering in the breeze.
The young woman’s eyes were alight as she looked at him, and oh, he didn’t fear most of them. They came from another world with dangerous weapons, but so was he. Even Erin he didn’t fear, but understand. But her?
“I drew a sketch of your cousin. She’s so pretty!”
“She’s…okay. Nice sketch.”
It was pretty decently done. Nothing to write home about. But Rose had drawn a Drake, claw tip to her mouth, rose pink and cobalt blue, winking at the viewer. She looked at Saliss.
“Well, I got a good look at her.”
His eyes roamed upwards, and Saliss met Rose’s eyes. The Named-rank adventurer whispered.
“Fancy that. Mind if I snag it? Onieva will just add it to her ego.”
Those eyes crinkled up, and she put it in his claw, and he made a show of crumpling it up. But then he got up, tossed his pants over the floor’s edge—and stood there for a second.
Damn levels. Now you had Earthers with the eyes of Dragons.
He felt like that should have been a Level 50 Skill.
 
——
 
Saliss stomped up to his workshop and, as he passed into the rebuilt section of the lab, yawned. He got forty winks, woke up in the darkness, gnawed on some food delivered to him by the inn, and got to work.
Twenty-eight minutes later, he swiftly bottled a glowing red vial of liquid into a larger flask and began to add reactants, only pausing to wipe at his sweaty brow then. Saliss stared at the liquid, and his mind was clear.
“This is the most dangerous weapon of war I’ve ever made.”
Saliss put the bottle down, then finally got some sleep.
 
——
 
In the inn, an old Drake mumbled something as he stared at the chessboard. Chaldion Oliwing’s mouth was dry, but he got the word out after a few tries.
“…mate. Checkmate.”
His claw trembled as he stared at a piece on the board. A little white paw grabbed it, and Mrsha wrote indignantly.
Chaldion, you can’t say that until you win! Okay, best out of forty-five! Here comes my new [Strategist] class!
She sat down as Apista buzzed over to give her tips. One of these days, Mrsha would win. The old [Strategist] stared at the pieces on the board.
“Checkmate.”
 
——
 
For Rose—
 
[Troublemaker Class obtained!]
[Troublemaker Level 4!]
[Skill – Eyes of True Self obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Charisma obtained!]
[Skill – Allied Distress Call obtained!]
 
And for Saliss, the days got more interesting.
 
[Alchemiaform Oldblood, Grand Alchemist of War Level 56!]
[Skill – Seithore Basic Handling obtained!]
