The person who should have pulled Saliss aside for a quick chat in the headquarters—and given him a refill of coffee—was Esor. They’d do it in Esor’s office, and the Garuda would be polite, but Saliss would see if Chaldion’s chosen replacement was as good as Chaldion thought he was. They’d hash things out; Saliss would probably try to prank Esor, and it’d be done quick.
Instead, they sent a Drake that Saliss had never met into the room. He strode in with a bang of the door opening, saw Saliss in the desk, and did a double-take.
“Corporal Saliss, stand! Salute!”
The Drake was a [Major], Saliss bet. One look at a badge on his armor told Saliss who and why this was happening.
4th Army. Must be Edellein’s. That was now 1st Army’s General Edellein, and maybe he was the one sitting to the left. Or maybe he thought this meeting didn’t matter.
“You poor bastard. Replacing Duln with Edellein was fine. But you really should have kept Esor because he’d tell you this was a stupid idea.”
As far as Saliss knew, Esor hadn’t been fired; he’d just failed to be promoted. The fact that the Drake [Major] was here meant he was part of High Command and had a lot of authority.
The fact that he was here, in this room, meant he was stupid as bricks or just didn’t know Saliss. The Drake’s scales prickled.
Here we go. Listen, it’s not too late to stop all this. You know me. You’ve read my files, guys. And statistically, it’s guys since, Shirka aside, Pallass has been sort of a boy’s club. You think you need to rein in Pallass’ biggest ‘rogue’ asset since the old man’s dead. Well…let me tell you, this is not the way to do it. 
He didn’t rise. Corporal Saliss was a kid; they must have dug to get his old rank. The [Major] did that stupid double-take when his giving an order failed to elicit a response. Then he strode over, rested his claws on the table, and barked as he stared Saliss in the eyes.
“You’re still part of the army, soldier. Adventurer or not. High Command’s tasked me with getting you up to speed on the new protocols, and that includes getting an explanation for what happened two hours ago.”
“Potion go boom. Who’re you?”
“Major Howkless. Your new liaison.”
“Hey, I know you. Didn’t you take out two Wyverns in battle personally a few months ago? Solo, I heard. Saved a bunch of [Soldiers]’ lives.”
Howkless paused and preened a second.
“I can see we know each other.”
“Yeah. I took out like a hundred. I stopped counting after the first minute. 4th Army can’t even ambush a pack of Wyverns. Tell Edellein over there to come in and deal with me himself.”
Howkless had such a stupid look on his face. Saliss closed his eyes for a bit as the [Major] began bawling insults.
Listen, guys. Just activate the mind wiper, and it probably won’t result in me accidentally destroying a floor of Pallass. Or, seriously, get Esor.
He was thinking as hard as he could to High Command, who was observing the suffering of Major Howkless…and possibly reading Saliss’ thoughts at this very moment.
Hello, I am Saliss of Lights. You know me. Named-rank adventurer of Pallass. [Alchemist] extraordinaire. Naked nuisance. Turnscale. My file lists me as Pallass’ problem because I kill things really well. I am the only Named-rank you have complete ‘control’ over, and I’m a continent-wide military asset. The old man’s had me in check, and now you need to reassert control.
This is not how you do it.
Saliss wasn’t actually certain they had a mind-reading spell or class. He knew they’d tried, not because he’d ever found the notes on any experiments. Just because he knew Pallass. It was his habit to pretend they were reading his mind every time he came in here.
It wasn’t like he had any secrets from them. Well, a few, but the annoying thing was that having a Walled City with a literal spy group—the Eyes of Pallass, probably the best of the Walled Cities at surveillance—was that they found stuff out.
Turnscale? The old man had figured that out ages ago. Mirn? Saliss’ contacts, friends, investments, and whatnot? They probably had a file on where Saliss had left his toothbrush that one time and never found it.
Other people, like Erin, would have significant problems with this kind of thing. Saliss had grown up with it. Never really made his peace, but he was here. He could have quit.
This is why I’m still here. Okay, show me what you’ve got.
“—sympathy for the [Grand Strategist]’s situation. Pallass is shaken, which is why we’re making sure the gears of the city are all working. We’re aware you like to play games, and I’ve studied your files.”
“Amazing. You can read.”
The [Major] was still talking. Saliss had tuned him out. He stared as the mouth kept moving, angrily, and thought to himself.
What’s he going to say? Blah, blah, work together, blah blah, sorry your grandfather’s dead but we’re in charge now, blah, blah, now here’s the time for threats.
He knew it was coming. High Command had one thing they could pull on him, and Saliss’ hopes that Esor would pull him aside and do something smart were dashed. Ah, well. The [Alchemist] closed his eyes.
There was some vicarious delight in this, too. He could tell the [Major] was trying to use a Skill on him. Probably something like [Stand to Attention] or [Follow my Command, Worm]!
Level differences were nice. Saliss sat there, and it was not the real him they saw. He wondered if they even wrote down the right thing in their nice little report on all his problems or if they said he was a delusional Turnscale that needed to be humored to keep him running right.
I should go after this. But the inn and seith…
Saliss never thought about relaxing. Relaxing was for Onieva. Onieva could go to a play or just sit and waste time. Saliss? Saliss thought of the New Lands. Of even going to find Erin, though she’d been found, but going out and doing what needed to be done. For the Walled Cities. For Drakes. Even if what they thought they wanted was something else.
In his way, he was Pallass’ most loyal soldier because no one had to bark orders at him. If he had spare time?
I really wish I’d gone to see that new play the Players of Celum were putting on. Esor would probably give me tickets.
Saliss actually really liked the [Actors] and the stage. He’d never said as much, but he’d fancied that he could have actually put on a really good performance if he’d put his mind to it. He never would ask, of course, because he had a reputation to maintain.
And also because being a Player of Celum would require him to not already have a role. He was very good at his role. So, as the [Major] got to the threats, Saliss sat up in his chair and gave the stage a smile.
Now presenting for the 33rd year running: 15 Minutes of Sass, by Saliss Oliwing!
Please clap.
 
——
 
The conversation in the room was never pleasant. It had started bad the moment that Saliss had been told to go here, and it had devolved as the [Major] ordered Saliss to stand up, speak with respect, open his eyes, and realized he had to assert some kind of authority or fail entirely. So he pulled out his only card.
“We’re aware the Cyclops gave you special license to act, Adventurer Saliss. Favors. He covered up your indiscretions. Which is entirely in keeping with the services a Named-rank performs for the City of Invention. You know it, I know it. There’s a reason you can be so confident here.”
Saliss had his feet up on the desk, and the [Major] was making the mistake of not staring at his naked…ness. He wasn’t used to Saliss. People who talked to Saliss actually forgot he was naked, sometimes. Clothing was just a thing people thought you had to wear. It helped with bugs and sunburn. Nothing else.
“Confident? Me? I’m terrified.”
“Hah.”
“No, seriously. Honest-to-Ancestors. Read my vitals with the truth spells. Here, I’ll take off my ring. Terror. I, Saliss, am afraid.”
The [Major] actually did a double-take, and Howkless inspected something—he must have had some Skill that let him monitor an information feed. His eyes flickered, and he tried to take a reassuring tone.
“—The Grand Strategist is going to be well-cared after. And believe me, we intend to restore Pallass’ operations to full efficiency within the week, Saliss.”
The [Alchemist] stared up at the [Major] with big, earnest eyes.
“Terrifying. You actually think you can replace Chaldion and that you’re not already making a huge mistake. Whew. This is the scariest thing I’ve seen all year.”
He patted his heart, put his ring back on, and Howkless snapped.
“Alright. I can see you’re having fun.”
“Me? Not at all. Talking to a two-copper [Major] is a waste of my time. Get to the threats.”
Saliss put his head back and stared at the ceiling. Off-kilter, Major Howkless hesitated, but he believed he had all the cards.
“Fine, you want to do this? You are taking the position you are invincible due to your level and status in Pallass. You and I both know you’re not. I’ve read the ‘special disbursements’ you’ve been accorded. Orders to the Watch. Orders to [Healers], to our Eyes of Pallass—countless Drake hours spent avoiding certain illicit bars and gatherings, reversing sentences, covering up crimes.”
“Only in your books, Major. It’s not a crime to be a Turnscale.”
They came to it faster than Saliss thought. The word itself made Howkless hesitate. Ah, is that it? Saliss peeked at the one person in the hidden room who’d remained this entire time. On the left. Maybe they were just uncomfortable with even meeting someone who would use the word openly.
“Indecency and depraved acts are a crime.”
“True. Article 1 of Law #8. Original Pallassian charter law. You could also cite disruptive acts, which are Article 5, or Article 2, Law #44, ‘Any actions by a Citizen or Individuals present within the City of Invention’s aegis that are likely to disrupt the morale and order of the city.’”
Saliss quoted it by heart. He knew the laws and doubted Howkless did. The [Major] just grunted.
“See?”
“I don’t see ‘Turnscale’ mentioned. But go ahead with the next part. You think you’re the first to try this?”
Saliss waved a claw like someone giving the [Major] a signal, and the fellow did his best.
“We have lists.”
“Oh no! They have lists!”
Saliss clapped his claws to his face. He fell out of his chair and lay there, upside down, tail flopping over his face. Howkless tried to tower over him, and it was really hard to do.
“Refuse to cooperate and give me any more backtalk and we can see how funny you are with your friends in prison. Should I begin with anyone in particular? What about ‘[Bartender]’ Mirn? I only need to send a single [Message]. On your feet. Now.”
Saliss lay there, and a loud sigh was all Howkless heard. Howkless waited, counting down from ten in his head. At ‘zero’, he barked.
“Very well, we can talk tomorrow and see how you feel then.”
 
—-
 
The Drake spun on his heel, but a voice spoke as Howkless was half out the door.
“You really are a sacrificial lamb sent to the slaughter. Funny. I know Lizardfolk do sacrifices, but that’s such a funny term I heard from Kevin one time. I copied it. You don’t even know about Kevin, do you?”
Howkless turned. Saliss was on his feet. He brushed the origami off the desk, and Howkless suppressed a tight smile.
“I can see—”
“Sit down, Major.”
“You aren’t giving the—”
“Sit down, Major. And shut up.”
Howkless hesitated and strode into the room. He didn’t sit down, though he felt an uncanny powerful presence trying to make him sit. Impossible. I outrank him. But he is Chaldion’s grandson…
There might have been something in the military rankings giving Saliss authority over his class. Howkless would note it in his report to High Command. The [Major] held his ground, though; he knew some of them would be watching.
So did Saliss. The Drake’s eyes flicked across the room, and he spoke.
“He doesn’t know about Kevin. You sent me a Kevin-less idiot? Seriously?”
Who the hells was Kevin, and why did it matter? Howkless felt like this was actually a secret, and he tried not to sweat.
“We are discussing—”
“Earth! Okay, now you’re part of the top top-command—even Innia knows about them. She outranks you.”
Saliss shouted the word, and Howkless’ earpiece buzzed.
“Keep him focused, Major.”
The [Major] did his best. Then he remembered that ‘Innia’ was the [Receptionist] who admitted people. Saliss gave Howkless a smile.
“Don’t thank me. Now, keep going with the threats.”
Howkless hesitated, then forced a smile.
“I don’t think I need to. You’re not willing to sacrifice your friend’s wellbeing.”
Saliss tasted the word.
“Wellbeing. That’s a funny word for a group of people who’re constantly afraid of being raided by the Watch for having a drink or putting on some nice clothes and going out. The old man reduced pressure on them. Now we’re back to lockups.”
“Not if you cooperate.”
“Oh! So they’re going to be left alone for the rest of their lives? I can work with that.”
Saliss brightened up, and Howkless’ earpiece buzzed again. He spoke carefully.
“That depends on how cooperative you are. This attitude—”
“Right, that’s what I thought. So you decided going the other way is the smart move. As in—threats. Your first threat is to lock Mirn up. Was that with a public charge of being a Turnscale or not? Because you don’t come back from that one.”
Saliss had sat himself back down at the table. He looked at Howkless, and the [Major] hadn’t thought of either.
“That depends on—”
“You’re dumber than the Wyvern Lord that attacked Pallass, Major Howkless. And High Command has less intelligence than a hatchling staring at a shiny gold coin. The fact that Esor isn’t here, that someone made Edellein 1st General—no, wait, that one’s fine. The fact that he’s actually giving orders and the fact that no one’s promoted Caoraz or tried to hire Olesm shows how stupid you all are. Chaldion gave explicit orders, and you can’t even follow them. You don’t even know how to read his orders right.”
Howkless reddened. They could hear Saliss! He barked back.
“For that, your friend’s cooling his heels in lockup!”
“As a Turnscale or for a random charge? What’s the reason?”
“We don’t need one. We have evidence—”
Saliss exhaled. He held up a claw.
“Okay. Let me spell it out for you. Because I need to, apparently. What reason do you have for locking Mirn up the moment you leave this room? I have no doubt a [Guard] can do the arrest. Mirn won’t even fight. Probably. Depending on the reason.”
