“Saliss is a clown. Saliss is the naked Drake of Pallass. It’s easy to call Saliss literally mad, a crazy Drake. Zel? Zel could do it. Or Sserys. He got me. I thought I was done, but he pitched it to me years ago. Not telling me to take off my clothes, but—was that always in his plan? Making it so that even if I said something, he could save my reputation? What’s being a Turnscale if you’re already Saliss?”
The [Alchemist] began to giggle. Then broke off. Rose’s voice was quiet, and now she seemed to get it.
“Oh. Oh, Saliss…how bad was he? Chaldion?”
“Better than his predecessor. But also better at checkmating me. I really did think…it’s better in other parts of the world. Not that much better, sometimes. Go away, Rose. Go join the Gnolls. Go to Drath or even the Iron Vanguard. In their way, it’ll be easier. Go to Khelt. Don’t do this. You’ll end up like me or Mirn, bashing your head against a wall. And they built these cities to last.”
The conversation had gone better than he could have hoped. And still—when Rose got up to give him a hand and pull him up, she was all vim and vigor.
“So you’ll let me talk to Mirn? Introduce me to a Turnscale bar? I could help set up one here and get a movement—”
Saliss took her claw, yanked Rose down as he rose, and then dragged her up and slammed her onto the desk. It was the third time he’d bodily moved someone today.
He was in a bad mood. Her eyes went round as the breath left her lungs, and Saliss heard a crunch as she broke the inkpot.
“That has to hurt. But let me tell you what hurts. What hurts is having a spiked club rake across your face, you little brat. You know why they put spikes in? So they can pick you out of a lineup even if you get away. The Watch puts ink on the spikes so, even if you heal, the ink gets trapped under your scales. The only way to stop that from showing up is by removing the ink by cutting out the scales and flesh around each puncture before you get to use a potion.”
“S-Saliss. I know they’re bad. I just want to—”
“You can’t solve this, Rose. You can’t fix it. Look at you, you kid from another world. You think it’s the same? Humans? Drakes? Turnscales don’t fit into Drake society. Drakes loving Drakes of the same gender is bad enough. It messes with our laws, our culture—Drakes like me are the worst. We’re freaks. Worse than Scorchlings who should be blessed. We want to mess with our place in the world, a place the Ancestors gave us. I’m a Drake perverting my nature by playing with my form with alchemy—and I can at least trick people constantly.”
Rose’s voice was weak; she could barely breathe, but somehow she still spoke to his face.
“You’re not tricking anyone. Don’t say that. You’re a woman—”
Saliss’ claws tightened, and Rose lost what air she had left as he leaned on her chest.
“See that? That’s why you’re a dead woman. I should tie you up and send you on a horse back to Adetr. You don’t get it, Rose. This isn’t Erin’s Goblins. No, wait, it is. She’s chosen to change this world, to make her stand, and you know what they did? They reached for the Tier 7 spells. She won’t win her war. She’ll move her little white flag forwards one step. And then maybe someone will carry it forwards for her and die pushing it, or maybe they’ll wipe out every Goblin they can, like they do after Goblin Kings arise. This is a war.”
“I know!”
He let go of her, disgusted. She had such earnest eyes—Saliss snatched his notes out of the growing ink puddle as Rose coughed and lay there.
“You don’t know Creler shit. You think you’re ready for the war. You’re a [Rookie Soldier] coming to me to enlist. You haven’t seen what they’ll do to you.”
“So teach me. You and Mirn can. I’m willing to fight, to get hurt—this matters, Saliss. It matters like nothing else to me.”
Rose scrambled up. She spread her hands.
“I like the Gnolls. I love them. But I’m not Inkar. When Adetr and I talked, I couldn’t sleep when I heard about Turnscales. I knew I had to return and try.”
“Yeah? Maybe I don’t want you on my conscience. Did you ever think about that? Maybe you’ll get Mirn killed.”
“If you give me a chance—”
The Drake went storming across the room, and this time Rose flinched away, but Saliss stopped, eyes roaming the dark basement. To the door. He could see it in his mind, a thousand times, a thousand different ways, a boot or hand or battering ram going through—a flash of light from an explosion—
“Mirn and I are the last two alive. Do you think we were the only two? I’ve had dozens of friends, Turnscales, high-level ones, over my life. The last one was Alcasi, and she’s been dead and buried for six years. You want to show Turnscales to the world?”
“The—there were riots. When the police got down on us, at one point, it was too much. We fought back and marched and won, Saliss. There are so many of us across the world. If we lit a spark—”
Saliss claw jabbed Rose in the cheek, and she recoiled.
“If we lit a spark, they’d pour molten rock on us. We lit a fire. Hundreds! Do you know what that idiot, Tesy, is part of? He’s part of my old movement, and I joined that movement when I was a kid. It’s been around for ages, for different names and for different causes. Sellme wasn’t the first. But Sellme made the mistake of actually doing damage to a Walled City. For him, it was Salazsar. For us? Manus.”
His eyes reflected the flickering lamp light. Rose stared at Saliss’ face, and the ardor of passion drained from her.
“What did they—?”
The Drake realized he was leaning over her and stopped. What am I doing? He went to the stairs, sat down, and Rose sat at his desk, feeling at the ink on her clothing. Saliss spoke, too tired to stand.
“The Watch used to be bad in Pallass. Bad in Manus. The thing about Turnscales is that…it’s different, Rose. Gnolls have always not really cared about us. Back when I was a kid, you’d run off to a tribe. These days, you move to Oteslia, or it’s okay enough in the Walled Cities, most times. You move to a Walled City or a good city like Marwsh where there are good bars and hideouts. But I heard from older Turnscales you left and joined a tribe.”
“Whoa. And the Gnolls let you in?”
Saliss shrugged.
“A lot of people never made it. The Gnolls will let you prove your worth. But guess what the Drake cities thought? They thought ‘these are traitors!’ Better hang them as deserters. Manus used to have a policy. If you got found out as a Turnscale, they didn’t brand you, sell you to Roshal, or let a mob exile or beat you to death like the real good old days. Instead, they enlisted you. You get to be a [Soldier]. They put you on the front lines, and if you die, that’s that. If you live, guess who’s in the army for life?”
“God. I mean—”
Rose covered her face, and Saliss looked around for a puffer. He lit it, wishing it didn’t remind him of the old man or the old days, laughing with a crew of friends. Now it was just Mirn, and the ass refused to even smoke as much. Saliss turned and saw a Drake with bright yellow scales to his left, a Gnoll who’d shaved her hair so she had a strip that stood up, an Oldblood Drake tying ‘her’ wings back so no one would recognize her…
A team.
“We started a fight with Manus. With Pallass. And we got the bastards. We protested, we got [Soldiers] who were signed up for death to run off, and when the Walled Cities tried going after tribes, we even fought them. You know what Manus did? They got tired of sending their Watch to fight, so they sent [Soldiers]. City of War. Loves that. When we beat their [Soldiers] down, they sent their crack teams. Then they lost those, and they shrugged. Manus let us win. Then they poisoned an entire block with us in it.”
“They what?”
Saliss could still smell it. Something sweet in the air as he looked up and reached for a potion. Went for an alchemy set. Too late. He should have learned how to control the air long before that, but he’d been just a kid who knew how to melt Adamantium.
Not how to conjure a poison cloud—or disperse it. All he had was a single Bottle of Air—standard adventurer’s kit. One bottle for a desperate few to share. Not enough for an entire room full of people.
In his soul, Saliss’ stained soul, he remembered that. Then the first, and only, time he had agreed to go to war between the Walled Cities, for their stupid pride and battles. He watched acid raining from the skies and molten fire and the old man looking at him, for the first time ever, with horror.
And pride. No, it never made him feel better. Saliss was glad it was he, Saliss, who had all that in him.
Onieva should be better.
Rose was silent, and when he looked up, she had tears in her eyes. Saliss shook his head.
“And that’s why you’re useless. Look at you. Come back when you’re Level 50 and you have twenty people with you, ready to die, and we’ll talk, kid. Go get Adetr on your side, and we’ll send Drakes back to the tribes. And maybe when I’m old and gray, you and I will find out they’ve stopped raiding bars every week and it’s down to a month. That’s what we can do, but I don’t want you here.”
“I’m not going. I’ll sign up, Saliss. I will. You—you expect me to hear that and turn away? Really? That means I have to help even more. 1000%!”
Damn kids. Saliss’ glare didn’t match his heart. His eyes flared, but he was just tired. He shook his head.
“Rose. If you think you can help, and I admit, being from another world is novel—you can try. But you know what I bet?”
He lit the cigar and blew on it. A careful stream of smoke, blue and wispy.
“…I bet the people in your world, the ones still fighting, would say exactly what I’m telling you. This isn’t a fairytale. There’s no Saliss of Lights for us, no Erin Solstice. Turnscales? We’re here on the backs of the dead and the dying and decades of lost dreams.”
Do you want to join us? The Drake looked at Rose—and she beheld him more fully than any other Earther. All the scars masked, ironically, by his nudity. All the shattered hopes and failed attempts to pull them forwards. The halfway compromises, the small victories by working with the old man and selling his soul because it didn’t matter if it was him…Onieva was the only real one.
Rose gave Saliss a tremulous smile, then. And that damn Earther, that stupid kid, bent forwards.
“Well, you know what, Saliss? Now you do sound old. I believe we can do it before we die.”
Her eyes shone with the kind of energy he remembered he’d once had. The Turnscale Drake looked up and resisted the urge to slap Rose across the face. Because what would be the point? Extinguishing the one damn good thing about her? He did feel old.
I dislike your faith and belief and certainty. But all Saliss did was whisper.
“I am Saliss of Lights. I get people killed, Rose. I’ll throw you out of the inn. Kick you around Pallass. If you think you can stick around after that, I guess I can’t get rid of you. But remember—Saliss of Lights gets everyone killed, like Erin Solstice. Onieva’s someone else entirely. Even for you, my case is different. We’re different people.”
“Says you. I wish I could…”
Rose did something with her fingers, making a square out of them, and staring at Saliss through them, like someone using a camera to take a picture.
“I wish I could see her. You’re not the first person I’ve met who’s trans, Saliss. Someone needs to tell you you’re not alone. That all this is—normal. Harder than anything, but you’re not a freak or accident or wrong. Ask me on a truth spell.”
Great, now she was acting like he needed moral support. And now he had so many questions about the people she’d met and how Earth did things. Saliss grunted as he put down his cigar.
“I’ll introduce you to her someday. There’s complications lately. You might like her. She’s happier.”
That was all Saliss managed. He felt very, very fragile, but Rose was just standing there. And as Saliss looked up, he thought of how things were. And how they would not change with the new High Command.
Then there was Rose.
No matter how he tried to fit her into a Turnscale bar or the High Command reasserting order…she didn’t fit. Like a piece from another world, Rose, Erin Solstice, and everyone else…there was no fitting her into the same machinery that made Pallass run, was there?
It will break the mechanism or she’ll have to die. Like so many others have. But how many Roses are there? What if she lives?
Slowly, ever-so-slowly, Saliss sat up and rubbed at his face. An idea was blossoming in his mind. Something…that rang with finality. Something that felt like an ending of days, bittersweet and dreadful.
“Tell me more, Rose. Tell me more of your ridiculous stories. Tell me how it started and how they failed. Then shut up and only speak to Mirn and me. Or I will toss you off the walls or polymorph your mouth off. I can do that.”
“Does that mean you’re not getting rid of me? Not that you can. Obviously. You need my help!”
Rose caught her breath, and Saliss rolled his eyes.
“Oh, please. I could use a guiding light. But this is a matter for Turnscales, not Earthers.”
He reached forwards and poked her in the stomach.
“You’re backup.”
Then his eyes lit up as he had one final idea, and Saliss smiled. If, tomorrow, Saliss of Lights walked into the middle of Wistram News Network and spoke his piece, the world might not change.
…But he was an [Alchemist], and big reactions started small. Saliss’ eyes flickered as he saw something. A catalyst. And Rose?
She looked down, and he wondered what she saw.
 
——
 
Saliss of Lights returned to Pallass the next day via pegasus. The nerves of the cityfolk were too high; High Command had him fly back so they could talk, civilly, about things.
Saliss actually did attend another meeting and was fairly conciliatory himself, if in an annoying way. They ended up rehashing a reprieve on any drastic actions, and they assigned a certain Garuda to him as opposed to a [Major].
However, it was Esor who watched Saliss closely, and the Named-rank adventurer did not immediately go to Mirn or back to Liscor when all was said and done. Instead, he checked the position of the sun and stepped over to the stairs and went for a walk.
Saliss ended up at a Watch House, of all places, and strode in. He had business in about twenty minutes, but it wouldn’t take too long.
He seemed visibly uncomfortable, for once, and kept humming at the desk as the Desk Sergeant, Kel, stared at him.
“Can I help you, Adventurer Saliss?”
“Oh, no. I mean, yes. Is Watch Captain Qissa present? I need a quick word of harassment. But if you’re volunteering…”
