“Oh, fascinating.” The smile vanished from their master’s face, replaced by an expression of deep interest. “Which one? Tell me more.”

“It’s Gluttony,” said A. “She’s a beastwoman of the house cat tribe, and she’s very strong.”

“We think she can help us clear the Archmage’s Legacy,” said B.

“Ah, this must be the mysterious Princess Yona.”

“You’ve heard of her?” asked A in surprise.

“Princess?” asked B.

“Yes, Arianne was telling me about her at the last meeting,” said their master. “I had not heard that you two were involved though. Very interesting. Tell me everything. I want more juicy gossip for the next meeting.”

“Well…” started A.

The twins traded off talking as they went through the entire journey with Yona, telling their master everything they had learned and all the things that had happened. Their master was very interested, though in completely different things than Pike was. She only nodded when she heard that Yona could eat the twins’ spells, but asked multiple questions about how she liked her ears scratched. By the end, the smile had returned to her face, this time more eager than joyful.

“Make sure you befriend her,” she said. “I want to meet her eventually.”

“Yes, Master,” said the twins.

“And it sounds like she’ll be perfect for the Archmage’s Legacy. I’m super excited to see what’s in there, so make sure you show me when you’re done.”

“Yes, Master.”

“And stop taking everything I say so seriously. You sound like slaves.”

“We are deeply sorry, Master. Please don’t punish us.”

“Haha, very funny. Anyway, it sounds like you two are gonna have fun soon. Keep me updated! I always love hearing what you’re up to.”

“Yes, Master.”

“Is there anything else you wanted to talk about?”

“No, Master.”

“Then it’s my turn now. Time to show you what I’ve been working on!”

Four hours later, the twins left the vault to head to the meeting with Yona and the others.

Chad lived alone. His house was just outside the Riverfork city walls on a large piece of private land. He had built his house himself, as well as all the furniture inside, and whenever he had free time, he was always making improvements and additions to it. After two years of constant work, its floor plan would likely give an architect a heart attack, but to Chad, it was perfect. Almost.

In his workshop, he carved away at a plank, making sure it was perfect down to the micrometer so that it would join seamlessly with the rest. With every sliver of wood he carved off, he said a single word to himself.

Idiot!

Chad had never been good with words. In almost two weeks of travelling with Lauren, he had hardly said any to her. After how they parted ways all those months ago, he meant to say more. His words had clearly hurt her, and he felt bad. He wanted to apologize and make things right. Yet despite having plenty of opportunities to speak, just the two of them, for some reason, the words never came out. Now, they were back apart, and after lunch, their extended reunion would end, and they would go back to living their separate lives, possibly never seeing each other again.

I need to say something, he told himself.

This lunch meeting might be the last time they ever spoke. Lauren had been planning to move away for a while, even going so far as to search for buyers for her house, and while Chad wanted to do the same, he was more hesitant about it. He had no intention of selling his property, so he had a bit less work to do than her, but he still needed to prepare his house to be vacant for a while, and he had not even started. More than likely, he would end up waiting until after Lauren left, and only then would he get serious about moving. After she had time to settle in and maybe even find a new Party.

No! he told himself. You’re going to say something today. At least talk to her before you make a decision like that.

But what if she hates me? he replied to himself. She didn’t say anything to me either. She was clearly avoiding me. It’s better to just go our separate ways.

He went back and forth with himself as he worked on his project, getting so lost in thought that he almost didn’t notice the time passing. It was only thanks to Timer Skill that Lauren had taught him in a Dungeon a year prior that he was jolted from his work. He barely had time to take a quick shower to get the sawdust out of his hair before he left, heading back into the city.

Fortunately, all that time he spent thinking was enough to come to a decision. A small one, but it was better than nothing.

I am going to talk to her after this lunch thing. No chickening out. No letting her walk away without a word. I’m going to apologize.

The closer he got, the more nervous he got, but he had resolved himself. Nothing was going to stop him. Definitely not his own cowardice.

As he got closer to the meeting place though, something else began to distract him: his stomach. It had been growling nonstop the entire journey, which was confusing. It was lunchtime, but he was usually only this hungry when he forgot to eat breakfast, and he definitely remembered eating breakfast. It was very strange.
