Everything felt weird. Not painful but weird. A wiggle of the toes and a shaking of fingers revealed she had approximately the same number of appendages. They were just hard to move as if she’d been sleeping too deeply. Her body didn’t really fit. It felt very bright as well despite the draw curtain she could spot on her left.

//Your Grace.

Solfis unfolded from a corner of the bare stone room she found herself in. He looked normal according to genocidal golem standards. She could feel the mana coursing through his circuits. That was normal.

“It worked, I think?”

Her voice felt normal if a little dry and a little high-pitched. She wanted water.

//Yes.

//You have been asleep for six days.

//I will fetch Abenezigel.

//Please be patient.

“Yeah, okay.”

Viv looked at her exposed arm. The skin was normal. A bit pale because it was winter but normal. She could feel her hair brushing against her bare shoulder. She sat up and the cover fell. Something clacked against the bed frame. She felt the wood’s texture.

“Ah. Ah, what?”

Her hands reached for her shoulders. They found skin, then a patch of smooth, warm material covering her shoulder blades. It was unyielding, like glass. Something was attached to the strange skin. She could feel them now. She could also command them. She moved them forward.

Two scythe-like blades of solid darkness glided silently in front of her. They were as thick as two fingers in the width and quite thin but they felt really solid. She used one to poke at the mattress. She could feel the mattress through the new limb. It was quite disconcerting.

“That… will take some getting used to.”

On instinct, she did something that was a bit like breathing in. The two half-wings retracted into the shoulder blades.

“Ok, this is weird. Really weird. Ah?”

Initializing

Error. Human variant detected. Special attention required. Please wait while I attribute mental space to your case.

Her interface was turned off. She couldn’t access it for now.

She could, however, see what the shift didn’t cover. Between her breasts, there was now a black stone embedded into her skin. It was the core taken from the necrarch, hers now. It was shaped like an inverted teardrop and much smaller though no less powerful for it. She touched it. Smooth and warm. There was… a lot of mana here, though it felt dormant for now. There was no rush to wake it up. Still needed to get her bearings.

Viv stood up and let herself fall off the bed, the frame groaning under the strength of her grip. The shift reached her ankles which was… weird? And there was something else.

//Hello, Your Grace.

“I am delighted to see you well,” the lich said as he entered the room.

“I have a question.”

“I am sure there are many.”

“Where have my boobs gone?”

An embarrassed silence spread through the room.

“Hello? I remember what my body should be like and this isn’t it! Where are my muscles? Where are my damn tits? Why am I so damn short? HELLO?”

“It appears that the ritual led to a significant loss of body mass. I am sure the effect is only temporary.”

“What do you mean a loss of body mass? Explain yourself!”

Viv’s new back scythes — she really had to find a word for these — extended, aimed at the tall form of the lich.

Much taller, in fact.

And that shift had been in her bag. She had packed it herself.

“No no no no no no what? WHAT?”

“It would be better if I just gave you a mirror. Also, please retract your black mana limbs, thank you.”

Viv did so if only so the tall bag of bones would pass her the mirror faster. She grabbed it.

That was mostly her face.

“You have a powerful sense of self to have retained the same appearance. Within the constraints of the ritual, of course.”

“Shut up!”

That was indeed her face except for two teeny tiny little details.

One, her eyes were void pits decorated by emerald circles that shone like lasers on a night sky. That was cool. And edgy. Mostly cool. She would disintegrate anyone who said otherwise.

The second detail was that her face was considerably sharper, as in not just her cheeks had melted but even her bone structure felt compressed.

“Why do I look like a fucking weasel?”

//Your body is undergoing some changes.

“If you finish that sentence with a period joke I swear to Neriad I’ll order you to sing the Enorian anthem.”

//My voice modulators are sealed.

“I apologize for the upsetting circumstances of your awakening, however the ritual consumed part of your body mass to fuel your transformation. A careful observation has revealed that your nervous system, brain, and heart are now fully functional. However, the rest of your physical envelope will still require gradual, ah, upgrading. Food consumption and patience will see you return to normal soon enough. Hmm. Within the next six months.”

“Are you telling me I need to eat my veggies and drink my soup so I become tall again?”

“Well.”

//That is to say.

“Yes.”

“What the hell? I fucking hate my life. How can I be the dark empress if I’m pint-sized? I’m short even for a Paramese woman! No one will take me seriously!”

“We also surmise that your hormonal levels will remain high until your biology adjusts to the change. Additionally, I regret to say that this body may not give life. That is to say, you cannot be with child.”

“Ah. Well, we expected it. I mean, it makes sense.”

“Unfortunately, and due to adapted body functions, you will still get your moon blood.”

“You two get the fuck out of my room right now.”

They did so, following which Viv threw her pillow at the door with a terrible roar of anger. Ok, it was more of an angry squeak.

Link restored.

Let’s talk.
