“Fleur was weak!”

“Fleur was taking care of her family. She had strength where it mattered. And I had strength… where it was needed.”

“You cling to excuses and causes. Anything to justify your actions. You don’t have to justify. The strong never do. Embrace what you really are.”

“No one said I couldn’t join the useful to the pleasurable. No one said an artisan should never have fun. If I can help Fleur and feel good doing it, then that is fine.”

“You love destroying things.”

“I do. I really do. So what? I enjoy building them as well.”

Viv’s soul pulsed. The room melted into a starless night.

***

“I’m not going to Sciences-Po.”

“Then why did you take the exam? And pass it?”

Papa reclined in his seat, in the home office. She hated this place now. It used to be a forbidden spot to sneak in until he somehow made it the ‘big speech’ room. There wasn’t a seat for her. Another game.

“I know what you’ve planned. I know you made calls,” Viv reproached.

“I just want what’s best for you. Everyone who can give their children an edge will do so.”

“I know Tristan will go there as well.”

He shrugged, suit shifting over his runner’s build. Even in the confines of his home, he was perfectly combed and clean-shaven. His green eyes drifted over her and then to his desk. He still had work to do. She was just a waste of time.

Papa was devastatingly handsome if the flock of infatuated women sighing after him were any indication. He knew it. He had influence and wealth and the looks and the wit so everyone loved him and they couldn’t see what a controlling asshole he was.

“You don’t have to date him,” he tiredly said.

“You did it.”

“Tristan wants to work for the Conseil d’Etat. Sciences-Po is a good place to start. For you as well until you decide what you want to become. Any higher education remains a good tool in one’s arsenal, if only for the networking opportunities. I would have preferred HEC but you don’t have the right temperament.”

“How far do I have to go so you don’t get to pick things for me? How many teachers do you know there?”

“It’s not a rigid institution, Viv. I’m just letting a few people know in case you need help. I don’t know why you’re so mad.”

“You know exactly why I’m mad. I want to succeed without you constantly cheating! I want to earn what I get. Why don’t you get it?”

“You’re better than this, Viviane cherie. I told you before. If you don’t cheat in a cheater’s game, you’re not really playing.”

“I don’t care about winning if the one who won is really you! I want you to STOP CONTROLLING EVERYTHING I DO! You know what? You won’t get it. So I’m going where your flunkies can’t go.”

She spread her hands.

“I’m joining the army.”

The look of shock and disbelief on his face filled her with a Schadenfreude she never thought she could get. Sometimes spite was addictive.

“You’re not serious.”

“Dead serious. In September.”

Papa lounged on his seat in a position she recognized as the ‘I need a minute to come up with something.’ There was an art to it. He would do the same in arguments, sometimes. Bullshit for thirty seconds to give himself the time to come up with a good deflection. A part of her wanted to leave the room. She’d done it. She’d told him, even though she had yet to sign the contract. Her heart wanted to know what he would come up with. Would he ask her to stay? Would he offer to keep off her back? Stop influencing her environment all the time?

She was almost scared when he finally spoke.

“Damien is his mother’s child. A sensitive soul, brilliant yet naive. We are the similar ones. We keep our loved ones safe. I know you’ve done things in the past to protect your friends. I covered for you. We both understand what must be done.

“I’m not like you! You lie and you cheat for your personal gain! You manipulate everyone! Everyone!”

“People,” he forced between clenched teeth, “need leaders. They need guidance. We are flawed, all of us. If I do not rule then someone worse will. You understand this. You’re the same! Same with your friends!”

“Fuck you I don’t inti—”

She swallowed back the lie and saw in her father’s face that he thought he had won.

“You’re a career grifter. You don’t make the world better. You juggle interest groups.”

“Believe it or not, that's my job. And it does make the world better.”

“Say what you will. We’re done here.”

“Oh, are we?” the darkness replied.

Dark pits in the familiar face felt so wrong and so… disrespectful. Viv’s soul pulsed in anger. She’d been caught in the memory but that was all it was. A memory. She could feel it now. This wasn’t the real world and she was… missing her body? And a lot of her mind. She had a past, a body somewhere. This was just an illusion. The darkness was a stranger.

She tried to move. It didn’t work but at least she could think about it this time. She could remember she had a past.

It became clear. She was in the in-between. Distance didn’t really exist there. Instead of tensing muscles, she translated forward by a hair.

Her senses returned, or at least what passed for them here. She couldn’t feel the usual connection to her body so rebuilding herself became the priority. Memory access. Emotions. Drive. Her soul remembered it and reformed it within, so it didn’t rely on her body so much anymore. It was a slow, methodical work in a place where time was only a relative concept. Fortunately, her soul kept the blueprint of what it meant to be alive. She’d had a lot of practice.

Viv was herself again. The darkness was not. It was invading her memories.

“Some compassionate person you are. Talking about protecting your loved one then pushing them away. Forever.”

“You have no right to bear his face,” Viv said, suddenly furious.

“Are you mad at me, him, or yourself? You left him though he loved you, and now he’s dead.”

“I’m going to… Urggg.”

“Just for trying to control you a little, you wild thing. And then what do you do? You turn up exactly the same as he was. Corruption? You have used it. Threats? manipulation? Wrangling interest groups to achieve your goals? You have done it all. No, you are worse. He never killed anybody and he certainly did not do it by pouring molten gold down their throat in public. You are such a hypocrite.”

“Not a hypocrite if I have accepted it,” Viv replied. “Yes I am like him, much more than I was willing to admit. I was wrong and now I know. I have grown.”

“Into a tyrant! Into someone who refuses bounds yet binds others in chains of ‘honor’ and ‘oaths’! You weaken yourself by depending on them. Your strongest warriors weaken themselves protecting the meek and the meek wallow in mediocrity while they should test themselves against the crucible that is life so they can grow or rid mankind of their feeble existences! You are better than this. You can be free and you can free them!”

“Freedom for what. Starving? Being eaten or kicked by the first creature they come upon? That’s not the freedom people want.”

“It’s the one they need to progress!”

“I don’t know if you’re met the average human but we need structure as much as we need freedom. Even I have Solfis and the others to teach me and hold me back if I’m going to act stupid.”

The face of her father formed a scowl. The darkness knew she had regained her memories, her agency. It didn’t like that at all. Viv pressed on.

“I think I like being a tyrant. Better than my people being sold as slaves in Baranese markets by an unscrupulous prince. Now we are reclaiming the deadlands piece by piece, pushing back the savage lands,” Viv continued on a hunch.

It worked. The creature wearing her father’s mask screeched, the face cracking like an eggshell. The room splintered around them. The thing was furious.

“I am so tired of watching you drape the world as it is in layers of lies! You know that might makes right and you act like it yet you pretend there are laws that govern humans as if that was natural! Those are useless fabrications! You surround yourself with stone to resist assaults only for them to always, eventually fall while you should be moving with the flow! You are making yourselves weak! Blind! The feeble mate and spread while the strong die to protect them! This is not how we achieve greatness! We achieve it by becoming greater than our foe generation after generation, by stealing their strengths and making them our own!”

“And that is what we do. Walls and swords are tools. I know who you are now. I remember. Octas.”

The form hissed. Spinnerets emerged from the edges of the image’s mouth.

“You speak of strength as if it only came from the arm that held the sword yet I remember a certain golem crushing your avatar’s skull like a ripe fruit. That golem was made by a timid man who loved gardening blue roses. So who exactly was the strongest?”

“You tell me! That man is dead! DEAD!”

“And he left this world undefeated.”

“ARRR! Feed ten thousand fools and you will find a gifted one but how many warriors must perish for it to happen? How many must fall to defend worthless rocks and empty words? Those could have become greater! Stronger! Crush a man’s head and peel off his rib and search his torso for his ‘heart’ or his honor. You’ll never find it!”

“You won’t find strength either.”

“You don’t need to look for it. It is as obvious as a fist to the face! More lies! More lies! More wind and fleeting thoughts!”

“Those are not lies.”

“They are not real! They are not true!”

“They are not lies. A lie is a deliberate falsehood. They are dreams. They’re concepts and ideas that make us more than just meat and magic. They give us a purpose. They make us people. And people with dreams move armies and grind mountains to the finest sand. You know, Octas, for someone who abhors the spoken word, you sure as hell can’t seem to shut up.”

“I am doing you a favor, girl. I am offering you the world!”

“I don’t need you to get it.”

Viv felt her soul click. She had always been able to come here to the in-between but that was more of a hot air balloon's way of seeking the sky. She did not decide where she would go. She didn’t have power here. Now though, something grew from her soul that she had felt on Nyil but not on earth. The inhabitants of her adoption world called it mana but, really, it was just power.

And now she had it.

She covered her body in scales and great wings emerged from her back. A blade of black mana emerged from her hand. The form Octas had given her was no longer hers to control. It was Viv’s. She stepped forward.

“I’m bad. I enjoy killing and dominating and manipulating. I love crushing those who offended me and the sake of thousands leaves me cold when they’re not my people. That’s alright. That’s just who I am. I decide what I do with who I am, not my dad, not Elunath, not you. Nobody but me. I’m going to return to the nation I’ve lifted from the ashes and turn it into a shining beacon of civilization in the gods-forsaken shithole of a planet. I’ll raise monuments and places of learning to spread those dreams you’re so scared of until nothing can quench them short of the apocalypse. I will undo everything you stand for. I will tame whatever comes for us. I will purge the world of your followers. I will use the most terrible tools to accomplish the greatest projects while you return to your jungles to plant spider legs on your favorite slaves’ asses, bitch. And I‘ll do it with my black heart and blacker magic and when the time is ripe, I’ll come for you too.”

Octas’ stolen form shattered.

The world faded away into the void of the in between. Facing Viv in that place between death was terror incarnate. It felt like jumping in a pool and finding the Mariana trench under her with its bottom swimming up to meet her. The wave of fear overwhelmed her. It almost undid her here and there. For a moment, she could do nothing but scream without a voice. She was still merely a small sphere. What faced her was planet-sized.

Except, it was not moving.

Viv’s perception expanded to see that the planet was as dark as the void with a cracked surface glistening, revealing bloody entrails below. Eight tendrils as large as accretion disks extended from the celestial object to reach for her and they were stopped just before they could reach her. Viv’s perception extended again to the part ‘behind’ her, though the term was merely a simplification. There was another planet and that one, though smaller, felt more dense, more resilient. It bore the shape of black hole with a golden corona shining like a beacon in that desolate place. The other planet was larger but, strangely, it was not winning.

Viv realized she was in the middle of a deadlocked struggle for her soul. each titanic force canceling the other out. She had never met the two ‘planets’ in her brief forays here but their auras was unmistakable.

“Enttiku.”

HELLO, CHILD.

“You… saved me from Octas?”

I SAVE ALL I CAN.

WHO DESERVE IT.

“I really appreciate it…”

CHILD.

IT IS TIME.

WAKE UP.

Viv found the tether back to her body easily. It felt different, as expected. Stronger. More flexible. She followed it, and followed it, and…

***

“I am awake.”

It was day.

Vision returned first. Viv took a deep, raspy breath. Another. She saw a canopy of dark wood. The air was cold and crisp. She was lying in a bed with a cover up to her chest. Her arms were out, over the cover. She was wearing a shift.

