Ideally, when he merged the three skills together, he could fully use the input mechanism from [Tribulation Strike]. But he hadn’t wanted to do the merge before returning to settled space, where he could have his guild’s experts look over his ideas.

A rapid-fire burst of spells appearing throughout the battlefield signaled Zack’s arrival, but it was Gan Le’s presence that relieved Matt the most, after Allie herself.

Knowing the following team members would have someone beyond an already overworked Liz to protect them let him fully relax, with Allie able to get them out of the danger zone.

The second wave of spirit monsters finally finished their transformation and added their presences to the battlefield.

Their roars were more like great apes, but their strength was all their own.

With half a dozen on him, Matt could hardly swing his sword.

Flooding his body with willpower, he forced his blade up enough to cause the stored mana to explode.

[Mana Charge] didn’t kill the spirit versions of the monsters, but it did knock several off, letting him regain enough freedom to cast [Breach] point blank.

Flooding [Cracked Phantom Armor] with neutral mana, he used the skill’s third upgrade orb ability that allowed his armor to better defend against the same type of energy attack as it was damaged by the mana type.

[Breach] annihilated the monsters around Matt, but the cycle was still repeating itself with them needing to kill the monsters twice.

What had been a fun addition to the ruin when they were far stronger than the monsters had turned into a near fatal change, given the monkeys’ numbers and Tier.

Susanne and Rah stayed with Aster and Zack, defending them, while Allie teleported Gan Le and the rest of the team to somewhere else.

Once they were gone and they could fight without holding back, they unleashed everything they had.

There were five Susannes who flicked in and out of fights, cycling to cover herself and the ice fortress that the mages still hid inside. Unable to stay in the open for long, she mainly focused on protecting the base and assisting Rah who held the entrance.

While no Gan Le, Rah’s Talent made his stone creations nigh indestructible and he abused that fact by turning himself into a plug for the bunker’s entrance. He wasn’t killing many monkeys but he was keeping everyone inside the bunker safe.

Zack used that safety to cast spell after spell, aiming for the enhanced monsters, targeting them between wiping out swaths of the normal monkeys with larger casts.

Allie flickered in and out of the battlefield, but not finding any general or leader of any sorts, she gave up and started slaughtering as fast as she could.

Despite specializing in assassination and single target fights, Allie and Zack did more than their fair share of the fighting.

Matt, Liz, and Aster could be said to specialize in so many things, it made the term meaningless being Ascenders, but their area damage was second to none at the same Tier.

Aster mainly focused on the defense, which kept the team from becoming overly pressured, but she didn’t forget to take her pound of flesh.

Using the excess ice from [Hail], she formed it into a ball and cast [Cracked Shatter], killing a wide swath of the monkeys between other tasks.

Liz was a monster in her element. A core contingent of half a dozen Lizzes used [Coven Casting] to maximize wide-area spells like [Ichor Tidal Wave] and the upgraded [Scarlet Plague].

While she killed hundreds, her clones killed dozens each.

Flowing from monster to monster, close to two hundred Lizzes were created by abusing each [Ichor Clone]’s ability to direct eighteen core clones created via [Sanguine Legionnaire], the skill she kept in her Minkalla-given innate skill slot.

Like a swarm of locusts, spears, feathers, golden ichor, and oceans of blood flowed.

Large gouts of flame lit the battlefield as Matt left [Dragonflame] going while he fought with his blade. The high-Tier flames turned his world ablaze even as he cast his three sword skills as fast as their cooldowns would allow.

Still having more mana to spare, he fluctuated [Cosmic Pressure] in a short radius around him, creating a small clear area around the skill able to kill the fleshly monkeys without much effort, but only slowing the spirit versions down.

When sheer numbers didn’t solve the problem of too many monsters, Matt decided to try again by increasing the quantity further.

He had the mana to spare.

The [Barrage]d [Overcharge]d [Meteor Shower] carved large swaths in the monsters, crashing onto the rubbled forest below them.

[Sheer Cold] added to Aster’s spirit space as she spread it, collecting monsters into her Talent where they could deal with them later, if they needed to deal with them at all.

[Dragon's Breath] and [Dragon's Drought], the Tier 32 wind and sand elemental breaths respectively, joined [Dragonflame].

Matt’s spirit screamed under the load he was subjecting it to, but he refused to stop casting.

He had more mana to give and he wasn—

Almost all at once, the fighting ended as the final wave of spirits were slain.

Flesh regrowing, Matt looked up to the others, making sure they’d made it through alive.

A still bleeding Allie returned with the crew a moment later, and Liz and Matt got to healing.

Gan Le had done his best, but their group had still been attacked and the crew struggled to deal with the monsters, given the two Tier gap between themselves and the monkeys. They’d managed, but both Mangus and Arden needed moderate healing having lost limbs.

Not that they let their rough landing stop them.

Seeing that the trees for miles around them had been decimated by their battle, Matt knew they needed to move on. [Ichor Tidal Wave] turned everything caught in its swell into ichor to further its growth, thanks to one of its orb upgrades, but as a result, they had no cover.

While anything not inherently aggressive had long since run, that didn’t discount other monsters lurking nearby.

Moving to the nearest patch of untouched trees, they started to carefully explore the new bubble they found themselves in.

The massive trees were visually interesting but magically ordinary, and so they left them alone as they looked for the next pack of monkeys.

Unsurprisingly, they found another group of monkeys in a treetop gathering. On the offensive, Matt and team held a distinct advantage, and while a hard and long fight ensued, it was entirely under their control.

Enjoying the easy essence, they killed every group they encountered while looking for any valuable resources.

They found five before deciding not to backtrack and instead progress into the next bubble.

Underground, they found themselves in a bisected cavern filled with shadow mana and littered with strange fungi.

After a careful inspection and not finding any monsters, they began walking through the room with Matt and Liz leading from the front..

As Susanne and Allie passed by an ordinary, if large, mushroom, it exploded after being exposed to light, revealing that it was not only hostile, but Tier 34. An enormous sense of danger flooded the area, triggering Matt’s [Archmage’s Presence] to hypercharge his reaction speed. Even then, he was only fast enough to barely follow what happened, not intervene with any of it.

A cloud of spores exploded from the side of the mushroom, containing enough power to break a moon in half, and aimed directly at Allie’s head. It had only made it halfway to the teleporter when she vanished, carrying her free of the blast radius, but exposing Susanne to a substantial portion of the attack.

Susanne had begun to tense, aware of the threat, but there was nothing that she - or any of them, for that matter - could do against a full five-Tier gap beyond active their life saving measures.

They worked.

Nearly the entirety of the swordswoman’s body was eviscerated, everything between her nose and knees turned into fragments of flesh, bone, and metal, yet their resistance barely slowed the attack down.

Gan Le was the next in line, and Matt saw several outer layers of defensive spells around him flare up then break before he was sent flying into a stone outcropping.

Only then was there enough time for any of them to do anything.

Matt was the first to respond, and what he did was simple. He began to vent every spare bit of mana he had from his spirit, over six hundred million mana per second. Then, because that was nowhere near enough, he also triggered the release of a dozen billion-mana mana stones into their surroundings almost entirely uncontrolled.

Twelve billion mana suddenly wreathing a person-sized area was a lot, far more than even he could reasonably direct, and he got to appreciate a number of exotic mana interactions as the world around him seemed to become undone, redone, and changed at the same time.

Silver flakes of ash materialized and fell towards his skin, the color red began to tweet like a songbird, microscopic portals to a reality of twisting colors of time opened up. A finger-sized whale wove itself into reality through the chaotic streams of mana before it vanished as suddenly as it arrived its mana carried in the gale.

Things turned worse as areas started having localized time loops, scenes repeating themselves over and over.

Matt couldn’t spare such apparitions any more thought, too busy trying to prevent even worse things from happening.

Then Zack began to act, stepping in and partially stealing control of the maelstrom, not so much that he would be solely responsible for the mana’s control, but enough that his Talent could affect it. He twisted the neutral mana in the direction of Life, of Healing and Fortune, and Ichor and Blood.

Liz formed dozens of bodies that all swarmed the fungus, keeping its attention away from the main group and directing its spore-explosions in every direction except for the one that had become an impromptu hospital. Another clone extended tendrils of [Lifeblood Manipulation] into Matt’s storm of vivacious mana, channeling the power through six additional Lizzes each using [Coven Casting] to empower what had suddenly become a seven person ritual.

They weren’t going to lose a friend to an unexpected attack again.

Raw life filled the area, gold and red and green and blue, grass and fire, births and potions, as Liz used her own golden Ichor as a framework. She sent a blood-form body to envelop and surround Susanne’s slowly-falling intact body parts, golden lightning-blood supporting a few flickers of silver Sword as Liz knit a new body together for their friend.

Allie reappeared in a flicker of teleportation, then began to teleport the rest of the group mere inches away from the barrier they’d just come through. It was quick, as by the time she got through everyone else — including Gan Le — Susanne was only about half healed, some few muscles and organs supported by a completed skeleton. In other words, stable enough to move.

She vanished first, then Zack, then Matt was relocated to the entrance. A Liz had already gone through, with the clouds of golden mist hanging around the fungus all that really remained of the sacrificial bodies that had bought them the space they needed to retreat.

What used to be vibrant Ichor rapidly lost its luster as the spores in the air consumed it and everything else living.

Matt pushed himself through the barrier last, leaving dozens of billion-mana mana stones behind, ready to dissolve and unleash their payload as a parting gift to the mushroom grotto.

Having already cleared the previous bubble, they spent a full day recovering and getting Susanne back into shape. She would be fine, but having to regrow her entire body had caused her to go deep into her healing cooldown.

Fighting was possible, but any further injuries might not be healable in the short term. And with so much of the breach left, they didn’t want to risk any more surprise attacks in the ruin.

As such, they started making their way to the outer edge where they could return to real space.

They were exceptionally careful as they entered each new bubble, especially upon seeing a Tier 33 buzzard filled with putrid energy land in front of them. Getting a sense of the creature's power, they watched as its very presence turned a large area of the ruin into a decaying husk of what it had been.

The monster’s gaze turned to them after a few moments, and corpses started to pull themselves out of the ground.

They were all animals, but a familiar ghostly energy fleshed out their skeletons as they were slowly filled with a dark brown energy.

Where the monkeys' green energy seemed to give them great physical strength, the brown energy made the monsters incredibly resilient.

The minions were easy enough to slay, as their Tier varied, but the buzzard itself phased in and out of reality, seeming unbothered by their presence.

That was until Aster summoned her Tier 25 spirit space. With her space imposing itself on reality, the buzzard was at risk and they slew it after another lengthy battle.

They killed the monster without serious issues but after nearly a month inside the ruin, they started to look for a more direct way out.

Susanne was in a very vulnerable state, and they couldn't risk her taking a major hit again.

Her growth armor was salvageable, but would need dedicated repairs in the Empire before it would be usable again, given the largest piece of her armor remaining was a lucky palm-sized fragment of her helmet. Even the self-repair powers of a growth item had limits. While mangled, it was enough to keep the item spiritually intact, allowing it to survive the hit, which was all that mattered.

It had done its job and saved her life.

