They even discussed having Allie take Susanne back to the Empire and hope Melinda wasn’t also in the breach, but they decided not to. Not because they didn’t want to try, but because Allie wasn’t confident in being able to return to the breach without a full waypoint. Deep chaotic space’s higher energies made teleporting into them harder, and hearing that, Susanne refused out of principle, making it a moot point.

She’d need to be careful for their remaining journey not to get more injured or she risked her newly healed body falling apart and forcing them to decide between taking her back or risking her death.

No reward was worth one of their friends' lives.

On their way out they stopped to collect any and all Natural Treasures creating energy cycles they could find, and almost as if the ruin was apologizing to them, they stumbled upon something truly valuable.

Mainly white, Matt’s initial reaction was to call it a pearlescent item, similar to the ruin’s barriers, but he realized his mistake when Zack reached out unconsciously.

It was a Tier 33 Arcane Natural Treasure, and while they had no idea what effects it would have, Matt knew it was a research marvel for his friend.

Unless it was one that could convert a mana pool. He’d wait for Zack to research it but if it could get around the limits on his mana pool he’d pay any price.

Not that he’d blame Zack for wanting to study it. Mana pool aspecting affects aside, the Natural Treasure was a wonder all its own.

Ambient mana was pulled into the wooden spiral and through its fibers. The mana was converted through complex processes into arcane mana at the center point of the Treasure, where the process reversed itself.

It was still a chaotic mix of mana, but not the same mix it absorbed. If Zack was lucky, he could learn from the Natural Treasure’s ability to convert mana types, possibly giving him more control over his mana type changing.

The discovery reignited everyone's treasure hunting fever, and they nearly made the choice to stay longer, hoping to find the center of the ruin to see what else it had to offer.

As they still wanted to gain access to the rest of the breach’s strange realms, they continued their careful exit, not willing to stumble into another ambush.

Thankfully they made it out without issue through on the other side of the ruin from where they entered.

Following Mangus and Lura’s advice, they found and explored several more high-Tier worlds. They were able to explore two new strange realms, but the rewards were simple raw materials.

Rare and nice materials, but not exactly what they were searching for.

After almost seven months in the breach, Rah stopped them all. “I feel movement on a sky bridge behind us. It's a distant sensation, but I believe we are no longer alone.”

As Katya dug their preprepared masks out of the group's personal belongings spatial ring, she murmured, “Faster than we expected.”

Rah agreed with her assessment. “A month or so faster than we expected. We are nearly at the center of the bubble, so we have a choice. Do we turn back to investigate the worlds we know have competitive strange realms while we hide our identities, or do we push forward in the hope of finding untouched and possibly better worlds?”

After several quick rounds of debates, they chose to continue forward and meet up with the other entry group.

They knew what was behind them, and while there were a lot of combative strange realms they would like to explore, they didn’t expect their masks to hold up to too much scrutiny. Anyone appearing from in front of the groups they had left behind would be under intense suspicion, which was why they'd always intended to use their lead to get clear across the third layer breach bubble, where they could mingle with the other breach points’ explorers.

Ultimately, they felt it was still their best choice, as it allowed them to stay on unlooted worlds for longer and allowed them to grab more valuable Natural Treasures.

Matt initially found it hard to care about the raw monetary value of some of the more common Natural Treasures but he found far more joy in watching the crew members' excitement. The unknown and items with unusual energy patterns were far more interesting as they had the possibility of being exceptional held his interest far more firmly.

Such things didn’t guarantee value, but they were good indicators.

Liz had been studying the Tier 26 Petrified Tree’s Heart since they had found it, trying to understand how the tree kept seeping out a viscous blood-like analog.

While a little lower than what they had been hoping for, the Natural Treasure was one of the ones they had been hoping to find.

Inherently a rare Natural Treasure, being a complicated mix of blood, life, wood, and shadow mana, its effects were deceptively simple.

Once absorbed, the heart would appear mirrored in the user's body, slowly pumping its sap into the blood stream. Far from harmful, the blood analog was a low but constant supply of a healing potion injected directly into the bloodstream.

Alone, that was not too impressive, but the effect was healing cooldown neutral and something the body never developed a resistance to, making it a notable lifesaving item.

Not that Liz intended to absorb it. First, they weren’t sure how the heart would interact with her Talent, let alone her Ichor. Second, she’d already used a Natural Treasure on her heart, and that kind of conflict could be difficult to navigate on the fly. Third, out of all of them, she needed another life-saving measure the least.

Ichor, combined with her phoenix bloodline, made her a very difficult woman to defeat, let alone kill. Her interest was in trying to learn more about how the blood analog worked, hoping to learn something for her blood alchemy skills.

They had just finished collecting the valuables on a Tier 9 world when Rah stopped them and indicated that he felt movement a few planets ahead.

That meant it was time to hide in a rift and come out with totally fresh identities.

Thinking of the whole facet of strange realms they hadn’t been able to explore before, they couldn’t help but become more excited.
