******

******

The scene they found was the most uncomfortable one Alden had witnessed all night. Olget-ovekondo knelt beside a bubbling, bowl-shaped fountain. He was rubbing Uro-bor’s thin fingers against his cheek and ignoring her quiet murmurs of, “Stand, stand, Little Olget,” while she fluttered her free hand over the back of his head in a gesture that looked affectionate and nervous at the same time.

Olget was pleading his case to her, and the words definitely weren’t making the way he was wiping his face with her hand seem less weird to Alden.

“Remember when I fixed a <<water tank>>? A few years ago, Uro-bor. Remember? I fixed it because Yodra was so busy. And I’m always the first to notice when someone isn’t <<taking a share>> of the work, aren’t I? I try to get mother to buy the newest equipment. To <<modernize>>! And you remember the nodjee? I wanted her to summon nodjee for <<soil replenishment>>. I was only a child then, but wasn’t I already thinking like your village master?”

“You will build something of your own, won’t you?” Uro-bor said quietly. “Stand, please. You—”

“How will I build without the other wand?” Olget moaned. “At least one of them. I must have one. If you tell Mother you believe I should have it… ”

Alden looked at Bithe, hoping the Artonan would give him some clue about what the situation called for. But he thought Bithe was surprised by the extreme awkwardness going on here, too. The knight had stalked over here, all business until he’d taken a peek through a gap in the plants that walled off the back of this nook. Now he and Alden were both stalled out, watching whatever this was.

Olget’s behavior would have been unsettling if he was human. If anything, it struck Alden as even more so coming from a wizard toward an elderly member of the ordinary class. Maybe they had something like a grandmother and grandson relationship left over from Olget’s childhood, and that made it more complex?

Still.

And Bithe wasn’t giving him any clues beyond a grim frown.

“Mother has so much respect for you, Uro-Uro. And you know how the others pressure her to think less of me. If you tell her that you can’t close your eyes for the last time knowing the wand you’ve accepted might have deprived me of such an important inheritance, then she’ll have to leave me the other one.”

Alden scowled. What an abominable thing to say.

Bithe seemed to think so, too. His fists clenched as he drew himself taller and opened his mouth.

Are we going to bust down this cactus together? Alden thought. Okay. I can follow along.

But before Bithe could punch through a paddle plant and tell Olget to stop demanding that Uro-bor use her impending death to guilt his mother into giving him an object he wanted, a voice called out loudly from what sounded like a couple of nooks over.

“Mother! Mother, an honor for us! Master Leeter-zis requests your company as he prepares his spell!”

Uro-bor’s son appeared. He was a dark-haired man with eyebrows that had an angry arch to them even when he was smiling like he was now. He whisked the old woman away in the same second that Olget made it onto his feet.

It happened so smoothly—a swift bow, a jovial, “You understand a master wizard can’t be kept waiting, don’t you?,” and then Uro-bor was being led off. She was still murmuring, “I know you can build something,” to Olget.

He seemed flustered to have the target of his begging so quickly and cleanly taken from him.

That was suspiciously good timing on her son’s part. And Leeter-zis’s.

Alden wasn’t wrong to think it, if the three people who emerged from the darkness next were any indication. Two of them were Olget-ovekondo’s brother and sister. The o’odee feathers at their backs looked worse for the wear after whatever entertainments they’d been enjoying at the party. The third member of the group, carrying himself with perfect posture even though his eyes looked heavy, was Stuart.

Alden leaned closer to the gap they were spying through to get a better look at him. His hands were clasped in front of him, and his pale auriad wound around his fingers, though he was still wearing some rings that made it easier to miss.

The bald side of his head was toward Alden and Bithe.

“What are you all doing…?” Olget began, before deciding that escape was a better choice than conversation. “Excuse me. I need to go see something at—”

His sister stepped sideways to cut him off as he tried to leave. The combs in her hair had gems on them that matched the pink wand in her hand. “You can leave after we’ve spoken to you. And after you’ve apologized to this votary for bothering a person in the care of his knights.”

Olget tried to go around her, but his brother stepped in to block him, too. He had dull purple hair and a wad of something in his mouth that he plucked out and flicked at Olget’s feet before speaking. “And when you leave, you can go home.”

“That’s right,” the woman said. “Master Leeter-zis has graciously agreed that you don’t need to stop by the pavilion and apologize to him for missing his spell.”

“I’m not going to leave before the Here-to-There is completely over,” Olget protested. “How would it look to people if you two stayed and I left? No, that’s—”

“Are you really going to be this embarrassing in front of an art’h?” Olget’s brother asked. “Be glad we found him on our way here with Gorol-bor so that you have a chance to <<recover dignity>>. Only a <<speck>> of it, but that speck might as well be a mountain to someone like you!”

Sorry if you were looking for me in the garden and got caught up in this, Stuart, Alden thought.

“I would gladly accept an apology on behalf of Hn’tyon Bithe—” Stuart began.

“Gorol-bor told you to come here with him!” Olget exclaimed.

His siblings looked at him like he was stupid.

“He did,” Stuart said. “For the sake of Uro-bor Elder’s feelings. He was worried about speaking to you on his own.”

Olget did nod at Stuart then, but it was in such a perfunctory way it looked more like he was trying to dismiss him than acknowledge what he’d said.

He rounded on his siblings again. “You two don’t seem to care that our mother has sacrificed part of her power—”

“After you apologize properly, you can leave,” the sister said pointedly.

“Part of her power,” Olget went on. “Because you advise her against trusting me!”

“You mean she sacrificed part of the power you imagined yourself having in the future.” His brother laughed. For much too long. Whatever he’d been chewing on might not have been great for his own sense of propriety. “Olget-ovekondo! Village master!”

Their sister frowned at him, but directed her next words to Olget. “Just apologize and go, Olget. This is over for now. We can talk some other time.”

“No,” said Olget.

“No?” his sister asked.

“Why wait to talk?” his brother said. “He doesn’t want to wait! He wants us to say humiliating things to him in front of an important person! I’ll start.”

“Olget. Apologize and go.” She seemed to hope repetition would get through.

Stuart said, “Maybe he could send a formal letter to Rapport I if that would be less troub—”

“I have my dead mother’s wand to make up for my lack of effort!” cried the brother, waving an imaginary wand in Olget’s face. “I live alone with my pretty wand in a big house in the desert, pretending everything belongs to me and wondering why nobody wants to serve me. Why won’t anyone breed with me in a field full of o’odee bones?”

“Soch! That’s too much,” the sister warned.

“You don’t care about the village!” said Olget. “None of you! So it might as well be mine! Who are you to—”

“A short formal letter would be fine.”

Alden thought it would be great if Bithe burst through the paddle plants right about now.

“I’ll never be a master wizard, but I write village master by my name wherever I go. I wear the nine-feather mantle and wave the wand like I know what I’m doing with—mmph! Ow!”

The sister rubbed the elbow she’d just thrown toward the brother’s jaw, gave a small bow to an alarmed Stuart, then stepped closer to Olget.

“Mother gave an honor to Uro-bor,” she said in a voice that was straining for calm. “One of her oldest friends. When Uro-bor dies, and the wand returns, I think she’ll begin using it again and pass the honor of the second wand to another friend. It won’t go to you. Begin focusing on strengthening your own casting and your own tools. That’s all you can do.”

She gripped the front of Soch’s shirt and began to pull him away.

“Apologize to the votary, Olget,” she said over her shoulder. “And don’t come back to the party.”

Alden let out a breath. Olget was trembling. Alden gave Bithe a nudge with his arm. He felt it was obvious that it was a nudge suggesting that the two of them go now and back Stuart up more closely. But Bithe just budged over half an inch like he thought Alden wanted more room.

Will he kill me if I try to make Emban’s warning tock sound?

“Olget-ovekondo, sometimes the fog of a party makes proper behavior difficult,” Stuart said, his tone very forgiving. “You and your brother… perhaps our meeting would have been better in different circumstances. Hn’tyon Bithe, Hn’tyon Emban-art’h, and Hn’tyon Ryada-bess will accept your apology. I’m sure Avowed Alden will, too.”

Olget blinked so hard it practically had a sound effect. “You’re making me apologize to the human?”

“I’m not going to make you apologize to anyone,” Stuart corrected. His hands were still clasped with the auriad around them. “Your apology would have no meaning then, and I would be depriving you of an opportunity for contemplation and <<self-betterment>>.”

Olget didn’t look like he appreciated how thoughtful Stuart was being.

“I checked your diploma,” Stuart said. “Now that you know your life will go in a direction different from what you hoped for, you should seek challenge, opportunity, and meaning for yourself.”

Bithe made a noise. Alden looked to see him pressing a hand to the plant and squinting at Stuart.

“Are you telling me to go back to school to <<requalify>>?” Olget drew back like Stuart had swung at him.

“You will have to contemplate your own failings and decide what’s best,” Stuart said. “I have done much of that myself. I do think your brother was too doubtful about your future. Even a sugar-stomached beggar can learn to share.”

Alden wasn’t familiar with that saying, and the translation wasn’t providing an explanation. He guessed from Bithe’s head shake and the way Olget stomped off that sugar-stomached beggar wasn’t the nicest thing to call someone.

******

******

“If you were watching, why didn’t you join us?” Stuart said a couple of minutes later while he and Alden made their way slowly around the garden. Bithe had taken his leave almost as soon as they’d left their hiding spot and revealed themselves.

Alden was wondering what exactly the knight hoped he would do. On some level, did he want Alden to tell Stuart about Ryada? If not tonight, then tomorrow?

Olget’s drama wasn’t much compared to that. Not really.

“I think we were guarding your back,” he told Stuart.

The Primary’s son was obviously out of steam, which made sense for someone who’d been working nonstop since Emban-art’h had told him she wanted to do this event.

“Votaries have a difficult job,” Alden said.

“They do.”

Stuart would be good at this job. If he wanted to be. He knew that. Everyone knew it.

“I’m sorry I wasn’t more help,” Alden said.

“How much more help did you think you had to be? You did so much.”

“I did get you a snack.” Alden took the napkin with the chewy purple blobs out of his bag and handed it over. “If you’re hungry.”

Stuart couldn’t answer. He already had one in his mouth.

“On top of everything else, you helped me do something new with my skill today.” The memory of accepting the puddle in what felt like a righter way was still so vivid.

Stuart swallowed. “You sent me so many messages about that.”

“I was excited.”

“You were supposed to be sleeping when you sent some of them.”

“How…I know you did something to make it work better.” Was that too strong a statement? “You must have.”

Stuart didn’t look away from him, but he did bite the second blob in half and chew it slowly for a delaying tactic.

Is he not going to admit it?

Alden realized he might feel better if Stuart didn’t.

The Primary’s son kept plenty of secrets from him, but Alden thought they were mostly proper discretion secrets. If he’d hide something a little more personal about Alden, it might take the edge off of Alden’s urge to discover once and for all how much damage his own honesty would do.

Stuart swallowed and passed him one of the private conversation rings the two of them had worn earlier when they were talking on the hauler.

Of course, Alden thought as he slid it onto his finger. Of course he’s going to tell me.

“I’m happy you learned something about yourself,” Stuart said. “I didn’t do much. The koobas were unexpected, and you wanted to pick up the water. It seemed like it might be an opportunity for you, so I tried several ideas I’d had all together.”

“Which ideas?”

“Passing the water to you more directly, giving you instructions you weren’t expecting, telling you to go slowly… I also brought myself toward you and tried to <<bolster>> you.”

They’d stopped walking.

“Thank you,” Alden said after a minute.

