 had used a sort of pale healing magic that felt almost without faith and more… purpose.It didn’t wake the man up, but he wouldn’t die. Delta would need some sort of stasis or healing effect to keep people from dying as a fight went on. If the people couldn’t get medical aid or were unaware of their ally’s plight then Delta would have to step up her game and do it herself.The second-ranked officer swung his odd weapon, and when Fran’s lance clashed with it, there was a disorienting warble in the air that sounded like a tuning fork being abused. The impact was almost visible, and the force pushed Fran back and gave the man grounds to push his attack.Delta watched as Fran’s lance seemed to almost lose physicality for a moment before the mana reasserted itself.Delta stood up as Nu pinged her from the second floor, demanding updates.The officer struck again with two of his companions raining fireballs and arrows down on either side, forcing Fran to retreat or charge.Fran did not retreat.They clashed again and this time, when the man struck Bacon’s side, the cut spread out like frost coating a surface. The Dungeon mana holding Bacon together became weak and some of its strength was sapped.Delta’s heart dropped. Anti-Dungeon weapons? Anti-Mana tools?!Made from seeds of the Little Brother?Just as this began to feel unfair, Fran hooked his lance under the man’s foot and toppled him, sending his weapon skittering away for a second before the sands slowed it down. It seemed they weren’t expecting actual combat skills from Fran more than bash and charge.“Knight Rush!” Fran cried, activating some skill that he had been practicing. Blinking, Delta watched as the secondary core inside Fran began to pulse, feeding him Mana that was mostly Delta’s but also a little unique flavor of his own.Delta really had so much to keep a track of, and Nu was a horrible secretary.Fran vanished before teleporting to one side of the arena and dashed across it in a flash of light that sent waves of sand parting like waves and the air to rush past. He stopped, then he repeated this trick two more times, rendering the mage and one of the spearmen unconscious.“Field lines! Adapt! Central position, eyes to east and west!” the officer yelled, a little more panicked now as he scrambled for his seed-rapier.Fran’s luminous eyes turned to where Delta was sitting, awaiting her judgment like a royal knight seeking permission from his queen.With dramatic flair, Delta put her hand out in front of her, thumb sticking out sideways.The thumb was turned downwards.“Knight Rush Extreme.”Five lines erupted in a star formation across the stage, leaving smoking lines in the sand and the end of Fran’s lance glowing cherry red.Fran looked down at the terrified ‘fighter.’“I’m just a receptionist,” he pleaded to the goblin boss.“Take your lunch break, scribe - and make it a long one,” Fran rumbled, and the man fled the room, screaming.The seed-rapier flickered out of existence and Delta could only stare at the sand that had been touching it, a dead gray inert mass that had to be replaced slowly.It was too crucial for the second-officer to take it. It’d be akin to performing soul lobotomy with toothpicks.But… she eyed the fallen man and smiled. There was something she could try.“Mother… that look is the worst thing I’ve faced today,” Fran muttered as he watched Delta move closer to the fallen men.“Shush, Fran. I’ll do my thing, you shake their pockets out,” she instructed the boss.“…shinies… I like shinies.”---“You’re staring,” Mas said. Princess Serma turned to him with a blink, then flushed a little.“Apologies, Mas. I’ve just never seen such… such…” she struggled to find the right word for the scene before her of three men holding a fourth upside down over a keg as the man turned blue from the lack of oxygen, but not alcohol.“Festivities,” she concluded with grace. The tavern of the small town was fascinating as they had straw on the floor, a door leading to the stables to toss drunks, an outhouse, and more.Nearby, Lorsa sipped a tiny glass of something she told Serma was ‘lemonade but fun.’ She blended into the shadows far too well for it to be an accident.Serma had not often been out of the castle and never had she been outside the capital in such fashion, everything was new when it came to the people. Disguised mostly in ‘snooty but not snob’ clothes as Mas described it, Serma was an oddity but not too likely to stand out.“If you wanna do a stand, I can arrange it, but it’s not fun or tasty. I prefer fruit juice!” Mas said brightly and Serma gave him a small smile.When she was queen, she’d plant a grove of fruits from around the world for him. Lorsa gave her a thumbs up from behind Mas, the meaning of which Serma couldn’t decipher at all.Still, when she knocked down her father’s tomb and buried him in a pauper’s grave instead, there’d be plenty of space for a few gardens.Hm… no, she’d be doing her best to eliminate the poverty that gripped the city’s lower quarter, so pauper graves would be out of style.A ditch, then.“What’re you thinking about?” Mas asked around a leg of lamb.“Oh, delicate princess things,” she said airly.“I can listen, I don’t mind,” he promised. “Do you think I will be a good…” she lowered her voice, “queen?” she asked her knight.Mas didn’t even stop chewing.“Yep,” he replied instantly.“How?” she pressed, needing to know what was going on in his head other than breathing and eating. The boy was rich with wisdom if he just shared his thoughts more.“Same way I know the sun rises every morning or water is wet or good food is awesome. You just will be… just are,” he shrugged.Lorsa downed her drink and gestured for three more glasses from the bar, eagerly.Serma felt a warmth in her chest she hadn’t had since she was younger.“I believe I can be that queen you think I am - if you’re by my side,” she whispered to Mas.“We’re sitting next to each other. I’m definitely by your side,” Mas said brightly as he offered her his spare leg of lamb, dripping in some gravy. Lorsa buried her head into her hands.Serma stared at the leg of lamb, then took it without grace or manners and bit into it.It was overcooked.But as long as she was sharing it with Mas, it was delicious.Later, when she got too warm, she stepped outside for a moment, not wanting to bother Lorsa or Mas’ eating match over more lambs. They were like wild animals gnawing on bones, and Serma needed fresh air.She exhaled as she went to check on the carriage, but stopped as someone put a knife to her throat from behind.“Your loving sibling sends their regards,” the man hissed. Serma struggled, kicking back and making the man kneel over for a moment, and she got only a few steps back when he grabbed her long hair.She was only half-way to Durence, so close to being the queen! Having a long reign of prosperity with Mas! She slammed her hands back, and the man cried out as something cracked in his chest before she reached to her side and slashed her hair down to her head, freeing herself finally.She turned in rage, but the man… was simply gone. Strands of her hair fell gently, raining down on a curious orange slime that was staring at her wide eyes.“Did… you see where he went?” she panted and the slime just burped cutely.He must have fled, fearing he took too long. Serma sighed as Lorsa crashed through the tavern wall in rage, a second assassin in her hands.She stopped when she saw Serma with the slime.“I got one too!” Mas yelled as he held up an unconscious imp creature.“He tried to murder my steak,” Mas announced. He stopped when he saw Serma, and she felt dread in her stomach. Her hair… she must look horrible in the gloom and low light and even worse during the day.“I’m here,” he said, coming close and moving to her side as he promised before.“Poi!” the slime said. Mas gasped.“It’s orange! We should cook it in a soup! Slimes are full of nutrients! An orange one must taste super weird and healthy!” he told Serma as Lorsa had gone pale.The slime looked up at him and simply burped again.“M-master… Dur..ence…” the imp croaked in his ‘sleep.’Serma picked the slime up and hugged it. It felt warm.“Let’s pay for the damages and leave,” Serma said quietly, putting the slime over her shoulder as it seemed to be highly affectionate.---Lorsa watched as the hulking monster king’s aura was compressed into a small form before it coughed out a boot with a foot still inside it, the princess and her knight blissfully unaware of the process.This had… gotten complicated.Real fast.
