Alber gestured to a bruise on his upper collarbone and tapped his ribs. Ryoka nodded.
“I’ve seen you fighting every day. You’re pretty good. Self-taught?”
“That’s right.”
“Have you ever taken lessons? I mean, from someone else. I’m only asking because I know a thing or two. About fist fighting.”
Alber looked up from his steak.
“You do?”
Ryoka nodded, encouraged by the way this was going.
“Sure! I took lessons when I was a kid—I was wondering if you wanted me to show you a few moves. Your, uh, style is good, but it could use work. I’d love to show you what I learned to improve it. When that Gold-rank adventurer got you, I thought that you could have had him if you were baiting him a bit more. If you changed the way you fought—want me to show you sometime?”
Too late, Ryoka realized she might have said too much. Alber was frowning. He looked at Ryoka, and both of them heard a guffaw.
“You? Teach him to fight?”
Madain shouted over at the two of them. Somehow, he’d overheard. He laughed, and some of his buddies laughed with him.
“Sure, let the Wind Runner teach him how to dance about! Use magic while you’re at it! You don’t need tricks! All you need is grit and this!”
He made a fist, and his arm bulged. Half of the guests laughed. Ryoka flushed. She looked at Alber.
“I don’t think you need magic. I’m just trying to help. I know a few things.”
“I got that.”
Alber looked past Ryoka at Madain. He didn’t rise to the [Innkeeper]’s bait. Then he looked at Ryoka.
“Thanks for the offer. But I’m fine.”
Even Ryoka could pick up on that clue. She rose at once, taking her plate.
“That’s cool, I was just suggesting it. I, uh, learned from watching some other fist fighters, but I don’t claim to be an expert. If you want to talk about it sometime—”
She edged back from the table. Madain was still laughing as Ryoka sat back at her table, ears burning. Ryoka scarfed down the rest of her steak—though her appetite was gone—and made her escape as fast as humanly possible to her room. There, she spent the next few minutes gently smacking her head against the wall.
Smooth, Ryoka. Sit down, tell him he sucks at his job, and offer to make him better. That’s the way to make friends. Why didn’t you talk about watching other [Fist Fighters] first? Lead in that way. But no, you had to take your foot, jam it into your mouth, and then—
Ryoka wished she could go back in time and start that conversation over again. Of course Alber would get offended! She wasn’t an expert, but what was her first line? ‘Your style’s good, but it could use some work’. And bringing up how a Gold-rank adventurer who outweighed him had beaten him, as if that justified her criticism. Idiot. Idiot.
Saying good morning to Alber was going to suck tomorrow. Ryoka tried to stop agonizing about that conversation, but she couldn’t. She spared only a bit of energy for sending bad vibes to Madain. But mainly it was to be embarrassed and berate herself.
She decided to hide in her room and pretend nothing had ever happened. Which involved rolling around in her bed with the goose feather pillow over her head until one feather poked her in the eye. Then Ryoka just sighed and sat in her bed.
“I’m tired.”
She’d done one run, but it had been a long, long one. And while it hadn’t really been worth the coin she’d earned, it had certainly made Ryoka tired enough to sleep. But she felt like she should try and practice. Practice moving the wind.
It was here, in the room. Though the air was still, if Ryoka concentrated, she could feel the faintest of breezes. If she tried, she could conjure a gust, although Madain would probably bawl her out if she rattled the shutters. But Ryoka should practice. She’d tried making a little tornado in her palm these last few nights, but it was incredibly hard. And she didn’t think she was necessarily getting better.
Controlling or guiding the wind wasn’t something you could practice. Just experience. But Ryoka knew there was more than just the wind. Ivolethe had told her she could run like the wind. Not just in it. But what else had she said?
The young woman tried to remember. But her body was weary. Her eyelids very heavy. The steak, eaten too quickly near the end, was weighing down her stomach. And the wind was calling to Ryoka, gently pushing her back. Towards her bed. After all, she’d have to get up early if Madain wasn’t sleeping off a hangover. So why not rest? She could practice later. Yes, later. Sometime later.
The Runner lay back and slept. On the whole, it hadn’t been too bad of a day, right…? Near the end, it had been embarrassing. But she could try tomorrow. She had to keep trying. Keep…
 
——
 
Ryoka slept for a moment. Only a moment, and then a hammering, a shouting din came from below. She opened her eyes groggily, expecting to hear Madain shouting in a drunken rage in the common room. But no—it wasn’t him. She heard the pounding come again, then Madain’s voice, roaring at whomever it was. But the hammering sound only grew louder, and then Ryoka heard a voice.
“Ryoka Griffin! I need Ryoka Griffin, now!”
Ryoka? That was her! The Runner got up, feeling adrenaline replace sleep. Someone was calling her. And that was important. There was only one reason they’d call for her in the middle of the night. She reached for her muddy clothes on the ground and threw them on, not bothering to grab clean ones.
“Wind Runner! Get down here!”
Madain shouted up the stairs. Ryoka was already stumbling towards the door. She went back for her belt. She could hear Alber waking up in the room next door. Ryoka pushed her way out the door and stumbled down the steps. She nearly slipped on the one near the bottom. She saw Madain, bare-chested, holding a lantern and glowering. And in the doorway was a boy, probably only fourteen years old. His eyes were wide, and he was panting. The instant he saw her, he shouted, ignoring the late hour.
“Miss Griffin, the Runner’s Guild wants you now! An adventuring team needs an emergency delivery!”
A Street Runner. He’d been sent straight here. Ryoka shook her head, trying to dispel the half-drunken feeling of still being asleep.
“An adventuring team’s in trouble?”
“Yes, Miss! They want you at the Guild! As fast as you can!”
“Got it.”
Ryoka’s heart, already racing, began to beat even faster. The wind picked up. Ryoka took two steps towards the door and looked at Madain. He too was half-asleep.
“Sorry, I’ve got to—”
“Go.”
He pointed. For once, there was no anger in his voice, just the same focused feeling in Ryoka. Ryoka ran, racing past the Street Runner and through the city. She could hear shutters opening as people woken by the Street Runner cursed and hurled insults at him and her. But none came from behind her. The [Innkeeper] would never throw her out for this. He had been an adventurer too, and he knew what the Street Runner’s summons meant.
An emergency delivery. At night. That meant an adventuring team was in trouble. It was the same request Ryoka had answered for the Horns of Hammerad. Somewhere, a team was out of potions or needed something delivered, and they were sending out a distress [Message]. But if they were resorting to that, they were desperate.
It was an unspoken thing, but Runners didn’t like delivering for adventuring teams. The risk was too great that they’d run into a monster, and if a team was in trouble, odds were that said monster would go after the Runner as much as the adventurers. That earned them a reputation for reneging on or ignoring adventurers’ requests. Hence, most adventurers disliked Runners as cowards and were looked down upon in return.
But Ryoka had known adventurers whom she was proud to call friends. Whom she did not deserve to call friends. So she had put herself on a list of one, at least in Reizmelt. If an adventuring party called for help, the guild sent for Ryoka before trying to find a City Runner, much less a Courier willing to take the request.
Ryoka threw open the door to the Runner’s Guild. It was virtually empty, but the same [Receptionist] that had been there in the morning was awake, holding a piece of parchment. She was poring over a map by a lantern’s light. Ryoka strode over.
“I’m here. Where are they?”
“Out in the plains. Over an hour’s run away.”
The [Receptionist] looked up as the Street Runner caught up, panting. He closed the door, and the [Receptionist] handed Ryoka the [Message] that had been transcribed on the parchment. Ryoka read it as the woman explained.
“They were clearing a cave and ran into a complex of tunnels. They awakened a group of Wailer Frogs—”
“What are they?”
“Frogs that make incredible noise. They can deafen—and they’re able to scream so loudly they can shatter glass. The team, Pithfire Hounds, ran into them and lost all of their potions. Their [Mages] are out of mana, and they’re being pursued.”
“They can’t outrun them?”
Ryoka was surprised. The [Receptionist] shook her head. She pointed at a spot on the map, close to where Ryoka had just been running. It looked like the adventuring team had been working close to the Gilliel Swamplands and retreated towards Reizmelt.
“The frogs are fast—but the main thing slowing them down is their wounded. They report that one of their [Warriors] was nearly consumed by the Wailer Frogs. He’s bleeding inside and has broken his ribs, arms, and possibly other bones.”
“Broken his—how big are Wailer Frogs?”
The [Receptionist] grimaced.
“Big enough to eat some people whole. They have a powerful leap, but their main threat is their ability to scream. If you’re not careful, they’ll paralyze you or make you deaf and then swarm over you. The Pithfire’s horses are all dead, and they’ve been fleeing on foot. They need healing and mana potions.”
“Do you have them? If they’re made of glass, won’t the frogs—”
“Here.”
The [Receptionist] had nine bottles, three mana potions, six healing potions. All in wooden containers.
“It’s all we could fill. There are six more potions in these glass bottles—here. If you can leave them out of range of the frogs—”
“Got it.”
Ryoka grabbed the potions and threw them into her bag of holding. She strode for the door. The [Receptionist] called out to her.
“The adventurers are fighting the frogs! How should they pick up your delivery? If you get too close—”
The Wind Runner’s head turned.
“I’ll give them an opening. Tell them I’m on my way.”
And then she was gone.
 
——
 
There was no time to think. No time to worry. Ryoka ran, and her mind was filled with fear. Fear, and the kind of focus she only felt in moments like this. Time felt slow and fast. One second she was running out of the Runner’s Guild, the next she was running down the street. The young Street Runner was running beside her, shouting something. Ryoka couldn’t hear him. Every stride seemed to be in slow motion. Slow, and then fast.
The wind howled. It sensed something. And it gathered in the air, blowing through the city, slamming against houses, nearly throwing the Street Runner off his feet. And Ryoka ran faster.
The [Guards] on the gates heard the sound. They looked back and saw Ryoka running towards them. The gates were locked. Ryoka didn’t wait for them to open them. She ran up the battlements.
“What are—”
Ryoka leapt. [Guards] shouted in horror as she leapt off the battlements. The walls were fifteen feet high. As Ryoka fell, a blast of air travelled up. It slowed her fall. Ryoka landed, rolling, and got up. She took off as the [Guards] watched her with open mouths and then had to cling to their posts as the wind followed her.
The grasslands were dark. The road empty. Ryoka sprinted down it. She was going at full speed. There was no way she could keep up this pace. Not without help.
Stamina potion. And healing potion too. Ryoka took a gulp as soon as she felt herself begin to slow. The bittersweet potion burned going down her throat. And she felt a second wind burn through her.
“Faster.”
That was all Ryoka said. Faster. Every second she spent running, the closer the adventurers were to death. The Wailer Frogs were pursuing them. And one of their number was wounded. Badly.
Slow and fast. Ryoka ran for twenty minutes. Thirty. Forty. It felt like forever. The stamina potion fell to the ground as she dropped it, empty. But now she was getting close. And the wind was telling her that her destination was ahead. It reversed itself, blowing the scent of blood back at Ryoka. A sound like a wail, loud as thunder even from far away.
Ryoka slowed. She had to get to the adventurers. But the frogs were in the way. She had a plan, though. She reached for the bag of holding at her side and then a smaller pouch. She opened it and dumped the contents on the ground.
It was the smokescreen bag that Octavia had made for Ryoka. One of the last ones Ryoka owned. And with it, Ryoka reached into her bag of holding and, carefully, dumped a huge cloud of its contents out. Not anything important. Just dirt. Dried, crumbling dirt. Dust.
It mixed with the fine powder that Octavia had made up. Ryoka reached for one of her flour bombs and emptied the contents of that onto the ground as well, kicking at the flame that tried to ignite. The wind was calm as Ryoka looked at the huge pile of fine particulates. Then she looked up.
“Give me wind. Blow, winds! Give me wrath! Show me fury! Follow me!”
And the wind howled. It swirled around Ryoka, and she covered her face as it whirled the dirt and dust and flour into the air. She began running. As fast as she could. And behind her, the wind blew at her back, following her.
The Pithfire Hounds were fighting in the grasslands ahead of Ryoka. There were six of them. Two were carrying a downed teammate, his armor crushed, bones poking out of the chest they’d stripped of armor. The other three were fighting a group of ten or more huge, huge shapes in the darkness. One leapt, and another inhaled, its throat-sac inflating massively. The croaking, bellowing sound was loud beyond belief. And then it opened its mouth and screamed.
The sound deafened the adventurers and stripped them of what hearing they had left. Their leader, pointing a wand, threw a bit of fire, but it was weak. His ears were bleeding. The frogs leapt back, wary, and then one jumped forwards.
A barking dog leapt at the frog. It was big, a proper wolfhound, but even larger than the ones from Ryoka’s world. It was half-maddened by the Wailer Frogs. The frog leapt back in alarm, and then it opened its mouth impossibly wide. It tried to envelop the dog.
