“Oh? Not far! Hey, I have a cousin who lives around there. He’s a [Butcher]. Do you think I could send a letter with you?”
“For a copper coin, sure. I’m going back there. If you can get it to the Runner’s Guild within the hour, I’ll take it with the bulk letter delivery and anything else headed that way.”
The shorter [Guard] brightened. He nudged his companion.
“Hear that? All I need now is a [Scribe]. Who’s open at this hour?”
“Mm. Try the fat lady down Elmheart’s road?”
“But she’s no fun.”
“She’s married, Greilm.”
The two’s banter somehow reminded Ryoka of another pair of [Guardsmen]. She smiled.
“Right, but before that—do you know where I can get something hot to eat?”
“They’ve got wonderful seared fish at this inn—or if you’re in the mood, fresh bread’s being sold at this bakery with cheese in the filling—”
The two directed Ryoka to a number of the best eats according to them. And soon, Ryoka was chomping down on a hot cheesy mini loaf of bread and a seared fish straight from the marshes. Belly full, she was even able to smile as she went into the Runner’s Guild this time.
“Delivery to turn in. Here’s the seal.”
“Lord Malt’s seal? I hope you didn’t go to him looking like…”
The girl at the counter raised her eyebrows at Ryoka’s condition. The young woman made a face. The girl was barely sixteen, but she was giving Ryoka the same knowing look the [Guards] had.
“It was a priority delivery. I thought speed was important.”
“Maybe. Next time, come here and we can rinse you off first. Speaking of which…you want some hot water?”
“No, I’m headed back to Reizmelt. I’ll take the bulk-letter delivery and whatever else you’ve got. Is there anything?”
“No, sorry.”
The girl looked genuinely apologetic. She handed Ryoka a small sheaf of letters. The Runner girl sighed. Copper coins for the lot, then.
“Thanks.”
The young [Receptionist] eyed her.
“Are you sure you don’t want a bath?”
Ryoka hesitated. She did want one. But she’d be on the road, and so what was the point? She could take one in Reizmelt. She smiled.
“Thanks, but I’ll pass. I appreciate it, though.”
“No problem! Have a good run, Miss…?”
“Oh, Ryoka Griffin. Here. I can sign—”
Awkwardly, Ryoka signed over her name and collected her earnings for this delivery. She wished the girl at the desk farewell and left the Runner’s Guild. And suddenly, Ryoka was in good spirits.
It had nothing to do with the bug bite on her ear or the mud. Or her tired legs, which were asking for a stamina potion. But Ryoka felt good because here she was. Talking to people, making small talk, not blowing up. Being a Human. It shouldn’t feel so good. It was hard. And she had to work at it. But when it did happen, she felt good.
Ryoka’s high spirits lasted all the way to the edge of the city. Then she started running, and her good mood didn’t so much evaporate as…well, it took second place to running. When Ryoka was in the zone, she stopped thinking as much. She would have put her ear buds in and zoned out to an audiobook or her songs on her iPhone, but it was dead. And there was no [Mage] she trusted to repair it. So Ryoka ran.
 
——
 
This was a Runner’s life. Run and run and run. And get back to Reizmelt footsore, pouring a tiny bit of healing potion on a cut on her sole. Tired, exhausted, really. But Ryoka had gone the long way around the marshes, and at least she didn’t have any more mud on her. She headed straight for the Runner’s Guild, dropped off her letters, and made one delivery in place of the Street Runner.
“Hey, are you Emid?”
“Who wants to know?”
The [Butcher] turned at his counter. Ryoka presented him with a letter.
“Fresh from your cousin in Blaiseford. Greilm sends his regards and says you should come over and try the fish sometime.”
The [Butcher]’s heavyset face brightened into a smile.
“You spoke with Greilm? How’s that lazy bastard doing?”
“He seemed to be enjoying himself.”
Ryoka smiled. She chatted with the butcher named Emid for a few more minutes. She’d spoken with his cousin earlier that day, but it had been eight months since Emid had last seen his cousin at their family’s home. And again, somehow that made the run a bit more worth it. Ryoka even got a tip—four copper coins. Generous, for a letter like that.
Tired, Ryoka walked back down the street towards the Huntress’ Haven. She was so weary that she thought she might try climbing into her second-floor room from the outside if Madain wasn’t back yet. It was evening, after all. She paused in a square to look and see if Alber was plying his trade, but he wasn’t there. In another part of the city, probably. But Ryoka did hear a familiar voice.
“News from the Blood Fields! Gather round, gather round! Lord Tyrion met the Drakes in battle after challenging the Walled Cities to combat!”
A [Crier] was standing on a little platform, shouting loudly to his audience. He was a small man, but he had a Skill or his lungs were superb, because Ryoka could hear him clearly at a distance. She drifted over, and, spotting no handy benches or ledges, elected to sit on the ground instead. She saw a few children and adults come over, hungry for news from abroad. The [Crier] shouted his message at his crowd, starting with the news of Lord Tyrion Veltras—a name Ryoka had heard often this last month—first.
“Over forty thousand Drakes lie dead in the Blood Fields! Lord Tyrion Veltras is returning north with the majority of our army intact! Another victory for the north!”
A cheer went up from the crowd. Mostly muted, though. Ryoka saw that it was more adults that were happy about the news than the children. Forty thousand Drakes? It was just a number to them. For Ryoka’s part…she didn’t smile, but listened intently as the man went on.
“Lord Veltras personally led the charge and broke the disorganized Drakes’ lines twice-over! His [Mages] greatly outnumbered the green and green-scaled [Soldiers] the Drakes took to the field, and our nobility laid waste to their ranks! First, it is reported, Lord Veltras’ army opened up with a daring charge followed by wave after wave of our finest infantry, wielding Human-forged steel—”
“Which makes it better, of course.”
Ryoka sighed. She listened with one ear to the play-by-play, but then gave up. It was just details of the battle, not whether Liscor was doing well. Or anything else. The audience listened, captivated by the [Crier]’s words, though. He was a storyteller as much as a reporter. And in truth, Ryoka had only one label for his announcements, and that was propaganda.
She didn’t believe it was the one-sided victory for Tyrion Veltras that the man claimed it was. And if it had been—why? By all accounts, the Drakes were very good at war. If forty thousand of them had perished, how many Humans had died? Or how had Tyrion Veltras won so decisively?
It didn’t matter. She was far away, and nothing she knew could affect what had already happened. But Ryoka still kept an ear out for all news around Liscor. She still felt a pang every time she thought about the city. But if she went back now—no. Not yet. She wasn’t ready yet. She didn’t deserve to go back yet.
Ryoka bowed her head, tired now. She noticed the [Crier] was done after relating a tale about a giant Griffin slain by some adventuring team up north and the death of a beloved [Toy Maker] in the local area. He didn’t have news about world events at the moment, or he’d judged his audience wasn’t in the mood for news like that.
Ryoka wished he’d talked about the other continents. Chandrar and the King of Destruction, maybe. It had been too quiet over there. Or what about Rhir? Baleros? She wished there was some other way to get gossip, but if she began paying for news, she’d eat up her remaining coin supply. And she had spent almost all the gold she had paying for—
Ryoka was feeling the charms at her waist and the equipment on her belt when she noticed two things. Another person had taken the [Crier]’s place to considerably more enthusiasm and a larger crowd. The [Crier] scowled as a [Troubadour], or perhaps just a [Bard] with a lute, took up a spot on the little wooden stage. She began to sing popular songs on request, and in accordance, the crowd began dancing, singing along or just listening. Some [Shopkeepers] moved outside to sell and join the crowd, and a few of the artisans did likewise.
Among them was a familiar face. Ryoka picked Fierre out of the crowd in a moment; she was sitting outside a shop, keeping her body low and sheltering a mortar and pestle with one hand from the light breeze in the air. She was quite careful to let none of what she was grinding spill as she listened to the [Troubadour] sing.
Apparently, Fierre had more than one job. Which…made sense. Openers probably didn’t get all that much work, and there would be a lot fewer deliveries this late at night. Plus, Ryoka suspected that if a Courier wanted to use a go-between, they might go to someone with more experience and gear than Fierre.
There she was. Ryoka had a mixed reaction to Fierre’s presence. Part of her, old Ryoka, said to leave her be, to not talk to anyone, and to sit in her room and wait until it was time for dinner and then sleep. But new Ryoka, which was to say, the part of her that wanted to change, said to go over and say hi. But how did you do that? Ryoka had no idea. No experience. So she used her best technique.
What would Erin do? It was a question that guided Ryoka. It gave her courage. And it was one she could always answer. What would Erin do?
“Hey Fierre! I just saw you. Over there. Because I was staring. What’s up? Opened any interesting—uh, I mean, how’s the…‘wax business’?”
Ryoka smiled. She filled her heart with the image of her friend’s face and got up. A bit of courage. She walked over to Fierre. And paused as an old woman threw open the door to her shop.
“Fierre! Dead gods’ sake, I told you—”
The woman had to be in her late sixties. She had grey hair, a smutched apron and clothing—only the stains weren’t from blood. In fact, they were in quite a number of colors, and the old woman’s skin was similarly tattooed by foreign substances. She was an [Alchemist]; the smell emanating from her shop told Ryoka that. And she was holding something. A light mask made out of cloth. She thrust it at Fierre as the girl looked up. The old [Alchemist] berated the girl as she pointed at the mortar and pestle.
“I’ve told you time and again—you can’t grind Duskwilter stems without a mask! And outside? That scarf’s not enough protection, not by far! You have to do it inside with the mask! And gloves—thicker ones! I’ll—I’ll fire you if you don’t remember next time!”
Her voice quavered with worry, giving away the lie. But Fierre did duck her head.
“Sorry, Miss Kelysta.”
The [Alchemist] shook her head as she picked up the little sealed package of what had to be the dangerous Duskwilter stems with extreme care.
“You’ll get the shaking and paralysis within four years if you keep it up! And people will look to me! Your coughing—could it be—?”
She noticed Fierre’s shiver and turned paler with worry. The girl tugged the scarf further around her face—she’d been sitting in the shade too—and shook her head.
“It’s just a fever. I caught a cold.”
“Another one? But I gave you a potion that—”
Miss Kelysta disappeared back inside her shop, fussing over Fierre. Ryoka watched. Grinding up poison in front of the shop without a mask? Dangerous. But if Fierre was who Ryoka thought she was, maybe poison was low on her list of things to worry about. But then why was she shivering? To pretend she needed the heavy clothing? Maybe…
Ryoka saw the shop’s door close and realized she’d missed her chance to say hi. Of course, she still could; Fierre was probably working away inside. Erin would brush right in, ask about the flowers and if they were good in a stir fry, and probably help Fierre out while chatting to Miss Kelysta. And Ryoka could do that. All she had to do was open the door…
For a solid twenty seconds, Ryoka hesitated in front of the shop’s door. Then she turned away. She slunk off as a voice in her head berated her for her cowardice. But Ryoka kept going. Maybe next time. You couldn’t win them all.
 
——
 
Be a better person. Be sociable. Run faster. Learn to read the wind. Ryoka tried to put that mantra into practice that night as she ate a Corusdeer steak. Rare. The Huntress’ Haven was bustling, Madain was in a good mood from a successful hunt, and Ryoka was enjoying her food.
What kept Madain’s unique inn afloat was the fact that he served meat almost every night and that his alcohol was cheap. As such, the dining hour earned him a lot of his profits. That didn’t mean the inn was full to bursting—it just meant there were more people in it than his three regulars.
And Ryoka got a steak. Fresh, only a tiny bit too bloody, and she could have seconds if she wanted. If you could get over the early hours and Madain, staying at his inn really was rewarding. But it wasn’t the [Innkeeper] Ryoka was focused on tonight. Madain was busy serving food in between telling stories of his glory days to anyone who would listen.
No, it was Alber that Ryoka was interested in. And Fierre, but the girl didn’t let anyone eat with her. Ryoka noted—only because she made a point of spotting anything that confirmed her theory—that Fierre’s steak was so bloody it could have gotten up and walked.
Alber was sitting at a table, eating alone like Ryoka. He had several bruises, unlike her, but it looked like he’d come out ahead without any fights against adventurers. He was eating slowly, and Ryoka wondered if he’d cut his mouth. The [Fist Fighter] was surprisingly reluctant to use healing potions of any kind—maybe he’d learned that it wouldn’t toughen his body if he healed up right away.
Now was the time. Ryoka had exchanged good mornings with Alber for an entire week now, and she’d even had that bonding moment with him being knocked flat the other day. She got up and carefully walked over with half her steak on her plate. Alber looked up as Ryoka came over.
“Uh, hi. Mind if I sit?”
Brilliant opening. Just 100% smooth style. But Alber just nodded and cleared his gloves out of the way. Ryoka sat across from him, which immediately felt like the wrong move. He glanced up at her.
“So. How was business?”
“Fine.”
Alber looked slightly uncomfortable. That made two of them. Ryoka tried to smile and then realized she looked even weirder. Calm down. Do the Erin thing.
“Uh—had any good fights?”
“One. A [Miner]. Good punches. Got me twice.”
