“She’s the Wind Runner.”
“A Courier?”
For a second, Levil’s heart constricted as he worried about what a Courier might charge for an emergency delivery. But they’d pay it if they had to. They were alive—but Ullica shook her head.
“No. A City Runner.”
“That was a City Runner?”
Keima looked disbelieving. Bram shook his head.
“I’ve never heard of her. If she’s got a title, why haven’t we gotten word? We keep up to date with all the big names around here.”
“Probably because she’s not a big name.”
“But she’s called…?”
Levil was confused and tired. He went to sit down. Ullica did likewise. The Pithfire Hounds sat in the grass, too tired to move. Ullica spoke exhaustedly.
“I don’t know. That’s what they named her. And I guess it stuck. She’s really, really popular apparently.”
“With who? Runners?”
“Nah.”
That was all Ullica said. Levil waited, and then he realized she’d passed out. She lay in the grass, sleeping. He nearly laughed and didn’t when he saw Bram and Makki lying together.
“Well, I’ll remember her. We owe her. The Wind Runner. It’s…”
Levil searched for words as the others slowly drifted off to sleep. The [Pyromancer] blinked.
“Fitting.”
And then his head fell back, and he fell asleep.
 
——
 
“Miss Griffin? Miss Griffin?”
Ryoka woke up. She looked around, realized she was sitting at a table, and blinked. The [Receptionist]’s face was filling her vision. Ryoka sat up, realizing sunlight was shining through the windows of the Runner’s Guild.
“Where—how’s Lamont? Are the Pithfire—”
“All alive. Miss Ryoka, your job’s done. You should rest.”
“I’m fine.”
Ryoka spoke automatically and then realized she had an audience. A few Street Runners and some City Runners were staring at her. And so was the [Wagon Driver] she’d met. Termin. He was sitting at a table, a mug in his hands.
“How long was I asleep?”
“Six hours. You should get to a proper bed, Miss Ryoka. But before that—I hate to trouble you, but I’d like to give you this.”
The [Receptionist] handed Ryoka something. The Runner blinked at the small bag of gold and silver coins. She looked at it stupidly.
“What’s this?”
“Your fee, Miss Ryoka. We included the healing potions and other items you used. There’s more money for rescuing the wounded adventurer too.”
Ryoka stared down at the gold and silver coins. Then she looked up.
“Mine?”
“Yes.”
The [Receptionist] smiled at Ryoka’s vacant look.
“Maybe you should go lie down. You have an inn, don’t you?”
“It’s closed. Probably.”
Ryoka rubbed her face. She woke up a bit and then stood up.
“I can climb in through the window. Thank you. I’ll—thanks.”
The [Receptionist] stood back and shook her head.
“No need to thank me, Miss Griffin. I just did my job. But you—well, I’ve heard of Runners doing emergency deliveries, but you helped take out the Wailer Frogs.”
“I just…used a bit of wind magic. I have a Skill.”
Ryoka lied automatically. The [Receptionist] nodded.
“Be that as it may. I feel like I owe you an apology, Miss Griffin. I heard some rumors that—well, I think they were wrong. But you should know, someone’s told every Runner’s Guild north of Invrisil about you. And not in flattering terms.”
Ryoka gave her a blank look.
“Really? Well, I’m sure they were only half-true.”
The [Receptionist] covered a smile as Ryoka turned red. The Runner scuffed a foot on the floor and nodded after a second.
“Thanks for telling me.”
“It was my pleasure, Miss Griffin.”
“I’m Ryoka. And who’re you?”
“My name is Alime. It’s a pleasure to meet you.”
“Likewise. Thank you, Alime.”
Ryoka shook her hand. Then she waved at Termin. He waved back. Bemusedly, Ryoka looked around. The other Runners blinked at her. She smiled.
“Hi. Good morning.”
And then she wandered out of the Runner’s Guild.
 
——
 
The sun was bright, Ryoka half-asleep. But she woke up as she wandered about Reizmelt. Outside of the Runner’s Guild, few people gave her a second look, except perhaps to note the color of her skin, her different complexion. They hadn’t heard about the Pithfire Hounds yet. Only the [Guards] on the gates had.
Ryoka didn’t care about that. She kept feeling the little bag of gold. It was more money than she’d earned in two weeks of running deliveries. She remembered the panic and felt the relief course through her again. She’d done it. Lamont was alive. She didn’t know him. She’d never said a word to him, except to tell him to stay awake or warn him he was about to be in pain. But she was happy he was alive.
She’d done it. The wind blew around Ryoka, warming her. And then Ryoka was in the plaza square. Alber wasn’t there. But she saw a pale, hooded figure walking past her with two extremely heavy-looking pails, one in each hand. The lids were covered, and the pails were clearly full of some kind of liquid.
“I thought you only had two jobs.”
Fierre turned as Ryoka blinked stupidly at her. She started in surprise and then smiled.
“I work multiple jobs.”
“Oh. What’re you doing?”
Another man stopped, his forehead already covered in sweat, and put down the pails he was carrying.
“What’s it look like? Hauling this crap from a storage house to a caravan.”
He grunted and pointed. A wagon was parked ahead of them being loaded by other men and a few women who were placing the heavy pails in the back. A man in rich clothing was supervising. Fierre nodded.
“Part-time job. We’re hauling fresh milk bound to Invrisil, and grain. Sorry, I’d stop to talk, but we have to get these in the wagons before they spoil. There are no runes of preservation except in one of the wagons—for the milk.”
She picked up the pails and continued onwards. The man groaned and grasped the wooden handles of his pails as well. He spoke out of the corner of his mouth as he indicated Fierre’s shrouded body.
“I don’t know how she does it, scrawny as she is. I’m a Level 14 [Laborer], and I think these damn bags are as heavy as one of those fat [Merchants] paying us. Fat sacks of lard they are, too. Too bad we can’t milk them.”
Ryoka grinned. The [Laborer] smiled too.
“Hey Wind Runner, mind conjuring us a breeze?”
“Why not?”
Ryoka raised a hand, and a breeze sprung up. The men and women sighed in relief. Ryoka sat and watched them fill the wagon until it was creaking under the load. And then the next wagon and the next. Fierre really was quite strong for a girl who looked like she was in her teens. Very strong.
It was then that they found her. Ryoka’s fans. They came to her, clamoring, already having heard the latest tale about her. But they would have loved her even if she hadn’t just helped fight monsters. They all knew her name.
And that was her. Ryoka Griffin. Not famous. Liked a bit by adventurers, but not by her fellow Runners. And yet, she had a nickname. A title, which was an honor reserved only for famous City Runners and Couriers. Wind Runner. She had not been awarded that title by the Runners, who didn’t really know or like her. Or by the citizens of the cities around here, who had yet to know her. No, only one group had given her the nickname, but because it was them, it had stuck and become part of memory.
Children. Some as young as four, some as old as ten or eleven. They raced down the street, holding mud balls made of wet dirt and grass. Laughing and calling her name.
“Wind Runner, Wind Runner!”
“Wind Runner! Are you busy today?”
The Runner turned. She gave the children a smile.
“I’m not running today.”
“Then can you play?”
A little girl demanded. She was richer than the other children, at least if the white dress was any indication, but on the streets, it didn’t matter. She held a mud ball and looked at Ryoka. The Runner laughed. She leaned back and waved a hand. And the wind blew.
“Do I have a choice? Well? Come at me, then.”
The children shouted in delight. As one—and to the horror of the [Shopkeeper] whose glass frontage Ryoka was leaning against—they threw their ammunition. Mud balls flew through the air towards Ryoka. She looked up—and the wind blew. The children watched with gaping mouths as the spheres of crumbing dirt reversed course in midair and flew back at them. They scattered with screams of joy.
Kids. For some reason, they really liked Ryoka. It was probably the wind. And Ryoka running with bare feet. And her showing them how to do tricks, like standing flips. And—maybe because she sort of liked them. Ryoka laughed as the kids threw mud and dirt at her, watching as sticks were caught in the wind and blown around her. The winds protected Ryoka like an ever-shifting shield.
One of them charged her, mud ball in hand. Ryoka felt the wind twist as he lunged at her, and he went flying backwards, rolling over and yelping. She laughed, and he did too when he got up.
“Come on, is that the best you can do?”
She lay flat on the ground. Outraged, the children charged her, and the wind blew them back and forth, sending mud balls flying back at the throwers. Ryoka laughed and felt as silly as she’d ever been in her life. She felt young. And happy.
“Wind Runner! Do that thing! Please?”
Ryoka looked up. A group of children had made a sail. They’d already learned how to play with bed sheets, and a group of children soared past Ryoka, holding up a large white sheet like a sail, laughing madly. She smiled too.
The wind was not her friend. It was unpredictable, and that made it dangerous. But right now, right here, there was nothing to worry about. She smiled, weary but relieved, and she knew she was at the strongest she could ever be. She pointed, and the group of four children screamed with delight and alarm as the wind threatened to blow them and the sheet upwards, like the precursor to a hot air balloon.
“A moment of grace.”
“What is?”
Ryoka looked up. Fierre was watching the children play, a smile on her face. The girl stood in the shadows, tugging the hood over her face. Her pale skin looked…burnt. Despite her barely being in the sun. Ryoka sat up as the kids soared past her, screaming to go higher.
“Fierre.”
“Hi…Ryoka.”
“Are you off work?”
Fierre shrugged.
“I don’t have to work at my job with letters, if that’s what you’re asking. There’s not enough in the Runner’s Guild. And I just finished doing the hauling job.”
“Oh. Did it pay much?”
“A silver coin for an hour’s work. Good money if you don’t mind sweating hard.”
Fierre showed Ryoka a coin in one gloved hand. Ryoka noticed she was not sweating. The two waited together, watching the children play. Fierre murmured to Ryoka.
“I heard about the adventuring team. Mad Madain kept us informed. He’s happy. I think he’s grateful to you.”
“Well, he is a former adventurer. I guess they stick together.”
“Yes, they do.”
Fierre gave Ryoka an older smile than her face and body should have held. She looked at Ryoka.
“I didn’t know you volunteered to take on requests like that.”
“I…knew some adventurers. Down south. It’s just something I want to do if I can. I’m glad it worked out. It doesn’t always.”
“No. It doesn’t.”
Ryoka felt sleepy, but content. In this moment, talking to Fierre felt easy and pleasant. The girl looked down at her and suddenly asked a question.
“What’s it like? Being a Runner?”
“It’s not easy. Why, do you want to be one?”
Fierre looked wistful.
“I don’t think I could be. Maybe at night—but it’s harder than it looks, isn’t it?”
“Yes. It’s lonely. And dangerous.”
“Have you been doing it long? You’re new, as Runners go. I don’t mean to pry, but I hear things in my job—”
“No, it’s fine. I am new. I’ve been running all my life, but I’ve only been a Runner for less than a year. And really, I’ve only started taking my job seriously…now.”
“Really? But you were a City Runner in Celum. A good one, or so I heard.”
Fierre coughed. It might have been her cold or an allusion to her profession. Ryoka nodded, frowning.
“Yeah, but I don’t think I understood what it meant back then. I didn’t take my job as seriously. It was just…a job. But now? When I’m running for adventurers, it matters. People’s lives are on the line. So I do my best. Sometimes I’m too late. But I’ll keep getting faster. Better.”
“Until you become a Courier?”
“Huh? Maybe. Until I can go back. I’ve…decided to get better. I’m not going back until I can be useful. Until I can actually…you know?”
Ryoka looked up. But Fierre nodded as if she did know.
“It’s hard. Even Couriers struggle up here. Especially if you get mixed up in bad deliveries. I hope you can get better. You can certainly do—that. It’s a Skill, right?”
She pointed at the children, playing in the wind. One of them threw a handful of grass and watched it fly upwards, laughing. The wind blew it into a pair of open shutters, and there was an exclamation of outrage. The children scattered in fear, and Ryoka winced.
“Yeah. It’s a Skill. I can’t control it. But it’s, uh, [Runner’s Wind]. A very rare Skill.”
“It must be nice.”
Fierre looked mildly jealous. Ryoka shrugged.
“It’s frustrating sometimes. I wish I could do more. You know the feeling?”
“All the time.”
A rueful smile. And a flash of sharp canines. Ryoka glanced at Fierre.
“So, uh, what’s it like being a vampire?”
“Well, you kn—”
Fierre paused. What color there was in her face drained completely away. She looked down at Ryoka, and the Asian girl grinned sheepishly at her.
“Um…”
“You—how did—I’m not—”
Fierre leapt up. She backed away from Ryoka, stammering. Her hand went to her mouth. Ryoka got up hurriedly, holding a hand out.
“Wait a second, I’m not going to tell anyone. I just guessed. I am right, aren’t I? Fierre?”
“I can’t talk about it. Please don’t tell anyone. Please don’t.”
Fierre backed up towards an alleyway, her eyes wide and pleading. Ryoka nodded slowly.
“I won’t. I promise. I just want to talk. I won’t tell anyone, I swear.”
“Good. Thank you. I have to—have to go. Now. I’m sorry.”
Fierre turned and fled. Ryoka half moved to go after her, but her legs were wobbly. Behind her, the children exclaimed in disappointment. The wind died down. They dispersed, and Ryoka stayed where she was. She cursed inside, but only mildly. It hadn’t gone that badly.
