At the last minute, a [Beast Tamer] charged forwards and tackled his dog. He dragged the animal back as the Wailer Frog narrowly missed swallowing the wolfhound whole. His friend shouted at him, their words unintelligible. They couldn’t hear themselves.
“We have to go! Keep running!”
The [Pyromancer] in charge pointed at the two women carrying the wounded adventurer. They were panting, barely able to walk.
“We’ll never make it! We have to fight!”
“Lamont’s dying!”
“Keep running!”
The [Mage] pointed and threw another spark of fire. But the Wailer Frogs had learned the fire wasn’t nearly as strong and closed in. Hop, hop. It was comical—until one smashed into the second [Mage] trying to fend them off with a gust of fire. She screamed as the frog opened its mouth and bent over her.
“Tally!”
The adventurers ran as one. One stayed with the stricken Lamont. The other three charged at the Wailer Frog as the [Beast Tamer] let go of his dog. The three adventurers and dog stabbed the frog, battering it and heaving it off their friend. She lay on the ground, clutching her ribs, screaming, as the frog leapt back.
They were too large. Too large, too many—if only they had their potions. Two of their [Mages] were out of mana, and one of their warriors was down. The others had no healing potions. The adventurers looked at each other in desperation as the frogs screamed again. The dog wavered, then threw up. So did the [Pyromancer]. He wiped his mouth and found blood mixed with the vomit.
The sound was enough to make them ill. Even if they couldn’t hear it. He turned desperately.
“Run! If we can get to Reizmelt—”
It was a futile thought. The Adventurer’s Guild had been alerted, but they were too far away yet. Even if an adventuring team tried to get to them, how long would it take to rouse them, let alone run all this way? They’d send a request for a Runner, but would one really come?
Not any of the Runners from Reizmelt that he knew. But the leader of the Pithfire Hounds hoped. He hoped, because there was nothing else he could do. He was turning, grabbing at his friends, trying to urge them to run another hundred feet, when he saw it.
Something on the horizon. A cloud in the night. At first, the [Pyromancer], Levil, couldn’t believe what he was seeing. He thought it was a trick of the light. Then he realized it was no cloud. Or at least, it wasn’t one from the sky.
It was a dust storm. Blowing across the grasslands. The wind, made visible by all the matter it had picked up. Earth, dirt, grass. It raced towards them, a cloud bound to earth. The billowing cloud was neither long nor wide—it was as if it was following something.
Or someone. Levil blinked as he saw a shape racing across the grasslands towards him.
“Is that a Runner?”
The other members of Pithfire had spotted the cloud as well. They turned, panting, as the Wailer Frogs stopped advancing to eye the strange phenomenon with their bulbous eyes. And then they all saw her. Racing ahead of the cloud, the wind blowing at her back.
“Who is that? Hey, over here!”
Levil bellowed. He waved the wand over his head and conjured a last flicker of flames. The Runner spotted him. She bore down on them and then turned left.
“She’s running away!”
The other [Mage] cried out in despair. Levil stared at the Runner. She was pointing, gesturing with one flat hand. His eyes widened.
“No—get down! Down!”
The others looked at him. They could hear nothing, but they saw Levil throw himself to the ground. They immediately did likewise. The [Beast Tamer] covered his dog’s eyes and mouth. And then Levil saw the Runner charge past them, straight towards the frogs.
The oversized amphibians stared at her. They opened their mouths to scream at her. And then they noticed what was following her too late. A dust storm blew past Levil, stinging his eyes as he closed them and buried his face in the grass. He felt the particles stinging his exposed skin, the wind threatening to pick him up. And then he heard the Wailer Frogs scream—just for a second. Then they choked on the grit and dust blowing straight into their mouths.
Levil laughed and pushed himself up as the cloud blew past him. He heard a scream past the ringing in his ears.
“Saaaaaaand attack!”
Ryoka Griffin slowed and ran past the frogs, who were overbalanced, choking, their mouths and lungs clogged. She ran backwards, stumbling. The grass and ground around her was covered in dirt. The wind blew some more into her eyes.
“I’m a Runner! A Runner! Are you Pithfire Hounds?”
They were lying on the ground. One of them pushed himself up. He was wearing red leather, emblazoned with a fiery dog. And there was a dog, whining, writhing on the ground next to his handler. He looked at Ryoka.
“What?”
“I’m a Runner!”
“What? Are you a Runner?”
“Yes!”
He cupped one hand to his ear. Ryoka saw dried blood around his ears. She nodded.
“Yes! Here!”
She reached for the bag of holding. The pots of healing potions fell out, glass bottles and wooden ones. The adventurer grabbed for one.
“Healing potions! Lamont!”
One of the other adventurers charged over and seized a healing potion. She grabbed it and smashed the bottle in her hands. The potion splashed down over the injured man she’d been carrying. Lamont, the warrior, jerked as the healing potion ran onto his body. Ryoka saw terrible bloody splotches—internal bleeding and exposed bone around his ribs, his arm. His body had been crushed.
“He needs a [Healer]!”
“We need a [Healer]!”
The [Mage] shouted at Ryoka. He grabbed a mana potion, checked the label, then downed it, ignoring the grit in his mouth. He choked, forced himself to swallow, and grabbed a healing potion. The Pithfire Hounds were all doing the same. The [Beast Tamer] was feeding his wolfhound a potion as the animal whined.
“Can you hear me? He needs—”
The [Mage] twisted a finger in his ear, digging out dirt and blood. He looked at Ryoka suddenly.
“I can hear you! Dead gods, I can hear! Tally, Keima—”
He turned. The other [Mage] was drinking a potion. She wiped her mouth, spat dirt. Flames burst from the tip of her wand.
“Lamont. He’s healing, but it’s not enough. His bones are broken, and they’re not going back—”
One of the adventurers was bending over her friend. Ryoka saw the exposed fragments of bone twisting in his chest and felt sick. He was groaning, his eyes white. She saw the woman reach for another potion.
“Don’t!”
Ryoka knocked the bottle out of her hands. The woman turned on her, grasping at a sword.
“His bones aren’t set. You’ll only make his injuries worse! He needs a [Healer] to set them or he’s dead! Do you understand?”
The adventurer hesitated. The [Pyromancer] was conjuring fire.
“We’re too far away from the city. We have to stand and fight. Those bastard frogs won’t let us get away!”
Sure enough, Ryoka saw the Wailer Frogs heaving up the dirt they’d swallowed. They were visibly sick, but still intent on the adventurers. And even angrier.
“We can’t leave Lamont. He’s still bleeding—”
The flesh had healed, but in the process, the exposed bones had torn open his skin again. The female adventurer was trying to staunch the bleeding, but she didn’t know how. Ryoka knelt, feeling at her bag of holding.
“I’m [Healer]-certified. Let me see!”
They let her see the wound. Ryoka sucked in her breath as she saw the damage. She had no idea how to go about setting an injury like this. The bones of the rib had splintered through the skin, and the man’s shoulder looked dislocated and broken. He was making small sounds, as if screaming was too much.
“He needs to get back to the city.”
“We can’t spare two of you!”
The [Pyromancer] argued with his friends. Ryoka looked up.
“I’ll go. Let me take him.”
The other adventurers looked back incredulously at Ryoka.
“You? Lamont’s heavier than anyone else! You’ll never—”
“Take his armor off. All of it. I’ll carry him on my shoulders. If I can find a wagon on the road, I’ll get him to it. If not, I’ll stop. But he can’t stay here!”
Ryoka pointed back at the frogs. One was trying to wail. The female [Mage] blasted it with orbs of fire, shouting in fury as the frog’s hide charred and turned black. It recoiled, making a gagging, pained noise.
The other adventurers looked at each other. The [Pyromancer] looked down at his friend.
“Save him. Please.”
“I’ll try.”
That was all Ryoka said. She helped him strip the rest of the armor off of Lamont and then reached for him. It was wrong to move an injured man. Especially with broken bones. But she had to do it.
Lamont screamed once as Ryoka hoisted him up in the fireman’s carry. She felt something sharp dig into her shoulder, but ignored the pain.
“I’m going to the road. If I find a wagon, I’ll take it. Otherwise—”
“If you see the frogs, run.”
The [Pyromancer] nodded. He turned, and his wand and his arms burst into flame. The other adventurers were getting up. The wolfhound growled. The Wailer Frogs leapt forwards, still retching, trying to dislodge the dirt. The [Mage] with the wand checked his belt, ensuring the potions Ryoka had delivered were in place. Then he bellowed.
“Pithfire Hounds—charge!”
They ran forwards. Ryoka heard loud barking, a cut-off wail, and felt a burst of fire warm her back. She began to run. The wind blew her forwards as Ryoka made for the road. She tried not to jostle Lamont, but she could hear terrible sounds coming from his body. She ran as fast and as carefully as she could.
The sky was dark when Ryoka got to the road, but lightening. Ryoka looked up and down the road for a sign. For life. She found nothing. She put Lamont down, stretching him out and checking him.
“Alive.”
But his bones had shifted terribly during that short interval. Ryoka grabbed a potion and poured it into his mouth, forcing it open. She saw his flesh rearrange and prayed he would live. Then she stood up and looked around.
“Hey! I need help over here!”
A man with a wagon jerked as Ryoka ran onto the road. He was going fast, and one of his horses tried to rear. The man swore and pulled his wagon to a stop.
“What in the—”
He spotted the adventurer. Ryoka shouted.
“I’m a City Runner! That man’s an adventurer! There’s a monster attack!”
“Where?”
Ryoka pointed. She could smell fire in the air. Were the Pithfire Hounds winning or losing? She didn’t know.
“That way, a few hundred feet. This man needs a [Healer].”
“I can see that. Well then—”
The [Wagon Driver] hesitated, but only for a moment. Then he cursed, leaped into the back of his wagon, and began shoving things out of the way.
“Get him up here! Hold on—I’ll make a bed! We’re not far from Reizmelt!”
He helped Ryoka lift Lamont onto a bed of the hard sacks of something. Ryoka stared at a pile of what looked like crucible iron, or maybe steel.
“Dragons take me, what happened to his body?”
“Wailer Frogs.”
“Wailer what?”
Ryoka didn’t know how to explain. She was still going a mile a second. She knelt over Lamont. Even that small movement had opened up his injuries. The man urged his horses onwards.
“I’ll make us go as fast as I can! But I can’t abandon my cargo or I’m lost, you understand? Don’t worry, Erma and Fox can go as fast as may be with me guiding them. You just keep that young fellow steady, you hear? Do you have healing potions?”
“Yes! Thank you!”
Ryoka held Lamont, trying to keep him from suffering as the wagon jolted forwards. He was moaning. That was good. That meant he was alive.
“Thank you for stopping.”
That was all Ryoka could think to say when she’d caught her breath. Her body felt like rubber now, and she was shaking. She imagined the adventurers fighting after a night of running. Fighting those…frogs. She shivered and saw the [Wagon Driver] turn and give her a grin.
“I could hardly run you over, could I? And adventurers—you stop for them or maybe they won’t bail you out next time! I’m pleased to meet you, Miss. My name’s Termin. What’s yours?”
“Ryoka. Ryoka Griffin.”
She reached out and shook a weathered hand. They spoke little as the wagon picked up speed, rolling towards Reizmelt. For a moment, Ryoka caught her breath. And then she saw the city. She and Termin waved their hands and shouted, and the gates opened. She and three [Guards] carried Lamont into the city on a makeshift stretcher that was made out of Erma and Fox’s blankets, and the [Healer] was roused by the same Street Runner who’d gotten Ryoka. And then…and then…
And then Ryoka sat down.
 
——
 
An hour later, Levil was walking towards the road. He could barely move, but he forced himself to. In his hands, he held something. A bag filled with charred tongues. Wailer Frog tongues. It was all that he’d collected. Trophies, proof his team had slain the lot. And in truth, that was all he could find the energy to collect. Wailer Frogs weren’t worth much, and there wasn’t any point in trying to collect other body parts. The scorched, hacked remains lying in the grass weren’t worth much to anyone.
Four of his teammates walked with him. And one of their dogs, Makki. The other one, Dassa, was gone. Levil didn’t know what to say to their owner, Bram. The man was wiping tears away as he forced Makki to follow him. In truth, Levil was just tired and relieved.
They were alive. The Wailer Frogs had gone down to fire and more fire. With healing potions and mana potions, his team had put them down in a long fight. They still might have lost, but the frogs had lost their ability to wail. Their lungs had been filled with dirt. So they’d been saved twice over by the Runner who’d answered their call.
“Levil. I got in touch with Reizmelt’s Runner’s Guild.”
The other [Mage] of their team, Ullica, came over to Levil. She was pale from overusing her spells, but held herself upright through willpower as much as anything else. She was clutching her ribs—the healing potions must not have fully worked.
Levil looked up.
“That Runner. Did she make it back? Is Lamont—”
“He’s alive. I told them she came here and made the delivery—and that she was bringing him back. They told me—he’s alive. All broken up, but the [Healer]’s with him. We can see him when we get back to the city.”
A sigh ran through the adventurers. Keima hugged Bram. He just stood still, closing his eyes.
“Thank the Houses. Can you get them to send us a transport? I don’t think we can walk—”
Levil croaked. Ullica nodded. There was a moment of silence as she conveyed the request, and then Levil looked up.
“That Runner. Who was she?”
He could still remember the cloud and the wind that had followed her. It had been magic. Or—or something. He wasn’t sure. Ullica looked back at him.
