The wind at your back. If you had ever run through a gale, you knew how hard it was to run with the wind in your face. But when it was behind you? Sailors on ships, airplanes, runners—it didn’t matter who you were. The wind would slow you down or make you run faster. And the wind was always at Ryoka’s back these days. It was why she was called the Wind Runner. It was…her one triumph.
Ivolethe’s last gift to her.
Ryoka turned her face up to the sky. It was clear. The sun shone down warmly, but the wind made her cool. It blew the scents of spring around Ryoka. Budding flowers, fresh earth—and she felt a chill of excitement run through her. The wind was at her back. Ryoka was running with the wind.
A young boy was sitting with his father in a moving wagon. They were probably [Farmers], or else they lived in a nearby village and they had business in the city. As they moved down the dirt road, they saw Ryoka run by. The little boy’s eyes widened as the wind blew in his face, nearly lifting the hat off his head.
“Look! Dad, look, it’s the Wind Runner! She’s leaving the city!”
He clung to his straw hat, pointing excitedly at Ryoka. She heard him only after she’d passed; the wind snatched up his words and sent them to her. She half-turned and waved. The little boy waved back excitedly, the wind blowing around him. Ryoka smiled.
This was her magic. Her power. She’d run from Liscor, left Erin behind, run as far as she could after Ivolethe had…died. She’d run away from it all because she was too weak. Too weak to stand up to Az’kerash and Venitra. Too weak, and too destructive. So she’d run north to try again. And on the way, she’d found the wind.
It had taken her a month and a half. Not long. Not long at all. That was how long she’d been gone from Liscor. It felt like far longer. But Ryoka had counted every day. It had taken her two weeks of running, barely stopping to rest, to find Reizmelt. She’d passed Invrisil, the City of Adventurers. She’d gone further north still, footsore, weary. And by the time she’d gotten to Reizmelt, she’d understood the wind.
Not by learning. Not by reaching some epiphany. Just by being alone. Alone, with nothing but the wind and her guilt to keep her company. And it had reacted to her. Perhaps it was Ivolethe’s loss that did it. Ryoka could still remember the sound of ice shattering.
“I wish she could see this. She’d probably tell me not to get a big head. ‘I said run like the wind, not with it blowing about, you stupid fool!’ Or something like that.”
Ryoka laughed softly, and the wind carried her words away. She was alone. Alone, but for the wind. That was how she lived. There were other Runners on the road of course, and Couriers too. Ryoka sometimes saw them running like lightning across the ground. And there were people on horseback, in wagons, adventuring teams marching to slay some monster or other…
But Ryoka ran alone. Alone, but for the wind and her thoughts. Ryoka started talking to herself in short bursts. It was a new habit—mainly because she felt like the wind listened, even if it didn’t understand. It wasn’t a person. It didn’t think. But it was…something.
“My reputation. It’s probably…good? Fierre’s going to sell what I did, right? Can I…pay to check my own reputation somehow? I really don’t want to be known as a snitch.”
So far, Ryoka had only sold information about what she was delivering three times. And each time, it hadn’t been anything highly confidential. True, she’d never been handed something top-secret, but she liked to imagine she was establishing a reputation as someone who could be trusted not to open deliveries. Okay, she’d had all the expensive-looking parcels opened by Fierre, but she’d never asked to see what was inside. That was important, because Ryoka was sure that Fierre was reporting that detail as well.
Runners went to openers to collect information, but details of what they did with that knowledge would be sold as well. Ryoka had no doubt that Fierre was doing the same dance of selling what she knew to other information brokers while maintaining some level of confidentiality. And if that was the case, Ryoka had a vested interest in maintaining a reputation as a reasonably-trustworthy City Runner. It was all politics in the north. Politics, alliances—information was coin.
“But at the end of the day, you still need to do the delivery, am I right?”
Ryoka turned her head as if the wind was a real thing, flying by her side. She grinned—and then sensed something. A shifting in the winds. Ryoka missed a step and then threw up her arms.
“Aw h—”
The wind changed. Suddenly, it blasted southwards, buffeting Ryoka from the side. It tore at her clothes, and Ryoka found herself stumbling, cursing as grass stems and dirt were blown up and into her face. She staggered in the direction the wind was going, pushing, trying to make it stop, but it was like trying to heave a mountain uphill with just her mind. The wind howled for a second, ten seconds, seventeen—
And then it stopped. Ryoka opened one eye, wincing, and then wiped at her face. She stared at a black bug crawling on her hand and flicked it off. It took wing, and a little gust obligingly blew it away. Ryoka looked around.
“Gust from the north. Ow.”
She sighed and shook her head. She thought about swearing or throwing something at…the air, but there was no point. It wasn’t as if the wind had done that maliciously. The winds had altered, that was all. The winds could get very strong around Reizmelt. She should have noticed they were changing sooner.
“I forgot rule one. Okay.”
Ryoka began jogging again. The wind blew at her back, obligingly helpful again. And if Ryoka wanted, it could blow in her face, whirl away a cloud of gnats—even gust hard if she willed it. But she had to remember the first rule of running with the wind.
Rule #1: The wind is not your friend. It didn’t think—at least, not as far as Ryoka could tell, but it did have…moods. Unlike the fey, the wind was a force of nature, and that meant it wanted to blow, to gust. Her control over it was personal. When the air currents changed and a gale blew up, Ryoka could either run with the wind or fight it—and that was dangerous.
“How would I explain it to Erin? Hey Erin, I can run with the wind. I’ve got…wind speed. No, that’s awful. I can control the wind. Yes, like a super power. No, I won’t use it to sweep dust out of your inn. Okay, maybe. But am I getting paid?”
The young woman laughed. Then she grew sober.
“But the wind—I can’t control it. It’s…not mine. That’s what Ivolethe would say. ‘Ye fool, you. The wind obeys not you nor I! It only follows. If it changes its mind, it will blow your silly head off. The wind is stronger where ye move. But it is not yours. Force it and you’ll…’ I don’t know. But the backlash probably gets worse if I try to conjure a tornado. If I can even do that.”
The wind was stronger where Ryoka was. That was all. Stronger, and inclined to follow her. Where there was no breeze, one sprang up around Ryoka. Where the wind was a hurricane, it would be…a larger hurricane with Ryoka nearby. But she couldn’t control a hurricane. She could only suggest, push the wind slightly. And it didn’t obey her completely even then. Her mood affected the wind. If she raged, it raged. If she was calm, it was calm.
It was like having a magical, invisible friend. Slightly frightening. But oh, so grand. Ryoka looked up as some grass blew upwards. High, high into the sky. So far up that she couldn’t see it. But the wind still rose ever higher. Some days, she would just sit on a hill and stare up into the sky and feel the wind blowing. It made her smile.
Smile. Ryoka kept running. She felt her toes pressing down on soft grass. And she began to run faster.
And that was all Ryoka did for the next few hours. Just run at a jog she could maintain for hours, watching the landscape change. People on the road passed by, and Ryoka came to a crossroads. She studied the sign, went north. Another hour on the road, and then she went east.
The ground changed then. From solid earth to marshy waters filled with tall reeds. And unexpected places where the ground suddenly became water. Ryoka ran slower here, keeping to the smaller dirt road. There were fewer travellers around. More bugs. And the Runner girl checked her belt, wary of monsters lurking in the waters.
It was at this point that the wind decided to blow again. Ryoka yelped as some water sprayed her in the face. She took two steps forwards, slipped as the trail suddenly met a spot where the waters had flooded it with spring rains, and fell. She got up, cursing, and shook her fist at the wind.
“You’re as bad a Frost F—you’re half as bad as—you really piss me off, sometimes!”
The wind blew around Ryoka, and she imagined it was apologetic. Grumbling, Ryoka got up.
“I hate marshes.”
And apparently, the marshlands hated her. By the time Ryoka reached the city of Blaiseford’s Lookout, which sat far enough away from the marshlands, she’d decided that the ‘shortcut’ through the marshes was not worth it. True, it had saved her time and she’d reached Blaiseford in six hours, but she was muddy and a few bugs had managed to bite her despite the wind’s protection.
“Is that a Runner I see or a marsh monster?”
One of the [Guards] at the gate called down at Ryoka as she jogged up to the entrance. She opened her mouth to snap. And then she caught herself. Wait. He was smiling. It was a joke. Ryoka reconfigured what she was about to say.
“You try running through that damn marsh and not slipping. Why the hell did you decide to build a city at the edge of a marsh, anyways? Are you all crazy?”
The [Guard] chortled, and one of his fellows called down.
“It’s good hunting! And we’ve got [Farmers] who love the place! They drained a new patch of land, and they’re growing crops faster than we can eat them! What’s not to love? So long as we don’t have to get near the place.”
“True enough.”
Ryoka shook her head. There was a lot she could say about draining wetlands and ecology—but after slipping twice and finding the swampy waters around her, she wasn’t in the mood to speak up for the marshes. She looked up at the [Guards].
“Mind giving me directions? I’m on a delivery to the, uh, Malt Estates.”
“Oh, it’s to the left. Just follow the nicer roads. You’ll see it poking over the rooftops. Big building. Blue roof tiles. You see it?”
The [Guards] pointed Ryoka over, smiling. She nodded and waved at them. See? Wasn’t that easy? And she hadn’t cursed at them or flipped them off.
Better. Ryoka ran down the street, attracting a few head turns for her appearance. But no one had heard of her in this city. She stopped in front of a very rich mansion that was set inside the city.
Rather incongruously; it was trying to do that thing where it was set apart, down a winding walkway and far from the other buildings but it was squeezed into the city limits so the effect looked slightly silly. Ryoka supposed that it was more important to stay inside the walls than to have your spacious outdoors, though. She walked up the steps to the door and rapped on it loudly.
“City Runner on delivery!”
She waited for a minute. Then the door opened. A very proper [Butler] opened the door and blinked at Ryoka. Not in surprise, but more distaste. His gaze went first to Ryoka’s muddied clothing and then to the two missing fingers on her right hand. And then to her bare and muddy feet.
“You have a letter for Lord Beilkit? Please present it.”
“Here you are. May I request the seal?”
Ryoka fumbled for the letter. The [Butler] looked askance at her slightly grimy fingers touching the letter, but Ryoka wouldn’t give it to him until he presented the seal and she’d checked it. They exchanged letter and seal.
“Thank you. Is there a return letter? I’m available to wait if—”
“No. Good day to you, Miss Runner.”
The [Butler] coldly shut the door. Ryoka stared at the door and heard his footsteps moving off. She bit her lip. No tip. It sometimes occurred, especially in noble houses. Magnolia Reinhart had been famous for her tips—now, wasn’t that an old memory? But nope, not here. All she got was a dirty look after six hours straight of running. Ryoka turned and began walking away. She was hungry, tired, and she wanted a bath.
 
——
 
Okay, so some days aren’t the greatest. I can’t help but curse that [Butler] as I walk away from the fancy mansion. I try to shed as much dirt from my feet onto the lovely white stone tiles as I do.
Jerk. He didn’t have to look at me as if I was pond scum. I know I’m dirty. And yes, my fingers are dirty. Okay, I could have wiped them, but I forgot. And what if Lord Beil—whatever wants to send a letter back, full of salacious sexual tension? I could take the letter and save him a trip to the Runner’s Guild. I could even wait outside and come back!
But no, instead I get sent off. Think it was easy running through the marshlands? I was on the lookout the entire time for a Swamp Troll or something moving in the waters. I nearly peed myself when that frog croaked.
Stomp, stomp, stomp. I calm down a few minutes after leaving the mansion. I have to remind myself to be calm. The wind helps. I take a few deep breaths. Speak in my head because speaking out loud tends to get people looking at you strange.
Calm down, Ryoka. You did your job. You got paid for it—well, you’ll get paid for it. You did it, you were professional, you didn’t snap at the [Guards], and you even made them laugh. You said good morning. Now you’ll get some food, maybe see if there’s a bathhouse, go to the Runner’s Guild…you can even use a tiny bit of healing potion for those bites. You did it. Now get out of your head.
The young woman shook her head. And she stopped obsessing over the last encounter she’d had, no matter how much she wanted to. It was hard at first, and then she felt the wind swirl around her.
“Hoi, Miss Runner! Got the boot, did you? That swanky butler tell you off before or after he took your delivery?”
The [Guards] on the gate were switching posts. Ryoka looked up and grinned. Suddenly, they didn’t seem so bad. She shouted at the taller, brown-haired one as the shorter one with red hair and freckles grinned at her.
“I didn’t even get through the front door. Last time I do a delivery to this [Lord]! Next time, he can run through the swamps instead.”
They laughed at that.
“Our city’s not that bad! You just need to take the main road. No one maintains the swamp route—not in the spring.”
“No one told me that. The [Receptionist] at my Runner’s Guild said it was fine.”
“Hah! Where are you from?”
“Reizmelt.”
