Ryoka Griffin lay dreaming. It was a confused dream, a good one. And a sad one. She dreamed of familiar faces, of the dead, who in her dream were living and laughing. An inn on the hill waited for her, and she found herself running towards the door and drawing ever further away.
With every step she took, she ran backwards until she came to a place where the ground was bare, and where frozen shards of ice glittered. She heard the sound again, a fragile noise, as quiet as a heart breaking. Unforgettable.
Bad things had happened. Even dreaming, Ryoka Griffin knew that. Terrible things. Somewhere, in her dream, a girl was crying, and Ryoka was not there. She was far, far away.
But that was not the point of Ryoka’s dream. She was crouching, writing in the dirt next to the ice, when she thought someone had called her name. Ryoka looked up and saw a face. It was not icy, nor was it familiar. But the voice was. It laughed and reached out from somewhere far away. She reached for Ryoka and told her it was going to be all right. Ryoka reached up and tried to take that hand, believe that promise. She saw a smile—
“Up!”
A thud nearly shot her out of bed. Ryoka felt the impact shake the floorboards beneath her, felt her heart leap into her mouth, and practically somersaulted out of bed. She landed on the floor, ready to fight whatever had struck her—until she remembered. Ryoka heard another thunderous impact, and the same, booming voice from below.
“Get up, you lazy Runner! You too, [Fist Fighter]!”
Ryoka slowly felt at her chest to make sure her heart was in one piece. She heard someone else fall out of bed. The thumping on the floorboards paused a second, and then Ryoka heard somewhere down the hall another impact. The inn’s third and fourth guests were rudely awoken the same way.
“Up! I’m not asking twice! Anyone not down in five minutes eats nothing! Wake up!”
“I guess it’s time for breakfast.”
Ryoka muttered to herself as she rubbed her face. She stared out the window and noted that it was barely past dawn. She stumbled towards the door, opened it, and walked outside.
A young man was blearily staring at nothing. He was bare-chested, stocky, shorter than Ryoka, but well-muscled. Only, he didn’t give Ryoka the impression of a burly fellow, like the [Innkeeper] who’d just woken her up. He was more of an average frame that had put on muscle without fat. Sinewy was the word Ryoka was looking for.
Also, the young man in question, Alber, was naked except for some boxer shorts. They’d been put on backwards.
She blinked at him. He blinked back, and then Ryoka realized she was nearly naked as well. The two gave each other another long look and then backed into their rooms. Five minutes later, Ryoka opened her door at roughly the same time as Alber. Neither spoke as they walked downstairs, but then Ryoka caught herself. She cleared her throat.
“Uh, morning.”
Alber looked back over his shoulder. He hesitated and then nodded awkwardly.
“Morning.”
That was all they said, but Ryoka counted it as a victory. She walked down the rest of the stairs, avoiding a slippery spot halfway down to the bottom, and saw a huge man for whom the word ‘burly’ had been made. He turned as he set out five bowls of soup on the first of the relatively clean tables of his inn.
“Took you long enough! Here. It’s from last night. Eat up and hurry up—I’m going hunting.”
Ryoka chose one of the bowls and sat at a nearby table. Alber, without so much as a word, did the same. The [Innkeeper] didn’t care. He was already wolfing down his breakfast, which, Ryoka had to note, he’d added two eggs and a heel of bread to. Her bowl was unadorned.
“Good morning, Mister Madain.”
This time, Ryoka didn’t get to greet him first. She’d been…choosing her moment when the other two guests of the inn came down the stairs. The person who’d spoken was a thin girl, wrapped up in layers of clothing. She spoke carefully, her pale face poking out of her clothing. She sniffed and wiped her nose. Madain, or ‘Mad Madain’ as people called him behind his back and when they were sure he was out of earshot, looked up. He grinned at the young woman and the rather woebegone man behind her.
“Morning, Fierre. And morning to you, whoever you are. Enjoy your sleep?”
The fourth guest of Mad Madain’s inn, The Huntress’ Haven, blinked. He was a [Trader]. New to the city of Reizmelt. And apparently ill-liked, because no one had warned him of this inn’s particular idiosyncrasies.
“I, uh, did. Thank you, Mister Madain. But, uh, I didn’t know we’d be waking up—”
“Like it? I came up with it myself. We all get up at the same time and eat together! I can lock up the inn that way. Here. Breakfast.”
The [Trader] looked into the last bowl of meaty soup—the double of the one he’d eaten last night. Fierre had already taken her bowl and was quietly eating it. He gulped.
“I, uh, I think I might go out for breakfast, sir. Did you say you’ll be locking up?”
Madain scowled.
“Yeah. In ten minutes. You want something from your rooms, you get it now, got it? Otherwise, I’ll be back in the afternoon.”
“Ah. W-when?”
The question seemed to be too much for Madain. He slapped the table with an open palm.
“I don’t know! Sometime!”
The [Trader] looked around. He got nothing from Ryoka, Alber, or Fierre. All three had heard variations of this argument before and wanted no part of it. Ryoka’s only concern was filling her stomach and then figuring out how to wish Fierre a good morning too.
“But this is an inn, isn’t it? Couldn’t you leave it open?”
“If I had a staff, yeah. I don’t. And I’m not leaving my inn open to get stolen from.”
Madain scowled.
“But if a [Thief] broke into it—”
“I’ll hunt him down and cut his balls off. What’s the problem, man? Either eat or stop asking questions! My food’s getting cold!”
The two men stared at each other for a long moment. The [Trader] searched for words and then shook his head.
“I’m—going to get my things. Please don’t lock up. I want to pay for my room.”
He went back up the stairs. Madain glowered and shouted at his back.
“You’re still paying for the nights you booked your room for!”
There was no reply. The [Innkeeper] turned back to his bowl. His three remaining guests didn’t catch his eye. Madain glowered at his meal.
“Good. I didn’t like him anyways.”
No one replied. The scene just witnessed was a common one at The Huntress’ Haven. Ryoka, who’d only been staying here for two weeks, was used to it already. And she had to be—you either learned to deal with the most infamous [Innkeeper] in all of Reizmelt or you found somewhere else to stay. Most chose to find somewhere else to stay.
Mad Madain’s tale was a simple one. He was a retired adventurer. Gold-rank, or rather, he’d been part of a Gold-rank team, which wasn’t quite the same as being certified Gold-rank himself. But he’d been good enough to survive until retirement, and he’d done what most adventurers liked to talk about: open an inn. The problem was that Madain had exactly the opposite temperament that any good [Innkeeper] needed. He might have made a wonderful tavern owner. But [Innkeeper]? No.
One example of Madain’s style was how he woke up his patrons for breakfast. He’d decided early on that it was tiring to hang around and wait for people to wake up. So they woke up when he did and got out of his inn when he decided. Sometimes it was before dawn, others, late in the day. Regardless, when he was up, Madain served food and then left his inn to fulfill his true passion: hunting. He had been a [Javelineer], and his arm was still as strong, even if he preferred to win his fights up close.
All of this just meant that his inn was very, very empty of regular guests. At least of the kind who stayed overnight. Still, if you could stomach mostly meat dishes, leftovers, waking up at dawn, and Madain’s own personality…you couldn’t beat those prices! Bed and breakfast, thank you. Plus, you could be sure everything was fresh.
The inn had three regulars. Alber, the [Fist Fighter]. Fierre, who had a semi-permanent cough  and multiple jobs. And Ryoka Griffin. City Runner, otherworlder, and now, the Wind Runner as people had begun to call her.
It wasn’t really a mark of fame. Madain called Ryoka by her nickname because he couldn’t be bothered to learn her actual name. As for Fierre and Alber—they kept to themselves. Alber was flexing his hands, and Ryoka knew he was eating lightly. He’d be out in the square nearest to the inn within the hour, with his little bowl and ring set up. He was a [Fist Fighter] and earned his coin challenging visitors and the citizens of Reizmelt to fights.
In a week, maybe three, he’d probably be off to another city where people had never heard of him before. As for Fierre—well, apparently she’d been staying at this very inn for nearly a year. And Ryoka didn’t know what her class was, but she’d noticed Fierre’s teeth. They were sharp.
Ryoka finished her bowl quickly and sat back for a moment to let it digest. Despite her rude awakening, she didn’t feel bad today. Not particularly good, either—it was another day. But she’d said one out of three “good mornings”, and that was a partial win, wasn’t it?
“Oi, Wind Runner.”
Ryoka’s head snapped up. Madain was looking at her. He pointed with one stubby finger.
“You’re always humming that tune. What’s it called?”
Ryoka coughed and turned a bit red. She looked at Alber for a second—she’d been staring at him.
“Uh—The Boxer. It’s…by Simon and Garfunkel. It’s just a song I like.”
Alber didn’t notice Ryoka’s stare. Nor did he seem to notice the title of her song. Madain just grunted.
“Who? Never heard of them. The names sound funny. Gnollish. You some kind of fur-lover? Been down south? I heard you came from that way.”
Conversation was unusual during breakfast—at least, two-way conversation. Ryoka scrambled for a reply.
“I did. Uh, I used to run around Celum.”
“Never been there.”
“Oh.”
And like that, conversation ended. Madain went back to noisily eating. Ryoka stared at her empty bowl. Then she glanced at Alber again.
He wasn’t from her world. Ryoka was sure of that. And yet, he was a [Fist Fighter]. Not the first this world had ever seen, but unique to Reizmelt. After all, fighting with your fists was normal enough, but for money? Why not be an adventurer if you liked hitting and being hit?
This world had no boxers. No tradition of the sport—at least, not in Izril. There were [Gladiators] in Chandrar, [Mercenaries] in Baleros, and [Sellswords] throughout the world, but no boxers. At first, Ryoka had been sure that Alber was from her world. But he hadn’t looked up at hearing the song’s name.
Oh well. Ryoka sat back in her chair. Eventually, Madain stood up. He didn’t ask for bowls or go around picking them up; Ryoka gathered her dish and utensils and left them in the kitchen with Fierre and Alber. The three walked outside as Madain remained to eject the unfortunate [Trader]. The two young women and the young man exchanged a glance. The city of Reizmelt was still dark. Still waking up.
Ryoka saw Fierre coughing into the scarf wound around her head, for all that it was only cool. It was spring, and the world had warmed. Still, she was bundled from head to toe. She was certainly shivering enough to warrant it, but—Ryoka cleared her throat. Now.
“Morning, Fierre.”
The young woman jumped. She looked at Ryoka and then gave her a smile that exposed exactly none of her teeth.
“Morning, Miss Ryoka.”
She hurried away before Ryoka could say anything else. Which was good because that was all Ryoka had. Good morning. Or ‘Morning’ to be hip and chill with the modern generation. Ryoka sighed. Then she brightened. Alber was striding away, already putting on his leather gloves. Ryoka looked back towards the inn.
“See you, Madain! And good morning!”
The [Innkeeper] looked up from threatening the [Trader] with bodily harm as they argued over his fee. He opened his mouth, but Ryoka was already gone. And she was grinning.
Mission accomplished. Three out of three. The [Trader] didn’t count. Ryoka hadn’t prepared her heart for a fourth good morning. She began running down the streets of Reizmelt. The city had paved streets, smooth brickwork that Ryoka was grateful for. She kept an eye out for crap on the ground, though. Literal poo was not something she wanted to step in, or broken glass or anything else. And as she ran, the wind picked up.
The wind had been still in the air. As Ryoka began to move and her stride lengthened, a breeze ran through the city. It was gentle at first. Then it picked up a bit. Ryoka smiled as the wind swept down the street, filling the air around her back. And it woke the city up.
A shutter flew open as Ryoka passed underneath. A man staggered to the open window, got a blast of wind in the face, and shouted at her back.
“Run somewhere else in the mornings!”
Ryoka waved an apologetic hand. The wind swept past rattling shutters, seeming to delight in making as much noise as possible. She heard similar insults from other houses, but then a young pair of hands thrust open a house’s shutters on the ground floor. A little face poked out and shouted.
“Miss Wind Runner!”
A gust of wind blasted into the child’s face. She made a delighted noise and climbed out of her window. Another child raced out the door. A young boy waved as he ran after Ryoka.
“Wind Runner! Miss Runner!”
“I’ve got work. Shoo!”
Ryoka tried to fend off the little kids running out of their houses after her. Of course, that only made them chase her harder. In the end, it didn’t matter. Energetic as they might be, they were quite slow. Ryoka left them behind as she approached her destination. The Runner’s Guild of Reizmelt. She was a regular there. Or at least, the [Receptionist] knew her on sight.
There was a Runner’s Guild in almost every city, big and small, where they knew every Runner’s face by name or where they had an assembly line. It was almost always a female [Receptionist] at the desk. Apparently, that was a policy of the Runner’s Guild.
Ryoka slowed as she entered the building. She made sure to wipe her feet on the mat before entering, and she headed straight for the board filled with requests. The few other Runners chatting or doing overnight deliveries looked up when they saw her, but no one knew her well enough to call out. Ryoka studied the board and found nothing but cheap requests.
