Deliver a package to the next city over. Do the daily bulk-letter delivery. Pick up a package from a village and deliver it. The fee for each delivery was marked, and Ryoka saw nothing more than a few silver coins’ worth of work on first glance. Then she spotted a nice contract at the bottom. It must have been new, because it was good and no one had picked it up. She snagged it.
The [Receptionist] at the desk had been patiently waiting for someone to come to her. She watched Ryoka approach and then put on a cheerful smile.
“Good morning, Miss Griffin.”
“Good morning. Here’s my request.”
The [Receptionist] checked the paper as Ryoka waited patiently. She’d probably been the one to put it up, because she looked up almost instantly.
“Sixteen silver coins for a priority delivery to Blaiseford’s Lookout. Letter delivery. The deadline’s by evening. Will you take this request?”
The Runner hesitated.
“Any counter-offers on this delivery? Any bounties I should know about?”
Ryoka felt silly for asking, but she had to know. The [Receptionist] shook her head briskly. She would have said if there was. Ryoka nodded.
“In that case, I’ll take it.”
“Wonderful. One second, please.”
Ryoka waited as the young woman turned and went to a bunch of sorted packages ready to be delivered. She came back with the letter in question—high-quality paper emblazoned with a blue wax seal with wood shavings embedded in the wax. Ryoka had expected it to be something like that. Whoever was paying for priority had to be fairly rich. The [Receptionist] briskly spread a map out in front of Ryoka.
“The path from Reizmelt to Blaiseford takes eight hours for the average runner. There is a road the entire way there. However, please be aware that you will be travelling through the Gilliel Swamplands if you take a direct route. There is a road that skirts the swamps, but this is a priority delivery, and the interior route is relatively well-maintained. Be on the lookout for undead, submerged monsters, and bandits though. We’ve had reports that the Bloodfeast Raiders were operating out of that area two months prior, and although they’ve moved, any signs of activity should be reported immediately. Do you need a description of the known raiders?”
The words were spoken quickly and briskly as she traced a path for Ryoka. The Asian girl shook her head.
“No, thank you.”
The [Receptionist] nodded and rolled up the map. Her leg buckled as she went to bend and put it away. Ryoka saw her catch herself. The two pretended the moment had never happened.
“In that case, here is your letter. The seal you will receive is not Blaiseford’s usual seal. It will look like the following: blue stripes on white painted wood and a little crest of a bird, drawn in red—”
Ryoka memorized the seal’s description and nodded again. The [Receptionist] finally handed her the letter in question and marked down the time Ryoka had picked it up. And Ryoka’s name.
Things were more complicated in the north. Around Celum, the process would have been quick. Get to the desk, get your package, hear what deadline there was and if there was a threat in the area—and go. But here, Ryoka not only got a rundown of the nearby threats, her progress was also monitored. She was more accountable. And that was because her delivery mattered up north, where it didn’t further south.
To put it another way, the stakes were a lot lower around Celum, the threats marginal—unless you were to venture near the High Passes. Around Reizmelt, which was further north than Invrisil, the dangers to a City Runner were higher, and not from the local wildlife.
Bandits, bounty hunters, and only occasionally monsters were what killed Runners in the north. When Ryoka had asked about bounties or counter offers, she’d been checking to make sure this delivery wasn’t contested. As in, no one would hire a [Bandit] group to take her out or try and kill her and steal the letter for themselves. It was something she had to be very careful of.
As a City Runner, Ryoka was a low-tier pawn in any power game. It was unlikely she would get involved in a major incident—that was a job for Couriers—but you never knew when you might attract the wrong kind of attention.
Still, this letter was only sixteen silver coins’ worth of cargo. On the other hand, it was almost a gold coin’s worth of money to deliver a single letter. True, it was an eight-hour journey, but it made Ryoka a tiny bit suspicious. So, as she left the Runner’s Guild, she did not immediately head for the gates. Instead, she took a detour and went back the way she’d come.
There were more people on the street, and they looked up as Ryoka ran past, the gust of wind following her. It had stayed outside of the Runner’s Guild, but it was still there when she left. This time, it was a light breeze on her back. Ryoka turned down the street, passed the Huntress’ Haven, and came to a little door set in an alley not a block away. She knocked twice on the door and then kicked it once. There was a long pause. Ryoka heard a little slot slide open, saw an eye for one second that she recognized. The iris was…slightly red. Then the door quickly opened.
“Delivery?”
A young woman stood inside the tiny little retreat. There was a door on the far end which led to a [Carpenter]’s shop, but it was locked, barred, and would never be opened. There were no windows in this…place either. And Ryoka was pretty sure that the entire room was under some kind of magical ward. She could feel it in the air. It hummed in her ears, but she just nodded.
“Just now. I’m asking for an open-and-check.”
She looked at the young woman as she walked behind her counter and sat on a high stool. Fierre, whom Ryoka had just seen, nodded and reached out.
“What’s the delivery price?”
“Sixteen silver coins. I’ll give you…three.”
“Four.”
“Three and six copper?”
“Done. What was the Runner’s Seal description?”
“Blue stripes on a white painted wood chip. Uh, a little bird in the corner. Red.”
“That’s…a [Lord]’s personal seal. Let me look it up.”
Fierre reached for a hand-bound book. She began flipping through it quickly. Ryoka interjected.
“Try Blaiseford. That’s where—”
Someone knocked on the door and kicked once. Both girls froze. Ryoka went still, and Fierre looked up. She reached for something on the counter. A bell. She rang it once. The two heard footsteps, and whoever was there left. They’d be back in thirty minutes. Or they’d find someone else.
“Blaiseford?”
Fierre looked at Ryoka as if nothing had happened. Ryoka nodded, glancing back at the door. Fierre noticed the look.
“Don’t worry. Even if they saw you come in, no one’s reporting you. If they do, they’re in trouble.”
Reassured, Ryoka nodded. Fierre went back to looking through the book. At last, she peered at a little entry and made a sound.
“Ah. Here it is. You’re delivering to Lord Beilkit. Of House Malt.”
“Malt?”
Ryoka suppressed a smile. Fierre looked up. Her lips twitched for a second.
“They’re an old family. A hundred and…two years old. They earn their profits through their lands, actually. Sheep are big for their estates.”
“I see. How about the letter?”
“Let me check.”
Fierre reached for a drawer, pulling out an amulet with a clear stone. She ran it over the letter lightly and shook her head.
“No reaction. Want me to open it? It’s just a wax seal—there’s no trick to the letter that I can see.”
“Please.”
“One second.”
Fierre reached over for a little blade, very flat, and lit a candle. She began warming the blade before carefully teasing at the wax seal. The running girl had a moment of qualm as she watched. But only a moment. She watched Fierre begin to tease the seal off the letter and then met her eyes.
“You might want to stand back.”
“Right. Sorry.”
Ryoka retreated to the end of the room. If Fierre had thought it was dangerous, she would have told Ryoka to wait outside. The girl opened the letter slowly, her movements careful, taking care to leave the seal intact. But both she and Ryoka were waiting to see what the letter contained.
Fierre was a Runner’s fence. Or perhaps information broker was a better word. Ryoka knew that Fierre didn’t really deal on the wrong end of the law—certainly not enough for the local authorities to worry about her. She was…an opener. And what she opened were envelopes.
The Runner’s Guild had a strict code. Runners delivered messages through storms and mud, outrunning monsters and hiding from bandits. They were an incorruptible force that existed only to deliver goods and messages across the continent at lightning speed.
In theory. In practice, Runners were as corruptible as any organization. More so in fact; Runners didn’t earn a lot to risk their lives—at least, unless they were Couriers or had cushy, safe contracts available at all times. So that meant their loyalty towards the people they delivered for was negotiable.
Highly negotiable, in fact. In the north, where information was worth gold, selling details about who was sending what to whom was extremely profitable. Ryoka hadn’t known that when she’d first come north, but after two weeks of earning barely enough silver and copper to survive, she’d picked up on how things were done. She’d paid for information and found out that Fierre was one of Reizmelt’s local go-betweens, the person every Runner knew but didn’t talk about. The person they went to when they wanted to know what they were carrying.
It wasn’t something Fals or Garia would have done around Celum. Even Persua wouldn’t have stooped so low—not because she was unwilling, but because there was no profit in it in the south. There weren’t enough of the nobility to justify the risk. But up north? Here, you could earn gold coins for delivering a letter, if you made sure to sell the contents of the letter to a few information brokers on the way.
“No tricks on the envelope. Hopefully the letter’s just folded and there’s no trick to folding it or a slip meant to tear…no dust or other contents…”
Fierre mumbled to herself as she gently inspected the letter. She was holding her breath too, in case someone had sprinkled something nasty into the envelope. Ryoka watched her, praying that Fierre wouldn’t accidentally rip anything or give away that the letter had been opened. If that happened, Ryoka was in trouble. And if the letter contained a trap, she and Fierre were in trouble. It wasn’t likely, but…
The Runner’s Guild had their own methods of checking for poison or traps. After all, they were the middlemen, and if one of their Runners delivered the equivalent of a bomb to someone, they’d suffer for it. But again, there were always exceptions. And sometimes people warded their gifts in creative ways.
Risky business all around. A Runner who was deemed too untrustworthy wouldn’t keep their job. And if they annoyed the wrong people, they could skip being fired and end up dead. So everyone walked a tightrope. Was it better to be known to be trustworthy and get hired for that reason or sell what you could and risk the consequences for profit?
Ryoka didn’t open many letters she was given. But ones from the nobility addressed to each other were a different matter. She waited as Fierre took out a rather lengthy message, again written on expensive paper as opposed to parchment. The opener looked up.
“Want me to read it?”
“Yes, please.”
Fierre nodded. That was another service she provided. She scanned the letter, and to Ryoka’s surprise, the tips of her pale ears went red. She kept reading, though, scanning the letter from top to bottom. Then she looked at Ryoka and shook her head.
“Nothing. An affair, that’s all. Between—”
“I don’t want to know. Please seal it back up.”
Ryoka spoke quickly. Fierre nodded. She put the message back in the letter and began to delicately heat the wax seal to reapply it to the paper. Ryoka breathed more easily.
“So just an affair?”
“Mhm.”
“Was it…interesting?”
Fierre smiled and then covered her teeth with one hand.
“Um. It’s certainly worth something. The details alone would earn you—hold on.”
She pressed the wax seal back onto the letter and pushed it towards Ryoka. The girl took it, carefully blowing on the seal to cool it before she put it in the bag of holding at her side. Fierre was doing a bit of calculation with her quill, scratching into the wooden desk.
“I could…I could give you six gold coins for the information.”
“Six?”
Fierre flashed Ryoka a grin.
“The details were very interesting. But, um, I wouldn’t recommend it. Because the contents of the letter are private, so the risk’s high…”
“…That it would be traced back to me. Got it.”
Ryoka nodded and thought for a second. Six gold coins were appealing, but this secret sounded like it could bite her if the contents of the letter got spread around. She shook her head as she touched the bag of holding at her side. She could use six gold coins. Oh well.
“No thanks. Not a word about it to anyone. Here.”
She put three silver coins and six copper ones on the table. Fierre swept them up and nodded.
“Thanks for the business.”
“Thank you. And, uh, see you later.”
The young woman nodded slightly. Ryoka coughed. Should she not have said that? On the other hand, it wasn’t as if they didn’t see each other every day. She walked back towards the door, slid the peeping slot open, and checked the alleyway. No one was there. Ryoka opened the door and slipped out.
Her encounter with Fierre had taken about ten minutes and set her back roughly four silver coins. Not ideal, but it had been worth the time spent. Or so Ryoka felt. She consoled herself over the loss of the silver coins as she ran towards the gates.
“It’s not like it’s a waste of coin. I know the letter’s not trapped, that I’m not walking into a trap…probably…and I’m solidifying my reputation. You know?”
The wind blew around her in response, snatching her words up. Ryoka sighed, but then she smiled as the wind blew her hair and raced ahead of her, through the gates. The [Guardswoman] on duty looked up, and a man driving a wagon turned his head as Ryoka raced out of the city. The Wind Runner left Reizmelt behind.
“Everyone plays this game. I’m not a bad person for doing it. I’m a bad person for other reasons.”
Ryoka informed the wind. It didn’t seem to care. It blew at her back, lightening her steps ever so slightly. No, more than that, it made a difference. As she ran across the flat grasslands that were Reizmelt’s landscape, the wind blew more and more fiercely, and Ryoka felt herself take off.
