After a while, Ryoka realized she hadn’t had lunch. So she trundled over to a tavern and got a hot potato loaded with extras. It was as close to fast food as she could get, so Ryoka walked back to The Huntress’ Haven, eating it and listening to her stomach voice approval. She hoped it was open so she could sit in her room. Take a bath, get the dirty clothes off her—and think about what to say to Fierre. This time, she’d be smooth about it. Just tell her she was a…historian? No, that she knew some of the old legends and she was totally fine with vampires, just curious. And then she had all the questions she wanted to ask—tactfully—
Ryoka reached for the door and discovered it was open. Much to her relief. She stepped into the inn and didn’t hear Madain banging about. Which was fine. Ryoka walked up to her room, eating the last bits of her potato. She pushed on the door to her room before she remembered she needed a key. She reached for her pocket—
And the door swung open. Ryoka blinked. She’d forgotten to lock it. Damn. Well, it wasn’t as if she had anything important in there. It was all in her bag of holding. Which reminded her, she needed to stock up on more loose dirt to repeat her sandstorm attack. Sand-attack. Hah! Pokémon wins again. Ryoka walked into the room and saw a shadow move. She spun—
“No! Fierr—”
The slim arms encircled Ryoka’s neck before she could speak. She choked and threw herself back. But Fierre was clinging to her back, and she was strong. Ryoka couldn’t even throw her off.
“Don’t—not—”
Ryoka gasped for air. She hammered Fierre with her arms and elbows, but the vampire girl didn’t so much as flinch. She tightened her grip further, and the world went—
 
——
 
Ryoka woke up somewhere else. Her body hurt. Especially around the neck. Not because of a vampire bite. More because of her crushed windpipe. Ryoka coughed, tried to sit up, and then felt weak all over. She felt bruised, knocked about—and then she realized it was dark. She’d definitely missed dinner.
And there were voices. Above her. Ryoka looked around. It was almost completely dark, but she could sense she was lying on something hard…cold…flat. A smooth surface. A counter?
A coffin. It was made of grey stone, smooth with time. She sensed a vast ceiling overhead. Tall rafters. The impressions of statues. And then a commanding voice.
“Serafierre val Lischelle-Drakle, what is it you have brought into our home?”
Ryoka Griffin looked up. And she saw a shadow move ahead of her. It had been so still that Fierre had been part of the darkness. Now she bowed.
“A Runner, Mother. She knows who we are.”
“She does?”
The lilting voice rose with surprise. Ryoka looked up, and then she saw motion. Moonlight shone down. A figure leapt down, twenty feet, and landed lightly on the ground. A body moved, and a woman stepped out of the darkness. Fierre rose to greet her, and another shadow appeared. Another figure moved with inhuman grace.
And that was the word for it. Inhuman. They joined Fierre’s mother. One by one. Four of them. Pale skin. Eyes with red irises. And, in the moonlight, they grinned, and their fangs were brilliant, their every movement powerful.
Vampires. Ryoka stared up as they gathered, standing on the lids of the coffins around her. Fierre’s mother glided towards her. She was tall, beautiful, her hair pale, bordering on white. To behold her was to see an image out of legends, given undying flesh.
There she was. Immortal. Graceful. Pale as moonlight, sinuous and powerful. Rashy. Ryoka stared at a red rash running down Fierre’s mother’s right arm. And then she noticed Fierre was wiping her nose on her sleeve. A vampire, a creature of the night, gave a wet, weak cough. The third had an odd swelling around his pale neck, just under his jaw.
The vampires eyed Ryoka. She eyed them. One of them coughed again. Ryoka blinked. She felt at her neck, shrugged. Her stomach rumbled loudly.
“At least you don’t sparkle.”
Then she lay down and promptly passed out again. It seemed like the only appropriate thing to do.
