When the serpent smashed against the barrier, nothing happened at first.

Nor the second time, nor the third time.

However, I could feel my Qi being called out more aggressively as the fourth time hit, and the barrier began to crack.

By the time the fifth head smashing came, the serpent’s blood was all over the barrier, seeping through the cracks and landing on the surface.

Finally, the scythe came down again, wounding the serpent pretty badly; however… It was too late.

Somehow, I wasn’t sure what skill the serpent had used, but its blood ignited into a blue sort of fire that rapidly spread, eating away at the barrier.

As for the blood on the surface of the aircraft… It ignited as well, burning through layer upon layer of runes and defenses.

The Qi siphoned through the command anchor rose rapidly as the ship tried to defend itself, and the elders in charge were sweating profusely.

Peng Long wasn’t doing too well either, as he kept hacking at the serpent, but it began to heal as well.

Without the chains keeping it still, it could dodge and move out of the way as its natural vitality pushed out the Qi, but it wouldn’t be enough.

It was growing weak. At any point before or after the chains, it should have run away, but it didn’t. It disregarded Peng Long and danger in favor of trying to attack the ship, and I now knew damn well why.

What a greedy bastard.

I was pleased to see that its blood couldn’t be easily extinguished, and now that it seeped onto the aircraft itself, it was only a matter of time until it would be destroyed to the point where it couldn’t fly anymore.

The second ship was right behind us, so when the back door opened and a bridge with a barrier connected the two, everyone rushed to transfer without any orders, including the elders.

Only Peng Long remained, fighting the sea serpent.

However, I had a certain idea…

Remaining at the back and feigning weakness, I walked slowly and waited for the right moment.

When everyone passed, I rushed over to the bridge connecting the two ships.

Since the bridge itself was not part of the ship, the barrier wasn’t as strong as it should have been, judging by how thick it was.

Most people didn’t assume the serpent would leave the front and switch targets, which it shouldn’t have.

However, I considered it a gamble I was sure to win. Since Peng Long had already heavily damaged it with his Qi, it was only a matter of time until it died.

A little accident involving the serpent’s last stand shouldn’t be too out of the ordinary… I just had to play it right.

Just to make sure, I created a small Qi seal and placed it on the ship, leaving a signature I could latch onto when I was to return.

There was no way I was going to miss out, though I wondered if I could ever get to it in time.

It was a hard thing to think about, but when would I ever be able to get another Golden Core? Who cared about getting some soil?

A Golden Core from such a powerful Spirit Beast was far too precious, and far more valuable!

With that in mind, I slowly walked forward, and just as my feet touched the bridge, I flared up my bloodline.

The serpent went into another frenzy and made the ship shake rather violently with its attacks.

As a result, I didn’t have to feign falling over too badly, since I did actually fall over, despite all odds.

The bridge barely caught me, but a quick twist of the angle made it so I was sent flying off the bridge.

I’d quickly called out with my bloodline, and the serpent detected me, leaving everything it was doing and rushing toward me with its maw wide open.

Smiling to myself and bracing for what was to come, I activated Heaven’s Protection and let fate take care of the rest.

The serpent, as expected, didn’t hesitate to swallow me. But Heaven’s Protection, paired with Strengthened Constitution,n allowed me to survive its initial attack, and by turning back into my original form and gripping its insides with my claws, I was able to survive going down its throat.

I didn’t know what was happening outside, but I couldn’t feel the presence of the people from the Reaper Sect anymore.

Water splashed violently around me as the serpent probably went deep inside the ocean, perhaps wanting to heal first before trying to see how it could get Mother from my dantian.

It probably hadn’t thought that far, but I did. I was going to wait, and I was going to win… eventually.

◈◈◈

“Heavens!” A disciple cried as the woman with red hair was swallowed by the serpent, its figure rapidly disappearing beneath the ocean’s surface.

“What are we going to do? We need to save her!” One of the elders yelled.

Elder Su, who was on the other boat, watched as her only hope to advance had been eaten and carried away, probably never to be seen again.

Peng Long made a grabbing motion toward the water, but it was too late. The serpent had long disappeared alongside the top participant in the tournament.

He let out a heavy sigh, a calculating look in his eyes. What the fuck was that all about?

Peng Long could tell that something was wrong, but he didn’t know what the girl had done. Would she really get intentionally swallowed? For what purpose? It didn’t make any sense.

Why did she even want to stir up trouble?

Was she the one stirring up trouble? He had no idea and couldn’t get a proper reason for what he’d witnessed.

In the end, he decided that provoking a Golden Core-level beast only to get swallowed by it was stupid, and no one in their right mind would do that.

Now that it was gone, though, he could be relieved. He didn’t really care about the girl, and Meng Mao was such a minor entity that he didn’t really matter in the grand scheme of things.

Although he would lose some face for losing someone else’s disciple like that…

Elder Su, on the other hand, was panicking inwardly. Not only was she betting everything on that child, but she was also at the brink of being discovered.

Not that ghost cultivators were seen badly by the orthodox sects, but they were only second-worst,t next to the demonic sect in their eyes.

Not to mention,n if too much Yin energy accumulated in her body, then… She feared to know what would happen.

And because of that, she had to halt her cultivation, and the only way to continue was that damned thing in the Four Corner Sword Realm, and now her only ticket went and got swallowed by a giant sea serpent!

What was she to do now…

◈◈◈

There wasn’t any notion of night and day inside the thing’s stomach, and we were so deep underwater that even if I could stretch my Divine Sense more than I could have, it wouldn’t matter.

Darkness was everywhere.

There were some fish, but none dared get too close to the dying sea serpent, though they were curious.

And I knew it was dying for sure, not only because of the Qi from the Reaper Sect Patriarch, but also because I’d been doing my own sabotage.

My claws were firmly planted in its mouth, and I wasn’t going to move anymore. It had tried swallowing and drowning me several times; all failed, though.

I was far too resilient!

And now that he’d given up, I could slowly kill him from the inside. The process was easy, and also not.

I planned to burn its gills and/or lungs, but something was stopping me from putting too much fire inside its body, and also lightning wouldn’t work, because it had a pretty high affinity and resistance, most likely.

So in the end I was stuck sending weak fire serpents toward its breathing canals and hoping to suffocate it.

It was working, though. I hadn’t sensed any outside movement in a while; it looked like it gave up.

That was a little disappointing; did it know its death was nearing? Honestly, I didn’t want to see it go out like that. It was a giant Golden Core beast; why would it give up like that?

So disappointing…

Suddenly, it moved.

Slowly, but it did, and I wasn’t sure where it was going in the slightest. However, I was really curious.

Its death would end up being rather anticlimactic, but if I could get something else out of it, I wasn’t going to refuse.

As soon as it started moving, I spread out my divine sense. All I could detect was the ocean floor, and thankfully its body protected me from the immense pressure; otherwise I wasn’t sure I would have been able to survive.

I was willing to be that even if its skin would be some sort of treasure, so I really wanted to taste it. Maybe cook it over a small fire…

But it was so huge that I could not fit it into my dantian, not to mention my bag of holding. That was disappointing, and I couldn’t help but wonder what I would do with the corpse. Cutting it into small pieces could work…

But first I had to kill it.

I couldn’t help but grin at the thought of killing a level fifty-nine Golden Core Spirit Beast, all the experience I would get…

However, life couldn’t be so straightforward, could it?

Not too far off into the distance, I could sense a sort of powerful aura rapidly approaching. Soon enough, it was plenty obvious that it was another sea serpent, about half as big as the one I was in, and also about half as powerful.

It was rushing forward in a group of about five, which wasn’t a lot from what I’d seen before, but either way, that spelled trouble for me.

Immediately, I went searching for something, anything I could do to escape and collect what I’d come for.

My Swim skill was lacking, obviously, but I still had Perfect Disguise. There was a chance that I could sneak away eventually.

But the issue of how to get the Golden Core remained. It would only physically form after a Spirit Beast died, so I had to wait.

Yet, if those approaching here wanted to save it…

Well, I could only hope they were a rival sea serpent…

I waited patiently to see what would happen, and sadly, they seemed to be on friendly terms. They communicated with each other silently, then the newcomer pulled out a healing salve and applied it to the wounds caused by Peng Long.

Then again, what could such a weak solution even do? I didn’t take Spirit Beasts to be such good alchemists, and the Qi was extremely vicious.

I would know; I’d felt it myself. The only reason I was still alive and well was because my opponents were weak and inexperienced. But if someone like Peng Long, who had centuries of experience, attacked with it, then I would not have stood a chance.

There was reason to believe this guy wouldn’t be any different.

Well, I’d decided to wait and see what happened. Since the healing salve didn’t work, and honestly, the area of effect was so large they would need tons of the stuff, they tried doing something else.

The giant guy opened its mouth, and one of the others tried to reach for me, but I wasn’t going to have any of that.

Without much thought, I threw caution to the wind and summoned one of my giant fire dragons and threw it right at the invaders.

Due to the pressure, the dragon wasn’t half as effective, but it still did a great job of scaring them off.

However, great wasn’t enough. Not only was the fire not nearly strong or hot enough, but it didn’t reach far. All it did was make a tiny flame.

That wouldn’t be enough. Quickly, when I’d caught a glimpse of the helpers, I discovered that they weren’t actually all that strong.

Most of them were around level twenty to thirty, which was weird. This was a Golden Core level beast; why would it have so few followers? While I was curious, I wasn’t about to go and ask.

Though… I could, maybe? We were all Spirit Beasts after all, so… But then it would be too annoying.

Seeing that they wanted to start moving, though, I’d decided that I needed to do something, and quickly. I didn’t want my target to escape and heal.

Not to mention that the aircraft was getting farther and farther away from me. The more time I spent in this guy’s body, the harder it would have been to come back.

Giving my skill list a quick look over, I’d realised that there were some skills I could use on those weaker guys. The best one was the old reliable, Myriad Qi Needle.

At the Expert level of mastery, I had a lot of them, and my stats had gone up a bunch since I’d acquired it.

Well then, it was time to see what it could still do…

With little thought, I’d summoned about two dozen needles. Having gained the ability to create six more needles per proficiency level, I could now have up to thirty needles!

Thirty needles of element-imbued spirit damage! But what was the best element? Hm… Fire… was definitely not it, and water was out of the question.

But what else did I have… Lightning, maybe. I didn’t know if all of them had lightning affinity or just the big one, having evolved a couple of times already.

Since it didn’t hurt to try, I imbued them with lightning for the very first time, and they turned a slightly darker blue, with lightning swimming around them.

Time to see what these babies can do.