Dust plumed into the air before the primeval molded its body over the treant. It smothered the plant, both sides writhing. The treant reached roots through the eldritch's body before charging with violet mana. The arcane energy coursed through them both, and after a few minutes of struggle, the treant was victorious and bloody.

Its wounds leaked sap onto the ground, its body falling apart before another member walked over. The ruler helped the treant up, their comradery evident as they joked. A wave of envy coursed through me for a moment, but I turned away. It wasn't my place to watch. I was here to uncover what the hell was happening.

To further that end, I observed a few of the others. Many rested at the center of the cavern, each person trying to assimilate the coursing energy there. A few talked or handled food, though no one here would've complained about burned meat or dirty water. These were the uncivilized conquerers that rode across the universe.

They took what they wanted, and these rulers didn't worry about maintaining what they stole. In a way, it made perfect sense why they allied with Valgus - why fight the strongest person here when they could just coast along with him? Shalahora and I would probably throw a wrench into that line of thinking, but it made sense regardless.

The shadow and I kept heading deeper into the cavern until we neared the heart of their camp. No one piled up the resources like they had at the survivor's faction. Instead, only the bare minimum beds and shelters lined up as flattened sections of the walls or floor. Valgus kept a sizable pile of resources, primarily blue cores or psionic fluid.

That 'camp' lounged beside a pit leading towards the center of Leviathan-7. A dull sheen ebbed from that place, and near the entrance, Valgus argued with a remnant. Around them, an army of converted rulers and primevals idled like zombies. After a few minutes, a kinetic wave pulsed out. The rhythmic quaking was like the heartbeat of a planet.

If I guessed right, this led to the center of the rainbow bone beast. The kinetic shockwaves from its heart would've disintegrated steel, but knowing Valgus, he should've dove in already. Wondering why he hadn't, I stepped forward before a shadowed hand rested on my shoulder.

Shalahora murmured in my mind, "This is as far as we go. I cannot hide us should we get closer."

I nodded before Shalahora raised two coalesced hands. The shadow channeled mana while saying, "But, I may be able to hear whatever they speak of. One moment-"

An aura passed over us, one like Torix's hearing magic but far more palpable. It turned the waving wind in the tunnel to a deafening roar, but Shalahora adjusted the volume of different sounds. In a few moments, the remnant and Valgus's conversation oozed into our sphere of veiled magic.

"-You've made this far more complicated than it needed to be."

I didn't recognize the voice, but it was a woman based on her pitch. The other voice rasped, "It was for battle, and that is why I live...And why is storming in and killing them not what Baldowah would want? Surely you'd understand my reasoning as a fellow avatar?"

I dragged my hand down my face, recognizing Valgus by what he said and his voice. The woman snapped,

"We needed his alliance further down the line. This was a once in an eon kind of opportunity. How are we going to fix this? No, how are you going to fix this?"

I turned to Shalahora, my face smeared with confusion, and Shalahora peered back with bafflement. We listened as Valgus destroyed a primeval with a swipe of his hand. The Asura howled,

"And what is there to fix? Since when has Baldowah ever wanted us to make friends rather than destroy? It never has, not even once in the centuries of life I've lived."

In the distance, I saw the remnant rubbing her temples. She sighed, "Sometimes making friends results in more conflict than making enemies."

I blinked at that, remembering the past toxic relationships I'd seen. For a moment, I wondered what my dad's life would've been like without my mom. Those thoughts passed over me as Valgus scoffed,

"There's nothing insinuating that this is that sort of situation."

The remnant shook her head, "He's our ticket on and off this hell hole, and there's a lot we want to take back with us. That's why we didn't attack him until you wasted a fifth of our forces to set us back." Valgus grabbed and pulled his hair, "Agh, but for what? And besides, how could I have known it was him anyway?"

The remnant pinched the bridge of her nose, "You could've talked to me. That would've been a pretty simple fail-safe."

"But I have failed nothing."

The remnant frowned before glaring at Valgus. She murmured, "You fought a battle but avoided a war. That is not what Baldowah wants. Think of it like this - why did Baldowah leave Schema to his own devices?"

Valgus contemplated for a moment before crossing his arms, "To ensure a perpetual conflict with the eldritch."

"Yes, and Baldowah has loved that war, even relished in it at times. How did that war come to be?"

Valgus's eyes narrowed, "Er, Baldowah ceased fighting Schema so that the AI could muster its strength against the eldritch."

I had no idea Schema duked it out with Baldowah before even fighting the eldritch. That sounded nothing like Schema's official story, but Torix had mentioned a conflict with Baldowah a long time ago. Based on what these two said, the timeline of everything I knew was a wash. Then again, Schema lying about a few specifics of his early years didn't surprise me in the slightest.

It was kind of like how dictators presented their rise to prominence as some noble feat. The reality of their ascensions usually involved assassinations, betrayals, and plenty of outright murder. Schema's rise was likely no different. Interrupting my train of thought, the remnant raised her hands in frustration,

"Yes, but why would Baldowah let Schema regain his strength?"

I frowned at that. It sounded as if Baldowah was winning the conflict, though that's probably what any of its avatars would say. Valgus shrugged,

"The Old One's ways are more than I understand."

The remnant shook her hand at the Asura. She fumed, "Baldowah understands that for the absolute maximum level of conflict to occur, there must be two sides with each of them on even footing. The forces also need to be as large as possible. Without those two pieces present, there's no hope for a war of any size."

Valgus furrowed his brow, "But there is nothing wrong with a massacre, is there?"

The remnant slowed her words as if speaking to a child, "A battle will lead to one massacre; a war will lead to many."

Valgus's eyes widened with comprehension, "Ah...And that is why we wanted to ally with him." Valgus smiled at the remnant, "You are truly remarkable, a servant of Baldowah with a mind made for war's creation rather than war itself. Truly brilliant."

At this point, I frowned at the conversation since much of what they said had implications. For one, Schema might've fought a losing war before even trying to face down the eldritch. Baldowah stopped tearing the AI down because he wanted Schema to fight monsters. After a bit of thought, I put my hand up to my temples, other unsettling realizations passing over me.

First off, Baldowah was a professional at turning people into machines of war. Its avatars even fought over how to accomplish just that. Secondly, Baldowah would only make contact with Schema to create more war. Assuming Baldowah won, that could explain a few of Schema's inefficiencies since they tended to result in more conflict overall.

Thirdly, any attempts I made to stop the current, perpetual bloodshed would be met by Baldowah and his avatars. They'd fight me every step of the way, so we'd clash in time unless I played their game. Knowing I'd need some means of dismantling these avatars' immortalities, I resolved to explore my options.

In my final thoughts, the amount of destruction that Baldowah wrought onto everything defied any expectations I had. The more I thought about it, the more problems Baldowah could've caused. He was like growing, malignant cancer, and the other Old Ones would be no different. Taking me out of my contemplation, the remnant chided Valgus,

"So whenever you attacked the Harbinger's camp, you set us so far back that we may never ally with him again. Doubly so since he's weird; he seems to value his ability to position more than being in a good position. I can't understand him rejecting three Old One's blessings already."

I tapped my chin with a knuckle, not even having wondered about who they were trying to ally with. It turned out it was me, and the remnant was right about one thing - I had no intention of associating with these monsters. Valgus frowned with distaste, "And this was to help us start a war, allying with that weakling?"

We would see who was weak in the end.

The remnant smiled, "No, it's to continue a larger conflict. The Harbinger is the only person who will have a reliable means of getting on and off this planet. That's why he made those cities in the first place."

Shalahora's eyes widened as he gazed at me, "Ah...That's why you made Schema promise to officiate your self-made cities during your introduction. He'll establish hubs with his warping systems in place."

I sneered, "Yeah. I didn't think it would make these two lunatics aim at me."

Valgus blinked a few times, the explanations overwhelming him, "So...The...Er...We need the Harbinger to bolster a weaker side of a war."

The remnant put a finger in Valgus's face. She menaced, "The primevals, the fluid, even this giant bone beast could be game-changers. We need this planet if we're going to uproot Schema. Lehesion isn't enough anymore."

I froze in place, my brow raised, and my jaw tightened. Shalahora sensed my unease as he turned to me, "What has unsettled you so?"

I bit my tongue before omening out in my mind,

"She's with Elysium...And Baldowah might've allied with them."
