Valgus turned around, and I thought to Shalahora, "Baldowah didn't pass over us, right?"

"If he did, I felt none of his presence - not even the smallest inkling of it."

Valgus leaped across the shining hills of the horizon, and I raised a brow, "Can you have a shade follow him?"

"I already have one doing so."

I turned towards the chaos left behind by the clashing armies, "Well then...We'll see where he and the others are holed up after we clean up this mess. And yeah-"

I grimaced, "It looks like someone's convinced Valgus that they're Baldowah."

Chapter Begin

I winced at the prospect of someone controlling that oaf before peering at my city's remains. The barrier still held though the color dampened into a semi-translucent sheen. The outside faired far worse, becoming a cratered warzone for several miles. Sifting through the chaos, I gave it a closer look.

Deep craters and carved valleys stretched in random, disparate directions. They held no set pattern, and bodies of other rulers sprawled out in the distance. We annihilated them, and my golems picked them up for looting later. Following one of those golems, I flew into my city with Shalahora.

A pile of those bodies amassed, and my director observed it in silence. Several golems' bodies joined the mound, their cipheric centers torn apart. Only the blue cores remained, and the director stared with a stoic gaze. I put a hand on the primordial golem's shoulder, "It's ok. You've done the best you could."

The director gripped his arms behind himself, "And it's also an observable reality that my best wasn't good enough." His head twitched before the director shook it off. He glanced, "I'll see if I can't improve my management until occurrences like this are no longer the norm."

Shalahora faded in beside us. The shadow murmured, "There is nothing normal here. It is all chaos, but that is no fault of your own."

The director sighed, "But...Chaos is simply how we describe unknown patterns and unforeseen outcomes. If I knew-"

I squeezed the shoulder pauldron, "Enough. Quit beating yourself up. Undeserved guilt is a useless emotion, and it wastes time."

The director squeezed a hand into a fist, "Yes, and perhaps using my time more efficiently now may save more of my kin later."

I let his shoulder go, "Are these the spoils of the war?"

The director let his hands down to his sides, "Yes, along with our casualties. I was hoping you could give them a kind rebirth with a new body. They'd carry on the legacies of their forefathers."

I nodded, "I'll remake every last single one."

The director peered down, staring at the lowest bodies, "That...That would be much appreciated."

We gave the bodies a moment of silence before separating them into two piles: rulers and golems. I helped process the rulers, peeling off helpful tech, gear, and runic markings. This passed the time for the next few hours after the battle, giving me a good idea of how much we collected.

A lot of it looked more valuable than it was, but Drelex and Entilla would help me sort the wheat from the chaff. As for the cipheric inscriptions, a lot of them involved combat-related utilities. Rapid communications, internal maps, and data recording intermingled with generic augmentations like speed and strength. The rest of the loot involved blue cores in abundance.

The battle involved hundreds of deaths, and most of them were primevals. With all of it said and done, we gained 543 blue cores. It dwarfed any expectations, but we left with losses this time. 48 cored golems piled up with a few more missing. We lost even more converted primevals, but they weren't a priority.

Shalahora inspected the damage without the same sadness, though he held a meeting with his shades before we moved on. With the damage sorted through, I handed off the tech to Entilla and Drelex. After hearing a few half-hearted complaints from them, I left and met with Shalahora outside my attacked city.

I peered at the shadowy Sovereign, the craters surrounding us, "You ready to find where they're hiding?"

Shalahora lifted an arm, a shade whispering to him, "This way, Sun Swallower."

Shalahora assimilated the shade while saying, "We are all prepared for what is to come. Follow."

We darted across the landscape, both of us avoiding primevals. After a few minutes of passing the shining horizons, we neared the edge of the desert. At the cusp of the endless sands, we landed at the sight of some fallen kelp. The stuff died all over the place, but the large eldritch always ate the dying algae.

I grabbed the edge of the leathery plant matter, "This isn't fresh. It's sun-dried and weathered like an old boot."

Shalahora molded himself under the fallen algae before standing beneath it. He turned to me like some child in a creepy sheet costume for Halloween. He tossed it aside like a stage cape, "It covered the entrance. Let's go."

We walked through a tunnel into the great labyrinth beneath the shining hills. After crisscrossing a dozen forks and diverging paths, converted primevals began intermingling with the other eldritch.

Shalahora cast us in darkness, and we kept moving around the beasts, though it slowed our pace quite a bit. As we skulked beyond a pair of primevals, Shalahora thought aloud,

"What did you think of Valgus?"

I raised my brows in the gloom, "He was a pitiful, broken man with no future and a destroyed past."

We snuck past a room shaped like a bottle with three primevals. Descending into another winding tunnel, Shalahora murmured, "Did you fear him?"

"No."

Shalahora stood still, peering at a converted primeval, "I did."

My lips thinned, "Uh, why? He couldn't even touch you."

"There are three things all fear: the past, the present, and the future. I have nothing to fear from what Valgus has done, and he may not harm me in the present. However, I believe he may omen my future."

I blinked, remembering how Shalahora mentioned a rough past and having to meet with the Old Ones. He could be in an irreversible situation like Valgus, so I frowned,

"Are you a prison too?"

"No, and I could never be one."

"Then what's got you so melancholy?"

"It's that Valgus seemed stripped of who and what he was. I worry I will be the same."

I blinked, ruminating for a bit. I scratched my neck, "Yeah, I worry about that too sometimes."

Shalahora let out a joyless laugh, "You are still free. I am a shadow in both form and function. I linger like a corpse of my old self, and Valgus was no different. Even now, I wonder if I am a puppet to forces I don't understand."

I peered up, not knowing what to say. A couple minds went to work, and I leaned into their thoughts on the matter, "We're all puppets in some way, but it sounds like you're worried about which strings are pulling you...Right?"

Shalahora peered through me, "An odd way of putting it, but yes. I am being pulled by many strings I no longer wish to bear."

I shrugged, "That's the thing - I think most of those strings are a choice."

"But choice is often an illusion."

"You're right about that one."

"Would you choose your species' continuation or your own dilapidation?"

I frowned, "My species, of course."

Shalahora spread his arms, "Then what comes after that is no longer a choice, but a series of outcomes disguised as choices. I worry that those consequences will continue their unstoppable march until they chain me as they have chained Valgus."

Shalahora dropped his hands and peered off at a converted primeval, "He and I will become brothers in bondage, each of us different sides of a hollowed husk."

A silence passed over, the remaining primeval stone still like a statue. I grimaced, "I've met a lot of Old Ones, and I've tried to limit my contact. However, they always seem to leave a mark on me somehow no matter what I do."

Shalahora peered back at me, "Hm...Then what mark did Baldowah leave?"

I remembered my new goals and glared at a wall, "A mark he'll come to regret."

Shalahora nodded before turning forward, "I hope you're correct about that. If anything deserves retribution, it's those entities haunting our worlds." He molded into the gloom, "Come. The faster we find them and scout, the quicker we may leave."

We rolled through the tunnels, passing around a dozen sets of guards. After reaching past them all, the tunnels widened until they mirrored caverns. The cave rooms molded into massive entrances, all leading to a single place. Shalahora and I stepped out to it and marveled for a moment.

The opal shards thinned, becoming like colored glass. Patches of this glass shifted the shades of the light of Leviathan. They mirrored stained windows, the expanse larger than any church. Sand dappled those rays, creating majestic mirages of light. Those beams radiated onto rolling hills of smoothed bone since this tunnel was made of a single piece of the stuff.

We stepped into the enormous, underground world. A charged wind rolled through the tunnel, and each gust swelled with rippling energy. It was more miasma than air as cyclones of sand rolled across the smooth floor. My hair charged with static, and in the distance, a crackling boom thundered across the tunnel.

I peered out as lightning struck the sand. It melted the sand and bones below. A glossy, smooth, and glowing texture pooled up in its aftermath. I smiled, now knowing the cause of this smoothed interior. Shalahora and I skulked into this otherworld, keeping ourselves hidden as the temperature rose.

In time, it sweltered like a furnace, the air blurring in the distance, and the environment remained consistent until we found an oddity. A series of rectangular shapes rose from the ground on one edge of the grotto. We made our way there, seeing people inhabiting the rectangles.

Rulers huddled into the chambers of Rainbow bone, but whenever we closed in, we found no home here. Someone trapped the rulers within these rectangular cells, and the capturer implanted strands of rainbow bone to pin the rulers in place. Worse still, opalescent spines pierced out of the rulers from within.

They were all psionically dead.

No enemy rulers or primevals guarded the place, so I walked up to one of the cubicles. I met an invisible wall around it. The entire area was sealed off from its surroundings. If I pressed on the invisible barrier, it didn't budge, and a knowledgeable individual carved cipheric inscriptions on the walls. Those markings soaked in the air's energy to fuel their effects. Beneath it all, dozens of blue cores helped hold everything together.

Peering at the prisoners, they held them here like artifacts in a museum. If anything, the constraints were excessive; they already drank the liquid bone until their minds died. Peering closer, they all still breathed. I peered off and blinked a few times, trying to clean my eyes. Someone had them drink the bone and huddled them into these cells while alive.

Valgus wouldn't have done this. He'd have just killed them, but someone convinced him not to. I rubbed my temples while wondering why do all this and for what? To hold them here? It made no sense, and Shalahora thought over to me,

"This is such a strange prison they've created. Why have Valgus's company killed these rulers and strapped their bodies into these...These pillars?"

I shook my head with a hand on the runes, "I have no clue, but they're not dead."

Shalahora murmured, "It would be better if they were."

I nodded in agreement while thinking of how to free them. I scratched through a few of the runic markings with telekinesis. Before I did any real damage, a few wild primevals flew by us, each looking at the prison cells. I stopped tampering with the prisons, knowing my pocket dimension was filled to the brim already. I couldn't save them anyways since they were all dead where it mattered.

Shalahora and I kept moving forward, finding more of the cells. They were put at even intervals, and we passed hundreds of them. Nearly all of the missing rulers were stuffed into these states of comatose. The more I looked at it, the stranger I found the entire prospect. I couldn't even imagine a reason for it, but regardless of the motive, the ruthless nature of it sent a chill up my spine.

That didn't stop us from heading through the cavern, finding a few mindless primevals and rulers. After a few dozen miles, the cavern angled downward, heading deep under the ossuary. We traversed the smooth tunnel as if diving through the throat of some colossal beast.

The flowing energy turned into a rich, overwhelming aura. It left my skin tingling and my hair frazzled up. The light dimmed, and no primevals made it to these depths. However, the rulers colonized this space, and a few weren't converted either. Gazing at them, these were the monsters I expected from the lottery at the start of it.

I couldn't see their levels, but they exuded enough energy to efficiently dispatch a primeval. To further that point, these rulers fought and wrestled primevals for entertainment in a carved-out arena. One of the weakest of the unconverted rulers proved his worth, facing an eldritch in the ring.

The stone primeval slammed a clubbed arm into a treant's side. That bark-covered ruler sent a shot of panic through my chest, not from the treant's strength but because of who it mirrored. It was a treant without any facial expressions, its skin glowing like Yawm. The entity lacked the same cipheric carvings and crumbling skin, however.

This plant creature was a vision of vitality and power, its form rippling with energy. It caught the stone primeval's arm before roots expanded from the treant. As the eldritch jerked its arm away, its hand crumbled from the root's infestation. The treant followed the primeval's pull, and the planted creature spun in a circle before slicing the stone beast's chest apart.

