Sir Kerrig finished and coughed again. His eyes were watering, and he poured a tiny amount of the healing potion into his hand to splash at them. Dame Truvia looked at him with concern.
“The poison smoke you described. You were caught in it?”
“Briefly. I immediately escaped when I noticed, but it was powerful enough to kill anyone trapped inside long enough. Most of the Goblins escaped, but they’re unable to breathe or see at the moment.”
“These attackers. Did you see their insignia?”
The [Knight] shook his head in reply to Sir Thomast’s question.
“No, and I have no idea where they came from. I thought perhaps Heldeim, a city to the east of here, but that would be unlikely. They have a small garrison. More to the point, they’re inexperienced, lacking a high-leveled officer of any kind. Hardly able to execute this kind of attack.”
He hesitated, wiping liquid out of his eyes.
“I did hear them shouting some kind of war cry. It was ‘Emperor Laken and the Unseen Empire’. But I’ve no notion…”
He broke off as Bethal gasped and the others shifted. He looked questioningly at Bethal.
“You know them?”
“We just visited them. It’s a small village and the surrounding area. There’s an [Emperor] there. Thomast, you don’t think…?”
Bethal looked at her husband. He nodded.
“Emperor Laken introduced us to his [General]. You remember her? She was a [Witch]. They know how to use poisons.”
“A night-time ambush using poison? Hardly befitting of an [Emperor]!”
Dame Truvia frowned. Sir Nil glanced around.
“Ideal for a larger force, however. Sir Kerrig described only a few hundred [Riders] and mounted [Archers] and warriors. They’ve slain several times their number, at least.”
“It was the absence of their Chieftain that presented the opportunity. Had she been here—”
Sir Kerrig was speaking urgently, pointing to the Goblins. Now they had formed into units again. Bethal saw they were coming towards her and shifted uneasily.
“Sir Kerrig—”
Hobs and mounted Goblins riding Carn Wolves approached them. They formed a semi-circle between the Humans and the camp, staring at Sir Kerrig and then Lady Bethal’s escort. They had weapons, but they stared at the Humans blankly. Sir Kerrig looked wary and Thomast and the two [Knights] moved in front of Bethal again, but she didn’t see hostility in the Goblin’s eyes.
“Why aren’t they angry?”
The Goblins were staring at them. Just staring with a blank, empty gaze. They were aware of the Humans’ threat, but it was like they were just going through the motions. Behind them, the Goblins searched their dead, the same empty look in their eyes.
“I think they’re mourning.”
Sir Kerrig’s reply made all of the Humans glance at him sharply. Lady Bethal opened her mouth to say that was impossible, but she stopped as she saw the Goblin child again. It—she—wasn’t the only Goblin child, but somehow Bethal recognized her. The Goblins checking for the living had passed her section of the camp, but the Goblin child had found who she was looking for. She sat next to a bloody body with two arrows sticking out of its chest. Sat and wept, her eyes overflowing.
The Goblins around the child ignored her, going about their tasks. Not once did they glance at Lady Bethal and her shining [Knights], at Sir Thomast. They had to remember. They had to know how dangerous the Humans were. But they were not the ones who’d committed this slaughter. They were not important. So they worked mechanically, eyes empty, moving like puppets. Ignoring the Humans.
And slowly, it dawned on Lady Bethal that her small company didn’t matter to the tribe of Goblins right now. Not at all. They were a footnote unless they chose to attack. It was as if the Goblins were truly grieving. But they didn’t show it. They didn’t cry. They moved, packing up their camp, preparing to march.
They left the dead where they were. More Goblins moved into groups, loading up wagons, calling their fellows away. At last, it seemed as though someone noticed Bethal’s group and decided it had to be addressed. She saw a wave of Hobs and Goblins with crossbows returning and a fat Goblin leading them. Not Rags.
“Humans.”
He said one word, his voice raw, rasping. Bethal saw that the Goblins behind him were already marching. On the fat Hob’s left stood a [Mage] with electricity crackling around his fingertips. To his right rode a Goblin with a scar across his face on a Carn Wolf. He glared at Sir Thomast in hatred.
“Where is your Chieftain?”
“Hurt.”
“I see.”
Lady Bethal waited. The fat Hob just looked at her. She expected him to reiterate his Chieftain’s demands and was preparing to negotiate. She’d promised them wealth, hadn’t she? If it came to it, could she get Sir Kerrig—
“Go away.”
Bethal paused. The Hob pointed. He was holding a battleaxe that shone with a fiery enchantment. Sir Kerrig’s battleaxe! And was the scarred Goblin holding Welca’s sword? Bethal looked at him uncertainly.
“Excuse me?”
“Leave. No prisoners. Take Human with you.”
The Hob pointed at Sir Kerrig. Then he turned and began to walk away.
“Wait!”
Grudgingly, the Hob turned back. Lady Bethal looked at him, confused.
“You’re letting Sir Kerrig return to us? Without a ransom?”
“Yes. That is what I said.”
The Hob glared at her. Bethal waited, but there was nothing more. The Hob looked around and issued an order. Some of the Goblins broke away and streamed towards the marching tribe.
“You won’t attack us?”
“No point. Humans too hard to kill.”
“And you’re not worried about what we might do?”
The Hob glanced at Dame Truvia.
“Try it.”
“Truvia! Enough. We had nothing to do with this attack.”
Bethal informed the Hob. She had no idea why she said it. They were Goblins. But the Hob nodded.
“We know. You killed Goblins before. Not now. So go.”
More silence. Bethal sensed Thomast shift. He looked at her and nodded his head. They should go. She knew he was right. But she wanted to—Bethal’s eyes flicked back to the Goblin child. Now she was looking at Bethal. Staring. For some reason, Bethal felt guilty. Guilty?
“This was a—harsh tactic. Poison. Not honorable. But surely your tribe expected this. Surely you knew you were being hunted.”
Why was she trying to excuse this? Bethal saw the Goblins’ eyes flash as one. The Hob raised his head and met her eyes. There was no fury there. But a trace of anger flickered past the empty expression.
“We did not attack these Humans.”
“But you attacked Humans before. Sir Kerrig told me. You routed an army not a day ago. This conflict—”
The Hob cut her off.
“We destroyed a Human army. Hunting Goblins. We kill Humans who attack.”
“But—”
“There is a difference. We are not the Goblin Lord army. We are not raiding Goblins. We are not the same. There is a difference.”
There was. Only, Bethal had not ever made the distinction before. This was a tribe, and they were not the same as the Goblin Lord’s army. So they told her. She felt ashamed.
“We will leave, then. I apologize for my error.”
The Hob nodded. He looked at her, waiting. He knew she had more to say. So he waited. Bethal looked around the camp. Goblins were streaming away. The child was still sitting there.
“Won’t you bury your dead?”
“No. No burial. Leave.”
“I see.”
Alien. Incomprehensible. How could they not care for their dead? The crimson eyes watched her. Bethal pointed. The Hob turned as she pointed at the crying Goblin child. She hadn’t budged, though Goblins were urging her to get up and leave.
“Why is only she crying?”
The Hob looked at the child and shook his head.
“Tears are a waste of water.”
He turned and walked away. The Goblins behind him hesitated, and then streamed after him. They marched, many of them still wounded, some coughing, eyes streaming. Bethal saw the Hob stomp over to the Goblin child and say something. An order. The child shook her head, eyes and nose streaming. The Hob repeated the order.
“I will stay. Someone has to witness this.”
“What?”
Bethal didn’t hear Sir Kerrig’s argument with the others. She watched as the Hob bent and pointed. He touched the body, shook his head. Pointed. The child shook her head. She clung to the body as the Hob reached for her.
“Here.”
Shielding their bodies so the Goblins couldn’t see, Dame Truvia pressed her enchanted dagger into Sir Kerrig’s hands. He slipped it into his clothes and nodded. Bethal saw the Hob pulling, saw the child hold on with all its strength. Clinging, clinging—the Goblin child held the body as the Hob pulled her up and then separated the two. Then she did wail, once. She beat the Hob as he carried her away.
He let her hit him and walked without looking back. He shed not one tear, but he bled as the Goblin child bit his hand. Bled, but didn’t stop. Bethal watched them go until they disappeared between the trees. She glanced down at Sir Kerrig, who was preparing to run after the Goblins.
“I did not know they could weep.”
“Neither did I, milady.”
“Follow them, Sir Kerrig. If you wish it. I will return to my estates. I—”
Lady Bethal never finished the sentence. She eventually turned and rode away as Sir Kerrig jogged after the Goblins. They were marching already, moving swiftly through the forest. Injured. Many wounded. But they still numbered thousands.
If they had wished it, they could have killed Lady Bethal and her escort despite the cost. They could have overwhelmed the [Knights], brought down Thomast by sheer numbers, and slaughtered Bethal. They could have. But they hadn’t. They had every right to fury. And perhaps it was there. But their despair, their grief was stronger. It was all-consuming. So the Goblins left the [Lady] behind and walked.
They did not cry. They marched, blood dripping in the place of tears. Tears were a waste of water. The Goblins marched away as the night turned to day. They left their dead behind. They left family. They left friends. They left their loved ones, their hearts, and their blood. And they did not weep. Except on the inside.
 
——
 
After a while the blood stopped. The child stopped biting him. Her teeth had left cuts in his hand, and she’d torn the flesh as if she were tearing flesh from raw meat. Pyrite ignored the pain. He carried her as she wept, striding past the lines of Goblins. The child was young. So young she hadn’t learned that crying was a waste of water, a dangerous sound. He would have told her to stop, but there was no point. The enemy had come and gone. So Pyrite walked.
“Sorry.”
She clung to his shoulder. He bled. The blood ran down his hand, stinging. It dripped into the soil. It was such a meaningless thing. Pyrite remembered the body he’d torn her from.
“Sorry.”
He marched to a wagon with Goblin children and tried to make her let go. She clung to him then, not wanting to. But he made her. He was as strong as she was weak, for all she tried to lace her fingers together, grip him tightly. He put her with the older Goblin watching the children.
“Sorry.”
Nothing else to say. Nothing else to do. Pyrite looked down at the child and then ahead. The trees were thinning. He strode past her as the muffled crying grew fainter behind him. Pyrite reached another wagon and looked into it.
“Chieftain.”
Rags lay in the center of the wagon, covered with a blanket, her face pale. She was unconscious. They hadn’t been able to wake her, and she’d lost so much blood. Too much for even a healing potion to properly heal. Pyrite walked next to the cart until he remembered he should be doing something.
“You. How many sentries? Where warriors?”
The Hob he pointed at looked blankly at Pyrite. He walked over and poked another Goblin, who barely responded. Pyrite shook his head. He had to think. Rags was unconscious. That meant Pyrite had to take charge. He turned to another Goblin.
“Sentries ride ahead. Get Redscar. Put pikes here and here. Move!”
He had to push the Goblins, sending them racing ahead and behind to move the tribe into position. Just in time. Not ten minutes later, Pyrite heard a howl and saw a flash of movement. He saw a group of Humans burst out of the trees. They rode towards a group of Goblins who looked up and stared at them.
Just stared. Pyrite saw the Humans. He knew what they were going to do. But he failed to react. He saw a rider in armor cut down a Goblin and then he woke up. Pyrite saw the Goblins raising their weapons weakly. The Humans trampled them. No. Pyrite inhaled. He shouted at the Goblins who were just staring.
“Humans! Move! Attack!”
Goblins turned and stared at him. Pyrite bellowed. The numbing emptiness in his chest filled. His blood began to surge. Humans. Their leader wheeled, his sword red. They raced down the line, away from Pyrite. He pointed at them.
“Humans!”
He roared the word, and the Goblins looked up. Their exhausted heads rose. Their eyes opened wide. Wider. Pyrite pointed, and Goblins ran. He heard one scream, an angry, bitter cry. The others took it up. The warriors streamed towards the fleeing Humans. Pyrite wanted to run, but he held his ground. Wait. He shouted at other Goblins who were abandoning their positions.
“Stay! Wait for order!”
They held. Reluctantly, they held. Pyrite heard another howl to the south, and this time, he was ready. He roared, and Redfang warriors streamed towards the attacked site, and within minutes he heard a Goblin horn call. All clear. The Humans were gone. They’d attacked and fled.
So this was how it would be. Pyrite closed his eyes. They were already striking again. It made sense. He was exhausted. He was wounded, and his tribe was barely able to function. He saw Redscar riding towards him. The Redfang leader was furious. He pointed in the direction of the fleeing Humans.
“Attack! We ride!”
“No! Guard tribe!”
Pyrite snapped at him. He was too tired to convey all of what he understood—that the Humans were baiting them, trying to get the Goblins to chase them, to lure them into a trap. Redscar growled, but he assented after a moment of hesitation. Pyrite looked around.
“Where Noears? Poisonbite?”
The answers came too slowly for his tastes. But they did come. Poisonbite was hurt and among the wounded. Noears was at the back. Pyrite grunted.
“Noears go back. Redfangs spread out! Crossbows ready. Not spread out. Keep moving!”
Redscar growled and nodded. He took the front, and Pyrite reorganized the rearguard. The Goblins marched for two hours as the sun lightened. Pyrite had no idea where they were going. They needed to find somewhere to rest, somewhere defensible. But sending scouts out now would be a bad idea.
