The Humans hit them as they were leaving the forest. They rode into the tree line, at least a hundred of them, and began loosing arrows as soon as the sentries called the alarm. Pyrite growled as he saw they were attacking a spot with heavy pikes and wolves—and few archers! He saw Redfang warriors racing after them and the Humans retreating. Several mounted Goblins disappeared into the trees, and Pyrite called the rest of them back.
“No follow. Get crossbows!”
Goblins with crossbows scrambled to the front. Pyrite heard wolves howling in pain and then silence in the trees. The Redfang riders didn’t return. But the Humans did. They rode out of the trees and loosed another volley, shouting triumphantly.
Were there more of them this time? Pyrite kept a wary eye on his flanks and rear as the units of Goblins wielding crossbows returned fire. That surprised the Humans—they’d clearly expected more Goblins to chase. Instead, several horses went down and some riders fell, screaming. At this distance, both sides were too far away for accuracy; the clumped-up Goblins suffered more than the Humans. But the Humans did fall.
After the second volley, the archers among the trees vanished. The Goblins waited, and Pyrite sent a group of Redfang Warriors to investigate. They found tracks, but the Humans had fled. Pyrite ordered them not to follow to Redscar’s disgust and posted twice as many sentries, twice as far out.
 
——
 
They had to rest. Pyrite knew it, but he was dithering over leaving the tree line. Beyond the forest was a hilly landscape, open but terribly exposed if the Humans launched another night attack. He followed the forest until the next wave of attacks. This time, it wasn’t a full-fledged assault. Pyrite heard a howl as the Goblins tried to sleep and jerked awake. Redscar raced towards him, shouting.
“Sentries gone!”
Half of the sentries Pyrite had sent out to the west had been ambushed, their locations found and the Goblins feathered with arrows before they could raise the alarm. Only the last group had raised any alarm.
“Heard horn call. Too late. Fleeing Humans. Ordered not to pursue.”
Redscar growled as Pyrite tried to wake up and think. Redscar pointed.
“Humans leave tracks! Can follow!”
“Is trap.”
Pyrite repeated himself stubbornly. He knew it was true. Redscar knew it was true. But the Goblin had a different idea about it.
“Let us spring!”
He wanted to take two hundred wolf riders and hunt the Humans. Pyrite shook his head.
“No.”
Redscar growled. Pyrite glared at him. After a second, Pyrite nodded.
“Put sentries back. Closer. Split riders. Ready to reinforce any moment.”
He held Redscar’s gaze until the other Goblin nodded. Pyrite was second in charge. With Rags unconscious, he led. But neither Goblins spoke what both knew. The Humans would be back, sentries or not.
 
——
 
They had to leave the forest. Pyrite marched the tribe into the hilly plains, watching the sun setting and searching for a spot, any spot where they could put their backs against a wall. He found nothing. He marched the tribe on until nightfall, watching the hills grow closer in the distance. Maybe if they dug ditches? Or camped on the hills?
They never made it that far. Pyrite noticed only when he had to ask why the tribe was lagging behind twice. He strode back and saw the Goblins at the back were gasping for air.
“Can’t breathe, Pyrite.”
Quietstab pointed to a Goblin who was trying to inhale. His lungs were making a terrible rasping sound. Pyrite stared at the Goblin in dismay.
“Bad?”
“Can’t fight. Can’t run. Can’t see. Some. Got rest. Or potion.”
They didn’t have enough potions. And there were hundreds, no, thousands of Goblins who’d inhaled the poisonous gas. Maybe a third of the tribe! Pyrite turned to Poisonbite, who was making the same horrible sound.
“How long heal?”
She gasped for air. Her eyes were weeping, and she was keeping them closed. She had to try twice before she gestured weakly with her claws. Two claws. Four. She shook them weakly.
Two days or four days. And then—a pause. The fingers clenched slightly. Or two weeks. Pyrite looked at Quietstab. He checked the landscape. Open ground. They should have stayed in the forest. Rags would have stayed. Pyrite had no choice now, though. He pointed.
“Make camp! Get Redscar and others!”
The council of war was brief. Pyrite gathered Redscar, Noears, Quietstab, and any of the Hobs who knew how to fight. He divided them up and posted them around the camp. The trouble was that with so many wounded Goblins, it was impossible to encircle the entire camp and not be spread too thin. Pyrite tried to figure out if they could construct defenses. Ditches? He looked at the exhausted Goblins who hadn’t slept since the day before yesterday and shook his head.
Pyrite ordered the Goblin warriors able to fight to sleep in shifts until the attack came. He kept torches lit and burnt as much fuel as he dared. Because the Humans would surely come again. When they did, it was in darkness.
“Horses!”
This time, the scream came near Pyrite’s position. He pushed himself up, grabbed his battleaxe, and ran. He saw horses flashing in the chaos and more shooting arrows behind. He roared, cut down a Human on horseback, saw another dragged off his horse, and watched the rest run. They were good at running! If the Redfangs could follow—
No. Too risky! Pyrite cursed as he watched the Humans leave.
This time, the attack was bloody on both sides. The Humans pulled back after a single charge, leaving behind two dozen dead or wounded. But they’d cut down far too many Goblins. They’d attacked where there were no pikes or crossbows ready. How? Pyrite had no idea. The sentries had been hit first, but they had been alive right until the attack, and the surviving warriors swore they hadn’t so much as seen a Human. Did they have a high-level [Scout]? Some kind of invisibility spell? A scrying spell?
They weren’t even that high-level. Pyrite whirled as he heard a howl. He saw Redfang riders streaming past him and saw a Goblin shouting and pointing after the Humans fleeing into the darkness.
“Redfangs! Follow!”
“Stop.”
Redscar roared as he tried to ride past Pyrite. The Hob charged at him, forcing the Carn Wolf to halt its dash. Pyrite tore Redscar from the saddle and felt two things happen at once. A painful, familiar cold sting in his right arm and a pair of jaws clamping over his hand. Redscar shoved his sword into Pyrite’s arm as his Carn Wolf bit. Pyrite made a fist and forced the wolf’s jaws open.
“Release!”
Redscar snapped, and his Carn Wolf let go. The Goblin kept his blade pressed into Pyrite’s arm, though. Pyrite roared at him in frustration. Redscar roared back. Around them, the Flooded Waters tribe froze, watching the two Goblins in fear. Only then did Pyrite realize what was happening. He was fighting with Redscar! What was the point? He let go of the smaller Goblin slowly and felt the freezing blade’s tip withdraw from his arm.
The two Goblins stared at each other, breathing hard. At last, Pyrite jerked his head.
“Sixty riders. A hundred warriors. No you.”
“Yes.”
Redscar sheathed his blade and called. Instantly, sixty of his Redfang warriors charged into the darkness. Pyrite turned.
“Pikes and crossbows! Twenty Hobs!”
Goblin warriors raced forwards at his command. Pyrite pointed, and they followed the Redfang warriors. The mounted Goblins were already racing across the plains. They rode after the Humans, howling with rage. Sixty mounted elites and a hundred Goblins on foot, enough to tear apart a force twice their size and harry the riders before retreating in turn.
Pyrite felt the blood running down his arm and rubbed at the wound. Redscar eyed the frozen skin and blood, but Pyrite didn’t reach for a potion. He pointed back to the camp.
“Reform defenses. Humans might attack. Other side.”
Redscar nodded. He whistled, and his Redfang warriors followed him back into camp. Pyrite trudged back to his sleeping spot, but he was awake now. He waited as the Goblins who’d been sleeping tried to get some rest. But no one could. They were all listening as hard as they could. They’d been hit by what, a hundred and forty riders? They’d sent more than that after them.
Surely they’d catch their enemy. If they were outnumbered, they’d retreat. Redscar would race to their aid the instant they heard anything. Pyrite would let him. If they could bloody the Humans, force them to defend…the instant they heard anything, Pyrite would move. He’d defend from the other side because of course that was when the Humans would attack. He waited, listening. Waited, waited…
Three minutes passed, then ten. Then half an hour. The Goblins of the Flooded Waters tribe waited. They listened for howling, stragglers—anything. They heard nothing. Pyrite thought he heard a distant war horn—once. Then nothing. After that, Redscar did not try to follow the Humans, though the camp was attacked once more that night. Always with perfect accuracy, always in the weakest point, the flawed sections of the camp’s defenses that Pyrite himself hadn’t spotted.
 
——
 
We’re winning each encounter. They’re moving each day, but they haven’t sent any more patrols. Heading towards a city—Lancrel. Orders to keep pursuing?
I tap my fingers together. I don’t have to hear Wiskeria’s reports to know what’s happening. My mind is with her mobile attack force almost all the time. With the Goblins too. I can tell how many have fallen. Hundreds from the raiding. But not enough. There are still thousands, for all they’re still poisoned.
“Your Majesty?”
Nesor’s face isn’t that pale today. He’s gotten used to sending and receiving [Message] spells, and he’s faster and has stopped stuttering as much. I turn to Lady Rie.
“Lancrel. Where is it on the map?”
“Here, Your Majesty.”
She finds me the place on the map instantly. I touch the spot and try to line it up in my head. Yes, the Goblins are headed that way. Aimlessly, it looks like.
“That’s not one of our cities, is it, Rie?”
“No, Your Majesty. Lancrel has refused all messengers and did not reply to your levy. We have apprised them of the Goblin threat, but they declined to send aid. Their walls and gates are thick; I believe they think they’re well-defended.”
“Especially with Wiskeria harrying the Goblins.”
I appraise Lancrel in my mind. A small city. It might hold as many as ten thousand people at most. I don’t bother to count.
“Ten thousand is a small number? They could outnumber Riverfarm three times over.”
“Emperor?”
“Nothing. Lancrel outnumbers the Goblins, and their walls are…probably six meters? How much is that in feet? Twenty? I doubt the Goblins will head towards it. Nesor, tell Wiskeria to keep raiding.”
“Yes, sire.”
I sense Rie standing by my side. I focus my attention on another group moving towards them.
“Nesor. Tell Wiskeria her first group of reinforcements is headed her away. Two kilom—I mean, one mile and a bit south of her. Tell her to find them. They have…some horse, but mainly [Archers] and [Warriors].”
“Yes, sire!”
“They’ll be in position by evening.”
I hear Rie fumble with some figures. She’s changing the map in front of me to reflect what I’m describing. I nod.
“Wiskeria can keep harrying them, but the infantry can’t launch rapid attacks. She can set up a trap and commit all of her mounted soldiers to attacking. No full assaults. The main army will finish them.”
I can sense Durene marching with the bulk of the levied soldiers. [Soldiers] marching in ranks, levied from multiple cities. More cavalry, archers, thousands of them. I add the numbers up again. They’ll outnumber the Goblin army. Barely. Barely, but it’s enough if it’s Goblins. We did it last time. But Durene’s marching, and I’m stuck here. I grit my teeth.
“Harry them, Nesor. Tell Wiskeria to harry them. They’ve shifted almost all their crossbows to their west side. Almost undefended towards east, about a hundred paces north of where Beniar hit them two hours ago. I count two groups of pikes spaced out ten meters…scheiße. I mean, thirty feet apart. Tell Beniar that if he approaches northeast, he can slip past them. There are five sentries. If he sends a group of ten, he could take them out and loose some arrows—”
 
——
 
Sleep. Attack. Wake. Attack. The next day was filled with marching and sporadic, deadly raids by the Humans. Always in bad spots. Never in any of the traps. Hidden Goblins lying down with crossbows, Goblins pretending to be napping, Noears hiding in a tent, none of it worked. The Humans knew exactly what Pyrite was doing. Somehow. They’d actually aimed at Noears when he’d been in hiding. They could tell he was a [Mage], where he’d hidden—
How? Noears had suggested magic, but that was too convenient. Redscar was of the opinion some kind of fantastic [Hunter] or [Scout] was spying on them from some incredible distance. It wasn’t anyone nearby. In desperation, Pyrite had sent out the Redfang warriors en masse, hunting for a Human spy. They’d found nothing. No Human [Scouts] for ten miles in any direction. They were sure. So it was something else.
Pyrite didn’t know what, exactly. But he’d come to one definitive conclusion.
“They know where we are. Always.”
“How?”
Quietstab looked around as if the Humans could see them. Pyrite shrugged.
“Don’t know. But can see. Can’t follow.”
“Trap?”
“Trap.”
If the enemy knew exactly where you were and what you were doing at all times, sending out a force to attack them meant they would be surrounded and killed. The only safety was in overwhelming numbers. The Humans were still outnumbered by the Goblins. That was what Pyrite took comfort in. For all of five hours. Then he heard the frantic horns blowing and heard a scream.
“Humans coming!”
Another raid! Pyrite grabbed his battleaxe. He ran towards the shouting and froze. He could see the riders loosing arrows and charging again, but just as quickly he was intercepted by Redscar himself. The Goblin was sweating. He pointed southwest.
“Human army approaching!”
“Humans here!”
Pyrite pointed towards the fighting ahead. Redscar shook his head.
“Big army. Big army.”
An army? Pyrite looked up at Redscar, his heart beating even faster.
“How many?”
“Thousands. Days away. Sent [Scouts]. One survived.”
For a second, the Hob’s ears rang. He looked up. Redscar was grim as he shifted his grip on his sword. Pyrite looked around in desperation. Southwest? Redscar had sent—
No, no time for arguing. Pyrite knew now. He had to move! Keep ahead of the army! Half the tribe still couldn’t breathe. Rags was still unconscious, being carried, her face deathly pale. They had to move.
