The wounded Goblins aimed and fired. The first volley of bolts took scores of riders from their saddles, toppling screaming horses. Stones from slings and the weaker stone crossbows landed among the Humans, denting helmets, shattering bone. A few of Rags’ wounded Hobs shot with their bows, taking down Humans with precise shots.
“Reload.”
Rags reached down and pulled at her crossbow, laboriously cocking it. She slapped another bolt into the slot and aimed. Where was the armored Human? Didn’t matter. She focused on a Human with a spear charging at them. Rags sighed, coughed.
“Fire.”
The second wave of bolts cut down more riders. The Humans tried to keep charging, but the falling horses and Humans tripped up the ones behind. They pulled back as whoever was in charge realized they wouldn’t get the walls. There were thousands of Goblins, and Rags had hundreds of crossbows firing at once. The force of eight hundred wasn’t enough! The riders circled as Rags continued to order the Goblins to reload and fire, marking targets.
Suddenly, the walls behind them weren’t a trap, but a shield. The Humans on horseback couldn’t circle the lines of Goblin crossbows, and Wiskeria’s archers found themselves outnumbered by the volleys of bolts that rained onto their position. They retreated, breaking, falling, racing back.
What now? They had to keep Lancrel from falling! Another gate! They could enter from another gate! The defenders raced to the southern gates to reinforce Lancrel only to find they were too late. The gates were open, and Humans were racing out.
“Into the city. Crossbows on walls. Get pikes in gate.”
Rags pointed as her tribe streamed further and further into the city. Humans ran from them by the thousands, wailing, fleeing the Hobs’ advance. Rags rode through the city as her Redfang riders spread out, seeking out the Humans who’d continued to fight.
Whomever this [Emperor] was, he didn’t understand war like she did. Count on a city to defend itself? Against a weaker, smaller tribe, perhaps. But Human cities weren’t like Drake cities. They had no enchantments on their walls. Their populace didn’t fight to the death. And their walls were too short.
And worse, yes, worst, the Humans of Lancrel had failed to understand how fast the Goblins could take down a gate made of wood. They could have fought the Redfang warriors off on the walls in time. They could have held. But wooden gates? Rags shook her head as she saw Humans streaming out the other exits of the city. The Humans on horseback wouldn’t gain entry from any of the other ways in, if they’d been stupid enough to try. Lancrel’s citizens were pressed against the gates, screaming, shoving to get out. The Goblins were inclined to let them. They were tired.
 
——
 
“Incredible.”
Quietstab shook his head and stared from his position atop the battlements. He turned to Pyrite, awestruck.
“Took city. Without siege!”
Pyrite grunted. He was feeling a lot better. His belly was full—they’d ransacked Lancrel’s stores and found lots of food. And healing potions. He stood on the walls, watching the Humans slowly marching away from their city. Lancrel’s refugees had immediately turned to the Humans on horseback, and the Humans had no choice but to try and guard them—and watch the city. More had arrived on foot. A good two thousand, but they were keeping well back, wary of a Goblin attack.
They had no idea that there was little chance of that. The exhausted Goblins had almost all collapsed after eating their fill. The only ones on the walls were just there to look threatening; the Redfangs were the only group still active enough to keep searching the city for supplies. Pyrite leaned against the battlements as he replied to Quietstab.
“Bad city defense. Other tribes take cities. Mountain City tribe did.”
He was referring to the city they’d taken with Gold-rank adventurers. That had taken more planning, but it had happened. Quietstab nodded.
“But Tremborag leads. Great Chieftain. This time our Chieftain leads.”
“True.”
Pyrite thought about that. Rags led. She’d woken up. And just like that, things had changed. He felt—relieved. Ashamed. He hadn’t thought of this. But she’d woken up and like that she’d saved them.
“Can rest here. Hold walls against twice as many Humans.”
“Mm.”
Pyrite wondered about that. The Humans would come. There were thousands more coming and probably even more that would be angry about the city. They’d bought time, that was all. His ears perked up as he heard a grumbling complaint. Both he and Quietstab turned and saw Rags coming up the stairs.
“Chieftain?”
She had a bag in her hands. Quietstab made way for her, and Pyrite eyed the bag. It was full of Rags’ possessions. He hadn’t ever seen inside, but it wasn’t filled with much.
“Chieftain. Want food?”
He offered her a handful of dried nuts he’d been snacking on. She glared at him.
“No. Help me up.”
She pointed, and Pyrite lifted her up. Rags perched on top of the battlements, dangerously close to the edge. She didn’t care. She stared at the Human army camped far outside of range of the walls. They were watching the Goblins.
“Lots of Humans. Will attack if leave.”
“Attack them, Chieftain?”
“No. Will run. Probably. More coming.”
Rags grumbled to herself. She opened her cloth bag and glared into it. Then she hurled it at Pyrite.
“Where is? Search. Small red stone. Scary.”
Bemused, he opened the bag and rummaged through it. He found a battered chess piece, the ruby he’d given her, some battered pieces of parchment, and then—
Pyrite inhaled sharply. Rags looked up.
“Give.”
She took the object Pyrite handed to her. Quietstab peered, interested, and then stopped as Rags looked at him.
“Quietstab. Get Redscar. Get Redfangs. Mounted ones.”
She glanced at the Humans in the distance. Pyrite watched her gaze, no longer complacent. Quietstab nodded, glancing at the thing she held.
“How many Redfang?”
“All.”
The Hob blinked. Rags glanced at him, and he ran. Pyrite looked at Rags.
“Chieftain? What is that for?”
He pointed. Rags held the red stone up. It was shiny. A ruby gemstone. But the way it made him feel—she turned it and Pyrite’s stomach lurched. He looked at her face, and his stomach lurched for different reasons.
“Bad things.”
Rags looked up. Behind her, in the city, Pyrite could see Redscar riding towards them. Rags looked at him.
“Not done yet. Pyrite.”
She pointed to the Humans beyond. Pyrite looked at her.
“What next?”
 
——
 
“They’re coming out of the city!”
“Are you serious?”
This time, Wiskeria didn’t wait for a reply. She shouted, and every [Soldier] under her command leapt to their feet. The Goblins were attacking? She wavered between attack and retreat. How many? She paused as she saw—
“The wolf riders?”
They streamed out of the city, hundreds of them. But only hundreds. They formed into a wedge and raced out of the city, following a pair of short Goblins who rode forwards. Beniar growled.
“They’re making a break for it! Wis, we have to—”
“I know. Intercept! Everyone, towards the Goblins!”
Wiskeria raised her voice, and thousands of Humans raced towards the Goblins. The Darksky Riders led by Beniar raced forwards. Their numbers were reduced, but all they had to do was hold the Goblins there! An easy task. Wiskeria could tear the Goblins apart. Maybe then the disaster of Lancrel could be mitigated.
“Charge!”
She saw Beniar heading straight for the pair of Goblins. One small. The other held the enchanted blade. She saw the small one raise something in its hands. And then—
Something changed. Wiskeria felt her heart stop in her chest. Her beating, wonderful heart stopped dead. For a second. She stumbled, and around her, [Soldiers] cried out and halted.
The red eye pulsed as the Goblin held it over her head. In its depths, something stirred. It looked at Wiskeria. It knew her name. Something called to her. It crawled in her head. It had a name. It was flesh. Putrefaction. It screamed and she screamed. Skinner! She turned and fled, she—
“No!”
Wiskeria shouted, breaking herself free of the [Fear] spell. She turned and saw the soldiers stumbling backwards and then recovering as she had. They shuddered as the gem struck fear into their hearts, but at her urging, they kept running. However, it was too late. The [Fear] spell had done its work. Not on the Humans, but on Beniar and the riders.
Humans could withstand the spell. For them it was only fear. But animals were different. The charge of the Darksky Riders broke for the second time that day as Wiskeria watched. Half of the horses turned or reared, some throwing their riders to the ground. Beniar’s advance halted in its tracks as the Carn Wolves raced past them.
If they’d been faster by a few seconds. If the [Fear] spell hadn’t been used. The Goblin lowered the stone as it ceased to shine and tucked it into her pack. Wiskeria watched helplessly as the Carn Wolves outraced the horses, heading into the forests. She saw Beniar turn and whirled.
“Allais! Send a spell to Laken! I need to know where they’re going! Now!”
 
——
 
So this is how it ended. Dreamily, Rags rode with the wind blowing across her body. The Redfang warriors whooped, exhilarated to finally run, triumphant in their small victory over the Humans. Redscar drew his wolf over to Rags and pointed as they slowed.
“What is?”
She offered him the now inactive [Fear] gemstone. It wasn’t that useful, certainly not against Goblins. And it ran out of magic. But it was good for a distraction when she’d remembered it. Redscar eyed it appreciatively and then handed it back.
“What now?”
“Slow.”
They halted miles from the city, having outdistanced their Human pursuers for the moment. Rags turned her Carn Wolf, seeing the eyes of all the Redfang warriors on her. Curiously. She knew she was not their real leader. They had abandoned Garen for her, but they were still Redfang. Still his.
And yet. She looked at Redscar. He paused. The other Goblin had been exuberant since the battle for Lancrel. His fury against the Humans had been quenched in part. But Pyrite had told her what he’d done.
“Chased Humans.”
“When Chieftain was asleep.”
“Pyrite ordered not to.”
Redscar shifted, avoiding her gaze.
“Redfangs know how to fight.”
“So does Pyrite.”
Silence. The Redfang warriors turned away. Rags could sense their good moods fading. They did not want to see their leader be dressed down. She sensed their resentment. But Redscar eventually looked up.
“Angry. At Humans.”
Rags nodded. Anger. It was such a strange feeling. She had woken, feeling her tribe torn. She had seen the empty look in the eyes of her Goblins, heard their grief. But anger? It was in Redscar. But three days of fighting had left only embers.
“Anger. Rage. Orders is still orders.”
A pause. Redscar lowered his head.
“True.”
Rags turned her head. Redfang warriors looked at her or stared at their wolves. Some challengingly. Others unashamed. Some regretful. Anger. Fury. She reached in her chest.
“They killed us.”
The Goblins looked at her. Rags looked around. Fewer faces. Fewer wolves. The Redfangs had survived the fighting more than most by virtue of their superior levels and skill. But they had lost numbers too. Rags could see it when she looked around her tribe.
“They poisoned us.”
Like rats. Rags’ grip tightened on her Carn Wolf’s fur, and it whined. She let go. She looked at Redscar and then around at the Redfang warriors.
“Who is Chieftain? Who is leader for Redfangs?”
They looked at each other. Redscar called out, his voice loud.
“You, Chieftain!”
Rags nodded. It had to be said.
“Follow orders. Follow my orders.”
She gave them. The Redfang warriors were confused. Then, as they realized what she wanted, they sat in their saddles. Their eyes burned. Rags pointed. In the distance, Humans were pursuing them on horseback. Too few. Too slow.
“Go. Go and show them.”
She pointed west. The Redfangs’ heads turned as one. Rags pointed east. They looked. She pointed north and south and shouted.
“They attacked us! They killed us! So show them same! Show them pain! Show them hate. Show them Goblins.”
She kicked her Carn Wolf and rode past the Redfang warriors. They raised their weapons, shouting. The wolves began to howl.
“Burn the villages and towns and fields. No mercy. No Humans spared.”
Redscar’s eyes shone as he pointed. Redfang warriors roared. Rags reached inside her chest. There it was. Something darker than anger, thicker than fury. She reached for it, and a black tingling ran through her veins.
“Kill them. Ride. Burn the playthings—”
She broke off, touched a hand to her head. The Redfang warriors waited. Rags looked up. She saw the Humans racing towards them. She saw Erin’s face, plastered on the corpses. And then she saw the dead, lying on the ground in the darkness. She turned, and the blackness inside her spoke for her.
 
——
 
“Emperor Laken? General Wiskeria is asking you for an update. She is in pursuit of the Goblins riding wolves.”
My hands are sweaty. I’m shaking. Reeling, rather. Lancrel has fallen. The Goblin took it in less than an hour. It’s fine, though. They can be defeated. Just so long as the army reaches them—I need to send trebuchets. But this force—I follow it with my mind.
“I see them. They’re headed south. They’ve stopped. Wait—wait. What are they—”
Something’s happening. I see the small Goblin raise her hand in my head. The Goblins roar. And then—they move. But not in one direction.
“Oh no.”
The image of the wolves splinters in my mind, the solid mass of Goblins breaking up into groups of ten, then of two, riding in every direction. They race across the ground, not one mass, but splitting up, into smaller groups. Smaller and smaller. In every direction.
“No, no. This can’t be happening.”
“Emperor Laken? General Wiskeria is requesting a location. Emperor Laken? Your Majesty?”
I raise my head, sightless, my hands clenched. Nesor’s sweaty face stares back at me. Lady Rie pauses.
“Where are the wolf riders headed? Emperor Laken?”
“Everywhere.”
 
——
 
Rags rode. The wind felt hot in her face. She was alone. Behind her, Redfang warriors broke up. Riding in every direction, howling. They split up, the single mass of them fracturing. Rags rode alone for the moment. Her head felt light. Something black rose in her chest, as if she could spit it out.
It was so simple. So very simple. Pyrite didn’t see it because he was kind. Redscar didn’t see it because he was a warrior. But she saw it because she was Rags. Because she thought like her opponent. Erin had taught her that.
