Lady Bethal stared at the Goblins as the night tore itself to pieces. Screams and drumming horse beats broke the silence in the distance. War horns blew, shattering the calm, making her heart pound every time one blared. But she didn’t move. She held her position on her horse, soothing it. Her poor mare was terrified and exhausted in equal parts, and she might have bolted if Bethal weren’t holding her in place. Lady Bethal stroked her side reassuringly and looked up.
At crimson eyes. The Goblins watched her every move, the tips of their crossbow bolts aimed unerringly at her. There had to be at least a hundred and twenty, formed into groups of thirty, all of them standing or kneeling in ranks ten Goblins deep. They surrounded her from three sides so that if they fired they wouldn’t hit each other.
Two [Knights] in pink armor held their position in front of her, shielding Bethal with their bodies. Sir Nil and Dame Truvia held their weapons at the ready, their faces set. They didn’t move.
Next to Bethal, Thomast kept his rapier lowered, but she could feel him shifting, readying for action. Ahead of him, a group of Hobs held their ground, watching the Humans, their eyes flicking. They didn’t look around as another horn blew, startling the horses again. Bethal saw the Goblins shift. But they refused to move. And the Humans didn’t attack.
It was a stalemate. Thomast could kill some of the Goblins with crossbows before they could fire. He could probably knock down a bolt or two with his rapier himself. Sir Nil and Dame Truvia would shield Bethal with their bodies, and her [Aura of Thorns] Skill was powerful—but not enough to stop a crossbow bolt at close range.
Lady Bethal had a Ring of Sufferance on one finger, but even if she survived the first volley, even if Thomast and her [Knights] took out every Goblin assigned to watch them, they wouldn’t be able to escape without the Goblins first raising an alarm. And they would be hunted.
Against the hundreds of Carn Wolves and riders, their odds of escape would be perilously slim on foot. And it would be on foot; the horses wouldn’t survive ten miles with the Goblins trying to hamstring them every chance they got.
So they stayed put as the majority of the Goblins raced away and distant horns began echoing through the woods. Minutes passed, and no one spoke. Bethal felt her heart pounding. She couldn’t make it calm. She had faced death before. But this—this was at the heart of her fears.
Goblins. Their eyes made her shudder, so she looked at Thomast to calm herself. He was here. He would protect her. And if he could not—she would not run. That was all there was to it.
But it didn’t come to that. Bethal was listening to her mare relieve herself on the ground and the Goblins were wrinkling their noses when another Goblin burst out of the trees. Instantly, both Humans and Goblins tensed. But the Goblin just shouted something, and the other Goblins turned. They stared. Then, as one, they abandoned their formation and ran.
“What on earth?”
Lady Bethal watched, surprised, as the Goblins holding crossbows turned and ran. Only thirty of them held their ground, aiming at the Humans. But now they were backing away, clearly intending just to scare the Humans. Two Hobs stayed with them, holding their ground, raising their axes threateningly.
They were running. What was happening? Lady Bethal turned her head, expecting a trap. But the Goblins were already vanishing into the forest. By her side, she sensed Thomast move. She didn’t have to hear him to know what he was thinking.
Now would be the time to strike. Her [Chevalier] shifted his grip, and Lady Bethal bit her lip.
“No.”
Her soft voice made the Goblins start. One of them accidentally pulled his trigger and fired straight at Bethal’s chest.
The bolt shot towards her. Bethal blinked. She didn’t have time to think of dodging—it was streaking towards her and then Sir Nil was there. The bolt shattered on his shield, and the Goblins froze.
“Wastes!”
Dame Truvia lowered her spear, shouting in outrage. But Bethal’s voice stopped her and the Goblins shifting their aim.
“Stop! Don’t attack.”
She pointed, and Truvia held her ground. The Goblins backed up a step, uncertainly aiming at her. Bethal turned to Thomast.
“They’ve left.”
That was apparent, but someone had to say it. Thomast never would. He nodded, watching the two Hobs. They stared at him with grim resignation, knowing they couldn’t beat him. Still, they held their ground, barking orders and making the smaller Goblins aim back at Bethal.
“Something’s attacked the Goblins. Not all those war horns sounded like Goblin signals. If there was a time to make an escape—”
“No. I want to see Sir Kerrig. If he is alive…”
Sir Nils started.
“You want to ride into that? Lady Bethal—”
“If there was a time to find him, it would be now, wouldn’t it? Say, you Goblins!”
The Goblins jerked as Bethal waved at them. They stared at her. Bethal raised her voice.
“I agree with your Chieftain’s demands. We will be your prisoners! Take us back to your camp!”
The Goblins stared. They looked at each other and then at the two Hobs leading them. They were a pair, male and female. The Hobs glanced at each other, and the female one grunted. She shouted in the common tongue, making Bethal blink in surprise. More than just their Chieftain could speak?
“Drop weapons!”
“No.”
Thomast calmly replied, edging his horse forwards. The Hobs raised their weapons. The male growled.
“Prisoners! Drop weapons!”
“No. We’ll keep our weapons.”
Sir Nil rode forwards, and the Goblins instantly backed up again. There were thirty of them and two Hobs. One of the [Knights] could rout them alone, and Thomast could do it with one arm. Bethal’s ‘surrender’ was meaningless, and all the Goblins knew it. All they could do was shoot her and then be slaughtered. The female Hob eyed Bethal and then pointed.
“Sheathe weapons.”
The three armed Humans hesitated. They looked at Bethal, and she nodded. The Hob waited until the rapier and sword were at Sir Nil and Thomast’s sides and Truvia had lowered her spear. She hesitated and then nodded. The Goblins lowered their crossbows.
“Draw sword and we all kill you.”
“Very well.”
Bethal inclined her head graciously, trying not to let her nerves show. Believe they’re reasonable. She had no reason to expect it of Goblins! But the Chieftain had spoken rather than slaughter her at once. She’d negotiated—and Sir Kerrig might be alive.
“Follow.”
The Hob grunted and led the Goblins into the forest without a backward glance. Bethal was sure that they were ready to turn, shoot, and then run if Thomast so much as sneezed. She nodded to her escort, and they hesitantly followed her into the tree line.
“We should go instead, milady. Let Lord Thomast and I go ahead while Sir Nil remains on the road with you.”
“No, Dame Truvia. We go together. I hardly think this is a ruse. The Goblins had us right where they wanted us. Something’s attacked them.”
“And will whatever attacked them attack us?”
“If it does, we will deal accordingly. But I want to find Sir Kerrig. I thought he was dead, truly.”
“It would be like him to survive. And Lady Welca lives too? If she’s escaped, why haven’t we had word? Unless it was recent—”
“Quiet.”
Thomast’s voice stilled the urgent discussion between Bethal and her [Knights]. He rode ahead as the forest became sparser, and Bethal saw ghostly mage-light illuminating the forest. She inhaled sharply as she rode into the Goblins’ camp. Or what was left.
“Oh my.”
Broken tents, scattered fire. Smoke in the air and a foul, acrid stench that reminded Bethal of an [Alchemist]’s shop. Blood, too, heavy in the air. Faint cries—howling from the Carn Wolves. Shuffling feet, but too little sound. The forest floor was dark, trampled. And the bodies lay everywhere. Hundreds. Possibly a thousand.
The camp of the Flooded Waters tribe was destroyed. Goblin bodies lay everywhere, being searched for life by the living. It had been a slaughter. Lady Bethal looked at the still forms of Goblins, some covered in blood, others apparently unharmed but dead all the same.
The Goblins who’d been watching Bethal’s group stood in their camp, frozen by the sight. Bethal saw the pair of Hobs stare around and then raise their voices, shouting something in their guttural tongue. The other Goblins looked around and then ran, their discipline breaking, running into the chaos, shouting. Bethal looked around, confused.
“Wait. What about us?”
The Goblins had forgotten all about the four Humans on their horses. They combed through the wreckage, many of them picking up shapes, shaking them, and then letting them drop. Bethal blinked, her eyes stinging, and heard Dame Truvia utter a warning.
“There’s poison in the air! Lady Bethal, back!”
She was raising a ring that glowed with black light. Bethal could see nothing, but she instantly rode back as Truvia covered her mouth with a handkerchief and checked her ring.
“It seems—weak. My ring isn’t detecting more than a low-level miasma in the air. But what happened here?”
“An attack. It must have been. Poison, arrows, and the ground is churned. I see hoof prints.”
Sir Nil had dismounted to check the ground. He coughed and looked around. Bethal felt her eyes stinging—perhaps the poison? She fanned at her face and froze.
“Is that…a child?”
A small Goblin was wandering past the warriors, shouting in a high-pitched voice. She had to be a child. There was no other word for her. The small Chieftain that Bethal had met had been small, even for a Goblin. But this Goblin was no bigger than a toddler. She had none of the knowing look that had been in the Chieftain’s eyes.
Bethal stared. She had never seen a Goblin child before. She expected the—the thing to look evil or to have fangs or some feature, but the child just seemed lost. It kept shouting something. A word. And it was crying as it searched the bodies.
Lady Bethal Walchaís drew back, and her horse retreated a step. The Goblin child ignored her completely and utterly. It ran over to a downed Goblin and tried to turn the body over. It gave up and bent down to look at the face and then turned away. It looked around, searching, shouting the same word, and Bethal saw liquid dripping from its bright, crimson eyes. The [Lady] froze as the Goblin child stared past her, like a deer caught by a [Hunter].
“Tears?”
She had never seen a Goblin cry. She hadn’t known they could. Bethal watched the child turn. In that moment, she learned two things. Goblins wept tears just like any other species. The same color, the same look. And secondly, she learned that a Goblin could weep. Bethal stayed put, her heart pounding. Impossible. Impossible. But the truth defied her to her face. Goblins could weep. She had never seen the like.
When the Goblin King rode upon First Landing with his hordes there were no tears. Only screams of rage as his armies hurled themselves upon the walls and pushed through the gaps in the broken masonry. There were no children, only warriors. Bethal could remember the blood, the eyes of the Goblins as she hid among the dead—
“Sir Kerrig!”
A voice broke Bethal’s reverie. The Goblin voices calling out silenced at Dame Truvia’s call. They turned, and Lady Bethal saw a Human face among the sea of Goblins. Sir Kerrig was bending over a silent form, doing something. He turned, and his face went pale. He broke into a run, and Bethal urged her horse forwards a step—
“Stop! Stop!”
Goblins flooded the ground, waving crossbows, aiming at both her and Sir Kerrig. Dame Truvia froze, raising her spear, and Thomast appeared by Bethal’s side. But the Goblins weren’t attacking. They shouted at Bethal, pointing.
“Stop! No horse!”
They were pointing at something on the ground. Bethal looked down and realized Goblin bodies were strewn in front of her. She had nearly ridden through them. She hadn’t noticed. She backed up on her horse as the Goblins shouted at her, waving their arms.
“I’m stopping. I’ve stopped.”
They formed a wall, forcing the Humans back. There was nothing Bethal could do but back up and let Sir Kerrig come to her. The Goblins had remembered their unwanted prisoners and, after an argument, a group of Goblins took up a position, aiming bows and crossbows at the Humans again. But the rest immediately flooded back into the camp. Confused, the four Humans met Sir Kerrig, and Lady Bethal dismounted to clasp his hands.
“Sir Kerrig! We’d assumed you were dead! How are you alive? Dead gods man, are you injured? Let’s get you to safety as quickly as we can!”
Sir Nil clasped Sir Kerrig’s arm, urging him to mount his stallion. Sir Kerrig shook his head. He looked bewildered, and there was blood on his hands. Not his own.
“Lady Bethal! Sir Thomast! How did you come to be here? Did you have a part in the—it’s dangerous to be here! If the Redfang Goblins catch sight of you, they’ll attack! They’re out for blood.”
“Redfang? What are you talking about? Sir Kerrig, where is Lady Welca? Are you unharmed? What is going on?”
“Let him speak, Sir Nil!”
Lady Bethal spoke sharply, and Sir Nil bowed his head instantly. Sir Kerrig coughed, and Bethal noticed a rasp in his voice. She immediately motioned, and Dame Truvia offered him a high-grade healing potion. Sir Kerrig took a sip, and his voice cleared of the rasp.
“Thank you. There was poison in the air. Some kind of mist or alchemist’s brew. I have no idea. As for what happened—I helped Lady Welca to escape not a day ago. I thought she would have reached some kind of civilization by now, but we had passed through the wilderness for the last few days. Perhaps she’s still riding—I had remained with the Goblins until the camp was attacked! Their Chieftain, Rags, rode forth with a good portion of the warriors. Shortly afterwards, a group of [Riders] struck the camp, hundreds of them. They doused the campfires and torches and another force began sending a poison gas through the camp and shooting every Goblin that moved!”
Lady Bethal listened to Sir Kerrig’s description of the attackers and his sojourn as the Goblin’s captives, watching the camp as she did. The Goblins were in chaos, but as time passed, someone began restoring order. Patrols of Goblins began combing through the wounded and dead methodically, calling out when they found a living Goblin. They also gathered up the trampled supplies, ushering other Goblins back into the center of the camp.
“They’re on the march. The army that attacked them retreated, but I’ve no notion of where they’re based or what their numbers are.”
