If you could see everything, if you could see every move your opponent made, what was the way to counter that? A trap? No. You couldn’t trap something like that. But you could overwhelm it. Give it a hundred targets.
They’d found a map of the region in Lancrel. It burned in her head. Villages, cities, towns. Farmers and their fields. All neatly written down. Targets.
Burn the villages. Destroy the mills. Cut them down as they flee. Set fire to forests. Raid their homes. Hurt them. Vengeance.
Across the landscape, Redfang warriors rode, howling. They didn’t ride against the pursuing warriors. They rode into villages with flaming torches. They descended on fields, on Humans sleeping or heading to bed. They rode with no goal in mind.
Only hatred. Only fury. It was in her. After the brilliance was done, after the battle and saving her tribe, something else was in Rags. Not a Chieftain’s desires. Not a leader’s thoughts. Something dark. And primal. It was in her heart, and she’d opened the door.
No more. They slaughtered her tribe. They used poison. They killed children, those who couldn’t fight. Rags heard the thoughts flash through her head. Excuses. It wasn’t howling anymore. It was a scream. The scream of wind. Of Goblins bringing death. A scream in her mind. She whispered as the screaming grew louder.
“They started it.”
No one replied. No one told her it was wrong. No one had to. But it didn’t matter. Ahead of Rags, she could see a farm. A village attached to Lancrel, maybe. It didn’t matter.
It was everything that mattered. The Goblin rode alone as the air grew hot around her. Fire burned in her hands. She saw the dark building rise in front of her and remembered an inn. The two buildings were not the same, but they were exactly the same. Rags raised her hand and shot fire onto the roof. She blasted in the windows with flaming arrows. She wiped at her eyes, then she drew her sword. Rags heard the screaming, going on and on.
It was coming from her.
 
——
 
One last thing. As the Redfang warriors rode, as Pyrite took charge of the tribe in the city of Lancrel, as an [Emperor] shouted desperate orders too slowly, too late, as [Message] spells moved too slowly to catch the wolves that rode through the night, a [Lady] paused on the open road far north of it all.
She’d ridden far outside of the Unseen Empire, and now she stood at the edge of the campfire. A man stood with her, his hand on his rapier. Always watchful, always wary. But the [Lady] paid no notice to the darkness. She spoke into the magical earring she held.
“Do you remember how we met, Magnolia?”
“I don’t care to recall. Is it germane to the conversation?”
The voice that spoke back was crisp, impatient. Bethal shifted.
“No. Perhaps. Yes. I had cause to remember it a while ago. Do you recall?”
“I should hardly forget. You nearly killed me.”
“After you slapped me and told me to run or be cut down with my family. I never thanked you for doing that.”
“Of course not.”
Bethal paused. She glanced over her shoulder. The fire was inviting. Her personal tent waiting. Her two [Knights] traded places for sentry duty. Bethal sighed.
“I’m done killing Goblins for a while.”
A pause.
“I see.”
“Don’t ask for my Knights of the Petal either. You may keep them at Invrisil if you need them. But I want sixteen to meet me.”
“Are you taking a role in this conflict with the [Emperor]?”
“I don’t know.”
“Bethal. I need you closer to home. Tyrion is moving.”
“At last.”
“The Goblin Lord is approaching the mountain. He’s slowed. Gathering more Goblins. But when they meet—”
“Yes, yes. And Tyrion will do what, exactly? Why is he delayed?”
“I don’t know.”
“But you can guess.”
More silence from the other end. Bethal sighed into the earring.
“Which side will win, Magnolia? This Goblin tribe or the [Emperor]? The Great Chieftain, Tremborag, or this Goblin Lord? Which do we want to win? And where will Tyrion fit into all this? Will you tell me or leave me guessing?”
“I should hope at least some of those answers would be obvious.”
“Not anymore. I thought I knew good and evil, Magnolia. But all this? This? This is madness.”
Bethal looked around. Distantly, far distant, she thought she could see sparks of light growing against the dark horizon. She wondered if someone was starting a fire. But at that distance—Magnolia’s voice was calm.
“Not madness, Bethal. This is what has always been. Goblins or Humans. It is always the same.”
“What is?”
“War.”
Bethal closed her eyes. She was still for a very long moment as Thomast put his hand on her shoulder. At last, she whispered.
“I don’t think it’s the same. Magnolia. I think it hurts differently each time.”
Without waiting for a response, she dropped the earring and turned to hug her husband. And in the distance, the fires grew brighter. And brighter. And darker.
