Luckily, Providence and all their pretty little static statues had already shown him the perfect target.

However, first order of business… surviving her ire. Randidly focused. He began dumping VPs into his more defensive Creeds, Tolerance and Duty. He poured five thousand into each in a single go, just a drop in the bucket of his newly achieved hoard of VPs, and experienced the rapid growth of 20 to each Stat.

And that was just the start.

The blindfolded woman raised her copper sword. Randidly had pumped another wave of VPs into each of his defensive Creeds, this time ten thousand each. He felt his bones and flesh shifting and settling, the power Creeds in his form rapidly rising. He paused only briefly to acknowledge a notification.

You have condensed a Vessel Layer! Current Vessel Layers: 6

For earning a new Layer, you have unlocked access to a new Creed. Creeds will be distributed differently, based on the Vessel Layer. For the sixth Vessel Layer, you have been randomly distributed a Creed!

You have received the Creed Enigmatic!

Randidly glossed over the definition of the Enigmatic Creed, his concerns elsewhere. More and more VPs he spent, not worrying about the cost. He distributed 5000 VPs to every one of his Creeds, to keep a semblance of balance between them, but then spent another 10,000 on both Impossibility and Enigmatic.

They were not defensive, but he wanted his counter-punch to have quite a bit of both present in its sadistic execution. His Vessel trembled, struggling to keep up with the developments. Just like that, he had gained 140 in each of his Stats and earned another notification.

You have condensed a Vessel Layer! Current Vessel Layers: 7

For earning a new Layer, you have unlocked access to a new Creed. Creeds will be distributed differently, based on the Vessel Layer. For the seventh Vessel Layer, select one of the following Creeds: Heretical, Incendiary, or Germination.

Simply following his instincts, Randidly clicked on Germination without reading the descriptions. A part of him experienced a pang of betrayal not to select Heretical, but Creeds were a part of the whole of his new triverse: he didn’t need to add extra instability, right from the jump. Germination was the inception of the seed, the beginning of the birth process in the realm of flora.

It suited his current needs and future purposes perfectly.

After Randidly took this hit, he suspected he would need his Vessel to germinate a bit to sculpt his flesh back into place.

He felt the blindfolded woman shift, her copper sword stabbing forward. He spent 20,000 VPs on Germination. Then 5,000 each on everything else. He glanced at his Vessel screen.

Vessel Screen

Randidly Ghosthound

Vessel Layers: 7

Creeds: Germination (20000), Enigmatic (20000), Impossibility (27150), Tolerance (27000), Duty (28000), Vengeance (16000), Harmony (19000), N/A (1000)

VPs: 1,446,974

(Infuse VPs to unlock further options)

He had earned a total of 240 for each Stat. Randidly’s eyes flashed. He only had a split second now. This wouldn’t be enough. He began pouring his VPs away, so quickly he barely noticed the notifications popping up in front of him.

You have condensed a Vessel Layer! Current Vessel Layers: 8

For earning a new Layer, you have unlocked access to a new Creed. Creeds will be distributed differently, based on the Vessel Layer. For the eighth Vessel Layer, you have been randomly distributed the Creed Generosity!

…

You have condensed a Vessel Layer! Current Vessel Layers: 9

For earning a new Layer, you have unlocked access to a new Creed. Creeds will be distributed differently, based on the Vessel Layer. For the ninth Vessel Layer, you have been given a Creed by the Pantheon! You have been distributed the Creed Vulnerability!

…

You have condensed a Vessel Layer! Current Vessel Layers: 10

For earning a new Layer, you have unlocked access to a new Creed. Creeds will be distributed differently, based on the Vessel Layer. For the tenth Vessel Layer, your actions have earned you a Creed! You have earned the Creed Experimentation!

The sword shot toward Randidly’s chest, but his flesh wriggled and flexed, attempting to keep up with the shift. His Creeds became almost like armor, reinforcing his body, transforming his entire person.

Vessel Screen

Randidly Ghosthound

Vessel Layers: 10

Creeds: Experimentation (100000), Vulnerability (100000), Generosity (100000), Germination (120000), Enigmatic (120000), Impossibility (127150), Tolerance (127000), Duty (128000), Vengeance (116000), Harmony (119000), N/A (1000)

VPs: 446,974

(Infuse VPs to unlock further options)

Just by spending VPs, each of Randidly Ghosthound’s already impressive Stats had grown by 2240. His flesh hadn’t even caught up with the change in his capability. A boost that big meant that his Physical Defense Stats, Homunculi’s Engineered Adaption and Carrion Dragon’s Carapace, more than doubled in only a heartbeat.

A half a hummingbird’s heartbeat, even.

The copper sword arrived, quelling the universe with its motion. Randidly accepted it, refusing to back down.

The Creeds shifting was one thing, but perhaps just as valuable were the three sinking of anchors. Elhume, Devick, and Enmya all settled as Neveah’s Engraving reached its final form. They had been in formation, but now the locks snapped into places as the three dimensions operated around each other.

Randidly released a breath.

Behind the tip of the sword was an Eternity’s worth of scorn and indignation.

His flesh rippled first, almost a frightened shiver, before the weapon arrived. His skin parted, his muscles pulped, his blood evaporated. His images roared out their personal refusal, channeling their power into the defense. Yet the hammering of the blindfolded woman smashed back the shapes and emotions before they could manifest. She forced back his significance with sheer violence.

They stared at each other as her static intensity began to eradicate him, almost on a philosophical level.

Then, buoyed by the settled triverse, a wave of Creeds, reinforced by the population of the newly reformed Alpha Cosmos, pushed back. It joined with the pulsing, invigorating wave from the Shallah energy Randidly conjured. It endured Eternity, one twisted and built upon exploitation.

Randidly could see the blindfolded woman clenching her jaw with force enough to chew through a planet like a gumball.

Obviously, the impact hurt. More than anything he had ever felt. The essence of Randidly Ghosthound served as the battleground between two overwhelming forces: the pressure of an Eternity and the hope of a new universe. Yet he cackled wildly as blood spurted in every direction, bones splintered and vanished, his organs withered and caught fire just from a rough impact.

Because her sword stroke ran out of steam first. The blindfolded woman snarled at the stalled conflict. “You-”

He didn’t give her a chance to finish that thought.

She didn’t step back, but the pressure eased. And Randidly stepped forward into the fading pressure, with a slight gesture of his hands. His fingers tugged on the Aether strings of Providence. He conjured that horrid maw of the Field Identification… and stepped into it.

Randidly felt a fusion reactor of the partial Shallah swirling in his chest, almost as dangerous to him as the Eternities. Its energies blasted out in every direction, chewing on the Nether flows in his body. His eyes narrowed. Just a bit more…

The essence of Randidly Ghosthound, his Aether and Nether, exploded down the field identification. Because of his skilled manipulation of his energies, he wove himself around the vicious spikes of the Field Identification as he moved through it. He shot forward along the trap of the Providence System, ignoring its intentions to pin him in place like a deceased and rare beetle.

Because Randidly wanted to teach these bastards a lesson.

Identifying in progress, please wait…

“Thematica, you must stop him, now,” Pangu’s eye, the one not hidden behind a monocle, bulged.

“If you have time to speak, fucking do it yourself,” The blindfolded woman, Thematica, snarled over her shoulder at him. Which, delightfully, earned Randidly another second of heretical indulgence.

Energies exploded out, the shape of Randidly Ghosthound, his images, his patterns, his flows, his memories, his feelings. A lonely boy, who became a grey monster, who forged his body into a homunculus. A tall tree, dedication and care and focus, giving life to those around him, breathing energy in and out. An absence, a strangeness, a different dimension that craved life and found music.

His hands were blurs, spitting out little sparks of plasma as they moved right up to the edge of the speed of light in order to stay ahead of those pinning spikes of the identification as he wove his energies forward. At the core of this rocketing energy explosion, Randidly cradled the Shallah of potential, of forgone possibilities.

His eyes flashed as he remembered his early days in the System.

He remembered all the benefits he derived from, and all the trouble brought to his door on Tellus, by his Engravings.

It was one of the areas which gave him a definite advantage in his preparations. Not only did he have Sam create for Randidly some of the best equipment in existence, but then Randidly would work tirelessly for weeks in order to create an Engraving to match the equipment. And it was the combination that made him unstoppable, before he had a Class, before his Skill Levels had become truly ridiculous.

In the multiverse, Randidly had to twist and wound himself more quickly, more tightly, in order to avoid the spikes. He clenched and squeezed, barely managing to continue advancing.

And the change that completely made him unstoppable was the moment Randidly learned to create Living Engravings. So they would grow with him, just one more Skill.

Life… from static shapes.

The blindfolded woman paused in her ire at Pangu and pivoted back around. Her Aspect, the copper sword flashed up with its deadly point. She pounced forward-

Randidly finally couldn’t wind himself anymore tightly as his energies hurtled through the identification process. The pinning spikes pricked him, preparing to settle and bind him into a static form. But at that very moment, Randidly detonated the Shallah moment held within his body. For good measure, he activated his Nether Core’s Fourth Authority, Animation Nova.

“Your’s is not the only way,” Randidly told the multiverse.

Welcome to Providence, Randidly Ghosthound. You have been assigned Identification No. 403921029281-

Error. Processing…

A wave of pure light exploded from Randidly’s body. Thematica’s attack paused, held at bay by the brief and all-consuming energy of a combined Pinnacle and Eternity, and naught the twisted version practiced in the outer multiverse. She couldn’t pierce through his power…

…even as Randidly drew small shapes into his freely given identity. Just an arrangement with small, repeating patterns that could naturally shift and adjust. He had done this a thousand times, with the nascent form of this made when he created the emerald motes that dwelled within Kharon. And this time, they had both the benefit of Animation Nova and the giving ambiance of a Shallah event.

Those little shapes flexed and swelled, testing the limits of their new home. The helixing rails of the Identification groaned and crackled at the bustling curiosity contained with Randidly Ghosthound’s ‘identity’.

Randidly stopped then, no longer guiding the development. He only needed to wait a second. From stillness, life exploded in every direction.

Welcome to Providence, Randidly Ghosthound. Assignment clarified! You have been assigned Identification No. 403921024263-

Error. Processing…

For a multiverse filled with the austere stillness of a tomb and power derived from weighty shadows, a repudiation.

As the Shallah moment exploded outward, the rails of the Field Identification snapped. A riot of light, color, image, possibility, all the flouring tenacity of Randidly Ghosthound opened up like a curling bouquet of flesh spring-time blooms, yellows and pinks and oranges. These flowers of Aether and Nether grew in every direction, curious about the environment.

Welcome to Providence, Randidly Ghosthound. Assignment clarified! You have been assigned Identification No. 426342634263426-

The fabric of Providence shook. The multiverse almost seemed to recoil from the presence of the spreading vines and growths of energy. Without the typical, liquid energy medium of the Alpha Cosmos, the identity Randidly provided needed to slither closer to individuals and wrap around them for sustenance.

Chuckling, he watched as his brilliant, life-giving identity spread. Even as Providence tried and failed to name it.

“Thematica! We cannot linger here any longer. The outer Republics will have sensed the disturbance. Either we call reinforcements, or we retreat,” The bark-skinned man pleaded. Next to him, his female counterpart growled and waved a hand. The shadow pressure from her statue smashed against one Randidly’s tendrils of energy.

The main vine withered and died, but the bulb at the end of the living pattern burst. A hundred small seeds, static patterns that could transform into vibrating life, flew and spread in the surrounding space.

Thematica stilled, even as all her subordinates began to wield their vast powers against the ‘identity’ Randidly had released. They were definitely more powerful than these small sprouts, but it was like a cohort of hurricanes trying to stamp out dandelions. While they wrought great destruction… they also served as the impetus that would spread some seeds far and wide.

