“Oh? You are quite sturdy, aren’t you?” The blindfolded woman tilted her head to the side as she considered the devastating fallout of her strike.

Randidly Ghosthound felt like the part of his torso not immediately annihilated had been repeatedly run over by a planet-sized chariot, reversing and jerking forward across his ribs. Calling his current mangled condition ‘abandoned roadkill’ would elicit judgmental sniffs from half-smashed squirrels everywhere.

Blood filled Randidly’s mouth. He trembled, willing his abused body not to collapse. The sheer force of the woman’s attack had caught him by surprise. One part of him shivered in anticipation; there were even taller mountains for him to climb in the future.

A more practical part sent pangs of agony through his body, reminding him to remain focused. His images had been pressed out of existence and struggled to reform. Even as his cells began to regenerate, his own significance trembled and sloshed in his body, multiple inefficiencies created when she had torn through the patterns maintaining the connection between physique and images.

But each remaking of his interior vein patterns streamlined them slightly. His Nether evolved, to be more resilient for the next time.

Yet his attention fixated on a notification that had popped up in front of him. The last piece he needed.

Congratulations! For surviving the strike of a powerful Entity from outside the Nexus, Muse’s Reverie +1! Muses Reverie: 8/8

“Guess it’s my turn to seize the initiative.” Randidly grunted out the response as his organs reformed. He took a breath as he forced back the lingering pressure of this blindfolded woman’s power. His images blazed in his body as they manifested again, screaming for vengeance. From the depths of his Nether Core he plucked out Acri, with the new portion that had been slowly assimilated into the spear over the last twenty minutes.

Time to work a little bit of magic. Look, I’ve got nothing up my sleeves…

He raised his spear. He channeled his three images. His bright pupils dilated. He needed to pour everything into this strike. Now, truly, he was glad of the training with Visage of Obsession. He allowed any thought not related to the present to drain out of his head.

Randidly Ghosthound’s muscles exploded with force. He was motion and violence. This sort of strike… was not the strike of a man who had a plan for the follow up.

The First Tree Suffers Only Fealty. Singularity Engulfs the Finite. Alpha Dragon’s Fell Smite.

Congratulations! Your Grand Fate Temporal Thaumaturgy Mends Eternity has grown to Level 1811!

Congratulations! Your Nether Penance Empty Vessel Fosakes the Path has grown to Level 1811!

Randidly Ghosthound had Truths no longer. But over the course of this experience, his opinions had grown increasingly firm. His three images moved together as a single attack. They brought shape and emotion and the three mixed together. Perhaps not perfectly, but without any slack, any sense of weakness.

He raised Acri in a javelin throw and launched it directly at the blindfolded woman’s face. Emotions erupted through his body. They became wings that sped the strike forward, faster. For threatening his Alpha Cosmos, Randidly Ghosthound would make her bleed.

*****

The golden Engraving had grown larger and larger until it pressed against the edges of the Nexus… and then extended past them. It was an enormous thing, impossible to view in its totality, each stroke of its execution having fattened underneath the ministrations of the World Tree. To the point it took on a shape that could support a universe.

With a broad source, the light of this half-made new order became soft and filled with possibilities.

Pine stood in the center, staring in wonder at the work done by Neveah, his half-sister. The sentiment caused by her presence felt strange and unfamiliar in Pine’s, almost alarming. A different, intimidating sort of hunger he had no idea how to satisfy.

Yet that feeling also filled him with an impetus. Suddenly, all the darkness that had clouded him for so long, which he used as a shield even as it poisoned him, seemed so small. An entire world waited beyond his fears.

He had a sister. Yet that fact only made him more aware of the rumblings through the Nexus. Because now he felt his frozen hesitation thaw. His perspective had shifted as the Engraving had grown.

He could feel the three outer portions of the golden Engraving, the way they would come to balance one another. Already, the Nexus moved to settle around his father, who remained steadfastly in place. As the rotating Engraving built up momentum, more and more of the Alpha Cosmos manifested in the second space.

In that final circle, Pine could sense a fitful consciousness, observing her environment closely.

“You truly need me,” Pine said, suddenly seeing how all the patterns aligned. He hadn’t believed Randidly Ghosthound earlier when the intense man had been so insistent on this fact. Pine’s emotions might be a roiling storm inside of his body, but at the same time, an intense clarity had seized him. “Not just my presence, but my cooperation. Otherwise… the Engraving will tear the spatial fabric before it can be shifted to its new location.”

“Creating a new realm must be done… delicately.” Neveah bowed her head, still radiating guilt. “Yes. We don’t mean to be one more group requiring your assistance, but-”

“You asked,” Pine’s voice broke. He remembered Randidly Ghosthound’s stubborn emphasis on the formality. He remembered Elhume’s immediate response when his son had asked even vaguely. Pined blinked and blinked, trying to remain focused, even as his emotional storm threatened to break across him and leave him scattered. “That… makes all the difference. You asked me.”

The Engraving groaned as it stretched further, pushing beyond the bounds of the Nexus to the point where the original universe was just a portion of the whole. The dark subconscious sat in the middle of a seething storm of destruction as it began to destabilize a larger portion of the space, given more environment to corrupt with the expansion. Huge rifts yawned open around its edges, large enough for entire worlds to vanish without a trace.

The three circles spun and Pine felt his consciousness stretching. The spatial fabric trembled as movement settled them in a new location. They had left the Nexus behind, so that the Engraving could cup all of it in that first circle with Elhume. The Alpha Cosmos settled into place in the second circle. As the Engraving wheeled around… the third circle popped open and scooped up all that heavy darkness.

Huge, root-lined golden gates stretched wide. The darkness, too, was welcome in the order Randidly and Neveah wanted to create.

The whole working shuddered as it wrenched to a stop, the third circle abruptly burdening the rest of the Engraving. The gates closed to drag along the dark subconscious, but it had sat and pooled and deepened and simmered for too long. It refused to shift. Pine’s consciousness snapped down, grasping onto the edges of the third circle even as the roots tying everything together began to stretch and pop with the strain of edging it forward.

Pine grimaced as almost realized he had jumped forward to help without thinking about it. His instincts told him what he wanted, even if he wouldn’t have been able to name it.

He ignored his hunger, he ignored his chaotic heart, he ignored all the glittering light and darkness. The universe soul simply wished with all his being. He reinforced the third circle as best he could.

Hold. He prayed. Hold and begin to move. So long as we begin to move…

…everything can change.

Pine felt time tear first, but didn’t care; they could fix time. Randidly Ghosthound would fix time, so long as they endured through this difficult beginning. Pine’s existence buzzed as the stretching became tearing and he had to throw more and more of himself along the edges of the third circle to keep it held in place.

His soul stretched, even his sense of self put on the line to hold the third circle in place. Everything became agony. Fiery consumed his confusion, his knowledge of a sister, and even his ever-present hunger. He felt the sweat and the pain and nothing else. Without time, the strain seeped deeper and deeper into his being without any chance of easing.

His grip loosened, slightly. It was just so hard. Pine wished with all his being… wished for a different life. He felt a different sort of hunger growing in him.

And yet-

Golden light congregated, energy flooding in from the World Tree. The Engraving wrenched again but couldn’t unmoor the implacable and hungry oblivion. The darkness wouldn’t shift. It was too much, too big, too heavy.

Pine’s wish began to fade. His grip loosened even further, just so he didn’t hurt so much anymore. He felt himself curling inward. He felt guilt, a familiar guilt forming in his gut. He stirred himself into one more titanic effort, but he already felt his heart seeping out of it. Everything was too painful.

Pine felt tears in his eyes. Was changing always this painful?

And then, a mysterious figure exhaled. Pine felt a light touch and someone whispered in his ear. We deserve better than this.

In one corner of the Nexus, a group of individuals hadn’t stopped working despite all the turbulence across the rest of the universe.

The Upper Sonora Society had created a massive array in order to accomplish an act of terrorism, undercutting the System. Despite all the chaos of Randidly Ghosthound’s battles, they had continued on their project, allowing their Engraving to stretch and sprawl. They had given their all to the process for hours.

Perhaps, compared to the rest of the involved individuals, only Randidly Ghosthound had given more sweat to revolutionizing the Nexus than these toiling rebels.

And unbeknownst to them, a Monarch of Karma awoken by an old memory, fresh from his conversation with Shal, had stumbled across the working. He had witnessed their efforts and determination and had felt a kinship with their struggles. His presence, his wishes, had nudged the working just from an act of terrorism to a manifesto of hope.

We deserve better than this.

When the working created by the Upper Sonora Society finally activated, the System had largely been neutralized by the Pantheon working overtime. Neveah’s Engraving had already begun to shift the status quo of the underlying Aether framework. The connections at the moment were more chaos than System. So while the original target of their project had vanished, the hope lingered. It spread and suffused more and more of the Nexus. And then eventually, it stretched past that. It whispered out an assurance, even while everything hung in flux.

We deserve better than this.

In the Alpha Cosmos, Fatia Cerulean stiffened as he felt a strange sense of reluctance fill his heart. He wondered whether he had been wrong to pursue the Narrow Path for so long. He looked down at his bloody claws and the corpse of a horned stag in front of him, and sighed.

On the Kharon Academy grounds, a thousand teenagers and children looked up at the sky, where glittering motes of light had begun to fall like a monsoon of gold dust across a shifting universe. They clenched their fists, each individual joining a group resolved to leave the world a better place than they found it.

Devick stood in the middle of the golden Engraving, standing on the back of a  disgruntled Frost Dragon, pumping her fist wildly in the air. She felt everything shifting and changing, she screamed herself hoarse, riding the wave. She couldn’t wait for what happened next.

We deserve better than this.

Delilah, the first child born after the System arrived, leaned against her mother. The sky was beautiful and the world may or may not be ending, but she trembled from the fallout of a heart being torn to pieces by an apathetic boy. She buried her face in her mother’s shoulder. She couldn’t look up as she spoke. “I don’t think I’ll ever find someone who will love me.”

“No one exists who deserves to love you,” Dozer rumbled from across the room. “By the way, what’s this young man’s name-”

Annie shot her husband a sharp glance and then squeezed her daughter. “Don’t give up hope quite yet. Life is all about the looking, darling. Because so long as you keep looking-”

We deserve better than this.

Pine felt those words, those sentiments, wrapping almost gently around his body. He felt all the souls that shivered and agreed, even if they didn’t know how to express it. The alignment of desires brought them all together, and lent him their strength. His soul relaxed by a small margin, no longer on the brink of tearing.

That unified belief wrapped tightly around the frayed lines of the Engraving. They all helped hold the third circle together.

And the words also reached the darkness. They echoed out through the vast home of the dead. Some of those who had been driven wild by hunger, who had been prepared to ravage the universe, paused. They eased their tension, remembering their hopes. Remembering how chaotic and desperate it was to be alive.

That easing lightened the darkness by degrees.

And that was enough for Pine to shove and for the darkness to shift. The third circle held as the golden Engraving churned and created a whole new tableau.

*****

The blindfolded woman actually laughed as the spear rushed at her face. Randidly Ghosthound’s image burned through the austere fabric of the multiverse, in an attempt to bridge the gap and damage one of the inert statues. The tallest and most monstrous of the individuals in front of him.

