She didn’t even flinch, despite the concentrated Aether and Nether Randidly had poured into the attack. It was, without a doubt, the most powerful attack he had ever thrown. With the attack, he felt completely hollow. His images faded, struggling to maintain their presence in the oppressive environment.

“Please, allow me,” Pangu, as Randidly had gambled, stepped forward to intercept the attack. He adjusted his monocle and waved a hand. A new shadow interposed itself, the layered form of Pangu, Eternities and Pinnacles managed together to for a sharp shape that scraped away everything else. Acri crashed against the force Pangu created and stopped dead.

“Itzpapalotl, handle the sub-universe. We don’t have time to play around any longer,” The blindfolded woman said. The shadowy figure snapped up its dagger and ghosted forward. Randidly narrowed his eyes and prepared to intercept, but Pangu chose that moment to offer him a warm smile. He gestured just as vaguely as he had to defeat his attack.

Power suffused Acri as the weapon shrieked and shot directly back in Randidly’s direction, but empowered with some spite from Pangu.

Gotcha, Randidly hid his glee. You just couldn’t resist, could you? Predictability is a weakness, Pangu.

Congratulations! Your Skill Deviations Inevitable Machinations (GD) has grown to Level 2101!

Congratulations! Your Skill What the Ghosthound Sows, He Will Soon Reap (GD)(U) has grown to Level 2000!

Events began to accelerate. But as Randidly felt the three pieces settle into place inside of his Vessel, he could pull back the whole of his focus to his last miracle. He had been hollowed and exhausted by fueling the change within his Vessel, but now those massive outflows of energy changed their target. They slammed into his body and suddenly he burned with potential energy, barely managing to control the explosion. Mentally, he flexed his fingers. He began to play events like a well-tuned fiddle.

He raised his hands, as though to catch the reflected Acri.

He watched as the shadow warrior blurred past him.

After licking his lips, he offered the blindfolded individual a small smile. “Have you heard of a Ghasthund?”

Randidly clicked yes to a notification he had ignored for a while, generated after he had allowed Acri and another object to be refined together in his Nether Core. He felt a great deal of pleasure in his foresight to prepare this, considering the multiverse’s fabric.

Calculating…

Congratulations! Your First Fatepiece, the Alchemist’s Passport, has been successfully fused with your Soulseed Acri! Your First Fatepiece has become Acri, Alpha Keyspear!

The weapon transformed, still retaining its elongated shape, but now growing out two vague, brass protrusions hanging down from the front of the bleed. Those metallic teeth gleamed with a golden shine, ready to carve open a lock.

The shadowy Itzpapalotl reached the portal to the Nexus/Alpha Cosmos- and Randidly’s great ‘vulnerability’ puffed out of existence, resolving itself into a very convincing reflection generated by shards of Pangu’s Aspect smeared with fluids from Pine to mask its Nether signature.

Pangu’s eyes widened marginally, to see pieces of his Aspect repurposed. Randidly almost cackled.

With the three separate dimensions finally stabilized, Randidly ripped open the fabric of time he had sown around the opening to the sub-universe to hide it, hidden underneath the flare of his images earlier, and gulped it down. The new universe settled fully within his Vessel.

Acri, now a key, slammed into Randidly’s chest. His raised hands didn’t stop it. But once it had sunk into his flesh-

That’s the downside of your austere intensity, Randidly reflected. You have focused on nothing but rigid shape. In a more amorphous fabric, this would be a less powerful symbol. But with your damned Providence-

This is the hell you chose, Pangu. You thrust the key into place.

His hand grabbed the edges of the Alpha Keyspear and turned. Out in the multiverse, even more than within the Nexus, shapes and significance mattered. Under the watching eyes of the six representatives, he locked away the new tri-verse, away from the reach of these monsters and their Providence.

But he didn’t stop there. As he twisted Acri, he unleashed his long stalled-out Eternity process. The Eternity formed around Acri’s shaft, torn between the two options: experiencing the Eternity to prepare an Aspect or freezing the Eternity to create a Samsara. Or, he supposed, experiencing the Eternity himself to begin their twisted energy lacquering process. Randidly picked none of those options, allowing the stalled process of an Eternity to form an egg-like shell of accumulated time to prevent these powerful individuals from being able to unlock the universe.

Just like with his hesitation on the Pinnacle front, Randidly’s Alchemist extracted an inestimable essence from the process, a half-thing made from an opportunity deferred.

Without a target or an intention, the Eternity hung their, heavy on the air, dense with the history of the Alpha Cosmos and Nexus.

Still, he didn’t underestimate these ancient monsters. As the Eternity remained stalled, he activated Muse’s Reverie. His skin prickled as he marshaled his willpower. Because just the history of a sub-universe might not be enough.

He almost lost consciousness as he expanded his perception as the dreamer. His already-strained consciousness shook and frayed as it exploded out in every direction. Yet Randidly gritted his teeth and endured the mental anguish, enduring the impact of being slammed by all the shaped shadows of the powerful individuals out here. Individuals it would be impossible for him to stand against directly, at least now.

Despite the fact that Muse’s Reverie should accelerate Randidly to the point his actions couldn’t be resisted, he saw the corner of the blindfolded woman’s mouth begin to twist downward. Some vicious capability of hers allowed her to follow Randidly’s actions.

He didn’t use any of the offensive or defensive abilities with the Reverie. They would take too long and likely not have much of an effect. Instead, he gestured and produced the Codex Hexahedron. The Fatepiece expanded rapidly, covering as much space in this outer multiverse as he could manage with 8 points of Muse’s Reverie. Then Randidly Ghosthound pulled, gathering up as much information as he could handle with his Fatepiece.

Blood didn’t spurt out of his nose, but one bit of being it wasn’t there and then it was; he must have lost consciousness for a few fractions of time. But when he came back to himself, he ignored the warm dribble down his chin and continued the process. He took all of that absorbed history and flooded it into the stalled Eternity in front of the turned key. The barrier around his new universe thickened.

It thickened even further. The flood of information Randidly was able to pull tripled the depth of Nether he wrapped around his Vessel.

And while he also repurposed all this history for the barrier, a few stark scenes caught on his awareness. He saw the vast stretches of land in the multiverse as the Fatepiece fulfilled its role. The cold and isolated sections, belonging to a specific eternity. Randidly sensed the resonance between sub-universes and these lacquered forms, the way the universes could be used as a stand-in for Eternity events, to layer after they had followed a Truth to a Pinnacle.

Randidly saw the familiar and aggressive light of El-Kedec in some far corner of the galaxy. He, almost in annoyance, concluded he would not be able to yet take a pound of flesh for this Eternity’s meddling in the Nexus. His focus shifted away.

Like a marble rolling toward a drain, Randidly soon found the center of everything.

In the middle of the multiverse, he saw a massive city, whose main feature was a tower so large it was almost half of the city’s total size, stretching up and up. And from the top of the tower, there were a beam of lights, intense, vicious lights, that stretched up and slammed against some sort of barrier in the sky-

Ancient stone, runes like nothing Randidly had ever seen, an innate sense of longing as he viewed the threshold-

All at once, Randidly snapped back to the present, his vision spinning. His Reverie points had run out and the blood from his facial orifices hadn’t yet dried. His ears rang and vertigo seized him. But a locked threshold and an Eternity stood between the sub-universe and the six monsters he faced.

Through her blindfold, Randidly could see the woman’s eyes narrowing. “...what did you just do?”

Randidly just panted; he didn’t trust himself to speak right now. He felt dizzy and overwhelmed. For a brief spate of time, he had played his cards at the absolute limit of what he could manage. Not that I expected applause… but what did you think of my final trick, Providence?

“It is impossible for you to resist,” The blindfolded woman hissed.

Next to her, the bark-skinned woman seemed less convinced by the declaration. She regarded the sturdy barrier of the Eternity with a sinking expression. In the end, it had become almost ten times as thick, a rippling shroud around Randidly’s Vessel.  “This… we cannot break through quickly. And if others notice-”

“ENOUGH.” The blindfolded woman snapped with a voice that slapped the multiverse with its intensity. Randidly, weirdly, felt a sense of relief she was blindfolded. He had an overwhelming certainty that if he could see her eyes, Randidly would be swallowed up within her pupils and drown there. Then she forced her expression to shift from uneasy frustration to confident malice. “And your protections might make reaching your sub-universe difficult… but you, Randidly Ghosthound, have made the last mistake of your life. We will wipe you out of existence before you can flee within your little fortress.”

Technically, the woman’s words were true: Randidly needed to be manifested in the multiverse in order for the new balance to occur, and while Acri had been literally driven through his chest, he was just a projection. The Eternity barrier looked to be around him, but it was around his Vessel. He was outside of the protective barrier of the stalled Eternity in truth. He had already begun the process of sinking back into his universe, but the Eternity resisted even his invasion, even with his skill in temporal manipulation.

He would probably need five minutes before he could cross back into the relative safety of the world he had created.

But also-

Did you think I would leave without teaching you regret? In his chest, two halves of deferred opportunities, one from a Nether Eternity and another from an Aether Pinnacle, found each other. They snapped into place and began to fuse.

The fusion released a wave of incendiary, vibrant energy that flooded through his body. He directed some of it toward the settling universe, as a thank you to Pine for his assistance, but kept most of it for himself. All his engines were revved, and he was no longer dragging an uneasy Nexus into proper alignment. His fingers tingled with all the furious potency he now possessed.

Congratulations! Your Skill Alpha Cosmos Births a Shallah (S) has grown to Level 1991!

The monsters in front of him regarded Randidly with alarm at the sudden shift in his energy. Because while his one goal was to grasp enough power for them to take him seriously, the raw energy released by the fusion had another side effect.

It lingered in existence, forming a nebula around him. The austere and dead fabric of the multiverse began to come to life.

The blindfolded woman hissed. All of the monsters moved at once. The two bark-skinned individuals threw their shapes against the fabric of existence in the area, squeezing out the life radiated by the fusion of possibilities. The gargoyle gestured and slammed against Randidly physically, sending him stumbling backward away from the visual distortion of the Eternity barrier.

His ribcage groaned but didn’t crack. The Nether veins had adjusted, at least marginally, to form a protective weave around him. But also admittedly, the presence of the Eternity, even if it didn’t directly protect him, probably restricted the gargoyle’s power.

With her two assistants at her side, the blindfolded woman raised a hand and conjured a slim copper sword. The air hummed with the power of this Aspect as she raised the weapon and pointed it at Randidly’s chest.

Even just its sharp tip, aimed in his direction, made Randidly wonder whether his Vessel could handle the strain of the impact. But luckily for him, he had finally arrived at a long-awaited threshold.

Randidly looked at his Vessel Point Screen and smiled. His rapid actions in the last few seconds had earned him quite a few Skill Points. He almost lazily put VPs into his Impossibility Creed.

After he spent 1,150, a notification popped up in front of him.

Congratulations! You have reached Level 600,000 with your Soulskill, Hollow Mold of Myths! Calculating gains…

Pantheon Intervention. Adding a little extra off the top, from the whole of the newly formed Tri-verse to you. Give ‘em hell.

Congratulations! You have received 1,511,974 VPs! Next Tithe set at 5,000,000.

Randidly shivered as he felt the Vessel Points settle across his form. Even as the ire of the blindfolded woman sharpened against him, he couldn’t help but smile. Kinda disappointing these won’t go toward Paths… but let’s put a burr in Providence before we go, shall we?

Randidly previously had a vague plan of unleashing a wild attack with his deferred Shallah fusion, before actually arriving in the multiverse. But even during his planning stages, he had been aware how that wasn’t much of a clever plan; it was just lashing out. And without a target, it wasn’t likely to leave a lasting impact.

