

“All clear,” he said, stepping out into the open. “Let’s get gone.”

They returned to their camp, quickly loading up the cart with their belongings, as well as a decent number of metal bars and Tallheart’s crucible. He squished it down using his skills, removing the legs and compacting it so it would fit in the cart. Rain shook his head. I’m never going to get used to that. Tallheart also retrieved his anvil, but wisely didn’t try to put the massive chunk of iron on the flimsy wooden cart bed.

“Come on, we’ll circle around this way,” Ameliah said, hitching up the horse. She led them away from the camp, heading into the hills. She pushed a boulder out of the way, making space for the cart, then swore at the giant hole that had been left in the landscape. Stint stopped, staring at the hole, his mouth agape.

Rain smiled. Tell me about it, man.

Stint shook his head, recovering from his surprise. “She’ll follow you. Lady Vekuavak. You can’t hide what happened here. She’ll know someone stripped the mine, even if she doesn’t know about the lair.”

“Not much we can do about that,” Jamus said. “We’ll just have to outrun her. She won’t know it was us as long as she doesn’t see all this metal. Someone throw a blanket over the cart or something.”

Stint shook his head again. “She’ll catch you. She’s fast. You don’t know her like I do. She’s awakened too, and she’s not going to let this go.”

“All the more reason to hurry,” Ameliah said.

“I’ll…stay here,” Stint said. “I can slow her down. If I can convince her that you were gone by the time I got here…”

“I don’ like that plan,” Carten said. “He’ll squeal, and we’ll be fucked.”

“I agree,” Val said.

“No, I won’t!” Stint said, looking at them anxiously. “I promised.”

Rain sighed. “It’s not about what you promised.” Carten and Val are right. We can’t let him go. Not yet. He’ll give it away, whether he wants to or not. “Leave the cart. We’ll travel faster without it. The metal, too. If she at least gets that, maybe she won’t be as mad.”

“I agree,” Jamus said, unhitching the horse quickly. “Grab what you can. Let’s go.”

Tallheart stared at his crucible and the piles of metal. Wordlessly, he set down the anvil and walked to the cart. He dug his fingers into the crucible, pulling the Heat Cryst free. He picked up two of the iron bars, tucking them into a pouch along with the Heat Cryst. Next, he removed the filters, setting them aside. He laid his hands back on the crucible, pushing. He compacted it down into a sphere, then lowered his hands with a sigh. He picked up the filters and stepped away, leaving the remains of the crucible and the rest of the metal behind. He set the filters atop his anvil, then lifted the whole thing.

Damn it. Rain grabbed his own pack, settling it across his shoulders. He’d already adjusted the straps, using aoaka hide to extend them so he could wear it over his armor. The water barrel, the cauldron, and a few other things were also abandoned, the others taking their packs and getting ready for a long walk back to Fel Sadanis. Stint looked on anxiously. Rain handed him his bow and quiver. “Come on. You’re with us now.”

Ameliah nodded, then pointed off into the hills. “We need to move. Carten, guide the horse. Rain, do the thing.” She took off at a slow jog.

Rain activated Velocity, slowly increasing the boost so as to not alarm Stint or the horse. He hustled after Ameliah, conscious of the weight of the armor he was wearing. He grimaced. Jogging. I hate jogging.
