Mana Manipulation is…weird.

Rain started to raise a hand to scratch at his chin, then stopped. Idiot. I’m wearing a full helmet. How do I keep forgetting that? He shook his armored head. Tallheart’s work was amazing. Once he’d gotten the armor on and the smith had finished his adjustments, the heavy plate felt almost as natural as a second skin. Each piece interlocked with the others, the joints cleverly made from overlapping plates that somehow slid past each other without friction. He could tell that it was slowing him down a bit, but the weight was perfectly distributed. It felt heavier than the chainmail had, but less cumbersome somehow.

It’s amazing. I was worried at first, at least until Tallheart finished all of his adjustments. Now the only problem is visibility. This eye slit is too damn small. That’s the price I pay for being safe from arrows, I guess. I’ll get used to it eventually, and if not, well, I do have Detection.

Rain activated the skill, making sure that nothing was sneaking up on them. They were currently on their way through the mine, descending toward the lair. Carten’s…capture…of the scout had been a wakeup call for them. Apparently, there was an expedition inbound to clear the mine of whatever had killed the miners, led by the owner herself.

He looked over at the scout. The man’s hands were bound behind him, and he was trudging along disconsolately. He was young, probably not even out of his teens. Rain waved an armored hand at him to get his attention, marveling at the fine articulation of his gauntlets for the hundredth time. “Hey, what’s your name?”

The scout looked at him. “Why should I tell you? You’re just going to kill me. Why are you dragging me down here if not to hide my body? Didn’t want to carry my rotting corpse?”

Rain was taken aback. “No. We aren’t going to kill you,” he said, his voice echoing within his helmet. “We’re just taking you with us so you don’t go and tell your friends.”

“Tell them what? That you’re squatting in Lady Vekuavak’s mine? What are we doing down here, if you aren’t planning on killing me? None of you have any mining equipment or anything… Wait, are you bandits? Did you kill the miners? Is this your base?” He gestured to the tiled hallway that they had just reached.

Rain shook his head, the helmet not impeding the motion in the slightest as the tiny interlocking plates covering his neck slid within the collar of the breastplate. “Ameliah, is it okay to tell him now?”

Ameliah looked back at him from where she and Tallheart were leading the way. She nodded. “We’re almost there. He’ll find out soon enough anyway. Be ready to silence him if he tries to send a message.”

“I already told you!” the man protested, “I don’t have any skills! I can’t send a message—”

“Quiet,” Carten said, laying a hand on the man’s shoulder. The scout gulped and lapsed into silence.

“Your name?” Rain prompted.

“Stint,” the man replied, shrugging to free himself from Carten’s meaty paw. Rain smiled at the man to reassure him, then admonished himself for forgetting the helmet again. He tried to make his tone sound as friendly as possible instead. “Let’s start over. It is nice to meet you, Stint. I’m sorry we had to drag you down here. We’re going to break the lair’s core, and we can’t let you warn your friends. We want to be in, out, and away before they even realize we’re here.”

Stint stopped, an expression of surprise on his face. “A lair? There’s no lair down here…” His expression shifted to horror as Carten pushed him to get him moving again. “I can’t go into a lair!”

“An’ why not?” said Carten. “You allergic or somethin’?”

Rain turned to Carten, regarding him in the dim light. “Wait, you know about allergies?”

“Yeah,” Carten said. “Remind me to tell you about my Aunt Mazel sometime. She’s allergic to milk, but she doesn’t let that stop her from eating wheels of cheese whole. The smell, I tell ya.”

Rain shook his head. Okay then. I’d have been fine not knowing that. I suppose it isn’t that unexpected he knows what allergies are, though that sounds more like lactose intolerance. The word was in Staavo’s book, after all. He turned back to their captive. “Look, we’re adventurers. There’s a lair down here and we’re going to take care of it. Then we’ll let you go back to your…Master? Lady? What’s the correct term?”

“Lady,” Stint said. “And she’s not going to be happy. I don’t believe you’re adventurers for a moment. I’d have heard of you. There’s nobody with armor like that around here. You and the cervidian. If you’re an adventurer, where’s your plate?”

“Well, I don’t have one…” Rain trailed off. “I kinda got kicked out of the Guild. Jamus, show him your plate.”

Jamus fished out his bronze plate from underneath his robes and showed it to the man. Stint glanced at it, then looked away. “It makes no difference. Adventurers or not, we’re all going to die if we go into a lair. Even if we do survive, my Lady will have you all killed for stealing her property. If there really is a lair down here…when she finds out you broke it…”

Val brought his orb down to hang right between the scout’s eyes. “You know, you are making a compelling argument for us to just kill you and leave your corpse in this tunnel.” Stint paled, staring at the orb.

“Stop it, Val. We’re not killing him,” Rain said. He looked forward. “Right, Ameliah?”

She didn’t respond immediately. Oh no. Please don’t tell me—

Ameliah sighed. “No. We’re not going to kill him. He’s just following orders.”

“Stupid,” Carten said. “He’s seen all our faces. We don’t want a noble after us. I ain’t got a use for that kind of trouble. I should’ah never brought em back to the camp.”

“Carten’s right,” Val said. “We should kill him.”

“Could we please stop discussing my impending murder so casually?” Stint said. “Look, let me go, and I’ll just run away. Lady V. doesn’t have to know. Please don’t drag me into a lair. I don’t want to die.”

“We can’t risk it,” Jamus said. “We’ll talk about letting you go once we’re finished.”

“We’re here,” Ameliah said. She rested her hand against the barrier to the lair, the percentage showing as 23%.

Tallheart looked at Rain. “Have you managed to bond with the armor yet?”

Rain shook his head. “No, I still haven’t figured it out.”

“You should not enter until you do,” Tallheart rumbled.

“Yeah, I know, I know. I can’t use the enchantments until it’s bonded to me. Give me a minute.”

Rain tried once more to direct his mana into the armor. Apparently, Tallheart hadn’t wanted his work to fall into the hands of anyone else, so he’d added a failsafe. Once Rain bonded with the armor, he’d be the only one who could use it. The downside was that he’d also be the only one able to recharge the enchantment.

It’s a good thing I decided on the Mana Manipulation route. He said he’d need a liter or two of my blood instead if I had chosen to go without it. I like my blood inside, thank you very much. Anyway, come on, Rain, focus. Send the mana into the capacitive intake, not the metal itself.

He’d only taken the skill an hour ago, and he was having more trouble with it than any of his skills so far. He’d been expecting some sort of spiritual sense of his mana passages, or something to do with chakras and cycling his breath. Instead, he’d gotten something that felt more like a power-distribution panel straight out of science fiction, though the system didn’t actually spawn a window for it. Diverting emergency power to legs, captain! RAWR! ENERGY LEGS!

…

Damn it, not even a tingle. I guess that means no power-running for me, at least without using an actual skill like Velocity. What is even the point of moving mana around my body if it doesn’t actually do anything?

Rain relaxed, letting himself return to equilibrium. His mana, if left alone, would settle evenly throughout his body. The exception was what he’d decided to call his ‘core’, which he felt as a swirling fountain of energy nestled in the center of his brain. That appeared to be the source. His regeneration slowly drew mana in from wherever it came from and released it to flow out into his body. Does mana come from the soul? Where does my soul get it? Does it make it? If so, from what? Thin air?

He shook his head. He’d already experimented with Winter, watching how it boosted the flow to a raging, icy torrent. Skills seemed to interact with his mana in strange ways. He couldn’t make heads or tails of what the skills were doing as they guided the energy in complex patterns. It was like trying to understand an operating system by reading a tiny snippet of machine code. At least he could feel it now, fuzzy as the sense was.

Maybe one day I’ll be able to make my own skills…but for now, I should focus on something simple. Like SENDING MANA INTO ITEMS LIKE THE DAMN SKILL SAYS I SHOULD BE ABLE TO!

Rain wasn’t sure what the problem was. Every time he tried to send his mana into the armor, it was simply absorbed into the metal without activating anything as far as he could tell. Frustrated, he diverted his mana out of the palms of his hands, pushing it into the armor, which glowed with a black light as the mana was swallowed by the dark gray metal.

“No,” Tallheart rumbled. “You are not listening. Form an interface with the enchantment’s intake matrix.”

“That’s what I’m trying to do!” Rain said, staring back at Tallheart.

“C’mon,” said Carten, pushing Stint into the barrier and motioning to Jamus and Val. “He can’t do it when we’re watchin’.”

The others followed, leaving Rain alone with Tallheart and Ameliah, though he could hear the others speaking softly on the other side of the barrier.

“I don’t trust them on their own in there,” Ameliah said. “Hurry up, Rain.”

Rain glared at her, then sighed. “Not helping.”

She shrugged. “Sorry. It’s different for everyone. I just…do it.”

Bah. Ok, come on Rain, you can do this. Interface with the armor. If it’s like a game, what interface would I use…?

…Dur. Inventory.

Inventory

Equipped

[Unknown]

Unequipped

[Unknown]

[Unknown]

He blinked.

“Did you succeed?” Tallheart asked.

“I’m…not sure,” Rain said.

I didn’t think that would actually work. It was one of the first things I tried ages and ages ago, but it didn’t work then, so I assumed it wasn’t a thing. I guess I was wrong… Oh, maybe that was before I had any magic items? Wait, this says I have three…

Rain focused his mana, trying to push it into the unknown items listed on the panel. This time, he felt the system take hold, directing the energy out of his body and sweeping it over his possessions before drawing it back in. The screen immediately changed, revealing additional information.

Inventory

Equipped

Dark Revenant’s Armor [Unbound]

Durability: 1,309/1,309

Hardness: 207

Material: Dark Steel

Mana Conversion: 99.9%

Mana Saturation: 0/13,202 mp

Mana Dissipation: 92 mp/s

Mana Capacitance Rune

0/14,209 mp

Import Efficiency: 1%

Export Efficiency: 0%

Enhanced Durability Rune [Inactive]

+12,029 durability, 20 mp/day

Enhanced Hardness Rune [Inactive]

+597 hardness, 25 mp/day

Enhanced Dark Resistance Rune [Inactive]

+50 dark resistance, 20 mp/day

Dark Regeneration Rune [Inactive]

+1 durability/s, 0.8 mp/s

Unequipped

Strength Ring [Depleted]

Durability: 3/14

Reservoir

0/90 mp

Strength Enhancement Rune [Inactive]

+10, 2.4 mp/day

Focus Ring [Destroyed]

Durability: 0/15

Rain was distracted from the panel immediately. He could feel the armor’s capacitive intake now. He pushed mana into it with Mana Manipulation, watching as the number under the Capacitance rune slowly started to tick up. He pulled open the description for Mana Manipulation, checking the rate.

Mana Manipulation (1/10) Exp: 0/200

Allows internal control of mana

Allows expulsion of mana to environment

Allows transfer of mana to and from capacitive items with direct contact

Maximum transfer rate 120.0 mp/s (fcs)

Same as always. Does Channel Mastery work? Nice, yes it does. Not that I needed it. 240 mp/s is just excessive. He slowed down the rate, seeing no need to rush. He didn’t want to break anything by going too fast. 10 mp/s will be fine.

As Rain charged the armor, he watched his mana tick down and the number listed by the Capacitance rune increase slowly. It looked like “import efficiency” was exactly what it sounded like. For every 100 mana he transferred into the armor, only 1 would make it into the enchantments. Rain continued transferring mana as he looked up. “I figured it out.”

“Good,” Tallheart rumbled.

“Don’t waste all your mana,” Ameliah said. “This is still a lair we’re going into. Anything could happen.”

Rain bobbed his head, then looked at Tallheart. “Have you been in one of these before?”

The antlered man nodded slowly. “Yes. Many times, with Lilly. Do not worry about me.”

“Lilly?” Ameliah asked.

“Snowlilly. My wife. They would not let her join the Guild, but she would not let that stop her. Delving was what she lived for, until…” Tallheart stopped, staring at the lair. He stepped through the barrier wordlessly.

“Oh,” Ameliah said. She looked at Rain. “She’s dead? Did you know?”

Rain shrugged. “Yeah. I don’t know any details, though. I didn’t want to ask him... I don’t think he wants to talk about it.”

“Come on,” Ameliah said, a somber expression on her face. “Let’s go.”

Rain followed her through the barrier, revealing the others waiting in the entry hall. He glanced at his party screen as soon as it appeared. Curiously, Stint’s name wasn’t listed. Interesting. Either it doesn’t work for people who aren’t awakened, or he’s not ‘with us’ as far as the system is concerned. So many damn questions.

“I really don’t like this,” Stint said, staring into the darkness. “Can you at least untie my hands now?”

“Fine,” Val said. He unsheathed a knife, but stopped as Ameliah laid a hand on his shoulder.

“Don’t tell me you’re seriously going to cut up my rope,” she said.

Rain smiled at Val’s expression. He stepped forward to untie Stint’s bindings. He had a bit of trouble with the gauntlets, but he managed it. The ropes hadn’t been that tight, and even though he couldn’t feel what he was doing, his fine manipulation wasn’t that impeded by the cleverly articulated metal.

“You sure these joints aren’t magic too, Tallheart?” Rain said as Stint rubbed at his wrists where the rope had been tied.

“They are not,” Tallheart said.

