“Warrant Officer,” little Rain corrected, enjoying this far too much.

“Yes, yes, my mistake, Warrant Officer, but-”

“Then open the gates and all is forgiven.”

After ducking back for more instructions, Chuwon reappeared and said, “Very well, but I fear our humble merchant house too small to accommodate so many soldiers. As you said, with an Imperial Decree keeping the peace, you have nothing to fear, so you won’t mind having your soldiers wait outside.

“Sure. If you’re so worried about little old me, I’ll come inside alone,” Rain replied, taking every chance he could to mock them. Once the gates cracked opened, he rode through the tiny gap alone and the gates slammed shut behind him, as if the guards feared Rain’s retinue would rush through. Stuck outside, the Divine Guardian voiced her squeaking dissent and Alsantset immediately realized why little Rain was so insistent on going inside, as did mister Rustram. Pulling the retinue away from the distraught turtle, they stood and watched as the Divine Guardian grew more anxious and concerned with each passing second, but no matter how loud she cried, little Rain did not return.

The minutes passed quickly and after a quarter-hour of restless, foot-stamping anxiety, the Divine Guardian had finally had enough. Unleashing a hellish shriek at the guards, they had just enough time to leap aside before the Divine Guardian burst through the reinforced double-doors, revealing a surprised Chuwon approaching them. Bringing a good portion of the wall with her, the Divine Guardian stepped into the merchant house’s courtyard, barely pausing as she searched for a path around the main house. Finding none which could fit her bulk, she made her intentions clear by smashing through a wall of the house with her head and waiting for the inhabitants to flee, stomping and screeching the whole while. Finally deciding enough time had passed, she ran straight through the main house and out the other side, leaving nothing but ruins in her wake as she disappeared into the river and swam away.

Choking on his laughter, mister Rustram coughed and said, “Escort the Divine Guardian and keep her safe.” Leading the charge, he brought little Rain’s retinue around the merchant house in an orderly fashion, ignoring the chaos left behind them. Overwhelmed with shock, Chuwon stood with jaw agape as he gazed upon the destruction around him, unable to believe his eyes.

Remembering the painted fool was headed for the gate shortly before the Divine Guardian charged in, Alsantset rode over to question him. “Where is the Warrant Officer?” she asked, concerned they might have done something to little Rain.

She asked twice more before the buffoon snapped out of his daze. “The Warrant Officer... he remarked on the beauty of my pleasure barge,” he said, voice heavy with regret, “and asked to borrow it for the afternoon. Since he conceded to all our terms readily, I agreed. He wanted to take it out immediately, so I saw him off and was on my way over to inform his men when... when...” Waving a hand around him, he gestured at the destroyed merchant home.

Hurriedly voicing her thanks, she rode away like the wind and caught up to her husband before bursting into laughter. Barely able to contain herself, she explained everything through Sending to her husband between breathless gasps, delighted by her little brother’s crafty ploy. “He slipped out the back and took the boat upstream, knowing the Divine Guardian would sense him getting away and stop at nothing to find him.”

Not sharing in her mirth, her husband frowned and shook his head. “I suppose little Rain will claim the Divine Guardian acted on her own accord and refuse to pay, but his story won’t hold if the Disciplinary Corps get involved.”

“Even if he’s forced to pay for the damages, it was well worth it,” Alsantset replied. “I imagine the Canston Trading Group’s reputation will plummet once the public learns the Mother’s Sacred Servant destroyed their merchant house in a pique of rage. There will be whispers of Heavenly Justice for decades to come.”

“It’s not payment I’m worried about my love,” her husband Sent, his brow furrowed with worry. “While little Rain followed all the rules, he skirted dangerously close to breaking the peace and intentionally at that. What if the Legate takes issue with his actions? Or worse, looks into why the People and Rain in particular have such enmity with the Canston Trading Group?”

Her mirth and good mood spoiled, Alsantset’s stomach flopped as she considered the consequences. Unable to find blame with her little brother, she scowled and glared back at the ruins of the merchant house. “We should have killed them all years ago, removed them all root and stem for daring to enslave one of the People.” Closing her eyes, she prayed that the Legate had a sense of humour and many, many more important matters to attend to. Wealthy though they might be, the Canston Trading Group was merely a merchant group while Falling Rain was a rising dragon of the Empire. Surely the Legate would take their side in this, so long as little Rain didn’t go overboard.

Or… well… any more overboard...

Most likely, nothing would come of this, but just in case, Alsantset changed her plans. Initially, she intended to conceal her strength and go easy on her challengers, but no longer. The more Experts the People revealed, the more valuable they would be.

Today, a new name would be added to the Empire’s Roll of Experts: Tigress Alsantset, Flower of the North.

Chapter Meme
