I dispersed my weight outwards using Overwhelming Presence. I shot sideways as Yawm reached out a hand. I reached a tree before diving back into the ground. Above me, the tree boiled into a liquid before evaporating. With a stomp of my foot, I reversed my trajectory. Once more, the trees nearby melted into a liquid before evaporating.

I couldn’t even tell what he was doing, but there was no way I wanted it to touch me. I dashed and weaved between each of his attacks. As he clashed into the ground, he ran out of stored mana before I dashed towards him.

Using Event Horizon, I gained a bit more mana for my enhanced movements. We collided, each of us ducking and weaving around the other. With brutality, he used pure speed and strength to match my superior technique. As we moved fast, my vision blurred. Instead I used my sense for gravity to sense Yawm and my movements.

As I reached out with the sense, I found something on both our backs. As I realized this, Yawm roared out in rage for some reason. He shot out a punch towards my gut. It pierced my stomach, his fist reaching out with my spine. A shockwave ebbed behind us, trees blowing away as the excess force dispersed behind me.

Yawm shook his head before pulling his arm out of my gut. He took a step back, staring at his hands, one of them coated in silver blood. He glanced up at me, confusion riddled over his strange face,

“What’s going on? Why did I become so angry?”

I played off the damn hole in my chest like it was nothing as I gurgled on my own blood,

“I don’t know, but if you could reign that shit in, that’d be great.”

Yawm slung his right arm, slinging the silver blood off of it,

“I...I don’t know what came over me.”

As my chest healed, I walked over towards him, “I might. Before that though-”

The first thing I did was punch Yawm. He was still left standing, but he rubbed his cheek, “I will relent about this...I deserved that.”

I nodded, “Hell yeah you did. Anyways, there's something on your back.” I walked behind him, seeing nothing. I moved my hand where I sensed the gravitational fluctuation. There was no resistance, like it was normal air. I pulled back my helmet before inspecting closer.

Besides for cracks of vibrant, pulsing energy flowing down his back, there wasn’t anything off about Yawm. I leaned back and scratched the side of my head.

“This is odd.”

Yawm reached around, scraping his back with a massive hand,

“Is it a terrestrial parasite or something like it?”

I shook my head, “I don’t know what it is. If anything, I can hardly even tell it exists.”

I stared at it a for a moment before raising a hand and creating a dense gravity well on the invisible thing. The theory was that if it could influence our gravity here, our gravity could influence it over there. Yenno, wherever there was.

All I needed was enough of a pull that it responded. As I increased the pull, Yawm turned his head towards me,

“What exactly are you doing?”

“Trying to capture this thing, whatever it is.”

Yawm grumbled, “Not one for explaining yourself, are you?”

I waved away his concern, “Not until after I’m finished.”

I kept pouring more and more mana into the gravity well. Once the consumption eclipsed my mana generation, Yawm braced himself onto the ground. At that point, I felt the pull of the well too, so I clasped my hand, condensing it. I grit my teeth as I balled the gravity well into a small point before a shrill scream rang out.

It was a sound that sent a chill up my spine and made me grab my ears. Yawm turned around towards me as the well dissipated, “What kind of alien sound is that?”

I shook my head, bracing myself against the sound, “I don’t know. It isn’t me though.”

Yawm frowned before turning around again. Along Yawm’s back, a tiny, red tendril had appeared about six inches off his back. It was writhing around, trying to grip onto him. Once it did, it shivered before settling down.

“What exactly is that?”

I frowned, “It looks like a creepy ass tentacle that’s grabbing onto you.”

Yawm lifted his hands, “Harbinger, I may put up a convincing mask of calm, but that isn’t quite the case. In fact, the longer this situation drifts on, the more unsettled I’m becoming. The idea of an alien parasite infesting me is disconcerting to say the least.”

I nodded, “I know, I know. Now be quiet so I can fix whatever the hell this is.”

Yawm’s hands flopped against his sides before I created another well of gravity. Once it ramped back up, the screaming started once more. Since I was ready, I already covered my ears with my armor. I only felt the vibrations of it. That’s when I saw it.

As I kept the steady pull on the well, other tentacles came out of the center of gravity. They shifted around, squirming around before attaching themselves too Yawm. As more and more of them attached to him, he shivered. Yawm turned towards me, his eyes opening wide. A second later, he turned back around and placed his hands over his eyes.

It looked like he was mumbling something to himself. I laughed a bit at the all powerful overlord being squeamish. The cluster of tentacles grew along his back, taking up three quarters of its surface. In a rippling spark, an eye popped out of the gravity well. It was yellow with a vertical iris. It opened wide, glancing around with a feverish concern.

The entire thing latched itself to Yawm’s back, gripping him before he turned towards the creature. The giant, yellow eye locked gazes with Yawm. They held their glance for a second before Yawm ran forward, panicking,

“Get this monstrosity the fuck off me.”

He reached behind him, the monster squirming away from his grip several times. Yawm ran in circles as he tried gripping the creature. He jumped against the ground, rolling over roots before jumping back up and rubbing his back against a tree.

I busted out laughing. It was a long, loud laugh, and after a minute or two, a few tears were streaming down my eyes. I wiped them away before walking up to Yawm. He had finally calmed down, his breathing deep and controlled now. He turned towards me, and an awkward silence passed over us.

“I ask of you to never speak of this with anyone.”

I laughed at him, “Don’t worry. I won’t tell them that the world eater is scared of a giant octupus.”

Yawm raised a hand at me, “It’s not fear...it’s just, ahem, concern.”

I rolled my eyes, “Yeah, sureeeeee.”

He turned his back to me and sighed. I grabbed the weird, writhing creature on his back and pulled. It took a solid effort before I finally got the thing off him. I placed it onto the ground as Yawm and I stared at it. It was a misshapen lump of moving parts, a creature that should not be. Yawm shivered,

“That was on me...”

I nodded, “Yup, it’s been on you for a while it looks like.”

Yawm lifted his hands and placed a two fingertips onto each side of face,

“Keep composed, Yawm. Keep composed.”

I chuckled at him again before analyzing the creature. A cold, sinking feeling spread through my gut as I read the message of what the monster was. It was like my stomach was turning to ice.

Baldowah’s Wrath(lvl 5,000) - This is a creature that follows the Old One Baldowah’s bidding. It is nigh undetectable, latching onto creatures across parallel dimensions. It siphons feelings of wrage, hate, and anger into its victims. These feelings can result in sudden outbursts of rage.

Baldowah will use these parasites to destabilize the mental state of sentients over time. They operate much like a disease that whittles away at the mind of whoever is infected with them. Considering how difficult their detection is, it’s often too late to save their victims by the time someone finds the creature on them.

This is why their threat level is considered so high. They can decimate creatures of untold strength, given enough time to do their malignant work. Baldowah uses them to eliminate threats it deems worth killing. Usually it’s reserved for beings that are breaking the laws of a given universe. In this case, that being was Yawm.

You would do well to kill this monster given the chance before it finds another victim.

I looked up at Yawm who stared back at me,

“Well, what in Baldowah’s name is it then? Surely Schema gave an analysis of it?”

I frowned, “I don’t know if you’re going to like what I’m about to tell you.”
