Lisa didn't say anything as she nodded, and they went back to the elevator and went down to the second floor. They went inside Stella's room and sat down at the small kitchen table, and Lisa ate the two pieces of chicken she had wanted and drank her water. Stella put the last piece of chicken in her fridge and got changed for bed while Lisa washed up in the bathroom.

“Stella.” Lisa said when she came out and saw Stella fold down the blanket of the bed. “Thanks for letting me...”

“No need to say thanks, remember?” Stella said. “Now come here and get in bed.”

“Wh-what?”

“Can I impose on you a bit more? I'm still nervous about being alone.” Stella said. “The thought of being in this big room all alone is a little too much to handle right now.”

“I... I don't know...”

“Unlike Ren, I can promise to keep my hands to myself.” Stella said, and Lisa snorted a laugh.

“He is a bit grabby, isn't he?”

“By choice, I believe.” Stella said. “He's never had anyone to hold while sleeping in a real bed before, so he's taking full advantage of it while he can.”

Lisa had never thought of it that way, and she had to agree. “I guess I can understand that point of view.”

“Then get over here and get in.” Stella said and pat the bed, then climbed in herself. “Good lord, I'm tired.”

“Stella, I'm sorry.” Lisa said and went right over to the bed. “I've kept you up well past midnight.”

“Don't worry about it.” Stella said and yawned, then did a little stretch and laid down. “I am going to crash hard, so forgive me if I doze off.”

Lisa climbed into the bed and laid down about a foot away and pulled the blanket up. “Goodnight, Stella.”

“Goodnight, Lisa.” Stella said and closed her eyes. After a few moments, Lisa spoke again.

“Stella?”

“Mm?”

“Um... you... you don't... have to keep your hands to yourself.” Lisa admitted.

Stella opened her eyes to see Lisa's deep blush, smiled warmly at her, and opened her arms. Lisa slid close and tucked herself against Stella.

“I'm so glad you finally admitted that.” Stella said as she put her arms around her and kissed the top of her head. “I've been having a hard time not hugging you.”

Lisa chuckled. “I've been getting in my own way, haven't I?”

“You just need to be honest with yourself.” Stella said and Lisa lifted her head and looked at her. “We've all had a hard day, and it's okay to want someone to hold you.”

“Even if it's not Ren?” Lisa asked.

“If my guess is correct, you were already held by him tonight.” Stella said. “You were up those stairs as soon as you came in the house and didn't even look at the elevator.”

“You saw that?” Lisa asked, surprised.

“I... See... Everything!” Stella said ominously.

“You've been watching my game footage, you sneak!” Lisa laughed.

“Guilty.” Stella grinned. “You make a great Sage, Lisa.”

“Thanks.”

“Now go to sleep.”

“Huh? Oh, right. Sleep.” Lisa said, and then sighed.

“Be honest with yourself.” Stella reminded her when she saw the indecision on her face.

“Can... can I...” Lisa sighed again. “I want... a goodnight kiss.”

“Of course.” Stella said and pressed her lips to Lisa's for several moments. “Goodnight.”

“G-g-goodnight.” Lisa said, her face blood red.
