“I know.” Ren said and laughed. “I can feel the bruises already.”

“Aww!” Nathalia said and rubbed Ren's side where she'd grabbed him earlier. “Did we really hurt you?”

Ren shook his head and smiled. “The both of you give really good hugs, though.”

Nathalia poked Ren in the side. “Don't tease us like that.” She said and smiled.

“Sorry.” He said and laughed.

“Okay, you two... break it up.” Her mother said. “Or I'm going to start planning the wedding.”

Ren and Nathalia looked at her with shocked faces, and Narhilda laughed. “I'm going to remember that look for a while!” She said and walked out of the main room, then turned around to look at them. “Don't forget to put the furniture back where it's supposed to go, Ren. Goodnight.”

“Goodnight, My Lady.”

“Night, Ma.”

Narhilda waved and Ruck waved back. She shook her head and muttered. “That's going to take some getting used to.” Then walked down the hallway to her bedroom.

Ren turned to Nathalia. “There's still a lot I don't know about the Houses. About how they're set up, or what they control, or-”

Nathalia laughed. “I get it. You need my help again.”

Ren nodded and she smiled. “Just like old times?”

“Old times was only a week ago!” Ren laughed. “Thanks to Ruck, I've got a lot of things to sew, and you can keep me company if you want.” He said, then waggled his eyebrows up and down. “ 'Come into my parlour', said the spider to the fly.”

Nathalia laughed. “I'm already caught up in the web, I might as well let you drain me of information.”

Ren laughed and Nathalia told him where to put the furniture he'd stored into inventory, then they entered her mother's old bedroom. Ruck climbed down and put out the cut pieces for 200 uniforms.

“Ruck! You're amazing!” Ren said. “We only need another 425 to complete the order!”

Ruck gave the 'okay' gesture and started cutting up more fabric for sewing. Nathalia sat on the bed and Ren started sewing up the pieces. Now that he wasn't cutting them out himself, making uniforms went a lot faster. Ren had averaged about 5 minutes per uniform, cutting them out and sewing. He was down to just over 3 minutes with just having to sew the pieces together.

Nathalia marveled at how fast Ren was going, then started to fill Ren in on the Houses and how they fit together. About how they started out as just family names, then grew into almost corporations, with mergers, contracts, and even hostile takeovers. Ren listened to it all and drank it in. He followed the details that Nathalia was giving him, and traced them back to the members on the ship. Out of all of them, there were only 3 major House representatives on the ship. The captain, Gausen the Ambassador, and the engineer, Hevaz. Ren kept working and thought about it.

“Where does Tegwen fit in there?”

“Tegwen? Why are you mentioning him?” Nathalia asked.

“He's the only one that had a major beef with me on the ship. Over you, I might add.” Ren said and smiled.

Nathalia blushed a little. “I had no idea he even thought of me that way.” She said. “I don't think we even exchanged 3 words in the 6 months that I've been on the ship.”

Ren widened his eyes and glanced at her. “That doesn't make sense.” He said and looked back at his sewing. “I could understand his infatuation with you, if you'd spent some time with him...” Ren pondered and kept sewing, almost without paying attention. “Was he just after your great looks, or is there something else I'm missing?”

Ren was so busy wondering about the problem, that he didn't notice the deep blush that had blossomed on Nathalia's face as he spoke. She took several deep breaths and calmed down. There's a lot that you're missing, Ren. You don't even realize that you've given me two very high class compliments, without even thinking about it. Nathalia thought as Ren kept working.

“Is he a Prince?” Ren asked after a few minutes of silence. Nathalia had lost her blush by then, and nodded when Ren glanced at her. “What House is he in?”

“House Faldihr. They're a major trading partner.”

Ren smiled. “I think... I think I just figured it out.”

“Figured what out?” Nathalia asked.

“The head of the House is his father, Thanyur Faldihr.”

Nathalia nodded. “And?”

Ren grinned. “Remember my fine? My outrageously high 100 gold fine?”

Nathalia nodded.

“It was approved by Thanyur.” Ren kept working as Nathalia sat there in shock.

“No, that can't be right.” Nathalia said a minute later. “It can't be...”

“Why not?” Ren asked as he finished another uniform and looked at Nathalia, and saw the tears she had in her eyes. Ren dropped the uniform, sat on the bed, and took her into a hug. “No! It's not your fault, Nathalia!” He said and hugged her tightly. “It's not your fault.” Ren said and let her out of the hug to wipe her eyes with a scrap piece of cloth. “The issue with you was solved after the duel.” He said and took her hand. “It's my fault! I insulted his repair work right after that, remember?”

Nathalia's eyes widened, and Ren nodded.

“He must have been really angry that I said his work was so poor...” Ren said. “...but he wouldn't challenge me again; not right after I'd finished the duel so quickly.” He smiled. “He must have had his father arrange the higher fine, then when that didn't get me sent to the mines, they had me drafted.”

Nathalia shook her head. “To go through so much...” She said and squeezed Ren's hand. “I'm so sorry, Ren.”

Ren smiled. “I'm going to do the best that I can with what I've been dealt.” He said. “For now, that means I'll be living with 2 women and sewing my fingers off.”

Nathalia snorted a laugh. “I can't even offer to help.” She said. “I never could get the hang of it.”

“That's okay. You've given me as much help as you could.” Ren said and bent over the hand he still held, giving her the same gesture of Honor he gave her mother, and Nathalia caught her breath.

“It's getting late, though. You better head to bed.” Ren said and let her hand go. “I've got a lot more uniforms to make before morning, and I've kept you up too long as it is.”

Nathalia nodded and stood. Ren stood as well, and she gave him a nice gentle hug, unlike her usual bone crushing ones. “You really are a good man, Ren.” She said and left the bedroom.

Ren finished 300 uniforms during the night, and got Stitching up to Level 1 (Advanced), and a few more points in Dexterity and Agility. Ruck kept cutting out pieces, and Ren set out enough bolts of cloth for him to cut out enough for the remaining 325 uniforms.

“I have to head out, Ruck. Thanks a lot for your help! I couldn't have done all of these without you.” Ren said. “At this pace, we really will be done tomorrow night.”

Ruck gave the 'thumbs up' gesture and Ren left the bedroom to get some breakfast. He ate, fed Princess, and started running as hard as he could to the Garrison.

“Wheee!” Teepo said from his perch in Ren's hood. He'd stayed there the whole night while Ren had worked.

“Just another wonderful day in the game!” Ren said and grinned.
