Her predatory smile darkening without having changed, Da’in replied, “It’s not about victory or challenge, sweet Mila. I’m here to help you improve.” Having thrown Mila’s words back at her, Da’in cocked her head and asked, “It’s clear from your disdain of Fung’s attacks that you’ve never faced an opponent physically stronger than you, or if you have, they held back too much. I will not be so kind, sweet Mila, so if you’re ready, then I will attack again.”

Mila had just enough time to settle into her stance before the powerful blow landed, and though she still didn’t see the attack, or the next one, or the one after that, by the fifth attack, she’d puzzled out why. The attack was an easily recognizable movement from the Forms, Deer Parts the Underbrush, a basic sweep of the weapon even Tali and Tate could demonstrate, but in Da’in’s hands, this basic sweep turned into a deadly killing blow. From the moment she drew her sword until she slammed it back in its sheath once more, Da’in’s upper body remained perfectly, utterly still, so still that if one were to only look at her shoulders and up, as Mila did due to her limited field of view from behind her shield, then there was no indication of movement from start to finish. A monstrous feat which had nothing to do with talent and everything to do with skill, how many times did Da’in draw and sheathe her sword before reaching this level of perfection? By eliminating every extraneous movement and telltale twitch from her attack, she only shaved a tenth of a second off her opponent’s reaction time, but that was all she needed to force Mila into dire straits.

As time wore on and Mila got used to the powerful attacks, she realized Da’in wasn’t particularly fast, but the optical illusion left her unable to actively parry or Deflect the attacks because she couldn’t see them coming or react fast enough. Hoping to create distance between them, Mila feinted a thrust and backed away, but Da’in’s image never wavered in her sights. Mother in Heaven, the formidable woman could even move around without wavering, and the next attack almost knocked Mila clean off her feet. Shifting with the impact, she kept her shield up and spear ready, but her opponent was ready and waiting, smashing into Mila’s shield again and again until her forearm went numb and senseless. Even if she wanted to, she couldn’t pull out Paragon to use here, because not only was it a poor stage to reveal her greatest work, but she lacked the fine control to use it in a friendly spar.

Clang. Clang. Clang. The blows rang out against Mila’s shield in a steady rhythm, the tempo so constant she could set a watch by them, but still she had no recourse to defend. All she could do was turtle behind her shield while this sadistic monster tormented her on stage. Jaw clenched so tight she worried she might crack a tooth, Mila considered surrendering but her pride would not allow it. Defeat was nothing, but to give up before she even tried to attack? Never.

Mustering every bit of strength she had left, Mila didn’t use it to resist Da’in’s next attack, but to escape it. Leaping back with all her might, she heard the telltale hiss of air and shriek of metal as the sword glanced across her shield instead of striking it directly. Blood surging with glee, Mila slammed her feet down and reversed her momentum with Bull Traverses the Mountain, charging forward shield first to bash into –

Nothing.

Without the expected impact to greet her, Mila tripped over her own two feet and went head over heels off the stage. Landing with a heavy crash, she jumped back to her feet with cheeks burning in embarrassment, but luckily no one was laughing. Seoyoon wore the tiniest of smiles, but it disappeared once she met Mila’s gaze, and the icy maiden quickly looked away. Good. Taking a deep breath to calm her anger, Mila hopped back onto stage where Da’in stood waiting, her sword sheathed and hands folded once more. “I’d like to see you attack without my shield blocking my view,” Mila said, leaving out the obvious part where she’d also like to keep her body in one piece.

Cocking her head to one side, Da’in asked, “Why?” Eyes lighting up before Mila could respond, she continued, “Oh, you think it wouldn’t be an issue if your shield wasn’t obstructing your view.” Cold metal touched Mila’s burning cheeks, and she flinched at the unexpected sensation, only to freeze in place as she realized Da’in sword was already at her face. “Even without the shield,” Da’in purred as she withdrew her sword, “there are other ways to interfere with your opponent’s perception. You think it merely a single movement, Deer Parts the Underbrush, yes? It’s more than that, a combination of three movements, in fact.”

“Snake Shakes the Branch and Oriole Raises the Winds.” Surprised to hear Rain chime in, everyone turned to stare, Da’in and Mila included, but he shrugged and said, “Why you all look so surprised? She wasn’t moving very fast and used the same move like twenty times. It’s not hard to figure out the trick once you know what to look for, especially from the audience.” Raising his head with pride, he added, “It’s not like I forgot all my Martial skills you know. I’m still frigging brilliant.”

“Brilliant indeed.” Lacking even a hint of sarcasm, Da’in studied Rain with far too much interest before turning back to Mila. “Your betrothed is correct. It is easier to discern from the audience, though few have eyes as keen as his. Regardless, my father is called the Sword King not because he is stronger than all other sword-wielding Martial Warriors, but because with all else being equal, his victory would be assured through mastery of the Forms alone. The Forms are a tool we are all familiar with, but few care to study them to the extreme. What I displayed today was not learned through Insight, but mundane comprehension and dedicated practice, a feat any Martial Warrior is capable of.”

Patting her sword’s hilt, Da’in added, “As for the matter of choice in weapon, I believe the sword reigns supreme, because there is no other weapon versatile enough to unlock the full potential of the Forms.” Stepping in close to pat Mila’s cheeks, Da’in added, “Don’t fret, sweet Mila, you did much better than most Martial Warriors ten years your senior would. Not only did you refuse to concede and offer a counterattack at the end, I also meant to disarm you more than once, but you kept adjusting your shield by instinct so my next attack landed closer to the center rather than the outer edges. So young yet so strong, I do hope you and Seoyoon can get along and learn from one another.”

Girlishly skipping off the stage, Da’in sat down beside Lin and beamed prettily at no one in particular, though Mila felt a shudder whenever those brown eyes met her own. Only twenty-nine years old, Ryo Da’in won not through superior strength, speed, or Martial skill, but through sheer mastery of the Forms, truly an eye-opening experience. How strong would she be if she fought without holding back? From what little she displayed, even Alsantset might not be her match, though Tursinai might, and Da’in was even strong enough to threaten Gerel, though she would obviously be at a disadvantage if they were to fight.

At least, Mila hoped that would be the case, else Da’in was far more monstrous than she let on...

Either way, this dominance through mastery of the Forms was not something Mila had ever seen or heard of, but it opened new avenues of training she’d never considered before, ones worth exploring. Ugh. She couldn’t leave this be, but there was still so much to do, like craft a Spiritual Launcher for the Tyrant and spend more time with Yan before she went back to the front lines. Then there was the matter of Papa taking on more contracts than he could handle, and she also wanted more time with Rain, and not just to scold him for all his past sins coming back to bite him on the ass. She should’ve never let him go to Sanshu unsupervised or explore Yo Ling’s stupid island…

Well, there was no cure for regret, so Mila could only plan for the future. If Yang Jixing persisted with his foolishness of sending Rain into battle, then she intended to stand for her betrothed as his champion. None of this foolishness of accepting a veritable death sentence when he could prove his innocence through trial by combat, and so long as her opponent was under twenty-five, she was confident she could defeat them now that she had an Aura of her own.

Because regardless if the public recognized her title, she was still Sumila of the People, Number One Talent in the Empire.

Chapter Meme
