Ameliah held up her hand, warding him away. It was him, or some version of him, anyway. Funny and ignorant and earnest and infuriating and confident and crude and… She struggled, fighting to balance her emotions while holding her reality together. She couldn’t give in. He…whatever he was…however real or unreal he was…he had information she needed.

Think…

“Shit,” her father said, moving as if to approach, then dropping his arms. “I…uh. Look, Turnip…Amy…Ameliah. I know it won’t mean much, but I really tried, you know?”

“Shut up. Just shut up.”

“Hey,” he said, sounding hurt. “I might be dead, but I have feelings.”

“Do you?” she asked sharply as the world trembled, immediately regretting it. The trees were beginning to crack apart and fall into the void. She pressed on. “My mother had a sister. What was her name?”

Her father laughed, his entire demeanor changing in an instant. “Oh, her. She was trouble, let me tell you. Always laying into me. Never thought I was good enough for her sister. Me, can you believe it?”

“Name!” Ameliah demanded, fighting to hold on.

“Alright, alright! Damn it, just give me a second. It was… It was… Huh.”

“You don’t know it,” Ameliah said, panting as she managed to claw back a small measure of stability. She shook her head, meeting his gaze. “You don’t know it because I don’t. You never told me. You’re…a memory. My memory.”

“Well, shit,” he muttered, then spat. “That’s more confusing than a noble in a pigpen, but I’ll be damned if it doesn’t make some kind of sense.” He looked up. “Still, it’s a leap, Turnip. Getting killed might have just scrambled my brains a touch. Are you sure?”

“Oh yes, positive,” Ameliah grunted, sarcasm thick in her voice. “Not a doubt in my mind.”

Her father chuckled. “There’s my little Amy. Such sass.” He sighed, rubbing at his chin. “A memory, huh? And here I was hoping I was a ghost.” He looked around, then waved his hand through one of the cracks, his arm fuzzing as it passed through, taking a long moment to reform. “That’s pretty ghostly. Point for my theory.” He swept his arm through the crack again. “Say, are you going to do something about these?”

“I’m trying.” Ameliah grit her teeth. “It’s getting harder.”

“It’s because I’ve been helping Turnip, but I’m starting to fade,” he replied, his demeanor changing like the wind. “You’re going to be on your own for a little while, I think. I won’t be here when you get back.”

“What?” Ameliah asked, looking at him sharply. “Why not?”

He shrugged. “No idea why. I just know, you know? I already told you what I was supposed to, and you’re not ready for more.”

“You didn’t tell me anything!” Ameliah protested, her eyes flicking to Tallheart as the ground crumbled out from beneath him, sending him tumbling into the void. The moment his frozen body passed over the edge, it shattered, dissolving into dust. She looked back at her father. “What was that you just said? About me not being ready for more?”

“Could have sworn I...” he mumbled, scratching his ear as he looked around in confusion. “Anyhow, doesn’t matter since I can just say it again. It’s… It’s, uh… You just need to… To...” He stomped his foot. “El’s divine saggy ballsack!”

Ameliah grimaced as the shaking worsened. Rain tumbled into the growing abyss, shrinking the world to her father’s memory, herself, and the well. Her tears had returned, and her mind felt like an overstretched string, but she refused to give in. She would hold on to the last.

“Oh, Turnip,” her father said, stepping away from the crumbling edge. Before she realized what he was doing, she found his arms wrapped around her. The light was fading now. He brought his head close, his breath warm in her ear. Alive. “I love you,” he whispered. “And…and I’m sorry. I’m sorry I wasn’t there for you.”

Ameliah nodded, her voice choked with emotion as she forced out a response through the strain of holding the world together. “I forgive you.”

She squeezed gently, returning her father’s embrace. He crumbled into dust in her arms.
