Smiling, Rain retrieved the pair of brass goggles he’d left hooked over the main flight stick, then slipped them on across his brow. His look finally complete, he adjusted his neckerchief, then began going through his pre-flight checks. Once he was ready, he flipped a small Frankenstein switch closed, sending a signal through an umbilical to the hangar doors.

After a brief delay, a tremor ran through the ship, conducted through its moorings. The fog didn’t rush out of the essence-stuffed hangar as the doors began to open, held in by an invisible forcefield, like on Star Trek. Getting that to work had taken some doing. While the doors were still moving, Rain pulled a large floor-mounted lever to the right of his chair. Another series of clunks and thuds sounded as the moorings decoupled and the electrical connection to the Bastion was severed. The needles of several gauges dropped to zero, no longer having any signals to display.

Once he sensed the hangar doors were fully open, Rain used his will to urge the ship through them, his view through the crystal window clearing as the bow emerged into the thin chaos. The gas was far too diffuse near the Bastion for the turbines to function, but that hardly mattered. With so little of it around to cause interference, his will would still serve for the moment, and with only a modicum of extra effort.

As the airship drifted ever faster under his guidance, Rain lowered his goggles over his eyes, then grasped the flight controls. Soon, the window in front of him showed nothing but orange smog, and before long, he reached the edge of the bubble. The entire ship juddered, creaking as it suddenly had to contend with the pressure. Turbulence buffeted the craft violently, and it slowed, but its incredible mass would be more than enough to carry it through on momentum alone.

Watching the dials carefully, Rain clung to the flight stick, waiting for the rear pressure sensor to show nominal. The needle rose abruptly, but Rain gave it a moment before nudging the throttle gently forward. A new vibration came to his ears, the mechanical hum growing as the four turbines came up to speed. Using his myriad avatars as navigation anchors, he spent the next few minutes trimming out his attitude and getting himself pointed at the Tear.

Nodding in satisfaction, Rain gave the dials one last once-over, then slammed the throttle as far forward as it would go.

The result was…less than impressive.

The vibration of the engines grew, yes, but other than that, the ship barely seemed to respond. Rain sighed disappointedly as he settled back into his seat. He watched the air-speed gauge creep upward as the ponderous ship accelerated like a geriatric snail. He’d doubled the size of the engines since his last trip, but he’d made the tank bigger too. Liquid essence had a weight to it, independent of whatever properties it had within his physics simulation. He was moving a lot of it. Approximately 4 MESS by his calculations—four million essence.

Rain removed the goggles from his head, replacing them on their hook, then prepared himself for the long haul. There was a reason the cabin was so elaborate. He’d had the time.

Reaching into his breast pocket, Rain removed the pearl of essence, quickly shaping it into a large twenty-sided die. He shook it around in his palm, then dumped it out into a cupholder—no airship was complete without cupholders. Peering after it, he saw the number six staring up at him. The ship’s PA crackled, and The Chain by Fleetwood Mac began playing, as close to a random selection as he could manage.

Rain smiled, thinking back to being a child, riding crammed between his parents in the middle seat of his dad’s old, rusted-out pickup, windows down, with both of them singing along.

Good roll.

He closed his eyes and took a moment.

Eventually, he had to open them again, making a few adjustments as his speed leveled off, and in doing so, bringing himself right back to the present. As of a few days ago, the last of the cables spanning the Tear had been put in place. It wasn’t enough. His attempts to tighten them as planned to pull the Tear closed had failed. His attempts to heal the wound by bathing it in pure essence had failed. Even trimming away the tattered edges was beyond him, the paling-stuff resisting his every effort to cut it. Essence simply couldn’t compare to whatever the paling was made of, no matter how much he hardened it, no matter how much he sharpened his will.

Any patch he created would never be as good as the real thing, not unless he made some breakthrough in understanding. That wasn’t likely to happen any time soon, not without a guide. And so, he would use the tools that he had.

Rain gently nudged Big Gulp back on course. Enormous as the ship was, it was still at the mercy of the ever-shifting chaos, making this only the first adjustment of many. Navigating the currents hardly required his full attention, but it was just annoying enough to keep him here. Thankfully, he had something to do with his time.

Closing his eyes once more, Rain reached through the bulkhead behind his chair, pushing his will into his cargo. In response, it began to change.

It would take time to convert all of it, but he had plenty of that for once. He worked the controls, tilting the planes and fighting against a powerful gust, but he didn’t lose focus, not even opening his eyes. Slowly, inexorably, the change spread, shining blue essence becoming dark and syrupy, like tar. It wasn’t tar, though, nor any compound Rain could write a chemical formula for.

It was pure stick.

A substance of intention, imbued with his will and shaped by the image he had chosen.

The PA crackled, the song ending, the voices of Buckingham and Nicks fading away. After a brief silence, a much cruder voice burst from the speaker, dredged by Rain’s current focus from one of the deepest, darkest crevices of his subconscious.

“NOW THAT’S A LOT OF DAMAGE!”

Ameliah let herself drift downward, her hair billowing in the murky water as the light faded. At the bottom of the well lay the passage she was seeking. She had yet to reach it.

Each time, just as the darkness became complete, her memories would emerge, oozing through the cracks in the stones that formed the well. Formless, they would brush past her, tormenting her with baseless terror.

Today, there was no room in her for terror. Today, she would break through. Her will was iron, and the only thing in her mind was the image.

Well.

Water.

Darkness.

…Darkness.

She acknowledged it. Acknowledged that the things she’d tossed down here were a part of her, left to lurk unseen at the center of her soul. Her fears. Her pain. Her loss. The harm she’d done.

She had to acknowledge it. Had to accept it. Only then could she move on.

“Amy, Amy, Amy…”

Lerith’s voice.

Mocking. Taunting. Goading her for being a fool.

Her resolve trembled, and terror gripped her heart. The iron of her will cracked, beginning to fracture. Back in her body, she tensed, squeezing her hands and finding that one of them wasn’t empty.

No.

The trembling stopped, iron will turning to steel. She thought of Tallheart, and steel became adamant. Then she thought of Rain, his hand still intertwined with her own. Her will was unbreakable, for she wasn’t alone.

Lerith’s voice attacked again, and the walls didn’t so much as quiver. He began to sing, and she felt her body beginning to twist, horns sprouting from her head and scales crawling over her skin, making it itch and burn. It didn’t matter. All that mattered was the image. And Rain’s hand, squeezed tightly in her own. The water had become sludge, sliding over her, filthy and thick, but she wasn’t afraid. The darkness could not stop her.

And then there was light.

Ameliah gasped, her eyes flying open seemingly of their own accord. She began a curse, then bit it off. She was still seated between Rain and Tallheart, both of them like statues with their eyes closed, but something was wrong.

There was the well. Her well. Sitting there, nestled in front of them, out of place amongst the trees.

Ameliah’s eyes widened as the world began to shake, cracks like those she’d seen over Fel Sadanis spreading through the air.

“Shhh…” said a voice. “Calm down. You’ll wake yourself, pigeon-head. Deep breaths. Deeep breaths.”

“Rain?” Ameliah asked, turning to look at him, but he hadn’t been the one to speak. His hand, still firmly clasped in her own, was like that of a statue. Cold. Lifeless.

The cracks were spreading faster now, the shaking growing worse.

That voice… I know that voice.

Ameliah shook her head and closed her eyes, tuning out all distractions. She breathed deep. In, and then out. It helped a little, but not enough, so in desperation, she reached out and clamped down on the tremors as hard as she could. Slowly, the whirlwind of her thoughts stilled, and the quaking earth ground to a halt.

Tallheart was right. Rain’s way wasn’t the only way.

She opened her eyes. The cracks were still there, but they’d stopped spreading. The air was still. Likewise, Rain and Tallheart sat motionless, frozen in time. Not even a single leaf moved in the forest around her, and beyond the closest trees, there was only darkness. Not the darkness of night, but the darkness of the void.

She was in her soul.

As if the well hadn’t been enough of a clue.

“You’re early, Turnip,” said the voice, making her turn her head. “I’m impressed, though I really shouldn’t be. You’re half me, after all.”

“Show yourself,” Ameliah said, her voice sounding strangely flat. Carefully releasing Rain’s frozen hand, she got to her feet, looking around and seeing no one.

The owner of the voice chuckled, and then her father stepped out from behind a tree.

Despite having been primed for something like this, Ameliah’s heart skipped a beat, and the cracks surged forward. With a yelp, she squeezed her eyes shut, reasserting control. When she opened them again, her father was still there, just as she remembered him. From his unkempt brown hair, to his patchy beard, to the crumpled, weather-stained half-cloak draped over his shoulders. Even his slouch was the same, as if the weight of the world had been trying to grind him into dust.

“There something in my teeth?” he asked as she stared at him, rubbing at his neck with an awkward grin. “Gods, you’re the vision of your mother. Actually, no, you’re even taller. You’re making me feel like a damn Kin, Amy.”

“Don’t call me that,” Ameliah snapped reflexively, then winced. The earth rumbled out a warning.

No. Calm down. Focus. It’s just a nickname, and he used it long before Lerith ever did. I need to be rational about this. I need answers.

Looking up, she schooled her expression. “What are you, how are you here, and why?”

Her father blinked, looking hurt. “You don’t recognize me?”

“Of course I recognize you,” Ameliah said. “I’m more surprised that you recognize me. You died when I was a little girl. It’s been more than fifteen years. Now answer the questions.”

“See, that’s the thing,” he replied, ignoring both her tone and the revelation about his death as he walked over to Tallheart. He bent to inspect the smith’s antlers. After a moment, he looked up, tilting his head to grin at her. “I’m not rightly sure about any of that stuff.” He straightened, then moved over to Rain.

Ameliah blinked and looked down, momentarily distracted by the realization that she wasn’t wearing her armor. Instead, she was clad in a close-fitting linen shirt, her shoulders draped by her old, snowy cloak. Her father’s knife was at her hip—never mind that she could see the exact same one strapped to his.

She turned her attention back to him fully, watching as he grunted a few times, then huffed in frustration, abandoning his attempt to open Rain’s visor. He turned to face her, then blinked, placing a hand over his heart.

“Gods, you’re tall! Have I mentioned that?”

Ameliah grimaced, a bead of sweat dripping down her forehead. What the depths is going on? She could feel the cracks threatening to break free from her control at any moment. The pressure of holding everything frozen was mounting higher by the moment.

“I’m here to guide you,” her father said, unbidden, as he gestured at the trees. “I prepared this so...so you could…” He paused for a long moment, then smiled. “Don’t mind me, Turnip. I’m just a bit…what’s the word?” He snapped his fingers. “Woolly. That’s it. I know I’m here to tell you something, but it’s just not coming to me. It’s just like when you found me in that gutter in Gulan after the night with—“ He coughed awkwardly, then fixed her with a sheepish grin. “I suppose I should apologize for that. Actually, I should probably just apologize for everything all at once. Get that out of the way.”

“Apology accepted,” Ameliah said, raising her hand before he could say anything else. Her heart was twisting in her chest, and she felt tears pricking at her eyes, but she couldn’t allow herself to feel. If she did, this entire reality would come crashing down in an instant. He looks like him. Talks like him. Acts like him. But I need to be sure. “What was Mom’s name?”

Her father arched an eyebrow. “Ahzala. Don’t you remember my stories about her? Though I suppose…you were really young.” He nodded to himself. “How old are you now, anyway? Twenty? Twenty-five? Shit, are you older than me?!” He raised his hands, counting on his fingers. “Eight, plus fifteen is... No, you said more than fifteen. You can’t be… Can you?”

“And how did she die?” Ameliah asked, ignoring him.

He flinched and looked away, suddenly somber. “Bandits hit her village while I was away at the Guild. I came back a day later and found you under the crib, crying your eyes out, nobody alive in the village to hear...” With a visible effort, he took hold of himself and met her gaze. “Look, you don’t want to be hearing about that. It’s me, same as I’ve always been. No need to be paranoid.” He laughed, and then he was smiling again. “Say, did you get True Jack like I wanted for you? Stupid question, of course you did! Look at you, all grown up.” He whistled, looking her up and down. “I mean, damn, Turnip!” He gestured at Rain and Tallheart. “Whichever of these strapping lads you’ve claimed, he’s a lucky man—or deer, as the case may be. Heavens know, I’ve got no right to judge what you get up to. Heh.” He paused, his smile fading. “Hey… Hey, uh… Are you crying?”

