Shiv's eyes widened for a moment as he thought he saw Rose Van Erren sitting upon the back of the hog.

But there were subtle differences to her facial structure and to the dress she wore. Instead of standard Biomancer robes and a red beret, she wore a curved helmet with several gems embedded down the noseguard splitting her face into halves. The rest of her body was lined in a dress of silvery chain that glowed bright, making it seem like she was ablaze with pristine majesty.

Her cheeks were fuller, and her jaw was rounder than Rose's, but there was little doubt that she was related to Adam's mother. In her right hand was a scepter, and it burned with Biomantic mana. The crimson glow it emitted also painted the faint contours of what looked to be even more flying hogs. In the aura she cast in her left hand was a massive gauntlet, and from there he felt a different kind of magic—a familiar one with a golden glow.

The gauntlet was pure gold, and along its center ran three bars of gleaming time magic that pressed against him. It was like one of Kura's time clones contained within a single piece of equipment.

“Alright, students,” she declared with a voice not unlike Rose’s and ran a hand through her crimson hair. “Welcome to an early and special class of Medic-301. Today’s problem: a massive, expanding outbreak that has occurred because two residents failed in their basic due diligence to themselves and their fellows.” A sigh of pure exhaustion escaped her; Shiv felt that in his bones. “As a forewarning, any Pathbearer that does not take care of their own emotional well-being is not a proper Pathbearer. And now, we learn from their mistakes and the sicknesses they spread.”

Her winged hog then gestured with its right hoof and formed a Biomancy spell over its mouth. Shiv was surprised that the pig was a Biomancer as well. A second later, all the beret-wearing Biomancers began casting the same spell. It looked like a simple pattern, something that was a helix in design. Shiv thought of the orc that bore the spell’s namesake.

“Hold still,” Maxime said, and then Shiv realized she was about to cast a spell on him as well. He barely cut his Shapeless Tides in time to stop her spell from recoiling off his being. It spread across his mouth, but then coated his eyes, ears, nose, and skin as well. After it flashed once, it sank into him. It remained there like an additional layer to his flesh, a membrane protecting him from external Biomancy or other biological pathogens.

She ended up applying the same spell to another elf boy to her right, but spared the automaton they were with the magic.

“Wait, I know you,” the automaton said, looking in Shiv’s direction. “Volunteer? Dragon dorm?”

“Yeah?” Shiv said. Strangely, he couldn’t remember the bot. “You were there?”

The bot chuckled darkly. “I’m Malcom. You caught my mistake.” It reached over and gave Shiv a quick shake. “Thanks for embarrassing me, new guy. Let’s hope you don’t need to do it again tonight.”

As Shiv shook with the automaton, he realized he was dealing with an Adept Biomancer. The Deathless’s mind turned back to Dven, and he found himself wondering how she was doing right now. Automata specializing in Biomancy were a rare thing.

“Standard protocol applied,” Javelina declared. “For those of you who've worked with me for some time, you know what's about to happen. Arrange yourselves into residency crews. Every senior resident should have three juniors working with them, and every junior should have at least three assistant medics. If you can't find a proper party composition, attach yourself to another group. Make yourself useful, dependable, but never a liability.”

The crowd gave a collective nod. She returned it. “If you get infected by anything, you let the rest of us know, and you put yourself in quarantine. Those of you who don't understand how this works, ask one of your fellow Biomancers. I don't have time to brief or teach you anything right now. We're going to clear this building level by level, room by room, ward by ward. You’ll get your proper assignments when I get in and assess the situation. Then we're going to pin the threat at the source. If you encounter Hero-Biomancer Huelle or Morgana, do not engage. Notify your senior resident or a section resident, and they’ll let me know. Just make sure to secure the patients first. That's who we need to protect. Now, are there any questions?”
