“I'll have to examine you again in the morning.” The healer said.

“Yeah, I know the drill now.” Ren said. “Your cottage is ready, too.”

“What?”

Ren waved her to come with him, and she followed him out of the tent and around to the back. She stopped and stared at the quaint little house he had built for her.

“I didn't know what color you liked, so I just left the plain wood.” Ren said. “Let me know where you want the windows to go, and I'll install them tomorrow.”

She stopped staring at the cottage, and turned to Ren. “How in the world did you make this today?”

“I started it after you inspected me this morning.” He said. “While I waited for the other workers on my shift, I got the walls made. I worked on it some more during lunch, and just now finished the furniture.”

“You made furniture, too?!?”

“I told you before.” Ren smiled. “You'd be sleeping in one of my comfy beds tonight.” He said. “Of course, once I had the bed made, the rest of the place felt empty. So, I made a few other things.”

“You... you...”

“It's only 2 rooms.” Ren said. “Since you eat at the cafeteria like everyone else.”

“I... I haven't seen you in there yet.” The healer said.

“That's because I've been busy.” Ren chuckled. “By the way, I need to know your name so I can assign you as the occupant.”

“Wh-what?”

“I'm not making a pass at you, or trying to trick you into a relationship or anything.” Ren said. “I own this land. As the owner, I need your name to add it to your house.”

The healer bit her lip for a moment, then sighed. “I can't believe I'm giving my name to you, even under these circumstances.” She said. “It's... it's Deresdra Tundraborn.”

“Thank you, Ma'am.” Ren said, and assigned her as the occupant. She gasped as key formed around her neck, and he turned to her. “Enjoy your new place.” He motioned for her to enter the house, and he ran to his workshop beside the blacksmith shop. Ren took out the baby fire elemental's pen and put it on the workbench, added some more Spider Silk cloth, and a pile of normal cloth scraps. He opened up the forge and looked inside.

“Hi!” Ren said. He took out the baby fire elemental and put it in the pen. “It's downright small now, isn't it?” He said to the 6 inch wide fire being. Ren added another paving stone, more bricks around the sides, and enchanted some of them to produce fire. “There. That's better.” Ren said, and added paving stones to the top. He left the workshop and ran down to the gate. The guard waved and opened it for him, and he took off down the road to go back to House Neram.

*

The healer Deresdra, stood and stared at her new house for several minutes, before opening the door. She went inside and admired the handiwork. She sat on the couch, and sighed. Her eyes widened as she remembered he said the bed was supposed to be comfy, and she ran to the bedroom to see a cabinet and a large bed with a blanket. She laid down on it, and practically moaned in pleasure.

“Oh, he was so right!” Deresdra said, and rolled around on the bed. “I've never felt anything so comfortable.”

She stopped moving and laid still for a few minutes, then sighed as she got out of bed. “I've still got a few hours left before I can relax for the night.” She left her bedroom and noticed a small white pouch on the table in the living room. She went to it, and saw that it sat on a note.

Dear, Ma'am.

I couldn't think of what to give you as a house-warming gift, so I hope this will be good enough.

Deresdra smiled. He built me a house, and still wanted to give me a 'house-warming' gift. She shook her head in disbelief. He must have seen that I didn't have one of these. She thought, picked up the coin pouch, and noticed it was a little heavy. What a nice gift. It even matches my tunic! She equipped it and checked it's contents, then froze.

“He DIDN'T!” She counted the contents again, even though she could clearly see the total, and shook her head again. “No... no no no!” She said, and ran out of her house and over to the blacksmith shop. Deresdra opened the door to Ren's workshop, but he wasn't there. She ran down to the gate and stopped at the guard.

“He...” *huff* *huff* “He... left already, didn't he?” *huff*

The guard nodded slightly. “You just missed him.” He said. “Was I supposed to keep him here?”

She shook her head. “No, I just wanted to talk to him.” She said as she finally caught her breath. “I'll see him in the morning. Thank you.”

“No problem.” The guard said. “Have a good day.”

Deresdra walked back up the road to the medical tent to take up her station for the rest of her shift.

“I can't be indebted to him!” She said to herself. “If he makes me sign an indentured servant contract because of this... I... I don't know what I'll do!”

*

Ren ran to House Neram Keep, and up to his old workshop. He greeted the women working there, pat Ruck, and went into the forge room. He still had several hours left before supper, so he helped Tee-one make bows, and took the bolts Tee-one had made for the Ballista. Ren took it out and filled the 100 bolt cartridge, re-installed it, then stored it again. He leveled up his Bow Making and Arrow Making skills to Beginner Level 4, and then it was suppertime.

Ren took out the icebox and helped himself to some more food, and stored it again. He bid Tee-one a goodnight, and left the workshop. He ran down to the house, greeted the guards, and went into the stable.

“Hi, Princess.”

...hello...

Ren opened her stat window, and saw she had leveled up several times from all of the XP he'd gained from the encounter with the spiders.

“Let's allocate your points.” Ren said, and she told him to spend them all in Intelligence. “I don't think that's a good idea.” He said. “Only being intelligent isn't going to help you much by itself. I think you need to spend some points in Wisdom. It's a stat that shouldn't be ignored if you're trying to get smarter.”

...agreed...

Ren split the points between the two stats. “How's that?” He asked. “Do you feel any different?”

...I do. Thank you...

“Yeah, I think that's much better.” Ren said, and smiled. “Are you being fed well?”

...I am. Thank you...

“I'm glad.” He said. “Goodnight, Princess.”

...Goodnight...

Ren left her and went into the house. I might as well check my stats after those gains.

Status

Name  Ren  Level  31

Gender  Male  Class  Artificer/Lord

Race  Elfling  Fame/Infamy  10,000 (Revered)

Dwarven Kingdom:

Influence  405,590 (Lord)  Honor  57,825 (Prestigious)

Titles

Blacksmith  Grants 5 level bonus to Blacksmithing Skills

Tailor  Grants 5 level bonus to Tailoring Skills

Issac's Novice  20% stat gain at his shop

Lemming  5% resistance to falls

Son Of The Pelt  20% stat gain using craft station

Honorary Dwarf  Grants Dwarf Race abilities

A Fool And His Money  Automatic 5% gratuity, plus perks

Ren The First  Grants Command and Camaraderie Auras

Crazy Like A Fox  Intelligence +20, Wisdom +20

Giant Smasher  Strength +20, Grants skills: Deep Impact & Skull Cracker

Atlas  Inventory (Modified), Strength +20, Vitality +20

Prince Charming  Ideal Man, Attracts attention, +5 levels to Aura (Personal)

Patron Of Knowledge  Grants 5 level bonus to Speed Reading and Hidden Knowledge

Father Of Fire  Grants Absorb Fire and Fire Manipulation Skills

Hero Of Aurora  Etiquette +10 Levels, Fame +5000, All Auras +5 Levels

Lord  Word Of Law, Etiquette +10 Levels, Fame +10000, All Auras +10 Levels

Health  1048  Mana  1265

Strength  175  Dexterity  97

Vitality  105  Agility  93

Endurance  101  Intelligence  138

Luck  39  Wisdom  143

I'm really getting up there. He thought as he sat down on the couch in the main room, and leaned back. I'll be gone for a few hours at least, Teepo. Ren thought.

“Have fun.” Teepo said. “See you when you get back.”

“Logout.”

********

Ren took off the VR headset and Bonnie greeted him.

“Hey, you.” She said. “Are you having fun digging around in the dirt?”

“It's a ball!” Ren said. “You don't realize how much work goes into making something, until you have to make it safe for other people to use.”

“I know.” Bonnie said. “Nurses do it every day.”

Ren looked at her, and he smiled. “Hey, you do!” He said. “I just take you all for granted, don't I?”

Bonnie laughed. “It's our job to be as unobtrusive and helpful as possible.” She said. “You shouldn't see how much work we do, as it defeats the purpose of doing the work in the first place.”

“That doesn't really make sense.”

Bonnie laughed again. “Think about it.” She picked up the bedpan beside the bed. “If you knew that after every time you used this, it had to be scrubbed for 10 minutes by hand, then sterilized for another 3 to 5 minutes in a machine that costs tens of thousands of dollars, would you have used it as many times as you have?”

Ren blinked at her a few times, then shook his head. “Does it really take that much work?”

Bonnie smiled. “Yes, but you aren't supposed to know that.”

He looked around the room at everything. “You all do a lot of prep work beforehand, don't you?”

“Of course.” Bonnie said. “Patients are supposed to be relaxed, and not have to worry about anything while they are being taken care of.”

Ren sighed. “I knew I was kind of spoiled by all the attention you all gave to me, but I didn't realize...”

Bonnie put a hand on his arm. “That's the point.” She said. “You aren't supposed to.” She smiled. “Live your life and have fun. We'll worry about all the details.”

Ren covered her hand with his. “Thanks.”

“You better get up and get changed.” She said. “I don't want to take the chance of you getting food on your nice new pajamas.”

“I ate supper yesterday with them on.” Ren said as he slid out of bed.

“Plain white rice, and a supplement drink.” She said. “I'm surprised the little grains didn't go everywhere.”

Ren snorted a laugh and walked to his dresser. “Even with one good arm, I can still use a spoon without spilling things.”

“I don't see how.” Bonnie smirked a smile. “I spill them all the time when I eat them.”

“Maybe you should do my therapy session today.” Ren said. “It sounds like you need it more than I do.”

Bonnie laughed as Ren took the top outfit. He looked at the long sleeved t-shirt and sighed.

“Damn, long sleeves again.”

“I'll give you a hand putting it on.”

“I better use the bathroom first.” Ren said, took the jogging pants, and went to clean himself up. He came out a few minutes later with the pajamas on his arm. “I think Stella hung the other ones up.”

Bonnie took them from him and opened the cabinet beside the dresser, and she saw 6 other sets of pajamas.

“Oh, my.” Bonnie said, and hung up the red ones. “Stella said you had new pajamas, but she didn't say you had all of these.”

“I got them all at the same time yesterday.” Ren said, and picked up the long sleeved t-shirt. “Give me a hand.”

Bonnie helped him put it on, and he grunted as his elbow slipped into the hole.

“I can't wait to get the use of this arm back.” Ren said, and slipped the sling back over his elbow.

“It's only a couple more weeks.” Bonnie said. “And you'll feel right as rain.”

Ren climbed back into bed, and Bonnie served him breakfast. The homemade hash browns were all perfectly square and identical in size, and the low salt sausages were evenly grilled. The toast was covered in salt free butter; but, they were soft and easy to chew.

“Thank you for the meal.” Ren said, when he was done eating.

“No complaining about the lack of salt?” Bonnie asked.

Ren shook his head. “Nope. Stella told me I got more than my monthly dose of salt yesterday.”

Bonnie snorted a laugh. “Four helpings of Endless Fries.” She shook her head. “The most I've ever eaten is two.”

“I bet you wasted space with a burger or something.” Ren said, and grinned. “All I had was fries. Coated in gravy. Then more fries.” He took in a deep breath, then licked his lips. “I can almost taste them.”

Bonnie laughed. “Come on, you gravy nut.” She helped him get in the wheelchair to go to therapy. “You've got a workout to get to.”

She took him to therapy and Ren did his normal routine. When he was done, he relaxed at the side of the room and drank another supplement. Bonnie came in to get him, and another nurse ran in after her.

“Hey, everyone!” The other nurse said. “You have got to see this!”

She grabbed the remote to turn on the television mounted in the corner, and changed the channel to a familiar one.

*

“That's right, folks! The very first television show based on footage from the virtual reality game called F.L.O.W., or Fantasy Life Online World, will air tonight at 7 o'clock. It must be good, because it's already been picked up for a full season!” The announcer said, then he took a breath. “Thanks to our partnership with the production company, we now have a teaser trailer to show you. This is a News 8 exclusive, so enjoy!”

A short 30 second trailer played, and the catchy music playing in the background added to the excitement. Ren saw himself picking herbs in the forest outside the starter city, then wolves approached through the trees. He saw them attack, then he tried to fight. He didn't remember stepping on one of the paws, making the wolf yelp, and he didn't remember elbowing another in the snout... but, so much had happened in so short a time that he didn't remember a lot of what had happened. They tore at his clothing and scratched him, and he hadn't realized how close he had come to dying several times. Two of the wolves lunged at him at the same time, but he slipped and they smashed into each other instead of him. He got away after that, and saw the part he remembered well. He watched himself fleeing out into the open and screaming 'Why me?'. The nurse who had turned on the television laughed.

“There you go folks! A quick teaser to whet your appetite. Tune in tonight at 7pm for the full half hour show called Master Of All, Jack Of None.”

*

The therapist looked at him with surprise on her face, as the nurse turned off the television and looked at them. “Isn't that something?” She asked, then looked at Ren. “We've got a real live television star on our hands!”

Ren finished his supplement and put the cup down, then his eyes widened as he heard something he never thought he'd ever hear.

“Say...” The nurse said. “...can I have your autograph?”
