Ren was halfway down the hallway when his dog Stacy whined at him, and felt her scolding him. He stopped walking and sighed.

“Yes, I over-reacted.” Ren said, then knelt to face her. “I just don't like that she can push me aside so easily.” He said. Just like someone else I won't mention. He thought, and pat Stacy on the head.

Stacy gave him a soft bark, and he nodded.

“Okay, go back and guard her.” Ren said. “She can use you to keep her company, at least. I have a feeling she's going to need it.” He looked at Riley. “You, too.”

Riley gave him a soft bark, and the two dogs turned around to run back to the apartment.

“That was nice of you.” Teepo said.

“They wouldn't have much to do, just sitting around and watching Princess, or sitting next to the mine.” Ren said as he stood up, then he kept walking down the hallway.

*

There was a heavy scratching on the apartment door, then some growling, and a shout. Nathalia ran to the door and opened it to see one of the guards on the floor with his arm trapped inside the mouth of one of the dogs, and the other guard with his sword raised to strike.

“STOP!” Nathalia shouted at the guard. “What's going on out here?”

“One of the dogs damaged the door, and I tried to push it away. The other one growled and attacked me.”

“He didn't attack you.” Nathalia said. “His teeth would be out if that was true.” She said. “By the looks of things, he was defending his mate from you.”

“Look! It damaged the door! I had to stop it!” The guard on the floor said.

“Don't be stupid.” Nathalia said. “You should have just opened the door when you saw them coming back. The door wouldn't have been damaged at all.”

The guard looked at her with indignation.

“Riley, please let him go.” Nathalia asked, and Riley opened his mouth. She looked at the guard. “You're not even hurt, are you?”

The guard didn't say anything, and Nathalia shook her head at him.

“Even without his teeth, Riley could have easily crushed your arm.” Nathalia stepped aside and the two dogs entered the room. “Don't interfere with them again.” She shut the door on the guards' surprised faces. When she turned around, she saw Narhilda kneeling in front of the two dogs.

“What does this mean?” Narhilda asked.

“Isn't it obvious?” Nathalia said. “You hurt Ren, and he reacted; but he knows you're still going to need protection, even though he won't be coming back.”

“But...” A tear came to her eye. “...if they are pieces of him, how will I forget about him, with them constantly by my side?”

“Ever since Ren started living with us, he's always been by our side.” Nathalia said. “Are you really trying to forget about it all?” She shook her head. “How can you be so foolish?!?”

*

Ren was really tempted to run all the way, as it was taking so much time to get back to the Main Keep entrance. He kept his cool though, and walked at a brisk pace. He and Teepo made it to the entrance, then left the Main Keep. Since it was still pretty early, he ran as fast as he could back to the place where he was attacked by the group of assassins. He went into the underbrush and found the cart that was full of sand. He looked at the ground again, but there wasn't any more footprints since the last time he had been there, and he sighed.

“I guess if you have a Scroll Mage that can identify everything, you wouldn't need any actual physical evidence.” Ren said, and modified the front of the cart so he could pull it instead of a horse. He checked the contents to make sure nothing was leaking out, then examined it closely to see how it was double-layered and reinforced. Ren dismissed the popup he received for discovering the plans for it, then got in position. He started to pull the cart, and felt the weight of it.

“I think there a lot more than 1 ton of sand in this thing.” Ren enchanted the cart with a double glyph of Antidark (8 runes total) and pulled it through the city and out to his mine. The guard opened the gate for him, so he pulled the cart up the road and next to his small workshop. Ren's eyes widened as he had gained a couple of points in Strength when he stopped.

I'm glad I didn't try and carry the thing. Ren thought. I wonder how much it weighs?

“It doesn't matter.” Teepo said. “If you remember how much sand is in it, then when you refill it, you'll know how to keep gaining Strength.”

Ren nodded, and went over to the mine foreman's office. He knocked, but there was no answer.

“I better check in the medical tent.” Ren said, and ran down the road to the area beside the mine's entrance. There was nothing to knock on; but, the tent's flaps were open. He went inside and looked around. He didn't see anyone here, either.

“Hello?” Ren said.

He heard a gasp, and turned to the curtained-off area used for examinations. He saw the curtain bulge out, there was a clatter of a chair hitting the floor, and the healer fell out and onto the floor herself. Ren ran to her, lifted her head and shoulders, and knelt to rest her on his knees.

“Are you all right?” He asked her, and she stared up at him in surprise. “Are you hurt?”

She blinked a few times at him, but didn't say anything because she was frozen in shock. He looked her over, and realized something he'd missed in his rush to get to her. She wasn't wearing any clothing. Ren looked where the chair had fallen, and saw her pants, underwear, and long white tunic were on the floor beside it.

“I'm sorry.” Ren said. “I didn't mean to interrupt while you were getting dressed.”

She opened her mouth several times to speak, but nothing came out. She looked like a fish out of water, and he smiled.

“Ma'am, it's okay.” He said. “Breathe. Relax.” He grinned. “It's no big deal. They may all be different, but I have seen breasts before.”

The healer took a deep breath to compose herself, took another, and sighed. “Okay, I deserved that comment.”

“I meant it as a joke, not as a critique of your bedside manner.” Ren chuckled. “Do you want me to get your clothes?”

“No, I can get them.” She said, and Ren easily lifted her to her feet. She had been shocked by his sudden appearance, then surprised by his act of chivalry. The show of Strength made her catch her breath, however. She stood there and looked at him, and he smiled.

“Ma'am? Clothes.”

“Yes!” The healer said. “Clothes! Clothes are good!”

Ren grinned as she had repeated the same phrase the day before, when he was nude in front of her. She turned around to gather up her clothes, and Ren couldn't help himself and admired her form. She picked up her underwear, then stepped into them to pull them up. For some reason, he really enjoyed it when a woman bent over like that. Ren stopped that thought in it's tracks, and turned his head away so she wouldn't catch him looking at her. He stood like that for a few minutes, and then the healer spoke.

“You can look now.” She said with relief in her voice.

Ren looked at her and saw she was completely dressed. “Why were you getting dressed in here?” He asked. “There should be a house here for you to use.”

“A house!” The healer exclaimed. “I have to use one of the miner's rest tents!”

Ren frowned. “That won't do at all.” He said. “I'll build you one behind this tent.”

“Wh-what?”

“I can't have a woman that works here, sleeping in some strange man's bed every night.”

“I'm not sleeping with a stranger every night!”

“That's not what I said!” Ren said, then took a deep breath. After a moment of silence, he spoke. “I meant, some man had slept in it the night before, and then you had to sleep in it.”

“Oh.” The healer said. “That's okay. I'll get used to it.”

Ren shook his head. “No, you won't.” He said. “You'll be sleeping in one of my comfy beds tonight.”

“Is that your half-assed attempt at seducing me?” The healer laughed. “Because if it is, it's pretty bad.”

“I'm not trying to seduce you.” Ren sighed. “All I am doing, is talking.”

“You just invited me to sleep in your bed!”

“No. I told you that you'd be sleeping in 'one of' my comfy beds.” Ren said. “I didn't say 'with me'.”

The healer took a breath, and let it out. “I don't know why I'm jumping to conclusions with you like this.”

“I do.” Teepo said. “Can you say 'trouble' with a capital 'T'?

“It's kind of my fault.” Ren sighed. “I'm an Adventurer, and I acquired a recipe long ago that causes trouble.”

“Really?” The healer asked. “Can you tell me about it?”

“I'm sorry, I can't.” Ren said. “I've got 8 hours of work to do today.”

“I can let you out of that.” She said and smiled. “You'll have to tell me about your adventures with trouble, though.”

Ren shook his head. “I have a better idea.” He took out copies of his books. “Have you read these yet?”

The healer shook her head. He handed the books to her, and smiled at her perplexed expression. “This should give you an insight into some of the trouble I've had.” He said. “I'm going to work now.”

“Wait.” She said. “You need another inspection done.”

Ren sighed. “We did one yesterday.”

“Yes, and you left the mine compound, and were gone to the gods know where.” She said. “I have to inspect you again.”

“It won't be another complete one.” Ren said, and she understood that he wasn't asking a question.

“Yes, you can keep your underwear on.” The healer smiled, and stepped aside to hold the curtain open for him. He went into the area, and stored his clothing. She closed the curtain and started the inspection.

“By the way, I wasn't getting changed.” She said as she walked around to check his back. “I was inspecting myself.”

Ren frowned. “But... wouldn't you know where you've been?” He asked, as she poked his back in a few places, then felt the muscles.

“I left the compound early this morning to get more supplies.” She said. “I got back about 10 minutes before you showed up. I can't enter the mine without checking myself, either.” She touched the back of his knee and he bent it.

“Why is that?” Ren asked. “It just seems odd that...”

She held out her arm, and showed Ren the Bracelet of Enforcement she wore, that matched his own. He had missed seeing it on her wrist earlier.

“Who holds your contract?”

“The head of the Medical Wing in the Main Keep.” She said. “She's a wonderful woman! She gave me the funds that I needed to complete my training and join the Guild.”

“How long is your contract for?”

“It was supposed to be for 10 years; but thanks to this job, it's only going to take me 4 years to pay her back!” The healer said. “Then I'll be free to do as I please. Bend your elbows.”

“How much are you being paid to work here?” Ren asked as he bent his elbows.

“15 gold a week!” She said, excitedly. “Normally we don't get paid when picked up to work for a House, mainly because we usually join the House when we do; but, since this is an independent operation, I can get an actual salary instead of working at a second job. With the tithe to my House, the head of the Medical Wing gets 10 gold a week from this!”

Ren did the math in his head. “It cost you over 31 platinum to train and join the guild?” He asked, surprised it was so much.

The healer laughed. “Of course not.” She said. “The early payment penalty fees, early contract termination fees, compounded interest, loss of interest payments over the time the contract should have been filled...” The healer shrugged. “It all adds up in the end. Wrists and fingers, please.”

“If, by some miracle, you paid it off today... how much would it cost?” He asked, and flexed his fingers and turned his wrists.

“I can't imagine that's even possible.” She said. “But, if I had to take a guess, I'd say nearly 40 platinum.”

Ren nodded slightly, and she came around to his front. She massaged his chest muscles, just like she did yesterday, and moved on to his abdomen.

“No distentions today, either.” She looked at him. “You must work really hard to keep this much muscle mass.”

“You have no idea.” Ren said as she checked his arms and legs. “I just hauled a cart full of sand here from the city.”

“That poor horse must be exhausted.” She said. “I didn't hear one, though.” She put a hand over her mouth and gasped. “Oh, no! Don't tell me it died from hauling such a heavy load!”

“It's okay!” Ren said to calm her down, before she kept over-reacting. “There's no horse.” He chuckled. “I pulled the cart.”

“You WHAT?!?” The healer exclaimed.

“I pulled the cart. It's over by the blacksmith shop.” Ren said. “Can I get dressed now?”

“Sure.” The healer nodded slightly. “You're cleared for work.”

“Thank you.” Ren said, equipped his clothing, and left the tent. Since he had a bit of time before the work crew for his shift showed up, he went around to the back of the medical tent and took out his hammerpick.

“Let's get to work.” Ren said, and cleared an amount of space for a small 2 room cottage, and set out the wood to build it. It took about an hour for him to make the walls and set them into place.

“The work crew is here.” Teepo said.

“Great.” Ren said. “I'll finish this at lunch.” He went over to the crew and followed them into the mine, then worked for another 4 hours. When they broke for lunch, he ran out to the entrance of the mine and then behind the medical tent. He had a small pitched roof built and filled in, then took out his icebox and had a quick lunch. He stored the icebox again, then made a nice comfy bed and put it in the bedroom.

“Time.” Teepo said, and Ren left the cottage to run back into the mine. He did 3 hours, and got the relief and happiness feelings again.

“Huh.” Ren said. “I'm done for the day.” He bid the workers a good day, and left the mine.

“That's early.” Teepo said. “I only counted 7 hours.”

“The bracelet must have counted the time I worked on the cottage this morning.” Ren said. “I think... as long as I'm doing work for the mine, it counts against my time.”

“That's pretty neat.” Teepo said, and Ren went back to the cottage. He made a comfy couch, a chair, and a table for the living room, and a cabinet for the bedroom.

“I think that's everything.” Ren said, then took out a coin pouch and put 45 platinum in it. He put it on the table, and left a note for the healer. He left the cottage and went around to the front of the medical tent. “Ma'am?” He said as he entered. She looked up from her desk and smiled at him.

“You're leaving again, aren't you?” She asked, and he nodded. “I've got to go and check on my mount, to make sure she's okay.”

