Rain sighed in relief, barely even exaggerated. “You heard it here, lads. Looks like we’ve got our home for the next few weeks. I vote we have a party tonight to celebrate.” He kicked at the sedan chair roughly, making a loud crack as the wood splintered. “We can light this stupid thing on fire and dance around the ashes.”

“Ha,” said Fredek, cracking his knuckles. “Maybe a little combat practice too?”

Rain smiled. “How about a miniature tournament? Val and Lyn have both been bugging me. Who could have predicted that having so many fresh awakened about would get our resident dueling lunatics fired up?”

“I like this plan,” Fredek said, grinning. “Break out the last of the beer, shall we?”

“Hells yes,” Rain agreed, using the blade of his hand to strike the tops of Fredek’s shoulders in turn. “You are hereby promoted to Chief Party Officer. Use your judgment, and make sure you clear any big stuff with Vanna and Samson first. The beer is one thing, but we can’t blow through all our supplies in a single night.”

“I’m honored, Captain,” said Fredek with a laugh and a mock salute. “I won’t let you down.” He turned, beckoning to Tristin. “Come along, Chief Party Assistant. We have work to do.”

“I don’t remember agreeing to be anyone’s assistant,” Tristin said, following after nodding politely to Rain.

Rain smiled, looking back to Tarny. “Where are Ameliah and Tallheart?”

“Ameliah left to scout the edge of the plains from above before sunset. Tallheart’s looking for a spot to set up his forge, I think.”

Rain nodded. “Good, good. Anything else I need to know before I go get myself an axe?”

Tarny nodded. “I took Fall this morning.”

“WHAT!?”

Rain’s shout was loud enough to send a ripple of silence through the camp. He whirled on Tarny, flipping up his visor to reveal his incredulous expression. “Why didn’t you tell me!?”

Tarny raised his hands, an amused expression on his face. “Sorry. I was going to, but you were busy having breakfast with Ameliah. I didn’t want to interrupt with the way you two were smiling at each other. Besides, it wouldn’t have changed anything. Here, see for yourself.” He reached into a pocket of his cloak, retrieving a folded sheet.

Rain waved at the watching faces in what he hoped was a reassuring manner, scolding himself for his outburst as he took the page, then unfolded it.

Fall - Rank 1

Reduce entities’ need for food and water by 1%

Cost: 1 mp/hr

Range: 1 m

Notes

Power formula is linear (Amplify Aura works as expected)

Hidden, unlocked by: Winter 5, Summer 5, Spring 5

Rain sighed as he finished reading. “Damn. Twenty percent max with your current skills, probably. Once you get your class and take Channel Mastery, it’ll be 52%, and with Aura Focus, 156%, whatever the hells going past 100% will do. Even then, you won’t have the range to cover everyone at once. It’ll take the edge off, but it’s not going to get us across the plains on its own.”

“As you say,” Tarny agreed, taking the paper back and slipping it away.

Rain looked over the group, watching as people set about their various tasks. His eyes lingered on the crates, sitting atop their pallets. Many of them were empty, he knew. Reaching up, he lowered his visor until it sealed with a metallic click. “Tell Vanna that I won’t be helping with the trees today. Then go get Tallheart and ask him to join me. Ameliah, too, once she gets back.”

“Captain?” Tarny asked, the confusion in his tone quickly replaced with excitement. “Does this mean…”

Rain nodded. “Yes. It’s time.”

Rain walked calmly through the Bastion. The makeshift hamster tubes had been replaced with corridors fashioned from stainless steel, carpeted, with clean fluorescent lighting set into the ceilings. Plumbing and electrical conduits were safely hidden, sandwiched between the inner walls and the outer shell. His hodge-podge of a space station had become something that would have made Starfleet proud. Or perhaps the Klingon Empire. Other than the aesthetically pleasing interior, it was all meter-thick adamant braces and overlapping plates of armor. Function before form. As it had been since the beginning, the Bastion had but one purpose. To endure. The patch he’d left at the Tear was even stronger, or so he hoped.

A pair of white doors whisked open at his approach, closing behind him as he entered Dozer’s former habitat. It felt small to him now, preserved as it had been within the armored bulk of the station. The painted sky, the sculpted trees, and the soft grass did nothing to make the space feel less lifeless and artificial. Dozer was out there, not in here, waiting with Ameliah and Tallheart. The Bastion was strong, but it was also lonely.

Sitting down beside Dozer’s empty bed, Rain leaned against the painted wall and closed his eyes as he shifted his mind into his core. Awareness of the station blossomed in its entirety. Gently, he slowed the intake fans, having two of them now. Enormous metal lids slid into place, blocking the shafts. Across the station, shutters closed over windows, blocking the view of the chaos. Internal bulkheads lowered themselves, segmenting the station as they locked into place. The light from the painted sky dimmed, fading to red. The low mechanical hum that had pervaded the station faded, leaving it as silent as the grave.

He was ready.

Rain opened his eyes, seeing Ameliah and Tallheart sitting cross-legged and watching him. Dozer was resting anxiously on Ameliah’s lap. Dusk had fallen, and they were in a tent that had been sewn together from failed parachutes, illuminated by the light of a lone candle.

Slowly, so as not to startle anyone, Rain stood, removing his helmet. Ameliah wordlessly passed Dozer to Tallheart, then rose to help him. After much discussion, they’d decided that it would be safest for Rain’s soul to be under as little strain as possible when he advanced. That meant no armor. A thrill ran through him as the overvitals hit with the removal of his rings.

Once he was down to his unenchanted Forceweave, Rain sat, accepting a cloak from Ameliah as she draped it about his shoulders. He caught her hand as she sat back beside him, pressing a metal plate into it as it formed. His Perception accolade, the only one he’d had equipped. She accepted it without comment, the metal vanishing moments later.

Rain hesitated for a moment, then reached into the neck of his Forceweave to remove a crinkled envelope. He placed it on the ground between the three of them, then gestured, explaining in a soft voice. “In case I don’t come back.”

Tallheart rumbled. “Humans. Always so dramatic. You in particular.”

Ameliah smiled, removing her gauntlet before taking Rain’s bare hand in her own. “Sorry, but I agree with Tallheart. You’ll be fine. The silver evolution isn’t instant like bronze, but it’ll only take a few seconds once you make your selections. You’ll just get a notification of your new class name. That’s literally it.”

“Danger magnet, remember?” Rain said, smiling and squeezing her hand. He reached out to Tallheart with his other. “Come on.”

Tallheart grunted, then did something surprising. He twisted his left gauntlet sharply, pulling it free, then flexed his bare fingers. After a brief inspection and a low rumble of discontent—seemingly at the state of his fingernails—he took Rain’s outstretched hand firmly. His skin was warm. Callused, but not rough.

Rain blinked, staring at their clasped hands. “I didn’t actually expect this.”

Tallheart beckoned to Ameliah with his other hand. She smiled then reached out to take it, gauntlet meeting gauntlet with a clink and completing the circle.

“If we must be dramatic,” Tallheart said, fixing Rain with an expressionless stare, “we should fully commit to the act.”

Rain laughed, some small measure of his tension fading away. Dozer, clearly feeling left out, had oozed into his lap and climbed to his shoulder. Smiling, Rain nuzzled the slime with a cheek. “Okay. Here we go,” he said, looking up. “Wish me luck.”

“I love you,” Ameliah said, squeezing his hand. “Good luck.”

“Dramatic,” Tallheart said with a rumble.

“I love you too,” Rain replied, staring deep into Ameliah’s eyes, then glancing at Tallheart with a smile. “And you. Like a brother, obviously.”

Tallheart rumbled his amusement. “Thank you for clarifying that point. Now go. You have made us wait long enough.”

Rain laughed, then closed his eyes as he called up his class selections.

Select a Class

High Worker (+)...

High Warrior...

High Mage...

High Defender...

Remedial Jack (+)...

Remedial Scourge Beacon (+)...

Remedial Warder Beacon (+)...

Remedial Logistics Beacon (+)...

Remedial Meta-Beacon (+)...

Remedial Utility Meta-Mage (+)...

High Dynamo (+)...

Legendary Dynamo (+)

Legendary

Primary Requirements

Dynamo

All stat points invested in Clarity

Secondary Requirements

Recover at least 1,000,000 total points of mana

Effects

Personalized class name

1,600% boost to the effects of Clarity

Up to 5 specializations

Notes

Warning: Legendary classes have higher experience requirements

Warning: Future attribute points may only be invested in Clarity

Hidden class, revealed by meeting primary requirements

Legendary Dynamo, he thought at the system, the decision made long ago.

More text appeared.

Select Specializations

5 specializations are available

Aura Metamagic [Selected]

Defensive Auras [Selected]

Magical Utility [Selected]

Offensive Auras [Selected]

Utility Auras [Selected]

0 slots free

Confirm?

Confirm

The text vanished. The panel shrunk as if it was going to vanish too, but then stopped, frozen.

Um…is this normal?

Just as he was about to open his eyes to ask, the panel expanded again, lines of text scrolling by almost too fast to follow.

Errors Encountered during Class Evolution

Direct Interface Unauthorized

Existing Hybrid Interface Detected

Hybrid Interface Boot Complete

Hybrid Interface Mode: Non-Interactive [User-Defined]

Debug Monitoring: Enabled

Global System Link Active [Warning: Protocol]

Scanning…

Paling Integrity: 70% [Warning: Threshold]

Soul Fragmentation: NaN% [Error: Scan Failure]

Core Rank: 25 [Alert: Precocious Formation]

Experience: Maximum

Slack: 0

Warning: Corrupted Natural Skill Detected

Closest Template: Tame Monster [Error: Deviant]

Attempting skill removal…

Resistance detected

[Error: Skill Removal Failed]

Warning: Unexpected Structure

Elaborating… [Error: Scan Failure]

Integration unknown

Composition unknown

Origin unknown

Integrity unknown

…

Multiple Errors Detected

Extrapolating parameters using Bronze modeling…

Calculating probable results of class evolution…

Likelihood of paling breach: 100%

Likelihood of core damage: 100%

Attempting mitigation…

Contacting guide… [Error: Not Found]

Attempting recovery… [Error: Guide Template Not Found]

[Error: Bone]

An error that should never have occurred has occurred

Consulting system administrator… [Error: Not Found]

Attempting recovery…

Failed

[Critical Warning!]

Total Dissolution of Entity Probable

Continuing…

Rain twitched in horror.

Pardon me, WHAT?! Cancel, cancel, cancel! Abort! Ctrl+C! Damn it, SIGINT! SIGINT!!

Significant Resistance Detected

To avoid damage, class evolution may not be interrupted

Silver Override Engaged

Stop, damn you! STOP! STOP!!!!

Extreme Resistance Detected

To avoid damage, class evolution may not be interrupted

Gold Override Engaged

For thy temerity, may the Straal honor thee in the Depths Beyond

Rain reeled as if slapped in the jaw by an excavator. The first override had not been gentle, but the second had been something else entirely. The system’s rebuke had obliterated his whole-hearted resistance as if he’d been no more than a gnat battling a hurricane. Finding himself unable to scream, he clung to his friends’ hands with all his strength as a crushing pressure settled around his soul. Deep within himself, he felt the Bastion groan at the contact.

The system began to squeeze in earnest.

Adamant bulkheads folded, beams snapping and grinding against each other as the station was scrunched in on itself like a ball of tinfoil. Rain couldn’t feel it when his paling ruptured for the third and perhaps final time, but the sudden cries of terror from outside the tent told him everything he needed to know. The pain should have been unimaginable, but to him, the fire shooting through his every nerve was depressingly familiar.

“What’s happening?” Ameliah yelled as she scrambled in front of him and grabbed him by the shoulders. “Rain, talk to me!”

He struggled to speak, clinging to her voice as he fought through the agony. An eternity passed, though it was really only a few seconds. Without warning, the pain vanished, leaving only a dull burn deep in his chest. He gasped, hauling in a lungful of air. At the same instant, the text resumed its frantic scroll.

Evolution Successful

[Error: Modeling Failure]

Divergence: Extreme

Scanning for signs of external interference…

Minor interference detected:

Entity - Dozer [Essence Slime (Unique)]

Probable cause of skill removal failure

Interference insufficient to account for modeling failure

Resuming scan…

No additional interference detected

Modeling Failure: Unresolved

Transmitting report to system administrator [Error: Not Found]

Critical Error

Hybrid Interface Terminated

The panel vanished, giving Rain the briefest glance of Ameliah’s panicked expression before another dialog took its place.

Evolution Complete

Dynamo → Engine of Change

[Level Up]

Rain toppled forward through the dialog, dismissing it in the process. Ameliah cried out, catching him as if he was made of glass.

“I’m…okay,” he gasped, clinging to her with considerably less restraint. The screams outside the tent had stopped. “I’m...okay.” I think...

Shit, the Bastion. And my paling. I need to get in there.

Calm down, Rain. Deep breaths.

Tallheart rumbled, his antlered visage appearing as he leaned into Rain’s field of view. “As I said. Particularly dramatic.”
