Meanwhile, [Void Mountain]’s inverted peak descended in Zac’s Soul Aperture. It immediately was brought to task in forming a Void Sigil on Zac’s right hand. At that point, the falling streak of white had finally crossed the distance. Zac manipulated a Void Vortex to intercept, only to have it collapse within the blink of an eye.

Undeterred, Zac sent one vortex after another. None of them fared any better, but each took a bite out of the terrifying lightning before it was destroyed. Together, the nine vortices managed to weaken the lightning by half. Zac knew he was playing with fire, and that depositing the Four Desolates to his Void Space wasn’t necessarily a permanent solution. The Void would be forced to spit back out anything it couldn’t handle. Still, it was his only option. Just like the Judgment Plateau, it was a way to buy time by splitting the tribulation in half.

Zac didn’t stay put for the lightning to reach him. He rose into the air, slamming his Void Sigil into the lightning with a defiant roar. He felt like a punctured balloon as terrifying amounts of Void Energy poured into his hand in an act of mutual destruction. Zac ignored the pain and growing cracks spreading across his arm, holding until he was almost completely squeezed dry.

Less than a fifth of the lightning remained at that point, and its refined aura had come undone. Smooth flows had already become jagged, and the lightning pounced into his body with ferocity resembling its predecessors. And there, Zac’s final line of defense waited, as it always had. A deep thump made the dust across the mountain peak dance as [Void Heart] threw out its net. Five thumps later, only a faltering tendril remained.

“Go ahead, you bastard. Test my core,” Zac coughed with a hoarse voice as he threw the rootles tendril into his Quantum Space.

The lightning acted like it had a mind of its own. It refused to comply and give Zac the satisfaction of a perfect victory. It stopped in place upon entering the Quantum Space before dissipating on its own. Only a wisp of cosmic resentment remained, like it wanted to mark Zac for future reference.

Zac fell back onto the platform, the vigor he’d exhibited all but gone. The pain and emptiness left in the wake of the Four Desolates couldn’t quash Zac’s sense of triumph. The tribulation had gone well beyond his previous encounters, and so had his preparations. The sky was clear, and the galaxy inside his Quantum Core remained in optimal condition.

The most difficult chapter had passed, and it was time to reap his reward.
