At least Ser Normen was smiling. And when she turned her head—she thought she heard laughter from Rheirgest’s folk.
 
——
 
“Miss Lyonette. We ran into a bit of trouble at the val Lischelle-Drakle farm. As you didn’t have a speaking stone, I thought it would be best to take everyone here and sort the rest out later. I apologize for being late; the snows were higher than we thought.”
“Normen!”
He looked as awkward as ever in his new armor, but the mace at his side, made of Demas Metal, fit the man. He sat upon a horse, a [Knight] in shining mail—until you saw his burned features, scarred from his encounter with the Bloodfeast Raiders. To Lyonette, it only made him the best warrior she knew. A reassuring man; a bearer of honor’s flame.
Ama, Jewel, Vess, and Durene were helping organize the wagons; it was hard to even park them on the hills without danger of them slipping. People were getting out, and Lyonette stared at Normen in dismay.
“What trouble?”
“Drakes. Gnolls. Even some Humans. Throwing trash and even rocks when we tried to get near. Master Himilt kept them clear of his farm, but he was wary of causing a fuss. As were we. It wasn’t the kind of thing we could fight our way out of—”
Jewel rode over, a smear of red on her arm. Not blood; tomato. She looked upset.
“Unlike the Snow Golems. We bashed in nearly a hundred’s brains to get here. Lyonette, there were more people trying to stop Rheirgest from moving in than villagers! It looked—organized. What’s going on? You didn’t mention this.”
“Selys.”
The two blinked at her. Lyonette was too furious to explain.
“She probably wasn’t there, but I’ll bet she and her friends set this up. There was anti-[Necromancer] sentiment before, but no one knew about Rheirgest until…I suppose the undead would have given it away. You, ah, didn’t ride like that the entire way, did you?”
Jewel nodded crisply and unapologetically. She was a Gold-rank adventurer at the top of her profession, or had been. As a [Knight], she didn’t look that different—aside from the fact that she and Normen were a couple and she’d quit her team to join the Order of Solstice. She seemed happier, at least compared to the depressed adventurer Erin had brought in.
“Had to. The roads were covered in snow; without Rheirgest raising undead to literally shovel our way through, we’d still be on our way to Celum. Even with Vess and Normen’s flames…neither one runs hot. It is not the time to travel from rural spots.”
Remembering Normen’s fraught journey here, Lyonette had to admit that was true.
“Alright, I understand. Argh, what a disaster. Normen, I’m sorry.”
“Just so long as you have a space for Rheirgest to set down tonight, Miss Lyonette? And food? I promised them they’d at least have a place to relax.”
He had a smile on his face and a worried expression in his eyes. Lyonette bit her lip.
“Bedding them down will mean filling the common room and the basement and the theatre—”
“No worries about that. They have the wagons. But food?”
“Absolutely. Of course. Who am I—?”
This was already disastrous, but Lyonette was determined to put a good face on things. Instantly, Jewel and Normen pointed to an old man that Ama was helping down from a wagon. Even the young, snooty [Necromancer] looked respectful.
“That would be their Village Head. Elosaith. He doesn’t have the class; each household is rather independent.”
“Excellent. Anything I should know, Normen? Anything else, rather?”
He scratched his helmet, then took it off to scratch at his regrowing hair.
“Uh. They’re all [Necromancers].”
“I know that.”
“No, they’re all [Necromancers], Miss Marquin. Better ones than you think. They were nervous about coming here; they’re used to privacy, but their home is gone, and they were hoping to continue mining the giant of bones. Ah—and Celum’s got Golems.”
“Lord Xitegen’s? How many?”
Jewel and Normen traded a look. It was an offhand question, but Jewel answered rather breathlessly.
“Er—at least two hundred? They’re tearing up the streets, rebuilding the walls—it’s insane.”
Dead gods, is nothing around here normal? Lyonette just glanced at them.
“We shall talk later, then. For now—Headman Elosaith! Welcome to The Wandering Inn! Has your trip been long? Welcome, welcome! Please, the inn is open, and we have hot food!”
She strode towards the man, Dalimont at her side, Ishkr, Peggy, and Rosencrantz following her in tight formation. Lyonette projected her voice and saw the old man wasn’t as frail as she thought. He looked maybe…late sixties? Seventies? White-haired, but without having gone bald. He wore what might either have been a more official set of travelling clothes or, depending on how you saw it, black robes, clearly padded for the winter.
For all that, Elosaith appeared somewhat normal; he had admittedly bright yellow eyes, but his face was refreshingly personable. His look of apprehension turned to a tentative smile as he limped towards her, and Lyonette saw the reason for Ama’s assistance.
Ah.
His left leg was made of bone. She saw a clawed foot pushing through the snow and hesitated. But Elosaith was walking with a black staff, and he bowed as soon as they got into earshot.
“Your Highness, it is an honor to be welcomed to your domain. Thank you for greeting us. As you say, I am Elosaith, Headman for Rheirgest—formerly Rheirgest. We throw ourselves on your hospitality, Your Grace.”
“Oh no—no, please don’t bow—”
Lyonette threw up her hands, embarrassed, giving Normen a look. Elosaith was ready to prostrate himself in the snow. He gave Lyonette a confused stare.
“But you are a [Princess]?”
“No—yes—only officially. I am just Lyonette, uh, acting [Innkeeper] for The Wandering Inn! Please don’t bow. On behalf of Erin Solstice, we welcome you! Do come in out of the cold!”
More of Rheirgest disembarked, and Lyonette saw a familiar girl clinging to her parent’s hands and staring wide-eyed at the inn in terror. Not just at the inn; the Goblins made her shrink back, yet Peggy was smiling desperately. Lyonette turned.
“Have you met my staff? This is Ishkr, my [Head Server], Peggy and Rosencrantz, our floor managers—don’t mind them! We are friendly to everyone here, from [Necromancers] to Goblins. The Antinium Wars were long ago, and I never met Az’kerash. Or the Goblin King! We were only attacked by a Goblin Lord once, and I assure you, it’s not that common, no matter what you hear.”
Her mouth was running riot. Lyonette wished someone hit her to shut her up. Mrsha and Nanette had come running out to meet Rheirgest’s people, and they slowed. Mrsha facepalmed instantly; Nanette gave Lyonette such a stare that the [Princess] added spitefully—
“—And here is our resident witch, Nanette. And my daughter, Mrsha.”
Oh pigeons in the Eternal Throne, she’d done it now. All of Rheirgest had begun to gather towards the inn, and they’d heard it. Lyonette squeezed her eyes shut. What had possessed her? She was normally good at being hospitable as a function of her class. Was it Erin’s influence, messing with her head? Was she going to be walking around pointing finger guns at everyone?
Please, no, I’d rather de-level! However, when she looked back—Normen was smiling for some reason, surprised, but smiling. And Elosaith?
He gave her a wide-eyed stare and then turned as what might have been his daughter walked over. A woman was strolling forwards, wand in hand, as four skeletons lugged over packed goods, and she stopped. The middle-aged woman, with a motherly smile, plump frame, a tied back bun and handkerchief in her hair and two boys spilling out after her, turned to Elosaith.
“Granddad’s bones, I was all worried for nothing, Father! Now that’s a proper introduction. Goblins, Antinium? And our own Bone Giant looming over yonder as if it’s ready to slaughter us all? This is the inn? There’s a ballista over yonder! Now that’s a proper evil inn. Could use more blood and gothic architecture, but I like it! Look at that smile!”
She pointed at Calescent’s toothy grin with approval, and Lyonette’s mouth opened. Elosaith himself wore a huge smile as he bowed again to Lyonette.
“We were told you wouldn’t mind our peculiar ways, Your Highness. And that you didn’t mind the undead. I’m relieved to see Ser Normen wasn’t lying. It’s been too long, and we’ve been too sheltered, thinking no one would accept Rheirgest’s own, peculiar as we thought we were.”
He patted his chest, relieved, and Lyonette’s lips moved.
“Not at all. Let your hair down, Master Elosaith. I’m terribly sorry about the Liscorians—but come in, come in. We have hot food, and everyone is dying to meet you.”
“Don’t worry, we’ll reanimate the lot. Thank you!”
Then he was shaking her hand and then Ishkr’s, Peggy’s, Rosencrantz’s, and moving down the line of the inn’s staff, greeting each one. Elosaith seemed completely overjoyed at the welcome, and Rheirgest’s people actually let out a sigh of relief.
The woman came over with her two sons and a very nervous man, who bowed profusely. The wife did all the talking.
“How d’you do, Your Highness? Moire Holevec. My father is Elosaith Soulbound. Father, you didn’t even introduce yourself properly. I apologize for my lack of manners. We’re a small household. Here’s my boys, Reneid and Ichorum, and Lamast—he’s a Celumite, don’t you know. There’s only the four of us and six skeletons. We have a tribute if you want it, but Ser Normen said you’d refuse.”
“Delighted! Did you say Moire? Is that—is that your family name? And no, no tribute necessary, I insist. Thank you.”
Moire beamed at Lyonette.
“I wanted to keep it, but Lamast insisted we change it. I got to name Ichorum, though. I can’t let the old ways die. Thank you, thank you for your hospitality.”
Then she was moving on. And her husband nearly threw himself on his hands and knees in front of Lyonette—then another villager approached. As they moved down the line, Lyonette saw Elosaith shaking hands with the Cave Goblins.
“Elosaith, [Necromancer]. Are you a [Minion]?”
One of the Cave Goblins, Sticks, gave him an insulted look.
“No. Am Sticks. Is you?”
“My great great uncle was. Hello. Elosaith.”
“Asgra. Goblin Lord Reiss did nothing wrong. At beginning.”
The little Cave Goblin was determined to be a problem today. Lyonette gave Asgra a look of pure outrage. Elosaith? He paused, then shook her hand.
“Elosaith. Neither did Az’kerash. To begin with.”
He grinned with all his teeth, and Mrsha’s mouth dropped open as she held a paw out in line. Then Lyonette knew that she had some trouble coming her way.
 
——
 
“They can be subtle. And they wanted to be recluses—when we first came to the place they were supposed to settle, there wasn’t an undead in sight except the horses, and they had them covered up. They’re used to hiding whenever a [Trader] comes, saying little—I think your inn is one of the few places they feel comfortable being themselves.”
Twenty minutes later, Lyonette had a quick meeting with Normen and the Order of Solstice. The inn was full of cold, wet, tired villagers who were eating hot soup, dipping fresh bread into it, and walking about the inn.
Mrsha was being helpful there; she and Nanette were giving the villagers tours of what they deemed most important. Not the gardens; more like places Mrsha had personally fought off Face-Eater Moths or where Raskghar had attacked.
To give them credit, their audience was—well, they were people. They looked relieved to be out of the cold, they seemed worried about Liscor’s reception, but they were also [Necromancers].
Like Ama, they had quirks. And one of those quirks was a distinct pride in being, well, [Necromancers].
Lyonette realized she’d never seen that before. Pisces and Ama had always been snooty, but ashamed in some way, defiant against the world. Not casual about who they were.
“I see. I need to figure out how to deal with the necromancy aspect. I know they’re safe—and they were just going to set up temporary homes! Can’t we go back and just let them begin building their village?”
Durene was scowling hugely as she folded her arms. The half-Troll girl jerked her head back the way they’d come.
“If it were that easy, I’d have picked up some people and moved them so we could start, Miss Lyonette. They’re not attacking…but they made all the villagers nervous. They’re standing right where we need to build. The Watch is trying to move the crowds away, but they can’t. They said they’ll be there until Rheirgest leaves. ‘No [Necromancers] in Liscor’.”
Cursing, Lyonette wondered how much of this really was organic. Liscor had just suffered a huge attack on the Solstice; it wasn’t hard to imagine the regular citizens were just unhappy at the idea. Even so!
“Couldn’t Rheirgest just settle after they move on and, um—not show any undead visibly?”
The Grandmaster of the Order of Seasons visibly hesitated, which was not a good sign.
“They want to till their fields come spring, Lyonette. Or fish first, I suppose—it might be hard.”
She gave Normen a blank look, and he muttered.
“They till the fields with undead. Fish, too.”
“Aaaaaah. Alright. Then in that case—I need to have a word with Liscor’s Council. Dalimont? Get me a meeting.”
Lyonette massaged her brows. She should have anticipated this. She should have, but the gold had addled her brain a bit. At least they had wagons. She had an idea.
“Well, Hexel’s due to be back soon to begin work on the new inn. Maybe he can have the Antinium throw up a barn-type space? They can do it overnight. Otherwise, we’ll let anyone who wants to sleep inside, and food isn’t an issue until we sort out this protestor problem.”
Normen looked relieved.
“I wondered if the inn could afford that—”
“Oh, yes. Absolutely.”
Lyonette tried to keep amusement off her face. She glanced at Normen. Then looked around for Mrsha, Nanette, Sammial, or Hethon. They were introducing themselves to some of the new children, including the one that she recognized.
Rittane, a girl with dusky blonde hair in a ponytail, nervously bowed to Sammial. She had started all this by writing a letter to Santa. Lyonette whispered to Normen.
“—I have a task for you once you’re able, Normen. Something slightly pressing? For the Order of Solstice to handle.”
He blinked at her, but nodded.
“I can hear you out, Lyonette. If I may ask—can we rent rooms for everyone? Antherr has already gone to the Free Hive to visit his people, and Durene will head to Riverfarm. But Vess, Jewel, Ama, and myself…?”
She gave him such an outraged look he blinked.
