Lyonette put Symphony’s card away.
“Only partly. I rather think an alarmingly insane [Princess] is rather more of a threat, don’t you? Crookfingers should convey the risk well.”
Lyonette was still genuinely furious at the Healer, but she wasn’t about to lose her head. She turned to Ace.
“Now, Dame Ushar believes that sort of warning is likely to go down well with the gangs. But if you believe I have gone too far, you may go back and have a word, as it were, with Crookfingers and deliver a less bombastic message.”
Ace blinked, then smiled as Jack smoothed his mustache with a look of admiration. The man thought, then grinned.
“I haven’t seen old Crookfingers look so shook as long as I’ve known her. I’d almost cover her costs myself for the pleasure, Miss Lyonette. I think I’ll go back and say we had to drag you off before you called Symphony on the Healer there and then.”
“Excellent. Then we’d better split up before her agents see me so calm. Thank you, Jack, Ace.”
They tipped their hats to her and watched her vanish with her cloak. Lyonette walked for a good twenty minutes through Invrisil before she thought she would have reasonably calmed down.
“Very well done, Your Highness. Nothing unnerves gangs like someone unpredictable. Normally, they like to remove that sort of influence, but the Brothers and your connection with Symphony, along with your status, makes that difficult.”
“Just so long as Tessa comes back. If the Healer doesn’t move, we’ll have to send someone after her. But who could deal with a Named-rank?”
That was what worried Lyonette. Crowdcaller Merdon was the Healer’s bodyguard, and if he tried to stop whomever she sent, Dalimont or Ushar or even Normen would be in trouble.
Though, speaking of Named-ranks, Lyonette had an amusing encounter with one in the City of Adventurers on the way back towards the door. She stopped for a boba tea they were selling here—Imani’s influence had reached Invrisil—when they saw an altercation at a restaurant.
Invrisil was a famous city, and while many adventurers had gone to the New Lands, Lyonette should not have been surprised to see a Named-rank here in this city; there was almost always one or two.
But this particular Named-rank made Lyonette stop and scowl. Elia Arcsinger was standing in front of the restaurant, speaking with a very angry-looking [Head Waiter] or maybe even the owner—and a half-Elf, two half-Elves, were being tossed out.
Capoinelia Arcsinger and Angest flew refreshingly far as they were tossed out. Both looked disheveled from being in a fight, and Elia was shaking her head as the [Manager] tried to advance on her. But he didn’t quite manage it, despite a quartet of big [Waiters]. Mostly because Elia Arcsinger had her bow.
…But her bow. The golden one was gone, and in its place was just a bow. Made of wood. As Lyonette stopped and listened in, she saw Elia’s clothes were not the rich adventurer’s garb she’d last seen her in, attacking Riverfarm to kill the Goblins. She looked rather haggard, and she was pointing the bow at the ground. Nevertheless. She was a Named-rank, so the [Manager] used his words.
“They’ve run up a tab of five hundred gold pieces!”
“I can’t pay it. Take it up with the Merchant’s Guild.”
“We did! Which was when we discovered—this is fraud, Adventurer Arcsinger!”
The [Manager] raised his voice, as if to shout to all of Invrisil her crimes. But if he was hoping to embarrass her—Elia just stood there. Her face was red, but she didn’t react. Nor did the news look like the biggest shock to the passersby.
They were murmuring and eyeing Arcsinger’s Bows—what was left of them—derisively. Capoinelia struggled up, hand reaching for a scabbard that Lyonette realized was empty.
“If I had my blade—”
“You’d do what? Cut us down? Some Named-rank team! I thought the rumors had to be false, that Arcsinger’s Bows weren’t even good for food. I should have known when Elia herself didn’t even appear.”
The [Manager] gave Elia a half-angry, half-embarrassed look. Hurt, and Lyonette wondered if he’d been a fan.
That made her vicarious enjoyment of the situation somewhat lessen, but only by a bit. Elia’s ears drooped slightly as she flushed harder.
“I’m sorry. My daughter and teammate can’t pay the fee. Please, take it up with the Merchant’s Guild. Capoinelia—”
She reached down, but her daughter was drunk and slapped her hand away.
“I’m done. Don’t touch me. Don’t touch me, Mother.”
Elia paused, then hissed down, but the silence let Lyonette hear every word.
“You’re a disgrace. Get up.”
“I’m the disgrace? We’re a laughingstock! You’re the one who couldn’t beat a single Gold-rank adventurer. Look what you’ve done to your legacy! To the team. I’m a Gold-rank adventurer, and now I—I—”
They were missing their gear, Lyonette realized. The [Mage], Capoinelia, Elia—why?
“Ushar?”
The Thronebearer whispered back, and several people leaned in to hear.
“Debts, milady. Arcsinger’s Bows always had them. They were famous spendthrifts, and I imagine after their reputation collapsed—one drinks hard after a defeat like that. Gambles, or so I heard. A few instances of their team doing that and the debts come back. Even Named-ranks might have to pawn their gear to pay for it. And once one is out of work…”
And a famous fake, the debts compounded. Small wonder they were already in trouble after so long. Elia yanked Capoinelia up after several tries, but the half-Elf just stumbled away.
“I’m going home, Mother. If we even have a home. Don’t follow me.”
“Capoinelia, we’re adventurers. You can’t live like you have unless you at least keep—”
“Who am I supposed to learn from? You?”
The half-Elf swung around and pointed a finger at her mother. Her face was pale with outrage, anger—Lyonette moved forwards as Capoinelia stumbled away.
The [Princess] stuck her foot out and looked the other way when the half-Elf went sprawling. She was tempted to start kicking, but Ushar had already moved her back.
How dare she look so outraged and betrayed after what they did? Goblins were dead because of Elia. Lyonette tossed a look at the famed half-Elf and saw someone toss a piece of snow at her. Several people were booing, and someone else was calling for a scrying orb.
Invrisil’s opinion had, like the world, turned on Elia Arcsinger. Lyonette searched for the half-Elf, hoping for something else to fuel her brief taste for vengeance. She wished the Goblins could have seen this—
All she saw was Elia Arcsinger, hair golden, beautiful features—and she was a striking half-Elf, it was part of her reputation—standing, facing the restaurant. She was bowing from the waist, holding her bow, as the [Manager] walked away, shaking his head. She kept her head down, then turned with a lost look and began to walk back through the crowd.
It soured Lyonette’s pure satisfaction a bit. She wished she could just enjoy seeing the Named-rank at her lowest. But she had little time to focus on Elia. Because here came that damn shouter again.
“Princess! Princess Lyonette!”
Someone was running down the street again. Elia never turned back; crazy shouting people weren’t actually that rare in big cities, but Lyonette sighed. She began to stride away with Ushar when the person leapt forwards.
Ushar whirled, fast as a snake, with her shield raised in case he had a projectile, but the man stopped. He was, Lyonette realized as she recoiled, a Stitch-man.
A [Beggar]? He was clearly homeless; he wore a bundle of rags in the freezing cold, and he looked thin and hungry. Yet his eyes roamed the crowd. They rapidly got out of his way, and someone called for the Watch, but in Invrisil, the Watch was hardly as responsive as in Liscor.
“Lyonette! Lyonette du Marquin! A Princess has duties! A Princess is important!”
He kept shouting and walking forwards. Lyonette looked at Ushar, confused, but the Thronebearer was set on the danger, glancing from left to right. No one seemed to be flanking them—Lyonette tried to hide her face with a cloak, but he’d seen her.
“Princess!”
“Back! In the name of the crown! [Summon Reinforcements]! To me!”
Ushar drew her sword, and a piercing whistle from the Watch split the crowd. However, the strange homeless man hadn’t advanced. He stood there, arms raised, face comically delighted and relieved. Then he pointed at Lyonette.
“Princess! You are a [Princess].”
He said it without a doubt in the world. Lyonette felt compelled to respond and called back.
“What do you want?”
“A [Princess] is important. Even if she is no [Queen]! A [Princess] has rights, even far from home! She can name bodyguards, claim wealth, and even exact decrees on her land! A [Princess] is a [Princess], Lyonette du Marquin!”
The [Beggar] began shouting nonsense at her. At least, the crowd thought so as they hurried away. But to Lyonette? She blinked at him, and the man’s eyes darted to Ushar, then to a group of [Guards] coming through the crowd.
“A [Princess] may declare a child a successor and make her royalty. A [Princess] may call upon Royal Skills. She may convene a ball fit for the monarchy. A fête? If she satisfies the conditions, she may create a royal event, even if she lacks the Skill! It is a Skill of the Hundred Families, you see? Even a Calanferian Princess qualifies.”
“What on earth?”
Ushar breathed. She stared at Lyonette, and the hairs on the back of Lyonette’s neck rose. She could do what? Declare a successor? Why…that did make sense. Mrsha? And—and Royal Skills?
“Who are you? How do you know that? What Skills?”
The [Beggar] backed up, seeming delighted. He smiled with a set of bright white teeth, and Lyonette blinked. He was a Stitch-man. Of course, he could just replace his teeth—then she heard him laugh once. He pointed at her as the Watch began to jog reluctantly at him, not really in the mood to tangle with a crazy man in the snow.
“The Quarass knows your name, Lyonette du Marquin! She knows everything! Ask her! Ask for Germina’s wisdom!”
Then he fled as the Watch broke into a run. Lyonette was rendered speechless for a moment.
“The Quarass? Of Germina? That snake of snakes? Did she send that man here? Does she even have agents in Izril?”
Ushar looked rattled. Lyonette knew the Quarass by reputation, of course. She was one of the few rulers Ielane spoke highly of, and Reclis had dozens of books on her.
“Do you think she’s right about Royal Skills, Ushar?”
“If anyone might know…besides Her Majesty, of course. But why would she—?”
The two looked at each other and said one word.
“Gold.”
When you got down to it—everyone wanted gold. Lyonette glanced around. The Watch was pursuing the man, but they’d remember her quickly. It wouldn’t be good to draw that much attention.
“To the inn, Ushar.”
They had a lot to think about without the Brothers. And there was Rheirgest and—Lyonette and Ushar turned. The Thronebearer had been sheathing her sword, but she whipped it back out and cursed.
A second Stitch-man was standing in the plaza behind them. No—Lyonette saw Ushar’s eyes move, and a dozen figures smoothly bowed. A Stitch-woman held a medallion up in her hand, and Lyonette saw a [Diplomat]’s amulet, the kind Nerul wore, shining from her grip.
Ushar didn’t relax. Lyonette frowned at the woman and decided they had to be from the same street Nerul worked down. [Emissaries] did come to Invrisil—likely to petition Magnolia Reinhart in the past.
“Who are you?”
“Your Highness. I am Diplomat Zaltha. My people and I mean you no harm. I apologize for the alarm; we were uncertain if that madman meant to harm you.”
The Stitch-warriors behind Zaltha fell back and fell to one knee. The woman held up the amulet and then showed Lyonette an unfamiliar ring. It flashed in the light, and Ushar squinted at it.
“I come on behalf of my ruler and nation. I understand you are seeking goods from overseas. In their wisdom, the Emperor of Sands bade me seek you out.”
Gold, gold, gold. It became a song in Lyonette’s head. She stared at the [Diplomat], then forced a smile onto her face.
“Me? Are you sure you’re not confusing me with a more—respectable and lucrative client, Diplomat? I am hardly Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
In response, the woman just gave Lyonette a knowing smile.
“I assure you, Their Majesty of Sands is never wrong about such things. Please, we will swear before any spell or witness we mean you no harm. May we speak?”
She gestured at the restaurant that Elia’s daughter had just been kicked out of. On cue, Lyonette’s stomach rumbled; she’d missed lunch and only had liquor. She gazed at the [Diplomat], then eyed Ushar.
“Princess…”
“No, I will hear her out. Summon Dalimont and Yelroan.”
Lyonette exhaled. Sooner or later, she had to spend money on something. But…the Empire of Sands?
She’d never heard of them. The [Diplomat]’s smile grew wider, and she bowed as Lyonette glanced over her shoulder at where the mad beggar had been.
In all honesty…she was slightly hurt no one from Izril, Terandria, or Baleros had gotten to her first.
 
——
 
What Lyonette failed to spot as she walked into the restaurant was a brawl just around the corner of the street. Three Lizardfolk, two Centaurs, a Drake, three half-Elves, a Dwarf, and nearly a dozen Humans—all wearing different uniforms—and some very unhappy [Guards] were lying on the ground as a panting group of Stitch-folk hobbled off.
