Ushar had briefed her before going into the office that Curle was a yes-man who kept Invrisil running smoothly. Lyonette had prepared a bribe…but she hadn’t thought she’d need it. He was firmly in Magnolia’s pocket. The [Mayor]’s voice was dripping with hostility, which was odd because Ushar had definitely let his office know who she was.
“Word spreads quickly, Miss Marquin. We don’t truck with [Necromancers]. A Zombie Giant attacked our city. We’ve seen the Solstice—your door is the only reason we’re hearing out your request. Do you have any reasonable offerings to make?”
Lyonette’s instincts told her the bribe was not the move. She frowned at Curle.
“Only that I’m sure if we discussed this with the [Lady] of Invrisil, Magnolia would agree that until proven guilty, Rheirgest’s people have done nothing wrong.”
She knew it was going to trigger something, but she had to know. At that, Curle smirked, and his hand moved to the badge pinned to his lapel.
“Lady Reinhart. You must not have followed the news, Miss Marquin. I remind you that this is a city, not some singular holding of Magnolia Reinhart’s. We do have the backing of House Reinhart, but even the head of House Reinhart must obey the laws of the city.”
Lyonette translated that so fast that her smile never wavered. But a note of alarm rang in her chest.
He’s wearing the crest of House Reinhart, but he’s definitely not acting in Magnolia’s interests. Oh no, the rest of House Reinhart has flipped him.
One look around the significantly more lavish office than Ushar had led Lyonette to expect told her how they’d done it. For a moment, she wondered if she could out-bribe the man…but crossing House Reinhart was a dangerous move.
“And where is Lady Reinhart right now? Perhaps she could illuminate both of us on the issue.”
She asked sweetly. Mayor Curle’s smile flickered out for a second, and he hurriedly brushed at some paper and gave himself a papercut.
“She’s very busy. Meeting with Drakes and flitting around Izril. Is this pertinent to our discussions, Miss Marquin? Because I don’t appreciate you wasting my time if all we’re going to do is rehash facts. My decision stands.”
He gave her a supercilious look, and at this point, Lyonette experienced a second awakening. Curle was no masterful bureaucrat. He was a petty one. He was throwing around power someone else had given him by taking him off Magnolia’s leash, and he had no tactical thought in his head other than that either he or someone else didn’t want [Necromancers] in Invrisil.
But his words brought something out in Lyonette she’d thought was lost: her inner child. A younger Lyonette bloomed into being and spoke in Lyonette’s heart of hearts.
You pathetic worm of a peon, I should have you hung by your pantaloons from a tower. How dare you speak to me like that. Magnolia, too busy for Invrisil? If she’s too busy, it’s too busy to have Ressa turn you over like a brat and spank you.
Lyonette’s smile was sweet as Magnolia’s tea.
“Can I pay for a permit of entry, Mayor?”
“I doubt you can mitigate the significant damage such—people—would bring to Invrisil. The ban includes Antinium and, of course, Goblins.”
Lyonette’s eyes widened slightly.
“And why would that be, Mayor?”
“They’re a disturbance to the peace. No one wants to look at them. What is this discussion? They’re monsters, the lot of them. My—there are those who have petitioned very hard against their entry into the city. Tens of thousands of complaints, you know.”
He blustered at her. Lyonette’s eyes widened.
“Who? Which ones?”
I will have Ser Dalimont stuff those papers down your throat, you jumped up Wailer Frog.
“That—doesn’t need to be discussed. Thousands! And I will thank you not to glower at me. Young lady.”
“I’m not glowering, Mayor. Perhaps something is wrong with your eyes? You’re looking a bit blotchy. Is your perfume off, perchance? It’s very strong.”
Ushar nodded worriedly and leaned forward.
“A hint of lorcel leaves, Your Highness. I hear that’s highly toxic to some. It might lead to swelling up of the throat.”
Mayor Curle paled and half-sniffed at his voluminous coat. He stood, flushing red.
“I think my time is up. Don’t hesitate to leave, Miss Marquin.”
She stood; her butt hurt from the stool, and she accidentally knocked it over on the way out. She even saw the [Secretary] hurrying in with a real chair as she strode out of the office. Ushar kept her face bland, and Lyonette smiled—only when they were a good distance away from the office did Lyonette hiss at Ushar.
“Which Reinhart is paying him?”
“I will find out at once, Your Highness. I deeply apologize for the oversight—”
“My mother would have known. She’d have known the moment she walked in that he was already in someone else’s pay. Dead gods. I do need more staff! Do you think she noticed?”
Lyonette groaned. She put her head in her hands and looked around, as if fearing a royal observer. Ushar, the nominal observer, looked more embarrassed for her failings. And it got worse from there.
 
——
 
Merchant’s Guild. Uncomfortable chair.
Not as deliberately bad, but neglectful. It was padded but not in good shape. Someone had once made a decent chair to sit in, and so many people had sat here in monetary distress it had begun to stink and had a terrible sag. Lyonette perched on the end of it and tried not to show how mad she was getting.
“Yes, well, we’ve reviewed our policies on [Necromancers], and the entire business isn’t of interest to us in Izril, Miss Marquin. I believe you had a second inquiry?”
“Multiple inquiries, Master Fahstrader.”
Lyonette was polite, but one haughty snort—it was definitely not a sniff—told her she’d offended the man.
“Merchant, Miss Marquin. Let me just see here. References for capable people over Level 30? Access to the auctions in…Miss Marquin. The Merchant’s Guild is not some Mage’s Guild to connect you to others. Do you think we have lists of high-level people we just hand out?”
You do, and you hand them out and could put me on the list of magical item auctions in a second. Lyonette tried not to snap at the man. Not a [Merchant]; man.
A [Merchant] wasn’t speaking to her. [Merchants] were successful people who were almost always over Level 30. She was speaking to a flunkie who thought the Merchant’s Guild’s power rubbed off on his face if he brown-nosed hard enough.
He barely looked at Lyonette as he read from his notes. Lyonette kept her voice cool and tried to imagine how much gold it would take to bury this man alive.
“I assure you, Merchant Fahstrader, I can very reasonably employ anyone I might find useful, and I do intend to participate in several auctions if the right item comes up. Couldn’t you add me to the list in light of my heritage? And the location I come from?”
Calanfer? The Wandering Inn? The man gave her a blank look, then selected a page from his desk.
“Your account with us does not appear to be…lucrative enough to cover even a tenth of the cost, Miss Marquin.”
Fahstrader. What a name. After a brief glance at her numbers, he smirked at her in the manner of someone who believed he had more wealth than her and it conferred him a great deal of power. Was he even aware she was a [Princess]?
If not, the Merchant’s Guild didn’t care. That needed rectifying, but the final matter he had to oblige her on.
“Then what about the Silver Swords? And the Consortium of Enterprise?”
“The—”
Fahstrader flinched, and the puffed-up flunkie visibly froze for a moment.
“I wanted to inquire about buying their contract out.”
It was something Lyonette had thought of. The Silver Swords might not like guard duty, but there were more than a few ways to use a Gold-rank team’s help, and Ylawes had only taken the contract out of financial necessity.
She expected to get a sneer; instead, Fahstrader turned pale, then red and barked at her.
“There is absolutely no need for that!”
“What? I simply meant—”
Lyonette leaned back, but Fahstrader half rose, then sat back down. He gave her an unconvincing smile, but his voice was too rushed, and suddenly, sweat was on his brow.
“I don’t know where this is coming from. Interfering with a contract with well-guarded [Merchants] in our Guild? Ridiculous!”
“I only meant that they were friends of mine—buying out a contract is—”
“Everything is well in hand! I won’t hear of it, and I will thank you, Miss Marquin, to mind your own business. The answer is no. When the entire matter is settled—”
He fished out a handkerchief, wiped at his brows—then noticed her watching him in utter confusion. Fahstrader closed his binder with a snap and frowned at her.
“Miss Marquin, the Merchant’s Guild has spoken. No [Necromancers] are to do business with us. Pallass’ Merchant’s Guild likewise. Liscor’s may be different; local guilds have their little quirks, but the matter of the Silver Swords is not open to discussion. Good day.”
He stood, pointedly looking at the door. Lyonette stood with a sigh and made a show of shaking his hand as he swept his files into a briefcase.
 
——
 
She paused outside to rub at her bottom. Four hours in total of sitting already, and Lyonette wondered if you could take a cushion with you when you went to meetings.
“Ushar, I am about to explode.”
“Calm, Your Highness. A [Princess] does not rub at her rear end in public.”
“You sit in that chair, then. I swear, the one in the Mayor’s office was the product of a Skill! [Posterior Damage]!”
Ushar had to smile slightly as she whispered back.
“That is why Thronebearers stand, Princess.”
Lyonette closed her eyes. Breathe in, breathe out. Don’t call anyone a peon. After a moment, she cracked one eye open.
“We’ll make a plan back at the inn. As for the Merchant’s Guild—!”
The nerve of that man! Ushar grimaced.
“I apologize, Your Highness. The Merchant’s Guild must truly not have put together who you are—or the ones at a low level here didn’t recognize your name. Disgraceful. At any rate, they clearly believe our current finances are the ones Miss Solstice left them with.”
Which was to say respectable for anyone, but insignificant for the Merchant’s Guild, who dealt with Ilvriss-level clients. At least it proved Yelroan had done a splendid job. Lyonette had ways around that, but she had a bigger concern.
“What was that all about? When I mentioned the Silver Swords, he freaked out.”
At least there Ushar had more intelligence than Lyonette. She smiled slightly.
“You may well be happy that Fahstrader was incompetent, Your Highness. I got a full look at the report he had on his desk. It seems there’s trouble in the New Lands.”
Lyonette’s head snapped up.
“Monsters? Are the Silver Swords…?”
“They are fine. However. Magical artifacts are going dead. It appears the New Lands sucks the magic out from them.”
Dead gods. Lyonette’s mouth fell open, and she turned to Ushar in horror.
“Why, that’s a disaster!”
“For the Consortium? Yes. There was a huge, red line ordering him not to tell anyone.”
Given how intelligent Fahstrader was and how many people were headed to the New Lands, Lyonette doubted that information would be secret for long. It was going to be a huge blow to the Merchant’s Guild, though, and countless other groups. How many artifacts had they poured into their expeditions? Wait, forget even that—what happened to preservation spells and bags of holding?
Utterly disastrous. Lyonette shook her head.
“Now I think Mrsha’s little check-ins were even more perspicacious after all. My daughter is so thoughtful—very well, we’ll check in with the Silver Swords ourselves. But what is the Merchant’s Guild going to do?”
The Thronebearer sighed as she glanced over her shoulder.
“I didn’t see the entire report. I would assume the Consortium must press ahead. They need to set up the mine or they’ll be ruined. The Merchant’s Guild is prepared to back their contract with the Silver Swords. They even had a note about sending a team of their own or hiring [Bounty Hunters] if it’s broken.”
Lyonette looked up sharply.
“What? Dead gods, why?”
“Protecting their own. I didn’t have a full view of his notes, but I saw a note from a Merchant Lolsed about possibilities of ‘Necessary Contract Enforcement’. Her Majesty may know what that means. And to warn other [Merchants] about the problem without advertising the issue—lest they start a panic. They have too much money invested in the New Lands.”
Lyonette began to stomp down the street as Ushar kept running commentary. She didn’t like any of this at all.
“If they harm Ylawes or his team—not that they could. But if the Merchant’s Guild so much as tries, I’ll bury them. We won’t let them get away with anything! If it’s a dozen [Merchants], they can’t outspend us.”
“Indeed not, Your Highness. Should I send word to your mother for help with—”
“Absolutely not!”
Heads turned down the street, and Lyonette hissed at Ushar.
“I can handle it! You haven’t mentioned anything else about the inn to Ielane, have you?”
Ushar shook her head instantly and didn’t flinch under Lyonette’s glare.
“No, Your Highness. I am loyal to you as well as the Crown. Although…she may well know. She is a [Queen] of quite a lot of expertise.”
Lyonette gave Ushar a dark glare, but she had to concede that one was true. She headed towards her next rendezvous. Gold. Gold…she could have paid Ylawes’ entire problem away. She could have bought that stupid [Mayor] out.
But gold was in how you used it. Once you used it publicly…Lyonette ground her teeth together as her butt screamed about painful chairs. She was a [Princess]. Being sneered at or mocked didn’t sit well with her.
Think of the gold. Think of what to spend it on. Lyonette walked through Invrisil, little aware that more than one [Thief]’s head snapped around to follow her, then grew incredibly disappointed for reasons they couldn’t articulate.
Ushar was more nervous. The Thronebearer had lied to Lyonette. Not about telling Queen Ielane about the gold.
Her Majesty of Calanfer already knew. And more than one person couldn’t help but figure it out, despite Lyonette and Yelroan’s precautions. And those people had begun to move.
 
——
 
Queen Ielane of Calanfer had problems. Her daughters were often some of them. Right now, her problem was figuring out how to spin a dance between Vernoue and one of Ailendamus’ young [Dukes] into a good thing.
She’d had it captured on scrying orb, and Vernoue had done the dance well; it was a flowing, elegant set that she had been forced to practice for two weeks straight with their best instructors from Nadel.
