He cried out, and the Painted Antinium secured the corridor. The suits of enchanted armor were backing up, and the one with holes in it deflected another arrow. Then they were fleeing rapidly into the tunnels.
“Hm. How troubling. They are empty. I shot them, and they did not die. Much like Garbichugs. I have encountered the Garbichugs of the dungeon, Free Queen.”
A bright voice spoke from overhead. The Worker looked up in awe as it realized its savior was none other than one Antinium in particular. The highest-level in the Hive, perhaps, save for maybe Pawn himself. The legendary—the only—
Bird stood in one of the sniper alcoves, their new body making all the Antinium turn to stare. They waved down and called to Yellow Splatters.
“They have run off. My instincts tell me we will be muchly-dead if we follow.”
“I concur. Bird.”
Even Yellow Splatters stared up at Bird. But the Revalantor of the Free Antinium, Bird the Hunter, the greatest [Archer] of the Antinium of Izril, just waved down merrily. With two arms.
Bird had only two. The Worker stared up in awe as Bird shouted.
“Well, I must be going! My inn misses me! If the armor-things come back, um…I’ll help! Maybe. I must grow stronger.”
Bird’s voice grew troubled.
“Much stronger. Farewell. I shall bring snacks!”
Yellow Splatters waved, and Bird turned and hummed a song. The Worker stood there as the rest of the bodies were cleaned up, and after a while, the Worker began to try and hum the song. For if anyone could become Bird…
Why, anything was possible.
 
——
 
Lyonette was thinking of all the things she had wanted to buy as a girl as she half-dozed after breakfast by a window of The Wandering Inn.
“A horse. I mean, a pony.”
Why, yes, she had wanted one of those as a girl, hadn’t she? The thing was…
Princess Lyonette du Marquin, 6th Princess of Calanfer, had gotten a pony. A beautiful Walchaís sable—coat like fresh snow in the winter. It had neighed at her, pooped, and been antsy like a horse shipped overseas would be, and she had hated it.
How much did that horse cost? The older Lyonette wondered guiltily. The younger one hadn’t cared. She’d had an allowance.
Dead gods. Not like a Mrsha-allowance, which was still ludicrous at times. Young Lyonette had had more money than The Wandering Inn spent most weeks. So wasteful.
Why did her mother allow it?
Probably because it was something expected of Calanfer to be seen to spend money. It kept us busy and out of her hair, and Calanfer is rich. 
Not the richest of nations, but few kingdoms were hurting for coin, even relatively poorer ones like Avel. Even if a nation was close to destitute, the wealth of an entire kingdom of people could set up one person or an entire court in lavishness.
Now, Lyonette had the wealth of kingdoms at her fingertips. She was just…trying to remember what she wanted. An Archmage’s wand? The most handsomest (she hadn’t had good grammar at the time) [Knight] serving her? A flying carriage?
She’d ridden in Magnolia’s carriage and seen Ryoka Griffin and Felkhr flying. Lyonette had stood on Pallass’ walls. No thank you.
No one else shared Lyonette’s hesitation. Ishkr’s breakfast bonanza had gone down a treat; even Calescent had been happy to stop making food to eat someone else’s. When Lyonette stared at him and asked why, he gave her a reasonable explanation.
“If I eat my food, I have to make more food. This is someone else’s food and suffering. Tastes better. Also, it has fresh smell instead of smelling it for the last hour. Like someone else’s poop smells worse than yours.”
“Huh. Ah—not the analogy I’d prefer at—you know what? It makes sense, Calescent. Thank you. Keep the donuts. Mrsha doesn’t need more.”
The Hobgoblin happily saluted her and hid the bag of donuts behind his back. Lyonette went back to staring out the window. She did have an idea of what the money would go towards. The big-picture stuff. The inn, staffing—she even had a candidate list as Ielane had demanded. But those weren’t interesting to her in the same way as spending gold on…Lyonette’s mouth moved.
“A…personal serving Golem. No. Drat! New jewelry? It’ll catch on things, and I’ll have it stolen in the night. The latest fashions from home?”
She thought about it. Hadn’t the latest fashion trend been lace? Experience told her it was going to change soon. Lace to, what—ribbons? What a waste of money it would be to put down a thousand gold pieces on a new dress. She knew she could do it. But what a waste. Plus, who was she going to show it off to?
Colfa? Well, that was a good reason. Lyonette brightened up.
“Colfa! She and I will have a private bathhouse day and something fine in Liscor to eat. Mrsha, Nanette, they can both visit that Adventure Room in Invrisil, and maybe we’ll visit the bazaar.”
If she saw one of those fancy, magic pillows with a heating spell on it or a blanket like that, she’d buy it. And higher quality ingredients for the inn! True wealth, then, was not worrying about how much butter cost and buying it, whether it came from Celum or was an expensive variant shipped from Oteslian farms.
Lyonette knew she was letting the side down a bit. And by ‘the side’ she meant her royal family who would have a thousand ideas. Vernoue would be buying spellbooks already, and Aielef would have already bought a dozen paintings…she liked to fancy herself an artist. Shardele would already be in the stratosphere, and Seraphel—
Lyonette didn’t know what Seraphel would do with her money. She’d had a lot after her failed marriages; most had gone right into Calanfer’s coffers, but she could have spent it.
“What did Seraphel want when I was…let’s see. She was eighteen or something after the first one. Or was that when she was still married? I would have been—nine? I went up to her and asked what she wanted, and she said…‘either a way to forget or to undo things’.”
Lyonette stopped. She stared out the window, suddenly, with a thousand-yard stare.
“Dead gods. That’s so—”
She was almost relieved when she saw, in the reflection of the glass, Mrsha trying to tip-toe out of the [Garden of Sanctuary] with a sack of gold over her shoulder. It didn’t work well—probably because gold was heavy.
“Mrsha, why aren’t you putting that in a bag of holding? You’ll hurt your back. Also, why did you paint the fur around your eyes black?”
The girl had added a mustache in ink as well. She jumped—and Dame Ushar took the bag of gold from her.
“I suspect because her bag of holding is full as well, Your Highness. One second.”
She chivvied Mrsha back through the door as Nanette innocently strode out and got caught too, despite having nothing visible on her.
“Mrsha, you loser!”
The two began fighting as Lyonette shook her head. She hoped Seraphel was well. That was the kind of thing she should spend gold on, honestly. Helping the inn’s people. Or at least—
Lyonette was glad to have something break up her oddly cyclical thoughts. She was looking out the window when her breath caught. She stood suddenly.
“There they are. They didn’t even send a—”
“Hey. Rheirgest is arriving.”
Ishkr appeared behind the counter of the bar. Lyonette jumped; Mrsha and Nanette poked their heads into the common room.
“It’s time! Everyone, best behavior! Mrsha, get that ink off your face. Calescent! Food!”
She beamed and pointed out the window. In the distance, she had just seen a bunch of wagons cresting one of the snowy hills coming in their direction. They were slow-moving, especially since the roads had ended way back, and she wished she’d told Normen to use the door in Esthelm or Liscor to save people the walk.
Then again, it had taken ages for them to get here on foot. You couldn’t teleport that many people and goods from Celum; well, you could, but it was faster and more economical to walk.
Either way—Rheirgest was arriving. Lyonette grabbed a coat and began buttoning it up. She put a huge smile on her face as the staff left the garden.
“They’re likely to be hungry when they arrive. Let’s get them greeted and feeling warm, hospitable—dead gods, aren’t there over a hundred and fifty of them? Well, Himilt was putting down some stakes for the village near him. Oh. Ah. Whatever you do, don’t mention the Necromancer, everyone. Understand?”
“You want us to hide, Boss Lyonette? So we don’t scare them?”
Lyonette turned to Peggy in astonishment. Then stared.
“Peggy, where did that uniform come from?”
A brand new black-and-white server’s uniform like Ishkr’s suit—but maybe a bit less formal—was on Peggy. She adjusted the tie nervously.
“Um. Ishkr?”
Ishkr waved at Lyonette. The [Princess] stared for a second.
“No, you don’t have to hide. Goblins are part of the inn. Same for you, Rosencr—they make suits for Antinium?”
“No. Threadshell adjusted them.”
“Who is Threadshell?”
“An Antinium who makes clothing for Antinium.”
They said these things like they were obvious. Lyonette paused.
“Okay, you look excellent. Peggy, that’s a male waiter’s uniform. Tuck the white shirt into your pants.”
“I know. Is better for kicking people with.”
Lyonette didn’t bother arguing that point. She noticed only Peggy and Rosencrantz had the new uniforms and gave Ishkr a look—he was munching on some fries and seemed vaguely apologetic.
“It’s Ulvama’s influence.”
“I’m sure. Okay, you two will be fine. Rheirgest knows about Antinium; one helped deliver food! Peggy, just remember not to smile with all your teeth—they’re Humans. Just don’t mention the Necromancer. Az’kerash. Oh, and don’t mention the Goblin King! Or the Antinium Wars. Got it?”
Everyone nodded as Rosencrantz wrote that down. Rose was standing to the side, watching and smiling at Lyonette with amusement.
“Are you doing a bit?”
“No. What bit?”
“Oops. Sorry. I’m just sort of—it’s this Earth thing—”
Lyonette rolled her eyes. The last thing she needed was Joseph coming in and laughing his butt off at something unique to him. She whirled.
“Alright! Places! Wait. Where’re Mrsha and Nanette?”
Her motherly instincts pinged her a hair too late. The staff looked around, and Lyonette drew upon her inn-senses borrowed from Erin.
“Second floor. Ushar—”
“They haven’t left the building! Argh, I take my eyes off them one second and—”
Ushar, who’d been inspecting Rheirgest with a spyglass, whirled as Lyonette began to chivvy everyone outside. The snow had largely been swept away from the front of the inn, but her boots crunched in the newest deposits, and she saw wagons in the distance.
“They might have to turn around to go to Himilt’s farm. We could have brought food to Normen! What is the man thinking? I—oh my. They didn’t get rid of the, um—”
Peggy stood on her peg-leg and shaded her eyes. The Goblin’s look of apprehension became a grin.
“Skeleton horses.”
Ah. Lyonette had to own, if you wanted a steed to cross the terrain here without worrying about it falling and breaking a leg—she realized it wasn’t just one skeletal horse either.
“Oh my.”
Her palms began to sweat a bit. The entire group had undead horses, even a few skeletons pushing one wagon from behind. She’d known Rheirgest had [Necromancers]. But she hadn’t realized exactly how necrotic the village was.
She could see people standing up or peering out of covered wagons already. And—her heart leapt—there was a man in blue armor riding with a Drake, a gigantic woman with grey skin and steel armor pacing alongside them. A woman with lighter armor and a magical sword was hurrying to catch up to the azure [Knight]. Last but not least, a gigantic bone cat was pacing next to a wagon.
The Order of Solstice. Vess, Normen, Durene, Jewel, and Ama. The only five members still here…
Lyonette waved at them, trying not to smile in exasperation at the thought of having to tell these poor, doubtless cold people they had to turn around to get to Himilt and Colfa’s farm, which was far closer to Liscor. It had taken hours to get here on foot, no doubt, to this edge of the Floodplains! Still, she put a good face on it, reflecting that they could use the door for the children…until she saw something odd.
“Hold on. What’s that?”
Dalimont had taken Ushar’s spyglass, and he grunted at the same time as the Goblins began whispering.
“Looks like damage to some of the caravans, Princess. Scorch marks on two—”
Lyonette saw it too. Holes in the covering of another caravan. Dalimont’s commentary was matched by Peggy.
“Uh oh. Someone attacked them. Lightly.”
Lightly? Then Lyonette saw stains on the wagons and blinked.
“Is that blood?”
Peggy shook her head.
“Nope. Looks like…tomatoes. And bits of trash. Moldy apple.”
Some of the wagons were covered in trash, actually. Lyonette stared—then heard a voice from inside the inn. Liska wandered out, jerking a thumb over her shoulder.
“Hey, I know I’m supposed to be working, but, uh—are there some [Necromancers] here? The ones who’re coming?”
Everyone turned, and Ishkr frowned at his sister.
“Yes, they’re here. Did you turn them away at Liscor? Liska—”
“What? No! Hey, what’s with the suit—I’m asking because there are a bunch of people waving signs and shouting about [Necromancers] in Liscor. The Watch is keeping them from getting at the door, but they’re shouting ‘necromancers go home’.”
Lyonette’s heart sank. She said a name like an oath.
“Selys.”
“I didn’t see her there, but they were throwing things at my door. Mostly, they just hit people in line. Trash, rotten potatoes—the potatoes look like they hurt.”
Suddenly, Lyonette had a bad feeling. She strode forwards and saw, as Ser Normen rode at her, a familiar, grim expression on the burned man’s face. He lifted a hand, and Lyonette saw nervous people peeking out at her. Staring at the Goblins, who were waving. One of them piped out loudly.
“Goblin Lord Reiss was good Goblin Lord!”
Oh, dead gods—who was that? Peggy hit Asgra on the head as the Cave Goblin tried to shout again. Lyonette turned and then saw something in one of the windows of the inn. It looked like…a fight.
Two girls and two boys, Hethon and Sammial, were wrestling, running from Dame Ushar—the Thronebearer was too late. The two girls hurled something from a pair of windows, and Lyonette saw a banner, handmade from one of the bedsheets and drawn in huge, inky letters.
 
Welcome to The Wandering Inn! We like [Necromancers]! Our best guest is a [Necromancer]!
 
Every head craned up to stare at the sheet fluttering in the cold wind. Lyonette covered her eyes. Somewhere behind her, Rose began laughing so hard she started hiccuping.
