Ser Dalimont nodded. Lyonette and Mrsha gave him a betrayed look, but the Thronebearer had a thoughtful look in his eyes.
“It’s too ornate, Your Highness. Sliding walls? Secret passages of that scope? A castle should be simple for the defenders. This? The current staff would be lost on one floor, let alone eight.”
“Yes, but if Erin has enough staff—”
Hexel leaned forwards.
“Thousands? And she’d have to have thousands of guests per month to justify the maintenance cost. I know Erin. I don’t know if Drevish did, but this inn is designed for the crowd of crowds. That aside—I can’t build it right now. I don’t have the materials. I don’t have the expertise—I’d have to press-gang Valeterisa herself into working nonstop on the enchantments it calls for. But most of all, Miss Marquin? Drevish must truly have forgotten where Erin is. Because I don’t have the workers.”
Lyonette frowned at that.
“What do you mean? No workers? But the Antinium—”
The Lamia shook his head.
“This is a Drevish-original, Miss Marquin. Some of what it calls for can be copied, but some of it is literally impossible without his signature worker. For instance, one of the things he loves doing is working inside of a material after it’s sealed—only someone who can literally pass through walls can do that. So unless you have some ghosts, it’s that or what Izril lacks: Djinni. I just made a call, and I could rent some—in four month’s time.”
The penny dropped. Lyonette knew that Drevish had been famous for putting buildings up fast with Djinni, but it was a kind of footnote in her studies of him and the King of Destruction. She put her head in her hands.
“Oh no. He didn’t—”
“He probably thought Djinni were accessible to Erin. He studied abroad as a younger man, but he did work exclusively on Chandrar. Plus, he was the King of Destruction’s vassal. At his time of death, he had a group of fifteen he personally owned.”
Hexel has a sympathetic look in his eyes as he outlined the problem. Nanette’s look of delight had turned into a huge frown, and Mrsha wrote uncertainly.
What if we hired that fellow at Fissival that Valeterisa likes?
She tried to hand it to Hexel, but Dalimont picked the slip up after showing it to Lyonette and ate it. Everyone stared at him as he chewed and swallowed. That, at least, gave Lyonette some composure.
“I can see the issue, Hexel. But what if—”
The Lamia held up a clawed hand.
“Hear me out, Your Highness. That’s half of the reason I can’t do it. I’ve been studying these blueprints in the months since Erin showed them to me. Thinking. Half of the reason is because it’s too costly. This is a multi-million gold piece project. To execute on every facet of it is…insane. The Titan—even Fetohep of Khelt would hesitate at bankrolling it. Magicore in the sealant between every wall. The other reason is…I don’t want to make it.”
It was his turn to steeple his claws, copying Mrsha. Now, his apprentices were giving him looks of betrayal, but Hexel’s tone made Lyonette’s head rise hopefully. Because the Lamia had a familiar quality to his voice.
Ambition.
“I…would like to design The Wandering Inn myself, Miss Lyonette. With elements of Drevish’s work. I will happily steal the best parts of his design. But if I may be frank? I might not be the Architect of legends, but I’m a better expert for this job than he is.”
Lyonette looked at Mrsha and Nanette—and her heart rose like the soaring Phoenix before Bird shot it out of the skies. She realized she was leaning forwards and sat back hurriedly, interjecting an aloof tone into her voice. As if she weren’t bothered at all.
“Go on, Architect Hexel. But please, elucidate us on why you’re superior to the Architect.”
He smiled, enjoying this.
“Absolutely, Your Highness. Let me be frank: Drevish might have put his soul and craft into this work, but it’s a mess. It shows just where he was when he died. With respect! But he made this monstrosity as if Erin had all the time in the world and a kingly budget, without regard to who she is.”
Hexel paused, and then screwed up his face.
“No, I’m being far too uncomplimentary. Say rather—I don’t know what the circumstances were, but I think he didn’t ever have a chance to see Liscor or the inn. Is that fair?”
Erin talked to a dead ghost in Chandrar, as far as Lyonette knew. She nodded hesitantly, and Hexel ran a claw across the blueprints.
“He might not have even known her Skills. I have a Skill called [Vision of Completion: Projection of Factors].”
His eyes flashed, and Lyonette drew in her breath. The [Architect] smiled at her.
“It is my capstone Skill for Level 40. It allows me to see the effects of the landscape, the ground, even earthquakes or, one time, the effects of pigeon defecation over a ten-year period.”
He waved his clawed hand, and rain began pouring down on Drevish’s image of the inn. The rains of Liscor—they ceased, and then Lyonette saw a floating garden appear. Hexel stared at the dome, hovering outside the inn.
“I don’t know what they do. I wish I could, but I can see what happens if someone owns a building, too. In limited ways. Erin’s Skills, at least, as they intersect with my design.”
“And Drevish didn’t account for that?”
Hexel turned to Lyonette and gave a quick, apologetic shake of his head.
“I’d never accuse him of that. Rather—I imagine he couldn’t. Do ghosts have Skills?”
He couldn’t know how strange a question it was. Hexel stared at Lyonette’s frozen face, and his grew uncertain. Then he hurried back to what he knew, slithering to his blueprints.
“—He didn’t. At least, I very much doubt it, or he would have taken into consideration Erin’s abilities. Every element he put into her inn is genius. I’ll steal his modifications and ideas, of course I will. It’s just—this is why I’m advocating for myself. Part of it was his lack of Skills and understanding of Erin. Part of it is because he was Drevish and he made a building he thought she needed. I’ll make the one she wants.”
Hexel gestured around the far smaller inn with its comfy common room, and Lyonette stared at Drevish’s blueprint and wondered how vast a forty-foot-tall ceiling in the common room would be. Had he made it like that to accommodate half-Giants? Wait. He probably had. Hexel moved Drevish’s blueprint to one side.
“I know Erin. She doesn’t have parties this big. I’ve been in Liscor; I’ve seen what goes on. With respect to Drevish, he made this assuming Erin would be attacked by armies. But do you know who I think could have taken this inn? Facestealer.”
Everyone shivered suddenly, and Hexel leaned forwards.
“Drevish never ran into that many great monsters. He was a man who defended inns from armies. And with respect to him—mortal armies. I don’t think he ever saw something like the Winter Solstice, even in all his years with the King of Destruction. He might have known of Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary], but he doesn’t build around it. He doesn’t build around her; this is an inn fit for a legendary [Innkeeper]. Not Erin Solstice.”
He was selling Lyonette on this word-by-word. The more she looked, the more she realized that if Erin were here, she would hate this inn when it was built. Four ballistae? She only had one Bird.
“So do you have a superior inn, Hexel?”
The Architect had to pause here, and pride warred with honesty.
“I…might not be able to best his work in pure skill. But I’m alive and able to level and improvise, Lyonette. Let me stop stalling and show you my concept.”
He pulled out a second blueprint, unrolling a large scroll. Lyonette saw the image waver—and the vast inn Drevish had made changed.
A far smaller building replaced it. Humble. Even paltry compared to the scope of Drevish’s ambitions. It looked…almost exactly like The Wandering Inn of now.
Dead gods, I hate it. Lyonette kept that from showing on her face, and she glanced at Hexel, wondering how to refuse politely. But he was smiling.
“This is The Wandering Inn. Stage one. Reality. This is Stage Two.”
He passed a claw over the inn, and it shifted. A foundation dug itself into the ground, far deeper and wider than before, and the inn rose to a fourth floor, expanding until it was wide and tall. A huge tower became part of the foundations, and Lyonette swore she saw a curious bulge appear before the walls grew, but aside from the tower, the inn remained the same.
It’s not cool enough! Fail!
Mrsha slapped a note down, and Hexel laughed as Nanette poked the Gnoll girl in the side.
“No, no. I was hoping you’d say that. It’s rather humble, isn’t it?”
“Actionable…”
Lyonette tried to keep her voice neutral. She suspected a trick, now. And Hexel winked at Mrsha, who had her arms folded.
“Here’s my concept. Erin Solstice has a unique set of Skills for an [Innkeeper]. I was reviewing other famous [Innkeepers] around the world, and she does have a style. It took me a moment to realize what it was. Larracel is known for her magical acumen. Her floating inn. Other [Innkeepers] have penchants for imitating regal rooms or expertise in some area—even architectural cues. Do you know what Erin’s is?”
No one answered, so answered his own question.
“She’s always got more than you think behind the surface. Dimensional Skills. Her rooms fit in small spaces. Vaster than anything they should contain in reality. Her inn is like Wistram. So I present to you: The Wandering Inn. Stage Two.”
He pulled the front of the inn away, and Lyonette heard a gasp. Then she saw it.
The new Wandering Inn was indeed bigger than it looked from the outside. It was built around a single foundation, a center of the inn: The Garden of Sanctuary.
The dome occupied the center of the inn, and a round common room stretched around the garden, branching off into side rooms and upstairs where bedrooms were waiting. However—something was completely odd about the common room.
If Lyonette stared at it, it led into the central dome, which was unmistakably the [Garden of Sanctuary]. But also, simultaneously, there was an overlaid, second room. Another dome—she realized when she saw how the auditorium was set up that it was the [World’s Eye Theatre].
“Huh? Wait a second…Architect. Is this blueprint off? All the rooms are jumbled together.”
Nanette was trying to make sense of it all, and she couldn’t. Like an optical illusion, the corridors would overlap on each other. Entire hallways ran onto the second and even fourth floors and simultaneously were connected to the first.
Hexel was beaming at them.
“I assure you, Nanette, the blueprints work. I double and triple-checked it: this building will only work for Erin Solstice. After all, her doors lead wherever they please, don’t they? In reality, this common room won’t even be this narrow. What you see inside of it will not necessarily match the reality of anyone trying to map this place out. But if you open a door here—”
He demonstrated, opening a door in the common room.
“—You can enter the World’s Eye Theatre. Or the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Take a hallway here—”
He left the common room—
“—And enter Bird’s Tower. Possibly without ever climbing a step.”
“But—how?”
It was bewildering to Lyonette. The Lizardfolk looked like they were ready to applaud. Or throw up. Hexel’s eyes gleamed.
“She has a new Skill. I came up with this latest iteration earlier this month, after the Solstice. Each hallway seems like it can span the entire length of all hallways in the inn combined. If I make them long enough, you could walk from the first floor to the last. It also means that there’s only one or two entrances needed to the inn. Observe!”
Then he was gesturing, and Lyonette saw there was a vast basement area, far deeper than anything she’d seen. Hexel was speaking faster now.
“Good design means I should be leaving exit points in case of fires or emergencies. But I’ve seen The Wandering Inn: those are called windows. Drevish believed his inn should be defensible from all sides. In my experience, what comes for the inn goes through the path of least resistance. The stretch from the portal room to the common room? The most trapped, disgustingly dangerous, fortified stretch of ground I have ever built. The Dullahans of Invictel would call this overkill. Two hundred feet of traps and emplaced defenses—here!”
He pointed, and Lyonette imagined having to jog down all that each time. Wait…
“Hexel, there isn’t even a path at this point in—”
He winked at her.
“It doesn’t need a path except as a last resort, Miss Lyonette. Why? Because of the real way you enter the inn: the [Door of Portals]. The walls can be thick as a castle’s—with, yes, that damn magicore inside—and your only concern is airflow. Why?”
Because the inn was convenient that way. Lyonette blinked. How many times had she, rather than walking upstairs, just walked through the door to the garden and back out again? Not only that, but Hexel had a bunch of ideas only enabled by being around Liscor.
“Drevish hates deep underground areas. I suspect it’s because he’s used to Chandrar, so his foundations are often poor. Djinni can have more trouble digging down than building up; you can have hellish times digging, as I’m sure poor Wall Lord Ilvriss is finding out. Even with [Geomancers]. But we have the world’s best underground experts. Bath house. Here. Greenhouse—with glass for sunlight—here, unless the garden takes care of that. Library, Mage’s Workshop, Stitchworks—”
The four-story inn was far smaller than Drevish’s project. A third or maybe even less the size! But inside, the power of Erin’s crazy Skills allowed Hexel to lay out the inn, economizing for space and defensibility.
“I can start this inn today. I still need a plethora of magical materials. I’ll want to send to Yolden for magicore if they have the right quality, and Drevish has a list of high-grade materials and metals I want to incorporate into the inn. Mithril for bracing…Erin’s requirement about ‘no iron’ is actually easier given how expensive some of the stuff is. Even glue.”
He winced, and Lyonette saw him shove over a list.
“Balerosian. You’ll have to import it from overseas. I’ll have to talk to Pelt and see how much Grasgil he’s got, for instance. The glass alone from Pallass or another nation is going to cost—”
Lyonette’s eyes bulged for a second. The cost of the glue was about half of what she estimated The Wandering Inn had ever pulled in—ever. Dalimont peered over Lyonette’s shoulder and rubbed at his eyes.
“So this is, ah, not cheaper than Drevish’s inn?”
“It’s cheaper! Just only relatively.”
