A group of Silver-rank adventurers in the guild had just formed a fifteen-person strike group to take it out. None of them knew what a Greater Zombie was, so they’d grabbed old encyclopedias with the help of a grumpy [Head Receptionist].
The temporary Guildmaster, an old adventurer in his seventies, a Drake, had put up a bounty on the Greater Zombie. The Silver-rankers, forearmed with knowledge, acid jars some were very gingerly keeping at their belts, and one healing potion between the group, had been about to take the fight to the enemy.
…When a Street Runner came in and said the Watch had taken the Greater Zombie out.
The Humans were very unhappy. They were a motley group from the north; they even had a dog. One of them, a [Pyromancer], turned to the [Receptionist].
“They can’t do that. The Watch never kills more than slimes.”
“In your cities, maybe.”
The Drake shot back at him. Levil, the leader of Pithfire Hounds, sagged in his chair, and another Silver-ranker from the north piped up.
“Well, that’s inconsiderate of them. How are we supposed to make a living or level up?”
Selys Shivertail gave a rather strident young woman with curled hair and altogether too much coin for a Silver-ranker a dirty look.
“By killing the monsters the Watch doesn’t get. Don’t worry, when a Draugr pops up, you’ll have more time. There’s also the dungeon.”
The Silver-rankers fell silent, and the Pithfire Hounds backed away from the luckless Silver-ranker being addressed. The young woman had more bravery than sense; no one picked fights with the Adventurer’s Guild staff. They could make your life hard.
“I shan’t be talked to this way! I’m Ortresia Su-El!”
“Su-El? So not the House of El?”
“A branch family! And I was told the monsters around here and the rewards were worth it! I should have gone to Albez instead! First, we run into a horrific suit of armor in the dungeon—something out of a Terland’s nightmares, and now the Watch steals our prey? I demand to speak to your Guildmistress about our treatment!”
Selys Shivertail’s glower couldn’t have gotten worse, or so the adventurers thought. But at this last comment, she gave the younger adventurer such a look that Ortresia hesitated.
“That is—please.”
“You want to speak to the Guildmaster? Oh, go ahead. Why don’t I also call the Council for you to chat to? Your team lost to a single suit of enchanted armor? What’s your team’s name? It must be mislabeled here because ‘Skillful Swords’ says ‘Silver-rank’ here. Bronze-rankers should be able to take out a single suit of armor. Let me just amend that here.”
“How dare—it was seven feet tall and swung a greatsword around as if it weighed nothing! I shot it with my crossbow twice, and the bolts just bounced off!”
Levil’s head turned, and his ears perked up at that. That sounded intense! He’d been told Liscor’s dungeon had been largely denuded of some threats, even if it had waves of monsters, and he’d hoped his team could breach into Gold-rank trying it. But if that was the case…he scratched the war hound’s ears, worried. It might be better to take local contracts rather than go down.
However, Selys kept talking, sarcasm in every word.
“Oh no! A single suit of armor? Dead gods, I’m so sorry. It’s not like a nest of Baby Crelers or a Flame Elemental. A Silver-ranked team took those down in one encounter, by the way.”
Encounter: a Guild-term for a single run of battles before resting. The young adventurer was trying to get a word in edgewise, but Selys kept talking. And writing.
“Why don’t I note your complaints down? I’ll just forward that to Pallass’ Adventurer’s Guild. And Invrisil’s. And what’s your home guild? Then we can have the Guildmasters make a ruling on whether or not this is appropriate for a Silver-ranking team—”
She was going off on the poor young adventurer. Who hadn’t been the best, but dead gods.
“Levil, is this that Liscorian attitude I heard so much about?”
One of Levil’s teammates whispered in his ear, and he half-nodded. Perhaps—or perhaps not, because an old Drake came out of one of the back rooms, limping on a cane. He was scarred all over, a former [Archer], and his tone was far more placatory.
“Now, now. What’s all this shouting about? Miss Selys, Adventurer Ortresia, yes? I’m sure emotions are running high after a monster attack. Here you were, ready to fight, and the rug feels pulled out from under you. It happens with the Watch—thank you for your readiness. Please, have a seat. Selys? Do we have any lemon water about?”
“Guildmaster Besoid—!”
Selys hesitated, but he fixed her with a kindly stare, and she hurried back to get a pitcher of water. And a lemon, which she squeezed into said water.
The Guildmaster was more retiring. He took a seat as Ortresia apologized, flushing.
“I’m sorry, sir—”
“No, no. Miss Selys is our best [Receptionist]. It’s a hard time for the guild—forgive her for being so emotional.”
“Of course, sir. It’s just that it was a dangerous suit of armor, and the way she talked—”
The old Drake spoke with that way you did when you were delivering a genteel kneecapping to someone.
“Her grandmother, Tekshia Shivertail, passed away during the Winter Solstice. Fighting Draugr, no less. That would be the previous Guildmistress. Do forgive her.”
Ah. Every head turned towards Ortresia, and she paled, then began babbling apologies. But the old Drake was smoothing things out; Selys came back and, stone-faced, accepted an apology. Then stomped into the back rooms as Besoid focused the room.
“Now…now, I can see this Greater Zombie might be a recurring threat. If you’ll all direct your attention to the board, I have a new bounty on patrolling the roads. In cooperation with the Watch, and if you wait just a moment, I’ll have an updated bounty on undead…”
He coughed into one claw as adventurers crowded around the board. Smoothly bringing them back to focus, asking about where they’d patrol, such as other villages, how much help they’d get from the Watch—solid work.
In the back rooms, Selys Shivertail fumed.
 
——
 
Besoid was good at his job. Mostly because he’d been the Guildmaster and retired before Tekshia had taken over. And then come out of retirement when the vacancy needed filling.
But what made Selys so angry was—it should have been her.
She knew Besoid was good. He was smooth, reasonable, and a former Gold-ranker. Not of renown like Tekshia; he’d been low-ranking and never even passed Level 32. He had other classes like [Guildmaster] instead of his main [Archer] class. But he was old and had told Selys straight out he intended to do this only for a bit until a replacement could be found.
Which should be her.
Selys had applied for the job with the Council. She had argued her case; she had grown up in the Adventurer’s Guild. No one had worked more in it. She knew adventurers, she knew the work. It was her grandmother’s position, and it wasn’t nepotism—she could fill Tekshia’s role.
At least, in this.
But they’d denied her request, appointed Besoid in her place, and Krshia had refused to talk to Selys and explain why.
A month later and Selys didn’t know why she was still working at the Adventurer’s Guild. She’d come back to work, mostly to see if Besoid could do the job, and also to hint at Liscor’s Council who they should replace him with.
Would they get someone from another city? For Liscor? Ridiculous! Someone else in the guild? Who? No one was as good as—
“Selys. I’m not sure that’s the best way to win over our new adventurers.”
The Drake jumped. She’d gone back to make more lemon water for their guests, and she stared at a dozen squeezed lemons and a single pitcher.
“Guildmaster Besoid! I, uh—lost track of—”
She began as the old Drake appeared. He leaned on his cane, looking amused and concerned, and shook his head.
“I know it wasn’t malicious. Why don’t we sit down in my office? I’m rather tired from all this fuss. Another new undead. My, my…and those suits of armor keep popping up in the dungeon?”
She followed him into his office he’d set up on the first floor; the stairs hurt his feet too much, and he sank back in a chair with a groan, propping his cane up.
His flagging stamina was the real reason he couldn’t stay as Guildmaster. His archery days were long behind him, and unlike Tekshia, Besoid was one of the Drakes who sat with her old group of veterans and didn’t actively keep himself in shape.
She liked him; he was a Drake she’d grown up with, but it was hard to see him in Tekshia’s chair. Besoid clearly knew it, because he sat up and tried to sound—accommodating.
“I realize it’s hard working with northern adventurers.”
“Not as much as you think, B—Guildmaster.”
It was hard. He sat where Tekshia should have been smoking on a puffer, munching on a cookie, annoying, harder than mithril, chewing Selys out for this failing or that, her spear propped against her desk.
If a monster came to the guild, Tekshia would have been there, telling the rookies to either do something useful or get out of the way. If a monster came to Liscor.
When they had—
She had been there.
Not just the last time at the Solstice. Selys remembered when Skinner had attacked the city. Tekshia Shivertail had picked up her spear and cleared street after street with Hawk. As she had from the day she was a girl herself. She had been there when the Necromancer attacked. She had survived the Antinium Wars.
It had been the Solstice that finally stole her life. Draugr. Six Draugr—and Selys hadn’t even known. She’d been with the civilians, trying to keep people calm, waiting to hear news from the Watch. Then someone had said the battle was over, and Selys had been cheering, asking about Erin and Olesm or the adventurers.
Then someone had said the Halfseekers were all dead. Selys had run for the northern gates. Run and run and found Tekshia. Lying down, surrounded by half-dead men holding their hats in their hands. As if she’d decided to take a nap—
“—Selys?”
Besoid was talking. Selys looked up and realized she hadn’t heard a word.
“I’m sorry, Besoid. I—”
“Not at all. It’s been a long month, Selys. You’ve been putting in a lot of hours here. I know you have business—why don’t you take the day off?”
“I can work.”
Selys answered reflexively. Her [Heiress] investments didn’t require that much…she had someone who managed the day-to-day work. Not just Todi; her friends and acquaintances in Pallass had helped set her up.
She was rich. Not just from the Heartflame Breastplate, but from investing in Liscor’s future. It had annoyed Tekshia no end. Selys had even offered to buy her grandmother a new place at one point, and Tekshia had tossed tea all over her.
Tekshia. Selys didn’t remember everything after that. Only that the world had stopped for her. Erin gone, Bird and Numbtongue fighting [Assassins], everything—
She had attended Tekshia’s funeral.
No one from the inn was there. It had been a day after the battle; they had said Erin was still missing.
No one from the inn had come. Not Lyonette. Not anyone. Nanette didn’t count. They had all been at the inn, while she…they had all been focused on Erin. Not her. Not her grandmother.
Selys had gone to the Halfseekers’ funeral with Seborn missing and Jelaqua almost crawling onto the pyre.
She had gone to Halrac’s and never said a word to anyone as she stood in Riverfarm. No one said a word to her for weeks afterwards. Then Lyonette sent a letter asking if Selys was well. Was…well. Asking to talk to her. Sending her deepest condolences.
That was half of her anger. Half of it. All her animosity towards Lyonette for supporting Erin after all this. For not seeing how much it cost Liscor.
The other half was due to the last will and testament of Tekshia Shivertail:
She had left Selys with nothing.
No spear. Not one of her collection. No gold; Selys hadn’t expected that. But not even furniture. Tekshia Shivertail’s will had been read a week later, and Selys had seen her possessions go to her friends in Liscor. No relatives; they didn’t speak to the other Shivertails. Tekshia had explicitly included a clause forbidding any of them from getting anything; her gear should be passed to random adventurers before any Shivertail except Selys or Zel.
Except Selys. And yet, the contents of the will had been read out, and Selys had gotten—nothing.
Understand, this wasn’t like Humans. Drake wills meant something. You gave people a piece of you, and it mattered. Tekshia? Selys had gone straight to the officiator afterwards, and he had awkwardly apologized. He had told her the will had been amended two months ago. Tekshia hadn’t even bothered removing the part about Zel.
But she had cut Selys out of her possessions.
Why?
“Selys? You’re looking unwell. Maybe you should lie down.”
Besoid was looking at her face. Selys jerked, gave him a smile, and shook her head. Then nodded.
“I—maybe you’re right, Besoid. I should rest. I just don’t want to look—look bad. For the Council. Did they make a ruling on who’ll be the next Guildmaster?”
His face crumpled up a bit as he half shook his head. The old Drake glanced at Selys and then cleared his throat. He glanced at his desk, folded his claws together, and hesitated.
“Not yet. I think—they’re quite aware of your record, Selys. Krshia, Lism, Guildmistress Alonna, they all know you.”
“Not well enough to take my request seriously.”
Selys let a bit of bitterness enter her voice. She faced Besoid, unable to keep her feelings inside.
“You know I can do it, Besoid. I know you’re better—but you don’t have to do this job. I’m willing. I’m experienced. I know I was never an adventurer—not one with any experience, but you don’t have to be. Is there someone applying with that much experience?”
“A few applicants. I shouldn’t talk about the process, but then again, I’m not the one deciding. No one overwhelming, though.”
The Drake looked highly uncomfortable, but Selys pressed harder.
“Then why would I be ignored? Do you have an inkling?”
Again, his eyes slid sideways, and Selys, who had been oblivious until now, suddenly narrowed hers. Besoid had many good qualities. His poker face was not one of them.
“Guildmaster?”
“I’m sure they had good reasons, Selys. Why don’t you take that rest? You can use one of the rest rooms for adventurers.”
He gestured towards the door, and Selys frowned.
“I’ll do that.”
She stood up, and he looked relieved. Selys walked towards the door and half-turned at the entrance.
