Hexel beamed at them. Mrsha was staring at elements of Hexel’s inn and comparing them with Drevish’s inn.
At first, Lyonette hadn’t been sold on Hexel’s pitch, but he had won her over by proving he did know Erin better. Mrsha, though, had just stared at the moat and ballistae and clearly been about to execute her Mrsha veto authority—until she saw something.
Wait! Forsooth! I see something! Is this…a slide?
She pointed urgently, and Hexel slowly pulled up and enhanced a huge, snaking slide of wood that ran through the inn. Lyonette had missed it, and the Lamia gave Mrsha an innocent look.
“Well, I did have an idea for a rolling boulder trap, and then I went a bit crazy with the idea. I know that’s not very appealing to my clients, and I can always adapt my design…”
Mother, pay this man.
“Hexel, there’s no need for—that’s just a joke, right? Erin wouldn’t—”
Lyonette bit her tongue.
Erin would definitely pay for a slide. Nanette was beaming as she stared at a massive kitchen.
“And it has plumbing, right?”
“Oh, yes. I can begin with the plumbing, actually—my idea was to take it in stages. The first step would actually be to do the tower after laying foundations. So you’d see the inn going up nearby and, over time, it would actually encompass this building. We’d have to tear down rooms eventually, but that’s minimally intrusive. Plumbing is easy…ish. We just need lots of copper and enchanting, and Hedault can do that. But we can start digging now, and I’d prefer to do that before the rains begin. Putting up a shelter for the rains is better after the foundation is dug.”
Every eye turned to Lyonette. She bit her lip. She glanced once, regretfully, at Drevish’s inn, then gave Hexel her most reluctant smile she could muster.
“I think I can tentatively approve your work, Hexel. On your inn. Rest assured, once your budget runs out, we may be able to scrape together funding. And indeed, if you need more workers or money to get things done faster—when can you begin?”
The Lamia’s eyes lit up, and he began to beam incredulously.
“You’re not going to wait on it? Are you sure? This is a massive undertaking.”
“I believe we are committed. We have some amount of gold—”
Dalimont, Mrsha, and Nanette developed coughing fits, and Lyonette spoke over them.
“Please, gather your workers and supplies. Can we help you with anything?”
Hexel blinked at her, then slithered upright.
“Let me see how many I can gather up in Liscor today. I’ll have my apprentices—Lizzi, start seeing if that spot we have is good. Get someone to clear snow out of the—I just need to talk to some [Merchants]! About the goods. Can I circle back with you in a few hours?”
Lyonette gave him a dignified nod. Hexel almost shot back out of the inn, pausing only to call after her.
“And we can definitely upgrade your current hallway! If you have any designs—I’m only too happy to—thank you again—”
Then he was gone. Lyonette counted to ten, then a furry headbutt hit her in the stomach. She hugged Mrsha anyways and began shouting.
“We have an inn! Did you see his designs for the royal suite? A properly large bedroom! Walk-in wardrobes!”
A slide! A slide!
“A magical workshop! Wait—I want a hammock in the library! Hexeeeel—”
Nanette ran after him, shouting. Ser Dalimont just stood there and wiped at his eye.
“Working toilets.”
Word began to spread through the inn as Liska came dashing back out of the hallway.
“Wait, did we just pay for the inn? Hexel was almost doing backflips—and he’s a Lamia! Does it have a bigger rec room? Can I get a sofa? Just for my work—”
She hesitated when she saw Ishkr come out of the [Garden of Sanctuary], and Calescent peeked out of the kitchen excitedly, but Lyonette was so happy she hugged Liska.
“You may have a sofa and a waiting room! Did you see it?”
“A waiting room? For all the annoying idiots who keep asking how long till they can get to Invrisil?”
Liska’s mouth dropped open. Then she began to beam. The Goblins started whooping and cackling and demanding to know what kind of traps they’d get to play with. Lyonette was jumping up and down with Nanette, holding hands—
“Hey!”
Someone barked, and Lyonette heard an exclamation of surprise. She whirled; a young Gnoll in a trench coat holding a [Magic Picture] crystal jumped. He nearly dropped the crystal, and Ser Dalimont strode towards him.
“A spy in the—”
“Aaah! Don’t kill me!”
The terrified [Spy] ran, screaming, and Lyonette’s neck prickled. Ser Dalimont chased him only to the hallway; he let Peggy and one of the Antinium Soldiers dash after the [Spy]. Dalimont frowned, checking some glowing wards on a chain.
“No one else has infiltrated the inn. I doubt he uncovered anything meaningful; he just entered. Apologies, Your Highness.”
He gave her a huge, significant frown, though, and Lyonette felt some of the elation drain out of her. How had he gotten in with…?
Oh, right. Sest and Lormel were gone. Tessa was gone. Alcaz, who’d normally always be there, was gone. Without them, and with the inn’s staff and Ushar busy, they really were down to bare bones.
“Time to hire some security then, Dalimont?”
He gave her a troubled nod and glanced at the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“Posthaste, Your Highness. Did you have anyone in mind?”
Lyonette did not. But the need for good help was not lost on her and, in fact, grew more obvious throughout the day. Liscor was changing. And as Lyonette well knew—
It was not long before some trouble would come crawling by again.
 
——
 
“My middle name is Trouble. And my spear’s got your name on it, pal. Back off.”
The spear jabbed a few times, but contrary to the warning, the giant undead did not back off. Nor would you really expect a ten-foot-tall zombie with arms like tree trunks to retreat in the face of a spear.
A group of Humans were running to Liscor at top speed as the Drake adjusted his grip on the spear. He didn’t like fighting undead, normally; they could be hard to put down. More than once, Relc had thought he’d killed a zombie or other undead and it tried to bite him again.
But he really didn’t like this zombie. Mostly because it roared.
“Auga—AUGHARR.”
Then it swung an arm at him, and he dodged back, cursing. A trio of [Guards] instantly shot arrows into the zombie’s chest, but it barely staggered.
“Sergeant, your name’s Relc Trouble Grasstongue? And you have a zombie’s name written on your spear?”
One of the new [Guards], a Gnoll just out of training, called out merrily as he shot another arrow from his bow. He almost went for his spear, but Relc shouted back.
“Shut up, Vok! Back up! No one uses a melee weapon unless it charges! Aim for the legs, the legs!”
An entire squad of [Guards] was fighting the zombie as it swung its arms around and came for Relc. He backed up, waiting for a faster blow, but it was just lumbering around. Mind you, that was decently fast, but for a [Spearmaster]…he dodged a swinging arm, stabbed into one leg, and then shouted.
“Now!”
The patrol fired and hit the thing in the leg. Arrows sank in deep, but the zombie didn’t stop coming.
Not just a zombie.
Greater Zombie. Some kind of classification that Relc had never heard of. Greater zombie? What were they doing in the Adventurer’s Guild with the naming? He supposed it made sense; this was no Draugr.
It might have come from one of the Draugr bodies they hadn’t found after the Solstice battle. Or it was just some regular zombie who’d upgraded itself with all the death magic around. Either way, what qualified a ‘Greater Zombie’ was more intelligence, power, and the ability to make sounds.
This one, for instance, had snuck up on a group of travellers coming down the northern road. It had been lying down and tried to grab them. If dawn hadn’t illuminated it—well, Relc’s patrol might have come to find a far worse outcome.
“Run for the gates! Two patrols are on the way!”
Vok shouted at the civilians, and Relc backed up from another swing. He wasn’t stabbing that hard—mostly because he was letting the trainees in his squad gain experience.
It was this new thing he was getting used to as a [Guard Sergeant], which reminded him of the army. He could kill this zombie himself. But…they’d never level or gain cohesion as a group if he did. So Relc projected his voice, keeping an eye on his surroundings as much as the Greater Zombie.
“Keep your distance! Meshawn—you’re aiming too close to Vok. Remember, don’t take a shot if anyone’s in the way! Back up, Vok.”
The junior [Guards] did what Relc said, but Meshawn, a new Human, stumbled. He was breathing hard, and the zombie had a terrifying voice. In fact—it might have been a lesser fear effect. Relc couldn’t tell, but the moment it sensed weakness, the Greater Zombie swung around—and demonstrated why it had earned the name.
Unlike a Ghoul, which was fast, the Greater Zombie’s abilities were different. It lurched at Meshawn as the young man tried to back up faster—and Relc saw the Greater Zombie’s eyes flash—
A second before another zombie burst out of the soil and tried to drag Meshawn down.
“Oh dead gods!”
“Shit. Hit the leg!”
Relc sprinted forward, swearing and sweating. He was certain that a zombie hadn’t been there a second ago. Had that thing just summoned one out of thin air? The Greater Zombie didn’t break off from attacking Meshawn until Relc hit it in the leg.
“[Triple Thrust]!”
His spear punched through the leg, behind the weakened knee-joint, and the undead went down as Relc smelled rotting flesh and grimaced. He dodged around the body, grabbed Meshawn, and tossed him towards Vok and the others.
“Dead gods, dead gods, I’m bit—kill me before it gets the others!”
The boy was in a panic; Relc doubted he’d actually gotten bit through his leather armor. He rolled his eyes.
“That’s Plague Zombies, Meshawn. Everybody up! Watch out for zombies—I think it summons them!”
On cue, another pair of hands erupted from the ground, and Relc jumped. He stabbed down and used his spear to vault into the air. He counted as he landed, seeing the Greater Zombie crawling towards him.
Four. That made six. Four more zombies were emerging, and Relc kept his voice smooth as his patrol grouped up. They didn’t see the two squads riding hard at them down the road; it was a ways from Liscor, but the Watch Tower nearest them had sent out a patrol the moment they’d heard the horn.
“Alright, boys and girls, form up. Remember your training. Keep the zombies off of you. I have the big guy.”
They heard him, and Vok scrambled into a line with Meshawn and the other three. A group of five attacked the nearest zombie, Vok’s spear stabbing into it as Meshawn and another Gnoll took hacking blows at it.
Excellent. Relc watched the Greater Zombie crawling at him, more alert for a trick than worried about his foe.
This is going to be really tiring today. And all I had were hot bagels for breakfast. He groaned as he imagined having to stab the thing’s head off its body. Relc paused, raised his spear—and jumped back a second before the giant boulder crunched the Greater Zombie’s head.
The [Guards] stared. The rushing patrol slowed, blades drawn. Relc looked up as the boulder rose—slammed down two more times with heavy, wet thumps—and then stopped. After a second, a [Flame Strike] spell roared down and burned the body to ash.
Only then did the woman floating overhead turn and innocently put her hands behind her back.
“Er. Hello, Relc. Fancy seeing you here. I was just flying around when I saw you—”
Relc tried not to grin. He made his voice stern as possible.
“Archmage, I’m on duty. I appreciate your help with the Watch, but we had it under control.”
His squad were so busy staring that Relc had to stab one of the zombies to remind them of the threat. They went back to fighting as Valeterisa floated lower.
“I was just doing my civic duty.”
“I’m sure you were. Nasty undead around, huh?”
“Yes, it’s fascinating what a death magic zone does to the ambient fauna, isn’t it? I saw a nest of undead shield spiders back there. I, um. Well. I should let you get back to work. I just—you forgot your lunch. Which I made. I’m just scouting the mountains for a place to build something. Good day. Senior Guardsman Relc.”
She floated off with slightly red cheeks, and Relc stared at a box of food. He opened it, whistled at what was inside, and closed the lid as the guards finished off the last zombie.
“Well, that beats stale bagels for lunch. Hey, Vok, want a bagel with cream cheese?”
“I smell rot and death.”
Vok looked ready to puke; the poor lad must not have realized fighting undead meant you smelled them too. Relc shrugged and tossed the bagel at the leader of another [Guard] patrol.
“Hey, Remos, sorry. The Archmage stole the kill.”
He jerked a thumb at the flying [Mage], and the [Guardsman] leading the other Watch Patrol just grinned as he leaned on his horse’s neck, patting the nervous animal.
“File that in your report, Relc. And I think since that was her doing her ‘civic duty’, we all get a share of the lunch.”
“Eat my tail, Remos.”
Relc was grinning despite himself as he stared down the road. Undead attacks were on the rise, and it kept them all busy; his major concern was if a Draugr or that Bone Giant animated. Relc shaded his eyes as he frowned into the distance.
“Hm. I think that’s Rheirgest. Either that—or some other fellow has blue armor. Someone send a message to Liscor! We’ve got company!”
“More fucking [Necromancers]?”
Meshawn spat, and Relc cuffed the back of his head lightly.
“Good ones, this time. Alright, shut your mouths and let’s get back to work. What they didn’t tell you was who gets to dispose of the bodies. Someone grab that leg and—aw, Vok. Okay, someone give Vok a handkerchief and then grab that leg.”
He hummed to himself as his rookie [Guards] realized their job was going to be disposal. They didn’t realize that Valeterisa had saved them a lot of work by burning the big zombie. And hey, at least the [Guards] got gloves.
Relc wished Erin were back, but as he stared at Valeterisa flying off and snuck a snack from his lunch, he decided things might be okay. He couldn’t wait to get off-duty though and see what was happening at the inn.
 
——
 
“The Watch did what?”
There was a kind of…fun-ness to being a Liscorian. Not always; not when you had Draugr pounding on the gates, and not laugh-out-loud funny. But an amusement to be derived nonetheless.
In this case, it was at the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor and, indeed, the Adventurer’s Guilds in Celum, Invrisil, and Pallass. You see, when a Greater Zombie popped up, people spread the word.
