“—I’m glad you’re on my side for the Guildmaster position, Besoid. You’d tell me if I was doing anything wrong, wouldn’t you? I’m willing to do anything for the position.”
He closed his eyes and gave her a wretched look.
“Selys…”
“What? Unless you know something. Is it a bribe? Did I make someone mad on the Council? What is it, Besoid?”
“I can’t say. I shouldn’t. Ancestors damn it. Selys—”
He raised shaking claws, and Selys strode over to lean on the desk.
“Tell me. You know something.”
Suddenly, it clicked! Of course! Someone was scheming against her. It was—the younger Drake’s eyes narrowed.
“It’s Lyonette.”
“What? No! It’s nothing like that, Selys.”
“It has to be! Someone’s putting pressure on the Council. It’s Lyonette or—Pallass?”
Selys was going to go right up to the Council and demand answers. How could Krshia not tell her? They were friends! She’d—she’d—
“Selys, stop! Selys! It’s not the Council! It was Tekshia! Her will!”
The old Drake tried to get up from his desk, and he called out. Selys was out the door this time, and she stopped. She backed up, tail-first, and gave him a wide-eyed look.
“What? You have to be lying.”
The old [Guildmaster] was in it now. He tried to look away, but the cat was out of Elirr’s bag, and he broke.
“It’s not—I’m sure she had her reasons, Selys. I understand. I wish she’d talked to you, but I don’t think she actually planned on dying for another thirty years. That Tekshia—”
His smile grew, died—he wiped at his eyes. Selys just stood there, feeling like someone was striking a bell with a hammer right behind her.
“What will? She didn’t give me anything.”
Besoid fidgeted under her stare. He looked at Selys, past her—
“Yes. Well. That—there were a number of conditions in her will.”
“I never heard them. What conditions?”
“You weren’t meant to. Ancestors, Selys. It was hard for the Council too!”
“What. Conditions?”
The old Drake resisted for a minute longer, then gave up. He reached for his desk and pulled something out of it. A wrapped scroll. Selys stared at it, and Besoid spoke, sounding almost relieved.
“I debated giving this to you. Tekshia was a forceful, grand adventurer. She thought she knew what was best for everyone and ran her guild like that. It…she was thinking of you, Selys. Remember that when you read—Selys?”
The Drake didn’t hear him. She wandered off, scroll in her claws. The will had a lot of dry parts to it. Subdivisions of goods by name. Clauses in case someone died. Last words. But Selys had never read it—nor read the part at the end.
It was a clause added in fresher ink addressed to Liscor’s Council. Selys could even hear her grandmother’s voice. But it made no sense.
 
‘I, Tekshia Shivertail, petition Liscor’s Council or the ruling body of my city to make the following choice upon my death: if Selys Shivertail, my granddaughter, is acting Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild, or has been seconded for the role, I urge you to give her my fullest support in her position.
However, if she maintains her [Heiress] class and has only maintained her [Receptionist] class, I urge the Council not to allow her to take my old position and to select any viable candidate in her place. In the interim, I recommend Besoid, if he is alive, and that my replacement would be best suited to be a Drake or Gnoll outside a Walled City with a flexible attitude towards…’
 
“Not to let her take my position? What?”
Selys stared at the will. Her claws shook. Her grandmother was the reason she had been passed over for the job? She half-turned back to Besoid’s office when she began seeing that fresh ink on the will. Everywhere.
Wait.
“In the event of my death, my spear, Flamestriker, shall go to Selys Shivertail if she maintains the post of [Guildmaster] or has taken a job in adventuring or any other dangerous profession. In the case she remains an [Heiress], it should then be deferred to Embria Grasstongue in hopes it will one day be a [Spearmaster]’s weapon again…”
Her spear. Her gold. Even—even her rocking chair all had that clause in it! Selys’ eyes grew rounder and rounder, and she left the Adventurer’s Guild in a daze.
Why? Why had Tekshia done this? Selys read through the entire will this time, and her eyes caught a single, final message at the bottom.
 
‘If Selys Shivertail should be [Guildmistress] of the Adventurer’s Guild as of my death, or maintain any other class than [Heiress]—’
 
The officiator of the will had asked if she was still doing business in Liscor. She had thought he was making small talk. Selys’ eyes blazed down the paper.
 
‘—Tell her to look under the padding in her claw blade box.’
 
“She didn’t.”
Then, Selys was running. Running, shoving people aside, cursing at a guardswoman who told her to stick to the crosswalks, until she surged into her mansion.
A group of beavers in the foyer were building their giant fort in the water area. They slapped their tails at her, but Selys barged past them. She ignored a pair of rats who squeaked at her as they ate lunch on a table.
“Not now, Haldagaz, Rhata! Where are the claws? Where’s…when did she sneak in and leave anything here?”
Tekshia had been here more than once. Selys tore around her mansion, wondering where the heck it was. Her walk-in closet? No. Her jewelry? Her souvenirs or—
She had a lot of stuff. She wasn’t hoarding! It was just that she was wealthy enough to buy clothing and—Selys turned and almost stepped on Rhata. The grey rat was dragging something out from behind the shoe rack.
It was a familiar, battered box with a velvet lining that had a set of steel claws you wore over your actual ones. Selys stopped when she saw it—it was the same box her uncle, Zel Shivertail, had given her when she was fourteen.
A gift for an aspiring adventurer. He’d taught her how to use them. She hadn’t worn or practiced with them in…
Zel. Someone else Erin had stolen from Selys, from Liscor, from all of Izril. Part of Selys hesitated. That wasn’t true. It wasn’t just her—Selys forced the thought away.
“Thank you, Rhata. Under the lining? What…”
Selys picked up the claws. Then shook the lining out of the box. And right under the velvet, folded and tied with string, was…
Haldagaz, the white rat, was sniffing at the paper, and Selys put him aside and slowly unwrapped the piece of paper. There were two notes, actually. One read:
 
To Selys, the [Heiress].
 
That one was on top. Selys unfolded the note, and the first thing it said was:
 
Selys, if you’re reading this, you snooped around and read my will and you’re throwing a tantrum. Congratulations.
You don’t deserve to be [Guildmaster] of my Adventurer’s Guild.
 
Even in death, Tekshia Shivertail somehow managed to kick Selys so hard the Drake had to sit down. She kept reading, in a daze, as Haldagaz read over her shoulder and squeaked to Rhata and the Beavers, who occasionally chittered in dismay or awe as if they understood what was going on.
 
I told them not to tell you anything, but here we are. If this is the Selys who became a [Guildmistress], ignore the rest of this—I’m speaking to the hatchling I have to deal with right now, and you and I can both look back on who she was and laugh. Or sigh.
If it’s the [Heiress], the one who has the Heartflame Breastplate and enjoys hobnobbing around with Pallassians and renting apartments to Antinium and patting herself on the back for being the most progressive, understanding Drake in Liscor, you may have my spears and guild when you wrest them from my cold, dead claws.
Yes, you’re qualified. Yes, you probably can run it well. You don’t deserve it. Take your gold, buy your precious cakes, and eat them. Have a life like you wish, and I do hope it is a good one. But I have told the Council multiple times that if you have your [Heiress] class, you are not fit for my job. You think you need it. Well, you’re not me. You never will be, and the faster you get over that, the better your life will turn out.
 
Selys nearly ripped the piece of paper up. But she couldn’t. She was being excoriated by a dead Drake, and it hurt far worse than any time Tekshia had done it lately. Selys read every word because it was the last time it would hurt like this.
 
—If you’re still reading this, Selys, I’m not angry at you. Or even that disappointed. Gold does things to anyone. You can be a fine [Heiress]. If you reassemble the Heartflame Set, you’ll have done more for Izril than I did in my life. But you’d be a terrible Guildmistress as you are.
My conditions are these. I know you want my job. I don’t think you really want it, though. But if you’re still intent on having it, go ahead. Tell the Council you’ll take my position. My condition is that you have to give away your gold.
 
“What? Grandmother—”
 
All of it. Give the Heartflame Breastplate away. It’s not meant for you. It was meant for an adventurer, a warrior, a soldier. Not for someone to rent out. If you want my job, sell your mansion and my gold, and at least one of my spears will go to you. Even my favorite chair.
Otherwise, go and be that Selys Shivertail, not Tekshia’s granddaughter or Zel’s niece. Just don’t turn out like the rest of our family who can’t get past clinging to Zel’s shadow for all they spat on his back or I’ll rise from the dead and kill you.
 
The words stung. Worse than that time she’d run into a wasp’s nest and her grandmother had applied a painful balm to her scales while scolding her. Selys was gulping for air, and one of the beavers pushed over a chair for her. Her eyes searched down the parchment for something. Anything.
Tekshia was a mean, crotchety, old Drake. But not a cruel one. And there it was, like her taking Selys out to eat a fruit pie afterwards, or begrudgingly complimenting Selys after complaining about her new class for an hour.
 
I told them to give you a month before the officiators or whatever you call them hand you the rest. Assuming you’re still an [Heiress]…I had to dig up a pile of names, so don’t blame me if some of them are dead.
It’s a list of people I used to know. Gnolls and Drakes in various cities. Good people, some of them. I’ve marked who you should actually like. Even some Humans from when I was in the north. 
All of them are better than a bunch of Pallassian Wind Dragon blowhards. If you’re going to use all that gold, put it behind something real, not just a few apartments. Look at your relatives and do the exact opposite of what they did.
They should remember they owe me favors. It’s been a while, but I did have some connections from back when I was an adventurer. Use them. Don’t make the mistakes I did.
Oh, and if you find someone to love, don’t marry an adventurer. Or at least, not a Named-rank one that you didn’t know before they got to Named-rank. 
 
The page was swimming in front of Selys, blurry, but she read the last words in a haze, and thought she heard that old Drake sigh. She pictured Tekshia leaning back at her desk, sighing up at the ceiling, and writing the last words without flinching or running.
Just as she always did.
 
If you’re younger than forty, I’m sorry that I left too soon. I had a long run, but I like to fancy I was always an adventurer.
—Tekshia Shivertail
 
Selys only realized she was crying when a rat pulled over a handkerchief for her. Selys wiped her face, blew into the handkerchief, and sat there.
“Thanks, Grandmother. What am I supposed to—”
She stared around her mansion. At her rats, her pet beavers, and down at the letter. Selys the [Heiress] sat there. Another path lay in front of her, guarded by Tekshia’s will. If you want to be someone else…
Choose.
Choose and choose again. There was a bitter tang in Selys’ mouth. It reminded her too much of Erin. Choose and change and—
For a moment, she wished she could talk to Erin. Or to Lyonette. Or someone who knew her. To Pisces, who had chosen, to Ceria, to—
They were all gone. Gone or dead to her. Selys sat there and then wondered if anyone else she knew was available. A friend in Pallass? Tekshia hated them. Who else? A friend. A…
She wandered around the mansion, lost, pale as a sheet, as two rats squeaked at her, concerned, and then sat down at a table. Selys poured herself a drink. Then she read the will again. And again.
And poured another drink.
 
——
 
One thing overlooked by Selys Shivertail was the magical suits of armor in the dungeon. They were indeed…more active of late.
But not aggressive. No, rather, they were exploratory. One had run into adventurers and let them go. They didn’t appear in waves like the monsters. They watched the monsters die in the Antinium’s trap corridors.
They seemed to—observe. As if noticing something.
The monster populations came and went in the dungeon, despite the adventurers, but a limiting factor seemed to have allowed more suits of armor, bigger and more magical than the ones hitherto encountered, the boldness to roam.
Perhaps a lack of a certain obstacle who was foe to even other monster denizens. A traitor who collected heads.
And the suits of armor had fancy heads. Drake helmets, even Gnollish ones, which peered at Antinium who had been clearing the trapped killzone of monsters for their parts to sell to Liscor.
“Alert. Alert.”
A Worker was trembling as it shouted the word. Arrows rained down as the hidden Workers tried to kill this suit of armor, but the animated piece of metal in the shape of a long-dead Drake warrior had a shield raised.
Not that it needed it; the metal wasn’t even deforming under the weight of the Antinium’s arrows. It had de-limbed two Soldiers of their arms, and the Soldiers were staggering away after biting at the armor. It stood there, head tilting, as if memorizing the corridor. Then there was the crunch of more footfalls.
Six more giant sets of Drake armor were marching at the Worker. The one shaking blood off its sword raised its blade for a perfunctory strike.
Then an arrow pierced straight through its armor. The suit of Drake armor staggered. It raised its shield instantly, and a second arrow blew its helmet off. The suit of armor staggered back, and the oncoming group slowed.
A third arrow swerved over the shield, punched a hole through the armor’s chestplate, and bounced around inside. The suit of armor backed up, shielding its chest.
“Alert—al—”
The Worker stopped chanting in a panic. It turned and sensed/saw a group of Antinium moving down the tunnel at a run. They had paint on their carapaces, and the lead one was larger than the rest.
Yellow Splatters.
“Hold! Do not advance too far! Some have bows!”
