Lyonette du Marquin dreamed of gold. She slept on it; she woke up and tossed a gold piece out from under her nightdress. She breathed it; she was pretty sure that would lead to lung problems, so they had begun putting cloth masks on when cutting it up.
Gold was such a pleasant dream. On the fifteenth day since The Wandering Inn had begun mass-producing gold, Lyonette woke up knowing three things would happen today:
One. Bird was due to come back today.
Two. The villagers of Rheirgest would finally get here, escorted by the Order of Solstice.
Three. Erin Solstice had more secrets. More to terrify the world with.
The dream of gold had been a simple haze. In her sleep, Lyonette had awoken from a simple, fun slumber of mining gold under the supervision of a vaguely Calescent-shaped Goblin named Pyrite. She, Mrsha, Normen, Ishkr—everyone had been working a gold mine, saying things like ‘it’s not much, but it’s honest work’—piling up gold in a never-ending pile.
Then she had awoken into another kind of dream. A true dream. Someone had opened a door, beckoned her in, and she had walked into a room that was nowhere. A room in a void.
Lyonette had become awake in a way she had never felt before. Alert. She could not have told you, later, where it was or articulated the nature of this spot. Only that it was highly dangerous. 
There were rules. They were unspooling in her mind; a kind of an awareness of the stakes and seriousness of this place. Lyonette well imagined that, in another situation, she might have been incautious. This place, this aspect of Lyonette, took it utterly, deadly at face value.
That was a cost. By entry, she had incurred a kind of debt that put the owner at an advantage. A terrifying notion only mitigated by realizing who was waiting for her here.
Erin Solstice.
She looked—Lyonette was walking towards that strange gazebo in the distance, processing everything, squinting at Erin, and wondering why she looked so off. In the airless vacuum of the void, she heard Erin’s voice faintly. But clearly.
“I’m—I’m not ready after all. Stop. Not her. I’ll do it some other way. Not this.”
“Erin? E—”
Lyonette called out, and she saw that familiar stare meet hers. Lyonette’s breath caught. Why did she look so—
Then she woke up. All she remembered was that place and the brief, brief encounter with Erin. It set her heart to racing. It left her unsettled. But when Lyonette jerked into wakefulness in her bed by early morning, it was not what terrified her. That was something else the [Innkeeper] had left her.
A message.
 
<Mythical Quest – Keep The Wandering Inn Safe Until I Return.>
Limits: Lyonette du Marquin. Everything at her disposal.
I am far from home, Lyonette. 
I will be back when I can.
They’re coming for you. For the inn. I don’t know how many. I don’t know what will happen. It might be Tolveilouka. It might be Roshal or whomever that [Prince] was. 
Keep the inn safe. Keep everyone safe, if you can. Use the box. I don’t know what it does. 
There’s not only one. 
I’m sorry. I’ll be back when I can. 
—Erin.
Quest Reward: Experience in the [Princess] class worthy of the feats performed. A marker of achievement.
Optional Condition (Impossible): Don’t let anyone we love die.
 
That last part.
That last, new, little part.
It woke her up, as it always did. From her sweet dreams of gold and nothing else. More than seeing Erin fighting in a new form on Baleros—that was the [Innkeeper] that Lyonette knew.
Not the one she had been. The old Erin Solstice had been inconsiderate and kind. Brave but also thoughtless. This one had died and come back with the ability to stare at you and tell you the world was ending.
Thus, the [Princess] awoke. The sun was warm; her windows were frosted over but melting. The skies were blue today. It was cold. She was shivering. Her heart was beating out of her chest. She fumbled with her quilted blankets and then just sat there in a nightgown of chartreuse leaves falling over pale fabric.
“Okay. I hear you, Erin.”
The [Princess] took several deep breaths. Then she got up. She spotted a golden coin on the ground and slowly picked it up. When she raised it to the light and caught the morning’s rays on it, it made the room glow golden.
The [Princess]’ eyes shone with it. The world was a mess. She had more troubles than she knew, more enemies than friends, perhaps. She was not ready. All she had was gold.
It did not solve the world’s ills. It was only as valuable as you made it. It was heavy and not as shiny as people thought.
But dead gods. She had a lot of it.
 
——
 
The first thing Lyonette did was check on her gold operation. That was to say, before even breakfast, she took a door out of her room and into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She had to adjust the entry point slightly so she came out higher up than normal; her footing was very unsteady and she saw, to her displeasure, that there was gold in the pond.
“Oh, honestly! We want to have fish in there, you know. Who moved the box?”
It was early morning, and yet the garden was filled with workers. Antinium, Goblins; even Lyonette’s two daughters were up bright and early.
Mrsha and Nanette were shoveling wet gold out of the pond, groaning at the weight. They looked guilty, and Lyonette bet she knew who had moved the box. She began to walk down the hill—then slid as the ‘hill’ began to move.
The Wandering Inn’s [Garden of Sanctuary] had…changed. The very ground Lyonette stood on was actually quite hard and dense. Like gravel, but given its weight, fairly good, if sometimes treacherous, footing. And like gravel, it began to cascade in a series of chiming, pure sounds of ringing metal.
“Goldalanche! Run!”
Nanette shouted, and the two girls fled screaming, as a wave of small but heavy objects rushed down at them. Lyonette, windmilling her arms, felt a moment of panic; you couldn’t hurt someone in the [Gardens of Sanctuary].
But you could get hurt by doing something stupid, and being buried by this stuff could actually almost kill you, as Rosencrantz had found out. It was so heavy—
A hand caught Lyonette’s arm and steadied her just in time. A Thronebearer, whose armor was as shiny as the metal cascading down, wore a resigned, slightly hurt look as he towed Lyonette to safety.
“Your Highness. Didn’t we agree that you would allow us to accompany you at every moment?”
Lyonette flushed as gold poured into the pond, and Mrsha threw down her shovel in disgust and shook a fist up at them. Sighing, a Hobgoblin—Peggy—began to drag a bag of holding across the ground with a loop of rope, collecting gold before it could continue pouring away.
“Thank you, Dalimont. I, er—well, it’s going to be a busy day. And you found me right away!”
Lyonette protested, still flushed, and the Thronebearer was too good to argue back, but he did bow.
“And I can see you were quite safe in my brief absence. Truly, I had no cause to fear nor to throw myself into yon pool and drown should a hair on your head be harmed.”
He gave the still-cascading gold a pointed look, and Lyonette turned even redder. Ser Dalimont was Seraphel’s [Knight]—even if he’d been in Lyonette’s presence for ages—and he had inherited some of her older sister’s sarcasm.
“Well, you may help me down to where Yelroan is.”
They navigated down the hill until someone whistled, and Lyonette saw a series of wooden planks had been laid down to form a walkway of sorts. As she walked, people maneuvered around the base of the hill where it met grass. They were working.
“Hi ho, hi ho! Melting gold we go!”
And singing. Lyonette coughed as she saw a merry team of Goblins and Antinium tossing gold into a glowing vat of stone—a line of six. Smoke was rising as one shoveled more charcoal under the raging fires, and gold was littering the ground even where the hill wasn’t.
“Eugh. Can we clean up the pieces soon? They’re even in our gardens! The cocoa trees!”
There was so much gold trash! By which Lyonette meant individual gold coins. Shamefaces; blank and smooth with a notched ring around the edge. Decently heavy and—she sighed as she bent and cleared one away from a shoot that should have been a growing coffee bush—annoying!
Indeed, Mrsha was kicking gold coins out of the way with her boots as she hauled another handful of wet gold coins out of the pond and hurled them into a muddy pile. Dalimont was apologetic.
“Moving them with bags of holding is the best we can do right now, Your Highness. We debated using spells, but the only spell that anyone could come up with was levitation or some kind of magnetic spell—both of which would require Mage Montressa, Bezale, Valeterisa—”
“—not suitable. I see. Well—can we have someone clean up the random ones?”
Lyonette wondered vaguely, as she tossed a gold coin down and heard it clunk in a faintly unsatisfactory manner, what seeing so much gold did to a developing mind. Probably nothing good, but Mrsha had also seen Raskghar and her tribe die.
It probably wasn’t that harmful.
…Probably.
Ser Dalimont nodded and waved one of the Goblins over, and Sticks, the Cave Goblin, began to pick up individual pieces. It was a doomed task; even as Lyonette watched, one of the Antinium stumbled, and more gold coins hit the ground, adding to the clutter.
She wandered by the fuming vats of smoke and metal, nodding to people.
“It’s so early. Dawn. Are you all getting enough sleep?”
Some slightly redder-than-usual-eyed Goblins reassured her, and their boss grinned as she turned from her work.
“Sure, sure! Is lots of fun. Hey, is it day? When that happen?”
Peggy raised her head from the world’s crudest crucible; molten gold was being poured into molds of ingots. Across from her, Rosencrantz was laboriously turning a cauldron filled with more gold, rocks, and even some knives to give them a rough, weathered look. He tossed some dirt in the cauldron and pulled out a weathered coin.
“Gold. Gold. Gold.”
The Antinium repeated the word. His entire team was chanting the word. Lyonette passed a hand over her face in resignation.
It was a fever, and the only cure was more gold it seemed. She’d gone to sleep, but at least she had seen wealth before. This amount of gold was, uh—having an effect on the workers of the inn, fifteen days later.
Gold dust flecked more than one Worker’s carapace; some were weathering the shameface coins, others were stamping them with fake seals that Yelroan had come up with, others were even rendering them into gold dust.
All were covered in gold dust; one more than others. Goldbody had, uh, well, taken The Wandering Inn’s new wealth rather literally. Even the other Antinium stared at the gold-dusted Antinium; Drakes were very complimentary of the look. They thought it was tasteful.
“Nine hundred and ninety-nine…one thousand.”
The Antinium was obsessively sorting gold pieces into groups of a thousand. He didn’t have to be precisely right, but as Lyonette watched, he dumped the gold into a waiting bag of holding and wrote ‘6’ on a piece of parchment tied to the drawstrings. Then he got up and walked it over to someone sitting at the center of this operation.
Yelroan.
The [Mathematician] had carefully spaced bags of holding and chests of holding sitting around him, and he was attaching notes to each one. When Goldbody put the bag down, Yelroan glanced at it, then instantly found another tag and tied it onto the bag of holding. He turned and handed it to a third person.
Dame Ushar. The [Thronebearer] seemed more rested than the others, but she had a harried look on her face as Yelroan spoke to her.
“Alright, this one is good to send to Marwsh as a downpayment. In the care of Merchant Veills. Qwera has generously agreed to sell us more goods, despite doubling her prices. Send via the Runner’s Guild in Invrisil this time, by Courier. When they ask for payment, have them take it from the Merchant’s Guild, who will remind us our account is low—that’s when we take this Chest of Holding to them.”
He was divvying up the ‘good’ coins and ingots and other gold-products into portions and sending them across Izril. Across the world, actually. The problem was—Ushar was fiddling with her armor.
“I’ve already been to Invrisil four times, Pallass twice, Yelroan. I’m going to have to use a disguise in Pallass.”
That made the Gnoll pause.
“The checkpoint guards aren’t stupid.”
“No, of course not. I’d hardly walk in trying to fool them. I meant at the Merchant’s Guild. Hold on, let me find a new wig. Or mustache. Some of the clerks don’t see beyond the hair.”
Sighing, the [Thronebearer] stared at the huge chest of holding.
“If only they let Goblins and Antinium into Pallass, I wouldn’t have to do this myself. Can’t Ishkr…?”
“He’s been eight times. I think they’re getting tired of him, even though he has a valid excuse. I could ask; I haven’t seen him all morning.”
Yelroan looked around, and Ushar shook her head. She bent down, tried to lift the Chest of Holding, and groaned.
“How heavy is this?”
“…Eighty pounds. You may want a helper.”
Lyonette watched with urbane amusement as Ushar had one of the Goblins help her drag the chest towards the door. She knew it was filled with gold—but not just coins. Some of the contents would be the blank, golden coins littering the inn. But some would have stamps from other nations—or just look beaten up or worn down from constant use. It was all part of the plan.
Defacing the coins, stamping them, and even melting them down and casting them into gold bars or even into other coins again at higher or lower purities all worked. But the main thing was…The Wandering Inn was rich.
Yelroan spotted Lyonette as he reached for a cup of coffee on his golden armrest. He smiled and waved a paw. He sat on a little pile of gold as a chair; he’d added a pillow, but some of the Goblin staff had made him a table out of gold. Lyonette glanced at Ushar and had to ask—
“Yelroan, do we need to buy all these shipments of goods from merchants? I understand they won’t be shipping to Liscor. But it’s rather peculiar to own, say, fifty thousand Prelons in another city and never see one. They spoil fast, too.”
Prelons had a shelf life of about four days from the moment they were plucked without a Skill or magic. But Yelroan just smiled.
“They won’t go uneaten, Lyonette. They’ll be sold and go to dozens of settlements, even make their way as far as Pallass. The only difference is that the profits and the cost won’t be borne by Merchant Veills.”
“I suppose it’s rather like local nobility making their own money and sending a tithe to the crown?”
