“Mrsha du Marquin, watch your insinuations, young lady, or I will—”
The argument at breakfast was interrupted as someone walked out from behind the bar, strolled over to the table, threw something down, and then yawned.
“Hey. Eat this.”
Ishkr, the highest-level member of staff at the inn, had appeared. Lyonette turned, beaming at her hardest-working—
She stared at Ishkr, who had forgone his usual apron and neat work-clothing. He’d put on a suit—where had he gotten a suit?—and was adjusting a tie with a sigh. It was fancy, jet-black, and yet he wore the collar unbuttoned, giving it a slovenly-professional look.
He also looked less-than-motivated today, and he had apparently arrived late rather than bright and early. Oh—and he had a big bag of something and an entire tray of drinks?
“Ishkr! Good morning! What is that new attire?”
“Suit. I bought it with the inn’s money. We should look more professional sometimes. There’s no style here. This is breakfast since all the staff’s busy. I already gave Liska and the staff in the gardens their share.”
That was Ishkr for you. Wait, with the inn’s—? Lyonette stared at the bag, and Mrsha sniffed, then ripped it open and yanked out something that made Nanette drop her bagel.
It was the cousin of a bagel. It was the superior bagel.
It was a glazed donut. And—an entire bag of fresh tarts, croissants, a cheesecake—Lyonette’s eyes popped, and Ser Dalimont stared as Ishkr gracefully deposited drinks in front of them!
“What’s this?”
“Boba tea from someone copying Barehoof Kitchens for Mrsha and Nanette. Coffee for you, Dalimont—whipped cream. A tea for Lyonette—from Liscor.”
“You bought it?”
“Yep.”
Ishkr met Lyonette’s horrified gaze and yawned with one paw. Then he ambled over to the door leading to the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“I’m gonna deal with the pain-in-my-tail gold stuff. I’ll be back when Bird gets here. [Gravity Paw].”
He cast a spell, and a gold coin lying on the floor floated up—and stuck to his paw! Ishkr also got two forks and yanked a crossbow out from under one of the tables. He shook them off his paw, grimacing. Lyonette’s eyes bulged. Mrsha and Nanette stared, mid-bite of their breakfast. The [Head Server] sighed.
“If we keep leaving gold coins around, people will notice, you know. Oh—also—Erin put her [Boon of the Guest] on me. Ulvama. I don’t know what it means, but I’m taking two extra breaks today.”
He nodded at them and strolled into the [Garden of Sanctuary], casting another spell. Lyonette’s head swiveled around to Mrsha and Nanette. Both of them wore a look of delight.
“Well, that explains that. Ishkr was only so off because of Ulvama’s boon. Why did Erin…? Mrsha, stop gobbling that donut!”
It was already a chaotic morning at the inn. Lyonette tried to think of what it meant, Erin using her Skill like that. And at least her daughters were willing to speculate there.
“Maybe it’s a sign? She didn’t want to say much to you, Lyonette. So maybe she’s signaling us to find Ulvama?”
Nanette frowned mightily over a big bite of a blueberry jam tart. It had to be expensive. Blueberries at this time of year? The cost of food was rising, but premium goods like these were hot in Liscor, Invrisil, and Pallass thanks to the cuisine boom from Earthers. Lyonette tried not to visibly savor a fresh croissant. It was better than the bagels, but she resolved someone was going to eat them for breakfast.
“Perhaps. Or she’s saying Ulvama has been found, Nanette. It could very well be Niers has located her, and given the reputation Goblins have in Baleros…I had a meeting with Erin last night. A message from her. Two, rather.”
What? What was it?
The two girls and Dalimont turned, and Lyonette relayed some of what she’d seen. Not the ‘Optional Condition’ of the quest; Mrsha’s eyes went round with delight, and Nanette sat up importantly.
“We should ask her about it! She must have done that because she wants to communicate in secret, Lyonette. But if we use the [World’s Eye Theatre] carefully…”
There was a lot of ‘we’ and ‘we should use the theatre for this’ going around with Nanette of late. Lyonette knew the girl wanted to be helpful, but she cleared her throat meaningfully.
“We should be careful what we do. With the garden. Or theatre. Or any other objects Hethon Veltras might want used, Nanette. I believe we agreed to discuss any plan of action?”
Nanette instantly frowned at Lyonette, and Mrsha scowled and scribbled a note.
You mean, whatever you want, tyrant! We want to help too!
“We’re fully capable of doing things on our own, Miss Lyonette.”
Nanette argued, nodding. She said ‘Miss Lyonette’ when she wanted to bother Lyonette, and the [Princess] scowled at her.
“I’m well aware you’re responsible, Nanette. But you’re only thirteen.”
“So? You’re only nineteen.”
“I’m—”
Nanette saw Dalimont’s brows quirk with amusement as he repressed a smile. Before she had to defend herself, she saw Hexel enter and stood.
“Ah, Architect! Good morning! Would you care for some breakfast? Mrsha, Nanette, why don’t you head to school? I’ll let you know when Bird arrives.”
She smiled victoriously at the girls, who gave her a glower. Hexel, the Lamia who had come from Baleros to design and upgrade Liscor, slithered into the inn, glancing around. He had all three of his Lizardfolk assistants, and they had sheafs of paper. Hexel’s movement was slow, but the Lamia looked about the inn with a sharp gaze.
It was time. Lyonette beamed at him and half-glared at her daughters. Neither one moved.
“Mrsha? School. Have Ushar take you. If she’s busy, you need an escort. Dalimont?”
Mrsha folded her arms smugly. Dalimont stood smoothly and went to take Mrsha’s paw, but the girl wrote something and handed it to him.
I don’t have to go to school. School’s out—forever. Didn’t you hear?
Lyonette’s attention wavered, and she turned to Dalimont. He blinked.
“What? That can’t be. Miss Marquin is meeting with Druid Shassa this evening!”
Mrsha rolled her eyes.
Yeah. Because she’s leaving. Until they find better teachers for the new year, I’m on break. Hexel, I require a jousting area! And an anti-gravity chamber! And a barbeque.
She waved her notecard at Hexel, and Lyonette began to get that feeling she sometimes got when days got hectic. The [Architect] sat himself down at the table.
“I can see I may have to discuss some rules about expanding the scope of our arrangement already. Your Highness, good morning. Are those treats from Baker’s Bonanza down Main Street? My, that’s a treat. Are they for anyone? I’m sorry if I’m delayed; I was just confirming some details about the project.”
Someone pulled out a chair for the Lamia; not to sit in, but so he could curl up. Ser Dalimont had a pillow ready, and the Lamia smiled as Nanette spoke.
“Not at all, Architect Hexel. Please, have a seat. Witch Nanette; I don’t know if we’ve been formally introduced. Help yourself to the food, by all means. Let’s discuss our construction of the new Wandering Inn, shall we?”
She sat across from him, and Mrsha steepled her paws. Hexel gave them the look of a veteran of The Wandering Inn and nodded as papers were passed around. Lyonette tried to nudge Nanette out of her seat and got a pinch to her leg. She sat next to the girl, glowering.
“Don’t mind the girls, Hexel. They’re not in school—it’s closed. Please, help—can I get you anything else? I hope the, ah, preparations for this meeting went smoothly? We’re not taking you from 3rd District, are we?”
Hexel’s scales were a bright yellow, and the Lamia wasn’t as colorful as some variants of his species. He was slim with a scar on one cheek from his entry to Izril and seemed almost scholarly—but he had once killed a Drake attacking him by squeezing them to death with his tail, or so Lyonette had heard.
Those days were hopefully behind him, and he was more comfortable in Liscor now. His role as architect for an entire city had given him an air of easy confidence. Normally, he was polite but firm, executing on the Council’s approved projects like in 3rd District.
But today? Today, his eyes gleamed as he put on some magical glasses and pulled out a blueprint. He put a clawed hand on it, and a projection rose from the blueprints he had designed—or rather, implemented—based on the work of the greatest [Architect] of contemporary history.
Drevish, one of the King’s Seven himself. A gigantic inn rose in Lyonette’s vision, a sweeping building larger than a mansion with eight floors and inner courtyards, logical rooms decorated for any occasion—and defenses, oh yes. All the defenses. There were four ballistae mounted on top of it and a gigantic spire glowing with magic—Mrsha stared at a moat with an open-mouthed expression of delight.
But Hexel’s eyes were brighter than even his creation of the blueprint. He spoke, taking a tart and letting his forked tongue flick across it.
“Third District is complete, Lyonette. The floodwaters won’t touch it, and I am keen to see the walls tested; they’d hold even without enchantments, but Valeterisa is finishing the preliminary enchantments today, I believe. I have countless projects I could take on in Liscor and even without; loyalty means I’d be implementing some of the more ambitious plans for Liscor, and I doubtless will, come the new year. But when you reached out three days ago, I started preparations for what may be my greatest project yet. Even more than designing cities in Baleros.”
Lyonette leaned forwards and swallowed. This was it. This was the beginning of something new, expensive, and long-awaited. The inn. Drevish’s plans.
A building designed by the Architect of the King of Destruction himself. Hexel noticed Nanette craning her head and waved a hand; the front of the inn vanished, revealing rooms inside. Even a piping system for water!
“Let’s not waste time on pleasantries, then. Firstly, are we secure?”
He looked at Dalimont, and the Thronebearer nodded, albeit unhappily.
“As much as we can be, sir. There might be a Level 40+ expert in the room with us, but anyone short of that has been accounted for. Please watch your wording, if you would?”
Hexel shrugged.
“That’s how I operated back in Baleros whenever I had to work for an important company. We always joked that Three-Color Stalker might be in the room with us. It was quite funny until the one time she actually was—I digress. The money has cleared the Merchant’s Guild along with the…substantial deposit I was given. Rest assured, it’s not in my apartment.”
His scales rippled slightly with a shiver. He tried not to smile, but Lyonette saw the [Architect]’s eyes flick to her.
“I don’t know how you secured it—and I don’t want to know. It’s there. I have the funding, and I can begin work. Can I count on similar amounts of gold for the projected expenses?”
Lyonette schooled her face to calmness. Even Mrsha was trying to do the same, though she and Nanette had grinned too hard.
“You may. We have a significant backer in some capacity, Hexel, so continuing funds are not an issue.”
“Good. Because expenses are going to mount. I told Erin this was the deposit for the project. Frankly, you could call that a little more than my fee for taking this task on. At last, though, I can even discuss building Drevish’s posthumous work. The Architect’s masterpiece—an inn for Izril’s greatest [Innkeeper]. At least, that’s the pitch, I assume.”
Hexel rotated the building and spoke as his assistants gazed on with a kind of envy and awe. They were aspiring [Architects] too, and it seemed this was the first time they’d seen this as well. Lyonette leaned forwards with a gasp. Even Erin hadn’t told her what to expect, but this?
“Eight stories. The version lets you build up from four, but the full project is what I assume we’re working with. This building has about the same square footage as a Calanferian castle, for reference, Your Highness. Modern plumbing and sewage. Defenses—you could throw an army at this place from any direction and they’d have trouble getting through the first layer of defenses. Magicore-inlaid walls. Murder holes. Secret passageways, four mounted ballistae on top, and sixteen magic-thrower artillery weapons. A moat.”
“Magic Throwers? Where?”
Nanette burst out. Hexel lifted up part of the blueprint, revealing another layer of disguised weapons on the fifth and third floors.
“I’d call that Drevish’s style. Overt and hidden weaponry. He also has inner courtyards in designs from every continent—there’s a Drathian one here that I had to improvise. Understand that what you’re looking at is my attempt to recreate a description of his blueprints. All this furnishing? My doing. The, uh, relayed version from Erin Solstice was more technical. Very credibly so; he clearly drilled it into her head.”
Knowing Erin, Lyonette wondered how many repetitions that had taken. Hexel reassembled the inn and sat back.
“This inn is possibly the most overdesigned, ambitious building I have ever seen in my life. It looks like something out of the King of Destruction’s wars of conquest; it will make Larracel’s Haven look like a cheap gimmick. It calls for more redundancies and failsafes than I’ve ever seen. Even if two-thirds of this inn were blown away, the rest would be sturdier than Liscor’s walls, and more defensible too. You could literally close off rooms, and they’d be harder than Invrisil’s walls. See how you can move walls around via these sliding mechanisms?”
He demonstrated. Lyonette’s heart was beating out of her chest. Imagine that. Her inn! Well, Erin’s inn, but—
“This is wonderful, Hexel. When, er—when can you begin?”
The [Architect] was glancing from face to face. Dalimont, Nanette, Mrsha, Lyonette—he pushed the blueprint across the table so they could inspect it and spoke.
“Well, my earliest window is in four months, if you can hand over an additional eighty thousand gold right now. My preference is never. I know that’s what we discussed with Erin, but I’d really prefer not to make this.”
Lyonette froze. She looked up at the Lamia, incredulous.
“What? Whyever not? Why four months?”
She thought he’d be ready to go today! In response, Hexel took his glasses off.
“I try not to bore my clients too much with the minutiae, but allow me to in this unprecedented case, Your Highness. This inn…is insane. You see that, don’t you? Eight stories? A moat? It’s Drevish’s finest work, don’t get me wrong. All his latest achievements and breakthroughs in architecture are here, which is how I knew it was his stuff. I levelled up twice just drawing the blueprints out! But it’s egregious.”
