“Normen, your room is just as you left it! Rent? Absolutely not—you have done a tremendous job. Rest! I’ll be in Liscor as soon as I have a meeting. Likely tomorrow.”
She pointed him towards the food tables and made it her goal to take the burden off him. People needed all sorts of things after such a trip. A way to wash their linens, to bathe, stretch out, warm themselves—it was good they had multiple fireplaces, but their small bathing area would get a workout. Lyonette wished she could send the Rheirgest villagers into Liscor, but she held back for a moment.
“Is Numbtongue here? We could use some entertainment.”
She halfheartedly asked one of the staff, but she knew he was never around these days. Instead, she saw several villagers glance up questioningly and called out with a smile.
“Rose? Don’t you have some music on your, uh, devices? Why don’t you put on the scrying orb or get some music going? Let’s have a party! We even have a cake for tonight.”
“We have food too, Your Majesty!”
“Please don’t with the titles!”
Lyonette waved a hand as a man called out, and Ser Dalimont nodded.
“It would be ‘Your Highness’, anyways, sir. Your Majesty refers to the sitting monarch, you see—Your Grace is also for a Duke. Princess is rather informal, so Your Highness—”
Groaning, Lyonette heard someone ringing a bell. Someone at the front door?
Because of the trapped hallway, they’d added a bell you could ring; you’d never hear a knock. She hurried down the hallway as noise spilled from the common room. At least Rheirgest’s folk seemed to be enjoying themselves.
“Hello, welcome to The Wandering Inn! Come in, come in—”
She opened the door, expecting to see a straggler from Rheirgest. Instead, the person who raised a hand, standing in the doorway, bow in hand, lifted their mandibles up in a smile.
“I am back!”
An Antinium stood in the doorway. Lyonette stared at the bright, silver bow in one hand. A slightly familiar voice? An ant-like head, a far slimmer, more bipedal design than Workers or Soldiers. Close to Xrn’s form, but off—four bright, jade-green translucent wings that fanned outwards.
“Bird?”
And there he was. Bird had returned. He stood in the doorway, different in form but the same as ev—Lyonette blinked. Bird lifted a hand and beamed at her.
“Hello, Lyonette. I am hungry. No, wait. I have returned! From the dead. I did not see Heaven, but I did see a lot of my own insides being grown. Which is not nearly as good. I have been sad and lonely, even with Xevccha to keep me company. But Klbkch was gone, so that was good.”
Bird began talking as, inside the inn, Mrsha’s ears caught his familiar name. She raced down the hallway in delight. His voice was higher than before, but she was beaming. She saw a figure in the doorway—
Then Lyonette closed the door. Bird’s voice was muffled.
“Hello? Now the door is closed. Lyonette? Lyonette, you must close the door after letting me in.”
Mrsha skidded to a stop. She stared up at her mother, and Lyonette’s mouth was open. She looked shocked. Mrsha was outraged.
“Hello? It is me, Bird. Am I being pranked upon? It is very cold out here. Why are there skeletons all over?”
Bird? Mrsha yanked the door open, wondering what had made Lyonette—
Bird was standing in the doorway. But not the familiar Worker she remembered. Instead of the Worker who sang songs and trundled around the inn, she saw a taller Antinium. Not too much taller, but like Klbkch, far more traditionally humanoid.
Bird had a yellow-green carapace, bright green wings—four that opened and closed behind them, unfolding from a pair of beetle-like elytra instead of the shell on their back. Mrsha’s little brother…
She stared up at only two arms. A compact body, a curve along the hips, long legs—a pair of breasts rising from the chest—as the Antinium smiled down at Mrsha with a distinctly feminine voice.
Bird smiled at Mrsha as he—they—she held her arms out.
“Hello, Mrsha. I am alive. Huggy?”
Mrsha slowly closed the door and stared up at Lyonette. The [Princess] pointed without a word. Mrsha lifted her paws up and down. Lyonette gestured at her chest—at the door—
“Hmm. This is very hurtful. Is it my new form? I thought it looked very nice. It has wings.”
The door opened slower, this time. Mrsha and Lyonette peeked at Bird.
It had to be Bird. No one else talked like that. The cadence was right. The voice was not. The body was definitely not what they remembered. Neither was the bow. It took Lyonette a second to realize she had seen it; it was the new one he had been awarded.
It was the same color as Klbkch’s swords. The same material, even. It looked like someone had forged the bow from metal. Or…something like metal? If you had a beetle made out of silver chitin and turned that into a bow—
It was beautiful. It wasn’t a long curve, but one of those fancier designs. A recurve? Lyonette’s mind was more focused on the rest of Bird.
“Bird? Is that you?”
“Yes, this is me. I am Bird.”
The Antinium sounded overly-patient as she took her bow off her back to lean on it. She clacked her mandibles together.
“I see. You are seeing if I am some cunning imposter. Very smart. Well, I can prove I am Bird. There is a slightly wormy bird carcass under the left floorboard next to my bed. Mrsha, you once turned yourself orange and tried to make yourself look like a tiger to scare Joseph.”
Mrsha’s mouth fell open. That was a secret! Lyonette glanced at her.
“You said that was one of Octavia’s experiments gone—a wormy—”
Definitely Bird. After Lyonette had finished gagging, she decided there was nothing for it.
“Bird. That is you. What happened to you?”
“I asked for a new body.”
Bird replied as if it were the most natural thing in the world. Which Lyonette supposed it was. Bird had died during the Solstice. Then come back. She had even expected some changes, but more in line with Yellow Splatters.
“Yes, but—this?”
At last, Bird seemed to understand their problem and glanced down at her body.
“Am I too tall? Is it my legs? I told the Free Queen I did not want toes. I am not a sock person. Is it my two arms? She said that giving me two arms was more optimal for the new muscles. I wanted six.”
Self-consciously, she indicated her custom Antinium-designed boots, and Lyonette exploded.
“Your chest, Bird. Why do you have breasts?”
By now, Nanette had arrived, and she was blinking at Bird. Liska popped her head out of the [Portal Door] room.
“Hey, can you keep it down? They’re still shouting, and I—hah.”
She stared at Bird. Bird poked at her breasts.
“Ah. Yes. The Free Queen was unsure of what they should be for. So she turned them into energy reserves. I wanted them to spray poison, but it was too much work.”
“Why do you have them?”
Bird spread her arms wide happily.
“I wanted to be female. The Free Queen said that gender was a silly concept. We were based on Galuc the Builder, who occupied a greater degree of shaping based on non-Queen genetic material. I didn’t know what that meant. So I asked to be female, and she said she would try out her newest techniques and damn whatever the Grand Queen said.”
It was the most Bird answer ever. Lyonette didn’t have a headache. She had the opposite of a headache. She had a head-empty. The entire world was unimportant; she had to get past this mental block before she could get on with her day.
“Yes. But why…”
Rose, Ishkr, and even Calescent and Normen had all come crowding to welcome Bird back. They were all staring. Bird answered Lyonette happily.
“So I could see what it was like. You are female. Mrsha is female. Erin is female. I wanted to see if it made me different. So far, I do not feel very different for being female. Except for my body, which is very nice. People are very admiring of it. Or terrified since they think I am a new Centenium.”
With that, she decided she was cold and stepped into the inn, stomping her boots and looking around.
“Oh, the inn did not blow up. This is slightly disappointing to me since I would have liked a new inn to go along with my new body, but at least my ballista is still here. So Erin is alive.”
Then she spotted Nanette and spread her arms.
“Hello, Nanette. Are you going to be extremely odd instead of hugging me? Am I not the same Bird you remember?”
Nanette smiled and instantly hugged the taller Antinium. Bird gently squeezed back. The witch replied thoughtfully, looking up at her.
“You’re the same Bird, Bird. But you are changed, in looks if nothing else. You might change more.”
Bird nodded gravely, her emerald wings fanning slightly, and one of her arms touched the bow at her back.
“This may be true, Nanette. But I made up my mind before the Solstice, and I must change. If nothing else, so I can shoot that strange person with too many bodies. Now. Where is my welcome cake?”
She trundled forwards a few steps in that old rolling cadence, then stopped and twisted her waist around, which made the other Antinium stare. None of them could do that!
“…I do have a cake, do I not? Because if I don’t, I may go back to Xevccha instead. I must have standards. Also, where is Numbtongue?”
She looked around expectantly, then waved at Normen. Rose began choking on her own saliva.
Then the welcome party really began.
 
——
 
Rheirgest brought out their own food after the drinks started coming out. The drinks appeared because Lyonette needed one. She was wrapping her head around Bird’s new body. He had wings.
She had wings!
Lyonette almost took a bite of something Elosaith handed her and then stopped.
“Er. What is this?”
“A Rheirgest specialty, Your Highness! A Shepherd Pie!”
You mean Shepherd’s Pie, right? Then Lyonette stared down and realized Rheirgest cooked like they lived.
Like [Necromancers].
It was the most unappetizing collection of long-dried, dead herbs like thyme and rosemary mixed with shriveled Yellats and all-too-bloody meat. Half the ingredients were dead. The other half were rare, if cooked; Lyonette felt the steam rising from the pie and realized she had to take a bite.
It was going to be disgusting. It was the same stuff regular Shepherd’s Pies had, but the peas were beyond wizened. She smiled weakly.
“I am delighted to partake. But I assure you, Calescent has meals well in hand.”
They ate this and they weren’t dead? She reached for a fork—and Elosaith gave her a look of horror.
“One second, Your Highness! It’s not done! Animus—now it’s ready for consumption.”
He waved a hand over the pie, and the ingredients changed. The peas, long dead and frozen, suddenly grew brighter—not bright green, but that off-green. A paler shade that Lyonette had learned to associate with—
Undeath. She recoiled a second, then saw the spices, the plants, everything but the meat change. She stared at Elosaith. Then the pie.
Did he just animate her meal? Was this—undead food?
What on earth was that? Did you just make a zombie pie?
Mrsha the Apprehensive stared at the pie. Then at Elosaith. He smiled proudly as he explained.
“Just a bit of Rheirgest cooking. It’s not an undead, don’t you worry, Miss. Death magic can go into rock and plant just as well as bodies. It doesn’t work the same. If there’s such a thing as an undead carrot, well, it doesn’t obey my orders. This is what we call ‘reanimated ingredients’.”
That made Lyonette breathe a bit easier. She saw more dishes being brought out, all with the same theme. She gingerly raised a fork to her mouth, and Ushar offered to do a taste test for her. For the first time in her life, Lyonette was tempted, but she had to show she was a good host, so she gingerly took a bite.
‘Reanimated food’ was an oddity. For one thing, the dead vegetables didn’t magically regain their texture or crispness. The Shepherd Pie definitely relied on the actual fresh ingredients like the potato and meat to keep it from being horribly mushy. However, there was a quality to reanimated food that was familiar.
What did a zombie have that a regular person did not? Well, aside from being a mindless killing machine…it was slower, yet simultaneously often stronger than it had been in life. As if you had shifted the nature of the body around.
Similarly, reanimated food took on the same properties. It was like a single flavor was ultra-concentrated. In this case, well, the essence of thyme. That blended, faintly aromatic, clove-like taste was now distinct and strong.
The peas were extra pea-tasting. It was like someone had taken a half-brick of flavor and hit Lyonette in the mouth. Her eyes widened, and she chewed…swallowed, and coughed.
“That’s—quite a fascinating mouthful!”
Not the worst in the world! Not the best. Instantly, all the Goblins and Antinium wanted a try, and Elosaith beamed at Lyonette. He turned and offered the pie to someone else.
“I’m delighted you find it interesting, Your Highness. I imagine it’s nothing like what the inn produces, but we’d be honored if you tried as well, Lady Lischelle!”
He was speaking to none other than white-haired woman with a very amused look on her face and who was being fawned over as much as, if not more than, Lyonette.
Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle had come by, as she often did these days, to see what was going on. Even Valeterisa had returned, windblown and tired, and she was sitting and staring at all the [Necromancers], clearly wondering what was going on.
But Rheirgest almost ignored the Archmage of Izril in favor of a real celebrity. Colfa tried a bite of the pie.
“Dead gods, the flavors are strong. You could do something fascinating with that…”
“Shame you can’t animate salt, eh? I’m pleased to offer it to you, Lady Lischelle, and I’m truly sorry about the disturbance to your farm.”
Colfa waved a dignified hand, and she shot Lyonette a glance as her voice grew a touch heated.
“I apologize for their incivility, Master Elosaith. Rest assured, we will find a solution. And I am hardly ze Lischelle. Just a girl who married into the Drakle family, you see?”
She gave them a hint of a pointed smile, but it seemed her other family was still impressive. Elosaith’s daughter half-bowed to Colfa.
“A real Lischelle. Is it true one of your headwomen once slapped a charging bull aside?”
“True. But the story and the bull grows with each telling. Come, come, let’s not tell stories until we’ve had a drink—and some merriment! Is there no singing to be had? No welcome songs?”
Colfa gave Lyonette a half-surprised look, and Lyonette realized that must be customary. She began to apologize for Numbtongue’s absence when one of the Rheirgest villagers snapped his fingers.
