Firstly, she watered the Faerie Flowers in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. The cloud could do it, but Mrsha made sure the gold coins weren’t burying them, and sometimes she replanted them. It was getting harder; their roots were getting deeper, and the latest crop hadn’t given her any yellow flowers. They’d just gotten taller and taller.
Anyways. The second thing she did was shovel a path to the graves with Nanette and tell everyone how her day had been.
Then Mrsha had school or a playdate, or she tried to steal food from Calescent or just spun in circles with Sammial until one of them fell over. She plotted with Nanette how to get the wand back or watched the news about Erin. But that wasn’t really important.
Mrsha knew that. She was a little girl. She didn’t swing a sword around every day like Lyonette. No matter how much she might want to, she couldn’t imagine swooping down from the heavens like Valeterisa, even if she studied magic every day, and she did study it at school.
So. Later in the day, in the evenings, even at night, before she went to bed, Mrsha would pull something out of her bag of holding. It was something that Yelroan had helped her make. She showed it to Bird, and the Antinium stopped as Mrsha halted at her destination.
“Oh. I see. That is indeed something more important than me and my silly arrows. Well done, Mrsha.”
The Gnoll gave the Antinium a proud look and took the little spreadsheet back. It was just a few columns and rows. Every morning, she would move down a row and add a little note under each name with the date.
After, of course, she did this.
Mrsha stood in the [World’s Eye Theatre] and closed her eyes. She didn’t need words; the glass dome overhead blinked, and the world shifted around her. She was transported across the world in an instant, and someone looked up from where he sat, studying some maps in a tiny room with a window that showed the sea.
“Go away, Mrsha.”
Seborn Sailwinds growled, and Mrsha waved at him. Then pointed. The [Rogue] paused.
“Who is that?”
Bird.
Seborn stared at Mrsha. Then at Bird. He didn’t laugh, but he smiled bitterly. His throat worked, and Mrsha studied the stubble on his cheek. She peeked at a pile of dirty, wet clothes, then tried to see if he’d lost weight. After a while, Seborn replied.
“I’m…glad someone made it. Hello, Bird.”
“Seborn. You look terrible. I am very sorry.”
“—Thanks.”
Seborn looked away. Mrsha raised a few more notes she’d prepared, but he didn’t want to chat. So after a moment, she closed the connection and wrote in her little spreadsheet. Her last two entries read as followed:
 



Month 16, Day 14, Year of 23 A.F.
Port City, Tangecel, Izril. The Marooned Sailor.
Drunk. Has he lost weight?
Cheer up song did not work. Learned new bad word: ‘shiteating bilgesnail’.
Alive.


Month 16, Day 15, Year of 23 A.F.
Same port, same inn.
Seems okay today.
Introduced Bird.
Alive.



 
She moved to the next entry in her little spreadsheet. Yelroan said it was smart to take notes about things in case you forgot. He was a smart guy, so Mrsha had made this up. It had taken her ages to draw the lines right before Nanette told her to use something flat—that was [Witch] wisdom for you.
Next. Mrsha waited for a flicker, anything. She stared at the air as Bird shifted from foot to foot, then just wrote in her document.
 



Month 16, Day 14, Year of 23 A.F.
New Lands. Location unknown.
Condition unknown.
No new news.
Alive. No statue.


Month 16, Day 15, Year of 23 A.F.
New Lands. Location unknown.
Condition unknown.
Mother is going to ask about the Silver Swords in Invrisil today.




