The [Duke] had done almost as well; the boy was handsome, a tan-skinned half-Elf. Ielane paused the recording and tapped the image as she smoked on a cigarette.
“This image. It will play very well in Gaiil-Drome. A half-Elven noble. Don’t broadcast this with Ailendamus’ name anywhere on it. Just his rank and name. When outrage spreads, have the [Bards] run a counter-narrative that the [Duke] was so besotted with Vernoue he journeyed here to see her.”
One of her staff bowed and took notes. Ielane considered if she needed more as she smoked.
“Vensha. How did their meeting actually go?”
Vensha, Ielane’s right hand, reported.
“He passed the ‘do you read books’ test, I believe, whereupon Princess Vernoue recounted the tales of Ser Solstice defeating [Generals] of Ailendamus for the next thirty minutes.”
Ielane rolled her eyes.
“No desserts for Vernoue for a week. Remind people Ailendamus has one of the highest half-Elven populations in the world and recite some of the old poetry about charm so great even nigh-eternal half-Elves are besotted. Next?”
She was working. And one of her jobs, like it or not, was to make Ailendamus more appealing to Calanfer. They were still technically at war, yes. Neither Reclis, the majority of Calanferians, nor the royal family liked Ailendamus.
But they might have to. Ielane ruled the opposite way Reclis did. He was, for all he was extremely savvy in politics, an idealist. The Dawn Concordat was his first child; he had dedicated himself to keeping it alive and keeping Ailendamus, whom he saw as an existential threat, at bay. All so the Kingdom of Calanfer might endure and be strong as it could be.
Ielane cared for Calanfer and the crown’s survival. One of the things she was calculating right now was public outcry when Calanfer and Ailendamus made peace. Or even if Ailendamus became an ally and other nations enemies.
She could count how many had died in the war. She could also count how alarmingly fast Ailendamus was replenishing its losses. Throw in a plus or minus for House Shoel—she still couldn’t guess what had motivated so many to fight at sea with Erin Solstice.
Erin Solstice. Ielane’s fingers went back to drumming, and she inhaled deeper on her puffer stick. It always went back to her in surprising ways. And her headache of today—she glanced back at her first report.
Calanfer’s royal palace got all kinds of communications. Some were the flowery missives you expected, double-speak and hidden meanings in the way Lyonette had been taught to write.
Other times, it was just refreshingly direct, sound talk between nations, which still had meanings and subterfuge baked into the words.
This was one of the latter ones, and Ielane read it again as Vensha brought something over. She placed it down, and Ielane picked it up.
“We had the [Scribes] reprint the [Messages], Your Majesty. It’s the third time. There is no spelling error.”
“Hm.”
Ielane du Marquin’s face didn’t move. She was a master of her expressions, but she did puff harder on the vice few Calanferians even knew she had.
The missive was a simple one from the Kingdom of Bitorm, a Lantocracy. The correspondence was neatly labeled and dated and had been going on for eight months now; recent. But the last few messages were…well…
 
Bitorm: Respectfully querying Calanfer regarding the subject of bride price.
Calanfer: Calanfer is ready to respond.
Bitorm: Regarding the hand of the 6th Princess, our [Bridal Price Estimates] by our [Matchmakers] have become rather erratic. Can you confirm the following sum? It may be unsuitable for Bitorm at this moment.
 
The number was below, circled with commas attached, and several clarifications from their side that this was, yes, in gold pieces. An estimate; it was just supposed to be a rough number.
 
Calanfer: We cannot confirm any bride price for the 6th Princess until a suitable offer is made, of course.
Bitorm: Of course. We would like to renew our interest in the subject, but Calanfer’s [Diplomat] referred us to the Crown.
Calanfer: Some matters are best discussed in person between crowns?
Bitorm: Naturally. Please tender our regards. His Majesty of Illumination is appraised of the subject.
 
Translation time. If she were teaching Ellet how to read this, Ielane would have pointed out a few details. Firstly, Calanfer’s people were trained not to confirm that ludicrous number. Bitorm could ask, but it didn’t even matter if Calanfer knew the answer; secrecy was best.
The [Diplomat] was a good woman; she’d instantly sent Bitorm away rather than give them any clues. They’d further deflected by mentioning crowns. That was a signal that this had to be a discussion by royalty, reserved for high-level topics.
Bitorm had, naturally, concluded that this was the case as well and signaled that their [King] was willing to be the one discussing the matter.
As one might when you saw a [Princess]’ bridal price shoot past anything your kingdom could afford. Ielane blew a puff of smoke out of her mouth.
Here was the thing. [Estimate Bridal Price] took into account a lot of factors. It was a culturally-dependent Skill and was interesting to Ielane because of it.
What level your bride was, her status, the connections you made, yes, her status as virgin, and her own personal achievements, all factored into giving the [Matchmakers] a rough guess as to what they needed to win a hand in a bid.
Something had changed. Ielane had a more refined version of the Skill, and she’d known Lyonette had been changing—but around two weeks ago, something had completely upset every single calculation.
And Ushar was refusing to say what. Typical. Ielane glanced at a report being written to her side.
 
Meeting with Merchant’s Guild; unproductive…interference within the crowd. Multiple observers of significant level. May be forced to break off observation.
 
“Tell them to break off. Ushar will say what is necessary. But keep an eye on Lyonette.”
Ielane’s fingers tapped faster on the desk, and ash fell from her cigarette’s tip. What had Lyonette done?
Ielane understood how people acted. She understood politics, economics, the movement of data, and even how armies lived and breathed and died, influencing everything around them.
This? This smelled like high-level magic or Skills. She hated that.
 
——
 
Rheirgest was an ongoing problem. Past midday, Ushar got a [Message] from Dalimont saying that the land meant for Rheirgest was still occupied by stubborn people who’d gone as far as to use the land as a latrine.
“They did what?”
It was effective, childish, and Lyonette turned to Ushar.
“Okay, have Ser Normen go over there and make them eat it.”
“Er—Princess?”
“Make them eat it. That is Rheirgest’s land. Have the Watch rub their faces in it. Do they think this is acceptable? Do they think there are no consequences? I am them—if Erin was here, she’d have an army ready to break their kneecaps!”
“That, ah—may be true, Your Highness. But that would be a bad look. Optically.”
“Someone has to remind them they can’t just throw their weight around!”
Dame Ushar’s brows rose as Lyonette strode to their final destination, and the crowds lessened.
“By…throwing our weight around?”
“Well—yes! But we know what the consequences are for taking stands and doing what’s needed! I’m not saying that I’d be watching out for a giant skeleton with a club when I slept, but I would if I was a villager from Rheirgest!”
Lyonette was making less sense. But the truth was she was not going to have Ser Normen attack the people…even if he’d have done it. He wasn’t under her control. Nor was Saliss nor Valeterisa…Lyonette felt like one of those yapping dogs that was the size of your foot. All bark, no bite.
Erin was bite. She was actually more bite than bark; people thought she talked a big game until they saw her shooting lightning bolts from her inn. That was the secret Lyonette envied. Behind every silly comment the [Innkeeper] made, behind all the smiles and snubbing the mighty was the sheer fact that Erin was Erin. She could kill a [Prince of Men]. She could defy a dead god.
She was Erin Solstice. Lyonette? What did Lyonette have? Not Erin’s Skills. Lyonette had to hire help. So she strode through Invrisil, out of the high-density tourist districts into a poorer section.
There was an interruption on the way. Someone kept shouting and running through the crowd.
“Princess! Princess!”
Lyonette rubbed at her eyes.
“Oh dead gods.”
It had finally happened. Someone had put two and two together and seen the obvious. Someone was running with wide eyes through the crowds, shouting, attracting attention. Lyonette instantly grabbed something from her bag of holding and swirled it around her.
The Cloak of Balshadow was an artifact she had taken from Calanfer and seldom used. Mostly because she was no roving [Assassin]. But it had a useful number of concealment tricks. Ushar instantly murmured.
“[Public Decoy]. [Camouflage Armor]. This way, Lyonette.”
She turned, and a fake Ushar marched ahead through the crowd, down another street, armor glowing brightly; accordingly, Ushar’s real armor dimmed, and she and Lyonette dodged whoever wanted her.
“Princess Lyonette—”
Whomever it was ran off, and Lyonette exhaled. Too much to hope it wasn’t a random [Princess] or someone else with a pet title. She shook her head.
“Thank you, Ushar.”
“All the more reason to go visit our prospective hires for the inn. Between last night and today—we are undefended, Your Highness.”
Neither had spoken about the sock puppet. Frankly, Lyonette was a bit desensitized to getting attacked in her inn, and even she felt ludicrous bringing up their attacker. She muttered.
“Any idea who it was?”
“Anyone, Your Highness. It was clearly an illusion. A rather obvious one, too. Their spellcasting was fast; Dalimont tried to apprehend them, and I was ready to sound the alarm. Both of us were taken out in a moment.”
“Wonderful. Well—these are the only people I can think of. Do you have a list of counterintelligence agents?”
“What about some of our inn’s spies? There was that Drowned Man that Miss Solstice favored.”
One of Ushar’s ideas was to hire the spies who’d been besetting the inn as part of her new staff. It wasn’t bad—but Lyonette’s face fell as she studied a candidates list.
“Nollesc? I remember him. [Spy of the Captured Moment]?”
“There’s also a Garuda [Scout] and a Drake [Snoop] I could offer…”
They were definitely in a seedier district now, and Ushar broke off as Lyonette swished her cloak around her. It was a sign you were in a gang’s territory when they started eying you despite an [Invisibility] spell. However, one look at Ushar’s armor and they decided they didn’t want the fuss. Yet.
“I’ll consider it.”
The problem was that none of the names, even Nollesc, made Lyonette as…well, as excited as she wanted. She could hire a hundred Nollescs, make an army out of [Spies]. Same for servers. But Lyonette felt, instinctively, that it wasn’t the right call.
The Wandering Inn was not Larracel’s inn. It wasn’t like any other inn. It could be a soft job. At times, it was. At other times, you were up to your eyeballs in Crelers with Draugr coming at you, and you could run—but there were moments when the real employees, like Ishkr, like Liska, even, and Peggy and the rest?
They didn’t run. Lyonette was one of those employees. She hadn’t always done it right, but she thought of her guests.
Dead.
Halfseekers. Half gone.
Griffon Hunt. Halrac and Ulrien paying the price of friendship with the inn.
The <Quest> from a day ago hit her again, and Lyonette heard the words.
 
Optional Condition (Impossible): Don’t let anyone we love die.
 
Oh, Erin. It would be so easy to hire an army of faceless, nameless people and hope they stood between the next Facestealer and her family. But they never would. They’d do what normal people did and run.
Lyonette needed a Gershal of Vaunt.
She didn’t want one. She never wanted one again. That’s why she didn’t want Nollesc. She could imagine she’d get to like some [Spy of the Captured Moment], get to know some charming feature of him or be annoyed by this or that—
Watch him die in place of her when a monster came tearing through the inn. Or, if he was lucky, he’d become an adventurer and go off because that was safer than being a guest at the inn.
Lyonette wanted someone to work at her inn who either wouldn’t die…or whom she could rely on and trust, but not care about.
Difficult, impossible things to ask. Was this why Erin was so bad at hiring people? Lyonette had only one group in mind, and she shifted the cloak as she came to a set of stairs that led downwards between two dilapidated buildings. A steel hatch snapped open as Ushar knocked on the door, and two old pairs of eyes stared at Lyonette, spell or not.
“G’day, ma’ams. Do you have an appointment?”
The accent was older, but Lyonette swore she saw a hat rise, and she dipped her head.
“I believe we’re five minutes early.”
 
——
 
The final chair was plush and soft. Meant for friends. It was inside a den, which was the only way Lyonette could describe a club meant for only men. She hadn’t been given a tour; they were secretive about this place, but they’d let her past a high-level [Doorman] and were plying her with snacks.
All of them stood around, tipping their hats, staring at Lyonette and Ushar, and she began to realize why the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings didn’t let women into their bases; if this was how they acted, they’d never get work done.
She felt—bad coming here. She sipped from a drink of brandy and felt very guilty because she didn’t know the polite trio of men who led this chapter of the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings. But she knew their type.
Crimshaw, Wilovan, Ratici, Alcaz, Normen—once again, she asked them to join her inn.
To protect or die.
“This time, we can offer you artifacts. Much higher pay.”
The three men in front of her had aliases. Jack, Ace, and John.
Jack was a huge man with scarred, bare knuckles. Ace was very tall and had no weapon Lyonette could see. Ushar had leaned over at one point and muttered garrote wire. The last, John, was plain-faced and so unremarkable that Lyonette had to keep telling herself he was some kind of infiltrator.
“I see, Miss Marquin. It’s a handsome offer. A hand-some-offer.”
Jack spoke for the lot and repeated himself as the other two nodded. They stood there as Lyonette cleared her throat again. This was the hardest meeting yet.
“I—I—came to also mourn Alcaz. I know this is mixing business with…”
“It always happens, Miss. Don’t you worry or fret. With respect! We’re well aware of the peculiars of our lives.”
