Rittane’s father, Dorkel, bowed to Colfa and brought out an old fiddle as he placed a worn sack on the ground. But he just shook his head sadly.
“My late, great aunt was the last person to play a fiddle well, Miss Colfa.”
Mrsha reached for the fiddle, and Colfa stopped her with one leg. She gave Dorkel an expectant look, and his eyes twinkled.
“—Thankfully, I brought her with me.”
Then the [Necromancer] snapped his fingers, and a figure arose from the bag. The skeleton stepped upwards, took the fiddle, and Rittane added a bowler hat with a long-dead flower embedded in it.
Lyonette was tired of doing the open-mouthed thing after Bird. So she just sat there, eyes wide, as the skeleton took a seat—and began to play.
Instantly, people around the fiddler began to clap and stomp, and after a moment, Dorkel looked at Colfa.
“Any songs you’d like to hear, Lady Lischelle?”
Colfa was as startled as Lyonette, but she covered it well.
“Can—your late aunt do any song? How about Down Out of Ogre County?”
“She knows that!”
The skeleton obligingly set up a hair-raising high note, and someone began to sing—it was a song about escaping the territory of Ogres with nothing more than a haversack filled with sticks.
Country music. Lyonette had thought she’d encountered that in the few villages and places she’d been. But the sight of Colfa instantly joining in with a group of [Singer] villagers and someone pulling out some equally-worn drums immediately had a party atmosphere going.
Numbtongue is going to hate missing this.
Even so, the sight of a skeleton playing the fiddle made Lyonette think Pisces would be astonished to see this. Certainly, Ama was!
“I’ve never seen a skeleton able to play an instrument, sir!”
She was speaking to Dorkel, and he gave the old skeleton a fond look.
“Not many can do it. If it weren’t my great aunt, I couldn’t just click my fingers and have any ordinary bag of bones do that. It’s down to Skills, too. [Corpse: Remembered Activity]. [Binding: Quickivory Bones]. She always did say she’d play better dead than alive.”
Lyonette had never heard of those Skills, and her family had a record of all Skills and spells that Calanfer knew of. But then again, they hadn’t known many [Necromancers]—indeed, she saw another skeleton hauling water in from the well.
Dead. Gods. Lyonette shrank back from that one, trying to seem fine with them, but she remembered Toren’s purple-eyed stare; none of these skeletons did more than avoid her, and they were not intelligent like he was. It was obvious. Nevertheless…she edged away from the villagers singing and taking drinks from a platter and towards what was familiarly unfamiliar.
Bird.
Lyonette had to get back to Bird. Thankfully, someone had initiated the conversation to figure out Bird’s change in more than just appearance.
Rose looked very serious as she stood there, offering Bird a drink, which the Antinium accepted. Bird sipped through a straw as Rose took a deep breath.
“Let me know if I’m being pushy or anything, Bird. I just want to get things straight so I can be respectful and understand what’s going on, okay?”
“I will let you know if you are being hurtful, stranger.”
“…Rose. I’m Rose. Remember, Bird?”
“Ah, Rose! Hello, Rose, whom I definitely remember! When did you get here?”
“Earlier this month—nevermind.”
Rose sighed as Valeterisa floated over the heads of the villagers and tried to inspect the fiddler skeleton. It went still as she put a finger on its head, and people shouted at Valeterisa for silencing the music, so she flew off to harass a different skeleton instead.
People were arriving at the inn. Not all the guests; Menolit took one look inside, blanched at the skeletons, and backed out. Relc just strode into the inn, stared at the undead, then saw there were free drinks and made a quick choice. When he noticed Bird, he walked into a table and fell over it.
Lyonette was waving at Valeterisa, who floated over so she could accept a bag of holding from her.
“Valeterisa, this has more gold for your little project—”
“Gold? More gold? As in free gold?”
The Archmage of Izril gave Lyonette a very sharp, very suspicious look; Lyonette gave her a bland smile.
“Well, I do hope you’ll consider my daughters once your academy is running. Have you located a good spot?”
Valeterisa frowned as she poured gold into her own bag of holding.
“I am to discuss this with Grimalkin and my other associates later. I see. Your bribe has been registered, Miss Lyonette. Thank you—”
More people were coming into the inn by now, and Lyonette saw her second sponsored project manager among them.
“Hey, when people throw things and shout ‘get lost’, they normally just mean me. Where’re the [Necromancers]? Are we getting free gold? Give!”
Saliss of Lights made a beeline for Lyonette as well, and she gave him a happy smile as she signaled Ishkr to get another bag of gold out. Saliss had even brought his friend, Mirn, who already had a mug of ale.
“Saliss! How does Liscor look?”
“I only got a little peek—they really hate some weird [Necromancers] who just showed up. I’d hate to have to deal with that as a problem. Thank you. This is mine. See what happens when you ask nicely, Mirn?”
The other Drake stared at the gold Saliss had just been given, then nodded to Lyonette. But both were looking around, and Saliss paused, and his eyes narrowed as he spotted Bird.
“There’s our Rose. Who’s the new Antinium?”
He strolled over, and Lyonette called out.
“That’s Bird.”
Saliss tripped. Mirn choked on his beer, and Saliss faceplanted onto the floor. His feet kept moving; he slowly kicked forwards, staring at Bird as the Antinium glanced down.
“Oh, hello, Saliss. As I was saying, Rose, I am me. Bird. What is there to get?”
Rose was giving Saliss the side-eye, and she raised her voice.
“Yes, but I—I’m all in support! I just wanted to know…so, did you always know or feel you were female inside, Bird?”
“No.”
Rose faltered.
“But you asked for a different body.”
“I am Bird. I was male. Now I am not.”
“But—did you—what I’m asking is, were you uncomfortable in your previous form?”
Bird considered the question.
“I was not overly so unless I sat on something unpleasant, but I did not have wings, and so in hindsight, I was always uncomfortable. Saliss, are you okay?”
The Drake lay there, staring at Bird with wide eyes. He blinked, jerked upright as he noticed Lyonette staring, then rose with a huge smile.
“Bird! Hi! Hello! I was just trying to remember who you were.”
“This is all very hurtful. This must be hurt-Bird day, not welcome-Bird-back-from-being-dead day.”
Bird turned back to Rose, who was rubbing at her head.
“So you really…just did it on a whim?”
“Not a whim.”
Bird sounded indignant as she raised a finger. She gestured at her body.
“I wanted to know what it was like. Would you not do the same if you could?”
Rose opened her mouth, hesitating as her eyes swung around to Saliss.
“I…it seems like such a big change.”
Bird shrugged, unconcerned.
“If it was easy, it would be very fun, or so I think.”
Bird seemed to feel this closed the conversation and took another sip from her drink. Rose half-nodded at that. She looked at Bird with a strange mixture of emotions in her eyes, but Bird just turned.
“Oh, hello, Saliss. Why are you still staring at me?”
The Drake gave Bird a huge grin.
“Just staring at the inn’s newest lady and wondering how to prank her. Don’t you feel poor Numbtongue is going to get outnumbered? Say, can the Antinium do this with anyone?”
Bird scratched at her head; she still had two antennae. She shrugged.
“No. The Free Queen said that it was expensive and required too much of her time. It was only for me. Not even other Antinium got new bodies, let alone the Rite of Anastases. Which means I am special. Ha. Hahahaha!”
She threw back her head and laughed hugely. Then stopped.
“Silvermop is dead. I am incredibly sad.”
Bird went back to sipping from her drink. After a moment, Mirn towed Saliss to the side.
“Excuse Saliss. Don’t you have an apprentice to get to?”
 
——
 
Even Octavia came out of her shop to meet Bird. In the midst of that, Lyonette kept running into skeletons who were helping the inn’s staff do mundane chores. It was good, especially since there was such a huge crowd, and some of the staff were still helping Yelroan with the gold—but every time, Lyonette froze or jumped out of the way, and the villagers noticed.
“We aren’t—bothering you after all are we, Miss Lyonette?”
Rittane’s mother, Leiithe, was apparently one of the stronger [Necromancers] in the village. When she’d been told about the [Field of Preservation] they could access, she had hauled in a lot of perishables with a team of big skeletons, but she saw Lyonette’s pale face.
The [Princess] quickly tried to clarify her nerves.
“Not at all, Miss Leiithe. I just—I have a thing about skeletons, specifically. A bad incident with one.”
That, of course, required clarifications. Leiithe looked worried, doubtless expecting a rogue skeleton had nearly killed Lyonette. But when she heard about Toren—she had the most horrified look on her face.
“Do you mean to say you and Innkeeper Erin Solstice had a—a rogue sentient undead just wandering around, performing tasks? Without the [Necromancer] himself present? And he never gave anyone a Writ of Sealing? No death-word?”
“A what?”
One glance of horror from everyone in earshot said it all. Leiithe spoke slowly.
“A death-word. Something you use to destroy a skeleton should the worst come to it. Undo their magical bindings. Alacask.”
Instantly, one of the skeletons walking past her lost the magical glow in its eye sockets. Its bones dropped, and Leiithe pointed. Lyonette’s mouth opened.
“Pisces never did that.”
“A Writ of Sealing, then. Ama, you said you trained with him. He uses them, doesn’t he?”
The [Knight-Artisan of Bones] instantly developed a shifty look as all eyes turned towards her.
“Pisces? Yes, of course. Definitely…Sillias has one…of Sealing. Written down in his bones. Absolutely.”
Her bluff failed. The villagers stared at her. Then someone got up.
“That cat’s outside. Deconstruct it now—”
“Waitwaitwaitwait—what’s a Writ of Sealing?”
Ama leapt to her feet, and Leiithe strode over to the skeleton she’d de-animated. She flipped up the skeleton’s skull along a thin incision, revealing…a neatly wrapped scroll of green velum with a purple bow on it.
“Rules. Things it cannot do. You can issue the commands verbally and clarify and give new orders, but these are inviolable rules. This skeleton cannot do battle; that’s why I trust it around Rittane. I’d never just let one walk around without being able to see the command rules. And your skeleton had…?”
She turned to Lyonette, and the [Princess]’ look of outrage was all over her face. Leiithe shuddered.
“Untrained [Necromancers]! I know he’s a Gold-rank adventurer, but maybe someone should have a word with Pisces Jealnet? You can do without, but anything I raised longer than a day, I’d want some protections on. It’d be like having a wild dog about. Maybe safe, but I wouldn’t risk it!”
Her husband nodded seriously.
“I thought they kept some basics of necromancy, even in Terandria. Any basic spellbook would have some version of this. Which school of undeath was he using?”
All eyes turned to Ama again, and the [Necromancer] swallowed.
“I, uh—I think Pisces was self-taught. Like the rest of us. We had two older [Necromancers] who shared what they knew, but no one had a spellbook.”
“Polish my bones.”
Leiithe breathed in horror. Lyonette saw every eye turn to her, and then everyone was introducing their personal skeleton and showing her their Writs of Sealing. It made her feel a lot better, actually.
 
——
 
They were honest people, Lyonette realized. Honest. And desperate.
Everyone was laughing and smiling as they ate food, from little Rittane and the few dozen children to the adults. But the smiles weren’t…they weren’t forced, but they were conditional.
They would disappear when someone stared out the window at the snow, glanced at a hole in the tarp of their wagons, or eyed the staff or Lyonette furtively.
As if expecting one of them would draw a sword and shout ‘[Necromancer]’!
It wasn’t an unwarranted fear. That was why they had rushed to assure Lyonette their undead were safe. She realized she had a lot of this trust on credit from Normen.
They adored him. Rittane clung to his leg at first, and her parents stood with Normen as he assured them—again—Liscor was safe.
“The Watch is very fair. I can swear that on my hat—helmet. They’re not the sorts to haul someone off because a [Mayor] tells them to.”
“But necromancy is illegal? Perhaps we should have found somewhere else.”
Leiithe’s voice was strained with nerves, at odds with the proudness with which she showed off her undead to Lyonette. She had travelling robes on; they seemed to be ancient, well-tended, and maintained robes that might have fit some long-gone [Necromancer] of old—adapted with fur and wool to be far more homey.
That was it, Lyonette saw. Pride. Like Colfa, who treated them like equals. It was in a bone-white shawl a grandmother wore around her neck as a skeleton helped her walk. A flash in Elosaith’s eyes as he spoke.
“We wouldn’t be welcome anywhere, Leiithe. Nor can we go…anywhere. We had to follow the Giant of Rheirgest. If we are not welcome…”
The if hung in the air, and Elosaith glanced around.
“…We may need to split the village. At least, until our reputation doesn’t follow us.”
“We have done nothing wrong. If they attack us, what then, Elosaith?”
Dorkel, Rittane’s father, spoke softly, and the villagers nodded at that. Some of the undead around them seemed to shiver, and Lyonette did accordingly.
“No one will attack your village. I swear that on the Order of Solstice, and Miss Lyonette will make sure you have a place to settle.”
Normen dispelled the strangeness in the air with a word, and they looked at him, relieved. Lyonette strode forwards, smiling, and added her voice to the assurances.
“Absolutely! And I thank you for your patience, Master Elosaith, villagers of Rheirgest.”
They relaxed, and a vision of furious [Necromancers] defending themselves—what fools Celum or another town might have been if they attacked them. What fools Liscorians might be for doing the same. They’d get their [Necromancers], alright.
It said something that Rheirgest had chosen to starve before doing something far darker; that which everyone thought of them. Elosaith turned, and Leiithe bowed deeply.
