Lyonette’s eyes lit up. Now this was Calanferian diplomacy. She gave Dalimont a grateful look. Her mother was still monitoring her affairs, and Lyonette hoped she could prove she at least remembered her training from this.
“Councilmembers, I have a suggestion!”
The Council looked up, and Lyonette stood from her seat, which wasn’t that fine without the cushion.
“Let me summarize our problem. We are all cordial here. I represent The Wandering Inn and Order of Solstice on behalf of Rheirgest. You represent Liscor. Citizens are concerned about the undead Rheirgest may use. But Rheirgest requires those undead to survive.”
Or at least to play music and do any number of things. They’d be very unhappy without. And they needed a home. It was either let them use undead or they’d probably leave, which was another mess given their reputation was spreading. Lyonette spread her hands reasonably.
“I could ask for their representatives to come by and demonstrate to you and the citizens of Liscor how safe their undead are. But I promised them a place, not to have to fight to justify their presence. They’ve come a great distance just to get here in the dead of winter. I propose we settle this now.”
“With what, a unilateral ruling from us? It could get overruled if the next Council isn’t made of people sympathetic to Rheirgest.”
Lism growled skeptically, and Lyonette sighed. Then adopted a pleasant smile.
“Absolutely not, Councilmember Lism. Why, that might even be a breach of the Council’s authority. And I would hate to give our shared detractors ammunition.”
“Says who?”
Krshia kicked Lism under the table and shut him up. She was giving Lyonette a half-smile of anticipation, and Lyonette rubbed her hands together, then composed herself.
“I suggest we do this legally, fairly, and, in the spirit of Drakes, with money. Which is why I request you issue a hundred and fifty-six…undead-owner licenses for the Villagers of Rheirgest. I think we’ll need a hundred Class C permits. And a few Class B permits for the better ones among them.”
“Class C…”
For a moment, Raekea looked blank, and she half-turned to Alonna—before she caught the Drake’s wry smile. Then the Mage’s Guild’s Guildmistress chuckled, and Lism swallowed a gulp of coffee.
“You what? Issue a license for owning undead?”
“That’s right. The Wandering Inn will cover all costs. In exchange, the city issues us a permit.”
“A permit to animate and control undead.”
Elirr clarified, just to make sure he had it. His paws drummed on the table, and he grinned. Krshia and Lism weren’t sold on it and were muttering together.
“It won’t be popular, Lyonette.”
Lism shot down at her from his seat. She eyed him.
“But it will be legal. And there’s a precedent.”
“With what city? The lost City of Graves?”
He scoffed at her, and she rolled her eyes.
“Lism, Drake cities have laws for everything. Do you not think that someone had a clause for owning undead on the books in Manus or Pallass? Seriously?”
He had to hesitate at this. Plus, Lyonette had a gold coin in her pocket. She took it out and slipped it into her money pouch.
“I know setting up the paperwork will be difficult. The Wandering Inn will, of course, cover the costs and hassle of getting the permits to us by—this evening, say? Tomorrow at the latest? I think a gold coin per permit would be reasonable. For a higher-grade permit, more gold? Ten for a Class B permit? That’s at least six hundred gold coins, which citizens of Liscor will be happy to learn will go to the sewers or walls. Per year.”
Six hundred gold coins. That drew Lism’s attention as she knew it would. Alonna raised her brows.
“We don’t intend to gouge you for the price, Lyonette. If we were to vote ‘yes’.”
“Who would gouge whom, Alonna? Isn’t a higher price better so you don’t have rogue [Necromancers]? Why, you might want location spells on undead, Watch inspections—we’re good for the money.”
“It’s not about the money.”
Lism put a fist against his cheek and sighed, and Lyonette blinked. Of all the Lism things to say—she never thought she’d hear that. Krshia sighed and nudged him, but smiled at Lyonette.
“I think your idea works, Lyonette. And we will take six hundred gold coins, hrr, yes. Lism is referring to the larger issue facing Liscor.”
“Ah. All these foreign investors?”
Lyonette had heard the problem before, and Lism snapped his claws together and sat up.
“I like that term. Who came up with that?”
“I’ve just heard it tossed around. Is it that bad to have gold rushing into Liscor?”
The Council gave each other dark looks, and Raekea spoke up with a growl.
“It is if prices rise as a result. Housing, even food—it’s also the door. No offense, but we never thought a [Lady] coming via Invrisil and spending a small fortune on a night on the town would be a bad thing.”
“What’s the problem with that?”
Lism drawled as if Lyonette were an idiot, and she resisted the urge to toss a gold coin at his head.
“The problem, Miss Marquin, isn’t that they spend gold. If they leave a ten-gold tip at a restaurant? Everyone’s happy! The problem is that restaurant then decides it wants another [Lady], and since they can afford it, they raise prices and begin selling expensive dishes no regular Liscorian can afford. The problem is having a bunch of Wall Lords and Ladies buying up land in Liscor with no intention to move in, just to own and rent it out.”
Krshia nodded seriously.
“Wall Lord Ilvriss was bad enough. If you can afford to employ a hundred Gnolls, Humans, or Drakes at a rate no one can match, you can run a business. Buy out the local [Hunters] and gain a stranglehold. I hear a Wall Lady from Fissival has bought up half the Fisher’s Guild in preparation for the rains.”
“I liked Wall Lord Ilvriss.”
Lism grumbled, and Krshia poked him.
“You would. Anyways, Lyonette, it’s becoming a problem, and the fears of someone owning an entire Guild has even the old Council worried.”
They all turned to her, and Lyonette got the feeling they were telling her out of shared concern…but also perhaps because she could do something about it?
“I’m no Erin Solstice.”
Instantly, they all coughed or looked the other way, and Lism grinned unconvincingly.
“What? Perish the thought. We just wanted to keep you informed while we had you. Liscor has an uneasy relationship with The Wandering Inn at times, Miss Lyonette. We won’t deny, even the Council has lost members due to Erin’s actions. But…”
He paused, and every head turned towards that empty seat. Lyonette’s stomach hurt, and they all fell silent. But Lism just cleared his throat after a moment.
“Elections are coming up, and it’s better in general to have the inn as an ally rather than an enemy. You’ll get your permits. [Scribe Contract]. Elirr, don’t we have permits for this kind of thing already?”
Lism raised his hand, and a quill rose and began writing on a piece of paper in front of him. Lyonette blinked. She’d never seen a [Councilmember] Skill before, but as one, the Council began to move.
“Golem owners need one, I think. I’ll get some, if not from our records, then Pallass will definitely have a few. Let’s put it up on the list of weekly announcements. Give me twenty minutes and I’ll [Assess Public Opinions] on the matter. I think Lyonette’s idea will work; Liscorians won’t mind the undead if they’re paid for, especially if I put it in the context of not being in the city. Or the fact that our sewers are still clean thanks to Pisces’ rat undead. Krshia? Can you make the permits more…official?”
“The trade contract with Esthelm is almost done. Hrrr. I doubt you need my Skill.”
Krshia brandished something as she lifted it onto the table. It was a little case. She opened it and checked the contents inside, and Lyonette saw a magical contract sitting on a velvet lining. She blinked and remembered a Skill Krshia had gotten thanks to her.
[Appreciating in Value]. Whatever grade the magical contract had been—it was now a royal purple with flashing words underlined with considerable force behind it.
Krshia winked at Lyonette. The [Princess] felt a stirring of newfound respect. It had taken a year to get to this point, but the current Council had some force and authority behind it. She hoped they’d win this year’s elections.
In fact—she would make that happen if she could. That first meeting went well, and Lyonette marched out of it full of hope for the future.
 
——
 
The Antinium Recruitment Office had a nice chair. There was a Drake who worked the front desk, and he helped assign Antinium to jobs in the city.
After you paid for them. Gone were the days Antinium would do odd jobs no one wanted. These days, you wanted a good [Cleaner]? If you weren’t in Silveran’s good books, you had to get a regular Antinium; Silveran’s Cleaners had a waiting list.
Lyonette felt comfortable here—but then she realized the chair was for anyone. Not just her. In fact, when she sat down, the Drake already had an apologetic look on his face.
“I’m afraid if you need a hundred Antinium, let alone more, you’ll need to wait for two weeks, and when the rains come in the spring, they won’t be working outside Liscor, Miss.”
“But I’m—ah, I’m from The Wandering Inn, Receptionist Ahse. Surely we can change things around? I don’t want to cut the line—”
But I have enough gold to buy your entire waiting list. Lyonette sat, confident in her ability to overpower this obstacle with sheer gold.
—Right until she saw the Drake twist and call out to the back rooms.
“Captain Yellow Splatters! Are there any Antinium who could take a job for The Wandering Inn? Miss Lyonette?”
Her heart sank. Tactical, unforced error by Calanfer. She could almost feel Ielane slap the back of her head with a fan. Lyonette should have sent Nanette. She should have sent Mrsha. She should have sent Apista with a bag of gold tied to her leg.
Someone slowly opened the door to the back room, and there was Captain Yellow Splatters. He and another Antinium were apparently playing darts in the back room; they must have the job of running the actual orders to the Free Hive. Yellow Splatters stared at Lyonette. She gave him a desperate smile.
“…No.”
The Drake shrugged helplessly at Lyonette. She protested.
“Oh come now, Yellow Splatters. What if you told Pawn—”
“Pawn does not need to be bothered by non-Antinium acquaintances.”
Give this to Yellow Splatters—he was looking better than he had before the Solstice. The weight of his lies had left him, and he seemed to be enjoying a new lease on life. He turned, tossed a dart at the board, and then spoke again.
“I will mention it to him. Because I am Yellow Splatters, and honesty is now my goal in life. But too many Antinium are in the 7th Hive. Or on Crusade. Or working. The Painted Antinium might be able to take the job. But we do not work for heartbreakers.”
“B—I—”
Lyonette felt a tug on her arm. Ser Dalimont knew when it was wise to retreat, and Lyonette hesitated only a moment.
“Well, if you’d just mention it to Pawn—”
“I will. Then, after he finishes lamenting, I will offer him a box of tissues.”
Lyonette decided to flee. The Worker next to Yellow Splatters added as he shook a fist at Lyonette.
“We do not like her. She is a beautiful, heartbreaking, bad person.”
The Drake stared at Lyonette and opened his mouth. Rather than explain, Lyonette just backed out of the building.
 
——
 
Things only went downhill from there. Lyonette had a big smile when she went back to the inn—for Rheirgest’s people.
Rittane was nervously scuffing the snow with a boot as Mrsha and Nanette tried to get her to play in Liscor.
“But what if they don’t like me and throw stones at me? I could promise not to raise any undead.”
She was speaking to Mrsha, worry all over her face, but Mrsha seized her by one shoulder and held up a card.
If they do, I, Mrsha the Doombearer, will shame them! Don’t be afraid about being a [Necromancer]! Undead are sort of cool! Not the smelly ones, obviously.
“Yes, no one will bully you or chase you away from Liscor!”
Nanette was also puffed up with anger, and she turned to Lyonette.
“Right, Miss Lyonette? If they can’t be themselves here, what was the point of offering them sanctuary? No one should dictate who you are.”
The two girls’ fierce protectiveness of the villagers made the shy Rittane look up, and a tentative smile bloomed over her face.
For once, Lyonette and Nanette were fully aligned, and Lyonette went over to Rittane’s parents to assure them no one would hunt down Rittane at the playground.
“Mister Dorkel, Miss Leiithe, I think I’ve actually sorted out the legal aspect of having undead. The protestors—less simple, but I hope the Watch can clear them out by the end of the day. I’m going to Invrisil to sort out the travel restriction and Merchant’s Guild there. And I’ve bought licenses for you all to own and animate undead!”
Leiithe’s mouth opened in surprise, and the villagers who heard Lyonette gasped and ran to spread the good word. As Lyonette walked towards Liska’s door, she saw Dorkel staring at her back. Then he leaned over to whisper to his wife.
“…They sell those? Dead gods, in all our years, why did not one of us think to buy—”
 
——
 
Seats, seats. Her first two seats had been good.
You know what a bad seat looked like?
A bad seat was a stool. A stool, not padded, which you couldn’t even rest your back against. It was an insulting seat. You had to try at that seat, and Lyonette sat down and realized someone had taken the time to balance the wood so it unevenly grated against your bones.
It was a seat that would bruise your bottom harder than a butt-kicking contest with Joseph. It was a seat that was almost criminal in nature.
They gave it to her at the [Mayor]’s office in Invrisil, and he took his sweet time arriving. The moment the door opened, Lyonette felt the energy of the day swing against her.
“Ah. Miss Marquin. Welcome to Invrisil. I don’t have long. Please, would you explain why my city, the City of Adventurers, should allow undead to waltz into our domain?”
He had a pin on his jacket with a familiar twining series of vines from flowers, like snakes. Lyonette frowned at it. The crest of House Reinhart? She tried to smile at the man and didn’t get one back.
“I was hoping to resolve this issue quickly, Mayor Curle. Rheirgest’s folk wouldn’t take undead through the door. They just wish to enter like anyone else. This ban seems rather abrupt and premature.”
He made a show of shuffling papers that she was sure were blank and gave Lyonette an irked look. She shot a quick glance at Dame Ushar.
