“Can’t we ask you to stay? Just for the spring? The children will be cooped up even if they can run around in other cities thanks to the door.”
Visma’s own mother pleaded with Shassa; the [Painter] looked apprehensive at the thought of her daughter without anything to occupy her.
“Otherwise, I might have to take her on the job with me as an apprentice! Ancestors!”
Everyone chuckled, but Shassa was adamant. Lyonette didn’t even try; she just stood up and shook the Drake’s claw.
“Will you be going right away, Druid Weaverweb?”
“This is my last week, Miss Lyonette. But rest assured, your daughter is an intelligent, slightly precocious girl full of talent!”
Lyonette searched Shassa’s gaze; she seemed honest and genuine.
“You don’t have problems with her creating chaos? Leading gangs? Threatening people with hot sandwiches?”
Shassa gave Lyonette a puzzled glance.
“Oh, she gets up to mischief sometimes. But I do have a [Teacher] class along with my [Druid] one, and I’m good with children.”
“She doesn’t run off and lead small armies against…sewer rats?”
Shassa decided Lyonette was joking.
“Not once, Miss Lyonette. She’s a very good girl and loves her friends. I am sorry to be going, but you understand, Oteslia is my home. Liscor is wonderful, but—Miss Lyonette? Will you let go of my hand? Miss Lyonette…?”
 
——
 
Begging the [Druid] didn’t work. After Ushar and Dalimont had wrestled her away from the parent-teacher meeting, Lyonette returned to the inn and saw the first signs that she might have a problem.
…Aside from the problems with building the inn. Aside from the issues with Rheirgest, of course. And aside from the damn wand.
She was surprisingly calm, actually. You see, Lyonette had a secret weapon: the box.
She had activated the box after things began getting difficult. She had problems? She had gold. Everything was going to be fine.
It occurred to Lyonette a bit belatedly that she wasn’t the only person with access to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Yes, Ishkr had been a bit off this morning. He was still serving people in his suit. Saliss had vanished sometime after getting his gold, and Onieva had popped into the inn and had followed Ishkr around for a good hour.
That wasn’t the problem. Peggy deserved a new suit. Rosencrantz? The entire staff would get a wardrobe update! Of course! Naturally!
—It was just that Lyonette wasn’t making the purchasing decisions.
Rheirgest’s people had mostly retired to their wagons at night. They’d been offered the inn, and a few had taken the remaining rooms, but the rest had claimed they had comfortable wagons. Lyonette was determined to let them begin building their homes tomorrow. She’d been overseeing the cleanup, and as she’d been walking around, she’d entered one of the spare dining rooms.
She pointed into it now.
“Um. Dalimont?”
“Yes, Your Highness?”
“When did we get a library?”
“A wh—ah.”
The [Knight] poked his head into the room, and Ser Normen and Vess looked up. They were both sitting in chairs, books in hand. Lyonette stared at them. She stared at a worn sofa, chairs, and books sitting in bookshelves. She counted.
“Miss Lyonette? Are we in the wrong room?”
Vess, the young Drake who used wands, shot to his feet in alarm. Normen sat up, but Lyonette smiled at them.
“No, no! Relax anywhere you please. I, uh—just didn’t know we had a library.”
She shot Dalimont a significant look. Normen and Vess exchanged a glance, and Vess whispered when he thought Lyonette was out of earshot.
“How do you not know you have a library?”
“Vess, my friend, it might be one of Erin’s new Skills. A fellow lets these things happen.”
Lyonette knew this wasn’t an Erin-Skill. She stood in the corridor and then pointed to another dining room. She and Dalimont snuck into it and waited.
They did not have to wait long. After only three minutes, someone came walking down the corridor. The culprit.
Inkpaper. The Hobgoblin had a mask over his face and an accomplice. He looked vaguely suspicious with a scarf and cloak around his body, but you could mistake him for a traveller. It probably let him get to Invrisil or Liscor with ease. But for Pallass? You needed an agent.
Like a certain little witch who didn’t see Lyonette and Dalimont peeking at her as she pulled books out of a bulging bag at her side.
“Don’t forget to lock the door when we’re gone, Inkpaper. Or else—”
Both jumped as they opened the door and saw the two [Knights] had found their hideout. They relaxed, and Nanette waved a book happily at Normen and Vess.
“Look! More adventure books! We have nearly the entire Lightning Thief saga here—there are tons of bookstores in Invrisil!”
Normen was very surprised.
“I say, Miss Nanette. A fellow would be worried about you, even with Inkpaper as an escort. Invrisil isn’t always a safe place this late as it were. And isn’t it expensive to get that many books?”
“Don’t worry, Normen. It’s all paid for. Hee, hee—argh! Miss Lyonette!”
The [Princess] had snuck up and grabbed Nanette’s ear. Inkpaper spun, saw his accomplice had been caught, and tried to run for it. He got down one hallway before Peggy stuck out her leg.
“Inkpaper! No wonder you kept being eager for night shift! Asgra, get a stick! We’re beating him!”
 
——
 
The Wandering Inn had a library. It had books. Nearly eighty. Reading was a good thing, Lyonette told herself.
Outside, Rittane and the villagers were watching Inkpaper and Nanette being punished. Namely, being forced to shovel a path to the outhouse while Goblins and Antinium hurled snowballs at them.
“We’ll have a head start on a proper library soon, Miss Lyonette.”
“Yes, I suppose. Just keep an eye on the garden, Dalimont? And the gold?”
“…All of it, Lyonette?”
He gave her a worried look, and she knew it was futile. Lyonette had gathered all the staff and lectured them about spending gold wantonly. She hoped it stuck. True, Nanette having a lot of money for books was a splash in the pond; they could have easily afforded that before the box. It was just—
Lyonette had a late night of it, mostly taking food and blankets out to Rheirgest’s people until they chased her away, making a list of things they needed, putting a library sign on the door, and selecting two books she herself wanted to read.
She often stayed up late to make sure all was well, and the [Mages] were up till the last vestiges of the sun had vanished from the sky, planning on all of them going for a ‘walk’ later. They were a bit shifty about their plans, even with Lyonette bankrolling the project, but that was fine.
Maybe Mrsha could learn from the magical school? But that’s just magic. She needed to learn manners.
One look at Mrsha doing a handstand competition in her kilt with Sammial and Hethon made Lyonette glad she’d made Mrsha adopt undergarments. After all three had been chased to bed, Lyonette checked to make sure Nanette was also asleep.
“Miss Lyonette, I’m sleeping.”
Lyonette stopped poking the body in the bed with a broom. She’d learned very quickly that Nanette and Mrsha could fake some hair and pillows in place. She gave Mrsha the evil eye as the girl pulled her blankets up to her chin.
“Have a good night, you two. No midnight wandering for that cake or I shall become the consequences.”
Mrsha sighed loudly, as if she hadn’t had a double helping of cake. Lyonette walked off.
Bird was the last person she checked on. The Order of Solstice was tired, but she found Bird not in his—her, Lyonette had to remember her—tower, but outside the inn.
“And where is Ballistonia? Get them all back. I have just looked in the [Garden of Sanctuary], and I believe I can buy more ballista bolts.”
At least Bird was being somewhat responsible. She was addressing several Workers that Lyonette recognized as part of the crew that had run the ballista last time. It was still, amazingly, in one piece after the Solstice. A bit battered, but the Workers had maintained it, and Bird was studying it.
“Bird.”
“A tower? This is muchly good, Lyonette. I think I need two towers.”
“…Why?”
“One for the ballista. One for me. Not that I shoot birds as much these days. I have become a conscientious bird hunter. Now I just hunt the ones who get overpopulated. Too many Dinobirds eating small birds. A hawk gets too annoying. Garbichugs. All the Garbichugs. I will make the ballista crew do that.”
She nodded and patted the ballista, and Lyonette breathed easier, looking at it.
“I know Rheirgest will be too far for you to guard once they set up. But if you can watch them tonight…”
“I will. It is good to be back, Lyonette. I am glad you are not too upset.”
Lyonette smiled as she stood next to Bird, shivering in the cold. The wagons were quiet, and the inn had gone dark. Bird’s bow, though, gleamed in the moonlight. She looked at it.
“I’m just happy you’re here, Bird. Even if you wanted to make a big change like this.”
“…I just wanted to know what it was like. I’ll change back the next time I die.”
Lyonette laughed out loud at the idea. Then she patted Bird on the arm.
“Don’t do that, Bird. Worrying if you won’t come back is too hard.”
Bird patted Lyonette on the arm and head. The Antinium shook her head as she sighed.
“It is not very fun. I lost my [Wings of Escieda] Skill. These new ones are very nice, but all I can do is glide with them. The Free Queen says I am still better than most Flying Antinium.”
Her wings buzzed indignantly, and Lyonette expected to see Bird doing just that in the days to come. But rather than climbing into her tower, Bird just took the bow off her back.
“Do not mind me, Lyonette. I am going to be over here. My bow can be loud, sometimes. Where did all the coins come from, by the way?”
“Erin’s Skill.”
Bird drew an arrow as she walked down the hill towards another one. She stood on it and shot an arrow as Lyonette waded through the snow. Bird paused. Shot another arrow.
“Oh.”
That was the thing about Bird. She got it. Though…she was different. And not just in pronouns. Lyonette frowned as she saw Bird shooting arrow after arrow at something in the distance.
“Bird? Why aren’t you in your tower? And what are you shooting at?”
Bird sighed.
“Climbing my tower after getting my arrows is too much work, and I do not wish to alarm the villagers. I am just shooting at targets. There.”
She drew another arrow and pointed with it; Bird was very fluid, but grumbled to herself as she clacked her mandibles.
“Only two arms? I am so much slower than my old body. The Free Queen lied! I am going to throw some of my cake at her when I bring her a slice.”
Lyonette tried to see the target Bird was aiming at. The Antinium had a much slower rate of fire than before. When she squinted…nope.
“Let me try. What is this bow, Bird?”
“The Free Queen calls it ‘hope’. I call it ‘my bow’. It is made of Chitrx metal. The same thing Klbkch’s blades are made of. It is a very good bow. I do not think anyone will break it, and if they do, I have bigger problems. Just shoot over there. That snowflake.”
“What—that—wait a second.”
Lyonette was wrestling with the bow. She realized what Bird was pointing at as the Antinium slowly traced a finger down through the air.
“You were too slow. Okay, that one.”
“Bird! I can’t—wait. I can’t even pull this bow back!”
Lyonette’s arms trembled as the bow moved, but she could barely even move the string. Bird laughed.
“Silly Lyonette. Pull harder.”
The [Princess] tried! But even with her sword practice…what draw weight was this bow? No wonder Bird was slower! Bird took the bow back and smoothly drew an arrow and loosed it.
“I missed.”
Lyonette saw Bird take another shot at a snowflake.
“Is there a point to this, Bird?”
Bird didn’t look back at Lyonette.
“Yes. Training. I have lost ten levels. I must get them back. I missed again. Damn.”
She began stomping off towards her arrows, some of which were incredibly far away, then swiveled back to Lyonette. Bird’s green-yellow body was indeed beautiful. Her eyes were a faint purple, but the same multifaceted insect eyes. Lyonette felt Bird’s gaze grow intent.
“Is he training? Is that why Numbtongue isn’t here? That would be good.”
“Training? No. I’m doing a bit of sword training in the morning, but I haven’t seen Numbtongue joining me.”
“Hm.”
Bird put her bow on her back and shook her head. She had mobility in her neck and even torso. She spoke to Lyonette a second.
“I thought he would have been with Erin. Erin is different.”
“Yes, she is. Badarrow went.”
“It should have been Numbtongue. Then again, we are all weak. I hope you are training up your levels. I am Bird. I shoot arrows. What does a [Princess] do to train?”
“…We don’t.”
“Hm. Your class is stupid. But I have said that before.”
With that, Bird hopped off through the snow, her wings spread, and she glided down the hill. Lyonette blinked at Bird’s back.
“So that’s what it is. She’s focused.”
Bird had come back, but not to rest and sit around. Maybe it was the effect of her new nature? The female intuition and incisiveness and will to work that trumped the male mind?
…Lyonette thought of Ulvama and shook her head. Nope. Bird was just focused.
 
——
 
Lyonette was almost back at her inn when she saw something odd from outside. By now, almost everyone was asleep, and a reluctant Inkpaper had night shift. But someone had a lantern and was slipping into the inn.
One of the villagers? Lyonette almost called out, but remembered that spy from earlier. Without Shriekblade—
I’m sure Dalimont and Ushar will nab them if they’re not supposed to be inside. But on a hunch, Lyonette stole into the inn.
Liska was asleep, but there was a light coming from the portal room. Lyonette peeked into the inn via a crack in the front door and listened—someone was muttering to themselves.
“…the best door, but I suppose it’s valuable enough. Pah. What is this hallway? Wait. Wait—arrow slits on the wall? Clever. Is that a murder hole?”
She didn’t know that voice. A hooded figure was moving down the corridor, and Lyonette caught her breath. She didn’t open the front door; that was a dead giveaway. Instead, she slipped into the [Garden of Sanctuary].
“Dalimont? Ushar!”
Maybe it was just a villager. But something about that figure and the way it had moved made Lyonette uneasy. She stole into the garden and found Yelroan snoozing on a pile of gold. That had to be bad for his back.
No Thronebearers. Lyonette hesitated, then reappeared inside the inn, along the hidden corridor you could attack intruders from.
