“Thank you, Your Highness. I—we—would have offered you something far better if we’d had the time. A dress, perhaps. Something properly regal. Bone white cloth and midnight black.”
“Ooh, that would have been lovely, if only we had some cotton. Something in Noelictus’ grand style?”
Lyonette tried to keep smiling, but their fashion sense was another thing entirely. Colfa’s eyes lit up, but Lyonette just remembered Noelictus, which loved the positively austere clothing, as if you were attending a wake. Rheirgest wanted her to dress like some evil [Queen]?
No accounting for taste. Yet she took Leiithe’s hand, and the woman had soft fingers. Lyonette smiled.
“I assure you, I will do everything in my power to help Rheirgest.”
“Then we shall do everything to return our debt, Miss Lyonette. If there is anything you need? Anything?”
They looked so eager, but Lyonette assured them, rather hurriedly, that she and the inn were fine. She wanted them to keep from alarming Liscorians any further at the moment. But she did wonder what Rheirgest could do. Undead. Lots of undead…
…But she had people waiting the tables. Lyonette shook her head. Feed them first. They were hungry from the road and this long winter. She wished she didn’t hear Dorkel murmuring to Elosaith in the background.
“If we do find a home here, all the death magic in the land will make farming a breeze. I swear, I’ve seen battlefields with less. It makes you want to raise something interesting.”
What did [Necromancers] find interesting? Oh dear. Oh dear indeed.
 
——
 
By the afternoon, Rheirgest’s people were fed, sitting around, or visiting Liscor in careful ones and twos, without any skeletons, and Lyonette was happier.
The inn was full again. True, full of [Necromancers], but more guests had appeared, and it had that familiar feel. Like it was alive.
Not just that. Things were happening in the background. If Lyonette turned her head, she could see Saliss, Mirn, and Rose arguing in one corner of the inn over what looked like blueprints.
Blueprints were the theme of today. Lyonette was expecting Hexel, and she hoped he’d be able to get Rheirgest some help with their village. They were ready to go, but as Elosaith had told Lyonette, they still needed that cleared space.
“And some supplies. We have ivory from home, and we could mine more, but not enough for more than one or two buildings. I’m told we need to move fast for spring.”
Lyonette had assured him Hexel would be able to spare some time, and she had the thought that the Antinium could help too. A thousand of them could do anything. They’d moved the inn across the Floodplains with less, and you could still see where the inn had used to be: a huge, flat area of ground where they’d created massive fortifications in a day or two.
On the other side of the inn, though, were more guests that made Lyonette smile happily and signal Calescent. She saw him bring over a plate of complimentary fries loaded with cheese and condiments, and someone absently took a fry and missed her face.
The Archmage of Izril was in the air at one of the dining tables. She was floating over geography—half a mountain to be precise. An illusion spell was rising from the table, and Mrsha, Nanette, and the other children were staring at it in awe as the Archmage flew around it.
The miniature mountain was four feet tall, craggy until it met some grasslands, and the ground sloped up at increasingly alarming gradients until nigh-impassible cliffs terminated midway up the mountain at the level of miniature clouds.
The fact that this was half a mountain and the projection didn’t even show the rest of the geography told Lyonette how huge this one mountain was. Valeterisa was, at this moment, placing glowing markers in the mountain and tracing lines of multi-colored light that ran through it.
“Natural earth magic leyline here. And I believe the natural magicore vein here intersects beautifully at—”
She was running rapid, excited commentary to someone who interrupted.
“A chasm.”
Grimalkin was moving his clawed hand through the mountain itself, peeling back the illusion to expose caves and interior geography. At a certain point, the details vanished and the illusion became smooth, grey stone. Valeterisa peered at the ravine and tentatively stuck a glowing pin at the bottom.
“Those can be filled in. No, wait, we’d just have to, um, change the geography. If we remove all the rock here and here….then I suppose you need a drainage site in case of waterflow…”
She had placed a suspiciously Wistram-shaped academy at the bottom of the chasm where the lines of magic met.
It seemed…slightly unsound to Lyonette, as a layperson, to place a magical institution of learning there. Someone else clearly agreed.
A third hand plucked the glowing pin out of the chasm. Hedault stowed the pin, and Valeterisa stopped.
“Ah, well, how about this spot?”
The [Mages] traced another strand of power, arguing the entire time. But in an engaged way. Grimalkin was stabbing a claw at another site, and Salamani emerged from the kitchen with salsa and chips for all.
The Mage Runner himself had arrived. He brought the chips and salsa over, and instantly, a horse stuck her muzzle into the bowl of chips. Salamani stared at Ci, and the horse snorted at him—he went over to the fries instead.
Yet another [Mage] leaned over the table, speaking in a low voice. Viceria brushed at her hair as she frowned at the leylines of power.
“I just don’t see why we’re dead set on being on a leyline. Can’t we route the power around? I studied that in my class on magical architecture. Place a reservoir here and add a router here—”
“Good doctrine from my studies states that securing a leyline should be the paramount objective, Magus Viceria.”
Grimalkin’s voice was authoritative, and his set expression instantly made Valeterisa place a pin at another spot around the ‘earth leyline’; a glowing, brown line running through the mountain.
However, Viceria smiled calmly and politely, as if she were speaking to her husband.
Wailant, incidentally, was sitting with Relc, neither of whom wanted to take part in the magical discussion. They were treating Vok, a new Gnoll, to a beer, and Lyonette had already introduced herself. She had wondered why he gave her a look as if she were a Mothbear. Probably just Relc exaggerating things.
Viceria retorted back at Grimalkin with a reasonable but straightforward tone.
“Drake doctrine is based around controlling a resource in the expectation another Drake will want it, Magus. Since this is the High Passes, I suggest that might not be our principal issue, especially if another venue can be more defensible? At least, more convenient.”
Amazingly, Grimalkin flushed, and after a moment of hesitation, the Sinew Magus ducked his head.
“I cede the point, Magus Viceria.”
“Grimalkin, please. Let’s all be more informal. And I do think we should inspect these sites in person for the actual vibe of the place. Flying over it and magically mapping spots is well done on Valeterisa’s side, but there is something to be said for seeing where we’ll build before we commit.”
More nods. Hedault sighed as he removed his spectacles and pinched at his nose.
“Driving a proper foundation into the earth will require the right techniques and material. I almost wish I hadn’t been told about the nature of Lifewood; it would have made for a perfect material. Building the initial site will have to be done by familiar, Golem, or by spell. I doubt any mundane workers could reach these locations, even Antinium.”
“We could hire some anyways? Antinium put up Liscor’s new district, and it blew my mind when I saw it.”
Salamani suggested, and even Grimalkin hesitated, but Valeterisa absently shook her head.
“That is not feasible at this moment, Salamani. Familiar spells it is. Do you all know them? I’ll teach them to you. We could rent a Golem or two, but magic is probably the simplest.”
Salamani rolled his eyes.
“Says the Archmage.”
“Yes.”
What did she mean about Antinium not being feasible? Maybe she just meant working with all the complex things this academy of magic would need. Lyonette saw the door open and two people come in. The first was Ser Dalimont, who had several stains on his armor. He grimaced, but made a beeline towards her.
“They were throwing mud at me as I believe they recognized me, Lyonette. I’m happy to say they didn’t notice Rheirgest’s people, but it’s only a matter of time. Liscor’s Council is aware of the problem, and they will hear you tomorrow as early as they can. I also suggest reaching out to Invrisil and the Merchant’s Guild there.”
“Thank you, Dalimont. Why those two groups?”
He gave her a serious look.
“—Because Liska just informed me there is a ban on [Necromancers] in Invrisil, and the Merchant’s Guild has disavowed working with them, including lending money to Rheirgest. Word is spreading.”
When he saw Lyonette’s eyes spark, Dalimont spoke urgently.
“I don’t think Miss Shivertail had anything to do with it. Gossip is like a wildfire; I have petitioned both for meetings.”
“I will…speak to them. Thank you.”
Lyonette forced her ire down. She knew the villagers were getting increasingly worried about their stay in Liscor. What was Magnolia doing in Invrisil?
Was she even in Invrisil these days? Demsleth and that other one, Taletevirion, were around. In fact, the latter had shown up, and Peggy ran over.
“That stupid, silver-haired half-Elf drank another barrel, Lyonette!”
“Charge him for it and cut him off—Mister Taletevirion?”
He was already half out the door, and chase after him as she might, Peggy was too slow. Lyonette sighed—then brightened up as someone entered the inn.
“Architect Hexel! Dalimont, get a private room.”
 
——
 
Some good news at last. Lyonette ushered him into the room and offered Hexel an early dinner, beaming, but the Lamia wore an uncharacteristically grave expression today.
“Thank you for waiting, Lyonette. I’m afraid I have some bad news.”
“What? What kind?”
Lyonette’s heart sank. The Lamia sat there, sighing, and didn’t beat around the bush.
“I have two major issues. It never occurred to me this could happen, but—well, let’s start with what I predicted. Beginning your inn’s construction may take longer than I thought. The issue is material. Specifically, non-Izrilian material.”
He held up a clawed hand as Lyonette opened her mouth.
“No matter how I do it, I need supplies from overseas. The glue I mentioned? I can’t source all of what I want locally. From glass to the right quality copper in bulk; I can try to get Pelt to do all my smithing, for instance, or Dwarfhalls Rest, but invariably, it’s cheaper to actually ship from overseas.”
“Of course, Architect. Supply and demand locally can be precarious. What’s the issue?”
He gave her a long look.
“The sea. As you may recall, the greatest naval war in decades just took place at sea, and Admiral Seagrass, the lead supplier for most of the world, is now a disgraced renegade. Shipping of anything, let alone exclusive goods, will take months instead of weeks. I can pay for faster, exclusive Courier deliveries, but even Couriers are overbooked.”
Lyonette’s heart sank, but her chin rose.
“I can look into perhaps striking a deal with some [Captains] of good repute, Hexel. Just give me a lead, and I will do it at once!”
His brows rose.
“The cost might be high—”
Lyonette almost laughed.
“The cost is one we can bear, Hexel. Dalimont? Put out inquiries.”
Hexel breathed easier when she said that, and Lyonette added it to her growing pile of concerns. The Lamia looked even more regretful at this next part, though.
“The second issue is completely on me. Mea culpa, I believe they say. It’s…well, it’s embarrassing, but I cannot shift my workers onto new projects, Lyonette. They’re occupied with a lot of Liscorian projects while I can manage with your inn! But that means I just need new laborers to do the job.”
“More Antinium? It’s fine if they’re not as experienced, Hexel.”
He twisted around unhappily.
“Yes, I think so too. Antinium are ideal. They communicate splendidly, they have tremendous work effort, and for the first stage of the project, their digging abilities are crucial. Which is why I instantly went to the Free Hive to hire as many as a thousand. I was told they had…four…they could send me.”
“Huh? That’s impossible. There are always more Antinium.”
Lyonette just blinked at Hexel. He gave her a wretched look.
“That’s what I thought. But it appears that between 3rd District, my projects, and the fact that they’re working in the Watch, as [Cleaners], taking care of the city’s tasks, enlisting in the army—if you can get me even a hundred, I can begin Bird’s tower. But I was told flat out the Antinium are overbooked.”
Antinium. Overbooked. What a time to be alive. Lyonette forced a smile onto her face. She assured Hexel she’d do her best, then got up.
She had a [Druid] to see.
 
——
 
Shassa Weaverweb kept her presentation short. She showed the parents a collage of things their children had done, from shooting at targets to making their own hats out of leather to learning spells. She pointed out their grades, which were fairly simple—Oteslia more measured whether a student was acceptably learning things than exactly how well they’d done.
“—And I hope you can support and participate in Liscor’s school, which I believe should open next year with the backing of the Council.”
Everyone applauded, and Lyonette shifted on her seat. It wasn’t the most comfortable, as it was a children’s chair, and the ‘classroom’ was a converted warehouse.
But Mrsha had come back bubbling with excitement some days and had not been lounging around, bored. Frankly, Lyonette had hoped Nanette might be able to get classes here when they were offered for older children.
Instead, Shassa was leaving. Ekirra’s own mother raised a nervous paw.
“Miss Weaverweb, are you sure you must go? This is Ekirra’s favorite class—this school, I mean. He went to Pallass for a bit, but he was too lonely, and he said it was boring.”
“I’m delighted to hear that, Miss Silverfang.”
Shassa was an energetic young [Druid] with a spider motif—she brushed at her cobweb robes as she bowed to Ekirra’s mother. But she held up a claw.
“I’m afraid I was only here on loan from Oteslia. I do have a city to get back to—”
She smiled apologetically. She was a [Druid]. She had a home. Lyonette knew what that was like, but she wondered how long it would be until a proper school was built and funded.
