She didn’t take a weapon, but crouched down, hoping no one noticed. She heard the figure moving through the hallway again.
“—bad. I suppose they’re good for something. Hm. And what’s this, now?”
Lyonette peeked her head up and gasped in horror. She saw two figures sprawled out at the intruder’s feet.
Dalimont! Ushar!
Both Thronebearers were unconscious. They didn’t look hurt, but—
The figure bent its head down right in front of the arrow slit. Lyonette leapt back with a shout of horror. She saw the flicker of a face, turned—hesitated—
Her [Knights]! Did she run to the garden? No—the Order of Solstice.
“Intrud—”
Lyonette began to shout, but someone caught her arm. Somehow, the intruder had gotten past the hallway and behind her in an instant. She saw the secret entrance to the side rooms had been wrenched open, and the hooded figure stared down at her.
“Hmph. So that’s where the 6th Princess of Calanfer has got to. And this is the inn she talked up so much? The [Innkeeper] isn’t even here. You there. Be silent.”
Something had a hold of her arm. Lyonette stared up into a shadowed face and reached for her sword.
“Harm my people or me and the wrath of the Archmage of Izril will be on you.”
It was her best threat. The figure just sneered down at her.
“Please. If I wanted you dead, you’d be dead. Tell me—where is Ryoka Griffin’s room?”
For a second, Lyonette just stared up at the stranger. Then she shouted.
“Help!”
She drew her sword. It was aimed up when a bit of moonlight caught the figure’s face. Lyonette stared at a huge, wide, flat face.
Two rolling eyes, all white, with a black bead bouncing around in the middle of each spaced on either side of the head like a crocodile or a horse. The mouth was flat, wide; the creature had no nose. Just a wide, fabric head—
The [Princess] gaped in horror as the giant sock puppet’s mouth opened.
“Fool.”
Then it headbutted her. Lyonette sat down as the stars came out indoors. By the time Relc, Normen, and a sleepy Valeterisa crashed down the stairs and she could see again, the intruder was gone.
Ser Dalimont and Dame Ushar had only been put to sleep. Lyonette had no idea who or what that had been. A Cloth Golem…shaped like a giant sock?
All she knew was that she blamed Ryoka Griffin.
 
——
 
The next morning, Lyonette lay in as long as possible because her head and neck still hurt from being headbutted last night. She only got up when she remembered she had to meet with Liscor’s Council.
When she tried to walk downstairs, she found something new instead. Lyonette had stumbled out of her rooms and begun to walk for the stairs. Her room was literally next to the stairs, so after five steps and not reaching the stairs, she’d opened her eyes and seen…
A corridor. A long hallway stretching out and out and out. Lyonette’s eyes widened. Her breath caught, and she whirled—but her room was still there. She was still in the inn.
“A trick? An illusion? Palt—no. Erin.”
This had to be what Hexel had mentioned yesterday. Lyonette hesitated, then strode down the hallway. She thought she saw something familiar far, far away and realized this hallway was long.
After a few seconds, Lyonette began to jog. Then run. Then she got tired and jogged—but stopped when she saw the first message written on the wall in ink.
 
Adventurer’s Log. Month 16, Day 15, Year of 23 A.F. I have been marooned in this strange hallway for a day now, I believe…
 
Lyonette began walking. After a while she came across another message.
 
It would appear the hallway loops at times. There are windows, betimes, which I may glimpse the outside world thereof. But like the entrance to the World’s Eye Theatre, they correspond to no known window outside the inn, and I cannot open them…
 
Lyonette kept walking. More scrawls on the wall—she wondered how hard it was to get ink off wood.
 
My mind plays tricks on me. I long for sunlight once more on my fur.
 
She rolled her eyes. Then she finally got to one end of the corridor where a pile of white fur was propped against the staircase. A final message in ink was scrawled on the wall.
 
Adventurer’s Log, Unknown Month, Unknown Date, Unknown Year. This may be my final entry. My food has long since run out. To any who follow, I pray you have better luck than I. I bequeath my possessions to you, doomed adventurer, as I…
 
“Mrsha. Do you have to write on the walls? Even for a new Skill, someone has to clean it up.”
The ‘dead body’ was sticking out her tongue and lying on the ground. She’d even drawn an outline around herself in ink. Mrsha opened one eye, then popped to her feet. Lyonette read her notecard with a sigh.
“Let’s see what the excuse is. ‘I’m adding ambiance to…’. Very funny, young lady. We had a break-in last night, you know. I’m not in the mood. Did you activate the Skill?”
Mrsha followed Lyonette downstairs, writing urgently.
Break-in? What break-in? I just found this hallway when I woke up! Sammial says he ran into it when we were playing hide-and-seek. He was in there for ten minutes, then he got scared and ran out. Erin’s new Skill, right?
“Hm. Most likely. It’s not very useful to me, but according to Hexel, the hallways can split and branch. Even between floors. I don’t know who it was, Mrsha. But we’re taking precautions.”
Indeed, this morning, Dalimont and Ushar were doubling all their wards, and they’d even persuaded Valeterisa to inspect the premises. However, the real security Lyonette wanted offered her a rare problem.
“I can’t go back to work in the same way, Lyonette. Of course, I’ll look out for an intruder. But Rheirgest has my attention. After that, setting up a keep somewhere.”
Normen looked up from breakfast, and Lyonette’s heart sank.
“I don’t want you to go back to being a guard, Normen! Not at all! But if you’d just stay with the inn? For a week or two? I have another issue I need to take care of.”
Ser Normen put down a cup of coffee and gave Lyonette a frown. He half-touched the mace at his side, then nodded to her.
“Ser Dalimont had a word with me last night, Lyonette. If something attacks the inn, I will, of course, defend it. But it occurs to me that Erin warned me this moment might come. I cannot be your [Knight]. No more than I can pledge the Order of Solstice to fight mysterious foes who command nature. It seems to me that if these fellows saved the children, they deserve to be heard out before being confronted.”
Mrsha and Nanette spun around in their seats, and Lyonette groaned a second before Nanette burst out.
“You wanted to send the Order of Solstice against Hethon’s friends?”
“Just as insurance! Don’t take that tone with me, Miss Nanette. They might be quite useful if, um—”
“They use fire! You can’t—Normen, they’re good people! Lyonette doesn’t know what she’s talking about. In fact, if you went with us—”
An argument broke out at the table. Sammial and Hethon appeared and began banging on the table as well until Lyonette’s glower made even Normen decide breakfast would be better had in silence. However, his refusal to help her with the wand situation was now set in stone.
Lyonette had never been more glad to visit Liscor. At least Bird was acting normal; she had a plate of five eggs she was slowly eating one by one that morning when someone came stumbling into the inn.
“Bird?”
Numbtongue looked like he’d been out all night. He seemed, as he often did when Lyonette saw him, still intoxicated. The [Bard] had stubble on his chin, and Lyonette guessed it was Salkis. Again. It was either Salkis, Garia, or Octavia, but the latter of the lot had been less often in his company.
“Numbtongue, guess who’s come back? That is Bird, by the way.”
“Bird?”
The Hobgoblin stared at Bird. He stared at Bird’s new body. He stared at Bird’s feminine parts. Then at Bird’s open arms for a hug.
“This is silly. I’m going on a run with Garia. Delivering something.”
He shook his head. He let Bird hug him and patted her on the back. Then turned. He went for his rooms, and Lyonette’s brows rose.
“As you are? Without a disguise?”
“Why not?”
The Hobgoblin shot Lyonette a challenging glare from the stairs. The [Princess] opened her mouth, then threw up her hands. He vanished upstairs, and she wondered if he’d even seen the damn garden.
She didn’t tell him. Bird stared thoughtfully at Numbtongue, then turned to Lyonette.
“Is he often out having the sexes with the people he knows?”
“…That sums up my understanding of his activities, yes, Bird. And the drinkings and the foods.”
Bird nodded to herself.
“That is stupid and a waste of his time. Unless it levels him up, in which case only his class is stupid. I am going out to train. Mrsha, you may help me if you wish. I have heard of a William Tell, and I am sure it will level up either my class or your [Survivor] one.”
Mrsha got out of her seat until Rose grabbed her—at least someone was being useful today. Lyonette headed out of the inn and went to Liscor.
 
——
 
Thus began a day that revolved around a notion that Lyonette had never conceived of as being important, much less a kind of relevancy for her understanding of political and social dynamics. Today was a day that revolved around…
Chairs.
Seats.
Butt cushions. Whatever you wanted to call them, chairs were a peculiar thing. You took many for granted, but the moment you sat in a hard-backed chair that decided your rear end was in need of new bruises, it became a problem.
A good chair should be seen and not felt. A great chair could undo the fatigue of a day. Lyonette was no chair aficionado, even in the inn. She had custom-made Drake chairs with the backrest swept to the side so Drake’s tail could exit, but they were wood and serviceable.
But like thrones…well, she’d sat on the Eternal Thrones, just to feel what it was like, and her parents had lovely thrones. With cushions and back support. Some [Kings] and [Queens] lacked those, and that was a terrible thing for them to have to sit in day in, day out.
However, the first chair she sat in was…uncomfortable. It was wood, flat-backed, with a tail-gap, but no curve for the buttocks. It wasn’t an affront, but it made you uncomfortable. You didn’t want to sit in this chair long.
Liscor’s Council had chairs set around one of their rooms so they could face and surround the people petitioning them. It was a good setup; they looked down on the person in the center of the room, and they had the high ground and tables for papers and whatnot.
Of course, in this case, Lyonette was known to the Council, so the first thing Lism did after she’d been admitted was notice the chair.
“Ancestors, that’s the chair we have for the obnoxious people we don’t like. Anyone got a pillow?”
One was tossed at Lyonette by Elirr, and she gratefully inserted it under her backside. She nodded at Lism and got a nod back.
Strange how old enemies became allies, if not friends. Ser Dalimont stood next to her as Lyonette spoke.
“Thank you for hearing me so fast, Councilmembers. Can we resolve this Rheirgest situation?”
Lism drummed his claws on the table. It was just five of them today. Alonna, Raekea, Lism, Elirr, and Krshia.
Jeiss was…and the other two weren’t always welcome. Lism replied shortly.
“Yes and no. The protestors camped out there. Overnight. Someone—and I blame the old Council or Selys’ friends—has given them some money. Some—a lot, rather—are just civilians who don’t want another undead in Liscor. I can’t blame them, Lyonette. We’re hearing you out, as we said after the public forum, to give you a chance to speak.”
“About…what? The land was paid for. Rheirgest have a right to settle.”
“But not a right to use undead to farm. Which is what we hear they want to do.”
Alonna sighed. She was nursing a cup of tea, and the Council looked tired. Lyonette had some sympathies, but she gave Krshia a meaningful look. The Gnoll took that as cue to speak.
“Hrr. It’s not you, no, Lyonette. It’s…fear. I did not survive Az’kerash at Liscor. Many have. Pisces has proven his undead can be good, yes? It is why Rheirgest wasn’t run out instantly, I think. But after the Solstice—”
“They’re capable [Necromancers]. I can bring their leader here and show you what they have. Have you heard of Writs of Sealing? Death-words?”
Lyonette had prepared for this encounter, of course. She ran the Council through what she’d learned, and Alonna looked interested, Elirr relieved. The oldest member of the group nodded several times.
“That would be excellent to have a copy of that list of words in the Watch, Lyonette. But still. Unregulated undead? I know, I know, they have protections, but think of it how Liscorians feel. We had a Greater Zombie attacking people on the road just yesterday, and I’m only shocked we didn’t get someone from the Adventurer’s Guild here already. You know who.”
He grimaced, and Lism took a sip from a cup of coffee with a wince. Lyonette thought she knew who that was and had little sympathy for Selys, but the Council’s words made her frown.
“Rheirgest has to use undead. It’s their specialty.”
Alonna fiddled with a quill.
“Not…around Liscor. It just doesn’t seem feasible on our side, Lyonette. Say we allow it. Any person who sees the undead who isn’t in the know will panic and shout for the Watch. We announce it to the city, and you might get ten times that many people protesting the [Necromancers].”
“But they’re…good [Necromancers]. Not that we’ve had many bad ones. Any! There’s a precedent for this in other nations, you know, Lism. Rhir? What about Khelt?”
The Council mulled it over. Lism just scratched at his neck.
“It’s an ugly thing to push past Liscorians. Can’t they just…farm or do what they want without necromancy?”
“They want to cut bones off the Bone Giant. Which will reduce it as a threat and, I think, make everyone safer.”
“Ah. Right. Elirr’s cats are out of the bag either way.”
Elirr complained loudly.
“I don’t put my cats in a bag! This is slander, and I don’t know why Erin started saying that!”
Lyonette frowned. She looked to Dalimont for help. The Thronebearer thought and leaned over.
“Your Highness. What if we offered Liscor a mulligan?”
“We can’t offer the Council that, Dalimont! That would look shockingly bad for the elections—”
“Er, no, Your Highness. Rather…this is a Drake city. You know how they are. It may not be in vogue now, but I’m sure if there was ever a time, there would be something on the books. In regards to [Necromancers]?”
