Lyonette was involved with the financial shenanigans, of course, but she was still wrapping her head around this part. Admittedly, even Yelroan found it fascinating and new. He adjusted his sunglasses, and they flashed—golden.
“Very close. In this case, Veills was only too happy to not shoulder the risk of the Prelons. We also contracted another [Merchant], a [Supply Chain Master] Etola, to do the actual distribution. She thinks we’re trying to get into the Prelon market and is only too happy to do our work to skim a good chunk of the profits for being the one doing the work. In a sense, this is a highly suboptimal use of our gold. Not that either [Merchant] cares. We might actually lose gold on this transaction, Lyonette. As much as 11% of our stake.”
“Dead gods. How horrible. And the rest comes back to us…”
“…Along with two very happy [Merchants]. They’ll even hold our gold in escrow—a separate account at the Merchant’s Guild for this kind of large business transaction. If we want to try again in a week’s time? The second Prelon harvest of the new year will be up for grabs, and we could try a bigger chunk. Put more money into the account as well just to cover more expenses.”
Lyonette and Yelroan considered losing so much of their Prelon investments. Lyonette folded her hands together.
“And all this is being done under Trader Lllenetta’s name. Vast sums of gold—and, ah—remotely trading goods and sending money across Izril we shall never see.”
Yelroan nodded happily.
“Unless you want some Prelons, in which case I’m sure we can arrange for some to get to Liscor. It’s much like what I did at Plain’s Eye; there were so many subtribes that I never saw the things they did, I only accounted for the money, their income, and trading. But this…this is bigger. I had a vague idea of how to set a system like this up, and Rose had some interesting concepts from her world.”
He nodded at a Human girl, the only Earther in the inn, who was making something with a few Goblins like Picker and Sticks. They were goofing off, and Rose tried to hide a very crudely made…golden sword behind her back. But it was so heavy she could barely lift it.
“It’s Wall Street all over again! Stock markets suck! I’m only helping because this is really cool!”
She shouted somewhat guiltily at Lyonette and Yelroan. Since neither one had context for Rose’s complaints, they went back to looking at Yelroan’s map.
“Marwsh is just one of countless locations we can do this to. With the Runner’s Guild and a few aliases, we can ‘waste’ money in other ventures and have it waiting for us. Or even turn a profit. Invest in a thousand properties and products and it’s very, very hard to tell where the money came from. It’s the Golden Triangle, in a sense. Only, we actually have real gold.”
Lyonette had been nodding at this, but that last comment drew her up. She bit her lip, and Mrsha sat up on her golden throne and gave Lyonette a slightly alarmed look.
“But it’s not, is it, Yelroan? I mean, obviously, having wealth is good.”
Lyonette stared at more gold coins than The Wandering Inn had ever made in its entire existence—more gold than any Gold-rank team might have ever had, come to it. Maybe not Named-rank teams; they sometimes found things worth the ransom of nations.
But still. This was enough to make someone nobility. Enough gold to live off of, each and every person in the inn, for the rest of their lives. A mind-boggling amount of gold.
Could it be a bad thing? Lyonette looked at Yelroan, reminded of the Golden Triangle scam.
“We’re not hurting anyone by buying Prelons in Marwsh, are we? No one’s going to be impoverished if we spend this?”
The [Mathematician] took the question seriously. It had kept him up several nights, but he regarded this all as a fascinating case study of when his mathematical models and ideas got to be put into action. What happened if you did inject a hundred thousand gold coins into this equation? He shook his head after a moment.
“Even if we kept the box running nonstop, we couldn’t affect the world economy, Lyonette. At most, it’ll be the effect of another Chalence or major dungeon being conquered. We could do more damage if we funneled it all around locally. As it is—we should be going under most sensors, even the Eyes of Pallass. If you want to start spending money, well, that’s when someone will notice we’re rich. Think of it like this: you could harm people if you bought those Prelons and they didn’t get to the markets expecting them. You can ruin local market value by overspending.”
Lyonette nodded, wishing her fingers didn’t tingle and her heart didn’t beat faster at the implications of his words. Gold was power. It was…her eyes lingered on a little box sitting at the top of the pile of gold, spitting out a gold coin every four seconds at a lazy pace. Yelroan’s eyes lingered on it too.
“Assuming this is real, and it has, by now, entered many Merchant’s Guilds across Izril—think of it like this, Lyonette. A new nation has appeared in the world. A kingdom’s worth of wealth. You cannot see it, but it exists. It manipulates economies with its own finances, and that has a real effect in the world. I can see it, even without my eyes. It exists in the numbers. We are that kingdom.”
Of all the things to say, he knew how to make Lyonette smile. She turned and kissed him lightly on the forehead. The Gnoll blushed, but Lyonette gazed at the infinite wealth before her. Then she took a huge breath, felt at her tied back hair, and let it down a bit.
“Well. In that case, I had better find something to spend it all on, hadn’t I?”
Yelroan, Rose, Peggy, Mrsha, Nanette, and even a half-buried Ser Dalimont, trying to rescue one of the Goblins who’d gotten stuck in another Goldalanche, staring into the sea of gold like someone hypnotized, all looked at each other a moment as Lyonette smiled. They all shared the same thought:
Maybe all this gold wasn’t that good for a growing [Princess]. 
But then, time would tell.
 
——
 
It was time for breakfast; she’d have to have some sent around for the staff in the garden. Lyonette walked out of the garden and into the second floor of the inn, musing to herself.
“I wonder what I should buy first for the inn. Maybe I should take a look around Liscor or Invrisil today and think—wait, why think it over? It’s not like I’ll need to save up, and there’s always more gold where that came from. Ha. Ahaha. Ahahahaha—hehehehe—heeheeeheee—ahahuehueHAHAHAHA—”
Lyonette coughed as she left the garden.
“Strange. I’ve never heard that laugh.”
Dots, one of the Antinium Workers, gave Lyonette a strange look as she passed by, and she smiled at him, flushing slightly.
Today was too important to stay in the [Garden of Sanctuary]. It was the fifteenth day since the gold operation had begun, and the day Yelroan had marked as ‘initial testing period’. Which basically meant seeing if anyone screamed ‘fake, fake!’ when they were using the gold to buy and sell things.
However, it was also the day that the Rheirgest villagers reached Liscor. They had been a bit delayed due to the melting snow, but it was good they were getting here. The winter was ending swiftly, and Lyonette remembered the rains.
Most importantly of all, though? Today was the day Bird came back. The Free Antinium had sent word his body had finished being created, and the Free Queen had tested it for errors and found none.
Which was very encouraging? Lyonette had had Calescent bake a huge cake in the shape of a bird, and they had a party planned with their few guests. She had big plans for the future.
So did everyone else, which worried Lyonette slightly. A girl padded out behind Lyonette and held up a card.
Mother. May I have a horse?
Lyonette glanced at Mrsha’s card and sighed as Nanette innocently popped out of the door behind them. All three were careful not to show anything too overtly golden around the Veltras lot or some of their other guests. Colfa knew, but even Octavia, Numbtongue, Valeterisa, Relc, and the other regular guests had no idea.
Some probably knew there was something going on, like Saliss and Valeterisa, but all they knew was that The Wandering Inn had wealth, not where from. As for Octavia and Numbtongue—neither one was present in the inn long enough. Octavia was either working for Saliss or on a camping trip or something with Numbtongue, who was just…
Lyonette sighed and directed her attention back to Mrsha.
“Firstly, it’s a pony, Mrsha, not a horse. And no, you may not. Why? You don’t even like horses.”
Mrsha exchanged a look with Nanette and scribbled. Lyonette peeked over the card and saw Mrsha cross a word out.
Jousting I would like a beast of burden to convey me at great distance and haul myself and my friends around.
“No. We have means, Mrsha, but we will use our funds on very important, good works.”
“Like…?”
Nanette frowned, and Lyonette clapped her hands together excitedly.
“Why, proper education for Mrsha and you, Nanette! The school is all very well, but we can afford a private [Tutor] and even magical instruction for you two. A wardrobe of clothes—proper alchemical products for your hair. I’m sure Gnolls take better care of their hair than the occasional comb. Plumbing for the inn, some good books, a few paintings—a bathhouse with running water, imagine!”
Mrsha and Nanette exchanged a look as Lyonette envisioned all the things they’d buy. Nanette raised a hand.
“And a Battle Golem.”
“Yes, and a Battle—what?”
The young girl had let her hair down instead of braiding it today; she was trying out new looks, and today, it seemed, Nanette had tried to self-style her hair. It hadn’t quite worked, but it was good enough for the young witch’s tastes. Lyonette saw Mrsha had adopted a t-shirt and loose pants today, which was progress. The problem was what the t-shirt said.
I Survived Liscor Hunted. 
Lyonette hadn’t even known that Menolit’s company made shirts for children. She would have to have a word with Mrsha about taste in fashion.
“A Battle Golem, Miss Marquin. And a wand with Tier 5 spells in it. We can afford both, surely.”
For a moment, the <Quest> of this morning rang in Lyonette’s head, but she was sure someone else would have brought it up if they’d gotten it. She stared at Nanette. Half-shook her head.
“That’s far too dangerous and noticeable, Nanette. Leave the purchasing to me. No pony. No Battle Golems. Can’t we all have a nice, relaxing breakfast this morning? It’s a big day. Bird’s coming.”
“He is? Why didn’t you say so?”
Mrsha and Nanette instantly changed direction, as Lyonette had expected them to. The [Princess] smiled briefly.
“I wasn’t sure, but last night, a Worker said the Free Queen had ‘approved his condition’, whatever that means. He might arrive over breakfast, so why don’t we shower—Mrsha, you have gold and mud in your fur—and greet him at our best?”
The two girls ran off to do just that, although Lyonette distinctly heard Nanette speaking to Mrsha.
“Just wait till Bird gets here. He’ll help us buy what we need. Like a catapult. And I bet we can help Hethon’s friends with all the gold—”
Hethon’s ‘friends’. The mention of the Dryad seed wand put a scowl on Lyonette’s face. She’d woken, twice, with a hand made of wood trying to open the dresser where the wand was sealed and caught Sammial in her rooms once; Mrsha thrice.
“We have to do something about all these issues, Dalimont. Once the Order of Solstice gets here…that’s first thing once Normen—Ser Normen—is available. Second is Hexel. I, ah…believe the inn is an even greater priority than before. Third, recruitment. How does my schedule look?”
Ser Dalimont knocked a gold coin out of his armor and coughed.
“Fairly acceptable, Your Highness. Breakfast. Architect Hexel will be meeting you directly afterwards. Bird is due to arrive sometime today but we do not know when; Rheirgest should be around midday if their progress is as expected. All this snow bogged them down, so they will be wet and in need of food; Calescent has appropriately spiced soup ready for them. Ser Normen will be available in the evening if all goes well, pending which you have a meeting with Druid Shassa Weaverweb about Miss Mrsha’s scholarly progress. Dinner is as yet undetermined, but Bird’s cake is ready, and your schedule is clear after that.”
“Excellent. That’s not bad at all.”
Normally, Lyonette dealt with such matters herself, but Dalimont and Ushar had been stepping up to start managing her tasks. It was her mother’s doing—Ielane du Marquin had told Lyonette to hire a staff, and she was in the process of doing just that. In truth, Lyonette feared there might be another Maran and Safry incident, but she knew the inn needed staffing.
It needed protection. Thus, Lyonette headed downstairs to begin using some of the prodigious amounts of gold she’d made. A hill’s worth. More gold than you thought. More gold than anyone in Liscor had, she was sure.
More gold than Ilvriss! More gold than Ilvriss’ family, maybe! More gold than lesser nations! Ha. HAHAHAHA—
Ahem. Lyonette fanned herself as she sat down at the breakfast table. Mrsha and Nanette sat down, and they stared at a plate of warm bagels, some jam, cream cheese, fruits, and other toppings, like half-a-day-old sausage.
They stared at Lyonette. She sighed at the rather rudimentary fare herself, but Calescent had been working nonstop to prepare for Rheirgest’s arrival. Without Goblins working in the inn, they were understaffed.
“What? This is a perfectly acceptable breakfast. Ser Dalimont, won’t you sit?”
The Thronebearers normally insisted on standing lookout, but it was lonely without Numbtongue—who was never around—or the usual guests. That would soon change with Bird, of course, but even Valeterisa and Relc weren’t here this morning. Ser Dalimont hesitated.
“Er—as you will, Your Highness. Thank you for the repast.”
Mother. I would like a Wyvern steak. I know we have some, and I am a growing girl who needs food to live.
Mrsha eyed the kitchen, and Lyonette scolded her.
“Mrsha, this is a fine meal! Those Wyvern steaks are almost all gone—you can’t waste money we don’t have—”
She hesitated. Nanette, Mrsha, and even Dalimont paused and stared at her. Lyonette reconfigured her mouth.
“You shouldn’t waste money, Mrsha.”
Is it a waste if it is in my stomach, Mother? Quid est untum verito.
Mrsha wrote, and Lyonette stared at the second part in the mage’s language of what Rose called Latin. She was fairly certain Mrsha had just made it up.
“It is a waste of m—it’ll make you spoiled. Who has steaks for breakfast?”
Gnolls, Mother. Are you denying me my heritage?
