 
She left the cell of the fifth column blank. Mrsha tried again, switching from her first target of Ylawes to Falene, then Dawil. She repeated the entry.
“Mrsha. Do you do this every day?”
She half-nodded. Apista buzzed around her and surprised the heck out of a City Runner, who yelped and nearly leapt into a snowdrift. Garia Strongheart swore, then grinned.
“Apista! Mrsha, you scared me! Is it my daily check in? Have you, uh, seen Numbtongue around?”
Mrsha scribbled on a notecard as Garia kept running. The Gnoll girl didn’t take long; she just gave Garia some highlights. Asked how things were.
“Oh, just another run to Remendia. I swear, I don’t know how Ryoka did it back in the day. She’s fast, but she was guzzling stamina potions. I might go further afield after this. Or swing by the inn if anything’s happening! Is my mother still hanging around with the Archmage?”
Mrsha nodded. Garia sighed, and Mrsha cut the call. She moved on. Next…sometimes she did things alphabetically. Sometimes not.
She didn’t spend too much time on any one call. She had too many entries to get to. After a while, Mrsha realized Bird had sat down and was watching her.
Every single day, Mrsha checked in on The Wandering Inn’s guests. Not all of them. Not the ones in Liscor or the ones she couldn’t reach, like Erin. But the rest?
Someone had to. Every day, Mrsha wrote a little word in the box on the right. And if she didn’t know, she went up the hill into the mists. She was so preoccupied with her job that she only turned around when Fetohep had flickered into view. She wrote ‘dead, but okay’, in the box, same as always, and saw something new.
Water was leaking from around Bird’s eyes. They glimmered, and a droplet ran down the Antinium’s smooth face, dripping off a mandible.
“I asked her to make crying easier.”
Bird’s voice didn’t shake or wobble like other people’s did. But when Mrsha saw that, she went over and gave Bird a hug. Apista had already landed on Bird’s head. The Antinium pulled Mrsha up and gently embraced her.
“I am sorry I said stupid things. I am only a Bird. Of course you can do things that matter so much.”
Like a dreamer waking, Bird’s head slowly rose as Mrsha nuzzled her cheek against Bird’s face. Then Bird stared around the inn, and Mrsha heard a strange sound from Bird’s chest.
“I am hungry. What am I doing? I should have at least bought food for my Workers in the Hive. And there are many guests I did not meet. Is Menolit around? Where is Selys? I did not see her yesterday.”
Mrsha giggled in relief, then sighed. She began to write a long explanation as Bird picked her up, but her heart lifted, despite the sadness about Selys.
Bird hummed as they walked back into the inn, and the first thing she said was—
“We must have cake for breakfast, Mrsha. It is only right. Then you can explain why there is gold all over. Then I will do something silly. And then…I can train in the evenings. Right?”
Right. For once, Ser Dalimont didn’t even argue, but brought two big slices of cake out. Bird waved at Calescent, and the [Chef] came out and sat down with them. Then Mrsha saw Bird smile and begin to sing.
“Oh, it is a day for cake. Like every day. We would never have it if Lyonette had her way. But I am Bird, and so I say: it is cake day today.”
Then, at last, things were right, no matter what Bird looked like, and Mrsha relaxed. There. Without Erin and Ulvama—someone had to take care of all these silly people. She reached for a fork and wondered how soon Bird would get on board her plan to buy an Adventure Room for The Wandering Inn.
Then she wondered which new people her mother might bring back to the inn and who else she’d have to add to that painful list. She hoped she’d never have to expand it or write a different word in that little column on the right. But the list of names made up pieces of her heart.
Growing up was so complex indeed.
 
——
 
Lyonette was still drunk an hour after the round of toasts, but given that she’d taken down at least six shots of brandy in quick succession, Ushar was amazed the [Princess] was upright.
“Your Highness has a tolerance for drinks. That’s the Marquin liver for you.”
“Ushar. Is that true?”
Lyonette walked somewhat unsteadily out of the bar with Jack and Ace leading the way. Ushar raised her brows.
“It’s a staple of the line of Marquin all the way back to Marquin the Radiant herself.”
“…I would have preferred some other signifier of royalty. But I’ll take it.”
Lyonette sobered up faster in the cold air. The Brothers weren’t in that desolate a district, and while there might be unsavory sorts around, one look at the men with hats meant they weren’t going anywhere near this lot.
Indeed, they were quite convivial around Lyonette, if adamant they wouldn’t join the inn. She was maudlin about it, but she at least had access to their friendship, which was a significant thing.
One of the things it did, for instance, was get her in touch with an information broker of a different sort than Fierre’s. Fierre did gossip, news, intrigue. There were experts in…other fields.
Like people. Missing, alive, or if you paid enough money, you could arrange for any number of statuses to be appended to their condition.
Lyonette was surprised it was a woman with a gap-toothed grin who sat behind a fortune teller’s stand two streets over.
“Are ye looking for someone, Princess Marquin?”
“Yes, thank you. You’re Crookfingers?”
The woman held up a hand and shrugged. Her fingers were only slightly crooked, but she grinned.
“Honored to meet you. May I ask who you’re about? If it’s someone important, news might be hard to come by. I’m mostly Izrilian. Then again, if you want to sell information, I can make that work.”
Lyonette snorted lightly.
“Buy is all I want to do, today. I’m looking for a Drake. She goes by the name of Tessa. Her alias is—”
“Shriekblade?”
Crookfingers’ brows rose, and Jack and Ace glanced at Lyonette with real interest. Lyonette nodded.
“The very same. She was at our inn and ran away—”
“Oh, I know all about that. Let’s see. Five and a half sticks should do all I need for. That’s whereabouts, condition, the lot. Just for you.”
Crookfingers did a fast calculation. From the way Ushar and Jack grimaced, this was not actually a good deal.
“Sticks?”
“A marker for larger sums, Your Highness. Each gang has some.”
Jack broke out five lacquered sticks with what looked like gemstone particles crushed into the handle with glue and then a half-stick. Crookfingers swept them into her dress in an instant.
“Shriekblade’s at Tenbault.”
“I knew it.”
Lyonette groaned. Ushar gave Crookfingers a severe look.
“I hope you have more than that, Miss.”
The [Information Broker] looked insulted.
“More? A’course I do. She’s on the tear of drug tears. Out of her mind with it. My informant knows a thing or two about it, and they say she’s taken enough to kill an ordinary [Assassin]. Healer of Tenbault or no, she’s in bad shape. Mind you, the Healer’s why she’s alive. Seems like she’s doing all kinds of dirty work for the Healer. Not just guard duty like Crowdcaller Merdon. She’s even taken monster contracts like an adventurer—but guess who the coin goes back to?”
Lyonette was getting angrier and angrier with each second, and the remaining alcohol in her veins was turning to fire. She leaned over the fortune teller’s stall.
“The Healer? Why would she do that?”
“Well, aside from the healing, it’s hard to cost more than a Named-rank’s worth. ‘Specially since you’re apparently easy to drug up when you just get healed by the Healer. Rich folks will come down bad on something, then have her heal them up so they can do it again. Stands to reason Shriekblade’s doing the same.”
Crookfingers’ voice was too patient. She read off a list of notes.
“Lessee here. Well, Merdon is making her do all the heavy work, but maybe the lad’s swamped. There are more riots these days; the Healer’s doubled prices. She’s also raised how many people she heals per day. Almost like something’s got her spooked, eh?”
Valeterisa. The Archmage of Izril had let some very interesting things slip now and then, especially to Nanette. She had a bunch of projects in the works. Lyonette’s eyes narrowed further.
“So she’s acting as security while drugged out of her mind? How’s she doing? Mentally? Is she eating?”
That threw Crookfingers.
“Mentally? Like, uh, someone taking an egg and kicking it in a game of football, I’d guess. Eating? She’s looking thin, but she’s still wicked as a razor. Named-ranks are until the second they drop dead.”
Lyonette could just picture it. Tessa sometimes forgot to eat, and she would sit in the rafters or obsessively get into a funk. Her on drugs? Drugs far worse than Shardele had ever touched?
What was this Healer doing? Lyonette spoke, for once not considering the impact of what happened next.
“Can you get a message to her? Do you have people in the area?”
“Do I have people in—”
Crookfingers looked at the two Brothers and then at Lyonette, insulted. She spoke like she was talking to a girl.
“Yes, Your Highness. Plenty. You want a message on Shriekblade’s desk in the morning? I can’t promise it’ll be read, and we have to wait till she’s out of the room, but I can do it.”
Lyonette almost said ‘yes’, but she had a good idea of how well that would work. She half-shook her head.
“Can you bring her back? To Invrisil, I mean.”
Crookfingers twitched at that.
“You want me to kidnap a Named-rank?”
“No. Just bring her back.”
The broker sucked on her teeth hard and gave the two Brothers a look. Jack was counting his sticks in his pocket, and Ace muttered something to Ushar. She muttered something back and handed him her bag of holding. He stared into it, then nudged Jack and began pulling sticks out of his pockets.
Crookfingers noticed all that and turned to Lyonette with a smile, but a slightly apprehensive one.
“I’m not saying it can’t be done. But I’m not a Roshal. You ask me something that big and I’ll want lots of protection. For myself, you understand? Let alone you. Not just in sticks. That kind of thing is a favor owed, and that’s a big thing with us.”
“I’d caution against, Miss Lyonette.”
Ace interrupted, and Lyonette chewed on her lip.
“She’d probably attack, anyways. But this Healer is letting Tessa go wild? Do I have that right?”
“Seems like the only thing she’s got on Shriekblade, yeah.”
Lyonette’s eyes flashed.
“Then…can you get a message on her desk?”
Kevin had met the Healer of Tenbault briefly. Rags and the Goblins? Longer. None of them had a particularly good impression of her, especially Calescent, who looked depressed each time it was brought up. Crookfingers’ eyes lit up.
“Now there’s a challenge. It’ll cost you more’n even Shriekblade. She’s got Merdon around her, and she’ll kick up an unholy fuss if she gets a note she don’t like. That puts my people in danger. But say I can and you’re good for it. What does it say?”
When Lyonette paused, Crookfingers added.
“Y’gotta tell me, anyways. No sense writing it down; I have to communicate it to my people. Let’s be honest which secret’s which, right?”
“No, it’s fine. I was just composing my thoughts.”
Lyonette gave the other woman a thin smile. She didn’t like Crookfingers, but the woman was apparently the best in her ‘business’, so Lyonette spoke as Crookfingers produced a magical quill that dictated her words.
“Put this on the Healer’s desk. ‘Return Shriekblade. Do not let her take any more drugs. Do not enable her suffering. Let her go home and stop healing her and using her to make money. If you do not, I will personally call Symphony down on your head, you wretched pile of pus. You worthless peon—Magnolia Reinhart won’t protect you. If Shriekblade isn’t out of Tenbault by the end of the week, tell Merdon to get reinforcements’.”
Halfway through her message, Crookfingers’ mouth fell open, and Jack and Ace twisted around to stare at Lyonette, Jack with an increasing look of delight.
“I—you—what? I can’t write that!”
Crookfingers blustered, nervous now, and Lyonette loomed over her. She reached into her bag of holding and slapped something down.
“Yes, you will. And you’ll put a notice out.”
“To whom?”
“To the gangs. To anyone. Any broker—if they touch Tessa, if anyone gets a smart idea or sells her anything, they can look forwards to this.”
The woman took a look at what Lyonette had slapped down and then blanched. She picked up a signed card with two fingers, grabbed a stone from her shawl, passed it over the front; when the plain, cream-colored parchment blazed with a network of colors, she dropped it.
“Dead gods! How do you have one of these?”
It was a card signed by none other than the Maestro of Symphony himself. It was a simple little note to Erin. A 50% discount on their services.
“Guess. Now, this card means I get half off. I’ll pay full price. I’ll pay full price several times if I have to. Tell your other contacts that. No one sells anything to Tessa. I’m going to write a letter to her. I want you to put it on her desk every day until she reads it. And the one I sent to the Healer.”
“You want me to threaten Izril’s most beloved [Healer]? Listen, Princess, people talk! That’s not worth the coin you can pay me!”
Now, the woman was looking really worried, and she tried to push herself back from the stall. Lyonette reached into the stall and grabbed her.
“Do it! Or I’ll be calling Symphony tonight!”
“You can’t threaten me!”
“I am threatening you.”
Jack, Ace, and Ushar were trying to pull Lyonette back. She shouted at the woman, who gaped at her, fingers clasped around Lyonette’s hands. The [Princess] was having a rotten day. She kicked the stall, shouting as they dragged her off.
“On her desk tomorrow, Crookfingers! My hat on it! Every hat in Invrisil on it! Put a dead rat on the Healer’s desk! With a bloody dagger through its heart. You think I’m joking? If anyone keeps poisoning Tessa, I’ll hire another assassin group! I am the consequences…!”
 
——
 
A few minutes later, Lyonette finally let them stop dragging her away, got to her feet, and brushed her clothes off. Her cheeks had stopped flushing scarlet, and she nodded at Jack and Ace.
“I think that convinced her I’m serious, don’t you? Dame Ushar will cover all your costs, gentlemen. Rest assured, we are good for it.”
Jack gave her a look of astonishment. One second, the [Princess] was ready to breathe fire, the next, she was sipping from a tonic for her throat her [Knight] had given her.
“Wait, was that an act, Miss?”
