Ace interrupted, and the heads nodded. Lyonette gave him a grateful nod.
“I…we…are in need of some assistance. And you are the best we know of. The bravest. Your brothers in Liscor—”
“Fools they were. Brave fools. The fellows that lived are a right mess. I can’t say the Brothers do that sort of thing, Miss Lyonette. Certainly, we’d never order it.”
John put in calmly, and Lyonette met his eyes.
“But you do every time. That’s why Erin trusted you.”
The plain-faced man shifted and looked away from her as if scorched. Lyonette glanced around, and the Brothers turned their heads, coughed, reached for a cup, fanned their faces with hats—as if she were the scary one.
As if she made them uncomfortable. Here she was, and if they were bad men, Lyonette would have been terrified despite Ushar and her artifacts. She knew they ran protection rackets and murdered. But she wanted them.
Yet. Jack let the silence grow as he glanced at the bar.
“If you’re willing, let’s have a drink for Alcaz, Miss. I know it’s a rather rough drink, if you’ll pardon us, but we don’t have anything refined…”
“Oh, no, I’m quite fine.”
Lyonette lied. She hadn’t actually drunk a brandy she could really remember. Maybe at a party when she’d snuck drinks? But she remembered Alcaz liking the stuff when he worked as a bartender on long nights. She missed him.
They all poured a drink, and Lyonette watched them knock down a double shot and did likewise. It was strong stuff, and she saw Ushar wince, but she put her cup down.
“I can’t promise you that it will be—easy. I know the Brothers’ specialties. I am simply asking if anyone—any chapter—is willing to oblige me. They might…I am looking for…”
She paused. The drink wasn’t what made the world spin. She swallowed hard.
“I am looking for a Crimshaw. Another Alcaz.”
The word provoked glances around the room. One of the Brothers was leaning over a billiards table—they must have had one made and brought it down here—and he stared at Lyonette until she glanced over, and he looked down.
“A fine fellow. The finest of the lot.”
Jack said after a while. He cleared his throat, and for some reason, all three men looked at each other. At last, Jack spoke slowly, and Lyonette’s senses told her something was off.
“I can certainly put in a few fellows, Miss Marquin. We can certainly do. I—if you don’t mind my asking, would those fellows have a chance to apply for the Order of Solstice? Or is this an exclusive sort of deal?”
Ace was glancing at Jack, and John was netting his fingers together. They glanced at her, and Lyonette saw Ushar’s eyes tighten. She hadn’t taken more than a sip; Lyonette colored as she suddenly realized something.
Oh no. She spoke hesitantly, following a hunch.
“I—wouldn’t stop any of them from hoping to become a [Knight]. And another Normen would be a fine fellow as well. But he doesn’t fit in the inn, does he?”
Jack refilled his glass and sipped. He did it for Lyonette, and she reflexively took a gulp. Ace’s brows rose.
“Any man might want to be such a fine fellow, Your Highness.”
“…Does the hope of being that fine fellow mean you’d send Brothers to my inn? Or are you afraid that if you refuse, I won’t recommend anyone for the Order of Solstice?”
Lyonette lowered her cup, and her gaze was direct. Jack met her eyes and ran a finger across a thin mustache.
“—Nary a thought would cross our minds, Princess.”
She nodded, sighing hard.
“The Order of Solstice has nothing to do with The Wandering Inn for recruitment, Jack. If none of you come to work for us—Ser Normen won’t take my orders for who should be a [Knight]. He is the Grandmaster of the Order of Solstice. Not me. Nor even Erin herself.”
The three leaders of Invrisil’s Brothers exchanged a look of hidden relief, and Lyonette tossed down the second double shot. She gave them a sad smile.
“I think the number of applicants suddenly dried up, am I right?”
Jack had the good grace to chuckle and look embarrassed.
“With respect, Your Highness…a fellow thinks in twisted ways, sometimes. May I be so forthright as a fellow like me is? I can’t think of how to say it fancier.”
Lyonette sighed.
“My dear Jack. You are the fanciest fellows I’ve ever known, and Calanfer’s courts look shamefully boring compared to you. Be plain as you like.”
He grinned at that, and he had a lot of his teeth left. Then he sombered.
“Well, thank you. I’ll cherish that compliment under my hat. The truth is, we’re not of a mind to join up, Princess. It’s not just the good fellows who’ve gone. It happens. The truth is…we’re not the right sort for the inn. We don’t defend. We go out. We don’t scrap with monsters. We scrap with people like us.”
He got nods not just from Ace and John, but from around the room. A depressed [Princess] reached out for the brandy and refilled the glass.
“But what if I told you that you were the best—the best men I could think of? No one else can walk into the inn and tell me their group and let me trust them.”
Jack’s voice was soft, hurt, and pleased all at once. He gave Lyonette a long stare.
“That’s part of it, Miss Lyonette. Part of it. You’ve met fine men wearing our hats and names. I’d hate for you to meet anyone less. Sometimes you shine a coin up, and my, how it sparkles. Some of us you rub on and it sticks to you.”
That was a refusal outright. The [Princess] took a third gulp of her drink and stood.
“Well then, I insist you at least let me toast Alcaz again. And if I may be so bold, as it were, I could use a tiny bit of help with at least one associate? Please?”
They stood and took a cup in hand.
“Friendship we can do, Miss Marquin.”
John sounded relieved as they clinked glasses. Lyonette gave them a watery smile.
“But then where am I supposed to meet men as fine as this company?”
They laughed at that as if she’d told the best joke in the world.
 
——
 
Mrsha decided yesterday had been a good day after all. She’d been happy about yesterday. Bird came back, even if he—she was different than Mrsha expected. Rheirgest’s villagers were sort of fun.
9/10 day on the basis of those two things. Minus a point for people in Liscor being horrible. Minus a half point for not being allowed to use all the gold in an exciting way. Plus one for the Order of Solstice coming back in one piece. Plus one for a cake.
Minus twenty since Erin and Ryoka were gone and they weren’t the same. Minus a hundred billion because Moore was…and Halrac…
Minus five because Numbtongue was still being a dinkus, a new word Rose had taught Mrsha.
Plus zero point two for Rose being a poor Gnoll’s Kevin.
Minus a billion because Kevin was dead.
On the whole, a better-than-average day. The numbers didn’t lie; Yelroan sometimes taught Mrsha math, or attempted to, and she was learning it in school. She reckoned if she divided everything by zero it was all a wash.
She was just glad Bird was back. Now she had an older sister. Funny how life worked out. Two older sisters if Nanette counted. They were sort of like roommates, no matter what Lyonette said about Nanette being a second daughter.
However, today was shaping up to start out as a real 6/10 day. Plus one for the funny [Long Hallways] and Lyonette might do some good out there, which would boost the score, but Mrsha was perplexed.
Because…Bird was back. But Bird wasn’t Bird.
She was still out there, shooting arrows in the snow. Not in her tower or singing silly songs or chasing Mrsha around. Normally, she’d do that, especially if she were back from the dead. True, it hadn’t happened before, but Mrsha felt this was the kind of thing Bird would do.
Instead, Mrsha had to bundle up and waddle into the snow to find Bird pulling arrows out of a bunch of snow-targets she’d made. A few Antinium were watching; they ran off when Mrsha stared at them.
Bird was topless. That was to say, she only had a loincloth on, but it became a bit more inappropriate given her new form. She had a slightly ant-like butt, Mrsha realized. The Antinium was so intent on her target practice she only saw Mrsha scribbling.
“Oh, hello, Mrsha. Good morning to you. Are you being a mischievous scamp today?”
Morning, Bird. Why aren’t you in your tower being fun? Want to play tag?
Bird read the card and lowered her mandibles, another odd sign.
“I am training. I have lost ten levels, Mrsha. You go and have fun. I must learn the most economical way to shoot arrows with two arms. I suppose the Free Queen is right; it is hard to even get to maximum draw without using my new strength.”
She flexed her arms, and Mrsha raised her paws. Bird obligingly picked Mrsha up. Then she turned and threw Mrsha through the air.
I regret this! Mrsha howled in a panic, and Ser Dalimont broke into a run.
Rittane, emerging from her covered wagon with her parents, looked up as a flying Gnoll passed over a hill and a Thronebearer charged after the Gnoll.
 
——
 
Mrsha was still wiping snow out of her face when she returned, rubbing at her back. Bird was indeed stronger. The Antinium fired another arrow, then paused.
“Hm. It doesn’t curve right because it’s too fast. I must shoot from further away.”
Do you also have better eyes?
“Yes. I do not have all of Klbkch’s upgrades because the Silent Queen has more resources and everyone worked on him, but the Free Queen says I am the most advanced Antinium since they arrived on Izril. Apparently, I am derived from Klbkch’s form, which the Silent Queen had worked on for ages. Because she is obsessed with him.”
Why’s that? She liiikes him?
Mrsha saw Bird glance down at her.
“Apparently.”
Oh.
The Gnoll girl stood there, wiping snow off her face as Bird went back to target practice. There it was again, that sense of wrongness. It wasn’t the funny, unpleasant feeling Mrsha got when she saw Erin on the scrying orb. This was still Bird. But Bird was different.
Helplessly, Mrsha looked at Dalimont. Nanette wasn’t here; she had gone to the [Witches] in Riverfarm to check on Alevica. That was her school as well. Dalimont paused, then handed Mrsha a flask filled with hot milk and honey. Mrsha sipped it and gave him a thumbs up.
“May I offer you refreshments, Bird?”
“No thank you, Dalimont.”
Apista buzzed down as Mrsha drank and watched Bird. The bee was lazy in winter and sulking because she wasn’t allowed to follow Lyonette into cities. She landed on Mrsha’s head, and Mrsha let her have some milk. After a while, Mrsha wrote on her card.
Bird. Why are you so serious? I thought you’d want to hang out with your favorite little sister. Numbtongue’s grumpy all day and only wants to hang out with his lady friends. Are you going to be nasty and busy all the time?
Bird came back from getting her arrows again and looked down at the card. She stared at Mrsha’s worried expression and patted Mrsha on the head.
“I will not be nasty. But I will be training, Mrsha. You go have fun. This is what Mrshas should do.”
But not Birds? Birds are the masters of having fun.
Bird sighed.
“It is true. But you know, Mrsha…you have seen Erin in the scrying orb, yes? I watched while I was recovering.”
Duh.
“Then you have seen Erin’s new fighting Skill. And heard her.”
She’s weird and won’t talk to us. I don’t like it.
The Antinium leaned on her bow and stared at a half-destroyed snow target.
“…Neither do I. But I understand. She is training. I am taking my lessons from her. She must feel she needs to be stronger. I know I must be. Mrsha. If I had been better with my bow, maybe Halrac would not have died.”
Mrsha inhaled sharply. Her paw stopped; it was cold, and she blew on her mittens, then used her wand to make the quill dance about. But what to say? She saw Bird’s arms were shaking a bit as she leaned on her bow. Then she understood.
Bird hadn’t been there for the funerals. Or the month it had taken to…
Have you seen his grave?
“Yes. It is a very nice grave. I wish they had not needed to be made. So you see, Mrsha—”
Bird’s shoulders rose, and she lifted the bow again.
“—I do not have time to be silly.”
Ser Dalimont was giving Bird a look of feeling. Mrsha was too, but she hugged Apista, and her feelings were different.
But if you’re not the Bird I know, then I’ll be sad.
“If you die, I’ll be so sad I won’t be able to come back, Mrsha. I have made my choice.”
Slowly, the Chitrx metal bow rose. Bird sighted down it, and it thudded through the air. She paused, and her voice was frustrated.
“I do not understand how to get better. I will think. Can you make arrows…do [Sword Arts]? How do you shoot an arrow…?”
Mrsha was still standing there as Bird loosed seven more arrows, then glanced down. The [Bird Hunter] paused, then whirled abruptly. Mrsha followed her, and Bird spoke, staring down at her hands.
“…There was once a boy. Playing baseball or doing something silly. The boy is gone, Mrsha. I promised to protect Erin. This is what getting old is like. It is something I swore would never happen, but it became something I wanted. That is the scariest thing of all. Please go inside and be happy.”
She gave Mrsha a slightly desperate look, and Mrsha shook her head. She felt at Bird’s arm, then tugged on her shoulder.
You’re all cold. Shooting arrows all morning will just make you sick. There’s more to Bird than just shooting arrows. I won’t go in until you do something fun.
“Mrsha. I will rest and do what I must to relax. I am not a silly Ksmvr or Yvlon. But this is something I can do. You are small. You can run around.”
Bird was not trying to be hurtful, but Mrsha’s eyes narrowed a bit, and she punched Bird in the arm. Ow. She rubbed her paw.
You think so? Silly Bird. I can do important things too. You’re not the only person who can change. Come with me. Or do you think Erin was strong because she went out and swung her frying pan every morning a hundred thousand times?
That worked. Bird stopped and then knelt in the snow for a good half a minute. Abruptly, she straightened.
“Let me get my arrows. And I remind you that Erin has a silly class.”
Then she followed Mrsha and witnessed what the little Gnoll did in between her school, her friends, and laundering millions of gold pieces. For what could a silly, little Mrsha do?
 
——
 
Mrsha had asked that question too. She had asked it after nights when she woke up and hugged Nanette in tears or curled up by the fire or just sat by the graves. Every day, she did three important things.
