Seeing her confusion, Lord Husband’s Aura turned to panic as he stammered, “I mean... I uh... dumped all this work and responsibility on you and then just ran away, which was pretty irresponsible of me even though you were already doing most of this stuff while I was in a coma. I haven’t even properly compensated you for your increased workload, though I have no idea what you would even want. You’ve earned a fair amount of coin from the work we do, but I don’t think I’ve ever seen you spend money on yourself, so I doubt more money would change anything.” Lord Husband was rambling now and he knew it, but for all his prodigious talents, his ability to spew rhetoric was sorely lacking. “Anyways, I just wanted to know if you were happy with what you’re doing, and if there’s anything I can do to thank you for all your hard work.” Turning beet red as he averted his eyes, he continued, “I can’t... you know... marry you as a reward, not that I’m saying marrying me is a reward, but that’s just not something I can do for the sake of a debt, you know? I’m not even sure why you would want to marry me, and I would like to say again that you aren’t uh... you know... my... possession in that sort of way, and that you’re free to do whatever you want. But um... yea. You don’t need to even answer me right now. Take some time and think it through, then get back to me whenever, okay? Great. Good talk. Rakky! Come on, let’s go for a walkie. You can’t be lazy all the time.”

Approaching the tiger so quickly he was almost mauled for his trouble, Lord Husband ran from Luo-Luo like a startled rabbit, but she would not let him escape so easily. Following at a slow and steady pace, she reined in her smile and moved so that he could see her watching him work. After leaving him to sweat beneath her scrutiny for long, delicious seconds while the tiger refused to get up, Luo-Luo sighed and shook her head to catch his attention. “Lord Husband,” she began, her tone serious as the grave even as her smile threatened to break free. “From a young age, I was raised to be an Imperial Servant. Back then, my teachers all told me that my greatest prospect was to become the companion and concubine of a powerful noble, to bear his children and carry on his noble and illustrious line. This was a sacred duty all female Imperial Servants aspired to, for in doing so, we would ensure the longevity of an outstanding bloodline whose descendants could continue to serve the Empire for generations to come. Thus, when my Patron presented me to you as your concubine, I believed it was my duty to lie with you and bear your children, while any love between us would merely be a pleasant bonus.”

“Yea, I figured as much.” Offering her what he likely believed was a supportive smile, she didn’t even need to feel his Aura to know his feelings were conflicted, for even though he had no desire to force her into his bed, no man wanted to hear that a woman was only interested in him due to obligation.

A good thing Luo-Luo was not yet finished. “You refused my advances, but I continued to persist in my efforts to win you over even after you made it clear that you needed time. I did this because I grew impatient and worried I would lose my place at your side, and thus fail at my most sacred of duties.” Cheeks colouring at the memory of her brazen attempts to entice him into her bed and the humiliating memory of being interrupted by the Abbot, Luo-Luo powered through the embarrassment and continued, “However, I eventually came to realize that you saw me differently. Where other men lusted after my beauty and saw me as a trophy to collect and conquer, you took stock of my abilities and put me to work. I helped manage your finances and grow your business endeavours, offered political advice you quickly forgot and taught lessons on etiquette you promptly ignored. Within a year, you saw fit to give me even more responsibilities and soon had me managing all your financial and political affairs, and even saw fit to have me train as a Martial Warrior. Now, I am a woman who has fought the Enemy and who serves as your Secretary of Office, someone authorized to speak with your voice as Legate and thus, in theory, the second most powerful official in all the outer provinces.”

Collecting an errant George who’d escaped from the wagon to resume cuddling with Rakshasa, Luo-Luo hugged the fluffy bunny to her chest and hid her face in his fur, unable to say the next words while looking Lord Husband in the eyes. “From the beginning, you have treated me as more than an Imperial Servant, more than a concubine, more than even a woman. You saw me as a person and helped me find my own place in the world, for which the depths of my gratitude knows no bounds. You speak of offering me compensation, but I have yet to repay you for showing me I possess value beyond my beauty and womb, and for this, I will support you from now until the day I die, but that is not why I yearn to marry you. Somewhere along the line, and for a vast array of reasons, I fell in love with you, and as such, I mean to become your wife, your concubine, or even just your woman without official title or holding, for no reason other than because you are a magnificent man who has stolen my heart.” Mustering all her courage, she straightened up and looked him in the eye as best she could, though in truth, she only managed to fixate on the space between his brows. “I have never failed to achieve a goal I set out for myself. I say this not to brag, but rather as a statement of fact, because if you will not have me in this life, then I will wait until the next and pray for better success there. Even if you toss me aside and order me away out of sight, I, Zheng Luo, will love you until my dying day.”

With that said, her courage was spent and she fled before his disbelieving gaze, but stopped short of actually leaving the courtyard once she realized there was still work to be discussed on their way to rescue Lin-Lin, mostly regarding ongoing military preparations for the oncoming offensive, a gambit the Commander General firmly opposed. Clearing her throat, Luo-Luo willed her cheeks to stop burning without any success and returned to stand behind Lord Husband, where she pretended like their conversation never happened, a farce he was more than happy to play along with. Though their journey was filled with stilted conversation and awkward silences until they united with Lin-Lin and the others once more, Luo-Luo was still glad she’d found the courage to speak her heart.

For she could tell from his stolen glances and conflicted Aura that Lord Husband was not entirely untouched by her affections, nor was he completely immune to her charms. These next few weeks belonged to Lin-Lin, and Luo-Luo would not do anything to step on the sweet girl’s toes, but someday soon, she intended to resume her pursuit of Lord Husband and find a place for herself in his heart, even if it meant sneaking her way into his bed once more.

Hopefully before the Abbot wholly recovered from his injuries, though with her luck, he’d return just in time to interrupt her next brazen attempt to seduce Lord Husband...

Chapter Meme
