Clearly Mother-in-Law Sarnai was pleased with Luo-Luo’s work, as well she should be since she’d given so much input into the process. Rain’s weddings with Mila and Yan had been grand affairs, but both happy occasions had been shrouded in a thin veneer of gloom due to his ailing health, so it was understandable for Mother-in-Law Sarnai to want this next wedding to be a joyous affair. Not only was Lord Husband stronger than ever, he also had the love of the people and the superficial support of the nobles, as they could no longer afford to openly oppose him. What’s more, now that the concept of transferable debt was widely accepted in the form of War Bonds, Luo-Luo was able to pay for the wedding using promissory papers stamped by the Office of Finance, officially documented debt Lord Husband so cleverly deemed Treasury Notes which the merchants were more than happy to accept. To take full advantage of this, Luo-Luo spared no expense to turn this wedding into an extravagant affair, one which would provide a much needed boost to the Citadel’s local economy as well as to the morale of all those who took part in the proceedings.

And to soothe Lin-Lin and Lord Husband over, Luo-Luo made sure to include a few surprises that would delight them both, such as arranging thematic costumes for all the animals to wear as they marched in the parade and having them seated prominently on stage rather than tucked away in a corner like in previous banquets. So what if the nobles felt that their honour had been slighted by being seated beneath beasts? To Lin-Lin and Lord Husband, the animals were family first and pets second, meaning they were far more welcome company than most of their wedding guests.

Poor Lin-Lin pouted and objected until Yan, Mila, and Li-Li emerged from their rooms and made clear that they were also accompanying her to the seamstress for their own fittings, though they only had three dresses each to try on. Lord Husband also needed to be fitted for his suits, but in the interest of his personal security, Luo-Luo had arranged for the seamstress to come to the manor and measure him there, which he accepted with only minimal grumbling. With Mother-in-Law Sarnai escorting the girls and the rest of the family slated to arrive on the day of the wedding alongside the majority of their northern guests, Luo-Luo was left to accompany Lord Husband on her own so that they could discuss matters of his Office once the seamstress was done. However, from the moment he removed his shirt and revealed his chiselled physique, Luo-Luo’s ability to form whole sentences abandoned her as it became apparent the seamstress had her work cut out for her. It was difficult to tell from over his armour and baggy clothes, but Lord Husband had filled out quite a bit since the last time Luo-Luo saw him, and she could scarcely tear her eyes away from his broad shoulders and sinewy muscles. All of Lord Husband’s outfits would need adjusting in the days to come, for he now possessed the muscular physique of a Warrior in his prime, so lean and svelte yet brimming with strength and vitality it seemed as if he’d been sculpted by the Mother Herself, a far cry from his formerly gaunt and angular self and a sight which set Luo-Luo’s hands to itching.

Oh how she yearned to trade places with the seamstress so that she might touch those firm muscles or run her fingers over his washboard abs...

It wasn’t until after the seamstress left and Lord Husband put his shirt back on that Luo-Luo finally collected her wits about her again, though his dazzling smile kept a good portion of said wits away. “You’ve worked wonders here in my absence,” he said, reaching out to squeeze her arm ever so briefly, and her knees threatened to give out beneath her. “I’m not just talking about the wedding either. The Citadel is a marvel to behold, and it’s amazing how quickly the construction has progressed, especially in light of all the opposition. Did you ever figure out who was responsible for buying up so much property?”

“Unfortunately, no.” Much like Treasury Bonds, Lord Husband’s promissory notes needed to be registered with the civil office each time they were exchanged, a feature Luo-Luo intended to use to ferret out the shadowy merchant syndicate who placed profit before all else. Their efforts to drive up the price of real estate had fallen through here in Central thanks to the widespread destruction of the outer districts, but the identities of the parties responsible remained a mystery. “I’d hoped that they might reveal themselves to claim their remuneration for their properties that would soon sit underwater, but alas, they were too clever to act so openly and sold their holdings to various noble families who then claimed the promissory notes in their stead.”

“A shame, but not entirely unexpected.” Shrugging, Lord Husband moved on to other topics and caught her up on matters up north, where Marshal Yuzhen was still grappling with the shadowy syndicate using a combination of clever tactics. A general land tax, vacant land tax, and a tax deductible for any and all land-owners who were renting properties at or below set market rate, one which Marshal Yuzhen herself decided upon, these were but some of Lord Husband’s ideas that they put to good use, but alas, all they could do was slow the rate at which property increased in value. Knowing who their opponents were would make all their lives much easier since they would then know who to target, but even MuYang was unable to uncover those responsible for these greedy schemes.

“How has it been working with the Commander General?”

In response to his innocuous question, Luo-Luo offered glowing praises out loud while speaking the truth through Sending, a skill that was as easy as playing two accompanying melodies at once. “He is a difficult man to read, and I am uncertain of his base motivations,” she sent, while speaking of his wisdom out loud. “There are times when I expect resistance and he gives way without any opposition, and matters which I feel are beneath his notice which he fights tooth and nail to deny me. The Citadel expansion plan for example. Liu Xuande insisted on keeping the avenues as wide and direct as possible for the sake of troop and supply movements, but the Commander General keeps insisting we return to the previous style of winding roads and dead end streets, using Brigadier Chen Hongji’s superlative defence as his key argument.”

“Well, he’s not wrong.” Shrugging, Lord Husband Sent, “Xuande’s proposal will work on paper, but the problem is the streets will remain open until we have need to lock them down. Unless we dedicate significant reserve forces to holding strategic choke points at all times, it’s highly possible for an Enemy force to break through and make their way past several layers of defence in one concentrated push. Personally, I still think Xuande’s approach is better, but you can’t say the previous layout wasn’t effective. He’s a soldier first, and a veteran one at that, which means he values tried and true tactics over new, experimental endeavours.”

Devastated by his lack of support, Luo-Luo stifled a sigh and asked, “Then you think we should go with the Commander General’s suggestion?”

“No, we just need to show him that Xuande’s plan will work. Invite the Commander General out to one of the training facilities and arrange for an exhibition, with a retinue of his choosing posing as the attackers while Irregulars hold down the defences. If the civilian forces can hold out long enough for army reinforcements to arrive, then it’ll prove to Shuai Jiao that we won’t need to devote too many Martial Warriors to guarding choke points and he’ll be more open to alternative tactics.”

A diplomatic solution that no one could argue against, but even then, Luo-Luo could not rest easy. Perhaps she was just being short-sighted regarding the Commander General’s motivations, but her gut instinct told her there was something off about the man. Shuai Jiao was a political animal like none other, a man who could turn a phrase and twist the interpretation until day turned into night and night into day, a wilier foe than any Luo-Luo had ever faced, but she could not for the life of her understand his motivations. He wasn’t self-serving like so many other nobles, nor was he as altruistic as he would have the public believe, but that was as far as Luo-Luo could read him. For what reason did he pursue glory and power? Upon what criteria did he choose his allies and enemies? Which category did the Commander General place Lord Husband within? Was this man friend, foe, or something else entirely?

“Lord Husband,” Luo-Luo began, unsure if she should share her thoughts on Shuai Jiao without any proof, but his attentive gaze and supportive Aura gave her the courage to Send her warning. “Be wary of the Commander General. His goals might run parallel to your own, but I fear he might not see it as such. It is subtle, but it appears his Disciple Yong-Jin is being painted as your greatest rival, and MuYang tells me that the young man has yet to showcase the full extent of his talents.”

“Oh? In what way is he my rival?”

“There are stirrings abound that hint the Commander General is seeking supporters for a cause that is yet to be unveiled, but aside from raising Yong-Jin’s status in the eyes of the people, I cannot offer a second guess.” Too scared to even Send this next part, she chose her words carefully. “Remember what role Yong-Jin was initially meant to play, for it is possible the Commander General has not yet abandoned this particular ambition.”

Thankfully Lord Husband understood her meaning without need for further clarification, or at least he appeared to. After refusing to work under Shen ZhenWu, the presumed heir to the Empire made some sort of deal with Shuai Jiao to have Yong-Jin lead the younger generation, and while Lord Husband’s personal strength had long since outpaced his peers, this meant the general population no longer considered him a young talent. This meant there was now a vacancy for Yong-Jin to step in, and if something were to happen to Lord Husband after the fact, then Shuai Jiao and his Disciple would be firmly positioned to take control of the entire outer provinces. Not just due to strength alone, but because Lord Husband himself had approved Shuai Jiao’s position as Commander General by not taking it away, which others would see as endorsing the veteran Warrior as next-in-line for command.

And as much as Luo-Luo loathed directing suspicion onto a seemingly honourable man without even a hint of evidence, the pieces were all falling into place far too neatly for her liking.

“Understood,” he Sent, after a long pause to think matters through, but Luo-Luo was unsure how seriously he took her warning. Out loud, he asked, “Now, walk me through the details of the day in question.”

“Well the parade is self explanatory, and should last two hours in total.” Back on firmer ground, Luo-Luo launched into her well-practised reasoning. “After which we hold a service at the docks to honour the fallen, before recognizing and rewarding the heroes who fought for the Citadel. Here is the list that we’ve put together, but if you see anyone missing, now might be the last chance to add them without giving offence, as leaving it too late to inform them would result in a loss of face for both parties. Might I suggest...”

To his credit, Lord Husband listened intently and followed along even while playing with his pets, though he did interrupt her to ensure he found time to bathe the animals before the wedding. Just going through the schedule for the wedding day took the better part of three hours, at which point he suggested they go ‘rescue’ Lin-Lin and the others from the ‘icy clutches’ of the ‘joyless and judgmental seamstress’. Once the animals were all packed into their wagon, Lord Husband turned to the tiger before turning back to Luo-Luo with a strange look on his face, his Aura one of contrition and confusion that set Luo-Luo to stewing in anxiety. “Um,” he began, and her thoughts raced to determine what the worst case scenario might possibly be. He only wanted three wives, no more no less, and had no room for Luo-Luo in his life. No, he received an offer to sell Luo-Luo too tempting to refuse, and she would move out once the wedding was over. No, he didn’t trust her anymore and intended to send her away so she couldn’t report his movements to the Empire, not that she ever did. “Are you... happy?”

