Showered in waves of flower petals and coloured confetti, the golden wood carriage made its way through the northern gates to the sound of beating drums and the cheering crowd, and Luo-Luo’s heart swelled to see this genuine, fervent reception laid out for Lord Husband.

Considering his downright miraculous record of achievements and unbelievable levels of generosity, this level of acclaim was long past overdue, but Lord Husband’s disdain for fame, face, fortune, and reputation as well as his history of frailty and affliction made it difficult for the masses to wholeheartedly support him. Now, as he stood in full golden regalia on the roof of his carriage and waved to the crowd, Luo-Luo admired his complete transformation from afar. Gone was the gaunt, sickly, acne-riddled youth he’d been only a few months ago, and in his place was a fair-faced, clean shaven Warrior with a robust physique and flawless, jade-like complexion. His fine features haunted her dreams night after night during their long separation, and somehow he’d grown even more handsome in their time apart, looking the part of a regal and exotic Noble from lands afar.

It wasn’t just a superficial change of appearance either, though his tidy clothes, polished armour, styled hair, and flawless complexion did much to elevate his image. There was a marked change that revealed itself the more one studied him, for Lord Husband now held himself with a bold confidence and dignified poise that had previously been lacking. Luo-Luo could see it in the set of his shoulders as he accepted his accolades in front of the adoring crowd, his usual stiff inelegance of awkward embarrassment nowhere to be found, for he was now a man possessed with the brash boldness expected from someone of his high standing, yet lacking the haughty pride and distant disdain that incited wariness in the common masses. Then there was his smile, so bright and sincere it outshone even his dazzling armour as he greeted the crowd with his newly restored weapons sitting so naturally against him, more indisputable proof that he was a Martial Warrior once more. Yet another miracle to add to his long litany of accomplishments, most of which made him sound like a Warrior out of myth and legend on par with the First Emperor and the faithful companions whom he led to conquer the Azure Empire.

Oh how the people loved Falling Rain now, especially those who were present here in the Central Citadel during that fateful siege and saw how Lord Husband arrived at the head of an army of Experts to save them from Bai Qi’s formidable forces of Defiled, Demons, and Half-Demonic Warriors. The scene of their young Legate facing off against the traitor Colonel General was still fresh in everyone’s minds, a feat which firmly cemented Lord Husband’s place as not only the Number One young talent of the Empire, but as a rising dragon unlike any the world had ever before seen. Twenty two years young and arguably a Peak Expert already, this was a feat unmatched by anyone in history, and given the stories of how he’d single-handedly snatched victory from the jaws of defeat against Huanhuzi’s pirate fleet, there were even whispers that Lord Husband was fast approaching the limits of the Martial Path and destined to one day ascend to Divinity.

Not even the most talented Imperial Scions of the Eastern Province could match Lord Husband’s achievements, or at least none that Luo-Luo had heard of. Shen ZhenWu, the presumed heir to the throne whose talents earned him the title of ‘Divine True Warrior’, had become a Peak Expert at the age of twenty six, meaning Lord Husband’s potential even outstripped the most promising Warrior of the Imperial Clan. Such were Luo-Luo’s thoughts as Lord Husband hopped off the carriage and onto the stage, his warm smile radiating pure bliss as he greeted his mother with a hearty embrace. Such shows of affection were ‘unbecoming’ of a manly Warrior, but there were plenty in the crowd who appreciated his filial display, showing that even the Legate of the Outer Provinces was beholden to his mother. Luo-Luo herself found this trait of his rather endearing, to know that even with all his Martial talents, he was still a kind and doting man who valued family and relationships, though she would appreciate it more if he would direct some of his affections her way. Mother-in-Law Sarnai received a warm hug and wide smile, but all Luo-Luo warranted was a nod of the head, which sadly was still enough to set her cheeks to burning.

A man had no right to be so damned charming, with eyes so bright they made his polished golden armour seem dull and lifeless in comparison. Had he gotten taller? No, but he stood straighter and held his head up now, which made it so that his nose was no longer level with her chin and he could more easily look her in the eyes. His unwavering gaze held no burning desire, but there was a tender fondness and sentimental appreciation that she couldn’t remember ever seeing before, and her mind set to racing about all the implications.

Thankfully, sweet Mafu made his way onto stage just in time to keep Luo-Luo from making a fool of herself, abandoning his post at the pet wagon and interrupting the welcoming ceremony to deposit two, fuzzy quin pups in her arms. A proud father, this fattest of quins was, chittering as he rubbed his head against her arm and watched her coo and coddle the adorably curious pups.

Too curious it would seem, as one of the little darlings snagged poor Noodle when she poked her head out to say hello, but Lord Husband was quick to come to her rescue. “No,” he said firmly while putting his hand in front of the little pup’s fanged jaws, and the sweet fuzzy darling let go of the snake with the cutest, wide-eyed look of grievance Luo-Luo had ever seen. “Noodle is friend, not food. Isn’t that right my beauty?” Stroking the shocked serpent’s head, Lord Husband reached into his pouch and withdrew a tiny quail egg, one far smaller than the chicken eggs Noodle was now eating, though in his defence, the darling Emerald Viper had grown considerably in the last few months while still remaining slim and compact enough to hide in Luo-Luo’s sleeves. “Can I offer you an egg in this trying time?”

Chuckling as if he’d said something particularly clever, he beamed as Noodle graciously accepted his offer before turning his dazzling smile back to Luo-Luo and motioning for her to get on with the ceremony. Cursing herself for a fool, she shook off the notion of a more intimate reunion and raised her voice to welcome him before the crowd, handing over command to the Legate as was appropriate. The whole Citadel shook as they welcomed Lord Husband with such volume that they drowned out her Chi-enhanced voice, but Luo-Luo could hardly fault them for their enthusiasm. The people loved a young hero, and Lord Husband was a rising star brighter than any they’d ever seen before, so of course they were excited to see him again. Why would they not be? Lord Husband had shown them time and time again that he was the Mother’s Chosen Son, a man of many miracles sent here to lead them in the Eternal War against the Enemy.

That was the widespread sentiment at least, and over the past few weeks, his popularity had grown to such an extent that even the barest hint of negativity directed towards him was treated as blasphemy to the Heavens above, for the Mother’s Chosen Son could do no wrong. Alas, this level of admiration did not extend to his lovely wives trailing behind him, beautiful heroines one and all who deserved more than the crowds’ disapproval. In recent weeks, Luo-Luo had heard many a lamentation regarding Lord Husband’s love of ‘lowly’ half-beasts, for the people of Central were not so open-minded as the Bekhai when it came to matters of race. His upcoming marriage was a much anticipated event, but there was an underlying sentiment of dissatisfaction with his choice of brides and how his wives were ‘unsuitable’ for a man of his lofty status.

Hardly fair at all, considering Mila and Yan were heroes in their own right who deserved more than the derision of the masses. The Warrior women bore their burden well as they stood by Lord Husband’s side, though Luo-Luo lamented their lack of proper ceremonial attire. They would look oh so resplendent if adorned in golden armour to match Lord Husband’s own, or even the dark Khishig leathers Li-Li wore which were both stylish and serviceable, but alas, Mila and Yan arrived in casual travelling clothes, which made sense considering they only just arrived by ship. Despite their plain clothes, none could deny that they were both city-toppling beauties, and it was easy to see why Lord Husband was enamoured with them both. Flaunting her healthy, tanned skin in a loose long shirt that sat half off her shoulder, Mila carried her spear and shield with a casual grace that spoke volumes to her strength and confidence, while her faint freckles and fiery hair added a rarely seen splash of colour to her alluring features. Then there was Yan, who bucked so many norms with her short, boyish hair and manly choice of attire, a tight tunic and trousers that flaunted the womanly curves of her long legs and ample hips. Her flawless porcelain skin was envied by women all across the Empire, a feature augmented by the addition of a few subtle pieces of silver jewellery, accessories which were chosen to enhance her natural beauty rather than draw attention away from it.

Two vastly different women, yet none could deny their beauty, though some tried to spin it as a flaw and claim that the Legate was blinded by their exotic looks. As for the star of the trip, there was surprisingly little criticism directed towards sweet Lin-Lin, who was still nestled in Mother-in-Law Sarnai’s embrace and beaming from ear to ear as she whispered excitedly about something or the other. This was likely due to the fact that she was largely unknown to the general population, unlike Mila and Yan who’d been under heavy scrutiny to begin with for reasons which had little to do with Lord Husband. Mila was the daughter of the heroic Lieutenant General Akanai, who traded blows with the Traitor Bai Qi and emerged unscathed, while Yan was the Terminal Disciple and adopted granddaughter of the renowned Du Min Gyu. This alone was enough for Mila and Yan to both draw the ire of the noble elite, who deemed it necessary to disparage these potential rivals before their reputations grew too great to contest, and as far as Luo-Luo could tell, their efforts had borne fruit. While Mila had only one or two notable military engagements to boast of, Yan had proved her mettle time and time again, yet her accomplishments were largely overlooked by the masses in favour of more popular young Warriors like Yong Jin or Ryo Da’in, all because they were half-beasts who the public looked down upon.

To counter this with Lin-Lin, Luo-Luo had taken steps to preemptively raise the darling half-hare’s reputation, leaning heavily on her Medical Saint of a father and painting her as her father’s skilled student and Lord Husband’s more talented Junior Sister, but only in the realm of medicine. Time would tell if she would be accepted by the masses or denigrated like Yan and Mila, but Luo-Luo had high hopes for sweet Lin-Lin. There was something about the impish, honey-skinned half-hare that made it all but impossible to hate her, but whether it be her bright and cheery expression, her jovial, carefree mannerisms, or something else entirely, Luo-Luo was hard pressed to say. Her large eyes, rounded cheeks, and braided crown accentuated many of her girlish features while also showcasing her womanly charms, her beauty once again entirely different from Mila and Yan’s. Lin-Lin’s choice of clothing was of a similar conflicted nature, opting for a beautifully embroidered traditional, one-piece dress, a deep-blue silken affair that sat loosely about her slender frame and covered her from neck to ankle, with a number of not so minor modifications. Most notable was the removal of her sleeves which left her shoulders bare, likely done to offer her more freedom of movement when climbing trees, walls, and masts rather than out of any concern for fashion. For the same reasons, Lin-Lin also left the slits on both sides of her skirt unbuttoned all the way up to mid-thigh, while wearing tight-fitting trousers similar to Yan’s to avoid showing scandalous amounts of skin.

Add in her ever present white silk scarf and Luo-Luo had to admit that the end result was rather fetching, a light and breezy affair that lent much to Lin-Lin’s girlish charms. Already, the half-hare was winning over much of the crowd with her bright smile and forthright demeanour, especially with how close she appeared to Mother-in-Law Sarnai.

