Alas, even poor Li-Li wasn’t exempt from the public’s contempt, and in many ways, had it even worse than Mila and Yan. Half-cats were a common breed of slave here in Central, and there were many nasty rumours regarding her ‘true’ purpose in Lord Husband’s social circle, rumours Luo-Luo would not deign to repeat even in the privacy of her own mind. There was also more of the same regarding how Lord Husband was failing to ‘uphold his responsibility’ to wed a ‘proper’ wife who could bear his children and ensure the propagation of his noble bloodline. Never mind how this sentiment completely overlooked Luo-Luo’s existence and mirrored Lord Husband’s own indifference to her charms. What irked her the most was how these complaints were likely coming from the same people who criticized his ‘savage’ upbringing among ‘uncultured tribesmen’, individuals who once clamoured about how this and that made him unfit for the ‘lofty’ office of Legate. Silly to see how quickly opinion could shift, especially when the facts largely remained the same. Even if one were to ignore his staggering Martial achievements and admittedly significant health issues, it was clear that Lord Husband had always possessed a brilliant and ingenious mind, but to be fair, even Luo-Luo had underestimated how far his discerning intellect would bring him. The proof was evident in the Citadel itself, for despite having been present for the entire construction process, she found it difficult to believe they’d come so far in so short a time frame. Only the Bulwark and Eastern Walls were left standing in the wake of Bai Qi’s attack, which meant almost half of the Central Citadel had been razed to the ground, but now, not even two months later, the transformation was almost as staggering as Lord Husband’s own.

Gone were the western walls and districts obscuring the Bulwark itself, and in its place was a massive concrete basin that glimmered in the afternoon light. The sluice gates had yet to be opened so the basin would remain dry until then, but there was a beauty to the smooth, greyish, uniform material that captured many a heart and eye, one made all the more astonishing considering it’d been completed in less than two weeks. While this was largely made possible by Eccentric Gam’s Earth-Blessed efforts to help clear away the rubble and excavate the giant pit, the concrete pour had taken less than three days in total and showed everyone just how essential Lord Husband’s inventions would be in the years to come. While concrete and cast iron had been used extensively in the construction of the Citadels and the Western Wall, there’d been few witnesses present to see it in action, but now the entire population of the Central Citadel had borne witness to the marvels of Lord Husband’s newfangled technologies. The giant basin was only the beginning, as dame Cixi’s construction company put their experience to good use and put together a sprawling docks, raising bridge, and no less than four imposing concrete forts to overlook the defences. Without cast iron and concrete, such an endeavour could have taken years to complete, but instead, it’d all been completed in a two month time frame, and there was still more in the works. The Citadel proper was in the process of expanding to the north, south, and east, and again, concrete and cast iron played a prominent role in their construction. Dame Cixi even had architects and artisans working to incorporate both materials into the aesthetics of the Citadel, with elaborate cast iron fences, towering columns, and ornamental concrete arches aplenty.

The end result was a practical and economical construction effort that did not sacrifice any of the beauty and elegance the people of Central so craved. Dame Cixi had learned much from building the Districts and put it all to good use here in the Citadel, to the point where Luo-Luo was able to leave most of the decisions to her. Lord Husband truly had an eye for talent, and the once lowly merchant was now one of the richest women in Central, one plagued by a hoard of opportunistic dandies hoping to charm the widow into parting with some of her staggering wealth. Thankfully, the woman kept a level-head and had yet to succumb to anyone’s charms, a dependable ally and stalwart partner to be sure.

Dame Cixi was not solely responsible for the Citadel’s speedy construction, for the rest of the Spring and Autumn Consortium had contributed greatly to the cause. Following through on Lord Husband’s insightful suggestions, the brilliant but awkward Cao Cuo reorganized the Consortium’s entire production efforts to develop an ‘assembly line’ of various different goods and fabrications. Everything from bricks and bearings to wagons and ships were now being manufactured en masse through these divided efforts, with certain factories focusing on a few select products which would then be delivered to the next factory down the line for further assembly, resulting in an exponential boost to productivity in all manner of industries. According to their correspondences, young Cao Cuo was attempting to do the same with the entirety of the Northern Province’s infrastructure, but alas, unlike the Spring and Autumn Consortium, the powers of the North were resisting his attempts to streamline their manufacturing capabilities. Then there was Gwangjong who had become an endless font of ideas when it came to the possibilities of concrete, the most promising of which were his newly constructed concrete ships that remained buoyant despite their considerable weight. Not only were these stone vessels both quick and cheap to manufacture, they were also less susceptible to fire and sturdy enough to bear more passengers and heavy weapons of war such as Lord Husband’s bolt-throwers and catapults.

Three such cement ships were already sitting in the new harbour, their decks festooned with as much heavy weaponry as space would allow, and Luo-Luo was quick to point this out and more as she rode alongside Lord Husband on their lively tour through the Central Citadel, complete with crowds of civilians lining the streets to watch them pass. Though he undoubtedly wanted nothing more than to head home to remove his armour and wash up after the long boat ride over, Lord Husband showed none of his typical impatience as they moved through the wide, paved streets and took in the sights of the newly restored fortifications, asking questions that revealed the depths of his interest and vocal of his approval for all that Luo-Luo had wrought. He even stopped every now and then to accept laurels of flowers or respond to the crowd whenever he deemed it appropriate, all smiles and waves for the younger children craning their necks or sitting atop their parent’s shoulders for a better view of the proceedings. He had a seemingly endless supply of candied fruits to share with the children, as did the rest of his wives, though Luo-Luo noticed sweet Lin-Lin eating almost as much as she handed out to the crowd, though Mila ate more than her fair share while Li-Li gave a good amount away to the animals as well. There was still plenty to go around, and Luo-Luo suspected Lord Husband spent the last few days preparing all these treats for this very reason. A minor detail that would go unnoticed by most nobles and merchants, but his personal touch was clear as day to the parents in the crowd, most of whom were impoverished and understood the value of hard work.

It wasn’t much in the grand scheme of things, and Luo-Luo doubted Lord Husband had done this with any ulterior motives, but this was one of his many qualities that endeared him to the common man.

Their grand tour of the Citadel took over three hours in total, and might even have lasted longer had Luo-Luo not seen that Lin-Lin was fast reaching the end of her patience. The last thing anyone needed was for the bride-to-be to throw a tantrum in the days before her wedding, so Luo-Luo cut the tour short and brought everyone back to the manor to wash up and rest. Only then did she allow herself to relax and greet the rest of the animals while everyone else settled in, her heart soaring as she embraced these much beloved floofs. Though she missed them all dearly these past few weeks, it amazed her to see how much they missed her as well, especially sweet Baloo who refused to leave her side even for a second as he pressed his heavy flank against her leg as if to pin her in place. His heavy chortles and rumbling chest was a balm for the soul, and she felt her stress and anxieties just melting away as she kissed his head and massaged his chubby cheeks, all the while wondering how she survived for so many years without a friendly animal companion to love and cuddle. Having grown bold in their time apart, Noodle was off meeting new friends to mixed results, with the rabbits treating her like a threat while Ping Ping and the wildcats greeted her warmly, and Luo-Luo’s spirits soared to see the sweet snake coming out of her shell and truly becoming a part of the family.

Mother-in-Law Sarnai similarly indulged her ‘furry grandchildren’, as she was wont to call them, and for the next few minutes, the courtyard was filled with the sounds of happy animals and two grown women making fools of themselves, but Luo-Luo was too happy to care. It wasn’t until Lin-Lin returned and threw herself into Luo-Luo’s arms that she tore her attention away from the animals, embracing the half-hare with all her strength in reciprocity to this warm greeting. “Hi Luo-Luo,” Lin-Lin declared, her smile so wide her eyes were hidden within her cheeks. “I missed you.”

“And I you.” So delighted by the warm reunion, Luo-Luo refrained from saying anything about how Lin-Lin was still wearing the same clothes, which smelled of fish and sea water due to her love of hanging over the ship’s edge to watch the quins swim. “How are you feeling after the ship ride over? Tired? Hungry?”

“Nope. Fresh as a daisy and ready for anything. Let’s go to the market, ya?”

The poor, naive girl took the bait without blinking, and Luo-Luo’s heart ached to do this, but Lin-Lin was famed for her ability to fob off her responsibilities, and there was still much to do before the wedding. “Maybe tomorrow,” Luo-Luo said, knowing full well there would likely be no time at all in the busy days ahead, “But first, let us pay a visit to the seamstress for a fitting, so that we might see if any adjustments need to be made to your dresses.”

“Poop.” Knowing she’d been tricked, Lin-Lin pouted for all of a second before the full weight of Luo-Luo’s statement hit her. “Wait? Dresses? Like more than one? How many do I need?”

“Seven.” Which was already a compromise down from a full dozen Luo-Luo initially envisioned, but she could tell Lin-Lin was ready to throw one of her famous tantrums.

Thankfully, Mother-in-Law Sarnai came to the rescue, reaching over to gently pinch Lin-Lin’s soft and pliable cheek. “No complaining. Luo-Luo worked herself to the bone planning this wedding because you couldn’t be bothered to offer any input at all, so you will thank her for her efforts and go along with her arrangements.”

“But seven dresses? We’re only having one wedding, ya?”

Counting off her fingers as she listed the dresses, Luo-Luo explained it all in detail for the bride to be. “You need a dress for the parade, the reception, the tea ceremony, the wedding itself, and three more for the banquet so you can change every four courses to ward off bad luck. You also need to pick out which exact dresses you want to wear, though you will be limited to certain choices for each function. The wedding dress is of course the most important one, but you’ll also want to pay special attention to the parade dress, because that’s the one most people will see you wearing, since you’ll be riding through the entire Citadel in it. If there’s still time after our visit to the seamstress, we can go visit the jewellers to pick out your accessories, then the confectionery and the...”

The longer Luo-Luo went on, the lower Lin-Lin’s face fell, until she was pouting something fierce and all but laid out in the grass. “But Luo-Luo...”

“No buts, young lady.” Again, Mother-in-Law Sarnai saved Luo-Luo from caving into the sweet half-hare’s demands, though it clearly took an effort of will to countermand her adorably pitiful expression. “If you wanted less fuss, you should have replied in more detail to Luo-Luo’s letters instead of telling her to do ‘whatever’. You should be thanking her with all your heart instead of complaining, for this will be a splendid wedding unlike any ever before, and you only need to show up and look pretty.”

