Thankfully, any information network the secret societies might have in place would be slower than them teleporting across planets in under two seconds. Abusing the tethers like this, they were even faster than flying directly through chaotic space would have been, though the price for anyone that wasn’t Matt would have been crippling.

With Matt [Portal]ing them between tether cities and them fueling the cost of the jumps to the next world, they never even slowed for longer than it took to activate their overrides on the teleportation network.

Just four minutes and seven seconds and two hundred and thirteen jumps later, they arrived at Malvro.

Matt [Portal]ed them right above Marquess Galip’s estate and their guards immediately sprang into action, locking down the vicinity with formations and Domains alike, even as they backed it up with the island's own offensive prowess.

It was a good thing too, as Marquess Galip tried to flee the instant they appeared, but was caught inside the net of locked down space.

Instead of being smart and accepting his fate, he fled back into his castle and activated the wards, bringing his shields to bear.

Matt floated next to Liz on the edge of their island, which was still dripping water.

Her voice echoed across the entire planet as she proclaimed, “Marquess Galip, you are under arrest for suspicion of fomenting discontent against the Sophron Empire, as well as the charge of trying to reinstate the old dynasty. Surrender, and don’t make this harder for yourself then it has to be.”

Marquess Galip’s voice rang out even louder than Liz’s, though there was more than a hint of panic in his voice as he shouted, “Attacking a fellow noble is a declaration of war and it’s a crime to attack without a proper casus belli, let alone onto a lower-ranking noble. Have you no shame?!”

As his words ended, one of his courtyards exploded as a battery of massive mana cannons fired upward directly at their flying castle.

Matt reached out with a hand and froze the projectiles of glowing blue mana in its tracks.

It roiled and sparked as millions of mana tried to break free of his control, but they didn’t leave his containment field by even an inch.

Liz was opening her mouth to speak once more when half a dozen black armored Tier 30s rushed upward at them, weapons drawn and spells engaged.

Liz split into thirteen copies and engaged the attackers, careful not to kill them or let them kill themselves.

Aster, having been glaring at the castle below the entire time, grinned as she growled, “Got them.”

Below them, the castle, with its shields fully active, started to grow more and more blue when ice, before unseen and unfelt, started to claim the castle.

Then, in a move Aster had created after seeing Winter Hornet’s departure, the entire castle, sans people, vanished in a puff of icy mist as she pulled it all into her Tier 25 spirit space.

Chuckling evilly, Aster said, “I think I prevented most of the evidence from being destroyed. Everything is frozen solid at least.”

Now caught without defenses, the Marquess’ men, at least the smart ones, started surrendering en masse. More interesting were the ones like the black armored men who instead continued attacking.

Their own guards, having been warned and prepared for the castle to disappear, descended on the defenders in pairs, not afraid to use their higher cultivation as well as numbers to ensure safe captures.

That, however, didn’t stop several of the loyalists from trying to detonate their cores. One, a middle aged looking woman, managed it, but the blast was contained enough that only she died, while the others found their cultivation cores slowly filling with ice as Aster took control of the area around them more fully.

The Lizzes, fighting in perfect unison, exploded in golden ichor that made the guards stronger and weakened their enemies, allowing them to early overwhelm their Tier 30 opponents who instead of surrendering, kept fighting mindlessly.

The prize of the operation, Marquess Galip, never stopped trying to flee.

When his attempt to turtle up failed, he went downward, trying to use the planet itself as cover to escape.

With a few million mana, Matt hardened the planet's crust to something even a Tier 30 like Marquess Galip found impossible to break through in any reasonable amount of time, trapping him in a cocoon.

Interestingly, while he kept trying to break free, he never once tried to detonate his core. Seeing how fanatical some of his followers were, that surprised Matt.

Dragging the man to them, Matt kept him subdued while Aster wrapped him in ice before vanishing him.

Matt took over arresting everyone remaining, allowing Liz to split into a dozen copies of herself, then those dozen copies each split a dozen more times until there were hundreds of Lizzes.

Each Liz took off and flew to above the major population centers proclaiming martial law and commanding the non-critical people to remain home or at work for the next few hours.

Thankfully, unlike the last time they had to enact martial law, this planet's population was raised in the Empire, and so complied without much fuss.

Tholly was already digging into the Marquess’ personal data and had found several indicators and eventually concrete proof of his allegiances, as well as several of his co-conspirators. Best of all, he found the identities of several more members of the Society of Stagnation Nardo hadn’t known, or at least hadn’t given to them.

Duke Falion Whisper arrived just thirty five minutes later.

Matt half expected the man to bluster and object to their presence, but instead, he arrived with his own flying island and immediately offered an [AI] backed oath that he knew nothing of Marquess Galip and his proclivities.

He could be lying to cover his own ass, but with Imperial investigators shortly behind him, they were able to hand the clean up to them while they moved to go and hit their personal targets.

It would probably take decades for Marquess Galip’s webs and schemes to be untangled, but he was at least unable to keep supporting and championing the old dynasty’s banner further, weakening their non-existent grip on the Empire.

***

The moment Allie left, quiche in hand, Helen swept the restaurant with her spiritual perception to see her two protectors relaxing now that she had returned.

She had been prepared for so long. She had every step planned out and coordinated, having called in favors with all of the highest-Tier people looking to ascend so she could ensure she was there to leech some of the mystical energy.

But then, out of nowhere, Allison appeared telling her she had an ascension waiting for her.

All of Helen's plans, all of her preparation, were thrown out the window and she found her composure wanting.

Seeing the other children wasn’t too surprising, but warmed her heart still, but that just made it even harder to keep herself together. She didn’t do good things to be repaid, but it was always gratifying seeing her kindness returned, and they had given her the greatest gift.

Helen almost didn’t expect the Ascension to work, but as the last of the energies dissipated, she felt her Concept finally click back into place and the world pulse as her connection to the realm was finally restored.

Despite her original intentions, it was subtly different then her original Concept of family, but that was okay. Her definition of family had changed. Expanded.

And that was not just okay, but good.

It was then that it all became too much.

She needed to be alone and so begged off, despite it being incredibly rude.

The moment her protectors vacated the building and shielded it from prying eyes, Helen allowed herself to drop to the floor of her kitchen and curl up in a ball as she cried.

Millions of years of emotions finally, truly, given vent.

It was overwhelming.

It was painful.

It was cathartic.

With her Concept fixed, her son and husband were forever preserved with her, but at the same time, they were also truly, irrevocably gone.

Wiping her eyes hours later, she got herself together, ready for whatever came next.

But first, she needed to cook the children’s favorite meals as a thank you.
