After what felt like far too long, Nardo continued. “One day I was approached by a stunning woman, who pulled me out of my depression and encouraged me to join an academy and better myself. In a not surprising turn of events, she was a recruiter for the Keepers of The Golden Age, who then quickly recruited me, using my hatred to their own ends. I worked as their eyes, ears, and hands until I was then promoted into the upper middle ranks. Fighting the good fight and all that bollocks.”

Waving, he produced a paper that had words drawing themselves even as he looked at it. “Over the last tens of thousands of years, my anger has diminished until it was only embers, and then eventually even they faded into nothing, but I was still part of the society and I did its bidding. It's what I knew. It was also the chain holding me back.”

Barking a laugh, Nardo surprised them by smiling at Matt. “It was your reveal of the aura rifts that shattered my Concept, and in that, I saw my path forward. I needed to accept that, under the old system, I would have never even been allowed to start cultivating. If things had truly remained as they were, I would be long dead, having nothing to my name or anyone to remember who I was. You might be amused to know the society was pissed at the revelation, and from my understanding, there were even discussions at the highest level if they could take control of the method and only allow it to be used for their own ends. ‘How dare he release that to the commoners’ was a common curse for a while. Seeing you release something that could have either made you fabulously wealthy or ensure a lasting dynasty of your bloodline made me question everything I thought was right. It also made me realize that even if I don’t agree with everything that has happened, things are going in a good direction. Things are better now than when I was young. Better than the so-called golden years I yearned for.”

Looking back to the mansion, he finished quieter, “It was in that realization, in my rebuilding of my Concept, that I was able to form my Aspect. Over the few years of mediation and forming my Aspect, I have had to come face to face with a lot of things I never questioned and, frankly, I don’t like the answers I’ve reached.”

Pulling out a data crystal, he placed it on the table along with the paper he earlier conjured. “Since you are here, and the Circle of Ever Flame thought I was an easy target, I'm willing to help you before I go. Not like I’ll need to deal with the consequences of sharing this. I know you’ll suspect everything I’ve said, but I’m content with my actions. I don’t know if you all are right, but I’m willing to admit that I was wrong, so here is what I can do before I leave. Maybe it will help. Maybe not.”

Sensing that he was about to ascend, Aster spoke. “Wait.”

Nardo’s eyes hardened, but he didn’t start the process of ascension.

Aster turned to Allie and said two words. “Aunt Helen.”

Nardo looked surprised, but said nothing, just fiddling with the paper he had left behind, even as Allie vanished, leaving them all to sit in an uncomfortable silence.

Finally, almost ten agonizing minutes later, Allie arrived with a bemused Aunt Helen in tow. “This is quite the surprise— Ah.”

Seeing that, Nardo da Molin stood from the table to his full height before he started to rise and grow transparent as energy rushed from the hole that opened up in the Realm to allow the Tier 45 to surpass the Realm itself.

Matt watched the entire process, waiting for any deception, but found none as Nardo truly vanished.

Turning to Aunt Helen, Matt hoped he would feel her Concept finish repairing itself. He absorbed some of the energy to feel where his Aspect was leading, but wasn’t too serious. The others all closed their eyes making their own tentative feelers with the ascensions energy that was bathing the planet but their introspection only lasted a few minutes as they spent all the energy they had absorbed.

No, he’d rather watch and see if Aunt Helen could succeed.

When they had seen her last she had said it was only two or three Ascensions away, and he didn’t know if she had been to any more in the meantime, but he was hoping with everything he had.

When the energy of the ascension passed and there was no change, he was about to give up hope, and then he nearly jumped out of his skin as Aunt Helen pulsed her Concept. It wasn't so much strong as it was profoundly deep in a way he hadn’t ever encountered with a person's Concept before.

Lifting her head to the sky, she started laughing until tears started to run down her face.

Wiping her face, Aunt Helen reached out and pulled them all into a hug.

After she let them go she whispered. “Oh, thank you all so much.”

Matt along with everyone else congratulated the phoenix. “I’m happy for you.”

Aunt Helen winked at him even as she hugged everyone one by one, even the Tier 45 guards.

Sadly, Aunt Helen then looked to Allie. “As much as I’d love to stay, I need to get back. My quiche is about to be done, and, if I’m not wrong,” her gaze went to the objects left on the table, “you six are about to be busy. I’ll see you all within a year, I’m sure.”

When Allie didn’t immediately teleport her, Aunt Helen gestured for her to hurry up. “My quiche really will be ruined if I don’t get back immediately. I wasn’t expecting this and had plans in motion but because the realm has a sense of humor, the timing is overlapping.”

Hearing there was a baked good on the line, the two of them vanished. A moment later, Allie returned, munching a delicious smelling slice of quiche.

Part of Matt wanted to interrogate her and see if she had the rest of the quiche with her, but they had bigger fish to fry.

After thanking the guards and allowing them to return to their normal duties, they teleported back to Palustris.

When they were back in a safe area, Matt asked his wife with his eyes locked onto the pad still sitting on the table, none of them willing to directly touch it or the paper. “Do you think he's bait?”

Liz snorted. “I’m skeptical at best. Just as we are constantly running into roadblocks, we have supposed answers handed to us on a silver platter? Even a blind man could see this has holes in it.”

Zack nodded his agreement to Liz’s statement but Susanne disagreed. “He felt genuine.”

Aster looked like she wanted to say something, but ended up keeping silent.

Taking a cue from her, Matt just nodded, and the six waited in silence watching the out-of-place table sitting in the middle of their island.

Tholly arrived just a moment later in a gardener's disguise.

“I assume none of you have touched them?” When they confirmed they hadn't, he nodded. “Good.”

Pulling out devices, Tholly started making scans one at a time. He was still doing so when Jericho arrived with a spatially expanded backpack a few minutes later.

Together, they went over the device until finally Jericho cloned the data crystal and paper before he started reviewing them both.

Almost an hour after Nardo’s ascension, Jericho presented them with a list of the device's content, as well as a summary of the paper message.

The paper gave seemingly irrefutable proof that he had truly been part of the Keepers of The Golden Age. More interesting than that was the data he provided, which seemed to indicate that the Circle of Ever Flame were the ones responsible for the attacks on Matt, Liz, and Aster.

The information seemed thorough and convincing, but that didn’t make them believe it any more than they had.

According to Nardo’s information, the Circle of Ever Flame hated Matt and Liz because of how they were stepping on their business interests, and how Liz was trying to reform their duchy as a test bed, which would mean an even greater hit to their power bases going forward. Almost more unbelievably, the information claimed that this society was working with the Winter Wolves, who were mad at Aster for trying to disrupt their dominance of the bloodline mana type.

If that wasn’t farfetched enough, his information claimed there was at least one other yet unknown party arrayed against them, but either the Keepers of the Golden Age didn’t know any more, or he didn’t have high enough clearance to access such information.

There was also a list of known Circle of Ever Flame assets, some large and some small, but all new to them and impactful for their own vengeance.

Aster said, “Let's go freeze them. We can then circle around to the supposed winter wolf stronghold. If this Nardo’s information is correct, they will have resources they stole from me.”

Liz was cautious. “This is a big if.”

Susanne nodded her agreement. “He could easily be using you guys to target his society's rivals in the name of ‘helping’ while also being the guilty party. Anything we find could even have been planted by him or his society.”

Jericho interjected with a raised finger even as he kept working on his devices with Tholly next to him. “While possible, the information he provided also contains details on the, and I quote, ‘worst of the Society of Stagnation’. If this data dump is fake, it's some of the best cover-up I’ve ever seen. It's incredibly detailed, like only a member of the society would know.”

Drumming his fingers on the table, Matt looked between Liz, Aster, Susanne, Allie, and Zack, trying to find the perfect answer.

Matt spoke slowly as he sorted his thoughts. “I don’t think we can afford not to act on this. Some of these people are wanted criminals, and the moment we hit one, a lot of them are going to scatter.”

Cato, who had arrived and caught up, shook his head along with Tholly, who spoke first. “Less than you might think. Sure, the truly wanted ones will vanish, but most don’t have enough proof of misdeeds for the Empire to move against them. I'd bet if they are willing to confront you three, they are probably willing to do so in the open. Also, none of this information for either society has information about their top level people. Honestly, we now have more information on the stagnation guys than the ever flamers.”

Cato, however, prompted, “The clock is already ticking, my lord. Nardo’s ascension would have set off triggers all throughout the Empire, and the societies, or at least the Society of Stagnation, will surely know one of their people went rogue the moment they see what he accessed before he left while with you. They will then immediately start to purge anything he had access to. They keep things compartmentalized for a reason, and even at his reported level, they can still afford to burn a lot without being truly crippled, so they will probably do so.”

Aster made the call. “Then let's go after the worst of the worst first. Allie, report this information to the Royals and the Emperor or whoever is there at the Capital. Manny keeps telling us to do this how we want, so let's follow through with that.”

Allie vanished to reappear a few seconds later. “Done!”

Liz nodded. “I think it's best if we split up. Allie, Zack, and Susanne hit these three distribution hubs quietly. Preferably we want to just scan and clone their information drives without them knowing you were ever there. We three are going to go arrest Marquess Galip. We can’t afford to allow him to slip away under any circumstances. After that, we can turn on the three nearby black sites, but I’m not going to allow Galip to continue fomenting sympathy for the old dynasty.”

After another small round of discussion, they split up.

With a thought, their island, which had been sitting in the archipelago like any other island for the last century, started to rise and show itself as the ducal flying fortress it was.

Water cascaded down in elongating waterfalls as they rose higher and higher.

Matt wasn’t one to get caught up in the moment, but even he couldn’t help but reflect that they were taking an important step here.

They were no longer being passive, and instead going on the offensive.

It felt good.

Their island wasn't there for long, so only the few on it were able to appreciate the moment.

[Teleportation] had its advantages, but it also had its limitations, as seen by Allie being unable to teleport higher-Tier people without significant strain. [Portal] had no such limitations on people or material, so even as two regiments of their ducal guards, all Tier 35 or higher, landed on the island, Matt had no issue opening a [Portal] to one of the teleporter cities.

Liz, already ready for it, engaged the island's jump drive, which connected the island with the tethers that held planets together in chaotic space, and pulled them to the next planet in line to Marquess Galip’s dominion.

Casting a [Portal] across a simple planet's distance wasn’t that hard, but what was hard was creating an aperture large enough for the island to fly through, and Matt could feel his spirit strain with each cast. Though it wasn’t so bad as to force him to stop. They wanted to make a show of it, after all.

First was that inciting rebellion was a charge of treason, punishable by execution, and as Ascenders it was their duty and obligation to take care of such people. Secondly, the more noise they made, the more attention would be on them and therefore the longer Allie, Zack, and Susanne would have to hit the Circle of Ever Flame sites, which would hopefully let them learn if they were truly their yet unknown antagonists. Thirdly, according to the information Nardo provided, Marquess Galip would flee at the first sign of being caught, having reportedly abandoned identities before at even the smallest hint of suspicion. So the moment news spread that Nardo turned traitor, he would vanish.

