After leaving the oracle, Luke expected that they would go back to Themiel’s room and sleep. As soon as they entered his room, Luke curled up on the spot beside his bed where Themiel had a blanket laid out for him, but Themiel said, “No, boy.”

No? Luke looked up, one ear perking up. Did he do something wrong? He wasn’t sure.

“We’re not sleeping here tonight,” Themiel explained as he opened a drawer in his wood thing and changed his shirt.

Luke’s ears folded down again as he watched Themiel examine his dagger, then resheath it, and then do the same with his sword. He grabbed a bag and started putting things in.

Themiel definitely didn’t look like he was getting ready for bed. He looked like he was preparing for a hunt, but they would never go out training this late at night.

When Themiel had everything together, he said, “Come on, boy,” and Luke followed him back out into the hall.

The halls were less crowded at night, which Luke preferred.

When they made it to the exit, the two guards came out. They were not nearly as big as the white guards outside of the oracle’s room, and they looked like ordinary Umarii.

“Themiel. Are you trying to go out? It’s rather late, don’t you think?” one said.

“Yes, I wanted to try some night hunting with Luke,” Themiel said. “He has a new skill I wanted to test out that will be more useful in the dark.”

The other guard said, “You know the rules. Too much risk going out at night. You’ll have to bring a party with you.”

Themiel scoffed. “That rule is for those lower level than myself.”

“No, that’s not the case,” said the first. “We’ve lost people with every bit your strength to the night before. That rule is in place for a reason.”

Themiel put his thumbs in his back pockets and shrugged. “Fine. Then technically I have Luke. And I’ve returned after dark plenty of times before.”

The two guards looked at each other, one clearing his throat and saying, “I’m sorry, Themiel. But get council approval, and you can do your night hunting tomorrow.”

The other looked at him suspiciously, taking note of the bag slung over his shoulder. “You seem to be packed rather thoroughly for a simple hunt.” His eyes then narrowed suspiciously. “What are you really planning, Themiel?” Then he looked at Luke. “No. Go back to your room now. I’ll have to report this.”

“Report what exactly?” Themiel asked, turning his head.

“You wish to do something with the Hell Hound, don’t you?”

“Yes, train him. As I said, fool. Now, get out of my way.”

Themiel made a move to push past the guards, but one reached to his side and pulled out a sword.

Luke instantly tensed, hackles rising as he lowered and bared his fangs with a growl.

Themiel didn’t touch his own weapon, however, merely staring the guard down. “You really think that’s a good idea?”

“You— You’ll be charged and apprehended upon your return! Is that what you want, Themiel?”

“That’s my problem to worry about,” Themiel said and started walking forward. “Luke, to me.”

As he walked toward them, the guards tensed, Luke close to his side. Luke watched them closely. If they so much as made a move toward his master, he was going to bite them whether Themiel said not to at all.

The guards gave each other an uneasy look as Themiel and Luke strolled past them, but then tensed and nodded as soon as they were out the door.

Luke felt it too, could hear it in the shifting of their posture and how they suddenly moved.

But Themiel was fast. His own sword flashed free from its sheath with a whistle, there was one clang of steel, and then another as he blocked both swords.

With the first guard’s sword arm reeled back, Luke had a perfect opening to tackle him, massive paws hitting his chest and taking him to the ground. He snapped his jaws forward, aiming for his neck, but Themiel’s hand swooped down and snagged Luke’s scruff, causing his jaws to chomp empty air just short of the guard’s face.

Themiel had his sword outstretched with his free arm, the tip of its blade right at the other guard’s throat. “That was very stupid. Think twice before drawing weapons on me next time.”

“You—Themiel! I swear if you step out that door!”

“You’ll what? Arrest me? How did that go for you when you tried just now?” He stared him down for a moment. “That’s what I thought. Come on, Luke.”

Themiel let go of Luke’s scruff, and Luke followed him out the door, proudly lifting his head high as he left those two weak Umarii behind. He just wished Themiel would have let him bite that one.

And so the fortress was left behind them as they continued off into the familiar wastes. Except it wasn’t familiar at all because it was dark out. Luke looked up to the moon, then back the way they had come. Normally it took quite a long time of walking before the fortress disappeared from his sight, but after only a couple minutes, Luke could hardly make out the black walls as they dissolved into the darkness of the night.

“It’ll be alright, boy,” Themiel said. “My orders come from the oracle, but I wasn’t going to bother explaining that to those two. The council won’t be happy, but ultimately they can do nothing about it.” He sighed, looking up to the sky as well, and Luke let out a soft whine. “I just hope whatever it is we are supposed to be looking for, we’ll find it. I trust the oracle, Luke. If it were not for her, I wouldn’t have found you.” He reached down and patted the top of Luke’s head.

Luke pressed into his touch, but couldn’t help letting out another whine. Themiel was thinking of his friend that had died again, Luke could tell. Luke could always tell.

***

Luke felt a little nervous as they continued walking. He sniffed the ground and very soon realized that Themiel wasn’t taking them back to their usual hunting ground. Luke could always tell for sure based on smell, and not just the smell of other things around but because he had laid a trail that had become very strong over the many times they had gone that way.

Feeling nervous about going off into unmarked territory, Luke occasionally broke away from Themiel’s side for just a moment to go pee on a rock. That way he’d know how to get back at least, and it would be easier to know where he was. Luke didn’t like not knowing where he was.

But before Luke got back to Themiel’s side, he heard the rattling of bones from those creatures he’d always hunt, but in the darkness it was just a little scarier than normal. But then he inwardly felt ashamed of himself for being scared. He growled into the darkness.

“Luke no,” Themiel said. “We are not fighting anything if we can help it. Just keep following me.”

Luke let out another soft whine and came closer to Themiel’s side as he led the way.

After more walking, Luke could see shapes in the distance. He sniffed the air, but there was nothing familiar there. But there was something alive, somewhere. He put his nose down and started seeking out the living smell, and soon he found it and his hackles raised.

He let out a warning growl and looked up to Themiel. Luke didn’t like it when there were unfamiliar smells. Unfamiliar smells meant there might be something Luke didn’t know how to beat, something that could be dangerous.

“What is it, boy?” Themiel asked, crouched down and patting his side.

Smelling was one of the things Luke was much better at than Themiel.

Luke sniffed the air, trying to get a sense of what direction the smell was coming from. When he thought he had it, he pointed his nose in the proper direction and growled lowly, letting Themiel know.

“Sssshhhh,” Themiel soothed.

Luke quieted, and even slowed his breathing along with Themiel as they both stared into the darkness.

“With me, Luke,” Themiel whispered. “Stay close.”

They prowled towards some shapes that Luke realized were actually just flat rocks, like the ones in the “ruins” that Themiel would always take him to train in, where they always found lots of skeletons to hunt. But, these were not the ruins Luke was familiar with.

“Luke, you stay,” Themiel whispered, and then he reached up, grabbed a ledge atop the flat rocks, and his feet disappeared from the ground as Themiel swung himself upward and out of sight.

Luke paced nervously for a moment, then peeked around the flat thing. There were more crumbled flat rocks, and Themiel saw some more skeletons wandering around, but as he sniffed the air, he knew the skeletons were not the only thing he had to worry about.

A short time later, he felt Themiel coming, and his master dropped down from above right next to him, landing in a crouch. Themiel drew his sword slowly, making sure it didn’t make the sliding sound as it exited the sheath. “Luke, follow,” he whispered, then moved around the outside of the ruins, walking in a low crouch.

Luke knew at that moment they were hunting. Hunting something dangerous.

They came to another flat rock, and Themiel put a hand on Luke’s back, signaling him not to move. A skeleton was wandering by. Normally, Luke would think the plan was to sneak attack that skeleton, but as it passed by them, Themiel just continued to wait, not making a single move, and keeping his hand on Luke’s back.

Once the skeleton was far, far out of striking distance, Themiel began moving again, and Luke moved right behind him. They were moving deeper into these ruins now, and as Luke sniffed the air, he smelled the unfamiliar smell, but also his ears perked as he heard voices. They were not like Umarii voices. They were higher pitched. From smaller creatures? Luke wasn’t sure yet.

Themiel quickly moved to another wall, Luke falling in behind him, and they stayed even hidden from the little light of the moon as another skeleton stumbled by.

But looking further ahead, Luke saw a different light. It was firelight, flickering around another corner, the same corner the little voices were coming from. Luke felt an urge to growl but held himself back from doing so. He knew better than to do that during this kind of hunt. Scaring prey, or the targets of their attacks, was something Themiel would be very unhappy with him if he did, and he didn’t like it when Themiel was unhappy with him. But besides that, Luke was a very good hunter, and he was smart enough to know that defeating something was much easier when you could get it while sneaking as opposed to getting it once it noticed you. Themiel clearly wanted to get those little-voiced creatures while sneaking.

As soon as the skeleton clinked and rattled its way away from them, Themiel was on the move again, heading right for the corner where the flickering fire was coming from, and the little voices got louder.

Themiel pressed against the wall, inched toward the corner, and Luke did as well, coming around his master’s side. They both cautiously peeked, and Luke saw some things that he had never seen before.

They were like Umarii and Barbarians but very, very small, with very long ears in comparison, and not only that, their skin was green. There were eight of them.

They were sitting around a fire, chattering at each other, speaking words that were similar to the kinds of words Umarii and Barbarians would say, but distinctly different.

“You give! You burn it!”

“Treg doesn’t burn!” another voice snapped.

Another laugh. “Ruk like raw. Eats like rat!”

“Shut up, Zeg!”

Most were very small, probably only large enough to stand above an Umarii’s knee, but there was one that was much larger and hadn’t talked yet. It wore bones around its neck and had teeth pierced through its ears. Its nose was big and flat, and it held meat over the fire with its bare hand. There was more meat on sticks positioned over the fire that the smaller green things were tending to as they talked strangely to each other.

“Goblins,” Themiel whispered to Luke. “See that big one, that’s a Hob Goblin. The little ones have knives, so be careful, but the hob is the really dangerous one.” He rubbed Luke’s neck fur. “I want you to focus on the little goblins while I take out the Hob. Do you understand, Luke?”

Luke let out a quiet huff. He didn’t always know all of his master’s words, but he usually got the gist of it. The big one is the most dangerous, and Themiel would kill it. Luke’s job was taking care of the little ones, but he had to be careful because they could also still be dangerous.

“Luke, you stay,” Themiel said, then came back into hiding along with Luke. Themiel reached up, and his feet disappeared from the ground as he swung himself onto the flat rocks above.

Luke carefully peeked around the corner, being careful not to make any noise, even with his sniffing, as he watched these things called goblins and waited for his master’s whistle. A whistle always meant to attack when Themiel started a fight, and Luke was sure that Themiel was planning to attack.

Sure enough, he caught sight of his master quietly jumping from one section of crumbling black rock to another. When he landed on one, a small rock broke free and tumbled down, smacking with a clack over and over until it hit the ground.

“Grrraag?” a small goblin startled, looking at the small rock that landed near him.

“What that?” another whispered.

“It nothing, don’t burn meat!”

“I don’t burn!”

“Hrrrruff,” the hob goblin huffed, looking at the small ones then back to his own meat, unconcerned. Luke didn’t know how that big one wasn’t burning its fingers as it held the meat right about the fire in its massive grip.

But then, one of the goblins near the fire looked up, searching along the top of the flat rocks. Themiel was up there, and Luke could see him clearly, but Themiel stayed very still, camouflaging himself with the night. Eventually the little goblin shrugged off the sound and went back to paying attention to the fire.

Then as one of the goblins pulled his stick from the fire, he opened his mouth to reveal sharp teeth. He began to try to bite it but was pushed. “Don’t eat it all!” the pusher complained.

“I eat first! I work hard to cooks it!”

“I work hard to hunts it!”

“I skinned it!” the other complained, and soon the three little goblins were pushing each other and wrestling for the stick of meat.

The hob goblin, still holding his own meat above the fire, let out a slow, throaty laugh. “Hruu hruu hruu…”

Meanwhile, above them, Themiel was on the move again, moving across the rocks above them and getting behind the Hob Goblin.

Luke tensed, knowing the moment was soon upon them. Themiel’s blade moved, catching a flicker of moonlight on its steel, and then Themiel leaped down and let out a high-pitched whistle still in midair.

Luke instantly bolted around the corner at the sound of the whistle. It served two purposes, distracting the goblins as they all looked away from Luke while also commanding the Hell Hound.

Themiel stabbed his sword into the Hob Goblin’s back, who roared in anger as he dropped his meat and stood, batting his massive hands back and forth all around him. Themiel ducked under a hand and slashed its gut, then ducked again and stabbed again, causing the Hob Goblin to roar in pain and fury.

As for Luke, he saw a little goblin heading for Themiel, but Luke was far faster. He snatched him up and jumped high in the air.

“GRAAYAYAAAA!” the goblin screamed as they went airborne, Luke twisting high above the battle and snapping the goblin back to the ground!

{Savage Slam}!

The Goblin was thrown into another, knocking it off its feet, and the one Luke had thrown was already limp by the time it stopped rolling. But Luke gave no time for the other to recover, as he was already landing and heading for it. Before it could reorient itself and lift its dagger, Luke snatched him up and whipped his head at a wall.

“GRAAAAWWWL!” the goblin screamed and smashed into the wall with such force that it broke off several of the square pieces that made up the wall and sent rubble raining down.

Themiel continued to swerve and pivot around the Hob Goblin, constantly slashing it and avoiding attacks of its own. The Hob Goblin screamed all the while but in a much, much deeper voice. “GRAWL RAHLLF FREEAAAAA!!!” It yelled it words that Luke did not understand.

There were four little goblins remaining, but these things were very weak. Luke scooped up another, jumped, and threw it into another. This time when he landed, he went for the two remaining untouched ones. As he scooped one between his jaws, he simply bit down hard, cracking ribs and arms and shaking violently. The thing’s screams died in its throat as Luke tossed it away like a rag doll.

Another goblin managed to stab Luke, but Luke didn’t mind it too much. It was a very small injury. Luke whipped around and scooped him between his jaws just as the other and crunched down. “GRAAAUUUUuuuuggg—”

As Luke did that, the big Hob Goblin was staggering on its feet, its wild swings with its meaty hands becoming far slower until finally, Themiel slipped in front and popped upward, blade first, putting his sword right under its chin and into its head.

Themiel turned as he ripped his sword free, and he sidestepped to avoid the shower of blood that came next as the Hob Goblin teetered over and then fell.

There was just one little goblin left, staring at them, gripping its dagger in a shaking hand. Luke bared his fangs and the goblin turned to run, scurrying into the night. “Noooo! Don’t eat me! Bad dog! Wicked, vile shadow people! NO!”

Luke followed, and though Give Chase activated, he hardly needed it, as he scooped up the goblin before it even made it out of the firelight and he crunched down, killing it instantly.

Luke dropped the rag-dolled goblin on the dirt and looked back at his master.

Themiel nodded approvingly. “Good boy, Luke!”

Luke’s tail wagged, and then wagged more as Themiel reached down and picked up the big haunch of meat that the hob goblin had been cooking.

“You hungry, boy?”