Lylyth smiled and let him go. “You don't know how much I appreciate that you can see me as a woman, even knowing the twisted monster I can become.”

“No one is perfect.” Ren said and let her out of the hug, then cast the spell on himself to return to his normal size. He equipped his clothing and Artemis came over to him to return Teepo and his pet spider. He took out the All-Seeing Mirror and checked for the best spot to create a portal back to the apartment, then cast the spell. He felt Lylyth's surprise, and he smiled as he stored the mirror.

“I'm not sure when I'll have time to spare to come back.” Ren said. “It all depends on how the war turns out.”

Lylyth blinked her eyes at him, because she didn't realize that he knew about her offensive. “It's... it's going well, actually. We caught the High Elves out of position, and our much smaller military force was able to engage effectively.”

“You're leaving the civilians out of it, I hope.”

“I ordered it to be so.”

Ren gave her a warm smile, took several steps up into the air, and kissed her cheek. “Thank you.”

“You're not going to berate me for taking advantage of the situation the High Elves were in from the ghoul devastation?”

“You created it, so I can't fault you for using it.” Ren said. “I saved as many of the High Elves as I could from the ghouls, since that was my own personal grudge; but, I won't step in and fight you and your armies, just to save them from their own creation.”

“Ren...”

“It was their own actions that made you and set their people against each other, essentially creating a civil war.” Ren said. “I'm not going to interfere with that.”

“What if I asked you to fight on my behalf?”

Ren stroked her cheek. “I don't know your laws or even if you have laws for it; but, I'm pretty sure the Royal Consort is exempt from serving in your army.”

Lylyth opened her mouth to deny it, then sighed. “Yes, we can't let the potential ruler fight beside the troops.”

“If you start to lose too many people, or are in danger yourself...” Ren glanced at the healer. “...or a few others are in danger, I'll come running.”

“But...”

“I won't fight in the battle itself, I'll stop it.” Ren said.

“You really would.” Lylyth said.

Ren felt her amazement. “When you win, please don't kill the High Lord and his staff.”

Lylyth frowned. “You cannot dictate...”

“It was a request!” Her attendant nearly yelled and ran over. “You can feel it, can't you? He's asking you, not telling you.”

Lylyth looked past the words and felt his emotions, then nodded. “Can I ask why?”

“Allynna is his elfling servant, and I've spent time with her mother.” Ren said. “I don't want them to be saddened.”

“Can I at least torture them?” Lylyth asked sarcastically.

“I think holding them hostage will be torture enough.” Ren said. “Although, if you did want to torment them, I just might have an idea of the best way to do it.”

Lylyth was surprised, yet again, at Ren's thinking as he told her what his idea was. “You... that's...” She shook her head. “I thought I was sadistic!”

Ren chuckled. “Just make sure if it ever comes about, you contact me so I can be here to see it.”

“You will be seated beside me as we watch it together.” Lylyth said and kissed the side of his face. “Goodbye, Ren.”

“Goodbye, Lylyth.” Ren said. Teepo dissolved into the Beetle Crown ring and Artemis took Ren's hand, then they stepped through the portal together.

“He is an amazing man.” Lylyth said.

“He certainly is.” The healer said. “Did you get enough food from him if the mating was successful?”

“More than enough.” Lylyth said and licked her lips. “My venom kept liquefying his insides and I kept eating, and he kept regenerating.” She chuckled. “He really is perfect.”
