Holy and ice magic filled the air as her mages unleashed their full power upon the Pit Lord and his summoned minions. Frost Nova detonated, freezing hundreds, while the azure ice bolts flitted through the giant demon with soft swishing noises, passing through to freeze and damage everything behind him. Holy fireballs detonated everywhere with incredible power and speed, sizzling against demon hide, but bringing succor and healing to their allies.

Tier three is ridiculous! I can’t wait for the others to reach it! There wasn’t a whole lot of time before the Lich revived, and so many things needed doing, but this experience had banished any doubts in her mind that the strategy of leveling their whole team to the third tier was by far the most important one. If only there was more time, she would have insisted on pushing the entire guild through that threshold. Still, she had minions within striking distance – some very close – and she would be remiss not to take every advantage she could lay her hands on.

But the Pit Lord was a powerful third-tier monster, too. Drawing the blood of the fallen to himself, he began regenerating rapidly. He stomped upon the ground, unleashing a rippling shockwave of splintering stone and a devastating blast wave of roiling, sooty black hellfire, searing across the roaring berserker and the Archon with hungry flames. The druid and kobold healers reacted while Ali pulsed a little extra mana through Empowered Summoner, making them shine briefly with radiant power as their healing magic landed, and deep in the heart of the battle, Malika’s radiant sphere of soul magic rippled out to stabilize the melee fighters.

The Archon caught her flying sword and threw it again, leaving half the cavern under the whirling blade-storm of her Celestial Swords. Then the corpses began dissolving, evaporating into mana that was drawn into the Archon, reclaimed by the power of her Redemption aura.

Ali immersed herself in the heady rush of mana and stamina pouring into her Divine Archon in waves, and then the Celestial Paladin redirected it to unleash her fury upon the Pit Lord. With the room filled with whirling blades feeding her power through her Redemption Aura, she wielded her Holy Avenger with brutal efficiency, seamlessly blending her own sword skills with the best moves Ali had stolen from studying Haverron’s technique in battle, cleaving and slicing through the heavy demonic hide like it was paper.

Blood flew like rain as Tol’brekk sliced into the Pit Lord’s back with Haverron’s own runed mithril blade.

Ali had been worried about the raid stumbling upon a third-tier Pit Lord down here in the dark, but she hadn’t counted on the enormous power wielded by her Divine Archon. Even with the demon beating her out by thirteen levels, the Archon was still a third-tier holy celestial, summoned with Authority, and granted the power of a domain magic spell using Ali’s World Walker advancement. That, and it was currently participating in a dungeon break and additionally benefiting from enormous buffs to spell power, spell haste, double mana pool, regeneration, and every single percentage boost Ali had to offer.

With none of the downsides of Tiny! Ali grinned happily toward her pile of books. Her Archon fought Dekarradon to a standstill by herself while the rest of the raid ripped into the demon god’s enormous servant with abandon. Easy when you have the right plan… she scanned every detail again, but could find no flaws this time.

Dekarradon collapsed with a giant crash five minutes later, a holy greatsword plunged through both his hearts.

Your minions have defeated Dekarradon [The Flames of Doom] – Pit Lord – level 265 (Blood / Hellfire).You have gained Reputation.+3 Authority. Your Carnage Berserker has reached level 250 (+3).Your Mage of Piercing Frost has reached level 248.Your Wielder of the Sacred Flame has reached level 245 (+2).Your Priest of Azryet has reached level 250 (+2).Your Druid of the Deep Woods has reached level 221 (+4).Your Sylvan Storm has reached level 232 (+3).Your Carnage Berserker has met the requirements for class evolution. Your Priest of Azryet has met the requirements for class evolution.

Reputation? Three Authority – is that the reward for a third-tier kill? And levels! Even if there would no doubt be diminishing returns for subsequent kills, it was still an incredible reward.

Ali instructed her Archon to remove the Redemption aura. She had known the paths of her evolution would greatly enhance her strength – she just hadn’t imagined it would be… so much!

Experience was pouring in in exhilarating rivers, hundreds of streams from all across the Abyssal Realm, deepened by her bonuses for leveling her minions outside of her domain. Less than a day after reaching the third tier, and two more of her minions would join the ranks with such monsters as her Divine Archon, or Nendir’s Soul Archon, and the several draconic imprints Azryet had gifted her.

“Our forces grow stronger, shall we continue?” the Divine Archon asked, speaking over the hushed chatter of the platinum guild adventurers.

“Yes, let’s see how far we can get,” Ali answered, eager to study her new abilities and level up her minions.

“You bet we will,” Mato said, apparently sharing his answer to the Archon with the whole raid at once, at least by the ripple of cheers and excited smiles.

But first, Ali had Tol’brekk collect the Pit Lord’s corpse and then swapped the priest and berserker out, recalling them home and replacing them with a freshly summoned shaman and a warrior. Her Grimoire was hungry, and she wasn’t about to let a third-tier, named Pit Lord go to waste.

Three Authority for killing a third-tier monster? Azryet had said she could earn Authority by actions aligned with her class and traits, and her class was certainly a combat dungeon class. She didn’t know if it was the kill that had done it, or the claiming of a new monster suitable for improving her repertoire, but she glanced eagerly down the dark passages with Archon eyes, excited to learn more. She had the Pit Lord’s corpse, and now, two of her favorite minions would need to use the shrine to join the ranks of the third tier. Their evolutions would be her immediate priority, that and bolstering the defenses around Lira’s tree and the Wells using what she’d just earned.

She only had three Authority, but that could be turned into three powerful defenders!

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpghttps://topwebfiction.com/listings/dungeon-of-knowledge/
