Alden watched the lighting spells appear in the sky, watched the water go still, remembered the feel of his own body at that moment—under the surface, reaching for Zeridee, eyelids caught in a blink that felt like it would last for minutes.

He tried, briefly, to imagine himself standing where Lind-otta stood. But it made his thoughts snarl and then shoot off in so many directions he couldn’t follow any of them.

“You don’t believe you could do something like that one day?” she asked.

The best he could manage was picturing it in a technical way. If he’d somehow survived affixations, the Artonans, and everything else for many years. And if someone entrusted the water to him. And if he had mastered picking things up without his body…

He took his hands out of his pockets. “I still like hot chocolate. It’s the king of warm drinks until further notice.”

She snapped her fingers and the mug filled.

Half-melted marshmallows. Just right. Of course.

“You have other questions,” she said.

“I do. If I told Stuart the truth about the authority sense someday or if he somehow found out I have The Bearer of All Burdens, would he keep it a secret? Am I wrong to worry? Could you tell me that?”

She shook her head. “I can’t promise you he would keep your secret. But that doesn’t surprise you.”

He took another sip from the mug.

“If you want to be absolutely sure to avoid discovery, perhaps weaving a friendship with him is the wrong choice.”

He was so startled he almost spat out his cocoa.

“Why are you saying that?” he asked. “You’re inside my head. You know I’m only agonizing over it because I already intend to be his friend for as long as he’ll let me.

“I don’t know how it will go. Probably it’s going to be better for him to be friends with other knights after he affixes. He’ll be part of a squad, right? They’ll have everything in common.

“But he gave me a wizard cushion. He takes the time to explain magic to me whenever I accidentally look a little interested, even though he must think I’m not really understanding. He told me about losing his mom, and he sent Joe to help Anesidora, and I think he almost cried earlier today when he found out I didn’t like my spell impression. I’m not going to ditch him, and I’m still pissed that Evul-art’h made me afraid I’d never get to speak to him again.”

She held her hands up. “I was just making conversation.”

He frowned.

The close-up image of Alden reappeared on the window.

“You know,” she said airily, poking his past self’s forehead, “to make a little more conversation…this is also terrible behavior for someone who wants to remain undiscovered. You’ve given my Esh reason to be even more interested in you.”

“It was an accident.”

“A prolonged accident,” she replied. “Involving hard struggle and many opportunities to choose an easier way.”

“I got caught up in the excitement. Couldn’t resist.”

She laughed. It sounded so natural.

“Don’t worry about Earth plagiarizing your hot chocolate,” Alden said as the laughter ended. “Its idea of a good meeting location for us is just the worst. So far it’s given me the room where I had my intestines put back together as a child and the office of a school counselor. You’ve given me two comfortable places. Like a normal person. I fully expect Earth to summon me to a dentist’s office next time.”

Clearly it thinks I need fixing.

And it wasn’t the only one.

“Can someone in my position ever safely use a mind healer? What if they bump into the wrong memory? What if it hurts unexpectedly and I start trying to slap them with my existence?”

“You have options,” she answered. “Avowed Healers of Mind on your planet don’t often have the ability to read thoughts, and you could avoid the services that required Sway helpers. But their talents are more limited than what you’ll find here. The healers Stu-art’h would introduce you to could offer you a much more diverse and personalized experience. They could also easily read your thoughts. But it’s very unlikely that any of them would do anything other than what they had discussed with you in advance.”

Yeah. I doubt the Primary would let people with crappy morals work on his son for years.

“Actually, some of them would be influenced to behave in the way you want by factors other than their morals. But they would still behave.”

He thought about that while he drained the rest of his mug.

“You’re considering it,” she said.

“Not being as steady as I want to be is tiresome. And I like the idea that I can make this period of my life my own kind of choosing season. But when I try to approach the choices, I’m either frozen in place from the pressure or the opposite. I have this urge sometimes to lunge at the decisions before they disappear. I know that’s not good.

“And I want to stop being…” He couldn’t quite put it into words. “Well, this trip helped. I don’t know where I’d be right now if Stuart hadn’t invited me over. Probably in my hospital room, trying to come up with an explanation that would fool Esh-erdi after I blew a hole in the wall with my auriad.”

“I like that you think you could blow a hole in one of Matadero’s walls,” she said. “Even the interior ones. So ambitious.”

He had an urge to stick his tongue out at her.

“Feel free. It wouldn’t be the first time in history, but it doesn’t happen often.”

He did.

She did it back.

“I’m pleased,” she said, “that you’ve decided not to be afraid of me.”

He looked away. “It’s not time yet. And I know you won’t push like Earth. Tonight is great. But no promises on my future mood. If…can I…?”

“You can affix on whichever planet you like.”

He had thought she would say that. And he had thought he would feel more relieved to hear it than he did.

“I can pick when?”

“Yes.”

His hands tightened on the mug. He stared at the ring of melted marshmallow stuck to the rim. “How long will it be before that changes? Before I can’t wait anymore?”

I did it. Asked the scary one.

It was the right thing to do. Solid choices started with good information.

Baby steps. Whatever the answer is, I’ll say, ‘Okay.’ Like I’m cool.

When she didn’t answer, he pulled his attention away from the mug and found her eyes.

“You’re not going to appreciate hearing this,” she said, “but you want a more narrow and certain answer than I can give you.”

“You really don’t know?”

“Your course is less predictable than some. I will have a better estimate as you approach your limit. But so will you. If you neglect training your bound authority and focus on your wizardry it will be sooner. If you lock yourself away from the world, perform no magic, and search for inner peace and satisfaction—”

“Nobody told me that was an option.”

“There are other variables. But knights almost always progress very quickly in the times between their first several affixations. You’re growing that way, too.”

“Several?” Alden latched onto the word. “Does that mean it slows down?”

“Older knights tend to vary more. Most have pauses in their growth every now and then. Some almost come to a standstill for years at a time. Others race forward and never stop. Ask Stu-art’h. This is a subject he’ll be eager to explain.

“But, Alden, don’t count on your own pace being anything you would consider slow anytime soon.”

“I won’t.”

“Really.”

He clenched his jaw. “I know.”

“Eight to ten months,” she said calmly. “It’s the most likely window right now. That may change.”

It took him a while to say, “Okay.”

******

He wanted to spend a while exploring his options for improving his skill, and of course, she let him. While he wandered through a patch of Rapport I’s forest, she lounged behind him on a copy of the couch he’d bought for the apartment.

This was too overwhelming to take in last time, he thought. It still is, but there’s something comforting about the number of possibilities, too.

He reached up for one of the gray paper cranes that hovered just overhead, and when he touched it, it unfolded in his hand to reveal the thing he could become. Eventually. The gray cranes were ones he wouldn’t be able to select during his next affixation.

[Safe Object Relocation - Sensing]

[Gives Alden the ability to recognize places where an object-element burden he’s currently preserving won’t experience immediate damage upon cessation of preservation.]

“This one’s neat. Is there one of these for enchantments instead of objects? Could I use it to find places where they’d actually work well when I dropped them?”

Another gray crane was already flying toward him in answer.

He browsed some more, they talked for a while about metaphors for affixations, then she sent him to what he thought at first was the nightmare he’d left.

A long line of doors in a wall.

It took him a minute to realize all the signs on the doors listed things he could have done in the past—choices he could have made—but hadn’t.

“Go to Manon Barre’s apartment and confront her directly,” said one.

“Don’t keep trying to get to know Boe,” said another.

Tell the stray cat to get lost. Don’t answer Jeremy’s first text message. Apologize to Maisie for breaking her pencil instead of hiding the pieces under the playground slide.

Finally, he found a door that said, “Tell Neha you want to practice the hell out of your skill.”

I actually did do that. That was a good moment. I felt like I’d understood something about myself and committed to it.

He opened the door and went through to find another line of doors with choices written on them. He ignored the false ones and selected, “Go bother the NesiCard man until he gives you a new card.”

The process continued. He understood what the doors were getting at. It was simple, but he found the act of making his choices again, even the tiny ones and the bad ones, meaningful.

You haven’t been as stuck as you think. You haven’t decided what to do about being the only human wizard-Avowed, but that doesn’t mean you’re frozen. It doesn’t mean that the things you’ve already chosen aren’t worth appreciating.

He knew the last door when he saw it. It was sandwiched between one that read, “Leave Zeridee-und’h behind,” and another with the words, “Don’t go with Lute to Benjamin Velra’s birthday party.”

It said, “Be friends with Stu-art’h.”

Not the smartest choice for a quiet Rabbit, he thought as he pushed open the door. I’m happy to make it anyway.

******

******

Alden woke up, for real this time, and rolled over in bed.

Through the curtain, in the dim light, he saw that Stuart was squatting beside his suitcase. He had a wand in his hand and a square of something that might have been fabric in his mouth.

“What are you doing?” Alden asked, propping himself up on an elbow. “It’s really early. Did you sleep?”

Stuart let the square fall out of his mouth onto the bag. “I’m fixing all the holes Other Alden made in your suitcase. I couldn’t find your zippier, so I made you another one.”

That project is so not worth his time.

“You’re the best host ever.” Alden yawned. “That thing you suggested…the healers of mind you know?”

Stuart’s wand stopped mid-wave. He looked up. “Yes?”

“I think it might be a good idea for me. If you’re sure that arranging it wouldn’t be a problem. Would you tell me how it would be? And what I would have to do?”

“Of course.”

******
