Calen took the news silently with just a nod of acknowledgement, but inside, he grimaced. What kind of monster was the Blind Lich that he could stand up to the Legendary Pathfinder, an elder of the Ahn Khen, and the ancient Seeker of the Aman Rak tribe, and still kill one of them? He must have been substantially more powerful this time, because the last time, Lyeneru had been able to defeat him by herself.

Last time.

The last time, he had had the idea of using Sense Prey on the Blind Lich when Lyeneru had sent him retreating to his Phylactery, and he had earned a title and a direction. A Lich’s Phylactery was their soul, the reason for their immortality. It was also their most closely guarded secret, but he wasn’t in Aman Rak this time. He was in Myrin’s Keep, hundreds of miles to the north.

Sense Prey required that he had recently seen his target, and he believed them to be his prey. Tracking the Lich to his home certainly counted for the second requirement, and he had been present in Ali’s forest above the library when Nevyn Eld had raised Lirasia’s corpse.

His mind stirred, turning over the possibilities. Triangulation… it should be possible…

Without wasting another instant, he activated Sense Prey. Immediately, he sensed a pull to the northwest with a clear indication that the Lich was currently far away. Got him! Calen was certain that any lesser tracking ability would have been warded against by the Blind Lich’s defenses, but this ability had been his reward for completing the trial of The Wanderer – a divinely influenced skill.

At that moment, a welcome notification popped up.

Explorer has reached level 65 (+2).Your actions have greatly increased the reputation of your patron.Your title, Tracker of the Dead, has been updated.Tracker of the DeadYou have tracked the soul of a Lich to its hidden Phylactery.+5 [1 + class level / 25] to skill level of Tracking skills when the target is undead.Your Tracking skills are more difficult to ward against when your target is undead.Title

“I know where he is,” Calen said, earning a long, calculating look from his mentor.

Slowly, a savage smile curved her lips. “Do you, now?”

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
