“Even if I could deal you true harm, I see little worth in it.” Valor didn’t look at him either. His own eyes were forward and up, fixed on Shiv, who was wrestling with a colossal clump of rapidly frying white dough on his grilling station. To the sides of his block-sized stove were the odd broken elf and Marikos, providing the flames, and the three of them called out to each other in a chaotic three-man cooking team while the others near the gateway were drawn in by their carnage. “Why are you here, Udraal?” Valor asked, voice weary.

“Oh, I’m interested in learning just what kind of Domain the Young Arrow has inside him. I just got distracted by the Deathless. On that note, I am curious: Why aren’t you with him right now? Are you ceding your mentorship over to Roland entirely?”

Finally, his father glowered at him. “I am absent so as to ensure Marikos stays an ally of the Gate, more so than my everlasting enemy.”

“Ah. Also understandable, but I told you—”

“Where did I go wrong, Udraal?” Valor asked. “With you. Where did I go wrong? What did I do to make you like this? What did I do to make you hurt me?”

Udraal went silent, and he stared up at his father. He stared, and stared, and was glad he'd extracted his ability to hate and rage and weep as well—because he might have done all those things right now if not. “The thing about telling you, father, is that it might give you some understanding of your plight. And with that would come a measure of relief, and that is such a dissatisfying thought. I still care for you—enough that I don’t want you to die. But there is this… need to hate you, that will not allow me to leave you be at peace or know any joy.”

“You will not tell me.”

“No.”

“Will you fix Adam?”

“Hm. No. But I will take a look at him. You cannot stop me from taking my measurement—”

***

Udraal felt that body go stiff as his father abruptly drove a blade up under his chin and into his brain.

The Transcendent’s connection to the dimension of Gate Piety went dark, and he let out an annoyed huff. “Well, that was childish, Father. Very, very childish.”
