“Yeaahhh!” Candles screamed. “Burn together!”

While he and Marikos had the time of their lives, Shiv noted how Tall Ben and the rest of the Lance were surveying their surroundings. Unlike Marikos, they didn’t throw themselves into the social fray with wild abandon. Instead, they established a protected position for themselves—planting a colossal enchanted banner deep into the ground mere meters away from the Abyssal Gateway. A chain of wards spreading 500 meters wide enveloped the representatives of the Descenders Union. Rather than being dense barricades of mana meant to protect them from harm, the primary enchantment seemed to be spatial—and though Shiv's Portomancy was paltry, he could feel the immense tug emitted by the banner. If he had to guess, it was some kind of jump-point for the Lance—a mechanism that would allow them to teleport to safety if an attack was sprung.

But I'm not even sure if they need the banner, Shiv thought to himself.

Uva's words had proven true. Marikos was far from the only Legend in the lance. Tall Ben himself was a Heroic Biomancer—but his mana field was denser than Shiv’s by 200 levels or so, not far from the next level threshold. And judging from the chipped halberd he carried, Shiv suspected the Hydra was more a Legendary Vanguard in terms of combat ability. Tall Ben coiled his necks tight around his komodo-dragon-like body, hiding just how immense he was. Marikos was already an immense being; Tall Ben was probably ten times his mass, only packed tightly together.

Then there were the other five. The first among their number who caught Shiv's attention was a far, far smaller, lithe dragon who was busy maintaining a bone-made greatbow. The weapon had a Divination gem lodged at its front, and its string was the same shade of red-gold as Shiv’s pillar. His Atlas granted him a surprising insight in that the bow itself was harvested from another dragon’s spine, and—her head snapped up to meet his gaze without forewarning. It was like she'd felt his Awareness settle on her.

Shiv offered her a friendly wave, but her expression—and her mind and heart—were closed and clouded.

And something about that made his intuition tingle. Not Path of the Archer. Probably an Assassin. Wanna know, but would feel rude to Analyze her. She'd definitely notice.

The rest of the Lance was made up of dedicated magi, as much as a group of heavily armored giant dragons could be dedicated mages.

Even at a glance, it was clear the Descenders Union didn't have divides between their Martials and Mages. Everyone was clad in heaviest plates and bore a weapon, with flowing sheets of adamantium in the case of the four mages. They also wore enchanted hoods, which were further bolstered with gravity magics to lighten their bodies, and the fact that their staves were cudgeled staffs that had their focus crystals hovering within reinforced force-spheres.

Shiv also noted the iron-bound tomes and quills that hung from their hind legs. That gave him another burst of insight. These weren't dedicated battle mages. They were dedicated scholars who doubled as battle mages. Shiv had called for Marikos specifically because he knew him, and while he was the de facto celebrity of their group, the vanguard of vanguards, these were the actual diplomats, here to bargain on behalf of the Descenders Union with the forces at Gate Piety.

Deductive Reasoning 33 > 35

And just as with the great bow-bearing dragoness, they were all looking back at Shiv. Each of the four offered him a polite nod, but he could see the distrust inside their hearts, felt the tension that extended in two directions, connecting their worries to both Marikos and him.

“They fear you have compromised their great warrior. They fear you are trying to twist him against the Union or that you possess such a capability. A simple possibility that he might be persuaded to your cause is an intimidating thing.” The Harbinger’s words grounded Shiv, giving words to his latent political instincts. It wasn’t even perception; he felt their worries in his bones before his mind ever put the pieces together. “Be wary of them, and don't try to overtly address their concerns. They are the politicians of the Dragon-Knights; they will smell the games you play. Earn their conviction through action and not direct persuasion.”

Politics 6 > 10

“And we aren't the only ones observing them.” The Harbinger's words proved true, for Shiv realized the Dragon-Brokers were gazing upon their counterparts with interest and fascination. He realized the two sides were inversions of each other; the Dragon-Brokers were awakened monsters who'd gained sapience and decided to control things through information and coin.

Meanwhile, the knights of the Descenders Union were people who stole the flesh of the great beasts they slew in a rite that demonstrated their martial valor. Their way was conflict in the physical—power taken through steel and spell.

And thus a path ahead manifested in Shiv's mind. There was ample opportunity for friction and cooperation between the Knights and the Brokers, and that gave Shiv a unique role to embody: if they came into conflict or they desired to come to an accord, he and, by extension, Gate Piety could play as kingmakers. With the Brokers and the Knights focused on each other, it also gave him more leeway in case he made any political mistakes—and he definitely would make some mistakes, for even a High-Tier skill could easily be betrayed by inexperience.

“Hey, Yellowbelly,” Shiv called out, “did your bots finish bringing in all the ingredients for the pot stickers?”

“They have.” The sleeveless Dragon-Broker grinned. He rubbed his claws together with glee. “Are we finally about to bear witness to your much-boasted cooking ability?”

“Or discover if I’m just a fraud,” Shiv shrugged inside his pillar. “That’ll be amusing too.”

“What is this ‘pot sticker’ of which you speak!” Marikos demanded more than he asked.

“Oh, you’ll see—especially since you can help me make it. Hey, any chance you can wrangle your Lance into this ordeal?”

“Of course!” Marikos bellowed without hesitation. “Though I fear none of us are versed in the culinary arts at all.”

Shiv laughed. “Don't worry about that. I'll make sure nothing goes wrong. Brokers, you want in on the action too, or just watch?”

The Dragon-Brokers shared a look, and the shuffle of their bodies caused the mountains of mithril they lay upon to clatter and crash. Poverty, the Dragon-Broker dressed in the finest silks and adorned with the most ornate of jewelry, stuck up his snout and announced his decision with a snort. “Labor? Such things are to be purchased from a lesser being.”

“Bah!” Yellowbelly barked, bouncing his alloyed teacup off Poverty’s thick head before catching the ricochet. “A rare opportunity for some pre-conference entertainment, and you let it slip through your claws. How pitiful.”

If Poverty was bothered by his fellow’s judgment, he didn't show it. Instead, he continued maintaining his haughty facade. Inside, however, Shiv could see his mind turning like a turbine, spinning his thoughts so fast, Shiv was sure the dragon's Multitasking Skill was definitely Legendary. Shiv wondered how many other tasks Poverty was running at this very instant. Looking at his empathic core, meanwhile, made it clear that this Broker was indeed kind of an arrogant prick.

That wasn't to say the other Dragon-Brokers were in any way humble; it was just that their arrogance was expressed in a wide variety.

Know-Nothing cleaned his massive monocle with a delicately embroidered cloth. He preferred to seem nonchalant, but already he was trying to work his angles. As the Dragon-Broker who feasted upon secrets and information, it was in his best interests to co-mingle with the Descenders Union—for this was part of the reason they wanted a stake in Gate Piety, to access more of the Abyss and all the untapped markets it offered.

Garrulous, Dragon-Broker of Diplomacy, merely grunted—and refused to elaborate further. His mind was the most inscrutable of all; Shiv couldn’t peer into his thoughts at all. It was like a hazy veil was protecting everything behind its screen, much like his milky-white eyes. But where the Dragon-Broker ensured the obfuscation of his mind, his heart remained transparent to the Harbinger, and it was pointed in the same direction as his monocle-wearing comrade. He too was interested in the Descenders Union, but his fascination with the Dragon-Knights was of a more personal variety, judging from how pointed his passions felt.

He's probably going to participate as well. Shiv sighed. Great, I'm about to host a cooking class for a bunch of different dragons. See how they play along with each other—if any of their personalities bounce off or rub each other the wrong way. And in the meantime, let's see if I can get my Philosophy and Cooking over the edge. I'm close. Real close.

Letting his Pillar of Orichalcum dim, Shiv slipped out from Marikos's grasp and looked toward the bot encampment near the hoard. If he had to guess, the pearlescent dough and all the other delicious foodstuffs Yellowbelly was boasting about would probably be found in the large silo they set up at the center of their little encampment. “Candles! Marikos! Could you guys heat up the grilling station? We got some stuff to fry.”

“Ugghhh!” Candles groaned. “Yeah! More burn!”

“Of course—” For the first time since Shiv could remember, Marikos did a double-take as he watched the little Pyromancer develop full-body spasms atop the tea set. Slowly, awkwardly, Marikos leaned in and did his best to whisper. He wasn’t very good at it. “Deathless, I have been meaning to ask, is… that one not wearing any clothes?”

“Eh? Maybe not. Candles is a work in progress. Don’t worry, just let him burn stuff, and he’ll be fine.”

Marikos tentatively nodded. “I must confess my concerns with him touching the food—considering the noises he made earlier, I worry he might add something that would be hard to distinguish from the dough.”

Shiv used his Harbinger to rip the images Marikos conjured out of his mind. “Thank you for that absolutely nightmarish thought; I’ll make sure that doesn’t happen. There will be no unwanted juices in my dough.”

Marikos looked upon Shiv with pride. “May you make truth of those words, friend Shiv—and you can count on my aid to guard this great dish!”

***

Udraal watched the columns of steam rise from a few districts away.

He listened as distant rumbles of booming laughter and vicious arguments broke out between the different dragons his Deathless had drafted into a little culinary adventure. Mingled amongst the slaves and wearing the guise of a poor, wretched child who was suffering from the skin pox, he blended with the rabble and studied the developments of Gate Piety in peace.

His peace, anyhow. With the constant, deafening noises made by Marikos, he truly doubted anyone would be getting proper rest while he was here.

Originally, he'd returned to visit Adam Arrow and take stock of his burgeoning Divinity. When the Educator came seeking his aid to defy the Challenger, he found himself both delighted and surprised—because he truly hadn't seen this coming either. Per Thaen’s machinations, it was supposed to be the girl that was destined for godhood, not Adam. But Udraal had visited the boy on that night of the ritual and tried to harvest that nascent little soul inside him to complete the Arrow family tragedy.

With wife and daughter murdered during the ritual, son suddenly dead for seemingly no reason at all, and only the child of his best friends turned blood-enemies, the only thing Roland Arrow could have done was adopt the Omenborn. Yet, that didn’t come to pass, for Adam survived.

And now Udraal realized the Young Lord might have survived for a reason. Perhaps the System saw fit to transfer your sister’s fated Domain over to you. Somehow. It doesn’t make sense to me how such a thing could transpire, but the System has been vulgar before—though this would be another level of spite toward me. He let out an amused sigh. Not that I don't aspire to inspire such overt actions by the invisible hand of the tyrant.

But though Udraal came mainly to take a gander at the newly restarted Arrow family side-project, it was his Deathless that brought him further delight. The boy was growing—and growing fast. Even deprived of all the training he was supposed to have, his urge to learn was insatiable, his morals unbreakable, and the long-suppressed social talent within him immense.

Mere weeks ago, the Deathless would’ve been too blunt and rough to charm half the people in this Gate. Now, he was learning to find the loose strings of their little hearts and make them dance like puppets.

Just like he did with Mother’s broken toy, and the System’s most miserable janitor. Oh, Deathless, you’re resurrecting my dreams. If you become half the genius your grandmother was, the things you’ll be able to do when—

Udraal’s thoughts came to a halt as a presence materialized beside him. The intruder’s appearance was so unnatural and sudden that it was borderline jarring, but he had long since neutered that natural fear-response inside himself to avoid feeding another’s Intimidation skill.

And besides, it wasn’t the first time he had been ambushed exactly this way.

Far from it.

“Father,” Udraal greeted without looking up. “I see you are more yourself every passing day.”

“Udraal,” Valor replied. “I thought about driving my blade into you for a moment.”

“Ah, well. That’s understandable. But also quite pointless.”

