The anchoring images spun around him, his mind rushing through them. He saw a massive pearly throne on which a grey being with long arms and longer fingers sat. He saw an alchemist staying up late into the night above his worktable, eyes gleaming with the possibilities hidden in his next idea. He saw a figure flicking through a grimoire, memorizing the contents with just a glance. He saw a slender creature plucking at the threads of fate, weighing and measuring their worth. He saw a man in a white robe, bowing his head before an incandescent light-

Randidly’s chest, or some remnant of his physical form, sputtered and collapsed underneath the pressure of his heartbeat. Blood sprayed forward into the mixture of ash and bone and flame, but gravity seemed to forget about the crimson and emerald blood before it hit the ground. The liquid split into two perfect serpents, one red and one green. They began to swim through the murky stew that Randidly Ghosthound had become, one strengthening and one weakening. The heat pulsed and swayed, held in check by these arrivals.

Randidly tried to breathe, but nothing happened. So he stopped that. He simply burned, fully and without hesitation.

Error… dissonance detected… recalculating…

BADUMPBADUMPBADUMPBADUMP-

Attempting to correct-

A woman groaned in his ears. He saw her hands, ending in metal gauntlets, desperately trying to keep the essence of him from leaking out between her fingers while the anchors were being prepared. Yet even while burning, he sensed something was wrong. His existence, with all of its new Stats, was a key that slipped into a lock. Yet when they tried to turn, something caught. The door in front of him remained shut.

Randidly- A voice, Neveah’s, reached him as he burned. It was full of pleading. The rest of her words were lost in the crackling flames. Randidly felt the two serpents weakening. Their refinement process continued, but they were running out of power. The moment had dragged on for too long-

What was strange was that he didn’t feel fear. If anything, the roar of the flames began to sound like laughter.

Yet Neveah’s call made one of his anchors began to hum. A Stat image flickered again in his mind. In a second, its struggle had ballooned outward until it dominated his awareness. Randidly saw that Moirae, drawing his fingers across the strings. The figure looked up and smiled at Randidly. “I no longer have the patience to follow Fate’s meandering Path. If we are burning, let’s burn it all down with us.”

Warning- Altering anchor is highly dangerous. Please see-

The Moirae snapped his fingers and generated a shivering tongue of flame. Randidly watched, transfixed. A wicked smile sewed itself across the being’s face as he lowered his hand and all the threads began to burn.

Congratulations! Your Stat Fidelity of the Ascendant Moirae (P) has shifted! Your Stat has changed to Discretion of the Apostate Moirae (P)!

Randidly burned and his Stat image burned. He smiled at the feeling. Energy rushed through him, funneled into and through his body. His anchors transformed.

The key squirmed. The lock began to turn.

Congratulations! You have condensed a Fourth Attribute! Attribute set as Muse’s Reverie (???). Set at 1/5! Regeneration set at 1 per (???)!
