On the far side of the green zone, a Wyvern and human bonded pair still glow with blue and green light, radiating Celestial energy while they fly upward through the remains of a massive Demonic High Noble Wyvern they have blown to bits.

Their energies mix, and their vibrations bounce off each other. While separate in their individual nature, both now share essence from the other.

Seraphel and Abby drop down, back toward the sea of corruption to witness the sight below.

Not only are the remains of this Demonic Lightning Wyvern falling from the sky, dropping into the sea of corruption making splashing waves; but an eye-opening sight can be seen on the coast.

There are thousands of demonic monster corpses. Orcs, Ogres, and even the Noble Wyverns that fell from the sky before.

Many of them have single holes through their chests, while others have X-shaped slash marks through their bodies.

Arie and Raven, the ones responsible for this carnage, both stand at the far side of the sea's coast, surrounded by the strongest corpses.

The Scarlet and Obsidian Berserkers.

Red and black waves of energy vibrate off these piles of demonic flesh, along with the waves of infused noble vibrations from Sisco Vermillion.

Waves of deep red aura seep into Raven's two swords, trailing from their shattered cores, and being eaten by these Relic Class Soul Weapons, resonating with her own core and mutated path.

Arie stands with his arms crossed at the edge of the sea as the waves of corruption crash onto the shore. However, his spirit hands travel on the ground behind him, like shadows with minds of their own.

Each one lands on the fallen corpse of an Obsidian Berserker.

He not only drained their bodies of demonic energy and their refined ether, but the inheritance of a dark elf's path resonates with the dark aura of an Obsidian Berserker. While absorbing the essence of these demonic beasts for their ether pools, his vibrations also increase in strength.

The two black vibrations resonate like they have some history together... but those who could tell of this ancient past are long dead.

Seraphel touches down on the dark black sea, a thousand kilometers away, and instead of sinking in, ripples of celestial blue energy cover his footsteps, like he's walking on a rubber surface.

Abby jumps off the Wyvern's nose, and touches down on the sea's waving surface as well, sending green ripples of light through it as she takes more steps forward.

All four of these fighters sparkle with a Celestial glow, and smile as they know they have won their portion of the war.

–

Yet, in the backs of their minds, spectate feeds still show chaos on the brink of being unleashed again.

In fact, the massive glowing Celestial Orb where the Grand Citadel once stood isn't the only worry.

There is still a war going on right outside of the Ellipsia Citadel.

There were waves of the Rising Emperor's High Noble Vibrations mid-battle to grant everyone in the Green Zone the opportunity to swear their loyalty.

Many Lords on the Ellipsia Citadel did so, while others watch the large-scale war taking place on live feeds all throughout the city in the sky.

The army of freed Demonic Servants led by the Warlords is still within the Citadel's ether surveillance range, and many workers from the Ogre Conglomeration and Orc District that are not fighters use the Citadel's surveillance systems to live stream the event.

However, just as the two armies began to clash... this wave from the Rising Emperor took out over 90% of the enemy's troops.

Or rather, broke them from their avatar's slave contracts.

Thousands of trapped Lords that worked under Sisco Vermillion for thousands of years instantly turn on their oppressors before the battle even starts.

Only a few stay loyal, and are teamed up on 20 to 1.

The only true threats are the 1st Class Demons that lead the charge.

However, this was all planned for too.

The enormous greater forms of a maroon-colored High Orc in Dark Armor, sending waves of blood magic toward his enemy; and the bright blue lightning bolts of the ancient Blue Ogre are unmatched.

These new freedom avatars allow the two Warlords to finally tap into their ether pools without being limited by the preset commands and suppressing avatar limiters put on them by Andras Vermillion.

With their low quality ether pools completely refined thanks to Ember's elixir, they too begin to sparkle with a light Celestial glow.

Each of them received small chunks of medium-quality ether from the Rising Emperor before the war began. They utilize these to add to their pool, and convert their essence into a deadly unique force.

The 1st Class Demons they fight may have the Noble Blood of their leader running through their veins from his transfusion ability, but this gap in raw path strength does not matter.

They are young Demons, less than 10,000 years old, brought to the Upper Realm under the new family head's rule.

They have not seen war, and do not have the experience and battle IQ that these Warlords bring to the table.

Ellipsia witnesses a High Orc and a Blue Ogre dominate the battlefield, and slowly tear these domineering Demons limb from limb in the air.

While the Demons throw extremely powerful raw attacks that could take them out after being hit a single time, Torvak and Asic zip around the battlefield with jaded expressions and focused counterattacks.

Every lightning bolt and blood needle that attacks their opponents are infused with sparkling medium-quality ether, on the verge of becoming Celestial energy. They are packed with dense waves of mental ether attacks.

The physical damage does not look bad on the surface, but every small attack these two Warlords land, the slower their enemies get, the more they lower their defenses, and the more reckless their melting minds become.

To the citizens of Ellipsia, this war is over in seconds.

The two Demons are killed, blown to black, purple, and white bits high in the sky, while the army below celebrates their victory.

The large mana- and divine energy-rich Greater Forms of the Warlords raise their axe and club in the air, and the Citadel cheers as well.

Whispering under his breath, Torvak turns to Asic: "Looks like we survived another one. That dragon did it again..."

The High Orc chuckles, and lets out a cough: "Yeah... I'm counting on this one being our last."

–

Above all of this, out of range of Ellipsia, millions of kilometers up in the sky, Maria still faces the consequences of the end of her battle.

After sharing the experience from her kill to the Rising Emperor, her level still rose a considerable amount, surpassing 70,000.

It is not enough to rank up, but her mana and ether maturity has skyrocketed from that increase.

The shockwaves from the destruction of this Demon's Demon Core and Divine Core are quite negligible. The Demonic Energy is blasted outward, frozen into a rainbow Celestial casing; sent flying out into the atmosphere.

All of the divine energy in this Demon's saturated True Core is instantly absorbed into hers, and the dense ether is drained and absorbed as well.

Every bit of ambient divine energy, ether, and mana in the surroundings for millions of kilometers in fact, has all been drained into her Soul Energy Core.

The massive icy blue and rainbow-refracting angelic form in the sky continues to grow in size.

Her shimmering long sword floats around her in circles, as her angel wings slowly flap and she flies higher.

Her energy form even surpasses 1,000 kilometers in size, and nears 1,500. It is made up of a pure Soul Energy base, that has started to morph into an Icy Celestial Form with the Source Resin sparkling through it.

She is not growing stronger because she fears there is another enemy to face.

Nor is she doing so on purpose to take advantage of all this energy in the atmosphere and grow stronger because it is a great opportunity to do so.

It is a result of the wave of power that rippled through the realm from the Rising Emperor's battle; and even the mental images and emotions she's receiving now through the spectate feed.

The Rising Emperor has grown exponentially stronger yet again.

Her path awakening is one that is extremely closely tied to her desire to grow stronger, and not be left behind. It is one that has been slowly developing every day, even since the moment she awakened her system.

Her Soul Energy Core that seems to defy the laws of nature, being able to hold more mass in a small area of space than physically possible; and simultaneously pour out extreme bursts of power that bring her abilities to higher and higher heights is not as unpredictable and strange as it seems.

It is the mental manifestation of the Rising Emperor's potential, at least in Maria's subconscious. She may not understand it herself entirely, but the mental realization of this new level of power, a High Noble breaking through into the Realm of Royals... This reflects deeply into her soul.

Her Soul Energy Core contracts again, and pulses outward to release a wave of rainbow-colored ice. She cannot help it, her raw instincts are taking over.

It sparkles with Celestial Energy, but is completely and entirely infused with the Source Resin from her Soul Sword. The vibrations that ripple off it are so powerful, and uneven, they begin to make heads turn all over the Green Zone.

Instantaneously, those below in the Ellipsia Citadel feel a wave of dangerous cold energy wash through them, and stop their cheers.

Even generals at the coast of the Sea of Corruption turn their heads as this strange aura is one far stronger than that Demonic Wyvern they just pushed their minds and bodies to the limits to kill.

Many high above the Celestial Orb where the Grand Citadel once stood can even feel this disturbance... as it feels just as ominous as the clash they felt below them mere seconds ago.
