Hey sis, I have quite the lesson for you today. I’ve been thinking quite a lot about what I could help a Novice with, and I’ve come up with this. The biggest change from the crafting of a second circle spell is the ability to add (as the master mages call it) “complexity” or “specificity”. Personally, I prefer calling it scope vs power. Let’s use a basic fireball spell as an example. A basic apprentice fireball looks like this:

Transformation, then identity (fire), and finished with Desire (projectile).

To increase scope, you could add a second circle with earth identity and spear desire.

With your novice spell completed, you’re throwing a spear of magma at your enemies. Why would you want to do this? I don’t know, but you’ve increased you’re “complexity”.

To increase power instead, we’ll change your second circle. Keep the fire identity, and add a modifier. Modifiers are desire runes that can only be used in a multi-circle spell.

Transformation, Fire, Projectile

Transformation, Fire, Unending

Now your fireball burns without fuel, unending, and dangerous…

Please be careful, and don’t light yourself on fire. More than one mage has done it. I highly recommend reading Kolmark’s List Of Modifiers.

Eridor’s Journal to his sister

What are the odds I’d find two rooms full of world shaking treasures I can’t use? I identify yet another artifact, this one a small box with a mechanical heart inside of it.

Heart Of A Lich

A powerful and cursed item. With a single drop of blood, you become immortal. Slowly, your race will become undead, and your class will change to Lich.

Yeah, I think I’m going to give up on the items kept behind glass. All of them seem to want to curse me in some way.

That means my eyes go to the books kept in the bookcase and the items displayed prominently next to the desk. I dismiss the swords immediately. I’m sure some of them are useful, but most of them are Paladin swords for Oathsworn Levis. The rings seem to be similar items, except for followers of Reaper Yon.

I move over to the desk itself, and pull out one of its drawers out. Inside I four cloudy orbs in soft cloth. Two are black, and two are red. My breath catches as I recognize the similarities to an orb I’d grabbed long ago.

Identify Artifact

Class Orb: Reaper Archetype

Created by an ancient Archmage, this orb grants a second class of the Reaper Archetype.

Class Orb: Paladin Archetype

Created by an ancient Archmage, this orb grants a second class of the Paladin Archetype.

I inhale sharply, “Shar, you mentioned that you’ve seen that man before. Do you remember why he visited?”

The cat walks over to me, then hops on to the table to look down at the orbs I’m studying. “It’s been a long time, Leo. I think he was receiving a gift of some kind from the Archmage.”

I reach down towards one of the orbs, then pause, my hand hovering above it. It grants a second class, not a third one. The wording on it is specific, and I suspect it won’t work on me. Is it worth it to grab one for my companions? Maybe, but none of them are followers of the Angels as far as I know. Maybe Keve, if I was to give it to anyone.

I lower my hand, then gently close the drawer. I don’t know. I’ll look at everything else first, then decide.

I pull out a second drawer, and study the items inside. Ancient documents fill the drawer, written in a language I can’t read. If I were able to, I’d take them all. I have been curious if I could put documents like these in my library. I also want to test it with the maps one we’re back at camp and away from the Dralk.

The Dralk… they need something from this trip as well, don’t they? Something that could help them with the crows that are hunting them. I’m still considering whether I should invite them to the stronghold or not, but that’s something I’ll need to discuss with Keve.

Finally, I turn my gaze to the bookshelf. Gently, I pull one of the more mundane books down, and look at its cover.

It’s written in Merlan. I recognize two words.

Blood … of ….

“Shar, can you translate this?”

The cat looks over, “Blood Rituals of Patari”

I flip it open, recognizing various magical scripts and drawings of some sort. I put the book back, then continue to pull books off the shelf. From sacrificial rituals to books on ancient necromancy, it seems the shelf covers a lot of the less savory practices and magics. They might have some insight into what the Arcanists are doing in that stronghold.

I pause as I read a familiar title.

Where Are The Gods? by The Apostle Of Truth

The copy I have doesn’t have a name attached to it, but it’s the same heretical book I’d found in the Archmage’s Sanctum. Beside it are several more books by the same author.

The Secrets Of The Void Between Realms by The Apostle Of Truth

Why The Fall? by The Apostle Of Truth

Forgotten Angels by The Apostle Of Truth

My hand aches as I resist taking every book off the shelf. One item, that’s all I can take. One item, and I have to choose between knowledge and power.

Curse you, Era. This is actual torture.

I let out a sigh, then turn away from the books. There’s one last thing to check, a small box on the corner of the desk.

I walk up, and study it carefully, then open it. Inside, a small key rests.

Key Of The Owls

This key allows one to access the Academy Of Owls.

I hesitate for a second, then pick it up. Immediately, a screen appears in front of me.

Academy Of Owls

Overall Status: Hibernation

Defenses: Mild Damage

Kennels: Inactive

Housing: Mild Damage

Training Rooms: Inactive

Armory: Empty

Medical Lab: Inactive

Teleportation Circle: Active

Headmasters Office: Mild Damage

Dungeons: Mild Damage

Headmaster: Spirit of Era (temporary)

Teachers:

-Masia (On Sabbatical)

-Leo Grayson (Temporary Access)

Teaching Assistants: None

Students: None

I hurriedly put the key back into the box, and slam it closed. Yeah, no chance.

I have enough on my plate. I have no desire to run a school, I’ll leave that to some other poor soul. It does tell me that the parts of the ruin we haven’t explored are likely kennels and housing. I’m pretty sure I’ve seen every other room mentioned.

Maybe I could get this key to one of the Dralk, but considering none of them have been able to enter, I doubt any of them are followers of Levis or Yon. Something tells me Era would be frustrated if I tried to give control to someone who isn’t a follower of the Angels.

That leaves me to decide between the books and the class orbs. The thing is, a second class is powerful, but the effects take time, as evidenced by my second class. The books on the other hand…

I look at them for a long time. What is most useful to me, here and now? While The Apostle’s books interest me, I have made enemies with a blood mage.

I reach up, and pull the first book I’d grabbed off the shelf. Blood Rituals Of Patari by High Mage Baramal.

Casting my class spell, a portal opens in front of me, and I place the book inside my private library.

Then I turn away, and walk towards the exit, Shar a few steps on my heels.

That puts me at 33. I double check my status, but don’t see any changes.

The door at the top of the stairs opens as I approach, revealing the waiting party. Grildor tries to step inside, but an invisible barrier repels him

I step out of the owl statue, and its mouth closes as it returns to its original position.

“You were gone a while.” Commander Vakar says. “None of us could enter after you.”

I nod, “There’s a magic spirit watching over the place. It wouldn’t let me take anything from the room inside.” I pause, then shake my head, “You can try to go in, but I think it’s closed until we get a follower of the right Angels. You don’t have a Paladin of Levis hiding among your kind, do you?”

The Commander shakes his head, “No. Our people do not follow the Angels.”

“Then we’re stuck until I can get one here. I don’t want to continue past the gates if there are undead. We’ll head back up and check the animals if you’re up for it, Tanya?”

The Lin girl nods.

I look over to the Commander who watches me with narrowed eyes. “Does that work for you, Commander Vakar? I’m hoping what we’ve found already will be enough for your people to fight the Crows, for now at least.”

“It won’t be enough.” His words are quiet, and I notice as the rest of the Dralk shift. Everyone’s hands move closer to weapons as the two groups separate slightly.

I keep still. I can see that his words aren’t a threat, but filled with worry for his people. “I am not keeping any great weapons from you, Vakar. I have my secrets, but I don’t want your people to hurt from them.”

He looks at me for a long moment, then nods. “My people are being killed and enslaved, Delver Leo. I trust your words, but words alone won’t be enough to save them.”

I glance over to Keve, and he meets my gaze. He gives me a small nod. I don’t know how much he knows about the situation. I haven’t had the chance to talk to any of them about it. Is his nod telling me to share my knowledge of the Stronghold? Or simply telling me that he is with me?

I take a deep breath, and look back at Vakar. “Give us some space, Commander Vakar, there’s something I need to discuss with my party.”

He bows his head, then motions or his people to step away.

I have everyone step closer, then activate the bracelet on my wrist, a faint shimmer surrounding us and protecting our words. With everyone’s attention on me, I explain my interactions with the Dralk so far, finishing with my hesitation of sharing the stronghold with them.

Keve holds my gaze for a second, then turns to look at the Dralk who are arguing among themselves. “I see your why you worry, Leo.” He stares at them for a long time, “Let me speak with their leaders. I will decide for myself.”

“With their help, you’d have an easier time defending the stronghold.”

The group looks over to Daron, who stands there awkwardly.

He looks at me and rubs the back of his neck. “I mean, people are stronger together than apart, and these guys are scary. I wouldn’t want to be a necromancer against both the Vishten and the Dralk.”

I look over to Keve, “Why haven’t your people worked together before?”

“Many reasons.” He says, his mouth moving into a thin line.

“The Dralk are not a peaceful people.” Libby says, drawing our attention to her. She folds her arms. “There is a tribe of them to the north who have slaughtered every human and nonhuman they meet. What do you think, Leo? If your mentor was not one of them, would they have killed you too?”

The words take a moment to come out as I consider the question. Part of the reason my Master taught me their language was to live if I ever did encounter them. “I don’t know.”

“It’s not right to let them be hunted.” A small voice says. We look over to Tanya, who wilts under the attention, “If we can help them, we should.”

Keve looks at the young Lin girl for a long time, then nods. “I agree. Still, I want to talk with them.” He looks at me.

“I’ll make it happen.” I say.

“Good, then it is decided.” He takes a deep breath and lifts his chin.

I smile at him, and he gives me a toothy smile in return.

With a flex of my mana, the soundproofing fades.

The Dralk notice immediately, and turn towards us.

“We will help you,” I say to Commander Vakar “But first, my friend needs to meet your leaders.”

Keve steps forward, and bows to them, he starts to say what I suspect are his first words to the Dralk. “I am warrior Keve of the Vishten.” He raises his head, “My people can help. But old pain must be forgotten.”

Commander Vakar looks from the Vishten warrior to me, a spark of understanding entering his eyes. It was not my secret to give, after all.