Staavo glanced at the still slumbering Beacon and filled his lungs, channeling a certain bearded shield-wielding idiot. “Oi!”

Tarny mumbled in his sleep but didn’t open his eyes.

“Oh no you don’t,” Staavo said, rifling through his pockets for something to throw. Unfortunately for Tarny, the first thing he found was a wrench.

“Aie!” Tarny yelped as the metal object clanged against the deck near his feet. “What’s going on?”

“Army,” Staavo said, gesturing toward the bow. “Tell the captain. Ask what he wants us to do.”

“An army?” Tarny said, pressing a hand to his chest. “Wait, did you just throw a wrench?”

“Yes. If I’d wanted to hit you, I’d have hit you. Wake up.”

“Turn us a little to the south,” Jamus said, cutting off Tarny’s reply. “Shu, pitch us up. I’m switching to maximum zoom.”

There was a mechanical clunk as he changed the position of the large secondary lens. Shu’s magic wavered as he adjusted the curvature of his own lens to compensate for the new focal distance.

“Will someone fill me in, please?” Tarny asked with a sigh.

“You’re already filled in,” Staavo said, doing his best to keep the ship as steady as possible to avoid making Jamus and Shu’s job any harder. “There are Adamants ahead, busy killing monsters. Jamus, please narrate what you’re seeing, damn you.”

“At the moment, I am seeing a blur,” Jamus said. “Zoom out, Shu. Out! No, the other out!”

“That was out,” said Shu.

“In, then,” Jamus snapped with uncharacteristic irritation in his voice. “Ah, there. Good. Staavo, just a touch starboard, please.”

Staavo complied, making Jamus click his tongue as his view doubtless slid off target. Maximum zoom was sensitive to small movements, but aiming the scope horizontally with the ship was the only solution they had. He’d have liked to have found a way to make the observation pod pivot in all directions, but he’d run out of time.

“They appear to have a problem on their hands,” Jamus said once he and Shu had gotten things aligned again. “There is a large bear-like creature, and several soldiers have fallen.”

A flash seen out of the corner of Staavo’s eye told him Tarny had managed to reach the captain. He risked a glance aside to see the Beacon fiddling with the stone board before returning his gaze to the level indicator.

“Six legs?” Shu asked.

“Maybe?” Jamus said after a moment. “It’s quite fast. It keeps striking and darting away. Black fur. Twice the height of a man.”

“Bureneen,” Shu said.

Staavo raised an eyebrow. He recognized the name from the list of things you did not want to find in the Badlands. It was a reaper-class threat.

“They are said to embody the will of the Empire,” Shu continued. “Extremely durable. Extremely vicious. Extremely hard to kill.”

“I’ve heard of them,” Jamus said. “Never seen one until now. Ah, it stopped for a moment. Yes, six legs.”

“Consider yourself lucky that you are seeing it from such a distance,” Shu said. “A Bureneen could threaten a Cento. Without a strong defensive formation, common soldiers have no chance.”

“I’m seeing that,” Jamus said. “It’s headed to the right, killing along the line as it goes. Staavo, could you...thanks. Shu, down a bit, okay, good, there.”

“The Dominus will come,” Shu said. “The line will not crumble.”

“I see the Dominus now,” Jamus said. “It’s a woman. Gray hair. Insignia... I don’t recognize it from the list. No heavy armor or equipment to speak of.” He inhaled sharply. “She just smashed the monster into a bloody pancake. Her magic was invisible. No, it can’t be.”

“What can’t be?” Tarny asked, looking up from the rapidly blinking Radiance anchor.

“Hold us still!” Jamus said with sudden intensity, pulling his eye from the eyepiece and snatching up his sketchbook. He roughly flipped the page from his map and returned to the telescope, mumbling to himself as he began to sketch. “Draw what I see, not what I think I see. Draw what I see, not what I think I see. Nose like this. Jaw...like...that...”

“Wait, how high are we?” Staavo asked, glancing at the altimeter. “You can see someone’s nose?”

“Well enough,” Jamus said, sketching like a madman. “Unfortunately, I cannot praise the scope’s designer without him becoming insufferably smug.”

“Rain says to fly over them,” Tarny interjected before Staavo could think of a witty response. “The mission is still a go as long as we’re not spotted. We’re here for the Maelstrom, he says.”

“What the hells is it, Jamus?” Staavo asked, ignoring the update. His old friend was practically frantic. “What do you see?”

“Here,” Jamus said, roughly pulling back from the eyepiece and holding up his pad. “Do you recognize this woman?”

“Why would I know a random—” Staavo froze, recognition exploding in his mind. He hadn’t spent much time around the Guild, but anyone who’d spent time in Fel Sadanis in the years before its fall could have identified that face.

In this case, Tarny beat him to it. “Lavarro?” The man blinked like an owl. “Why does that look like Lavarro?”

Staavo snorted. “Well, shit. Glad I’m not the one who’s got to tell her family.”
