The enemy mage switched to the smaller and faster Firebolt spell, but the relentless attacks from her rogues’ daggers and her Arcane Bolts killed it before it could get off more than a few shots. She let out a held breath as the mage collapsed, relieved that the most dangerous enemy was dead.

As Ali directed her two rogues to attack the Slinger, who was still peppering her barrier with stones, they chirped again, causing her to lose even more mana to her frustratingly ill-timed Sage skill. She thumped her forehead with the heel of her hand. Stop it. Seriously?

The Slinger managed to fire off two shots at her rogue, whose body was still smoking from the Fire Mage’s magic, and it collapsed in the middle of the street right before reaching its foe, releasing her reserved mana with the sharp whip-crack of a dishcloth stinging her mind. Down a rogue, and missing the benefits of ambushing from stealth, Ali took far longer to kill the Slinger, but she persevered, whittling it down with stab wounds and sizzling bolts of her arcane magic. This was long enough for Mato to take care of one of the warriors by himself.

She sprinted over and deconstructed the corpse to recover the substantial amount of mana she had spent while sending her remaining rogue limping over to help Mato with the last Kobold. As soon as her mana was recovered, she joined in with her bolts and the last Kobold in the patrol collapsed.

“Help Mato,” she instructed, and her two Kobold minions leapt to assist Mato in dragging the corpses into a nearby house while they hid, worried that the sound of fighting and the detonation might have attracted nearby patrols. But apart from some distant chirping, all remained quiet.

Your group has defeated Warrior – Kobold – level 11-15 x2Your group has defeated Fire Mage – Kobold – level 13.Your group has defeated Slinger – Kobold – level 12.Grove Warden has reached level 10.+10 attribute points.Arcane Bolt has reached level 10.Barrier has reached level 10.Class skill slot unlocked.

She barely muffled a squeal of delight. What? A class skill? Ali had not expected to level up, but defeating the higher-level Kobolds, and presumably, the additional danger of the initial rock trap, had somehow earned her enough experience to reach level ten.

All that was well and good, but the snippet of glowing golden text persisted in her mind, refusing to go away. Class skill slot unlocked … class skill …

The notifications continued to stream by; a soft chorus of chimes in the back of her mind.

New skills are available for Grove Warden.New skill unlocked.Class level has reached 10.Raised two Arcane skills to at least level 10.Perception has surpassed 10.Received master-level instruction in mana manipulation.Arcane InsightYou can see mana. Arcane, PerceptionNew skill unlocked.Class level has reached 10.Defeated multiple enemies while having your health reduced by 80% or more.Has summoned 5 or more minions.Berserk SummonerYour summoned creatures gain Enrage if you lose more than half your health. Their damage is increased proportionally to how damaged you are. Range: 20 meters.Nature, Minion, EnduranceNew skill unlocked.Class level has reached 10. Defeated multiple enemies above your level using minions.Disrupted an Ambush attack using the perception skill of a minion.Observed your minions fighting with martial skills and weapons. Martial InsightYour mana empowering summoned creatures now carries your accumulated experience. Your creatures gain + [40 + skill + perception / 10] % to combat abilities. Martial Insight only gains experience when you observe your minions’ combat.Nature, Minion, Mastery, Perception

“Mato! I got a new skill slot and three choices,” Ali exclaimed in an excited whisper. Quickly, she shared the options with him. “I want Arcane Insight…” her excitement grew as she read the deceptively simple description. I will be able to see magic! Mana was the fundamental energy of magic, the substance that made up its structure and the infinite intricacies of its formations. Every important magic researcher had a skill like this. Being able to see mana was essential to understanding magic. Her mother had such a skill and she had used it to teach Ali to manipulate her mana, earning her her first Arcane Cantrip skill when she was a child.

“That isn’t going to help us get out of here.”Mato’s words pierced her bubble of excitement and brought her crashing back down to the reality of what they faced.

“The other two sound as if they would be more useful.”

He’s right. She desperately didn’t want him to be right, but he was.

“Berserk Summoner would be great if it counts your withdrawal as damage,” Mato said, wrinkling his nose as if he understood her dilemma, but then his voice grew quieter, “but I’m not sure we want more Berserker skills.”

“I agree,” Ali said, considering the skill for a moment. “It is too risky. Martial Insight is a much more straightforward improvement to minion damage – well, maybe. That wording about experience is weird.”

“Yes. How many creatures can you make?” Mato asked.

“I was going to put my points into vitality, but I could do wisdom and maybe summon up to five Kobolds,” she replied. “Why?”

“Martial Insight looks like a large damage boost. If you have enough creatures to leverage it, do you think we can take that boss Kobold at the entrance hall?”

A sudden blinding ray of hope surged in her heart as she hastily checked her mana and the skill description. It was a Mastery skill, and therefore a passive boost to her minions, meaning it wouldn’t cost any more mana than the amount she already reserved to support them. If she followed Mato’s idea, she could bring more minions to the fight. But she would leave herself dangerously low on mana for her defenses, making herself vulnerable and far more reliant on her creatures.

I can be more aggressive with deconstruction. Her mana use, besides her minions, would just be Arcane Bolt, Barrier, and Grasping Roots.

And whatever the stupid Sage eats.

“Let’s try it,” Ali said. It would be close, but there was no more time. Waiting would simply be giving the doomsday clock of her Domain Withdrawal more time to tick. Besides, even if she followed her normal approach of investing all ten points into vitality, with her racial limitations and the current state of her withdrawal, it would only increase her total health by ten.

This might very well be our only option.

Observing Mato’s sober nod from the corner of her eye, she swallowed what felt like a burning rock and dropped all her attribute points into wisdom. An expansive sense of openness unfolded somewhere deep within her as the well of her mana grew dramatically larger. Quickly, she summoned three more Kobolds: two level eight rogues, and a level nine warrior.

Your reserved mana has increased by +179.

She checked her mana to verify her mental calculations while summoning armor and weapons for her newest minions.

Health: 48/50 (-80% Domain Withdrawal)Stamina: 120/150Mana: 112/670 (283 Reserved)

With a last longing look at Arcane Insight, Ali selected Martial Insight and immediately felt a strangely disconcerting mental connection to each of her five Kobolds that were standing around watching her.

You have gained the class skill Martial Insight.

That feels odd. I guess it’s a perception-based skill.

“It will be tight, but I think this can work,” Ali said eventually. She was going to need to be extremely frugal with her mana usage.

Mato flexed his shoulders and cracked his knuckles. “Ready?”

“I’m ready.” I really hope this works.

***

Ali peered into the ruined entrance hall, dimly lit by the flickering Kobold campfire.

Warrior – Kobold – level ??Mage – Kobold – level 17Warrior – Undead Skeleton – level 11Slinger – Kobold – level 13-14 x2

“I can identify the mage now, it’s level seventeen,” Ali whispered, eyes glued to the hunched Kobold Fire Mage sitting on a rock while the dancing glow of the campfire flickered off her gleaming red scales like a portent of doom.

“What do you think?” Mato asked. All signs of his growing depression seemed to have vanished, and instead, he bristled with a strangely restless, manic energy that could only come from desperation.

We’re insane, Ali thought. That’s a level seventeen Fire Mage. The number of things that could go wrong was astronomical. Her new skill was unproven; it could so easily prove to be inadequate for the fight. She could run out of mana. The boss could be way too strong, just like Armand’s skeleton.

Ali stopped herself and took a deep breath. “I’m willing to risk it if you are.” She honestly didn’t have a choice, but even so, she was not about to drag Mato into this if he wasn’t sure. They could very well lose their lives in this fight – Ali in particular, given her extremely vulnerable health.

She saw him take a deep breath too.

“Let’s do it then,” he said. “Whatever happens, let’s have a good fight.” He shifted into his Bear Form and stepped up to the entrance.

The biggest wildcards in the fight were going to be the giant warrior Kobold, and the level seventeen mage.

“Can you engage the big guy and keep him busy?” she asked. “I’ll put my two warriors on the skeleton and try to kill the mage first.”

The huge bear dipped his head once, chuffing softly as he expelled air through his mouth, and then stepped out into the hall. The barely restrained energy from before settled like a sense of resolve into his powerful frame. With a great roar, he charged, grabbing the attention of the entire room. His massive bulk barreled into the giant Kobold, sending the others sprawling in a spray of cinders and sparks from the campfire he had just destroyed.

“Go!”

Ali’s warriors charged forward, and her rogues were nowhere to be seen. Using the chaos of Mato’s entrance, Ali slipped into the entrance hall, placed her back up against a giant boulder – a fragment of the once great gates of Dal’mohra – and surveyed the battle.

Now that she was fully committed, her mind told her she was an idiot, and she was going to die. Probably to a Fireball the size of a house.

She shut her mind up by summoning a barrier. Ali found she could tell precisely where her invisible rogues were as they sneaked past the middle of the fight in stealth. Martial Insight was a bizarre new sense she had never had before – similar to the way she always knew where her arm was, even with her eyes closed – only the same thing for her minions.

Across the chamber, the Kobold Fire Mage invoked her flames, hunched over a walking stick, staring in Ali’s direction with her hate-filled gleaming red eyes. Ali began her assault, lofting golden Arcane Bolts high over the battlefield to impact the mage while she crouched, sandwiched between her boulder and her barrier. As the mage extended her clawed hand, the ball of flame hovering above it, Ali signaled her rogues. “Now!” Shadows shifted, momentarily filled with whetted blades, and all three rogues simultaneously Ambushed the Fire Mage. The brutal flurry of dagger strikes caused the Kobold to falter, and the Fireball careened off into the wall above Ali’s head, detonating with a ringing bang and raining gobs of fire all around her.

Freak that was too close! Ali gritted her teeth and hung onto the focus required to maintain her magic. Come on, come on …

Suddenly the shadows nearby flickered as a gob of flame fell from the wall, bouncing off something unseen. Instantly, before the panic could even register, she threw up a new barrier between her and the shadow. With a loud clink of metal, a dagger struck her barrier, cracking it, and a black-scaled enemy rogue appeared out of nowhere, looming over her as its lips curled back into a snarl revealing far too many razor-sharp fangs.

Just like in her first fight with Malika guiding her, Ali calmed herself, hiding behind her barrier, and cast her Grasping Roots spell. The gnarled wooden roots sprang up and latched onto the rogue’s ankles and coiled around his tail. Then she stepped away from the struggling Kobold and recreated her barrier, and only then did she let her terror register in her mind.

Her Kobold rogues chirped and yipped, and she sensed their concern flowing through her new augmented link with them.

“Kill the mage.”

She reinforced her intention through the connection. It wouldn’t do to have them rushing over to save her and leaving the Fire Mage to her own devices. A chirping chorus rose from the rogues as they redoubled their efforts and Ali’s Sage of Learning took a sizeable bite out of her mana pool. She grimaced. But she wasn’t about to make the same mistake again – ignoring the mage would be suicide. Not even the magical protection of her tattered robes could save her, now.

I don’t have much to play with. And she needed to prioritize her defenses. Keep moving? Throw the mage off, somehow?

She yelped and sprang backward as a sizzling Firebolt zipped past her face, bursting into a thousand flying sparks as it hit the boulder beside her. She resummoned her barrier just in time to catch the second Firebolt, eliciting a distant frustrated screech from the Fire Mage.

Priorities, Ali! She lined up her Arcane Bolt spell targeting the Fire Mage, but at that instant, with a slash of a dagger, the rogue managed to free himself from her roots and came sprinting toward her with a mad gleam in his eyes. Frantically, she switched to Grasping Roots, barely managing to stop the dagger-wielder right before he reached her. She had never been so happy to be able to scramble away and hide on the far side of the boulder before she returned her attention to the Fire Mage.

A second detonation tore through the hall and one of her rogues collapsed with a smoking hole burned through its chest. Ali kept up her stream of Arcane Bolts and, surprisingly, the Fire Mage collapsed with a final whimper at the feet of her remaining rogues.

That was fast. The only reason Ali could think of was the enhanced damage her rogues were able to deal out because of her new skill, especially considering the mage had been level seventeen – and the triple Ambush. But it was not just damage, her little Kobolds seemed to be incredibly resilient compared to before, shrugging off damage from the higher-level monsters that should have incapacitated them.

Martial Insight says it affects ‘combat abilities’ – does that mean defensive skills too? Later…

