Ali quickly refreshed her Grasping Roots and darted across the battlefield to the corpse of the mage. She was almost out of mana already – Sage was nibbling it continuously, and she had needed some emergency barriers she hadn’t counted on to survive that Ambush. She set her two remaining rogues to attack the enemy rogue still struggling to free itself from her roots. Using almost the last of her mana, she created a barrier to protect herself from flying stones and began to deconstruct the mage. By the time she had finished replenishing her mana, her two rogues had already opened some substantial wounds on their foe, making it bleed profusely. Ali launched a fresh flight of Arcane Bolts to support them. Her rogues were taking quite a beating, but her Martial Insight skill was definitely helping them hold their own against the higher-level opponents. After about thirty seconds, the enemy rogue collapsed, dead, and still tangled up in her roots.

Ali breathed a sigh of relief; her two most feared opponents were out of the way. She glanced over to where Mato was engaged in a furious brawl, but to her relief she could still see the telltale flicker of his healing magic. She ran back across the battlefield to the rogue’s corpse to replenish her mana. Sage of Learning was still taking occasional bites out of her mana pool whenever her Kobolds spoke, and if she didn’t have mana to attack, they would most likely die. Several times Ali had considered instructing them to be quiet, but she needed her minions to have every possible advantage in this fight, and presumably, their chirps were their way of coordinating.

One of Ali’s warriors lay dead, next to the corpse of the previously animated one-armed skeleton. She had been so absorbed with the threat of the rogue that she hadn’t noticed. Taking the initiative on its own, her other warrior had moved on to assist Mato by the glowing remnants of the campfire. The sling-wielders fired a continuous stream of high-speed rocks at Mato, who was already bleeding from many gruesome-looking sword slashes inflicted by the hulking Kobold Warrior. His red rage-mist was dark and ominous, and he was beginning to froth at the mouth, but somehow, he still had his healing magic running.

He’s losing control. Ali pushed down her fear and decided to focus on the Slinger Kobolds. Mato’s heal is still up. If I reduce the damage he’s taking, he should be able to come back.

“Heal!” she called out, deciding that it would be best to remind him anyway. He still had his new regeneration aura active, as evidenced by the slowly closing cuts on her nearby Kobold warrior’s body. Even in the chaos of battle, an isolated part of her mind noted how effective it was and wondered if she should be trying to take more advantage of it with her minions.

Leaving herself temporarily vulnerable, Ali created a barrier blocking the Slinger’s line of sight on Mato, and then she sent in her rogues. With her mana no longer critically low, she began arcing her magical bolts over at the weaker of the two rusty-brown Kobold Slingers. Unable to attack Mato, both Slingers switched to pelting her rogues with flying stones that whizzed through the air. There was a chaotic exchange of high-speed ricocheting rocks and flickering daggers, all illuminated by the golden glow of her bolts and barrier. Suddenly one of her rogues and the Slinger they had been attacking both collapsed simultaneously.

Ali’s mana was running low again, but she dared not run into the fight with the remaining Slinger still standing. Her last rogue immediately engaged the brown-scaled sling-wielder with a spectacular dagger-flourish and Ali immediately supported him with her bolts. Don’t die. If the rogue died, she would be out of defenders and out of mana – completely vulnerable. The struggle raged on with Ali adding a continuous barrage of missiles, trying her best to conserve whatever mana she could. But after a few moments, she realized that one on one, the ranged sling-wielding Kobold was poorly matched against her dagger-wielding rogue, and a little of her anxiety eased. Letting the rogue finish up, Ali ran over to replenish herself from the sparkles of mana that erupted as she dissolved the corpse.

A bit gruesome, but whatever it takes …

Mato was now facing the boss warrior by himself. The red mist of his rage seemed to be contending with the green glow of his healing magic in a precarious battle for supremacy. He was covered with sword slashes and fighting in a slick pool of blood, but the raw power of his ferocious attacks was beginning to stagger the much higher-level Kobold Warrior. Both of Ali’s warrior Kobolds lay dead, face down on the bloody flagstones.

He’s still losing. What can I do to help without getting in the way? Or getting hit …

Mato’s power was unreal, every strike landing with bone-cracking force that reverberated through the chamber and sent showers of crimson blood spraying into the air in the wake of his brutal claws. But the Kobold was more powerful, his bone sword flickering and darting around Mato’s brute force, whittling away at his life with every strike despite his regeneration.

“Help him,” she instructed, sending in her rogue – her last remaining minion. And with that she unleashed her remaining mana, pouring it into a steady stream of Arcane Bolts, desperate to finish the Kobold off before they both died.

“Heal!” she urged. Hold on, Mato!

The Kobold wielded his wickedly serrated sword of bone with uncanny skill, making it blur and whistle with speed. Even with her inexperience, Ali could easily tell it was a far superior weapon than the rusty swords she had seen all the others use.

The Kobold Warrior boss raised his weapon, making the sword glow briefly before he slammed down with a vicious overhand strike. Blood sprayed from Mato’s shoulder as his flesh separated, sliced to the bone, and he roared as his rage deepened. What skill was that? Ali had never seen the warriors use that skill before. No wonder he’s struggling. The wound started closing – too slowly – as his healing struggled to restore him against the onslaught of that wicked blade. Ali held her focus, pouring her magic into her Arcane Bolts – it was all she could do to help him. She even dropped her barrier to free up mana and focus. Behind the outsized Kobold, Ali’s rogue darted and dodged, stabbing furiously with a blood-drenched dagger. The warrior stamped his foot and his sword glowed again, arcing a near-instantaneous horizontal sweep attack that sliced Mato in the chest and sent her rogue flying with a deep gash through its upper thigh.

What the heck is this Kobold?

Ali stopped shooting to deconstruct the last Slinger corpse nearby as her rogue limped back into the fray, blood flowing freely from its wound. Finally replenished, Ali attacked once more with her relentless flurry of small but significant strikes. Minutes ticked by. They hung on, Mato hovering on the boundary of mindless rage, Ali almost out of mana, and her rogue barely surviving the occasional hit that the warrior landed on him, before returning to the fight, regenerating with painful slowness within Mato’s aura.

Eventually, running completely dry yet again, Ali risked moving closer, and without even the protection of her barrier, she deconstructed the skeleton and the body of her own Kobold Warrior, both of which had been killed so much earlier in the fight. Again, she resumed, pouring her recovered mana into her skill, making Arcane Bolts soar across the room. Another two minutes passed without any visible progress before finally, Mato struck the warrior with a great swipe, smashing it to its knees. It hissed, struggling feebly as it clutched its sword and tried to jam it into her friend’s chest in self-defense, but it was too late. Mato’s jaws crunched down on its throat, and it did not get up.

Mato roared, shaking his head, while blood and froth sprayed into the air. Ali’s rogue hastily backed away.

“Mato! Stay with me!” He’s struggling. “Mato. Mato! Remember who you are!”

The heavily injured Berserker seemed to be fighting with himself, thrashing back and forward as the red mist seemed to eat at him. Ali created a barrier and her rogue stepped in front of her, chirping at her. His worry for her came through the Martial Insight connection as clearly as if he had spoken it. There was a sudden lurch in her mind and a chime as she suddenly lost most of her remaining mana to the Sage of Learning.

You have learned the Draconic language.

“I will protect you, Ancient Mistress.”

My Kobold spoke!

Suddenly Mato’s body warped, shrinking and twisting back into Beastkin form. He collapsed to the ground, gasping and panting in a pool of blood that seemed to be mostly his own.

“That was … almost lost it,” he said, coughing and choking, blood spilling from his mouth and running down his chest. He tried to lift his hand. “Stay… Ali, stay away from me for a moment.” His eyes still glowed red from within the mist. He looked haunted – as if the battle for his will at the end had taken more out of him than any of the powerful sword strikes.

Her chimes pinged in the background.

Your group has defeated Fire Mage – Kobold – level 17.Your group has defeated Dagger Rogue – Kobold – level 14.Your group has defeated Warrior – Undead Skeleton – level 11.Your group has defeated Slinger – Kobold – level 13-14 x2.Your group has defeated Swordmaster – Kobold – level 21.

“Glad to have you back,” Ali said as she allowed herself to slump down against a large chunk of stone column.

“Ugh, a level twenty-one Swordmaster…” Mato said, still breathing with heavy, ragged gasps, but the feral roughness in his voice was beginning to fade.

After taking a few minutes to be sure Mato was in control, Ali carefully got to her feet, deconstructed the remaining gear and corpse, making sure to Identify all the items first, just in case. Then she inscribed a Restoration circle for Mato to sit in, knowing his healing magic wouldn’t be much use when he had no enemies to hit. Even though his aura would allow him to recover in time, her magic circle would heal him far faster.

Sitting down beside him, Ali flicked to her notifications.

Grove Warden has reached level 12 (+2).+20 attribute points.Grasping Roots has reached level 6.Arcane Bolt has reached level 11.Barrier has reached level 11.Sage of Learning has reached level 8.Martial Insight has reached level 5 (+4).Imprint: Sword completed.

With the abrupt lack of danger, the tension in Ali’s back and neck began to fade. She turned to study her last standing Kobold.

“You can speak?” she asked, trying out her new Draconic language. Her accent was atrocious, even to her ears.

“Of course, Ancient Mistress,” he said. His speech was soft and fluid, punctuated with the chirps she had grown accustomed to.

And what is with this ‘ancient mistress’? Can it sense my Ancient title through the Martial Insight connection?

An overwhelming rush of emotions, feelings, and thoughts crashed into Ali’s mind now that a strange quiet settled over the ruined Dal’mohran entry hall. Opening her Grimoire, she carefully inscribed her new sword imprint into an open chapter while she considered what had transpired.

Mato is in control of himself.

It had been close. Ali still felt terror at the thought of what he might do if he lost control again. She looked around the city’s entrance hall, now empty. While she knew it was just remembered fear, her eyes instinctively searched out the dark alcove from which the ice Death Knight had originally appeared. But, of course, that was a memory of the long distant past.

We did it.

Realization slowly seeped into her heart as she gazed at the emptiness between her and the shattered city doors. Trickles of light and hope slowly softened the clenching of her heart.

We can leave!

“We did it,” Mato said softly, unknowingly echoing her thoughts. “I really thought we were going to die.”

“How about we get out of here?” Ali said, a tired smile working its way onto her face.

Mato moaned, but he clambered to his feet and followed, limping a little as he favored a leg that was still not fully healed. She led the way out of the massive open archway and up towards the forest cave and the Grove with her shrine.

Suddenly, a horrible thought popped into her mind. “Say, you don’t suppose those thugs are still up there waiting for us?”

“Not a chance,” Mato said. “It’s been more than a week. They definitely think we’re dead.”

As they retraced the familiar steps from her previous life, Ali began to feel the emotional impact of escaping the underground ruins, the darkness, the shattered remnants of her memories of home, the traps, and all the Kobolds. By the time she entered the Grove, and felt her domain, she was blinking back tears of relief and happiness.
