Mato sat in silence, keeping watch. Ali had barricaded the doorway as usual, but he had been struggling to sleep the last couple of days, and keeping watch felt like he was doing something useful.

I’m so sick of this place.

They had been trapped down here in these endlessly bleak, dark stone ruins for more than a week, now. He missed the trees and the sunshine. Down here, the only things that grew were the ugly black mushrooms that reeked of death and decay. No sane person would ever dare to eat those. Everywhere they turned they encountered Kobolds, skeletons, and even the giant bone behemoths surrounding that enormous tower Ali had called the ‘library’.

What little food he’d had in his pack – preserved through the fall by his shapeshifting magic – was long gone. And Ali barely ate.

If it wasn’t that Ali was worse off than he was, he knew he would be complaining incessantly. He glanced over at his companion, twitching and thrashing fitfully in her sleep. Besides, he didn’t deserve to complain. She doesn’t have much time left. Her Class has some severe drawbacks – as does mine, I guess.

He had been deliberately silent with his worries and complaints and kept as much distance between them as he could, simply to try to ease her suffering. He didn’t know what else he could do.

One way or another, it will be over in the next two days. Ali’s domain withdrawal would run out, and he had no way of surviving without her support – especially against the Fire Mages. Ali hadn’t mentioned her withdrawal after the first couple of days, but he had eyes and knew how to count. He sighed heavily, continually wrestling with the situation, but deep within he knew he was giving up. What could he do? Nothing.

At least we got a bit of a break yesterday, he thought, looking at Ali’s new Kobold minions standing guard with him and trying to turn his mind to a more positive track. Her advance had dramatically improved their progress through the ruined city, and he had even reached level eight in his class – an achievement that once would have made him so excited.

I just hope it’s not too little, too late.

At that moment, Ali’s thrashing stopped and her amber eyes snapped open, wells of deep pain. She curled up into a ball, trying to stop herself from screaming as she had the last several nights. Slowly, she mastered it and then sat up.

Eight.

“You ok?” he asked her softly.

“Bad dream.”

Still won’t mention the withdrawal. She might be a titch, but there’s no shortage of courage.

You have been afflicted with Domain Withdrawal.Separation from your domain weakens you.-10% to maximum health.Affliction – Duration: Indefinite. Count: 8

Ali woke to the familiar chime and jolt of pain from the daily increase in her domain withdrawal, finding herself curled up into a ball on the dirty stone ground. Her endurance was still making the pain bearable, barely, but her entire investment in vitality yesterday had just been wiped out.

Only fifty health left. There was no longer any doubt that a single Ambush attack from an unseen rogue or an unblocked Fireball would kill her instantly. She felt fragile.

Or just two more days…

“You ok?” Mato’s concerned voice from the other side of the room brought her back to the present.

“Bad dream,” she answered. It was a small lie, but she didn’t trust herself to keep it together if he started being concerned about her withdrawal. It wasn’t like either of them could do anything about it anyway.

I hope we can find a way out today, she thought. Yesterday’s development had been a spectacular improvement in their mobility around the ruins – the higher-level Kobold minions were devastatingly effective compared to the rats or wolves. No longer were they forced to waste precious time cowering in the darkness for hours on end, waiting for the Kobold patrols to pass by without noticing them. Ali glanced at the three Kobolds she had made, standing quietly on guard by the blocked doorway. Somehow, they didn’t seem to require rest or even food. She didn’t understand how this summoner class really worked, yet, but it wasn’t like she had had any time to sit down and study it.

She got up and began deconstructing the barricade she had created. The hunger had faded several days ago, and instead, she had begun experiencing bouts of dizziness, which she knew wasn’t a good sign. Worrying about it won’t make it better, she thought, trying to put it down. At least Mato had been able to find water by the sounds of dripping behind some of the larger buildings. Water doesn’t fill an empty belly.

“I’m ready.”

“Let’s go.”

Ali stepped through the doorway and led the way to the boulevard once again. They were close to the outer edge of the cavernous underground city now, and she had reasoned that the broad boulevard would be safer this far from the Kobold army encamped around the library.

It took them through two smaller patrols before they reached the gigantic road that cut through the entire ancient city. Broad enough for multiple lanes of carriages, wagons, and magical transport platforms to service the needs of a bustling city, it lay bare and silent now, strewn with bones and rubble.

“Looks clear,” Mato observed in a whisper from next to her. “Is that it?”

Mato stared at the giant stone archway set into the vast, sheer expanse of rock – the craggy perimeter of the underground city that rose far out of sight overhead. The boulevard plunged through the archway into a tunnel leading to the city’s entry hall and the West Gate – the stone chamber where Ali and her mother had encountered the Death Knight. Her body involuntarily shivered at the memory of his aura of fear, and the ominous crunch of his footfalls on the remnants of his devastating ice magic.

“Yes. The West Gate is through that tunnel, just beyond the old entrance hall. It should lead up to the forest – err, the dead forest in that cavern where you guys found me – and eventually the Grove with the shrine,” she answered. The way through the mountain was worse off than she remembered. It looked like there had been a rockfall at some point, there were piles of debris and boulders strewn about around the archway, and great cracks in the pavement of the road – but it still looked passable. It was hard to keep the flickers of hope from blooming prematurely.

What if the Death Knight is still there? But she didn’t say anything. If there was something as powerful as a Death Knight this close, they were already dead.

“Ready to chew some rock?” Mato responded.

Despite her exhaustion, Ali chuckled, “Nothing more exciting than a pile of rubble.”

“Right, let’s go. Be careful of patrols.”

Just like every day, she thought, but she didn’t voice her negativity. She was sure Mato was hiding his fear and frustration for her benefit. Whenever he spoke with her, he seemed to be just as brave and self-assured as normal. But whenever she caught him in an unguarded moment, his shoulders were hunched, and his eyes seemed to be filled with a hollowness that spoke of deep despair and guilt.

They made their way down the nearby stairs as quickly and quietly as they could, alighting on the enormous street below. Keeping to the nearest edge in the hope of avoiding any scouts or stray Kobolds, they pressed on, creeping stealthily through the dark tunnel beyond the archway, until Mato was close enough to peer into the entrance hall itself.

“Kobolds!” he hissed in an intense whisper, pulling back abruptly and pressing his body up against the rock.

The entrance hall was almost exactly as Ali remembered it. A large chamber with the road passing straight through to the giant West Gate on the far side. In ages past it had contained the defensive fortifications for the city guards, and places for customs officials to inspect incoming wagon cargo, but now it was all shattered. Deep shadows failed to completely hide the wreckage, with the rubble of the exit doors still strewn across the entire room. But instead of a sheet of ice, frozen defenders, and the chilling presence of the Death Knight, what she saw instead was a Kobold campfire in the center of the road blocking their passage to freedom.

Around the disconcertingly cheerful crackling of the campfire, sat several different Kobolds. A single skeleton – missing a left arm – stood guard nearby with a perfect view of the entire chamber – but Ali had eyes only for the Kobold Warrior. It was by far the largest Kobold Ali had ever seen, more than a head and shoulders taller than its compatriots. It wore solid gray plate armor strapped over its emerald-green scales and carried a long gray sword that gleamed in the firelight. Both seemed to be made from polished bone, honed to a dangerous-looking sheen.

Warrior – Kobold – level ??Mage – Kobold – level ??Warrior – Undead Skeleton – level 11Slinger – Kobold – level 13-14 x2

“Is that a boss?” Ali’s heart sank at the sight of the enormously powerful-looking Kobold warrior and what seemed to be his minions. There’s no way we can beat them. The savage bite of frustration and disappointment was made just that much sharper by being able to see the exit that lay just beyond the Kobold campfire. I got so much stronger yesterday, and I’m still not enough. Far from it. Nevyn Eld would crush me like a bug.

“I don’t have Calen’s skill,” Mato answered. “But it looks like it’s a boss. I don’t think we can take this group.”

“Can we slip past?” Ali asked.

“I don’t see how – that skeleton will definitely see us coming. Neither of us have stealth skills. Is there another way out of the city?”

“The city has other gates,” she answered. “But I don’t think we can make it… not anymore.” The lump in her throat and the constriction in her heart refused to go away, no matter how hard she tried. She had only two days left, and the next nearest gate was far from here – and let out in the mountains far from the Grove.

“Come on, don’t give up,” Mato said. “We have to try.”

He was clearly putting on a brave face for her benefit, and she appreciated the effort. But deep inside she knew she didn’t have time. The chilling certainty that she would die down here took root within her heart.

“Ok,” she said, forcing a smile on her face. A smile that felt like it was stuck on with cheap glue and would fall off at the slightest breeze. “We need to get to the North Gate.” Even if she didn’t last the journey, she could still point him in the right direction and maybe one of them would survive. That’s better than both of us dying, right?

“Ok, let’s go,” he answered. His enthusiasm sounded equally forced.

Who are we fooling? Ourselves? But the sight of the exit, so tantalizingly close, and yet so impossible to reach, had crushed what little hope remained, dashed to pieces against the impenetrable wall of the Kobold boss.

As silently as they could, they retreated through the tunnel and back into the ruined city, and once Ali had a chance to recover her bearings, she began to lead them toward the distant North Gate. It took them the better part of an hour before she located a main thoroughfare and only then did their speed begin to improve.

“Patrol!” Mato whispered urgently, stepping back into the alleyway with her, and the cover of darkness. They waited in silence, listening to the Kobold chirps as they slowly passed by in the broader main street, sizing them up, trying to decide their course of action. The group of Kobolds stopped for a while, and Ali’s anxiety began to rise, and so did the cramping in her muscles as she tried not to move or make a sound.

In the darkness near to her, Mato shifted uncomfortably. One of the tightly fitted gray flagstones shifted under the weight of his foot, and he stumbled.

Click.

Whoosh!

Thump.

A huge rock attached to a fraying rope swung down from the roof of the building on the opposite side and slammed into Mato’s back, launching him across the street and into a wall where his body collapsed in a heap.

With loud yipping chirps and calls of alarm, the patrol sprang into action, charging Ali.

Warrior – Kobold – level 11-15 x2Mage – Kobold – level 13Slinger – Kobold – level 12

Crap! Mato! Acting entirely on instinct, Ali created a barrier to hide behind and sent her warrior to charge the enemies.

“Get the mage!” she instructed her rogues, fixing the image of the Fire Mage in her mind as she projected her intent. Her pair of rogues slipped away, vanishing into the shadows on their way to Ambush the mage.

The clash of steel rang out in the street, echoing off the stark stone walls of the nearby buildings. A stone the size of an egg cracked sharply against her barrier and ricocheted into the darkness of the alleyway behind her.

More of them? Not good! Her warrior was outnumbered and was quickly giving ground against the furious attacks of the pair of enemy warriors, bolstered by flying rocks and the occasional sizzle of a Firebolt. Ali trembled, crouching behind her barrier with her minuscule health total foremost in her mind, while trying to cast her roots to save her Kobold Warrior.

From across the street, a dark red mist began to seep out of the crumpled shape that was Mato’s body, soon developing into billowing clouds. The indistinct form in the shadows began to twist and warp, growing dramatically larger, and suddenly, with a great roar, he shot across the street and slammed into the two Kobold Warriors, knocking one sprawling from the sheer momentum.

“Mato, heal!” Ali screamed.

She got another roar for a response, but the flicker of green on the impact of his claws told her that the rock trap hadn’t knocked him quite so far into his rage that he lost control. Quickly, she switched her attention to the Fire Mage at the back, and the already intensifying glow of flame blooming in his clawed grasp. Hiding behind her magical barrier she released her bolts overhead to arc downward, pelting the smoking red-scaled Kobold with golden orbs of her magic.

Her two rogues chose that very moment to emerge from stealth with their devastating Ambush attacks, daggers glinting wickedly in the light of the fire as they stabbed in tandem, sliding their silent blades between his lower ribs. The mage staggered, losing control of his magic, and the partially-formed fireball careened off into the alleyway, detonating with a loud bang against a wall. Heat radiated from the concussion wave of flame on her back, but her nasty tattered robes did their job reducing the damage to a few paltry points.

Phew. I hope nothing heard that, she thought.

Her rogues chirped to each other, coordinating their attacks as they flanked the mage. Her Sage of Learning kicked in, beginning to drain her mana.

Not a good time!

