The woman in the apron sighed. “It’s just hard to swallow. We all got our yearly invite for this event a couple of weeks ago. But a few people who usually made the list didn’t this time, and then when we got here, we hoped we could talk Markee into letting them come, but she’s retired.”

“That’s the Artonan who used to be in charge of foreign staff for the university,” said Naya. “But now they’ve decided to give students the chance to use events like this for extra credit projects or whatever.”

“It’s bad for our boater.”

“The students don’t understand how we do things.”

<<If the faculty weren’t so used to having us around, Bti-qwol would probably have an entirely different staff this year. We’d all be out of a job.>>

They were all looking at Alden like they expected him to add something to the conversation, but he didn’t know what. And what the heck is a boater?

From context, he assumed it was their group, but beyond that…

“Is a boater an Anesidora thing?” he asked finally. “I didn’t grow up there.”

“Oh I don’t think it’s just an Anesidoran word, is it?” Naya asked the table.

<<It is,>> said the Spanish speaker. <<I never heard it before I moved to the island.>>

Alden turned to him.

<<It’s a group that works together to make sure its members keep good jobs,>> he explained. <<Ours is built around this event and a couple of smaller ones. We don’t mention this posting when we’re talking to outsiders. And when a new position opens up here, we recommend another member for it. It only works when you’ve built up trust with the person in charge of summoning, though.>>

“I can’t believe you’ve never heard of it,” said Naya. “But anyway…yeah. Our boater will fall apart if they keep letting students have the personnel management role. They’re all going to summon whoever the System recommends for a position, instead of asking us who we’d like to work with.”

Awkward. But if they were just worried about keeping their plum gig a secret, that was fine. It wasn’t like Alden had anyone to tell about it anyway. “I won’t mention the job to anyone.”

“That’s good,” said Naya. But she was still looking at him like she was waiting for something.

“Uh…is everyone here in the boater except for me, then?”

“Oh yeah!” she said brightly. “All of us are. And the lortch are sort of affiliated. Only for this event, though.”

So not everyone. Only the humans and the lortch. Maybe it was too expensive to coordinate with other species regularly.

Alden waited for the adults to either invite him to join their super secret job club or tell him that they were sorry he wasn’t a good fit because his skill overlapped with Pineda’s. He didn’t particularly care which they chose, but he expected them to do one or the other. It was the natural thing after informing him that he was the odd one out, wasn’t it?

But they just kept exchanging glances with each other.

What is it?! he thought. I’m right here. I’m not psychic.

His lunch timer was ticking down, so he shoved another egg roll into his mouth. Whatever was in them tasted a lot like steak, and he was determined to eat as many as he could before he had to go.

Maybe they expect me to apologize? he realized. That wasn’t really reasonable, since Alden couldn’t help being summoned. But it didn’t cost him anything, and he didn’t want conflict during the next twelve days. He’d take any olive branch he could get.

He swallowed. “I’m sorry about Pineda. I’m not confident I’m the right fit for the medical team anyway. I don’t have any experience with that kind of thing, and I told Bti-qwol that. But I could talk to her again.”

It would give him an opportunity to practice being himself around her.

“It’s not like that would do us any good,” said the woman in the apron.

“Right. There’s no way she’s going to listen to you,” said Naya. “Manon already tried to talk to her about it right after orientation, and it was a nope.”

Doesn’t that mean they tried to get me fired from one of my jobs? Sort of? He understood it was because of their friend. And he didn’t mind, since he didn’t want or need the medical team position. But it still seemed like the kind of thing you shouldn’t just casually tell someone.

“Well…” he said, standing up to get more egg rolls. “Let me know if there’s anything I can do.”

“You live in F-city, kid?” the old guy asked while Alden was loading his plate.

He had just shoved another half an egg roll into his mouth, which gave him time to think. He could say he hadn’t registered and given up his citizenship yet. It wasn’t like he was in the wrong for waiting until the last minute…but the vibe here was already off.

Nobody was being too much of a jerk, but they definitely weren’t warm and welcoming. They hadn’t even given him their names when he’d told them his. Obviously they were still a little pissed. He didn’t need them to think he was a possible future supervillain as well.

Well, if they would think something like that. What would a Rabbit villain even do? Fold napkins angrily?

He swallowed. “I haven’t found a permanent place yet. I’m applying to schools in Apex.”

Not a lie. But they’d probably assume he was staying in the intake dorms. Teens arriving on the island had to live there for a while if they didn’t transfer directly into a school.

“Fancy,” said Naya. “You think you have a chance of getting into a feeder school there? Even if you’re not applying to the hero programs, admissions can be pretty cutthroat at B-rank.”

“Unless you have good connections?” the woman in the apron suggested.

<<Yes, that would be helpful at B-rank. Do you?>>

It was on the tip of Alden’s tongue to say “no, of course I don’t.” After all, he didn’t have any connections he planned to use. He intended to stay under the Velra family’s radar as much as possible from now on, and it would be gross to call someone like Cly Zhao or Hannah’s mother and ask them to get him into a hero program if he couldn’t make it on his own merits.

But he hesitated before saying as much. He felt like he was being judged, and he suddenly realized why.

They’re only asking me things that would help them decide if I’m an important person or not.

He went back over the conversation in his head. The members of the boater had asked about money. And if he was getting a lot of work as a Rabbit. And they’d asked about rank. And they’d asked if he lived in F-city, which sounded harmless but was probably loaded given the way Anesidora was divided and the fact that B’s sort of floated in between the high and low rankers. And now they were checking to see if he had connections.

Any one of those things wasn’t necessarily suspicious, but all of it together was kind of…uncomfortable. Maybe it was an Avowed thing, but Alden doubted it.

The only adults he regularly interacted with were teachers, neighbors, and Aunt Connie’s friends. You couldn’t really count Gorgon. Normally, by now, someone would have asked him what he wanted to be when he grew up, if he had a girlfriend, if he played sports, or what his parents did for a living.

Adults trying to get to know you almost always asked one of those things or a variation on them.

They’re not socializing, he concluded. They’re trying to stick me in some kind of servants’ pecking order.

Even if he was only half right, it was so soap opera he almost expected to hear dramatic music playing in the background.

“I’ve got some friends who can help me out,” he said finally. “I went to Celena North with them just the other day. One of the deans talks exactly like that guy who spoke first at orientation this morning.”

He watched their faces. There was nothing really obvious in their expressions to indicate that they cared one way or the other. But apron lady’s smile was definitely fake when she said, “That’s great. The campus there is gorgeous.”

After that, the conversation turned more in the direction he had originally expected. He finally got names and jobs for everyone. Ironically, the woman in the apron was a Brute who’d spent the morning hauling luggage for all the examinees.

That was supposed to be me. But here I am on bomb disposal…

The man who spoke Spanish and the woman with the red streaks were both monitors who used heightened senses to detect cheaters.

The old guy in glasses was a Wright who repaired minor problems with equipment. Alden would probably be seeing a little more of him than the others, since he said he often got called to the lab to pick up things the students had broken.

Alden also learned that LeafSong had a few regular Avowed workers he might run across while he was here. And they increased the number of summonees for this event because most of their Artonan staff were off duty during entrance exams, and having magical help around gave “the right impression” to VIP students and parents who were still on the fence when it came to choosing the school.

The only other thing he learned was that the boater had a screwed-up relationship with Manon the Rabbit that they didn’t seem to think was screwed-up at all. They all loved her…because she gave them stuff.

In addition to getting several of them their jobs and providing them with the snacks and drinks from Earth, she paid for everyone to have a phone call home. Alden had no idea what it cost to ship food to Artona III, but he knew what the phone calls cost.

Assuming Manon was making the same amount he was for the lab assistant position and everyone made at least one call on her dime, she was taking a significant pay cut.

Maybe it was how she made friends. Or she was so loaded she just didn’t care? But it still put Alden in a strange position when people kept mentioning things Manon did for them “because she’s the Rabbit.”

Did they think he was supposed to buy them things? Was he supposed to buy them things?

If they weren’t making as much money as him and Manon, it was because they were earning other equally valuable stuff, right?

Alden would gladly trade his entire twelve-day salary for access to a semi-decent spell impression or half a foundation point.

He couldn’t figure out if there was a social expectation of Rabbits in general he hadn’t known about or if it was just the members of this group who thought there was. So he was relieved when his break timer started flashing and he had an excuse to head back to the lab.

He ran into the skin macrame girl and her pair of assistants in front of the elevator. He let them in first because he wasn’t sure if he was allowed to ride with them. There was the whole “no socializing with the examinees” rule, after all.

But they held the door for him, so he joined them.

<<Red coat Ryeh-b’t!>> the examinee said excitedly. <<I passed. I have been invited back to receive additional instruction from the Superior Professor.>>

“Congratulations,” said Alden.

<<I’m Jel-nor,>> she said, grinning at him. <<You will not get to take my test piece!>>

Even the Artonans start conversations by telling people their names, Alden thought. I’m not crazy. The boater members really are kind of off.

“I’m Alden,” he said. “Good luck in the second session.”

The chat ended there.

He was a little concerned when he realized it was the most pleasant interaction he’d had since he left behind Sophie, who was a massive war cat that liked to slaughter jungle creatures in the night.

He hadn’t been looking forward to having his entire evening taken up by the visit to Joe’s probably-terrifying laboratory. But now he was thinking it might be a good thing for him to stay busy, just so he had an excuse not to hang out with the other humans.

Apparently there was a shared housing situation as well, so they’d all be bunkmates.

“Hey, Sophie,” he said after giving Joe his basket of food and watching the professor take everything out of a perfectly good container so that he could squirrel it all away in his wizard’s uniform. “Is there extra space in the grivek dorm?”

<<We make our own sleeping spots underground with the might of our claws every four of this planet’s days.>>

“…that sounds labor intensive.”

<<You’re welcome to dig a burrow next to mine.>>

“Thanks,” said Alden. “If it comes to that, I’ll let you know.”
