Yan loved to watch her husband work.

The activity itself was unimportant, whether it be cooking breakfast over the campfire early this morning, sparring shirtless with Gerel after eating his fill, or even something as innocuous as taking a walk through the camp to inspect his retinue, Rain’s efforts were always a sight to warm Yan’s heart. It wasn’t just because he was oh-so-pretty now that he let his hair grow longer than a finger’s width from his skull and had enough meat on his bones to sink her teeth into, nor was it because he’d ceded control of his wardrobe over to Luo-Luo’s ‘ruthless mercenaries’, the servants who’d been hired to help with Lin-Lin’s wedding and now dressed Rain full-time with impeccable taste. No, fetching as his appearance might be in his tailored tunic and more form-fitting trousers, she loved seeing him now just as much as she loved watching him at his worst, when his Core was shattered and he struggled to walk even a hundred paces without stopping, because regardless of his physical appearance, his strength of spirit was wonderful to behold. Most of all, she loved watching him because every action and decision he made offered her a little more insight regarding who he was, and she wanted to know everything there was to know about the man she loved so dearly.

Mornings were best for this sort of husband watching, because so long as he found the willpower to drag himself out of bed, it meant Yan had him all to herself. Not that she begrudged sharing him, but a little selfishness wasn’t out of line given their marital arrangements, and she relished the chance to follow him around during his surprise retinue inspection. It was touching to see the efforts he took to remember the names and quirks of his soldiers, as evidenced by how he added tiny personal touches to his tear-downs as he carried out his inspection. “Yours is the shoddiest bunk I’ve seen all day Ganju,” he said, his stony expression lacking any and all amusement as he stared down the offending individual, a former Corsair whose face and body was covered in dark, swirling tattoos. “That’s quite the accomplishment. Gather round everyone and gaze upon this slovenly spectacle. Engrave it into your memories, because I doubt anyone could replicate this mess even if they tried. Is that a sock holding your cot together? And how the hell is your pillow already moldy? Did you bring that from your bandit camp back in Sanshu? By the Heavens man, have some dignity.”

An effective tactic, shaming Ganju in front of his squad mates, as a man like this would only take pride in any lashes or labour doled out as punishment. Better to make him squirm and watch as he lost the fear and respect of his peers, something he valued and would work hard to reclaim. Yan and Sutah used these same tactics with her own retinue, though it was more difficult now that she had five-thousand ‘children’ to supervise, yet Rain not only remembered the soldiers in his retinue, he did the same for Yan and Mila’s retinues, the Stormguards, Death Corps, and Royal Guardians to boot, while making efforts to familiarize himself with soldiers from other units he came in frequent contact with. Yesterday afternoon, Rain greeted Ishin Ken-Shibu’s guards by name when they bumped into him at the market, and then made great strides with endearing himself to the Commander General’s loyal guards by offering compliments for their long hours worked, somehow having already figured out their schedules from less than a handful of meetings.

That was how Rain’s mind worked, ceaselessly gathering information even without trying to. Yan’s fool of a husband was even on a first name basis with Kanjook, the man selling spiced lamb skewers in the market yesterday afternoon, not because of any formal introduction or conversation, but because he overhead the vendor arguing with his neighbouring stall owner the last time they were here in the Citadel. This was why he loathed social interaction so much, because unlike others who would’ve just filtered out all the useless information and promptly forgotten it, Rain stored everything away in memory out of sheer hoarding habit. He put so much effort into being sociable that others would never see, to the point where they praised his ‘natural’ charisma and leadership to the high Heavens, but Yan knew the toll it took on his psyche.

While his connection with his soldiers made them love him dearly, it also made their deaths weigh heavily upon his conscience. Early on his marriage, she once overheard him mutter the name ‘Cham’ while caught in the grip of a nightmare, and when she asked about it the next morning, he told her Cham was part of the group of cripples from Shen Huo who signed onto his retinue. The man died in the battle of Sanshu more than three years ago, bled out from a cut throat while Rain held him in his arms no less, a death which still haunted Yan’s poor husband so. Kyung once told her that behind every Great General lay a mountain of corpses, but where others left the dead behind as they progressed further along in life, Rain dragged his mountain behind him like a cherished possession he could not bear to part with rather than the heavy burden it must be. That’s why he put so much stock in his Tombstone of Heroes, because he believed that if other people remembered the names of the fallen, then they would feel the same weight and responsibility he did, and while he wasn’t entirely wrong, not everyone would care as much as he. They couldn’t, not while continuing to lead soldiers in defence of the Empire, because where one death was a tragedy, ten-thousand deaths were merely a statistic. It wasn’t possible to mourn every death equally, nor would Yan recommend anyone even try, for a commander needed some measure of indifference in order to lead. Losing soldiers in war was inevitable, and carrying those losses on one’s conscience was a burden few could bear.

Not everyone was blessed with an Elemental Spirit and wholly immune to the Father’s foul minions, but Yan was glad the Mother Above guarded Rain so, because it meant he could keep his irrational yet endearing empathy.

Following alongside him as he completed his inspection, Yan found it difficult not to giggle at how well he’d adapted to his new Office. It’d been so alarming when she first found out about his second personality Baledagh, but upon reviewing her memories, she realized that she’d always known about the existence of Rain’s shifting personalities, just not how deep the changes went. Like right now, he wasn’t being himself but instead playing a role, that of the confident and detached commander, a distant and demanding father figure who expected the best from his soldiers because he wanted them to come back alive. That was the truth of the matter, but the role he played wasn’t really him, not entirely, because Yan could easily see where he copied this persona from. Straight back with head held high, bearing a stony, emotionless expression while his eyes positively smouldered with marked disapproval, this was Baatar in a nutshell. The only differences were that Rain spoke in complete sentences with a wry tone rather than terse and deadpan like his father, and he also lacked the tail to give away his true emotions, though he made up for it by being less practised at keeping the joy and approval out of his Aura and expression. Some might see this as a calculated failing, a means to subtly praise his soldiers without ever saying anything kind, but Yan knew Rain and doubted he cared to think so deeply about his own actions, as he was always too busy analyzing what others were thinking instead.

When he finished the inspection, he kept the mask on for a little while longer before switching over to the role of Legate, his back still straight, but shoulders relaxed with hands clasped behind him, a young noble with impeccable posture out for a stroll in the fields. He even adjusted his circlet to sit a tiny bit askew, though again, Yan wasn’t sure if he did it on purpose or it just happened while scratching an itch he’d been ignoring during the walk-through, but it had the added effect of making him look more laid back and approachable despite the odd, blunt-tipped long-sword slung over one shoulder and his shortsword and shield hanging off his hip. Soldiers needed a stern and dependable leader, a role Rain fulfilled for his troops to contrast against Jorani’s friendlier demeanour, but the commander of an army needed to be something else altogether. Calm and collected, that was what others wanted to see in their Legate, a confident and steadfast commander who wouldn’t panic when things went wrong, because in war, things always went wrong. Calm meant everything was going according to plan, or at least not so out of hand that the commander wasn’t prepared, and in this role, Yan could see how her husband built this image with his predecessor, Shen ZhenWu, in mind.

Noble and dignified, with an air of serene harmony and glad tidings, that was how Shen ZhenWu appeared, all smiles and handshakes even while demanding absolute fealty and obedience. Rain emulated the man well as he strode through the camp, taking large, exaggerated steps with a deliberate lack of haste as if he had nothing better to do than stroll about with his wife and the Divine Turtle Ping Ping, who scurried along behind them with unfettered glee. He didn’t go so far as to extend his arm for Yan to take, but only because he knew she wanted to preserve her image as an aloof and cavalier warrior woman who need not rely on her powerful husband to advance through the ranks. There would always be rumours about the ‘illicit acts’ she performed to get where she was now, first with Grandpa Du and later with Chen Hongji, but anyone with half a brain would hear those rumours for what they were; the mad ramblings of men who refused to accept a half-beast woman as their superior.

Those types were actually easier to deal with, since they were always antagonistic which gave Yan the excuse she needed to put them in their place. More difficult were those idiots who believed the rumours and joined her retinue hoping to do more than just serve, which was just awkward all around, to say nothing about the women who only came in two varieties. They either idolized her to an uncomfortable degree or loathed her with a passion, believing Yan to be the epitome of everything right or wrong with women Warriors respectively. Such were the pitfalls of joining the Army, since it meant she no longer had the option to pick and choose her soldiers and was instead saddled with close to five-thousand Army trained grunts who barely knew which end of the spear to hold and which end to point at the Enemy. Still, Yan was grateful her promotion to Major had gone through without a hitch, and she was determined not to let her career stop here.

Now that Rain’s inspection was over and done with, it was time to inspect Yan’s retinue, and he offered to accompany her which wasn’t exactly ideal. Generous and warmhearted though he might be, he was also exceedingly jealous which Yan absolutely loved, but admittedly would probably be a liability to her military career if it became known to the world at large. No one would dare challenge her authority if they knew the Legate Falling Rain would come down on them like a bolt of lightning from on high once he heard of it, not unless they were already at odds against him to begin with. No matter though, as she merely Sent a request asking him to keep quiet and Concealed while she went about her work, and he was all too happy to comply, no doubt sitting in the grass to play with Ping Ping and enjoy the last few hours of peace he’d have in the coming days.

Whether he’d remain quiet was another thing, but Yan would cross that bridge when she got there.

Casually strolling into her retinue’s camp, Yan nodded without smiling in response to the salutes she received, careful never to let her gaze linger on any one particular soldier. Commanding men as a woman had so many nuances to be aware of, because too much attention could all too easily be mistaken for interest, while too little seen as playing hard to get. Gone were the days when she could sit on a balcony and ogle every pretty boy that walked by, a habit Yan admitted might’ve had something to do with her less than stellar reputation in Central, but that was before she realized the stark differences in mindset. So silly, to be such sticklers for propriety that women weren’t even allowed to admire men from afar, yet still expected to wear all manner of scandalous dresses showing off the maximum amount of shoulder and cleavage without exposing nipples or underarms. Strange lines to draw, especially considering how they all reacted with such shock to the dresses Mila, Li-Li, and Yan wore for New Years Celebration some time back, though that same style of dress were all the rage nowadays, with women of bearing baring leg and thigh aplenty.

A fortuitous turn of events for Yan, who was sorely lacking in the breast department, but that did little to dampen Rain’s enthusiasm, a fact which did wonders for her self-esteem.

