“If I wanted to sleep alone at home, I wouldn’t have snuck out.” Grinning like a fool and unable to read Rain’s mood, Fung dumped his clothes back on the ground with a giggle and added, “Lend me enough to buy lovely Miss Rou out of her contract? She mentioned she’s for sale and I dismissed all my lovely ladies some months ago, so I’ve no one to keep me company anymore.”

Only now did Yan notice Fung’s companion sitting on the edge of the bed, and she did a double take when she noticed how gorgeous this Miss Rou was. There was beautiful and then there was Miss Rou, whose beauty rivalled that of Luo-Luo’s, who was easily the most beautiful woman Yan knew. Clad in a fine silken dress that covered everything, yet tastefully showed enough skin to draw the eyes to all the right places, Miss Rou sat with perfect posture to emphasize her best attributes. Long black hair, limpid autumnal eyes, pale, porcelain skin, full, kissable lips, and a bust so large and deep you could fall asleep nestled between those pillowy mounds, she looked like a fairy out of a dream rather than the prostitute she apparently was, and it was obvious why Fung was dead set on purchasing her. Hell, if he didn’t want her, Yan was tempted to buy her, even before clearing it with Rain’s other wives, because this was a catch too good to be true. The gorgeous woman even had the gall to bat her long lashes at Rain, but he didn’t even notice as he was busy picking Fung’s clothes back up off the floor. Marriage had done much to fortify his resolve, not even caring for a beauty like Luo-Luo much less Miss Rou there, whose flawless complexion showed no signs of the caked on makeup visible on the women outside.

“Fine,” Rain said, his tone understanding, but firm. “But no sampling the goods. You bring her home with you. Hurry up or I’ll be late for lunch and will have to explain to your Mentor why.”

That got Fung moving, or at least attempting to move as he lurched forward in his chair without standing. “Huh,” he said, eyes wide in confused wonder as he sank back in his chair. “Can’t seem to find my feet.”

“Alright. Yan, avert your eyes while I help him get dressed.”

As if. Crossing her arms with a smirk, she ignored Rain’s pursed lips and rolled eyes as she leaned against the wall to take in the show. A mistake, because while she relaxed and Rain moved to lift Fung to his feet, the room burst into an explosion of movement. The six thugs drew their hidden blades with a snarl and Miss Rou leaped off the bed, her double-edged sword in hand and aimed at Yan’s husband while her beautiful features were cast in an expression of cold, remorseless determination.

“Assassins!” Yan called, but even as she shouted, she knew both she and Rain’s guards were too late to act. Live or die, Rain was on his own, his arms burdened by Fung’s paralyzed body and his hands clutching discarded clothes rather than Spiritual Weapons as cold steel closed in on all sides.

All while he stood there smiling like the lovable fool he was, still yet to comprehend the danger he was in.

Chapter Meme
