It was also interesting to see the different types of food everyone ate, with the familiar hard tack and jerky so prevalent in the north, usually softened with some type of stew or soup. Centrallers loved their bars of rice and millet, which were made by steaming and drying the ingredients ten times in quick succession. They ate those bars dry and raw when given no other option, but could also add them to hot water or soup to produce a soft and fragrant pilaf. Sun-dried meat was also a staple of their diet, less savoury than the smoked variety the north preferred, but seasoned to perfection due to the abundance of arable farmland making spices so cheap and readily available. As for the southerners, pickled vegetables were their staple ration, stored in vinegar and eaten with dried, pre-fried noodles that were a crunchy delight, but it paled in comparison to their native cuisine.

Getting Rain to try different cultural foods had been an effort in and of itself, but well worth it in the end even if the pickings were slim in the Central Citadel. To say her husband was set in his ways would be a massive understatement, and he seemed to wilfully resist any attempt to learn and appreciate different cultures. It was easier to convince Tate to try new foods than Rain, especially if it looked strange or unfamiliar. A sentiment Lin-Lin shared, but at least Yan still had Li-Li, Mila, and Luo-Luo to help convince Rain, though nothing short of Divine intervention could convince him to go see another play or opera. Thankfully, Yan had her sister-wives to watch shows with, and the Chief Provost – no, Mother-in-Law Akanai also shared their love of the theatre and oftentimes accompanied them on their rare nights out, a dream come true for Yan who idolized the heroic Warrior woman. That being said, Yan didn’t mind Rain’s flaws so much, for they were few and far between, or at least that’s how she saw it through her admittedly rose-coloured veil.

Since no one besides the Death Corps Guards could see them, Yan grabbed his arm and hugged it tight, resting her head on his shoulder and basking in the warmth of his presence as they strode through the fields. So strange that she could find so much happiness in so simple an act, but this minor bit of time spent together already had her grinning like a fool and unable to control it. Even though autumn was already out in full force, Central was still too warm for her tastes, and it would stay like that even in the dark heart of winter, but she still loved clinging to her husband every chance she got. Usually, he had Lin-Lin and Luo-Luo monopolizing his arms, but the former was still fast asleep while the latter was stuck in the Central Citadel, where she would continue to carry out Rain’s duties with superlative skill and grace. Rain had yet to allow the busty beauty into their marital bed, but having seen how relaxed and comfortable he’d become in her presence, Yan knew it wouldn’t be long before he succumbed to the Imperial Servant’s considerable feminine charm.

And what fun that would be, to see what the Imperial Academy taught their students with regards to bedroom antics. Yan was beside herself with anticipation, but being the stubborn, contrary man that he was, pushing Rain to hurry would only make him dig his heels in and delay.

A few minutes after they passed through SuiHua’s towering fortified gates, Yan sensed a burst of pique from Rain as he strode alongside her through the bustling streets. “What’s the matter?” she asked, untangling herself from his arm to reach for her weapons, “Trouble?”

“Nothing immediate.” Which wasn’t a no, so Yan kept her guard up despite the presence of so many Death Corps and Sentinels watching over them, her eyes scanning the crowd without focusing on any one individual in particular. “Seems Fung’s slipped his handlers again, and old Fu Zhu Li wants me to bring him home, since the idiot will only run if he sees his manservant. So stupid. The half-weasel could drag Fung home by the ankles if he cared to, but that would be ‘unbecoming’ of his station.”

Sighing with a shake of his head, Rain’s Aura turned to sympathy as he changed heading, and Yan echoed the sentiment. Poor Fung was heart-broken from Seoyoon’s rejection, especially after coming so close to success during the Citadel siege, when she agreed to marry him so long as he killed Hideo. Even though Fung drove the Defiled traitor back and played a pivotal role in Geom-Chi’s rescue, Seoyoon refused to marry Fung because he failed to actually kill Hideo. Now, she was engaged to Yong-Jin and not even Rain’s reconciliation with Shuai Jiao could change things, because Seoyoon herself was the one who agreed to the pairing. Why, Yan could only guess, as she had yet to speak with any of the Ryo’s since their falling out, because while Shuai Jiao’s actions were taken out of prudence and therefore understandable, the Ryo’s betrayal was utterly unforgivable.

Alas, at the end of the day, there was no room for friendship in politics. There were only allies and enemies, nothing more, nothing less. While Rain was a rising dragon, Shuai Jiao was an established force to be reckoned with, one Aunty Jeong would have to face alone should Rain die, be disgraced, or return home to the north. While an alliance with Rain made sense now, Aunty Jeong was likely thinking about five, ten, even thirty years into the future, for Shuai Jiao was only eighty this year and would hold power for several decades to come. Learning that Rain didn’t have Shen ZhenWu’s confidence was likely the deciding factor, as it meant allying with him would be a gamble with the Ryo Family’s survival as the stakes.

In light of all this, it was no wonder why Aunty Jeong sided with Shuai Jiao over Rain, though it was possible she didn’t think Rain would take Seoyoon’s marriage with Yong-Jin so... personally.

Yan would’ve been a lot more sympathetic to Fung if he’d fought harder for Seoyoon’s hand, but according to the man himself, he simply wrote her a letter and didn’t even try to win her back. His wishy-washy attitude was likely another reason why Aunty Jeong didn’t favour him highly. On paper, Fung seemed like a real catch, the sole heir to a city with deep ties to the strongest faction of the North and the close, personal friend of the Legate, but what good was any of that if Fung himself lacked ambition? It was all fine and well for him to disdain war, but he didn’t have to be so proud about it, especially considering the woman he pursued came from a highly militaristic family. Worst of all, being a future magistrate himself, any assistance he could lend the Ryo Family would be negligible at best, as distant waters could not quench nearby fires. What good was a tie to the Legate if both said tie and the Legate returned home to the North? Then the Ryo’s would have only themselves to rely on in a pitched political campaign against Shuai Jiao, who had the love of the people and Central’s Marshal in his pocket to boot.

Yes, marrying Seoyoon to Yong-Jin was the right decision politically, and being the sweet, filial girl she was, Yan understood why Seoyoon agreed to it. Even if Uncle Ryo were still alive, the Ryo Family might still not be enough to stand against Shuai Jiao without Mitsue Juichi to share the burden, so better to offend Rain, who had a proven track record of mercy and compassion, than to pit themselves firmly against the formidable Commander General. Though she understood it to an extent, Yan hated all these politics, because she’d seen firsthand how cute Fung and Seoyoon had been together, sharing their poems and paintings with one another in such an innocent courtship. Then again, perhaps the fool of a romantic Fung would be better off far removed from the cutthroat politics of Central, where a promising prospective son-in-law learned about the love of his life’s engagement to another man through a public declaration. A cold way to go about it, and Yan burned with anger for Rain, Fung, Kyung, and Grandpa alike, but they were all willing to let matters lie for the sake of the greater good.

Well, for the most part. Rain was still miffed by the Ryo’s betrayal much like Yan was and refused to even meet with them for any reason besides official business, though he agreed to help Kyung with his romantic efforts towards Da’in. Out of spite most likely, as he would so love the idea of stealing Da’in away from the Ryo’s, even if it wasn’t for his own harem. The only reason he didn’t lash out and pressure the Ryo Family was because everyone advised him not to, as they were currently the second most powerful family of Central and the appearance of solidarity was vital to morale, not to mention how Rain himself spoke publicly about honour the families of the dead. Alas, Yan would much rather say this to those snakes who kept trying to take advantage of Rain’s better nature, but he was the Legate and thus expected to rise above such petty grievances.

Stopping out front of the restaurant they’d arranged to eat lunch at, Rain patted Yan’s hand and said, “Why don’t you head up first with my guards while I sneak away with Kuang Biao to collect Fung? He’s... in a house of ill-repute again, and I can’t really leave the Death Corps waiting out front where everyone can see.”

“Of course. Where else would he be?” Eyes twinkling with mischief, Yan grinned and said, “Leave the guards here, but I’m coming with. I always sort of regretted not joining you boys in the bath-houses way back during the Society Contests, and I’d like to see what’s so appealing about these sorts of places.”

“Not appealing at all,” Rain replied, and his Aura positively glowed with warmth and affection. “I could beggar myself buying company and it couldn’t compare to five minutes with you at my side.”

Silver tongued devil. Sneaking in a quick kiss, Yan broke it off before she let her emotions get away from her and said, “Good, then you won’t mind if I tag along. Which way?”

Giving up on convincing her to stay behind, Rain left all of his guards save four who could Conceal without his assistance, and they all headed towards Fung’s house of ill-repute. From the outside, it looked rather reputable and put together, not at all the gaudy affair she’d expected. Neat, tidy, and tastefully decorated, it looked more like a high class, five-storey inn than anything else, except most inns didn’t have scantily clad women posted at every window and balcony, calling, waving, and winking at prospective customers in the streets. The women were all mortal, but beautiful nonetheless, coming in all shapes, shades, and sizes with their hair done to perfection and make-up caked on thick to hide whatever minor imperfections might lay beneath.

Were Yan here for fun, she would’ve loved to find a seat somewhere nearby just to take it all in, as she already heard more than a few enticing propositions bandied about in her short time walking up to the door, though sadly, none were aimed at Rain since they were all still Concealed. Not bothering to stop to ask for directions, Rain took the stairs up to the top level without giving Yan the time to explore, though it was all much tamer than she expected. There were no women feigning reluctance as half-naked men forcibly stripped them, dancers undulating about while disrobing themselves slowly, drunkards making fools of themselves, or even a simple orgy taking place in the hallways. No, all the fun was happening behind closed doors, wood-frame paper doors that let plenty of sound through, but she could only see shadows and smoke from outside.

Tch. And here Yan thought men went to these places to really cut loose, but it seemed like most just wanted to have plain, simple sex with a woman. Prodigious stamina and appetite aside, even Rain wasn’t all that difficult to please, but Yan thought he was hiding his more perverse desires out of some misguided notion of respect for his wives. What a shame.

As it wasn’t Rain’s first time wrangling Fung away from the arms of a paid woman, he knew exactly which room to go to. Knocking before he entered, he asked, “Are you decent?”

“Never, but come in anyways my good friend!” Fung’s slurred speech told Yan he’d gotten an early start to the day, as this wastrel might well have been sloshed since he woke up this morning. After making sure Fung was clothed, Rain opened the door and stepped in while Yan followed suit, though the Death Corps stayed outside. While technically wholly covered, Fung’s loose robes left little to the imagination as he sat at the tea table with legs spread wide, and it took an effort of will for Yan not to glance down to complete the picture. His bared chest glistened with sweat and alcohol as he spilled more than he drank while draining his cup dry. “Attendant,” Fung shouted, despite the presence of six burly thugs in the room all glowering at him in concert, each one so pretty Yan wondered if they were available for hire as well. “More wine for my friend and his wife.” Lowering his voice to a loud whisper, Fung added, “Good thing you’re here. Fu Zhu Li hid my coin purse and these stingy bastards won’t let me play on credit anymore. Things were about to get ugly, but now we can have a real party.”

“No wine and no partying.” In no mood for his antics, Rain glanced around the room and grabbed the rest of Fung’s missing clothes before dropping it in the man’s lap, though Yan would’ve thought twice before touching them. “Your manservant has been nagging my ear off, so it’s time you got dressed. I’ll pay the bill and bring you home to sleep, and maybe then he’ll stop bothering me.”

