There were no leggy dresses for her today though, only a boring shirt and trouser to ensure legitimate advancement in her career as part of Central’s Imperial Army, though those prospects were looking bleaker by the day. While her husband had reconciled with the Commander General and they were now working together, to say Rain held a grudge was an understatement at best, and it was clear to everyone involved. It wasn’t just a disgruntled attitude and pithy comments either, he treated his allies with the bare minimum of courtesy and gave all the best postings to people he ‘could depend on’ without making an effort to hide it. Thus far, the Commander General’s people had yet to raise a fuss, but if things continued in this manner, then Yan feared for the fate of their campaign.

‘Trust, but verify’ was an often heard phrase when sitting in on Rain’s meetings, especially towards the end after the elements from South and Central were gone. Rain was putting his Spymaster to hard work keeping tabs on the General Officers of the outer provinces, his paranoid streak showing through as he guarded against betrayal from within. A valid concern given how they’d been all but ready to rebel against him, but Rain never did anything by half-measures. Not only was he keeping his possible enemies where he could guard against them, he also had spies everywhere reporting all manner of information back to him, from the habits of his generals and their illicit affairs, to the contents of various stores and warehouses as well as the comings and goings at certain properties. So far, none of his spies had yet to produce anything of value, but Rain memorized their collated reports regardless because, “Better safe than sorry.”

Except safe was driving away the very people he should be working to win over, or at the very least graciously accept their efforts to make amends. They were all marching to war together after all, and without unity, the Imperial Army would only find death and defeat in the Western Dunes, but at least now that they were in SuiHua, he could only suspect the Colonel General and Marshals from afar.

“Major Yan.” Prim and proper as always, Sutah’s waxed mustachio quivered as he greeted her with a salute, alongside the rest of her retinue. “Surprise inspection?”

“You know me all too well, Senior Captain,” Yan replied, allowing herself an impish smile as she fell in line beside him. It took some doing to get him raised to his new rank, but he earned it more than thrice over, and with a little luck and a lot of hard work, he would go much further once he Formed his Natal Palace, a milestone Yan herself was still struggling with. “How are the kids looking today?”

The term stuck fast and many of Yan’s soldiers straightened with pride to hear it, but only for Sutah to break them down with the same familiar judgment. “They look as they always do, Major. Disappointing.”

The sun would rise in the west before Sutah sang a single word of praise for his soldiers, a tactic Baatar and Akanai used to great effect on Rain, and Yan had to work hard not to laugh. “Surely they can’t be all that bad, Sutah? We’ve been running camp drills for weeks now, so I’m sure some of the training took root.”

“I thought the same, until I saw them with my own two eyes. Throw enough shit at the wall and some will stick, but these lot would sooner eat it and shit it back out. Take Captain Yogoro there, a continued disgrace to his rank whose squad...” And so began the same song and dance as Yan and Sutah made their way through the camp, checking tents, cots, sentry posts, and latrine pits as they went. Though Rain had yet to announce it, every soldier gathered here outside SuiHua knew a field campaign was coming soon, with some having known for weeks if their commanders were even halfway competent. That was one reason why Rain had been ready to kill over the long delay, because you couldn’t just shove an army out into the field and expect them to perform well. Even veteran soldiers of a dozen campaigns could use a refresher course on marching and camping protocol. Say what you will about courage and tenacity, but discipline and coordination were far more important to an army on the move if you ever wanted to move at more than a snail’s pace. A half hour to set up for the night, an hour if they intended to stay longer, and the same amount of time to break camp in the morning, those were the general regulations to live by, and when working with tens of thousands of soldiers in the field, even a meeting with your neighbouring retinues could take ten to fifteen minutes to set up. Thus, it was imperative that everyone knew what to do before embarking on campaign, because there was no time to learn out in the field.

All in all, matters were not as dire as Sutah made them out to be, but neither was Yan wholly satisfied with her retinue’s performance, especially after seeing how well Rain’s retinue of former cripples, bandits, poachers, and other riffraff performed. A label usually said with a smile in a joking fashion, but after being forged in the fires of battle and finished under the close supervision of talented commanders like Rustram, Liu Xuande, and even Jorani, Rain’s retinue were near undefeated in battlefield maneuvers, with the Stormguard and Death Corps being their only real competition. Zian, BoShui, and Ishin Ken-Shibu’s retinues all came close, and the Sentinels could run circles around all of them if given the use of their quins or bows, but it went without saying that Rain’s cutthroats and vagabonds were now a disciplined fighting force to be reckoned with.

As for Yan’s retinue, she was already working with a handicap considering she was working with a majority of soldiers whose only training had come from the army. Far from the most comprehensive guidance a Martial Warrior could get, but her soldiers were either commoners or criminals who lacked any other choice. Soldiering was simple enough work as it was mostly a matter of following orders, but it took time and effort to build the sort of trust and discipline required of a crack fighting force, and Yan’s soldiers were a long ways away from reaching that goal. At least they all trained together, so they already had the groundwork for cooperation in place, but they were no match for the elites of the Ryo Family household or one of the more lucrative military schools that so many noble children attended. Technically, Yan could’ve asked Rain to draft a conscription order for her so she could pick and choose her own people, but Grandpa Du insisted she work with whoever was willing and available so she could learn to ‘sculpt mud into gold’. Having seen the state of her retinue, Yan knew she still had a long way to go, but she agreed with Grandpa’s vision, because she found that teaching her kids how to soldier taught her so much about command that she would have missed out on if she simply took over an elite force like Rain’s. While the base quality of the soldiers had gone up since most were blooded in the citadel siege, she still had to account for drunkards or addicts hiding their vices, injured idiots hiding their wounds out of misplaced machismo, and directionless sheep who kept following the wrong banners when it came time to muster. She called them her kids for a reason, but after training with them for so long, she’d grown fond of her band of idiots and hoped that most of them would make it back alive.

While simultaneously praying that she herself would not be the cause of their deaths. War was hell, but there was nothing worse than hindsight reminding you that you could’ve done better...

Well, like Rain liked to say, a gram of prevention was worth a kilogram of cure, so after making sure neither of them had any other pressing matters to attend to, Yan got to work running her soldiers through training drills. It was boring but vital work watching them break down camp and put it back up again, so she threw in a few emergency scenarios to test their ability to react under pressure and her ability to utilize Rain’s flexible checker-board formation. The tactic worked rather well when combined with the massive southern scimitars her original retinue favoured and they picked it up rather quick, but the remaining four thousand plus soldiers were more accustomed to spear and sword, which took a little more getting used to. The dispersed nature of the checker-board formation meant each unit was responsible for covering more ground, which meant most of the burden fell upon the shoulders of her Captains as not only did they have to wrangle their troops into position, they also had to keep a close eye on their surroundings and react appropriately to the flow of battle, sometimes before she had time to Send an order. For this, Yaro was the standout talent, as he’d been with her for almost as long as Sutah had, and while he was the only one she’d promoted from within, he was serving in more of a Senior Captain’s capacity since her second had additional responsibilities to attend to. As for the newer Captains of her retinue, they were a mixed bag of schooled nobles and arrogant silk-pants. At least the former could be taught to abandon their rigid rules when the flow of battle dictated they do so, but the latter lacked the ability to even adhere to the rules and were a weak link in the chain of command, an arrogant bunch who either disdained her orders or wanted to show off in front of her in the worst possible ways. Within the hour, she already had to reprimand seventeen of her fifty Captains, with ten tasked with extra training with their units, six consigned to latrine duty for the next week, and one whipped for insubordination.

Not the best start to a campaign, but better to get the growing pains out of the way here rather than wait until they were out in the field.

As lunchtime grew close, Yan stopped training to offer a few words of encouragement to the troops before calling a meeting with her Captains and Senior Captains to talk shop, all while categorizing the roles in which her officers would play. Sutah was her second-in-command for good reason as he was her most reliable under-officer, but her two noble-born Senior Captains were none too pleased about serving under a commoner. The problem was, they were both fairly competent and hardworking to boot, so she couldn’t just dismiss their discontent out of hand, so she made an extra effort to praise them and ask for their opinions more often. The remaining two Senior Captains were fairly unremarkable, but her Captains were another story. Aside from the slackers and troublemakers she’d already disciplined today, she had five more Captains who were more or less useless in the field. She couldn’t say as much of course, so instead she made a note to have them bring their more competent seconds into meetings from here on out, since those veterans were more or less running their young master’s units anyways, and would benefit from the additional information. All in all, her retinue was precariously balanced in an odd sort of fashion, neither top tier nor bottom of the barrel, though admittedly the latter was mostly because the majority of the stupider soldiers and officers had long since died off, leaving only the green, the competent, and the lucky behind.

Mentally drained from all the drilling and prep work, Yan Sent word to Rain that she was ready to go, and he brought her into his area of Concealment once they were a good distance away from her camp. “You’ve done well with your ragtag little retinue,” Rain remarked, wholly missing out on the humour in his statement given the background of his own retinue. “They’ll hold the line even with an army of Defiled bearing down on them, and you can’t really ask for more. If only I had more units I could count on for as much...”

A bit pessimistic, but he wouldn’t be Rain if he wasn’t, and Yan made allowances for the stress he was under. This counter offensive might well be the largest military campaign since the founding of the Empire, as never before had a general been tasked with re-taking an entire province. What’s more, as Rain’s miraculous ability to Cleanse the Father’s foul minions from existence had yet to be revealed, there was a general air of doom and gloom pervading the massive army encampment, one that stretched out to the horizon in every direction except North, where so very many ships sat idle in SuiHua harbour, their empty masts forming a veritable forest of bare trees out over the water. Any fool could see that this was a massive undertaking, and Rain was at his wit’s end trying to make it happen.

“Things aren’t so dire,” Yan replied, glancing around at the steady stream of soldiers hurrying about in all directions on one task or another while Rain brought her towards SuiHua to dine with the family. Warriors from North, South, and Central were all in attendance here, and it was amazing to see all the different cultural aspects in play, though Rain hardly even registered the distinctions. Northern soldiers were the most pragmatic of the lot, happy to sit and eat wherever there was space, while Central soldiers felt compelled to cram together inside their mess tents, even though there was sunshine aplenty with nary a hint of a cloud in the sky. Southern soldiers ate by their tent alongside their units, which wasn’t a terrible idea considering it built camaraderie between soldiers, and Yan considered implementing such a rule for her own soldiers. Then, she could do away with the mess tent which always stank to high heaven, since five thousand soldiers eating travel rations made for quite the fetid cloud of gas around meal times.

