“I don’t have fate with a fount of life. I will not be able to allocate energy for an awakening in its presence, provided it even lets me close,” Tavza said after some thought. “I’ll go ahead and perform the awakening inside one of the temples. I’ll wait for you inside the city after I’m done.”

Zac had expected as much, and he knew it was too soon to say if Tavza was losing out. She had been carefully drawing unfamiliar patterns on her seed over the past few days while nurturing it with Faith Energy extracted from old relics. She already had a plan and the skills to implement it. Meanwhile, Zac hadn’t come up with anything better than providing the best possible environment before using his Evolutionary Mold as a guide for the spirit awakening.

Half a day later, the two successfully reached their destination. This island was by far the largest one they’d encountered and shaped like a planet. It was surrounded by a large golden vacuum. The planet radiated pristine Dao untainted by the earthly plane, and its gift could seemingly be bestowed upon anything. Even the vast consciousness covering the realm seemed awed by its grandeur and was unwilling to draw closer. By the time they entered the vacuum, its presence disappeared entirely.

“There’s no interference,” Ogras muttered. “The only influence on an awakening here will be the one we introduce.”

“The energy is purer further in; let’s keep going,” Zac said with growing zeal.

The solitary planet was absolutely massive, and they soon understood why. It was neither a planet nor solitary. It was made from hundreds of lifeforms setting up a perimeter, with the teardrop hidden in the middle. This wasn’t a place where he could mess around or loot wantonly. A few among the stalwart guardians were C-grade, and the islands were bunched up much closer than normal.

“They’re warning me not to get any closer,” Ogras suddenly said when they’d reached the halfway point between the pure zone’s start and the defensive perimeter. “This is good enough for me. I’ll have the goblin assist me in refining this thing after you’ve settled in. You, uh, plan on settling in, right? No funny business.”

“You know that’s out of my hands,” Zac helplessly said as he started to disrobe.

“What the Nine Hells are you doing?” Ogras said with bewilderment. “We’re not in the Joyful Gardens any longer.”

“I’m just getting ready,” Zac said with a roll of his eyes while cutting a small wound in his belly.

Just like when he refined the [Twin Eclipse], he used his own flesh as a protective insulator for his Spatial Items. Rotating his Daos and infusing himself with [Void Mountain] would keep them safe. Activating [Void Zone] would probably work even better, but Zac feared his nullification sphere might agitate the powerful natives. If nothing else, it would damage the seed, and he couldn’t have it start leaking its terrifying amounts of energy.

He only kept one ring on hand with a few basic resources that might come in handy, mainly for cultivating the [Void Vajra Sublimation] and nourishing his soul. The pure caress of primal Divine Energy felt like a warm tropical wind against his skin, and his cells hummed with bliss. Now that he didn’t have to protect dozens of items from Life’s influence, he could focus on the wellspring’s blessing.

It had been a while since Zac felt so good, and he found himself humming the song Mei’Er had recorded for him. To his surprise, the powerful locals seemed drawn by the melody, and the pressure on him greatly lessened. Zac’s eyes lit up, realizing they were analyzing Hope’s many insights into the Dao of Life, and he continued humming with greater gusto.

Ogras didn’t look quite as enthused when Zac resumed his approach, now singing and clad only in his underwear. A defeated whisper reached Zac just before he came out of earshot.

“We better get ready to sacrifice a few underlings. I’ve been around long enough to recognize an impending disaster when I see one.”
