“The benefits must outweigh those concerns.”
Othius whispered, and his advisors and queen focused on him. He spoke, and since it was rare for him to do so without hearing council, they listened intently.
“A suitable colony, no matter the condition of the landscape, will do. Enough land for farms. Enough space for a wall—to section ourselves away from their disputes.”
“A 6th wall?”
The whisper came from no less than a [Governor] of one of the major cities, a Dullahan who knew the gold and economy of the Blighted Kingdom better than anyone else. Othius smiled wryly.
“It need not be even a tenth as glorious as the 5th Wall. Only enough to deter other conflicts. Then we will have an oasis. We know how to take stone and make it fertile.”
Hayvon was nodding.
“A perfect outpost to support the Blighted Kingdom. But can we seize that much space without another nation objecting? The Gnoll tribes and Drakes will do so most of all.”
“Other nations can be persuaded. They will see our reasons, and we hardly need more than a fraction of the new lands of Izril. As for the Gnolls and Drakes—I intend to position our colony as a check on the Antinium.”
“Ah. Allies to a Third Antinium war. The Walled Cities might not object to that. And the Gnolls?”
Othius had played this game before. He gestured, and a report slid towards him as he activated the Ring of Greater Telekinesis as naturally as reaching out himself. He tapped the records of rich tributes to the Blighted Kingdom.
“Their people have been badly hurt from the conflict. Exempting them from tribute and gifts of gold and artifacts and more will not go amiss. Buy the land, even if we must spend a fortune for it.”
“I will assemble forces from our Walls, Your Majesty. It will be a balance to take as few capable warriors as possible.”
Anyone over Level 30 was needed to block the Demons’ assaults. A Level 30 Skill or higher, when used right, could save hundreds of lives from Silvenia’s spells. Othius had thought of that too.
“That will not be necessary, [General] Torthe. Lower-level [Soldiers] from our classes will do. Under Level 20, with exceptions.”
A [Catastrophe Aversion Strategist] cleared his throat gently.
“This new land may not be without extreme danger, Your Majesty. The possibility of a calamity-level threat being present is not…impossible.”
The cautious tone. Oh—that told him he was being an idiot. Othius always listened to it and nodded.
“What would you say, then, Hayvon, if I told you we will send champions to break the new lands open, even impress other nations? Not our adventurers—indeed, those that level there may be swayed to our cause with gold and offers of employment. We will send only a handful, but they will return to the Blighted Kingdom as heroes. Or rather—even more the [Heroes] they already are.”
Aha. They got it. The council looked at the Blighted King.
“The children?”
Coretine was surprised. Hayvon—even more wary. Nereshal as well. He made a gesture unseen to the others, and Othius heard his whisper in his mind.
“Disloyalty, Your Majesty…”
Of course. The Blighted King slightly curled his first two fingers on his left hand, and Nereshal fell silent.
“Would…the relative safety of other nations not entice our [Heroes] from the necessarily bitter war here, Your Majesty?”
Someone else said what Nereshal was thinking more diplomatically. Othius shook his head.
“A handful will go, with escorts, and certain requirements of their character. The—interception—of the new generation of Earthers, for instance.”
The way he said that, instead of the summoning ritual, made the room pause a second. Othius continued.
“Geas spells. Magical contracts, for those who agree. I intend to send half of the first [Heroes]. As a reward for their service. The same for those who are suitably promising. Loyal Earthers, who will level higher and return to fight alongside their comrades here.”
“Ah, of course.”
Othius thought of Sir Richard as Hayvon nodded, relaxing at once. He would be a good candidate. Othius knew all too well how weary one could become of war. Richard would go. Or Emily.
Not both. The same for others, especially the new generation. Those with certain levels of loyalty or sympathy. By that token…
“And individuals like Sir Thomas, Your Majesty?”
Nereshal glanced at the Blighted King and saw that old face never move. Othius did not look his age, but he did sometimes think he seemed withered. Frail, certainly, but Nereshal’s magic kept his body young. He just seemed as though time had worn him down. Othius turned his head and murmured.
“Tom the [Clown] is—extraordinary. Unpredictable, a bane to our foes and his allies. He is far too much a [Hero] to ever leave Rhir.”
“…Of course, Your Majesty. Then shall we prepare lists of candidates?”
Othius lifted a ringed finger slightly.
“I have no interest in the selection. I shall leave it to Lord Hayvon, who has been with the new heroes most. My council, we shall draw up plans and waves of reinforcements today that we might expedite the colony onto shore. But I intend to announce the Blighted Kingdom’s efforts tomorrow on Wistram News Network. Within this hour—Admiral Veixl. Launch two warships crewed by our interception forces and the appropriate [Mages] to speed their progress. Have them maneuver to sea then speed up once out of sight of land.”
“As Your Majesty bids.”
And it was done. Othius sat back as Nereshal called for experts to begin the tasks of defining the second wave of ships, but the Blighted Kingdom moved fast. Three species might have landed first, but the other two warships would be sailing for Izril within half an hour if he was right. And more would come.
New land. He didn’t just want it to prove how his kingdom could flourish or create a backup to lean upon. New lands…he would take families who had earned it, take [Farmers] who had lived their lives fighting the worst Demons could unleash and let them be the third wave to settle the colony.
Let them have peace and send back a wave to help drive the Demons into the depths of Rhir. The Blighted King smiled for once, and Coretine squeezed his hand gently, pride in her eyes.
He could not have known it, but Othius the Fourth had echoed plans once spoken on this very continent. Echoed a dream of another world power that had sent their finest to bring back salvation to Rhir.
The Antinium had gone first, and their dream was lost in the wreckage of the oceans. As for the Blighted Kingdom?
They dreamed of land and safety. Othius had one more plan, of course. He always did. But as it pertained to the colony—
If it were safe. If they created but the foothold he wanted, he would take a risk on his life and the future of the Blighted Kingdom.
Othius might be old, but he learned and copied from everything.
Even horrors. He had seen the Dyed Lands change as something struck it, throwing them hundreds of years forwards. Well. If all went well, he wondered what Nereshal might do. His magic was not, perhaps, the same as Dionamella, that incredibly, unnaturally hidden monster of Ailendamus, but it had frozen the Blighted King in time along with Nereshal and a few others, and Nereshal could still act as the greatest [Mage] of the Blighted Kingdom.
For great sacrifice, or with the right tools—what could Nereshal do to the colony? The Blighted King weighed his [Chronomancer] against the risks and costs. After all—he looked around the room of trusted people he cared for and then at his mirror image on the polished wood desk.
They all would give everything for the Blighted Kingdom in time.
 
——
 
The second great threat to the safety of the world was far less old, but no less present in the public consciousness.
Which said a lot about his success. Like it or not, the King of Destruction might not have achieved armageddon-level status, but he had taken an entire continent and almost turned it into a machine of war.
An entire continent. Not ‘most of a continent’ or ‘parts of a continent minus the fiddly bits’, but all of it.
The King of Destruction had recently been to Izril. He had seen the new lands rise. And like Othius, he had designs on it.
Only—his attitude was somewhat different than the Blighted King. He was explaining it to Trey and Teresa Atwood.
It was almost nostalgic. There they were, the two twins, the King of Destruction, like they had when he had begun his return.
They were even in the same place. The throne room, that cracked place of faded glory where a small chair had sat behind the grand throne.
Only, everything was different. Trey Atwood kept looking at Teresa, and he wondered…
Was her chin always like that? She’d had a dimple in it, and while they hadn’t exactly received the chin that receded back into your face, a sign of proper noble breeding back home—it hadn’t exactly been the chiseled jaw you could use to break cement.
The same for their builds. ‘Dumpy’ might be pushing it too far, but ‘dumpling’ in the vague sense that you could see a bit of imperfection rather than an athlete’s build was fair for the twins.
Or—had been. Trey felt like all these things were fair, if hurtful, for him. But Teresa?
She’d gotten rid of the dimple. She seemed like she was an inch taller. She looked like—well. Either she’d been in makeup for an hour or she had changed.
To be more accurate, her class was changing her. Teresa Atwood ignored Trey studiously as she listened to Flos. Trey was tempted to cast [Appraisal], but he knew it wouldn’t work. Still—she’d at least told him her classes.
[Blade of War]. A class for someone who had leapt into the fighting with the King of Destruction, fought in the siege for Reim, and never looked back. It might have been responsible for Teresa’s sharp look—you tended to get defined arms and calves when you spent all day stabbing people and riding around on a horse.
But Trey rather thought her second class was the one that was doing it.
[Glory Seeker]. And if that didn’t say a lot, well. Trey Atwood turned his head to gaze at the young men and women standing at the windows.
They were different, too. Earthers. They stood, jumping every few seconds with shock, alternatively looking from Flos and Trey and Teresa out the windows.
Not the same. Flos himself had changed. He kept running a hand through his hair, smiling, and he had eaten a storm after returning.
Being burnt into a crisp and suffering for months did that to you, but his return to form was also miraculous. He looked rejuvenated. Not least because his crazy plan to attack Wistram had succeeded, not least because he’d gotten to go to Izril and kick up a diabolical fuss, but because the last of his Seven had returned.
Amerys, the Calm Flower of the Battlefield, Amerys, the Archmage of Chandrar, the Archmage of Lightning—had returned.
Oh—that last thing that had changed in the throne room? Trey looked up as the King of Destruction stopped talking, and everything turned blinding white for a second. The flash was brighter than any camera’s bulb, and unlike a camera, the thwoom of lightning made Trey’s bones shake.
It was raining. Storming. Exploding outside, and the Earthers leapt as one from the bolt of lightning coming down literally a dozen paces outside the balcony.
“Jesus wept!”
Someone shouted. Possibly George. Elena, the [Beautician], just shouted.
“Fuck, my ears!”
But they didn’t look away. After all, the absolutely pouring rain of the storm was a sight to see on dry Chandrar. Amerys had called it in from the sea and carried it all the way to Reim as a present.
Yet the real thing to see was watching someone catch a bolt of lightning. And Trey was half-itching to watch himself, because the funny part was—it wasn’t Amerys doing the catching. It was Orthenon, and boy—it looked unpleasant when he missed.
 
——
 
The flash of light illuminated them all in one timeless second again, and Teresa Atwood saw Trey glance away. She looked at him, much like he’d been studying her, and wondered what happened to him.
He was the same height. The same build, although he might have gained a few pounds from Wistram if anything. However—his face was a stranger’s.
Teresa had once heard someone claim that you aged internally as much as in your body. She hadn’t quite believed that, but now she thought Trey looked like he’d skipped part of being a man and moved into being older.
Perhaps it was his class. Not [Bloodglass Mage], but the other one. [Chaos Schemer], which was an upgrade of [Plotter].
She saw that in him. A kind of…keenness that pierced through her, made her skin itch. As if he was trying to figure out what you were worth when he put you into a box for later. A cold detachment.
The other Earthers had certainly seen it in him or why were they keeping away? They were all from the same world, but Teresa had seen how that girl, Elena, looked at Trey.
Uneasily. Teresa had heard from Gazi and the rest what Trey had done there, but she wondered if there were things that the half-Gazer hadn’t even told Flos.
At the very least, Trey had left a lot of dead people behind him. Yes, Gazi and Amerys and the Quarass had done most of the killing—but Trey had done that.
Differently from her. Teresa walked onto a battlefield where the other side knew that she would kill them, and that was fair. Trey? He’d gone to Wistram as a student, smiled at some people, and then gotten them killed.
Maybe it was necessary. Maybe they all deserved it. But Trey? He looked like one person to Teresa, and she didn’t think he’d like the comparison. He looked like the Quarass, not Fetohep.
There was a big difference.
Teresa itched to take Trey aside and talk to him further, but they’d had practically no time since the ship, Sand at Sea, had finally dropped them off at Reim. There was celebrating, explaining, recap about Fetohep’s ride—
And she’d missed all of it. Teresa was still furious about it. Trey had seen the events of a lifetime, but he acted like it was a chore. He’d had a chance to fight and address the wrongs the Drakes had done to the Gnolls. After having to watch the entire battle, Teresa frankly envied him.
The Gnolls deserved better. She hoped they’d find it on Chandrar. The first thing Teresa had done upon their arrival was introduce herself to the Chieftains. It had also done a lot of good, because Nawalishifra had stopped moping about to greet the Gnoll [Smiths] from one of the tribes.
Venith Crusland on the other hand…he had greeted Calac and taken him to Maresar’s grave. But he was probably still walking the borders of Reim, destroying everything in his path with his Aura of Wrath.
