Perhaps the eight aforementioned Relic-class pieces of gear that Toren was wearing did the job. They would normally have generated so much magical interference that it would have caused a chain reaction that destroyed part of the castle. Again. However—Toren grinned as he put the sword on his shoulder.
He had some new Skills. He beckoned to the cloth giant with his free hand. After all his turmoil and torment at the hands of the Chosen—he was back to the good stuff: Inflicting bodily harm on other people.
 
——
 
The cloth titan brought down a fist that caused an earthquake in the surrounding region. Even on the castle’s walls, the defenders felt it.
A wobbling slime glowing purple with brilliant flecks of orange within jiggled in fear, but it was watching the battle. Even the Chosen had fallen silent. The blow should have destroyed the skeleton beyond even regeneration’s capacity to recover.
Yet—when the dust cleared, Toren was still standing there. He’d caught the fist with one hand. Even the cloth titan seemed amazed by that.
“He’s so cool.”
Maviola forgot her tears long enough to stare at Toren. He was grinning. Well, he was always grinning, but he definitely seemed to be enjoying this as he threw the hand back and leapt up the arm.
“The gauntlets did that. They make him as strong as a giant. I could do that. If I had them on.”
A skeleton’s head, black iron and two glowing gold flames, sulked as the rest of Ijvani’s bones slowly rolled towards her. Devail looked at her. The fibrous undead carrying the rapier turned from the cloth titan to Ijvani.
“Why did you not, then?”
The skeleton [Mage] opened and closed her jaw and then glared at him.
“Be silent. I am the original Chosen.”
“Yetyetyet…Toren is the one instructing us to fight.”
A soft chittering sound produced the odd chattering voice. Wesixa’s body dangled with string. She was more of a…puppet than person, but she didn’t look human. Rather, it was as if someone had taken a spider, turned it into cloth and ivory, and given it a puppet’s strings.
She wasn’t creepy at all. The healing slime hid behind Maviola as the undead [Lady] stared at Toren fighting the titan. He would have probably been smashed, even with all the relics he was wearing—Belavierr had sent a true city-destroying nightmare at Az’kerash. But more Bone Giants were rising for backup and the undead were streaming out of the gates.
“I want to go with Mother. Why won’t Archmage Chandler let me go?”
She had asked a variation of that question the last twelve times Belavierr had tried to recover her daughter. However, the Necromancer had sat her down and explained.
Belavierr was not a fit…mother. Maviola would join his Chosen, and she should not listen to mysterious lanterns appearing at her window telling Maviola to follow them. Or spells, constructs, or other phenomena of that nature.
The undead Maviola might have tried to run away despite that, because Belavierr was her mother—but Toren had patted her on the arm. He didn’t speak, but he had communicated via the undead’s shared understanding that Belavierr could be a real Erin. She might be loving, but she could be entirely hurtful by accident, and in the skeleton’s experience, this tended to end with a deathmatch in an inn.
So Maviola had stayed, especially because the cute little slime and Toren kept her company. She didn’t like the other Chosen. Or the evil woman Az’kerash had put in the circle.
“Why is master not coming? Toren will fail. We failed—therefore, he will.”
Ijvani was anxious, but Wesixa answered as Toren tried to saw off a leg.
“Hehehe is busy with his guest.”
“They are always in his rooms. He has missed sparring practice with me. Twice.”
Devail put in, slightly upset. Maviola saw Ijvani’s neck reassembling as the skeleton mage looked askance.
“Why do those petty—ghosts have his attention? They were once alive. They are inferior to us.”
Maviola raised a hand.
“Maybe Archmage Chandler is having sex. Private, illicit rendezvous.”
The other Chosen turned to her. Wesixa looked surprised.
“Sexsexsex? Why would he do that?”
Maviola folded her arms defensively.
“My mother told me that is what a man and women do in private. Or man and man. Or man and animal. Or man and monster. Or man and eighteen women and—that’s all you do in private. We should spy on them and record proof of the affair for blackmail.”
The Chosen looked at each other. Most took Maviola at her word, but the Healing Slime, somehow the most adult member of the audience, reflected that Az’kerash might be the better parent after all.
 
——
 
What the Necromancer of Terandria, the most feared individual for a century of destruction, bane of the living, fallen Archmage of Death, Perril Chandler, was actually doing during the battle outside was suffering.
He, who had long since forgotten the trevails of flesh, had weathered death and all agonies of betrayal and the mortal world’s torment—was in pain.
It was amazing. His body wasn’t being harmed. He was a being of such mana that even a Djinni would look upon him in awe, arguably one of the highest-leveled individuals to ever exist, let alone currently live.
And yet—every time he turned his head to the floating figure in the circle of contained magic she had demanded, demanded he install in his personal workroom, unlike the others in his laboratory below—he almost flinched.
Words. Mere words, not even Skills, made the Necromancer dread going into his private lair.
He had met [Bards] of renown. Even heard [Pun Masters] with wordplay so cutting they could rend flesh. Yet none, not even the scathing rebuke of a sixty year-old [Lady] in a ballroom from behind a paper fan, compared with the mistress of critique.
If Az’kerash was the recent monster in the public consciousness, a myth that was still used to terrify children, he was looking at one of the originals.
Someone so famous she wasn’t a modern hit, but an all-time classic in the history of the world. One of the greatest villains who had terrorized a continent for over a thousand years.
The Immortal Tyrant, Nerrhavia. Az’kerash had looked up some of her history after ‘rescuing’ her from the battle at the Meeting of Tribes.
Nerrhavia, a Human who had gone from a mere commoner in the Empire of Ateverha, a corrupt and failing nation, to ruling everything and scaring even the Walled Cities and nations on other continents. She was called the Suzerain of Cloth, Ruler of the Woven Citadel, and among her names, Twisted Chamberlain of the Lacreous Courts.
Even that last bit was a story in itself. Az’kerash had looked into the tale until he’d grown so uncomfortable he’d had to close the book. That was Nerrhavia.
And her ghost, her actual ghostly soul, was in his possession. To a [Necromancer], that was the ally of a lifetime. The power and secrets of the greatest ruler, someone whose level might exceed his—at his beck and call. Not to mention the other ghosts he’d captured in the prison meant for Fetohep’s enemy.
Why, then, did he regret it so much? Perril Chandler had realized, too late, the mistake so many of Nerrhavia’s enemies had made. Guest, prisoner, ghost in a [Necromancer]’s power or not…
She got inside your head.
The woman’s ghost was the same as the last time he’d seen her. She could not alter her appearance, much to her displeasure, and some of the abilities she’d claimed were part and parcel to every ghost in the lands of the dead had left her.
For instance, she looked—as all the ghosts did—just like she had when she had died. In Nerrhavia’s case, the cause of death was simple.
Someone had taken a blade—and Az’kerash, as a student of dueling, thought it was a handaxe—and chopped through half her neck. Of course, that hadn’t killed her. But since, as Az’kerash understood it, Nerrhavia had fled the final siege and used the last of her strength to kill herself and rob her enemies of a trial or a torturous death, he supposed her true death-wounds didn’t show.
Namely, destroying half the palace and all the attackers in a final blaze of spiteful glory. That was the Immortal Tyrant’s legacy, and she certainly had dressed for her death.
She was draped in cloth that revealed her shoulders and upper arms but kept the rest of her body hidden, and Az’kerash imagined she had lounged upon her throne, idly applauding the first people to slay her last guards. She had painted her lips and nails red like blood, which complemented the sheer white dress—the color of death—very well.
Poisoned nails, incidentally. Nerrhavia had also braided her hair back like a stinger.
The entire look was impressive—but the ghost hated it. She floated in the circle he had drawn that anchored her soul to this world. If it broke—she would be returned from whence she came, and she assured him that would be a fate worse than death.
Yet she didn’t sound pleased by being one of the last ghosts to exist in the mortal world. If anything—her tone was exceptionally annoyed.
“…and five changes of clothes. Each in the modern style, assuming they are tasteful. If I had known I would be forced to wear the garb of my death, I would have chosen something more all-purpose.”
The Necromancer was aware his castle was under siege. At any other time, he would be personally assessing the battle, destroying Belavierr’s minions, or talking to Maviola. Right now…his black eyes with white pupils fixed on Nerrhavia incredulously.
“Nerrhavia.”
“Empress Nerrhavia. You may address me as Suzerain, Tyrant, or Eminence as a gesture of my goodwill.”
She snapped back. Az’kerash’s mouth stayed open a fraction of a second.
“—You wish me to design you clothes a ghost can wear and change into. Clothes for a ghost?”
“Oh, is it beyond your capabilities? I apologize—I assumed I was speaking to a [Necromancer], not a [Corpse Digger].”
She put her head on her folded hands and regarded him with a bright, cheery smile. For a second. Then her scowl resumed.
“And I insist you bring me more entertainment! Those scrying orbs do well enough for mundane entertainment, but send me that interesting child. The one with fire hair, the daughter of the Stitch-Witch.”
“Maviola? Belavierr’s creation? I think not. She is already—distressed about her mother. She does not need poor lessons.”
Especially from you. And especially because, Az’kerash had learned, Belavierr and Nerrhavia had been contemporaries. In fact, they had been friends and allies.
When he had learned that, he had forbidden Maviola from getting anywhere near Nerrhavia. The Immortal Tyrant turned her head slightly, incredulously eying Az’kerash.
“It appears your ears did not survive your resurrection into undeath, [Necromancer]. That was not a request. Send the girl. How long until my body is ready?”
That was enough. Az’kerash turned from what had really been a fruitless time looking into Izril’s new lands. Even his myriad mental processes were running at reduced capacity.
That was how annoying Nerrhavia was. He spoke curtly.
“It seems I was not clear enough before. Allow me to readdress this situation. Great Nerrhavia, Tyrant of old. I am well aware of your legend and might in the histories of the world. However, you seem to be under the misapprehension that you are, in any way, in charge. You came to me, desperate for sanctuary. Now, you are a ghost in a [Necromancer]’s sway. I am no perverse being, but you have no power. If anything, you should hope to court me as the only ally and chance of resurrection you have—which will be as I deem most helpful to myself.”
He had been working on that speech for the last two days. Waiting to hit her with it. Instead of the calculated words finding their mark, however, Nerrhavia just peered at Az’kerash.
She said nothing at all. The Necromancer waited…then snapped.
“Well?”
That was a sign of how much he was losing, incidentally. Losing his patience? Working on a speech? Nerrhavia’s reply was succinct.
“I have known better [Necromancers].”
Archmage Chandler stared at her. She clasped her hands together, turned slightly, and went back to watching the scrying orbs broadcasting the news. Az’kerash snapped.
“I could use your soul as fuel for my magic—”
“Your armies would have been an interesting war for my empire, had they made war upon my nation.”
Nerrhavia broke in calmly. She turned her head back to Az’kerash and glanced out the hallway at the undead he could raise at a snap of his fingers. Az’kerash hesitated. Nerrhavia went on.
“I imagine the hordes of lesser undead would have lasted for about five minutes in the field. When my body is prepared, I expect you to do a better job than on your crude children.”
“My Chosen are the finest undead—”
“Oh yes, a woman carved out of solid bone, a plague zombie, and what were the other ones? A Draugr and a skeleton dipped in a bit of magical metal? The finest work I have ever seen!”
Nerrhavia threw up her hands lightly.
“Never once in my reign have I seen such genius at play! The [Archmages] and greatest golem artificers of Chandrar would throw themselves into the sea would they have witnessed the idea of making a zombie carry disease! Not one [Necromancer] ever surpassed such genius in form—making an undead that looks exactly like she was in life? The art. The passion.”
“You—”
Was Az’kerash turning red? No, no…good. He was still dead. And yet, why did he think that Nerrhavia could see the blush? He tried to interrupt, but Nerrhavia kept going.
“Cathian Tombwalkers were invented under my reign. Do you know what those are?”
“I…Cathian Tombwalkers? I’ve only heard of them.”
And there it was. He got distracted, and Nerrhavia twirled a finger.
“They didn’t leave the designs into the modern era? Ah, well, one supposes all my people’s creations were destroyed. A pity—but I do recall their look quite well. One was said to be the match for any Silver-rank adventurer.”
“Ah, merely Silver-rank. I see—”
“Of course, that refers to my era’s standards for success. I believe you would call that a Level 30 [Warrior] armed with artifacts. Up to Level 40—Level 50 was the agreed-upon standard for Gold-rank. Naturally.”
Az’kerash’s mouth closed. Nerrhavia turned her head coyly.
“One Cathian Tombwalker was a sign of hundreds. If you would like, I can describe what some of my [Necromancers] viewed as the height of design. You see, their forms were economized with seithbone such that even a Level 15 [Necromancer] could maintain up to four.”
“A Level 15 [Necromancer]? Seithbone—what was that?”
Nerrhavia smiled at the distracted [Necromancer]. She turned back to her scrying orb and then spoke off-handed.
