He put his cup down, and Orthenon shuddered. Yet Elena and the other Earthers were fascinated—or disturbed. She shot a look at Trey, and he nodded.
That’s right. That’s the man in front of you. Someone with the potential for great change, good and bad.
“You should make, like…well pumps. Or—or wind turbines and something useful like that? George is a [Student]. He could design you something from Earth!”
One of the Earthers raised a hand, and George turned pale as Flos looked at him keenly.
“George? Are you a scholar, then?”
“No, no—I just was a student—”
“Ah, a student of Earth. Which, as Trey and Teres tell me, has everything from automobiles to flying planes. If you could develop anything to change Chandrar, I would reward you handsomely. Roads, fortifications, ease of living—that is a [King]’s promise.”
Flos smiled, and George froze up. The King of Destruction peered at him, then patted him on the shoulder. He faced the others and spoke to his Seven and the twins.
“…That is what I will return to my people. It is time to take on Nerrhavia’s Fallen, but I want my vassals back. Amerys proves how sorely we lack for our specialists. The Mad Ones. I hear Loquea Dree and the Monks of Sottheim have both reawakened. We need the rest.”
“Those insane executioners and the horniest [Monks] in the world? Wonderful.”
Takhatres was as sarcastic as usual, and Trey wondered what he meant by that. But Flos had strode back over to the prototype map of Izril.
“Nevermind, nevermind. This ties into Amerys’ wants, my wants for improving my lands. For the war and everything. Look upon the new lands of Izril. What do you see, my Seven?”
They gazed at the map, and Mars stuck a hand up.
“…A butt? A cute one, though.”
Flos’ beaming smile turned into a scowl. Takhatres objected.
“Be civil, Mars. It looks like a boot, to me.”
“It could be a peach?”
Orthenon tried, and Flos glared around.
“I see opportunity.”
“For what, new lands? Every nation in the world wants that.”
Amerys was skeptical, and Flos snorted.
“New land…? Land, Amerys? What need have we of land? Have you not seen Chandrar? Look there!”
He strode to the balcony. The storm had ended, but they could still see the darkening landscape of Chandrar, stretching out into the distance. Flos pointed west and shouted.
“Yonder lies Zeikhal! The Great Desert! In Hellios, Germina, Jecrass especially—I see altogether too much land! We do not need more. People to fill the land, riches for comfort—that is what we need. Resources, perhaps, but if I ever lack for room, I will fill Zeikhal first before Izril!”
He turned away from the balcony and stormed back over. He was excited, and his green eyes were lit up.
“No, I don’t crave land, Amerys. Just think—the new land is filled with adventure! That is romance. If I was not a [King], I would be exploring it now. Even from the outskirts, there are broken cities and, doubtless, dungeons and unearthed secrets. I crave that. Artifacts—no—discoveries of a lifetime. Weapons and spellbooks to take us beyond our opponents, or secrets such as those quests being posted by our [Innkeeper] of some renown.”
He gave Gazi a significant look, and she gave him a half-smile, slightly bitter. Trey recalled the famous young woman who had blinded Gazi.
Erin Solstice. Flos clenched one fist, frustrated.
“To pick her mind about the other quests…! But no, we are sadly an ocean away, and our authority is weak on Izril. Yet I will not pass this opportunity by. I am minded to create an expeditionary force in our own right.”
“They’d be slaughtered before they touch shore.”
Takhatres objected, and Flos waved a finger at him.
“Only if anyone knows they hail from Reim. I predict…a rush. Trey, you had thoughts on this entire event. Repeat what you said to me, and chime in, you others.”
He motioned Trey forwards, and he was conscious of every eye on him as he spoke.
“It’s not the same, but it reminds me of the Scramble for Africa. Or the rush for the west in America. Lots of nations trying to claim land—in this case, it’s actually uninhabited.”
“It belongs to our people. But you are right—who is respecting that?”
One of the Gnolls growled unhappily. Flos turned and strode over.
“I will. And if I take Izril—I will return these lands. Frankly—I have an idea that may involve sending some Gnoll volunteers back, Chieftain Reitx, I believe? I listened to Trey and agree. I foresee a huge rush as every nation tries to colonize this place. Among it—I intend to prioritize great discoveries. Call it—a funded expedition. Perhaps even one of you Seven will join it. Assuming we can disguise you properly.”
Flos Reimarch looked around, beaming, and Orthenon sighed.
“Your Majesty, we could focus on reconquering Chandrar…?”
“Orthenon, what fun would that be without joining the chaos? Besides which—”
Flos’ eyes glinted, and he looked at Trey.
“—Everyone else from the Quarass to perhaps Fetohep himself is surely joining in. I have multiple goals in Izril, and finding the lost City of Stars or this ‘Crossroads of Izril’ makes me ask one huge question.”
He faced the map and then flipped it over the board and stared at the map of Chandrar. Flos Reimarch’s eyes narrowed, and he murmured.
“…Perhaps there was once a Crossroads of Chandrar, too. I want to speak to that [Innkeeper]. I have a feeling there is something else that Fetohep did that he is not telling me. Or some…change in the world. A Fraerling city appears, Seamwalkers distort reality, and Earthers are appearing faster than Sariant Lambs at a noblewoman’s buffet. I will have answers.”
He turned and looked at the others.
“So. Who wants to storm Nerrhavia’s Fallen, and who would like apprentices? If any of you Earthers would like to learn magic from Amerys or study under Mars, speak up! Or if you have any grand ideas, I will hear them now.”
He beamed at the Earthers, and Elena sucked in her breath as she gazed at Trey. Slowly, she raised a hand.
“Yes, Miss Elena?”
Flos Reimarch turned to her. Elena looked at him, then Trey, then took a breath.
“Could I…go to my friends in Terandria? Just leave?”
The King of Destruction looked at her, and his eyes flickered. He rested his chin in his hands for a moment and thought.
“…I am not opposed, but I will ask you to stay at least a while, Miss Elena. Trey Atwood took a great effort liberating you and Amerys. I am in need of help. Do me one service and I will pay passage myself. Otherwise?”
“Otherwise…?”
George looked at Flos warily, and the King of Destruction smiled.
“Otherwise, I will deliver you to Terandria once my fleets sail in. I intend to visit too.”
The bloody conqueror smiled and turned back to his maps full of opportunity, but his eyes lingered on Izril and that inn. As if he could tell there was more he was missing and impatient at not being the absolute center of it all.
He had no interest in the land, however it was shaped. Only what—and who lay on it. But even Flos Reimarch was not in possession of all of the facts.
 
——
 
And lastly, if you asked someone for the third greatest threat to world peace, they’d say—Goblins. Or some nation like Ailendamus. Or Crelers, because they were a good option, again.
If they were in a position to know more, they might say ‘Regis Reinhart’, or ‘Ailendamus with immortals’, or ‘vampire Krakens’.
But someone with a lot of information about all the secrets of the world might reasonably say that the third greatest threat to everyone was the highest-level [Necromancer] still…living.
Az’kerash, alone, was a worthy contender for third place. Especially in light of recent events.
He had achieved what few [Necromancers] had ever dreamed of doing: creating levelling undead. The Necromancer had rid himself of Izril’s greatest [General] and had also benefited from the war of the dead in significant ways.
In his secluded castle betwixt the enchanted forest and High Passes, no army or assassin could easily find him. The roads that led in and out of his abode twisted such that even to get in you would need to navigate the labyrinthine true path that was both invisible and changing—one misstep and you’d be walking out of the forest.
Even should an intruder pass the forest, they would emerge into a barren field of dead grass and see an ancient castle that had once been the home of [Knights], then a [Lady] of great renown, a travelling aegis—brought low by treachery and stained with misdeeds.
The stone was black, and the castle’s ramparts had long since given way from the living to the dead. Skeletons holding bows were the least of an attacking army’s worries. Liches, undead spellcasters, and even stronger undead like Skeleton Lords manned the walls as ordinary defenders.
The real vanguard was buried in the ground, skeletal giants and worse waiting to destroy any foe. The castle, then, was a fitting resting place for the Necromancer. An omen of death to anyone who stumbled upon it.
The…giant hole on the left side that had been somewhat clumsily patched up with regular masonry detracted from the image. Undead were not good builders. Nor were [Necromancers], at least with things not made of bone and flesh.
Nevertheless, the castle was mostly old grandeur and tireless undead, whose eyes glowed with malice in this heart of death magic. Unlike the Blighted King and King of Destruction, the Necromancer was largely unknown to the world, and his enemies knew his strength full well. The dread Necromancer, enhancing his strength each hour…who could challenge that?
Well, the six-armed super-titan made of glowing cloth that was punching out three bone giants was probably a good start. It had three heads and, like a monster from Greek legend, was also capable of literally turning the cloth-flesh to a burning radiance that burnt the undead trying to crawl up it to ash.
Unlike monsters of Greek legend, this particular titan of cloth had more tricks up its sleeve. For instance—the undead being smashed to pieces were being covered with bits of string that yanked up their bones and ‘reanimated’ them. Only, what came at the castle’s defenders were half-undead, half-string warriors.
What was the difference between the regular undead and these things? The half-string creatures had a quasi-flesh. And they screamed as they fought the undead.
Back to the cloth titan. It was half again as tall as Az’kerash’s regular bone giants, and it was faster and tougher than both. The observer, a certain skeleton wearing over eight relics, had made a few observations.
Regular giants were dangerous, but slow and arguably fragile if you concentrated on them. Gold-rank adventurers had proven that during the Village of the Dead raid. 
Greater giant-class undead were more formidable, but Az’kerash preferred to raise a horde over a single undead. That was biting him in the coccyx now. The cloth titan was currently using one of its hands to hold a skeleton giant in place as it smashed its ribcage to bits.
The other two skeleton giants kept trying to bash it down, but it was tough. They were doing no damage. Nor were the other defenders of the castle.
The swarm-tactics the regular undead were using were getting them vaporized and sent back as minions. And while the cloth-undead were having trouble taking the castle because of the competent defenders that the skeleton with purple eyes had set up in choke points—he was fairly certain the titan would punch through the walls.
This might require the Necromancer himself. No undead present could stop the titan. Well—at least, not the Chosen.
He, the skeleton with purple eyes, who called himself Toren, had just watched the cloth titan kick Venitra into the High Passes. She was probably undamaged, more the pity, but it would take her at least an hour to run back.
Bea had walked up, touched the cloth, and begun corrupting it—right until a fist punched her three dozen feet deep into the earth. She had declined to get back out there and give it another shot.
As for Ijvani, the last of the Chosen deemed combat-ready, well, Toren had found one of her bones. The clavicle was trying to roll across the battlements towards the rest of its body.
He gave it an encouraging toss over the ramparts. Yep, this was a sorry sight. The Necromancer’s finest undead, trashed. His personal abode, under siege. Who could do such a thing? The skeleton put his gauntleted hands to his skull in a parody of fear.
Oh no. It was such a mystery.
Or it would be if every single one of the screaming cloth-warriors and the titan itself weren’t shrieking to the high heavens. It was a female voice, although Toren had never heard her scream like that. The screeching dissonance was probably eerie to mortal sensibilities.
“NECROMANCER. RETURN MY DAUGHTER TO ME.”
Belavierr, the Stitch Witch, had sent this minion against the castle. And it was amazing, really. Toren knew she wasn’t here. She wasn’t even on this continent, according to Az’kerash. Even after those ghostly [Witches] had messed her up, she still was able to throw this minion at the castle.
That was class. Although…Toren turned his head sideways and saw a figure struggling in between two Chosen trying to keep her there. She burned with dark fire.
“Mother? Mother!”
Maviola, the undead made by Belavierr, shouted as Devail and Wesixa restrained her. She was reaching out, but uncertainly—she could have burned the other two Chosen, but her flames were only coating her own body.
The world’s most high-powered custody battle involved titanic clashes of undead and, among other things that had been besieging the castle, swarms of giant insects, meteor storms, and showers of needles.
Well, the cloth titan had just taken down all but one of the bone giants, and it was finishing off the last one. Toren looked at Maviola, and she went silent a second as he lifted a hand.
[Judge] Toren had been watching the entire affair. The sordid offspring between the Necromancer and Belavierr! The poor parenting on both sides! The skeleton adjusted his skull.
If he had a bone in this fight, he had to admit—Az’kerash made for the better parent, and that was a low bar. Not that Toren liked the Necromancer that much.
But he had to admit—the skeleton did a flying leap from the castle battlements and crushed a cloth warrior between his enchanted boots. He reached up, swung a sword made of glass through another warrior’s head, and strode forwards.
He enjoyed the perks.
The [Relic Guardian] strode into the open ground between the castle as the cloth titan turned its wrath towards Az’kerash’s home. Yet, incredibly, it seemed to notice the tiny skeleton coming its way.
