“The King of Destruction is…not an issue to me.”
“What?”
The Archmages were incredulous, but Eldavin steepled his fingers calmly.
“He is just a man. A [King] with some high-level vassals, but he is, compared to Az’kerash, a minnow before a shark. High-level individuals like the Necromancer are the greatest threat to the world.”
His eyes flickered.
“Naturally, that count includes Ailendamus in an existential way, but I’d put the Necromancer and the Demons of Rhir as our greatest threats.”
Of course, he wasn’t wrong, but Viltach was amazed. He had no love for Chandrar, but the King of Destruction…
“What if the King of Destruction takes over Chandrar?”
“He can try. But he has a lot to conquer, and it is my belief he will run into obstacles beyond merely Wistram, Feor. I want us to focus on matters Wistram can deal with. We’re not an army. But we can take down one spellcaster if we perfect our actions. Let me put it another way—I am open to dealing with all threats to world peace, but shall we agree the Necromancer is a good first target?”
Eldavin looked about, and he didn’t get much pushback there. He nodded to Viltach and smiled about.
“We need to bring Wistram higher, Archmages. More lessons, repairs after the chaos the King of Destruction wrought…Terras is coming back to the academy, and I intend to make this a true renaissance of magic.”
With you at the head? The Archmages looked at each other and tried to object. Feor smiled at Eldavin like his face hurt.
“We will listen to your input on Wistram’s future, Archmage Eldavin, but this is a meeting of equals. We must align our interests.”
He stressed the word and waited for Viltach to back him up. Then he realized Viltach was smiling at Eldavin, and Feor looked at Verdan and saw the old Archmage of Baleros looked pale, rattled by the news.
The alliance of three began to collapse as Eldavin nodded at Viltach.
“Exactly so, Archmage Feor. Viltach and I have talked quite a bit in private—would you care to catch up tonight, Viltach? After dinner—I have company.”
“Certainly, Eldavin. Over some wine? I’d be happy to.”
Viltach avoided Feor’s gaze. He’d done a swift recalculation and come to a simple conclusion. Valeterisa had already thrown over for Eldavin.
Far better to be the first to join than the last. The Archmage of Memory nodded to Feor and then dropped the hammer.
“As for Nailihuaile’s tragic passing—I assume her replacement will come from her faction?”
“Her…oh, yes. At some point someone suitable will emerge.”
Feor blustered. Whomever it was would have a hard time establishing control, but Eldavin thoughtfully nodded his head.
“I look forwards to it. We should confirm her successor within the month. Although—perhaps we should space out the additions to the ranks of Archmage.”
“A-additions?”
All three men looked at Eldavin, and he smiled at them.
“Why, surely you agree that the most valuable mage to prove they deserve, nay, already walk among us as equals is Galei, or Taxiella, or whatever their name is from Ullsinoi? I believe we should appoint an Archmage from their number and reach out to see if there is interest in a representative from the Drowned Folk or even an honorary Archmage among the Drakes.”
“Foreign Archmages? Archmage Eldavin!”
Feor leapt to his feet, but Eldavin stared pointedly at Verdan Blackwood.
“Archmage is nothing more than a title, Archmage Feor. If it’s loyalty to Wistram that’s a factor, well, we can discuss that. But Wistram must change. It already has, but I intend for it to be even more crucial to the world. If not, we will fade away, and we must be the beating heart of magic.”
He looked at everyone and smiled.
“In a year, we’ll all be ten levels higher. We’ll break Zelkyr’s test in half and march up to the thrones of magic. That is my goal. The Necromancer dies this year. Now…let’s discuss Wistram’s defenses. The Golems of Wistram are all very well, but it has been a long time since we have had an army. And I believe—one may be required to safeguard ourselves and our interests abroad.”
 
——
 
Archmage Eldavin spent two more hours browbeating the other three Archmages mostly in the direction he wanted. He did it because while Feor might object, Verdan Blackwood was old and cowardly and Viltach knew when to jump ship.
The Necromancer was what did the trick. Feor was afraid of Az’kerash, and he had every right to be. The half-Elf might be just as old, but he was only an Archmage in name.
The real [Archmage of Death] could walk into Wistram and kill everyone there. But for Cognita. It made sense he was a threat, but if he was considering the matters of the world in an unbiased way, Eldavin would have gone after Ailendamus or the King of Destruction after all. Or, frankly, the Walled Cities for their egregious actions towards the Gnolls.
However, he had a mission. He had orders, and the Archmage of Memory thought about his future as he wrote missives to the people [Messaging] him.
He felt…old. Tired. His bones hurt. It was hard to keep a smile on his face when he felt a sudden drag to his steps.
That damned half-Elf. Dionamella had done something to him, and Eldavin had lost a step. Not only that—the blazing fire of magic he had been able to draw upon was gone.
He hadn’t lied to the Archmages or Drassi. He had already realized his arrogance fighting Ailendamus. Now? He was in danger. Eldavin was weaker.
But he had another chance. And that was worth all the pain in the world. Eldavin breathed in and out, and he felt a half-Elf’s old body—but all the potential in it.
He…was alive. Youth treatments were not impossible, and he could…
He could have children. He could marry or change or…
It hurt him because this freedom meant he was untethered. He was no Dragon. And in a sense, he’d always be inferior to the image he had in his head.
But he was grateful to be alive, and he, Eldavin, knew he was on a side with a lot going for it. His challenges were immense, even at the head of Wistram, but the half-Elf had taken the hand of fate itself.
Or something greater. He was annoyed at being tired, though; a simulacra barely needed to sleep. Now, he got exhausted more quickly, and he napped.
But, oh—there was one more thing. One tiny, teensy little thing that he had gotten. Eldavin’s eyes closed as he stretched out in an armchair, and he heard a voice.
 
[Level 8 Magus!]
 
What a charming sound. So low-level, but then—he’d only been alive a handful of days. Eldavin listened to the sound and heard no Skills or anything else this time, but already, he understood the obsession of the people of this world.
Such a lovely announcement. He thought he would never get tired of it.
 
——
 
Eldavin’s return spiked fear into the hearts of his enemies. It astounded the world and made even the powers that be move warily.
It provoked bowel-moving anxiety in a certain young woman named Ryoka Griffin. Disbelief and uncertainty in Magnolia Reinhart. Because they did not know if this was a good sign—or the worst.
Someone who wasn’t concerned by the announcement was a Brass Dragon who watched the announcement with a huge frown on his face.
“Archmage of Memory, Eldavin? What a pretentious name. Eldavin. That means in the Elf tongue—imposter. Seeming, rather. I wonder if he knows what it means.”
He put it out of his mind. The Dragon was headed north. His great, austere form…did not fly in the sky. He lay on the ground, panting.
“Alright. One more hundred mile set. I can do this.”
He flapped his wings and then felt the ache. Teriarch decided to rest another hour.
“When did flying get so hard? Someone must be doing something to the air. That’s it.”
It was definitely some flux in the air after all the chaos. Not him barely going two hundred miles before needing a break. The Dragon knew he had to get a move on, but he…decided the most prudent course of action was to hone his strength.
Yes, absolutely.
That was why travellers on the road north to First Landing occasionally stared at the huge pile of logs being transported via wagon along the plains. Some people called out to the drivers who were idiotically taking the wagons in the soil and grass, but they clearly had skills that let their wheels make good time, because they only waved and shouted back.
The ‘pile of logs’ and wagons was Teriarch. He lay on a platform of light he’d enchanted to roll forwards, muttering about air density. He was tired.
“Maybe a little nap?”
No, no. He couldn’t do that. But the Dragon was tired, and he was on the move. So—small steps. The sun was quite nice, and if he curled up just so…he began to snore, and a distant [Herder] wondered if the [Lumberjacks] transporting the giant felled trees were doing some sawing.
Dragons on the go. Kings and Archmages, dead and alive. What a wonderful time for it all. But their plans, while grand, relied on mortal agents, because even a Dragon couldn’t be everywhere and do everything.
It required a sassy skeleton, vassals of the King of Destruction, soldiers of the Blighted Kingdom, or [Mercenaries], the brave and the crazy.
Adventurers for the new lands of Izril. How many would head out in search of opportunity or wealth? The first wave was moving towards the new lands, and only later—only later would the news break.
An inconsequential story, at first. Something with no relevance unless you were an [Alchemist] or [Merchant] who understood the implications. It had bearing with the sudden sharp rise in the price of healing potions, and when people did understand—
Well, it was too late. It had been too late. But word came that the last shipment of Eir Gel for the foreseeable future had come from the isle of Hesheit. The world’s supply of healing potions had just…vanished.
