“It's barely worth keeping.” One of the succubi commented and handed her copper over to the oldest of them, Zunala; then so did everyone else. The others didn't really want to keep it, either; and she gladly accepted it and put it in her ring.

How quickly their standards change. Ren thought in amusement. Only yesterday they probably would have fought tooth and nail over a few copper coins like they now do over gold. He checked the All-Seeing Mirror and saw the way was clear right up to the ramp to the next level. “It looks like it's clear to the next level, but you know what that means.”

“Keep an eye out, and yell warnings to the others if you see or feel anything.” The succubi said in unison and Ren nodded.

“Good girls!” Ren said, and he felt how much they liked his praise. “Let's move out.”

“Should we use our Displacement enchantments?” One of them asked.

“Actually, that's a good idea.” Ren said, and he felt how pleased she was. He took out a wand with Widen Effect and cast it on each of them. It added 275 minutes to the Displacement's time limit, and they all activated it. They had just over 13 hours left with it on before Ren would have to enchant them again, and there was no point in not using them since they were just so handy.

The group moved down the cavern and into the next tunnel, and then into the large cavern that led up to the next level. The ground shook slightly and then one of the succubi yelled as something smashed out of the ceiling and dropped through her displaced image.

“UMBER HULK!”

The creature was just over 10 feet tall and looked like it was half-mole and half-beetle. It had a beetle-like head with large mandibles and huge front claws used for digging. It landed on the cavern floor and looked at it's empty hands. It squeezed one clawed hand and then the other, and just stood there, dumbfounded. The skeleton knight didn't wait for the attack command and rode on it's steed in for the first strike. The sword he used glanced off of the umber hulk's carapace without doing any damage.

What the attack managed to do was get it's attention, and the umber hulk turned towards the skeleton knight. The skeleton knight held the sword like a lance and charged, and Ren activated his party ability 'Charge!' to give the skeleton a boost. It shot forwards and jammed the sword into one of the umber hulk's eyes. It stuck in and stayed there; but, the umber hulk ignored the damage and grabbed the Phantom Steed with it's clawed hands as it tried to run past. The skeleton knight was flung forwards when the steed was stopped, and it landed about 20 feet away and skidded to a stop.

Ren took out a sword and enchanted it with Antiearth runes and tossed it to the skeleton knight, cast another Phantom Steed for it, and both he and Ren rode in to attack the creature. The umber hulk had hunkered down to feast on it's catch, and Ren and the skeleton knight swung their weapons at it. Both weapons glanced off the carapace and only did minor damage, and the umber hulk ignored them as it bit into the skeleton knight's first steed.

“Damn, this isn't working.” Ren said and came to a stop, then smacked himself in the head for not changing the enchantment on the hammerpick to Antiearth. He switched the enchantments and the dozen small drill bits on the end became twice as big and twice as long, then turned from a light brown color to pitch black. He noticed the plow end had extended and also widened, and he told the skeleton knight to hang back out of the way.

“Now you're in for it.” Ren said and smiled as he circled around with his Phantom Steed, then charged at the umber hulk head on. It felt the impending attack and let it's current meal go, then held it's arms open as if to hug Ren. The Phantom Steed came to a stop right in front of it and reared back, then the umber hulk grabbed it around the chest. It dug it's mandibles into the Phantom Steed's neck and started to eat.

“NOOOOO!” Ren yelled as the umber hulk settled down to feed. It knelt with it's prey, and without thinking about it, Ren cast Enlarge Person on himself and activated his Controlled Berserk Rage as he let his Angered condition take full control and his eyes turned blood red.

“AARRGGGHHHH!” Ren yelled as he brought the double-sized hammerpick down on the umber hulk's carapace and it cracked from the impact. He had avoided the umber hulk's head because he didn't want to hit the Phantom Steed, and kept hitting the umber hulk over and over with both ends of the hammerpick. The umber hulk ignored the attacks as it fed, and Ren noticed the wounds he had caused were starting to heal. He stored the hammerpick and jumped from the Phantom Steed onto the back of the umber hulk like it was a mount. Ren punched the cracked carapace several times to give him something to hold onto, shoved his hands inside, and pulled.

A loud crack was heard as the 6 inch thick stone-like bone carapace split in two, and Ren tore it off and tossed the pieces aside. He could see a thick rib cage but no spine, so he grabbed two handfuls of ribs with his double-sized hands and used Iron Grip. The ribs shattered, and the umber hulk howled as Ren plunged his hands into it's guts from behind and started to pull them out. Even the succubi were a bit unnerved for the next few minutes, as a double-sized Ren tore into the beast and covered himself in it's blood.

“It... it's dead.” One of them said, and Ren kept pulling stuff out of it. “REN!”

Ren stopped and turned to her, and she shivered at the blood red eyes that looked at her through his helm. She couldn't tell if she was more turned on than she was scared, though.

He's so... big. She thought and shivered again. “It's dead.” She said and ducked her head a little. “You killed it.”

Ren's blood red eyes faded back to their normal silvery blue when he saw her meek expression, and he looked down at his hands. Even though he wore his full set of armor, he could feel the blood between his fingers and on his skin.

“Dammit.” Ren said as he used an Energize spell to stop from collapsing as a result of his Controlled Berserk Rage, then he received a series of popups.

Notice!

You have been corrupted! You have absorbed Umber Hulk blood directly from the source through your skin. It's effects vary by those infected, and by the amount of blood absorbed.

Current Corruption Level: 88%

Warning: When Corruption reaches 100%, you will become deathly ill and die.

Please note: Corruption resets upon death.

Notice!

You have been Poisoned. Your Hardy skill will keep it at bay, but unless you are treated you will eventually succumb to it's effects.

Time until death: 1 hour, 30 minutes

Notice!

Your condition Angered has been upgraded to Enraged. You will fly into a rage at any provocation, no matter how slight. Automatically activates both Hatred and Fear Auras. Keeping your emotions in check can no longer stop this condition from happening.

“GODDAMMIT!” Ren yelled, then became Enraged. His Controlled Berserk Rage activated again and he pounded his fists into the lifeless husk of the creature in front of him.
