As they left the common room, Temperance said in a quiet voice, “Piety, this is… peculiar.”

“It was peculiar yesterday when that monster attacked us. And then again this morning when it wasn’t dead.”

Temperance shook her head. “That’s not what I’m talking about. The Governor’s niece, if she were a little shorter, and had white hair, she’d look just like you.”

“She looks like me?”

Temperance nodded. “Like you were sisters. And since you’re an orphan and Father Vytal doubts this girl is the blood relative of the governor, perhaps she really is your sister.”

Sweep stopped walking. For a moment, she couldn’t feel her body, her vision blurred, and a buzzing filled her ears. A sister. It felt impossible, but in that moment, Sweep entertained the idea that perhaps her family was out there, somewhere, existing in the world. She couldn’t have sprung from nothing, after all.

But looking vaguely like a girl who probably wasn’t really related to the Governor of Kempenny proved nothing. And assuming a familial bond was too farfetched to entertain for long.

“Piety?”

Sweep took a breath. Temperance looked at her, concerned.

“I didn’t mean to frighten you,” Temperance said.

Sweep shook her head. “It’s fine.”

“It’s just that—“

But Sweep cut her off. “It’s an interesting thought, Temperance, but not likely. And even if it is true, you’re my sister.”

Temperance smiled and together they joined Fathers Shane and Vytal outside the inn.

On the cobbled-stone street, a carriage already hurried away and a second stood waiting. A tall, thin man stood at the carriage door and opened it for them. Father Vytal entered and Father Shane motioned for Temperance to precede him. Sweep followed Temperance but Father Shane laid a gentle hand on her shoulder.

“Piety.”

Sweep paused and looked at Father Shane.

“Tristam told me I have you to thank for my eye. Said that he didn’t have the strength to fix it but that you insisted on trying.” He rubbed at his cheek, just under the now pale blue eye.

Sweep nodded. “Yes, sir.”

“Thank you, Piety. I owe you one.”

Sweep shook her head and patted his hand. “No sir. That’s not how it works.”

• • •

The mayor’s mansion was richly appointed. The room they were in contained three couches and several large, upholstered chairs. Thick rugs covered the stone-tiled floor, which had been polished to a shine. All of the upholstery and rugs were patterned in blue and gold. Oil on canvas paintings of pleasant and pastoral landscapes adorned the walls while decorative vases held bouquets of flowers, freshly picked. Three large windows dominated one side of the room, stretching nearly from floor to ceiling, the small panes of glass held together with lead. The room was overly warm thanks to the fire in a fireplace large enough to roast a whole cow.

Night fell while they waited for the girl, Mayor Kempenny as the servants referred to her, to attend to some other business. When she finally arrived, servants trailed her, bringing trays of tea, cookies, cheese, wine, and other refreshments.

Father Shane unabashedly availed himself of the food, loading a small plate with the bite sized portions and pouring himself a small glass of wine before settling in a chair with a pair of extra pillows. His sunblade rested in its scabbard, point down, against the side of the chair. He balanced the plate upon a knee and sampled the cheeses.

Following his example, Sweep and Temperance each took a plate but only took a few snacks apiece. Sweep chose two fruit pastries and a cookie.

The girl in black, poured herself a cup of tea and added two spoons of sugar with ritualistic care. She picked up the cup, blew on the steaming liquid, and took a small sip before smiling faintly.

She looked at Father Vytal and raised one elegant, black eyebrow at him. Sweep held in a small chuckle as the cleric’s most common non-verbal question was returned on him.

“Won’t you take refreshment, Father?”

“I must admit, Miss Kempenny, I’m a bit confused and not a little concerned.”

She nodded and took another sip of her tea, looking at Father Vytal over the rim of her cup. For some time, neither said anything. The fire crackled gently.

“Did the councils send you?” she asked suddenly.

“The Church Council sent me,” said Father Shane, brushing at his beard to dislodge a few crumbs. “A Sword of the Church to deal with the demon.”

The girl nodded. “Of course. And you, Father?” she looked at Father Vytal.

“No.” Father Vytal shook his head. “Father Shane just happened upon me as he was heading this way and invited me to join him.”

She turned her attention to Father Shane. “And have you found what you came for, Father Shane?”

Father Shane was finishing his small glass of wine and did not interrupt the draught to answer. When he was done, he gave a large sigh, and a small belch, and set the glass down. He stretched his massive arms wide and there was audible popping as his joints stretched. “Not yet, Miss Kempenny. But I haven’t even gotten started looking, and demons can be tricksom little devils. Ha! Get it?”

Unobtrusively, Sweep laid a hand on Temperance’s arm. Easily, she slipped into her mindspace and achieved the calm and concentration necessary to access her powers. In the moment of thought when she could see the room in her mind, she noted her subconscious had moved a black knight on the chessboard. She moved a white cleric in response, certain she was about to lose this game though not yet certain how.

Then she accessed her telepathy and whispered into Temperance’s mind.

“Is Father Shane acting a bit strange?”

Temperance nodded only slightly. “I think he and Father Vytal are playing a sort of game. Father Shane is pretending to be… buffoonish.”

“Shrewd.”

“So it’s demons that concern you?” The Kempenny girl set her cup on the table.

Father Vytal took several moments before he closed his eyes and nodded slowly, once. “Always.”

“And you think they’re here in Sunslance?”

Father Shane leaned to the table and poured himself another glass of wine. “Mayor Theobald did.”

“Mister Theobald is gone, abandoned his post. I’m the mayor now.”

“On whose authority?” Father Shane demanded.

“My aunt, the Governor of Kempenny Province.”

“Kinda’ a titchy brat for bein’ a mayor, aren’cha?” Father Shane drank the small glass of wine in a swallow.

The girl’s eyes narrowed angrily.

Sweep held in her smile; Father Shane’s game was succeeding.

“Mayor Kempenny, please excuse my fellow Son of God. He’s a fighting man, and not accustomed to the niceties of a mayor’s presence.”

Her jaw tensed as she continued to glare at Father Shane. “Then it’s good he brought you along, Father Vytal.” She turned to face the elder cleric.

“I’m curious, your Honor, how you can be the daughter of Erin Kempenny’s sister. Erin’s only sister is named Margaret and Margaret Kempenny is married to the Royal Sean Loreamer. They have one daughter, Isabel. I have been a personal tutor to the Heir, Isabel Loreamer, and you, your Honor, are not her.”

The girl’s nostrils flared and her lips went thin and white. She did not respond.

“Why do you have the city under quarantine?” Father Vytal pressed. “Is there plague? My apprentices and I are healers. We could help.”

She shook her head. “It’s not that kind of quarantine.” She sighed and all the fury fell from her face so that she was a mask of calm. She stood, putting her hands behind her back and walked to one of the tall windows curtained in pale blue velvet. She stared out the window into the dark yard beyond.

Father Vytal stood and followed her. “What’s happening? We can help.”

She bowed her head. “It is said Tristam Vytal is a great scholar of powers. Is this true?”

“It is.” Father Vytal nodded once.

“Then you will understand when I say I am a necromancer, and I have created something terrible.”

Sweep’s mouth went dry. The nightmare of rotting demons forced its low moans and thick stink upon her. Necromancers, like undead, Sweep had throught to be creatures of long ago, confined to the pages of the Scriptures.

Father Vytal went rigid. Father Shane was on his feet, his sunblade gripped in both hands, naked of its sheath, up and at the ready. Temperance grabbed Sweep’s arm, afraid.

Kempenny straightened and turned to face them, her composure reclaimed. She seemed not to notice Father Shane. “It is stronger and faster than any warrior I’ve ever seen. Its skin is hard enough to turn a sword, only a direct thrust will penetrate. It thirsts for blood The conventional methods of mayhem will not kill it, but a sword through its heart will stop it. It will only die if it’s burned.”

“God’s Fire, child,” said Father Shane, all trace of the slur gone. “Couldn’t you have stuck to zombies? They’re less dangerous.”

“General Vahramp was dangerous before I killed him.”

“You mean Frederick Vahramp?”

She nodded.

Father Shane sneered. “I knew Freddy when he was with the Swords of the Church. He had a taste for blood even then.”

“Every night there are more victims lying in the streets, or in their beds, or at their tables, drained of blood. And every night more people go missing. The populace thinks there is a sickness claiming the lives of their neighbors.”

“So Frederick is in the city?” Father Vytal asked.

“He’s come here now. I tried to warn you… but… but he’s in my head. I… I’ve been hunting him but…”

“Well then, tonight’s your lucky night, little bitch. And look who you’ve brought me: old friends.” The five of them whirled at the new voice.

General Fredrick Vahramp had gained entry without anyone hearing so much as the squeak of a hinge, a whisper of cloth. He was tall, with a square jaw and a barrel chest, built similarly to Father Shane. His dark hair was pulled away from his face into a short tail. His chest was bare, revealing smooth muscles that would have looked impossibly large on a normal human. He wore loose silk pants dyed brilliant crimson, but his feet were bare. His fingers and toes ended in black claws and his eyes were scarlet. Arrayed behind him were emaciated wretches with sallow skin and lank hair, and though they did not share General Vahramp’s beauty, they did share his hungry, burning eyes.

Father Vytal took a step toward them. “Frederick Vahramp. My name is Tristam Vytal. I can help you.”

General Vahramp shook his head. “No you can’t, Father. The only thing you can do is kill me. But I enjoy my new life; I’m faster, stronger, more aware. No, I came here only to destroy the bitch. And now I get to kill a couple clerics as well.”

Father Shane raised his sword. “Not going to happen, Freddy.”

General Vahramp looked at Father Shane and smiled. “Jack Shane. It’s good to see you again.” He smiled to reveal fangs like a cat’s. “Kill them,” he whispered, “Kill them all.”

General Vahramp stood like a boulder in a stream while his emaciated minions surged into the room. At the same moment, before anyone else could react, Father Shane moved to meet them, anticipating Vahramp’s orders and counter attacking. The large cleric’s anticipatory attack bisected two of the undead, spilling rotten viscera onto the polished wood and thick rugs.

The sudden destruction of two of their fellows was enough to make the rest of the creatures hesitate for several moments.

Temperance grabbed Sweep’s arm and dragged her back toward the fireplace. Father Vytal thrust his mind at Vahramp, and Sweep felt the attack shatter upon Vahramp’s mental shield.

Father Shane raised his sword two-handed above his head. Sweep felt a twinge of magic from the sword before blinding white light filled the room and seared her eyes. A chorus of screams resulted, a disconcordant cacophony ghosted through her shield and filled her mind. The pressure built quickly, and the glass-like mental shield shattered from within. The telepathic screams pierced her mind, and Sweep’s world was reduced to a point of pain at the base of her skull.

The world swam back in fuzzy lights and muted sounds. A vile, acidic taste coated her tongue. Sweep fought through the nausea, tried to stand, and a hand helped her to her feet. People were shouting; confusing, conflicting sounds leapt through the air.

“What happened?” Sweep asked, but the words choked and she coughed instead.

“This way,” Temperance said desperately. “Next to the fire.”

The fire. Of course. Perhaps the creatures would sense the danger of the fire and not want to come close. Sweep managed to keep her feet under her while being dragged to the fire. A few more moments and her vision began to clear.

Mayor Kempenny stood in front of the fire, her thin sword drawn, her black hair loose and wild. Neither Father Shane nor Father Vytal were in evidence. Desperately, Sweep looked around for her mentor, pulling away from Temperance’s embrace.

“What happened?” she demanded again, and this time it came out whole. The nausea faded.

Father Shane stood in the middle of the room, a small grin tugging at his beard. Father Vytal was at the door, closing and locking it. Piled around the door was a tangle of burned bodies, their skin and muscles turned to ash, their bones barely recognizable. Father Vytal stepped carefully around the oily, stinking mess and walked toward the fireplace.

“I’m not sure all the servants made it out of the house,” Mayor Kempenny objected.

“He’s probably killed them already,” Father Shane said. “He likes killing.”

“Damnit,” she muttered, but her face betrayed no expression.

Father Vytal placed one hand on Sweep’s shoulder, and one on Temperance’s. He looked at them, his expression serious, and offered no false reassurance just a familiar touch, and that gesture calmed Sweep. For the first twelve years of her life, Sweep had often wished the Mother Superior was more like an actual mother. But here, in this man, she had known a father, and she realized she loved him. The realization put her at peace.

Father Vytal released them and turned back to face the room. “Jack, join us?”

Father Shane nodded and backed toward the fire.

Sweep looked at Father Vytal. “What happened?” she asked for a third time.

From behind her, Mayor Kempenny answered. “You collapsed and vomited.”

Sweep turned to look at her. The other girl was glaring at her with unconcealed disgust. Father Vytal put his hands on Sweep’s shoulders and Sweep returned her attention to him. She tried not to let the older girl’s obvious contempt upset her. There was no reason she should desire Mayor Kempenny’s approval.

