“Father Shane evoked the power for which a sun sword is named. Usually it is used to stun and subdue an enemy but apparently against Miss Kempenny’s necromantic creations,” here he glanced over Sweep’s shoulder at the young mayor, “it works as a deadly weapon. Unfortunately, the general escaped.”

He looked back at Sweep. “Are you all right?”

“They’re telepaths,” she explained. “Sort of. When they died, there was a telepathic scream. It shattered my shield.”

He nodded. “I felt it too. Can you rebuild your shield? We will need your talent for psychic combat. Remember the attack in the woods?”

Sweep nodded. “I remember. I can do it.”

She closed her eyes and slipped into the mindspace. A black knight had taken the cleric she’d moved. She moved a castle in response, fearing she’d never get to finish the game.

Her power came to her easily and she imagined a glass shell about herself, flexible to her movement but repelling any outside force that might try to gain access to her mind, even the subtle death screams of the creatures. Her power felt irritated, raw, as though it had been stretched too far. But she flexed it gently, urged it to her will, and the shield flowed into place. It made her feel better, secure.

When she opened her eyes, she let herself linger in the room in her mind, wishing she could stay here, safe. She wished she could select a book from the shelves, a novel perhaps, and curl upon the black and white and silver chair, and read until the messy ordeal was over.

“He’s coming back.”

Sweep pulled herself back to her body. It was the young mayor who’d spoken. Temperance took Sweep’s arm and held tight.

“Piety.”

Sweep looked at Temperance. Her friend was frightened, features tight, tears sliding down her cheeks, hands clenched.

“We’ll be fine, Temperance. Father Shane and Father Vytal will protect us.”

The three windows shattered; shards of glass flew into the room. Sweep flinched as a shard struck her cheek. Temperance screamed. Behind the flying glass, the sallow-skinned creatures boiled into the room, red eyes glowing with malicious hunger, clawed fingers offered with menace.

Without letting herself take the time to think, to understand the danger of the situation, to become afraid, Sweep focused on one of the creatures and let fly her telepathic energy, like a snaking lash. The creature’s eyes widened and dark blood oozed from its nose and eyes before it fell backward. Elsewhere in the room a blast of light, much less impressive than Father Shane’s initial salvo, fell across one of the creature’s torso, melting skin, muscle, and bone. Though its chest was gone the creature continued to scream and claw at the floor and furnishings. She could feel its mental scream against her newly rebuilt shield, and this time, ready for it, her shield held.

Sweep let the scream distract her for only a moment. She could feel Father Vytal’s telepathic energy striking into the minds of the creatures, one after another, felling them. She could feel him wielding his mind like a sword to protect them, and Sweep continued her assault, following her mentor’s lead, striking out with her mind, felling a creature with each thought. She let her gaze fall upon a single creature at a time, released her will upon it, then went to the next. The creatures were not faster than thought, but they were fast, and for each felled another took its place.

The creatures closed within sword range, scrambling over the bodies of their fallen comrades. Father Shane stepped forward and, with a long upward swing, bisected one of the creatures. Its halves dropped to the floor and continued to twitch. He took another step forward, bringing the sword back down and catching another upon the shoulder. But as he pulled the sword back around one of them darted in, and its speed outperformed his skill. It slashed at Father Shane’s side, ripping through red-lacquered metal, hardened leather, and flesh. Father Shane’s blood sprayed across the room—a glistening, crimson arc. Piety felt the thick, warm liquid soaking into her dress at her chest. Another of the creatures slapped at his sword, tearing it from his hands.

And then they were upon him. They leapt to his back, climbed to his shoulders to tear at his throat, slashed at his legs, and brought the large cleric to the floor, even as he bellowed and drew his short swords. Those unable to reach Father Shane turned their sights to the rest of them.

Sweep felt Father Vytal reach his healing powers out to Father Shane who still swung about with his swords as the creatures stabbed and slashed, bit and licked. But these swords were not made by magic and could not breach the skin of the creatures.

Desperately, Sweep let loose her psionic power in an attack that lashed across several minds at once. The divided attack divided its strength, and the mentally struck undead were stunned, but not killed.

Mayor Kempenny sprinted to meet the oncoming creatures and thrust her sword into the chest of one so violently she was splattered with blood. And Sweep felt another peculiar twist of power, power of a flavor different from both the sunblade and her own powers. It tasted like paper and ink. And that moment of power produced a pause among the massed undead.

“I’ve got it,” Kempenny whispered. With her other hand, she reached out to the creature impaled upon her blade and brushed her fingers across its face, the gentle caress of a friend. In the next moment, the creature crumbled to dust, like it had never been.

Another darted toward the girl with its enhanced speed, but when it touched her, instead of rending her body to bloody ruin, Sweep sensed that twist of power, and it too fell to dust.

The wretched creatures seemed to sense the danger of the black-haired girl’s touch and, in an effort at self-preservation, shied away from her. She continued to lash out with her sword and her touch, using her necromantic power to destroy the bloodthirsty creatures she had created.

Sweep took the moment of distraction to reach her power to Father Shane. The creatures on him had failed to be distracted by Mayor Kempenny’s necromantic touch and licked at the warrior cleric’s wounds, but she could feel he was still, tenuously, alive. With a deep breath, she pushed a surge of healing power into his body and willed him to get up, to join them by the fire.

But Father Shane had a different idea. For a moment, she was connected to Father Shane as she had been the creature last night. The power she sent him was twisted just a bit, tinkered with, and channeled into the sunblade. She felt her power turn from a warm healing hand to a blistering hot flame. Father Shane had taken her gift and used it to his own purposes.

“Thank you, Piety.”

The resultant blast of light elicited screams of pain and fury. Piety squeezed her eyes shut and concentrated on her mental shield. When it was over moments later, the creatures were burned to ash and flames licked at the room’s furniture and rugs. The vases held charred stems where they hadn’t shattered. And Sweep could no longer feel Father Shane.

In the next moment, Frederick Vahramp was in the room. He stood behind Mayor Kempenny one arm around her chest the other around her shoulders, his hand bending her head to the side, exposing her neck. Sweep blinked. There had been no time between Father Shane’s blast of holy light and General Vahramp’s endgame.

Sweep tried to summon the strength to attack the inhumanly beautiful man with her telepathy, but her power was running thin. It ached to reach for it. She was exhausted.

More of the creatures crawled warily through the shattered windows.

Sweep backed as close to the fire as she could. She watched Vahramp and Kempenny. Vahramp smiled, reveling in his victory. Slowly, he lowered his head to rip at Mayor Kempenny’s neck with his teeth, but he paused halfway.

His arms were crumbling to dust.

Quickly, he released the black-clad girl and took several steps back. He held up his hands to further study the phenomenon, and he screamed. He screamed vocally and mentally, and Piety felt her mental shield buckle. She fell to her knees, covered her ears with her hands, and squeezed her eyes shut. The shield held, but barely.

From behind her, Sweep felt the fire flare.

Temperance passed her, carrying the safe end of a burning piece of wood. With an inarticulate wail, she hurled it at Vahramp. Vahramp sidestepped easily, but the flame burdened wood struck the mass of undead creatures behind him. When the fire hit them, it flared and spread across them like dry grass. Those not caught in the conflagration recoiled, retreated.

Vahramp was gone.

The creatures shrieked, agonizing cries filled the room and battered Sweep’s mind. Those who could, fled, some of them still ablaze, leaping through the broken windows. The rest squirmed and rolled upon the floor. The room caught fire.

“Out,” Father Vytal commanded. “Everyone out.” He pushed Temperance and Sweep before him.

“Father Shane,” Temperance protested, “We can’t leave him.” She tried to go to him through the noxious smoky ruin of undead bodies and the still flaming furnishings. Sweep caught her arm.

“It’s too late Temperance, come on.”

“You can save him,” Temperance insisted.

“I can’t. He’s dead.”

Sweep regretted her blunt words the moment she let them loose, but there was no time to apologize. The fire spread up the walls, and the ceiling creaked threateningly. She pulled on her friend’s arm, and Temperance no longer struggled. Mayor Kempenny led them from the mansion, the hallways before them already acquiring a thin layer of smoke at the top.

On the street outside the mayor’s mansion, Sweep held Temperance while her friend sobbed into her shoulder.

“I killed him,” she said, “Why did I do that? I killed him, I killed him…”

“No,” Sweep assured her again, “No, he sacrificed himself for one last attack. Not all the healing power in the world could have made him whole again. Your action forced their retreat. You saved us.”

But Temperance was inconsolable.

All around them, the black-clad soldiers of Kempenny arranged a bucket brigade to haul water from the nearest well. They managed to contain the fire, but the mayor’s mansion was only so much charred remains.

Hours later, the night heavy about them, Mayor Kempenny spoke with Father Vytal.

“I understand my power over him now, and so does he. I will hunt him down.”

“I can send help,” said Father Vytal.

“No.”

“Frederick was dangerous before you gave him new powers and an unquenchable thirst for blood. I can tell you’re not without formidable powers yourself, but you’re going to need help. Don’t let pride feed him more victims.”

“Your councils are about to declare war on my province. I’ve been kicking Loreamer out of Kempenny. I can’t willingly let them back in.

Father Vytal sighed gustily and frowned. “I hate war. I was hoping it had only been rumor. Are you responsible for the attack on House Putnam?”

The mayor grit her teeth and shook her head. “I’ve done all I can to stop the war. I’ve failed in that as I’ve failed in everything else.”

Piety felt pity for the mayor. When she’d first seen the black-clad woman standing with such confidence, wearing a sword and speaking with command, Piety had thought she was someone who could handle any situation. Now she looked small and wan and defeated.

“It’s time to try something new,” Mayor Kempenny said. “Tell your friends to keep their soldiers north of the Grand, and Kempenny will keep hers south of it.”

“Can you guarantee that?” Father Vytal asked.

“You said you knew the governor, my aunt. She told me that I’m the twin of Heir Isabel. I’ve met the heir. I’m certainly not her twin, maybe her sister? Either way, my aunt told me I was abandoned because a twin would make succession messy. Do you believe that, Father?”

“I believe Erin told you that.”

“Precisely. I’ve been lied to all my life. I can’t guarantee anything.” She shook her head and looked away. Her shoulders slumped “You should go home. Your council will be needing you.”

Father Vytal gave a small bow. “As you say, Mayor Kempenny.” He turned to Piety and Temperance, put a hand on each of their shoulders, he led them from the smoking remains of the building.
