Will I ever love the same way again? (Way again)
Will I ever love somebody like the way I did you?
Never thought you'd be so damn hard to replace
I swear I don't mean to be this way
If I can't have you, is love completely off the table?

Do I sit this one out and wait for the next life? (Next life)
Am I too cold? Am I not nice?
Might not be quite yet healed or ready
Should I be goin' too steady? (Too steady)
But I just wanna know is love complеtely off the table?

Will you bе there? (Will you be there?)
Can I still love you? (Can I, can I, babe?)
Not yet healed or ready (not ready)
Shouldn't be goin' too steady (too steady)
Just wanna know is love completely off the table?

I'll wait for you
Even though it always feels like I'll be number two
To someone you can't hold anymore
If you let me in, I'm ready to give you what I couldn't before
'Cause I got you, girl, let me help you through it

You're trying to fill the void with a couple boys
I can see right through it (You can see right through it)
I can you love you harder than I did before
Was in a dark place back then
I was toxic, then I was toxic to someone else

I was haunted by the hills (oh yeah, yeah)
I couldn't give you my all, but I will
If you let me in your arms (your arms)
If you let me in your heart
I don't think that love's completely off the table

Will you be there? (Yes, I will be there for you)
Can I still love you? (Yes, I been hurt before, before)
Not yet healed or ready (not ready)
Shouldn't be goin' too steady (too steady, no, no)
Just wanna know is love completely off the table?

So can you hold me?
If I let you, can you prove it to me? (Oh, no-no, no)
'Cause I need you to calm me down, babe
Gotta get out of my head (oh, woah)
Tryna be healed from this pain (oh)
Just wanna know, just wanna know, can you, baby? (Hey)

Can you touch it like you believe in it, baby? (oh, hey)
Do you think you never gonna leave on me, baby?
'Cause I ain't her and you ain't him, thankfully (baby, don't leave)
But it's gon' be hard to let someone else in again (woah)
Baby, baby (Woo-hoo)

Will you be there? (Will you be there? I'll still wait)
Can I still love you?
Not yet healed or ready (ooh, not ready)
Shouldn't be goin' too steady (no, no, ooh)
Just wanna know is love completely off the table, baby?

I swear, I swear
I will wait for you, whenever you need
Ooh, ooh