Adam blinked at Shiv and tried to communicate something through his many gasps of pain. As the Deathless attempted to project his Psychomancy toward him, Veronica called out again. "None of that, either."

Another natural law was driven down upon Shiv’s soul like a spike: one that forbade him from using any magic at all. Physically crippled, spiritually compromised, and mentally shackled, Shiv's mind whirled for anything, anything he could do at all. And just then, he managed to activate Non-Sequitur once more, but it was a futile action.

As he snapped free from his body, he found his Vitae as wounded as his flesh, and he only managed to writhe across the ground, flinching in pain with every centimeter he moved. Even parted from his body, he could still feel Veronica's words nested in a place deeper than his bones. He couldn't reach out to Adam using his Psychomancy. He couldn't try to fix him using his Vitae, and he couldn't escape, not in his current state. Shiv had no options at all. All he had now was a temporary distraction he couldn’t exploit.

Veronica slipped past the threshold of the cube. Plates of metal were bent along the edges, and they vanished behind a veil of static darkness as the Councilwoman came to claim her prize. She walked toward Shiv, and her shroud of protective Dimensionality billowed as if it was a grand dress. "It was a good try at an escape," she said, "but this outcome was inevitable once I returned.” She wrinkled her nose and glared at the other Avatars behind her.

Shiv’s eyes were blurry from the pain, but he could see Stormhalt hovering in the crawlspace, black lightning spilling free from him. There was also another one of Daughter’s avatars, a few he couldn’t recognize, and finally, a large rectangular automaton that might’ve been Cripple’s.

Shiv's mind ground to a halt. Cripple! Fucking help me, godsdammit! Do something! Anything! It took a lot to make Shiv desperate enough to beg for aid, but he was well past that point. There was nothing he had left. Nothing he could do to stop Veronica from taking him and everyone else as prisoners once more.

The woman in question cocked her head and looked down at Shiv. Unbeknownst to her, his true self wasn't nested in his body anymore. Instead, he was a few centimeters away, pressed up against Adam.

"You have a Master-Tier Psychology skill, don't you?" When Shiv didn't say anything, she kept going. "I can tell. That was the thing I had to struggle against the most, aside from your Magical Resistance. But even without Kathereine, I fear this wasn’t an even engagement. My main Legendary Skill is multifaceted, even more so than yours. Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides is a three-skill fusion, according to my knowledge. Mine is made up of six. And it’s not nearly the only Legendary Skill I have.”

Part of Shiv was tempted to tell the Legend to go fuck herself one final time, but through a maelstrom of pain, a thought occurred to him. There was one skill that could still help him, but there was no guarantee it wouldn't be compromised soon due to the Animancy affecting his soul. Preparing for his vitality to drop dangerously low, Shiv reached inward and began constructing a golem. But it wasn't just any golem.

Animated Skill Infusion: Shadows of Futures Coming
