The House of Blood had been required to pull in a lot of resources from other cities to provide enough power to keep that wonder functional through this time.

Additionally, the resort hold that would be providing that power was also slightly larger that the others—again at the House of Blood’s expense, but this time not entirely—and the Houses and guilds of the city had come together to help bear some of that cost.

Every city had oddities and variations in their magical needs, but Croi definitely had the highest constant use.

Soacali—the one costal city that had lost its column—had periodic, high magical requirements when they discouraged beasts of the deep sea from coming too close. They also suppressed and leveled the nearby ocean when storms or unnatural swells or waves might otherwise have threatened the prosperous city and port.

The way that they’d described it to Tala was that the continental shelf was just off shore—less than half a mile—and that meant that the water went deep and quickly.

There were a few aquatic beast-kin cities nearby as well—along the coast north and south but under the water rather than on the shore—making it a critical connection point in various trade networks.

Additionally, there had been numerous ships and boats that at least somewhat drew on the ambient power, making it the second most power hungry city that Tala had worked in

Another place of interest had been the predominantly elven city of Lothendel.

Situated in an ancient forest in a high mountain valley—not as high or as large as the one that Monstranous occupied, but it bore noting nonetheless—the city had been one of peace, research, and education.

That city had required the smallest new source of power given its peculiarities, including the fact that the tree species that made up the forest seemed to slowly—very, very slowly—exude power, thereby bolstering the ambient magic of the region and supporting the arcanes who lived there.

It was funny. When Tala had been serving a Pillar, she’d only been to plains cities, and while they’d each had their own flavor, their own feel, they had been much the same overall. Now? Now she knew that such wasn’t ubiquitous. It was the plurality given most arcane cities were on the plains or at least bent their structure and feel in the same direction, but each city was a kaleidoscope reflecting the differences and strengths of the citizenry therein.

She felt like she could spend years in each of the ten cities she’d briefly visited, getting to know the people, the restaurants, the feel of each place. Even so, she’d likely continue to find new things for decades if not longer.

She might be able to come back for quick visits in the future—ideally with Rane, Terry, and Lea—but she doubted she’d get to truly explore them in the short term.

For now, it’s enough to work for their continued existence.
