“Erin told me what she was doing in advance. We have it all under control, Lyonette.”
“Damn her.”
Gloom and doom. Ishkr gave Lyonette the most understanding look so far.
“If…you’d like to take anything over, you can certainly help out, Miss Lyonette.”
“No. I think I’ll go for a walk.”
Ishkr nodded reasonably, then hesitated as Ser Sest stared out a window.
Wait, in the snow?
 
——
 
Lyonette made it about ten minutes outdoors before she realized that the knee-deep snow was hellishly cold and remembered why everyone wanted to be indoors.
“Sest! Why didn’t you stop me?”
“A [Knight] is always here to enable his mistress’ bad choices, Your Highness! We’re trained not to say ‘no’ when you’ll just ignore us!”
The golden [Knight] seemed to know Lyonette too well. She sighed, but getting into the snow did remind her that the beach was a welcome reprieve.
It was just—if Lyonette stopped shivering and had insight for one moment, she wasn’t mad Erin had kept this from her.
Erin had wanted to surprise everyone, so aside from critical staff, she had prepared a warm surprise for the dead of winter. It was just—Lyonette wasn’t enjoying it because Lyonette was in an odd place.
Erin no longer needed as much help. Oh, someone had to manage the inn, but between Ishkr, Yelroan, Peggy, Rosencrantz, and more, Lyonette was no longer the one heroine keeping it all from falling apart.
Mrsha was no longer the exact same girl she used to be. Taking in poor Nanette, ironically, had helped both girls find a friend, and so they were more self-sufficient.
Which left Lyonette in the place of having time for herself at last. Only, she’d broken up with Pawn and now…
What did she do for fun, again? Have tea with Witch Eloise, shop for clothes with Nanette…the most stereotypical of things.
“Maybe I should practice sword swings.”
Lyonette had been practicing as much as she could, if not to the level of any [Warrior]. But was that her?
[Worldly Princess]. Lyonette had shot up to Level 28 in record time, consolidated her class…and then stopped levelling at some point. Her friends had passed her. She realized, perhaps, that she had ceased doing things for her and had focused more on Mrsha, which was all right and proper.
But now that she had time? She had forgotten how it was done.
Such was the melancholy of Lyonette du Marquin. She stood in the same wretched snow that Erin had once rescued her from, and she didn’t want to go home. This was a better home, but she needed something to occupy her. Beach or otherwise…Lyonette closed her eyes as she tried to look around for the inn.
It was moderately dangerous out here, mostly from frostbite or a rogue Snow Golem. Shield Spiders were deep in their nests, and Rock Crabs were hibernating too. No one would be out here with the stupid Winter Sprites’ storms. You’d have to be cr—
“Achoo!”
Lyonette was walking near the stream that Erin had used to use for water. It was, amazingly, still flowing, owing to the swift waters. And a snowdrift next to the stream, holding a fishing pole, sneezed as Lyonette passed by.
The [Princess] screamed. She drew her sword, or tried to, and the snowdrift jumped.
“Aah! I fell asleep! Dead gods, it’s cold even with the Ring of Frost Resistance!”
The Snow Golem jumped up—and Lyonette gobbled as snow fell away and revealed…
“Lady Walchaís?”
Bethal Walchaís emerged, holding a fishing pole and shivering. She had on a fur hood, pale grey and puffy. Clearly enchanted, as were her leggings, and she had apparently been sitting there long enough for the snow to cover her!
Well, given how fast it was coming down, that wasn’t hard. But she swore as she threw her fishing pole down.
“Damn you, fish! Oh, it’s you. The [Princess] of Calanfer.”
She did a double-take as Lyonette stared. And two more snowdrifts moved.
“Lady Walchaís, perhaps it’s time to call it in?”
Ser Sest had noticed the two Rose Knights, but they glumly emerged from the snow and made Lyonette nearly scream again. They were both shivering, and Dame Welca and Ser Kerrig looked miserable, despite their magical armor. Bethal rounded on them as she eyed Lyonette and Sest.
“Shush! Go away! This is a wilderness survival. You two aren’t taking part. I’ll have this fish in the hour. I told Thomast I could do it. Once he scavenges some root…things…we’ll make it through the night.”
Her stomach growled loudly as she spoke, and Ser Kerrig wiped snow from his visor as he flipped it up.
“You said that yesterday, Lady Walchaís.”
She turned red, and Lyonette noticed that Bethal was rather pale. It wasn’t from the weather; she had multiple cold-resistance enchantments on. She deliberately stabbed a finger into her palm.
“We did not fight off a Rock Crab and sit in this miserable weather to be second place, Kerrig. The first place is a week in this damn, Five Families-cursed hellhole of cold. And if I needs must starve the last day out, I will!”
Lyonette vaguely remembered Bethal being excited to take part in Liscor Hunted. But it seemed her good mood had turned to annoyance.
“Um. Excuse me.”
“Oh. Hello.”
Bethal swung around as if she’d completely forgotten Lyonette. The Rose Knights bowed.
“Your Highness du Marquin.”
“No, it’s just Lyonette…I’m just a [Barmaid] at The Wandering Inn.”
Bethal eyed Lyonette. The old lie that no one had really bought from the start felt completely inane coming out of her mouth.
“Yes, and I’m a Marquis of Avel. Well, everyone has their hobbies. Good day to you. Are you out for a walk in this…delightful weather?”
The blizzard howled around them as the wind picked up, and Lyonette shivered. Bethal scowled around and shaded her eyes.
“I think we have a tent…over there. Thomast and I are competing for the longest stay in Liscor Hunted, you see. There’s a prize and entry in their hall of fame if we last a week. Which we will accomplish…and I was just fishing. For these damn fish!”
She screamed at the river. Lyonette winced. Did Bethal mean the Flatfish?
“They’re quite toothy, Lady Walchaís. And parts are inedible. Even poisonous, I think.”
Bethal’s face fell when she heard that.
“It was the only food source I could find. You’re allowed to hunt, but not bring anything else or buy anything, obviously. Even if…”
She turned and stared longingly at The Wandering Inn in the distance, then at Liscor. Bethal’s stomach rumbled louder, and Lyonette felt vaguely bad for her.
Only vaguely, because this was clearly a self-inflicted bit of nonsense.
“Where is your husband, Lady Walchaís?”
“Oh, looking for forage. He’s got more energy, so he said he’d find blue fruits and onions. I…do you know how to attract these damn fish? I baited the hook with some rabbit meat, but I swear, I’ve been here an hour and not a bite.”
Lyonette had no idea how to fish, but the look of desperation in Bethal’s eyes made her, shivering, stomp over to the river.
“I could take a look at your line. We set up Acid Fly traps in the spring, and I’ve seen the fish a lot.”
“Oh. W-were those the jars? We used them to boil water. I shall return them, but we are allowed to forage for things.”
Bethal shivered as she rubbed her gloved hands together. Lyonette assured her it was fine. Actually, she was getting more impressed by the moment.
“This weather is freezing. Even if you have cold-resistance gear…how much food did you bring?”
“Us? A day’s worth. It’s been seven days, and I admit, it’s been fairly dire, but we found some poor, delicious rabbits, and if we’d bagged that Corusdeer, we’d be eating fine.”
Seven days? And they hadn’t had any food?
“What about gear?”
“A tent with holes in it. A single frying pan—no wood. I think they deliberately give us used gear to make the entire experience damn authentic. It wasn’t even warm enough for us to shiver together and warm up naked. We just shivered. That damn Drake called it the ‘Erin difficulty start’.”
Bethal wasn’t the biggest fan of Menolit right now. In fact, she seemed like she was willing to bend the rules about no help if it meant a meal tonight.
“I m-must admit, I’ll go to Menolit and say we lasted only seven days. Our Skills and artifacts are an edge, so I’ll happily accept a bit of help catching a fish from a local expert, Miss Lyonette. I’m only out here because the only other competitor refuses to give in. And she’s made it personal.”
Other competitor? Lyonette had a faint suspicion, but she agreed to help Bethal as best she could.
“I could bring you a dish—”
“No, no! Just help me catch a fish. Mayhap they don’t like rabbit? Let’s see the lin—huh.”
Bethal pulled up the improvised fishing rod, a stick with string on it, and both she and Lyonette stared at her hook and bait.
Or rather, the piece of string where it used to be. Something had bit the entire hook off. Bethal had been sitting here with a string in the water this entire time.
The [Lady] stared at her line—then lost her temper. Her face went slack, then her cheeks puffed up—then she began screaming.
“You Reinhart-scheming fish! You worthless piece of Wellfar sea-crap! Get out of that damn river so I can eat you! I’ll reroute this entire river! I’ll dam the entire river and let you all die! A Walchaís’ grudge on it!”
She went stomping up and down the bank, screaming at the water, and Lyonette felt Bethal’s aura materialize.
It felt like thorns. Lyonette had not known Bethal as well as some in The Wandering Inn, but even she knew of House Walchaís.
Bethal, the last of her line, married to Chevalier Thomast, an insanely skilled [Duelist]. Bethal was an unpredictable woman who’d made a fortune investing in horseflesh…and her Rose Knights were peacekeepers in a wide area.
She was respected and also held at a remove by many who feared her amazing temper and aura. Lyonette had heard that it was a thing to be respected, and she saw it in action.
Dead gods, she thought she could see enraged, twining thorns and vines around Bethal! It was the most impressive manifestation besides a Knight of Seasons she’d seen. Sest was no less impressed.
“Princess Marquin, the [Ladies] of Izril seem to be aura-masters by and large.”
Bethal felt like a high-level [Lady] to Lyonette; she would have stood at the head of Calanfer’s aristocracy for sheer levels.
However, the [Lady] was throwing a tantrum like Sammial, and the similarities were even down to her kicking snow into the stream as she cursed the fish out. Lyonette was watching Bethal, but she and the three [Knights] noticed the dark shape in the frigid waters at the same time.
“Watch out!”
“Lady Walchaís!”
Both Knights of the Petal leapt forwards as Lyonette screamed. Bethal turned—and a Flatfish, all teeth, launched itself out of the water at her face.
“Oh—”
Ser Kerrig was fast. He had his battleaxe out and tried to block the fish. Lyonette tackled Bethal, and the two nearly went into the water, but it was Ser Sest who moved fastest.
“[Bodyguard’s Shield]!”
He appeared in front of Bethal, and the fish slammed into him. Sest nearly fell over as Kerrig halted his swing before he could hit the Thronebearer. The fish landed in the water with a huge splash, and Lyonette scrambled up.
Bethal was wide-eyed, but she got up fast and retreated. Then she felt at herself, realized she was safe, and spoke.
“Well, there goes my record attempt. Thank you, Princess Marquin. And to your [Knight]! I had no idea that damn fish was so—toothy!”
Shamefaced, Welca and Kerrig bowed to Sest, who winced as he rotated his shield-arm.
“It must have been forty pounds! What a beast! Are you alright, Princess? We should have called for backup. Though I thought…”
He looked around with a huge frown, and a figure appeared in the snow. Tessa, Shriekblade, made Welca whirl with an oath, but Tessa was just sharpening a dagger. She looked—bad-tempered, and she muttered.
“It wasn’t a threat. I’m watching. Whatever. Everything sucks.”
She vanished again. Sest gave Lyonette a concerned look, and Bethal raised her brows.
“Is that the Named-rank Adventurer who stays at the inn?”
“One of them. I haven’t seen her in days. Even Erin can’t get her to…are you alright? Again, I think the Floodplains are too dangerous, Lady Walchaís. With respect, it’s a miserable place to try to survive in without help. Even Erin herself nearly died thanks to those fishes.”
“I suppose you’re right. But what a shame! First it takes my bait. Then? Nearly my life! I feel like I should catch one, if only to last another day for pride’s sake. Otherwise I shan’t hear the end of it from her.”
Bethal sighed, and Lyonette daringly strode close to the river. She saw at least one shape and stepped back from the bank.
“Perhaps you could hunt the fish with a net. Erin used to say she’d bait them out onto the grass where they’re not dangerous. If you wanted to at least prove you can catch one…”
“Bait it? With what, our naked, succulent bodies?”
Bethal stomped over, and Lyonette almost laughed. Was she always like that? She shrugged.
“Maybe an aura-decoy. If anyone could make one. I’m just a novice, but I heard animals fall for it.”
It slipped out absently. Perhaps because Bethal was here. Lyonette had taught Erin how to use her aura, but Maviola El had been the better teacher.
She was dead. But Bethal snapped her fingers and sneezed again.
“Oh, I should have done that from the start! I just didn’t know animals fell for it. What, you mean like this? Hmm…how do you do it again? Buck bwauwk…cluck?”
She held out her hands. Then she began making sounds like a chicken. Lyonette was beginning to suspect Bethal was all crazy—until she stared at something in Bethal’s hands.
It wasn’t real, or even close to a chicken in appearance. But it felt like one. Something fluttered in Bethal’s hands, and Lyonette could imagine a feather-white chicken with a huge comb of red fluttering its wings and clucking in Bethal’s hands.
Lyonette stared as Bethal projected her aura, faking the feel of a chicken.
“You can do aura-decoys? But even the Knights of Seasons don’t usually know that.”
“Pshaw, [Knights]. I’m a [Lady]. If Magnolia can slap a volley of arrows out of the sky, I can do this. Y-you must really be used to Terandria, where only monarchy and [Knights] even practice. Funny. I forgot you were a [Princess]. How did you even come to that inn with that delightful [I-Innkeeper]?”
Bethal was chattering with cold and probably hunger. She was probably also delirious if she hadn’t eaten in a day. But Lyonette was oddly engaged.
“Oh, well…I ran away from home.”
She was shy about saying that, but Bethal probably knew. Yet the [Lady] burst into a huge grin when she heard it.
