Bethal’s mood returned to good spirits fast after seeing Pryde covering up. She kicked at her old tent savagely and bent one of the wood poles, making the entire thing collapse.
“I have, and I’m done. Lyonette helped me out anyways, and one of those damn fish—that one—nearly ate me. So I shall retire to the inn. Are you staying a night?”
“One. I intend to go the week.”
“Very good. Ser Kerrig, go find Thomast and tell him to meet me at The Wandering Inn. Miss Lyonette has graciously invited us for food. I shall let Pryde enjoy her night in the terrible cold.”
She was turning a loss into a kind of victory, and Lyonette admired it. Welca helped to break camp—which was mostly Bethal tossing what few things she wanted to keep in her bag of holding.
“I have an heirloom, a silk-and-fur tent that’s warm as can be, and I should have used it. This entire survival thing is a terrible idea. But good to brag about, one supposes. If it was just a tad less cold, I’d have had more fun.”
Pryde ignored Bethal and Lyonette as the two talked. She was working on the fish, and she had a frying pan. Lyonette wondered what you’d make with a Flatfish.
Sear it up, once you got the fire going, and that was about it. No condiments…dire. No wonder Bethal had wanted some onions. Then again, Bethal looked hungry enough to eat the fish raw. She was blowing on her gloved hands and clearly ready to leave when she glanced sideways.
“Hm.”
Instead of calling out like usual, she turned and watched while pretending to be observing Welca and Sest struggle with the tent. Lyonette used her peripherals too, just like her mother had taught her to do, and both she and Bethal observed that Pryde was struggling.
Namely, she was trying to cut the fish with about the same level of expertise as Erin had. Her cooking dagger was at least sharp, but it became obvious to Lyonette that Pryde…didn’t know how to cook.
But for her Skill, she would have sliced her hand a dozen times already. She was actually shucking scales off with clumsy cuts, and then she tried to saw the fish in half and—
She cracked her knife in half. It was a soft sound in the snow, and Pryde instantly hid the tip and glanced up. Lyonette waited for Bethal’s cackle of glee and pouncing, but the [Lady] affected not to notice.
“Welca, are you almost done?”
“Almost, milady…it’s stuck in the snow!”
The panting [Knight] would rather have fought an Ice Troll than this. Bethal tsked, then lowered her voice so only Lyonette could hear.
“Say, Miss Lyonette. Can you actually gut a fish?”
“Me? I was never good at it, but I know how to prepare it. And I—had—[Flawless Attempt]. Why?”
“Where is it? Ah, here.”
Bethal was sorting through the goods that she was going to return to Menolit. At last, she came up with another camping knife. She nudged Lyonette.
“Offer her a hand, please?”
“Her?”
Lyonette looked at Pryde, who was now using the knife stub to cut at the fish, and Pryde’s face was still impassive. But Bethal just sighed.
“She’ll never ask. But she can’t cook, and she’s floundering.”
Was she? Bethal turned, and Pryde almost tried to hide the knife.
“Pryde, these knives are trash. Copper would do better, and you could split iron with those weights you keep lifting. Here, take mine. What a hideous fish. I’m glad I’m not having it after all.”
She strolled over, and Lyonette cleared her throat.
“Would you like help with that fish, Lady Pryde? That is, I’m sure you have it under control, but these have some nasty peculiarities. Even my employer, Erin Solstice, nearly cut her hand off when she first gutted one.”
Pryde’s eyes narrowed slightly, and she glowered at Bethal, but the other [Lady] gave her an innocent stare, and Pryde glanced at Lyonette. She hesitated, then nodded slowly.
“I—noticed it was tougher than usual. Ulta’s fish aren’t so large. I swore that I’d get the fish and have it ready for Grimalkin. I could use some help. If you have a moment.”
“Excellent! Then let’s see how it’s done. I’ve fished before, but Thomast always gutted them, and I just helped. You remove the innards and bait the next hook with them. Otherwise, you eat worms. That’s all I know.”
Bethal instantly squatted down, and Pryde glared at her. She lowered her voice.
“You needn’t feign interest, Bethal.”
“Nonsense. I might as well see my archnemesis cut up. Miss Lyonette? Can you show us how it’s done?”
What an odd relationship. One second, Bethal was about to cut Pryde’s head off, the next? Lyonette squatted down and began to show Pryde how to open the fish from the bottom.
Then she realized Pryde wasn’t simply incompetent—
“The fish is frozen! Hold on…”
She had [Basic Cooking], but it occurred to her that this fish was probably a rare example of an ingredient that needed [Advanced Cooking] or maybe [Advanced Butchery] or something given how tough it was. In this cold?
Lyonette quickly grew embarrassed when her attempts to use the basics of fish preparation failed. Bethal and Pryde both eyed the thick fish as Lyonette tried to saw through it.
“Maybe it needs warming? It’s dire, Pryde.”
“I know. How’d you start a fire? We’ve been in the cold the last seven days.”
“Oh, us? We dug up grass and burnt it after I used my aura to warm it. Then we ignited it—I shan’t tell you how long it took—and I used my [Briar Patch] Skill.”
“You burnt your Skill?”
“We have a few embers, though I fear they’re coals now. Let’s get one started.”
They headed into Pryde’s tent to try, and the [Lady] appeared more friendly as they gathered around a tiny attempt at a fire. She even nodded at Lyonette.
“Thank you for your help, [Princess].”
“N-not at all. I only wish I had more clothes on. It’s cold.”
Even Pryde had on her coat again, but she offered the huge cape of fur to Lyonette.
“Try this. Magus Grimalkin gifted it to me for this excursion. It’s apparently a Racdelbear he killed.”
A dire bear? It was huge, heavy, and Lyonette accepted it gratefully. Bethal ohoed with a smile.
“A gift? So how close are you two?”
Pryde’s face went stony again.
“Never you mind. This is just…a business trip between partners. I’ve been hosted at the Sinew Magus’ mansion for the last two weeks.”
“And?”
“He’s a very gracious host.”
Bethal and Lyonette looked at each other. After a second, the [Lady of Thorns] patted Pryde on the arm.
“Let’s get that fire started. I’m sure a hot meal of fish will be most impressive. You know, there’s even that clothing store in Invrisil. They sell more than tracksuits…”
“He thinks this is good workout clothing.”
“Oh. Nevermind. Ah. Um. Well.”
“Is Thomast doing well?”
“Yes! Assuming he’s not frozen to death in the blizzard! I’d have to join him. You know, Pryde, you’re very composed in this storm…”
“Stow it.”
They were definitely friends. Lyonette was, in fact, reminded a bit now of how Seraphel would fight with some of their sisters like Aielef when they were younger. Cats and dogs until someone picked on them. At which point every [Princess] of Calanfer would make your life living Rhir.
The fire was the thing. Everyone was cold, and Lyonette joined the two in trying to light one…but even when she cracked and used some fire magic, nothing lit.
“Dead gods, this is impossible!”
Bethal had a bunch of dried briar thorns, but the coal had gone out, and even Lyonette’s weak flame wasn’t working on the cold, wet stuff.
“What about aura-flames?”
Pryde suggested as she squatted next to her empty fire, frustrated. Bethal raised her eyebrows.
“Have you levelled up without telling me? [Pride is Heat] or something?”
The blonde-haired woman shook her head.
“No. But you’re good, and so am I. Fire’s not our thing, but we can make things warm. Let’s work together. [Princess], do you have any aura-training? You have one.”
A challenging look. Lyonette’s chin rose, and she almost snapped—until she saw Bethal’s encouraging smile. It occurred to her that Pryde probably just talked like this. It was rather like ‘Testicles!’ Grimalkin, actually.
“I have some training.”
“Well, let’s all focus on flames. Right on the briar. On three. One, two…hmm?”
Everyone agreed. Lyonette put her hands in front of her, focusing hard, and felt Pryde and Bethal’s own powerful auras shift, concentrating on the campfire. They were powerful and so adept the temperature in the tent warmed fast. But fire was hard, and they narrowed their focus.
Flame, glorious flame. Fire! Fire for fish and dignity! Fire for—
It occurred to Lyonette that it was really hot suddenly, and then she wondered what the other two were focusing on. Relighting the embers? Or the campfire? Because the air was just air. How hot did you have to make it to combust—
 
——
 
The explosion from the tent blew it fifteen feet straight up, and both [Knights] charged towards their wards—and saw three sooty [Ladies] standing there, staring at the remnants of the firepit.
Pryde’s tent disappeared into the snow with most of her gear. Grimalkin’s was the only one left, but Bethal offered her tent to Pryde.
“Let’s just cut this—the sword.”
“The sword.”
Pryde agreed, ash all over her face. Lyonette’s cheeks were red, and she handed Pryde the sword.
 
——
 
Three women standing around in a blizzard with two [Knights] covering their eyes. One had a sword raised overhead, aiming down at a huge, dead fish with teeth, lying on the ground.
The two ladies and one [Princess] were covered in soot, and two, at least, looked like they’d been fighting something that had won.
Add that to the mysterious, flaming tent and it was just—weird. Stupid. The three were clearly in desperate straits, so the woman cleared her throat. Loudly.
“Excuse me. What are you doing in the cold?”
Pryde hesitated as she prepared to swing the sword down. Bethal and Lyonette turned—and the newcomer was also a woman.
Only, she was bundled up, had a scarf around her face, and was carrying bleating goat covered in ice.
Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle gave the three a look like they were all insane. Pryde looked at Bethal, who floundered and turned to Lyonette.
“We were…gutting a fish?”
Colfa stared at the giant, dead fish and the sword, then their two non-gutting knives, one of which was broken. She transferred the goat to her other arm; she had been stomping through the snow.
“Come with me.”
“We’re quite fine, Miss. Thank you for the—”
“Come on and I’ll show you how to filet the fish properly. This is no weather for that ridiculous Liscor Hunted nonsense. You won’t just be cold tonight with all the snow coming in. Tents? You should have at least built a snow hut.”
“A what?”
 
——
 
Colfa Lischelle-Drakle made one stop on her way back to her farm, which was actually a thirty minute march through the snow.
Forty minutes…but half that normally. She herself cut a swath through the snow with amazing energy for someone holding a goat under one arm. She dropped it off at a farm, and an amazed [Farmer] stared at her.
The Gnoll raised his hat.
“You actually found him, Miss Colfa? Thank you! You needn’t have—I thought no one could find anything in this snow.”
“I’m from a family of [Herders], Farmer Wirclaw. I had to try. My husband’s out looking, but he’ll be back, never fear.”
“You must be freezing. Let me offer you—”
“Later. Thank you, but I have five freezing guests.”
The Gnoll finally saw the five miserable Humans and nodded. He shook her hand, then she pointed.
“My farm is just there. Lischelle-Drakle. It’s not much yet, but it’s warm.”
She was one of the new [Farmers] to Liscor and, in fact, Fierre’s own mother. When Lyonette finally warmed up from the farmhouse fire, she noticed how new the place was. All timber brought from Invrisil, or maybe Celum, but sturdily built. This was a farmhouse attached to an actual farm, and she heard baahing sheep and voices.
“Bamer, tell Himilt not to act crazy. We have guests. I found them in the snow. More people doing Liscor Hunted’s ridiculous stunt. Even that Drake, what’s his name?”
“…I think Menolit?”
“Even he said it’s insanity and expected them all to give up.”
“That wretch said what?”
Bethal nearly knocked over the cup of tea she was sipping. Pryde just scowled, and Colfa returned and beckoned them into the kitchen.
She was a strange woman. Pale of skin, so much so that she seemed closer to snow, but she also had a rash on one cheek. Acne? Despite it, she was very dignified and down-to-earth in this barn.
She was also, Lyonette realized, quite good at cooking. She showed them all a cleaver, then hacked the Flatfish’s head off and cut it open in two motions. Then Colfa spoke.
“Take out the guts, yank the bones out, here and here—just split a big fish up lengthwise. Then you can take it in whatever shape you need. Are you making a stew?”
“I’m supposed to—make it with this.”
Pryde handed Colfa a frying pan. The woman gave it a long look.
“Searing it up, it is. It won’t taste good, even if you’re hungry, but the fat…”
She scraped some up, tossed it into the pan as she lit a fire, and got the cast iron up to a screaming heat as she introduced herself.
“I am Colfa, a humble farmer from Reizmelt. One of the val Lischelles.”
Both Pryde and Bethal actually knew her and came alive with interest. Bethal snapped her fingers.
“Of course! I knew I knew that name! No wonder you can find a goat in a blizzard! My, and you’re starting a farm in Liscor? Is it that appealing?”
Colfa paused a second before replying.
“Our old home…just wasn’t livable anymore. Plus, my daughter works around here, and we thought to keep an eye on her. We’re setting down roots here. We barely got the farm up and a single harvest in, but Liscor is quite friendly. And the winter has opportunities. We’ve been helping set up more buildings for our neighbors. Oh, and we have an entire field of onions that someone’s been stealing from.”
Pryde and Bethal both inhaled and avoided Lyonette’s stare. Local foraging, huh? But Colfa just tossed some of the fish on the pan, and it began hissing with a satisfying sound.
“I wanted to introduce myself properly to The Wandering Inn, Miss Lyonette.”
She knew Lyonette? Of course she did. Now, Colfa’s amazingly ruby-red eyes glittered, and she gave Lyonette a very slow, dignified nod, and her accent changed a bit.
“I haf—been hesitant as my family has not given you the proper greetings befitting such friendship to Serafierre. But on behalf of the Lischelle-Drakle family, you have my undying gratitude and, potentially, friendship. But ve shall see and make no promises yet.”
