That beach. That damn beach.
“What kind of an [Innkeeper] has a beach in their inn? What is a beach? Damn her!”
The Wandering Inn ate business like an Eater Goat on a rampage. Ulia Ovena, the owner of Celum’s Blazehound, actually pounded the counter of her fancy establishment.
Erin was also making enemies of Adalton Serristail of The Noble’s Fancy in Pallass, but he was able to keep most of his Drake patrons because they were too good for a Human establishment in Liscor.
He just wished they’d stop asking him to pull a beachfront from under his tail. The worst part?
The beach stuck around. Erin Solstice was very open about the fact that she could have it essentially forever.
“Maybe I’ll turn it into a winter resort in the summer, y’know? Keep things nice and cool in there. Although, I have the Snow Golem area. Anyways, who wants a piña colada? Kevin, do we need this in the world?”
“Yes. Give.”
 
——
 
You could either curse her name, like Ulia and Agnes were doing—or adapt. Improvise.
Timbor Parithad had lost business to Erin. In fact, he’d lost Imani and Palt, who were not only selling in Erin’s inn but on holiday.
A huge blow, even if they were teaching his own [Cooks] how to advance their cooking. But Timbor, owner of The Drunken Gnoll, had learned a few tricks.
“Commiseration Hour! Anyone who didn’t get in The Wandering Inn—drinks are half off!”
He’d put a huge sign up as well: Beachfront Tips! Come exchange your knowledge here! 
So his inn was full of people scheming on how to get in or badgering people for tales of what was in there, and a lot of patrons had come by to brag and drop anecdotes…and sand…all over the place.
Timbor was proud of it. He might be one of those lampreys that clung to a whale, but it put gold in his pocket. Besides, he’d be called a hanger-on by Peslas if the Drake wanted. The ‘best’ [Innkeeper] in Liscor was what, Level 34?
Timbor was Level 24 before he came to Liscor. By the time he’d survived the raiders, war, and rebuilt his inn?
Peslas was sweating because Timbor was closing on him like a shark in the waters. One more level…and Timbor had a good feeling about tonight. He smirked as he swept some sand out the front door and into the snow.
His inn just lacked Peslas’ wealth and staffing, and that wasn’t too hard to equalize since Timbor would hire Gnolls and Humans and Drakes, and he was considering Silveran’s Cleaners too.
 
——
 
Yes, The Wandering Inn was having a good time. Why, even Yelroan was busy blinding half the people around him with his sunglasses on the beach. Saliss had a copy, and he was walking around with them shining. The Gnoll was working on a breakdown of Erin’s guests.
That was what he did for fun in between reading Laken’s [Engineers]’ math on their trebuchets. Yelroan was also very, very interested in the stress-tests of Pallass’ Engineering Guild on the durability of their steel. That was confidential information, but he had long ears.
There was actually only one person who didn’t seem to be having the greatest time ever. Strangely, it was Lyonette du Marquin.
It was hard for Erin to fathom why it was a problem. But Lyonette happily explained.
“Erin. Is this really what people wear on beaches?”
She looked scandalized as Erin turned. The [Innkeeper] had realized there weren’t as many good options for beach-people, and where Kevin was only too happy to just change into some shorts and charge forth, she had quickly drawn up a guide.
The issue was waterproof fabric, but you could adapt even a dress into something beach-friendly. ‘Spats’ were not a concept that this world had in store, but the irony was that someone had already opened the door for beach-type clothing.
Worldview Fashion, the Earth-forward store that had catered to Magnolia Reinhart, Lady Pryde Ulta, and Wuvren Sitil, had a version of tracksuits and the lead [Designer] herself had already come over, happy to offer their designs…for a free pass to the beach.
However, Lyonette objected. Not to the bikini or two-piece swimsuits. She hadn’t gotten past the short leggings on the dress-type swimsuit, which was really just a shoulder-hanging ensemble with [Waterproof Fabric].
“Erin, it’s inches above my knees!”
“…Yup. Sure is.”
Erin had on shorts and a t-shirt. She gestured at her clothing.
“This is also good. You could go swimming in that.”
“Hurgkh. I mean—it’s a lovely outfit, Erin. I could see myself wearing it if I were shoveling snow outside. But if you get wet, someone might see your undergarments!”
“Lyonette, it’s a beach. Everyone’s in their undergarments. You don’t wear underwear in the water, just shorts.”
The [Princess]’ appalled look grew into true horror. Relc, who’d been stomping around in the water, playing ‘monster’ for the children laughing, stopped pulling at his pants.
“You don’t? Great! Give me one second—”
He raced off, and Lyonette turned her look of scandal onto Erin once more. The [Innkeeper] folded her arms.
“This time you can’t say it’s because I’m weird. Where I’m from, everyone wears beach clothes like this, Lyonette. Even the older folk. Even royalty and rich people. Right, Kevin?”
The Earther charged past Erin with a soccer ball they were using as a volleyball.
“Right! In fact, the old people will let it all hang free! Nude beaches. Let’s not do that.”
“Excuse me, what?”
Saliss grew insanely interested, but Erin and Lyonette shooed him off. Lyonette, still covering her legs, hissed at Erin.
“This isn’t normal to me! Mrsha’s gone bare again!”
“Yeah…she’s got fur.”
She was picking up swimming very quickly. But Lyonette was having trouble. The thing was…
She could swim* and had gone paddling around in the shallows with the kids, but she didn’t care for the swimsuits, even when she was given the most conservative one, and she didn’t know how to beach properly.
 
*She could not swim.
 
It was a mystery to Erin, because she had been told by Lyonette herself that Calanfer had a beach.
“You said you visited the coast a lot!”
“Yes, I did! And I quite liked the beach!”
“What did you do?”
“Well, we walked down it and collected seashells and—”
“You didn’t swim?”
“Us? Royalty? With monsters in the water and all kinds of…people watching us? Erin, please.”
Lyonette had learned to swim as a matter of self-preservation, but she swam like a sinking sponge. And unlike her daughter, she didn’t learn fast enough.
Erin was trying to be nice, but she had to keep approving would-be guests, and this felt like a ‘Lyonette’ issue.
“Lyon, you can sunbathe—”
“With my legs exposed? I’ll ruin my skin!”
Sunbathing. Another non-Calanferian thing apparently. Erin tried again.
“Why don’t you have fun in a circle with the Antinium or something?”
“I don’t have anyone to go with.”
Lyonette was downcast. Someone stopped as they trudged by with a huge piece of roast corn on a stick.
“What a shame. I don’t know how that happened.”
Yellow Splatters walked on by as Lyonette bit her lip and turned red. Erin gave Lyonette a long look and raised hands.
“Why don’t you go play with Mrsha? You keep saying you miss your mother-daughter time.”
 
——
 
Sometimes it felt like the world conspired against Lyonette du Marquin. Or perhaps it was the role she occupied.
She often enabled and helped create Erin’s mad moments, but in this case, Erin had been annoyingly self-sufficient. Erin probably didn’t mean to leave Lyonette out, but a confluence of factors messed with Lyonette.
For one—her daughter splashed water at her. Visma interpreted her sign-language and then shouted as she waved a fist.
“Shoo! This is for us only! Kids only! Get lost, loser! That’s what she said, Miss Lyonette, not me.”
“Miss Mrsha! The shame of it!”
Ser Sest was woebegone as the kids played ‘sharks and fishies’ in the water. But they didn’t want an adult Crelering up the situation, and after they let her join in one session, Lyonette ended up failing to catch even one kid after six minutes. They were fast as could be! And she ended up exhausted, routed, and falling back.
The worst part to Lyonette, sulking in the shade of a spell which looked like a shadowy dome of ‘gloom’, was that her damn Thronebearers did so well.
Ser Lormel was still laid up, but he was actually happy not to go to the beach. He was currently writing notes back to the countless [Knights] who’d sent him missives, and Lyonette had even bought him a speaking stone so he could talk to people.
Ser Sest on the other hand? He had actually been allowed to continue playing with the kids, and he leapt around in the water.
“Where are you? I, Ser Sest, the beast of the ocean, have come to devour you! The Kraken strikes! Aha!”
He dove in an exaggerated way, and Visma, shrieking with laughter, leapt away.
“Curse you, Sest.”
Her other Thronebearers were just as bad. Ser Dalimont, also nominally on Princess-duty, was chatting with Ama to the left.
“I just received word that the Thronebearers of Calanfer have formally approved my alliance with the Order of Solstice. Which is a relief.”
“Oh. Does that mean you’re not in trouble?”
“Better. They would like me to continue working with you all officially. And when my [Princess] arrives…”
He had a drink in hand, and both he and Sest had taken off their armor and looked annoyingly fit. In fact, the Wishdrinks hosts had come by to ask the Thronebearers for tips. Especially Sest, who had what even Kevin and Joseph had done a double-take on and called a ‘six-pack’.
Six of what? Lyonette hadn’t stared too long at any exposed skin, though she now recalled Sest was a popular figure back home.
Dame Ushar had no such problems. The Thronebearers liked to rotate, two on, two off, if there wasn’t a crisis that warranted more. Even with Ser Lormel gone, Dame Ushar had parked herself in a beach chair and was sipping from a drink and enjoying the scenery. She was not the only one.
Lyonette was worried someone was going to approach her and invite her to join the volleyball, or sit around the fire, or even make a sandcastle. She worried about it for fourteen minutes as she sat in the [Shade] spell—then got mad no one was approaching her.
“What are you supposed to do here, exactly?”
“Enjoy oneself. Which must be difficult for you. I don’t particularly care what anyone else says, so this has been exceedingly pleasant for me—and I think I’ll spend all week here.”
A dry voice to her left made Lyonette look over. And there was Chaldion, up to his knees in hot sand, drinking more ice and rum while reading a book.
“Princess Marquin.”
“Strategist. That’s Miss Marquin to you.”
He rolled his eyes.
“Oh, of course. Enjoying the shade? I didn’t set up the spell. Oddly, some Goblin had the ability.”
He eyed Gothica, who was sitting with her parasol in the spell to the right. Chaldion’s lips quirked.
“I can work and observe as well as play. But I’m happy to sit and relax. You’re the self-conscious one.”
Lyonette realized she was probably the only one here experiencing anxiety. Even normally skittish people were letting their hair down. Tesy was here, even if he was painting while trying to keep out of view with a Skill!
“I’ve got the ball! I’ve got—”
Someone sprayed sand and charged past them and nearly hit both sitting Drake and Human. Lehra kicked the ball back, then turned.
“Sorry—oh, Grand Strategist and, uh, Lyonette. We’re just playing—”
“Pay no mind. Friendly fire seems inevitable. But you can make it up to me by securing me that new pudding.”
Chaldion wiped sand from his bare chest. Lehra instantly agreed, then her ears perked up.
“Pudding?”
Imani was pushing a cart of colorful pudding with ‘sand’ on top, even tiny umbrellas. It was probably bread crumbs, but the sweet treat had a line already.
“I’ll get you some, Grand Strategist!”
And off Lehra charged, making it to the front of the line by sheer enthusiasm. Even Lyonette had to admire Chaldion spotting the pudding and securing it by using Lehra as a gofer.
What a scheming bastard. He gave her a smug look as his bodyguards sweatily surveyed the garden for threats. Chaldion probably hadn’t even told them that it was unlikely you could bring much harm into the Gardens of Sanctuary, even if this wasn’t the main one.
 
——
 
Lyonette tried to stay on the beach and have fun, but she gloomed herself out. She was about to go and greet Laken, who was grumpily inspecting the garden by hand as Durene beamed about, when a beach volleyball hit her in the head.
A gloomy Ser Sest swept up part of the common room as Lyonette, back in winter clothes, strode about the place where she felt she could do some good. But annoyingly…
“Calescent! Do you need help in the kitchen? Me and Sest can—”
The Hobgoblin looked up as Pebblesnatch, Silvermop, and two other helpers all paused in making more fruit-based dishes. Pebblesnatch beamed, and Calescent waved a hand.
“No, thank you, Lyonette. Cute Goblin [Cook] is helping. Then we all get a break. With special spicy steak.”
He pulled out a dish he’d been saving for himself, marinating, and all the cooking staff licked their lips. Lyonette gave him a wan smile.
“Oh, excellent. Maybe Liska needs help?”
The [Doorgnoll] had her feet up as she ate a pudding and flicked her paw.
“Door open to Liscor. Who’s coming through? No access to the beach unless you’re on the list! Alright, step inside, wait a second—door open to Invrisil—don’t go through! Wait for them to come through. Who needs travel? No access to the beach!”
She wasn’t even touching the damn door. Lyonette stared at Liska as the smug Gnoll controlled the door with her paw. The dial clicked around, and Liska only looked up and nearly fell out of her seat when Lyonette cleared her throat.
“Miss Lyonette! I was, uh—”
“You seem to have everything under control. Proceed.”
Lyonette was too sweet, but she stomped off without further comment. Even Ishkr seemed happy as a clam.
“Ishkr! How are the drinks going? Are you swamped? You need help with Erin’s insane new Solstice event, right? What can I do?”
The [Head Server] turned, hugely bemused, from behind the bar where he had appeared. He hefted something in his paws.
“I’m fine, Miss Lyonette. I just went to get some rum for Chaldion. Rufelt and Lasica are here, and he’s serving drinks…she’s mostly relaxing. Everything is fine. I was going to go down to Liscor.”
“For ingredients?”
“No. Selys told me to give this to Watch Captain Zevara with a coupon for access and a free ‘swimsuit’ from Worldview Fashion.”
Ishkr had one of the puddings, and Lyonette’s face fell.
“You seem organized.”
