“Absolutely, Lady—I mean, Miss—Colfa. And may I say you’re quite generous?”
“You may, with my gratitude for ze kind words.”
Colfa looked even more self-important and smug as Bethal chimed in.
“Oh yes, it’s a wonderfully kind thing to help Pryde cook.”
“I should do it myself. At least part of it. Is it—cooked?”
Colfa handed Pryde some tongs and ran commentary on how to get a good sear going, maybe even score the meat. But she looked disapproving about Pryde insisting she wanted to go back to camp.
“It’s no fit weather for mere mortals, Lady Pryde. The chill is deathly. And if you will take some of my advice, at least garnish this. Fish, without even salt, is tasteless.”
At this, the [Lady] did give an arch smile.
“I do have that. [Produce of the Land]!”
She raised her hand…and huge, fat, slightly pink crystals of salt fell into her palm. Pryde showed it to Bethal and Lyonette, who oohed. Even Colfa looked faintly astonished. Bethal confided in the two.
“Salt is one of Ulta’s big exports. All I’d get is a horse.”
“Yes. And if I toss in…”
“Be generous. Let’s see how it tastes.”
One chunk of smoking Flatfish was liberally salted with the pink Ulta salt and transferred to a plate as the [Knights] looked up. All four women gathered around, and Lyonette bet that Colfa was as hungry as she was. Bethal looked ravenous, and Pryde cut it up into four pieces, and everyone got a fork.
“This is a group effort. I’ll take the rest to the Sinew Magus after cooking it up. I suppose we were matched at seven days after all, Bethal. You always were too tough for your own good. Starving a day?”
“Oh, please, Pryde. You won this one fair and square. But I hope the Sinew Magus appreciates this hard work!”
Colfa didn’t really know Grimalkin, but she offered them a crimson smile; her lips were the only colorful thing about her.
“I am delighted to make your acquaintances, ladies, [Princess]. Even into my humble abode.”
“Oh, Miss Colfa, you are too kind! Why, we would be lost without you and hacking up that wretched fish in the snow. I offer you The Wandering Inn’s own humble hospitality—your family is endlessly generous!”
Lyonette tried to flatter her, and the woman turned faintly red with pleasure. Then everyone took a big bite of the Flatfish and chewed thoughtfully.
Ser Sest watched Lyonette chew on the hot piece of fish. Then chew…and chew…and glance at Bethal, who was eying Colfa and Pryde. Pryde swallowed first, and Colfa coughed as she got her bite down.
Silence for a bit. Everyone stared at the rest of the fish on the cutting board.
 
——
 
When Ser Kerrig finally found the [Chevalier], Thomast, the man was not alone. A [Knight of the Petal] was standing guard, but he was hardly needed for Bethal’s husband.
Thomast was fairly mobile even in the snow, and so was the huge Drake, whose arms were folded as the two stared at the grove of trees.
Tall and thin with long, super-sturdy limbs. This was the blue fruit orchard, natural trees so tough they could endure Liscor’s flooding each year without being uprooted.
Both stared at the trees solemnly. They stared at the bare branches, and at last, one spoke.
“It occurred to me halfway here that it was winter. But I wasn’t sure about the germination of some fruits, so I thought it was worth a look. How have you been scavenging, Ser Thomast?”
“I have…three onions I found. I think I’ve been looting someone’s fields.”
“Hm.”
Grimalkin of Pallass was a bit awkward, but he had noticed Thomast and Bethal, and Lady Pryde Ulta seemed to know them. He coughed into one fist.
“I understand we’re in a competition to see who can outlast the other. Tell me…if I may be direct, what is the reason you and your wife wished to take on Liscor Hunted? Prestige?”
Thomast shrugged as he felt at his frozen mustache.
“I think Bethal fancied it would lead to intimate moments. And yes, the prestige of it. And you?”
Grimalkin shivered in the cold. Despite his muscles—it was cold, wet, and he hadn’t eaten much of anything for a while. He’d found edible roots and been reminded that ‘edible’ was a broad term.
“I…wished to understand the nutritional challenges of a gathering society or one facing the prospect of acquiring food in a winter situation. How to adjust a diet for this kind of cold and challenge. To my surprise, Lady Pryde Ulta offered to join me. I think she was worried our partnership might fall apart, but she has not complained long.”
“I see.”
Thomast half-glanced at Grimalkin. The two men stood there in the snow, staring at the empty blue fruit trees. After a while, someone’s stomach rumbled, and the other’s joined it.
“Your wife seems to have a grudge against Lady Pryde.”
“Friendly rivalry. They care for each other, but then one gets on the other’s nerves.”
Grimalkin grunted.
“Understandable.”
More silence. They looked around at the snowbound landscape, and at length, Grimalkin muttered.
“If I remove the ‘no magic’ conditions I imposed, I could detect a Corusdeer Herd if one was around. Failing that, rabbits. Hardly nutritious.”
“Running down a Corusdeer isn’t that difficult. Carrying one back and skinning it in this cold?”
Both men considered doing that. At length—Thomast turned to Grimalkin.
“Sinew Magus. Is that how I should address you?”
“Magus or simply ‘Grimalkin’ will do.”
“Thank you. Magus—are you enjoying this?”
Grimalkin shivered.
“No. Not at all. Are you and your lady wife?”
“She would rather die than lose to Pryde. Beyond that? I think we would have left days ago if not for the competition.”
“I as well.”
Both turned to stare back the way they’d come and imagined another night of this. It was to both’s intense relief that the waving, pink [Knight] caught them.
“Sirs! Your wife—”
“Is Bethal alright?”
Thomast strode over to Ser Kerrig. The [Knight] was cold, having run all over the Floodplains, and he nodded.
“Yes! In fact, sir, she wishes to tell you that she and Lady Pryde—and a Miss Lyonette—are awaiting you at The Wandering Inn. There is apparently a ‘beach’ they intend to visit.”
Grimalkin and Thomast stood there in the snow and looked at each other. Then Grimalkin exhaled, and Thomast smiled.
“Excellent. Take us to the inn, then, Ser Kerrig.”
The remaining Petal Knight almost wept himself, and everyone turned as Kerrig pointed.
“Absolutely, Ser Thomast! It’s just…”
His pointing finger wavered left, then right, and then he realized they were at the bottom of one of the valleys. Kerrig turned around and realized…the snow and hills and valleys meant everything was obscured after a thousand paces.
They had no idea where the heck they were. Grimalkin muttered as Thomast sighed.
“I could jump up and cast [Seeker Flares]. Or a long-range [Detect Life] spell…”
“The mountains are there. If we triangulate and assume that we’re at one end of the valley, we can get to the middle and work our way around—”
Thomast was eying the High Passes for reference.
 
——
 
Four miserable men in the snow, two wearing bright pink armor, one the hugest Drake ever seen, the last a Silver-bell duelist.
The Vampire named Himilt, leaning on a walking stick, couldn’t wait to tell his wife about who the onion-thieves turned out to be. But he did clear his throat loudly.
“Excuse me.”
All of them jumped, especially Thomast and Grimalkin, who stared at him with actual shock because they hadn’t noticed his approach. Himilt pointed a gloved hand the way he’d come.
“Are you looking for the city or the inn? It’s that way.”
 
——
 
Thomast and Grimalkin chatted with the friendly [Farmer] who had found them. Himilt was reserved, but Thomast apologized profusely for the onion-theft, and Grimalkin owned that he, too, had found the onions in the snow.
“It was a late harvest. I am just surprised anyone would try to camp…in tents. Bamer found them on a walk, and you must have left. We’ve been searching for a goat and people dying in the cold this last day.”
“I apologize, sir. It was irresponsible of us to worry the locals. I will bring it up with Menolit—and apologize to all parties, including your wife and Lady Pryde. This was not a pleasant experience, or even a very formative one. I fear I’ve offended her.”
Grimalkin exhaled, considering the mood of his most charitable donor and ally, unlikely as she was, in the north.
“I am sure she’ll forgive you.”
“Perhaps. She’s far more charitable than the rumors of her indicated. Which is another failing of mine to give any credence to mere gossip. She’s been a guest of mine for two weeks, and I just worry that I’ve been a poor host.”
Thomast raised his brows, and Himilt turned his head as they bushwhacked through the snow back to the inn. The [Chevalier] considered his words, then went for it, like a daring sword piercing through snow.
“…I personally know Lady Pryde. I think it’s been at least a decade since she and I first met. She bestows her affections on few people, but she was taken with your ideas, Magus. She mentioned you to us when you first published your essays on the body.”
“Really? That’s flattering. She was one of the few people who engaged with my ideas at all before their widespread success.”
Grimalkin smiled, actually touched. Thomast nodded a few times. He waited a second.
“How is your relationship with Pryde, if I may ask?”
“Very respectful. Though again, I fear I’m being a poor host. I should just—abandon my work to give her the full Pallassian experience. She hasn’t said when she’ll leave, but she wanted to observe what I did in my element.”
Thomast muttered to himself.
“I see.”
“Huh.”
Himilt shook his head. And here he thought Vampires were hard-headed. Thomast, though, just waited a beat.
“I think Pryde quite likes you, Magus Grimalkin.”
The Sinew Magus had been leading the way through the snow with his strength. He slowed, then turned as The Wandering Inn came into view.
“Lady Pryde Ulta? Myself?”
Thomast gave him an encouraging smile. Himilt eyed the Drake’s blank expression. Then—Grimalkin chuckled. He shook his head, his smile turning rueful as he folded his arms.
“That’s quite kind of you to say. But she is a [Lady] of the north, and I am a Drake soldier—at least partially—of a Walled City. I can’t imagine an odder match.”
“Stranger things have been known to happen.”
Himilt couldn’t level up, but he too went for the [Wingman] class. So this was how the [Lord of Love and Wine] counterlevelled. He was needed across Izril it seemed.
Yet Grimalkin was an intelligent Drake. He noted both Thomast’s and Himilt’s expressions. He could add two and two together, even if sometimes he got ‘time travel’ instead of ‘interdimensional travel’.
So why…? He gave them a slow shake of the head.
“Gentlemen. I understand how it may look from a purely aerial view, but I am not—my appearance is only conventionally attractive to Selphids. I am the Sinew Magus of Pallass, and I am well aware of the facts. It would not do to accuse a [Lady] of, what?”
He snapped his claws.
“Gold digging? It doesn’t even apply since House Ulta is far richer than I could hope to be. Let’s say no more of it.”
Thomast slowly nodded, and they headed towards the inn. He rubbed at his frozen skin and decided he needed food first—then he’d report to Bethal and let her scream about it.
Poor Pryde. But it also told him something about the Sinew Magus that perhaps no one, not even Erin Solstice, had yet observed.
Strange. Ego on one side, if fragile, and a lack of it.
 
——
 
Erin Solstice could only shake her head when she heard the story of the frozen [Ladies] and [Princess].
“Lyonette, when I said, ‘go find something to do’, I didn’t mean that. Miss Colfa! Thank you for saving them. I didn’t see you in the beach! Wanna come in? Food and drinks are on me!”
The Vampire woman bowed.
“We didn’t want to impose on Serafierre’s domain, Miss Erin.”
“Nonsense. Her friends are my friends. I mean—welcome to the inn. You have permission to enter.”
Colfa tilted her head, a bit confused by the wording, but Erin was motioning them in. She opened the door, and the Vampires walked into—
“It’s sunlight!”
Rivel, Fierre’s brother, shot out of the bright garden like a bullet, and Erin slapped her forehead. Oh no! But then Colfa shaded her face, and to her bemusement…
“It’s magical light. Isn’t it?”
It didn’t bother her. When the Lischelle-Drakle family realized that—they were in the beach like a shot.
“Get Octavia’s sunscreen! Huh. I guess that even if it’s tanning light…it’s not the same as sunlight. Better keep them away from my garden, though.”
Magic law was weird, but fun. And the sight of the Vampires walking around the beach—not to mention Lyonette hanging out with the two [Ladies]—was good.
In fact, the cold, hungry winter meant that Pryde and Bethal were on the beach like a shot, and Lyonette herself had fully gotten back on board with the beach. When Thomast and Grimalkin appeared, they just stared at the bright, warm land beyond and turned to Erin.
“Hey. I heard you nerds were sitting in the cold. Get in my beach.”
She gave them finger-guns with a grin. Erin stared at both’s faces, one blankly polite, the other resigned with exasperation. She gave up.
“Come on in!”
 
——
 
There was only one hiccup with the new guests to the beach, and that was when a Liscorian Gnoll objected to Colfa and Himilt.
“Hey! Wait! They’re sick! Don’t let the sickies in! Remember Yellow Rivers?”
He pointed at Colfa’s rash and Himilt’s unusual swollen neck. Lyonette turned, and Erin was on him.
“They’re not sick with anything contagious. Hey, who are you? I don’t know you. Are you one of my guests? Because you don’t look it.”
“Hold on, I know Ekirra—”
“Really? Well, you’re off the welcome list. Because Ekirra’s ‘friends’ are all short like him. Bouncers! Bounce this guy out!”
Erin waved a hand, and Alcaz and Peggy appeared. The Gnoll was ejected, and Lyonette went over to apologize to Colfa.
“Not at all, Miss Lyonette. We have long been—sick, but it isn’t pestilential.”
“No, that was inexcusable. And you are all welcome guests here! And tonight! And tomorrow! I shan’t hear a word against it, Miss Colfa. Or you, Lady Bethal, Lady Pryde. If nothing else, I can offer you rooms.”
Bethal clapped her hands in delight as she gazed around, starry-eyed.
“I’ll take them! One room, and this lovely beach shall be my home! Thomast! This is far better than what I dragged us into! Why didn’t you stop me?”
“I never try to stop you when I know there’s no use, my love.”
