“Splendid! With whom?”
“No one.”
“Oh, just for fun? Well, it seems it’s done you w-well. That reminds me of being a girl again. I did it all the time, and they’d hunt me down like a deer. Tracking hounds and all. They even sicced Gralton on me one time, that obstinate hound of a man.”
Lyonette paused. Was Bethal…approving? She had been used to people being sympathetic or understanding, but no one, not even Erin herself, had instantly led with ‘that was a good idea’. Yet Bethal looked delighted.
“You did? All the time?”
“My dear. I hung out with Magnolia and Ressa and all the lot. Wuvren—do you know her? The most sought-after [Lady] in Izril, you know—she was the woman of the lot who kept up with us. She looks however she pleases, but we were the girls who got in trouble and had to duck Lady Zanthia back in the day. Me, Wuvren, Magnolia, that arrogant bitch, Ressa…”
Bethal was so busy reminiscing that neither she nor Lyonette noticed the second Flatfish coming for the ‘bait’ until it was almost on top of them.
“Argh!”
Both fled as Sest raised his shield, calculated trajectory, and saw the Flatfish land in the snow and begin flopping around. Bethal turned, catching herself, and Lyonette gasped.
“It worked!”
She hadn’t expected it to! But the Flatfish was captured! Or rather, it lay, flopping and gasping, staring up at her with a set of eyes—and a lot of teeth in its huge mouth.
It was as odd as she remembered it. Flatfish looked like a sideways fish that had decided that symmetry was stupid and that it should put all its mouth, organs, and eyes on one part of the body. They liked to swim along riverbeds, staring ‘up’ at the world and leaping at potential prey.
“Ew. Disgusting. I’m going to eat that?”
Bethal was mildly horrified, but she was also salivating. She had to be very hungry, but Lyonette had eaten the fish before, and she turned.
“Let’s grab it. We’ve done it, Lady Walchaís. It might be heavy, but perhaps you could let your [Knights] handle it?”
“No, this is a job for [Ladies]. I may break the spirit of the game, but I couldn’t look Thomast in the eye if I let them do everything. Will you help me haul it back? And, uh…gut it? Perhaps he could, but I want to show him.”
Now Bethal was excited, and Lyonette agreed to help. Though…it looked to be twenty pounds, this fish. It was massive and still flopping around.
“Poor thing. Where’s my dagger? Let’s kill it fast.”
Bethal was surprisingly merciless even with the gasping fish flopping around. Lyonette felt a bit bad, and she reached for her own sword to put it out of its misery. The fish flopped more as it saw her approach then—
The Flatfish bounced off the ground, arced, and slapped Lyonette in the face with its entire body. She went over backwards with a shout, and it fell back into the water.
Stunned, fish-slapped, and now wet, Lyonette lay on her back. Had it just…? 
The Flatfish could get back in the water! Bethal shouted in frustration as she ran over.
“No! Lyonette, are you—”
The fish came back for more. Bethal dodged as it leapt at her, but it was fast—and this time, Welca was ready.
“Your ladyship!”
The fish hit her armor, bounced into the stream, losing two teeth on the enchanted, pink plate. Welca barely stumbled. She turned—
And saw Bethal was face-first on the hard snow. Lyonette, picking herself up and feeling a cut on her cheek from the fish’s scales, saw Bethal had an impressive nosebleed.
“Thank you…Welca…”
The [Lady]’s eyes were extremely bright. Welca began bowing as the three [Knights] felt a tremulation in their souls.
“I am so sorry, Lady Walchaís! Please punish me for—”
“No, no. It wasn’t your fault. Was it, Princess Lyonette?”
“Not at all. It was the fish. What a slap.”
Lyonette’s voice was too-cool. She and Bethal stood there, and Ser Kerrig tried to interject.
“Perhaps, your ladyships, this is the time to return to The Wandering Inn for rest? I could signal the other [Knight] with Ser Thomast…”
“Absolutely not. Don’t be stupid, Ser Kerrig. That fish is going to die.”
“Yes, it is. In a stew. A lovely, hot stew.”
Lyonette had never gutted a fish from scratch; Erin just bought them from the shops, but she stared at the river, then turned to Bethal.
“Do you think it’d go for bait again?”
Bethal cracked her knuckles, smiling despite the freezing blood on her face.
“Why, I can vary it. What about a lovely rabbit this time?”
 
——
 
The Flatfish wasn’t stupid. It had to know that a random chicken and now a rabbit weren’t real and that there was something dangerous and tough up on the surface.
On the other hand, it had nearly taken a bite out of both very tender-looking women, and so after a few jumps to feint itself out of the water, it went for another bite.
It missed. The [Princess] who’d been acting as bait while holding the ‘rabbit’ cartwheeled out of the way in a [Flawless Dodge]. She caught herself, and the [Lady] rushed forwards as the fish tried to flop itself back into the water.
“Get it!”
She and Lyonette began kicking and trying to stab the Flatfish on the ground. It fought back. Despite being a fish on land that could only splash about…this one had a tackle attack too.
The fish of nemesis flopped up, twisted, and headbutted Lyonette in the chin. Bethal was trying to kick it with her boots when it slammed into her kneecap. Then it escaped into the water as the two tried to stab it with dagger and sword.
“Get back here!”
The fact that a [Lady] of Izril and a [Princess] of Calanfer were losing to one ornery fish was something none of the three uncomfortable [Knights] mentioned. They stood there, like blind statues, not saying anything to Bethal and Lyonette, who dared them to so much as laugh.
“We need…a net. Something to keep it down. Then—skktch!”
Bethal drew a line across her throat. Lyonette agreed. The fish was so tough that she understood why Erin had once cut herself; her sword had bounced off the fish as it flopped because she hadn’t gotten a good angle or swing.
“Why bother with a sword? I say we drag it out into the snow and let it freeze and suffocate.”
“Oh, good idea. In fact—let me use my aura next time. It’ll hit me, and I’ll tear it to shreds.”
“Can you do that?”
“I can pierce steel if I’m angry enough. Let’s let it try.”
They were scheming how to win this time when, out of this cold winter un-wonderland—a storm of ice and falling snow, frigid, below-zero temperatures, and wind chill—someone else walked out of the snow like she was having a stroll.
It was inconceivable that so many idiots were out here. But as it turned out—this particular idiot knew Bethal, and their proximity was no accident.
“Ah. Bethal. So you did survive another night. But it seems you need help. Heh. Thomast must pick up the slack.”
Bethal turned white—then red, and she swung around slowly as one of her friends, enemies, and certainly biggest of rivals walked out of the snow. Lyonette turned and stared.
This woman had almost no clothes on. That was to say—she scorned a jacket or even a second layer of clothes. She was not naked by any means. She wore a bright, yellow tracksuit that she seemed to have fallen in love with as her style. It matched some of her house’s colors, and the black lines gave her a fast, imperial look, as did her face.
Arrogance was not enough to describe Lady Pryde Ulta. Pride…pride was a good summation. And right now, she was smirking down at Bethal.
“Pryde. Having fun relying on your [Mage] to do all the work?”
“As a matter of fact, we haven’t needed to use magic at all. This is rigorous endurance training. And yes, privation in cold weather. Magus Grimalkin is hunting for blue fruits. I’m acquiring fish.”
Pryde Ulta looked at the river, and Lyonette realized she’d come for the only other guaranteed source of meat around Liscor. No wonder Grimalkin hadn’t shown up for the beach!
He and Pryde were camping together? Bethal didn’t seem happy for her friend. If anything, she and Pryde, whom Lyonette thought were supposed to be close, looked ready to fight.
“Well, you’re fishing too? I should have known you’d copy my moves. As a matter of fact, I’ve caught three fish so far.”
“Oh? Three, you say?”
Pryde eyed Bethal’s and Lyonette’s disheveled faces and the lack of any actual fish. Bethal colored.
“Yes! I just haven’t managed to secure them! I wish you all the luck. They’re harder to catch than you think, you know.”
“Hmm.”
Pryde went to the river, and now it was a contest. Bethal hissed at Lyonette.
“You must help me beat her.”
“Is she why you’ve been out here?”
Lyonette glanced at the [Lady] of House Ulta. Two high-level [Ladies] in Liscor? Times were changing, but Bethal just glared.
“Of course! She comes over with her new Drake ‘partner’ in their annoying workouts—have you seen House Ulta and their obsession with those damn weights? Then she has the gall to tell me they’ll do better! She even claimed Thomast couldn’t last as long as the Sinew Magus! I won’t repeat what she said about me.”
“Dead. Weight.”
Pryde called over, and Bethal’s eyes flashed. The [Lady of Pride] turned her head.
“Prove me wrong.”
Bethal strode over to the river.
“Lyonette, let’s lure that fish out, and I’ll skewer it. Come on!”
Lyonette was on Bethal’s side here. She hadn’t forgotten what had happened with Liscor, and Pryde’s dismissive look towards her rubbed her the wrong way. In fact, the [Lady] did nod to her.
“Princess Lyonette of Calanfer.”
“Lady Pryde. How do you do?”
“Well. I’m surprised to see Calanfer’s high-and-mighty lot condescending to Izril for so long. Perhaps you’ve learned respect for your cousins?”
High-and-mighty? She was saying—Lyonette snapped back fast.
“I’ve certainly seen more of Izril than any noble family! And it’s so funny to see you in Magus Grimalkin’s company, Lady Ulta. I knew him far longer, and better, whereas you only discovered him after a long time of twiddling your thumbs up in the north.”
Pryde paused a moment, and her face didn’t change, but she sounded irked as Bethal gave Lyonette an encouraging smirk.
“Calanferians do talk so. And travel, it’s true. The only thing your kingdom seems to be good at. Not fighting. The Dawn Concordat could have used an ally in the war, not a dead weight. But then, I suppose that was why you were in Izril—to scout the way in case the royal family needed to flee and abandon their allies. Are you bristling? By all means, send your Thronebearer to accost me. I don’t require a bodyguard…and yours might get snow on me before I put him down. Oh, and to hear Magus Grimalkin tell it, he came to The Wandering Inn and Erin Solstice. He never really mentioned your involvement.”
The [Lady] of House Ulta had made two enemies today. Lyonette and Lyonette’s boot, which was going to kick her into the river. Bethal was already against her, but the [Lady] stopped the [Princess] from trying it.
“Don’t do it. You’ll break your foot if you try her. She’s all ego. Plus, I’m pretty sure she doesn’t know how to fish. Let’s get ours and show her what’s what.”
They did their best. But the problem was that even a Flatfish learned not to fall for the aura-gambit after three attempts. Even when Bethal spread her arms in front of the water, the fish refused to go for her.
Pryde was just staring into the water, clearly trying to work out how to get the fish out of the stream. She touched the water with a bare hand—she was either immune to the cold or tough as nails, Lyonette had to admit. Pryde shivered.
“That’s cold as Zanthia’s heart.”
“Isn’t it? It’s colder than Lady Etruthi’s bedsheets.”
“Colder than your cooking pot last night, certainly.”
Bethal nearly leapt at Pryde, and Lyonette had to actually grab her from behind to keep her back. Bethal was so hungry that she gave up after half a minute, and Pryde, smirking, seemed to come to a decision.
“I noticed you firing your aura off, Bethal. Let me show you how it’s done.”
Then—she rolled up one sleeve and plunged her bare arm into the stream. Lyonette gasped.
“No, wait! It’ll—”
Too late. The fish bit and churned the water up as it took Pryde’s arm off at the elbow. Lyonette covered her mouth, waiting for the blood, the—
Pryde pulled her arm up out of the water with a grunt. She flexed her arm, and Lyonette saw a lot of compact muscle suddenly flex.
She was the one who’d trained with the weights. And she pulled the same damn fish out of the water as it bit furiously—then realized its sharp teeth weren’t even dimpling her flesh.
“[Pride is Unbreakable].”
Pryde tossed the fish aside and then stood there, raising her hands and smiling victoriously. She gazed down at Bethal and Lyonette, and the two stared at her. Then she walked over, picked up the fish, struck it against the ground in one blow that made it stop moving, and heaved it onto her shoulder. She walked back through the snow—and then turned theatrically.
“Oh, I’ll see you back at your camp, Bethal. I thought we should socialize as the only two out here, so I moved our tent near yours. Good luck fishing.”
Then she strode off. Bethal covered her face with her gloves for a long moment, then exhaled.
“Lyonette? Lend me your sword.”
Without a word, Lyonette handed it to her.
 
——
 
Lady Pryde Ulta’s camp was two tents, not the large single tent that was packed against the ice and snow practically covering it.
Neither looked pleasant, but Bethal’s murderous mood turned cheerful the moment she saw Pryde’s camp.
“Oho. Two tents? How sad. Let me put her out of her misery. Lyonette, you distract her, and I’ll chop her head off.”
She motioned Lyonette left, and the [Princess] wasn’t sure if Bethal would actually take a swing at Pryde. Maybe…the [Lady]’s ego could probably stop a sword swing.
However, their rapid pursuit of Pryde turned out to have a net positive even better than murder. And that was the sight of Pryde Ulta, emerging from her tent, covered in a huge cloak and winter clothing as she stomped around the dead fish lying in the snow.
The instant she saw Bethal, poised with the sword, and Lyonette behind her tent, Pryde tossed the garments off her.
Her card-face was amazingly good, but Bethal smiled like a Demon filled with glee.
“Oh, my, don’t pretend for my sake, Pryde. Cold, are we?”
Without a word, Pryde bent over her fish. She produced a knife and studied her catch with distaste.
“I notice you’ve given up on the competition, Bethal. I’m just regulating my body temperature.”
