Thomast was smiling as he took his shirt off, and Dame Ushar, who had not moved markedly, sighed happily. Ser Sest, though, just gave Thomast a look of such feeling that Lyonette threw a clump of sand at him.
“Is that Lord Sammial and Lord Hethon running around over there?”
Pryde stared about, but even she had changed into a yellow bikini outfit that was cut from the same shiny cloth. She and Bethal looked at each other, then at Lyonette.
“Well, this is far better than the snow. Princess Lyonette—no, I shall call you Lyonette, and you can call me Bethal. You’re far more fun than Magnolia let on!”
“Why, thank you. I admit, I didn’t see how valuable the beach was until I froze a bit. That’s been a turning point for me—twice. I just didn’t have much to do in the inn—I’ve been working mostly and taking care of Mrsha over there.”
Bethal and Pryde—and even Colfa—listened to Lyonette describing her work, and Bethal gave Pryde the fish-eye until Pryde nodded. Colfa asked Lyonette about raising Mrsha as a Gnoll child, and Bethal whispered to Pryde while Lyonette was distracted.
“Dead gods. Magnolia made her out to be a spoiled brat. Not some working mother without a life!”
“Hm. We should introduce her around. It’s not like everyone doesn’t know her.”
“Pryde, that is the best idea you’ve had all day.”
“I know. Let’s do that. But later—”
 
——
 
“Miss Lyonette, you must join us for this beach, and I shall hear only ‘yes’! This is magnificent—Pryde, what are you doing?”
The [Lady] stood in front of a ten foot tall wave along with Relc, Ekirra, and several brave idiots. It crashed over her, and she turned as she refused to be moved. Her feet had sunk into the sand.
[Pride is Weight].
“Having fun. What are you doing?”
Bethal tugged a blindfold up slightly, covering her husband’s eyes.
“It’s this novel idea! There’s a melon—he’s got a sword, and he’ll try to hit it blind! How many people die during this game, Miss Solstice?”
“None! It’s supposed to be a wooden sword and a watermelon! But hey, this is fun. Everyone back up!”
The two [Ladies] jumped into the beach experience so fast Lyonette was jealous. But to her amazement—Pryde dragged her into the water, insisting on meeting Mrsha, and Bethal was up to a scheme of her own.
“Welca, no objections! You can go on break after you get me a [Mage] from Invrisil. Hurry it up! Left, Thomast! Left—hit the melon!”
Both [Ladies] were having fun at the beach! Lyonette was all too grateful for the heat after so much cold, but she hesitated because the reason she had initially left reappeared as an objection.
“Pryde, Bethal—what about our appearances? We’re out here. It’s immodest, don’t you think?”
They were both wearing the skimpy clothing Lyonette objected to so much. Pryde turned her head, raising her brows with clear skepticism, and Bethal looked askance at Lyonette.
“My dear. Has Zanthia been talking to you? Some prudes from…you are Calanferian, but surely Queen Ielane knows the value of showing skin?”
“Not the monarchy! Or even a [Lady]—don’t you feel stared at?”
Lyonette turned and glowered, and several beach-goers—and Liska—looked away, pretending not to have been staring. Bethal laughed loudly.
“Lyonette, that’s called ‘being attractive’, and I take it as a compliment. Now, if someone stared too much, I’d have Thomast kill them. But there’s something to being comfortable in your skin. I am very comfortable.”
“Too much.”
Pryde agreed, but she turned to face Lyonette, and she smirked as she flexed in the surf. A real Grimalkin flex; Grev turned from playing beach volleyball, and his eyes popped as he saw muscles appear on the [Lady of Pride]’s form, concealed by her Skill. Pryde nodded at him as Grev stared until the volleyball hit him in the back of the head.
“That’s a proper reaction. I did not pump metal for months to hide it away. You take care of your hair and skin. That’s a proper manicure. Did you do it yourself?”
Lyonette jumped and almost hid her fingernails, which she had been taking more care of, since she had more time and a bit of spending money.
“I had help—”
“My dear. You spent time on yourself. Don’t think of it as showing too much, and by all means, cover up if you have to. But think of it as showing off.”
And that perspective made Lyonette’s attitude change. The two [Ladies] helped, but Lyonette realized not a lot of the glances were, as she thought, judging. If anyone even cared, like the kids, who didn’t—she saw Bethal turn and beam.
“There’s too much to have fun with to worry about skin showing. Thomast! The melon!”
She was clapping her hands, and Lyonette lost track of her as they entered the water, then began swimming around, and she found it wasn’t hard, especially when she realized Pryde swam worse than her.
But the [Lady] was trying, and when Mrsha laughed her ass off, the [Lady] used her Skill.
[Pride is Weight].
She walked on the bottom of the water after the terrified girl, like some ultra-heavy Golem. Then Pryde followed her out of the water like some unstoppable pursuer from the depths. And Lyonette betrayed Mrsha by giving her to the Drowned Lady, whereupon Pryde tossed a screaming Mrsha into the water.
“No one mocks m—”
A jet of water hit Pryde in the face. Mrsha lowered her wand as the [Lady]’s eyes narrowed. She fled as Pryde began to stride after her—and then Nanette splashed her.
“Run for it, Mrsha!”
Lyonette and Pryde chased after the girls and ran straight into a water-fight that turned into a real war when several [Mages] began casting water spells. Erin eventually had to build a literal sand-wall to protect the other beachgoers from the water war. Especially since some dirty fighters contending for love, honor, and valor on the beach, like Typhenous, were willing to both cast [Water Jet] and nail Mrsha in the face with a mudball.
 
——
 
Bethal found Pryde and Lyonette as they were drying off with a huge smile, and she brought something new to the beach. A panting, wide-eyed [Mage] had run all the way from Invrisil’s Mage’s Guild.
“Alright, where’s that cute little girl? Thomast, get over here—and Lyonette, you too! Pryde, you’ll get yours.”
The half-threat made the [Lady] look up from applying the suntan lotion to her skin. Tan, not block, as she liked Erin’s look.
“What’s that? Oh—another good idea.”
“Isn’t it? I’ll want at least three dozen copies, and I am paying for as many spell casts as Lyonette and Pryde want, alright?”
“Yes, Lady Walchaís! I’m ready whenever.”
The [Mage] stepped back and, to Lyonette’s bemusement, held up two ‘L’-shapes with her fingers to form a rectangle in the air. She stared as Bethal called over Thomast, who, bare-chested, stood next to her as she adjusted the towel around her. They stood with their backs to the beach, and Bethal pursed her lips.
“Lyonette, you hold Mrsha here…stop squirming, Mrsha, isn’t it? Stare at the [Mage]…”
What are you doing? Why am I being taken from fun? You’re not my mom! Mother, do something about this rapscallious woman!
Mrsha complained, and Lyonette stared at the [Mage]—and the woman spoke.
“[Magic Picture]!”
“Get our best look!”
Lyonette gasped—then tried to keep her face serene and composed. A picture? Mrsha eyed her and tickled her, and the [Princess] started laughing.
“No, Mrsha, stop! Lady Bethal—”
“No, this is perfect! This is what you should do, Lyonette. Pictures! It costs a bit, but they’re for memories. Memories of all the wonderful moments.”
Bethal’s eyes shone, and Lyonette realized—that had never occurred to her. Pictures? Suddenly—she had to have them all. She turned, and Lady Pryde was listening to a little speech by one of the Wishdrinks hosts.
“Pryde, you’re next! It shall be the two of us facing a wave down or something action-packed. I cannot wait to show this to all the [Ladies]. I’ll hire a Courier. While they freeze their bunions off, they’ll receive a picture of us here.”
Pryde smiled evilly as she turned and nodded. Then she pointed.
“And you will all join me for these late-night activities. I hear there are ‘fireworks’, or light spells, and games at night.”
Late night tag! Erin’s going to make a huge whirlpool! Mother, let’s do it!
“Well—why not?”
Bethal was laughing at the thought.
“Very well, Pryde, and we have to do some scheming for your war. No objections—you need my help, because this time, you’re up against a foe worse than Lord Stoneface Veltras himself. We’ll have to send for Pellmia! Later, later. And you won’t get me for the entire night on the beach. I’m going to need some time alone later.”
Her eyes twinkled, and Lyonette found herself giggling, and Pryde grumbled in her ear.
“She’s always like this. Say…do you know if the Magus has a favorite food?”
And there it was. Lyonette finally had all the fun she had been missing. All she needed was the right crew.
Vampires, [Ladies], and even [Knights] allowed to have fun.
…Bethal and Thomast were the first to get kicked out of the beach that night. Not because Erin Solstice noticed. She was trying not to notice everything in the beach-Garden and eventually just turned off her perception of the entire space, as Laken had long-since learned to do.
Rather, it was when the other couples began to file noise complaints that Erin Solstice had to take action.
 
——
 
Oh, and one last thing. That night, a single [Spy] who had been sad about their permanent surveillance of The Wandering Inn—in the freezing cold because it was impossible to get inside—sent a rather lengthy report to several clients.
“Optional intelligence. Would you care to purchase a magical recording? A [Princess] and a [Lady] Versus a Fish? What in the name of…”
Niers Astoragon hesitated and wondered if he was being extorted, but it wasn’t ‘intelligence’ proper. He sent a few gold over and then received an entire magical [Scrying] spell that his [Diviner] had to grumpily copy over.
The effort and expense turned into a projection on a scrying orb that Niers watched as he yawned and attended a very late-night planning session with some of the Fraerlings on the campaign. Commander Rozcal snorted his drink out his nose, and Niers stopped laughing long enough to wheeze.
“Someone…someone get Foliana and tell her it’s urgent. I need fifteen copies. Send one to Calanfer! Please!”
 
——
 
King Fetohep of Khelt rubbed at his brows, but the laughter of his subjects was a good thing, so he murmured to the side.
“It seems I have another form of entertainment. Put a bounty out for any other such…tidbits. And broadcast this clandestinely for my people to see. Perhaps…obscure their faces?”
He looked at the image and snorted.
 
 
[Worldly Princess Level 29!]
[Skill – Traveller’s Advancing Techniques obtained!]
[Skill Change – Basic Cooking → Seafood Cooking obtained!]
[Skill – Seafood Cooking Obtained!]
 
[Conditions Met: Clandestine Spy → Spy of the Captured Moment class!]
[Spy of the Captured Moment Level 30!]
[Bound Spell – Scrying obtained!]
[Skill – Record Spell obtained!]
[Skill – Deepened Magical Crystals obtained!]
[Skill – Lesser Frost Resistance obtained!]
