“Show me those numbers!” Max nearly yelled as he stumbled into the office and practically fell onto the desk to get the sheets of paper. Edward laughed again and handed the papers over. Max looked through the reams of data, and followed it's progression.

“Well, dammit.” Max said. “How did we get this many people so close to maxing out their Fame?”

“There's about 50 that already have, and they're doing every side quest they can get their hands on to make themselves popular with the local NPCs.” Elise said. “50 Fame for rescuing a farmer's goat is nothing when you're building up to 10,000; but, once you get to that point, 50 Fame becomes a bonus of 500 XP on top of the XP for the quest.” She explained. “I checked the message boards, and found that it's kind of a hidden secret for low level players to mine for Fame. They're posting how to complete specific repeatable quests that give the most Fame, and once they unlock the Fame bonus, their low levels jump up pretty fast.”

“But... that doesn't explain...”

“Once their Fame is maxed for a local area, they do the main quests.” Elise said. “The Fame bonuses convert to XP, and they gain 5 to 10 times the XP for it than they would for doing the mission normally.”

“Damn.” Max said.

“They can take their Fame bonus with them to a new area, as long as they do a few little quests for the NPCs to spread their name.” Elise said and smiled. “If you can believe it, there's even a few detailed maps telling you where to go to do it.” She pointed to one of the sheets. “That's a list of the local NPCs in the main Starter City of Aurora that give the highest Fame for doing odd jobs for them.”

“That... that wasn't how that was supposed to work.” Max said. “It was supposed to be an extra bonus for people knowing you, not something to grind and exploit!”

Edward had sat there and watched the exchange, then tapped his desk with his finger. “If you change that multiplier, we are going to get mobbed with hundreds...”

“Thousands.” Elise corrected.

“...thousands of complaints about it.” Edward said.

Max looked at Elise. “You could have told me this before.”

“I didn't know this before.” Elise said, and he looked at her skeptically. “Honest!” She said and raised her right hand like she was swearing to tell the truth in a courtroom. “I was sorting through the data to see what kind of impact it would have, and literally stumbled on the Fame modifier.”

Max sighed and sat down in a chair. “Then I don't know what to do.”

“Do nothing.” Edward said, and Elise and Max looked at him.

“What?” They said at the same time.

“This is an exploit we didn't plan for in the game, but it's become an integral part of a lot of player's thinking. We can't change it.”

“But-” Max started to say.

“What about Ren?” Elise cut Max off. “He lost over 300,000 excess Honor!”

Edward nodded. “Max is right in that respect, unfortunately. It gave an error, because Ren exceeded the cap for the stat.” He said. “Any subsequent gains were cancelled by the system.”

“But-” Elise tried to say.

“I'll talk with Max and see if we can come up with something to make it up to Ren; but, I can't in good conscience give him 3,312,000 XP for a mistake.” Edward said.

“Can't you at least give him the XP up to the cap?” Elise asked. “He really does deserve some recognition for what he did!”

Edward shook his head. “Ren's pretty important to this company; but, he hasn't even dealt with all of the gains Charles has inadvertently given him yet. I can't pile another large amount of levels and the things they unlock on top of that.”

“But, sir!” Elise said.

“Max and I will deal with it.” Edward said. “I'm sure we'll come up with something appropriate for him.” He smiled. “Like you've pointed out, he's brought in more players in the last month than we had for the first year of operation. I'm going to take good care of him; so, don't worry about it.”

“But...”

“Thank you for bringing this to my attention.” Edward said. “Please hold my calls while Max and I discuss this.”

Elise nodded, picked up her USB drive, and stood up. “Just so you know, unlike the examples I gave, Ren didn't do it for gains or to manipulate the system, sir.” She said in Ren's defence. “He was just being himself and it happened.” She turned and left the office, then shut the door behind her.

I'm sorry, Ren. Elise thought as she sat down at her desk. I tried. She looked at the USB in her hand. If they don't come up with something good to make it up to you, I'll release the info about the error and the footage of your title. She smiled. If it comes down to it, we'll see if popular opinion can sway their minds.

*

“Do you think she'll come back to visit?” Ren asked Stella when she came back into the room.

“I certainly hope so.” Stella said. “She's kinda cute.”

Ren chuckled. “Are you getting certain ideas about her?”

“Not for myself.” Stella said. “I haven't dipped my toe in that end of the pool.” She winked at him. “Not yet, anyways.”

*

Much to her surprise, the taxi driver told Lisa that he would wait for her.

How much did Stella pay him? Lisa asked herself as she went into the mall. She looked at the store directory, and found the location of the store called Jacques. She followed the directions to the right spot, and it looked like any other clothing store.

I wonder why this one is so special? Lisa thought as she walked inside.

“Hello, there!” The sales lady said enthusiastically. “How can I help you today?”

“Um... I... ah...” Lisa stammered. “Ren...”

“You must be Lisa.” The sales lady said. “Stella called and told us to take care of you.” She smiled. “Just a moment.” She leaned into the back room behind the counter. “The young woman Stella called about is here.”

“Great!” Lily said and came out of the back room. “Hi, Lisa. I'm Lily.”

“Um... hi.”

“Oh, don't be shy.” Lily said. “Bathing suits. Any preferences?”

Lisa thought about what Ren had told her, that he had embarrassed himself by saying 'see-through' out loud, and her face flushed a little red.

“Let's go browse a few things, and we'll see what fits well.” Lily said. “Right this way.”

Lisa walked behind her over to the swimwear, because she was pretty sure that if she didn't go willingly, Lily would have dragged her.

“So, one piece? Two piece? String?” Lily asked and held up an example of each.

Lisa looked down at herself and her small chest. “One piece.”

Lily smiled. “You'd be surprised the magic some of these things have.” She said, and picked up a nice two piece. “See that? It's got slightly thicker padding on the underside that tapers to the front. It really gives a nice boost to the girls.”

Lisa thought that was a good idea. “I guess I could try one of them.” She said. “After the one piece.”

Lily nodded and grabbed a few different styles of each. “Anything else?”

“Well...” Lisa said. “I had... an idea. Kind of.”

“Ooo, do tell!” Lily said. “I'm always up for a good idea.”

“Do you...” Lisa's face flushed red again. “...have something that kind of becomes see-through when it gets wet?”
