"You must think I'm weak. I understand why, but please, try to understand my position. I failed my exams, yet Obolis threw me into an internship for ruling. I failed the goals of my internship, yet he appointed me as the controller of Belegara. I failed the standard productivity protocols for the planet, yet he still demanded I do it."

I leaned back. I opened a can of worms bringing this up. Florence dragged his hands across his face,

"It's obvious I don't want to do it, but I still am dragged into authority each and every time I fall. Obolis, he means a lot to me, but I am not the person he wants me to be. I wish I was, but I'm not."

I kept working as he paused. I stirred something up that he obviously wanted to talk about, so I just let the guy vent for now. After channeling some mana into my grimoire, I floated a few glowing cipher inscriptions onto a new golem I constructed earlier. Florence gazed on in awe, his earlier turmoil fading,

"I've never seen someone use runes like that. It's strange yet stunning."

I scratched the side of my head, "Honestly, this is me trying to compensate for how these golems are about as smart as cloth. I'm trying to get them further along, but they learn so damn slowly. It's a refreshing challenge since it's different then what I'm used to doing, but yeah, emphasis on challenge."

Florence narrowed his eyes, "What are they for?"

"To walk through dungeons and clear them out for people. They're not ready, not by a long shot, but they have the potential."

Florence blinked, dumbfounded by what I said. He tilted his head, "What material did you make them out of? You do know that certain eldritch eat dark iron, right?"

I grabbed a piece of my forearm before tearing the skin off. As I did, Florence gazed on in horror. He fumbled backward as I lifted the metal with a gravity well before melting it. I turned to him as my skin wobbled in a glowing orb,

"They can't eat this. This can eat them though."

Florence gawked between me and the orb, his eyes growing distant. He stood up, walking over to me,

"You're supposed to be a soft, backwater savage, but here you are-"

I pushed him back with a telekinetic wave while moving the glowing metal away from him. He stood his ground, his feet dragging through the grass and stones. I tilted my head towards the orb,

"Sorry about the shove, but you'd have ignited if you got any closer. I didn't want your clothes to catch fire."

Florence's jaw went slack as he let out a nervous chuckle. The cackle kept going until it evolved into a heralding, deep laughter. He laughed until he was letting out tears, something about the situation just absurdly funny to the guy.

It was my turn to gawk at him.

"Uh, you ok?"

Florence wiped away a tear from his eye, "You know, you have a way of making my problems seem so small."

I shook my head with disgust, "Fuck. Was it that obvious what I was thinking?"

"It, in fact, wasn't. I was talking more about what you worry about. You're over here thinking about how to end the eldritch or stop me from catching on fire. I'm wallowing over some petty, personal struggle. It's like I broke a fingernail, and I'm complaining about it to someone who's starving to death."

I tapped the orb of metal beside me with a finger, making the sphere wobble above my hand,

"Eh, problems are relative. If you think about it, my problems don't even revolve around me. I'll never have to worry about eldritch again, and you catching fire doesn't mean I'm in any danger. If anything, I have so few problems that I'm trying to make some for myself."

I turned to Florence, "At least your problems are your own. You have people that expect the world from you. Besides-"

I stared at a golem,

"Sometimes, it's easier to defy expectations rather than meet them."

Florence crossed his arms, "You'd be Obolis's favorite nephew. Of that, I have no doubt."

"Maybe."

"Where's your doubt coming from?"

I reshaped the glowing orb into the middle section of a golem using gravitation. Wielding a burst of quintessent energy, I flash froze the metal. It screeched before flopping onto the ground. It cracked earth and crushed stone as I said,

"Obolis and I would have butted heads all the time. Besides, I wasn't doing well with my formal education either. At least not when the system arrived. If anything, I was a lot like you."

"We shall agree to disagree." He brushed himself off, "I hope you've learned what you needed to know. If you'd allow, I'd like to return to my new quarters to rest. This was a fascinating conversation, but we have quite a bit to do tomorrow. I'd like to tackle it with a clear, well rested mind."

I nodded, "Sure thing. I'll try and think up what you'll be doing in the meantime."

Florence gave me a slight bow, pressing a fist against his palm,

"As always, for Schema."

I laughed at his sarcasm as he walked off. Turning back to my work, I thought up what he'd be handling during our campaign. The fact he withstood my gravitational shove showed he had some combat chops, though that wasn't exactly a rigorous test.

At the same time, he seemed better at ambassador style work. Given his connections and reputation as royalty, that seemed the better place to put him. He also understood far more about how galactic connections formed and operated. That information was something my guild lacked outside of maybe Torix, and even then, our lich worked more on hearsay than experience.

Florence lived the kind of politics our guild needed to succeed in. He also took a lot of stress off of me. Even if I was someone who could get a lot done, I wasn't good at making friends with most politicians. I could make friends with other fighters like me, but that just wasn't the same. It was an arena I'd never fought in, but Florence had.

The other useful quality Florence owned was his natural sociability. He talked with people in our guild like it was nothing. Anytime I tried that, people were overwhelmed, turning into yesmen in an instant. Florence disarmed people despite his presence, and that was invaluable. It let us get an honest, unguarded opinion of what was going on.

Dwelling on those facts, I thought up a new position for Florence in our guild - the peacemaker. It was a simple title, but it would involve understanding our guild, their problems, and acting on them. I'd have him scout out our guild's positions, understand what was going on, then talk with Torix and me about it. Outside of that, he'd handle negotiations with other guilds, and I would be there with him to get a grip on how they're handled.

I drafted up a set of duties for the guy before moving onto Helios. As much as he knew about management and overseeing a territory, a position like that wasted his talents. Trusting in Florence's judgment, I'd have Helios act as a sort of assistant for me. He'd warp me around with Spear helping out, and Helios could offer valuable advice at times. If I ever got into a fight, he'd act as potent support as well, his void ice and warping abilities useful against most opponents.

Given his reputation, he likely owned other abilities I could use as well. For now, I didn't know them, so I'd delegate the best I could with what I knew. As I got more info, I'd adjust.

After finishing up those tasks, I sent them both messages to meet me in the morning. I peered around right after, the mask of darkness draped over the trees around me. Standing near my side, several golems glowed in the darkness, quintessent mana piercing out of the gloom. I tapped the side of my cheek, thinking of ways to improve them.

It would be another long night of trying new methods. I grinned at the prospect, enjoying the new experiment. Those hours passed in a peace I cherished. I spent so long in a different world with odd creatures, sights, smells, tastes, customs, cultures, and geography. It was alien and unfamiliar, like an assault on my senses at all times.

Earth was a cozy, homely place by comparison, and after spending so long away from it, I missed my homeworld. No eldritch roamed near Mt. Verner, our guild locking down nearby dungeons long ago. No silvers established spire forests that loomed on our horizons. Hell, we didn't even have fancy guilds vying for dominance.

Not yet at least.

This let us enjoy prosperity that few people had, and my visit to Giess drove that fact home. I wanted to keep Earth like this, safe from prying eyes and greedy fingers. Considering our world lock would be ending soon, that dream wouldn't remain a reality for long. At least if I didn't do anything about it.

To my understanding, guilds rushed in the moment a world opened up for expansion. They cleared dungeons, subjugated the population, and ruled over their newfound territories with iron fists. The only way to stop that was to establish cities first.

Doing so opened up our guild for attacks, however. If we opened up dozens of branches, it would be a signal flare for the Adair's. Considering what I did on Giess, they might even destroy the entire planet with Lehesion. At the very least, I couldn't guarantee any of our guild branch's safety.

If I left Earth to incoming guilds, however, I would be throwing my homeworld to bloodthirsty wolves. I couldn't iron out an exact solution, so I tucked away my concerns for the night. Rome wasn't built in a day, and I sure as hell wouldn't be building something bigger than Rome overnight.

So, I immersed myself in my golem's construction, having about a battalion's worth ready at my command. I made rounds to several nearby dungeons, and several of the golems I left in them actually kept the eldritch at bay. Of course, they needed simple enemies.

After having experimented for a while, that's what I found the golems best at. They couldn't clear out a dungeon, but they could keep them clear. It wasn't ideal, but it wasn't a bad result either.

With that in mind, I made a few plans to have a meeting with our dungeon clearing community in the morning. A few leaders showed up in the field, so meeting them wasn't a waste of time regardless considering they ironed out the dungeons here. Having my golems take the workload off them would be a massive utility as well. It would be something our guild took credit for, giving us a leg up in establishing more territory.

If I made enough golems, we might even be able to take some cities far from here, maybe even in another state.

These thoughts drifted in my mind as I worked, almost like a pleasant daydream of what could be. After finishing a dozen more golems, the sunrose in the distance, light leaking through tree branches. I took a deep breath, preparing to leave this sort of sanctuary I made for myself. I rolled my shoulders, willing my golems to hibernate here. They fell into piles of dark metal, a patch of the mountain smothered in them.

Returning to our inner base, I met at the crack of dawn with several leaders of our dungeon clearing programs. We organized ourselves on the third floor, near a combat training center for Torix's students. Sitting on a wooden table, three grizzled veterans met my eye.

The first was an older woman named Isa Bennet. She carried scars over her face, and her leather gear matched her peppered hair, old but not out of date. Beside her, a brawny man named Lester leaned towards me, his attention rapt. He had a darker complexion, and despite his size, he lacked any real wounds. In the back, a smaller framed mage eyed me from underneath a robe littered with runes.

His name was Bryan, and he was a man in his mid-fifties with an awesome beard. It was truly majestic. Cool beards aside, I walked in with the three of them waiting on me. I stayed standing with my weight supported by antigravity wells, no one else the wiser.

Isa stared with thinly veiled reverence, "Hello guild leader. You mentioned something urgent for us. We're here to listen to whatever you have to say."

The others nodded. I spread out my hands,

"I've been creating golems that can keep dungeons cleared after someone's reset the eldritch there. I wanted you guys to try and place them in some of the easier dungeons nearby so that you can focus on the more difficult rifts."

Bryan narrowed his eyelids,

"Hmmm, I don't want to doubt you, but we've tried making golems before. They always fail since eldritch can adapt to them quickly. For instance, if you make a stone golem, it won't be long before stone-eaters are spawning in the dungeon."

I shook my head, "I've made these golems out of a substance that can actually eat eldritch. You won't have to worry about them spiraling out of control once a golem's been put in place. Trust me on that."

Lester tapped his chin, "No offense, but that sounds too good to be true. Coming from you, it seems more possible."

I weighed my hands back and forth, "Eh, the golems aren't perfect, don't get me wrong. They'll need weekly checkups from someone competent, but that's a much lower workload than clearing the dungeons once a month. I only have a few of them that work as well, so think of this as a test run."

Isa frowned, her scars wrinkling, "We use the simpler dungeons to teach new recruits and train our soldiers. Losing them would be losing out on a valuable resource."

I raised an eyebrow, "But you can keep a few of those dungeons nearby for those training exercises. This is more so for maintaining larger areas of control." I looked at each of them, "After all, we aren't going to be staying near Mt. Verner forever. I want to expand the guild and to do that, we need cities."

I turned a palm to them, "To make cities, we need dungeons cleared, and given our resources, this could let us make that happen much quicker."

Lester kept his chin down, "What if an intelligent eldritch is in the same dungeon as one of these golems? Could they maybe learn to control it and use it against us?"

