I nodded, "Yes. That's a real risk, and that's why I mentioned weekly checkups along with careful placement. We don't just want these golems being put just anywhere. Freshly cleared dungeons would be preferred. They could kill off anything as it spawned then."

Bryan turned to the rift managers, "I'm convinced. I think this is a good idea. We stress our resources every day keeping this area clean. This could let us go out and help a few of the nearby settlements. We could help a lot of people while gaining some much-needed ground."

Bryan shrugged, "We are lacking iron and a few other resources here...I think it's worth a shot."

Isa and Lester thought it over while I waited with patience. After a few minutes of discussion, Isa gave me a begrudging smile,

"You make a hard sell. We'll do what we can with the golems you give us."

I grinned back, reaching out a hand, "Hell yeah. Let me know what you guys think and I'll be back with you all later."

She grabbed my hand, hers small in mine yet firm. I turned to the others, "Oh, Bryan, your runic markings are pretty good. I think tightening up a few of your forms would take your work to the next level though."

Bryan peered at his cloak, then back to me, "I...is that the difference between our markings?"

I didn't want to tell random people about the cipher, so I lied,

"Uh...yeah, pretty much."

Bryan lifted a finger, "I'll go try that out while it's fresh on my mind."

I raised my hand, "Alright then. Let me know how the golems work out later. You're all dismissed."

I walked out, closing a door behind me. As I did, the three of them took a deep breath. Lester spoke out,

"I thought he was going to talk to us about our extermination standards. Thank god that's not the case."

Isa gasped, "Tell me about it. I just about collapsed when he walked in."

Stepping out of earshot, I appreciated each of them putting in an effort to act 'normal' around me. Even if they didn't know how good my hearing was. That meeting managed, I gave them the location of my golem crafting along with which golems to take.

One meeting handled, I moved onto the next one via my messages to both Helios and Florence. I waited for each of them in the open library at the third floor's entrance. Here Torix's academy educated the masses, and we gave our people the ability to fight against eldritch and Adair alike.

I sat near students and scholars, though no one dared share my table with me. They stole glances while they thought I wasn't looking, and they whispered with hushed voices,

"What is the guild leader doing here?"

"Have you been watching his streams? He destroyed Giess singlehandedly."

"He's terrifying."

They were right, and I sometimes scared myself. Either way, a minute or two passed while I soaked in the smell of old paper and aged wood. Coming in first, a portal appeared nearby, and Helios stepped out of it while peering around. He found me, and walked over with his cape hanging behind him. As he came over, I stood,

"How did you sleep?"

Helios peered at the library's books, "As well as was expected. I was surprised to see that your guild made a bed with the right dimensions. Many worlds forget that detail for higher leveled individuals."

Helios turned to me, "It shows a measure of care I did not expect from your homeworld."

"I'm guessing they must have used the same size they do for me."

"Then that explains why the bed was too large." Helios peered up at me, "Though your size seems to vary often since I've known you."

"What can I say, I'm leveling fast?" I said. I lifted a hand to Helios, "I'll be doing more of that today with Obolis, wherever he'll recommend we go."

Helios tilted his head, "Indeed. We could use a brute of your stature considering what we're faced with."

I raised an eyebrow, "Yeah, if that's how you want to frame it, sure. Either way, I've decided what you'll be doing here."

Helios showed no signs of nervousness with his body language, outside of an inaudible gulp. Well, inaudible to most. I raised a hand,

"You're good at fighting, and you like it. You also have a lot of experience with what goes on in the galaxy. I want you to be my advisor, along with helping me and my allies move around with your portalling abilities."

He leaned back, "Of all things, you would ask for my counsel? Strange."

"Uh, yeah I would. You ruled a world and have an education from a Schema ruled world's perspective. I don't. I'll need someone's advice, and even though I respect Torix, he was kind of a recluse. You're someone who's been out and about, and that's something I lack."

Helios paused, giving his new responsibilities some thought. He scoffed from under his mask, "This is a far higher position than I expected. I must say, I'm pleasantly surprised."

I gave him a pat on the shoulder, "Just remember, I fight where others won't. You'll be helping me get there, meaning you'll be going to those same hellholes. Try to have fun along the way."

Helios murmured, "I...I shall attempt to do so."

Interrupting our conversation, one of the elevators at the center of Mt. Verner opened, and a boisterous group of welders walked out. I could tell by the smell they carried. Among a few of them, Florence sauntered out while finishing a story,

"And she slapped me so hard my mask flew off."

The group laughed while Florence looked around,

"In all honesty, I deserved it."

He found us, the styled albony strutting over. As he did, Helios sighed. I grinned,

"You're already making friends, huh?"

Florence nodded while waving at the workers, "They're more open to other species than most. I appreciate that, and it makes this place feel more like a home because of it." He turned to Helios,

"How goes it, brother?"

Helios raised his eyebrows, his disheveled fur ruffling,

"Worse now. You're late."

Florence let his hands flop against his sides, "Eh, there's not much I can do about that now. Anyways, what is it that you need this bright and early in the morning, leader?"

I raised a hand, "I wanted to let you both know what you'd be doing here, and I preferred telling you in person so that we could talk it out if you disagree."

Helios sighed, "It is not our place to argue with those stationed above us."

Florence nudged his brother, "Come now, he's given us the opportunity, so we should take it...Though there isn't much to argue with yet. What will you have us do?"

I met Florence's eye, "You'll be an ambassador and peacekeeper for my guild. You know how to get cozy with people. That's good. Personally, I struggle with it, and that means I don't really know where the average guild person is at."

I pointed at Florence, "That's where you come in. You'll be responsible for keeping tabs on the branches of the guild, getting to know everyone, and letting Torix and I learn what you know."

Florence put his hands on his hips, "Is that all?"

"You'll also be our ambassador for meetings with other guilds. I don't know fair trade deal values or how to make nice with politicians. You look like you have some experience there. I'll have you advise me when making those deals."

Helios crossed his arms, "Would you mind if I 'advised' you already?"

I frowned, "Sure."

"This is a foolish idea. Florence understands nothing of galactic rates or how to maintain alliances with other nations. His lack of order led to the fall of Blegara, and now we'll be going to clean up his mess."

Florence shrugged, "Blegara never wanted to follow the Empire. The people there are headstrong and iron-willed. You would know that if you'd ever talked to them for more than just telling them what to do and when to do it."

Helios glared, "And it was in your hands to crush their iron wills, yet you failed to do so. Your failure is the reason this rebellion lives on, and it is the reason our soldiers die because of it."

Florence shook his head, "If you believe that Belka is any different, you're lying to yourself. They hate us just as all the other planets under the Empire's control do. The way we rule, it can only last so long."

I looked between them, "Stop bickering. We don't have time for it. Do either of you disagree with what I'm asking you to do?"

Helios turned to me, "No."

Florence nodded at me, "Of course not."

I put my hands on their shoulders, "Alright then. Say, you both seem to have a competition of sorts with each other. It's a friendly rivalry. How about this - whichever one of you does your job better gets to be the other one's boss until you're both not under me anymore."

I turned my palms to each of them, "How's that sound?"

Helios let out a long, deep laugh. He lifted his chin into the air, staring down at his brother,

"What about it then? I do enjoy a friendly competition."

Man, they really let their ego get in the way of their work. Florence turned to me then back to Helios. Florence tapped his sides with his hands, fidgeting around before he squeezed his hands to fists,

"That...That sounds good to me. I'd enjoy giving you a good ass-kicking after all these years."

Helios gave him a slow nod, "Oh, I'm certain you shall." Helios tilted his head to me, "Then it's settled."

I gave them a thumbs-up, "Alright, you both get to decide what happens to the other after a few months. Torix and I will decide who did the best job overall. Go ahead and get to it."

Florence turned, walking away with renewed vigor. He stepped into one of the elevators before giving me a salute, "Of course, sir."

As the doors closed, Helios snickered, "Hah, he honestly believes he has a chance to defeat me? Interesting, but foolish."

The elevator doors opened before Florence walked back over to us. He coughed into a hand, "Ahem...So, how would I go about doing what you asked me to do?"

Helios let out another derisive laugh before I tapped my chin,

"In all honesty, I don't know. If I were you though, I would present it like a question to myself. 'Daniel wants me to learn the guild's ins and outs, and he wants me to manage the guild's galactic relations. What's the best way of doing that?' That's how I'd handle it."

Florence snapped his fingers, "Then that's what I'll do. Thanks for the advice."

He sauntered off, getting to work right away. Helios narrowed his eyes underneath his mask,

"You're more clever than you first appear."

I shrugged, "I'm just taking things as they come. Anyways, I wanted to run a few things by you. You know, as my advisor."

Helios raised his eyebrows, "Hm. Speak of your concerns. I'll listen to them."

"So, I've been thinking of using educated golems made of my own melted skin to guard dungeons and rifts nearby. Does that sound like a good plan to you?"

Helios stood there, frozen in place like a statue. A prolonged, awkward pause passed over us before the ruler of worlds shook his head,

"I...I misheard you. Say that again?"

"I made golems out of my metal skin and trained them to guard dungeons. Is that a good idea or not?"

Helios stayed very still, contemplating what I said. He lifted his hands with a slow rise before resting his masked face in his palms. He groaned,

"This...This will be more difficult than I first envisioned."
