226

******

The impact of the bokabv demon’s body shook the ground, and its cry of rage—or was it agony?—shook the air. Dirt fountained up as it rolled. Alden had gotten the rope in front of the beast just in time, and now his second shield was already covering them as he grabbed Kibby by the back of her shirt and tossed her through the open door of the car.

“Turn it on! Turn—!”

Something slammed into him—like a diseased wave, it broke against the thin foam shield he’d prepared before they left the lab. Shaped like a turtle shell, large but very light. It had seen use as a laundry tub a couple of times, but nothing like this.

They were supposed to be out of the chaos now.

He watched the grass warp near his feet. Kibby screeched as the car rocked, threatening to tip. Alden’s shield had taken the worst of the blow, but it wasn’t large enough to protect the whole vehicle.

Kibby was punching buttons. He jumped into the car, still holding the shield through the open door in case their enemy…no. The demon wasn’t coming. Not yet. He could see the grotesquely transformed bokabv through the car’s exterior camera system as the screen switched on. It was still down, screaming and struggling to rise. That wave had only been the chaos associated with its charge.

Drive. He slammed his hand into the control panel, and they shot forward.

It can’t chase us now. I hurt it bad with that trip line. It just doesn’t quite know it’s dead yet.

The demon’s next scream, as they barreled away from it, was so pained it made his stomach clench.

He didn’t know why the sound made him think of an Artonan girl, a young woman, carefully shaking sand out of a blanket that seemed to have a mouth.

I remember that, don’t I? Wasn’t that during the Here-to-Th—

Something hit him in the stomach.

The dream winked away.

******

******

Alden should have slept for around six hours. Even without accessing his interface, he knew he must have gotten less than that because he felt like he could go right back to the dream if only he didn’t open his eyes. His body was heavy, his breath was steady and deep, and the sofa that had seemed too firm earlier now held him to it like a magnet.

Good potion. Poor demon bokabv. I love Healer Yenu.

He was almost back in dreamland where he belonged.

“No. Unfortunately he’s drugged himself to sleep. I tried to ———, but he didn’t wake up. They’ve given him a ——— Traveler’s bag. Yes, a real one. What a life it must be to live as a hn’tyon’s ———! Having a nap while the rest of us work…not that I’d take his place. Proper respect to our guardians here, far, and lost of course. Of course! But I’m not one of those who can ——— the thought of enduring such a ——— process. Feeling ————— is natural for all of us, but I do think I’m more sensitive than most to the purity of my own —————.”

Alden could have gone right back to sleep if not for whoever this chatterbox was. The Artonan’s words were only half registering, some of the less familiar ones disappearing altogether thanks to his inactive interface and uneager brain.

Shhhh, person.

The person didn’t shhhh.

“Oh, yes. I know. I might have, too, if I could stand it. But when they showed us as young…exactly, exactly. Proper respect, but, unfortunately, the thought of doing such a thing to my self or being forever around those who do, turns my shit liquid.”

Alden grimaced. You officially suck, person.

That last bit was too gross not to drag him to real wakefulness. And as he gained awareness, the first thing he noticed was that his nice, cold room was now hot. Which meant the sucky person had changed his thermostat.

The next thing he noticed was that his messenger bag was on the sofa with him, against his stomach, and since he hadn’t gone to sleep with it there, that meant someone had taken his bag from the table and moved it. Or dropped it on him. He vaguely remembered thinking something had hit him in the stomach.

He didn’t carry anything incredibly precious in his bag, but touching other peoples’ stuff? Or throwing it at them? He was definitely too irritated to sleep now.

He opened his eyes a crack only for them to be pierced by the blazing light coming through every single window. His very unwelcome company hadn’t even left the one over Alden’s face shaded.

He glimpsed the culprit—Tass-ovekondo’s weak-diplomaed son Olget—then clenched his eyes shut again.

He came into my room and tried to wake me up to make me leave?!

Technically, this part of the car was for wizards during normal operation. But Stuart had said it wouldn’t be used today unless something unexpected came up. The wizards guarding the Here-to-There weren’t supposed to cloister themselves away from the ordinary class. It was counter to the spirit of the event.

And even if someone needed to do something in here, they could have shared like civilized creatures. Shining lights in sleeping peoples’ faces and throwing bags at them was utterly indecent.

Olget-ovekondo wanted the wizard room all to himself so that he could call a friend and ramble on about the consistency of his bowel movements?

Alden would lie on this sofa pretending to sleep until the end of time. Let this cupcake-flushing butthole turn the temperature up past a hundred if he wanted. Alden would “sleep” through it as obnoxiously as he possibly could.

Or is that punishing me too much more than him? Should I wake up and try to make him leave by explaining that I’m under healer’s orders to dream for a certain number of hours each day?

He was trying to decide which method would get his space back fastest when the words the man had been saying began to hold meaning.

Alden forced his face to remain in something approximating the peace of his stolen rest. It was hard. Olget-ovekondo might have said he respected the knights, but it sounded like it had just been an opening to make room for him to say that…

I think one of the words he used meant “repulsive” or “vile”. Is he saying he was unfortunately unable to take the path of highest onus because the thought of having his authority bound is so revolting it gives him diarrhea?

No. He took it a step farther than that.

Couldn’t even bear to be around the knights. The mere thought of what they were gave him the heebie-jeebies. His purity was that delicate.

Alden’s temper cooled because he was really thinking about those words. And also about “The Elder’s Croak” and wizards pat-patting away at each other’s authority. And he was realizing that shallow wizards—shallow, unserious people like this grown adult who whined when his mother gave a valuable possession to a former assistant—must be able to look at someone sacrificing themselves and think something as empty and immature as, “They’re ugly.”

He wasn’t even embarrassed he thought it. He was gabbing away.

Alden’s eyes opened. The wizard didn’t notice. He was sipping a drink at one of the two-seater tables, looking out a window. They’d coupled with the larger train while Alden slept, and a string of long white cars in front of them was visible as they all curved to the right for a direction change that had no visible reason.

The wizard had already had his little say about knights, and now he was having a little say about the Here-to-There he’d agreed to protect. Someone named Mutty was hearing that this day was a tragedy and a betrayal. His mother’s devotion to the village, his own devotion to the village, the gifts given—it was all so unfair to Olget-ovekondo. These people had no real loyalty. They should have supported him as the next village master. They were supposed to be his inheritance. Instead, his mother was sending them off with many other things that were supposed to be his inheritance.

She intended to die broke sometime this century, one of her two bound wands was now ruined, and none of his siblings cared enough to protest.

Olget was having such a sad day. Forced to pretend none of it bothered him. Stuck on a train with a drugged human who could not be irritated into leaving.

I can’t believe I wanted to be spiteful to this person, Alden thought, watching him with an emotion he wasn’t sure he’d ever experienced before. Something fairly cold. Detached. Disappointed not in Olget-ovekondo but in…society maybe.

What’s the point?

He decided he would sit up and tell Olget to go away, plainly and politely. Firmly if politely didn’t work. This man wasn’t worth his anger, and he certainly wasn’t worth Stu-art’h’s time. But before he could rise and do it, the door to the room slid aside and a grouchy Bithe stepped in. His dull red coat was as pristine as it had been when they left this morning.

“What are you doing in here?” he asked.

Olget scrambled out of his chair. “Hn’tyon Bithe! I was making a quick call. Important business.”

Bithe looked at the drink on the table in front of the wizard, then at the temperature control panel. “Quick?”

“I’ve just finished.”

“Nobody else has needed to come in here on this trip. I don’t understand how you could have missed our votary’s request that our Avowed remain untroubled. He put it on the tellingbush. Are your eyerings malfunctioning?”

“No. I…just haven’t accessed the leaves recently.”

“How irresponsible of you.” Bithe’s tone would have eaten through steel. “Get out. Take your important calls elsewhere.”

Olget looked offended, but he moved. He glanced at Alden as he went, purpled at seeing him awake, and rushed for the door.

“Wait.”

The wizard froze beside Bithe.

“Don’t sit near the bor family,” said Bithe. “And don’t speak to Uro-bor Elder again.”

“I have known the bors my whole life! While you…I don’t know what her son might have said about me. He has a <<quarrelsome>> personality. Uro-bor is my mother’s assistant. She heard my every step as a child! You don’t have any cause to tell me—”

“One wand is hers until the last closing of her eyes, as your mother wishes. The other will also be <<bestowed>> as your mother wishes. Let Uro-bor enjoy this day without worrying about a wizard’s feelings.”

Bithe was actually less harsh when he said that. Alden wouldn’t describe his demeanor as pleasant, but he’d managed to sound neutral.

Olget-ovekondo’s hands clenched. “I’m not someone who behaves as improperly as you seem to think. That you have that impression of me is…it’s…”

He stalked from the room without finishing the thought. The auriad he’d lost control over earlier didn’t make an appearance. Alden had watched for it.

Bithe slid the door shut and headed for the temperature panel. “This is much too hot for you,” he said. “Isn’t it? It’s not even ideal for me.”

Reminded of the awkward way the knight had handed him a worm earlier, Alden didn’t tell him not to bother with the controls.

“Thank you.” He got up to put his bag back beside his carved o’odee egg. Then he tapped the lamps back on and carried Olget’s cup to the drink dispenser, pressing the button that pulled it down to wherever the dishes went to get cleaned.

“That man…” Careful with the pronunciation. “He has grown nothing, and he plants nothing.”

Bithe continued to look at the panel even though he’d already set it. “You said that well. I shouldn’t have insulted your speech this morning. I was already upset about something else, and I had a yell waiting in my throat because of it.”

“That happens sometimes.”

“I appreciate your understanding. Don’t pick up the large box with the green corners when we unload. Ryada and Emban have set a trap they think I don’t know about, and they’ll be disappointed if it catches anyone but me.”

Green cornered box is boobytrapped. Got it.

Bithe left him to his rest, which was easy enough to get back to with the potion still in his system.

When he woke up again, it was because the train was approaching their station.

******

******

“This day is good for our young knights, and our young knights are good for this day. I hope you are providing them with all the help and happiness you have in you, tall Ryeh-b’t. Your act during the attack of the koobas was excellent. Spit.”

Leeter-zis shoved the shallow bowl full of paint under Alden’s chin, and after setting aside a concern about how many people must have spit into this same bowl today, he obliged. Two of Leeter-zis’s fingers began zig-zagging through the spit, mixing it into the coral-colored paint while he hummed.

Kibby would be so into this.

Alden was sitting on the bench he’d been carrying to one of the haulers waiting outside the station. Leeter-zis had caught him half way and told him it was his turn to have paint applied to his face. Mr. Stripes Out had gotten hold of every other participant in the Here-to-There while Alden slept.

The wizard was still topless, shoeless, and looking a little like a wild creature that didn’t belong in this setting.

The city they’d arrived in was nowhere Alden had ever heard of. He wasn’t a geography geek who knew the name of every mid-sized city on Earth, and certainly not on the Triplanets. There was something eye-opening about stepping off a train into a place he knew was average for this world and thinking it outshone much of what he’d seen so far living on Anesidora, where the concentrated wealth, magic, and beauty sometimes felt surreal.

