The station was protected from the elements not by a ceiling and walls, but by a cocoon of sand in colors ranging from white to a dark, reddish brown. The sand was in constant motion, flowing around the station and high above it to form moving pictures that were related to the region—animals, plants, people in shirts with tasseled sleeves that blew in the wind. There were no advertisements anywhere, but there were poems about journeys written on the floor, with seats grouped around each one. Stalls provided food, drink, and potions, and a few of them were unstaffed, their offerings laid out invitingly for anyone to take. Artona I was not a place where you were expected to pay for hygiene supplies or a simple cup of tea. They even had free tablets—old, but functional.

On the Artonas, the ordinary class worked for prestige, fulfillment, to acquire luxuries, or to avoid being looked down on by their neighbors. Everyone could live from birth to death at a natural old age—fed, clothed, healed, and housed—without contributing their labor to the community. But, as on Anesidora, most people did work, and many worked a lot. Some devoted their lives to a career; others devoted themselves to the career of a wizard they assisted, like the bor family.

Uro-bor Elder was sitting beside one of the poems, running her wrinkled fingers over the box that held the wand. Bithe kept an eye on her even as he chased down one of the o’odee feathers that had exploded out of the container with green corners. Alden thought the knight would be relieved to get Uro-bor safely tucked away in the new house. Judging by the sound he’d made when a little kid bumped into Uro-bor’s knee as they disembarked, he thought the old woman and the wand would both break if they were exposed to a breeze.

“Fun choice on old Tass’s part,” said Leeter-zis as his humming ended. One of his eyes had strayed to see what Alden was looking at. “<<Magnanimous>>, loving. But also fun. There is a ritual to pass a bound wand made of eskya to an heir. Such wands gain influence as they age. But if she had any desire to do that, she wouldn’t have allowed it to be separated from her for even a day.”

Alden scanned the station until he caught sight of Olget. He was helping with the unloading.

“Lift your chin.”

Having seen the artwork on everyone else’s face, Alden knew what to expect. Leeter-zis drew a curve under his right eye with a finger coated in the paint, then slowly dragged the finger up his temple and over his brow, stopping before he reached the center of his forehead and curving it upward. The shape was like a hook or an unfinished “S”.

And there was an odor. He was hoping it was Leeter-zis himself and not the paint. The guy hadn’t freshened up at all since the start of the day. He had dirt on his chest, kooba ingredients in his hair, and his lips were stained with something red he must have consumed.

Alden’s theory was that the wizard was collecting debris from the whole journey with his body to perform his spell later. He was proud of himself for coming up with this interpretation because it sounded like something Porti-loth might do. Leeter-zis was a little more serious about all of this than first impressions had led everyone to believe.

“You’ve worked hard to make the Here-to-There better,” Alden said.

The preparation required for the koobas, the cart and windmemorizers, staying on his feet for the whole train trip and applying paint to every face—he’d been going all day and possibly all of yesterday, too.

“A Master wizard can’t be lazy.” Leeter-zis set his paint bowl beside Alden on the bench and stepped back to twist his spine in a stretch. Then he reached for his toes. “And we must sometimes be tricky. Communal magic requires participation from others, but it’s so tedious and time eating to organize hundreds of people. And then you have to keep them from getting bored while the ritual steps are completed. I’ve discovered that it’s better to build my spells around people who are already organized and entertained. If my wealth and my body can withstand three hundred more days like this one, then I should do well when my contributions and expertise are next evaluated. And everyone loves a celebration!”

He straightened and picked up his bowl again.

“If the paint comes off during your usual activities, it’s fine, but please don’t try to remove it. And think about memories of home with one half of your… ah, whenever you’re not thinking of something else is enough.”

“If this spell affects the mind, Master Leeter-zis, I don’t think I should be a part of it.”

“Don’t worry! Another has already worried on your behalf…and asked me to submit my ritual design to him so that he could send it to someone he trusts more for evaluation.”

“I’m sorry.”

“Don’t apologize. That wonderful young ingredient doesn’t need to apologize either, and he knows it. If only we were conducting the spell in the land of his blood!” Leeter-zis was grinning at Stuart, who was sweeping the main pile of feathers back into the box with his auriad.

“Did you call Stu-art’h an ingredient?”

“Yes! I have interesting ingredients today. Several of them.”

“I…might also need to leave before the afterparty. Or during it. I have a class I shouldn’t miss.” The schedule for the last half of the Here-to-There was looser, since it depended on when the wizards finished performing ceremonial magic at all the new houses.

Leeter-zis gasped and turned back to him. “How long is this class? I’ve already painted you! And arranged to fold in your Earthliness.”

“It’s two hours. That’s around—”

“Only that long? Then it’s fine. No proper afterparty could last for less time than that.” Leeter-zis relaxed. “We’ll do it before you leave or after you return!”

I guess I could return?

Leeter-zis left him a minute later.

Alden caught the sound of him saying, “Leaf-eyed ingredient,” to himself and chuckling as he walked away.

******
