As the orc bounced, Shiv brought his foot down on 811’s chest. Flesh tore. Cartilage and bone snapped. Hot blood welled around Shiv’s ankles as he drove his foot down against the orc’s spine. 811 gagged and choked on his blood as the ruined flaps of tissue constituting his chin flapped before Shiv’s eyes. He was trying to say something, but Shiv didn’t give a shit. He wanted this orc dead more than most others, and he wasn’t going to lift his foot until 811’s body was completely—

Something else let out a loud crunch beneath 811. The orc gave a gargling laugh—and twisted his body. Shiv caught sight of a goblin strapped to the orc’s back. A dismembered goblin being worn like a backpack. Their face was nonexistent. Completely caked against the ground. And that was Shiv’s doing.

The Deathless let out a snarl of pure frustration. “YOU PIECE OF FUCKING—”

Encounter Failed

Resetting Delve

Adjusting Legendary Skill…

The Delve shuddered violently. Shiv found himself falling once again. He blinked in surprise, and the snarl returned to him. “Motherfucking orc! Godsdamned—”

Psycho-Cartography: There is a social lesson in this Skill Evolution too. You’re rushing blindly. You need to get in the habit of watching and observing. Use your Awareness. You’re not bad at thinking. You have the capacity and the instinct for deception, so develop more patience. You can afford to let 811 kill a few people. He can’t destroy Blackedge on his own in a short amount of—

Applying Partial Skill Evolution: Maelstrom of Stars Unmoving (Heroic)

Shiv let out a gasp as power exploded out from his muscles. His marrow and sinews trembled with building pressure, and a wave of gravitic force exploded out from him. But it was more than gravity. It was more than a manipulation of mass around him. It was a projection of building force that crashed inward toward his body. Waves of kinetic energy collapsed toward him as he writhed. Shiv didn’t get any bigger, but his muscles did get denser. Every fiber of his being was infused with so much strength that Shiv felt his bones creak from the build-up.

By the time he recovered, he struck Blackedge like a falling hammer and tore through the battlements surrounding Starhawk’s Perch. Shiv fought to catch his breath as he tried to shrug the debris aside.

Yet the rubble clung to Shiv’s body even as he pawed at it—tried to push it away. The dust in the air was wrenched inward, pressing against his skin and revealing billowing waves of unseen force. The waves crashed against him, akin to water kissing the shoreline, and with each cascade of kinetic force, Shiv felt his physique grow stronger, felt the pressure around him go from magnetic to crushing. The rubble pressed against his body began to crack and turn to dissolving particulates.

The cobblestones lining the ground and other bits of masonry composing battlements he was partially embedded in came asunder as well. Even Shiv’s own body creaked underneath the force closing tight around him. He focused on increasing his Toughness to compensate. His pillar formed, emerging as a faint rod that spiked high up in the sky.

Unlike before, Shiv found himself capable of moving with ease. Right then, he was stronger than he was tough, and with every wave, his strength climbed further still.

Shiv noted how similar the penalties for Inertial Overdrive and Maelstrom of Stars Unmoving were. Both inflicted severe damage on his body once they exceeded a certain level. But they were also skills that constantly grew, that allowed him to reach new heights of power so long as he could offset their costs.

The fundamental weakness of both his Physicality and Reflexes now was Toughness. The integrity of his body was the bottleneck. He could move as fast as he wanted, he could take in as much strength as he wanted, but there would come a point where his toughness was outpaced, and wounds would come thereafter. Meanwhile, if his toughness was too high, he wouldn't be able to move at all.

"Dynamics and tradeoffs," Shiv muttered to himself. He relaxed his muscles for a moment, and the crashing waves of kinetic force died. All the strength that had been building up inside him faded, and a brief feeling of lethargy washed through Shiv. His legs shook, and he barely noticed the notification informing him that the first encounter had begun in his temporarily weakened state.

Once more, a beam slashed through the air, but this time Shiv was in no hurry. He waited for himself to recover fully, and then took to the sky.

Flying with Maelstrom was different from Gravitic Wrestler. Previously, he just flung himself like a projectile. Now, as he pulled on the kinetic tides washing over him, the crashing waves that originally shifted Shiv flattened the other way and blasted him upward. He spent some of the strength he'd gathered to do that, but he had more in reserve.

Every inbound wave of kinetic energy fueled him more and became a resource for him, something he could continue cultivating or spend to achieve certain feats. As such, when Shiv sailed through the air, he found himself capable of modulating his force better than before. He didn't need to fling himself that hard; in fact, he could spend only a little, just enough to nudge himself through the air.

It also allowed him to counteract his inertial sheath to some extent. Inertial Overdrive fed off the momentum acting on his body, and made him go faster and faster. But right now, Shiv was stronger than he was fast, and he managed to wrench the vector of his movement aside until he was pointed in the desired direction.

Shiv considered the details of this partial evolution further.

Right, so I can build up more force, then spend it to fly around or exert my strength on something pretty good. The penalties are a feeling of fatigue when it ends, which seems to last around five seconds or so. It might be longer if I focus on drawing in more force across an extended period of time. That, and if I get too strong, the space around me effectively becomes dangerous for everyone else.

He descended on the elemental golem with caution and precision. The golem turned its flaming sphere of a head and unleashed a stream of Pyromancy. The stream splashed harmlessly around him, and the deathless came to a sudden halt directly over the golem. He focused on gathering more strength. Waves of force crested against his body with increased frequency, and Shiv felt himself tremble with might.

He spent a fourth of that might and pointed his waves downward. The bottom of his pillar greeted the golem's body as if a steel tower being dropped on an insect. There came a loud crack as the golem all but dissolved beneath Shiv's feet. A blast of dust spread out underneath the Deathless, and the golem's lightning-infused limbs of lashing water burst apart into parting puddles.

A final flicker of electricity danced across the spreading waters, and the golem was no more.

Encounter Complete (1/5)

Adjusting Legendary Skill…

"Alright," Shiv breathed, "and that was something else." His Heroic-Tier Physicality Evolution was worth more than mithril on its own, and it was only a partial Skill Evolution granted to him after his failure with 811.

Despite everything, despite the direness of his circumstances, the flames of anticipation were kindled inside Shiv as he yearned to see what form his Legendary skill would finally take. He thought about Marikos swinging his Pillar of Orichalcum like it weighed nothing, and he recalled Hawgrave, how she could grow to titanic sizes, or shrink down to the dimensions of an insect.

I also have Magical Resistance, Shiv remembered. That's the skill I chose to make Legendary, but how the hell is that going to come together with Physicality? What does that even look like?

He didn't know, but he would soon. Maybe after he crushed 811 properly.

When the orc spawned, Shiv was ready for him. He didn't go after him directly, not like last time. Instead, he triggered his temporal shell right as the notification appeared. The world was still when 811 was loaded in. Shiv plucked the orc off the ground before he had a chance to do anything and launched them both upward, high into the sky. For a beat, he considered crushing the orc using his collapsing waves of kinetic energy. But he wanted to see 811's face before the orc finally expired.

Shiv let time resume. 811 shuddered in his grasp. And then his features were drawn back in a surprised growl. "Well, that is just impolite."

Whatever else he had to say came out as a croak of pain. Shiv tightened his muscles. A wave of crushing power slammed into him, and by extension, 811. The orc's body began to fold and deform in several places. His bones shattered first, turning to shrapnel, then powder within his own flattening flesh. 811's organs squeezed out from his mouth, from his prolapsed anus, from the lacerations and ruptures lining his torso. He couldn't even produce a sound of his own volition anymore, and Shiv simply glared his hate at the dying creature.

Another wave swept toward Shiv. He pulled the orc hard against the pillar, and a series of satisfying cracks were accompanied by delightful puffs of blood.

"This is what I'm going to do to you when we actually meet each other again," Shiv promised, and he ground 811’s skull to a mangled mess against his pillar. The orc gave a final gurgle. Shiv squeezed. His kinetic waves imploded around the orc’s head, and his skull transformed into a dense marble of red. Instead of smearing Shiv with gore, the blood, giblets, and other fluids spilled down the face of Shiv's pillar before spilling like foul rain onto the grass below.

The Deathless let out a satisfied breath as he tossed 811 aside. The orc's corpse resembled a pancaked piece of bloodied meat, and Shiv spat after it, intending every bit of disrespect. He wasn't lying. When he met Hawgrave again, he would take her blade from her, and then he would go inside to visit the actual 812. After that, well, Shiv didn't feel like having an orc nemesis anymore, so he would just solve that problem. Besides, he had bigger prey to contend with.

He wasn’t interested in fighting individual orcs for the rest of time. No. In the end, his target was and would always be the Challenger. He wasn’t going to do any of this halfway.

811's body struck the ground and came apart like soup. Nearby, Feather and the automaton that had protected Georges looked up before flatly proclaiming their thanks to Shiv. They said the exact same words Leu spoke to him earlier. That confirmed something for Shiv. This was merely a simulation, facsimiles of those that were lost. It didn't truly capture their spirit.

Encounter Complete (2/5)

Adjusting Legendary Skill…

They were gone. Everything here was an act of psychological warfare conducted on him, on the part of the System.

But something didn't seem entirely right about that. After all, there were people with Legendary social skills. You couldn't possibly test a Social Skill against someone that was merely a mannequin, someone who only spat stock phrases. Maybe Social Skills or social functions are withheld inside a Delve that stressed my Physicality and Magical Resistance?
