“SURPRISE!” Everyone yelled and Barbara turned on the lights.

“What's going on?” Ren asked and looked around. “Is that a... wait, is today...”

“Happy Birthday!” Elise said and bent down to kiss him. “Barbara was right.” She smiled. “You did forget!”

“Did I ever!” Ren chuckled. “I had no clue!”

“For someone who plans a lot and thinks ahead, you missed everyone planning this thing.” Donald said and chuckled himself. “I knew about this a month ago.”

“That's only because I had you order the cake, dear.” Barbara said and bent down to kiss Ren's cheek. “He wouldn't have had any idea either.”

“Does that mean you've all been sneaking around behind my back to put this all together?” Ren asked with a smile on his face.

“Who has to sneak?” Stella asked and kissed his other cheek. “We have huge chunks of time during the day where you're pretty much just in your bedroom.” She said. “We just came into the house with everything, and you never knew.”

“Well, this place is huge.” Ren laughed. “Even if I was downstairs in one of the living rooms or something, you could still just walk by and I wouldn't have seen anything.”

“It was the same way at my old place.” Lisa said and came over, and gave him a kiss on the lips. “The only time my mother noticed anything was when I walked by the living room and she wasn't glued to the television.”

Ren reached up and touched her cheek. “When is she coming over for dinner?”

“When you got hurt, I changed it to next week.” Lisa said. “She was a little disappointed, but she understood.”

Ren smiled. “I can't wait to meet her.”

“I can.” Lisa said and chuckled. “I tried to move it to next month, but she wouldn't hear of it.”

Ren laughed and glanced at Barbara. “That sounds familiar.”

“I won't let you pussyfoot around and not do your work.” Barbara said. “Your leg is almost healed, so you're starting therapy again in the morning.” She said and put a hand on her husband's shoulder.

“I even changed the boot camp workout so it won't kill you right away.” Donald said, and everyone fell silent... except for Ren, who laughed.

“I can't wait!” Ren said excitedly, and Donald nodded his approval. It was then that the doorbell rang, and Elise said she would go and get it. Ren looked around at who was there, and counted. Lisa, Barbara, Donald, Denise, Stella, and Elise going for the door. He thought. “Where's Gloria?”

“Ren, I... I don't think she's coming.” Stella said.

“I'd ask why not, but I'm pretty sure she's just being stubborn.” Ren said. “Call her for me, and tell her to get over here.”

“I tried already, and she's not answering.” Stella said. “Maybe she's just busy?”

Ren frowned. “After finally admitting how she felt about me, she's too busy to visit me on my birthday?”

“I don't know what to tell you.” Stella said, and Elise came back into the dining room.

“Ren, I have to give you your present early.” Elise said and went to the side table, picked up her present, and brought it over to give to him. “This is part one.”

Ren blinked his eyes for a moment, accepted the gift, and opened the box. Inside was a portfolio. It was filled with stocks and bonds, and Ren flipped through them. He caught sight of several companies he recognized, including the television station and Sid Tec, and he looked at Elise.

“Elise, what...”

“Here's the rest of your present.” Elise said and a blonde woman he thought he recognized stepped into the living room. Barbara and Lisa gasped, Stella squinted her eyes, and Ren stared at her.

“You got me a woman for my birthday?” Ren asked, incredulous.
