Hmmm… Well, I don’t care. You’re my Butler now. Also, are you really just a digital assistant? I’ve used some ‘digital assistants’ back on Earth, and you don’t act much like them.

“Well, I was created by the System Developers, so of course I’m more advanced than those inferior things from Earth.”

Ah, that explains why your name was Annoying Blue Box. The System developers once again have no sense for names.

“It wasn’t—!”

Fortunately, I was gracious enough to grant you a proper name, and now even a job, saving you from the tyranny of the System developers.

…

What, not gonna respond to that?

“Give me one moment.”

Huh? Abby?

She doesn’t respond to that, and for a full minute, I just sit in the silent darkness, waiting for her to come back. When she does, her voice sounds weird. Not distorted, but almost panicked.

“Yona, you should do your best to keep upgrading Appoint.”

Why? What happened?

“I can’t say. I’m not sure myself. But you should keep upgrading Appoint. Increase the Proficiency and make it stronger and more versatile.”

Well, I was gonna do that anyway, but can’t you at least explain why?

“No. I’m sorry.”

…If you say so.

Well, that was a pretty fruitful Evolution, I guess. All things considered, it didn’t go too badly. I got some decent stuff. A lot of lame stuff too, but mostly good stuff.  However, there’s one, very important thing missing.

Oh gracious and beautiful deity, might I inquire as to what has become of the boon that I was promised upon reaching this evolutionary milestone?

[ It would have been given to you right now, but because of what you did during your Evolution, you now have to wait for your Evolution to stabilize to get it. And you can’t get mad at me this time, because this is entirely your fault. ]

…Alright, fair enough.

“Well, well, well, if it isn’t the consequences of your own actions.”

Shut up, Butty.

“Butty?!”

Well, you’re my butler now, so I just combined butler and Abby. Butty.

“I don’t like that.”

Well, well, well, if it isn’t the consequences of your own actions.

“...Alright, fine, that one was good.”

I always am.

Alright, now, finally time to get back and see my minions! I can make Lauren cook for me again! And I can make the twins scratch my ears!

“Wait, one last thing.”

Butty, you’re really killing the moment.

“You completed your Infiltrator Quest. Perfect Disguise’s Proficiency went up, which means–”

I get another disguise?

“–you get another disguise.”

I get another disguise!! Finally!

It doesn’t even take a minute to get my second disguise set up. Ever since the twins said I registered as a monster to their sensors, I knew what it had to be. And at the end of the minute, when I finalize the form and switch to it… nothing changes! That’s right! My second disguise is a house cat! I can walk the streets freely again!

I teleport straight upward, appearing in an alleyway with no one else around. It’s night out, so there aren’t many people around, meaning I more or less have the street to myself.

Royal Dignity keeps my fur perfect, and Royal Bearing makes my gait elegant, and in a much better mood than I was in a few minutes ago, I walk through the streets, feeling the cool night air on my fur as I make my way back to my minions.
