“Well, you told me about your stay with the Brotherhood, but we never discussed your opinion regarding them and their teachings.” Cuddling his fat rabbit close, the bossman looked younger than ever with his gaunt features and more vulnerable to boot, but Jorani still respected the man more than anyone else, Happy and Abbot included. “What’s your take on their whole... doctrine, I guess?”

“Pretty broad question to ask, but on the whole...” Jorani shrugged. “I think the world’d be a better place if more people took up some of their teachings.”

“Huh. Really?” Surprise showing plainly, the bossman scoffed and said, “The world wouldn’t last long if we all took up their teachings. If every man chopped off his dick, humanity would go extinct in a single generation.”

Annoyed by what he saw as the bossman belittling the Brotherhood’s beliefs, Jorani took a deep, calming breath before opening his mouth to reply. Then, thinking better of it, he closed his mouth and organized his thoughts before speaking because the bossman was a stubborn bastard who treated the Brotherhood with uncharacteristic hostility from day one. Happy put it best, remarking that it felt like the bossman found the concept of the Brotherhood offensive and made it his purpose to disprove their beliefs, criticizing and discrediting the Abbot every chance he got. Then again, from where he sat, Jorani felt like the Abbot wasn’t any better, arrogantly thinking that everyone who didn’t conform to the Brotherhood’s beliefs was a misguided fool doomed to eternal suffering. They were two peas in pod them, albeit ones dead set on opposing issues, and both too stubborn to ever change their views, but Jorani supposed he might as well give it a try. “Well, I said some of their beliefs for a reason,” he clarified, lowering his voice so the ladies wouldn’t overhear. “I mean, I dunno what ye might’ve heard, but I still got me twig and berries attached and mean to keep it that way.”

“I can’t blame you.” Grinning like a fiend, the bossman shook his head and said, “No idea why any man would choose otherwise. Then again, maybe they think that since life is suffering, it’d be a crime to bring new life into the world or something.”

“Nah, that ain’t it.” Shaking his head, Jorani explained, “Yer mistaken about what they mean when they say ‘life is suffering’. It don’t mean ‘all life is suffering’, because there’s a lot of good in the world too. In the Sutras, it says ‘life is impermanent’, and ‘impermanence is suffering’. Therefore, life is suffering because it is impermanent and ever-changing. Wealth, power, status, and health don’t last forever, so even though there is joy in life, things will always end in suffering. ‘Life is suffering’ doesn’t mean everything is terrible and there’s no point in existing, nor does it mean nothing we do matters, but it’s merely a reminder to strive for something better, the permanent existence which exists when one achieves Nirvana.”

Seeing the bossman’s skeptical expression, Jorani went over his old lessons for the proper explanation. “Look, the way I see it, life is suffering means ye shouldn’t focus on the wrong stuff, the impermanent stuff like wealth and whatnot. It ain’t about spreading doom and gloom, but about focusing on the Right Way, which is to be good to the people around you and all that stuff.”

“...Well, if you’re right, then I’d say the Brotherhood could use lessons on communication.”

As much as he hated to do so, Jorani couldn’t help but laugh at the bossman’s joke. “Yea, they probably could. Some of their lessons are so out there, it’s hard to wrap yer head around them.” Shaking his head, he added, “Who would’ve thought a street rat from Sanshu would be giving the Undying lessons in theology.”

“Hey, don’t sell yourself short. Never judge a man’s worth by where he came from, but by how far he’s come.” Lightly shouldering Jorani aside, the bossman added, “And you, my friend, have come far indeed. While waiting for you to come out, I got to talking with your soldiers, and they say you made for a mighty fine sight during yesterday’s battle, splattering Defiled heads like rotten melons with your Spiritual Weapon there.”

All thanks to his practice with teacups in his Natal Palace, albeit with a Reinforcement and Amplification thrown into the mix, but his accuracy was lacking, so hence today’s efforts. “Thanks bossman, but it wasn’t much. Easier than clubbin’ fish in a barrel, what with yer sister commandin’ us the way she do.” A mighty fine commander she was, and fine to boot, a striking half-tiger with beauty enough to destroy an entire province, if not more. Hesitating to ruin the good mood, Jorani took a risk and asked, “If’n ye don’t mind me askin’, why is it ye seem so dead set against the Brotherhood? Ye don’t hafta agree with everything they preachin’, but that don’t mean ye gotta let yer discussions get so.. heated.”

His smile melting away into nothingness, the bossman silently cuddled his rabbit for long minutes before speaking up again. “Kuang Biao, take the Death Corps and report to my sister. Tell her I want all of your prying eyes and ears away from me. Then tell her to repeat what you’ve told her to me through Sending.” Ignoring the Peak Expert’s dark scowl, the bossman then asked the shadows to put up a Sound Barrier before turning back to Jorani, though he kept silent until he got the confirmation he was waiting for. “I get heated because... well because I don’t believe in the Mother.”

The revelation hit Jorani like a punch to the face, and he physically reeled back from the blow. “How can ye not? Yer the Mother’s damned chosen son, fer cryin’ out loud. Ye got the Divine Turtle followin’ ye around like a newborn pup, and... and... how?”

The clouds shifted and cast a pall over the bossman’s haunted expression as he shook his head in denial. “There’s a good explanation for Ping Ping, and everything else? All my accomplishments and achievements? That’s just plenty of hard work, dedication, and more luck than any ten men deserve. If the Mother exists, and I’m not entirely convinced she does, I don’t want anything to do with her.” Favouring Jorani with a wry smile, the bossman said, “You talk about being a street rat from Sinuji, but would you believe it if I told you I come from even more humble origins? My earliest memory is from when I was twelve years old, standing on the auction block and waiting to be sold. From there, I was shipped to a mine where the bristleboar guards worked me hard by day and tormented me by night, which I now suspect was a Defiled plot meant to farm Spectres, Defiled, and Demons. Regardless, life was truly suffering back then, and every night, as I laid my battered body down to rest, I’d pray to anyone who would listen and promise anything if they would only end my suffering.”

Falling silent, the bossman closed his eyes while reliving his memories, and Jorani knew he’d barely scratched the surface of his misery. At least now Jorani knew why the bossman hated bristleboars with a passion, and from the looks of it, the hatred was well earned. After a long pause, the bossman took a deep breath and continued. “No one ever answered my prayers, no matter how much I cried or pleaded. Eventually, I got sick and was tossed into a ditch to die, but I didn’t. I crawled up out of a pile of diseased corpses and staggered away in the cold darkness of night, then followed a river for almost twenty four hours before my sister found me. Maybe that was the Mother guiding me towards my people, but if so, it was too little too late. I survived, I escaped, and I made myself who I am today, so if the Mother wants to claim credit, She’ll have to make a personal appearance to do so, because I sure as hell won’t ever thank Her for it.”

Not sure what to say, Jorani simply patted the bossman’s shoulder and cranked his personal respect for the man to the maximum. Twelve years old and a slave, but not an Oath-bound one, which meant the bossman hadn’t been a Martial Warrior at the time, meaning he became the publicly acknowledged Number One Talent in the Empire with less than seven years of training. Had he not seen how hard the bossman pushed himself, Jorani would never believed it, but there was no doubt in his mind that Falling Rain rose to greatness on his own merits.

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo.” Appearing out of thin air, the Abbot bowed and said, “A touching tale, Junior Brother, but one must not allow anger to twist one’s view. Taken another way, Junior Brother’s accomplishments are so great because of his hardships, not in spite of them.”

“Yea, thanks, but no one wants to hear ‘but you suffered for a reason’.” Glaring at Abbot, the bossman added, “And stop listening in on my private conversations. It makes it really hard to trust you.”

“Apologies Junior Brother, but this monk arrived shortly after your discussion with Brother Jorani began in earnest, and since you gave no warning before divulging your secret, this monk did not think to leave.”

“...Because a Sound Barrier isn’t warning enough. Should I hang a sign outside my latrine tent that says, ‘Please don’t watch me poop’? Some things are implied.”

“Eh-Mi-Tuo-Fuo, this monk had no ulterior motives in remaining unseen, he only did so because he thought Junior Brother would not wish to see him.”

“You sure about that? Because I figured you were hiding out of shame. Isn’t it against your beliefs to lie, even to yourself? You should practice what you preach, Abbot.”

Seeing the two of them argue like old friends written enemies, Jorani stifled a sigh and sat utterly still while waiting for an opportunity to slip away. Their heated debates were fascinating at times, but they never went anywhere and he had no desire to be dragged in to mediate, as it was a no win situation. Regardless of whose side he took, his opinion would mean little as he’d be forced to defend his position, and in truth, it was far more effort than it was worth.

Because regardless of whether they admitted it or not, the two of them enjoyed arguing for the sake of arguing, and there was no place for logic and rationale in their discussions. Mother save us from stubborn, contrary bastards like them, but they were still two of the best men Jorani had ever met, even in spite of all their flaws.

Or maybe they were great men because of their flaws, and having risen above them... Inspired by this thought, Jorani settled down to meditate and wait out the argument inside his Natal Palace, eager to one day be a warrior strong enough to stand at their sides. Wherever Falling Rain might lead them, Jorani would follow regardless of the enemy standing in their path, because whether he believed in the Mother above or not, Jorani believed, and he knew She had picked Falling Rain as her Chosen Son.

Chapter Meme
