Standing outside in the darkness of the void, Jorani inspected the familiar surroundings of his Natal Palace for signs of intrusion. Though several weeks had passed without event, it did little to quiet his ever-present paranoia, hence his current state of heightened scrutiny. Other Martial Experts saw their Natal Palaces as a place of sanctuary in which they held absolute power, a safe haven used to escape from worldly distractions and quietly contemplate over the mysteries of the Martial Path, but not Jorani. Having spent eight weeks trapped inside a carefully crafted dream world, he found little safety or solace in his Natal Palace, because he knew all too well what powerful practitioners like the old Healer Vyakhya could do. Sure, Jorani theoretically had total control over everything inside his Natal Palace, but experience proved how easily it was to slip up and accidentally think the wrong thing, thereby freeing a captured traitor and Defiled sympathizer to link up with a crazed torturer of legend.

His Natal Palace was exactly as he’d left it, a drab rectangular room with a wooden bed, nightstand, chair, desk, and wardrobe, but this was not enough to placate Jorani’s fears. Vyakhya was a brilliant man who spent decades studying Kukku’s Talent of Dreaming, and his understanding surpassed even the Abbot’s, a man who hand-raised the giant rooster from chick to Spiritual Beast, so who knew what tricks he had up his wide, flappy sleeves? To make matters worse, by now, Vyakhya would’ve met up with the crazed and sadistic Zhen Shi, a monster who defied death for over eight-hundred years and now guided the Defiled from the shadows as their mysterious Uniter. Who could say what new skills the two might develop once they put their crazy, genius heads together? Perhaps they’d discovered a new method of Natal Palace infiltration and were now laying in wait inside that boring grey and brown room, just waiting for Jorani to step inside so they could capture him once more.

Why they might want him, Jorani wasn’t sure, but he wasn’t taking any risks. Maybe for revenge, or to convince him so they could feel better about their own decisions, or any one of a billion reasons. Crazy people were crazy because their actions defied logic, and considering he advocated for peace through the extinction of humanity, Vyakhya was most certainly crazy.

Despite all his misgivings, Jorani had no choice but to keep coming back to his Natal Palace. If he wanted to progress along the Martial Path, this was the best place to work at it, since it offered him limitless Chi, near total control over his surroundings, and almost perfect recall when he put his mind to it. In the two weeks since inadvertently stumbling across Vyakhya’s plot and discovering he had a Natal Palace, Jorani’s strength advanced by leaps and bounds as he made grand strides along the Martial Path he never imagined were even possible. Small wonder why Natal Palace Formation was the dividing line between Warrior and Expert, because the difference was like Heaven and Earth. In two weeks, he learned more than he had in the past year despite spending no small amount of time fighting on the front lines, all while still familiarizing himself with his newfangled powers.

If only the bossman hadn’t said anything about Spectres lurking in the void or Zhen Shi using Natal Palaces to snatch bodies and avoid death... How was Jorani supposed to sleep knowing that monster could come in and take over whenever he pleased?

Finding nothing amiss, Jorani summoned his courage and headed into his monastery room, his grey monk robes materializing around his gangly frame moments before setting foot inside. They were always there now, unless he made a conscious effort to make them go away, but wearing monk robes didn’t make him a eunuch any more than wearing Runic armour made him a Martial Warrior, so he left it be. Taking a seat on the wooden bed, he took a moment to grumble about the hard, uncomfortable surface despite knowing he could easily make the wood softer than a bed of feathers, but again, it hardly seemed worth the effort. A shame Vyakhya hadn’t left him well enough alone to enjoy his dreams of a hundred-woman harem, though Jorani still felt leery about indulging in a sexual fantasy induced upon him by a rooster.

Shutting out these errant thoughts before accidentally bringing his harem into existence, Jorani instead turned his mind to what he’d come here to do: practice. With an effort of will, his small rectangular room stretched and widened until it was ten times larger than before, though the furniture all remained the same size. Materializing a long, wooden bench at the appropriate range, he arranged a neat little row of twelve porcelain teacups atop it and felt the pinch of dwindling mental energy from carrying out so many tasks at once. Things would be easier if his Natal Palace would stay this size, but it wasn’t as simple as making it so, because no matter how many times he tried to keep the larger room in mind, it would always revert back to the cozy little room in the monastery the moment he stepped outside.

He’d brought these issues to Happy, but there was no easy fix to be had. If Jorani wanted a bigger Natal Palace, his best option was to craft new additions to his Natal Palace by adding the rest of the monastery, but he wasn’t as familiar or connected to the empty halls and paved courtyard as he was to his little room, so no matter how many times he tried to keep them in mind, they always disappeared the moment he left. While there was no restriction against adding rooms from different locations to his monastery room, a disjointed Natal Palace was difficult to accomplish since every detail needed to be kept in mind at all times, which was easier to accomplish when borrowing from an actual, physical location. According to Happy, most of the Brotherhood started from the courtyard where they gathered for morning chants, using the open, square layout with a pillar at each corner as the basis of crux of their Natal Palace, and perpetually chanting the Sutras in the back of their minds to keep everything intact.

Jorani tried it their way, he really did, but he found it more difficult than juggling while walking across a tightrope with your pants on fire. To win a bet, he’d actually walked three meters doing the latter before the fire got too hot to handle, but he couldn’t even go thirty seconds without losing his place in the Sutras.

The other option was to destroy his Natal Palace and reform it anew by modelling it after a different place, but not only was this risky, Jorani didn’t have anywhere else to model his Natal Palace after. He spent most of his time sitting on the sidelines during morning chants so that was out, and his childhood home dredged up too many painful memories to be used. Then after Ma died, he never stayed in one place for long, moving from one bandit hideout to the next with little rhyme or reason. The monastery had been the first place he’d ever felt truly safe and accepted, and the room became his private little sanctuary away from the horrors of war. Granted, this was a little ironic considering what happened after, but Vyakhya’s betrayal did little to lessen Jorani’s love of his mountain home nestled deep within the Arid Wastes.

Perhaps when the war was over, Jorani would go back to visit and reforge his Natal Palace, but until then, his cozy little room would have to do. Coming back to the present, he realized the room had reverted to its normal size during his fanciful musings and he cursed underneath his breath. Technically, he’d cheated his way into Expert status with help from Kukku and Vyakhya, so his Natal Palace wasn’t the most stable one out there, which meant he needed to concentrate more than most. Heaving a regretful sigh, he set about enlarging his Natal Palace once more and reformed the wooden bench with twelve porcelain teacups once again. Keeping his mind on the task at hand, he summoned his Spiritual Weapon to hand and gave it a light twirl overhead while sitting cross-legged on top of his bed. Today’s practice was about accuracy and finesse, an exercise Happy suggested and Jorani readily picked up. Whistling as it cut through the air, Jorani’s Spiritual Rope whirled overhead while he focused in on his target, the rightmost teacup sitting atop the bench. Once he was ready, he twisted his wrist and brought the rope down atop his target, shattering it with ease while leaving the bench and other cups untouched.

It always felt good to kick-start practice with success, but the exercise wasn’t over yet. This was the tricky part, bringing the rope back to hand without jostling the other teacups, and he took a steadying breath before moving forward with the next step. With a sharp flick of the wrist, the rope darted back towards him like a snake lunging at its target, controlled ever so precisely through a mixture of physical handling and metaphysical Guiding to coil neatly into his hand. It wasn’t perfect, as it stopped after a single loop leaving him with a long length of uncoiled rope to still deal with, but he found the whole process easier today than he had yesterday, so there was some progress to be had. The second teacup shattered much like the first, as did the third, but on the fourth iteration, he put too much strength into the attack and shattered the wooden bench in half. Granted, he might’ve been putting too much strength into the attack from the start, but the middle of the bench was weaker than the outer ends, which was why he started from the outside and worked his way in.

Undeterred by this failure, Jorani reformed the wooden bench and porcelain teacups before starting over from the top, all while making sure to memorize every minute detail for study after exhausting himself of all mental energy. While Chi was endlessly abundant within his Natal Palace, it didn’t mean he could practise here without cost. Instead of Chi, the cost came in the form of mental fatigue, a concept he initially scoffed at until the first time he exhausted himself training inside his Natal Palace. It was unlike anything he’d ever experienced before, a fog settling over his mind which left him irritable and unsettled. It wasn’t the exhaustion of a hard day’s labour, but rather like his mind shut down and no longer wanted to work, subjecting him to long bouts of unmotivated laziness and disconcerting insomnia. According to Happy, the best way to refresh one’s mental energy was to simply partake in enjoyable activities, which was why so many of the Brotherhood’s monks were so well-practised in the arts.

As for Jorani... he liked drinking, gambling, and whoring, but Happy’s disapproval was so dismal and suffocating, he kept his indiscretions to a minimum and took up running instead. Initially, he’d hated running up and down the mountain every day, but after awhile, he felt antsy and restless if he didn’t get enough kilometres in before bedtime. Besides, not only did it keep his body in peak condition, he enjoyed the surge of satisfaction which came from pushing himself past his limits, to feel his muscles aching and lungs burning but still continuing onwards until he couldn’t go on anymore.

Just like he did now, practising his control over his Spiritual Weapon until he could no longer keep his modified Natal Palace in place. One moment, he sat staring at the wooden bench several meters away, and the next he was back inside his cozy little room, where everything was almost close enough to touch from where he sat. Taking this as a sign to end practice, he stepped out of his Natal Palace and back into reality, opening his eyes to the dim interior of his yurt. Stretching his stiff muscles with a mighty yawn, he cracked his neck, shoulders, back, and fingers before heading out to check on his people and maybe find a game of dice to join before Happy showed his face, but his plans went out the window when he found the bossman sitting outside his yurt with a wildcat and the Guardian Turtle in tow.

Swallowing the trepidation which always came with facing his superiors, Jorani saluted the bossman and asked, “You lookin’ fer me, bossman? What can I do ye fer?”

“No need to salute, I’m not your superior officer anymore.” With a sheepish shrug, the bossman explained, “Actually, I’m looking for the Abbot. I kinda, sorta lost my temper and said some things I now regret, so I wanted to apologize, but he’s nowhere to be found. Couldn’t find Happy either, so I was hoping you’d know where they hang out.”

“Er... Sorry bossman. Can’t say I’ve ever had need to find em.” Usually, Jorani’s problem was getting rid of them, though the Abbot was much less intrusive than Happy. Apparently, the Brotherhood liked to pair would-be recruits with a senior monk who would show them the ropes, and in Vyakhya’s absence, Happy had stepped up to advise Jorani, but the smiling monk took his job a bit too seriously for Jorani’s tastes. The monk even insisted on sleeping in Jorani’s yurt, which wasn’t too bad since he was an officer and had a yurt to himself, but Kukku also stayed with them and the big rooster wasn’t house-trained like the bossman’s pets.

And by the Mother, that rooster stank something fierce...

“Damn.” Lips pursed in a scowl, the bossman waved Jorani over to take a seat against the Divine Turtle and said, “Well, I suppose I’ll wait here a bit and hope they show up before I fall asleep. In the meantime, why don’t we talk for a bit?”

“Whatever ye say, bossman.” Bowing ever so slightly to the Turtle, Jorani sat with his back against her leathery arm and gave Aurie a vigorous head rub which set his chest to rumbling. “What’s on yer mind?”

