“Why are you all sticky?” Ereka asked, and leaned away from him. Her white blouse was wet on the front, and she had a bit of drool on her face and hands. Ren laughed, took out the cloth to wipe her face and hands, and explained what it was.

“Eww.” Ereka said, then looked down at herself. “Look at my blouse.”

“I'm sorry about that.” Ren said, equipped his Travelling Clothes for a moment, then equipped his armor bodysuit again. “Hand me your blouse and I'll clean it.”

Ereka looked at him with surprise on her face, and he waggled his hand in front of her.

“It'll only take a second.” Ren said. “I just have to store it and hand it back.”

Ereka did a long slow blink of her eyes, then smiled. “Okaaay.” She said, hung up her suit coat next to the door, then started to unbutton her top. Ren waited while she took her time opening the buttons, then his eyes nearly popped out of his head as she slipped the blouse off.

She wasn't wearing anything underneath.

“Oh, my...” Ren said, and got a popup.

Notice!

You have gained the condition: Distracted

For as long as the object of your attention is within your sight, you must look at it. You will also suffer penalties to both Intelligence (-20) and Wisdom (-20).

He discovered why he was Distracted. Ereka's breasts were perfect. Ren has had some experience now with seeing different shapes, sizes, and colors of the tips... but when he saw these... all he could think of was 'perfect'. The size was perfect, the shape was perfect, and the colors and shapes of the tips were perfect. In the real world, he had told Elise about a man losing 50% of his IQ (per boob) when he saw a woman's chest; but, he thought it was only a joke, not an actual fact.

Ereka handed him her blouse, and he took it without looking at it. He only had eyes for the perfection in front of him.

“Ren?”

“Hm?”

“Store it and hand it back.” She said with a huge smile on her face.

“What?”

Ereka moved the hand that he held the blouse in, and he glanced at it.

“Oh, right!” Ren said, stored it, and handed it back. “I'm sorry... I...”

She chuckled as she put the blouse on, and he watched as the cloth slipped over her. It covered most of her chest, and she started to button it back up.

Notice!

You are no longer Distracted.

“I'm not sure how that happened.” Ren said, and shook his head. “Normally I can ignore stuff like that, but...”

“But what?” Ereka asked, and stopped after two buttons.

“Um...” Ren's face flushed a little red, because he glanced down to see that her top hung open and it showed off most of her chest.

“I'll know it if you lie.” Ereka reminded him needlessly.

“What if I don't say anything?” Ren asked her, and glanced down at her chest again. Why can't I stop looking?

Teepo squeezed through the space at the top of the door. “What are you looking at?” He asked as he flew over Ereka and started to turn and face her. “Why is her top ope-” *thunk* He stopped talking when he flew into the wall, bounced off, and fell to the floor. “Ow.”

“Even if you don't say anything, a lie of omission is still a lie.” Ereka said and smiled.

Ren sighed. “They're perfect.” He said. “I can honestly say that I couldn't take my eyes off of them.”

“What's so perfect about them?” Ereka asked as she blushed.

“The size, the shape, the color.” Ren said. “Even the shapes of the tips...” He glanced down at her chest again when he saw the cloth move. Ereka held her top open just enough to reveal herself, and he got another Distracted popup. Ren's eyes were drawn to them automatically; so he stared at them, and didn't hear her speak.

“Hm?”

Ereka chuckled and buttoned up her top the rest of the way. “I said I have to go to work.”

Ren blinked his eyes when the popup for losing his Distracted condition went away, and looked at her. “Okay.” He said. “Have a great day.”

“I will.” Ereka said, put on her suit coat, and opened the front door. “I'll send a messenger for Dorathy, and she should be here in a little while.” She gave him a little wave, and shut the door behind her when she left.

“What was that?” Teepo asked as he fluttered up from the floor and landed on Ren's shoulder. “I just flew into the wall!”

“It was Trouble.” Ren said, and took a deep breath. “Trouble with a capital T.”
