As soon as she thought that, she grimaced and looked closer. No matter how ridiculous it was acting now, it was about as far from “cute” as it could be. Besides, without {Royal Presence} active, she could sense that its mind was still entirely consumed by hunger. If not for the fact that it was bound by her Skill, it would be trying to eat her. It was definitely not cute.

…Mostly.

She made it do a few other things, mostly just to test the limits of what the spider was physically capable of, then she made it stay still as she prepared for the next stage of her testing. This stage made her feel a little bit icky, but it was necessary if she was to figure out the limits of her powers. Like when she was in the Jungle and testing her abilities on the monkeys, she didn’t really have a choice. She needed the answers.

She stared at the definitely-not-cute monster for a few seconds, then closed her eyes and took a deep breath. She refused to even consider that she was hesitating because of the spider’s dubious appeal. Instead, she was worried. While she was reveling in her powers a bit, she was not ignorant to how terrifying she was becoming. As stupid as the spider was, she was pretty sure that a weaker human would be in the exact same situation as it if she chose to use {Royal Decree} on them. Ordinary people simply had no defense against the immense amount of aether that Elise could bring to bear.

And if the next test was successful… Well, she might have become one of the most terrifying beings in the world, and she wasn’t sure if she was ready for that. She was pretty sure that the test would fail. She almost hoped that the test would fail. The book on mental Skills stated that it should be impossible to do what she was about to try to do. However, that book did not cover the Rune of Fate. It did not even cover aether, so she had no idea how a difference this stark would affect it. She was still pretty sure it would fail, but she was scared what would happen if it succeeded.

She took another deep breath and opened her eyes, staring directly at the spider. Then, she crossed her fingers and activated {Royal Decree}.

“Die.”
