“We’re talking Wizardry here, Erick. Many things are possible. I know you’ve been reluctant to make a copy of yourself, but the simple fact is that you’re too valuable to risk on this endeavor without many different assurances of safety. I would prefer if you stayed in your tower and never left, organizing the world from afar and ensuring your Gate Network remains stable, but we both know Kiri is ascending to that role soon. Now is the time for you to make a backup, if not for the world, then for her, so she has someone who can guide her while you’re off doing these quests.”

“… All fair points. Okay. I’ll… I’ll do that.”

With sudden exasperation hidden behind so much strength, Rozeta said, “Tell me I can trust you to wield this power prudently.”

Erick gave a small smile, then he stood firm. “I always have the interests of every person in mind whenever I do anything.”

“I know. I just needed to hear it again.” The Goddess responsible for holding the world together took a deep breath. “Thank you.”

The Wizard who could break everything waited.

And then, in an easier, friendly tone, Rozeta began, “So! To start with, after you make a repro who can backup all the magic you’ve got strung across the world, even though you’re prepping Kiri for Gatemaster, you’re going to want to go to Sininindi at the Storm Temple down in Archipelago Nergal...”

They spoke for a while, and not that long at all.

By the time they were done, Erick came to a conclusion, “I’m going to need to take a large break from being the Apparent King, aren’t I.”

Rozeta shrugged. “As long as you don’t make it as big of a vacation as your Worldly Path, then everything should go well enough. The problem is going to be getting my father to agree to not do anything untoward in the following years… One of many problems, I suppose. I’ll talk to all of them and make sure they’re on board with this.”

“I’ll start setting things up on my end, then, and await your full response.”

“It shouldn’t take long to gain preliminary assurances one way or the other. Maybe a week. Depending on what they say you’re going to either have to give Yggdrasil the bad news, or prepare for a sabbatical. I’m guessing the latter.”

There was one final question to ask before Erick moved on.

“There isn’t some Wizard out there fucking with Yggdrasil, right? Or some other force?”

“Not to my knowledge.” Rozeta said, “That was one of the first things I checked for, but it appears Yggdrasil simply wants to be released from the seal, himself.”

“… I am suddenly reminded of another concern. How long do I have till Ophiel is matured?”

“He’s about six months to a year away, I would say.”

Erick felt a double pang of loss thrum through his chest. “Ah… They grow up so fast, don’t they.”

Rozeta smiled kindly. “They do.” Then she added, “It might take you around 9 months to get through whatever demands the others place upon you, so the fact that both of your [Familiar]s are on the same timetable makes this whole thing smell of Fate… Or maybe Benevolence. Keep that in mind going forward and be ready with the… Medium Wizardry if needed.”

“… Right.” Erick asked, “How are the reserves? The mana generation? Can Veird survive a catastrophe?”

“A minor catastrophe; yes. The reserves exist, thanks to the dungeons, but the growing population of the world is still several decades away from being able to support the Script on its own. If my father chooses to remove the dungeons on a whim then we could last maybe one year. 14 months. We would have to flood the world with monsters in order to stabilize.” Rozeta shrugged. “My father could always destroy this world, though, so the most we could ever do is prepare for the worst and hope he forgets about all our emergency preparations. With how sane he’s being these days, hoping for him to forget about the backup powers would be wishful thinking, though.”

“But with his sanity… Do you think he would actually try to harm Veird if a new world became available?”

Rozeta had answered that question a hundred thousand times over in the last decade of peace on Veird. She gave the same answer, yet again. “There’s no way to know until it happens.”

- - - -

Erick stepped out of Rozeta’s domain, down onto the branches of Yggdrasil at Candlepoint—

“Is it happening?!” Yggdrasil asked, all excited, hopeful, dreading, and worried at once.

“With caveats and clearances needed to obtain before the actual release, and the seal will transfer to you so that you cannot create any seeds for the next 90 years, and I need to personally ensure that nothing disturbs that timeline through Paradox Time Magic… But yes. It’s likely happening.”

Yggdrasil listened calmly, and then his glow dimmed a little. “That’s…” He went silent, in thought. After a moment, his glow returned. “Okay. That’s… That’s good? Is that good?”

“I think it’s very good, but yes, it’s still an imposition. This is what it means to be powerful; impositions everywhere.”

A fluttering wind flowed through Yggdrasil’s branches; a sigh that trailed off into the wind.

Erick decided to get all the uncomfortable questions out there. “Have you met someone you want to make babies with? Or seeds? Or [Familiar]s?”

Yggdrasil flushed bright as Erick named several methods of reproduction. “What! No! I want to make an [Avatar] spell of my own! I don’t want to make other people yet!”

“So you want to have relations with some person. You want to make an [Avatar] spell that is not made through me, so that I don’t know about what you put into that spellwork.”

“… Yes.”

“You can tell me what spells you want, Yggdrasil, and I will make it for you. No questions asked. No judgment, either.”

“… I want the seal removed.”

“Do I know this person?”

“No, and please don’t go looking.”

“I will respect this wish. You’ll tell me who it is eventually, though, right?”

“Yes! Eventually. Not right now.” Yggdrasil tensed as muttered curses flowed through the wind, barely audible.

“It’ll probably be 6 to 12 months before I can get the seal removed.”

Yggdrasil turned slightly happy again. “That’s fine!”

“Then here’s the general idea of what is going to happen. I need the four gods who helped me to make you to release their part of the seal. Sininindi, Goddess of Storms and Sea, Atunir, Goddess of Field and Fertility, Melemizargo, God of Magic, and then Rozeta, Goddess of the Script. All of them are probably going to ask something of me. Finally, at the end, Rozeta will then transform the seal inside me into a seal on you, which prevents seeding of new worlds until we’re ready for that. Shortly after, I’ll become a full Paradox Wizard to ensure that the seal remains in place, which means me popping back and forth through time to ensure the next 90 years remain as stable as they are right now… 87 years, actually. Anyway. That’s the tentative plan. Rozeta is working right now to check to see if the plan is viable, and we’ll have confirmation one way or the other within a week.” Erick asked, “Okay?”

“Okay!” Yggdrasil’s enthusiasm returned. “That’s great!”

“Maybe by summer of next year, your whole spell box will change, and that part about how ‘The World Tree has yet to be planted.’ will go away entirely.”

“I hope so.”

Erick smiled softly, then said, “Rozeta suspects that Ophiel will naturally separate by then, as well. So this is probably either a Fateful-thing, or more realistically, a Benevolent-thing, happening to both of us.”

Ophiel chirped on Erick’s shoulder. “I’m here!”

Erick smiled at him. “Yes you are.”

“… Uh.” Yggdrasil asked, “Is that going to be okay?”

Ophiel sang, “Me born first! I go first!”

A silent moment passed.

Because this was a new part of Ophiel that Erick had never seen before. He wanted to be born first?

Yggdrasil was probably having the same sort of odd feeling.

“Maybe you’ll both be born on the same day?” Erick asked, “How would you two like that?”

Yggdrasil gave a rather uncertain, “Uhh.”

Ophiel said, “Me first! I here first!”

“I’m so much older than him, though,” Yggdrasil said, as a big [Scry] eye appeared in front of Erick and Ophiel, looking down on Ophiel. “I’m bigger than you. I’m firstborn.”

“Nope!” Ophiel launched off of Erick’s shoulder, rapidly transforming into his full three-meter form, full of wings and eyes, like a twister of feathers. “I’m older! I’m first!”

“By like half a year! I’m bigger! More developed!” Yggdrasil exclaimed.

Erick smiled a little as he felt another pang of loss and growth and change filter through his body like a warm chill. “You’ll both mature when you should, and not a moment before. And besides. You’re not fighting for firstborn. You’re fighting for second child and third child, and you’ll both get more siblings in the future anyway, so the current exact order doesn’t really matter.”

Yggdrasil and Ophiel looked at their father, then back at each other.

Ophiel said, “I’m older! I go before you!”

“I’m smarter! I’m—”

Erick interrupted, “You’re both incredibly smart. Don’t talk like that to each other. However it happens, will happen.”

Ophiel turned small again and Yggdrasil dimmed a fraction.

“Yes, father,” they said, in unison.

Erick nodded. “Now I have to go prepare. Who knows when Rozeta calls back with an answer—”

A blue box appeared, proving Erick wrong.

Erick,

The plan to unseal Yggdrasil is workable, and we will be doing this. The speed at which all participants and even the Relevant Entities agreed to this is astounding, even to me, but much like when we decided to go for the dungeon cores, this seems to have happened the same way. Everyone wants something from Yggdrasil. I am sure some of these wants will require you to smack the requester down with proper Wizardry, and to undo whatever they tried to pull.

But as for the four who helped create Yggdrasil:

Sininindi wishes for help with Everbless and a dungeon. She requests Quilatalap’s direct assistance, which might take a while. Approach Storm’s Edge incognito for further instructions.

Atunir has plans she wants expedited. She will speak to you about those plans after you are done with Sininindi. She wishes for complete anonymity in solving her problem, so just you; no Quilatalap. She still hates him.

Melemizargo wants about 3 months of your minimally-divided time. He’ll approach you when you’re done with Sininindi and Atunir.

My part will be easy. I’ll see you after you’re done with the rest, or if this looks to be going poorly halfway through.

~Rozeta

Erick read the thing instantly, and then showed Ophiel and Yggdrasil. “That went faster than I thought it would, and also confirms the timetable… And this means I’ll need to take an actual break from the kingdom.”

Yggdrasil flashed bright, though his voice was suddenly hollow. “It’s happening?”

“Yes.”

Sudden, joyful laughter filled the air, as all of Yggdrasil, every part of him spreading across the nearest 30 kilometers, from his mossy-covered white branches, to his flaming green canopy, to the rainbow crown and the deeper parts of him that spread through the lake, all of him turned radiant.

Every single Yggdrasil the world over was displaying the same way, too.

So it wasn’t surprising when Poi’s concerned voice came through, ‘There is a disturbance with Yggdrasil—’ Poi went silent as he mentally heard all about the last hour of Erick’s life. And then he went, ‘Oh. Well. That’s a big change? Okay. I’ll… I’ll make it work—’ Poi rapidly added, ‘I cannot make that work. You’re going to have to make that work yourself. I’m alerting everyone that nothing is happening, though, so that will buy you time to make further decisions.’

Erick smiled a little. ‘Thank you.’

‘Sis is making dinner tonight. Do you want it to be special? If you’re headed out right away?’

Erick decided, ‘I’m not headed out right away. It’ll take a few days. Gotta set up… Everything.’ Erick felt an ephemeral weight press down on him as he realized, again, that the world was changing, threatening to pull out from under him and leave him hanging and scrambling to set everything back to rights. ‘I’ll be home when I’m home.’

‘Want me to inform anyone of your decision to take a ‘vacation’?’

Erick almost laughed. ‘You say that word with such disdain, Poi! Ha! But… No. Not yet. I’ll figure all that out in the coming days. See you for a perfectly normal dinner.’ Erick ended the message to Poi, then said to his largest son, “We’ll talk more later, Yggdrasil. I have to go back to work.”

Yggdrasil stopped giggling long enough to say, “Later, father!” but he had to come back to the moment, back to Candlepoint, to tell his father that; his attention had rapidly moved elsewhere once he had seen Rozeta’s letter.

Erick was pretty sure that if he looked right now, he would find out who Yggdrasil was interested in, but he decided not to do that. The best way to make your kid never trust you again was to pry too much into their private lives. The Apparent King, Wizard of Benevolence, considered that particular thought a second time, though, because whoever Yggdrasil was talking with right now could be a security risk.

Again, though, Erick decided that prying into his child’s private life was too much.

He trusted Yggdrasil, and that’s all there was to it.

Erick flickered over to House Benevolence and spent the next several hours in meetings. All of those meetings were basic interactions with individual clients or larger populations, or organizations, or paperwork, or Network maintenance. He only needed to use Time Magic to expand his available hours from 3, to 13.

All in all, it was a rather normal day.

By the end of it, though, Erick realized that he was truly ready for a vacation.

- - - -

Erick flickered away from House Benevolence, departing his office right as the sun touched down on the western horizon. He loved this time of the day, just as he loved sunrise, so he allowed himself the pleasure of taking in the sunset from the western tower of his cloud castle. As he stepped across white eternal stonewood, supported by Cloud Magic below, Erick caught a glimpse of Yggdrasil to the south, where he rose like the world’s largest mountain on green fire, surrounded by rainbows. Erick smiled at that, for Yggdrasil had come a long way since—

Poi opened the nearby door to the porch, carrying some beers. He handed one over, saying, “Times shifting again, eh.”

Erick smiled wider at Poi’s sudden entrance.

