“Maybe not for a long time…” Erick had a thought. “But if Kiri’s Sunny is on the same timeline as Ophiel, then maybe I’ll help her to make something like [Summon Rocky].”

Poi said, “I don’t think that will be a problem for a while; years, maybe. Sunny is not nearly as advanced as Ophiel.”

Ophiel spoke up, “I’m advanced!”

Erick smiled. “Yes you are, Ophiel.”

“Sun set!” Ophiel fluffed out, asking, “Dinner time?”

Erick got out of his chair, saying, “I suppose it is.”

- - - -

Ophiel led the way into the dining room, fluttering forward and heading straight for his perch beside Erick’s chair, squeaking about how excited he was for his vegetables. The little guy loved his peas and carrots, and Erick marveled at that fact for what had to be the twentieth time, or more. Jane had hated her vegetables. But of course, Erick hadn’t been able to cook nearly as well as Rizala, or Teressa, or Poi, back then, when he was trying to make whatever dinner he could make in the brief time he had to make that dinner. Oftentimes Jane had needed to eat with the sitter…

Time moved so fast, didn’t it.

Erick banished those melancholy thoughts, breathed deep, and said, “It smells wonderful, Rizala.”

Poi’s sister, Rizala, walked out of the archway that led to the kitchen, carrying a turkey. She looked tired yet happy, and also very, very pregnant. Her dress ballooned outward, her blue scales seeming to glitter cerulean in the light of the dining room—

Her husband, Variol, came rushing out of the kitchen behind Rizala, softly saying, “I can carry that—”

“Bah!” Rizala said, as she playfully kept the turkey out of her husband’s hands. “I cooked it! I can serve it, too.”

She slipped the turkey onto the table and then looked to Erick, pretending as though she couldn’t read his mind just as easily as Poi already had. The only one in the room who didn’t know what was happening was Rizala’s husband.

Variol stepped backward, away from his wife, looking chastised and embarrassed, only half of which was due to failing to help his wife with dinner as much as he could. He had likely tried to do everything for her, though, and was embarrassed that she hadn’t allowed him to help more. He was also certainly afraid of disappointing Erick. Though the pink incani man had moved into the castle last year, he was still very much unable to truly function around the Apparent King.

Erick had stopped teasing the guy about that months ago. He almost decided to tease him again, in that moment, but… No. Erick said to Rizala, “It looks delicious.”

Turkey, potatoes, veggies. Butter, bread, gravy. It wasn’t a full ‘christmas dinner’, but it was most of the way there, and it looked divine. Rizala loved these big spreads, and Erick loved when she cooked. Now that she was on maternity leave, she was cooking every day, making enough for…

It didn’t look like enough for everyone?

Oh.

Erick instantly understood.

“It’s only us four tonight,” Rizala said, confirming Erick’s suspicions. “Teressa and Dariok said they’d be stuck at The Orrery tonight, overlooking some interesting Prognostication events that came across their Vision. Kiri is simply going to be late with something or other; she wouldn’t say what, exactly. They all said not to wait.”

Erick’s plans to tell everyone about Yggdrasil went on hold; he’d just be explaining to Variol, and Erick would rather wait for everyone to get the information all at once. He smiled anyway. “They will have missed a great meal. It all looks great.”

Rizala smiled wide. “It’ll taste even better!”

And it did.
