One of the best decisions Erick had ever made was enchanting this castle so that if you were attuned to it, you couldn’t mana sense anyone else who was attuned to it; unattuned people, if they managed to get up here and survive the next few seconds, were very visible, though. It made Erick feel rather normal not to be able to see through every single wall all the time. Poi, with his Mind Magic, was unaffected, and that was fine; he had asked for it to be that way, for being truly alone was a form of torture for a Mind Mage. For Erick, though, and for most people, seeing through walls was not normal. The particular enchantments on this cloud castle weren’t just blanket Privacy magics, though; they were Privacy magics that only applied to those who were attuned to those magics.

Teressa had said that this place was one of the only ones she could actually relax inside, and Erick and all the other residents of the house heartedly agreed.

Teressa and her husband, Dariok. Poi, still single. Poi’s sister Rizala and her husband, Variol. Kiri had a nice place on the southwestern edge of the invisible-to-all-others castle, and she even used it most of the time, but Jane’s house was mostly empty at all hours. Jane lived here only sporadically. Though they all lived here, they all had different houses linked together upon the various islands of this particular cloud.

All of those thoughts flickered through Erick’s head as he smiled and accepted one of the beers. They had all come a long way in the last decade, and now, the world was changing again.

Erick sat down on one of his favorite chairs to watch the sun set in the distance. “It’s been a normal day, except for all the changes.”

“Feels like yesterday we moved off of the branches and into this cloud castle.” Poi popped open his own beer and sat down next to Erick, in his own chair. “But it’s been years already.”

“Almost seven… Almost seven years since he first told me he didn’t want people on his branches anymore. I was expecting to have a house on that branch forevermore, but… The castle is better.”

Erick did still have a private home on Yggdrasil, for just him, and a few treasures he had collected over the years. But Yggdrasil was a fully sapient person. Years ago, the big guy had gone uncharacteristically quiet, Erick had asked what was wrong, and then he had made plans to move off of Yggdrasil, and into this house here.

It was a nice ‘house’. Tenebrae had even helped Erick to make it work, though by the time Erick started working on this place and talking to the cloud giants to get a seed cloud from them, Tenebrae’s help had been superfluous. Erick had only asked him for his input so that Erick could offer him help regaining some of his own magic that he was having trouble with. The old archmage might have been reincarnated into a young man’s body, but he was still too ornery to accept help from others. And so, Erick got a cloud castle out of the deal, along with a bunch of secrets of cloud giants that he actually did not know, and Tenebrae and his wife, Palodia, got some powerleveling to 90.

Erick smiled a little bit at that memory.

Tenebrae and so many, many others complained how monsters inside dungeons did not give experience, but that was Melemizargo’s unsaid decree. Almost every dungeon system had a secondary experience system that either capped-out after imparting its learning experience, or gave the delver gains that did not transfer to Veird. The only thing that actually transferred was basic mana production, some basic material items, and learning opportunities, but only when the delver did the dungeon correctly.

Technically, Melemizargo would only allow a dungeon to actually operate as the dungeon master wanted them to operate, if he approved of the dungeon in the first place. Practically, though, Erick only knew of a few situations where a dungeon was specifically disallowed. The major disallowed dungeon was where a dungeon held no danger, and instead had an overabundance of items.

One particularly fun dungeon down at Weald had a basic Script interface, but instead of experience, the dungeon gave the delver 10 Stat points for every slime they killed. Of course, the Stats were only useful inside that dungeon, and there were almost no slimes inside at all; one had to go hunting for slimes. The dungeon looked like Weald, with buildings and beds and potted plants and all sorts of normal stuff, but there were no people, and every other thing was actually a mimic, filled with teeth and tongues and an all-devouring hunger...

So many things had changed these last 13 years since Erick and Jane had fallen to Veird.

Erick was the Apparent King of a population of 20 million people, here at the heart of the Gate Network, where Yggdrasil reached 30 kilometers into the sky and all the Crystal Forest had been transformed into green lands. Directly below Erick’s cloud castle, which was made of several castles with a few towers and an orrery thrown in for good measure, House Benevolence oversaw the Gate District, which was home to a thousand Gates, each leading off to distant lands. The sky was a scarce hexagonal grid of a Node Network, which kept the whole thing running well, feeding mana to every magic that supported this land, protecting everything within 200 kilometers of Yggdrasil from all sorts of dangers.

Erick was proud of it all, but especially of everything taken together, and of course, of [Renew] which made it all possible.

[Renew] had changed the world. With that one spell, Erick had shifted the entire dynamic of international and personal danger on Veird from one of ‘who can strike first and wipe out the enemy’, to one of polite war, if at all. There were still problems, of course. The Quiet War and the Forever War were always a problem, but the actual effects of those wars had been mitigated to something far, far less dangerous. Even first strikes through the Gate Network itself were something of a true anomaly these days.

Erick had done that. Him and his House, and his people.

Looking back on it, the Teleport Exodus had been truly good for the world.

Erick gazed across the western sky, at the green land stretching out into the far distance, and at the mountains a bit to the north, and the Wall of the Wasteland Kingdoms, which was little more than a dark line on the horizon. A glance at the north, and Erick saw greenery that stretched all the way to that horizon, too.

The Crystal Forest had been pushed back. The only place where Crystal Mimics existed anymore was on a thousand-kilometer wide wildlife preserve around Kendrithyst, which included Kal’Duresh, New Brightwater, Spur, and the rebuilt human city of Frontier, which had been built on the eastern side of Kendrithyst. All five of those cities still benefited greatly from the mimics, and though Erick had pushed to eradicate Veird’s major source of [Polymorph] potions, he had been pushed back even harder. The mimics were universally level 30-ish, and they were easy to kill. Erick himself had benefited from killing those things back in the day, so who was he to deny others the right to gain those levels?

Erick had let that argument go years ago. Face stealers weren’t much of a problem these days, anyway, because Erick had personally overseen the removal of those sorts of communities over the years.

All four cities around the geode of Kendrithyst were practically metropolises now. Kendrithyst itself was only a quarter of a metropolis, though. Queen Anhelia’s reign had brought that land up to a million people strong, most of them wrought, but dungeons of all kinds were strewn throughout the other three-quarters of the Not-Dead City, and they suffered dungeon breaks more than most.

They liked it that way, though.

Erick took in the sunset as he sipped his beer, silently thinking about everything, and how it was all changing again.

“It’s not another Wizard?” Poi asked.

“Doubtful.” Erick gazed across the world. “Yggdrasil is growing up and I think he has a girlfriend, or boyfriend… Or… Something. Someone.”

And soon, Erick was going to lose the ability to see through Yggdrasil, to check on all the other parts of the world that he couldn’t see with Ophiel… And Ophiel was going to become his own person, too. Both of those events were liable to happen at the same time, and that was terrifying in a whole host of ways. Erick was going to go from having eyes all across the world, and in several different nearby locations at once, to only having his own eyes and his singular, 500-meter-range mana sense… Along with whatever Benevolence triggers Erick might sense now and then.

He wasn’t getting one of those Benevolence triggers now, though. All day long, Erick had been feeling nothing more than the weight of the changing of an age upon him, which was distinctly different from a Benevolence marker. Those were usually much more pointed. His current malaise was definitely tied to the uncertainty of the current situation; not to any specific danger… Or at least that’s what he was telling himself.

Ophiel, wide-eyed this whole time and sitting on the railing in front of Erick and Poi, piped up. “He has a girlfriend!”

Shock suddenly rippled through Erick, leaving worry in its wake—

Yggdrasil’s angry [Scry] eye appeared beyond the railing and his voice came with it, “Ophiel!”

“No fighting!” Erick said strongly. While Ophiel grinned with his many eyes and Yggdrasil’s eye turned dimmer, Erick continued, “Ophiel. You shouldn’t have said that to me. I wanted to respect Yggdrasil’s choice not to tell me yet.”

Ophiel turned sad, drooping a little, as Yggdrasil’s eye brightened wide.

Erick continued, “Please don’t tattle on each other unless it’s an emergency, and a girlfriend is not an emergency. That said: Yggdrasil. I am happy that you have found a girlfriend. I want to see her before the seal is passed on to you. You’ve got several months to tell me who she is.”

Yggdrasil’s eye turned a little dim. “Yes, Father.”

“I am very glad that she’s a girlfriend and not a Wizard or something like that.” Erick said, “It was wrong of Ophiel to tell me about it, but he was looking out for the world, as must we all.”

Ophiel fluffed up a little bit.

And Yggdrasil sighed a little. “I know. I just wanted more time to tell you about her. I wasn’t even sure if this was going to happen.”

“You deserve to grow and prosper as you desire, Yggdrasil.” Erick said, “I’ll be there to help you as long as I can, which is hopefully for many, many more years to come.”

Yggdrasil’s eye nodded, and then vanished back into nothing.

Erick sipped his beer, and then turned to Poi. “You want to come with me on an incognito trip around the world again?”

“Nope!” Poi laughed a little. “I’m not going out there with you and Quilatalap, even if it seems Quilatalap will be dropped off at the first stop. Someone has to stay behind to tell you to come back to base when everything falls apart. Despite what you might think, Kiri is still years away from being ready to take over your duties.”

“Bah!” Erick chuckled. “She’ll be fine. The best way to learn a job is on the job, and she’s been the Overseer of Gate Expansion for years now. She can be Gatemaster easily enough. She’s not some 19 year-old girl anymore, and you’ll be here as Overseer of Mind Magic, anyway, helping her… Unless you actually do want to go with me around the world again?”

Poi smiled softly. “Maybe when it’s not a working vacation.”

“I’ll hold you to that!”

“Are you going to tell the others?” Poi stated, “You’re telling us, of course. But as for the kingdom itself: are you thinking of slinking off into the night, and letting the kingdom resolve itself?”

“… I wasn’t honestly thinking of the second one. But.” Erick asked, “It could be a good stress test? The kingdom runs well enough without me there to hold their hands all the time, and I’ve been asked to be incognito by both Sininindi and Atunir. I don’t think Melemizargo cares, but I’ll be doing that on my own, anyway.”

Poi briefly leveled a disbelieving stare at Erick, then he turned back toward the sunset. “I fully expect us to need to call you back halfway through this endeavor.”

“… Yeah. Probably.”

Erick stared out at the sunset.

There was just so much left to do at the House. The democracy debacle over in the Cities was still unfolding. The Gate expansions to the next layer of the Underworld. Kiri would be fine, in a general sort of way, since she had basically been doing the job of Gatemaster for the last few years, but she needed someone to step up and take her place as the Overseer of Gate Expansion…

“Who do you think Kiri will pick for her Overseer of Gate Expansion?”

“I don’t know, but probably Vixo Juliz.”

“Her secretary?”

Poi shrugged. “I’m just glad that this isn’t nearly as much of an emergency as I thought it was when all the world saw Yggdrasil flickering brightly.”

Erick smiled a little. “Me, too.”

The two old friends watched the sun set upon the western horizon, sipping their beers in companionable silence, and a bit more small talk. Erick finished off his beer as the sun finally passed beyond the edge of the world.

And then Erick said, “I’m going to make it a clean break, Poi, as much as I can. It’d be too easy to step back into this life and keep solving problems. I’d be king forever, and I’d like that. We’re doing a lot of good. Every day, new babies are born, mothers and fathers make new houses in the monster-free land, cities arise where there once was war. And yet, there is no way for those new people to reach upward, with me at the top. Everything in this world moves through my Gate Network. I could end this utopia with a flick of intent, canceling every single [Gate] out there, and I hate that.” Staring out into the twilight sky, Erick said, “Other people hate that, too. I know everyone at the House tries to shield me from that hate, with Zolan vetting every single meeting before it happens and all the other Overseers doing the same... But I know I have too much power. No one should have this much power, even if they do good things with it. I have to give it up to the next generation.”

“I respectfully disagree, and those naysayers can go fuck themselves.”

Erick laughed. Poi did not, which made Erick laugh all over again, ending in a soft smile.

Poi said, “Also, we don’t shield you from anything. We just don’t allow it inside the House.”

Erick gave a noncommittal grumble and a shrug.

After a silent moment, Poi asked, “When Ophiel and Yggdrasil separate, are you going to make another [Familiar] that won’t? Like with Archmage Tenebrae’s [Summon Rocky]?”

