Seraphel had to explain as best she could what happened as they jogged after the party. Vofea was open-mouthed.
“So there you were, crawling over a horde of treasures like a thingymawhatsit stealing from a Dragon’s hoard! What’s the name again? It’s like a Halfling, but, eh…nevermind.”
“Er, it was hardly that big a treasure hoard and far more disgusting.”
“No, no, it’s the same! The stuff of stories! You know, them little folk! ‘Tis a famous story, according to Ryoka Griffin. When it was told, all in the Court of the Fae went to hear it!”
“Um…Fraerlings?”
“Bah, I cannot talk to ye! Just go on. Then what?”
Seraphel didn’t think her captivity and desperate escape was that dashing, but Vofea was delighted.
“Tricking even the nightmares of gods like that—and then you rode back here?”
“Yes and no. I had fairly good directions thanks to how much they talked about your locations. There are surface tunnels I could follow; we meandered far too much. Unfortunately, whatever ward was on my horse failed after some time. The poor thing dropped dead.”
“Ooh. But then you reached us! I’m glad. I’m…glad. It’s been hard.”
Vofea looked even thinner than before, even more bloodstained. Seraphel gazed around and thought that each column was shorter.
“How many have died?”
“Hundreds. It feels like there’s at least six groups of monsters before we stop to rest.”
“That’s what they said. All the Crelers pushed the monsters out of their habitats.”
Vofea pointed back at the wagon with Ksmvr on it.
“There’s naught to do but press on. We’ve come so far I doubt Ksmvr could get them to turn…we’re almost out of provisions. We have t’get out of here. But I’ve run out of tricks. Maybe between us…”
Seraphel had one dagger left. The dreadful slaughter—she took a breath.
“I am prepared to do everything in my power. But as I said, Vofea. I levelled. I have become…the woman I always was. Or was meant to be. You may have to place me on the wagon, but I swear. I will do more help than harm.”
The Satyr gazed at the [Princess] with hope-filled eyes. She nodded.
“Of all the moments to wish for levels and such…I wish for it now. I thought mebbe I’d not take them, even after Ksmvr lecturing me.”
She gazed down at her hands.
“I’m tired of watching them die. Show me, please. Show me the dream even Oberon believed in.”
Seraphel felt a chill over her skin. Then she gazed ahead at four people she loved.
Rabbiteater.
Cortese.
Menrise.
Gilthisa.
Yes, she knew them. She had shared memories with them and understood theirs. She promised—this time—she would save as many as could be saved.
“I’m a weak [Princess]. But even if these hands of mine cannot save anyone…I am in the company of those who can.”
 
——
 
(Yet another foe emerges from the darkness. The Many-Headed Serpent hisses.)
 
The Angry Woman readies a spell. ‘Be careful, I think it regenerates’.
The Guilty Man checks behind for an ambush. He readies a bow.
The Lonely Warrior lifts shield and sword for the fray.
The Weeping Princess…pauses a moment. She opens her eyes. ‘I’m back,’ she declares. No one knows what she means. But her smile is relieved. She’s no longer crying.
 
In the background, The Grim Knight readied himself to fight. He hoped he could be called upon, though he was fading. Reducing in…strength from the damage he’d taken. But one piece of him did not join that battle of colors above.
This time…he did not drift back into the other world, tuning himself to the ‘right’ frequency with effort, unable to hold himself.
He woke suddenly. A sleeper from a long and terrible dream. And he remembered everything. Ksmvr flexed his hands, then sat up.
The unbound ropes fell from him, and a voice gasped. He gazed into that exhausted, desperate face he had been unable to help for so long and spoke. His voice was raspy.
“Vofea. Explain.”
For answer, she pointed, and Ksmvr saw the woman standing there at the head of her column. The blue of her sorrows drifted upwards as the [Cursed Princess] took her place in the procession of the damned.
So why was she smiling? The Satyr had tears in her eyes.
“She took your place. She levelled and—”
Ksmvr rose suddenly. His body protested the movements, but he had been made well; he was barely cramped. He reached for his sides and realized she had his blades.
“My swords. I understand enough. Where—ah. Hydras.”
A ‘mere’ eight of them. Enough to tear his comrades to shreds. But they were waiting for their turn. Vofea handed him two blades caked in blood. Ksmvr took them.
“My crossbows too. Find any flame you can and torch their heads. Do not get close to them lest they trample you.”
“Right! Are you going to do something swords-like?”
“Yes.”
Ksmvr’s rings were on his fingers. He tensed, and the Ring of Jumping glowed. But before he leapt, the Antinium turned to the young Satyr woman.
“Vofea. You are no rookie Horn of Hammerad. Yvlon herself would be immensely proud of you. It is I who am the rookie. And Colth.”
She beamed at him.
“Nah, I want t’be the rookie again.”
He smiled, and then the Antinium leapt. His cloak flapped behind him as he soared under the sea of colors, and his blades flashed silver as he fell. A dance of metal on the frozen Hydras.
Ksmvr dropped in a shower of green blood with the first Hydra’s head, then the second, but it wasn’t enough. He unleashed all his helpless rage as he pivoted in the air. Four crossbows appeared in his hands as he turned and shouted.
“[Weapon Art: Aggregate Volley]!”
 
——
 
(The Many-Headed Serpent has been attacked by a strange beetle. It takes 2 damage…for some reason.)
 
Utterly confused, the Lonely Warrior decides to attack anyways. He deals 1 damage and is even more confused. And insulted.
The Weeping Princess is laughing. She charges into battle and deals 0 damage…
 
——
 
When she next awoke, it was because her Skill had ended. Or perhaps he was done. Vofea saw the [Cursed Princess] step out of line. She was cradling an Antinium in her arms even as he got up and joined the procession of figures following Ser Thilowen.
“He said he ran outta Skills, so you should let him go.”
“It worked, didn’t it?”
For answer, Vofea just pointed back, and Seraphel saw four Hydras that her party hadn’t killed. Hacked down or riddled with crossbow bolts. Vofea chased after Ksmvr with ropes and shouted.
“He had a lista people to choose next!”
Seraphel had chosen Ksmvr of Chandrar because he was an adventurer, and because he wouldn’t be as confused as everyone else. She expected to see Ser Solstice front and top of the list, but she blinked.
“Is he serious?”
“He says ‘in moments like this, not-rookie Vofea, you should trust the experts’. Then he patted me on the head, which was sort of patronizing, but I let him do it.”
Meaning…adventurers. The [Cursed Princess] hesitated. Then she threw out a hand like someone inviting a partner into a terrible, final dance.
I am cursed. But that’s fine. 
[Transfer Afflictions: Self]! She took a curse from just one person in the army of lost people. And as The Weeping Princess rejoined her party…
The lonely, single Stitch-woman marching with guilt blinked and put a hand to her head.
Revi Cotton stumbled, then whirled around. She saw Vofea dragging Ksmvr by his back-shell over to the wagons. The [Summoner] pulled out one eye, then sighed.
“Fuck. This one’s a real adventure. Halrac…it never ends.”
She was still gazing at the hypnotizing miasma above her, biting her lip so hard it was bleeding, when Vofea ran back.
“Miss Revi! Miss Revi, what’s happening is—”
The [Summoner] had pulled out a hand mirror. She inspected her disfigured face without expression, then tucked the mirror into her belt. She turned, gnawing at the good part of her lip. She spat.
“We all got hexed. I got it. I thought I was Lord Cortese and guilty of nearly knifing ‘Ser Solstice’ in the back. Meanwhile, we’ve been letting monsters walk up and hit us. But someone had the sense to wake me up. That sum it up?”
The Gold-rank adventurer lifted her wand, brushing at her untouched summoning crystals hanging from her belt. Vofea hesitated.
“Um. Yep. It’s the [Princess] what did that last bit. Ksmvr said you were better than Ser Solstice or anyone else.”
“Ksmvr’s the smartest member of his team. I’m the highest-ranked adventurer on the field. I’m the [Summoner].”
Revi drew a crystal from her belt and held it up. She whispered a word, and the tiny element trapped in the crystal glowed—and a vast, scuttling Shield Spider prowled forwards. It had no emotions, no thoughts, not even an undead’s mind. Revi bit through her lip, and her teeth clicked together. She glared at Vofea.
“Catch me up to speed, rookie! The next wave we run into, I’ll wipe solo. I’ll do this entire damn dungeon if they just stand there!”
 
——
 
(The Laughing Leperous Carnivore has appeared! It takes 44 damage for some reason.)
(The Laughing Leperous Carnivore has been vanquished! 0 EXP awarded.)
 
(A Furious Weevil appears! It takes 422 damage for some reason.)
(A Furious Weevil has been vanquished! 0 EXP awarded. A Pretty Gemstone found!)
 
(An Undead Zombie has appeared! It takes 202 damage for some reason.)
(An Undead Zombie has been vanquished! 0 EXP awarded.)
 
The Guilty Man is wondering what is going on. He ignores the red bug following him as it whines.
The Weeping Princess is wearing a mysterious smile.
The Lonely Warrior thinks the smile is slightly charming. And nostalgic.
The Angry Woman is waiting for actual combat to begin.
 
——
 
Revi did not do every battle by herself. But not for lack of trying. To hear Vofea tell it, Revi had taken their battle tactics to a logical extreme only a [Summoner] could. The moment she saw an enemy, her summons would roll over them.
Summoned Stitch-folk warriors beheading silent figures and her vast Shield Spider trampling everything. A Face-Eater Moth doing what it was known for—
“She even sent them into the darkness. No minds to take, see?”
“If only she’d been here from the start! We’d have been safe!”
Well, Revi did have her limits. She’d forced herself to her very limits, then given Vofea orders to have Seraphel switch her out. She was now swaying back into line with Lord Cortese’s group.
They were not out of this. Seraphel saw another group coming their way. She took a breath. Then she plucked someone out of line.
“Glowing ants. Not Rabbiteater for this. Please…”
Lady Menrise jerked and gazed down at the vomit and blood on her clothing. Then her helmet creaked around.
“Seraphel? I was dreaming…”
She saw the [Princess]’ distant smile and Vofea bowing to the [Princess]. The Satyr pointed.
“Monsters are coming. After ye blast them, I’ll explain about your [Princess]. Carrying the burdens for all of us.”
The Satyr loaded an enchanted bolt as Menrise jerked her wand up. Vofea fired.
 
——
 
(This mysterious maze is coming to an end. The foes keep coming but…is luck on your side? Or something else?)
(The Wretched Flies buzz as they detach from the ceiling, obscene bags of flesh trying to lay eggs in your head. Their swarm buzzes over your heads.)
(However—a brave little [Sniper] is loosing arrows. He grins with a monster’s smile as his crimson eyes flash. For some reason, The Wretched Flies take 79 damage!)
 
‘Brother?’ Why does that word spring to mind? The Lonely Warrior salutes the little [Sniper]. He leaps and slashes down the foe! He delivers 244 damage!
Shoot it down! The Guilty Man looses arrows! He delivers 99 damage!
She can fight now. The Weeping Princess brutally executes her foe. She delivers 370 damage.
 
(The Wretched Flies are no more! 103 EXP awarded!)
 
The Angry Woman stares at The Weeping Princess. How did she do that?
 
——
 
“Whoa.”
Badarrow lowered his bow. He hadn’t stopped firing arrows, but he’d feared that even with his enchanted arrows exploding amongst the flies that they’d do some damage.
The arrow showers from Cortese’s group and his brother slashing down the bugs—and everyone copying him as if they were Cave Goblins—was good enough. But Badarrow hadn’t expected the soft [Princess] to stride up, grab a fly, and just ram a dagger through its head.
She did the same thing the next battle they faced. When it was her ‘turn’, she didn’t slash at the enemy. Instead, she crept up behind the Ghoul and hamstrung it with two quick slashes. Incredibly vicious—but only if the enemy let her sidle around them. It’d never go down that way in a real fight.
But it was as if she knew…the [Sniper] began to grin. The grim expression he’d worn, like a mirror of Halrac’s, became slightly triumphant. He did not miscount the dead and wounded, but this felt like a reversal.
A Redfang’s quintessential smile. He nudged Vofea, and the Satyr smiled proudly as she lowered her crossbow.
“I taught her that!”
“She good at frontstabbing and backstabbing. Ooh, and sidestabbing.”
“Is that all the stabbings you have to learn?”
“Nah, there plenty more. Advanced stuff. Groinstabbing. Nosestabbing. Assstab. I show you later.”
They were making it. Badarrow slapped his brother’s shoulder as he exhaled. He patted Seraphel on the shoulder and then began recovering arrows. He could see into the darkness and thin any crowd coming his way. When they ran into something he couldn’t easily shoot down, he’d switch…
“We’re going to make it, Brother.”
Just a bit further. The [Sniper] kept firing arrows until his fingers bled. When he finally let himself rest…he swore he could see real light at the end of the tunnel.
Almost. Though—the Hobgoblin turned his head and wondered what that damn annoying bug following Lord Cortese was all about. It kept getting louder.
 
——
 
“Under the Sword of Laegriser and by the grace of the [Hero of Titan’s Challenge], we meet. Warded by the Thousand Lances of Kaaz Dorem Laegriser, this assembly of the nobility of the Kingdom of the Infinite Dungeon is convened. His Majesty and His Highness bear witness. All kneel!”
They knelt.
Less than a hundred men and women fell to their knees. Hundredlord Kinth winced as his left hip popped so loudly that the younger Hundredlords jumped. Several of the [Knights] kneeling closest to the high bench where the [King] of Kaaz sat winced.
A sympathetic glance from Knight Etheric, whose white hair glimmered like the snow. But Kinth’s lined face betrayed no strain, though his skin was withered like an aged pear.
“Rise. Do not tax yourselves, my Lords and Ladies of the Lance.”
