Kanadith the Herald, Goblin Lord of Baleros, the Uniter of the Sunken Tribes, Crelerbane, Nagabane, Armorbane, Centaurbane, Mindbane, Toller of the Bells of Ruination, Slaughterer of Your Elders, the Ancient Goblin appears. 
 
(You scream. You turn to flee.)
 
Kanadith the Herald, Goblin Lord of Baleros, the Uniter of the Sunken Tribes, Crelerbane, Nagabane, Armorbane, Centaurbane, Mindbane, Toller of the Bells of Ruination, Slaughterer of Your Elders, the Ancient Goblin attacks! They deliver 0 damage.
The Unfinished Nightmare is afraid. It attempts to flee!
The Chieftain of Despair blocks The Unfinished Nightmare. There is no escape.
Kanadith the Herald, Goblin Lord of Baleros, the Uniter of the Sunken Tribes, Crelerbane, Nagabane, Armorbane, Centaurbane, Mindbane, Toller of the Bells of Ruination, Slaughterer of Your Elders, the Ancient Goblin attacks! They deliver 0 damage.
The Unfinished Nightmare lashes out! It delivers 0 damage. It attempts to flee!
Kanadith the Herald, Goblin Lord of Baleros, the Uniter of the Sunken Tribes, Crelerbane, Nagabane, Armorbane, Centaurbane, Mindbane, Toller of the Bells of Ruination, Slaughterer of Your Elders, the Ancient Goblin attacks! They deliver 0 damage.
The Chieftain of Despair attacks! He delivers 0 damage.
The Unfinished Nightmare escapes combat!
The Unfinished Nightmare vanishes.
 
——
 
When he finally stepped into the sun, the [Knight] wearing spring’s green remembered everything. He exhaled as he stood with those who had left.
Men and women, some of whom cried out or wept for the loss of it. But Ser Markus just studied his surroundings at first, his face a mask of grief and failure.
He counted and understood just how much had been lost. The [Spring Knight] knelt in the grass, wishing he had words to encompass his emotions. Something to make sense of what was senseless.
If there was a comfort, it was this: they were not alone. He remembered the men and women he had walked with. He had seen his friend’s heart, and Rabbiteater’s soul was as true as Ser Markus had believed.
“That means something. So must this.”
People were waiting for him. Another surprise. Ser Markus walked forwards, then knelt again. Of all receptions he could have hoped for upon waking from the dream…he looked up, and he did weep.
“Spring’s Warden. You stand here to greet us all?”
His beloved Spring’s Warden stood with a great host of people. Numbers beyond counting. They milled about, and it seemed to him that this place was new. It had such a feel, and yet it was peaceful.
The lands of the dead should be such a place, Ser Markus felt. He saw the Spring’s Warden smile as she offered him her hand.
“We’ve come beyond titles now, Markus. I wait for you and everyone else. But also to know. I am sorry to see you so soon. What brought you here?”
Ser Markus turned, and the Calanferians, colonists, sailors, soldiers, and knights walked forwards. He looked about, but he did not see Rabbiteater’s face.
“A terribly tragic dream, Spring’s Warden. I beg to report…I beg to report that I did not distinguish the Season of Spring well in my final moments. I don’t know if I even swung a sword.”
His voice trembled, and he waited for castigation, but the eyes of the dead held no judgement. The Spring’s Warden embraced him gently.
“Speak, [Knight]. Let it be the last thing you regret.”
He searched for words as the memory of tears sprang to his eyes. Then Ser Markus’ back straightened. He spoke to the listeners solemnly, weeping his many regrets. But his voice…was soft as it rose.
“I would like to believe I—I had some value, ignorant though I was. I should rather be pleased to think that I took a blow that was meant for someone else. That befits my sense of self-importance. But in truth, it may be that I was but a—a flip of the coin. One of the many who perished in a place as unfair as can be.”
She nodded, and he went on, closing his eyes tight.
“Regardless of what the truth is, I know this: I went as far as I could. I wish I could have gone with him to the end. Rabbiteater, my friend, is alive. Until we meet again, I shall claim his victories as my own, his steps on the good earth my triumph. Even if it was one more moment—!”
His eyes overflowed, and his voice broke. Then the [Knight]’s head rose. He turned and raised a hand. Waving it, though he could not see the living. Just the memory of it. Ser Markus bowed.
“Ser Solstice, Rabbiteater of the Redfangs. My friend. Spring ends.”
Then he turned and began asking questions before he set out on this last, long adventure. But he would tarry awhile, Markus decided. To know how his friend’s story ended.
He hoped he waited a long time.
 
——
 
They said, later, that great things had happened while Seraphel’s company was lost in the Mindscape Ruins. Terrible moments. World-changing.
A Goblin King had arisen, they said, and set the world into panic. The moon had been cracked. Something important had occurred.
It was true, all of it. What remained of the Goblin King had been thrown back into Hellste, and his scream of fury and defeat had crossed the world. Every Goblin who stood on the steps of his terrible throne had heard it.
Even now, it echoed. A promise from the start of this world. An oath of blood.
A Goblin King of Champions who had never existed in this world until he broke into it, but might one day come again. His voice and that rage reflected onto the Goblin who might someday become that terrible figure.
—But Rabbiteater couldn’t hear the echoing howl. He knelt, ignorant of it all.
He was too busy weeping and holding his friend.
