Seraphel doubted its real function was just to burn someone’s finger off. Most ‘cursed’ artifacts fell into two camps. Either they were just meant to kill you horrifically or you were running afoul of a security effect. It was possible this ring had a lot of value, but she resolved not to so much as touch it until a proper [Mage] could inspect it. What she had found was enough.
It did indeed feel like adventurers’ gear. Of the six objects she’d appraised before nearly losing a finger, two of them were related to travel, which was exactly what Seraphel needed. She even knew what one did, because someone had been oh so kind to future wearers and written the effect on the inside of the ring.
“‘Ring of Quickstride’, oh, you beautiful [Enchanter]. I’d kiss you, but that would probably curse you for life.”
Also, they were probably dead. In which case, Seraphel was open to the kiss if they weren’t the rotting sort of dead. As soon as she popped it on her finger, she felt like each step took her about a fifth further than before.
It was an eerie feeling, actually. Like how you felt when you suddenly elongated your stride. Seraphel almost thought she’d fall over until she got used to it.
Now, a 20% increase in stride length might not have seemed like much, but she’d take it. The morale effect alone increased the [Princess]’ pace noticeably, so it was like she’d doubled her speed. The second item was of more dubious worth, but it fascinated her.
It was an amulet shaped like a cage. When Seraphel opened the little cage doors, a tiny golden bird appeared. It would dart out in the direction she aimed it, then come flitting back, incredibly fast, and flash something at her.
A number. Only, er…she had no idea what number it was. The writing was not familiar to her, and she instantly suspected another species’ language.
“It can’t be Drakish.”
Seraphel had studied the Walled Cities’ language as part of her education—just enough to use their alphabet with help. She squinted at the little runes.
“They’re so…curvy. It’s not Drathian or the House of Minos’ numeral system…”
Could it be Selphid…ese? Did they have a written language? Or maybe…Gnollish? Of the written languages of the world, that last one tickled Seraphel’s fancy. There was a certain animalistic quality to the numbers. They were simple, but she imagined that one might be…a leaping trout? Or that a gazelle bounding along or something.
Seraphel was convinced this was old Gnollish and wondered how old this artifact was. Deciphering which numbers were which was fairly simple. Regardless of their shapes, the creators were still operating on a very universal 0-9 numbering system.
What the bird was counting was how many steps it was in any direction it flew. If Seraphel unleashed it at a crossroads, like the first one she came to, two birds would hop out of the cage, each a different color, and come back. They would fly until they met an obstruction—or another fork.
A perfect tool for adventurers. For instance, Seraphel was told that the right path at the fork ran for 8,433 steps, or some number therein. Whereas the other bird gave her a complex set of symbols and then a very obvious three-path icon.
“So there’s a second crossroads only…2,560 steps away? Or is that 9,560? I hope it’s the former. Lead on, little bird!”
 
——
 
It was actually less than two thousand steps thanks to her ring, and Seraphel was very tickled to realize that whatever stride the bird was using wasn’t calibrated to her specifically. Maybe it was a unit of measurement? Very cheerfully, she fired three birds off at the crossroads, each one a different color.
Butter yellow, blueberry blue, and a raspberry red! She was sort of hungry. Seraphel sipped more of the Wardwater Liquid, as she had dubbed it, as she waited. She hoped it didn’t ward her stomach lining.
She was less happy with the results of this investigation. The yellow bird took the longest to return, and when it did, Seraphel’s heart sank.
 
Yellow Bird: 99,999 steps. 344 something red icons. 52,444 steps?
Blue Bird: 1,233 steps. Two-prong fork. 23 red icons. 23 blue icons? 877 steps.
Red Bird: 4,555 steps. Four-prong fork. No icons.
 
“Eternal Throne! I’m not a City Runner, let alone a Courier! I’ll die before I find anyone!”
And she had no idea where to go! Seraphel sank to her knees and put her head down before staring at the numbers again.
Focus, Seraphel du Marquin. Vofea needs your help! Rabbiteater, Cortese, and Menrise need you! 
The birds were telling her something. She gazed at the red icons and numbers and hazarded a guess. She spoke to the yellow bird displaying its numbers above its head. It even scratched at the side of its body with a tiny little clawed foot as it waited!
“My guess, you beautiful little thing, is that you’re informing me of—of monsters! That is surely what an ominous red color should mean for an adventuring sort. Thus, the second number must mean when you first spotted them. It could be you can do multiple groups…but in these tunnels, I rather imagine everything but me is clumped up, anyways.”
Yes, that made sense. Which meant to the left, down a black tunnel sloping downwards, there was not only over 100,000 feet of tunnel with no apparent breaks, but over three hundred monsters of some kind.
The Crelers? Seraphel thought that might line up with one of the new Baby Creler swarms. Going down that route would have killed her from the sheer distance if nothing else. Whereas…
“The middle path has a fork and twenty-three ‘monsters’…and twenty three non-monsters? How odd. It’s the shortest route, but…the rightmost path has nothing at all.”
And the most forks at that end. Ergo, Seraphel should head that way. Her plan, rough as it was, would be to use the birds to locate her friends. The moment they registered a group over a thousand strong, it surely had to be the Calanferian detachment.
Even assuming they’d somehow taken thousands more deaths than she thought, it would still be the largest group in this place by far, or so Seraphel assumed. She was rather pleased by all this deduction.
Here she was using her brain instead of reacting like she had been forced to do. She only wished she’d saved more lives.
“This is a dreadful feeling. No matter the fact that Vofea and I are the only sane ones, I feel like nothing I do is enough. I would give anything to be like Ser Rabbiteater, who can swing his axe and erase any foe! He surely never feels so helpless.”
She said that as she rested her feet in preparation for a 5,000 foot walk, then remembered what Rabbiteater had said during their trek through the jungle. He’d met Erin Solstice in some kind of…pavilion-thing? She had been dying, and all he’d been able to do was help bring her ‘out’.
The rest of the Ivory Four hadn’t understood what that meant, and Rabbiteater hadn’t exactly been clear on the details. But he had wept. Wept and been helpless.
“One supposes that one never truly feels in control. Well, drat.”
So much for her dreams of one day having that kind of control in her life. Seraphel blamed her parents. All pragmatism, zero idealism. It was a wonder she wasn’t completely insane.
Seraphel was getting up and idly fired the birds off—just to confirm things, really. She was searching around for a place to pee when the birds came back and reported in. Seraphel eyed them, trying to shoo them so they faced in the other direction.
“Shoo, shoo! Give me some space!”
 
Yellow Bird: 99,999 steps. 344 something red icons. 54,484 steps.
Blue Bird: 1,233 steps. Two-prong fork. 23 red icons. 23 blue icons. 321 steps.
Red Bird: 4,555 steps. Four-prong fork. No icons.
 
Wait. Her blood ran cold as one of the numbers changed alarmingly in her mind.
Three hundred and twenty-one steps away? The group down the middle path was coming her way at tremendous speed! It couldn’t have been more than a minute of rest! Seraphel sprang up.
“Oh no!”
She began running down the right path, fast as she could, but she fancied she could hear noises coming from behind her now. It hadn’t occurred to her that anyone would notice the obvious magical birds mapping the tunnels! If it were a group of people with their minds addled, they’d never take notice!
Wait, if it were a group like my people…Seraphel almost tripped, and then she did hear sounds. Familiar ones.
Clip-clop, clip-clop—the familiar sound of horse’s hooves! Amplified on stone, no less! Seraphel halted, panting. She heard voices, even, muted but low.
They’d reached the intersection where she was. But they had no idea she had gone right. Her pursuers had a three-way path to make, and there were only twenty-three of them. She doubted they’d want to split up that much in the darkness. If she moved fast, she might evade them, and if they did the obvious thing and went straight…they’d run smack bang into the Creler nest. She doubted the Elder Creler would allow them to survive that encounter, even gestating.
Seraphel had no idea what group this was, but as she listened, she thought she heard a faint sibilance to the words being barked in the common tongue. Which made her think Lizardfolk, but horses…?
Jungle Tails. We’re in their territory. Or perhaps Lizardfolk natives working for the Iron Vanguard? How are they not addled by this place? Seraphel’s racing mind came to an abrupt, immediate conclusion. There was only one thing to do.
 
——
 
The group of six mounted Nagas and seventeen Lizardfolk were exceptionally wary as they scanned the tunnel intersection where the magical birds had come from. One of the Nagas, a Lamia-type, light enough to ride horses if she curled her tail around the nervous beast’s belly, was shining a [Light] spell around.
“It’s an artifact, Lindclaw Leader. Subtle magic. I can’t detect the trail of it.”
“None of the natives use artifacts. They claim this Creler infestation has looted everything. Therefore, it is our quarry. Though how they escaped the mindnet effect I wish to know. [Hunters], take three and scout each tunnel. Go only a thousand paces.”
The Naga leading the group was the smallest of all the Naga types, and a rare one. An Oricaz-type—he was little bigger than the average Lizardman, but his long, fanged teeth and envenomed claws would kill in moments. However, he was bipedal and could ride a horse. In many ways, he did resemble Lizardmen, just with a prouder neck crest, stronger form. Deadlier glint in his eyes.
His was one of three teams investigating this maze; there weren’t enough wards for more. Just this many was more than the Iron Vanguard could boast. Well, the thickheads had been smart enough to camp outside the ruins. They were being driven off, but these Calanferians…
The Lindclaw Leader was on high alert as he sniffed the air.
“There’s a warmblood scent on the rightmost tunnel. Focus there. Though there’s something ahead…”
“D’you want us to check the other two tunnels anyways, Naga?”
“Silence.”
He snapped at the Lizardfolk. They were good warriors, the best non-Nagas he could find, but they prattled. The Oricaz sniffed again—then nearly jumped off his horse when he heard a voice calling out!
“Oh, I say! Are those horses I hear? Jolly good! I was getting quite worried I’d never find my way out of here! My feet are in an agony! Eternal Throne and Hundred Heroes—”
A woman appeared out of the darkness. She looked dreadful. An expensive riding dress was blackened down her back, and she had blood dried down her chin, and her hair was covered in blood and grime…but there was still a certain air of superiority she carried. Not to mention her attitude. She came into the light as every bow and wand rose, then flung a hand up.
“Rescuers! At last!”
She strode forwards as the surprised Lizardfolk [Leader] barked.
“Halt! Wait, is that the [Princess]?”
He couldn’t believe his luck. How in the name of the temples was she here? And not…dead? She should be a lifeless husk! Royal class? Was this an ambush?
However, the [Princess] just strode forwards, as if she couldn’t see the bows and wands, and flung herself across one of the [Hunters]’ saddles.
“At last! We were shipwrecked at sea, then we had to march, march through the jungles for days! With mosquitos! And no one to draw a bath for me each night! Then we had to march into this dreadful pit, and everyone stopped talking to me! You, my good woman, get off this horse this instant! I shall do without a carriage for now, but I insist upon a tent, bath, pleasant conversation, and some fine vittles. Eternal Throne of Calanfer bless you all!”
She blew a kiss at one of the Lizardwomen, whose jaw was hanging open. Seraphel beamed around with such a convincing [False Smile] that the Oricaz [Leader] was swayed.
“Er—that’s her, Lindclaw Leader. What do we do?”
The Lamia [Magus] whispered, and the Oricaz snapped back.
“Well, capture her, obviously! This is perfect! You, er, [Princess]. You are now a prisoner of the Jungle Tails company. An honored guest, rather. We’ll bring you back to our camps. Where’s your people?”
It occurred to him to spin it in a way she’d understand. Seraphel blinked up at him with astonishingly blue eyes and then exhaled.
“Well, of course I’m your prisoner! I should rather insist on it! And to be treated like a [Princess]. Very good, yes, yes, I surrender and all that. Please take me back to civilization at once! I don’t know where the rest of the blasted army is. They wandered off, and I woke up by myself! My good woman, did you hear me? I require this horse! Off! Off, I say!”
“Is she…is that really a [Princess]?”
One of the other Nagas muttered as they watched Princess Seraphel haranguing one of the [Hunters]. The Lindclaw Leader was smiling.
“I’ve heard they’re like this. You! Off the mount. Ride double with someone else. Your Highness, I am Lindclaw Leader Hexore. I shall treat you with utmost respect and ensure your comfort until you are able to meet with our Dragonfire General, but I must ask you keep quiet and obey orders. This is a dangerous place. A death-zone.”
“Oh, I am charmed, Lord Hexore! I rather did fear I would expire in this dreadful place.”
Seraphel mounted the horse clumsily, and the Lizardfolk [Hunter] slid off her mount. She scurried over to Hexore and tugged at his tail.
“Sir, sir…”
“How did you survive? With respect, this place is known to kill anyone unprepared. We have very specific wards against it, but anyone surviving here is frankly incredible.”
Seraphel waved at the tiara on her head.
“I imagine it’s my royal artifact. Or my aura? I’m rather not sure which. Should I take it off just to see?”
“No!”
They all shouted at her, and she was so offended she harrumphed. Hexore gave orders.
