The second feature of the Creler nest was the chitin. It was the same color as the Crelers’ bodies. That black chitin, but rough. Built up with a product of their bile or something. It had sealed all entrances to the nest but one, and, she suspected, was harder than steel.
The swarms were by the entrance, and anyways, what could she do? Run? She’d be dead out there in a moment. So Seraphel waded through the eggs, trying to find something, anything.
The Crelers had made a kind of throne or central repository where she bet they put all food they hadn’t eaten; behind it, the eggs. The Awakened was in front of this repository, but by wading up through the eggs—and puking in her mouth twice—Seraphel could climb a staircase or whatever was buried under the eggs and gaze down into the center of the nest.
What she saw…did not make her happier. It turned out Crelers and ‘stored food’ was a bit of a misnomer.
Crelers didn’t store food. What they had, they ate. The only reason the swarms were bringing back food was for the Adult Crelers. What was in the center of their nest was…a fifth Adult Creler.
Only, this one was covered in a gelly orange-white sack and looked like the largest larvae in the world. It was half again as big as the other Adult Crelers and twitched sporadically as Seraphel stared down in horror at it.
This was an Elder Creler. In gestation.
“Eternal Throne and Hundred Heroes, Queen Marquin the Radiant, I have heard it said that you send greater challenges to those with the levels capable of dealing with them, but if that is so, why am I here?”
Seraphel had gone from ‘we will likely all die’ to ‘I am certainly going to die horribly’ to ‘it’s probably not going to be more painful but this is the worst death I can imagine’.
She’d already capped out the insanity of the situation. However, her time was running out: The Awakened had its turn, and it decided the problem of contamination was best solved by…death.
All four Adult Crelers began to fire their projectiles from their mouths nonstop, like thunder, scything down all three swarms. Which….was a plus?
I’ve killed over eight hundred Baby Crelers and at least several dozen Juvenile Crelers too! That had to be worth something, right?
The downside was that The Awakened now had complete economy of action since it was by itself. She expected it to come after her, but it had, seemingly, lost track of her. The four Adult Crelers scurried left and right, but didn’t check their eggs…presumably, they thought nothing would be that stupid. After clawing at the walls in frustration, Seraphel thought she might have a chance! Though if they left the room, she was also dead.
Then The Awakened seemed to decide that having killed all of their minions, they were now in trouble. So, all four Adult Crelers moved to the center of the rooms, and their bellies undulated. A bunch of tiny lights glowed from within their stomachs, and—what happened next, Ksmvr would have warned Seraphel about.
The Adult Crelers began to vomit up more Baby Crelers. Hundreds of them, which subdivided into new swarms.
Seraphel took a moment for her own personal action: vomiting the rest of her stomach straight onto the unborn Elder Creler below her. She gagged, washed her mouth out with the free water, and then spat.
“Th-that’s for Calanfer!”
Vomiting on an Elder Creler had to be worth at least a few points in Queen Marquin’s eyes, surely. Seraphel closed her eyes. There was nothing for it. She peeked down, then jumped off the ledge.
Straight onto the Elder Creler.
“Argh!”
The cocoon-membrane was harder than she thought. Seraphel twisted around in agony as it twitched, then scrambled down along its obscenely grotesque body. She was not mad. There was, in fact, a method to this.
Firstly—The Awakened. The Adult Crelers would search for her or order their swarms to. They might find her amongst the eggs, but would they crawl over this member of their species? Perhaps not. Second, Seraphel had seen something it was curled around. Something that glittered and made her think that Crelers operated in the best traditions of Humans, many monsters, and magpies.
Third? If there were any way in the world to hurt it, she was going to try. The gestating Elder Creler affronted something truly primal in Seraphel’s being. She understood why even rabbits or peaceful animals fought Crelers. This thing radiated a hatred of the world, and the world loathed it right back.
Neither one of us shall allow the other to live. If I’m to die down here, I might as well…Seraphel viciously stabbed a red eye staring without a pupil though the layers of gel. She cut through the membrane in a few stabs, and then hit the eye.
Crack. After the third stab, Seraphel heard a cracking sound and raised Menrise’s dagger. The enchanted blade had snapped right off at the tip. She swallowed.
“Magical resistance. Right.”
There went killing it. Seraphel gave it a kick anyways, then slid along its cocoon towards what it was curled around. In the background, she could hear-think The Awakened giving directions to the swarm.
 
(Slay the intruders. Find the contamination. Destroy it.)
 
What felt like…one swarm was going out on an attack mission. Two began scuttling around the walls. Seraphel glanced up and turned dead white.
They were coming over the ceiling. Probing every inch of the room except for right here. She crawled forwards and finally arrived at a spot that wasn’t Elder Creler. She reached down, grunted, and sighed.
“…This isn’t even a real pearl.”
Seraphel the [Entomologist] had just discovered a truth about Crelers unknown to the world. That they hoarded treasure or inedible valuables from their enemies? Known. A wise move to deny other beings magical assets. Very common across all species, really. That they couldn’t discern real gemstones from fake? That was news.
The Elder Creler was curled around a literal mound of treasure like some Dragon of old. Or perhaps Wyrm…the Elder Creler was elongating, its body changing in ways Seraphel didn’t want to look too closely at, but those eyes were going to be on its sides and underbelly too. Red and horrible. A city-eater. She began tossing things over her shoulder.
Hands with rings still attached to them. Pieces of gold, ruined armbands with bitemarks still visible on them, even a shield sadly scarred by Creler venom.
All of it non-valuable. Seraphel’s one ability was to tell the worth of something. A [Princess] did handle more money than most people would in their lifetimes. She was searching, searching for something she could use. Like, say, a handy Scroll of Greater Teleportation just lying there.
It had worked for Ksmvr, apparently. Unfortunately…Seraphel realized that real some of the loot here was, none of it appeared magical to her eyes. And she could cast [Detect Magic]!
“What in the world? Some of this should be magical. It’s high enough quality. But it’s dead. Dead, dead, dead.”
Some of these gemstones were so pure, so cleanly cut that she would have taken them if she weren’t about to die. She found a ruby half the size of her head without a single flaw in the entire gem matrix!
Even in Salazsar, this would be worth a fortune! It was an [Enchanter]’s wet dream…and it was devoid of magic. She hucked it at the Elder Creler’s nearest eye and winced as it bounced over its body and hit the ground.
The crack of that gem shattering probably would have given a [Gemcutter] a heart attack. But it was magically dead. So was the scarred shield, this ring, and they looked—
When the shield soared like a frisbee past the Elder Creler’s body, something peculiar happened. It suddenly ignited in flames! Blue fire coated it, and it landed, burning. Several Baby Crelers scrambled away in a panic.
“Huh?”
Seraphel poked her head up. She stared at the shield, which suddenly was very magical to her eyes, then at the Elder Creler.
“Oh, it’s eating magic. Is that how Elder Crelers evolve?”
Not just spell resistance, but mana absorption. How was a [Mage] supposed to even fight an Elder Creler? The damaged shield was making an uneven sputtering sound as the flames crackled, and Seraphel ducked down as The Awakened noticed the commotion and came over. The Adult Crelers didn’t really have manipulable digits, so one pawed awkwardly at the tiny shield relative to it. Then they tried to get Baby Crelers to pick it up, but that just set the little ones on fire. Eventually, one of the Adult Crelers stomped right on the shield…and it exploded.
When Seraphel’s ears stopped ringing, she poked her head over The Awakened Creler’s cocoon and saw it was peppered with bits of chitin. The Adult Creler was now missing half of that particular leg and was not too happy about it.
Another victory for Seraphel the Cursed! She almost laughed, but ducked down as the unhappy Adult Crelers thundered around, clearly thinking that she’d done that and looking for her. And again, they didn’t really think to check the Elder Creler because who would be right there?
Quietly as she could, Seraphel changed her identification process. Now she had a good idea that everything here might be magical, but was being leeched of power, she had to select the most valuable-looking items and move away from the Elder Creler to appraise them. Oh, and if she carried too many magical items, the interference would cause a magical chain-reaction and potentially destroy this entire nest.
With that in mind, Seraphel stuffed all the most valuable items into her dress she could, on the principle that at least it’d be quick and do more good than her being eaten, and began to climb out of the cocoon. She was trying to find purchase on the slippery, resinous jelly when she noticed one of the red eyes on the Elder Creler’s sides had developed…a dot.
A purple dot. You might think it was black, but no. Purple. It moved about, bouncing oddly as she froze, then fixed on her. Then it pulsed…and six more dots floated into place, and all pointed at her. They were connected by sinuous nerve cords as something swam inside of the Creler’s eye socket and focused on her.
The unborn Elder Creler had noticed the disturbance. And its brain had just found her. Seraphel heard a voice in her head. It projected one idea beyond words into her mind, a concept flashing from its brain to hers. The Elder Creler said:
 
(DISGUSTING.)
 
Seraphel had never been more insulted in her life. She began climbing faster as the brain inside the Elder Creler’s larval form flitted to another eye. It was pulsing now, faster.
 
(INTRUDER. SLAY IT. DISRUPTION OF THE EVOLUTION. SLAY IT, WORTHLESS FOOLS.)
 
That wasn’t what it ‘said’, of course. It was thought-ideas, concepts. It mostly expressed that the Crelers in the nest, Adults included, were worthless, ineffective spawn that had less utility than Creler excrement. But it did also give the other Crelers exact coordinates on Seraphel’s location.
She cleared the Elder Creler’s cocoon as all the other Crelers froze in disbelief. They focused on Seraphel as she splatted on the ground and then got up, body in agony. She began to run, grateful for the stupid gel that gave her traction on the ichor-slick floors.
Crelers staring in disbelief. The Elder Creler’s wrath over the disgusting intruder that had sullied its pristine body and nest roaring in her ears. Seraphel couldn’t help it. The artifacts she’d looted were beginning to vibrate as they all regained what magic they had left and began to interfere with each other. She turned and shouted over her shoulder.
“Disgusting? I don’t want to hear that word from a half-baked maggot that can’t even control a single enchanted labyrinth with an entire army of Crelers! I’ve known Sariant Lambs more sinister than you!”
In her final moments, Seraphel the Sharptongued, devoid of fighting ability, magical acumen, or great strategic insights used the only Skills she had.
[Dizzying Rebuke]. And [Royal Rebuke].
Rather to her surprise—the watching brain recoiled as her Skills activated. The mental pulse of pain sent the entire nest into a confused frenzy. Seraphel ran for the exit. Her dress was vibrating—she tossed rings and amulets over her shoulders until she felt the warning signs of interference stop. Then, as one of the Adult Crelers opened its maw, the artifacts exp—
 
——
 
(Newborn Swarm thi! takes 44 damage. Newborn Swarm 88v takes 101…for some reason.)
(The destruction to Primary Nest is extensive. The Elder has taken no damage but it is hurt. The Elder is raging. The Elder is afraid.)
 
The Elder orders the swarms to find the intruder. 
Newborn Swarm thi! thoroughly investigates Primary Nest. It finds nothing but rubble and a cocoon. Newborn Swarm thi! takes 2 damage while investigating the cocoon for some reason.
Newborn Swarm 88v investigates the area outside of the Primary Nest. It finds only rubble.
The Elder is thinking. ‘If it is not in the nest, it cannot survive.’ The problem has been dealt with. It orders Newborn Swarm 88v to begin repairs. Newborn Swarm thi! will attack and kill all intruders.
 
(The air is laden with smoke and debris, and a foreign will is furious, stymied. This has been an unprecedented setback. Enraging. The intruders must all die for this affront. The Elder will begin a slaughter. There are three groups of intruders. Slay them all. Slay them all.)
 
 
——
 
He could hear it. All of it. Thousands of minds screaming everything they were up into the sky, like other species’ children. Unable to regulate their volume, mixing and merging in a terrifying, beautiful miasma. Creating something…new. Something he had felt once before.
A Unitasis Network, but wrong. One where you lost yourself; instead of a new being thinking with a thousand minds, it was limited, all that information and perspective condensed around a single entity, like Rabbiteater. And he was trapped too. His ‘voice’ was so loud it drew them to him, as if he exerted a magnetic force, but he was just as trapped.
They were all trapped down here. Even the Antinium. But he had been made for something like this.
So he drifted. Just like at Albez. In and out. It was like he was newly made again, and the Free Queen was listing all the ways she had failed him. Failed to make him perfect.
If I possessed one whit of the abilities of a true Shaper Queen, you would exceed any dark dreams of Drakes. Instead, you are a superior mind held back by every inch of your form, as Klbkchhezeim. Thus I name you Ksmvr; your body is ill-made, but you are needed as a last resort. Remember this. Even ill-made, you are Antinium. The memory of mastery must serve.
