The other Lizardfolk were backing away from the two high-level combatants, but they peeked back as Illex roared. Ksmvr’s swords were ringing as Illex swept the blades and forced the Antinium back.
“That’s it! You get the second form fight now.”
His face contorted, and his scales changed from orange to a deeper red. His shoulders cracked—and Ksmvr threw something at Illex.
“Wh—”
The acid jar exploded as Ksmvr shot it in midair and hit Illex. This time, his scream was drawn out, and Ksmvr hopped backwards.
“I assume you carry over damage into your ‘second form’. Also: transforming in battle is a known weakness. Let us duel indeed, Illex.”
He swept his cloak around himself as Vofea almost began to cheer and then clapped her hands over her mouth. The furious Naga roared.
“I’m going to EAT you, Ksmvr of Chandrar!”
He lunged out of the steam, mouth open, still transforming, and Ksmvr was running. Illex Twiceborn saw Ksmvr sprinting in the greatest tradition of the Horns of Hammerad, arms pumping, not even holding his swords.
“COWARD!”
“Your form is highly ineffective! Most Lizardfolk are more aesthetically pleasing than you!”
Ksmvr’s insults seemed to work as the enraged Naga chased after him. He was fast—but Ksmvr leapt into the trees, just slow enough for the Naga to slither towards him. If Illex caught up to Ksmvr’s ability to bound from tree to tree, the Antinium had told Vofea he would assess Illex’s danger if the acid jar hadn’t done enough damage. But what he said he’d probably do was just use the cloak to vanish.
Vofea grinned as she began to stealth her way back to the rest of the fighting. One piece off the board…
 
——
 
Dragonfire General Rithix felt the momentum swinging Calanfer’s way. It wasn’t numbers; most of his army wasn’t even in place. It was the lack of pieces to throw to slow Ser Solstice’s rampage. Morale.
Timing.
But he had reached the battlefield at last. The [General] halted on a hill and fished a spyglass out. He could see the distant fighting. He began to activate Skills.
“Lindclaw Captain, [Countercharge]! All forces on the southern flank, fall back. Don’t bother engaging the summons. [Perfect Dispel].”
The giant Shield Spider winked out, and the battlefield stabilized slightly. But that [Knight]…Rithix swung the spyglass around.
“…That’s not a regular Level 40 [Knight]. Commander, where are my Medusae?”
“Almost in position, sir!”
“Focus on the [Knight]! Bring him down now!”
Thirty Medusae did not raise bows nor cast spells. They just did the most effective thing they were known for.
They stared, and all they gazed at turned to stone. It wasn’t as powerful as Gazers, but massed…Rithix saw the [Knight] slowing, turning. The people around him froze or fell over. First paralysis, then petrification.
Even then, he kept moving, charging the Medusae. Rithix heard a breathless voice.
“Dragonfire General, his resistance—!”
“I see it. Commander!”
Just in time, the [Knight]’s charge ran into a squad of ten Gorgons. The towering Nagas, one of their strongest forms, slammed into him with long catch-poles. Not to hurt him, just hold him back while keeping themselves safe. The Medusae kept staring.
His flailing was slowing. He didn’t appear to have a counter to this one. The Dragonfire General’s teeth were grinding together.
“Come on. Come on…”
He felt like the Titan was laughing at him. Then he swore he saw…
Blue.
The [Knight]’s faltering flailing grew more violent. He pivoted and cut a Gorgon across one arm. Then tore free of the catchpoles.
“Medusae! What’s happening?”
They weren’t responding. Commander Axtrizak’s voice crackled over the speaking stone.
“Dragonfire General! They’ve stopped fighting! They’re—they’re—weeping? What are you doing, fools?”
Then Rithix saw the blue haze rising upwards, and his scales chilled. Always something new. He hated counterlevelling.
 
——
 
The Weeping Princess arises! She’s crying…but smiling? She stands in the battlefield, and her tears stain the grass.
The Eyes of Stone can’t stop crying. What’s going on? Help. Help…
 
Curses. The [Princess] lay in a circle of steel, protected by her [Bodyguards], tears falling from her eyes. Across from her, Rabbiteater ripped free of the trap. The Medusae did nothing.
They were caught in the curse of the Mindscape Ruins. The [Cursed Princess] lay there as Dakelos muttered an oath.
Do you see, Cara? I’m doing something the only way I can.
 
——
 
“The army is beset by madness. They’ve carried it out of the ruins.”
Dragonfire General Rithix saw the Medusae swaying in place. He lowered his spyglass, and counted his vanguard. Made an assessment of how many troops could reach his position within the hour. Spoke.
“Commander Axtrizak.”
“General?”
“Slay that [Knight]. [Unleash Your Potential]. All forces, screen his charge. Gorgons, reinforce the commander.”
“Yes, General! For the Eyes!”
Gleefully, the Gorgon abandoned his hiding place and shot towards Ser Solstice, slithering over the grass, twin scimitars raised. He roared a challenge, and the [Knight] disengaged from the Gorgon squad he was hacking apart.
“Commander, attack with the G—”
Rithix fell silent. It didn’t matter. The two had locked eyes, and he doubted his commander could hear him. They shot towards each other, and the Dragonfire General’s eyes narrowed.
A [Knight], running like a sprinter, feet tearing up the ground. Dropping his shield to hold his sword two-handed. The Gorgon commander, mouth open, fangs bared, swords rising to slash in a diagonal.
Rithix thought he could hear the roaring voice from here. Or perhaps it was that presence. Like a raging flame burning the entire battlefield, drawing the eye. He knew he felt the impact. The Dragonfire General watched, then collapsed his telescope.
“All forces, prepare to retreat. [Cut the Tail, Save the Body]. [Slingers], [Harassing Fire]. Regroup at Rendezvous Point 5. I want mounted units moving ahead of the Calanferians…”
There was no sense in engaging that. Not without a proper formation and Illex.
The Dragonfire General was composing his analysis and report to the Wyrmtouched as he glanced back at the battlefield. The [Knight] was standing over the Gorgon he’d cleaved in two as the front lines collapsed. Rithix shook his head. Then pivoted.
“Nagas—”
The arrow pinged off his helmet. He dove as the rest of his bodyguard threw up shields. Rithix shouted.
“[Sniper]! Hide your eyes! Pull back down the hill!”
Definitely not a battlefield he wanted. The Dragonfire General kept his head down as they retreated. He’d rather lose what he had now than risk his own head and his army’s. He began the first line of his missive in his head.
 
To the Wyrmtouched:
There is no amount of gold worth engaging that lot. Kindly provide another reason or…
 
——
 
Madness. Triumph. Seraphel du Marquin was counting the dead. Lizardfolk and Human.
“We…have paid a heavy price for victory.”
Lord Cortese was panting as they gathered around with the Lizardfolk who had surrendered sitting on the ground. They were terrified, especially of Ser Solstice, but Strategist Veine barely glanced at them.
“It isn’t over. If that commander has any sense, he’s regrouping for a second attack. We must keep marching.”
“After all that? We just keep going?”
Lady Menrise’s voice cracked. She pointed at the place they had just escaped, and the army eyed each other.
They were an army now. Not a single colonist hadn’t fought in that battle. But the Mindscape Ruins might have broken them. Seraphel wondered if she, herself, had lost something in there.
Even all the blood and death around her wasn’t the same as that horror she’d felt. She had a dagger in hand, though she hadn’t used it. If she needed to…she would have.
It was the [Princess] who spoke as Lord Cortese rubbed at his face, not sure what to say to Menrise. Seraphel had been searching the sea of faces; the one person she was checking for she would have known as well as her sisters.
“There you are. I feared you were dead or—or—I’m glad.”
The [Princess] walked forwards and hugged the woman who stood with a cortege of shell-shocked men and women in rough clothes. The woman jumped. She stammered.
“Y-your Highness? Are you mistaken?”
Seraphel peered at her face.
“How could I be? You’re Gilthisa, aren’t you?”
“Yes, but—”
Every eye swung to her, and Gilthisa stiffened. The ruins. Her grief. Seraphel whispered.
“I’m sorry. It was your memory, but I saw it. We all did. How could I not…I feel like I know you. I’m so dreadfully glad you’re not hurt. You and I, we must be friends. And we must clear your name publicly and—and—”
The [Diligent Peasant] was shocked. Overwhelmed. She stammered, trying to force Seraphel back.
“Your Highness, no! I—I saw too much as well; forgive me! Those terrible, terrible marriages you suffered. The horror of it. It was wrong. It was—”
She hesitated. Ser Thilowen was gazing at Seraphel, and Gilthisa’s lips snapped shut. But her eyes were locked on Seraphel. What could the [Princess] say? Seraphel smiled.
“It was my memory. But without detail, context, anything of me in it. True enough, but we’re both strangers. So we must get to know each other. All of us.”
Seraphel looked around, panting.
“We must continue, mustn’t we? Together. We cannot—cannot even bury the others. I am so very sorry, but if we perish now…”
What was it all for? She bowed her head, mistaking their expressions for judgement.
“I’m sorry. I just…”
“No. You’re right.”
Rabbiteater spoke in a gravelly voice. He lifted a fist as Ksmvr reappeared, panting. The Antinium hesitated—then fist-bumped Rabbiteater without a word. They locked eyes and nodded at each other.
A bond, tenuous but forged in trauma and emotion and their journey. Strategist Veine clapped her hands together.
“Right then. Strip the dead for anything usable and pile it here. We’ll collect every horse we can and march within the hour. I need a runner to ransom these [Soldiers]. And if we’re lucky, one of them will be willing to turncoat for directions, at least.”
The spell broken, everyone began getting to work. Seraphel thought she’d be sort of useless again except she knew how to bandage a wound, so she was gathering cloth for that when she saw someone in the kneeling ranks of Lizardfolk. She stopped, then pointed.
“Her. She knows this place.”
Aiche started and tried to hide her face, but it was too late. With a dreadful sense of irony, she rose as Veine raised her brows. Seraphel smiled at her, and the Lizardwoman shivered.
I’m amidst mad Humans. All of them.
“Are you…really cursed?”
All the Calanferians gasped as they looked at the [Princess], but Seraphel just smiled. She offered Aiche a weary smile.
“Who knows. But if I am…I’ve made it a weapon.”
She grinned and didn’t see Badarrow nudge Rabbiteater. All of them were wearing a Goblin’s smile.
 
[Class Change: Cursed Princess → Curse Bearer Princess!]
[Curse Bearer Princess Level 35!]
[Skill – Quick Bandage Obtained!]
[Skill – Eviscerate the Unguarded Obtained!]
[Skill – Compelling Presence Obtained!]
[Skill – No Curse Lasts Forever Obtained!]
 
[Title – Escaped the Fervored Strataveins Granted!]
[Title Skill – Unit: Marionette’s Action Granted!]
 
[Title – Creler Mocker Obtained!]
[Title Reward – Clean Crelerchitin Dagger Awarded!]
 
[Brave Skirmisher Level 39!]
[Skill – Masterful Ambush Obtained!]
[Skill – Adventurer’s Field Alchemy Obtained!]
[Recipe: Yuck Bomb Obtained!]
[Recipe: Poison Blood Oil Obtained!]
[Recipe: Close to Acid Jar Obtained!]
[Skill – Advanced Crafting Obtained!]
 
[Doomed Fae Gamer Class Obtained!]
[Doomed Fae Gamer Level 16!]
[Skill – Favorite Weapon Obtained!]
[Item – Lord Cortese’s Dueling Sword (Bleed, Strength, Keen) → The Sword of Not-Racism (Heavy Impact, Force, Greater Bane: None)!]
[Skill – Fast Travel (Camp) Obtained!]
[Skill – Explorer’s Map Obtained!]
[Skill – Power Attack Obtained!]
[Skill – Mighty Defend Obtained!]
[Skill – Mana Pool (Pure) Obtained!]
[Skill – Basic Spellcasting Obtained!]
[Spell – Fire Arrow Learned!]
[Spell – Air Shield Learned!]
[Spell – Grease Puddle Learned!]
[Spell – Summon Mosquito Learned!]
[Species Skill – Satyr Kick Obtained!]
[Species Skill – Resistance: Intoxication Obtained!]
[Skill – Deathwish: To the Death, Then Obtained!]
[Skill – Always Find A Rock (Sling) Obtained!]
[Skill – Ignore Authority Obtained!]
 
[Title – Escaped the Fervored Strataveins Obtained!]
[Title Skill – Team Attack Granted!]
 
——
 
(In the Synectic Maze, the Fervored Strataveins, the world is quiet. Quieter. So many colors are gone.)
(The grand working has been jeopardized greatly. But not ruined. Not…entirely. Rage consumes you as you awaken—early. The ruined bodies of the gnats who tried to kill you are less than a mouthful as you uncoil.)
(You are one. But legion.)
 
The Unfinished Nightmare emerges. It quests around for vengeance. For death.
 
(A sound breaks the silence. It sounds like…laughter? But who would dare laugh at you? You advance, whispering the words of magic you were taught in your dark dreams. Your many mouths open, each one prepared to unleash a plague of children, of acidic bile, spiked barbs.)
(You halt. A stranger is waiting for you. You know it is not really ‘a’ stranger. But he is…odd. He has no fear. Like you, he knows this place.)
 
The Chieftain of Despair walks forwards. His pointed ears are torn. But his crimson gaze finds yours. He does not care to interfere. But some things must die. Better get this over with. They have a quarry to find. Though his light will reveal him wherever they go.
PATHETIC. The Unfinished Nightmare fears no tiny band. It shrieks and attacks.
 
Combat Start:
The Chieftain of Despair blinds the Unfinished Nightmare! He attacks! He deals 0 damage.
The Unfinished Nightmare tears and bites! It deals 2 damage.
The Chieftain of Despair counterattacks. Descriptions are pointless to him. He deals 0 damage.
The Unfinished Nightmare unleashes its hidden biles and spells of destruction! It deals 6 damage.
The Chieftain of Despair laughs at his foe. He has seen far greater doom. He attacks. He deals 0 damage.
The Unfinished Nightmare creates a Swarm of Children! They attack together! They deal 4 damage.
The Chieftain of Despair grits his teeth. He attacks. He deals 347 damage to the Swarm of Children. He deals 0 damage to The Unfinished Nightmare.
 
(What…is this? They don’t fear you. But you can kill them. So what is this…this…)
(Unease?)
(Then you sense it. Something else is coming.)
 
