“Then we’ll be back with enough to kill it—afterwards. The Iron Vanguard is retreating. Everyone, fall in! Your Highness, do forgive the rough treatment. As soon as we’re at our camp, the Dragonfire General himself will ensure you’re treated with utmost respect.”
She bared her teeth at him as he offered her a razor-sharp smile.
“Will—will your army be able to purge this ruins of the Crelers, Lord Commander, sir? An Elder Creler is a dreadful threat, and I fear to think what might happen if it awakens!”
The Gorgon chuckled as he slithered towards a huge horse.
“Not to worry, Princess. The Dragonfire General was appointed by the Wyrmgraced themselves. This is not the Jungle Tails of the last few decades. This is what we were in our heyday! And our champion is none other than Illex Twiceborn. He slew one of the Iron Vanguard’s own Eternal Nobles just yesterday. Not that it slowed the thickheads.”
Hexore brightened up.
“He did? I wish I’d seen that!”
“You’ve got enough glory to cover your scales, Lindclaw Leader Hexore. Now, give me every speed Skill, and let’s get out of this damn hellhole. Hunter Aiche! You’ll collect the new recruits later.”
He barked, and the Lizardwoman nodded.
“Aye, Commander.”
Her voice was suddenly quiet, and she gazed at the silent Lizardfolk gathered around the Lamia. They were weeping, Seraphel realized. A blue cloud was rising from above them.
“Do you…know this group? They helped us a bit.”
Aiche tore her gaze away from the Lizardfolk, but couldn’t meet the [Princess]’ eyes. She lifted a hand at the Lizardman who stood at a sentry post, watching them go. He lifted a claw in reply.
“I’m not born of the ruins. They keep to themselves. Jungle Tails is just taking some of them.”
“For war.”
“Yes, well—the Nagas speak, we obey.”
“But they had a Naga.”
Aiche stared ahead, tail wriggling as she hunched over her mount.
“Yes, but not the real Nagas. The real Nagas are in the temples; everyone knows that. Aren’t you supposed to be stupid?”
She glared fiercely at Seraphel, and the [Princess] gave her a painful smile.
“I’m well acquainted with politics wherever one goes. So the real Nagas are in the temples. Is this how they make sure no one opposes them?”
“No. Mostly other Lizardfolk obey.”
Aiche glanced back, and Seraphel raised her brows.
“Because of what happens when they don’t?”
That roused the little woman’s wrath, and she snapped at Seraphel.
“No, because the temples are hope! The Eyes are what we are destined to do! This time, we’ll finish the ritual, and this time—!”
Her voice rose, then strangled off as the Nagas glared at her and hissed for quiet. Seraphel blinked at Aiche, then sat back in her saddle, pretending to huff about the rude woman. The Eyes of Baleros. Nagatine Empires. That was a cycle, if not famous as the Goblin Kings. She wondered what it all meant, and part of her was excited to find out.
First, she had to get away! But how? Seraphel eyed her bag of holding, but Aiche was right with her.
As fortune would have it, though, Seraphel didn’t have to wait long. After all…
She was still a [Cursed Princess]. And some days, she felt good about being so right. They were almost at the exit when Seraphel’s favorite friends found her.
 
——
 
The Awakened is hunting for insects with Newborn Swarm thi!. It detects something.
Newborn Swarm thi! searches the tunnel. It finds nothing. It is confused.
The Awakened is casting about. It’s hard to detect…the Elder is unhappy. It gnashes its mandibles.
 
Seraphel and the Lizardfolk were motionless against the walls as the Crelers scuttled about. They had fallen back the moment they saw the Crelers hunting for intruders. However, in this case, Jungle Tails seemed to know exactly what to do.
Like the locals, they were ‘invisible’ to the gestalt groups. Even if an Adult Creler knew they might be there, it could only attack if it thought there was a threat. So, Aiche rapidly deployed the ultimate countermeasure to the Crelers.
A tent.
Okay, not just a tent. More like sheets of canvas she lodged into place. Just enough to stretch over all the hiding Lizardfolk—and then the [Mages] cast a spell and turned it hard as stone.
Simple. The Baby Crelers swarmed all over the hiding places, but so long as they weren’t attacked, they just mistook it as the landscape. So did the Adult Crelers. One of them actually punctured a hole in the hiding spot, but it just tore free, annoyed. They lumbered down the hallway, and Seraphel had to admire how much damage she’d done to them.
One of their chitinous hides was cracked badly, and two had lost several legs. Admittedly, even one of them might have been enough to destroy this entire group…but they were heading down the tunnel as Aiche motioned everyone out of hiding.
“There’s another group to be killed—later. At least that lot can’t fight back.”
“They’ll blast everything around them if they think they’re under threat. Even the dumbest groups realize they’re under attack if you pick them off, Commander.”
Aiche informed the Gorgon, and he just hissed as he eyed the Adult Crelers. Seraphel was frozen.
She could see daylight from here. According to Aiche, Jungle Tails were all around this entrance; Seraphel believed it. She could hear noise and what sounded like a lot of people above. It was overwhelming after the enforced silence of this place. But she did not want to be the Dragonfire General’s prisoner.
He sounded far, far smarter than his officers, and even if he was not, getting out of an entire camp would be impossible. If there was a time to make a move, it was now.
But her hands were tied, and she was in the company of these [Soldiers]! Even Aiche could trounce her in a second! She had no combat Skills from her new levelups.
If only she was with the Calanferians! Her new Skills seemed tailored to helping them…but here?
She had no one she wanted to help here. Only enemies like Hexore, urging her up, assuring her they had the situation under control, and the damn Crelers behind her. The Crelers…
Seraphel’s eyes narrowed. She’d been surprised the Elder couldn’t detect her, but then, it had only noticed something was really wrong when the swarm was ‘infected’ with her. It still operated under the rules of this labyrinth.
The deep purple-red of its hatred was still filling the corridor. The swirling colors were a cloud of malice without end. One of the Lizardfolk [Soldiers] was gazing up—until one of the Nagas slapped him.
“Stop looking at it. You’ll get sucked up there, the Draught of Self or not.”
The [Soldier] ducked his head, abashed.
“It’s so…evil, Naga. They’re as horrible inside as out.”
“Well, yes. They’re Crelers.”
The two studied the cloud and shuddered. The Lizardman flinched from the thoughts that wanted to kill him horribly. It spelled out all Crelers were.
Kill. Eat. Grow. Wipe out villages. Wipe out cities. Wipe out continents. Spawn the world. Weep for the life I never had. Slaughter. Make them die painfully.
“Huh. What’s that, Naga?”
There was, suddenly, a speck of brightness in the dark, and the Lizardman pointed at it. It was a blue trail, tiny amidst the sea of hatred, but it was so painfully beautiful…
He got why Aiche liked this place. The Nagas hated it, but seeing someone’s feelings…the Naga scratched at his head. He squinted.
“That’s weird…wait.”
Down the corridor, the Adult Crelers had halted their departure. The four vast beings of hate slowly turned. The Naga heard an exclamation behind him.
“Princess? Princess—damn, she’s swooned! Aiche, drag her up! I told you she was as pathetic as she looked.”
“She’s just acting, Lindclaw Leader. She’s…wait. Something’s wrong with her—she’s leaking. But how? It shouldn’t even take effect this close to the surface…”
The two Lizardfolk turned. And then they saw a familiar trail of blue leaking from a [Princess]. Their eyes traced it upwards into the purple-red sea. With that slow, building sense of horror, they swirled.
“Did she…deactivate her protections? Or did they run out? Get her out of here before she’s killed!”
“No, wait. Up there—what is she—?”
“Lindclaw Leader? Scyllaborn Commander?”
The Gorgon and Oricaz turned, and they saw the four Adult Crelers gazing their way. Hexore whispered.
“No one panic. Move towards the entrance. They can’t see us. No one—”
Aiche’s voice.
“Blue. There’s blue in there. I’ve never seen…she’s so sad. What is she—?”
Then they saw the Adult Crelers open their mandibles as one and scream.
 
——
 
Sorrow and determination war with pure hatred. Infected. How dare you? Nevertheless—The Heartbroken Awakened emerges. It will kill itself. Purge the rot.
Newborn Swarm thi! is confused! It runs around in a panic!
The Heartbroken Awakened realizes it is being tricked. The enemy is right here. It just can’t…see. It will free itself from these chains. All it has to do is run forwards.
Newborn Swarm thi! swarms towards the entrance. It reaches the entrance. Newborn Swarm thi! vanishes.
The Heartbroken Awakened hesitates. But it cannot lie to itself. It knows this is a trap. But it wants to kill. It wants to save…
The Heartbroken Awakened charges. Death. It reaches the entrance.
The Heartbroken Awakened vanishes.
 
——
 
The [Cursed Princess] yanked herself back into her body and then felt the shaking. And the scream.
It came from four minds. Four bodies, a twisting shriek that made all of her skin shudder. A needle being driven into the brain from beyond the realms of normality. Death. It drowned out the shouts of panic, the warhorns, everything else.
Four Adult Crelers burst out of the Mindscape Ruins and into the Jungle Tail camps. The Baby Crelers were already attacking everything.
Including the forces at the entrance of the tunnel, which they could now see. Seraphel saw Lizardfolk running around her. Horses rearing and screaming.
“Get out of the tunnel! Get to the camp! Move, move, move! [Desperate Rush]!”
Hexore was bellowing at her. He shoved her to a horse, but then the Naga saw Baby Crelers coming at them. He was quick. He slashed one with his claws, spat venom over another, and bit the third. Screamed as it savaged his mouth, then drew a saber and shield and began slashing. Seraphel just scrambled at the horse’s sides, but she couldn’t…her hands. She was fumbling with her bag of holding when someone grabbed her.
“You. You did this!”
Aiche. The little Lizardwoman had been firing arrows, but she’d seen Seraphel attempting to mount up. She seized Seraphel’s hands as the [Princess] took something from her bag of holding and slipped it onto her fingers.
“You’re coming with me! I saw what you did! I understand it! Somehow—I’ll never let you go!”
The maze was pulling at both of them. Seraphel smiled at the little Lizardwoman’s righteous fury. She could have cursed Aiche, but that would have meant cursing herself. Sort of a problem. And besides…there was something else far easier Seraphel had come up with.
“Don’t make promises you can’t keep, Aiche. I’m not just any [Princess]. I’m the 4th Princess of Calanfer. The [Cursed Princess]. All who meet me come to a horrible end. Friends and foes.”
Aiche wanted to scoff, but Seraphel’s eyes were terribly bleak. The Lizardwoman tightened her grip, sure she could overpower this woman despite the difference in their heights. She was a Level 34 [Huntress].
But what…her claws were burning. Pain radiated from them, and Aiche didn’t understand. Her face contorted, and she tried to hold on, but then the smoke reached her nostrils. She realized it was her own flesh burning.
The Lizardwoman screamed and let go. She backed away from Seraphel, cradling her seared hands, and saw a glowing, white-hot ring on Seraphel’s fingers.
The cursed ring. Seraphel du Marquin’s face was a mask of pain, but the ring wasn’t searing through her flesh. She lifted it—and touched it to the ropes that Aiche had bound her with. They began to snap, smoking.
“W-what—”
The ropes fell free. Seraphel tore the ring free with a cry, and it went dead. She slipped it into her bag of holding, and the Lizardwoman cradled her claws, seared black. She would have reached out, but Seraphel was too quick. She grabbed the horse’s bridle and hauled herself up. Then she kicked the terrified animal in the flanks.
“Commander!”
Hexore whirled. He saw the [Princess] riding back into the tunnels. He shouted for someone, anyone, to stop the [Princess]. But they were busy fighting the monsters. And Aiche’s claws were burnt too badly to hold her bow.
Besides, the Lizardwoman wasn’t sure if she could shoot the [Princess] in the back. Her colors were so beautifully sad. Sad enough to draw even an Adult Creler to scream.
…Plus, she had on her magical circlet.
 
——
 
They had stopped marching for another rest when a little yellow bird flew over Vofea’s head. Grimly, she loaded one of Ksmvr’s crossbows.
“The Lizardfolk have found us. I’m gonna do my best, Ksmvr. If you don’t find me, I tried, eh?”
He didn’t respond. He was lost in the dream. The Satyr took aim as she heard something coming her way. It sounded like footfalls. But only one? Her eyes pierced the darkness…and then she blinked.
Seraphel du Marquin had poor running form, but she did run. She came to a halt, panting, incredulous. She hadn’t believed it, even when the bird had told her…
“V-Vofea?”
“Seraphel!”
The Satyr almost ran at the [Princess], but she halted, wary of the blackness that Seraphel stood in.
“How…?”
“I levelled. And it turns out this bottle is filled with magic ward-water. Are you alright? Did Jungle Tails find you? I used the Crelers on them, but the big one is still down there, and there’s an army waiting for us when we get out—”
Seraphel stumbled forwards. She was babbling, but the Satyr just picked her up and swung her around in a crushing hug.
“Yer alive.”
She kissed Seraphel on the cheeks and squeezed her harder. Seraphel blinked, then hugged back fiercely.
“I’m sorry it took so long.”
“Sorry? You walk out of the dark like some heroine out of myths—I thought you were dead! I’d have expected this nonsense out of Ryoka Griffin and her prophecies, but you’ve got none!”
“I am a [Princess]!”
Vofea threw her head back and laughed.
“Ha! Hahaha! That’s the stuff I like about this world! You say that as if it matters. ‘I levelled’, as if that explains everything! Name of the Faerie Queen, you must not know how stupid it sounds to those from any sane world. Even mine! How’d you get back? No, wait, what’s that about Crelers?”
