Ksmvr drifted. When he woke, when he returned to Izril, Liscor, and that Hive, he swore he would tell the Free Queen her memory of mastery had been enough. Enough…to at least see both worlds.
 
(The party is lost. An unknown amount of time has passed since your entry into the maze. The Mysterious Watcher’s guidance has led you here, but the paths begin to split. Did they lead you astray? There is a three-way fork. Which way do you go?)
The Weeping Princess is undecided. She has lost her course. She turns to the little Grim Knight figurine for guidance. 
It does not know and does not respond.
The Guilty Man is paralyzed by another choice. A little red firefly follows him, but he ignores it.
The Angry Woman chooses left.
The Lonely Warrior closes his eyes and spins in a circle. He chooses left as well.
 
Leftwards, then. Ksmvr felt the group moving, felt himself moving. He was the Grim Knight. He was Ksmvr, bumping along in the wagon, tied up for his own safety.
Drifting…
He fought for lucidity. Fought to hear the low voice, the only voice of sanity in this madness. Had there been two? He didn’t…know.
“Wrong way. Wrong way, it’s the…I can’t see shite, but I can see that!”
Vofea. Rookie. Not to die. The only person who…Ksmvr’s mandibles opened.
“Vofea.”
She heard him in that silence broken only by the creak of wagon wheels, the jangle of armor, and the footfalls of the masses. She ran back.
“Ksmvr, you’re back! Seraphel. I lost Seraphel. But she’s not dead. I didn’t see her death. She might be dead, but I don’t see anything.”
The Satyr was bloody, exhausted. He should be fighting, not her. The Antinium wanted to stand, but the grey was pulling him up.
“Good rookie. Sometimes they die. Keep yourself alive.”
“She’s a [Princess], though.”
“Crossbow Stan was a good man. Can’t stop Crelers. What…what way is wrong?”
He fought to get the words out; the memory of the Bloodfields was crowding him, pulling out of him and floating upwards. Vofea cocked her head, then replied swiftly.
“Nothing future-sighted. Just obvious sight. Look—eh, you can’t. Here, see?”
She pushed him across the wagon, rolling him until his head lolled on the ground. Ksmvr stared at the stupid, ceaseless tunnel of grey lit by the light of emotions, and then he did see. Though it was embarrassing how long it took.
“No…tracks.”
Simple deduction, really. Vofea nodded. There was some dust and moss here—the way they were going didn’t bear any signs of mass transit. Those…Lizardpeople would have exited this maze by another route.
“If we run into more monsters…”
“Keep fighting. Use…potions…”
“We’re out of healing potions.”
Dire and direrer. Ksmvr struggled.
“Alchemy. Potions of Blast. Bag of holding, labeled. Put together and explode. Find more. Quartermaster.”
She understood and rummaged in his bag of holding. Ksmvr wanted to add, ‘get clear of the blast’, but he had to trust her. Had to do something.
“Seraphel.”
“She’s gone, Ksmvr. But that isn’t all. There’s more here.”
His head lolling; he was losing control. No, nonono! He had to find a way for Vofea to get them back on track! They wouldn’t survive getting lost further! But also…drool was dripping from Ksmvr’s mandibles. His mind scattering. He couldn’t best that pull yanking him back upwards into Ser Thilowen’s amalgamation.
Not him. Not Revi. Not even a Goblin Lord. This place had rules. Strange ones, but they intersected with classes. Cortese trumped Revi’s guilt. There was a reason Menrise, Cortese, Rabbiteater and Seraphel had all ‘absorbed’ the others. Noble classes. Hierarchy. And more—he slurred.
“Yes. Thissssss…place is old. Older than Antinium.”
“I know. It ain’t rotted, but it smells of age.”
“Older than their levels.”
Vofea’s hands slipped as she dragged him back upright and made him comfortable.
“You’re sure?”
Ksmvr was drifting off, but he felt it. He whispered as he fell upwards, but down was where terrors awaited.
“They built this place out of Seamwalkers. When they were…before they had levels. An experiment. Does every species experiment…? Lost. I have to—”
The party was marching down the tunnel. What could he tell Vofea? What could he say? The Antinium saw her touching his hands.
“You rest now. I’ll, eh, figure out where more of them potions are hiding. Blow up the next thing we meet.”
The Antinium vanished. All his will, his determination, his desperate need to protect—he was gone.
 
The Grim Knight remains. A little toy riding in The Weeping Princess’ dress. 
 
No matter how loud a single soul shouted—none of them understood this. None of them had been here before. But they were learning. Even if they couldn’t escape.
 
The Angry Woman is harboring her mana. She readies a barrier spell. She feels as though that’s essential.
The Guilty Man is checking for traps. 
The Lonely Warrior eats some moss.
The Weeping Princess feels like she’s lost something. She keeps looking over her shoulder, but she doesn’t know where it is.
 
Suddenly, The Grim Knight toy comes to life. He gazes down at the ground, and an idea strikes him. He tugs The Weeping Princess’ dress.
She looks down and doesn’t understand what she’s seeing.
The Guilty Man is confused. He swats at the red bug flying around him. He doesn’t have time for it now.
A spell is cast. [Detect Magic]…but The Angry Woman finds nothing out of the ordinary.
Wait…the ground? The Lonely Warrior gets down on one knee and realizes there are no tracks. Are they going the wrong way?
It was just a thought. As the party deliberates, The Grim Knight smiles in relief. He doesn’t know why, only that it makes him feel better.
 
——
 
Vofea gazed around as the ceaseless march halted. She peered at the line of kneeling figures inspecting the ground. Then at Ksmvr. The Satyr glanced up at the grey cloud as it turned, and the party reversed.
She hugged him hard. Then began tying Potions of Blast together with a piece of twine. By the time she was done, she had a satchel of twenty potions in a sack. She reckoned if she whirled it around, she could throw them just far enough not to kill herself. She’d find out.
They were fighting, adventurers and, she hoped, the Princess too. What was clear to Vofea, as she sniffed the air and cupped one ear, was also that they were not alone.
There was another group in the tunnels. More monsters? Or someone else?
 
——
 
One of her teeth was broken. Her mother was going to be so unhappy with her.
The [Princess] was lost in the darkness. Something was pulling at her. Something else was crushing her. Her mind and body—being torn apart.
But she was giggling. Laughing in delight at the damage she’d caused in no time at all. Impossible luck. A charmed life, but not the way you thought. It was always like that.
The Elder Creler was just another one of her victims. Another suitor…they all died. She killed them all. Her curse couldn’t be stopped, even by Rhir’s nightmares.
So weak. From disaster to disaster she flitted. She really was…cursed.
Then the yawning vortex was dragging her up, trying to divide her being into pieces that would be torn across this maze. Processed and rendered down, like—like—food.
She was terribly afraid; the faint protections on her skin were fading. The bubble was bursting. An ancient force snatched her up, beginning to unmake her with uncaring force as her pain-shocked mind lost touch with reality. Her grip loosened.
Then she was flying into the void, and vast limbs of a being too alien for comprehension were reaching for her. They closed around her soul—
And halted. A hand grasped Seraphel first. A presence infinitely more vast and complex. An unknowable sovereign.
The creation of Gods reached down and touched Seraphel, as it always did. Bringing gifts. It spoke as it held the maze’s power back effortlessly.
 
[Class Change: Deathtouch Princess → Cursed Princess Class!]
[Cursed Princess Level 32!]
[Skill – Resistance: Curses Obtained!]
[Skill – Inflict Curse: Self Obtained!]
[Curse – The Synectic Haze Obtained!]
[Curse – Helpful Servant’s Smile Obtained!]
[Curse – Stinging Warts Obtained!]
[Skill – Transfer Afflictions (Self) Obtained!]
[Skill – Share Curse (Mass) Obtained!]
[Skill Change: Dizzying Rebuke → Hexer’s Rebuke!]
 
Then it let her go, and she dropped back into her body as the maze tried to drag her soul out. But it couldn’t…not quite. She was giggling again.
I really am…
 
——
 
Seraphel opened her eyes, and her mouth was bloody. She was in agony. Something was crushing her head. She groaned and tried to move; stones cascaded down, and she realized she was upside-down and buried.
The tunnel. It had collapsed on—Seraphel shoved, weakly, and the rocks cut into her arms as she rose.
“I’m alive?”
It was almost perfectly dark. Only the faintest red glow kept her from being in pitch blackness; the Crelers were gone. Their nest sat across from where Seraphel had been tossed by the magical explosions. A faint orange light emerged from the spiked nest. But there was nothing around her.
I should be dead. She remembered her levels, of course. But even then…was [Resistance: Curse] enough to keep her alive? For that matter, how had the magical explosion not killed her? One did not simply walk away from explosions of that caliber. If they had wounded the Adult Crelers, they should have vaporized her.
Seraphel spat blood as her head finally broke into the open air. She spat something else out—a bit of red ivory. Her mouth was still cut up, and she gasped as she finally righted herself. Then, and only then, did she see what had actually saved her life.
“Oh. My. So that’s what it does?”
When she looked down at her body, the stone dust slid off that familiar filmy membrane from her Bottle of Water. Only, it had markedly changed from the translucent stuff she remembered.
It…was blackened, ablated, and flaking off along her back. She touched it, and some of the gel fell to the ground.
“Did it absorb the magic? But how…?”
It must absorb mana. But that didn’t explain the other thing she was seeing. Where the fine layer of gel wasn’t blackened, there was that pale, familiar red glow. Coming from under her skin.
The Creler’s rage and malice. The light of it was…shining from her body. It made her actually fairly nauseous, and her own hatred bubbled up, all her dark urges and repressed desires to kill or hurt—but it was also shielding her from being sucked into the void, so she kept it.
“It’s keeping the light in. It’s some kind of magic-absorbing water. Like a—a—a shield?”
She was no [Mage]. But it seemed to her this water had incredible properties to retain something. Rather like a bubble. It clearly wasn’t all powerful since the magical blast had shredded through it, but if it came from…
She felt the red light vanishing, and suddenly Seraphel was scrambling for the Bottle of Water again. She poured the liquid over her back, re-coating herself, and felt more stable.
Yes, it’s like I’ve waterproofed myself in oil or whatnot. Like someone treating a bit of leather in case it rains! That made the most sense to her. If ordinary men and women had such tools, why would a [Mage] not have the same? The only question to her was why some random person would have such a tool on them. An adventurer, perhaps?
As the [Princess] wobbled her way to her feet and began stumbling—away from the Crelers’ nest—her mind flitted to where this had been found. In the nest of Crelers. Of course. If someone had known what this dreadful place was like, this was the tool to allow you to traverse this place!
And it probably worked quite well unless you ran into Crelers. Seraphel kept stumbling forwards, then realized she had no idea where this tunnel led. She almost went back, but one look at the faint orange glow behind her and—
“No. I rather think I’ve pushed all my luck with Crelers.”
Especially the Elder Creler. Best if they thought she was dead. She could move around now, even if it felt very precarious despite her magical item and new Skills. Still, Seraphel had a chance.
Find Vofea. Find the party! Live! She truly thought she’d been dead. So Seraphel began walking. After a few minutes, her breathing calmed, and she spat more blood from her mouth, but was relieved the blood flow was slowing. Then she licked her lips.
She was hungry. Hurt. And thirsty.
She took a long sip from the Bottle of Probably Not Water.
It hadn’t killed her yet.
 
——
 
At least she had a few of the objects she’d stolen from the Elder Creler. Mostly small ones. Adventurers’ gear, Seraphel suspected. It came in handy as she walked.
This damn place was so vast she wasn’t getting anywhere any time soon. To take her mind off her injuries, she inspected what she had.
Now, of course, she knew better than to try on magical mystery items due to the danger and possibilities of being cursed.
…But as a [Cursed Princess], Seraphel decided to just go for it. She wanted to laugh hysterically. [Cursed Princess]. She actually was one. Had her wish been granted? Or her nightmare. Of all the things…!
I would have taken a sword Skill or something to kill the monsters with! Instead—curses? Is this all I’m good for?
She railed against whatever force she’d sensed that had granted her this class. She would rather be an Aielef than a Seraphel! Rather be a warrior than a [Princess]. She just…wasn’t allowed to use levels to change who she was, she supposed.
Curses befit a woman like her, whose great claim to fame was enduring trials. So, rather heedless of the risks, Seraphel began trying on objects.
 
——
 
Rather ironically, Seraphel ran into an actual cursed item on her sixth try. She had only a moment’s warning, a sense of wrongness, when her circlet made an alarming bzrat! sound and the gold ring began to heat up.
It was white-hot in moments. So hot it would have probably seared through skin and bone as the frantic looter tried to take it off. Thanks to Seraphel’s new Skill, it was probably only half that hot.
Enough, then, to scorch her flesh bloody red and leave it steaming as she finally tore it off her finger and hurled it away, then collapsed, sobbing and cradling her hand. That was when Seraphel decided to stop trying on the items in case another was even worse.
She sorted the few items she’d identified and put the others in her bag of holding. Then she went over to stomp on the cursed ring a few times and then shove it into her bag of holding.
