“If they’re not bleeding or dying of mana-loss or whatever, it’s the best we can do. Now, what can we do?”
“Well…I think Lord Cortese is figuring out some things. Using the pieces of Throne’s Will as makeshift cover in battle is inspired.”
Even in his role as ‘The Guilty Man’, he was thinking tactically in ways Seraphel could not. She had run around looting all the chests and bags of holding, and as [Princess], she had keys that Vofea had lacked. The net result was several scrolls they could use against foes, and, perhaps most helpfully, they had grabbed every wand they could find and assigned them to Menrise’s group.
That would keep them from dying of mana-loss, or so Seraphel hoped. She’d been tempted to keep one for herself, but as Vofea had pointed out, ‘encounters’ were group battles. There was a limit to how much she and Seraphel could do without grand Skills or combat classes.
Case in point, there was a night attack. Not really an ambush; it scared Seraphel, but they saw the colors, a deep grey, and everyone was standing before the monster group came at them.
It was ‘only’ twenty-eight pig-things. Boars? They had metal armor and tusks, and once they realized how many people were here, they tried to retreat. But by that point, they were overwhelmed by a sea of people swinging weapons into their bodies; metal or not, it just took one ‘turn ’before they were hacked down.
Two casualties on Calanfer’s side. Several more hit hard or knocked flat, but Ser Thilowen’s group had shielded Seraphel’s.
Two…and Seraphel and Vofea hadn’t managed to do anything.
Or correction, Vofea had. The moment she’d seen the armored pigs, she’d charged them, shouting for Seraphel to help. The [Princess] had stabbed their underbellies and bloodied them, but then had to run before they trampled her.
Vofea, realizing the Stelbores were far too armored to cut down, had instead blinded two with quick stabs through the eyes, then discovered there was a gap in their armor. She’d cut the throat of another before they attacked.
“I’m sorry. I’m so sorry.”
Seraphel was kneeling over the two broken and trampled forms—[Sailors], she thought—as Vofea shook her shoulder.
“Princess, we’re moving.”
“We can’t leave them!”
Surely they had time. But the columns of people were trailing onwards, and as the lights of their combined thoughts faded…something was sucking at Vofea and Seraphel. Pulling her thoughts out of her body. As if her mind were nothing more than dust blowing into a vast, impassioned cyclone that would disassemble it, funnel it into—
“Princess!”
She had to leave the bodies, tears running down her cheeks.
 
The Weeping Princess shed more tears. All she was good for was crying.
 
Seraphel could almost hear the voice calling her…but she refused to let herself be subsumed again. She had to try.
“Never again. Never—never again!”
 
——
 
Not everything in these tunnels was violent. Sometimes, the party passed by things and chose to fight—or not. And what could survive in this place in great numbers?
Well, what about four-limbed ‘walkers’ that had no visible bodies? They resembled elephant legs up to an undercarriage of a body—but that was where their form ended. Just a rounded hump with legs, grey and wrinkled. No mouth, no appendages…until you realized their mouth was on their feet.
They walked over the moss to eat it. Then just swayed in place. There were over a hundred of them, and how much danger they could be? Unknown, but it didn’t come to a fight. They fled the moment they saw the party, excreting a slippery substance out of their mouths that might also function as rectums.
That nearly killed Seraphel. Because the moment she’d seen what she thought was a threat, she’d charged the weird walkers and begun slashing, though Ksmvr’s sword had had trouble biting into their hides. Then she’d slipped, realized the party was moving away, and nearly fallen racing back.
The walker-thing’s excrement was as slippery as oil! What had saved Seraphel, as she tried to get up, was her bare hands. She’d found purchase with them and clawed her away across the floor, ruining another dress. But almost being sucked into the terrifying void…
Vofea was good enough not to laugh at her after she’d run to help Seraphel up. Shamefaced, the [Princess] hadn’t said much, but she had realized something from her near-excrement-death.
“The water-stuff. Whatever it is, it let me keep a grip on the ground.”
“Ech, it does build up. See? It’s all over my fur. Beats blood, but it’s like being wet. I keep picking it off.”
Vofea indicated her fur, and the ‘water’ had clumped up like gel and matted on her fur. More finely than the blood, but Seraphel wondered what it was supposed to do.
Making it so the poo-slick didn’t stick to her seemed to be one use. She washed her dress off with the stuff, and then begged Vofea to teach her how to use Ksmvr’s sword. She had to be some use. The Satyr shrugged.
“I was more used to the sling, but fast as need to be—it’s just a firm grip. You’re no swordsmaster. Nor do they attack back. Just get in and stab.”
Seraphel feared she wouldn’t be strong or courageous enough to take a life, even unmolested. Then she thought of the dead [Sailors]. She licked her lips.
“Perhaps a dagger? An enchanted one?”
 
——
 
Wailer Frogs, a native hazard to Izril and Baleros. Their wails could shatter eardrums. In these tunnels?
They’d murder everything. Fortunately, two things occurred. One was that Menrise cast [Silence] which meant you just had a bunch of very loud frogs who could take huge bites out of you.
The second was that Seraphel found her nerve. How, she didn’t know, but in that desperate moment when she realized they might all be deaf or dead, she had an enchanted knife from Menrise and Cortese’s belts and was stabbing.
She popped the Wailer Frogs’ throats as they inflated like bubbles, then slashed their eyes, running in a trail of blood as Vofea swung both of Ksmvr’s swords. She didn’t laugh at Seraphel then.
It wasn’t a long fight by the party’s standards. Two ‘turns’…but to Seraphel, it felt like hours. When she was done, every part of her not covered in the weird ‘water-gel’ was soaked in red. Vofea blinked at her.
“How many frogs did yeh stab, Princess? Must’ve been at least forty.”
“I didn’t count. H-how many people are hurt?”
“Few bad. Those buggers don’t bite bad. Sit down.”
“No, no…let’s bandage them. And the blood, I’ll wash it off with the free water.”
‘Free water’ was her name for the jar’s contents. Seraphel used it to clean herself off, despite the weird film, because, well, water was a limited resource. She had not missed that provisions were already running low.
Indeed, the party began to eat the frogs after making a fire, she was relieved to see. The mechanical cooking of frog meat made her hesitate. Then her stomach rumbled, and she remembered Lord Cortese’s group giving her food.
Besides, frog legs were a delicacy in Desonis. 
…Yup. They tasted just like she remembered. Well, far worse without the spicing. Seraphel gagged a few bites down.
Vofea was impressed. She was having trouble with the foul taste as well.
“You eat frog legs, Princess?”
“Once. Shardele tricked me into thinking I had to when we visited Desonis. I asked for them specially, and the Sleeping Queen watched me eat eight.”
She’d puked into the wastebin after the banquet. Vofea grinned.
“Once, when I was small and new to the Lands of the Fae, I wandered into an old swamp. ‘Twould have been the end of any foolish child but for the Faerie King’s rules. No one to harm guests anymore. Well, some would—but not the lurker of this particular swamp. I was crying, waist-deep in the water with naught a notion of how to find land, nor sight of it, when the waters churned and she arose, foul as a bog witch’s nightmares, breath to kill a thousand flies. Shat myself, did I.”
“How horrible. How did you survive?”
Vofea scratched her neck, embarrassed.
“Eh…not from anything I did. Since she obeyed the Faerie King’s rules, she merely explained t’me what a fool I was. Then she hosted me ‘till I could navigate the swamps.”
“How kind of her then!”
“Well, yes and no. She fed me rotted fish and flies, and toads were the last of her finest fare. Just because I couldn’t be harmed doesn’t mean I couldnae be punished.”
Seraphel shuddered, and Vofea bit some more frog and shuddered too.
“This…is still somehow worse’n her cooking. At least she spiced hers. Ah, but she was a wonderful thing. Old as all are in that place.”
“Older than ten thousand years?”
By now, Vofea had confessed much of who she was, and even if Seraphel was highly skeptical about everything, she could raise an eyebrow and jest with her only sentient friend. Vofea snorted.
“Far older. None are born to the Faerie King’s lands now. Not since…the war. Kaelis, her name was. Loyal as they come, for all she’s a bogglewart swamp creature. Loyal enough to die.”
“Oh, she passed away? I’m sorry.”
“Nah. She came here. Her form’s changed, like Lady Shaestrel and the others, but death comes for us all. I wish she were here. She’d eat up them froggies like lunch. Then cook me some.”
Vofea grew sad, tracing her fingers along the ground. Seraphel swallowed her frog meat, then, after a moment, poured some of her ‘free water’ over the frog meat and took another bite. Vofea eyed her.
“Er, I’m not a great adventurer and whatnot. I’ve only survived the Crossroads of Izril.”
“Only?”
“—Yes, but I dunno if pouring mystery water over frog meat is wise. Then again, I ate pemmican nonstop on the way out of the Crossroads and shat the biggest log in creation after.”
Somehow, all of Seraphel’s adventures with Rabbiteater tended to head towards scatological discussions. She wondered if he had a cursed Skill or something. The [Princess] shrugged.
“It makes it taste better.”
“Issat so? Give some here then.”
 
——
 
After a few cycles of fighting and resting, Seraphel’s arms had stopped burning, and when she saw a threat…she attacked it. Not with skill or grace, mind. But with that desperation, knowing that every monster she did not kill would attack her friends.
She and Vofea felt like the only two waking people tending to an army of sleepwalkers. Accordingly, Seraphel was almost confident the two of them were actually friends.
She had never, ever, even in Noelictus, had to tell someone they had guts hanging off their back—let alone touched actual organs. At first, she was horrified, aghast, additional adjectives of trauma here.
Now, Seraphel just finger-combed Vofea’s fur if it was too matted with filth, and if Vofea pulled something out of her hair, Seraphel didn’t ask what it had been. She felt…tougher, or at least, more mentally numb to seeing blood. Certainly, the constant exertions had an impact on her body. Rabbiteater would have probably still called her weak, but merely walking no longer tired Seraphel.
She just wished she could wake someone up. She had thought, if anyone, Rabbiteater…but no, The Lonely Warrior kept marching along with Badarrow by his side. All of them were under the same spell.
Ksmvr was the only one of them that Vofea had hopes for, and she’d flit to him when they weren’t working, but Seraphel kept trying to wake Menrise or Cortese. She tried everything from foul-smelling liquids to talking to them to using her aura to try and push whatever effect was on them back. She even put her circlet on Cortese’s head—nothing.
It truly did seem like it was perspective or experience that let her and Vofea escape. One from her knowledge of the Lands of the Fae—Seraphel from her encounters with the Witch of Webs and her own long war against despair. Nothing else could break someone from the trance. Not pain nor auras nor even sound.
Seraphel knew that because at some point a little red…thing appeared and started following Lord Cortese around. It just flew through a wall after one of their battles and started buzzing at him. At first quietly, then with increasing noise. It would shrill so loudly Seraphel’s ears rang, stop for hours at a time, then buzz like a hive from hell.
“What is that?”
Vofea finally lost her temper and swatted at the bug after a long time of them hoping it would wake Lord Cortese. Seraphel tried to ‘kill’ the spell or whatever it was, but her enchanted daggers just passed through it.
“It must be a spell. A high-level one. It’s trying to reach Cortese.”
“Isn’t that bad, what with scrying spells showing where we are?”
“This is no ordinary scrying spell, believe me! And it is—so—annoying!”
Seraphel kept swatting until the dratted thing ceased to buzz. It seemed like whoever was on the other side had only the patience to annoy him for a few minutes at a time, but dead gods, the volume.
…Well, the mystery of Cortese’s mysterious ‘bug spell’ aside, Seraphel had little time to think of more than preparing for the next ‘encounter’ in the dreadful maze. Each new group of monsters meant her and Vofea racing forwards to try and lame or kill as many as possible to save the party from taking ‘damage’.
“I can’t believe none of you realize it’s such fakeness.”
Vofea panted as they were cleaning up after one fight. Seraphel was wiping blood off the daggers onto her riding dress.
“It feels much like a dream. You know, one you don’t realize you’re in? Only, at the same time, all makes sense. I was simply The Weeping Princess—only in my case, I hated it; I’d sworn to stop being so helpless. But I was more than myself, if that makes sense.”
“Oh, aye, it does. But how d’you reckon with that annoying narration giving experience and damage? Too much of a game, that.”
The [Princess] hesitated.
“…What narration? Experience? Damage? It seems to me as if we’re like marching pieces on some great board, like chess, only far more detailed. We swing swords or flail about as the ‘enemy’ comes out of the darkness. That is what I remember.”
A sea of figurines, all of whom resembled a [Princess] veiled in tears, marching forwards. All of them her, but no specific piece her body. A being that was made up of ideas of what she was, of her grief—not her memories or personality.
Vofea’s mouth opened.
“I, eh—nevermind.”
“You clearly saw something different. Tell me.”
“Oh, aye. But I, ah, I’ll explain as best I can, but it won’t make sense to yeh. That clears it up, though. Each to their own point of view.”
That was when it was easier. But there were moments when she wished she had never woken. That would have been so much—
Easier.
 
——
 
