He’d thought he was invincible. Or at least, that they weren’t hurting him badly. And maybe they hadn’t hurt ‘him’ badly. Because he’d been so many people. But hundreds had died. Over a thousand. Over two—
His gorge rose, then, and he did puke. He, who was a Redfang and who had never been sick from any battle or foul sight. Seraphel held him urgently.
“Are you alright? Is it malnutrition? We made it. We must all rest. Vofea—Vofea! I think Rabbiteater’s ill!”
She called out. Rabbiteater didn’t get it. He seized Seraphel’s arm before she could dash off.
“What’s wrong with you?”
He meant ‘why aren’t you screaming’? There were screams of horror, like the one rising in his chest. She gave him a wide-eyed stare, one so full of guilt and relief that he let go despite himself.
“I…I woke up early. I tried to save as many as possible. I couldn’t. I wish you had, Rabbiteater. If only you had…I did my best. Truly. I’m so sorry.”
Then her eyes filled with tears. Rabbiteater just stood there. The [Cursed Princess] began to weep.
“I did! But I couldn’t even bury…”
A Satyr ran over with a pail of soup and bandages. Seraphel began confessing her sins, her inability to fight, the fact that she’d only been able to uncurse one person at a time even after levelling to Rabbiteater’s face.
As if she were the one at fault. She, the one who had acted while he got people killed, thinking he was on a grand adventure.
I strode into the dungeon and said I knew what to do. And I fell for the trap. The Goblin’s gauntleted hands scraped over the bare stone.
Dead.
Captain Ennerev was walking down the line of men and women, who were still following ‘their’ colors, still coming back to reality. Calling out names.
“Senson? Swam? Jorchi? Nerne?”
Searching for his people. His face was stricken. Others were performing a similar muster.
Ser Thilowen stood, sword bared, cleaning it. His face betrayed only mild shock, but it was rigid with control. Even looking at him, Rabbiteater felt a name pop into his head.
The Grim Knight. He had never known Ser Thilowen had that unyielding will. He’d thought the man was just a fussy Thronebearer. But even now, the senior [Knight] was speaking.
“Thronebearers, all those of the Radiance will find and count those belonging to their squads. Prepare for combat. Secure this location. Now.”
Then he sheathed his sword and began striding around, dragging any officer above a [Sergeant]’s rank into a meeting. He was not the only one with his faculties about him.
Revi, Ksmvr, Lady Menrise, Badarrow all had ‘woken’ and, like Vofea, were shaky, but knew what was going on. Indeed, Revi and Ksmvr were the ones making soup.
“Food is essential. A lack of liquids and proper hydration was one of the most dangerous elements of this maze. Along with the monsters.”
The [Summoner] had even put up two [Stone Walls] to block the entrance, and several summoned Stitch-warriors were on lookout. Badarrow climbed over one of the walls and stealthed his way up the corridor as Rabbiteater watched. Vofea was adding as she found something.
“And soap! All of you stink of shit. And it’s in your pants.”
“Yeah, well, food first, then cleaning. We’ll drop dead from empty stomachs, not bad trousers. Believe me, I’ve had to stakeout Griffins before.”
Revi snapped back, and Vofea gagged.
“I think I want t’ quit being an adventurer.”
“Sadly, Adventurer Vofea, you are now a Horn of Hammerad. Quitting at this point is infeasible.”
“Drat. How d’we wash ourselves, anyways?”
“Rain spells, rookie. But if there’s an actual damn army up there, we’re fighting. Unless we can just run for it…”
The fact that other people were moving, acting, and there was danger forced Rabbiteater to his feet. He spoke to Seraphel as vomit dripped from his visor.
“Where’s Cortese. Menrise?”
“I think—there. Cortese. Cortese, are you alright?”
Menrise was in fact casting [Cleanse] on people with a wand. She turned and threw her arms around Seraphel.
“You did it, Seraphel! Rabbiteater—oh dear. [Cleanse].”
She waved it over his helmet, and a gaunt-faced man spoke.
“Menrise, the Jungle Tails army is above. Don’t waste your mana.”
“Cortese, I am not going to die with my underwear soiled. I will have fresh underwear to soil when we fight, or none at all.”
Menrise retorted, and there was the faintest of chuckles. Rabbiteater was shocked, but despite his haggard face, his stubble grown to a short beard, and his own bad state—Lord Cortese didn’t appear as horrified as Rabbiteater.
He seemed…shriven. His sword belt was empty, but he nodded at Rabbiteater.
The Guilty Man—no, The Questioning Lord stuck his hands in his pockets. He bowed to Seraphel.
“Your Highness, we owe you all if what Menrise is telling me is correct. I hope to repay you. This has been a disaster of the sort I could never imagine, and I grew up in the Infinite Dungeon! Dead gods. Even Floor 80 isn’t this bad. I thought I knew dungeons, but this?”
He shook his head.
“This is adventuring. I fear I’ve also jeopardized the crown’s authority in Kaaz. If my memory serves.”
He brushed his hand over his eyes. Then just shrugged.
“It is done, and better for it. Let the truth air out the rot. Rabbiteater. I’m glad you’re well.”
He even mustered a smile as he looked at Rabbiteater. As if seeing the [Knight] alive and in one piece mattered more than the dead. Rabbiteater just rasped.
“We failed them. I let them die instead of—”
“Yes. We did.”
That was all Lord Cortese said. Somehow, that bluntness helped. Rabbiteater saw the Hundredlord square his shoulders.
“How many did we lose?”
“I don’t know. Hundreds. Over a thousand, I fear. M-most of the [Knights] survived. They had armor.”
“So the [Sailors] and colonists would have gotten the worst of it.”
Cortese closed his eyes, and Rabbiteater felt sick again. Seraphel pointed urgently as she lowered her voice.
“Vofea did so much before I woke. It’s thanks to her that we’re alive. She…prioritized some. That’s why Dakelos and so on are alive. He broke his leg. Anyone she thought was in danger, like Mariel or Beacle, she tied up in the wagons.”
She pointed, and Rabbiteater saw that many familiar faces were there. Dame Neranthei was untying Beacle and Mariel, and Admiral Dakelos was swearing like the [Sailor] he was.
Of the survivors he knew, the two that seemed most destroyed were actually, well, the undead.
Strategist Veine and Clatterface were sitting and facing a wall. They were so dejected that Rabbiteater pointed.
“Even the undead…?”
“They have feelings. I think I saw Veine trying to get Clatterface to stab her. Don’t blame yourself too much, Rabbiteater. It was a miracle Seraphel got out of it, and Vofea’s special, apparently. Oh! And there’s an Elder Creler somewhere around here, but Seraphel says that it’s not hatched yet.”
“What?”
Cortese reached for the sword sheath, and Rabbiteater’s skin crawled. Menrise clapped her hands together.
“Sorry. I forgot, what with the army of Lizardfolk above us. C’mon, Cortese. We have to tell Thilowen.”
And like that, they were back to war. At least Rabbiteater could fight, but he felt like such a failure…he just stood there as Seraphel glanced at him.
“You’re not badly hurt under there, are you, Rabbiteater? We couldn’t heal you, and I didn’t think you got badly—”
“I’m fine. No one else is. I’m tough. I should have gotten hurt. Not them.”
“It wasn’t your…”
She hesitated, closed her mouth, and he felt bad for being abrupt with her. Rabbiteater turned.
“You were the important one, not me. Good job.”
He knew how bad it was when she smiled, and then her face fell.
“Don’t thank me. I could have done so much more. If I only had…”
He couldn’t handle this. The Goblin Lord was about to run, screaming at something, when he heard a slurping sound. He turned, and Seraphel stared at a crouching knight awkwardly slurping the red from Rabbiteater’s cloak.
“…Rivel?”
The Vampire had made it. He gasped, and his head rose as he fell on his butt.
“Sorry. I—I was starving—”
He didn’t look much worse than anyone else; his armor had doubtless protected him as well as his superhuman healing factor, but he seemed starved for blood. Rabbiteater silently tossed his cloak at Rivel. Then he sat down.
“I thought I could do anything. So stupid.”
Seraphel gingerly rested a hand on his shoulder.
“I couldn’t even kill a monster when I woke up. If you had—”
“Don’t.”
They remained there, in silence, as Rivel slurped the blood in the shadows without saying a word. After a while, someone came to find them.
“Your Highness. Ser Solstice. We are deliberating on our next course of action. The Goblin has reported that elements of Jungle Tails are camped around the entrance. Though they are in disarray. Her Highness’…Creler attack seems to have still left a mark.”
“The what?”
“Four Adult Crelers.”
Rabbiteater stared at Seraphel with much the same expression as Thilowen, but they were past questions. Without a word, the Hobgoblin stood. He saw Strategist Veine’s ghost was giving orders, her face now a mask of concentration. Ser Thilowen stood with her, checking his reflection in the mirror. He grimaced at his missing ear, then nodded along to her words.
“We must sleep. I do not care if it is [Sleep] spells—that is our only edge. The moment we emerge from the tunnel, we are dead. But I truly think they don’t know we are right here. They’ve pulled back far from the entrance of the ruins, doubtless out of caution…”
So it was going to be a battle? Rabbiteater shook his head. They were exhausted, worn out—but there was a crazy kind of relief a Redfang understood.
Fighting. That was simpler than dealing with living. Seraphel whispered.
“Can we fight? Can you, even if we level?”
He shrugged his shoulders.
“I can do this. I hope. Especially if I level. Enough [Knights] to fight. With me, Badarrow, Cortese leading, Revi, Ksmvr, even that Admiral guy…”
Rivel would fight with the Thronebearers. Rabbiteater cast around and realized he was missing someone.
“Where’s Markus?”
The [Princess] clasped her hands together as his head turned, looking for the lone member of the Order of Seasons. She gestured.
“He’s with the wounded. Let him rest, Rabbiteater.”
He nodded, relieved. She and Vofea had protected so many. The people he knew. The ones he cared about. He put a hand on his sword hilt, then half-turned.
“Seraphel—”
He eyed her. Then he pointed a finger at her.
“Do something again. I’m counting on you.”
He walked on without seeing her face change. The Goblin Lord focused. He had to make up for his failures. And he meant what he had said, of course. At this point, he wasn’t sure who was more important.
 
——
 
Dragonfire General Rithix hated Crelers. Not a unique point of view, but he personally lit up the insides of the last one with blue flames. Then spat.
“I want a kill-team formed for the Elder Creler.”
“Do we have the levels for one?”
“Tell the Wyrmtouched.”
Even with their champion, he doubted it was a good feat to try, but just the thought of it being down there made his scales itch. Four Adults had been bad enough, though.
More than bad enough. It was not just their insane destructive capabilities magnified by four—one was so much easier to contain. Nor the three swarms of Baby Crelers.
No, it was the damn concentration of force that had overwhelmed the elements of his army guarding that exit. Even then, he could have killed the Adult Crelers, but that was not how they operated.
The moment they’d realized there were more [Soldiers] than they could handle, they’d tried to go to ground. The last few days had been a desperate hide-and-seek to wipe out every Creler before they could burrow away and form a nest that would devour everything in a year’s time.
Bloody damned work on top of casualties from fighting the Iron Vanguard. The Dragonfire General didn’t like this mission. He did not like the report from the scout teams who’d been incompetent enough to trust the [Princess]. But mostly?
He didn’t like his [Strategic Appraisal] of the situation.
Rithix fancied he was no fool. He’d never taken the Titan of Baleros’ classes, as any loyalist to Jungle Tails hated the Titan, but he didn’t scorn the greatest [Strategist] either. He’d bought Niers’ books, read them. Memorized the pithy sage advice that sounded simple until you had to do it when it mattered most.
Like: ‘expect surprises’. Or ‘don’t underestimate the foe’. Easy to say that anyone could do it. But he really, truly, hadn’t been prepared for a Creler swarm to come at his people.
Thus, the Dragonfire General considered whether or not he was erring now in attempting to finish his mission. The facts on the paper were good. He had brought thirty thousand soldiers to drive off the Iron Vanguard and capture the Calanferians. More than enough.
They were a mixed force from a single warship, no matter how big—many would be [Sailors] or [Colonists]. They were tired, fighting in unfamiliar terrain, and the Mindscape Ruins had chewed them up if all the bodies indicated anything.
However…Rithix was no arrogant commander. He was no battle-worthy Gorgon. No Lamia of intelligence and wit.
He was a Lizardman. Or at least, that’s what he looked like. It made many Nagas under his command unhappy, even if they knew he could change. It sometimes led to funny-unfunny moments where a Naga gave him orders.
Right now, Dragonfire General Rithix was moving as part of the line infantry in a column, marching towards where the Calanferians should be located. He looked like any other Lizardfolk with yellow, radiant scales and a beautifully fiery neck crest. Only, he could breathe fire, and his armor was quite a lot better than theirs, just scuffed up to look worse.
These were the precautions of a [General] who did not want to have Three Color Stalker assassinate him on the march…or her many agents. He gave orders under his breath into speaking stones as the infantry, his bodyguard, chattered around him.
“Every Creler-hunting detachment, perform one final sweep for buried stragglers then mark your zones. We’ll have a nest-burning team sweep aftwards. Move at all speed to the Calanferian entrance. Who is the commander in charge of the location?”
“Gorgon Axtrizak, sir.”
The same idiot in charge of the scouting teams. Rithix grunted.
“Tell him [I Have a Bad Feeling]. He is to prepare for combat. Troops, [Quick March].”
He burned a Skill as he received acknowledgements. Rithix was thinking. What he was thinking were two things.
