They were all trapped. No one stopped the Crelers from moving. Seraphel watched Lord Cortese standing there as Crelers scurried underfoot past him. Focused on Menrise. That was when the [Princess] moved.
“Menrise! Menrise, get back!”
They were bearing straight for her group! One was attacking Menrise herself! It crawled up her dress, horrible pincers beginning to bite her arm, and Menrise did nothing! Seraphel ran forwards and grabbed the Creler.
She pulled, and it came away, legs bloody, biting the air. Seraphel screamed and expected it to whirl and rip her face off—but it kept clawing at Menrise!
Ignoring her? The Creler flexed and wriggled in her grasp until she dropped it. Seraphel’s foot stomped, and the Creler compressed. She felt a horribly squishy hardness under her foot. She stomped three times—and it crawled out from under her foot, largely unharmed. It tried to bite Menrise again.
“No, no, no! Get away from her! Get—”
Seraphel’s seventh stomp finally ruptured its organs. It burst, spewing orange guts onto the smooth stone floor, and she squealed and leapt back. The Creler kept trying to move, though. So she kept stomping.
Eventually, it was only twitching. Panting, Seraphel stepped back, then saw the dying Creler turning. Trying to retreat.
They were heading back. She felt green glowing across the tunnels. Forcing the Crelers’ unified emotions back. Rabbiteater was beginning his attack.
“Madness. This is madness. Menrise—!”
Her friend was standing there, her helmet covered with bits of blood, bleeding—Seraphel searched for a healing potion, but she didn’t have one on her belt, and neither did Menrise! Behind her—
There were people on the ground, half eaten or bleeding to death. The rest stood, blank-faced, a blue glow fighting for dominance amidst the swirling colors overhead. Anger, simmering upwards…
“Insanity.”
Seraphel would have sat down and been sick or just given up, but the sound of metal striking stone or bodies told her the Crelers would be back. And—a glimmer of movement, a desperate voice in the tunnels drew her eye.
Something was moving. Independent of the strange waves of people. Seraphel broke away from Menrise with effort. She’d almost been drawn back into…
 
The Weeping Princess is doing nothing. The Guilty Man calls on her to act!
 
—No! Seraphel wrenched herself out of the haze of blue. Stumbled forwards, slapping her cheeks. What did she do last time?
Remember her name. Seraphel du Marquin. The song. Cara’s songs. She’d been humming it. The [Princess] hummed it again, bit the inside of her cheek, anything to keep herself individual and not part of whatever collective was trying to drag her back inside.
That was when she saw the only other figure who’d been free from this madness the entire time running down the line of the wounded and dying.
Vofea. The Satyr had a length of cloth in her hands, and she was grimly striding down the line, cursing. She was using a flask to clean each Creler-bit person she came to. Then she would take the vial and pour the liquid onto the bandages before wrapping them around open wounds. Passing by some people too hurt, running—
“Vofea!”
The Satyr nearly leapt into one of the motionless people as Seraphel raced towards her. The Satyr spun.
“Princess? You’re awake! Is Lady Menrise…?”
“She’s hurt! Help, Vofea—! What’s going…?”
“I have her. As much of this shite as we have left.”
Vofea saw Menrise was bleeding and shouldered past Seraphel. She ignored questions as she poured what Seraphel realized was healing potion onto bandages and wrapped them around Menrise’s gouged shoulder. Vofea poured the last few drops of the bottle into the wound, then dropped it. She reached down, and Seraphel saw the Satyr had a belt of bottles…mostly empty.
“Damn. We’re almost out. But if you made it…! C’mon, hurry!”
Vofea yanked at Seraphel, and the two stumbled forwards. Seraphel almost squealed as she realized they were going past the barrier, but Vofea just yanked something off her belt and handed it to the [Princess].
“I healed everyone not dead best I could. We’ve minutes.”
“To do what?”
Seraphel realized she was holding a familiar, silver blade. Vofea held the twin of it in her hands. She pointed to the swarm of still, waiting Baby Crelers. Without hesitation, she began stabbing them, grinding them beneath one hoof as she wrenched the tip of the enchanted blade through their bodies to bisect them.
“Kill ‘em. Hurry! They won’t fight back! Don’t ye remember?”
Seraphel froze up. She stared at the sword in her hands until marching figures made her twist.
Lord Cortese followed by Admiral Dakelos, Revi, and more men and women she recognized. The expedition…
 
The Guilty Man is sortieing.
 
Vofea grabbed Seraphel’s shoulder, snapping her out of it again.
“Stab them!”
Shakily, the 4th Princess did just that. She approached one of the glowing Crelers nervously and gingerly stabbed it with Ksmvr’s sword. She blanched as the tip of her sword produced an orange spurt of blood, but after a moment, when it refused to react, she realized…
“T-take this!”
She began stabbing, her blade missing half the time as the Baby Creler bled more and more profusely. Seraphel thought she was doing well until Vofea, who had torn up eight Baby Crelers, saw her.
“You idiot!”
She stormed over and slapped Seraphel across the head. The [Princess] flinched as Vofea bared her teeth.
“Stab and step! Tear them apart! Stop wasting time!”
She shoved Seraphel, and the [Princess] stumbled. Unused to the tone, shocked, Seraphel almost shouted back until she saw Vofea’s desperate expression. The Satyr was covered in blood and filthy. She appeared sleepless, and the orange blood and gore had fused to her fur and splashed up to her hips.
Seraphel gazed down at the blade in her hands and remembered that faint voice she hadn’t quite processed. The battles they’d fought.
 
(The Weeping Princess took 15 damage!)
 
What…did that mean? She gazed back at the dead bodies lying on the floor. Then at the blade in her hands.
The next Baby Creler not being hacked down by Lord Cortese’s ‘people’ was just standing there. Gingerly, Seraphel put a boot on its back and brought the blade down. It was…tough even with the enchanted metal. She twisted the blade, then pulled.
It was like carving through a piece of meat with bone. But her blade was exceptionally sharp. Seraphel wrenched the blade through the Baby Creler. She blanched as the little horror came apart, spilling its guts everywhere.
“Don’t stop! There are hundreds of the buggers!”
Vofea encouraged the [Princess], and Seraphel stomped a second Creler and began to bisect it. The effort took both arms, and she was panting after the sixth. She would have done a seventh, but Vofea shouted.
“Lady Menrise is doing more magic! Get back! What’s she…run, run!”
[Light Arrows] now. Seraphel saw Menrise pointing towards her and realized the danger. She fled with Vofea as arrows poured into the battlefield, hitting the Baby Crelers. It wasn’t just Menrise casting them, Seraphel realized.
“All of them?”
[Soldiers] and [Deckhands], [Knights] and commonfolk were all firing magic from their fingers as if they were Level 20 [Mages]. Seraphel couldn’t believe her eyes. Vofea, though, just cursed.
“I dunno how she remembered to use magic after so long of hitting things like a dunce! But if she doesn’t blast us all apart, she’ll kill everyone with her!”
“What?”
Surely hundreds, if not over a thousand, people all casting Tier 3 magic was a good thing. For answer, Vofea pointed and ran.
That was when Seraphel saw one of the quasi-[Mages] casting magic stop throwing [Light Arrows] and drop without a sound. They were convulsing on the ground, and Vofea grabbed something else and began to splash them with it.
“It’s the mana potions! Get one and give it to anyone who falls down!”
The [Princess] understood in an instant what was going on. Mana burn. Or more like—mana drain. Most of these people weren’t spellcasters! They had no mana pools, and Seraphel’s limited magical teaching told her that if they were somehow overdrawing on mana—
She cast around desperately for mana potions, and Vofea yelled.
“In the back! The horses have some!”
The horses were all standing together, placid, and Seraphel ran up to them and once again saw more colors. A very faint brown was emanating from this group. It felt like…worry?
But it wasn’t strong enough to push the other colors overhead back, so they just remained where they were. She yanked open pouches until she found some vials, then ran back. Only, she stopped as she saw what was coming.
 
(The Ravening Beast attacks in a desperate frenzy! The Smaller Beast is attempting to flee!)
 
One wave of Crelers was retreating—the other attacking Lord Cortese and Menrise equally. Seraphel screamed.
“Cortese!”
She didn’t recall much after that, only that she was swinging her sword at the Crelers, hacking at them and stomping until they fell back. Vofea was the one to snap at her.
“Seraphel! Seraphel, it’s done. There aren’t enough of them to think loud enough anymore. See?”
She pointed, and Seraphel saw the last of the Crelers were gathered together in a clump as Rabbiteater’s group hacked them up. They didn’t move or react—she stared down at the twitching Creler she’d ripped apart. It was still trying to move. Vofea gazed at it too before stomping it.
“I wondered if they’d start thinking normal once it was one or two left. Maybe they were, but it takes too long. Your lot dices up anything it kills. We’ve got maybe half an hour before they keep moving. C’mon. Healing and mana potions first. Bandage anything big. This lot’ll do a bit of healing, sometimes. Explain to me how you got out of this nastiness and maybe we can wake the others.”
Numbly, Seraphel followed Vofea. The Satyr was triaging the columns of people again. How long had they been down here? This was madness.
And—there were far fewer people than there should have been, at least by Seraphel’s count. She saw a group standing behind Ser Thilowen, much smaller, and the animals were in the back, but—
“How many died, Vofea?”
“Hundreds? I reckon at least a thousand. The Crelers were the worst. ‘Till I realized I could be killing them nonstop, all I could do was keep you and some others from getting killed when we were attacked. How’d you escape?”
“I don’t know. I felt something was wrong, and I was humming…it felt familiar. Wrong. Perhaps it was my class? My tiara? My aura?”
Vofea glanced sideways as Seraphel felt at her riding dress and her tiara, which was on her head. But her hands leapt away from her clothes in shock. She was covered in filth and sweat and dried blood, just like everyone else. The Satyr shrugged.
“Unless you can free the others, it ain’t much use. Now there’s two of us. Not much help when there’s an army to take care of. Oh, look. Your lot’s replaced you.”
“My—what?”
Seraphel turned and saw the ‘blue’ group that had been holding still throughout the battle was moving again. A blank-faced woman was leading them, and Seraphel saw, to her shock, that it was a familiar person.
“Gilthisa!”
“…Who?”
Vofea squinted at the woman wearing plain clothing. Seraphel pointed.
“She’s a [Peasant] from Esterfil. She killed her husband, only he was assaulting her, and then she joined the New Lands expedition, and she was so happy. She…”
“Have you two met? I’ve never seen her before now.”
Vofea eyed the woman again, and Seraphel gobbled for words.
“No. Never. But I was her.”
“Ah. The blue stuff floating out of all of you. Ach. Your minds are all entangled. What’d they say this was? Selphid stuff? Well, I hate all of those buggers now on principle. This trap will kill us all, Princess. Nevermind there’s been enough of us to kill most of what comes along. Those Creler-things keep eating at us, and there’s more horrors down here.”
Seraphel turned to Vofea, and the Satyr sagged. She was…young, wasn’t she? A new adventurer and part of the Horns of Hammerad? Seraphel wasn’t too clear, but she remembered Ksmvr of Chandrar lecturing her several times. Now, though, the Satyr seemed like she’d aged from what she’d seen so far.
And, Seraphel realized, as The Weeping Princess continued forwards, without her…
Now she and Vofea were the only two sane minds in this labyrinth from hell.
 
——
 
The one blessing was that movement in these tunnels took a long time. It wasn’t like they would stumble across another set of enemies instantly, according to Vofea.
“‘Tisn’t like much can live here given they need numbers to even exist. My guess is that if anything lives here permanently, it eats the moss and such.”
“Eats the moss?”
“Sure. You’ve had much of it. Rabbiteater’s group is sensible enough to munch it down, but it took a lotta time before your lot did anything.”
Seraphel recalled the low provisions of earlier and blanched.
“Then did the Angry Woman—Menrise—really eat…?”
“The purple meat? Yep. I tried to stop her. Got some of ‘em to vomit it back up, but six died, and the rest were so sick they couldn’t walk straight.”
Six. That meant every time she’d registered being hurt as The Weeping Princess…Seraphel blanched. They were riding in a wagon. The animals pulled it behind the main group, who were marching down the long tunnels slanting slightly upwards.
The tunnels. The tunnels didn’t end. They twisted and turned, not ever in sharp angles but in long sloping curves that made you feel like you were walking in odd spirals or bends where the tunnels slanted left or right or down, and you felt your sense of gravity and direction completely vanish.
That was unpleasant enough, but the ‘organs’ made everything far, far worse. Seraphel had wondered how they were able to fight in these tunnels—it almost made sense that they were attacking in waves because in some places the tunnels were too narrow to fight in. In some places, they did widen out, but it was when they came to a break in the long passages that she learned to prepare for battle.
The…organ-rooms were what she and Vofea called them. Huge chambers where monsters tended to live, given the relative space, and each one was unsettling to be in. None of them followed usual building standards. Not a single one was square or even perfectly round. They resembled organs. Just like the tunnels resembled veins—but of no creature Seraphel knew.
