“It’s a trap.”
Who said that? 
They were descending through the wending tunnels of eerily smooth stone, torches and [Light] spells casting long shadows on the walls. Some…vast and sprawling maze of intersecting tunnels penetrating deeper into the earth.
Too long to have any purpose clear to those within. An arterial structure of tubes, meeting and intersecting, fragmenting into stranger organs.
A Selphid’s creation. The tunnels were…cramped. Claustrophobic. They were wide enough to let six people walk shoulder-to-shoulder without cramping them, but the columns of Calanferian soldiers and colonists only walked two-at-a-time.
The horses had to wear blinders and be led by hand single file. It felt as though, with each step, cotton was being pressed into their ears. The heartbeats and rush of one’s own blood grew louder. Each sound more intrusive until footfalls sounded like thunder, air being inhaled a storm.
Talking…ceased except when necessary. Thousands of minds wished to go back—but they were being pursued. The Iron Vanguard.
They had to go deeper. And now, they were realizing they were no longer alone. The deeper the shadows drew, the closer everyone got to one another. Except for one.
The [Knight] walked ahead of the others, motioning to the Goblin with the bow. He tapped the Knight of Spring on the shoulder, leading the vanguard.
“Stay behind me, Seraphel. I know dungeons. You, uh, bad Goblin. With me.”
“Yes, sir, Slayer Guy.”
“I’ve got your back, Rabbit.”
They strode ahead, but even their advance…slowed. Clumped up. The probing souls moving ahead began to cease walking forward, or even move in reverse. As if something was dragging them backwards.
“Pull the scouts back.”
“Ambush, Captain Ennerev? Captain?”
A strained voice. Was it Captain Ennerev who spoke?
“No…Lord…Lord Cortese. They’re panicking.”
“Tell them to…to…fall back. Thronebearers, forwards. Don’t let the columns be separated. Pursuers?”
None. And then the voice spoke.
“It’s a trap.”
Who said that? It was bad luck to say something like that. No one had been attacked yet. The voice was grating, too loud. The footsteps shuffled onwards.
“It’s a trap. ‘Tis a trap and smells of one. If not a trap, then…this place was not made of the likes of us. You ken what I’m saying?”
No response.
“Hello? Why aren’t you speaking? Ksmvr? R-Revi?”
Who? The voice grated. Deeper, they were heading, and now something was stirring. Silence now, blessed, except for that voice.
“Lord Racist, sir. Rabbiteater? No one’s…Princess? Can anyone hear me? Even you, Clatterface? Veine? Something’s wrong. Look at me. Stop, stop. Something’s very wrong. You’re all walking in sync. Snap out of it. Ksmvr…the lights are going out.”
Deeper. Until the tunnels pulsed around them and thoughts grew so loud they drowned out all other noise. And the world grew bright again.
Then…they lost count. Of numbers. Names.
Mostly everything.
 
——
 
Baleros’ jungles by spring were not a place any sensible commander would wish to advance into. However, the trail was fresh. The pursuit was behind only half a day at most, and the Calanferians were tired, out of their element, and had been forced to clear a path.
Therefore, there was every expectation of catching them and bringing them to battle by dusk at the latest. To that end, four legions had been disembarked from four warships. Each legion had begun their advance through the jungles, the first of which followed the Calanferian’s trail exactly; the others were forced to clear paths, a difficult process even with the War Walkers and [Mages].
[Steel Commander] Bizine was determined to bring the rearmost elements of the Calanferian army to battle. Thusly, she advanced at full speed until her pursuit encountered an obstacle.
“The legion will halt.”
The armored Dullahan threw up a hand, and the voices of Dullahan officers echoed around her. Her [Strategist].
“The formation will encircle the tunnel entrance and prepare for ambush.”
[Captains] of each company within the legion.
“Mitrix Company shall dig in!”
“Obric Company, [Overwatch] those trees.”
“Colnec Company, dig in!”
Then the lesser officers gave such orders as necessary, redirecting soldiers. As they had not been brought to battle yet, Steel Commander Bizine allowed the proper protocols of command to continue, but waited, chafing with impatience.
This was no regular campaign; it was practically adamantine in priority. The Seer of Steel himself requested hourly updates. She had a list of prisoners of war to take at all costs, and…she was well aware that she was not only within Jungle Tails’ territory, but facing at least one Level 40 [Knight]. Possibly higher if the reports from Pursuit Fleet Comodas were to be confirmed. A warrior possibly at Level 50, to withstand a full barrage unaided.
By contrast, Bizine was merely a [Steel Commander], but that did mean she had passed her way up the ranks and was now commanding a legion—four legions—of Dullahans wearing steel armor. Of course, [Iron Commander] and [Stone Commander] didn’t always match your command in this day and age, as the Iron Vanguard used very little non-magical iron when they could begin at steel…in practice, it was stone or wood in the lowest commands, used for training or securing areas, not open combat. It was a mark of desperation to call on a group of lesser-clad Dullahans in the Iron Vanguard, but they did not have enough steel for everyone.
Outfitting millions of Dullahans in armor taxed every forge in the north. After all, not just [Soldiers] wanted steel plate, but civilians too! Few armies in the world could outfit so many warriors in full plate; she had heard Ailendamus of Terandria could field similar armies. No species but Dullahans had such heavy, all-encompassing armor for even their meanest soldiers.
Thusly, as she waited for the [Scouts] to report in, she had every hope of prevailing against the common Calanferian [Soldier] in massed-melee. However, her heart sank as the first Dullahans wearing the lightest armor they could—cloth—came back.
It always seemed so painful to her to wear armor that moved slightly with their bodies. And it had to be so light, without the comforting pressure of regular armor. She wondered if their bodies covered by the ‘armor’— which made them look like slightly padded Humans—hurt if they struck branches too hard. How naked it must feel! But the [Scouts] worked with great distinction, and to offset their humble attire, each one carried a badge of metal that other Dullahans might know they were not so poor or desperate as to use cloth.
The [Scout Leader] reported to her as bugs buzzed around the Dullahans, finding little to bite except faces, and those were smeared with unguents to keep them off. Even so, Bizine had to resist the urge to swat several which landed on her face anyways.
“We have scouted for signs of massed troop movements or ambush within five miles. We cannot detect any trails other than the ones that lead into the tunnels, Steel Commander.”
“So noted, Scout Leader. Strategist, have legions Foundment and Callidec move up on the flanks. Locate other entrances or forge ahead. Legion Thirs will join at location to encircle and fortify. Scout Leader, locate more such tunnel exits. Magus, a line to Invictel as well as a request for an audience with the Seer of Steel.”
It was done. Within minutes, Steel Commander Bizine had put in two requests. One for information, one for an audience with her acting-commander for this mission. Normally it would be a [Strategist] or [General] of Invictel. Even Tulm the Mithril if the moment was urgent enough. But he was in Izril’s New Lands, and the Seer of Steel…
Bizine was nervous, but she projected her voice as she gave orders. The Seer of Steel was listening through the scrying orb, but gave no orders. If she erred, it would be noted.
“The legion will encamp! The Calanferians have entered the Mindscape Ruins; a known death-zone. Massed combat will result in unacceptable casualties. Thus, the legions shall locate exits and bring the Calanferians to battle if they emerge.”
It was required to inform the legions of reasoning for orders that went against their main directives, which was to bring the Calanferian force to battle. Steel Commander Bizine turned, then, and the scrying orb lit up.
Then the Seer of Steel spoke in a deep, booming voice. His body was that of a War Walker, and even in the scrying orb, his voice was too loud. Bizine had seen him striding along, wearing a scrying orb for a ‘head’. It allowed the body to fight while the head remained in Invictel, giving orders.
How the Seer of Steel could operate his body miles from where his head was she had no notion. She could manage twenty feet at most before her body grew uncoordinated. Bizine knelt, waiting for censure or correction as the voice boomed.
“YOUR ANALYSIS IS AGREED UPON, STEEL COMMANDER. RECORDS INDICATE THE MINDSCAPE RUINS CAN EASILY WIPE A LEGION. I AM UNEASY ABOUT REMAINING IN JUNGLE TAILS TERRITORY, HOWEVER.”
“I shall deploy scouts to further monitor our flanks, Seer of Steel.”
Bizine had to try not to shout in reply to the voice. The Seer of Steel rumbled.
“DO SO. ARE YOU PREPARED TO BRING CALANFER TO BATTLE? REPORTS OF SER SOLSTICE INDICATE HIS LEVEL EXCEEDS THAT OF CONVENTIONAL WARFARE.”
In other words, his actions could change a battlefield by himself. Steel Commander Bizine shifted uncomfortably. She had served with distinction for fourteen years fighting Maelstrom’s Howling forces…but individuals of the caliber of this ‘Ser Solstice’ were still few and far between. When the Bannermare or her mother took to the front, Bizine was not in charge. This would be her crucible, if the Calanferians survived where they had gone.
“I am uncertain, Seer of Steel, but there is no other commander present with higher levels or greater experience save for [Warship Captain] Ledr, and his speciality is not suited for ground-based warfare. My intention is to use our irregular forces to counter him. One of the Eternal Nobility has been attached to my legion.”
The Seer of Steel’s face relaxed slightly.
“THE ETERNAL NOBILITY? AH, VERY GOOD. WHO FIGHTS WITH YOUR LEGION?”
A pause. Bizine’s face went slack as she turned to the [Strategist], who in turn had to consult their notes. The Seer of Steel noticed the pause, and rather than embarrass his underlings, he chuckled.
“I DO NOT RECALL. SCION TREFLAX?”
“I am unaware as well, Seer of Steel.”
She was allowed to smile, and they both met eyes, an honor that made Bizine sure she’d brag about it later. The Seer of Steel chuckled again.
“WITH GREAT RESPECT, CONVEY MY APOLOGIES. CONTINUE TO SEND ME UPDATES.”
The connection ended, and the scrying orb went back to simply recording the world around it. Steel Commander Bizine rose from her knee and turned. She gave few orders as her legions moved, locating two more entrances at greater distances, and she reviewed what files the Iron Vanguard had on this particular ruin.
She ordered her legion to move back a thousand paces from the entrance. Meanwhile, her scouts reported foreign contacts in the jungles, beyond local monsters and animals.
Out of caution, Steel Commander Bizine ordered the scouting net widened. [Cartographers] sent her old maps of known entrances to the Mindscape Ruins, and she advised the Seer of Steel that her legions would not be able to cover such a huge area without splitting up. She was ordered to avoid overextending and to deploy [Scrying] spells to every entrance instead.
 
——
 
The first night thusly passed with no incident. Steel Commander Bizine waited, playing Go with her [Strategist] until ten straight losses had her inspecting the camps.
The second night, her [Scout Leader] lost contact with a patrol. Their bodies were not discovered. Steel Commander Bizine reinforced the patrols with quick-response teams.
The third night, another patrol was attacked by a local monster known as a Duffshambler. It was quickly slain due to response teams.
The fifth night, Scion Thornidre of the Eternal Nobility offered to lead a detachment of volunteers into the Mindscape Ruins to pursue the Calanferians or confirm their demise. The measure was discussed at length, then decided against given the risks. Steel Commander Bizine also received a report from her [Scout Leader] that there were foreign entities moving in the jungles. He believed they were moving outside of his directed radius and feared he was outmaneuvered.
Steel Commander Bizine refused a request to range over twenty miles from any legion’s presence, but requested [Scrying] spells to sweep the jungles. This earned her minor censure from the Seer of Steel, who explained that most conventional [Scrying] spells did not move in linear patterns nor would reveal much from an aerial view. He did devote some of his own abilities to scrying, however.
Day seven. The Seer of Steel issued an alert to Steel Commander Bizine. [Scrying] spells had shut off in a wide sector around her western flank. She ordered her legions to redeploy and change their formations in anticipation of attacks.
Day eight—the first ambushes of scouting patrols revealed assailants’ bodies. Lizardfolk. Scouting south of Steel Commander Bizine revealed more elements moving. West, north, south—Warship Captain Ledr confirmed visible movements from his position.
Open combat on day nine with Jungle Tails. Steel Commander Bizine reported her forces were outnumbered and requested the fleet deploy reserves to avoid the southern elements from completing an encircling action.
Day eleven—legions abandoned all but the primary entrance to the Mindscape Ruins. To prevent further casualties, Steel Commander Bizine requested withdrawal from the Seer of Steel. It was granted, and her legions fell back to their warships with minimal pursuit. However, the warships remained anchored despite occasional harassing fire from the coast.
They finally left on the nineteenth day, in order to resupply, and only maintained two monitoring vessels. Steel Commander Bizine was unhappy with her failed objectives, casualties taken, and retreat. However, the Seer of Steel’s analysis of her actions was ratified by Invictel [Strategists]; all out warfare between both forces would have only destroyed both’s combat potential to no end.
Moreover, it seemed Jungle Tails was equally unsure of whether the Calanferians were alive. Pending resupply, Steel Commander Bizine would resume the pursuit. If they were alive.
