“Hundredlord Cortese was struck by Ser Solstice in friendship at Calanfer! The Earl of Rains, the 4th Princess of Calanfer, Lady Menrise—each one vouches for his character implicitly!”
“And yet, a [Prince] lies dead. The patron whose name Ser Solstice bears took a Goblin Lord’s hand. The Death of Magic protected her. Explain it! Or better yet, where is Lord Cortese’s testimony?”
Hundredlord Brinth’s maul smashed down on the balcony. The [King] winced.
“The woodwork.”
He was half-asleep on his throne as the arguments grew nastier. Hundredlady Iirn pointed down at Siveris.
“This foreigner [Knight] could be a traitor! I demand answers! From Cortese or House Withred, not faint excuses! If I do not have them, I will lead my House and every member of the Thousand Lances to Baleros to rip them from the [Knight]’s helm myself!”
“Lord Cortese is evading pursuit from the Iron Vanguard—”
“And he didn’t even compose a missive? You have been in touch with him. How has he no explanation when he knows what we must think?”
Brinth from the other side. The [Lady] glanced around helplessly, and it was at this moment that King Fireth whispered.
“Retner. Hasn’t he responded to the…spell? This all should be cleared up. It’s not like Cortese to be silent.”
Prince Retner was sweating, trying not to fidget as he contemplated war against Baleros or two of the Hundredlords fighting. Already, there were duels in the streets; he could see them from the windows! He sat up.
“That’s right. He has refused to answer, but there is a spell that the [Court Mages] say is about his personage. Why—why don’t we simply activate it?”
The Hundredlords turned, and Siveris’ brows crossed in sudden anxiety.
“Your Highness, Your Majesty, he may be in danger or fleeing the Iron Vanguard—”
“Or dead. It’s a very noisy spell. It’s been days, and he will not speak to me.”
King Fireth observed softly. The assembly fell suddenly silent. The [King]’s lined face lifted slightly, and for a moment, the cunning flash from his eyes was nostalgic.
“Hundredlady Iirn. Hundredlord Birnth. If Hundredlord Cortese is dead, do you withdraw your objections?”
“I do, Your Majesty.”
Birnth knelt. Iirn took a second longer than Birnth.
“I do—against Lord Cortese. Ser Solstice I cannot promise, Your Majesty.”
“Then proceed. Activate the spell.”
The King of Kaaz had spoken. Prince Retner leaned over.
“Father. What if…”
“Lord Cortese must defend himself. No one else can.”
That was that. There was dead silence aside from the doors opening to let a few people race back and forth while [Mages] were allowed into the room. They set up a rather complicated-looking spell via a scroll, and then one handed it to the [Herald]. The Thousand Lances had to push the [Mages] out of the rooms; they were trying to listen.
The [Herald], suddenly the most important man in the room, cleared his throat. He tapped the scroll, and there was a flash of red light.
And sound. The instant the spell activated, there sounded the drumming of footsteps. Hundreds, perhaps thousands, in some echoing room. Then, as everyone tried to hear, a distant voice rose in alarm.
“Hey, that stupid fly glowing. Vofea!”
Who was that? Everyone leaned forwards. Was he in battle? It sounded like a man breathing. No visuals—they’d had to punch through an immense amount of interference and burn a Tier 6 spell to just get in contact with Lord Cortese. Wherever he was…the [King] listened as the [Herald] began.
“Lord Cortese. The Lords and Ladies of the Lance have gathered and stand in judgement for your actions at sea! Your protection of Ser Solstice! If you are not in fear for your life or safety—”
“Or shitting.”
Hundredlord Brinth added. More laughter. The [Herald] stumbled over his words.
“—then, ah, we demand answers! How could you choose a foreign [Knight] over a [Prince]? I believe that was the thrust of the question?”
He cast around, then shrank backwards. Everyone waited as the red light pulsed. There was no response. Hundredlady Iirn lost her patience.
“Come on, Cortese! Have you lost your nerve? Where’s that barking tongue of yours? Or has Baeris got to do both the talking and fighting for you?”
She invoked his favorite cat, and one of the other Hundredlords leaned over.
“Iirn, Baeris is dead.”
“Oh, ah—um—”
Even the outraged Hundredlady hesitated, slightly shamefaced. Siveris stared upwards, just as on edge as everyone else. And then, at last—
“Looks like some shitty speaking spell. I reckon I can see someone through it. Lots of fancy Humans. Ech. Dunno what we should do. Maybe leave it alone?”
“Yah. You think we should get Seraphel?”
“Eh…her Skill’s on cooldown. Can’t.”
“Ooh. Too bad…”
Someone laughed, but incredulously. The [King] glanced up. It sounded like they were near Lord Cortese; the spell would track his body even if he was dead. Unless he was literally comatose…the Hundredlords were all getting annoyed now.
“You there! Tell Cortese to answer! The Kingdom of Kaaz demands it!”
Hundredlady Nvize barked. The two voices on the other end conferred.
“Kaaz. Kaaz. Is that where Lord Cortese is from? I don’t know Terandrian stuff.”
“It must be the Kingdom of Racisms. Sounds like a fun place.”
There was no laughter now. Hundredlady Nvize’s eyes narrowed. Before the purpling Lord Brinth could roar, or someone else speak, there was a voice from above.
King Fireth. He spoke as he pulled himself up.
“Cortese. I am listening. If you have anything to say in defense of Ser Solstice, say it now or never again. You are not a cowardly man. What have you to say?”
The hush was final, and the longer it dragged, the more set the faces around Lady Siveris were, both above and around her. The [King] was waving his hand at the [Herald] when at last there was a voice.
The Guilty Man spoke to his [King]. Though it felt as though he were in a dream. He answered because he must. Because it was the bared sword he saw in his nightmares.
“I drew my sword to strike him down from behind. What sort of a man slays a friend? What honor is there? What would it have changed?”
Hundredlady Iirn froze, about to bellow. Her tan skin turned dead white, and she recoiled. Hundredlord Kinth’s back slammed into the seat, and there was a cry—the [Herald] had almost jumped off his podium. He had to cling to it.
Chaos below. The Lord and Ladies of Lances had either drawn blades or leapt back. Every [Knight] had drawn weapons reflexively.
King Fireth’s eyes had opened fully, and he was leaning back in his throne-like seat. Every hair stood up on the little lion’s body, and gooseflesh was raised on Birnth’s arms.
“The chorus of the damned. What is that?”
One of the Hundredlords whispered hoarsely.
“Not the spell—is it? Get the [Mages] back in here! Lord Cortese, is that you?”
“Yes.”
The simple reply dried Iirn’s mouth. She coughed and had to drink water.
“You—you sound like a thousand voices. What—where are you?”
There was no reply. The Guilty Man was walking, eyes locked on The Lonely Warrior’s back. Even Vofea and Badarrow were staring wide-eyed at him as he spoke with the tongues of every single voice in his column all at once.
“I tried. I had my sword raised to run him through. A comrade, a man I drank with. My brother in arms! My friend until the end. All for what? A [Prince]’s request? Even for you, Majesty. I wish I had never been asked it.”
A gasp ran through the room. Lady Siveris whirled, and the [King] of Kaaz blinked his eyes slowly. His lined face never left the spell.
“Lord Cortese. Are you telling us that the [Prince] of Erribathe prevailed upon Glorious Kaaz to—to murder Ser Solstice before their duel?”
Lord Birnth’s eyes were flicking to the royal dais and then to the nobles frozen at the door. The time to seal the events to the chamber would have been…about ten minutes ago.
The [King] said nothing. But he did make a sound when Prince Retner slowly forced himself to his feet. It took a great effort, but the man stood despite looking stabbed himself.
“Before the royal crown, I refuse part of Hundredlord Cortese’s statements.”
He spoke over the murmur of shock.
“—It was not His Majesty of Kaaz who relayed the request of Prince Iradoren to Hundredlord Cortese. It was I. I take responsibility for the order.”
“To murder a [Knight] from behind?”
Hundredlady Iirn had forgotten her position. The [King] closed his eyes, and it was almost a relief when the ghostly chorus whispered.
The Guilty Man gazed at his friend’s back. He drew his sword, and looked at the beautiful blade. Then he cast it aside.
“I could not. I cannot. Whatever else I see, I could not slay an honorable man from behind. I may never know what honor shines like. But I could not even dream of it if I spilled an innocent man’s blood. Damned either way. I’m…sorry, Your Majesty.”
He gazed up and left his sword where it lay. 
“Aw, swive us sideways. They’re all tossing their swords! We have to pick them up, hurry—”
The Guilty Man puts down his heavy burdens. The Questioning Lord continues in his steps. 
On his throne, the King of Kaaz just sighed, the slight breath the only movement in the room. He lifted a shaking hand in weary benediction.
“It was a suggestion, Lord Cortese. Glorious Kaaz chooses its own way. Fight whatever you are fighting well.”
At that point, he had to gaze at the [Herald] pointedly until the man realized that was a cue to end the spell. There was dead silence. Then Hundredlady Iirn steepled her fingers.
“I…withdraw my complaint against Hundredlord Cortese. I may privately investigate other matters, but, ah—um—shall we recess for fifteen minutes?”
The other Hundredlords and the assembled Lords and Ladies of the Lance stared at her. Prince Retner just stood, leaning against his balcony. He wondered when the first challenge would come.
The King of Kaaz slept.
 
——
 
And then…at last, there was light.
 
(You have finally reached the exit. It has been a long, long time. An age of fighting, but you see the light and feel yourself…dissolving. Something precious is being lost.)
(Your steps falter, but something pushes you onwards. It’s a terrifying feeling, breaking apart. But something tells you—you must. You must continue.)
(Each one of you is hurt, but you walk forwards together. Little toys follow you. A smiling Satyr’s doll riding on a toy wagon. A weary Stitch-girl puppet holding a lantern. You feel as though you owe them a great deal. But at last, it’s over.)
 
The Grim Knight lifts his battered head as he steps into the light. His will unbroken, though his body fails him. Seeking the next obstacle to overcome. His duty is not done.
The Grim Knight vanishes.
The Angry Woman has not yet let go of her rage. But some of it has escaped her. She turns and beckons. Her comrades. She stumbles with the weight of her wounds.
The Questioning Lord supports her shoulder. He looks lighter as they walk towards the light. His eyes roam forwards and back, waiting. There is no right or wrong. Just an answer he may one day find. He hopes it is a good one.
The Angry Woman vanishes.
The Questioning Lord vanishes.
The Weeping Princess is smiling. As if she has accomplished something that means everything to her. She turns and beckons as she twirls, stepping into the light.
The Weeping Princess vanishes.
The Lonely Warrior is last of all, checking for foes from behind. He shoulders his sword, pleased with himself. Then he strides after the others. He’s done it. He’s kept them safe. This time…
The Lonely Warrior vanishes…
 
Rabbiteater stumbled as he came to a halt. Sword on his shoulders, back straight. Armor slightly dented, but unbroken. Triumph singing in his heart.
Until…the dream ended. And he awoke and heard the gasp of a thousand lungs taking breaths of their own accord. A thousand hearts no longer beating in rhythm. And the thousand minds remembering who they were.
The tunnels had not quite ended. The procession of people had simply reached the exit. There was sunlight, just beyond the end of the tunnel, but two walls of stone blocked anyone from going further. The light, mundane, had a pale quality compared to the glow they had been basked in. But it awoke their minds. And it woke him up too.
“What?”
The Goblin Lord of Champions gazed back. And he realized his armor was caked in blood. He smelled the foulness caked onto him, felt his mind reeling as it was suddenly tiny, and the feeling of vast unity left him.
But most of all—he gazed at the line of men and women waking from their vision of him. Covered in wounds he remembered bearing. Filthy. Reduced.
Then, Rabbiteater’s silly dream about fighting monsters like a boy running around with a sword took on the horror the others had realized. His arms, which could lift anything, trembled. His legs quivered.
He would have fallen. Fallen and cried out for the horror of it as he realized each little scattering of stones was a life falling away. For never once waking out of this trap.
Him. The one who should have seen it. The one who could have, should have—
He felt sick with horror. Then his helmeted head rose.
“Brother? Seraphel? Cortese? Menrise?”
Were they all…? Someone sighed next to him, and a hand fell on his shoulders.
“It pretty bad, Brother. Hopefully they not remember you.”
Badarrow. He hadn’t fallen. He seemed—tired. Grim as he flexed his bow, but he was glancing around, nodding back the way they’d come.
“She woke me early. You? Harder. Too important. Was bad. Long, sleeping-death. Maybe not so bad.”
Badarrow thought about it, and the [Sniper] rubbed at his filthy hair.
“…Pretty bad. Brave [Princess], though. Braver than you say.”
“I don’t understand. What?”
Rabbiteater remained on his knees, but the [Sniper] just shouldered the bow.
“Can’t say. Too many big words. I go. You hate me, bad Goblin, remember?”
He strode ahead, and Rabbiteater never wished to drop the act more than now. He almost reached for Badarrow’s leg, but someone else rushed over and tried to help him stand.
“Rabbiteater! Are you alright? We made it.”
Seraphel. She was smiling. How, he didn’t know. Rabbiteater stood more out of shock than anything. He saw, now, many people had collapsed like him. Like puppets with strings cut. They were weeping, clawing at their faces, or just staring in shock at…nothing.
Where there should have been more members of the party, the group that had left Throne’s Will—half remained? He didn’t know. Couldn’t count.
How many had died? Each and every monster they’d fought took on a sickening light in Rabbiteater’s mind. Just—just standing there while they—and he had barely used Skills.
