The Grim Knight lands a killing blow at last! He delivers 12 damage!
 
(The Hammering Brute is defeated! 333 EXP awarded! The Brute’s Club found!)
 
The Green Knight grins, then grimaces. He takes 2 poison damage. He tries to walk it off.
The Guilty Man is bleeding. He takes 14 damage. He decides to bandage himself.
 
“No. Nononono—Vofea! Vofea!”
They were trying. But the Trolls or whatever they’d been fighting had swung huge clubs covered in bits of metal. And they were out of potions.
Vofea was feeling at the Creler-bit wounds she’d bandaged.
“Ksmvr said to do this. They’re not getting better.”
“Vofea! It’s Revi! Come quickly! Hurry!”
The Satyr turned and ran. She saw Seraphel trying to hold onto half of Revi’s…face. Vofea halted, afraid the Stitch-woman was dead, but Seraphel panted at her.
“Get some thread and cloth. Hurry! She’s cloth. We might—might—”
They had to stitch her face closed as best they could. And she wasn’t the only one. Ser Thilowen’s armor was dented inwards, and one of his ears had been torn off his…
Seraphel walked up and down the lines, ignoring those tending to themselves. Counting the ones who’d fallen without a word. She came to a halt just once.
Bent down.
“Vofea? Do you think I should have stayed home?”
She was too tired to cry. The Satyr came over. When she saw what Seraphel was gazing at, she just sighed and hugged Seraphel.
“I wanted t’ do something important.”
“So did I. So did everyone. Help me…please.”
They dragged a body up onto the wagons. Then found Admiral Dakelos sitting, a leg broken, blank-faced. Seraphel hated Ailendamus. She would have rather died than leave him behind.
Onwards they marched.
 
——
 
At some point, Seraphel realized she had killed more creatures with her bare hands than she could count. She did not know if she was ‘good’ at it, but she did it quickly, and when the next group arrived, she killed them fast.
They were standing targets; her killing was no [Warrior]’s techniques but akin to a [Butcher] culling a herd, gruesome as it was. She cut throats and let the blood rush out and her victims never reacted. Or she did worse. Acts of violence she would never countenance except in this moment.
This time, Seraphel went for the eyes of the giant salamanders spitting globules of poison at the Calanferians. She only backed off if she saw Menrise about to cast a spell or Cortese’s group deploying the ship parts.
Nor was she wildly swinging. Seraphel would not become a [Warrior] for her actions here, she knew. Her method of dispatching monsters was expedient. Energy-saving.
She just knelt down on the back of each salamander’s head and let gravity shove the dagger blade through their heads. One after another. She could kill a dozen or more with each ‘action’.
She hoped they’d stop to eat these ones. It had been a while since she’d had food, and the party needed it. But then again, they were poisonous. Or she assumed it was poison. She’d wash all the open wounds with the free water as soon as…
The danger that Seraphel was not used to in these situations, that Rabbiteater, Cortese, or any seasoned veteran would have been used to, was developing tunnel vision. So singleminded was Seraphel on her current foe that it was only when the second foe crawled over her that she realized another group had entered the fray.
Guess who?
“No, no! Not again!”
Crelers. They ignored Seraphel, of course, ripping into the salamanders, but she screamed and tossed them off her as Vofea yelled.
“Seraphel, it’s a big swarm! Get back! I’m using a scroll! [Flamestrike]!”
Without hesitation, the Satyr unleashed the scrolls they’d grabbed for this reason. Seraphel ran back, then fired off one of her scrolls too. Flames baked the salamanders and Crelers alike—before a [Grand Lightning] spell blasted through them.
It kicked Seraphel off her feet, and she landed, dazed, but already getting up. She had to stop them. How many were there? There must have been another nest. Crelers were known to repopulate with great speed, and this place was a perfect spot for them because of how hard it would be for any force to kill them. 
She ran at the Crelers, stabbing desperately. She had to kneel down to stab them with the daggers. She should have had longer weapons, but Seraphel flung herself on them, flipping the Crelers to gouge out their insides. Blood on her hands.
Eight—nine—as many as she could before they attacked! Hurry, hurry—they were eating the salamanders, thank goodness. So she had an entire turn to kill as many as possible. Hurry!
 
——
 
(For some reason, the Ravening Beast has taken 162 damage. For some reason, the Venomous Crawler has taken 144 damage.)
The Lonely Warrior tilts his head before charging into battle. He feels like enemies have been taking random damage more and more. He thinks of an [Innkeeper], then attacks. He deals 77 damage!
 
(The Ravening Beast is consuming as much of the Venomous Crawler as it can. It’s carrying its prey. The Ravening Beast is attempting to flee!)
 
“Seraphel, they’re leaving! Seraphel, wait, come back! You’re too far away! Seraphel—!”
(The Ravening Beast escapes!)
 
——
 
Only when Seraphel saw the orange swarm pulling back and heard Vofea’s voice did she realize she’d erred in her zealous assault. Namely, because there was now a gap between the party and the Crelers. And as the Crelers began to retreat, carrying chunks of the slain salamanders—the light of their malice, red and dark, began to recede. And the green glow of safety and Rabbiteater’s group, nearest to hers—
The darkness yawned between her and safety. At least a hundred feet or more. Seraphel froze, orange blood stinging as it dripped from her arms and cheeks.
She’d never been this far from the party. Even twenty feet from the glow felt like she had been moments away from being disassembled. Could she make the run? She hesitated, and Vofea shrieked.
“Seraphel! Run!”
The [Princess] began to, but then felt the void ripping her mind up. She screamed, reversed, and then she was running to the only place of safety.
Namely: the Creler swarm. Seraphel chased after them, taking refuge in their red thoughts as Vofea screamed.
“Seraphel! Solstice, someone! Save her! Seraphel! Serapheeeeeeel!”
“Vofea! Tell them—”
Seraphel didn’t know what to say. Nor did she have time. The last thing she heard was Vofea’s anguished voice. Then?
Then she was in the company of Crelers.
 
——
 
As deaths went, this…this was a bad one. The [Princess] ran, leaving a trail of glowing orange ichor of their blood as she followed the Crelers. They scurried down the tunnels, but slowly, dragging their food with them. Every moment she expected the swarm—and they had to be at least two hundred strong after the spells she and Vofea had unleashed on them—to turn on her.
But the ‘rules’ of this place saved her. These Baby Crelers were bound by the same laws as she. They didn’t notice a single presence among them, at least, not at first. For her part, Seraphel was terrified.
She was dead. Unless, somehow, these Crelers went to attack her friends again, she was now stuck in their company or any group they ran into—and Crelers didn’t leave many survivors. Worse, she couldn’t even kill them or she’d extinguish the one light saving her.
Dead, dead, dead, dead—she ran awkwardly, panting, glad that Rabbiteater had tried to train her to some physical level. A stitch was eating into her side, but she dared not slacken the pace. That was how her disaster started.
It got worse. She didn’t know how the Crelers thought, not at first. But like the glow of her own party, their emotions and memories—such as they were—formed a viscous red overhead. And the more time she spent in it, the more she thought…
She could understand them.
 
——
 
(You swarm back through the tunnels, back to the Primary Nest, as directed. Rage begets your every movement. But the foe is not to be engaged. Two nests now lie silent. The last shall not fall. All must die—but in time.)
(These thoughts are beyond you. You only understand hunger, death, the will to kill all in the name of She Who Slumbers. But something else occurs to you.)
 
Swarm (^ detects something is off. A…presence. It is unwelcome. Unwanted. But unlocatable. Wrong, wrong. Wrongwrongwrong. Kill it. Prey, but where?
It must devour, but it cannot find it. Hunger. Kill. Grow. Hunger, kill, grow. HUNGER. KILL. GROW—
Then she is part of it. Swarm (^ recoils. A mind has entered theirs, one that shines with thoughts. Colors never dreamed of, bubbling through their singular color like agony.
Wondrous. Hateful. They scream. They would tear her apart, but there is no ‘her’. Just it.
Swarm (^ tries to devour itself. It deals 11 damage to itself, but the colors remain.
It hears the will from the Primary Nest. It must return. It scuttles onwards. Now it screams. Its colors are strong, but in front of the myriad, they are a contrast, dimmed by comparison. Something is trying to subsume their will.
 
(The Weeping Creler is howling agony as it returns to the Primary Nest. It rages against itself, but it cannot win. Not children. It drops its meal and meets Swarm f++e, Swarm %e, Swarm 9fe*. They back away from The Weeping Creler. It must be destroyed.)
(The Awakened enters the Primary Nest. It removes the taint from The Weeping Creler. Swarm (^ is freed!)
 
The Awakened orders Swarm (^ to kill themselves. They have been tainted.
Swarm (^ hesitates. It wishes to live.
 
(Swarm f++e, Swarm %e, and Swarm 9fe* attack the traitorous swarm. They deal 255 damage. Swarm (^ is destroyed. 455 experience awarded to Princess Seraphel.)
 
——
 
The last of the Baby Crelers died in moments. It was beyond fast. Three swarms of Crelers rolled over them, and Seraphel—
Seraphel was backed against a wall by the ‘Awakened’, the gestalt that had noticed her trying to take over the swarm’s mind and had ripped her out of it. The good news?
It wasn’t an Elder Creler. Which was excellent, really. Elder Crelers were kingdom-level threats. One had once assailed Noelictus, and the [King], royal army, and entire Hunter’s Guild, including Piortesenzth at the time, had been forced to fight it off in a desperate last-stand for the capital.
Mind you, he’d claimed he’d fought worse. But if you knew who Piortesenzth was, that still painted a horrific picture.
No, the ‘Awakened’ was just an aspirational name compared to the Baby and Juvenile Crelers in the other swarms. It was an Adult Creler. Easy. Simple! Ksmvr’s team had killed one, and so Seraphel was sure that he and Vofea could do it again if they got the chance. Adult Crelers were killed all the time, as she understood it. For any one team, they might be a problem, but for an army, even Calanfer’s weary force, she was sure an Adult Creler was a piece of cake.
She really, really hoped that was the case because otherwise, four Adult Crelers would tear anything in this place to pieces. But, well…
This was it. She was backed into a wall, breathing painfully—something was pressing against her chest. Not a claw or anything she could see. Something was lifting her up and had slammed her into the stone.
A mind. Their minds. She could actually hear their thoughts. It came from that hateful brain lodged in their massive bodies. Each Adult Creler was larger than a peasant’s cottage by far, almost centipede-like but rearing upwards. So a centaur-centipede, perhaps, with a massive maw that could spit projectiles, huge spiked legs, and bellies now armored and no longer weak to gutting from below like Juvenile and Baby Crelers.
Oh, and they had minds. They thought. Unlike the mindless rage of Baby Crelers, these four had detected her and were analyzing her. It was a vast, dark pulsing trying to crack her head open and rip out her thoughts like this damn dungeon, but even more insidious.
What protected Seraphel were two things: her aura, which she was using to push at the horrid thoughts, and her circlet. She could feel it activating.
Anti-telepathy wasn’t one of the functions she was familiar with it having, but it was as close to a Relic as Calanfer had for the royal family. The combined might of four Adult Crelers was burning it and Seraphel to the limit, though.
At last, the force on her slackened, and the Adult Creler gestalt let her go, and their bellies dimmed. She landed, gasping, and heard it thinking.
 
(Individual mind. Like others. Kill/devour/grow. Two nests lost. Primary in danger. Swarms kill threats. Now is the time. Kill all.)
 
It was thinking outside of the pool of thoughts above her! It seemed to take effort, but she did not like independent thinkers on the enemy side.
With that said, the Adult Crelers didn’t appear to have attained Vofea and Seraphel’s freedoms. The darker purple malevolence of its thoughts retreated reluctantly to let the red hatred of each swarm activate. They were eating their kin and the food they’d brought.
When The Awakened got a chance to act, it did by blasting the swarms. Each of the four Adult Crelers opened their maws, and Seraphel flinched as stone chips exploded upwards, and Baby Crelers died screaming.
Even a Juvenile Creler was turned into a mess of orange-and-black chitin. The Adult Crelers launched a volley, then projected their thoughts.
 
(Contaminated minds! Purge contamination.)
 
They did not like what she’d done to the first swarm. Seraphel crept left as the Adult Crelers froze up, grudgingly, and the swarms milled about. They began to hesitantly attack themselves, but realized the first and only problem of Creler physiology.
How did one kill one’s own number without eating them? All of Creler’s biology was designed to rip and devour whatever they latched onto. Also, who knew who had eaten what? In gestalt-form, the swarms had no individuality. The culling was therefore…messy, hesitant. The swarms didn’t want to kill themselves, but The Awakened commanded it.
That gave Seraphel plenty of time to analyze just how dead she was, and she took that time to do so. For one thing, she had gotten a firsthand view of a Creler nest from the inside, something few people ever experienced for more than milliseconds…alive.
Some [Monster Observer] would kill for this view. Seraphel? She just gazed around the room of pulsing, sickening orange light and began running along the outskirts of it. Then she began running over the Creler eggs.
Crunch, crunch, crunch. Well, they also squished horribly. Little pre-larval Crelers writhed and died. They would have attacked her except that this maze just ripped out their minds. The eggs were covering the floor, the far wall, the ceiling…the sight of so many made Seraphel literally sick to her stomach, but she had to find a way to hide or—or—
