The sight of such a room, which might be shining with the colors of the monsters inside, would pulse ahead of the party, a sickening lighthouse, and Seraphel would grow to hate them. Not least because she felt like the emotions and light concentrated here. Pooled downwards like liquid, almost. Perhaps that was how the moss grew, for there was precious little moisture she could see, let alone light or food.
All of this was beyond intolerable, and Seraphel said as much in the first few moments of orienting herself to this new hell.
“This is madness, Vofea. Adventurer Vofea? Forgive me, but how did you not succumb to this?”
The Satyr just shrugged wearily.
“Just a trick of perspective. I keep myself to myself. This isn’t the first of such things I’ve seen. Not that most places in the Faerie King’s lands are like this, but a few, some. He permits no hostility, nothing that would violate hospitality, and most of his folk obey it. This violates any notion of hospitality, not that we had any expectation of it.”
Her answer confused Seraphel, who frowned.
“The Faerie King? Er, is that Chandrarian? Balerosian?”
Vofea glanced at Seraphel, then laughed.
“Ach. I forgot Ksmvr’s rule not to tell. Doesn’t matter. No, no. Just another realm. Another world entirely. Like yon Earther folk come from. But mine is different. Better and separate. Closed. So there won’t be help coming, even if I invoke his name.”
Seraphel’s mouth opened. Vofea invoked Earthers like Cara, but she claimed…! The [Princess] was about to babble questions, then just glanced around.
Bloody, blank-faced people marching past her. Cortese’s purple twisted with guilt. Blue tears wept from the eyes of ‘her’ group without end.
Not the moment. She breathed out.
“Can we wake them? The others?”
“If you can, be my guest. I cannae wake anyone. Not even the skeleton or ghost woman, Veine. All are trapped. I’ve slapped, shouted, done all I can think of. Nothing. The most I can do is protect Ksmvr here.”
The Satyr pointed, and Seraphel turned. What she’d assumed to be another piece of luggage on the wagon was, in fact, a hog-tied Antinium. He was radiating a faint grey, and she suspected that if he were freed, he’d be with Ser Thilowen.
“We should do that for everyone. At least Cortese, Menrise, and Rabbiteater—”
But then who would lead each group? Vofea read Seraphel’s mind and shook her head.
“Your lot stops when I take you away. I’ve healed everyone I thought was important and tried to keep them safe. But I’m almost out of your mystic healing potions.”
“We never had that many. Is—is that the entire stock?”
Vofea indicated three mostly-empty bottles on her belt and gave Seraphel a smile of pure despair.
“It is. I wasted much of it ‘till I realized it and the people it given to must be rationed. Bloodyhanded work. I knew it would be hard, this. But I thought it was only dying, not choosing who must die.”
The [Princess] put her head in her hands. Then she gazed at Rabbiteater.
“Surely we can rouse them if I can be freed. We must try. Come on—”
She rose. Vofea did not. Just wearily watched as Seraphel ran to the head of the lines and began to talk to Rabbiteater. Cajole him. Shook his shoulders, tried to break his stride. Poked him with her [Ghostly Hand], then struck his shoulders. Shoved and shouted at him.
Nothing. After a while, the Satyr called out.
“Something must have led you free. What was it?”
Seraphel, panting, returned to the wagon and sat there.
“I felt so helpless. I couldn’t do anything, and I wept and wept.”
“Yep. Fat lot of good it did until you started fighting. Even then, you fought like a drunken pixie.”
Seraphel flushed, remembering how she’d flailed at the foe.
“I recall. I remember thinking it was wrong. That I had done so poorly before. I—I never wanted to be so helpless again.”
Do something, idiot! Anything! Rabbiteater’s words rang in her head, and Vofea eyed her.
“True. ‘Tisn’t like the others fight proper either. It’s more like how they think you should fight and such. For instance, Ser Solstice? He charges in and slashes things, but I’ve not seen him kick anyone in the nutsack once. Only when he uses a Skill—then he looks like he did on the ship.”
It explained why The Weeping Princess was still acting like her. Seraphel rubbed at her face. The memories of her grief, of her failed marriages and despair, hung above her, the core of the blue river. It was embarrassing, familiar…and she refused to wallow in it.
“Never again I swore. Well, if that has freed me, then surely…why is Lord Cortese ‘The Guilty Man’?”
She pointed at him, and Vofea squinted.
“Is that what you call him in whatever you’re doing? Weird name.”
“Yes! He keeps wavering because of a sword? A raised sword?”
Bits and pieces of each person’s memories were jumbled up in Seraphel’s head. Only the strongest of each memory, but it left her rattled. Confused.
The Guilty Man—Lord Cortese’s group—wasn’t her own, so ‘his’ guilt was harder to remember. Seraphel could most strongly remember the poor [Peasant] or the grief of the others—though it all felt like her memories. As if she had once been forced to kill her husband.
If only. As if she…had once followed that white flag. She gazed at Rabbiteater, then Cortese, and focused on what she could recall of him.
Guilt. A sword raised towards someone’s back. Names and identity vanished in that haze where you lost even your name, but she, as Princess Seraphel, could extrapolate.
Had Lord Cortese been thinking of running Rabbiteater through during the Battle at Sea? Was his guilt over that? Or not doing it?
She shuddered, imagining Cortese prepared to kill Rabbiteater like Prince Iradoren. For what?
Well, hence the guilt. As for Lady Menrise…Seraphel gazed at the helmeted woman, marching along.
“I knew Menrise did not bear the cost of losing her people lightly. But that much anger…”
“Oh, aye. Threw herself at the monsters, she did. For all the good she does grappling. I fear more her magic. She’ll kill everyone in her company, doing that much.”
Vofea spat over the side of the wagon. Seraphel nodded.
Another complication. What could they do? Well, according to Vofea, they were able to act without waiting for one ‘feeling’ to assert dominance. Which let them run up to help heal people, get them out of the way, or stab the enemy to death.
“Not that it’s easy. The first things you ran into were taller’n bugbears. So thick I could’ve stabbed them all day and not gone through. Between two of us, we might do enough, but it’s not like two hundred Rabbiteaters using [Grand Slash].”
Seraphel remembered that. She nodded tightly, hands balled up in her dress.
“But we must do something! We surely must!”
Vofea eyed her sidelong.
“You’re the one with Skills and levels aplenty. I? I’ll take some if it’d help, but I’ll need many of ‘em to do any good, or so it seems. Thirty…mayhap the Folly of Isthekenous will grant them to me once I sleep. I’d take them now.”
She pulled some Creler blood off her fur, and Seraphel’s brows wrinkled up.
“You haven’t gotten a class yet? From all you’ve done? I swore I heard Adventurer Ksmvr telling you to gain one.”
“Oh, aye, I’d take it too.”
“Then…why haven’t you? Unless, somehow, none of this counts as levels?”
The Satyr shook her head. She tapped the side of it.
“Nah. I haven’t slept since we entered. I reckon that’s a lot longer than you’re supposed to go without sleep. Not sure how long it’s been, either. I stopped counting after twelve meals.”
“What?”
“Can’t. Or d’you feel tired?”
Seraphel’s entire body hurt. She had blisters which had popped and turned to raw skin; she was bleeding from her feet, and only the desperate situation kept her from collapsing. But her mind was sharp and active, and she said so. Vofea gave her a crazed grin.
“Strange to hear from a woman who’s walked and fought just as long without nary a wink.”
No one had slept. Seraphel’s eyes darted to the amalgamation of emotions, and she swallowed hard. Vofea nodded.
“I reckon that’s a waking dream or close enough. Yon Lizardfolk with the weird heads told us—well, me—that so long as we’re together, we’ll not die for anything but lack of rest, and this group does rest its body if nothing else. I’d use the time to scout ahead, but they warned me I’d be swallowed up alone. Even they have to go at least sixteen-strong.”
“The who?”
“The group we met.”
“Oh—The Mysterious Stranger? They were just one person to us.”
Vofea frowned as she gulped some water and shared it with Seraphel.
“What kind of names and things didja see?”
“It was very confusing. Sort of like a game of chess? Only, we were the pieces…the Lizardfolk were one person who kept hiding their face. And—and I think I remember you.”
“Ooh, what was I?”
“A fly.”
“What?”
“Well, Ser Thilowen was just a toy soldier…it must be because his group was so small. I had to ask him to fight.”
Vofea gnawed on this.
“Makes sense. The Lizardfolk were like me, free of this place. Though the Creler-things bit them up anyways. Later, when we went to the camp, they talked with me. D’you remember what they said?”
Now it was clear. Seraphel pressed her hands to her face, smearing blood onto her cheeks. She gagged and almost called for Mariel or Beacle, but…they were part of the others. Purple and orange, respectively.
“Jungle Tails. Oh no. On top of the Iron Vanguard? No wonder they laughed at Cortese. Were they truly about to ambush us?”
Vofea nodded and described the place that Seraphel had ‘seen’ in more detail. It had been a camp in one of the open, organ-like sections of the tunnels. A natural safe-zone? Or perhaps not.
“Their heads glowed. And were slightly too big-like. A few of ‘em were Nagas—at least, that’s what they called themselves. They seemed as though they’d be like wild fae in other times.”
“Meaning…?”
“Meaning they’d kill us if it suited them. But I made ‘em a touch interested, and Ser Solstice, wary. So they let us be. They said that this place rips you apart alone. Safety in numbers. Even we can’t venture far beyond this group or we’ll be lost.”
Seraphel shivered.
“What is the point of all this? This is the work of Selphids, surely. The Minds. It has to be. I have heard of the Minacien Wall. This breaches it utterly.”
Altering the mind on such a scale? Every kingdom of Terandria would have this place razed. Though it was practically abandoned to monsters and this tiny tribe, anyways. Vofea smiled.
“They said it used to be a Selphid place. But most of it’s wrecked. As to purpose…there’s something in some of the big rooms we come to. It collects. All the colors drip down into liquids. The Lizardfolk were harvesting some. My guess is it gives them the glowing heads. Looked tasty. Like blue fruit juice.”
Vofea licked her lips, then began spitting Creler blood out. Seraphel did likewise, reflexively, and gagged. She reached for her side and found something hanging there.
A…jar.
“Oh. What’s this?”
It was a lovely jar with glass on the upper portion and delicate blue metal on the bottom, worked with visibly glowing signs. A big metal cap was holding it in place.
Vofea peered at it.
“Ah, that. Now and then your lot picks things up. That came from the Creler nest. You found it amongst all the bones. Then you kept sipping from it. I tasted a bit just to make sure it weren’t more poison, but I dunno what it is.”
The Bottle of Water. Right. Seraphel gingerly unscrewed the flask and sniffed at the liquid within.
It was definitely not water. It had the faintest of odors like the metal had rubbed off into the liquid, but more than that, it had a faint tingle even when she poured it over her hands. It was clear, though, and Seraphel frowned.
“I took drinks of it. How much…?”
“It refills. Not sure how many of you drank it, but you didn’t shit yourselves on the march, so there’s that.”
That explains the smell. Because she was too tired to find water, Seraphel washed her hands and face with it, at least. If she’d drunk it, she doubted it could do worse.
Seraphel offered some to Vofea, and the exhausted Satyr let the [Princess] tend to her legs and fur. She winced a bit, but she just curled up. Seraphel realized, seeing how thin Vofea appeared, that the Satyr might have been working nonstop to keep them alive.
Trembling, Seraphel whispered.
“I’m so sorry. Thank you, Adventurer Vofea. I swear, by the Eternal Throne, I’ll make it up to you. Now, I’ll help too.”
One eye opened, and a goat’s pupil regarded Seraphel as Vofea smiled.
“At least I’m not alone. That’s something.”
Then she passed out without really sleeping, and Seraphel saw her mind joining the sea above for a few moments. She cleaned Vofea’s fur and skin as best she could. Then regretted using the ‘free’ Bottle of Water.
…It left a residue. Her quiet cursing made Vofea smile. The Satyr yanked herself ‘awake’ and swung her legs down to admire them.
“Eh, tisn’t the worst thing to happen, Princess.”
“I know that, but it’s damned uncomfortable!”
Seraphel scrubbed at the weird, filmy layer on her skin. Vofea eyed her.
“So it’s not the smell or your clothes?”
“No. Why would it be…”
Seraphel stared at her clothing, which was filthy, but she fit in with everyone else. Then she sniffed. Her eyes narrowed, and Vofea added unhelpfully with a touch of her mischievous side.
“Well, you lot did march and fight nonstop all this time. And yeh all eat. Not a single break between you. Mostly, it comes out, and it’s not like there’s flies, but—”
The shriek was of Princess Seraphel scrambling to find clothing, any clothing whatsoever. And clean wash water was the least of her concerns. Vofea shrugged.
“Don’t worry! My nose stopped working ages ago!”
 
——
 
There were some mercies. The ‘party’ did stop for breaks to rest their body, wherein they said and did very little. Occasionally, one group would do something, like Rabbiteater’s group finding stones to hand to Menrise’s. Prepping for the next fight in their own way.
There was some intelligence here, but it was like the actions of snails compared to Vofea and Seraphel, who took every moment they had. Mostly to talk and think; their bodies were just as worn out as everyone else’s.
“However, we hopefully won’t die of overwork or starvation. At least we do eat, even if our clothing is horrendous.”
Seraphel eyed the bloody hands shoveling food into mouths or drinking water with great worry, but Vofea had a more pragmatic approach.
