Nineteen days. Projections indicated that even with a full cargo of supplies for the New Lands, the Calanferians would not have enough for more than a month of provisions. And it was unlikely they’d carried that amount with them off their ship, even with Chests of Holding. For now, the Iron Vanguard waited to see what this element of Jungle Tails would do. They were not in open conflict with Jungle Tails…yet.
In truth, the only distressing part of this campaign was that the Titan of Baleros had intercepted and decoded transmissions about the Calanferian detachment and had placed a bid on Steel Commander Bizine’s legions to destroy the Jungle Tails forces. Aside from that predictable, yet unacceptable, breach of security, all had been acted on according to protocol.
 
——
 
Thus, two levels higher and many, many mosquito bites shorter of blood, Steel Commander Bizine signed her report of the campaign on the twentieth morning over breakfast in the warship. She glanced over the report, and her quill wavered as it came time to append any additional notes.
The Dullahan woman was uncertain and fiddled with her helmet for a while. In the end, she elected not to mention the strange…feelings from below. She had plenty of reports from other officers of Dullahans hearing voices that weren’t there. Emotional outbursts. Disquiet in the ranks.
Her superiors were well aware of the Mindscape Ruins’ phenomena. Bizine elected not to add anything that would impugn her record or status, especially since it wasn’t new information.
She just wondered—
What was going on down there?
 
——
 
Her name had been Gilthisa. Was Gilthisa. Is Gilthisa. Which was it? No one knew.
She…had…was…is…
A [Diligent Peasant], Level 21. Chosen for the New Lands expedition for her level and knowledge of agriculture, construction, and foraging. As well as her health, marital status, and so on.
She hadn’t known what ‘agriculture’ meant when the [Recruiter] was writing down names, and the embarrassment stayed with her. She had walked for fourteen miles at the break of dawn to reach the city to volunteer. The memory of townspeople laughing at her was still with her to this day.
Fresh, hot embarrassment. Feeling ignorant, foolish. The exasperated expression on the polished [Recruiter]’s face as he explained it meant farming.
It lingered, that emotion. Resurfacing when she was least expecting it or when her shames surged up, like bubbles of agony or embarrassment bursting in her head.
But that did not define her. It was not the only memory she had, just one of the freshest. The other one, that shone brighter still, was the elation of being chosen. Disbelief of the other villagers, the vindication and triumph of them coming to her after being shunned. Seeing the [King] himself in the Eternal Throne itself.
The awe of it. Trembling at the knees, breathless, glory and hope filling her body as she knew she was chosen to bring Eternal Calanfer’s light to the New Lands. 
Terror she would fail. 
Joy she was chosen.
Then the battle at sea, and more terror, trapped within a sweltering mass of bodies, hearing screams from above. Being handed weapons by frantic [Soldiers] and told they would fight if needed—
That memory was shared. Like a scar made of blood driven through the head. Blood on the decks, [Pirates] grinning as they swung aboard. Dead bodies falling into the water.
Terror and rage and fear and desperation and—
It was a maelstrom, a storm that followed. Gilthisa had not been there on the decks, reaching for her friend as he slipped into the waves. Nor tried to leap into the waters after the other [Knight] only to be thrown to the deck and ordered to fight—fight because they were almost overrun.
But she had. She was Ser Collins, a [Knight] and Thronebearer of the Illuminance-rank, serving under…
No.
Who was she? There was no Gilthisa. Just the memories of a woman named Gilthisa.
One of many. Many that were one. It…wasn’t dark anymore.
There was light. Flickering off the walls, a glow of it that came from the travellers, a sea of lights merging, wending together. Bright streams joining, overtaking the smaller strands.
If there was a Gilthisa, it wasn’t because of her class. Or name. Or rank.
It was because she, her memories, were brighter. A few of them. Her awe was not unique, though it was strong. Her shame? Stronger. A bright flash of memory unfaded. But what drowned it out was…
A grinning face staring up at her. The glint of a tooth under moonlight. Panting, shaking, hands trembling as they let go of the knife’s blade. A gurgle of bowels voiding, and the stench. Then the scream—
Which was it? Guilt? Horror? Sadness? Terror? Rage?
A mix of them. The memory refused to die. It was…not larger or longer, but deeper than the others. More vibrant. Overwhelming other memories of tying shoes or other things. It was defined. A sinking mass of feeling that collected other such emotions around it. So what was strongest, even in the ocean, was that memory.
Husband-killer. [Murderer]. A class written in blood, until it had been deemed self-defense by the Thronebearer and [Bailiff]. But the shame persisted, the way they looked at her. The memory.
She had told no one. None of the [Recruiters] had known or brought it up. But that memory was now…it defined everything. Drew other memories to it.
A mugging in an alleyway. Begging for mercy and calling for a Thronebearer who never came. The agony of having fingers broken.
Another man, [Carpenter] Kilne, whose left hand still didn’t move properly to this day. Only his level, 32, had made him eligible for this trip, and the fact that he had been willing to risk his life. What good was a [Carpenter] with one hand to compete at making beautiful furniture? But perhaps…
Defeat in battle. Watching more and more of the friends she’d grown up with cut down by a hail of Ailendamus’ crossbow bolts as they fled. Golden armor broken and stained red as she ran backwards, heart thundering in her chest—
Dame Neranthei, in service now to Princess Seraphel. Only…
Who was Princess Seraphel? Who was Neranthei?
The names were ceasing to matter. Only the memories. And with the memories came names, but only a few echoed across all of them. Seraphel…yes…
Seraphel did echo. So did ‘Ser Solstice’ and ‘Thilowen’ and ‘Ksmvr of Chandrar’. But only them. Who they were was still a mystery. If they were an idea, down here, it was so many things.
Ser Solstice, a great and glorious hero. A [Knight] of mystery. A warrior without peer.
A mask. But this voice was so tiny it could barely be heard. One amongst thousands.
Princess Seraphel. A beautiful [Princess] of Calanfer. A cursed woman. A pitiable figure. Someone who loved wretched undead?
So terribly alone.
It didn’t matter. Deeper and deeper they were going, and now…
Now, there wasn’t any Gilthisa left. Just the memories. And what emerged from each were the pools as the ocean dripped downwards. Tributaries of color running together and forming…well.
Emotions.
 
——
 
Anger baked the skin. It simmered, building and heating more of itself into embers that blaze into true, roaring flames of rage. It was common, from each and every one of those-that-had-been.
But it was not equal. It had many flavors, each one bitter. It was almost always tainted.
The helplessness of a child railing against bullies. The frustration of losing a game of cards. Or staring at a superior shouting down at you. These were common, and thus, present and plentiful, filling space, but they were just…basic.
It was the deeper emotions that drew the others to them and formed the basis of everything. The true and abiding rage of someone who had lost everything. A parent losing a child. A lover killed in battle.
All of your friends. Helplessly watching them vanish as ships died at sea—
That was fresh. That battle at sea was the still-burning spark that threatened to make this feeling ignite into true fury. The death, the blood, the—
 
——
 
Guilt. A sea of it. That was another pool, and it was swirling around those who held it in their chests. Guilt and rage, so close in many ways, but this was the weight, like leaden chains, as opposed to the flaring sparks. It, too, was common, but some held it deeper.
Pride and guilt were the two faces of the coin that flipped endlessly, and in this moment, in this place, every coin had landed with guilt’s face showing. 
For the battle at sea. 
For the fallen Earl Altestiel.
For all those who had died, and if it could have been stopped…if he had only made the right choice. Was this the right choice? But guilt awaited in every decision.
A drawn sword, and a bared back. Hesitation. Lowering the blade—and all that remained was—
 
——
 
Sorrow. Now this, this was just a river of tears. Purer than guilt, which was a twisting spiral dragging you down. It was the water that flowed from the rock, but, crucially, it would never heal the rock it wore down.
It was neverending, because it was always behind. An open wound bleeding forth. And there were those who defined the other emotions.
A steel will, enforced by one man whose name still echoed—Thilowen. Protect the [Princess]. Keep the secret. Protect the—
Guilt, what if he had done the wrong thing? That raised sword—
The ship vanishing. The anger that vision produced. Again and again—
But they were an amalgamation of other points of view. Drawing together, seeking outlets in the only way they could be expressed, by the best vessels. However, sorrow?
Hers were not the greatest of all. It shouldn’t be compared. But hers was so long. It had so few breaks. A ribbon woven behind a smiling mask and that bleeding heart from the day she turned sixteen. 
Seraphel. And the husbands whom she had never loved, the cage which snapped shut again and again and ever again, even when death should have set her free. 
Despair, deeper still. A beautifully deep color at the heart of it all. Despair, for she had no hope nor glory in the Eternal Throne. Just a soft bed of despair to lie against until…
Until there was hope. A ray of it piercing down in the gloomy lands of Noelictus, and terror, and the feeling of waking up and being alive until despair gripped it again and—
That was what drew colors to her. The flashes of bright hope against despair only enhanced the color. The horror she told no one, of her wedding nights. The days that seemed to have no end—
That drew them around her. Gentle, melting butterflies made of tears joining the [Princess] who sat at the bottom of the sea, head craned upwards. Staring up at those little stars of hope she could see.
But not here. Here…the seas closed, and she sank deeper and deeper.
 
——
 
And there they were. Suddenly, there were numbers again. No names, but individual perspectives had emerged out of…everything.
Guilt.
Anger.
Sadness.
Will—but this was a tiny amount, for it defined so few—
Columns of colors winding through the tunnels. Moving as one. Each one fit, but there was one—one more.
It was a hard emotion to name, for it contained so many things that fit other perspectives.
He had lost his family. More than once. He hadn’t…even had a chance to bury them. It wasn’t fair. It was never fair. Why him? Why was he so weak? If only he’d been stronger, if only he hadn’t been a fool, she’d never have tried to die for him. She was melting. Even now, he couldn’t do anything more than hold her in his arms. So easy to give up, to say enough and lie down. But he refused to die. Refused to let his brothers’ sacrifice be in vain. A flower. Remember the—
The single perspective shivered as the sea of colors ran around it, and it should have been erased, picked apart and joined the myriad divisions. But there were rules even here. The heart that beat each conflicted emotion was overwhelming. The emotions were too loud and refused to part.
No knife could separate them, however subtle. And—it was more than that.
He’d been here before. It was in the [Innkeeper]’s guilty smile. A thousand and one peaceful days won at the cost of his brothers’ lives. A flower. The hand of friendship from a [Knight] he never thought he’d be offered.
A waving white flag. It was desperation, determination, grief, and anger, a hand clinging to another, a knee refusing to bend. So perhaps—you would call it courage. Wonder? Triumph and glory, a determination to seize it again.
A fifth pool of color broke from the others and drew more towards it, that alluring glow. Until five colors wound into the heart of the strange tunnels.
Even the watchers were impressed. For they were used to many such colors, but they had never seen this one in such number with their own eyes. Perhaps…perhaps these weren’t the same prey as most. It would be so easy…but there was a single voice that called out, which refused to join the colors. Few had ever done that. And that strange color—yes, better to wait and see.
 
——
 
The Synectic Maze: Fervored Strataveins (Level ???)
 
(Something is wrong. You know it. You…have to leave. You’re not sure who ‘you’ are. But you have to leave. The tunnels are vast. They echo with laughter. Something is coming. You have to fight. Fight…but who is there to fight?)
(There’s no one here. But surely…you can hear it. It’s shuffling closer. Tall. So tall it nearly touches the smooth stone of the circular tunnel mouth. The moss is blooming all colors around you. It reeks of malice. Its skin is sloughing off. It’s too tall. It has five mouths. Kill it.)
(Do you even have hands?)
(The snuffling grows louder. The shambling thing—it wants to kill you. Do something! You have to do something! The colors are rushing. They’re…gathering.)
 
Combat Start: Tears splash to the ground. The Weeping Princess appears.
The Weeping Princess weeps for the childhood she left behind.
 
(The Shambling Thing draws closer.)
 
The chains of guilt rattle. The Guilty Man stumbles into being.
The Guilty Man orders someone to attack. He casts around.
 
(No one can attack.)
(The Shambling Thing draws closer. It’s almost upon you.)
 
A wordless howl from the darkness. The Angry Woman leaps forwards.
The Angry Woman attacks the Shambling Thing! She delivers 2 damage.
 
(The Shambling Thing swings an arm. Its blows tear at the air. They could break a neck. They deal 34 damage to The Weeping Princess.)
 
The Weeping Princess sheds more tears. She looks for a [Singer].
 
(No one is singing.)
 
You can hear a heart beating steadily. The Lonely Warrior has to act.
The Lonely Warrior strikes The Shambling Thing with all his might! He delivers 59 damage!
 
(The Shambling Thing is hurt. Its blood is purple. It splashes to the ground, but it refuses to retreat. Can it even feel pain…? It tries to drag The Guilty Man away.)
 
