“We’re turning around. We have more than enough to satisfy the [General].”
And it gets us out of this damn hellhole. Let the other teams find the Calanferians. We could just wait for them to pop out if they even survive this place. He was excited and let the Lizardfolk [Hunter] cling to his saddle. Only when they were moving back did he hiss at her.
“Shut up. What is it?”
Lizardfolk pestered Nagas. Nagas bossed Lizardfolk. Eventually, the right Lizardfolk became Nagas. Hexore remembered being a bumbling Lizardman in his youth, and he tried to be the model that he was supposed to be, but dead gods they could get annoying.
Still, the [Huntress] was a crack shot, and she’d done six expeditions into this place before. She was a native, one of the real jungletails, not just the name of their company. She was staring at Seraphel hard as the others asked her about how many Calanferians were left and where she’d been.
“Sir, there’s no way that woman survived the Mindscape Ruins by herself even a day like that!”
“I agree. She must have wandered over here and gotten lucky. Another hour and she’d probably have tripped and broken her own neck.”
Hexore grinned, but the [Huntress] insisted.
“No, Naga! I mean—she can’t be that incompetent. This is deep in the ruins. We only came this far to scout for the Crelers. And remember those magical scout-birds? I think she’s cleverer than she appears.”
That made Hexore give Seraphel a second appraisal. She was riding poorly, scarfing down food one of the others had given her, and he couldn’t believe she’d survive in this place, it was true. He hesitated, then narrowed his eyes.
“Princess! Do you happen to have any idea of our local whereabouts? How did you get this deep? Unless your Calanferian group is nearby—and we’ve found no trace of that—you’ve gone far too far.”
The [Princess] blinked at him.
“Oh, that? Well, I was searching for my people! As I said, I woke up one day and they’d run off! So I chose the nearest tunnel, and, well, I have an artifact. I kept following it, but I never found my people!”
How likely is that? Hexore eyed the [Huntress], and she bit her lip.
“Even if she was ignored by other groups…”
“But it’s plausible?”
A doubtful expression. Hexore scratched at his chin-sacs which produced a bit of venom. He spoke casually.
“You wouldn’t have happened to see any Crelers, [Princess]? My team is searching for a nest. We were told two were destroyed.”
One by Calanferians. But the [Princess] answered readily enough.
“Those dreadful things? Yes, the army fought them! Horrific!”
She shuddered, then pointed vaguely.
“But they ignored me, no doubt because of my royal heritage! I am descended from Marquin the Radiant, you know. They must have feared my bloodline. And then I ran into the largest one I’d ever seen back there! There’s an entire nest of them. Eggs, wall-to-wall. Dreadful! I wouldn’t have dreamed of eating one, even starving though I was!”
Hexore nearly whirled his horse around.
“There’s a Creler nest back there and you didn’t say? An Adult Creler?”
“My good man, my good man, do not raise your voice at me! I am a [Princess]! And no, it was no Adult Creler. It was bigger. I saw the Adult Crelers shamble off while I bravely hid. This one was nearly twice their size in some dreadful cocoon. I say, why are you all so pale?”
Elder Creler. Hexore’s blood ran cold. Well, colder. He twisted around and peered at the [Huntress], and her eyes were wide with fear.
We nearly walked into it. An entire nest of the things? We need to bring down every Naga above Level 40, regardless of the cost. If that thing wakes…
They might need to call a truce with the Iron Vanguard even. Some things went beyond mere war. Hexore’s mind raced, but now disbelief was fighting a two-pronged battle.
Either this [Princess] was dumb as a gemstone, which he’d believe, or this was an act, which…was actually less believable. The [Huntress] was whispering.
“Sir, how’d she survive meeting an Elder Creler?”
“Well, same rules apply to it as everything else. Shut up—Princess Seraphel, may I say you’re the most lucky Human I’ve ever met?”
I hope we ransom you for a fortune. The woman beamed at the Oricaz Naga.
“You may, Lord Hexore. And may I say that you are the most extraordinarily unique Naga I have ever met? I had no notion your species existed! And if you’re brave enough to be hunting Crelers in this death-zone? You must be…closer to your second evolution than any other Naga on Baleros!”
Hexore sat up in his saddle as every eye, Lizardfolk and Naga, turned to him, and he felt the jealousy of his peers, the envy of his lessers. That was a good compliment.
“I’m surprised you know about second evolutions, Princess. But if I could attain that…Oricaz usually are mistaken for Lizardfolk, you know.”
“Lord Hexore, how could one miss your raiment of scales? From your neck ruff to your rather magnificent physique—believe me, a [Princess] notices these things.”
He kept preening as he chuckled. The [Huntress] was eying Seraphel, but Hexore relaxed. This woman was utterly guileless, though she was good with her compliments. [A Free Compliment], even. She was no warrior or mage. She just had a few artifacts and a lot of royal luck. He told the [Huntress] to get off his saddle and pester one of her friends when they stopped. How much trouble could the [Princess] be, anyways?
 
——
 
Seraphel du Marquin was glad to know that egos were egos wherever you went. In fact, Nagas seemed rather susceptible to having theirs stroked.
They were definitely an upper class to Lizardfolk, so comparing them to nobles was a fair assessment. She observed how they bossed around the Lizardfolk, who were happy to be bossed by and large. But mostly—she was delighted to have a horse.
No more walking! The instant she’d concluded this group was likely after her, she’d decided to turn herself in. A horse would allow her to catch her friends more easily. Moreover, this group had food, maps, and a way to beat this damn mental trap!
But what were they doing to beat it? Wearing something? She saw a few magical items on the Nagas, but nothing the Lizardfolk carried matched. Some charm on their armor or whatnot? Seraphel peeked at them as she ate more food during a rest stop. They were heading out of the tunnels, towards the nearest exit, at great speed. According to Hexore, Jungle Tails had arrived to ‘arrest’ the Calanferians, and they were fighting the Iron Vanguard.
She didn’t believe that for a second. She suspected they wanted to kill anyone that wasn’t worth ransoming and use her as a political hostage. Especially since Niers Astoragon and the Forgotten Wing company were helping her group…she’d be a tool in the Jungle Tails’ war with him.
She had to get away, steal their wardstones, get to her group, and get them out of the ‘Mindscape Ruins’. A difficult task, but Seraphel du Marquin had to try. She’d already survived an Elder Creler! Now, what were they carrying?
“Looking for our wards?”
Seraphel jumped and realized someone was watching her. A Lizardwoman [Huntress], scales mottled like a swamp, not one color but shifting, barely four foot two, armed with a shortbow and spear. She was tiny! But she appeared tough, and she’d led this group down the tunnels.
And—she wasn’t nearly as relaxed as the rest of the others. Seraphel put on her best [False Smile].
“Merely wondering how one survives this dreadful place! Without even cooling spells!”
The Lizardwoman smiled. Then she flicked something up in one claw and showed it to Seraphel. It was a vial.
An empty vial. Seraphel’s heart sank.
“Not something you can steal, Princess. You might have the Lindclaw Leader fooled, but I’ve less trust you’re a fool.”
She leaned forwards, fixing Seraphel with a pointed stare. Rather than give the game away, Seraphel wrinkled her nose up.
“Lord Hexore! Lord Hexore! The hired help is harassing me! I do object!”
“Hunter!”
The Oricaz Naga bellowed, and the [Huntress] lost her confident smile. Seraphel held back a triumphant grin, which was just as well—the [Huntress] grabbed her arm, yanked Seraphel down, and then—tied her hands up!
“What? Unhand me, you brute! Lord Hexore!”
He strode over, then glared at the [Huntress] as she stepped back.
“Just a precaution, Lindclaw Leader. It’s not even chains, see? Just a [Tricksome Knot].”
Seraphel saw her hands were neatly webbed together with a very complicated knot sealing the deal. It was a tough twine too; she couldn’t wriggle her hands or get them free. Hexore whirled on the [Huntress].
“She’s a [Princess], you idiot! She doesn’t need to be shackled!”
Especially because she’s so useless! Unfortunately, the [Huntress] held her ground.
“Honored Naga, she might have more artifacts on her. Or her circlet might send [Messages]. We’ve no time to search her, and I suppose that’s improper. At least let us tie her up.”
“This is outrageous! How dare you accuse me of having utility!”
Seraphel spluttered, but the argument was a bit too reasonable. Hexore glanced at her, then rolled his eyes.
“She’ll fall off the horse without two hands to hold the reins!”
“Then I’ll ride for her.”
The [Huntress] smirked as Seraphel felt the trap she’d walked into close a bit more firmly around her. The Lizardwoman winked as Hexore shrugged—then his tail slapped her hard.
“Your reasoning is good, but you’re no Naga, [Hunter]. Remember that.”
She bowed her head to him as she lay on the ground, and he strode off. Seraphel blinked at the [Huntress], then whispered.
“Not very kind for a man you’re helping, is he? What’s your name?”
“Aiche. And if you think to win me over, Princess, you won’t. I’m no Naga, and prophecies written, I hope I won’t be. Big decisions are beyond me. But a simple [Princess]?”
Aiche hopped up and pulled Seraphel’s arm up with a grin.
“I can handle one of those.”
Seraphel resisted the urge to spit on her. That would be too much in character. With a sigh…she resigned herself to a longer wait.
 
——
 
Her time in the company of Jungle Tails saw Seraphel fed and no longer in dire straits, at least. They even gave her a bit of healing potion for her feet and wounds, which stopped her broken tooth from killing her.
That was the upside. The downside was that Aiche really was glued to her. Seraphel couldn’t even pee without the Lizardwoman walking her to and from the ‘toilet area’.
Well, at least they were leaving. Seraphel listened as Hexore had the Lamia [Magus] give him what updates she could, but they were so deep that [Message] spells didn’t work, apparently.
“I can’t send so much as a scrap out, Lindclaw Leader. I swear I felt something powerful blast past me…”
“Our magic? Calanfer’s?”
They turned to her, but Seraphel genuinely had no idea. She didn’t have to play up her role as much; she could well pretend to be exhausted and sorely in need of comforts. However, after six hours of riding in the eerie blackness of this place, she came to an unexpected sight.
The only other force of Lizardfolk in this entire ruins were the true natives, the Lizardfolk that Seraphel’s party had met. At the time, she’d been too out-of-her-mind to appreciate them, but when they came to the camp that Vofea had described, she gasped.
“Their heads!”
Aiche nodded as she slowed her mount. A second band of Lizardfolk was here, armored, wearing metal, but the natives were armed only with leather and clearly-foraged weapons.
But their heads were bigger than average…and glowed. Seraphel thought she saw their very brains thinking, pulsing whenever they seemed to exert their minds, and she was reminded of the Crelers with a shudder.
However, she didn’t have time to have misgivings about this local Lizardfolk force—they hadn’t attacked her people and had helped Calanfer against the Crelers, even if their niceness was only due to their wariness of Rabbiteater and Vofea. At this very moment, it seemed the tables were turning.
A dead Naga was lying in the center of this Lizardfolk camp. A single Naga, a Lamia, with a spear rammed through his chest. He was clearly of this Mind-Lizardfolk tribe, and just as clearly, the Jungle Tails commander had killed him.
“The Mindscape Ruins are now, once again, under Jungle Tail command! Every [Warrior] and [Mage] class among you will report—a portion of you are now enlisted in the war. A Naga will be dispatched to oversee you in time. For the moment, you are under the Dragonfire General’s command!”
A Gorgon was barking at the Lizardfolk, who stood, staring at their fallen Naga in horror. One of the Lizardfolk with a mind that glowed cherry-red leaned on a stone spear. He had a sling in his other hand, but there were over sixty of Jungle Tails’ warriors here, armored in enchanted steel.
He glanced at Seraphel and blinked as she dismounted from her horse. But the Lizardman just peered at the Gorgon.
“What war?”
“What war, Naga?”
One of the Jungle Tails [Soldiers] nudged him hard. The Lizardman scratched at his head, and the Gorgon barked back.
“Against the Forgotten Wing company! Jungle Tails is reclaiming its position as a Great Company of Baleros! The Eyes of Baleros are being found once more! Both are now on Baleros’ soil and within our grasp!”
“Oh, again…why’d we lose our rank? Does it matter?”
The Gorgon gazed at the Lizardman’s glowing head, so affronted he didn’t speak. Then he turned.
“Your people have useful mind-powers. Select your best warriors. Hexore! What have you found?”
He slithered over, putting the Lizardfolk locals completely out of his head as Seraphel stumbled over with Aiche. The Gorgon was a bit more suspicious than Hexore, but even more brusque.
“Right, we’re falling back to camp. The [Scouts] have located the Calanferians: they’re bound for one of the tunnel exits. They’re moving slow, and by the time they get out, they’ll be chewed to hell and back. According to the locals, that area hasn’t been used in a long time, and the Crelers pushed all the monsters into their path.”
Seraphel’s heart sank as Hexore chuckled.
“Some luck for us. Although, eh…the [Princess] here says she ran into an Elder Creler. And there’s four Adults roaming around.”
“She what?”
The Gorgon commander recoiled, and Seraphel explained what she saw. She was convincing enough; a Lamia barely bothered with a cursory [Detect Truth] spell about the Elder Creler, and the commander blanched.
