The Guilty Man begins to attack, then hesitates. He looks at his sword. He does not attack.
 
(The Guilty Man is being strangled. He takes 33 damage.)
 
The Weeping Princess is helpless. She watches. She always has to watch.
The Angry Woman lashes out! She does 4 damage!
The Lonely Warrior slashes with any weapon he can find. He deals 45 damage!
 
(The Shambling Thing is badly hurt. Pieces of its body are falling down. It reaches down vaguely and tries to put an arm back on. It flops to the ground, twisting like a worm.)
 
The Guilty Man orders The Angry Woman to attack the leg! [Furious Assault]!
The Angry Woman tries to handicap the Shambling Thing! She delivers 18 damage!
(The Shambling Thing is crippled. Its movement speed is reduced.)
The Weeping Princess hopes things will get better. She is still crying. But she knows it never will.
The Lonely Warrior hacks the Shambling Thing apart! He delivers 88 damage!
(The Shambling Thing is dead! You receive 52 EXP and a Mound of Oozing Purple Flesh!)
 
(The party continues through The Synectic Maze. They’re getting hungry. Provisions are running low. What will you do? Eat the Mound of Oozing Purple Flesh?)
 
The Weeping Princess cannot bring herself to eat the flesh. She goes hungry.
The Angry Woman sinks her teeth into the flesh and grows sick. Her stomach is full.
The Guilty Man offers food to The Weeping Princess. She is fed. He goes hungry.
The Lonely Warrior eats some moss. He is partially filled.
 
(The party continues. The Angry Woman is violently sick. She receives a fever and begins to shake. She takes 14 damage. In time, the sickness fades. The Guilty Man loses stats due to hunger.)
(You think you’re going the right way. Are you? You can’t tell. Up. You think you need to go…up. But the tunnels stretch outwards. They’re changing color, aren’t they? You’re staining them as you walk. You can’t help it.)
(The party shuffles through a sea of bones. They fill this next section. It might be very dangerous. Do you continue?)
 
The Weeping Princess waits for someone to save her. But there’s no one. She feels like she’s forgotten something…
The Angry Woman continues ahead, heedless of the danger.
The Guilty Man warns The Angry Woman to look for traps.
The Lonely Warrior tries to eat the bones, but they’re too old. He picks some up anyways.
 
(The party continues until they come across the source of the bones. It’s a Ravening Beast, all teeth! It crawls forwards, claws clicking over the ground. You cannot count how many legs it has. Its center is glowing orange. It thinks at you: ‘death.’)
 
Combat Start: 
Her hands are trembling. The Weeping Princess sits and wishes for a chair.
She wants it dead. The Angry Woman charges into battle.
Sighing, The Guilty Man wonders if this monster can be reasoned with.
The Lonely Warrior feels like he’s met this beast before. He readies a weapon.
 
(The Ravening Beast leaps at the party and slashes, biting and chewing. It delivers 58 damage to The Weeping Princess! It delivers 11 damage to The Angry Woman! It delivers 22 damage to The Guilty Man! It delivers 32 damage to The Lonely Warrior!)
(Blood is running onto the ground. The Ravening Beast seems to be everywhere. It wants you dead. You can feel it. The walls are glowing with orange…eggs? You feel like you have to destroy it.)
 
The Weeping Princess calls for help! She pulls out a toy soldier and begs it to fight. Then she weeps, but she is tired of weeping.
The Grim Knight appears! He slashes the Ravening Beast and delivers 44 damage!
The Angry Woman bites and claws at the Ravening Beast in turn! She delivers 1 damage!
The Guilty Man asks if the Ravening Beast is a monster. 
 
(It does not respond.)
 
The Lonely Warrior throws the bones he took! He deals 1 damage to the Ravening Beast!
 
(The Ravening Beast focuses on The Weeping Princess! It begins to eat her! It delivers 144 damage!)
 
The Weeping Princess begs for aid. She’s crying. She promised to stop. She swore to stop. She’s forgotten something important. Where’s the music…?
The Angry Woman attacks the Ravening Beast! She delivers 3 damage.
The Guilty Man orders The Weeping Princess to flee! [Expeditious Retreat]!
The Weeping Princess doesn’t want to be alone. She does not flee.
The Lonely Warrior attacks the Ravening Beast from behind! He deals 66 damage.
 
(A Mysterious Watcher appears. It utters a warcry to the Ravening Beast and slings a stone! The Ravening Beast takes 14 damage!)
(The Ravening Beast is eating The Weeping Princess. It delivers 101 damage.)
“Fight! You have to fight! Stop—stop attacking in turns! Seraphel, do something!”
(For some reason, the Ravening Beast takes 3 damage.)
 
The Weeping Princess closes her eyes and pretends it’ll be over soon. She does nothing.
This is wrong. The ghost told her she had to try. She feels this is too familiar. A spider’s web. What’s…?
The Grim Knight shields The Weeping Princess! He protects her from damage this turn.
The Angry Woman lashes out at the Ravening Beast, trying to do more damage. She does 4 damage.
The Guilty Man orders the party into formation! [Hold the Line]! Damage taken is reduced!
The Lonely Warrior hates his foe. He remembers something. [Grand Slash]! He delivers 244 damage!
 
(A Mysterious Watcher is pleased. It stops attacking the Ravening Beast and starts smashing the eggs on the walls. Little wriggling things die as it stomps and stomps.)
“What are ye doing? End this madness! Rabbiteater, do it again! Ksmvr, don’t go with—”
(The Ravening Beast is furious! It abandons The Weeping Princess and swarms everything! It delivers 22 damage to all.)
 
The Weeping Princess realizes she’ll never be saved. Her tears stop.
The Grim Knight launches a counterattack! He delivers 33 damage to the Ravening Beast.
The Angry Woman stares at her hands. She’s too weak. She does nothing.
The Guilty Man draws his sword and hopes he’s right. He cuts at the Ravening Beast. He delivers 49 damage!
The Lonely Warrior wonders if his friends will survive. He attacks harder out of desperation! He delivers 94 damage!
 
(The Mysterious Watcher has smashed all the eggs. It waves and vanishes, pleased.)
(The Ravening Beast is weak. It tries to flee.)
(The Ravening Beast escapes! The party gains 288 experience and a Bottle of Water!)
“So many bodies. What’s that, Seraphel? Keep it. It can’t be worse than…”
The Weeping Princess equips the Bottle of Water!
 
(The party continues onwards.)
 
——
 
(You can’t tell how many days it’s been, now. You come to a strange…encampment in the tunnels. Another empty room. This one doesn’t contain enemies—for now.)
(The Mysterious Watcher is waiting for you. It has a base, strung up pieces of meat, and tools here. It smiles at you. It is ready to fight if need be.)
(The party is tired. The party is wounded. The party is lost. What do you do?)
“Listen ta me. They’ve got lots of them on the ramparts, and they don’t fight like you do. Do you understand? Even if we still outnumber them…”
 
The Angry Woman demands to know what The Mysterious Watcher wants!
 
(The Mysterious Watcher laughs. It replies that this is all a dream. ‘When you wake, if you wake, you’ll get it. You’re caught in your emotions.’)
 
The Lonely Warrior is confused. He scratches his head. How can we be uncaught, then?
 
(The Mysterious Watcher inspects The Lonely Warrior. It lowers its weapons. It says it’s never seen anything like The Lonely Warrior. He’s sort of scary. The Mysterious Watcher doesn’t want to fight. Not with ‘Jungle Tails’ above.)
 
The Guilty Man asks who ‘Jungle Tails’ is. He doesn’t want to fight.
 
“You serious, Lord Idiot?”
(The Mysterious Watcher finds the question highly amusing. It laughs. ‘They’ve come for you. But also us. You should leave. They won’t come down here in great numbers, but you won’t survive as you are.’)
 
The Weeping Princess knows it’s true. She bows her head, guilty. She’s let everyone fight for her all her life. Never again. She bites her lip. Never—
 
(The Mysterious Watcher points. ‘If you go that way, you might make it. But there are more monsters between you and the exit.’ It regards the four of you. ‘You’ll never make it as you are.’)
“Help us. In the name of the Faerie King, I ask…”
(The Mysterious Watcher hesitates. It argues with itself, then after a while, it gives you some meat.)
(The party eats the meat. It feels better. The Weeping Princess shares the Bottle of Water around. It has a funny taste, but it quenches your thirst.)
(The Mysterious Watcher wants the Bottle of Water. It offers to trade a Wooden Spear for the Bottle of Water.)
 
“That’s a stick with a point on it. I could wipe my ass with it. We’ve got more weapons if ye’d only use them.”
The Weeping Princess refuses after some thought.
 
(Disappointed, The Mysterious Watcher bids you farewell. It hopes to meet you under better circumstances. You continue on your journey.)
 
——
 
(It’s the eleventh encounter so far. You’re walking upwards, and you think you can feel a breeze on your face. No, wait. It’s just your imagination. You’re worried about how much further you have to go when an old foe reappears.)
(The Ravening Beast scuttles out of the shadows! It’s healed! Worse…there are two of them, now.)
(A second Ravening Beast has appeared! It’s smaller than the first.)
“More of them. Don’t let them get around you! There’s so many.”
 
The Guilty Man orders a barricade built! He tosses pieces of a broken ship down. The hallway is partly blocked.
The Lonely Warrior charges, heedless of the danger! He delivers 122 damage to the Ravening Beast! He takes 14 damage as he’s attacked back!
The Angry Woman throws stones! She delivers 1 damage.
The Weeping Princess has to fight. She flails at the enemy. She delivers 1 damage to the Smaller Ravening Beast.
The Grim Knight challenges the Smaller Ravaging Beast with a [Challenge of Honor]. It does nothing.
 
“Rabbiteater, get back! They’re all around your people!”
(The Ravening Beasts attack The Lonely Warrior! They deliver 144 damage! For some reason, they take 2 damage.)
 
He has to keep swinging, even if he dies. The Lonely Warrior continues to fight! He delivers 66 damage to the Ravening Beast!
[Take Cover]! The Guilty Man orders the Lonely Warrior to protect themselves! He activates the pieces of the toy boat.
 
(Zzap! The toy boat pieces blast the Ravening Beasts for 77 damage! They deliver 2 damage to The Lonely Warrior by accident.)
 
The Grim Knight toy is cracked and damaged, but it does its best. It slashes at the Smaller Ravening Beast for 23 damage.
The Weeping Princess is humming a familiar tune. She attacks and deals 6 damage! She feels odd.
‘Surely…something’s wrong. I feel it. This is not me.’
“Seraphel?”
 
The Angry Woman is staring at The Lonely Warrior fighting alone. It’s not his fault…is it? She stares at her hands. Then she remembers.
The Angry Woman draws a wand. She casts [Fireball]! Both Ravening Beasts take 160 damage! The Lonely Warrior takes 16 damage by accident.
 
“Feck me sideways! How did you all do that?”
The Weeping Princess blinks. It’s not her turn. But she felt the heat of that. 
Is someone talking? She knows it’s not her turn, but she looks around anyways.
There’s a tiny fly following the party. It has brown fur, goat’s horns, and hooves.
No, wait, it’s a Satyr! But it’s…wrong.
It calls itself Vofea. It keeps calling The Weeping Princess ‘Seraphel’. 
Seraphel blinks. She rem—
 
——
 
—ered her name. The [Princess] whirled, and then she saw and heard again. She saw and heard—not some strange being that thought of itself as ‘The Weeping Princess’, who had a thousand eyes and limbs. The break from that amalgamation of minds felt like ripping her entire body away from her finger.
And it was only the tiny finger which remained, alone and screaming—until she realized that was all of what she had been.
Seraphel stopped clawing at her face because she realized—the blisters on her skin and her ragged, filthy appearance meant this was reality. Her fingers hurt. Flames were still burning down the long tunnel, and they were fighting.
Crelers. The swarm was trying to come over the walls that were all that remained of the ship. Threatening to overrun the motionless ranks of people standing there. And in the center of the fighting was—
Rabbiteater? An entire column of people was buried in the center of the Creler swarm—two swarms, albeit reduced—standing still. Seraphel’s eyes bulged in horror. She saw blank-faced [Soldiers] holding still as Crelers covered them, biting, tearing—and they didn’t fight back.
Then, as one, the entire group lashed out, swinging swords, axes, even hoes and other tools at the Crelers. Lashing at them until the baby Crelers drew back; they attacked, stomping, following the lead of the battered figure in armor.
“Rabbiteater!”
She thought he’d drive the Crelers back entirely, but then the Goblin froze up. And so did the other warriors. The Crelers moved back on the offensive—or so she thought. But they froze up just like Rabbiteater.
Waiting…for their turn? Seraphel blinked. Now it was The Guilty Man’s turn…she swirled, and Lord Cortese strode past her, blank-faced. He and a column of people swung their blades at the Crelers, then stopped. Stepped back.
“What madness is this?”
Seraphel’s head was splitting open. For a moment, when Cortese had passed her, her mind was filled with guilt. Self-recriminations. The entire hallway had turned…purple. As if guilt were a physical thing, and it was! A glowing color emitted from Cortese’s group. It overwhelmed everything—until only guilt could remain. Then the purple was challenged by a flare of ruddy orange.
The Angry Woman. When Seraphel looked, she saw Menrise striding forwards, aiming a wand with ranks of men and women covered in injuries. Most didn’t have wands, but they were still aiming fingers glittering with crackling…
“Is that…?”
The [Lightning Bolt] came from hundreds of people at once. Seraphel cowered as the massed spells blew the Crelers apart. She gasped as the angry wave of emotions faded. Then felt sinister malevolence dawning.
The Crelers were attacking, shrieking as their ‘turn’ started, and they fought to make their emotions rage over the others. But unlike the others, she could hear…something.
A pounding malevolence. Almost a word. Death, the idea of it conveyed at everything and everyone that wasn’t them. Death—and a keening frustration. A rage as they poured towards the barricades, seeking to devour and kill Menrise’s group.
We are trapped! Kill! Kill! 
