King Fireth Laegister spoke the words too quickly, and the [Herald] had to rush the formal moment. The King himself did not rise; he sat upon the padded cushion, as lined as both Kinth and Etheric. His voice was barely a breath; it was the [Crown Prince], one of his sons in his late sixties, who spoke for him thereafter.
“By the grace of His Majesty, now rise! Now rise—do the ten Hundredlords of Kaaz stand with blades proudly bared before the throne?”
A ringing of blades as each of the Hundredlords of Kaaz seated above the ‘lesser’ nobility drew their blades. Each one was enchanted—each one had seen blood in duels, even if Kinth’s trembled as he strained to raise it. It was Hundredlady Iirn who called out, her voice strident, her hair flashing bright red. She had the eyes of many.
“All but one! In the place of Hundredlord Cortese Withred stands his cousin, Lady Siveris!”
A [Lady] bowed, hands resting on slightly plainer weapons, but still, gear any Gold-rank adventurer would covet. They were of Kaaz; the Infinite Dungeon painted this vast room awash with magical colors.
Indeed, the nobility forced to stand were apart from each other and in groups of less than ten to avoid…accidents. Magical interference. The [Prince] raised his voice.
“The Hundredlords may resume their discussion of the sea battle.”
He sat back and whispered to his father as every eye swung to the Hundredlords. Formalities done, the [Knights] rose.
Twenty of them returned to their seats in front of the royal seats. There were over eighty of the Thousand Lances in this room, but the ones seated before the [King] were his personal bodyguard. The highest-level, but also the most venerable. White hair stood out on all but the two half-Elves.
Human, half-Elf, Dwarf—even a Centaur and Drakes made up this room, though humanity predominated. The Thousand Lances listened as Hundredlady Iirn made her case.
“We return to the crux of the argument! Lord Cortese has disgraced Kaaz in allying with a traitor—”
“Hundredlords, I object!”
Tenlord Richimere leapt to his feet, hand flying instinctively to his sword. Hundredlord Kinth murmured, his voice magically amplified.
“It is not the first nor the dozenth time you protest, Tenlord Richimere.”
“Nevertheless, I do by my rights, Hundredlord! There is no evidence to declare Ser Solstice of Izril any sort of traitor! Even the word I object to!”
“The Prince of Erribathe deemed him a threat worthy of facing despite the Bloodtear Pirates! Do you call the Prince’s integrity into question?”
Hundredlady Iirn barked down at the young [Lord]. Her own hands were flying to the enchanted daggers at her sides. She would have jumped the railing, but Hundredlord Brinth and Hundredlady Yerew grabbed her. The young [Lord] shot back.
“This day, I do, before His Majesty and all gathered! What could possess a [Prince] to attack a [Knight] with his valor evident before all in that hour?”
“What could possess a mere [Innkeeper] to slay the [Prince of Men]?”
Hundredlord Brinth shot back, but the uproar forced the [Herald] to bang the gavel again and again.
“Lords and Ladies of Kaaz, we are in the presence of His Majesty! Now is not the time to relitigate this long hearing! You will focus upon the matter addressed—the conduct of Lord Cortese and Ser Solstice!”
The room subsided. One of the Lord of Lances, whose house paid for a single of the Thousand Lances’ sizable endowments in all matters—in this case the redoubtable Makren the Munificent, a Knight of Haegris—slipped out of the vast chambers.
No one paid any attention; the [Lord] was literally a hundred times poorer than the men and women sitting above him. Though, the long-legged man with a handsome beard and black skin scarred from duels as a younger man felt a bit smug.
Unlike other members of the Thousand Lances, Makren the Munificent brought in coin to his patron house. His lack of valorous deeds in the martial sense was offset by his economic acumen, and right now, that meant he was one of the few Houses not bleeding coins to pay for their [Knights].
Plus, being a mere Lord of the Lance under Tenlord Rema’s authority under Hundredlord Kinth meant that no one cared where he went. So, Lancelord Cule practically ran out of the grand auditorium and down a long corridor. He burst into a second room, and the nobility without even his ranking whirled.
“They’ve just accused Hundredlord Cortese of aiding a traitor. Hundredlady Iirn is sparring with Tenlord Richimere.”
He announced, and the entire assembly of the lesser nobility promptly dropped their debate on investments into manufacturing of confections. One of them exclaimed.
“Again? It will be blood before the day is done! What else? Has His Majesty said anything?”
“I don’t know. I’ll be back in five minutes!”
So saying, the Lancelord took off running. The nobles burst into a murmur. A few young people standing in a gaggle were loudest of all.
“I want to see! The Hundredlords let us walk around all the time—why can’t we listen now?”
One of them protested to a [Lord], who replied with a smile.
“This is formality, Earther Worrel. Only the royal family, the Lords and Ladies of the Lance, and the Thousand Lances are allowed in the Chambers of Deliberation when they convene. Matters of war may be declared there before the Sword of Laegister.”
“Aw. Wait, I saw the sword in the entryway. It was all chained up. Someone said it flew out of the display case and stabbed someone.”
The [Lord] coughed delicately.
“Ah, yes, well…His Majesty is long past his dueling days. He is eighty-seven years old and no King of Myths. Even so—Hundredlady Iirn accusing Hundredlord Cortese of something tantamount to treason? This is astonishing! It cannot just be a grudge, can it?”
“Perhaps she’s merely spitting thorns that she wasn’t chosen to go to the New Lands.”
One of the other nobility jested as a door opened on the other end of the chambers. A [Lady] closed the door, then began hotfooting it down the stairs. She had to jostle with two of her peers—
They exploded into the commoner’s assembly where adventurers, [Merchants], and everyone who could secure a ticket into the palace were squeezed in. The [Lady] took a breath—a young [Lord] of barely fourteen beat her to it.
“Hundredlady Iirn has accused Hundredlord Cortese of treason!”
“Outrageous!”
The room was on their feet, fighting and shouting, in seconds. Proponents of the Hundredlady drew blades as those who favored Hundredlord Cortese did likewise. The [Lady] saw, across the room, one of the Gold-rank adventurers open a door to shout to people outside.
 
——
 
In the actual Chambers of Deliberation, the Hundredlords were aware of word spreading fast. Hundredlord Nvize leaned forwards to whisper to the others.
“Should we seal the chambers against gossip until this session has ended?”
“I’ve said nothing I do not mean with my whole heart!”
Iirn snapped back, and Nvize rolled her eyes.
“Don’t snap at me, girl. You won’t stand more than three challenges back-to-back.”
“Is that a threat?”
The youngest of the Hundredlords nearly drew her daggers, then reconsidered as Hundredlord Nvize lifted her wrist-mounted crossbow. The miniature Dwarf-made contraption clicked as Nvize pointedly loaded it.
“Poison will slow you down, uncouth as it is. Make your point. The chamber sealing?”
Hundredlord Kinth chuckled, and the oldest of their number silenced the bickering.
“Why bother? His Majesty will tell his staff and they’ll spread the news. Elsewise, it will leak the moment our peers leave this room. Let them fight it out. Make your point, Iirn. A single [Knight] does not change how many of the Thousand Lances fell in this battle—nor the coin and lives wasted. Of all the times to be a Hundredlord and spend like one…I should have left my house at Tenlord.”
Iirn riposted back, but gently.
“Hundredlord, does your blood not stir at the prospect of these New Lands? Of all times to be alive—! If it weren’t for fools and traitors, the glory would be undiminished!”
“My blood is too old to do more than walk to the privy.”
Hundredlady Ullana, who had just returned from Izril with a trove of inventions and suspicions the Gnolls knew the secrets that Kaaz had learned, was also, interestingly, unmoved by the New Lands.
“Recovered parts of this world do not excite me as much as the next, Iirn. I would rather spend more time with the children of Earth. They clamor for us to build more of those ‘pianos’; I’m told one can play at a master’s level. You should have gone with Cortese and put aside your jealousy if you are so strident.”
“And died, save for Lord Altivem and Ser Gorethem?”
Brinth snorted. Hundredlady Iirn glowered at him.
“If I had been there, more ships would have survived! Enough of this—”
Disappointed, the Hundredlady turned back to the argument. Lady Siveris had taken the stand to testify on her cousin’s behalf.
“Ladies and Lords of the Lance, Knights of the Thousand Lances—I repeat the same question Lord Cortese asked me when I pressed him on this very point. Is a [Knight] not a knight? The Knight-Commander of the Order of Seasons vouches for Ser Solstice’s character! The tragedy of Prince Iradoren’s death cannot be understated—”
“Yet somehow you do, Lady Siveris. Is a [Prince] then not a Prince? Let alone heir to the Kingdom of Myths, our ally?”
This time, it was Hundredlord Brinth who interrupted, his voice carrying. The [Lady] whirled, a scowl on her face. Her eyes flared like Lord Cortese, but she was wise enough not to reach for her sword. One did not casually duel a man who used a maul and could easily hold it level one-handed.
“If the Prince of Men makes a habit of stabbing his allies in the back, then perhaps that should alarm us! A [Prince] is not known for his honor, is he? A [Knight] is different. Or must these basic nuances of classes be reminded to you, Lord Brinth?”
Laughter. Even the [King] cracked a smile. Lord Brinth’s dark face mottled further, and he put a hand on his maul.
“I challenge you over that insult, Lady Siveris.”
She hesitated.
“By rights, I should refuse. Someone must speak sense.”
“A coward’s logic.”
Her face paled in outrage, and her blade edged out of its sheath. The room went quiet, and there were hisses from below.
“Siveris, don’t—”
“Lady, he outlevels you ten or more. Remember Lord Cortese’s urgency.”
That came from one of the Thousand Lances belonging to her house. A Dullahan’s visor lifted; his eyes flashed as he eyed Lord Brinth, and the visor closed.
“I refuse, Lord Brinth. Though, if you would deign to face one of my Thousand Lances, I am sure you would prove a fitting challenger.”
Lady Siveris replied after a moment, and the Hundredlord snorted.
“It seems House Withred prefers to let others fight their battles for them. At sea and on land. I maintain my challenge. A point of honor.”
Every head swung to the [King], who hesitated.
“Brinth. She’s a child.”
The Hundredlord bowed, but he did not withdraw the challenge even at the reproving mumble. Lady Siveris now had her blade half-drawn. Sweat was beading on her brow. The tension mounted as the [Knights] of the two houses eyed each other. A full melee would be extraordinary, but not unprecedented.
One of the white-haired [Knights] sitting in front of the throne raised a hand. The white-haired woman snapped.
“Lower your blades, [Knights]! There will be no battle between you lot in front of His Majesty!”
That made the [Knights] stand down, but Brinth and Siveris didn’t move. The [Lady] was utterly still—until one of her breasts wiggled.
All of the Hundredlords stared at the [Lady] as a little head poked out of a pocket in Lady Siveris’ tunic. The smallest lion they’d ever seen woke up from its nap. It had sensed the impending strife. It focused up on the Hundredlord and rawred at him.
Hundredlord Brinth blinked down at the angry lion cub trying to wiggle out of Siveris’ pocket, and then he laughed. The tension drained as he sat down.
“Such a fierce protector. I withdraw my objections. I’d rather not have that one savage me in a year’s time.”
Laughter, and the argument went on. But Lord Brinth stood shortly afterwards with Hundredlady Iirn.
“There can be no excuse! Ser Solstice’s masked visage, his alliance with the [Innkeeper] who took the hand of a Goblin Lord—Greydath of Blades, no less! How can this assembly of the Thousand Lances allow such a monster to live?”
She slammed her hands down on the balcony, and Tenlord Richimere shouted back up.
“We have all witnessed Ser Solstice fighting in defense of the Dawn Concordat! With my own eyes! If that is not enough, I remind my peers that I have the sworn testimony of Lord Altivem and Ser Gorethem! Hundredlady, if you wish to hunt the Goblin Lord of Blades, be my guest! Is there any who argue that?”
The Hundredlords deliberated until the [Prince] broke in, voice low.
“Greydath of Blades has slain more of the Thousand Lances than any other monster. A pursuit of such a distant foe with no knowledge of his whereabouts is, perhaps, a distraction?”
“Table it.”
Hundredlady Nvize nodded, and they agreed. Hundredlady Iirn went back on the attack.
“Hundredlord Cortese was the arm of Kaaz in that moment. He did nothing! Because of him, Prince Iradoren is dead. He, that Cursed Princess, and Ser Solstice are all traitors to Terandria!”
She slashed her hand, and Lord Brinth nodded.
“What sort of [Knight] would not surrender when the Prince of Men accuses him of a crime and prove himself innocent?”
Tenlord Richimere blazed back.
“I saw no attempt to force him to surrender, only the bared blade! Moreover, he is not Kaaz’s own! Is your oversentimentality towards Erribathe’s affairs, perhaps, the bleating of one of Prince Iradoren’s many fawning admirers, Hundredlady Iirn?”
She drew her daggers.
“Take it back or bleed for it.”
“I refuse!”
She leapt from the balcony, and the [Prince] had to slam the [Herald]’s gavel.
“No enchanted blades! Plain steel!”
The furious Hundredlady and Tenlord had to snatch the proffered weapons from satin pillows before they went at each other. No count, just Tenlord Richimere clicking his boots together. Despite the fury in his eyes, he swallowed as he saw the Hundredlady’s jade bracelet begin to glow.
“Brave boy.”
Hundredlord Kinth closed his eyes and slept until he heard the cry of voices. He opened one eye and saw the Tenlord being carried out for a [Healer]. There went one voice of support for Hundredlord Cortese.
A triumphant Hundredlady Iirn returned to the stands, slapping a bandage over a new scar across her cheek.
Lady Siveris was forced to defend her cousin as the two Hundredlords pressed her.
