Barely able to lift his head, the young street tough Hoon grunted in agreement. “Used to work with another old timer who liked to jaw on about fish. Said shark packs are usually families, with the mam, her suitors, and her pups. When the girls get big enough to venture out on their own, they swim off with a couple of ma’s suitors to mate and start their own pack, so the pack never gets too big. With that many sharks in the bay, there had to be more than one pack, I bet me last copper on it.”

Leaping at the chance, Bulat swallowed his drink and smacked the table, having long since replaced the wine with water. “What I want to know is: Who would dare do such a thing? Falling Rain is a young hero of the Empire and the Guardian Turtle is protected by Imperial Decree!”

After a long pull straight from his jug, Nam swallowed and let loose with a thunderous snort. “Imperial Decree don’t mean much to most of them disloyal, dishonest, double dealing noble types. I’ve seen more than one rising young dragon get stomped flat and ain’t nothing the Legate can say that’ll stop it.”

Maybe that’s why the boss wanted these rumours started, to see how the Legate would react. Remembering his purpose, Bulat muttered, “We can’t be lettin’ them get away with this. The Defiled are knockin’ on our door and them nobles still squabblin’ like children.”

“Ah, but what can we do?” Hoon asked, his cheek pressed against the table. “We ain’t nothing in their eyes, cut us down without blinking.”

“We use our voices.” Pounding the table for emphasis, Old Bulat let his strength get away from him and accidentally broke off a large third of the sturdy wooden slab. “Bah, flimsy piece of junk. But like I was saying, we speak. Me and you, we’re small people they can bully, but how many voices can they silence?” Raising his voice, Bulat addressed the crowd. “We are all citizens of the Empire and here in beautiful Nan Ping, our greatest warriors gather to unite against the Defiled threat, yet still there are those who seek advantage. Today, the Divine Turtle, the Mother’s Sacred Servant almost died because someone wanted Falling Rain dead, and that ain’t right.”

Dozens of voices shouted word of support and Bulat swelled with pride. No matter where you go, the people of the Empire all wanted the same things, food in their bellies and a safe place to lay their heads. With the Defiled threatening to take away both, the people were a pile of tinder waiting to be lit, and Bulat was eager to be that spark. “A noble might’ve planned it but we all know who does the real work here. Men and women like me and you. Someone out there knows who’s responsible for this travesty and with enough support, maybe they’ll find the courage to speak up. Spread the word, tell your friends, tell your family, tell your neighbours and your coworkers, tell them all that this. Ain’t. Right.”

Emboldened by the prospect of making a difference, many of the tavern patrons paid their bills and rushed off to spread the word. Joining their exodus, Bulat took the mousy waiter aside and tipped him handsomely for his part in all this. With Viyan in tow, they headed off for another tavern while Silva and Birca trailed behind, ready to spend more of the boss’s coin and spread the word of his good deeds.

This was all easy as turning a hand, ain’t nothin’ to it.

Chapter Meme
