If Vichear’s exquisite movements could be called stumbling, then no one in the world would dare claim to dance, but Zian accepted the offer regardless. Unsurprisingly, Vichear’s second instruction was to follow him out to celebrate this momentous occasion, and though Zian would rather seek Balance and train, he wouldn’t leave his beloved concubine to celebrate alone. Though he offered to pay, Vichear adamantly refused and brought them out of the manor, but not towards a restaurant or banquet hall most would. Instead, he brought them to the Khishig barracks to meet his comrades, a raucous, welcoming bunch who accepted Jing Fei and Zian without blinking, happy to greet their former commander’s Disciple and her Husband with warmth and good cheer.

While they drank and told stories of Vicher’s former exploits, Zian sat on a stone bench and listened in stoic silence. Festive though the mood might be, he couldn’t bring himself to make merry and laugh alongside these plain, guileless soldiers. From their stories, Zian could tell that even when he commanded them, they saw Vichear as a friend and ally rather than merely a Major who they’d been assigned to, a man who inspired loyalty and devotion in the warriors beneath him. In contrast, Zian had no loyal soldiers of his own, only employees loyal to coin paid by his mother or warriors who served and respected his father. Even the latter group were beginning to lose faith in him, for the man who rallied them to his banner was now dead and gone, Jukai’s life given in service to the unworthy son of his talented Martial Brother.

Why would anyone want to serve you? A talent-less hack, a lackey in the making, a man whose only ally is a cripple...

“Wow Zian, you look like shit.”

Infuriated by the mockery, Zian snarled and turned on the offender only to find a stranger standing before him. It took a second to even recognize the man, hunched and bundled as he was, his sunken cheeks and pale skin pock-marked with healing pimples. Though supporting himself with a four-legged cane and shivering in the brisk, comfortable weather, Rain’s eyes were as bright and energetic as ever, and despite Zian’s violent reaction, they held no fear or concern for his safety.

As well they shouldn’t, not with the scowling Sumila at his side, and Li Song was not a warrior to cross lightly either. Even the statuesque consort Zheng Luo seemed ready to step in and defend Rain, but the charming Mei Lin took after her beloved and beamed prettily in greeting. Scoffing at his ridiculous overreaction, Zian greeted his friend with open arms. “That’s rich coming from you. Take my advice, adopt Central fashions and powder your face white. Horrendous as the result might be, for you, it would be a vast improvement.”

“At least I have an excuse,” Rain countered after shuffling into Zian’s embrace. “What’s yours? Anyone who thinks the dead animal stuck to your chin looks good should be executed for blasphemy. Your beard is an affront to the Heavens.”

“Jealousy makes you uglier than you already are. No need to worry, some day, you’ll be old enough to grow a beard too.” Not wanting to take the joke too far, he said, “Come sit. My concubine has accepted a Mentor, so there is much to celebrate.”

“I heard. Vichy’s a good man, and he’ll teach her well.” Easing himself down onto the bench beside Zian, Rain smiled and said, “About time you took a break, you haven’t been back since I left.”

“Mother is coming to visit and demanded my presence.” Unsure how he would cope these next two weeks with no Defiled to kill, Zian changed the subject. “How have you been?”

“Good,” Rain lied, though for once, his lies were convincing. “I forgot how nice it is to wake up and go back to sleep. Super comfy.” After a pause too short to be awkward, he added, “I’m sorry about Jukai. He will be missed.”

“...Thank you.”

Zian prayed Rain would move on to another topic, but he continued, “I didn’t know him too well, but I could tell he didn’t like me. Don’t blame him either, since I defeated the apple of his eye.” Seeing Zian’s confusion, Rain clarified, “You. You’re the apple of his eye. You know... something he cherishes above all else.”

“...How does one put an apple in one’s eye? And why would anyone ever want to?”

“It’s an expression.”

“I’ve never heard it.”

“Read a book sometime, maybe you’ll learn something.”

“Hmph. Ask anyone here, and if one of them has heard the expression from someone besides you, then I’ll boil my boots and eat them.”

“Tch.” Glancing around for support, Rain found none forthcoming and scrunched his face into a frown. “Fine. Whatever. What I’m saying is, anyone with eyes could see Jukai cared deeply for you.”

Staring at his feet, Zian took a deep breath. “...And?”

“And you cared for him.” After a long silence, Rain handed him a cup of wine and a hot meat-bun wrapped in a leaf. “Like I said, I didn’t know him too well. How’d he come into your service?”

Rain likely knew, but Zian responded anyways. “Jukai was my father’s Martial Brother. They grew up together, neighbouring merchant sons who were the best of friends and rivals. The Twinned Dragons, people called them, famed throughout the land...”

Once he started, he couldn’t stop talking, and he told story after story about his Mentor, most learned second hand from wherever he could find them. Jukai rarely talked about the past and scowled fiercely when anyone else did so in his presence, but Zian loved hearing the stories regardless. Telling them now made him feel like the old man was standing at his side like always, silent and disapproving, but inwardly happy and proud. When he ran out of stories to tell, he slumped down and discovered Rain had slipped an arm around his shoulder at some point, and Jing Fei had also returned to his side. Looking up, he found a crowd had gathered to hear him speak, Vichear, Dastan, BoShui, Uncle Yang and several of Jukai’s friends and subordinates, listening in sombre silence with food and drinks in hand. Raising his untouched cup, Zian said, “A toast. To my close kin and Honoured Mentor, Twinned Dragon Jukai.”

“Hear hear.”

After everyone emptied their cups, one of Zian’s soldiers spoke up, a man named Junyi who served Jukai loyally for many years and Zian’s father before him. “I ever tell you about our trip to Shen Jin?” Without waiting for an answer, Junyi launched into a ribald tale of a young Jukai and Lu An Jing on a journey to the city of Divine Metal in search of wealth, fame, and fortune, a tale which had the crowd in stitches by the end. Then another of Jukai’s comrades spoke up, and another, Zian spent the evening listening to stories of his father and his mentor before they became the Twinned Dragons, stories he’d never heard and would cherish until the day he died.

Uncle Yang even chimed in with a story about their first meeting and how Jukai taught him a lesson in humility, a hilarious tale Uncle would never have shared if the man were still alive.

The night was still young when Rain retired to rest, but Zian saw him off with a smile. Though he said little and drank less, he’d been the one to set things in motion with a question, and for this, Zian was grateful. Four months and he had yet to properly mourn his Mentor, but after tonight, he finally gave him the send off he deserved.

The impromptu gathering continued in earnest even after Rain left, and Zian stood with Dastan and BoShui chatting about shared experiences. Eventually, the topic reached Domains and both looked to Zian, the only one of the three who lacked one. “Yes, yes,” he said in deadpan, enthusiastically clapping in congratulations. “You are both talented and without peer, once in a century geniuses too.”

“No, you misunderstand.” Trading glances with Dastan, BoShui said, “I think we should tell him.”

Frowning and shaking his head, Dastan replied, “He already has a Natal Palace.”

“So? Makes things easier, if anything.”

“Too risky. The others already boarded our boat, but with Zian we’ll be sailing in uncharted waters. We should talk to Vichear first, then bring this to the boss and his Mentors.”

“What are you fools going on about?” Zian’s question surprised his friends, as if they’d forgotten he was listening in.

“I’m older and therefore wiser, so I say we let him decide. Besides, nothing will go wrong, I know it.” Brushing Dastan’s concerns aside, BoShui leaned in and Sent, “I think we’ve stumbled across a simple, fool-proof method for Natal Palace Formation and Domain Development, one any person could use.”

No wonder Dastan was being so cagey. The Martial Path was not to be discussed lightly, not when a simple misunderstanding could result in going down a dead-end Path. It might be decades before BoShui and Dastan discover their ‘simple method’ was flawed and unviable, but... “Fool-proof, you say?” A tempting proposition, but from what little he could garner, their method for Domain Development seemed tied to Natal Palace Formation. Should he risk it and try something new, or trust in himself to figure it out on his own?

No, not trust in himself, but trust in Mentor.

“I don’t want to hear about it,” Zian Sent, folding his arms to brook no argument. “And don’t bring this to Vichear or Rain either. Take it to someone older and wiser, someone already set in their Path who will not be swayed by your foolishness, like Nian Zu or Rain’s Grand-Mentor.”

Taken aback by his refusal, BoShui’s shock quickly turned into admiration. “A dragon among men indeed. Such is the confidence of a true genius. My apologies for bringing it up.” Blushing as he stroked his beard, he added, “I’ll ask Rain first, but I’m sure his Grand-Mentor will speak with us; She patted my cheek and called me handsome earlier.”

Mother in Heaven, BoShui was smitten with a woman at least five times his age, possibly more since no one would say how old Akanai really was. “Well, you’ve seen her husband,” Zian countered, laughing as the smile melted from BoShui’s face. “The two of you do bear a striking similarity.” Broad shouldered, barrel-chested, and a face which had been punched far too many times. “Come,” he shouted, wrapping an arm around Dastan and BoShui each. “My brothers’ cups are empty, so let us find more to drink!”

The Martial Path could wait. Hearing about Jukai and his father’s bond made Zian cherish the few friendships he had, Rain, BoShui, and Dastan, and he hoped to have many stories of his own to tell his children when they reached this age, tales of brotherhood and camaraderie to inspire and entertain.

Fung counted as a friend too, Zian supposed, but there was something about the man which he couldn’t bring himself to like...

Chapter Meme1

Chapter Meme 2
