“How did you escape so swiftly!!” he yelled, a sense of panic in his voice. “No... no, I need more energy! Do you have any idea what you’re even doing!?”

Jake and Casper exchanged a quick glance before both attacking at once, having no interest in Minaga’s dialogue. If this were something important they had to hear, the Unique Lifeform would have done something to prevent them from interrupting the boss.

Arrows and cursed stakes hit the already significantly weakened Labyrinth Master, who appeared unable to leave the magic circle. He tried to defend himself using his metal limbs for cover, but Jake easily curved his arrows, and Casper didn’t care where he hit as his cursed stakes were just absorbed by the Seal of Enervation to further fuel it.

The B-grade’s attempts to defend himself were in vain, and his situation only worsened as his vital energies rapidly declined. All his flesh was ridden with necrosis, the Seal of Enervation was stronger than ever, and he was truly on his last legs.

Even then... Jake and Casper knew this couldn’t be it.

“No... I can still...” the Labyrinth Master weakly said, his two arms falling to his side as he lost control over them. With the opening, Jake landed an arrow straight into his rotting biological eye, making his head whip back... and giving a very surprising notification.

You have slain [Aginian Labyrinth Master – lvl 375] – Bonus experience earned for killing an enemy above your level

Jake stood there, confused as he glanced at Casper, who still had his game face on. The Risen caught his look and motioned for Jake to keep looking at the boss as he spoke.

“It’s not over.”

As was prophesied, the entire Grand Labyrinth started rumbling. Behind them, the makeshift labyrinth began to unfurl, and to their surprise, they both detected the sky above them open, the invisible ceiling of the labyrinth gone.

Instinctively, Jake glanced upwards, only to see a massive blue lightning bolt descending. It struck the corpse of the Labyrinth Master, the Grand Labyrinth resonating with his body as a female robotic voice echoed throughout the dungeon.

“Failsafe activation: Approved. Initiating emergency protocols.”

“Right,” Jake said, watching the boss being bathed in a constant stream of dense lightning, having nearly forgotten one of the most important rules for proper dungeon bosses. “Always gotta be a third phase.”
