“Get… good. Well, no time better than now. First, you’re going to help me get my money, with your giant breasts and then I am going to teach you how to find and hurt a man so badly he wishes he could travel back in time and interrupt his parents from conceiving his own existence just to escape the fate that would befall him when you find him. Honestly, it’s either that or annoy Jose when she sleeping and hope I can get away before she gets her swords out,” he grinned.

“I...agree?” Velki said with great uncertaintly.

“Hm... means you have to call me Master, you know?” he said lightly and Velki pursed her lips.

“Yes... master,” she pushed out. Von grinned as he lead her towards a house with a disgruntled dwarf outside it.

“Now, time to get that attitude up and that chest out. Focus and use your powerful weapons to get me my damn 5 coppers he owes for stamps!” Von howled and Velki stopped, turned, and kicked him between the legs with a furious snarl.

Von stood there and then a small pleased smile appeared.

“Ah... Jose, I may have to dump you, this one is a real bun,” he said aloud and Velki had a delightful image of cooking the asshole in her bread oven.

She would make little Von Von buns and Von layer cakes! She began to smirk which made Von laugh that insane noise again.

The Dwarf turned and saw them. He watched and then slowly went inside his home and Velki heard a heavy metal lock being turned.

“How do we...uh get him out...master?” she asked and turned to see Von was already knocking at the door.

“Open up, I have a woman and I am not afraid to use her,” he warned and his long black hair seemed to spill out like the night.

If darkness was loud and rude.

Velki sighed but then noticed something.

The mana no long made her choke. She breathed a few times and then noticed how everything seemed to feel...normal after she argued with Mr Von.

“That son of a bitch,” she cursed then clasp a hand over her mouth.

“Fuck!” she said in surprise then shut her eyes.

The insane laughter sounded out and she glared at the back of Von's head, imagining her gaze locking with his own red eyes.

Velki felt annoyed. She felt pissy due to the sweet nature of Von. Most of all, she felt slightly better.

“I’m a good girl, Papa but...I may struggle with this one,” she admitted for the first time in a year.

A gentle breeze sounded out and it sounded like a plea.

“I don’t think I can back out now,” she muttered and sighed as Von was glowing with red energy and the door began to melt.

“I’ll...call later, Papa,” she promised and ran off to stop her new boss from getting a face full of dwarven metal.

In the end...Von walked home with his share of silver payment... still half buried in his face.
