A veritable horde rushed into the cave, dark figures she couldn’t smell. Undead! Skeletons of wolves and Kobolds, zombie bats, in fact, a broad sampling of the monsters she had made throughout her dungeon poured in through the small opening. But it wasn’t just undead, behind the horde came the recognizable figures of Seth, Willow, Teagan, and Braden. And keeping himself back behind the combat adventurers, hiding against the rocky walls, Basil crouched, quickly decanting a glowing liquid essence into a vial charged with some black, bubbling tar.

Her Abyssal Stalker dropped from the ceiling, spraying demonic web across the invaders and unleashing an Ambush on Braden from behind. Blood sprayed into the air, but in an instant the room was lit by a glowing, shifting beam of green energy from Teagan’s hand – energy that healed Braden and bounced, cascading to Willow’s companion wolf. Braden downed a vial of something and shouted, spinning to attack.

Vampire Hornets burst from the Stalker like a storm cloud.

“Willow!” Basil called, raising the vial in an outstretched hand.

“Thanks,” she said tersely, grabbing the offering and lobbing it across the room with a swift overhand throw. The vial shattered on the stone, detonating in a blast of hellfire that ripped through the swarm of hornets.

Wow! Basil! That’s new, Ali thought, glancing at the unassuming plant-loving boy cowering in the corner, already decanting a new concoction.

An unfamiliar magic settled onto her Abyssal Stalker, coming from Seth, and then the entire horde of undead launched their offensive, each strike flickering with a recoil of magic rebounding from the stalker.

A new curse? Ali would have to ask him about it when she returned. It seemed to be healing everyone that hit the stalker, but she couldn’t quite make it out remotely through the senses of her monster. But it seemed like their group was well prepared to face her dangerous demonic guardian.

Ali reluctantly released her connection, leaving the adventurers to their fight so that her attention wouldn’t diminish their experience. They must be hoping to reach level thirty. A win here would gain them the privilege of silver rank at the guild and unlock a new skill slot.

As she sat and savored Mato’s creation, she found the hours of study beginning to catch up with her, and she found herself nodding off in the quiet of their camp, lit only by the glowing coals of the cookfire.

“Why don’t you get some sleep? You worked on that barrier for ages,” Calen said. “I’ll keep watch.”

“Yes, I think I might,” Ali said. She finished up quickly and turned in, falling asleep almost immediately.

Seth studied the delicate silvery runes traced out in the obsidian floor of the teleportation room down below the guild hall – they were quite spectacular in design, and Ali had reportedly crafted the entire thing from memory. On his finger was his shiny new silver guild ring – the reward for their successful defeat of the Abyssal Stalker.

Willow and Teagan had immediately departed to hunt down Weldin Thriftpenny to turn their loot into coin, but Seth was less interested in the outcome of that. They had discovered some interesting mushrooms in the cave and their haul had included a lot of that annoying demonic webbing the Stalker had used incessantly. But the biggest surprise had been the three slivers of Abyssal Bloodstone Willow had pried from the back wall – an obscure form of magicite, but it should still fetch a tidy sum when sold. Seth put it out of his mind; he trusted his teammates to be fair with his share.

His new ring was supposed to be his key to entering the library whenever he wanted. Not that the guild barred him from going whenever he asked, but it required Mieriel, the Guildmaster, or Ryn to transport him there unless Ali and her group were around.

But now he had his own key, and with that came a whole lot of freedom. Not only was the teleporter the gate to the library, and all the books within it, but it also had the teleportation circles Ali had made to Volle, Vertias, and Naia’s slime dungeon.

He stored the job slip and stepped into the teleportation circle.

Accept teleportation to the Dal’mohran Grand Library Arcana?

He accepted, and instantly he was in the library, silent now that it was the middle of the night, with the only movement coming from the slowly drifting wisps circling the massive tree and the nocturnal hunting of the golden dragonets searching for insects.

He searched the inlaid electrum circles till he found the one leading to Vertias. Somehow, Mieriel had figured out how to get job listings for the distant Torian city – presumably by using the teleport circle, just as he was doing. But it was a rather enormous boon for him, personally; he didn’t need much sleep anymore, and so he took night jobs to make a little more money and experience. Although tonight’s quest was a job from Lydia Avery – the tailor wanted someone to collect a rare kind of spider silk – the perfect job, no talking to any people required.

He appeared in an echoingly empty chamber with nothing but a teleportation locus inscribed on the ground and a sleepy Torian guard at a desk.

“Good evening,” he said, hoping that the night watch would not have the skills to identify his mana affinity.

“Evening,” the guard said, nodding.

Seth walked out into the darkness and quickly made his way out of the city, meeting almost nobody along the way. As soon as he was out of sight of the walls, he dropped several stored corpses on the ground and raised them as skeletons, and then set off to find the forest grove of the Shimmerweb Spiders.

I wonder if Ali would like some? They probably wouldn’t make good minions – his research had proven they posed little danger to a silver rank – but she seemed to like placing monsters that could be used by the town crafters for raw materials. He considered it for a while as he strolled through the darkness in the forest, and by the time he saw the sheets of shimmering web draped from the trees he had decided it wouldn’t hurt to save a few corpses for the dungeon, even if it meant the easy coin from this job dried up. Yes, she’d like a few of these.

There are always new jobs, he decided. He preferred variety anyway; experiencing new things was one of the reasons he was learning to appreciate his class.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledge

https://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledge

https://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
