As we settled into the Moon Room, we discussed Earth and how my realm of origin differed from theirs. Three of us sat on the central couch, with me between Louis and Silnar, while Nina lounged in a beanbag chair nearby. We talked about technology, magic, and, more importantly, food.

After I went on a particularly long discussion about how multiple cultures evolved in different ways, I was interrupted by Louis.

"So you're telling me your realm has so many cultures that you've got better food traditions than ours?" Louis frowned.

"Not particularly." I shook my head. "I've walked the streets of Hano, and you guys have just as much diversity as we do, maybe more."

"It makes sense. Hano is a melting pot of cultures," Silnar said. "We're the heart of the Seven Realms."

"Exactly. Our advantage isn't really cultural diversity. It's technology."

I paused.

"Actually, I wouldn't even go that far. In some ways, you guys have technology that would make Earth look primitive. I think it's more accurate to say that back on Earth, the average person has greater access to technology."

I put my finger on my chin, thinking.

"Take ice, for example. I bought an ice-making enchantment for four silver at the Soul Emporium. That cost as much as a Burdrass. On Earth, every single household has access to ice."

"Every household?" Nina tilted her head.

"Pretty much."

"How?"

"Electricity."

"I should have guessed as much," Nina sighed. "And here I thought I was starting to understand that energy."

"Don't worry. I'll get you there, in time."

"Anyway, when everyone has access to ice, everyone can innovate using that ingredient."

"I know a dish that we can make with ice," Silnar said. "My father showed it to me in his sanctuary."

He described something he called sweet snow, essentially shaved ice covered in a thick fruit syrup.

I nodded excitedly.

"You see, you're currently at the second stage of a great culinary invention. Back on Earth, we had a civilization called the Persians. They used to put juices over snow. Then, centuries later, the Arabs took the idea further. Rather than using simple juice, they created sharbat, which was a thick syrup, and developed something very similar to your sweet snow called sorbet. Finally, the Italians added heavy cream into the mix, and now we have ice cream."

"Heavy cream?" Louis frowned. "The stuff you skim over old milk before you make butter?"

"Yes."

"That doesn't sound too appetizing," said Nina.

"Oh, it is."

I turned toward the television.

"Alexa, show me a recipe for making ice cream using the two-bowl method."

"Playing, homemade ice cream recipe."

The television immediately switched to a cooking video. After the channel intro, there was a brief flash of dishes followed by the channel name.

"What's that?" Louis asked.

"It's a dream projection," Silnar explained. "I can create something like this at a cost back in my own sanctuary."

"While that's technically true, we actually have this device in the waking world as well. It's not based on dream magic."

"Really?"

"Let's focus on the video first."

We watched the cook place a large bowl inside an even larger bowl filled with ice before pouring heavy cream and milk into the smaller container. Silnar leaned forward.

"Is that the heavy cream?"

"Yes."

"You buy it ready in a bottle? You don't make it yourself?" Louis asked.

"Yes."

They both looked thoughtful at that.

The cook started beating the mixture with an electric hand mixer while the surrounding ice slowly drew away the heat. Nina's wings widened as she watched the tool in the cook's hand.

"That... that... it's just a whisk that rotates really fast. How come no one made something like this with a kinetic enchantment?"

"Mostly because enchantments cater to noble needs, not cooks," I guessed.

She watched the metal loops moving through the cream.

"It looks so efficient."

As the mixture started to fill with air, the cook added sugar.

Louis pointed toward the screen.

"What's that?"

"Sugar."

"Why doesn't it look like the sugar we have?"

I paused.

"You get your sugar as a big block, right?"

Louis and Silnar nodded.

"Our sugar gets processed into a fine crystal, almost like powder. We call it granulated sugar. Though, we also have several different types."

"Different types of sugar?"

"Yes. Powdered, brown sugar, raw sugar, and a bunch of others. They are all basically the same material, but they're processed differently."

Nina's wings twitched.

"So just like with crafting, you can alter the properties of an ingredient without changing what it fundamentally is."

"Exactly."

I pointed at the bowl.

"That's the sort of thing I want you two to understand. A lot of cooking isn't about discovering completely new ingredients. It's about understanding what you can do with the ingredients you already have."

My point became even more relevant when the cook added cacao powder.

"Case in point," I said. "That's the ingredient I asked you about earlier. You don't seem to have it in Hano."

"Does that mean we can't make this ice cream?" Louis asked.

"No, it's just a flavoring. You can replace it with mashed fruit, syrup, or nuts. You can even put the Angron tree sap you use for Kanta in it."

Silnar nodded in understanding.

After several minutes, the cream had thickened considerably.

"Once it's cold enough, the water freezes into tiny crystals while the fat and air give it that creamy texture."

Silnar's eyes narrowed.

"So the ice doesn't simply freeze the cream solid?"

"Not if you do it properly."

We watched as the creamy substance was put into a small bowl and topped with decorative frosting. I paused the video.

"I have an ice-making enchantment. Do you think you can make ice cream?"

"Sure, but whisking it manually would take too much effort," said Silnar. "I don't think serving it in the restaurant would be convenient."

"Give me a week and I can make that whisk thing," said Nina. "Well, after I am done with the microphones."

"That was just a tangent. We're here for tiramisu, after all. Still, I would love it if, one day, you could make me some ice cream."

"I'll try it after we're done with the shop's opening day," said Louis.

"Okay then, enough about ice cream. Let's move on to the actual dessert I wanted to show you."

I faced the screen once again.

"Alexa, show me a tiramisu recipe."

The screen changed to a close-up of a glass dish filled with alternating layers of pale cream and coffee-soaked biscuits. A generous layer of dark powder covered the top.

Louis leaned forward as she watched the dessert get scooped, with the spoonful highlighted in front of the camera for a few seconds.

"That looks lovely!"

"It's one of my favorites!"

The video began with the cook preparing the cream mixture. Mascarpone was placed into a bowl along with sugar and two egg yolks before being mixed into a smooth, thick cream.

Silnar watched closely, then frowned at the mascarpone.

"Is that cheese?"

"Technically, no. We call it mascarpone. It's heavy cream curdled with an acid like lime or vinegar."

"We do have that in the Mythic Realm!" Louis said with a nod. "We call it silk-cream."

"They're also using the magical whisk," Nina said. "I guess I should work on that fast if we want to have it ready for opening day."

"I guess I hadn't considered that. A lot of baking on Earth uses it. Still, it could be done by hand, especially since you have lots of apprentices."

The video continued, showing the cook dipping long, finger-shaped biscuits into coffee before arranging them neatly across the bottom of the dish.

"Are those biscuits?"

"We call them ladyfingers. They're a kind of cake meant to absorb liquid without completely falling apart."

I paused the video.

"Actually, let's look at how they're made."

"Alexa, show a recipe for ladyfingers."

The recipe looked deceptively simple. Eggs were separated, the whites whipped until they formed stiff peaks, and the yolks were mixed separately with sugar before the two mixtures were carefully combined with flour.

"Wait," Silnar said. "That's just sponge cake?"

"Pretty much."

He frowned.

"So you're telling me I already know how to make the two key ingredients for this dessert, and I just need to combine them after I soak the base in coffee?"

"This is the core of modern Earth cooking. There are popular base ingredients that are made from common raw ingredients. Once you master those, you can make an exponential number of dishes."

I pointed toward the screen.

"Put ice cream on top of ladyfingers, and you get an ice cream cake. Surround a fruit mousse with ladyfingers, and you get a Charlotte cake."

Each time I mentioned a dish, I summoned an image that appeared on the screen.

"Put mascarpone on top of dough and a layer of tomato sauce, and you get a mascarpone pizza."

"I can add ladyfingers to Kanta before it solidifies into pudding and get a Kanta cake." Silnar's eyes widened.

"That's it!" I said with a smile. "You get it!"

"But wouldn't that get restrictive?" Louis asked as we watched the finished ladyfingers come out crisp on the outside and soft in the center. "Every dish would become similar, and it would kill innovation."

"Innovation is overrated. What you want in a franchise restaurant is consistency," I explained. "After you master the perfect recipe for ladyfingers with the ingredients on hand, you make sure that it's consistently reproducible by anyone. Then you share that recipe with multiple cooks that work for you, and everyone knows that if they buy it from a different location that shares the same logo, it will taste the same no matter where they are in the Seven Realms."

"You can even have specialists only working on ladyfingers and share them with every restaurant in the chain, freeing up the cooks to only assemble the final product a few hours before serving and ensuring freshness."

"Huh, like we're doing with the dedicated coffee-roasting team," Louis said with a nod.

"Exactly."

"That makes sense for a restaurant.” Silnar also nodded slowly. “Prepare the components beforehand, then assemble the final dish when someone orders it."

I returned to a tiramisu video. This time, it was a short that looped through every step of making tiramisu in just one minute.

The cook prepared strong coffee and then briefly dipped each ladyfinger into the liquid before placing it into the dish.

"Don't soak them for too long," I warned. "You want them to absorb the coffee without turning into mush."

We watched the biscuits disappear beneath the first layer of cream.

"So it's coffee and cheesecake?" Nina asked.

I paused.

"More or less."

"That actually sounds really good." Nina smiled.

"The texture should be much lighter than cheesecake," Louis said thoughtfully. "And the bitterness from the coffee should give it a complex flavor."

The video showed another layer of mascarpone cream being spread over the biscuits before another layer of coffee-soaked ladyfingers was added.

Silnar's eyes narrowed.

"Could I change the coffee for something sweeter?"

"Technically, yes. The Italians may crucify me for saying this, but you can experiment however you want. This is another world with different flavors and different palates, but since we're already serving coffee as a new drink, I think traditional tiramisu would be a good dish to pair with it."

The cook in the video added a layer of brown powder.

"And the powder on top?"

"Cocoa powder."

Silnar frowned.

"The same cocoa you were talking about earlier?"

"Yes."

He looked disappointed.

"Since we don't have it, what do you suggest we use instead?"

"The cocoa isn't doing anything structurally. It's mostly there for flavor and presentation. You could replace it with finely ground roasted hazelnuts, for example."

"Roasted hazelnuts?" Louis's eyes brightened. "That's brilliant."

"Roast them until they're fragrant, let them cool, then crush them into a fine powder." I instructed.

Silnar nodded thoughtfully.

"That would probably work with the coffee."

"It would. You could also experiment with other nuts or spices if you wanted something different."

"Maybe cinnamon or coconut," Louis suggested.

The video looped back into the cream preparation once more. The two cooks watched the loop a few times before they spoke again.

"While it looks like a lot of work," Silnar said, "we're definitely making this."

"If we make the ladyfingers and the silk-cream beforehand, it should be manageable," Louis said with a nod.

"That's the heart of what I wanted to show you!" I nodded. "You create the perfect base ingredient, then use it to create a variety of dishes."

"Take puff pastry, for example." I went into the next tangent. "Once you know how to make the dough, you can turn it into a huge variety of sweet and savory dishes, all of them suited to different cravings. You can make breakfast foods like croissants, snacks like cinnamon puffs, desserts like Napoleon cake, portable lunches like mashed potato puffs, or appetizers like cheese twists. You can use the same dough to make sweet apple pies or savory meat casseroles."

"You can even make Vol-au-Vent," I chuckled before adding, "The French might execute me with a guillotine for saying this, but it's basically a dumpling."

Each time I named a dish, an image appeared on the screen. The variety was almost ridiculous.

Croissants looked nothing like the Napoleon cake next to them, while mashed potato puffs and cheese twists, although similar in composition in theory, were still completely different items on the menu. Apple pastries and meat pies looked similar before you cut them, but the taste was so different that there was no comparison between the two. Finally, the delicate little pastry cups of Vol-au-Vent were filled with a savory white tomato sauce, showing an entirely different way of using the dough.

"The same basic dough recipe can be used for all of these?"

"Exactly." I gestured toward the screen. "Once you have a reliable base, you can build almost anything around it."

I switched to a longer cooking video.

"This one shows how the dough is actually made."

The video showed a baker mixing flour, water, salt, and butter before working the mixture into a rough dough. The baker then prepared a separate slab of butter and began folding it into the dough.

"The important part is the layering," I explained. "You want to trap a layer of butter between layers of dough. Then you roll everything flat, fold it over itself, and roll it again. Every time you repeat the process, you create more layers of dough and butter."

The baker demonstrated the process several times, carefully folding the dough before rolling it out again.

"When you bake it, the water in the butter turns into steam. That steam pushes the layers apart, while the butter helps keep them separated. That's what gives puff pastry its flaky texture."

Silnar leaned closer to the screen.

"So the entire trick is just making sure the butter stays trapped between the layers?"

"More or less. The difficult part is keeping the butter from melting into the dough while you're working with it. That's why the process takes time and why temperature matters."

Nina's eyes narrowed as she studied the baker's hands.

"That looks incredibly tedious."

"Luckily, my hunky man has the muscle for it," Louis laughed.

"It is hard to make, especially since you must work with solid butter and not melted butter."

I switched to another video.

This one showed an industrial bakery. Instead of a baker manually rolling the dough, an enormous machine kneaded the mixture before feeding it through a series of rollers. The dough emerged in a perfectly even sheet and was repeatedly folded and rolled by the machine.

"We have machines like this in large bakeries," I explained. "They do the kneading and rolling for you."

Nina stared at the machine.

"I could probably make something like that."

"Really?"

She looked thoughtful for a moment before shaking her head.

"But it would be too expensive. I can't purify cores like they do in the Soul Emporium. They could probably make it better and more efficiently than I could."

"That is also an option."

I switched to another video.

"Back home, you can even buy premade puff pastry dough. You don't have to make the dough yourself at all."

The short showed croissants being made from premade puff pastry. The baker cut the dough into triangles, rolled them up, brushed them with egg, and placed them into an oven.

"This is what I mean."

I switched to another video.

Layers of pastry were baked until golden and crisp before being stacked with cream between them: Napoleon cake.

Another video.

The same kind of dough was used to wrap a savory filling before being baked until the pastry turned golden brown: meat pie.

Another.

Thin strips of pastry were twisted around themselves and covered in cheese before being baked: cheese twists.

Silnar stared at the screen for several seconds.

"If you ignore how difficult it is to make the original dough, all of those recipes look easy to make."

"That is exactly the point." I leaned back into the couch. "The difficult part doesn't have to be repeated every time you make a different dish. You make the complicated component in advance, then use it as a foundation for dozens of different recipes."

"And you use technology to make the difficult part easy, and in great quantity." Nina's wings fluttered slightly.

"So instead of every restaurant making its own puff pastry," Louis nodded, "you could have one group specialized in producing it."

"Exactly." I nodded. "If the rolling machine is too expensive for each restaurant, you could have a dedicated puff pastry team make the dough and distribute it to the different locations. And even if there are no machines at all, a dedicated puff pastry factory using manpower is also possible."

"The less complicated work you have to do inside each restaurant, the easier it becomes to keep everything consistent." I nodded excitedly, happy that they understood what I was going for. "You can have one team specializing in roasting coffee, another specializing in making ladyfingers, another preparing puff pastry, and one making silk-cream." I reiterated. "And finally, have the restaurants assemble everything when they actually need it."

"That would make opening another restaurant much easier." Louis nodded thoughtfully.

"That's the idea." I smiled. "Instead of teaching every new cook how to do everything, you create specialized teams that produce the difficult components in large quantities. Then the restaurants only need to follow the final recipes."

"That would also mean that apprentices would have a hard time stealing your recipes," Nina said excitedly. "If someone infiltrates your restaurant to sell out your secrets, he would be stymied by the lack of knowledge on how to make the base ingredients."

"Oh, I didn't consider that." Louis's eyes widened.

Silnar looked back toward the endless collection of recipes on the screen.

"With my sanctuary, once I taste the base ingredient, I can innovate a lot and see what flavors would match."

"Yes." I smiled. "You would have a few really good foundations that can become hundreds of recipes."

"This is the same principle I want you to apply to sauces."

The screen changed to a collection of colorful bottles and bowls filled with different condiments.

"Ketchup. Mayonnaise. Mustard. Tahini. Soy sauce. And hot sauce."

Silnar and Louis leaned closer.

"We already have mustard, soy sauce, and several kinds of hot sauce," Louis said.

"I figured as much. Those are old enough that most cultures independently discovered them in some form."

I pointed toward the first bottle.

"But you don't seem to have mayonnaise. It is made from eggs and oil."

Louis shook her head.

"No."

"Tahini?"

"What's that?"

"Crushed sesame seeds?"

An image of the seeds appeared overhead.

"Never seen those," said Louis.

"I have seen them. Some Dreamer put them in bread," Silnar said. "I don't think we have them in Hano."

"And ketchup?"

Silnar frowned.

"We have tomato sauce. We use it for all sorts of dishes."

"I know. What I'm talking about is a specific condiment made from tomatoes, vinegar, sugar, and spices. It's much thicker and sweeter than the tomato sauces you normally use with food."

"Once again, the same basic ingredient can be turned into completely different sauces depending on how you process it." Nina's wings twitched. "That's the philosophy of your world, it seems."

"Exactly."

I brought up a video showing ketchup being prepared, followed by another showing mayonnaise.

"These sauces are important because they can become ingredients in other sauces."

I switched to a video showing barbecue sauce being prepared.

"Ketchup and mustard are two of the simplest examples. You can combine ketchup with mustard, vinegar, sugar, spices, and a few other ingredients to make barbecue sauce."

The video showed the cook mixing everything together before simmering it into a thick, dark sauce.

"You could make dozens of variations just by changing the spices or proportions."

Silnar nodded slowly.

"So the sauce itself becomes another base ingredient."

"Exactly."

I switched to another recipe.

"Tahini is similar. It's basically a paste made from ground sesame seeds. You can eat it on its own, mix it with lemon juice and garlic, or add chickpeas to turn it into hummus."

A bowl of hummus appeared on the screen.

"This is a completely different dish, but one of its important foundations is still just tahini."

Louis leaned forward.

"We could make that and use it as a dipping sauce for the cheese twists you showed us earlier."

"Now you see the vision!" I exclaimed. "I am not here to teach you how to cook. You are better than me at the craft. I am teaching you how to build a food franchise."

I changed the video again.

"Soy sauce can be modified too. You can combine it with miso, vinegar, sugar, ginger, garlic, or other seasonings to create completely different sauces."

Another video appeared, this one showing a spicy sauce being prepared.

"And hot sauce can be combined with garlic and olive oil to make something like harissa."

"So each sauce has a distinctive taste, but you can use it as the foundation for another sauce." Silnar looked increasingly fascinated.

"You don't have to use those sauces." I nodded excitedly. "You can start with a traditional sauce from your realm as the initial base, and you can work your way up from there."

I brought up three different barbecue sauce recipe short videos side by side.

"All three of these start with basically the same foundation: ketchup and mustard."

The first cook added mayonnaise.

The second added Greek yogurt.

The third added cumin and a different mixture of spices.

"Look at how different they become."

The three finished sauces had slightly different colors and viscosities.

"That's where creativity comes in. You don't necessarily need to invent an entirely new sauce from scratch. You can start with something familiar, change a few ingredients, and create a distinctive flavor that becomes associated with your restaurant."

"So if we create a sauce that people really like," Silnar looked thoughtful, "we can use it across multiple dishes."

"Yes!" I pointed toward the three recipes. "And more importantly, you can make the same signature sauce for every restaurant in the chain. That means your dishes taste the same regardless of which cook prepares them."

"So even if someone orders the same meal in another city," Louis nodded, "they know exactly what they're getting."

"That's the idea. Consistency is one of the biggest advantages of a franchise." I paused before continuing. "And this is also where you can protect your recipes."

Silnar raised an eyebrow.

"How?"

"Your base recipes aren't necessarily going to remain secret forever. Once people figure out how to make puff pastry or ladyfingers, they can copy them. You can't stop that."

I tapped the screen.

"But your signature sauces can be different."

I showed them another recipe. This time, a Szechuan sauce variant.

"You two create the sauces yourselves. You experiment until you find combinations that are distinctive enough that people recognize them immediately. Then you make sure those sauces are only prepared by the two of you, or by a very small number of people you trust."

"The apprentices could know how to assemble the dishes without knowing how to make the sauces." Nina nodded.

"Exactly." I smiled. "Even if someone steals your recipes for the main dishes, customers will still call out the fraud when the flavor of the sauce is different."

"So the sauce becomes part of the identity of the restaurant." Louis's eyes widened.

"Exactly."

"And if someone steals the recipe for the sauce?" Silnar crossed his arms thoughtfully.

"Then make another one."

He blinked.

I shrugged.

"You don't have to stop innovating just because someone copied something you made three years ago. By the time they figure out your current recipe, you should already have something new."

"That sounds exhausting." Nina's wings fluttered.

"It can be, but you actually have an advantage."

I pointed toward Silnar.

"You have an entire sanctuary filled with ingredients and flavors you've tasted."

Then I pointed toward Nina.

"Nina can make you accessories and tools that help you with mass production and presentation."

I pointed at myself.

"I have a library of recipes from another world."

I finally pointed toward Louis.

"She is a genius when it comes to adapting food with local ingredients. Adding fire roots as a garlic and onion substitute was inspired. I am sure she will be able to make the perfect secret sauce."

Louis blushed at the compliment, while Silnar looked thoughtful. Nina, meanwhile, seemed excited by the idea of inventing small gadgets.

After that, I decided to show them how modern Earth restaurants were actually run. That quickly led to a discussion about some of the more questionable practices restaurants had fallen into, such as endless menus, pre-making food and then freezing it, and relying on complicated preparation systems rather than actually cooking each dish fresh.

That, naturally, led to me showing them an episode of a reality TV cooking show where a celebrity British chef would visit restaurants with kitchens in absolutely nightmarish conditions.

Silnar was fascinated by the chef's colourful language.

Louis, on the other hand, was horrified by the culinary crimes being committed.

One episode led to another, and one cooking show led to a few more. I showed them a competitive cooking show with the same celebrity, and every time a dish was discussed, I would pull up a short clip of the recipe on a side screen, showing them how it was prepared and giving them a chance to see the process for themselves.

Nina asked why the production of those shows was so different from the cooking recipe video I was showing earlier, which led to a discussion on how competitive the entertainment industry and reality TV are. One thing led to another, and I ended up showing them a few episodes of a show from a massive global reality television franchise where a group of single contestants live isolated in a luxury villa under constant surveillance to find romance and win a cash prize.

They couldn't stop watching the train wreck, and even I was dumbfounded at times. Since I had paid some Inspiration to show them the latest season that was aired after I was isekai'ed.

"After meeting you and seeing a glimpse of your world, art, and music," said Nina, her eyes wide, "I thought your people were enlightened beings who only lived for acquiring knowledge and refining the arts. This show single handedly shattered that vision"

"Was this filmed in Sin City?” asked Louis. “This was definitely Unholy. Will I lose my Faithful class when I wake up?"

I heard Silnar praying to both the Phoenix and the Sleepless Father, thanking them that he found a girl who was not "a rabid animal."

"It's not that bad," I said. "I could have definitely showed you worse."

"Lady, preserve us," said Louis.

"This was one way to spend our last hour of dreaming," said Nina before narrowing her eyes at Silnar. "This is why we should have gone to Alice's sanctuary first."

"You could have used what you learned here and tested it in your dream kitchen."

"I regret nothing," Silnar said with a grin.

"I guess we'll have to try them in the waking world," Louis said.

With that, we called it a night. I really hoped they would find success with this rather than it becoming just another novelty that slowly faded away. Still, if it meant I got to eat more tiramisu and ice cream, I was more than willing to bankroll it myself.