Mistress Elnea regarded the sleeping Lea. “Her existence does shift things for you. You haven’t said so explicitly, but I know it does.”

Tala gave a slow nod. “Honestly? I had a niggling fear that children would forever be out of reach. Lea isn’t a fix, nor a patch, but she is both a proof that under the right circumstances children are possible for us, and a joy that complicates our lives in the short term.”

That brought smiles to the other women’s faces, and Mistress Elnea sighed. “Such are children. Life without them is hard to fathom, though. Even faced with eternity myself, the idea of me being the ending, a hard stop to the advance of the generations?” She shook her head. “It isn’t worth contemplating. At this point, it’s not possible as I have had… many children.”

“Oh? Did you lose count?” Tala gave a teasing smile.

“Not at all, but it is impolite to flaunt one's blessings where another has struggled.”

Tala hesitated at that. Oh… right.

Mistress Jenna cleared her throat. “Regardless, what she is saying is quite true. Lea will be a source of stress and joy for as long as she graces your life.”

Tala looked down at her sleeping daughter. “She is that already…”

Their smiles grew.

The four sat in silence for a long few moments before the two older women stood. “We’ve already taken more of your time than we expected. There is no need to get up. Thank you for allowing us to come by and meet her.”

Tala gave a nod of acknowledgement to each of them. “Thank you for coming, and for your acceptance of my daughter.”

They stood, bowing in return before leaving through the portal that Tala opened for them.

As that portal closed, Tala was left alone, holding her sleeping daughter.

Oh, how things have changed so much, so quickly. She recalled her sister falling asleep against her in a similar fashion when they were both quite young, and the memory only brought about a small flood of sadness.

Tala shifted her arm to wrap more fully around Lea.

You are missed, Illie. I’m sorry that you never got to meet this niece of yours.

-She would have loved her.-

Yes, she would have.
