Once the floodgates were opened, the dining room was filled with conversation. It turned out that the answer to Daphne’s question was: a lot.

Due to both its fame and annual occurrence, everyone knew something about Lord Rotham’s ball. Lord Alardice did most of the talking, but Agnes, Henry, and even Llyr occasionally chimed in. By the time the sun had descended, they were still discussing the exact details of their plan.

Pyre watched idly as Daphne carefully wrote out her formal letter to the Rotham family requesting an invitation to the ball. Callan was hovering over her shoulder, and the two kept muttering back and forth about the exact wording to use, what would and wouldn’t sound suspicious, and generally probably overthinking it. Pyre was pretty sure the Bellhein seal alone would be more than enough convincing. Across the table, Lord Alardice tapped his finger impatiently.

They’d paused an hour ago to light the lamps around the room, which now cast the dining table in a warm glow. Between that and the bright silver moonlight streaming in through the window, it was nearly as bright as daytime. Which was good, considering the letter-writing and the map of the Rotham manor that Lord Alardice (assisted by Agnes) was attempting to sketch out.

The noble in question heaved an exasperated sigh. Daphne immediately looked up with a frown.

“What?” she said suspiciously. “How’s the map?”

In response, Lord Alardice raised the paper. In the center was a vaguely rectangular shape that Pyre assumed represented the ballroom, and around it were a few crude, sketchy lines depicting the connected hallways that led to the other parts of the manor. It certainly wasn’t the most detailed thing in the world. About on par with her crossroad-drawing attempts.

“I can’t even tell if that’s one or two hallways,” Daphne pointed out. “Your memory can’t be that bad.”

“As I said before, I do not enjoy visiting the Rotham estate,” Lord Alardice muttered. He set the map back down with a frown. “Frankly, I doubt that prior knowledge of the building’s exact layout will matter, considering your friend seems to have no issue looking through things unseen.” He glanced briefly over at Callan, who made a point to keep his eyes on the letter. Lord Alardice continued. “I’d be more concerned about your group attracting suspicion during the ball itself.”

Daphne snorted. “Thank you for your concern, Lord Alardice, but I’m perfectly aware of how to conduct myself during a social gathering. Balls are not exclusive to Galen.”

“I’m not worried about you or Llyr,” the man muttered. He scowled. “Your guard is the issue.”

Around the table, every head turned to face Pyre. The demon in question raised an eyebrow.

After some (a lot of) back and forth, they’d decided that Daphne would attend the ball with Callan as an attendant and Pyre as her personal guard. It matched what their cover story already was, wouldn’t arouse suspicion, and it was easier than trying to secure separate invitations for them.

Llyr, on the other hand, was well-liked enough that he could probably show up the day of and have no issue getting in. Worst-case scenario, he could go as either Daphne or Lord Alardice’s plus-one.

With this setup, they’d enter, then Callan could slip away, turn invisible, and search the manor once he was inside. There’d be more than enough people that no one would give a random servant a second glance.

The ghost had even suggested that Pyre and Llyr stay behind entirely, but Pyre had pointed out that if something went wrong, he’d be happy for the backup. He’d agreed pretty quickly after that, no doubt remembering the two monsters’ fight. Daphne had a lot of firepower and could do the most raw damage out of all of them, but neither she nor Callan was particularly good at taking hits if push came to shove.

That being said, while they were there in case of emergency, the hope was that the night would end with no one the wiser. Frankly, Callan would be doing most of the work. The rest of them would just be chilling, acting not-suspicious, and possibly diverting attention if needed. The latter would not be hard for Pyre. The first half was apparently more iffy, judging by the reactions around the table.

“The guards just stand by the walls all night, right? It’s not like I’ll be talking to anyone,” the demon pointed out. Agnes had said as much. The knight captain would be there as well—albeit half as a guard and half as a guest—while Henry temporarily took command of the rest of the knights.

“Every soul in Serindell knows you as the lunatic who hunted a man across the roofs before cornering him and slicing off his arm,” Lord Alardice said dryly. “Frankly, I suspect the only reason Lord Rotham hasn’t already sent the Bellheins an invitation is because of your reputation.”

Daphne narrowed her eyes. “Are they aware that the man was one of the kidnappers terrorizing the city?”

“We did disseminate that information while we were searching for leads,” Agnes said from where she’d been calmly watching the conversation so far. Her gaze moved to Pyre. “Unfortunately, that only somewhat pacified their fears. You—and Lady Daphne by extension—are considered quite terrifying,” she added with a small smile.

Llyr made a noise that sounded like a chuckle while Callan muttered something under his breath. Daphne clicked her tongue.

“I’m sure Serindell’s nobility can tolerate the presence of a formidable guard for a single night,” she said with all the noble airs she had in her. She set her pen down and gave her letters a final read-through before carefully folding them. Lord Alardice’s eyes moved to the papers.

“Why are there two?”

“One is to my cousin, the current head of the Bellhein family,” Daphne explained. “Since I’m already sending one letter, I thought now would be a good time to write to him.” She picked up the two letters and raised them towards Lord Alardice expectantly. The other noble stared at her.

“I am not a mail courier.”

Daphne smiled sweetly. “But you’ll be returning to the city soon, correct? The post house is along the way. And it’s in all our best interests if Lord Rotham receives the request and sends the invitation as soon as possible.”

The man’s eyebrow twitched. Still, he slowly, painstakingly reached an arm out and grabbed the two letters, only to immediately pass them off to a confused-looking Henry.

Pyre snorted. That was certainly one way to get things done. But hey, as long as the letter got where it needed to, it didn’t really matter. She, for one, was thoroughly enjoying the continuation of Daphne and Lord Alardice’s passive-aggressive noble pissing competition. She was pretty sure Agnes found the whole thing entertaining as well, and so did Llyr now that he wasn’t spiraling. She hoped they kept this up until the ball.

“It’s getting late,” Lord Alardice muttered. “We can continue this conversation after you’ve received your invitation.” He paused. “Unless you’d rather stay at the Alardice estate until the ball,” he added, albeit somewhat reluctantly after a brief glance at the debris in the hallway. Pyre was surprised he’d made the offer at all.

“Absolutely not,” Daphne said. “I wouldn’t want to risk another ambush.”

“Ah yes, the ambush I already apologized for,” Lord Alardice said dryly. “And while my methods might have been crude, they did lead us in the correct direction, did they not? My conclusions were not entirely baseless.”

Across the table, Callan frowned. “You know,” he began slowly, hesitant as he studied the noble, “I was actually wondering about that. I mean, I understand why you thought Llyr was connected to the kidnappings, but when did you start suspecting he wasn’t human in the first place? And how? If it was early enough, couldn’t you have questioned him then? Reputation wouldn’t have been a problem before he became so well known.”

The ghost must have been holding the question in for some time now, based on the sudden onslaught of words. There’d been too much going on—and too much tension and hostility—to really ask before this.

Pyre found that she was curious, too. It didn’t seem like anyone else in the city had figured out what Llyr was, and the question of “how to avoid getting discovered as a monster” was probably relevant to her. Her eyes moved over to the noble in question, as did the gazes of the others at the table. Even Agnes and Henry looked curious.

Lord Alardice didn’t respond right away. He took a moment to idly adjust the position of his hands where they lay folded across the table, unhurried.

“I didn’t know in the beginning, or yes, I would’ve apprehended him right away,” he finally began. “As I said before, I was never entirely certain, but I did grow more suspicious as time passed.” He turned to the healer in question, who met his gaze evenly.

“I thought I hid it quite well,” Llyr said. “I suppose it wasn’t as well as I thought, if you found out,” he added, a bit of sarcasm entering his voice. While he was clearly calmer than before, it looked like he wasn’t fully reverting to his old persona, instead allowing more of his actual personality to bleed through. Probably for the better, considering that his “saint” image was thoroughly shattered anyway.

“I’m quite observant,” Lord Alardice said dryly. He cocked his head. “Actually, I was originally intending on courting you.”

Callan choked, which was a doubly impressive feat considering that he both wasn’t drinking anything and that he was a ghost.

“Imagine my surprise,” the noble continued idly, ignoring the gawking around the table, “when I realized you were likely not as human as you were pretending.” He clicked his tongue. “Very unfortunate.”

“So, what, you were going to court him, then planned that whole ambush anyway?” Pyre raised an eyebrow. “Damn, what happened to love making you blind or whatever.” That sounded like a vaguely familiar saying from her Earth life. Then again, there was also the distinct possibility that him paying closer attention to Llyr was how he’d figured out that he wasn’t human in the first place. Which was funny to think about.

Lord Alardice turned to the demon, his usual derision back on his face. “I’m not some impulsive child. I’m not foolish enough to allow my emotions to cloud my judgement,” he said. His lips thinned. “Especially not after the previous incidents.”

“Previous incidents?” Daphne squinted at him. “Excuse me?”

“The last man I courted turned out to be a lust demon,” Lord Alardice remarked in an impressively bored tone considering the topic. He spoke like he was simply discussing the weather, like accidentally courting monsters was the most normal thing in the world. “The woman before that was a vampire. That one was particularly dangerous,” he added with a wry smile. “She would’ve sucked me dry if I hadn’t had my dagger on me.”

Based on Agnes’s mildly amused reaction, she’d known about these “incidents” already. Clearly no one else had, though.

“And how many times,” Llyr began, “has this happened exactly?”

The noble furrowed his brows in thought. “Six, I believe, if you count yourself.”

“Six,” Callan mouthed under his breath, shaking his head slightly. Daphne, meanwhile, was staring at Lord Alardice in utter bafflement, as if she couldn’t believe that that number was even possible. Pyre raised an eyebrow.

“Have you considered,” she drawled, “that you might be attracted to monsters?”

The man waved dismissively. “Coincidences.”

“Six,” Callan repeated. Pyre was pretty sure the ghost’s brain had broken somewhere.

“Putting my personal affairs aside,” Lord Alardice continued, now clearly starting to grow annoyed at all the focus on his hilariously bad courting luck, “it shouldn’t take more than a few days for Rotham to respond to you. We can meet again at my manor and finalize our plans then.”

He rose from his chair to his full height, dark coat shifting with the movement. Henry snapped out of his bewilderment long enough to tuck the letters into his pocket and stand at attention, and Agnes stepped back as well.

Lord Alardice took a moment to adjust his coat before nodding at their group. “I assume I needn’t remind you to stay out of trouble before the ball,” he drawled.

The pointed remark was enough to snap Daphne out of her bafflement. She scowled at the other noble.

“I hope you remember to keep our conversation today secret as well, Lord Alardice.”

The noble’s lips thinned. “Of course.” He nodded to them. “I wish you a good evening.”

He didn’t even wait for a response before turning away and striding towards the dining room door. Henry hurried after him while Agnes paused just long enough to give them a much more genuine wave and smile.

“Good night,” she said before she, too, turned and exited the room.

A few moments later, the noble’s steady footsteps and the two knights’ more metallic ones disappeared. Pyre heard the front door open and close, then the muffled sound of horse hooves that soon faded after the carriage left the bounds of the property.

After all the chatter from before, the dining room now felt distinctly more empty. The brief moment of brevity had faded, and now the reality of the cultists, the kidnappings, and their possible lead weighed down on them again.

Pyre glanced out the window. There were still several hours before the night would be over. No matter how fast Lord Rotham was, they wouldn’t get a response until tomorrow evening at the absolute earliest.

“Well,” the demon remarked. “I guess now we wait.”