Even if they couldn’t gain that title, no one knew whether Administrators would keep any power or influence after a Chief Administrator had been successfully selected. Doubt regarding the true roles of these Seat of the Exalted Prima titles should alone be enough for at least a few to have earnestly tried to pass the test.

“I don’t think it’s a good assumption that everyone else failed the test,” Lillian said, shaking her head. “Something else is going on here.”

“There certainly is something amiss,” the wyvern frowned, sounding more like he wanted to be part of the conversation than having any actual input.

Miranda was in full agreement with both of them as they continued walking through the large space station and its many common areas. They even went to the hallway of simulation rooms that Miranda had used during the Myriad Paths event. Holstred had also done the event, though that had been back on his home planet, while Lillian hadn’t quite been strong enough to participate back then. Oh, and William was still in the clutches of the Primordial of Karma back then, which led him to make many self-sabotaging decisions, such as not taking part in important system events.

She considered whether that was why the mage was so quiet compared to the rest of them, and she was reluctant to ask him if that was the case. Being manipulated by a Primordial couldn’t be healthy and was bound to cause certain issues that would linger, perhaps for the rest of his life.

Quietly chatting, the five kept exploring as much of the space station as they could over the next few hours, even finding a few teleporters that took them around the large complex. There were several hemispheres with gardens, places that resembled private residences, training grounds, and much more. Miranda hadn’t seen any of this the first time she was there. Likely because it had all been unavailable back then.

Throughout, William didn’t speak at all, but instead kept making magical seals and appeared quite preoccupied. However, suddenly, he stopped and frowned, making the other four turn to him.

“Did you discover something?” Miranda asked.

“Pretty sure I did,” William nodded, and without any warning, his body exploded with energy as a whirlwind of metal strings was unleashed towards the four of them, striking Lillian first as blood soon filled the empty hallways of the Seat of the Exalted Prima.
