It took a while. A few dwarfs finished pretty fast; but they all eventually did their 10 push-ups, and after a short rest, really enjoyed their pie. The rest of the day went by pretty fast after that. With Ren's food motivation idea, and constant pestering from their training instructor, everyone finished the day exhausted. They were also quite happy with their accomplishments. Ren had even slept for the whole hour at suppertime.

Stat Change!

Command Level 2 (Beginner 0%)

Ren noticed it was getting dark, bid everyone farewell, and headed out. He made it back to House Neram, fed Princess, and went inside. He was greeted with a pair of nearly identical smiling faces.

They look more like twins than mother and daughter. Ren thought and smiled back. He sat down at the table and they ate a great meal. When they were done, Narhilda took out another piece of parchment.

“Can you guess what this is?” She said and waved it back and forth a few times.

“In my professional opinion, I'd say it's an order for a thousand Warrior uniforms.” Ren said.

Narhilda and Nathalia's mouths dropped open.

“How could you possibly know that?” Nathalia asked.

Ren shrugged. “I expected something like it yesterday. When it didn't come, I assumed it was just a matter of time.”

“Do you think it's another test?” Narhilda asked.

Ren nodded. “Definitely. May I see it?”

She handed the order over, and Ren read it.

New Quest!

You have impressed the Commander with your High Quality uniforms. Now he wants to test your speed. You must complete 1000 Warrior uniforms by the end of the week.

Rewards: 5000 XP

70 Platinum Coins (Quoted cost for bulk orders 7gc each)

Influence: 500

Honor: 100

Ren grinned. “I better get to work.” He said and stood up.

“What about sleep?” Narhilda asked. “You know how I feel about that...”

Ren walked over and took her hand, bending over it. “My Lady, I slept well today. I even got out of the brig early.”

Her eyes widened at that. “So that's why...”

Ren nodded. “I figured the order would come, now that I wasn't locked up.”

Narhilda huffed. “Okay, fine!” She said then smiled. “Go to work.”

Ren let go of her hand, and smiled. “As you command, My Lady.”
