So unbelievable only faith could explain it, the argument didn’t sit well with Song. Or with Akanai, for that matter, for this was not the Mother’s way, but she had no other way to justify it, not yet at least. “Tell me, what makes you think ‘One with the Self’ is the correct answer?”

“Timing and probability,” Song Sent, without missing a beat. “According to Rain, when he shattered his Core, he immediately felt his Chi and Heavenly Energy seeping out into the world. If this is the case, then even if the gourd of Water Chi was effective, why did he not sense anything for two weeks after the fact? What’s more,” Song continued, gaining confidence in tone and posture as she went on, “It is unlikely for two distinct and unconnected solutions to present themselves both at the same time, and more likely that the same solution was responsible for both. Since the gourd of Water Chi is too far removed from the timeline and Rain was only lost in his ‘unique state of Balance’ in a single instance, I believe One with the Self is the more likely answer since it fits in both circumstances.”

“You are not wrong, sweet child,” Akanai Sent, smiling at this ferocious kitten before her, so assertive and self-assured. “However, you misunderstand. I was asking why you think ‘One with the Self’ is an answer at all.”

Although it hurt to see the wind let out of her sails, Akanai consoled herself with the knowledge that there was still plenty of fire and steel inside Song. Her cat-ears flattening in unease and worry, Song sank deeper into Akanai’s embrace and she had to do everything she could not to laugh and comfort the girl. “Sorry Mama,” Song whispered, before switching back to Sending again. “But I think... I think I utilized One with the Self to Form my Natal Palace.”

It took some coaxing to get the entire story from Song, but thankfully Rain had also taken to sleeping in recently and the pup had scheduled the meeting for late morning. Once all was said and done however, Akanai couldn’t hold her sigh back any longer and deflated with Song in her arms. “There is nothing you need be sorry about,” Akanai said, wracking her mind for a way to explain away all of Song’s doubts and misgivings. “...One with the Self is... not necessarily right or wrong, but it is an unsubstantiated concept. It may be that Dastan is correct and a certain measure of self-awareness is required to progress along the Martial Path, but it may also be incorrect in that it does not hold the significance he believes it does, at least not to everyone.” Or it could just be wrong outright, but Akanai was loathe to jump to conclusions in matters pertaining to the Martial Path, because no two people tread the same Path, so perspectives were liable to shift depending on who you asked.

Which meant there was a good chance the concept of One with the Self did apply to Song, because it allowed her to accept her life for what it was instead of letting her Oaths define her for what she was. Restricted though she might be, this did not equate to living out a miserable existence, it only meant her life had great potential for misery if she should fall into the wrong hands, but this was a truth which applied to all, albeit on differing levels. What mattered was that even though the Empire would always see her as a slave, to the People, she was Li Song, Daughter of Akanai and Husolt, and sister to Baatar and Mila.

Rather than telling Song all this and dictating what she should think, Akanai instead gathered all the bits and pieces of wisdom she’d picked up during her long and fruitful life. “Cultivation,” she began, dipping her finger into the teacup and using it to write out the characters on the wooden dining table, “Is written Xiu Zhen (修真). Individually, these words can mean many things, but together, they mean to nurture truth. Therefore, to cultivate the Martial Path is to nurture the truth.” Seeing Song’s frown, Akanai smiled at how similar the expression was to little Mila’s when she first heard this. Akanai herself probably had much the same expression, but the Army trainer wasn’t a man who responded kindly to questions or incompetence. “The derivation of the words is unimportant, only the meaning behind them. To nurture the truth means to take what we know and use it to seek an understanding of the ultimate truth, an Insight into the fundamental laws of Creation and Destruction themselves.”

Pointing at the Xiu (修) character, Song sheepishly said, “Teacher Du translated this as ‘study’, but it also fits with Mama’s description.”

Ah. So the frown was not a lack of comprehension, but rather because the sweet girl had heard it before, only differently. “Nurture, study, embellish, construct, decorate, repair, the word can mean many things, and yes more than one can fit, but that is the beauty of the expression.” Tapping Song lightly on the nose to show her words were not an accusation, Akanai said, “However, not all truths are universal, for many things can change depending on perspective. Take age for example. You, at twenty two years of age are but a child in my eyes, not much different from Tali and Tate. To them, however, you are no different from myself, an adult to be obeyed and spoiled by. Depending on perspective, you are either young or you are old, so therefore both can be true.”

“...I see.”

She did, in a way, and Akanai praised the girl for being more clever than she’d been at that age. It took decades for this lesson to sink into Akanai’s skull, and only because her husband explained it in so many different ways. “Thus, in order to cultivate, to nurture the truth, we must cast aside everything which is variable and impermanent, leaving only that which is unchanging and sacrosanct, the immutable laws of Heaven themselves.”

This time, there was no acknowledgement of understanding from the girl, which more than anything proved that she was listening. After long minutes of silence, Song finally spoke up again, having reached the answer all on her own. “So since the truth can be altered by perception, one cannot be told if something is impermanent, because one will not truly understand without coming to it by themselves. Had I no concept of time, I would have difficulty understanding how one can be both old and young, just like someone born blind would not understand colours.”

...Colours. That was a much better example than age, one Akanai would use from here on out. “Yes, clever daughter of mine. This is why when it comes to matters of the Martial Path, the less said, the better. What is helpful to one might be harmful to another, and since it is impossible to tell if a word of advice will help or harm until after the fact, it is best to keep silent and let each person forge their own Path.”

“...Then why are we going to so much trouble to help Rain?” Song asked, genuinely curious without a hint of envy or spite. “He will come to the answer on his own, given time. He always does.”

Knowing Song had so much faith in the boy set off alarm bells in Akanai’s mind, for she was loathe to lose a second daughter to that lecherous cad, but now it almost seemed inevitable. Were Rain not her beloved Grand-Disciple, Grandson, and all-around decent person, she would’ve castrated him long ago for leading sweet Mila down such a deviant path.

To think, Akanai’s bright-eyed, innocent child was forging sexual restraints instead of Spiritual Weapons, oh where did things go wrong?

Woefully patting Song’s head once more, Akanai considered if she should get Song her own menagerie of pets, if only to keep her away from Rain’s. “Enough about the boy,” she said, standing up and bringing her daughter away. “There are several hours yet before the meeting, so how about we spend the morning at the market?”

“Okay Mama. I’d like that.” Following behind with a soft smile on her lips, Song grabbed a covered bucket of offal and organs and said, “Right after I feed the birds.”

Yes... Song most certainly needed a menagerie of her own, with proper animals like lions, wolves, and perhaps a carnugator or two, but no birds of any kind.

Well, perhaps a hawk or eagle, if only to keep the damned Laughing Bird population in check...

Chapter Meme
