Coughing loudly, dad tries to talk without wheezing. “It wasn’t a fight, I just wanted to get you away from him. He moved so fast; I could barely defend myself. Luckily, I held out till some of the other villagers came, and he stopped rampaging. The bastard threw me through a tree.”

“And don’t call that man master again!”

“I was so worried, sweety. Your father brought you home unconscious, half dead himself. What happened? What caused him to go crazy?”

I did this to myself. I’ve been lying not just to Del but to my family for years. Are they going to freak out the same way?

“I lied to Del.” I lower my head in shame.

“Sweety, that doesn’t justify what he did!” Hugging me tighter, mom only makes me feel worse.

“I lied to him, like I’ve been lying to you guys.”

“What?”

Shrugging away from mom, I look at my family. I can’t see straight with all my tears.

“Master Del told me some very personal things. Reasons why he’s out here, and I never told him what I could do.”…“He caught me practicing, and I don’t know…. he freaked out, thought I was a spy or something. I don’t know?!”

Mother and father are too stunned to say anything. Richard, pauses treating dads’ wounds, and asks the question they can’t; “What were you practicing?”

Wiping my eyes, I walk over to our fire wood. Grabbing a piece of kindling, I push my mana into it.

The three of them stare wide-eyed, as the wood regains its color and eventually disintegrates in my hands.

Looking up, I finally tell my family. “I was practicing magic.”

The sun has set, and as if by some stereotypical coincidence it starts to pour outside. I’m sitting at the table explaining my magic skills to my family, slowly finishing my dinner. They even broke out the candles we rarely use, expecting this to take a while.

Mom looks skeptical; “I don’t see how you have been practicing for so long, and none of us have noticed it?”

“You walked in on me a week ago, mom. Remember when I was recovering from the karhu attack, I told you I was meditating.”

“I thought you were joking!”

“I mostly meditate before I go to bed. I stay up for a few hours practicing, and wake up late because using mana drains someone like stamina.”

“Since when could you use magic, sweety?” Dad finally asked me a question, I was worried he would be like Del, but he reassured me with his big smile.

I won’t tell them about my past life, but I need to get most of my secrets out. I love and trust my family the most in this world.

“I started practicing a little before I turned two.”

“What!”“What!”“What!”

All three of them are stunned. Their faces bring a smile to me for the first time tonight.

“It’s hard to explain, but I’ve always been able to sense mana. To me, mana is like the air we breathe, and as I got older, I could sense it better and better each year.”

Richard suddenly had a look on his face; “You said you practice every night, even when you were two?”

“Yep, I would wait for you to start snoring, then practice for a few hours.”

“So, nights I thought you were asleep, you were listening to me!?” Richard turns red, then the parents thought about what he said and turned red as well.

“While meditating, I try to block everything out. It got a lot easier after you left, though.”

This is going better than I thought.

“If you have been practicing this much, what level are you Aaliyah?”

Leave it to brother to ruin the mood.

No this is important two, sharing your stats shows how much you trust someone.

“I’m level 38, almost 39.”

“Gods!”“Wow!”“Oh, dear!”

“That’s the reason I didn’t want to show you my stats when I had my Awakening. I know it’s late but here is my status page:”

LV: 38 Experience: 37,284/ 48,950Health: 1000/1000 Stamina: 632/666 Mana: 500/500Vitality: 100Endurance: 50Strength: 50Dexterity: 50Senses: 50Mind: 50Magic: 50Clarity: 50Status Points: 106Skills: Sense Mana (LV46), Acting (LV25), Meditation (LV45), Expel mana (LV28), Charm (LV33), Running (LV31), Cleaning (LV17), Mathematics (LV26), Writing (LV12), Mana Manipulation (LV9), Wood Carving (LV8), Drawing (LV5), Axe Skills (LV11), Inject mana (LV3), Mining (LV4)

“That’s not all.”

With everyone focusing on me, this makes it a little harder.

“Inject Mana is a tier 4 skill.”

Before anyone can say anything, mother demands everyone’s attention. “That information doesn’t leave this room. Aaliyah never tell someone about tier 4 skills. It’s dangerous for villagers to advertise skills like that, nobles have been known to “collect” people with higher tier skills.”

“Did you tell Del about your skill?”

“No mother, he reacted before I could explain myself.”

“Good, you don’t need to see him ever again.” Dad demands, I can see where he stands.

“Please stop, I know Master Del overreacted, but after the time I spent with him I know he’s a good person.”

“A good person wouldn’t have hurt you like that, or tried to kill your father.”

“Mother, I can’t tell you secrets that aren’t mine; but I can say, if Master Del wanted to kill dad, he could have done it with one blow.”

Everyone looks shaken with that remark.

Dad is the first one to recover and looks at me with serious eyes. “Sweety, what are you planning to do?”

Looking down, the sound of rain helps me to relax and think.

…

“I’m going to wait for spring, then I’ll get my apprenticeship back!”

“You sure that is a good idea, sis? Waiting to apologize doesn’t usually work.”

“Yeah, I’m sure. If I tried to apologize tomorrow or even a week from now, he might do something stupid. He told me he only does work when someone asks for something, and with winter coming fast, he’ll probably be inside the next few months, anyway. After he calms down, I’ll sit and talk to him.”

“Till then, I’ll take some time to practice magic. Maybe work with dad some more. And mom, you still want to teach me to cook, right?”

The rest of the night passed with more hugs and a clearer conscience.

Clearer, not cleared. I need to start planning what I should say to Master Del.

I really am lucky, laying in bed listening to the softening rain. A second life, a great family, and a master that was excited to teach me. This was my first mistake in this life, but I refuse to believe I can’t change it.

Raising my hand towards the ceiling, I remember the promise I made to myself. I will become the strongest human I could be.

I had the best head start I could ask for, so I can’t complain on the first bump in the road.

Trying to relax, I know I can plan better with my family, tomorrow.

Falling asleep, I just hope these nervous stomach cramps go away soon.
