“It’s usually a Shit Seventeen,” Mehdi added. “But when your younger brother gets selected as an S before you get selected at all…”


Kon threw his head back and groaned. “I didn’t even tell them for a whole week! I knew he was going to be so upset. And that he might kill me. I was hoping the System would take pity on us both.”


“Wooow…you are stronger than me,” said Astrid. “I woke half the neighborhood up at the crack of dawn when I got my A. I woke up my dog to tell her.”


Kon smiled at Maricel. “Anyway, Lexi was really hoping for A or S. We’ve both known we wanted to go the hero school route for years. And you have to have the rank for that…unless you’re Alden and Max here.”


Max was throwing a sugar cube into his glass. Alden had just opened a lemon soda.


“We weren’t panicking for him yet, but we were definitely starting to have more awkward dinner conversations where Mom and Dad were conspicuously saying positive things about the lifestyles of D’s and F’s.”


“Gotta lower those expectations all the way down once you start lowering them.” Mehdi pointed at the floor. “My aunt and uncle did it wrong with one of my cousins. They went level by level, prolonging the torture every few months. He affixed as an F. Outlier at almost nineteen. And he was completely depressed and done with our whole family by then.”


Kon winced. “Yeah. I finally had to come out about it. You can’t just wait when it’s S. It’s so hard to trade, and I really wanted Adjuster. Because we’re the best.”


“Hey!” said half the people in the room.


“I speak only the truth,” he said. “Anyway, Maricel, when I told my family, it was about ten weeks after Lexi’s sixteenth birthday. And suddenly, in addition to shelling out a ton of money to help me top off the trade for the class, they found enough for a boat. I don’t think he even wanted a boat at the time, but he uses it a lot.”


“So your brother got a boat and a high rank in the end,” said Astrid. She saluted the ocean with a half-peeled banana. “Now that’s the way to do it!”


“He felt bad about it when when he got selected a couple of months after me. They’d just finished paying for my trade, and his boat, and then they had to help him get Meister, too. He offered to sell the boat, but they didn’t want to admit it was a ‘We’d given up on you’ present, so they wouldn’t let him. The fact that they had this Artona II tour lined up was a huge relief.”


“Trades were so rough this year,” said Rebecca, her lips turning down. “I wanted a ranged weapon Meister, but I couldn’t trade into it, and my parents couldn’t afford to offer enough money on top.”


“You’re going to kill it as a Brute, though,” said Astrid. “We’re awesome, too.”


“Yeah, according to the surveys Brute actually has a higher satisfaction rate than Meister or Adjuster. So, in the long run, you guys will probably be better off than any of us,” said Kon. “Except maybe Alden.”


Alden had been standing off to the side with his soda, wondering just how much Anesidoran parents had to save up to arrange to make their children’s dream classes a reality. “Why me?”


“Rabbit’s right below Healer for class satisfaction,” Kon informed him. “I know that’s probably a self-selection result considering how hard it is to nab a rare, but it’s still interesting to note. You are, mostly, a happy class.”


I can believe that. “Rabbit intake is fun from what I’ve seen. Compared to the other groups.”


Mehdi had set down his martini and was making micro-adjustments to his hair using his reflection on the fridge handle. “I know in my heart that you intakers are partying every day. Three full months of no school. All that nice stuff. I tried to sneak in with friends a couple of times last year, but they have guard ninjas to keep us out.”


“They’re just security people in dark clothes, man,” said Kon.


“Ninja-like security people.”


“They don’t want us bothering the new citizens,” said Rebecca.


“They don’t want us to enjoy our youth!” said Mehdi. “All those globies with new powers, nothing but free time, and no parents nagging them like they’re still children. Some of them come out of that place pregnant. It’s obviously a fu—”


Astrid threw a bottle of black currant syrup at his back, and he spun and snatched it out of the air. It shattered with an explosive tinkle. Maricel shouted. Alden covered his face half a second too late.


Fortunately, he just got a splattered instead of cut.


“Fuck, you two! Come on!” said Kon, leaping back from the spreading puddle. “Fucking glass?”


“Oops.” Astrid’s eyebrow ring fell off her face and hit the floor. She really must have been maintaining the piercing to practice her morphing. “That was my bad. I knew he could catch it, but I threw it harder than I meant to. ”


“…it might have been my fault, too,” said Mehdi shaking syrup from his fingers. “I haven’t got grip strength down when I’m surprised. I’ve been breaking things at home a lot. My hand’s not cut, though. So we didn’t overdo it too much!”


People were running into the kitchen to see what the noise was.


“All right!” the Meister who'd shot Alden with a lot of arrows during their duel last weekend shouted. “Party’s really starting up now!”


He fist-bumped the boy in the autographed shirt.


Max stood there, absolutely dripping with dark purple liquid. The expression on his face was louder than any sigh could have been. If you stumble upon this tale on Amazon, it's taken without the author's consent. Report it.

 

 


*
