90


“I don’t have to count Lute Velra, right?”


It was Friday. Alden was packing a suitcase with all the possessions he’d acquired over the past couple of months, while Boe sat on the bed with a notebook, writing down potential good deed schemes for when he got back home. Over the past forty-eight hours, Alden had gone from panicking about his friend’s new “Hero Type”, to being absolutely furious about it, to… now.


Now he felt an inexplicable desire to simultaneously hug and strangle the bastard.


Because he was actually serious about them doing this. Boe wasn’t usually whimsical, but Alden had still wanted this to be a whim. If anything, though, he was getting more and more into it, in a completely friendship re-shaping way.


It was as if he’d found the answer to a question Alden had never even suspected he was asking. And now he’d been reborn as someone who intended to mimic Alden’s moral lead.


It was scary. And at least a little messed up.


And Alden thought he might be a little messed up, too. Because the new plan was already working on him like a freaking enchantment.


When he finally calmed down enough to oblige Boe by considering what he would really do if they were “partners in heroics, long distance style,” he no longer felt any uncertainty about the boater. Knowing his friend planned to mimic his efforts gave him so much clarity he almost didn’t recognize himself.


What did the two of them owe the boater? What should they do to stop Manon? Should they buy spy gear and try to sleuth out her true purposes like the protagonists of a mystery series?


The answers were: strongly-worded emails, nothing, and obviously fucking not.


So simple. So clear.


His guilt and shame level? Nearly ZERO.


An adult superhero who was an expert on mind control had already been informed. The boater members should be informed, too. It wasn't completely safe to poke the wasp nest in that way, but it was safe enough he thought. And it was the right thing to do. When he tried to imagine Boe doing more than that—spying, using his powers against Manon, or wading through the swamp of trouble and moral conundrums that would come from publicly decrying one of the most popular Rabbit skills—it sounded baffling.


This is nuts, he thought as he tucked his growing collection of lavender sachets from the gym into his bag. My decision-making shouldn’t be this altered just because I’m considering how doing similar things would affect him. I can’t have been holding myself to such a completely different standard than one of the people I care most about.


And if I have been…is that damaged?


“You told Lute he could be your roommate because you felt sorry for him. That could be considered sticking your neck out for a stranger, given who he is.”


“Let that one go.” Alden folded a shirt and tucked it in beside the others. “It was more about me being mad at myself for letting Aulia Velra push me around from the shadows.”


“Okay. I can’t figure out a workable equivalent for it anyway.”


“I’ll be stopping by Laura’s apartment in person,” Alden said. “Not this weekend but soon. I might try waiting until Manon is off-planet. She posts about getting summoned for jobs on her socials often enough, and the warnings might break through to them better if she's not around.”


“Laura?”


“That’s the Brute woman who Manon hurt the worst. I decided today in class. She’s the only one who gets a personal visit to go with the message. I’m not even going to step inside her place. I will literally just stand in the hall and tell her face to face that I think she needs to take it seriously.”


The emails would be sent through the System at staggered intervals, with the people who Alden thought were least likely to be willingly in cahoots with Manon receiving theirs first and Pineda receiving his last.


“Sweet. An in-person action. Should I back one of mine up with an in-person visit, too?”


Boe had settled on sending people emails about the criminal or adulterous behavior of their lovers. He’d decided, somewhat regretfully, that it would be quicker than trying to track down a small-time cult leader of his very own.


Alden still didn’t quite understand how they’d ended up here, but here they were.


“Once again, don’t try to make minute details of your schemes match mine,” he said firmly. “It’s too stressful for me to think through.”


“Fair. I’ll use my own judgment about whether someone deserves more from me than an email.”


“I’m telling Laura because I’m one hundred percent sure she doesn’t know what’s going on, and because I think it won’t be too dangerous,” Alden explained. “I’ll stay on the phone with some trustworthy local the whole time I’m talking to her. If she doesn’t believe me and she won’t go get help…that’s her problem. I won’t do anything else. The boater gets zilch after this. And I’ll stay out of F-city as much as I can for the next six months.”


Boe looked up. “That’s new. What’s your thought with that one?”


“Risk mitigation. Manon’s power could, conceivably, be used for elaborate and difficult to avoid vengeance schemes. I don’t think she’d attempt it? But even if she wants to, she and all of her puzzle pieces live here in F. And they actually stopped trying to shake me down for money once when I implied I had friends in Apex. They’re cautious about messing around with high ranks. I’ll be on campus ninety-five percent of the time from now on. I’ll be surrounded by actual superheroes.”


“So it’s a win for human decency and minimal risk. I like it.” Boe hummed to himself. “And I’m going to help good people discover that they should choose their romantic partners more wisely. We are making the world a much better place here.”


It’s like he’s turned himself into a mirror for me. And whatever I do, I won’t be able to look away from the reflection.


Alden thought about that while he collected his shoes from his closet. Turning around with four pairs of them in his arms, he said, “Listen…if we’re really going to try this, and you want me to take it just as seriously as you are, it has to go both ways.”


Boe was drawing little broken hearts by the name of one of their eighth grade teachers, who was no doubt a future divorcee. “What?”


“If I have to tell you when and how I’m sticking my neck out for strangers, then you have to do the same thing.”


Boe blinked at him. “Um…have you met me? I don’t think you’re going to be getting many surprises along those lines.”


“Something else then. I want to copy you somehow, too.”


Boe pushed up his glasses. “Sorry. This is already an attempt to correct my general scumbaggery. I don’t think I have any other bad habits you can fix by copying me.”


You’re not a scumbag just because you don’t help every troubled person you can sense with your powers.


Alden didn’t say it, because he knew exactly the look Boe would give him if he did.


“Everyone’s got something,” he said instead. “You’re mirroring me. Let me mirror you.”


“Like I said, be my guest. But I don’t know how you think it’s going to work.”


Alden dropped the shoes onto the bed. It was true. It seemed like almost everything he could think of that worried or bothered him about Boe was a problem Boe was already aware of and planning to deal with—repairing his friendship with Jeremy, un-dropping out of school, getting Alden to learn contract tattoos so he could get his guilty secret intel off his chest.


The empathy thing was more complicated. Over the past few days Alden had been trying to detect when Boe was bothered by it, but after that first meeting, he seemed to always be shielding or keeping such a tight grip on himself that Alden couldn’t tell when he wasn’t.


He’s really good at hiding things from me. And I can’t hide things from him if he doesn’t want me to. That’s not fair.


Oh, that might be…


Alden pondered it for a while.


“This thing you want to do might be okay for me,” he admitted. “And it seems to be making you happy for now.”


“I’m delighted. My genius has outdone itself.” Boe was scribbling on his notebook again.


“The whole dynamic relies on me being very honest with you.”


“If I read about you taking a bullet for someone in the news before you tell me about it yourself, I’m going to assume you’ve done it a hundred times in secret.”


“Don’t bother to assume. I’ll commit to telling you the truth. And also…” He hesitated for just a second. “Also, from now on, you can read my emotions. Whenever you need to. Or even if you just really want to. I would appreciate it if you’d tell me about it when you do it, but you don’t even have to do that much.”


Boe’s pen stopped scribbling against the paper. “No. Blanket permission for something like that is way too much for any friendship.”


“Is it?” Alden was wearing his auriad around his neck this afternoon, and he ran his fingers along it while he thought through how to say it. “If you seriously tell me it’s the wrong thing, I’ll believe you, and I’ll retract the offer. But I’ve been chewing on it ever since I found out, and if I was an empath, I don’t think I’d be able to stop myself from doing the reader part of it a hundred percent of the time. The skill you have that pushes people—I think I could resist that one. But the reading?”


“I haven’t read you at all this week except for the times you already know about!” Boe set aside his notebook. “I swear.”


“I’m not accusing you of anything. See, this is why I think it’s best if I do give you blanket permission. If I had that power, and I was afraid you were hurt or scared or lying to me about something important…I hope I’d respect your privacy. But realistically, I would slip up. Probably a lot. It’s way too easy, isn’t it? To do it and to justify it. Sometimes, I bet I’d just be too curious about someone to stop myself.”


Boe’s expression was tight.


“Right,” said Alden. “So if we both agree that you shouldn’t read me…it’s not going to work. We can pretend you’re perfect. But I’m always going to know that you must screw up sometimes, and I’m going to resent the boundary violation a little even if I try not to. And you’re going to feel like a piece of shit for betraying my trust every time you do it, and that’s just going to make you all…withdrawn and down on yourself. It’ll eventually ruin our friendship.”


Boe’s grip tightened on the blanket beneath him. “I won’t let it.”


Okay, Alden thought. So this is an actual problem. I was right.


“Let’s just take all the work out of it. For both of us. Boe, you can emotion check me whatever amount is right for you. Unless I’ve specifically asked you not to for some reason. And I…will be all right with that.”


It would be easier in the long run. Mortifying at times, but knowing he’d agreed to overshare wouldn’t be nearly as bad as feeling like his friend was taking something he hadn’t offered.


“Alden, you won’t be all right with that,” Boe said harshly. “How could you be? You’re worried about how unfair it will feel knowing I occasionally slip up? How are you going to feel walking around just assuming you have no emotional privacy from me?”


“I was getting to that part. Why don’t you try to make it fair?”


“What’s that mean?!”


“You can make it fair to me,” Alden repeated.


It was nice to be the calm one for a change. He’d been such a dramatic wreck this week, and he finally felt like he was starting to get a handle on himself again.


“You want to match me in other ways. So match me in this one, too. You’re the only one who will know for sure what the right amount of give and take is anyway. Balance us out so that it’s not just one-way openness on my part. Don’t worry about the times when it’s a true accident, or when we agree to hang out even though your barrier is exhausted. Just make it so that the reads you do on purpose are fair.”


All the color left Boe’s cheeks. “You want me to share my emotions in exchange.”


Alden stared at him. “Not magically or anything. I know you said you don’t want to use Skill 2. You can just tell me things about yourself I would know if I were an empath, too.”


Why does he look so freaked out? Is he misunderstanding something?


“For example, when you inevitably read me at the wrong moment one day and finally realize I am a little too into ultraplush socks now…tell me your own version of that. Or we could agree that I get to ask you how you’re feeling when I want to sometimes, and you have to answer honestly. Easy.”


“Just enough to balance out the on-purpose reads,” Boe said faintly. “Easy.”


“If you want to cheat, it’s not like I’ll really know. But it would make you a huge dick.”


Boe swallowed. “What if me balancing it out in that way just makes your life even harder? How would that be fair to you?”


“You mean because I’ll be worried about your mental health or have to deal with knowing that you hate my guts every sixth Wednesday?” Alden asked. “Don’t you have to deal with that kind of thing, too? I don’t know if you’ve noticed, but I’m not a paragon of stability right now. I have nightmares about literal demons. And worse.


“To me, ‘fair’ doesn’t mean you pay me back for reading me with nice, happy things that will make me feel good. It means we deal with each other more equally. Good and bad. If it’s mostly bad, then…like you said when you decided on this new plot of yours, ‘Do you think I’m a coward?’ I’ll be fine.”


“I don’t think I will be.”


