“You’ll get used to it.” Alden headed back to his closet. “I’m already getting used to the idea that you’re my own personal copycat hero. It’s almost flattering if I look at it sideways.”


Ten minutes later, he was through packing. Boe was gazing down at his notebook with a blank expression on his face. Alden wondered if a request for empathic equality had broken him.


At least he’s taking it really seriously I guess.


He targeted Boe and poked him in the knee.


“Let me show off. Tell me to pick up my suitcase.”


Boe looked over at the absolutely massive blue suitcase Alden had ordered from Dragon Rabbit this morning. He shook his head. “Everyone who sees you carrying that is going to think you’re a Brute.”


“I know!” Alden said. “I’m so excited.”


“Your new skill discovery is decent.”


“Give me my command.”


“Alden,” Boe said seriously, “take the luggage.”


Alden focused. Just the suitcase. Nothing else.


He’d been practicing. When he tried to do just the suitcase handle, it wouldn’t work. Yet. But that was only a mind game. He’d get it before long.


Preserving the suitcase without the contents, though, had already become relatively easy.


He lifted it, and he immediately felt the skill activate. The suitcase was preserved. The clothes, shoes, cat toys, and accumulated junk inside were not. He could feel the weight of them against his authority while he picked the bag up with two fingers and beamed at Boe.


“I just know you’re going to carry that with you everywhere with that smug look on your face. Even though it’s got wheels.”


“Wheels are for the weak.” Alden swung the suitcase around, almost clipping the bedside table. “I could smash this over somebody’s head. One-handed! I just drop the preservation at the last second so that my magic isn’t holding the weight anymore, and WHAM! So easy.”


“Very heroic.”


“I know you’re jealous. I don’t have to read your emotions to figure that one out.”


“I’m not jealous at all right now,” said Boe. “I’m relieved.”


Alden looked over in surprise. “Relieved?”


“You’re the kind of person who gets into a lot of trouble. You’ve joined a school that trains you for combat. When I see you swinging around seventy pounds of luggage like it weighs two, I feel relieved.”


“Ah!” said Alden. “Emotional transparency. You’re doing it with me. Thank you.”


Boe smiled faintly. “Oh, that wasn’t much. I’ll…balance us out. Just give me time to think of how to make it fair. Maybe I’ll have something figured out when you get back from the party with all your new classmates.”


Alden set the suitcase down. “Nooo,” he moaned. “I don’t want to go. Let me beat you at pinball again.”


“You have to go. You already told the dude who’s throwing it that you would.”


“I’m going to stay here. I’ve decided.”


 


********


 


Boe almost had to shove him out the door to make him attend Konstantin’s party.


[I’m going to see those strangers all the time for the next who knows how many years!] he protested from out in the hall, using the text font they had agreed was “the angry one.” [You have to go home tomorrow morning!]


[That’s my point! Don’t snub the popular guy who’s the brother of your new roommate and be the only one in your acceptance group who doesn’t hang out with everyone else on top of being the B-rank Rabbit!]


[Wizard Rabbit!]


[Pull yourself out of a hat if you want, but you still have to go. I curse you for making me the one who’s insisting on socialization. It’s wrong.]


[You’re the empath. You’re supposed to love people.]


[What kind of a cartoon-colored idea is that? People are needy, selfish, insecure, filthy-minded little feelers. Go party with them.]


Alden sighed. [Fine. I’ll drink a mocktail for you.]


He started down the hall. The leftover Halloween decorations were still littering most of the doors. For some reason, the air smelled like sparklers.


[Hey, do Anesidoran teens pretend to get drunk on their mocktails?] Boe asked.


[Probably. That’s probably exactly what you’re signing me up for.]


The mental texting had gone from being pretty easy, to being completely natural over the past few days. Alden was starting to feel like he had telepathy.


He kept an eye out for Maricel as he headed through the building, hoping to spot her. He’d seen her a couple of times on campus, usually with Tuyet or Vandy. The Dart Meister and the Sky Shaper were going to be her roommates, and she seemed to get along with both of them despite their three very different personalities.


That’s going to be a lot of S-ranks in one room.


When he didn’t catch her in the lobby, he headed out on his own. He stopped at a fancy corner grocery not too far from intake.


[What are good mocktail ingredients?] he asked as he wandered down the aisles, staring at jars of olives and candied fruit.


[How should I know? Do you think I’ve ever had a mocktail in my life?]


[I’m supposed to bring something. I like pineapples. How many pineapples would I have to bring for a party, though?]


[I dare you to use your new trick to carry forty pineapples.]


[I’d try it, but I’m sure it would make everyone hate me on the train.]


He ended up buying a bunch of differently flavored sodas. The store had a self-checkout. Alden took the NesiCard Boe had entrusted him with a few minutes ago from his pocket, pulled the enchantment off the metal disc with a finger, and used the card to cover what he was doing while he held just the enchantment itself toward the card scanner.


He dropped the preservation.


The screen showed that he’d paid for the drinks, and the enchantment, separated from its home, burned out for the last time.


Not the most practical thing he’d ever done, but it was interesting to know that he could finger-pay for things with that type of enchantment at least once. He figured the info might apply more broadly to other kinds of enchantments and magical scanners. And he’d get another card when he took Victor and Boe to the Teleportation Complex tomorrow.


[You’re still my target,] he texted. [Tell me to pick up the bag full of drinks right in front of me.]


[We’ve tried that twenty different times. It won’t work from this far away.]


[It feels like it should, though. If you can do it by text from a couple of floors away why not a couple of blocks?]


[Pick up the bag full of drinks in front of you,] Boe said.


Alden did. The skill didn’t activate.


He prodded around at the Bearer of All Burdens. What gives? What’s the difference in me being this far away when the entrustment is given? Why are you being picky?


“Alden?”


He looked up to see Maricel just entering the shop. After having her ponytail chopped off for the sake of the combat assessment, she had gotten her hair repaired into a pixie cut. It looked nice enough to Alden’s untrained eye, but he couldn’t tell if she loved it or hated it. It was usually on full display at school, but whenever he spotted her in the dorms, she had her hoodie pulled up to cover it.


“Hey, Maricel! I was looking for you just a minute ago. Are you buying ingredients, too?”


She nodded and headed toward one of the freezers in the back. “This place has calamansi juice.”


After she paid for her juice, they headed for the nearest station and traveled toward Kon’s home on the northwestern edge of F-city.


“I expected to see you around more,” Maricel said half an hour later as they followed the directions on their interfaces toward a place called Nilama Marina. “Are you hanging out with your new roommates a lot?”


Alden hadn’t even seen Lexi or Haoyu this week. “I have a class with one of them. Sorry for being a recluse. I’ve just been enjoying the last few days of peace and quiet in intake.”


And by peace and quiet I mean shocking revelations and negotiations with my friend the criminal.


“That’s probably a good idea.” She looked curiously at a man in a turban who was casting a spell over the keyboard of a street piano. “Maybe I should have taken it easier, too, but I wanted everything to be better with my new roommates than with my old ones. By the way, I think you should expect people to ask you some questions tonight.”


Alden frowned. “Why?”


“Because Vandy and Tuyet ask me questions about you. And neither one of them ever gossips about anyone else.”


“Uh…right. I appreciate the warning.”


[I hate you,] he texted Boe.


[What did I do?]


“They don’t say anything bad about you. They just seem very curious,” Maricel added. “They don’t want to date you, though. I asked. So that’s not why they’re interested.”


“You asked them if they wanted to date me?” Alden gaped down at her. “Why would they want to date me? We don’t even know each other!”


She smiled at him. “I asked in a teasing way when they wouldn’t shut up about you. It wasn’t strange. I was checking for you.”


He felt alarmed. But I guess she’s helping?


“Thank you,” he said uncertainly. “…do they want to know about me because of my rank or my class or—”


“It’s all the other things. I think word is spreading around. I haven’t talked about you. And Tuyet probably wouldn’t share rumors with just anyone, but I think she does tell her sisters and brother everything. She seems really close to them.”


They turned onto a narrower street where attempts had been made to transform identical, shoebox-shaped buildings into something more cheerful with pastel paint colors and lines of tall palm trees that must have been regularly maintained by someone’s magic given how inappropriate the climate here was for them.


“It’s fine,” Alden said as they passed a tattoo parlor where a girl around their own age was hanging a string of marigolds over the door. “Anyone from intake could be talking about me. Or the faculty could have said something where people could overhear. And I wouldn’t be surprised if Max was running background checks on us all.”


“Why would you think that, Alden?” a male voice asked.


Alden whirled, his bag of drinks swinging wildly. Maricel shrieked. She dropped her own bag of juice onto the pavement, her hand flew out, and a ball of dirt shot from one of her pockets toward the tall boy who had just spoken. He was standing so close behind them that he had to have been deliberately masking his footsteps for them not to have noticed his presence.


He threw an arm up in front of him at the last second, and Maricel’s dirt ball smashed into him. Hard.


Max’s fist flew back into his own nose. He slapped his other hand to his face and swore in a muffled voice.


It was all over in a couple of seconds, and the three of them stood there staring at each other in horror.


<<I’m so sorry!>> Maricel shouted, her eyes huge. <<You scared me, and I —>>


“It’s fine. I’m fine.” Max pulled his hand away, and a little blood dribbled down his face.


Maricel yelped and started patting her hoodie pockets like she was searching for a tissue. But instead she just pulled out another handful of dirt and looked at it with a blank expression.


“Max…hi there. You’re bleeding,” Alden said finally.


Max's lips compressed. “I noticed.”


“I’m sorry I was talking about you behind your back. Saying that you were background checking all of us was not meant as an insult. I was just noting that you are a thorough person. In a positive way.”


He hoped that sounded convincing.


“Sure.” Max’s voice was flat.


Alden narrowed his eyes. “You were literally sneaking up on us and eavesdropping just now.”


“I thought it would be funny. And now my nose is broken.”


“Is it really?!” Maricel gasped. “I’m so—”


Max waved at her with his not-bloody hand and felt at the bridge of his nose. “I’m kidding. It doesn’t feel broken. I just wasn’t expecting your reaction to be an attack. With your powers. I thought you’d yell and then laugh like a normal person.” He arched an eyebrow at her. “I will not surprise you in the future.”


Alden noted that he wasn’t excluded from that.


“Really though…” Max pressed a knuckle to his bloody nostril as he tipped his chin to look down at Maricel. “You do understand you can’t do things like this? Not here. I know you’re probably not used to Anesidora, but you’re an S. And this isn’t Apex. We’re a few hundred meters from one of the family zones. If we were standing over there—”


He pointed in the direction they were headed. “—instead of here, you’d be caught on a dozen cameras, and whoever’s on call for this area would land on you like the wrath of God. I don’t think they’re going to arrest you for a first offense with a little dirt baseball. But they will definitely fine you, ban you from safe zones for a while, and put your name on a list that shows up in all the local news.”


Maricel’s eyes were still fixed on him. Her expression had frozen on her face.


Alden looked back toward the family zone. There was an advisement on his interface that they were approaching one—a tiny glowing house symbol in the section he’d assigned for local pop-up warnings. But it was so easy to get used to those things and ignore them. Especially since there wasn’t much risk of him using his own skill offensively as a knee-jerk reaction.


He could free his auriad and hit something with his square punch spell, but he wasn’t worried that he was going to do it accidentally.


That’s a good thing. I’d hate to be afraid of my own magic.


