“I’m not trying to scare you,” Max was saying. “I’m just pointing out that you have to get used to extremes in this place. Avowed like playing with our powers, and this is home, so we let ourselves be really irresponsible with them in some settings. And then in others, like when you’re out in public in the family neighborhoods, it’s the opposite. You have to have a Don’t Zap It mode.”


“That tattoo parlor probably has something that will help with your nose. And there’s a clothes shop a couple of blocks back according to the area map,” Alden said. “Do you want me to run in and get you a new shirt?”


He didn’t know what else to do to make the situation less uncomfortable.


Max glanced at the pale green button-down he was wearing. “Wonderful. Blood and dirt.”


“It’ll only take me a minute,” said Alden.


“I’ll pay!” Maricel said immediately.


“No. Let’s just walk quickly. If we get to Kon’s place in time he can fix this,” Max said, setting off with long strides. “And he seems like a person who likes to show off his talent. I would, too, if I had that one. One of the most useful powers I’ve ever heard of.”


Alden walked beside him, and Maricel hurried to catch up.


“I heard some people saying at the meet and greet that they were worried he wouldn’t get into the program because of it,” Max said. “Idiots.”


“He was actually a little worried about that himself.”


Alden thought conversation was a good plan. It made it feel less like they were a trio made up of an eavesdropper, a gossiper, and an attacker who had all just run afoul of each other on the sidewalk.


Max rolled his eyes. “I’m afraid sometimes that wanting to become a professional superhero might be something you’re not supposed to do if you have even the tiniest speck of common sense. Konstantin Roberts is the most employable member of our entire admissions group. He’s probably going to be one of the most employable people in all of Celena North. He would have had to bite an instructor for them not to take him.”


He threw both hands out in front of him and made a series of gestures. A pair of matching copper-colored bracelets peeked out from beneath his sleeves. Alden thought they looked more like equipment of some kind than jewelry.


“Speed increase in around five steps. It feels like a moving walkway. Don’t stop or fall down,” said Max.


Without pausing for breath, he continued, “Even if we ignore the investigative potential of Kon’s object reading and just focus on the spell impression…does nobody else realize how much damage Avowed do to everything around us when we fight each other? In some places and situations, it’s fine. Because it’s what people really want—superhuman battle theater they can feel good about watching. But that’s if you’re fighting in a scrapyard or an empty park. When you start devastating property the fine citizens of Earth actually care about, you subject yourself and whoever’s paying you to a lot more negative judgment.”


Alden was trying to keep track of Max’s speech, but he was a little distracted by his anticipation of the upcoming magical effect. Suddenly, his foot hit a spot in the sidewalk that felt less solid than concrete. His stride took him three paces farther forward than it should have. Looking down made him feel dizzy, so he jerked his eyes up.


Behind him, Maricel made a startled noise. Max was casting again.


“If Kon gets a spell that lets him repair larger objects, or if he can significantly extend his time window, he’ll be able to clean up after other heroes. And both of those things seem possible based on how Adjuster usually works. He’s an S, so even if he gets no offensive spells he should be able to take care of himself on the edges of a fight. Ideally, everyone will get to see someone wreckingball through a town, and then they’ll get to watch it magically put itself back together again. Nobody will be inconvenienced, and insurance companies will send Kon so many gift baskets he’s going to have to shovel his way through them every morning to greet his fans. Which he’ll have legions of even if he isn’t a combat specialist. Because in addition to having been Systemically blessed, he’s going to be a natural on camera. Three or four steps until the speed zone ends. Then eight until the next one.”


“I don’t think battle theater is what most people want from their superheroes,” Alden protested.


Neither Max nor Maricel responded.


As they stepped out of the second speed zone, Max finally looked over at him. “I understand why you might feel that way. I think it depends on whether or not they’re actually scared of criminals with superhuman abilities. And how they regard Avowed in general. But for a large percentage of people…a superhero is just a pretty, likeable character who uses fun magic powers to beat up a nasty, unlikeable character. It’s no more serious to them than that.”


“What do you even want to be in this program for then?”


Max didn’t answer until they’d reached the end of the palm tree-lined street. They headed toward a seaside apartment tower with a giant lettered sign—currently unlit—at the top, and he shoved his way through the revolving door.


“Just because most people think like that doesn’t mean I do,” he said, glancing around the red-tiled lobby then beelining for the elevator bank. As the car played a theremin-heavy soundtrack and zipped up to the seventh floor, he added, “Also, Maricel’s right.”


“About what?” Maricel asked.


“People have gotten curious about you, Alden. I’m surprised you haven’t noticed if you’ve been in class this week.”


“It’s been a busy week. And I don’t have academic classes with anyone from our group except for big lectures. Not a lot of opportunity for chatting.”


Intro to Other Worlds and Preparatory Sciences were the only classes where he ever spoke to anyone, and then it was only Maricel and Finlay, who were both nice enough not to pry at sensitive subjects.


“We’ll all be seeing a lot more of each other starting Monday. Gym class. Should be delightful.”


“What exactly is the gossip about me?” Alden didn’t want to ask Max, but he did want to know. And he felt sure that Max would know.


The Adjuster smiled as the gold metal doors of the elevator opened. “Only the things anyone on Earth would find if they did a background check. And by that, I mean typing your name into a computer.”


Wonderful.


[You’re a bad friend,] he texted Boe. [You sent me out to deal with these people all by myself.]


[You live with those people now.]


[That’s a mistake. I admit it. I’ve made a big mistake. Teach me how to enter catspace.]


[No.]


 


*******


 


Alden had been to a “my parents aren’t home” style high school party before. Once. He’d drifted miserably through someone else’s house, wondering if he’d entered an alternate reality where all of the people he saw at school behaving normally every day had committed themselves to pretending they were movie-teen stereotypes.


He was expecting the same thing from this one, with a possible side order of nosey questions based on Max and Maricel’s warnings. So he braced as the door to the apartment opened, and he promised himself he only had to stay for a single hour.


“Hey! You guys are early, too!” Kon said exuberantly. “That’s great!”


He was wearing his Celena North uniform and a bright yellow paper cone hat of the type that usually only made an appearance at birthdays. He stood aside and gestured them into a spacious apartment. Around twenty people, many of whom Alden recognized from the admissions meet and greet, were sprawled on furniture, sleeping bags, and pillows arranged in front of a projection screen that was showing the end of a Chinese martial arts film.


This looks different than I was expecting. In a positive way.


“Everybody, we have Alden, Max, and Maricel!” he shouted.


“The globies are showing up!” a boy wearing what appeared to be the uniform for one of the local middle schools cried. His shirt was covered in signatures.


Like a yearbook page maybe? Alden guessed. That would make sense. For the locals who hadn’t opted to go ahead and start classes at CNH this week, today would have been their last day at their old schools.


“My mother’s Anesidoran,” Max said.


“Oh boring.”


A few other people waved and shouted hi.


“You’re a little bloody.” Kon stared at Max. “What happened?”


“I fell on my face in some dirt. It was around four minutes ago. Can you fix my—”


“Yeah! Sure! I’m the king of stain removal. Four minutes is nearly my limit, though, so let’s heal your shirt right away. Maricel, Alden, you two can go in the kitchen and set your stuff down. Make yourself a drink. There’s a bunch of baklava. More snacks are being delivered. Grab a hat!”


He took Max by the elbow and steered him down a hall.


The kitchen was full of a large and very random assortment of drink supplies. Astrid—the spiky-haired Morph Brute Kon and Alden had “rescued” during the heroes vs. villains game—and a short girl with cornrows were giggling and throwing some of everything into a blender together.


<<What did you bring?>> the shorter girl asked, pouring almond extract into the pitcher and looking at their shopping bags eagerly.


“Oh my god!” said Astrid, pointing at Alden. “America! Have you ever seen a moose?!”


Her tongue wasn’t obviously pierced anymore, but her eyebrow was.


Is moving her piercing around shapeshifting practice? He set his sodas down on a mint green counter and tried to figure out why he was being asked about moose.


“Not in a zoo or something,” Astrid clarified, throwing a handful of cocktail onions in the general direction of the blender. “A real moose. In the wilderness.”


“I have not,” Alden said slowly.


“Damn it!”


“Why…?”


“All of us taking Normie Studies—”


The other girl cleared her throat.


“Fine. Non-Avowed Experiences and Cultures. We’re doing homework bingo, and for one of the squares, I need to interview someone about fearful things they’ve encountered in nature. And I saw this program about moose attacks once, and I really want to interview someone who’s seen a moose.”


“I’m Rebecca,” the other girl said. She made a flicking gesture beside her ear, and a name tag appeared. She was an A-rank Brute. Instead of calling herself by one of the subclass names Alden was familiar with, she’d listed “jumper” as her specialty. He didn’t know what that meant in terms of her real powers. “I’m in the same class. Have you ever been in a forest fire?”


Alden and Maricel both shook their heads.


“Forget bingo then!” Astrid cried. “Bring an offering for the blender.”


Rebecca was throwing a spoonful of espresso powder on top of the onions.


“You’re not going to drink that, are you?” Maricel’s face twisted as she studied the blender’s contents.


“Everyone will! It’s for a game later. It will bind us to each other forever.”


“Until we die of food poisoning,” Rebecca said.


“It was my idea,” said Astrid. “Or maybe Mehdi’s. I’m not sure. We got a little stupid on the way over from school earlier and the blender of binding was born. When a couple dozen more people show up with their offerings, this may have enough ingredients to qualify as a real wizard potion.”


“Is our whole admissions group coming?” Alden asked.


“Kon invited everyone. Plus around forty others.” She shrugged. “Realistically, almost none of the people who failed to get in will come. It’s too soon, you know? Need time to lick their wounds.”


“It’s a good thing, too,” said Kon, breezing into the kitchen with a cleaner-looking Max behind him.


Kon’s new roommate, Mehdi, was sipping something that looked like coffee out of a martini glass and bringing up the rear.


“Eighty people would definitely break building rules. Our neighbors are cool, but not that cool. I booked the roof just in case, but the weather’s going to be miserable tonight. Have you seen the swells out there?”


He nodded toward one of the large oval windows that looked out over the marina and the ocean beyond. The sinking sun was only occasionally visible through cracks in the clouds, and the water looked almost storm-tossed.


“Your brother’s going to drown.” Mehdi was speaking to Kon but examining Max. Then he turned dark eyes on Alden, scanning him from head to toe.


Is he judging my outfit or something? If he was, Alden was sure his jeans and sweater combo was found lacking. Kon’s new roommate was wearing a knee-length black coat with a stylized lion’s head painted on the back in bronze.


“I know,” Kon was saying. “He’s crazy.”


“Did he go swimming?” Max was fixing himself some complicated drink that involved a lighter and an orange peel. “I know people do, but—”


“No, the water temperature is about six degrees today, isn’t it? And he’s not quite that crazy. He’s just out in his boat with Haoyu.”


“He’s got a boat?” Alden asked.


“A little one. Our parents got it for him for his birthday.”


“Shit Sixteen present,” Mehdi said, raising his glass.


The other Anesidorans all nodded.


Maricel looked around at them all. “A boat sounds like an expensive gift to me, though?”


Kon turned to her, blinking. “It was! I guess this is completely an island thing…I hadn’t thought of that. But when you start to age out of the usual selection window for the rank everyone thought you were going to have, sometimes your family suddenly gets too generous with the gift giving.”


