And Wess’s eyes narrowed. Some of his easy nature vanished. He slowly asked, “Do you know of the Chesterfields?”

“I’m going to save us some time.” Erick said, “I know practically everything that the public knows about the demonic murders of Greendale, because I asked a Knowledge Mage about all that and they gave me a rather decent information packet. Other than that, and unless these murders happen or these murderers come under my direct watch, I have no interest in involving myself in whatever is happening there, but only because your government wouldn’t want me involved.”

Wess glanced at the steady green glow of the stone—

Wess’s partner’s eyes were wide, as he stressed, “We need you to come down to the district to give testimony to that effect.”

“I will not.”

The shorter man’s countenance instantly shifted to something darker. He lightly glared at Erick, saying, “We will compel you if necessary.”

“You can try. You will fail.”

The shorter man almost went on a tirade—

But Wess interrupted his partner. “Thank you for your cooperation, Ashes Woodfield. You’re free to go. I do ask that if you see any demonic summoners inside the Glittering Depths, that you take it upon yourself to report them, please. Do not involve yourself in the affairs of Greendale.”

The shorter man struggled to remain silent as he glared at Wess, and then Erick.

Erick just nodded, grabbed his books and his staff, stood, and then left.

- - - -

It took Erick twenty four minutes, 36 seconds, to get to the front of the checkpoint line into the dungeon —he counted!— even though there were only 17 people ahead of him. Some of those people glanced at Erick with wide eyes, before suddenly averting their gaze, to stare forward, or to talk quietly among the people they were delving with. Everyone in line now knew he was ‘Ashes Woodfield’, and everyone here knew he was at the top of the Decoration board. Many looked at his staff, and wondered at the capabilities of the gently-glowing length of runed crystal. Others looked at the cerulean stone on his bracelet, and knew it as Healing Magic; Healing Magic that they wanted, but could not have… Or at least not yet. Not here, in this land of inquisitors.

Erick had cast his mind elsewhere the entire time he waited in line, to distract himself from the invasive questions he heard at the front of the line, and how the delvers all answered those questions as best they could. All of those questions were recorded in the magical ‘book’ that wasn’t a real book, or else Erick would have been able to spy on everyone else who had come through the checkpoint. It was just a metal book-shaped artifact that copied the information written down onto another book elsewhere, while the original information got erased from the metal pages of the artifact.

All of this was rather infuriating.

And now Erick was at the front of the line, and he had to actually pay attention to these infuriating people. Erick told himself that they were just doing jobs, looking for murderers, though, and that helped.

“Name?” asked the bored recorder. He was an old man with heavy scars and white hair, and the body of a much younger man. He looked tough, which was probably why he was here, at this ‘desk job’, while two other guards of lesser stature flanked the door to the dungeon keep.

“Ashes Woodfield.”

“You know it’s illegal to walk around with anti-mana sense magics?” said the man, without care. “Both on you, and on your baggage.”

“It’s not illegal to do that at all.”

The rather bored man became less bored. He looked up at Erick. “… Aye. I suppose it’s not technically illegal for the nobility. You nobility?”

“It’s not illegal for anyone to walk around under a mana sense obscuring spell. It is not illegal for them to protect themselves with Privacy Magics. What is illegal is [Invisibility], and I am not using that.”

Ophiel was using ‘[Invisibility]’ magics, but not that specific spell, and he was not here right now; Erick did not lie.

The old man grinned, predatory. “A barrister, have we?”

Erick couldn’t help himself. “What is illegal is what you’re doing here with this interrogation. Dungeons can open entrances anywhere they want to, and they will, all the time, if the people who want to visit those dungeons can’t get into them through the proper channels. By doing this right here you are tempting this dungeon to open entrances outside of known parameters.”

There were 21 people behind Erick, and all of them shied backward as Erick spoke.

The older man leaned back in his chair, still grinning. “We can break laws to find the dissenters among your lot. You cannot.”

“Maybe Greendale wouldn’t have so many dissenters if the crown wasn’t so tyrannical in how it handles people who speak out against your government.”

“Ah ha! Now that qualifies for collection!” The old man stood. He was easily 7 feet tall. If the Inquisitors had non-humans in their ranks, Erick would have thought the man half orcol, but no, he was probably just using [Alter Size]. “Now will you go quietly? Or do I have to…”

His voice trailed off as a tendril of thought connected to him.

Erick traced the tendril to the left, where it faded into the manasphere.

But way over by the edge of the courtyard stood Wess, who had a tendril of thought coming off of his head.

The old man went stiff, and angry, before flashing over into reluctant compliance.

Then the old man sat down. “You’re free to go, Mister Woodfield.”

Erick really could not help himself. “I was hoping you would try it. But I suppose I’m enough of a special exception to get special treatment, eh? That’s fucking shameful of your entire government.”

The old man said nothing. But he did grind his teeth, behind a strained smile.

Erick walked by, into the dungeon keep, directly under the hundred-leg invisible sacred spider that occupied almost the entire upper interior shadows of the building. That spider moved a fraction, barely shifting its stance at all, to look at Erick as he walked underneath, into the black [Gate] of the dungeon.

- - - -

The dungeon entrance had a clear line of sight to the inquisitors’ checkpoint, so a lot of people had seen his little altercation.

More than a few people gave Erick looks as he walked down the dirt path, to the hills in the distance where the dungeon portals led to deeper in the dark. A lot of those people were dressed in their full finery of metiron fullplate or cloaks, some with massive floating shields of silver, and some with floating swords of the same, looked almost ready for war. But they were inside the dungeon, where dungeon magic ruled, and so they could not step outside to give any of the inquisitors any real grief; all their dungeon magic would fail.

Erick saw some kindred souls in the eyes of those waiting for the inquisitors to take one step into the dungeon. He also saw a lot of quieted anger, and quiet contemplation. There was no need to [Witness] what had happened here, to understand what had happened in the minds of these warriors, lined up for war, but Erick wasn’t going to make too many judgments, for now.

One woman did stand out to him, though. Veracity Speed, in her suit of chainmail and with her big shield, decided to approach Erick as he walked past.

“I knew you were special, but I didn’t think you were insane.”

“If they would have tried shit, I would have ended it. Nothing more to it than that.” Erick’s Script magic began to fade as his dungeon magic took hold, and all his various items fully transformed into shining silver with dollops of colored radiance. He looked around, meeting the silent eyes of many of the people here, but none of them barred his path. From what Erick was seeing… He guessed that this happening here was a big deal, but also that other stuff was going on. Had they decided to let Veracity speak to him first? Oh. Yes. That was it. They were scouting Erick, and also dealing with this inquisitor shit. Erick decided to start with ‘small’ talk. “You have a badge on your chainmail showing you as a Crystal Raider, and everyone else seems to be showing off their own sigaldry. I take it this overreach by the inquisitors is a normal thing, that you all have to push back against?”

Veracity slowly nodded as she walked with Erick. “It happens every so often. This is holy land, consecrated by the Church of Atunir so they have little legal power, but that doesn’t stop them from trying shit, so we all come out and make sure nothing too illegal happens. It’s practically the only place in Greensoil where we can do this and not be instantly shut down, though there are a few others. Rare, they are, these precious places.”

They had left behind the majority of people, and Erick’s various Privacy magics on his box of mana crystal books was beginning to fail completely. So Erick hefted the bag and said, “Storage, this bag.” The bag vanished in flickers of darkness, and Erick felt lighter for it, because a few people had been eyeing that bag and the very powerful Privacy magics he had placed onto it. Erick said to Veracity, “I knew about standard international dungeon law keeping Greensoil in check, but I wasn’t aware that church law was able to do the same.”

“That law works most of the time, but Atunir is all-inclusive, so Greendale always thinks Her church is the source of this demon shit, even though we try to stop that all the time.”

“And yet the Quiet War still rages.”

Veracity frowned a little at that, looking down the path instead of at Erick. “… Things were going well, with the Wizard in power, and with the Gate Network open between us and the Wasteland Kingdoms. I actually visited Atunir’s Church of the Delta at the Grace River… And then two years ago we had those dungeon breaks, and the Open Network got rescinded, and now we’re back to this mess.” She glanced backward. “Hopefully the inquisitor checkpoint will only stay there for a day…” She turned back to Erick. “They were looking to talk to a few people, and you were one of them.”

Erick stopped.

Veracity stopped beside him.

“… They were specifically looking to talk to me?”

“It’s not often someone upends the Decoration board and then gets personally invited by Dungeon Master Kinder to skip 3 floors.” Veracity said, “They’re not the only ones who wished to speak to you, though it is quite upsetting for a lot of us that such an interesting development got shadowed by the inquisitors.”

Some of Erick’s anger vanished, for Veracity was trying to be as personable as she could possibly be, in light of that awfulness back there at the entrance. Pushing past his own reluctance to do what he was about to do, Erick said, “Please make your pitch.”

Instantly, Veracity said, “We Crystal Raiders wish to put in orders for as many Bracelets of [Self Rejuvenation] as we can get, at the standard rate of 150,000 gold per bracelet, or whatever sorts of arrangements we can come to involving any sorts of other transactions you desire.”

Some people standing at the vigil against the inquisitors whipped around at Veracity’s words. A few of them shared looks with each other, and then two individuals started to approach; a red haired man, and a tall woman in fullplate.

Erick decided to softly announce to the people coming his way, and also to Veracity, “I wasn’t planning on selling so many [Rejuvenation] items, but I can certainly do that, if that is what people want. I will need to get a mana chamber set up in my house, first, but then things will happen fast enough. I won’t be here all that often, but I’ll be making a bunch of stuff, since I plan on working on metamonds a lot. Specific orders are welcome, within reason.”

Veracity got a gold look in her eyes, as she instantly offered, “We would like to recruit you to the Crystal Raiders—”

The man of middling height with bright red hair, rushed forward, saying, “The Backroom Warriors offer assistance to all crafters through priority access to Marii’s Machinery—”

“The Iron Bandits can get you everything you could possibly want,” said the tall woman wearing silver fullplate, with a long sword and a long dagger on her left hip. She was pale, but her eyes and hair were so brown they were almost black. In most settings she would be rather casually beautiful, but her voice had a power to it that was all her own, and that overrode all other speakers, “We can fund everything you want to do and grant you mana chambers and other crafting facilities, and you can sell to anyone. We won’t determine your prices at all, or your work schedule. We just ask that you work with us for the creation of the occasional specialty items, and that your work schedule isn’t too slow. If we find your craftsmanship unacceptable, then this partnership will end and we will ask for the return of the items and workshops we set up for you.”

Veracity and the red-head guy did not interrupt the tall woman, while simultaneously looking a little ashamed of their own offers, which told Erick almost everything he needed to know about the Iron Bandits’s offer; no one else could compete with the Bandits.

And since Erick didn’t feel like really establishing himself as a permanent entity here in the Glittering Depths…

Erick said to the tall woman, who was just about eye level with ‘Ashes’, “Mana chamber on my property. Metiron furnaces and such, too. I’m not making you a staff like mine, but I think I can do most specialty orders. I’m looking to get very deep into metamond creation and understanding, and that is why I am here at all.”

The woman narrowed her eyes a little, judging. “After we go through the portal, I can get you the mana chamber in 100 seconds and you can place it wherever you want, but the workshop needs to be set up, and we will need to be invited on to your property in order to do that.”

So she could just pluck the chamber from Storage? Is that what she was implying?

… She could do that?

No. She couldn’t hand him a giant fucking 3-meter-cubed metal chamber, plucked from the very air of the dungeon? Had to be some other thing.

“Sure.” Erick turned and said to Veracity and the red-haired man, “I’ll be making [Rejuvenation]s soon enough, so I’ll see you all later.” As Veracity and the guy nodded, and gave little bows to the tall woman, Erick gestured to the hills in the distance as he said to the tall woman, “Care to walk with me? To the city? I’m Ashes, but you already knew that.”

The woman walked alongside Erick. “Rebecca Fellhorn. Commander of Advancement in the Iron Bandits.”

