“Nice to meet you, Rebecca. Were you waiting out here for me specifically? Or are you part of the push back against the inquisitors?”

“The Iron Bandits have a certain stance against overreach, and so we must make an appearance.” Rebecca said, “We would all prefer the inquisitors not do their jobs here, where they have no authority except that which Atunir grants them, but this is the world we live in, for now.”

Erick raised an eyebrow. “For now?”

They had reached the hills. The road split in ten different directions, where quite a few people stood, waiting. Erick could tell they wanted to exit the dungeon, but they couldn’t leave with the inquisition there, or at least they believed they could not.

Some of those people looked at Erick and Rebecca because they all knew Rebecca… And maybe one or two people knew Erick. Erick’s current opinion of Rebecca was decent, but as he saw people bow a little toward her with actual respect (and a little bit of fear) that opinion notched upward.

“Yes, ‘for now’.” Rebecca blindsided him, “We fully expect Xoat Reborn to create new worlds or something better, and a lot sooner than Yggdrasil.”

Erick felt like he had taken a step and the ground had gone missing.

He recovered fast enough, though he did let out a little sigh, and a “Uhh.”

Rebecca smiled gently. “Not one for Xoatism, eh?”

“… Not so much. No.”

Rebecca gestured to the nearest black portal. “Do you wish to lead the way?”

Erick held out his hand to Rebecca. “Sure.”

Rebecca placed her hand onto his, and lightly gripped—

Erick felt something odd at that touch, but nothing dangerous. Both Rebecca and he were veiled by mana sense Privacy magics, so he didn’t see past hers, and Erick was rather sure she couldn’t see past his, or else he wouldn’t have held her hand.

But it was strange.

To hold her hand.

Perhaps, Erick just hadn’t held a stranger’s hand in… A long time, actually.

That was probably it.

Erick led the way through the black portal, with Rebecca right there with him.

Erick stepped out of the darkness and onto a large platform, overseeing Utopia. Rebecca stepped to his side. Together, they began descending the stairs.

And Rebecca said, “I’ll start summoning the chamber, if this deal is truly happening. I can’t enforce compliance with our agreement once I hand you the cube, so if you choose to screw me over, then I will be forced to screw you over in other ways, here in Utopia.”

Erick chuckled. “I’m sure this deal is happening, but I don’t plan on being here much. I came for the magical experimentation. Not to make a new life for myself.”

Rebecca studied Erick for a moment, then she nodded. “I am making a new life for myself down here, as are many people. Please don’t treat our society as a dumping ground for bad behavior.”

Erick laughed again. “I would never do that. I do plan on dumping as many [Rejuvenation]s as people need before I move on, though. According to Kinder, you all need that sort of thing.”

“Dungeon Master Kinder is correct. Most [Rejuvenation]s come from rare loot on practically any floor past 10, but it takes between 2 to 4 to actually create an item because the creation process usually consumes at least one [Rejuvenation] in the priming process, and that’s not even counting the necessity of a skilled hand in order to take the [Rejuvenation] and attach it to the metiron.”

Erick nodded. “It took me a few to make my Breastplate of [Regenerating Health], and a few to make the Wand of [Rejuvenation], too. If necessary, I can just pop out a bunch of [Rejuvenation]s, though, and other people can experiment with them. I would need metiron to make the full bracelets myself, but I can do that too, if you desire.”

Rebecca’s small smile returned. She was pretty sure she was making a good investment. “We’ll have to hurry and get you a full setup as soon as possible.”

The staircase was empty of people, and it wasn’t until Erick had completed a full rotation around the spire that he saw why.

Erick glanced down below, then asked Rebecca, “The tower is closed off by people that appear to be a collection of companies?”

“… Shouldn’t be truly closed off.” Rebecca looked down, over the edge of the spiraling staircase. “They’re telling people that the inquisition is upstairs. Most people turn around when they hear—” She held out her hand as they walked, and the 100 second timer must have ended, because darkness swirled, and a small cube landed in her hand. She held it, saying, “This a very rare drop from the deeper floors, but we keep several around for new crafters like yourself. If you don’t mind, I would ask for as many [Rejuvenation]s as you can make in a day. 150,000 gold paid per metamond, deposited directly to your name upon receiving the metamonds.”

“Give me a specific number, please. How many do you need?”

“In that case, we’d need at least enough to make a full delve team’s worth of bracelets. That’s 15. 17, to make up for crafting failures on our end.”

“Deal.”

Rebecca handed over the cube.

And Erick [Identify]ed it.

Meta Diamond Creation Chamber, greater artifact, 10,000 mana channeled to activate.

Place this cube in the spot where it is desired, then channel 10,000 mana into the cube to begin activation. Once placed, it will lock to that physical space. It cannot be easily moved.

The [Identify] words floated backward, since Erick and Rebecca had never stopped moving down the stairs.

Rebecca spoke up, “They’re not that difficult to move. Just make yourself a [Strong Telekinesis], or ask someone else to do that for you. Once set they are impossible to move without the owner’s permission, though.”

Erick held up the cube, and said, “Storage, this cube.”

The cube vanished in darkness.

Erick and Rebecca reached the bottom of the stairs, where a loose line of warriors stood at the bottom of the staircase. Three of them were playing cards, and two of them were sitting down on the staircase itself. Others stood nearby; not physically blocking the staircase at all.

The ones playing cards rapidly noticed Rebecca, and the three of them stood and gave her a rather odd salute; a double-tap of the left fist against the right shoulder...

Erick couldn’t place that salute.

Rebecca just nodded to them, and then she stopped.

Erick stopped with her.

“You’re in the Iron Bandits, now, Ashes Woodfield. Thank you for joining up. Anything you need, you talk to one of these men here, or to our company house off the square, over there.” She pointed. “If you wish to delve, then we can get a team for you. If you wish to go it alone, you can do that, too. Do you mind if I come by your property in several hours to pick up those [Rejuvenation]s, and to start the installation of the furnaces and workshop space?”

“Sure. Sounds good.”

“Money will be deposited into your storage, as per usual, upon receiving the items. Do you know how to use that feature?”

“Kinder explained a lot of it to me. Thanks, though.”

Rebecca nodded, giving yet another small smile. “Then I will see you later, Ashes. I must return up top in case I am needed. It was nice to meet you.”

“It was nice to meet you, too. Farewell.”

The woman turned around and went back up the stairs.

And Erick decided to get back to his house, taking the quick exit, with his Bracelet of [Hidden Wind].

He had chosen the quick path through allying with the Iron Bandits, which would either be a problem, or not. Erick hoped not. Veracity and the red-haired man’s offers were probably a lot lesser than Rebecca’s anyway, —or at least they believed their offers were lesser— because Veracity and the red-haired man had rapidly acquiesced to Rebecca taking point.

As Erick ran ‘home’, he replayed that meeting in his mind several times. There was something about Rebecca that was both wonderful, and yet unnerving. More unnerving than nice, Erick thought, as the golden wheat ocean waved on both sides of the road.

Perhaps it was the way Rebecca’s smile did reach her eyes, but which still seemed fake.

… Perhaps she was just worried about the inquisition. No one had been in top form up there, least of all Erick. He had been mostly furious, and now that the fury was gone, it was easy to have empathy for others once again.
