Ijvani’s whispering voice was soft. She held still, knowing she would keep this moment over the other Chosen—unless they received the same treatment. The Necromancer paused.
“Yes. That was how I created you. And certainly how I treat you. After all—what I know to be true is this: you are undead. My creation, capable of sentience, but not anything more. Limited thought. A tool, perhaps to be treasured, but to be used.”
The skeleton mage nodded. She found no flaw with that. But then—why did her master close his eyes?
“Zelkyr thought so. For all he loved his three greatest servants, they were his servants. And I—understand. For I cannot see you as anything more than that. I could not. We beheld the limits of our magic and craft in you.”
“I am sorry that I am incomplete, Master.”
The fires died in Ijvani’s eyes. Better to be unmade than be a failure. She looked down. But Az’kerash caught her chin. Gently.
“Ah, Ijvani. A day ago I would have not cared to hear you say so. I would have agreed, and been disturbed if you’d said anything else. But from this day on—I will have to teach you better lessons. And I will have to remember…”
He fell silent. Ijvani stirred, but she waited. Az’kerash smiled. And his eyes flickered. One moment, they were black eyes with white pupils. The next—
“Master?”
The frightened voice made Az’kerash look at her. And Ijvani saw the same, reassuring, gaze of death. But the smile remained. The Necromancer looked around. At his dark room, practically lightless but for the glow of magic—because the undead needed none of it. At the walls, without anything but stone adorning them—moss that he occasionally had his Chosen destroy. And he frowned.
“What a dreary castle. A fitting tomb to spend a decade or a thousand years in. And has it been a decade already…?”
He passed a hand over his eyes. Blinking.
“Immortality. It weighs on us all. I wonder if I missed the same on those I have met. Now, I recall my meeting with the Spider of Terandria and…”
He looked around. At Toren, floating in the magic circle. Ijvani. Toren was getting bored again. He was wondering if he could take Ijvani in a fight. Steal her body.
And the Necromancer heard it. His eyes flashed and Toren smothered his thoughts. Because a power lurked there. But the Necromancer lifted his wand.
“A body. Suitable for you, I think. Toren.”
Bones flew. The purple flames bloomed in Toren’s eye sockets. He felt a body appearing around him.
He stood in the magic circle. Tilted his head left and right. Opened and closed perfect hands. Az’kerash regarded him.
“For now, the same design. Later—upgrades. Alterations. But first, other matters. My castle is…dark.”
He turned back to regarding his domain. Toren eyed Az’kerash. He inspected his body. He was missing his special bones, but these felt…nice. Strong bones. Magical in and of themselves. High-quality. Not this low-grade stuff he’d been using. He flexed one hand, made a fist.
Then he leapt at Az’kerash’s back. Sneak attack kick!
Ijvani moved. She raised a hand. Az’kerash turned his head.
Toren went flying. Flicked by something. He stuck to a castle wall and white webs ensnared him. Outraged, the skeleton wriggled, but he was firmly encased. The Necromancer laughed.
“Personality!”
“Master, should I destroy that?”
Ijvani hissed, staring at Toren. He tried to get one arm free. Fight me, you stupid skeleton! Ijvani heard him and aimed a glowing finger at Toren’s skull. Alarmed, the skeleton tried to amend his thoughts. Er—not stupid skeleton! Wonderful bone structure! Especially the tibia!
Ijvani paused, confused. Az’kerash grabbed her finger.
“Ijvani. Be patient. Let me think.”
She lowered her finger and stared up at her master. Az’kerash was staring about, pursing his lips, shaking his head.
“Mold? Is that…would I have ever allowed such mold on my walls? It’s black, as well. I’m sure that it’s…well, only Kerash and Bea ever had lungs, and I would not have cared. But blank walls. Unsuitable, entirely. And the silence…future decades of it.”
“Master? Are the walls wrong?”
The skeleton mage was very confused by her master’s words. Az’kerash sighed.
“Music, perhaps. Ambient. Hm? Ah, Ijvani, one moment. I am no [Composer], or music-mage, but I can at least recall what I have heard from memory.”
He flicked his wand. And Toren, who’d gotten one arm free and was looking around for a weapon to club both of them with, felt the stones vibrate around him. And then—the black stone and moss moved.
Stone shifted. And a mouth and eyes formed in the darkness. A face spoke. No—sang. Toren froze as the first sonorous voice echoed in the room.
Ijvani stirred. She looked up as more parts of the castle turned into faces. And voices began to speak.
Male and female, singing from another time. Deep, beautiful, singing in concert. At first, Ijvani did not understand the words. They were so deep. And some were sung in other languages. The undead listened. And heard the words turn into music.
A chant. Echoing through the halls. Both deep and sorrowful and uplifting in its way. Male and female voices, singing words in concert. Something that made the two skeletons go still. For they heard a song that was no longer sung in this world.
“Once, this music was fit for the palace of Silvaria. Nevermore. But let it serve a new purpose.”
Az’kerash listened, speaking quietly as the voices spread through the castle. And the undead looked up and listened. The voices lifted upwards, straining, searching for something beyond glory, the purpose that was the heart of the dead nation they sung for.
A hymn. As close to a prayer this world knew. But not even the Necromancer knew it as such. Toren, listening, wished he hadn’t heard. For the music was beautiful. And he would never be able to forget it, or what it did to him.
He twitched as he heard a deep bell ringing in the background of the illusory song-memory. Az’kerash glanced at him curiously. But then he went on.
A flick of the wand. And the dark walls became bright, a palace’s delicate, gilded wallpaper. The Necromancer studied it critically.
“…No. But more suitable displays. I will find something. Artwork, perhaps. And books.”
“Master? What is all this for?”
As the walls returned to normal, Ijvani considered that the solemn song fit the dark castle better. But her master was thinking ahead. He looked at her.
“You, Ijvani. You, and my Chosen. This castle was fit for you and I, a day ago. But no more. It is not a place for you after this.”
“M-Master? Am I being sent away again?”
Forever? Was this her end? Ijvani was afraid. And she saw the Necromancer’s eyes shift. He bent, and kissed her skull as he sometimes did Bea. She froze. Toren paused. Lewd. He tried to throw his other arm at Az’kerash. The arm flew back and smacked him back in the head.
“No, Ijvani. You will remain here. I need you. This is just not a home for you. Not a place to raise or teach…children.”
He gestured around. And Ijvani did not understand. But Az’kerash did. He stared at her, thinking ahead.
“This…Toren. A curious personality.”
He looked at Toren. The skeleton immediately played dead. Az’kerash nodded.
“You, Ijvani. Venitra. Kerash, and Bea. Not Oom. He is gone.”
“I am sad, Master. I am sorry, but I am sad about Oom.”
“Yes. I wish he had survived, now. But Ijvani—you four are only the first. Perhaps, yes, this Toren too. Five. But let it be at least ten.”
“Ten, Master?”
“Yes. Ten of my Chosen. All of you. I will have to change the four of you. And see if this skeleton can be altered. Perhaps not. He is his own creation. But five more, at least.”
Five more Chosen? Were they so defective they needed to double their numbers? But then Ijvani saw Az’kerash’s smile. And she began to understand.
“Alter us, how, Master?”
“Why, to give you the ability to level, Ijvani. You and my three Chosen. They will be complete at last. I must…complete your designs. You were always meant to be less than Cognita. Truestone is the most powerful stone in the world. And I cannot make it. But I can give you strength.”
“Wouldn’t that be a waste of materials, Master?”
“Not anymore.”
The Necromancer smiled. He gestured, and Toren fell onto the ground. The skeleton leapt to his feet, warily. Az’kerash regarded him with bright interest, waiting to see what Toren would do. The skeleton paused. And then he sidled for the exit.
“How interesting. I wonder if you will change too, Ijvani.”
“To be like that?”
Ijvani’s voice was frankly horrified. Toren ran into an invisible wall. He stopped, decided to go the other way. He began pressing his hands against the air. He was in a box! Az’kerash shrugged.
“I do not know what will happen. But I will change you. And make my Chosen. Undead that can level.”
And Ijvani got it. She looked around as the walls sang. And the Necromancer smiled. He laughed once.
“What greatest creation will I make? What perfect designs? Now I understand, Zelkyr. And they will grow beyond what I can make.”
He looked at Ijvani. And she saw him staring at her. And she felt…happy. And strange. Her? Leveling? She looked at the skeleton who’d brought it all here. So did Az’kerash. He nodded at Toren. And Ijvani felt another flash of terrible jealousy. Because Az’kerash was smiling at Toren.
Amused. Even…respectful. And this was all the Necromancer said as he rose, Ijvani at his side.
“There is so much to do, now. But—slowly. Carefully. The magic of creation lies in my hands. And I cannot see the essence of life.”
He gestured at the blank spot written in the heart of the magical theory.
“But I have time. Time—and yet—what a strange thing. I may well conquer this world before the turn of the century.”
Ijvani nodded eagerly. And Toren paused. Because he was a captive once more. And female Toren—no, Nekhti—was gone. For now. But amidst this very confusing day, he found himself thinking this Az’kerash person was alright.
The Necromancer raised his wand. And he sent dark [Messages] flying across the world. Carefully, no. Perhaps recklessly. But it was time. He felt alive. And the dead man smiled. And then he went to create the second leveling undead.
A thing fit to end the world. To bring wrath and ruin. And she would call herself—
Ijvani.
 
——
 
Only three [Messages], for now. Only three, as careful as could be. Or as recklessly. Each one different. Of a different nature.
The first, courtly, delicately worded, humble, entreating.
Covert. Delivered as it was scribed, and sent by Courier to its destination. Although even the famed Courier had to halt.
They feared making an enemy out of the [King] on these lands. So the Courier halted as the dead rose on the border. The Garuda, Chaita, the Sky’s Mirage, offered the letter with both of her wing-hands to the undead, trying not to shudder.
It was brought across the nation of Khelt, from dead hands, passing to living ones at the gates. Conveyed into the undead [King]’s presence.
Fetohep of Khelt read the letter at his leisure. It was a break in his displeasure at the situation with Jecrass and Belchan. But as he had reiterated, Khelt was neutral. Despite trade with Reim. And if any nation wished to object to his will, they had only to cross his borders with an army.
Such was Fetohep’s will. The [King] read the letter. The flames which glowed in his withered sockets went out for a second. And then reignited.
“Ah.”
That was all he said. Fetohep regarded the letter, but didn’t have his [Mages] investigate it. That would have been rude. Also—pointless. He consigned it to the flames. And then he sat back, thinking.
“Curious. Why now?”
No one answered him, for Fetohep kept no counsel but that which was equal to his wisdom and experience. Thus, he was alone. He ruminated, in the darkness. For Khelt moved at an immortal’s pace. Playing a game of forever.
 
——
 
The second letter was more topical. Cordial still, but an entreaty, as opposed to a tactful inquiry into the formation of a possible dialogue. More direct.
No Courier bore this one. There was less need for formality…of that kind. And besides, the destination was to someone who was found with difficulty, even by the best of Runners.
She stopped knitting as the [Message] came in. And it spelled itself out in thread. Belavierr blinked once.
“Hm.”
And then she went back to knitting. She thought, as her fingers practiced long-honed techniques, unconsciously. And what the Stitch Witch was knitting moved. It made a sound.
“Hush.”
That was all the [Witch] said. And she smiled. Although—perhaps she should not. Vaguely, she looked down at what she was working on.
Just a bit of…evil. Although, to her, it wasn’t something she fully understood. Evil was what other people liked to call things. So she was doing her best work. Like a world-class master in an amateur’s shoes.
The Stitch Witch sat in the empty village, but for her and her creation, and thought on the Necromancer’s polite inquiry. The invitation. Soundlessly, the village moved. Belavierr stared at the villagers.
They stared back. And the Stitch Witch nodded. She sewed a reply in the air, stitching her words back.
“I agree. Later.”
That was all. Then she went back to her work. And what she worked on was a work of passion. No bargain made. Filled with love, although the villagers might have disagreed.
A mother’s love for her daughter. If she must be hated, let her be hated. And if she should be evil—let the world scream her name.
 
——
 
The last [Message] was the most succinct, even compared to the one sent to Belavierr. And it took the longest to arrive. Perhaps because the one it was destined for was unused to such correspondence.
But it came at last, and the one whom it was meant for, looked up.
“For me?”
“Yes, Miss—yes—that is to say, yes…Cognita.”
The Truestone Golem looked at the [Seeress] on duty collecting [Messages]. After all, Wistram coordinated the world’s [Messages] by and large, at least through the Mage’s Guild. It was like…the post office, to use Aaron Vanwell’s expressions. And that was an odd comparison.
Did the post office spy on you, intercept mail, sometimes send or change things to their liking? Were they a world power that could behave with the authority and arrogance that exceeded many nations?
Possibly, possibly. And if that was the case, only a few people would know about the post office’s true power. And those who did would be wise enough to keep their mouths shut.
