A young man dancing about, laughing in delight as Toren arose. ‘It works, it works!’ A prototype, meant as an experiment. Ideas thrown together, haphazardly. Creating something unique.
“—I see it in you. How? The very thing that Zelkyr of Salazsar sought. The heart of magical creation. I have sought it for half a century. And it eluded me. So how…? Why…?”
Perril Chandler looked up. And his voice shook. Toren stared down at the [Necromancer]. He had no clue what he was talking about, but he enjoyed the moment.
“How was it possible!? Show me the truth! ANSWER ME! [APPRAISAL].”
And Toren saw Az’kerash draw his wand and point. And instead of oblivion, Toren saw words flying out of his skull. Writing themselves down in the air in neat words, in plain language. And the Chosen of the Necromancer and he himself stared up.
And read this:
 
Toren—
[Skeleton Knight], Level 28
[Sword Dancer], Level 13
[Undead Leader], Level 14
[Tactician], Level 6
[Barmaid], Level 3
 
The letters hung in the air. Az’kerash stared up at them. And his mouth moved soundlessly.
“…[Barmaid]?”
Kerash stared at the last class. But then his head snapped up. His master was pointing at the words hanging in the air.
The skeleton’s class. His levels. And Toren saw the Necromancer’s eyes go wide. And he laughed. He laughed with incredulity, fury, disbelief.
The undead in the Necromancer’s castle of black stone stirred. Thousands of skeletal warriors moved along the walls. Undead concealed in the ceilings and the earth twitched. And giants made of bone rose out of the earth.
Rose and broke. In the room, the Chosen felt the magic gather as Az’kerash pointed at the glowing words. They flung themselves down too late. Toren’s skull watched them as they were picked up and hurled across the room like dolls. He saw the spell shoot up from Az’kerash’s wand and blast past his head.
Just a few feet to the right and forwards and he would have had his oblivion. But the spell shot upwards. The castle shook, and part of it exploded as the Necromancer hurled a spell and expletive. But the words hung in the air. As dust cascaded down and the night sky shone down on his head, Toren wished he still had a jaw.
He stared down at Az’kerash’s face. And he really wished he could grin.
 
——
 
In time, there was peace. And quiet. In time, Toren found himself, still a skull, resting in the center of a magical circle as the Necromancer spoke levelly and analyzed…everything.
In time. But it was a bit of time. Maybe a few hours?
Most of the night? And it included events like the Chosen running for cover, begging their master not to blast them to pieces as he had…a quarrel with reality.
Yes, that was a good way of putting it. A quarrel with reality. Wherein Az’kerash, with his wand, sometimes just with a finger, blasted chunks out of his laboratory. And castle. And anything in sight, really.
Toren was spared from it, ironically at a time when he would have embraced the oblivion of a disintegration orb blasting into his skull. But he had to own—he’d thrown some good tantrums before. Hitting things, throwing his skull against the dungeon wall, stomping on stuff, and running about stabbing people.
Az’kerash could conjure falling comets, blast half the castle with fire, even cause a minor tremor, and throw a section of earth through one of the Bone Giants in the courtyard.
When he was done, even the magically reinforced fortress walls of his castle had succumbed, if not to fire or one spell, then to a multitude of spells. The last—a fiery beam that Magnolia, Ryoka, Ressa, or the late Great Mage Nemor would have recognized—had literally shot a hole through the castle wall and nearly through Venitra.
The forest around Az’kerash’s castle was currently on fire. The [Necromancer] flicked his wand and rain began falling from the skies, putting out the blaze. He sat in front of the magical circle as Toren saw his Chosen hiding behind Venitra in one corner of the room.
“Ijvani, Bea, Kerash. I am finished casting spells. You may remove yourself from Venitra’s shadow.”
The other Chosen hesitated. And then they edged out from behind Venitra. They had reason to be nervous; Kerash’s head was being stitched back on by Bea even now. And Ijvani’s bones had been nearly melted on one side, despite the armor coating.
“Master? What is your will?”
The Necromancer stared blankly at Toren. The skeleton saw magical language floating around his skull—what he supposed was his very essence, the spell giving him life. It was weird, seeing it. Sort of intimate. Lewd?
The Necromancer didn’t take his eyes off the magical writing. He spoke, tiredly—he’d thrown at least five hundred spells out that Toren had seen, each one different and very destructive. The skeleton sort of liked whomever this [Necromancer] was after that display. You had to admire destruction like that.
“Clean up. The castle as a whole. Begin with…the holes in the wall. I’m well aware I’ve destroyed parts of the enchantment. Repair the walls as best you can with stone and mortar. Mobilize as many undead as it takes. The same for any other parts of the castle, including the libraries, work rooms. Make a list of areas damaged. Ijvani.”
“M-Master?”
The skeleton mage shook in her bones. Az’kerash turned his head slightly; his eyes were still flicking across the magical coding.
“Repair the ward spells as best you are able. And gather to me—every single tome on [Necromancy] I have. All my ingredients. Runewriting gemstones…a blank tome, a quill, and ink. Ten of each. Magical writing quills.”
“Yes, Master. At once, Master.”
The Chosen scattered. Az’kerash just sat there. He didn’t need to sit, really. He didn’t grow tired. But he needed to sit.
“Cognita.”
Toren didn’t know who or what that was. But Az’kerash did. He nodded to himself.
“She taught him. Of course. She has will. She did not give me—but I was called traitor, anathema, around the time Zelkyr…I wonder if she might have?”
He paused. Az’kerash raised one hand.
“[Message]—no. But perhaps—[Message]—”
He cancelled the spell a second time. The [Necromancer] lapsed into more thoughtful silence. Now was not the time for spontaneity. He thought, as much as he could.
“Zelkyr failed. Again, and again. For a decade, and that was when he was obsessed, not just pursuing. As did I. There is no scenario where Cognita possessed the completion of his work and simply kept it. So—she only gave him the basis of sentience.”
Only. The Necromancer would have laughed. He stared at Toren. The skeleton stared back.
“A prototype. Perhaps even a mistake. But he clearly intended it to be the basis of later designs. Why did he not make more? Because…well, the mana cost is certainly an issue. But also—yes. I begin to understand. Because it disobeys orders. You are renegade.”
Az’kerash addressed Toren. The skeleton felt like nodding. Yup, renegade. No one to hold this skeleton down.
“Of course. Unintended side effects. He most likely believed he would create sentience at most. And his spell-laws would have held. But one capable of leveling? A true individual? Yes. An accident. But now—how did he do it? A young man, do what Archmages and ancient [Necromancers] failed to do?”
That was the question. The Necromancer got up and walked around Toren, inspecting him, even picking up his skull and turning it over. The [Necromancer] exhaled, a bit of a chuckle.
“Hah. He must have used the finest needle imaginable. And one cannot fathom how many skulls he must have written this on. One thousand lines and barely this long…”
He had to chuckle at the intricate scratching on the skull. Even with a microscope—or rather, a spell capable of doing the same, it was minute. A single slip and Pisces would have had to start over. Let alone if a bit of dirt had fallen into the skull, or he’d scratched it with so much as a fingernail before it was done…
No wonder he’d only made one. But how? Even so—Az’kerash himself had to take time to read the layers and layers of spellcraft.
A master’s work. It was theory and language and perfection written into one unified spell of creation. And it was not Pisces’ work. He’d just copied it from Cognita.
“This is certainly Zelkyr’s style. He had a decade to improve it. Yes…what perfection. But the question remains: what did Pisces Jealnet do?”
Because he had to have done something to complete Zelkyr’s work. Archmage Zelkyr, the most famous Drake of his era, had created sentience in Golems, but never full life. Never a soul that could level. Az’kerash was running through the intricate decades’ worth of spell that had been written.
Hunting for the very source of Toren’s soul, however it had occurred. It took him a long time. So long, that Ijvani returned with the materials as the other Chosen tried to repair gaping holes in the wall with their fundamental lack of masonic knowledge or architecture.
It was the black skeleton, the mage who had been taught and imbued with life by Az’kerash himself that saw the [Necromancer] standing in his laboratory. Ijvani halted with a bundle of objects in her arms.
She was Ijvani, beloved of her master. The greatest skeleton in the entire world. That was how she thought of herself. Now, she saw and heard a sight unknown to the castle.
Her master was laughing. Laughing so hard he was weeping. He brushed tears from his eyes. His body was rejuvenating, changing for even that small thing. He laughed, as the other skeleton’s head floated in the air. And Ijvani was terribly, horribly jealous. She saw her master turn, still laughing, and lean against the chair he’d brought to sit upon.
“Zelkyr. Oh, Zelkyr! If you could have seen this. Old friend? Are you alive? Say that you are, so you can see this! The answer that eluded us both. What fools we were, at the height of our magic. Look—”
And he pointed. Ijvani saw the entirety of the spell carved into Toren’s skull, over a hundred thousand tiny lines of magic, written with the smallest needle imaginable, around the inside of his skull.
A magical diagram, a spell that was written across the inside of each and every one of his bones. Interconnected.
Grand magic, made to create a single thing. Far more complicated than any spell to animate a Golem or undead creature. In fact, such a powerful spell that the effect was incredibly limited—to just give the capacity for thought, for growth, nothing more. To create a soul where none existed.
The most audacious of dreams for any class. More important than [Alchemist]’s gold, which they’d figured out and banned doing long ago. More earth-shattering, world-changing than any base Tier 7 spell.
Old magic. Rumored to have existed. Magic to change the world by its very existence. To create a person with a soul. Who leveled.
They had made String-People out of magic like this, albeit differently. And Zelkyr, greatest [Mage] of his generation, had pursued it. And he had despaired, for the task had broken countless [Mages] before him.
But here was the answer, using the magical formula he had labored over so long. Az’kerash had his own formulas, which had many similarities to Zelkyr. Because both had been so close. But their answers had been wrong a hundred thousand times.
However—here it was. Az’kerash stared up at the completed spell. He didn’t need to read all of it, but he did.
Zelkyr hadn’t needed to change most of it. He’d already surpassed genius and prodigy by creating sentience. And each line of his elegance was written out, creating thought. But inwards, inwards of the grand design, where Toren’s skull lay, was the center of the masterpiece.
It was there, in the very center of the skeleton’s head, that the key to creation lay. And it was into that space that Az’kerash and Zelkyr had created countless formulae, hoping to have the right piece of that unknowable answer that would bridge the gap and turn magic to life.
What was life? The answer was what had made Toren. And look—Az’kerash pointed at the answer and laughed at the sheer, simple, stupid genius of it. And here it was.
The spot…was blank. There was nothing written there. Az’kerash, Archmage Chandler, and the man known as Perril Chandler threw back his head and laughed. There was no answer.
No great genius from Pisces Jealnet. But it worked. The magic burned in the Necromancer’s eyes as he beheld it.
An answer without words. Because what could you write that described life in its entirety?
What genius. And yet—
“What idiocy. All along, it was a student’s answer.”
A blank space instead of any answer on a test. Leave it blank—and let magic fill the void. It meant…Zelkyr had always been right. It meant his spell had always worked. What irony. If he’d just left it blank, it would have worked. But he and Az’kerash had always thought they knew the answer.
Not Pisces. And his placeholder, piecemeal, prototype skeleton had lived. Az’kerash laughed. And then he bowed.
Bowed to the magic. Not to the young [Necromancer], but to the beauty of the spell itself. And to Toren. Ijvani heard Az’kerash sigh, but it was no sigh of frustration or disappointment, but a kind of relief and…a positive sigh? She listened, entranced, as he spoke, for even this sound was so unique to her. So precious.
“Every time I think I understand magic, with all its laws and rules—I am surprised. For the heart of magic is different than what we are taught. It is this. An empty spot on a map. A moment of inspiration. Genius cannot comprehend. But it comes, unasked. As if magic were not a thing of Tiers and rules. But it obeys.”
He sat there, shaking his head. And the [Necromancer] thought—for the first time in the longest while—that he might be closer to leveling up again. He smiled. And remembered what it was like to be alive with a racing heart.
Just for a while. And then he pivoted and saw Ijvani waiting at the open door. The skeleton shrank as Az’kerash looked at her with that foreign expression thing on his face. But he beckoned her over.
“Come, Ijvani.”
She came, bowing, waiting for his command. But Az’kerash rose and inspected her. Ijvani froze. She found herself sitting on one of his legs. She was not heavy, but the contact was alien. Az’kerash had not touched her since he had created her.
“Ah, Ijvani. My creation. My…servant. Look at what I have done to you.”
He saw the places where the magical iron he had coated her bones with was melted, twisted from the fire from his outburst. The Necromancer’s face clouded as he ran his fingers over Ijvani’s bones. And they were mended.
“I am your Chosen, Master. I exist to perform your will.”
