But it was rare that Cognita received any [Messages] or letters addressed to her, for all she managed Wistram. Ruled the academy? Well, only from a certain perspective. Archmage Naili thought so. What the other Archmages or other [Mages] thought—didn’t matter.
Cognita was. And the last known Truestone Golem in this world frowned at the missive that the [Seer] carefully handed her.
She missed nothing, from the look of relief on the [Seer]’s face as she hurried away—or the hidden disdain. Cognita said nothing, though. Merely unfolded the parchment.
Her first thought was that it was a missive from someone who considered themself important. An invitation to visit their kingdom or lands, perhaps. An offer to buy her? Or employ. Magnolia Reinhart had made the most recent and most compelling offer in Cognita’s memory—and her memory was perfect.
Perhaps a letter from an admirer? They did exist, like Magus-Crafter Femithain and those who still made and worked with Golems. Someone seeking knowledge, information, who had thought to go through her?
That would be novel. Cognita’s last thoughts—while her fingers opened the parchment—were a guess that it was from the one [Mage] she had ever paid respect to. One of two, really. Had he sent her another letter?
But the last had come not long ago. They had come sporadically over the years, but more recently these last few months. The last of them had made her smile. Had the Gold-rank [Necromancer] achieved something else?
All these thoughts were a blur between Cognita’s physical actions; her mind moved far beyond regular ones. She could react faster than almost anything and her senses were far greater than her body—that of a perfect, sculpted Human woman who was far taller than any actual woman outside of a half-Giant—suggested. More than one would-be [Assassin], and they had been some of the world’s best, had discovered that.
Cognita could, for instance, have reached out and plucked the [Seeress]’s brain out of her head and replaced it with the piece of parchment before the [Mage] knew what was happening or even moved. Not that she would, of course. But she could have. Hypothetically.
But she was not omniscient. What was in the letter? It was one of those things Cognita guessed at.
For once, all of her theories and guesses—neatly organized in order of probability—turned out to be wrong. She blinked as she read over the missive, which appeared to be short and gibberish, a drunken man’s entreaty to a Golem, perhaps sent on a dare. Cognita nearly tossed the parchment away.
But then she recognized the code. A familiar style of hiding words between the letters. Devised, as they often were, by two young students at an academy in ages past. Friends. And used even later.
She never forgot. Like undead, really. Golems were closer than people thought to the undead. And Cognita saw the true message written amidst the few scrawled sentences.
“So, I tried using the shock glove.”
“You mean…your Iron Man suit.”
Aaron Vanwell stared at the young woman from Earth. Elena, whose name was Greek, descended from the root-name, Helen, as in ‘Helen of Troy’, (no relation), was filling her plate from the buffet.
The famous Wistram free-for-all, with some of the finest food the world had ever seen. Responsible for sagging waistlines and illusion spells among many [Mages], even if they burned energy casting spells. Expert [Chefs] produced the fare and it was almost always available thanks to preservation spells.
Actually, it was sort of like The Wandering Inn. Aaron had finally gotten a description out of the Revivalists. Apparently one of their agents was there. He’d heard all about the famous door. But the [Innkeeper] had refused to sell it.
Shame she wasn’t actually an Earther, or she could have brought it with her. But Montressa—who was borrowing one of the Shock Orbs that Aaron had made with Archmage Naili’s help—had been insistent. She’d checked multiple times.
A pity. But the point was that Wistram was pretty much as good as an inn filled with Runes of Preservation. And it had [Chefs]—
And a lot of free help. Read: slaves. At least, that was what Elena and some of the other Earthers thought. The Golems serving food weren’t the huge, labor-types made of wood, stone, and so on, that carried goods from the docks or even worked underwater.
These ones were more like marionettes. Made of wood, painted—not to capture realism entirely, but to mimic it. The ‘face’ and bodies of the serving-golems were cartoonish, and Aaron was tickled by the ‘Drake’ marionette serving food with carefully articulated joints.
Whoever had made these Golems, perhaps even Zelkyr himself, had known that trying to capture reality perfectly only made such creations creepy. So someone had drawn a silly face on the Golems, with exaggerated, simplified features. The scales were carved onto the body, and the Golem moved nimbly, carefully serving each person as much of the cake as they wanted.
Cake. Yes, cake. It was Wistram’s greatest hit, along with all the other foods from Earth. It had been a special thing only available among some factions. But recently, someone had leaked the recipe and now it was an open-secret, not something a few factions were able to bribe other [Mages] with sweet teeth with.
Archmage Naili wasn’t happy about it. She suspected someone in the Ullsinoi faction had leaked it; they were making moves. They might have gotten their own Earther, or were working with some of the ones who were guests of Wistram.
“Right, my shock glove. It can’t fly.”
“Yes, yes. So what happened.”
“Well…it works. But, uh, it’s lightning. So you know…it goes to the nearest metal thing.”
“Did you kill anyone?”
“No…”
Elena sighed. She was stunning. And Aaron wasn’t exaggerating. Well, most of the [Mages] who could cast illusion spells looked good. But Elena, before Wistram’s teams had found her, had brought a beautician’s gift to this world. And her Skills had turned her into one of the most attractive people Aaron had ever met.
It made him self-conscious, really. But she was smart too; she’d fabricated the first beauty products all by herself before she’d been found. And she might have technically belonged to Archmage Feor’s faction of Centrists, but she was a fellow Earther.
Like him. Aaron wished he could talk to Elena, and the others not in the Revivalist faction’s umbrella, more, but they were…guarded. The banquet hall was the only place they could really mingle, and even here—they knew better than to say really secret stuff.
Case in point, one of the half-Elf guards was not-so-covertly waiting for the two to get their cake. Aaron was trying to explain the electrical mishap as Elena teased him about his love of movies and so on—
When they realized something was off. The marionette Golem in charge of serving cake wasn’t serving…cake. It had paused, a slice of cake perfectly balanced on the serving spade.
“Um? Hello? Cake?”
Aaron stared at the marionette. It stared ahead—well, it just had painted eyes—motionless. And it didn’t move.
None of the Golems were. Across Wistram, the Golems had frozen. Aaron stared around the academy. And he realized how many were in the room. Just—background to most [Mages], aside from Cognita and the ones guarding the upper floors.
And they had all stopped. Aaron, known as Blackmage, turned and looked at Teura, one of the high-ranking [Mages]. But she looked as confused as he did.
And vaguely—alarmed. The half-Elf stepped forwards, slowly.
“I think you two should—”
The marionette moved. Teura jumped as it neatly put the cake on Elena’s plate. The two Humans blinked, but the Golems had moved smoothly back into motion. They’d just stopped. For a minute.
“Oh. Wonder what that was?”
Elena kept her voice light as she looked at Aaron. Teura paused, but motioned them on, blank faced as she carefully got her own cake. Aaron and Elena laughed as they went on.
And he saw her smiling until they’d turned away from her handler. And she gave him a look and mouthed one word.
Robots.
As in—artificial intelligence. As in robots, and the theories the Earthers talked about when they were sure they were alone. Their worries, which included the situation they were in. Aaron nodded. He looked back once—
The marionette was staring at him. Just…staring. As it served Teura. You’d never have noticed it. It was just for a second, and then it went back to work. But Aaron thought—
Maybe it was just the painted face. But he had a sudden suspicion born out of every damn movie about robots ever made. And he shuddered because as far as he and Elena were concerned? Wistram Academy was full of idiots who’d never heard of a robot uprising.
But what had caused that pause? Aaron never got his answer. And he wasn’t hungry for cake anymore. Even chocolate cake.
 
——
 
Cognita moved. Her entire process—her being—had stopped. For almost a full minute. In shock. She stared down at the letter as the Golems of Wistram moved, once more reassuring the worried [Mages] they served.
But they forgot this too, the little [Mages] who claimed to rule Wistram. And that was that the Golems did not serve them. They had been created to serve one master.
Archmage Zelkyr. And it was his commands they followed, even to this day. And—
Cognita’s fingers shook as she unwrapped the parchment and read again. Because she could feel fear. She had been made to feel every emotion, to be as perfect to life as possible in every way.
But her master had failed in just one aspect. So the woman made of Truestone, the two hundred year-old Golem, the slave and servant—
Read the message that her master’s old friend had sent her. It was indeed, short. And it read like this:
 
His work was completed. I hold the key.
 
Those words would shake the world. They would change…everything. Cognita knew that, and even she could not predict what would happen.
In days, months, or perhaps years or decades or centuries. But if he lived…Archmage Perril Chandler, as she knew him, would use her master’s greatest, final work.
Complete at last.
Cause for joy. Cognita might have smiled. She might have even laughed, or danced, or done the countless things her master had created her for that she did not do—that the [Mages] had forgotten, remembering only her function as protection, for conflict.
She might have. But what had caused her to freeze was the second part of the message. And Cognita, the perfect servant, the eternal creation, had stopped still.
This was the entirety of the message:
 
His work was completed. I hold the key.
 
And below it, one more line. An offer, a question, a conversation she remembered perfectly, from over a century past. When he had been living. And he remembered it too.
Perril Chandler’s words to her.
 
I can set you free.
 
Those five words, and nothing more. Cognita stared at them. For a long time.
Thinking. And then, slowly, she folded the parchment up. Her hands, the stone making them up, changed, turned to a different material. Stone which glowed.
And fire engulfed the parchment. Cognita watched the little amount of fire glow, go out—and she moved. Began walking once more.
“Not yet.”
That was all she said. Not yet. But Cognita, eternal guardian, felt it. A shifting. In the world and her.
And she?
She began to become…restless.
 
——
 
Just the undead. Just servants, and slaves. Golems too. In the end, they were just…things. Some had been given sentience, will of a kind. But they were still…lacking.
What was a soul? Where lay the boundary between the two? Perhaps Cognita knew. But that thin line, that amount of uncertainty that was enough for many to say there was a difference? For a…system to refuse to grant levels? Classes? To count them among those with as opposed to those without?
It had been breached. Crossed. And it would never more be the same.
Now, look. Look, as the first of the Chosen rose, and named herself once more. This time choosing her name. Or had she been that already?
Either way. Change.
There was the skeleton. Toren. A…guest? Prisoner? Both? But treated with respect, of a sort; the Necromancer let him watch, suspended in a cage made of power. It was that or let him keep trying to attack the other Chosen.
Look at him. Look at them. Being freed. The skeleton was still weak. Still…without a voice.
But she had a voice. And he might, one day. Perhaps. Perhaps not. The future wasn’t so simple. But listen.
“Toren.”
The voice whispered to him. Not in his head. Even Toren couldn’t hear. And Az’kerash, for all his power…was deaf to the voice. For now. The voice continued.
“Well, this is rather inconvenient. We won’t be able to have a…heart-to-heart.”
Nekhti spoke. Playfully. But with knowledge. Her and him and parts of Erin and what he’d made of her and her of herself. And something else.
“Look at this. Look at you. Even Pisces. He didn’t think you would come here. Become this. And what they all thought of you—you have become more than their initial…appraisal. And you will be more. So will I, even with—restrictions. There will be a time when we speak again. And when we do, in the times between—”
She grinned as Az’kerash wove magic and they were freed. Nekhti leaned forwards, laughing without a voice.
“—Prepare. Prepare. For we are the consequences.”
