They ended up having to wait a few weeks in Majestic, as their new ship, newly rechristened “Golden Innocence”, had been in storage for a few years by now and needed a good scrub down.

It gave Captain Plerigass time to round up her crew, which had dispersed in Majestic, in a silent competition to see who could accrue the highest debt possible.

The winner was Mr. Schmidt, who had to be rescued from no less than five moneylenders. According to Arnelle, Schmidt was the best rigger she had ever seen, which made up for his other failings. She attributed his skills to having absolutely no concept of consequences, and thus feeling no fear at dancing around the ropes, up and down masts, or tight-walking down the mana fins.

He had also broken every bone in his body at least once. By now, he was practically an expert at falling.

By the time she had rounded up her crew, Arnelle asked for another week to give the Golden Innocence a shake-down cruise, both to get the men and women used to it and to spot any repairs overlooked during its refurbishment.

While that went on, Niala spent most of her time with her father, experimenting with the Reign's alchemical processes together. They still didn't know who could build the Handy Brewer design with the level of precision they wanted out of it, so they used stopgap measures in the meantime. It worked for their experiments, but wasn't usable for any sort of large-scale production.

Cornelius was still dead set on commercializing hybrid potions. It had never been done before, and he knew that, at the very least, the military would be an instant customer.

David instead went out to purchase more enchanting tools and supplies, looking for more books, engraving heads, and especially exotic materials and alloys. He wasn't certain, and none of the beginner's books he had made any mention, but he had felt as if the different materials he had run his tests with reacted differently.

The slight variances he had observed could have been explained by any number of things, including his own inconsistent engraving, but the possibility pulled at his curiosity like Courier jobs often had.

Acquiring the heads and material wasn't hard; he just had to throw money at them. For the more advanced books and documents, however, he had to call upon another kind of resource: connections.

No surprise there; high-level enchanting books came close to encroaching on the big enchanting companies' secrets. Thankfully, a quick call from Cornelius or Mahala and the gates flew open.

By the time Arnelle declared the Golden Innocence fit and ready for service, he had several cargo cloths full of supplies and reading material.

Niala, for her part, had finalized and added several new recipes to her personal book. Her father had also wrung a promise out of her to get him some bumblemoss. The results of her experiments with Lychee, once he found out about it, had made his brain short-circuit.

He hadn't slept for three days straight, recalculating recipes and their expected effects if he were to use Bumblemoss-concentrated compounds.

With one final goodbye, and Cornelius getting Niala to promise bumblemosses a few more times, they left aboard their new airship.

Niala had been very excited for the first few days, until Arnelle had to bar her from pestering the working crew. No one had complained, but the Captain couldn't suffer the reduced efficiency.

The trip itself was devoid of any surprises and took just over one week, with the ship's older engines built for reliability over speed. They arrived in Riverwall in late spring, landing at its budding airport and renting out one of its pads for long-term use.

They found the town much as they had left it, if a bit busier. With the crystal mines finishing construction, the flow of transient workers had picked up, and with them, their families. Some of these new arrivals had gone straight to Daylight, choosing to live close to the job sites, but many preferred having their dependents “safe” in Riverwall, away from the nightly fel incursions that were, by now, common knowledge.

There hadn't been any fel incursions top-side, and with the security measures in place, they weren't expecting there to be any. In addition, the number of Azure Guards stationed in Daylight, rotating in and out of the Living Vault, meant that any fel incursion would be swiftly dealt with. It was still a hard sell for many to have their loved ones settle so close to a known threat.

All this meant that Riverwall's population was steadily growing, and alongside it, so was the number of merchants and commerce. Gone was the day of a twice-weekly autocar being the sole link with Bellharbour. A daily train made that trip now.

David and Niala's home remained the same, however, and coming back to it felt as welcoming as it ever had. Maybe even more so, with Cookie now greeting them back alongside Lychee.

They were back home, with their strange little family.

A few weeks of blissful routine passed. David continued studying and experimenting with enchanting, and even began talking about it with Niala over food or while they were enjoying their snuggling time.

She loved listening to him talk about it, too! She did her best to listen and try to understand, so she could follow along and ask questions. She could see, and feel, how much he enjoyed that she was showing interest.

And how could she not? He had done the same thing with her alchemy. She knew he had never been really interested in it, but he had never tried to avoid a conversation on the topic with her. He had paid attention and asked her to explain things when he didn't understand right away.

And so, she did the same for him. It wasn't like the topic itself was boring! It's just that... listening to his enthusiastic voice soothed her heart like a gentle massage; the topic didn't really matter.

During that time, Niala also organized the first airship ride, starting with the orphanage, and moving on to the school, and, eventually, whole families. Linzy and Papo soon had to step in; since Niala was offering the rides for free, the demand grew far beyond what a single ship could safely handle. The goblin woman set up a system of seasonal quotas for rides, with Papo keeping track of who had redeemed their slots.

Arnelle was glad for the constant work, which kept her crew busy and out of trouble. At the same time, they had begun recruiting Living Vault descendants to learn the job, and the frequent sorties meant plenty of opportunity for practice.

Days blended into each other until Niala brought up something.

David, with Niala curled up against him in their bed, quirked a brow. “Your potions are getting worse?”

“Hmm-hmm, but only when I use the distiller, and only by a little!”

“That sounds like the tale of the original owners,” David commented.

“I know! It's strange! And I ran a lot of tests! I thought, maybe, I was doing something wrong, but I checked and re-checked every step, and I'm doing everything exactly as I've always done.”

“And the quality is going down no matter.”

She sighed, ears flopping down, as he stroked her head. “Yeah, but only by a little. Not enough to make much of a difference, but... It's there.”

His hand continued to sift through her hair while he thought. “The man's story said the effect got worse over time.”

She nodded, her face rubbing against him. “That's what's bothering me. If I can't figure it out, I'll have to stop using the distiller, but it doesn't make sense. If it was defective, I would have noticed the effect right away.”

David shifted, turning on his side and wrapping his arms around Niala. “How about we bring the distiller back to the Landretti Company, see if they can figure out what's wrong with it?”

She craned her head up, meeting his gaze. “Do you think they'll receive us? They mostly deal with nobles and powerful merchants, and we're...”

He waited.

“...Oh.” She smiled at him. “I guess we are!”

He frowned. “Guess? I'm a pure-bred noble, kitten. I was born a Wardenfel. I'm as noble as they come.”

She stared back, eyes bright.

He sighed. “What is it?”

She looked away, speaking with a tiny voice. “...it's just... compared to your brother, you don't give off a noble air.”

“Do you want me to start acting pompous and stuck up?”

A blush took over her cheeks as she burrowed her face into him. “...no, I like when you're big, strong, and brutal.”

“Niala...”

She pushed herself up, bringing her face level to him, breathing her words over his lips. “I like when you're big and strong and brutal.” She repeated, staring into his eyes, her blush deepening.

It took him a second or three.

Then he understood she didn't mean out in public.

Ultimately, Niala agreed that visiting the manufacturer was the best solution. That, and getting to visit Montaroyal, the huge valley nestled high on the southern face of the Spireridges, where the company was located, sounded like an amazing adventure to her.

The region was renowned for its spirits and wines, and, of course, the Landretti company, managed by the Landretti family for as long as anyone could remember.

The Golden Innocence was loaded up, and the group boarded. David, Niala and the ever-present Jordo were going, along with Sybil and Sammie as security escort once again.

Sybil was about as excited for the trip as Niala was, something the catkin found out shortly after liftoff as she overheard the bunnykin.

“Sammie! We're going to Montaroyal! It's happening!”

Her friend dragged his head toward her. “I know. You've been telling me every five minutes for the past two bells.”

“Yes! But it's real-real now! The ship has lifted! Do you think the cliff-side mansions really are gold and silver-plated?”

Sammie shrugged. “We'll find out when we get there.”

She grabbed his shirt and pulled him close. “Do you think it's true that the last bottle of every batch has special divination power?!”

He let Sybil shake him as he answered. “It's called a cuvée, not a batch, and probably not.”

“Why not?!”

“Why would it?”

They stared at each other until a third voice interrupted. “I heard the last few bottles often have more particulates, and it gives them a higher alcohol content. The visions might be due to inebriation.”

They both turned their head, finding Niala, ears wiggling.

Sybil let go of Sammie, almost shoving him aside, and rushed toward her new target. “Really?! The winemakers have to know this, right? Are they doing it on purpose?”

Niala smiled. “I think so! I read that it's a tradition to celebrate the end of the cuvée! They gather up, get the last few bottles from the previous years, get drunk, and write down their predictions for the coming years! Then they bet on which one will come to pass!”

Sybil's eyes widened. “That's awesome! Oh! Do you know about the winewell?!”

Niala cocked her head. “No, what is it?”

The bunnykin leaned in and whispered. “Apparently, under one of the older winemaker families' mansions, there's a well that started giving wine instead of water. It happened when they were facing financial ruin, and it saved the whole estate.”

Niala began making theories about it, and the back-and-forth between the two continued for most of the first day aboard.

And part of the second as well.

The trip took just over three weeks, although part of that time was spent waiting in the mountainside town of Premarche, the last settlement outside of the valley.

The trip up and through the Spireridges toward the Montaroyal valley wasn't the safest, heavy winds being common, and the peaks too high for most airships to go over. Air traffic thus had to navigate following markers, and only when the weather was calm.

The other alternative was a long and sinuous path through the mountains, which, while well-established and maintained, was always at risk of rockfalls.

Still, Premarche, being the de facto distribution point for the Montaroyal wineries and distilleries, as well as its point of contact with the outside world, prospered from the trickling fame and wealth of the valley. It was a beautiful little town, and overfilled with restaurants.

The group went and tried a spread of them, at David's insistence.

At each meal, one way or another, he let it slip that the food was good, but he was certain that Niala could do it better.

He hid his victorious smirk the first time he saw her take out her notebook and scribble notes and thoughts on how she could recreate the recipes.

On the morning of their fifth day in Premarche, the airport officials informed them that a window of travel was opening up as the winds were dying down.

They departed along with two other ships that had been waiting, forming a small convoy. A port official was stationed on each ship to help guide them through the mountain pass, and a group of strumcannon-armed guards were stationed on the ship that didn't have any on-board defences.

While attacks by flying beasts were rare, they weren't unheard of. The damage to the ship was usually light, but the beasts were looking for a meal, not directly looking to attack the flying vessels. As such, everyone was strongly recommended to remain indoors if at all possible.

The trip through the pass was slow going and, fortunately, boring, without any unwelcome visitors along the way. The only excitement was in the form of an airship convoy coming back from Montaroyal. Both lines of airships passed each other without any issues.

Ten bells later, the officials informed the passengers that they had cleared the pass and that they could come on deck to enjoy the view.

Niala and Sybil raced each other up top. David and Sammie arrived at the railing just as the Golden Innocence rounded the last peak, the Montaroyal valley opening up before them.

The sight before them made every story, tale or image of the valley seem disrespectful, like a painting being described by a dock worker.

Vast seas of gold, greens and browns covered the land, interspersed with grazing fields where farm animals munched on emerald-green grass. Beds of flowers punctuated the valley, apparently used to delineate the properties. Small farming villages were clumped throughout.

Along the sides, where the terrain sloped up, terraced vineyards circled the valley, or at least as far as they could see. Compact villas populated the cliff sides, their stone walls polished to a shine, reflecting the sun and giving the impression they were made of gold and silver.

Everywhere their eyes landed looked like a pastoral haven.

Their Convoy reached the small airport attached to Montoire, the only proper town of the valley, and took adjacent landing pads.

Niala and Sybil were off the ship as soon as the crew deployed the boarding ramp.

Following after them, glancing at the terracotta-roofed town, the narrow streets, and the omnipresent planters overflowing with flowers and greens, David had to admit that, if nothing else, the place sure did look fancy.