Kirginatharp looked the same as he always did, and Erick was glad that ‘the Headmaster’ was not subject to the Red Sparks at all. The Apparent King and the Headmaster had had their heart to heart about Erick’s mental health two weeks ago, and then Erick had taken tea with the Second of Rozeta a few times since then, to discuss this or that, and for Kirginatharp to officially request that Erick remove Destiny from Oceanside grounds, for she was ‘doing weird things, Erick, like moving books around and spilling grass seed onto one kid’s botany project, and switching out the caffeinated coffee for decaf, and I cannot abide!’. Erick had convinced the older-looking man to just let Destiny do what she wanted, if she was harming no one.

Which was coming back to bite him in the ass right now.

Kirginatharp said over tea, “Destiny and Solomon are an item, and Destiny’s small actions are too much. In particular, she blew a ship off course a week ago and delayed the rescue of that class for a day, and now the ripple is here. That professor of that castaway ship was one woman who I would have assigned to watch over the Heart Relay, but she is now sick with The Blue, so I had to send another guy, who was the person I decided to send because, apparently, Destiny had helped all of his students prepare for his pop quiz which he designed them all to fail, so that I would not be able to assign him to the Heart Relay, because he would had have the excuse of ‘but I have an important class!’ which is what he always does when I want him to work on something specific.” Kirginatharp took a breath. “And that’s only ONE of her ‘small actions’ that I have uncovered.”

Erick just smiled. “She’s rather great at that, isn’t she.”

Kirginatharp rolled his amber eyes. “And that’s not to mention anything of Solomon trying to bring back a daughter that never existed, and his obsession with this Heart and with an ignition to Wizardry.”

Erick was deep in a Benevolent Path with Kirginatharp right now, the Red Sparks fighting off the edges of his words, but really, not much more than usual. Erick followed the Path, and asked, “How about your own obsession with Wizardry?”

“Bah! I have enough power. I’ll get in line for the Heart like everyone else.” Kirginatharp asked, “What I am really afraid of is Solomon simply taking the Heart into himself right then and there, and damning all the rest of our ascensions for his own foolish concepts of Reality. A Reality which —I am not sure if you have considered this or not— which might be complete fantasy. A dream! A falsity.”

“I know you have your concerns but Solomon will prove himself as capable. These are just last minute worries of yours, anyway. We’ve gone over all of them before.”

Kirginatharp said, “And we have some extra time right now, so I will go over them again—” He stopped. In a moment he switched modes, turning from an old friend to the Second of Rozeta. A Red look entered his eyes, as he said, “Not enough time, it seems.”

Erick nodded, glancing at the clock on the wall. The plan was for the Heart Relay to start in 32 hours.

The real plan was to go in ten minutes.

Erick said, “We have a moment. Please sit, Kirginatharp. Ask the question you want to ask but are avoiding.”

Kirginatharp frowned at him, Red vanishing a little. “Why haven’t you gifted your Death Switch to him? Rozeta allowed that over two weeks ago. Why are you waiting this long?”

“Because I’m plan D, in honor of Debby, and I’m absolutely sure that I’m gonna need to do the switch and other magics against Solomon somewhere, at some failure point, in order to keep Solomon in line with Veird. The requirements of that action will change based on today’s events, and a whole bunch of other shit besides. I can’t lock him down without raising him up at the same time, Kirginatharp.”

Kirginatharp’s Red eyes faded, leaving wholly Gold, and then he calmed a bit more, and his Gold faded, showing amber irises and black pupils. “I suppose that’s metaphysically significant enough to be an acceptable answer.”

Erick nodded.

And then Erick opened a [Gate] to the clearing outside of the slime dungeon. It was daytime at Oceanside, but Dungeon Island was a world away, in the middle of the night, and all three moons were barely slivers at all, looking like eyelashes made of minuscule color upon a black sky. It probably would have been a starry sky, but the various fortresses everywhere were drowning out the true night with their light.

Erick and Kirginatharp joined the cacophony of people from all around the world trying to make this happen, with the area outside of the dungeon entrance as the largest gathering. It was an organized gathering, at least, with plenty of space for Erick and Kirginatharp to move around, and with wrought lining the clearing, some of them bowing.

Even Melemizargo was in attendance, though he was not visible, and his help would be a lot smaller than the actions of everyone else, and hopefully nonexistent. Rozeta didn’t want him touching the Heart at all; if he did, that was considered a secondary fail state, for Rozeta would never accept such an item into the Core. There was a lot of difference between Melemizargo handing over something he took from the Dark himself, or something that Erick, Solomon, and company achieved.

Not like Melemizargo would have done such a thing anyway. He was always about personal power overcoming adversity, and reaping the fruits of one’s own labor. The world would gain the Heart through its own power, or not, according to a very public statement by Melemizargo just a few days ago, where he spoke of Trials of the Dark and a bunch of other politically-flavored words.

And now, the Trial was here. Veird would attempt to reap one of the largest fruits of all the Old Cosmology.

The grove was laden with Red Sparks.

Erick suspected they’d be a problem, but not right now.

One foot in front of the other, Erick walked the Benevolent Path.

Inside the dungeon, Solomon walked that Path, too.

And somewhere in the world, Destiny also walked that Path.

- - - -

The slime dungeon’s main floor tumbled with rolly, gooey little slimes of all colors of the rainbow, all of them playing in the water rides, or resting on the white stone in the ambient light of the dungeon. It was hard to place the light sources for the dungeon, because all the roof of this separated space was black as Dark, except for the northern wall, which was a cacophony of color and images and dreams from so very long ago.

A Black Gate stood between the stable dungeon of slimes, and all that chaos of beyond.

Solomon stood beside that Gate, its enormity dwarfing his body four times over. Jane, Abigail, Beth, Candice, and Evan, stood close to him, but not too close.

It was all organized chaos, with everyone but Solomon coordinated by Mind Mages. Solomon was exempt because Erick had asked them to extend the same protection he enjoyed to Solomon and Destiny, which had raised a lot of red flags and concerned voices, but no Red Sparks, so that was great. Solomon didn’t know Erick’s plan, anyway, so that cleared that hurdle nicely.

Erick suspected that Kirginatharp was half here to watch him and Solomon, in addition to being a backup support. Which was fine.

Erick, Kirginatharp, Rozeta’s mortal form, and Koyabez, stood to the side, out of the way. The gods were forbidden from physically interacting with the world, due to the God Pact, while Erick was Plan D, and Kirginatharp was Plan E. There was no Plan F, but Erick was pretty sure that Fallopolis was heading up plan F. She was out there at Ascendant Mountain with the other Shades, watching from a distance. Everyone knew the Shades would get involved if something horrific happened and the Lifeblood Heart —gods forbid— shot away from Veird, into the sky and beyond, but no one wanted that, for that would invalidate Veird being able to accept the Heart at all. Despite the displays of peace and prosperity from the Shades for the last decade, no one truly trusted them.

A bunch of wrought relay team members stood on platforms beyond the ledge which supported the Black Gate. Sitnakov was there, along with a bunch of his friends. Archmage Tasar was the center of that formation, though.

The copper green and adamantium black Summoner Archmage of Spatial Magic was the main actor of Plan A, because she had finally succeeded in making her [Familiar], using Erick’s methodology, last week, and that [Familiar], along with some other powers, made her the anchor for this event. Tasar had decided to abandon her pursuit of The Worldly Path in order to finally bring her [Familiar] into the world, because she had finally decided that she simply couldn’t allow anyone to transform her personal mana signature into Benevolence, or any other Element. After making that tough decision, and then making her [Familiar], she had told Erick that she couldn’t be happier. She looked happy, too. Sengaralo was a cute little chipmunk-like creature that was primarily Spatial magic, which rested on Tasar’s shoulder and also along the whole path from here to the Core of Veird.

Tasar might not have [Gate] herself, but Rozeta had outfitted her with a special, one-time cast of [Gate]; a divinely supercharged version that should work well to capture and transfer the Heart to the Core, as long as the first person to hold the Heart didn’t explode in that holding.

That first person to hold the Heart was Sitnakov, looking ready and raring to go. Other holders of the Core would be a Void Well positioned here, in the dungeon, and outside in the clearing.

Plan B was all the wrought standing around outside, along with thousands from here to the Core.

Plan C was Solomon taking the Heart himself, if it should pop out of anyone along the relay path. It should stay with him for a while, too, because he could transform into a dragon and ‘soak the Heart’ for a while, whatever that meant. Erick was clear on the concept, but Jane’s suggestion of the Heart constantly dealing damage to the host had turned to tanking terminology, which Erick wasn’t quite sure was correct, but that language had stuck around anyway.

Erick and Kirginatharp would follow along in their own dragon forms.

And Melemizargo would be out there, too, somewhere. Waiting.

The Red Sparks were surprisingly absent, as they had been throughout most of this whole endeavor except when dealing with certain people. Perhaps Nothanganathor wanted the Heart released from the Dark? Probably. Nothanganathor wanted to be the God of Magic, according to some logical reasoning that might be utterly wrong. Would the Heart be enough to accomplish some of that?

Eh. Who knew.

Perhaps Nothanganathor simply wanted the Heart for the sake of having it. But the theoretical distance that the Heart acted at was a hundred solar systems, so Nothanganathor would be empowered for a while, even if the Heart should shoot off into space. Heck! Even Veird would remain empowered for a while. It was very possible that the Heart would escape and then begin to slow down in the void of space, and perhaps gravity would keep it tethered to Veird’s system for a long, long time. No one really knew the distance the Heart would act at, though. All of that was a guess.

No one wanted that solution—

Into the pregnant air, almost a day before the publicized go-time, Rozeta spoke, “Now.”

Solomon breathed deep, and regarded the Black Gate. He spoke,

“From Darkness cast, Wisdom’s decree,

“This Lifeblood Heart, sets mana free.

“Wonders rise tall, magics take wing,

“Infinity now! Eternal heart spring!”

The world flickered beyond the Black Gate—

Iridescent Dark Dreams became the absolute void of the deep mana ocean of the Old Cosmology.

A light bloomed in that universe of mana, like a distant comet, and like the disturbance of a phosphorescent ocean. Light spilled away from that spot of brightness, the very ocean itself churning to life, to expansion, to brightness in the dark, like a sparkly cheerleader’s pom pom coming into view. The Lifeblood Heart itself was pale blue, or maybe that was just the color of the ocean out there. Hard to say—

The Heart had only been in view for a bare moment. It had started out as a pinprick of light in the distance.

Now it was a radiant ball of every color in the universe and several that Erick had never seen before. Some of those colors felt like they should not exist.

And now it was a brightness which consumed the entire northern wall of the dungeon, all ten kilometers of it.

Colors exploded across everyone and everything. The Black Gate was not large enough. Nothing could ever hope to contain that power coming through the world, spilling into Veird already—

But something could. The Void Well. That Well was the only hope that they had to make the Heart come this way. The Void Well sat in the center of the dungeon, not even visible until now, until it started sucking all the mana in the air down, down, down, into nothing. Technically it sucked that mana down into the dungeon core, because the Void Well had been installed in the dungeon core for this exact purpose.

And still, the Heart came on.

The world was washed in color, every single person and living thing spilling out rainbows from themselves like colorful shadows and inks dropped in wells and so, so much glitter. The Heart itself was barely in view, and Erick wasn’t even sure if he was really seeing it among all that mana.

This was just the halo of the Heart.

The Black Gate was open, but it needed to be opened more.

Solomon flexed his [Physical Domain] into the Gate, into the mana ocean beyond—

And it was like punching into a geyser.

Mana flowed into the dungeon in such great quantities that it was a physical force, slamming into every single person present. Some of the wrought went flying, briefly, before Poi, at the controls of the dungeon, turned the Void Well to maximum power.

Color faded from the world, but every living person remained wreathed in rainbow—

The Heart had been moving oh-so-slightly off course. It had been aiming away from the Black Gate. Erick wasn’t sure how he knew that, but he did, because he saw it now. Finally, the Heart was in view.

It was a sphere of gold and silver and black and white. Red, blue, yellow, green. Solid and ethereal. Deadly and bountiful. Giving and pressuring. A drug and the cure. It was life itself, and it was coming for Veird, for a hole in the mana ocean—

Perhaps the original Heart had been lost instantly as soon as Primal Lightning created Yawning Voids.

—And that was the last thought Erick had had before the Heart slammed through the Gate, a hole in one, a swoosh of a basketball through the hoop, and traveling a thousand kilometers a second.

