It slammed into the Void Well and suddenly stopped, hovering there in the center of the emptiness. It had absolutely no mass, but Erick was still surprised to see that sudden cessation of movement. And yet.

It vibrated.

Sitnakov moved.

The black orcol wrought slammed into the Heart and the world turned to a softer rainbow and a gale-force wind. Sitnakov was all about wind magic, after all. He grunted. The Heart held steady, its rainbow held in check by adamantium solidity and a fuck ton of buffing and supportive magics.

Tasar moved. Everyone moved.

Time slowed around the Heart and Sitnakov as Solomon cast a [Slowing Shelter] in the shape of a long tunnel leading all the way to the dungeon exit. Sitnakov slowed, and then slowed even further as the Heart bolstered the Time Magic around Sitnakov. Sitnakov could move just fine under Slowed time, though; this was to give everyone else a chance to move.

But this was not a good solution to the whole relay because Time Magic was about the presence or antipresence of Elemental Time, and the Heart would turn a Slow spell into a Haste spell or into a Stop spell soon enough.

Among the first steps to this process was getting the thing out of the Dungeon, though, so certain magics had to be used. Other steps that they had already passed was the consideration for the Heart turning everyone into piles of flesh and tumors and doing the same to the world, but that step was easily seen and voided as a threat well before the Heart actually came out of the Dark. Sitnakov was holding strong, too.

Poi, as dungeon master, adjusted the Void Well through the Slow tunnel, and Sitnakov followed the Slowing Void space, rainbows and wind flying everywhere, but people could handle that—

Solomon canceled his Slow magics right as he and Erick both saw the same problem. Sitnakov had jolted with super-fast movement for but a second, the Heart switching powers on him. Sitnakov’s wind briefly turned to a stone solidity in the air, too, as Sitnakov struggled to maintain.

He maintained.

And he followed the Void tunnel, out of the dungeon.

It was nail biting. It was stressful, and then everyone was out of the dungeon, into the illuminated night, and Tasar cast a [Gate] to the Core, slicing a hole in reality where the Core Lands waited far on the other side, along with Void Wells and other stable spellworks—

Red glinted upon Sitnakov—

The Heart popped out of Sitnakov and Sitnakov went flying backwards, through the land itself like a black meteor, completely unconscious. The Heart was out in the open—

The dark world turned to rainbows—

Historians would debate for many, many years what exactly happened next.

What Erick saw was Red ripping apart Tasar’s [Gate] and the Heart flying upward, only for two wrought to get in each other’s way in a way that never should have happened, ever. Rozeta called on someone to [Return], and it did not work because Red interfered, and perhaps Time Magic was not the best magic to use around a Heart. Erick hoped that whoever Rozeta had called upon to [Return] was okay, but they were probably dead. It hadn’t been Kirginatharp. The Headmaster was watching Erick and Solomon most closely, waiting for them to try some shit, while trying not to appear too ready for violence.

But there wouldn’t be any violence today, not among any of his oldest allies and friends.

Erick walked The Lightning Path.

And so did Solomon, Yggdrasil, Ophiel, and Destiny.

Solomon was suddenly there, in the sky, to intercept the Heart and swallow that power.

Rainbows faded. The night partially returned—

And then the world fractured around Solomon as he winced hard, his core fracturing, and then he suddenly calmed, his eyes going bright white, and then shifting to silver—

All the world glinted silver-white, the night banishing under Solomon’s power, his reason for being, his resonance of Wizardry. Every single person gained a silver shadow under the light of Solomon’s ascension.

Rozeta shouted, “Dammit!”

Erick said to Kirginatharp, and through him, everyone else, “It appears that Solomon is rising to Wizardry, so I will give the kill switch now and help him. Line up someone else to take the Heart. He knows to try and shoot it toward the downways.”

And then Erick focused on Solomon.

“Solomon! Embrace your Wizard’s grace, apotheosis now, power embraced!”

The world clicked.

- - - -

Erick stood in a space of white light, while Solomon stood in a domain of silver. The world beyond was gasoline rainbows.

A third person stood to the right, between them both. He was an old man; an original Erick.

He was the one whom Erick had first spoken with, when he gained his double form. He was from a failed version of Erick; one who had never gotten that hand up from that social worker on Earth, who had turned to crime to keep his daughter in diapers, and then turned to Dark Wizardry to get his daughter back when Jane had died on Veird. Rozeta had hounded him for those actions, and thus Other Erick had ended up in Deep Paradox, looking for a solution. What he found was that he did not exist, and that he was being used for fuel to give Erick more options in life.

Erick greeted the guy, “Hello, Erick.”

The old man huffed a laugh. “What the fuck is this? We were just talking and I knew I was vanishing. There were a few weird dreams about suns and Red and shit... And now we’re here again? Why ain’t I non-existent? Why did I have dreams at all?”

Solomon said, “We told the universe we have bigger dicks than it, so we make all the rules.”

“Ha!” said Other Erick. “So what happens now? Am I more fodder for Wizardry?”

“Not at all,” Solomon said. “I am the Erick who always lost Jane, who never succeeded. All of my stories are long and complicated, and none of them end in victory, but this one will. This time, I am getting my Jane back, and I am going to commit Absolute Grand Violence against the thing that took her from me in half of all those lost lives.”

Other Erick breathed deep, his eyes going wide.

Solomon asked, “Will you join me?”

Other Erick said, “Sounds perfect.”

He reached out and locked hands with Solomon.

Erick felt something ephemeral and dangerous fade from his soul—

As Solomon and Other Erick intoned, “We’ll get her back. This will be our genesis.”

- - - -

Erick came back to himself and felt a part of his soul fade away under the silver-white sky—

Solomon’s radiance shifted.

And the sky rotated.

The sun was directly above. Everyone around Erick panicked. Yggdrasil bathed the Edge of the Script in white light, even as Red Claws descended again. Kirginatharp roared out questions. Rozeta demanded answers. The wrought were equally panicking and ready for war.

And then people disregarded Erick’s request for them not to read their minds.

More panic.

A wave of Red Sparks cascaded across the world, flushed out by white light, as Yggdrasil commenced a Grand Cleansing.

Rozeta softly said to Erick, “I can give up the Heart. Do what you need to do. I’m sorry you weren’t able to tell me before now. Good luck out there, Erick. I’m ready.”

Erick stepped into the air, saying, “Please keep them safe, Rozeta.” He smiled, adding, “And the relay plan might still work. Try to catch the Heart when it comes down.”

And then Erick stepped into the sky to join Solomon.

Erick faced his brother.

Solomon was still deep in the throes of power.

So Erick started, “We call upon the wisdom of Solomon.”

Solomon breathed and ten thousand souls breathed with him, each of them staring out of Solomon’s eyes, at Erick, and then up at the sun. His silver eyes narrowed, his voice overlapped with itself, whispering, yelling, raging, plotting, planning, speaking, commanding, knowing, simply saying, “We See Now. An ancient enemy, unknown and Forgotten until today. We see what we must do.” He looked to Erick. “Will you speak with us a song of power?”

Erick firmly stepped upon the Lightning Path and all the world was caught in his current.

In Ar’Cosmos, a Fae party stopped. A king and queen turned to the sky.

On Ascendant Mountain, Shades watched and prayed to the Dark.

Melemizargo took his throne, and wrapped his wings upon what was to come.

The Pantheon stepped out onto the tallest mountains of the world.

Every Mind Mage went to work, linking the incani, the orcols, the humans, the harpies and goblins and pixies and wrought and dragonkin and dragons and arbors and all others capable of thought. Some rejected the call to sing, but most joined in the moment, as the Crossing seeped into every mind on the planet. Ascendant Prime held it all together, as they often did.

Every geode, every wrought living their normal lives, drawing never ending ruts through routine, stopped. New thoughts emerged, and routine shifted for a moment.

Silverite looked up from her desk in her mayor’s office of Spur, and Al stopped fixing the leaking pipe in front of him.

The Songstresses of Songli joined their voices to the growing Genesis, the temple of Rozeta ringing out across the land.

Storm’s Edge and Everbless were lost in the moment, not sure what to do, as Oozy bunkered down to wait out the storm.

Destiny and her Benevolence Dragons opened their mouths.

The world spoke,

“A genesis of power given unto form to make red riven.

“A trail through time and place of Paths to make a focus of our wraths.

“You take from us? You make this fuss? We make you now superfluous.

“A Sundering! Ha! A floundering fall! You’re nothing more but a treasure hall!

“Nothanganathor! Your name is Known! Your Red cover is fully blown!

“We take your power, ascension failed! And now you are forever jailed!

“Fusion Energy Nullification, turned to land beautification!

“Radiance Impounding Relay system, filled with all our possible wisdom!

“FENRIR! We call this magic now! Your Red is turned to a dog’s chow!”

Silver light flowed white into the sky, channeled through divinity and Wizardry, straight to the Edge of the Script, and then beyond, never stopping, never ceasing, flowing faster than the speed of light. The spell became lightning, like a grand zap of Benevolence stretched out across the entire distance between Veird and the sun. The Red Lightning tried to stop it, to prevent it, but the plan was laid well, and then suddenly launched before the Unascended Dragon could react.

It was also tuned specifically against Nothanganathor, the Erased One was now seen, his main power stripped in that Knowing.

Or at least that’s what Erick worked for, and believed, as he watched an event unfold that he had participated in, but which Solomon orchestrated, and which took place on scales far, far larger than could be acted upon or even seen, due to the speed of light.

The spell had been designed to strike the very sun itself, and Erick had discussed Solomon’s Wizardry long before today.

Solomon was a Creation Wizard. He was going to create new possibilities, to find Jane on worlds that likely did not exist. So he would have to make those existences. Erick doubted he would be able to do anything like what Solomon had done, for Solomon was the source of the infinite mana flowing outward in order to create this spell, while Erick had merely orchestrated most of this through his contacts among Veird. Once all the gods and all of Destiny’s plots were aligned, everything else fell into place. Everything aligned behind Solomon; even the Script.

Erick said to Solomon, “And now, the rest.”

The spell in the sky was still there. All of Veird was still bolting the sun with one continuous, solid line of white lightning that was probably so very similar to what Rozeta and uncountable immortals remembered of Primal Lightning that half of them were probably panicking, while the other half were reveling in turning the image of the Sundering against its creator. Rozeta was certainly reveling down there, on the clearing, watching this all happen and making sure it continued behind the scenes.

But this was not over.

It would not be over until the Red was gone. But the Red was not gone.

Trapping magics worked better than destruction magics, though, especially against a still-unknown enemy.

Erick, Solomon, Destiny, and Guile, had discussed what sort of war they could commit against the Red and win, and Erick had needed to give up some of his plan so that they were all on the same page. It had been a very concerning last month as Destiny dodged Mind Mages and Solomon wore the Crown of Self occasionally, so that no one could ever read his mind ever, but they had made it here, to this stalemate. The Red would be imprisoned for a while. Maybe for a very long time. That imprisonment would fail eventually, and so, there was just one more thing to do. The part that Erick had told no one, but which Solomon had easily guessed.

People called out to Erick and Solomon in the sky, but the only one Erick really heard was Jane.

“What the fuck, dad!”

Yggdrasil would tell Jane, Abigail, Beth, Clarice, and Evan, all of the truth later. Most of the effects of their World Spell would be visible soon, though.

While Solomon was securing Veird against the Red even more, working with all of the world to prevent relapses, and probably giving Veird a physical shell of anti-magic which would absolutely stop the Red…

Erick would be moving on—

The sky brightened as time and the speed of light allowed them all to finally see what was happening up there. The spell Solomon and the world had cast was a Mana Siphon-based spell, and that spell ripped through all the Red mana on the sun, and then rapidly progressed everywhere else. Propagation magic wasn’t possible on Veird, but this wasn’t propagation magic anyway. It was Solomon supplying an endless font of mana to the spell, through a million untapped lives, filling the solar system with the White of Benevolence and his own Silver Genesis.

And then the Silver, White, and Red sun vanished beyond a hexagonal eclipse of black, as the spell ate at the Red, turning power into prison and then [Duplicate]ing that prison over and over and over.

Part one of the FENRIR system was a hexagonal worldplate the size of Veird, twenty moons-to-Veird distance away, but only a few thousand kilometers thick. Or something like that. Solomon was working with a lot of minds right now to make it work, all of his memories focused on those of himself who were math geniuses and aerospace engineers and other assorted possibilities that never survived this far at all, coupled with Intelligence and Book Magic and a lot more. Erick wasn’t too knowledgeable about all that, but Solomon was. That’s why he was doing this right now.

