Erick had wondered what Solomon was going to call his new Element. He had thought it would have been ‘Elemental Wisdom’, because duh. Solomon had chosen something more primal, though, there in that Paradoxical space with the Other Erick.

Elemental Genesis created the first worldplate of a dyson sphere far, far away from Veird. And then it created another, and another. Soon, the sky toward the sun was blocked out with black, as power built upon power and each and every metal plate of the dyson sphere began to soak the sun. Now that usage of ‘soak’ Erick fully agreed with. Those world plates should already be enchanted, at their very cores, with Mana Siphon on the interior and a whole bunch of stuff on the exterior surface.

Solomon was figuring all of that out.

And FENRIR swallowed the sun.

Ten thousand Solomons looked upon Erick, voices overlapping, “What’s next, Arbiter of Veird?”

All the world listened.

And Erick brought the world fully onto his Lightning Path.

“You layer protective metal shields upon Veird, like multiple Surfaces. Draw the moons to Veird to use and save those afterlives as new layers of Surface. Turn the Forever War into allies working against the Red. Work in as much reflection magic as possible onto the upper shields. Work with Rozeta to purge the Script of Red influences using Benevolence, which is supplied by all the Benevolence dragons and all the Benevolence that has soaked into this land for the last decade. Yggdrasil will be directing that flow mostly, but he cannot do it alone.

“EVERYONE HELPS.

“The Red cannot be allowed back in. You will have time to do this due to the FENRIR system, but not a lot of time. You need to be ready when Nothanganathor breaks free.” Erick said, “But before you shutter the house, I need to leave, to get help from the outside. I will get lost among the adamantium plates and ascend to True Wizard, and then make the Call. I have some tricks that will allow me to do that, as long as your Genesis spell works right and is stable, and I know that it is. I can already see lights upon the world plates of FENRIR. It’s all working well. If I’m not back in a year or two with reinforcements then you need to figure out something else. I imagine by that time that you and everyone else will have had a lot of discussions about the Red, because there’s no Forgetting it this time. Plan B is you all fighting against Nothanganathor yourselves. It should be considerably easier now that you can actually fight back.”

Solomon nodded multitudinously. “It shall be done.”

“Okay, then—”

The Lightning Path coalesced before Erick was ready.

All the world was aglow with Benevolence and Genesis as ten thousand Solomons, ten thousand Wizards from other timelines, turned their gaze upon him in a cooperative cultivation effort—

Erick vanished.

- - - -

As the light of the sun fully vanished beyond the black of an impenetrable adamantium shell, the moons of Veird slipped out of their orbits to lay down softly upon new adamantium surfaces of Veird. Genesis guided well and nothing broke at all, afterlives becoming real one after the other, high, high above every previous land.

More layers of black crowded Veird, layer upon layer, and then the whole thing flashed over with silver, before the planet completely vanished from all sight. The people of Veird were cut off from the solar system. But not forever. Just for now.

Nothanganathor raged, impotently, at the center of a cage he could not scratch at all, for all of his power, all of his capacity he had stolen from all the multiverses of Veird, was being used to empower that cage itself. The more he struggled, the stronger the walls became.

He threw planets at that cage. He threw fire and lightning.

The cage grew stronger.

And Melemizargo laughed.
