“Three full teams,” Gena said, gesturing to the gold-plated enforcers standing ready around them, and ‘gold-plated’ felt particularly appropriate in this instance. What they were was bronze, Bank tradition adding confusion for no real benefit. Gena’s ruby and Luna’s sapphire were the only high-rank plates on the entire island. His captains were out with their ships, and Seeker Kan was in Freetown, trying to sneak her way into gaining them a toehold amidst the chaos of the refugee crisis. Not that he expected her to be successful.

“Should I gather another team?” Gena asked, apparently noticing his discontent but misinterpreting its source.

Luna shook his head. Three teams was overkill for a single bronze-level mercenary or whatever Ascension’s members called themselves. If he and Gena weren’t enough, nothing would be, not that he felt particularly threatened by a physical conflict.

What he felt was...opportunity. Except he wasn’t sure the opportunity was his.

“Shall I send the signal?” Gena asked.

“Do it.”

Luna waited, watching the circling Aeromancer as Gena coordinated his enforcers. It hurt to admit, but Ascension had outplayed him, taking advantage of his circumstances. The fox had out-hunted the hound. He would be at the disadvantage in this exchange.

Throwing a fit over it would earn him nothing. He would find a way to come out on top. He always did.

A green flag was brought out and given to a peon to wave. It didn’t take long for the Aeromancer to spot it. Through the active magnification of his glasses, Luna watched the man gain altitude without flapping those wings of his. That all but confirmed the wings were an Air Magic focus despite clearly being metallic.

“Why is he going up instead of down?” one of the enforcers muttered to one of her fellows. “Did we use the wrong flag?”

“Quiet,” Gena said. “We all just saw the same thing. Don’t ask stupid questions.”

“Likely there are more of them,” Luna said, losing track of the Aeromancer as the man punched into a low-flying cloud. In retrospect, a highly suspicious cloud. He pointed. “Did anyone check that?”

“Check how, sir?” asked one of the enforcers. “You sent all our Diviners after—“

“Enough!” shouted Gena. “The president is aware of the disposition of his assets.”

“A Fireball would do it,” said one of the other Enforcers. “Not that I could hit it from here without a Siege Wand. Did we bring one?”

Luna ignored the babble. His eyes were locked onto the cloud, and he smiled as it stirred, confirming his suspicions. Thus, he was among the first to have a minor heart attack as a shape large enough to be a dragon darkened its surface.

It was not a dragon, of course. The notion fled as soon as it entered his mind. The only dragon that had ever been seen outside Karmark was the one Kev had beaten into submission, and the High King working with anyone was beyond ridiculous. Instead, as the shape burst free, it was revealed to be something equally absurd.

A flying ship.

“El above and below!” someone shouted.

Luna quickly adjusted the zoom on his glasses with a thought. The ship was fast from how quickly it was approaching, but flying vessels were not unheard of. Jien, notably, operated a handful of the things under the Foundry’s banner, lent out for priority missions where there was no more practical means of transit. Missions where the benefit outweighed the ruinous operation cost of the massive journey cores powering them. No, the ridiculous part was that Ascension had such a vessel. And that it was made of metal. And that the metal hadn’t stopped them from conjuring a cloud to veil it. And that it could apparently cross between continents.

Not even Jien’s ships could do that safely.

His agents were failures, yes, but even a child in the street would have heard of Ascension if they had a vessel with such capabilities. That meant it was new. They’d made it. Recently.

As the flying ship neared, the sound of rushing wind became audible, indicating that its method of propulsion might not be a journey core after all but rather some unprecedented form of Aeromancy. The two birdlike wings to the sides of the craft’s cylindrical body were mounted with pods that might have held the artifacts responsible, distorting the air in front of them even outside the range of his glasses’ artificial Mana Sight. This observation only led to further confusion as the craft came into that range. The pods were not charged with mana, at least no more than the rest of the craft’s skin. There was enough energy visible to point to basic structural enhancements but nothing on the surface that could possibly explain such defiance of gravity.

The rushing of the wind grew stronger as the craft slowed, passing overhead much to the disquiet of those around him. Luna stood boldly, jacket whipping in the blast as the flying ship’s wings tilted relative to its body. Sand flew past, deflected away by his projectile defenses as the craft angled for the beach in front of him.

Tearing his eyes from the mysterious pods, Luna looked at what had to be the craft’s control center, but he couldn’t see inside. The enchanted glass was silvered, like a mirror, and it soon went out of view as the craft pivoted to face away from them. As the vessel’s wheels made contact, it lurched, and the rushing wind dropped to something more manageable, and his eyes went back to the pods. The blurs above them now shifted, resolving into a pair of rapidly rotating, cross-set blades.

They were physical, not a distortion at all. They’d merely been moving too quickly to see.

Luna’s attention was stolen from that marvel as the rear of the craft began to open. The bulkhead below the control center dropped swiftly, forming a ramp and revealing a lighted interior. There stood six figures clad in jackets of purest white, each holding fast to a net stretching across the ceiling. Rain was the first he recognized.

Ascension’s captain was unmistakable in his armor, even below the white jacket and with a Crystal Slime of all things perched on his shoulder. The shorter figure beside him wearing the same armor would be Ameliah, his consort and another silver. That made two so far. The diminutive man to the right was also heavily armored but with his visor lifted, allowing Luna to recognize him as Atyl, the supposedly unawakened Ascension bureaucrat he’d met before. Unlike before, the man cradled an unloaded limit spiker in his arms, the harpoon-like bolt dangling from a loop on his belt.

The three figures behind them, Luna did not know.

One was a Warrior, from the sword and the full armor, and the other two were Mages, from the lighter armor and the mana he saw in them. The fact that they wore metal armor at all spoke to their skill, but ultimately, neither they, nor the warrior, nor the bureaucrat and his limit spiker were any danger.

None of them could match the sheer presence that rolled off the first two.

There was a weight to them that hadn’t been there before. A weight completely unbefitting of silvers. A weight that had the hair on his neck standing on end and that had every single one of his warning enchantments crying out in panic.

Oversoul. True oversoul.

“Yo,” Rain casually remarked, gesturing a two-fingered greeting as he descended. “Pretty sweet ride, huh?”
