“Ah. Yes. The Seeker…” the Amnesiac breathed, as if he had been anticipating this moment. “Please. Invite her.”

The Deathless froze. He turned a wary gaze on the orc. “What did you just call her?”

“The Seeker,” the Amnesiac repeated. “It is a field of expertise I share with her.” The orc tapped his forehead, and the black dot brightened with colors beyond Shiv’s ability to describe.

Adam groaned. “Oh, gods. We chose the orcs specifically to avoid dealing with the felling Outsiders.”

“The Shapeless Ones are never close. But they are also always close.” The orc giggled. “But worry not. I am not a Seeker myself. I am just a Listener. I hear, and I tell the Challenger things. I tell my fellows things. And I hunt that which shouldn’t be hunted.” The Amnesiac licked his lips. “Dreams taste delightful.”

Just then, Adam fired an arrow through the flesh of existence, and as a dimensional pathway expanded, Uva appeared on the other side. Behind her, Valor had his right hand placed atop Helix’s head. The orc’s beady eyes gleamed with something close to fear as Valor talked about “Skill Plagues” and “Curses that affect even Reincarnators”. Can Hu stood beside the orc, glaring up menacingly.

“Adam? Shiv? Something requires my attention?” Uva stepped aboard her shield and began drifting across. As soon as her mana strings spilled through the rift, they cracked against the orcs’ Psychomancy fields.

“Potent,” an orc chittered.

“Delicate,” another mused.

One tilted his head. “Hmm. Strings? Haven’t seen this skill before.”

“Puppeteer,” the Amnesiac declared without hesitation. He fully turned away from the prisoners and stood at the ready, preparing to greet Uva. As she emerged and stepped onto the ground, she regarded each of the orc Psychomancers only briefly, and then turned her magic on the prisoners. She slipped her strands into their minds and rooted about for a moment. The orcs did nothing to stop her. Instead, they all sported eager grins, as if diligent students awaiting praise.

After a minute, Uva retracted her mana from their minds and regarded the Amnesiac for a beat. “The rewritten memories are sound, but the damage you inflicted on their egos is extreme. They are barely self-aware.”

“Deliberately done,” the Amnesiac said with a bow. “We focused on letting them retain their combat capabilities in case the Insul wishes to waste their lives attacking the Necrotechs.”

“Waste?” Shiv said.

“Yes. I believe they are best returned to their comrades. To serve as internal saboteurs and the like.” The Amnesiac hummed with joy, still facing Uva. “Before you continue with your criticisms, understand that we are not entirely done with our adjustments, and that this is not their final configuration. But I also wanted to have something presentable. For you.”

“For me,” Uva said dully. Shiv was watching the orc intently now. He fought the urge to just hack the Amnesiac’s head off. The orc was playing at something with Uva, and Shiv didn’t like it. Especially because he didn't know what he was playing at.

“Yes,” the orc Psychomancer breathed. “Your skill… It is favored by spies. It is the Psychomancy of a spider pluck-pluck-plucking on her strings.” He mimicked the motion of pulling at a stringed instrument, grinning.

“And yours is that of a Thief,” Uva replied. “You grow stronger by swallowing others' memories. Collector of the Forgotten Pasts, is it?”

The orc nodded joyously. “Indeed. Indeed. Quite well studied. Mine is a very esoteric Skill Evolution. As is yours.”

Uva regarded the inquisitors once more. “You understand that I will never enter their minds, yes?”

The Amnesiac’s expression flinched imperceptibly. “But why? I am—”

“I studied what you have done. I know you’ve hidden memories inside other memories. That means you’re very skilled with Psychology and Psychomancy. More skilled than I. So. I will not risk myself. I am not entering this trap. Let that thought die.”

The smiles on the orc Psychomancers’ faces turned to frowns. Several of them turned to glare at the Amnesiac. “Was that what you were doing while the rest of us were doing the actual work?”

“You will have to be more subtle to see my skill,” Uva replied. “And I will give you nothing if you provoke me. I care nothing for pride. I see your capabilities and have no interest in playing this dominance game. Pursue it if you must, but I will simply avoid you.”

“I won’t,” Shiv said, his voice rumbling with an undercurrent of violence. “I’m not exactly sure what you guys are doing, but I’m getting the urge to mutilate an orc’s soul again.” And then he squinted at the eye motif on the orc’s back. “Amnesiac. You have dealings with the Outsiders, yeah?”

Uva’s head turned to Shiv, then back to the orc. “Does he, now?”

“I do,” the Amnesiac said. “I—”

“What did the Stranger offer you for her life? Is it a Quest?” Shiv’s guess was as wild as it was blunt. Adam did a double-take. Uva stopped breathing.

The Amnesiac blinked. Shiv noted how the orc’s facial muscles were rolling under his skin. “How—”

The Deathless manifested his temporal shell. A faint Chronomancy ward rippled out from the Amnesiac. Shiv shoved it aside with his Magebreaker. He coated his Skysplitter in Vitae and started carving into the orc. He tore and mutilated him in body and soul, snarling like a rabid dog. When he was done, when the Amnesiac was in tatters inside and out, he leaned close beside the orc’s right ear. “Hey, Stranger. If you’re watching this, find better servants. Maybe one that doesn’t wear a big godsdamned eye on his coat.”

Then, he caved the Amnesiac’s skull in, just as his temporal shell shattered.
