“Dad!” Jane rushed across the road to hug Erick. She buried her head against his shoulder. “I’m so glad to see you.”

Erick embraced his daughter, laughing, saying, “Hi, so-glad-to-see-you. I’m Dad.”

Jane left the hug. “That’s terrible.”

“You ran right into it.”

Erick stood back and looked Jane over. She had gone out wearing cloth, jeans, and a shoulderbag. She had returned wearing the same, but with her hair cut short and her skin a shade darker. And dragging a cart of… stuff? Bumpy stuff covered by a brown cloth. Savral arrived in the same dark armor as he always had, but as Erick looked, his armor dissolved into mana, revealing his normal tunic and pants. Ah!? He was using [Conjure Armor] all this time? Was Jane using that, too?

“What’s in the cart?” Erick immediately followed that question with, “What’s your [Conjure Armor] look like?”

Jane smiled wide, then she transformed.

Solid bands of silverblue laid crisscross around her body, loose and mostly unconnected. Threads of blue light zipped back and forth through the bands, layering across her form, holding the bands together in loose fashion. Soon, Jane was wearing the most plain looking ‘armor’ Erick had ever seen. It was a winter jacket and thick jeans. She had gloves now, but they were just blue gloves; not gauntlets.

What the fuck was this? Living in a fantasy world and this was the best she could do?

All wonder and amazement left Erick like a stale fart. Pfft! Then gone.

Erick complained, “Where’s the spikes! Where’s the wings! Where’s the design!”

“That’s what I said!” Savral laughed loud.

“Looks rather plain,” Al agreed.

Jane got both huffy and smug, saying, “This can take a center stab from a crystal mimic. Savral’s armor can’t do that without crunching in and needing to be reformed.”

Al looked to Savral, and Savral reluctantly nodded.

Erick still wasn’t over the bad design. “It looks hideous, Jane. At least work some embroidery into the design. You can do that, right? Maybe some flowers?”

“Phhbt! I’m not wearing flowers!” Jane moved around as she spoke, “The gambeson has full range of movement, has no weak spots in the joints, it’s breezy and easy to live in, and no one expects it to hold up as good as it does. It’s basically just clothes!”

“She has proven her armor many times over the course of the trip.” Savral pointed to the cart. “Though I’m not sure if those are going to work like you think they will.”

Erick looked to the cart.

Jane dismissed her ‘armor’ then stepped to the cart. She tossed the tarp off, revealing… Bumpy stuff. And a few chopped short crystal agave leaves. The leaves were at least 14 inches wide and twice that long, nearly filling the cart completely. Their sliced portions revealed a fully translucent core. The only color on the leaves was a faint blue tint to the skin, and the bumpy-lumpy blue and a bit of brown lumps at the end of the leaves. The bumps jiggled in the sun. They had to be an animal, of some kind. Not crystal slimes; Al had said what those looked like and these bumpy things were not balls of clear goo with a ‘diamond’ at the center. They were like bluish bean dip on large tortilla chips.

Erick asked, “What are they?”

Jane announced, “Mimics! They’re everywhere out there, on every single agave. The only ones that give experience are the ones large enough to copy an agave all on their own. Those are all around level 30. Did you know the mimics are what keeps the desert a desert? We found an oasis out there and it should have been growing green but mimics were clearing out anything green.”

“… Why do you have them?”

Savral answered, “She has something special in mind, but they have to be eaten alive.”

“They’re alive!?”

Erick rushed closer for a better look. Al frowned, and stayed where he was.

The lumpy bumps were slowly moving. Faster now as time went on. Jane covered them back up with the tarp.

She said, “They don’t like direct sunlight.”

Al narrowed his eyes, “To what end?”

“She wants to become a Monster Mage,” Savral answered.

“Jesus Christ, Savral.” Jane said, “I can answer my own questions.”

Savral smiled, shrugging.

Jane sighed, and said, “Mimics gain [Polymorph] at higher levels. I want [Polymorph]. Since I’m not going to take the chance of talking to a dragon, nor do I want to fight a dragon and eat its heart, I’m going this route.” She looked down at the crate, and said, “They’re toxic like this, but the alchemists in the Adventurer’s District know how to remove the toxins without destroying what I need, like how [Cleanse] would. Lanore turned me on to the idea; A lot of people from around the world come here to get this kind of service performed. I’m not able to get the Class, yet, but I can learn the spell.”

Erick frowned. “What’s [Polymorph]?”

“By Rozeta!” Al huffed out a great billow of annoyance. “How do you not know that?”

Erick looked at him. “I don’t know a lot of the more funny-named spells people have been throwing around in Spur. People kept referring to [Nature’s Fury] but I had no idea what that actually was until a few days ago, and I still don’t know because the guards interrupted Krakina. Do you know about gamma radiation? Or 401ks? Or the difference between a car and a truck?”

Al balked. “Well… No.”

“Gamma radiation has to do with rads, right?” Savral guessed.

Erick said, “Incorrect!”

“Damn.”

Erick turned to Jane. “So? What’s [Polymorph]? Exactly?”

“Transform into monsters!”

Erick frowned. “Gonna need more than that, Jane.”

Al answered more correctly, “Transform into any living creature that you know.” Al said, “The more familiar you are with a creature, the better your transformation. If you don’t know what the hell you’re doing, you hurt yourself with Error messages. Familiarity is usually gained through living with the creatures, or eating the heart and brain of the creatures. Familiarity through observation maintains your mind, which is a bad thing if you’re trying to fly without the instincts of a bird. Familiarity though eating shifts your mind towards that of the new body, which is bad if you transform into some murderous kind of animal and you have a low Willpower. Any Willpower under 25 is considered ‘low’ in the case of [Polymorph].” He added, “It’s a very specialized spell.”

Erick started Al’s monologue with a frown. That frown only deepened as Al kept talking.

Jane said, “I want to explore the entire world, Dad. Swim in the oceans, fly through the skies, see in the dark and live anywhere.” She patted the crate with the mimics. “And [Polymorph] is how I do that. My armor that you think is stupid? It can be altered to fit any body type. [Conjure Weapon] works with natural weapons, too.”

“It’s just weird, Jane. You’re going to hunt monsters and then eat them—” Erick paused. He conceded, “Okay. Now that I said the words, I think it’s better than killing monsters for experience.”

Savral smirked off to the side as he said, “She’s going to do that, too. She wants to get to level 100.”

Al scoffed. “Never happening.”

“What level are you now?” Erick asked.

Jane smiled, then said, “Why don’t we go inside, first?”

- - - -

Jane, Erick, and Al sat in the living room while Savral began chopping up vegetables and meat in the kitchen. Jane was on the edge of her seat with big news and big questions.

Jane started, “What is Scion of Balance, Al?”

Al nodded. “It’s considered the second weakest of the Scions because it requires many more points in Vitality than most are willing or able to commit, as well as giving up the x4 multiplier of the three major Scions in return for only a x2 modifier to all. There are a few cultures that cleave hard into Scion of Balance, though. The wrought in particular are fond of Balance, as well as several orcol cultures, since we usually start with a high Vitality anyway. Scion of Balance also doubles your resistance to Health Fatigue and Mana Exhaustion.”

Erick asked, “Why not tell us about that one, too?”

“Because.” Al huffed, “You should both go for Scion of Focus. Mana Exhaustion is the real killer for mages. All Scion of Balance does is give you, at minimum, 1500 of your HP, MP, and regen statistics. That’s not enough for any of the high-maintenance spells.” He said to Erick, “Like your [Exalted Storm Aura], which is … 15 times 60 times 24… 21600 mana for a full day of rain. At your current 35 focus, that gives you an exhaustion cap of 21000 if you went for Scion of Balance AND you’d need to spend a lot more ability points to get 25 in Strength, Vitality, Willpower, AND Focus, AND all four of the x3 skills.”

“Okay.” Erick said, “That’s… not something I think I want or am capable of. No mana exhaustion would be preferred.”

“Exactly!” Al said.

Jane smiled wide. “I think I have to go for Scion of Balance.”

Al said, “But you won’t have the benefits of high stats! Scion of Strength for 6000 HP! You won’t even die if someone took an axe to your neck. Not to mention having 50 strength; you could punch a juvenile dragon or a very large bear away. Willpower for 6000 Mana? You got yourself a 6000 point absorption [Ward], and that same axe would have the same problem with your same neck. Focus for 6000 Mana regen AND no Exhaustion? You’re a workhorse, able to lift cities from the desert or—” He turned to Erick. “Or turn that desert into farmland!” He digressed, “6000 HP regen isn’t that great, I admit. Scion of Vitality is the weakest of the four Scions.”

“Five Scions,” Jane corrected.

“Fine! Five Scions!”

“And with 1500 mana I can Favored Spell [Ward] for a 3000 point absorption [Ward].”

“Favored Spell on [Ward] is a nice, safe choice. Rather bland, but very safe.” Al said, “But! You could do that with Scion of Willpower for a 12000 point absorption [Ward].”

“Yes.” Jane said, “But those Scions of Willpower [Ward]s regen only 600 an hour, so there’s no point, whereas my 3000 point [Ward] would regenerate 1500 an hour.”

Now Erick was lost. He asked, “Regenerating [Ward]?”

Jane’s mirth vanished. She was six years old and someone had knocked the icecream off of her cone.

Uh oh. She was mad at him, wasn’t she? And Erick had just reminded her that she was mad.

“Dad.” Jane spoke with an undercurrent of anger, “What level is your [Ward]?”

Erick called up the box for [Ward], saw this was a problem he could fix, and dumped all of his mana into a personal [Ward]. The spell was going to level when he got around to casting his daily personal [Ward], anyway!

No slackers here, no sir!

[Ward] has leveled!

Level X!

Damn that box was huge— OH. That’s what Jane was talking about.

Ward X, instant, short range, 24 hours,

Create a Small Ward that can have Minor Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 10 MP + Z

Create a Small Ward that can have Small Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 15 MP + Z

Create a Special Ward. Variable Cost

Create a Medium Ward that can have Small Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 20 MP + Z

Create a Medium Ward that can have Medium Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 25 MP + Z

Personal Ward: Any Ward of any type can be made Personal, to move with you. Original Cost x2

Create a Large Ward that can have Medium Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 30 MP + Z

Create a Large Ward that can have Large Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 35 MP + Z

Create a Ward with another Spell attached to the interior. Spell activation based on Z invested into Ward. 100 MP + Z

Your Wards regenerate Z based on your Rested MP regen rate.

Special Wards can be made Permanent. 250 MP + Variable Cost

Minor Effects: Bug Ward, Temperature Ward, Alarm Ward

Small Effects: Visual Disruption, Audio Disruption, Weather Ward

Medium Effects: Area Hostile Visual Disruption, Area Hostile Audio Disruption

Large Effects: Drain Hostile HP/MP, Gravity Ward

Special Ward: Eschew all other effects in order to shape, color, and illuminate a ward however you wish. Skill level at Mana Manipulation determines final outcome. Variable Cost

“I just didn’t read it close enough. It says right here: Your Wards regenerate Z based on your Rested MP regen rate.” Erick nodded, then closed the box. “So you’re going to make [Ward] a Favored Spell? That seems good to me.”

Jane stared at him, her anger fading, relief taking hold. She breathed out. She said, “I think it would be prudent.”

Al added, “Your Rested regen rate. If you were a Scion of Focus, your [Ward] would be up to full in a matter of minutes. And don’t discount the ability to shape a [Ward] with [Force Shrapnel] or other cheap spells inside. You can make some nifty higher tier magic that way. Like this one—” Al pushed a box over to both Erick and Jane.

Blade Barrier, instant, medium range, 5 minutes. 350 MP

Create a freely modifiable large area of vicious force blades that deal 55 damage per second to everything inside, while active. 200 MP spellpool. Drains 5 MP per second while active. Restores 2 MP per second.

Al said, “It restores 2 mana to its pool of 200 every second. And that 55 damage is highly misleading. Against a large creature and a well shaped [Ward], it’s more like a thousand damage a second. Anything that can’t move will die.”

Jane read the spell a few times. She dismissed the box, saying, “That’s something to consider, sure. But I’m not going to be a mage like my father. Besides. Lanore, Gorgush, and Savral all said that it’s easier to obtain stranger Classes when you have Scion of Balance, and Polymage is a strange Class.”

“Polymage?” Erick dismissed Al’s blue box. He felt lost again. Then he latched onto a problem. “You didn’t even tell me Classes existed, Jane. Or any of you. And then I got one shoved at me!”

Jane looked at him. “It’s been in your Status since we got here! You never thought to talk to anyone about those blank lines?”

Erick ignored that fact. “What’s a Polymage? Someone who specializes in [Polymorph]?”

“Broadly, yes,” Jane said.

From over in the kitchen, Savral said, “It’s the official name for Monster Mage. And yes, it’s a weird class. All of the blendy mage and warrior classes are weird and harder to get than usual.”

Al sat back in defeat. “Whatever Scion you pick, or if you pick none, your stats determine what Classes the Registrar will allow you to Quest for.” He narrowed his eyes. “You really want to be a monster mage?”

Jane said, “What I want is to be able to fly, and swim, and explore, and live anywhere and do anything. To go everywhere. To talk to the mermen in the ocean, or the harpies in the mountains. Or any number of people anywhere they might be. Killing and eating monsters is very low on my list, but I don’t want to be scared of anything, either.”

“Adventurers will see you as a monster unless you’re careful.”

“I can be careful.” Jane said, “And I’ll have a 4500 buffer either way. [Ward] every morning!”

Savral repeated, “[Ward] every morning!” like it was some sort of mantra they had formed habits around.

Now Erick was scared. Erick vividly remembered Al blasting that shadowolf to ash. But he couldn’t tell Jane not to be who she wanted to be; to not become the person she wanted to become.

Erick said, “You really need some embroidery or something on your armor, Jane. Something flashy that says, ‘I’m not a monster’.”

“Okay.” Jane relented, “Maybe Polymage, specifically, is not a good idea. I won’t know for a long time. I’m only level 32. But I am buying Scion of Balance. I am a fighter, and a mage. This is who I am.” She looked up in the air, then said, “There we goOoOOoo…” She paused. She said, “That felt weiii…” She laid back and closed her eyes.

Erick stared, stock still, his voice a whisper, “Jane—”

She started snoring.

Savral and Al laughed.

Savral said, “She ran herself ragged out there! I’m surprised she didn’t crash as soon as she sat down.”

Al asked. “How many points do you think she assigned?”

“At least 25. She was waiting to hear what you had to say, but she already knew what she wanted. She’s really good, Dad.” Savral spoke to Erick, “Your daughter is one of the best talents I’ve ever seen. She certainly has the range to make it as a Polymage.”

“Truly, Savral?” Al asked.

Savral said, “Dropping down to almost a third HP and MP here with Scion of Balance is much worse than anything that happened out there. She’s really good.”

Al and Savral joked about making monumental Script decisions in the living room.

But Erick could only watch Jane, as she laid there snoring gently. He looked upon his daughter and knew that she would be alright, but the thought of Jane in danger still scared him. It was a primal fear and well known, etched deep into his very core, born when Jane was a little girl he held in his arms and fed with formula every night, then nurtured by helping her grow into a very strong young woman, and seeing how the world treated strong young women.

The crucible of life turned some people hard, and Jane was one of them.

Erick’s fear for Jane had grown from those simpler times on Earth, to become a multifaceted terror on Veird. He had always managed to push the terror away with denial and wilful ignorance, but sometimes fear reared out of the darkness with flashing white teeth and burning white eyes. He couldn’t conveniently forget his fears today, not at this moment, as it mutated into something even more horrible.

Of Jane, dying as a monster on the end of some idiot’s sword.

Of Jane, falling from the sky as her wings gave out.

Of Jane forgetting who she is, and becoming a beast.

Of Jane reveling in the murder of monsters first, and then people.

Of Jane deciding that a person needed to die for what they had done, or did not do.

Because that was the real darkness; the real fear. Erick had known, ever since Jane held a knife at a kid’s throat in highschool, that she was capable of murder if she deemed it necessary. She wasn’t psychotic; not by a long shot. She was very simply, a very moral person, in the way that a soldier has morals, or that a country has morals.

What would happen when Jane’s morals caused her to take a life?

What would happen if it was Erick’s own death, or murder, that precipitated Jane’s fall from grace?

Dark humor sprang forth an answer:

You won’t have to live with the consequences.

He laughed to himself, and Jane blinked open her eyes. Not even 5 minutes had passed.

Erick put on a smile, and said, “You feeling okay, Sleeping Beauty?”

She stretched. She yawned. She said, “I think so. I… I actually feel really good.”

“That’s that doubled Fatigue and Exhaustion resistance.” Al said, “You’ve been burning the candle from both ends, haven’t you?”

“I have!” Jane yawned again, then said, “We have that expression, too. Kinda nice hearing it on a different world.” She smiled, then said, “So…? How about some show and tell! Come on, Dad. I want to see how much you’ve progressed.”

Al held up his hand. “One second.” A burst of sparkles flowed outward, and soon, the windows and the whole room were obscured, probably with [Ward] Medium Effects: Area Hostile Visual Disruption. Erick felt he was getting better at identifying the spells around him, and maybe he actually was. Al said, “There. Shouldn’t be showing your status out in the open, Jane.”

Erick looked to the obscured window. “I wonder if Poi will dislike that.”

“Don’t think I didn’t notice your personal bodyguard, Dad. But first things first. Here.”

Jane shoved a bunch of floating boxes his way. Al read over Erick’s shoulder.

She asked, “Where’s yours?”

“Right.” Erick gently pressed his Status toward her. “Now don’t get mad at me until I’ve had a chance to read all of this.”

It might take a while.

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 22

Level 32, Class: None

Exp: 110034012 / 352457800

Class: -/-

Points: 6

HP

742/1500

1055 per day

MP

781/1500

1500 per day

Strength

25

+0

25

Vitality

25

+0

25

Willpower

25

+0

25

Focus

25

+0

25

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Scion of Balance

Doubles HP, HP regen, MP, and MP regen.

Doubles resistance to Healing Fatigue

Doubles resistance to Mana Exhaustion

Requirements: Strong, Enduring, Discipline, Concentration

Requirements: 25 Strength, 25 Vitality, 25 Willpower, 25 Focus

Strong X

Multiplies base HP by 3

Requirements: 20 Strength

Enduring 2

Multiples base HP regen by 2.11

Requirements: 20 Vitality

Exp: 42/200

Discipline X

Multiplies base MP by 3

Requirements: 20 Willpower

Concentration X

Multiplies base MP regen by 3

Requirements: 20 Focus

Meditation X

Always Resting

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Clarity X

Reduces spell costs by 50%

Requirements: 10 Focus

Rejuvenation X, instant, touch, 5 MP

Touch a creature, heal 5 HP + 2x WIL per second per level of Rejuvenation

Invisible Rejuvenation, instant, touch, 5 MP

Touch a creature, heal 5 HP + 2x WIL per second for 10 seconds

Strike X, 10-40 HP

Level 1: Deal 1.0x damage with your weapon

Level X: Deal 2x damage, + 2x <Piercing Force> damage

Blink X, instant, 25 MP

Instantly move from your location to another within <sight>, max range 10m per level of Blink

Teleport X, instant, 250 MP per person

You and <hands> number of people appear in a known location, max 1000km distance.

Interception X, instant, close range, 5MP + 5MP per 10 meters moved

Instantly move to intercept an attack meant for another. Lasts 1 minute or until used.

Conjure Weapon X, instant, 50 MP + Variable

Create a nigh unbreakable weightless weapon. Lasts as long as held, or 1 minute per level not held.

Conjure Armor X, instant, 50 MP + Variable

Create weightless armor of whatever design you can create. Lasts until catastrophic damage.

Conjure Item X, instant, 50 MP + Variable

Create an item of up to large size. Skill with mana manipulation determines final creation. Lasts until suffering 50 points of damage.

Ward X, instant, short range, 24 hours, ~{Favored Spell}~

Create a Small Ward that can have Minor Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 10 MP + Z

Create a Small Ward that can have Small Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 15 MP + Z

Create a Special Ward. Variable Cost

Create a Medium Ward that can have Small Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 20 MP + Z

Create a Medium Ward that can have Medium Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 25 MP + Z

Personal Ward: Any Ward of any type can be made Personal, to move with you. Original Cost x2

Create a Large Ward that can have Medium Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 30 MP + Z

Create a Large Ward that can have Large Effects, or prevent Z damage from attackers. 35 MP + Z

Create a Ward with another Spell attached to the interior. Spell activation based on Z invested into Ward. 100 MP + Z

Your Wards regenerate Z based on your Rested MP regen rate.

Special Wards can be made Permanent. 250 MP + Variable Cost

Minor Effects: Bug Ward, Temperature Ward, Alarm Ward

Small Effects: Visual Disruption, Audio Disruption, Weather Ward

Medium Effects: Area Hostile Visual Disruption, Area Hostile Audio Disruption

Large Effects: Drain Hostile HP/MP, Gravity Ward

Special Ward: Eschew all other effects in order to shape, color, and illuminate a ward however you wish. Skill level at Mana Manipulation determines final outcome. Variable Cost

Mana Shaping X

Alter spell AOE in better, subtle ways, 10 MP + spellcost

Alter spell AOE in better, moderate ways, 30 MP + spellcost

Aurify Unlocked

Alter AOE in better, major ways, 100 MP + spellcost

Alter AOE in better, extreme ways, 300 MP + spellcost

Change any spell into an AOE spell, or freely alter the AOE of any AOE spell, 500 MP + spellcost

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Mana Altering X

Bludgeon, Slash, or Piercing Damage

Force to Light, Blinding, Variable Cost

Invisible Force, Variable Cost

Force to Thunder, Disorient, Variable Cost

Force to Fire, Burn, Variable Cost

Force to Ice, Slow, Variable Cost

Force to Lightning, Paralyze, Variable Cost

Force to Decay, organic damage, Variable Cost x1.5

Chain, Variable Cost x2

Combine Effects, Variable Cost x3

Generate new effects. Variable Cost

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Aurify 2

Transform an AOE spell into a semi-permanent effect surrounding yourself, based upon the parameters of the Aurified spell. Increase an instantaneous spell to a 1 second duration in order to create an aura.

Able to support 1 aura at a time.

You may choose who or what is affected by your aura.

Doubles the range on an Aurified spell.

Exp: 150901/1000000

Cleanse X, instant, short range, 10 MP.

Purge an area equal to the level of the spell in meters of all Toxins, Disease, Filth, and Corruption.

Mend X, instant, touch, 10 MP

Touch a complicated large object, or a small common magical item, and restore it to its prime.

Force Shrapnel X, instant, short cone, 5 MP

Sharpened forward blast of mana that deals 25 + WIL damage in a cone

Invisible Shard Aura, 4 MP per second

A storm of invisible blades surrounds you, dealing 25 + WIL damage.

Radiant Shard Aura, 4 MP per second

A storm of brilliant blades surrounds you, dealing 25 + WIL damage, driving back the darkness and blinding those who would raise their weapons against you.

Telekinesis X, medium range

Move large objects around you for 5 minutes per level of the spell. Fine control. 100 MP

Quickly move large objects around you for 1 minute per level of the spell. Fine control. 50 MP

Scry X, instant, super long range. 10 MP + Variable

Conjure a quick sensor to see a place you have been or have seen

Defend X, 1/10th HP cap

Take 50% less damage for 1 minute, cannot take more than 90% of your HP in damage in 1 hit.

Silent Movement X, 1 HP per meter moved

All actions are muffled.

Swift Movement X, 1 HP per second

Move faster.

Erick finally said, “Wow.” He dismissed the boxes. “You did a LOT out there, didn’t you?”

“I haven’t showed you my Status since well before the Crystal Forest.” Jane smiled, saying, “You’re the one that did a lot while I was out there, Mister Particle Mage.”

Erick joked, “That’s Archmage, to you, young lady.”

Jane scoffed. “I heard… but really, Dad?”

Savral almost scoffed too, but then he stopped; he had looked to Al for confirmation and found it.

Al said, “Normally you’d need to create a tier 9 spell, but creating a whole school of magic is a good workaround to that requirement. Even the Headmaster called him an Archmage, so I think he qualifies for the title.”

Jane nodded slowly, saying, “Tell me everything.”

Al took down the obscuring [Ward]. Poi was outside on the porch, not directly looking inside, but the corners of his eyes were visible. He nodded at Erick through the window, then resumed guarding from the outside.

Jane looked at the sapphire dragonkin. “Starting with him. What’s all that about?”

And so Erick began talking about the previous days. A lot had happened to Spur in the time Jane and Savral had been exploring and plundering the Crystal Forest.

- - - -

By the time lunch was ready, Jane had begun her story of the last several days in the Crystal Forest.

It involved a lot of monster murdering and corpse dismembering.

Erick almost lost his appetite, but Savral knew how to cook; Erick didn't want to put down his not-fork. Jane switched focus to the experience of being in a team with Savral, Lanore, Gorgush, and Ikawa, when she saw she was losing Erick. Erick was thankful for the change of topic. Apparently, Jane really liked being in a team, and Savral liked having her there; so did everyone else.

They might head out to the Underworld next, but that was a trip for the unknown future. The Sewerhouse was almost ready to reopen and Bacci was back in town from her vacation. The team was going their separate ways for the immediate future. Gorgush and Ikawa were talking about creating little gardens; most of the people in town were talking about making small gardens, or working to help the farms expand.

It might be months until the team gets together for another adventure.

“And you never found the Black Spiker?” Erick asked. “Not a single sign, even?”

Jane shook her head. “Wherever the Black Spiker could be, it wasn’t out where we were.”

“We kept a lookout.” Savral said, “Whatever it was, it was likely some monster from Ar’Kendrithyst, fallen or dumped off of the wall and struggling to survive in the Forest. The Shades are always experimenting and dumping failures out every now and then. Almost none of them survive for long in the constant sunlight.”

“Speaking of!” Jane’s eyes lit up. “I need to see Ar’Kendrithyst for myself. I know you don’t want to go right now, Savral, but I need to see the city.”

A cold yawning chasm opened up in Erick’s heart. He stilled, rather than lash out. That would have been disastrous. But Jane had heard the stories of the danger lurking inside the Dead City, probably more stories than Erick had. How could she consider going in there when she was on a Shade’s shitlist?

But Erick said nothing. Not yet; not while cold and anger swirled inside.

“You can’t go.” Savral said, “Once you’re on a Shade’s kill list, you’ve entered into the greater drama of the Dead City. Some of them would want to kill you; others help you. No group would take you because the smart adventurers are all about killing the monsters and getting rads and then getting the fuck out of there before the Shades notice them.”

Jane nodded. “So what? I’ll go on my own if I have to. Maybe even taunt Bulgan into a fight. Kill him and get myself off their kill list. That’s an easy solution.”

Al spoke, stopping Erick and Savral from jumping to speak, “Do not think you have the power to kill a Shade, Jane Flatt. Some of those monsters are ancient. Even the youngest have killed more stupid adventurers than you have slain monsters these past days. Especially do not forget that the reprisal for murdering one of their own is far greater than you have the ability to stop.”

“That’s why it won’t be a murder; It’ll be a duel to the death.” Jane stared, saying, “If these ‘Shades’ are anything like who Bulgan was before, then I know I can cut a swath through at least one of them without the rest swarming.” As she spoke, her eyes began to glow blue. “Besides! Do you want someone like Bulgan growing to full power inside there? Someone who knows enough about Spur and the rest of the towns around here to call the Wrath of Darkness down upon us all? Right now he’s plotting to murder all of Spur, and especially Frontier! All he needs is time to prepare to strike. I don’t plan to give him that time! Do you?”

Savral made an objection. Al backed up his son. Jane rebutted their complaints, her eyes glowing the whole time. Somewhere in the argument Jane had stood up, and so had Savral. Erick held himself back, unsure how to stop her from getting herself killed.

In a lull in the argument, Erick broke his silence, “I don’t want to see you die, Jane.” He couldn’t stop her, but maybe he could limit some of her more dangerous tendencies. “Promise me that you won’t do this until you’re absolutely sure that you’re doing the correct thing.”

Jane stared, blue light slowly leaving her brown eyes. She nodded. She said, “Of course, Dad. I wasn’t going in there tomorrow. Maybe not for years.” She looked to Al and Savral. “But the problem of Bulgan is not going to go away.”

Silence stretched.

Erick got up, and went to the door to the porch. Poi was still out there.

Erick opened the door, and said, “Hey, Poi. Sorry if I’m not doing this right. Do you want to come inside?”

“No thank you, sir. I’m perfectly fine out here.”

“Ah. Okay. Let me ask a different way. As a person in Spur’s army, please come inside and give me your appraisal of my daughter’s plan to lure Bulgan out with a duel challenge, and what it would mean if she won, or if she lost. Just… A general risk assessment. Is this a bad idea? Or a good idea? Also!” He tried to smile and knew he failed. “Please come meet my daughter.”

Poi looked over Erick’s shoulder, at Jane. She stood away from the table.

Jane frowned at Poi.

Poi walked past Erick, into the apartment, saying, “Greetings, Jane Flatt. I am a bodyguard assigned to your father. There have been a few attempts on his life so far, but we estimate there will be many more, and that eventually the whole of Spur will need to be involved to defend your father. Though that is a worst case scenario that we have in place for many citizens; not just your father.”

Jane blanched.

Erick almost blanched too. The whole of Spur? When did that happen?

But that didn’t matter. Jane looked to be cycling up for another round of well-reasoned arguments.

Erick started before she could, “I’m going to learn some defensive spells and get some levels. I’ve already decided to take Mog’s classes, though I have no idea what those are, or what it all means. But Poi and the rest of them are already taking good care of me.”

He waited for Jane to say something, but she did not. She nodded with the professionalism of a soldier.

Poi began, “Your idea has merit. We have had to kill off problematic Shades before, but it is not something that is done on a whim, or without proper preparation. Bulgan is indeed one such Shade that we would like to see dead. He has been making enemies and allies inside the Dead City. He is gearing up for something. We believe that it is a push against Frontier’s adventuring community, and then against the city itself. Only then will he come for Spur, but he will come. Of that we have no doubt.”

Savral and Al cursed.

Poi continued, “If you were to challenge him right now you would die. But also, a challenge from you would likely be the only way we could draw him, and only him, out into the open. I’ve already briefed Killzone about your idea. He approves of your basic idea. But you need experience in the actual city before anyone would agree to you poking the dragon’s nest of Ar’Kendrithyst.”

Erick asked, “You already briefed Killzone?”

“Yes, sir. I almost always have [Scry] and [Telepathy] active, as well as a few other low cost threat assessment skills. Briefing my superiors about potential dangers to Spur is a necessary duty of any soldier.”

Jane said, “Did you know you have a spy in your employ, Dad?”

“I am not a spy, young mistress. I am a soldier in Spur’s Army, just like your father, and it is my duty to protect the citizens of this fair city from the Dead City.”

Erick lied. “Of course I knew. That’s why I asked for his opinion. I just didn’t think it would happen this fast.”

Savral, Al, and Jane all eyed him.

“… What!”

Savral and Al said nothing.

Jane said, “Well. Fine. Whatever.” Jane turned toward Savral. “Your team is done adventuring, for now, right? You wouldn’t want to go in there with me?”

“Absolutely not.” Savral said, “You’re good, Jane. You really are. But the locals only antagonize the city so much; we know when to stop. As a matter of fact. If this is your plan, and Killzone has already given you preliminary approval, you need to move out of the Sewerhouse. Today. Both of you.”

Al immediately disagreed, “What! No. They— Okay. Jane probably should, but Erick doesn’t have to go.”

“Jane should go, but I shouldn’t?” Erik felt a pang of hurt at that. “Really?”

Jane was furious.

“Fuckin’ fine!” Jane said, “Let’s go, Dad. Right now. Fuck you too, Savral.”

“By Rozeta!” Savral paced, pointing south to Ar’Kendrithyst, saying, “You just don’t get it, do you? You’re talking about poking the Dead City, and the Dead City always pokes back. We run the adventurers who are stupid enough to antagonize the Shades out of town. That’s why there’s an approval process to enter the city. I’ve seen Shades chase fools down crystal boulevards and spray them across ten city blocks. I’ve seen Ar’Kendrithyst’s walls turn dark with a Shade’s black eyes, and giant mouths call out the names of those they’re willing to leave the city to collect. I’ve even seen shadowspiders clamber through the streets of Spur, taking a Shade’s vengeance out on some stupid out-of-towner foolish enough to talk to the wrong shadows. You saw the shadowcats, and then fought against them! We’re not untouchable.”

Jane stood mollified. She said, “You’re right. That was unkind of me. I’m sorry. But I’m still going to kill Bulgan if I ever see him. I won’t rest easy until I know that I’m leaving my father somewhere safe, and as long as Bulgan is alive, Spur is extra unsafe.”

“Then you need to leave the Sewerhouse. I won’t put my father in danger, either.”

Jane moved toward the door. “You’re right. Neither of you have any part in this, and it would be wrong of me to involve you.” She bowed deeply to Al. “Thank you for your hospitality, Sewermaster Al Noraki. Savral Noraki.” She stood tall. “It was an absolute pleasure to live under your roof, Al, and to adventure with you, Savral.” She sniffed. She turned and walked out to the porch, then [Blink]ed out of sight.

Erick was still in the apartment. He turned to Al—

Al said, “You should go with your daughter. You’re going to that house you’re working on in the Human District, right? It’s a good choice. Do you mind if I come stay a few days and help you put it together right?”

Erick felt warmth unfold inside of his stomach, chasing the cold away.

Erick said, “I’d like that, a whole lot. And I’m still your apprentice! You still gotta show me how the Sewerhouse works so I can give you a vacation some time.”

Al smiled, warmth filling eyes so dark green they were almost black. “Yeah. I do, don’t I?”

“I’ll see you later.”

- - - -

Three seconds after walking onto the porch, Erick turned around.

“Shit. I forgot everything. Uh. I’ll just… Uh…”

He began walking around, gathering up the small things he had accumulated so far. Another set of clothes. Jane’s stuff she left in her room. Neither of them had much to show. Jane had already stored all of the irreplaceables in the Mage Guild Bank, like her phone and her charger and other earthly possessions. There wasn’t much in the apartment besides—

Erick looked at the planets he had set on holders on the wall.

Al said, “I’ll bring those to you.”

Erick turned to him. “Thank you, Al.”

- - - -

Erick [Blink]ed onto the ground next to Jane. She was waiting by her cart. Erick gently placed their stuff on the part without the moving lumps.

Jane’s face was red, but if there had been tears, she had rubbed them away already.

She said, “The Adventurer’s Guild’s hotel is a gold a night, but they’re worth it and I have the money.”

Erick smiled, turning north east toward the Human District. “I started [Mend]ing a house yesterday. Didn’t think we’d need it so soon, but after we spend a few thousand more mana to fix it up all the way, we can sleep there. And hey! I got [Stoneshape] to fix the smaller problems that might arise. We’ll [Ward] ourselves up, anyway. We’ll be fine.”

Erick looked at his daughter, and she looked away, to the south, to the mountainous walls of the Dead City.

Jane whispered, “[Ward] every night~” like it was a mantra she had formed habits around.

- - - -

The Human District was as flat as before, save for Erick’s melted sandcastle house, and the not-a-dick mages’ house. Theirs was a boxy structure, now, with two square towers on either side and a three tiered house in the middle, with porches and verandas up past the first floor.

“Nice house over there.” Jane said, “Ours is the stone pile, isn’t it.”

“You are quite correct! Our neighbors are pretty nice people. I told you about them? The three mages from Oceanside?”

Jane pulled her cart behind her as the both of them went to the pile of orange rock walls.

Erick said, “The neighbors are all alchemist adventurers. Or maybe just Ramizi. Maybe they could help with your [Polymorph] problem—” Erick was about to say more, but then he remembered that the Mage Trio was raring to go into Ar’Kendrithyst. So instead he said, “I visited them yesterday. They served not-tomato cake, and it was as good as cherry cheesecake. Maybe better.”

Jane smiled. “Sounds nice.”

Erick and Jane trundled up to their property. The orange pile looked most the same as it did before.

She said, “This is pretty big, Dad. You sure about this?”

Erick looked Jane. “I think I am. I’m going to be entertaining guests and if I don’t have space for you and all your adventuring buddies, then what good is anywhere I choose?”

Jane held back, silent and staring at the orange stone. She breathed in, then out, deep, calming breaths. She said, “You’re right. This is going to be good. And it’s free! So the price is right.”

“There’s taxes, I’m sure.” Erick said, “Those’ll be a kick in the nards.”

Jane snorted. She dropped the handle on her cart, and said, “Let’s get to [Mend]ing!”

Erick walked over to the nearest wall and began turning the orange wall into a slightly taller orange wall. “Al said he’d be around sometime to help fix it all up and stay a few days, too. I’ll ask him about his [Ward]ing schemes, then.”

Jane [Mend]ed as she replied, “I’m sorry about that, Dad. I shouldn’t have blown up at Savral. Or Al.”

“I don’t think you hurt me, at all. I can live wherever. But you certainly kicked your own future’s ass.”

She nodded. She stopped.

Erick continued to [Mend], keeping Jane in the corner of his eye.

She smiled wide, and looked up at the orange stone. “I could do that! Right.”

Erick stopped. “Do what?”

“I’ll show you.”

She walked through where the front door would have been, and stood in the middle of the front room. Erick began meditating. He saw the flows of mana all around her, curling into—

Jane radiated power that washed around the house, spilling through reforming walls and up through recreated ceilings. Mana flowed out of her, all around, freely touching upon what was not there and bringing orange stone back into where it had once been, long ago.

In 6 seconds, the house was back to most of its former glory.

One large tower facing south toward Ar’Kendrithyst. A shorter tower on the north side of the house, only two stories tall. A multi-tiered house with verandas and porches stretched between the towers, taller toward the southern side. It was almost the same style as the Mage Trio’s house, if a bit bigger, and partially melted here and there in the smaller details.

Jane breathed hard from the front room.

Erick asked, “What the fuck was that!”

Jane laughed loud, then said, “[Mend] as an AOE spell with Mana Shaping X, Aurified, and a smaller application of Mana Shaping to focus the spell on the walls. Even made a tier 2 spell out of it.” She pushed a blue box Erick’s way. “Looks good, yeah?”

Mend Structure Aura, long range, 550 MP per second

Restore a very large, very complicated, non-magical structure to its prime. Time since the structure was destroyed may alter final results. This spell automatically adjusts its area of effect and range to maximize its ability to repair.

Erick smiled. “You’re a lot better at this world’s magic than I am.”

Jane laughed. “Whatever you say, Archmage!”

“You’re right!” Erick acted smug. “I noticed you don’t have any tier 3 spells. Such a slacker! You’re missing out on 2 ability points.”

“Shit. You’re right.” Jane played along. “All bow down before the master archmage!”

“Thank you, thank you. I accept oaths of loyalty and bribes of coffee.”

Suddenly serious, Jane said, “I need you to [Grow] me coffee, Dad.”

“Oh my GODS yes. I need coffee too. I have a long mental list and coffee is on that list.”

“I’m still waiting on those potatoes, too. I wasn’t kidding about that.”

Erick looked up at the house, then to the left, at a flat orange surface large enough for many various things. “We have room for a garden. Gonna have to turn that stone into dirt, though. Not sure about how that works.” Erick turned to Poi. “Any ideas?”

“The sewers are 10 meters down; everything else is rocky soil except for the first 3 meters below the city’s surface. That space is solid stone and already plumbed to wick water away from the city and into the sewers. [Stoneshape] in the streets or past 1 meter depth is illegal, but you are able to turn the stone in your front yard to sand, and then enrich that sand into soil however you feel you can. You can buy compost or soil from the Farmer’s Market to speed up the process. I would suggest adding a drain to whatever growing field you choose to create, especially if you’re going to rain for a whole day.”

“Thank you, Poi.” Erick said, “Hear that?”

Jane called out from somewhere inside, “Can’t hear you! Exploring!”

Erick decided to go explore his new house, too.

An hour later Al showed up and helped Erick and Jane fix the little melted bits that remained from Jane’s new spell. Al was impressed, though. As a generalized reconstruction spell, Jane’s spell was one of the better ones Al had seen. She could hire herself out for multiple gold a day with that spell, if she wanted. Some adventurer in town was always damaging something somewhere, after all.

As Al worked, Erick was falling in love with his new house.

Ceilings tall enough for an orcol, amenities sized for humans, all the ambiance of stone. Orange and yellow stone walls, all bright and happy. This was the best interior of house he had ever owned. Al even did a little plumbing, though there was no turning any of it off; water pressure kept water flowing up from down below, through two fountains and down the drains. One fountain in the kitchen, the other in what would become the garden area. Al even adjusted the front yard for a garden. It was sand right now, but that would change with a trip to the Farmer’s Market.

Standing outside, Erick just stared at the exterior of the house for a while.

He was in love. After a lot more fussing from Jane, she was in love, too.

Jane wanted ‘Victorian Architecture’. Al had never heard of ‘Victorian Architecture’. Eventually Al had given up trying to understand Jane and just did what he knew how to do; he was an accredited Stonemage after all. He had done houses in every popular style of the last hundred years. ‘Victorian’ was kind of like ‘Newood’. Whatever it was or wasn’t, the style Al chose was close enough to what Jane wanted that she was happy, and therefore Erick was happy. Al wasn’t exactly happy; Jane kept asking him to fix small details.

But the style was good for rainy climates!

Al was happier when Erick said he was buying dinner.

Jane insisted that no, she was buying dinner. She had found two thousand, three hundred and fifty gold in rads, out in the desert. She was flush with cash… for now. Gaining the [Polymorph] skill would likely cost her 1500G.
