“A pleasure to meet you,” Erick said, welcoming Mox Dawnsider into his office at the top of House Benevolence. “The furniture is [Fairy Item], for now, but I’ll get real stuff soon enough. Please have a seat.”

Mox scowled a little at the mention of ‘Fairy’, but she took a chair in front of Erick’s desk. “Pleasure to meet you as well, Wizard.” At her own mention of the word ‘Wizard’, she gave a little laugh to herself. “The last Wizard I met would have killed me if I were a lesser Stone Mage.”

Erick took his own seat and regarded the woman, though he had been doing so already for a while. Mox was a woman of unfortunate looks, with many scars and missing her right eye. She had replaced her right eye with a fake one made of glass so it was hard to tell this truth, but the fact that she was missing an eye at all is what caused Erick to go looking deeper with his mana sense.

Mox Dawnsider was a physically broken woman. Visually, she was fine. But in her soul, she was not. It looked like someone had splashed acid across her entire torso, the damage going from her upper left leg, inside of her bowels, and then catching her right arm in the effect. It looked like very, very old soul damage, though, which had been healed who knew how many times. And yet, it still wasn’t actually healed at all.

Other than that, Mox was a perfectly presentable human woman of dark brown skin and wiry hair. She was 105, but she looked and got around like she was 60. She had come to Candlepoint and then to House Benevolence completely unassisted save for the final [Gate] directly up to the top of Erick’s tower, and she had even stayed in Candlepoint all day long, looking around and getting a feel for the place.

Erick said, “Times change, indeed.” He moved on, “So I just hired my castellan, not half an hour ago. You should know him, Zolan Goldbranch. I’m still hiring, though the position of castellan is no longer available.”

Mox scowled a little, then she realized something deeply important, her dark eyes widening as she breathed deep. Maybe, just maybe, Erick was offering her a blank check to write what she wanted. She took the chance, asking, “What’s still open?”

“Practically anything you want.” Erick added, “If that’s acceptable, then I can continue on with the spiel.”

“Yes, I would continue—” She scowled again, her thoughts turning to somewhere else. She was mad at someone for not telling her something, and said as much as she muttered, “I asked those people at Oceanside to tell me if—” Mox cut herself off and stared at Erick. There was a need in her dark sight. “Yes. I will continue.”

… Erick would find out what that was about soon enough, but instead of asking after that, he continued on with the interview.

He laid out his general plans for the Gate District and his diplomatic goals for the future. He spoke of Ar’Cosmos and Stratagold and other geodes and Oceanside all getting along, as much as he was able to support such non-aggression and eventual cooperation. He spoke of the city he would eventually create all around Yggdrasil, joining the Gate District and Candlepoint together, along with anyone else who would show up and pledge fealty. Fealty was not expected from those nations who signed on for a four-piece Gate set, but adherence to the law and to peace was demanded while within these lands.

Longer term goals included turning the Crystal Forest green, eventually, with the subsequent goal of supporting a much larger Candlepoint and the creation of friendly cities outside the immediate area. He would likely link those areas to Candlepoint through [Gate]s, as well, and in ten years or something similar to that, Erick would be teaching others to create [Gate].

With all that said, Erick began explaining to Mox, as he had with Zolan, “Which is why you are here. You came highly recommended by Kirginatharp for many different positions, from administrator of household, to landshaping and city planning, to education, to dungeoneering, to guarding. You even have Adventurer’s Guildmaster certification, which is above and beyond almost all my other applicants. You have so many qualifications, even without Kirginatharp’s radiant recommendation, you have the job… After some magics of mine, which you have already requested of me. I must comment, though, that you likely still have another 10 years in you before you truly need to accept a [Reincarnation], or plan for retirement.

“So why have you chosen to ask for [Reincarnation] now? Why have you chosen this path?”

Mox had been tense at the start of the meeting, for she was meeting a Wizard, and the man who would either allow her to have another life, or not. Mentioning that Zolan had already gotten the job she wanted hadn’t helped matters for her, either. But now, after Erick’s spiel, she was relaxed. She was happy. She knew she had this in the bag. She would finally get what she wanted.

Erick was pretty sure Mox had this in the bag, too. She was vastly overqualified for practically every position available. He hoped she would ask for one of the more difficult positions… Though Erick himself wasn’t exactly sure what those positions should look like.

Everything was still up in the air.

Mox said, “The Headmaster cleared your [Reincarnation] as real and true because of those dogs you made out of shadowolves. I would have thought that someone would have informed me if you had actually cast it on a person, though, since that is exactly what I am here to gain. I had asked them to tell me if such an event had occurred— Doesn’t matter.” She waved a hand. “The reason I want this is manifold, but a few stand out.

“These scars in my body are very old, from when I was a child in Greendale and my Alchemist mother was working on a new way to battle the incani threat. She created a soul-destroying acid brew, meant to be cheaper than the soul destroying weapons commonly used in the Quiet War. It worked. She made more. A nefarious internal plot unfolded once my mother’s acid came to light, and she was able to brew large batches of the stuff. In the end, though, I was a foolish child while all the rest of my family was much more unlucky.

“The Viridian Throne and Oceanside worked together to stomp out those fights among the nobility. When it was over, a kind woman offered me an option of which way I wanted to go; to Oceanside, or back to Greendale. I chose Oceanside. It was there at Oceanside that I learned there was another way to live, outside the Quiet War, and so that is what I did.

“The doctors there did as much as they could for my body and my soul, but there was only so much that could be done. Their magics were enough to keep me alive, and let me grow, but at the same time that acid stripped me of my ability to have children, and it took my eye. For years I healed my eye back, keeping it around as long as I could, but it always rotted out. Never could fix my organs down there, though. Not enough to have a kid.” Mox smiled faintly. “Never stopped me from adopting, which is what I did when I was old enough and found a husband who accepted I could never have children of my own. I adopted, and in abundance, for there were always orphans from the Quiet War. How could I not? For I was one of those orphans myself at one point in time.

“All my kids are grown now, and they’re off having kids and grandkids of their own. I gave them all the best lives I could give them, but I yearn for those times again. And now, with you here and the offer of [Reincarnation] on the table…

“I am here.

“The problems of my childhood have never gone away, no matter which Soul Mage I hire to try and solve the problem. Mostly it's cancers. Every week there is a new one. Soul cancers, too, though those are less common. Curses in tiny little bits that grow as they can into something that destroys from within.” Mox looked to Erick, saying, “So that is why I am here. I am dying, Wizard Flatt. I have been dying for 95 years. I would like to not be dying anymore, and if you can [Strike] it, I think I’d like to have some kids again. If you can’t manage to make my own plumbing work, though, I can always adopt again.”

Erick took a moment to think, but he already knew he was going to accept Mox on his team.

And then he said, “[Reincarnation] is very versatile. I can easily hit your targets.”

Mox steeled herself. She nodded; waiting.

Erick continued, “But you’re going to have to work with incani, and humans. Wrought and shadelings. Dragons, too, along with many other historically dangerous people. Ar’Cosmos is a big one. It seems you have already gotten past the Quiet War, so that is good, but I must iterate for completion’s sake that the Quiet War is not tolerated here. At all.”

Mox gave a tiny grin. “The only forces you touch upon which cause me worry are the Shades I expect to encounter eventually, but I’ve plunged into Ar’Kendrithyst and come out the other side with treasure galore and with Shades fighting each other instead of me. I work around them. If I absolutely have to, I might even be able to work with them.”

“You seem to have no problem with me being a Wizard, either.”

“I’m counting on it.” Mox said, “This world is too full of old hate and dangers spawned by that hate. I’ve seen a lot of people try to stop the evil out there, but you’re the only one to ever get this far. Of course it would take a Wizard to break this world into a better shape. Hullbreaker was a right arsehole, though; he never could have done it.”

“Your file says you were on the take-down team against Hullbreaker. How did that work? What was his final fate?”

Mox nodded. “I was on that team. Finally got the bastard by inserting gold tracking magics into every single juicy target across the entire Letri Ocean. Eventually, one of his crew got sloppy and we found his island, located beyond a ton of Pirate Magic. From there he had nowhere to run, and we grabbed him. He stood trial for his crimes and then the Headmaster sundered his soul, as was befitting for what he had done.” She added, “A lot of myths have popped up about what really happened in those final months because people don’t want to believe it was a lot of hard work that finally caught the guy, or they don’t want to believe that we actually sundered him, but that’s the truth. I was there for all of it, even the end. And sure, luck got us in the door, which is the other thing that people don’t usually believe, but it was all the groundwork we laid beforehand which actually opened that door in the first place. I expect what you’re trying to build here will require a lot of hard work, too.”

“It will.” Erick said, “I appreciate that you already recognize that need.”

Erick decided to test Mox a little.

Erick said, “You’re qualified for absolutely anything I could ask of you, but is there any job you would prefer? I’ve got all the usual ones, and I’m probably going to end up making something like a small council and I would have you on that council, on a seat equal but just below Zolan. There might be a royal court eventually, but I’m not going to call it that.”

“Since the castellan of your House is set, then which is the next most important position?”

She was testing him right back. Good of her.

“Duties can get shifted around as this place gets built up, for I’m not actually sure what is needed. But I know what I need right now is an administrator of the Gate District, or essentially a mayor overseeing international affairs. They will also need to oversee the further urban planning and development of the Gate District, and to run a large office to handle all of that in an organized manner, though all of these positions will likely need to run a large office full of people. Not many people want to come here now, but they will, eventually.

“It is quite possible that all of that will be Zolan’s job; I haven’t decided.

“This place is going to be a metropolis spanning the entire lakeside and spilling tens of kilometers out into the surrounding desert, which will be green by that time. Smaller cities will rise up outside of this particular land.

“A smaller, but no less important job is virtually the same as a Mayor for the Gate District, but for all the lands that have yet to exist outside of this land; the places I’m going to reclaim from the Crystal Forest, to turn back into prairie and actual forest. An Exterior Mayor, if you will, or perhaps more an ‘Overseer of the Exterior’. They’ll probably get to oversee the actual royal court that eventually arises out of… Some forces that have yet to exist, though I won’t call it a royal court. And that won’t happen for a while, either.

“By ‘Exterior’ I mean every city outside of the coast of Yggdrasil’s Lake.

“The mayor of Candlepoint will eventually get a seat on this council I’m building, but I haven’t told him yet, or decided how that will work, either. The man currently in that position is Mephistopheles, a Cultist of Melemizargo, and a shadeling.”

Mox took news of working with a Cultist shadeling in stride.

“All of those appointments are highly political.” Erick moved on, saying, “Less politically, and more enforcement laden: I’m also going to need an administrator of laws, for codifying the rules that we will eventually adopt, and which people will be expected to follow; an overseer of judges and such.

“An overseer of enforcement, to ensure no one breaks any laws, and stuff like that. They will essentially be the guard.

“I don’t plan on having an army.

“I’ll need an administrator of education, to ensure that all children in these lands get an education. I’ll also want to enact some education reforms, which may or may not work out well; I will need to speak with that administrator and suss out what I don’t like about arcanaeum teaching, or not. That’s a long term goal, though.

“And I’ll need an administrator of magic, with a focus on learning about Benevolence. I’ll probably be spending a lot of time there, because I have promised Rozeta that I would do some Benevolence work with her in order to better understand how Benevolence will prevent all future Sundering scenarios…” Erick almost stopped, because mentioning the Sundering got a reaction out of Mox, but he finished, saying, “That administrator will likely get a lot of my attention.”

For a long moment, no one spoke, for Mox was absorbing all that Erick had said.

With a voice almost too hopeful for a woman her age, Mox asked, “It’s true, then? You really can ensure there’s no more threat of a Sundering?”

“It’s true, as far as I have the Sight to see.” Erick said, “Melemizargo and Rozeta and others have said as much, and used my Benevolence to see an easier path forward for themselves, too. Still a lot of experimenting to do, however.”

For a long minute Mox sat there, in thought. And then a tear fell from her real eye. She wiped it away quickly, but said nothing.

So Erick said, “Zolan has taken Castellan of House Benevolence, with all its assorted diplomacy and overseeing of financing regarding the people who will work here in the House, directly.” Erick summed up available positions, “But there’s still Mayor of the Gate District… Which will probably just be Zolan, actually. Yes. He can take care of that, too. Then there's the Overseer of the Exterior. Overseer of Law. Overseer of Enforcement. Overseer of Education. Overseer of Magic.” Erick said, “Five options. Five seats of power in five very different arenas.”

“Overseer of the Exterior,” Mox said, sitting strong. “That’s my choice. I disagree with your idea of how exterior lands should be run, though. In my eye, I see you leasing the land you transform to others, in all locations, including next to the lake. I see your structures and resources here in Candlepoint and the Gate District allowing those villages to grow into workable city states, which you simply tax, in order to manifest a physical accounting of their loyalty.

“Each such land of your growing republic will need to agree to your laws, of course. When they get large enough, you have them make a choice of fully incorporating into Candlepoint, or into a large system of city states which falls under a different name. Tax incentives can make this choice easy. I don’t think that anyone would rebel, for that would mean they lose access to the Gates and angering you, which would be a disaster, but if need be, punishment should be easy for you, with all your power, since you should be able to simply remove from power those who cause problems. But, as you say, this is a long term plan. Therefore, if there is no actual work to be done right now, I can make some elemental dungeons. They will be able to create a steady source of income while we wait for growth to naturally occur.” Mox added, “And perhaps you can even make a Benevolence Dungeon, to help others to understand your Benevolence.”

Erick found himself really happy that Mox was here, because Mox knew her shit, and all of it was good. He was also just struck by how much more complicated this was going to be than how he had envisioned.

“I like it.” Erick said, “We can set population sizes as required for seats on various levels of councils, too... If such an organization is needed. We can talk more about that at a later date.”

Mox nodded, saying. “As long as we Shape a proper plan of how everything will work within a year or two, we will be able to solve many problems before they even become problems.”

Erick had another think.

There was not a single person in his application pile more well-rounded and capable of success in any endeavor, than Mox Dawnsider. And yet, she wasn’t brash, or overly confident. She was simply experienced. The only thing she wasn’t great at was large-scale magics, but she did have some good Stone spells, which would make her useful for turning the Crystal Forest to real forest… Which was probably her reasoning for choosing the ‘Overseer of the Exterior’ position. Erick had glanced over the part of her application that dealt with dungeoneering, but with a casual glance at that part again, he could tell that she really liked that profession.

Erick got the distinct impression that Mox was an organized woman of uncommon competence, and he really liked that about her. It made his own flailing around with the naming of offices and the delineation of roles seem amateur by comparison, but they all felt correct.

And Mox felt correct for that job, too.

Erick said, “I require you to swear a Mind Mage overseen oath of fealty to me, then we will have deeper discussions on what you want from [Reincarnation]. The actual transformation will be the last thing that happens for the day, as you will be recovering for 12 hours afterward. Do you accept the appointment of Overseer of the Exterior of House Benevolence?”

Mox sat tall, saying, “I accept this appointment.”

Erick allowed himself a small smile, then said, “As for [Reincarnation], there are a few side effects. Complete Status reset to level 0. No blessings, no curses, no boons. I’m not sure if godly magic persists through the process, but I’m reasonably sure that it will not persist. You will no longer be a Stone Mage. I'm rather sure that while you will retain your memories, your self, and some personal abilities, like mana sense and aura control, your magic will be gone. Fully gone. You will have to remake it all. You might even lose your mana sense and aura control, but gaining it all back will surely be easier the second time.”

Mox’s breath hitched. “I still want it, but this is new information for me. I need half a day to organize some things. I was not aware the transition would be that deep.”

“Fair enough. There’s also this.” Erick opened the drawer at his side and took out the expanded ten page [Reincarnation] sheet. He slid it across the desk to Mox. She took it and began leafing through, both eyes widening, though only her real eye dilated. Erick explained, “[Reincarnation] is a very powerful spell. It can do a lot. If you require an artist or doctor to fill out some of the later pages—” He stopped.

For Mox had laid the paperwork down and stared at it.

Erick calmly waited.

Mox picked the paperwork back up, saying, “I will need time to think. I had expected… I was going to say ‘me, but healed and 25’ and hope for the best. Furthermore, I wish to trust you, but as we are at the beginning of a very long relationship I will be verifying the outcome of the [Reincarnation] you have done for Zolan… Before I accept this spell upon myself.”

Mox already believed Erick’s [Reincarnation] was real, otherwise she wouldn’t be here at all, but she was testing him, to see how he reacted, and to see if he was worthy of her loyalty. A lot of people would be incensed at what was obviously a slam against one’s honor, after all; to call into question the validity of one’s magic.

But Erick was happy to prove that he was worthy of her loyalty.

“Take the time you need. As for your obvious reluctance with that ten page option…” Erick reached back into his desk and pulled out the single sheet [Reincarnation] paperwork. He slid it to her, saying, “Maybe this one is easier.”

Mox glanced over her paperwork options, then instantly abandoned the packet and grabbed the single sheet. She held it to her chest, then looked at Erick, saying, “I wish to make the oath now, and to do this [Reincarnation] tomorrow when I am better prepared for such a change. I will also need to make arrangements for a convalescence and a boost to higher levels so that I can function in an environment such as this one here at House Benevolence. Such actions will cut into the time before I can start working. I expect no more than three days delay. Including the delay from [Reincarnation], I would like to return to work four days from now.”

Mox was a precise woman.

Erick approved.

“Acceptable. If you desire, I can help you reach at least level 30 through assistance in finding and killing crystal mimics. You could convalesce here, under my watch.”

Mox said, “Your benevolence knows no bounds, and so I must impose my own. I would like to make that oath, though. I want this. Please do not interpret my measured responses as reluctance.”

Erick smiled a little. “I wasn’t interpreting it that way at all. But yes.” Erick briefly glanced to the side, and Poi walked forward. Erick asked Mox, “Do you consent to a Mind Mage truth telling?”

Mox held her head high, and said, “I consent.”

Tendrils of thought stretched from Poi and connected the three of them, as Poi said, “Then may your words and intentions be known as false, if they are false.”

Erick recalled many of the same words he had said to Zolan, then said, “I, Erick Flatt, Apparent King and Wizard of Benevolence, demand your fealty, Mox Dawnsider, for the power I shall invest in you is a privilege that you will not forsake. You will oversee my lands, my interests, and my people, as much as I shall appoint to you, growing and nurturing all under your granted purview as much as you are able, in good faith and without deceit. Should you fail, you will be punished based on the severity of your failure, but should you succeed, then you will be rewarded commensurately.”

Mox stared forward, her eye alight with life, as she said, “I, Mox Dawnsider, do so solemnly swear my fealty to you, my Apparent King and our Wizard of Benevolence, Erick Flatt. Your interests are my interests. Your goals are my goals. Your House is my House. I solemnly swear.”

Mox’s words had been different from what Zolan had sworn, but it was still well said. Erick could tell that Mox would be a great addition to House Benevolence. Just by talking to her, Erick had sorted out the necessary positions of his future small council.

“Welcome to House Benevolence, Mox.”

“Thank you, my king.”

Erick asked, “Do you want a [Gate] to Oceanside? Zolan should be sleeping in the hospital, though Kirginatharp is likely running tests on him already.”

Mox said, “I accept your offer, my king.”

And since Ophiel was still at the hospital in Oceanside, and approved for more [Gate]s, Erick gestured to the right side of the room. Silent lightning flickered and flashed open, revealing the same hospital drop room that Erick had seen not an hour ago. An orderly and a doctor stood on the other side of the room, staring at Ophiel. Both of them had great big panicked looks on their faces as they stared through the sudden portal, and saw Erick’s office room.

Erick waved.

The other people panicked, two of them running away, but a third just gave a small wave of their own back.

Mox was not panicked at all. She got up from her chair, bowed to Erick, saying, “My king,” and then she stepped through, rapidly moving on with her day. She was still clutching the single-page [Reincarnation] form to her chest as she rounded the corner of the hospital receiving room, headed toward the front desk, out of sight.

Erick closed the portal behind her.

Erick breathed out, and said to Poi, “Professional is good.”

Poi nodded, saying, “Professional is good. I think she’ll be great.”

Erick smiled wide at that. “Good. Glad you approve.”

“All the people vetted by the Headmaster will be fantastic fits for House Benevolence.” Poi laid down the folder of the next applicant. It was a thin folder. “But the people from Ar’Cosmos are more iffy.”

“Ahhh… Yeah.” Erick opened up the folder of the first applicant from Ar’Cosmos and began reading. His eyebrows went up, and then he hummed. There wasn’t much there to read… And yet? “This could be good, right?”

Poi was less sure.

Erick said, “They’re from House Death, and I already knew they were going to apply for an exterior guard-type position. This might be great.”

Poi decided to suspend what he knew to be true about the evils of necromancers, and let the incoming man speak for himself. And then he rolled his eyes at Erick, adding, “It’s still unknown how everyone will react once they see Ar’Cosmos people walking around the Gate District, so putting these people in charge of defense might cause a problem that you’re asking these people to also solve. And they’re going to be doing that defense with necromancy.”

“Well... Yes.” Erick said, “It’ll be exterior defense. Exactly as they do for Ar’Cosmos. The necromancy… it’s not actually any worse than taking a monster’s rad and turning into an enchanted item, is it? It’s all just soul power— Ah. I will have to ask about the Slave Protocols to see if they trip those or not. But if they’re just temporary summons… All things to ask, I suppose.”

Poi shrugged, saying, “All things to—”

Poi went silent as he suddenly gazed off to the east and a tendril of thought connected him to someone else.

Erick eyed that connection. He waited.

He tried not to worry.

Poi was rigid for two seconds, then he furrowed his brows, and relaxed. After a moment, he said, “Good news with regard to Zolan. The Headmaster has cleared Zolan as being Zolan, even though every single bit of his spellwork and Status is gone.”

“Ha!” Erick laughed, then said, “Fuck! Poi. Don’t scare me like— Wait a second.” Erick narrowed his eyes. “They woke him up, didn’t they.”

“Correct.”

“… Bah! Whatever. Where’s this next guy...?” Erick looked at the folder again, taking a moment to pronounce, “… Burhendurur? Where’s he at?”

- - - -

Erick sat across his desk from the next applicant, his mind whirring. He could not place where he had seen the man before and that was eating at him. Pleasantries had already been exchanged, though they were rather short and cold, for this man was extremely wary and trying not to show it by keeping his answers short and noncommittal. Which was fair, sort of.

His application had been rather short and noncommittal, too.

That wasn’t going to fly long term, of course. But for now, this much reluctance was understandable.

Burhendurur looked like a pale incani man in his 40’s, and though he wore grey robes with white edges, he looked like he would be more comfortable in armor and with a sword in his hand. His horns were as white as bleached bone, while his hair was slightly darker than his skin.

But his horns were not really like an incani’s at all, for Burhendurur was a Death Dragon.

And Erick finally realized where he had seen the man before.

“Oh.” Erick said, “You’re Light Blight, from the Rotunda.”

With a sudden stillness, and then a relaxation, Burhendurur said, “That is correct, Wizard Flatt. That is my Ar’Cosmos name, though, and we try to keep those separate from here in this land… Many things are odd, I suppose. I’m even still wearing my horns like I usually would not…” Burhendurur paused, then said, “Should you accept me into House Benevolence, then I will be abandoning that name entirely. If you should not accept me, then I am to return with word of what has transpired here, and they will begin deliberations to send the next applicant. I will, of course, be unable to participate in those deliberations, for they will assume that I have been compromised. I am taking a risk coming here, so I would appreciate if you accept my reluctance to expose all of my true history, for now.”

That was worrying.

Erick asked, “Do they think I would not protect you? That I would allow you to come to harm without trying to stop that harm?”

“We believe that such tampering will likely happen outside of your sight, if at all. Should such an event happen and you gain notice of it, we would expect you to respond with wrath and power. Our people are watching this to see if this occurs.” Burhendurur said, “Should such a thing happen, and you do nothing, then that also answers our questions of if this alliance is a viable option, or not. Or if, perhaps, you have been mind-slaved yourself, and if you are in need of a rescue, then we will also know that.” He did not need to look at Poi, standing behind Erick, for the full measure of his worries to be known.

Erick let that information percolate for a minute.

Then he asked, “What are your orders should something happen?”

“Absolute defense and extraction of myself. I am to leave all others alone as I flee, but if I can determine exactly why such a betrayal has happened then I must accomplish this as well.”

“… Prudent.” Erick said, “So here’s the thing:

“This conversation right here is the most tense thing that’s happened to me in the last 20 days since I landed here in Candlepoint and announced myself as a Wizard and everything started exploding all over the place. I can handle tense, of course, but I would like less tension in my life.”

To his credit, and though Erick knew his own words were worrying, Burhendurur did not tense any more than he already was.

Erick continued, “Anyway. Since that day, it’s been rather nice. Calm and constructive. I have a nice new House, and I’m sleeping well enough each night. I’ve even hired two people that you probably know, and maybe you’ve even fought with them before. Zolan Goldbranch and Mox Dawnsider.”

Burhendurur went, “Ah…” his voice trailing off. He knew those two rather well, and not just by name, either.

Erick barreled on. “They are my Castellan and Overseer of the Exterior, respectively. I’m planning 4 more seats. Overseer of Law, to organize judges and matters of courtrooms and such. Overseer of Enforcement, to organize defense all throughout my lands. Overseer of Wellbeing, for education and health and stuff like that. And Overseer of Magic, for Elemental Benevolence testing and other magical matters. I imagine the Overseer of Wellbeing will see to a generalized education for all people in my lands, while the Overseer of Magic will see to magical education.

“I have way too many applications for the 6 seats available.

“So a lot of these applicants are going to be relegated to lesser positions than those 6 on my small council.” Erick said, “I’ve decided that Oceanside is getting the two seats they have, since the two people I invited into those positions are two of the absolute best I could have asked for. I’m still taking the other 14 applicants, though, since they’re all dying and I can [Reincarnation] them into new lives. Adding to this, Kirginatharp just cleared my magic as real, so that’s opening a floodgate that I am going to take advantage of while I can.

“I have a weakness for helping people, so what.

“Probably won’t start healing everyone, though. Still have to think about that.

“That’s what has happened recently, and most of that doesn’t affect Ar’Cosmos, or at least not directly.

“This construction I have begun is a problem for you for a different reason, for Ar’Cosmos has only given me 3 applications, and I’m going to accept all three. And so, Oceanside’s forces are going to outweigh you by a very, very large number. Not to mention all the other applicants I have yet to hire from the wrought, and other peoples. Ar’Cosmos is minimizing their exposure to House Benevolence at their peril.” Erick said, “Now; with all that known to you, tell me if I have made a mistake somewhere, and that I am not seeing exactly the problems as they exist.”

Burhendurur said, “Inform me if I am wrong, but you speak as though the positions you give to us, your true allies, would be on the same level as Oceanside and the wrought?”

“This is never going to work if I give preferential treatment to any side, for all sides, right now, are trying their best to come to the table with open arms. Oceanside’s people are gearing up to move here. Stratagold’s four Gate set-up is up and running, and they’ve got at least 300 people stationed there.” Erick said, “The only ally I have who hasn’t shown up or participated is Ar’Cosmos. This is, of course, my fault. I probably should have reached out before now, and in some heavily substantial way. My excuse is that I have been exceedingly busy, so I would like to rectify whatever lack Ar’Cosmos sees in me right now, or as soon as possible.”

Burhendurur took a moment to lightly stare at Erick, judging if things were going sideways or not. He was unsure. He was actually unsure of everything he had been prepared to face.

Erick wondered how much of their lack of participation had been paranoia. How much was real worry?

Erick let the man think, as his own thoughts spiraled here and there—

Burhendurur said, “Perhaps we have erred in reaching out as well. We thought this an elaborate trap of some sort, but to be honest, we have simply not put forth as much effort as we could have put forth in contacting you and remaining in touch, as proper allies would.” He said, “Most of us assumed you would be making your House inside Ar’Cosmos, since you have the space for it, even though you have repeatedly said that you would be making it down here.”

Erick nodded, saying, “I have a plot of land in Ar’Cosmos for the taking, according to Fairy Moon, but I’m focused here, for now. I am building something for the entire world to see and realize as objectively good, therefore, it needs to be out in the open.”

Fairy Moon said, “Honorable to hear.”

The pink, green, white fae stood beside Burhendurur’s chair, her arm gently laying on his headrest.

Poi flinched at the sudden appearance of the fae, even though Erick had been expecting her to appear the second he purposefully said her name. Burhendurur breathed deep a fraction, then relaxed. The dragon actually relaxed, too, as though everything would be fine with Fairy Moon here.

Fairy Moon continued, “I was becoming bothered by your lack of letters or otherwise, our wonderful Wizard and Apparent King.”

Erick simply said, “I’ve been busy. Hopefully, with some proper delegation, I will be less busy soon enough.”

Fairy Moon waved a hand. “You’re enacting an empire so some small seasons passing without pause is fine and fruitful, but allies are not for forsaking. If you are giving gains to Oceanside outcasts then I claim comparable chairs for our Ar’Cosmos. This will require us to field a fortune more of men and women willing to expose their existences to this land of Wizard wishes, but we will begin doing this today.” She frowned a little, adding, “I will have proper paperwork drawn and delivered in a day.”

Erick nodded. “I’ll pick the best two and put them on proper chairs, on my small council of 6. Oceanside will have 2 chairs. Ar’Cosmos will have 2 chairs. And then 2 more chairs for the wrought. That’s going to be my small council. Royal courts and such will come later, and probably be a mayor from every allied city state here in these lands, who will swear fealty to me.” Erick shrugged. “Not sure right now, but that is the way I am going at the moment.”

Fairy Moon stood a bit straighter at the mention of ‘royal court’.

And that was worrying, actually.

Erick waited for her to speak.

Slowly, and methodically, Fairy Moon said, “I am in your Royal Court.”

… It was not a question. It was a statement of surprise, and a little bit of worry. Erick was a bit worried about that, too, but… He wasn’t sure what to do about that right now, either.

Trying to be solid, Erick said, “I suppose you might be a member of my ‘royal court’, from a certain perspective, since Ar’Cosmos is allied with me. But counterpoint: you run Ar’Cosmos, and you are an ally. Not a mayor for a city state under me. Mephistopheles is a member of that court by default, and I think Zolan will be, too, since he’ll be like my mayor of the Gate District. Those two have sworn fealty. You, however, cannot swear fealty to me, and I would not accept that fealty even if you did. It would be like the royalty of Stratagold becoming a part of my… Empire, if you want to call it that.” Erick shook his head. “Nope. Not doing that, either.”

Fairy Moon frowned, both sad and happy and still worried for some reason. She muttered, “I am… Not in your Royal Court.”

Erick slowly nodded. He was having difficulty getting a read on what she—

Fairy Moon’s entire countenance shifted in a split second.

“Oh joy of joys!” Fairy Moon said, happy as can be. Her pink and green eyes suddenly sparkled as she breathed deep, in full joy, saying, “I am a guest royal! Ahha! Grand, great, and glorious! Immensely more entertaining in this shorter season before the true rise of royalty.” She turned to Erick with a smirk, saying, “Eventually, your empire will encompass a world, and maybe two! One can only hope! Know this, Benevolent baron, Wishful Wizard, Apparent King: Grow and grow and grow, or else maybe my court will grow too great and you will become a beneficiary in my royal retinue.”

Erick deadpanned a look at the deceptively-innocent, million-year-old woman standing in his office, and said, “I’d like those 16 resumes by tomorrow, and they better have more to them than Burhendurur’s. I got 25 pages of accomplishments from Mox. That’s what I expect to see from your people as well.”

Fairy Moon gave a shining smile and a small twirl, and she was gone.

Erick sighed, then said to Burhendurur, “Do you actually want the job? Or was this just prodding to see if I was an enemy?”

“I want the job. Overseer of Enforcement.” Burhendurur said, “To undertake the enforcement of laws and the protection of the peace throughout all your lands. That is who I am, and I would be honored to undertake this power under your aegis.”

“If you can tell me everything you hope to achieve by taking that position, if you can verbally fill out your resume to something better than three pages, I will consider it.”

Burhendurur did not expect that level of acceptance at all, so it took him a little bit to actually start talking, “As your staunchest allies against the degradations of many, including the wrought, the Mind Mages, the Dragon Stalkers, Kirginatharp, and Melemizargo, Ar’Cosmos deserves to know about and thus to support your actions, as they happen. My hope is that, through a closeness with Ar’Cosmos, that I and the people who I bring with me, will be able to protect what you are building here, and to ensure that this land is free of all untoward influences.”

Erick wanted to sigh, but he did not. “So there was a lot of good in your stated position, and your fears. The role of Overseer of Enforcement is mostly a political, paper shaper role, so from what I saw in the Rotunda you are qualified for that. As for your resume, claiming that you have overseen enforcement of all kinds, all across the world, that also qualifies you for this position. Your worries over what might be happening in this land are well-founded, based on historical precedent. Based on historical precedent, a lot of people are going to try and fuck me over, and I expect the Overseer of Enforcement to see these happenings before they happen, and prevent them from happening. I expect you to use enough violence to stop the other violence before it happens, but mostly, you’re going to be a glorified Guard. Mostly, it will be boring, like all other guard duty.

“But here is my problem. Even more than your stated goals, here’s the thing: You’re going to be working for me. You will be making an oath of fealty to me. Not to Ar’Cosmos. To me. To House Benevolence. To what I am trying to build here. To a better future. I don’t care if you’re a bit of a spy for the people of Ar’Cosmos, but if I pick you for this role, you will be among the only people in this land which I allow to wield violence at all.” Erick said, “That level of trust requires a certain amount of absolute assurance that you won’t turn on me, or go against my rule in any way, or try to undercut my desires. I need to be absolutely sure that my Overseer of Enforcement is completely in line with my own thoughts more than any of my other council seats. I am not asking you to forsake Ar’Cosmos, but I am demanding that you put House Benevolence’s needs above all others.

“Are you able to do that?” Erick asked, “Can I actually trust you to provide a guard for me, for example? To have my back? To give me personal bodyguards along the lines of my man Poi, here?

“But more than personal defense, can I trust you to cull all monster threats, and ensure that all sides remain protected from the vagaries of threats? To peacefully take down interior threats, with as little collateral damage as possible? Can I trust you to allow me to play political games with Ar’Cosmos, as I am sure they will play games with me, once we’re out of this initial distress? Or are you an information leak, who will always be working at cross purposes to the goals here at House Benevolence?”

Burhendurur steeled himself under Erick’s onslaught on his honor, like iron tempering in a forge. When Erick was done, Burhendurur said, “You will be my king, and I will be your sword, your pen, and your voice. I will suffer no other rulers.”

“Good.” Erick relaxed. He breathed. He said, “Now then. Let us start halfway over.

“This will be a very long conversation, for I will begin at the top, and we will discuss necromancy and all that you bring to the table, as well as all that I demand of you. One of the things I will demand of you is the enactment of monster kills around the world, and close working with myself in order to cause those kills. This requires a great deal of trust. I will be working closely with you, perhaps most of all. You, and my Castellan, and my Overseer of Magic. My Overseers of Wellbeing, Law, and the Exterior, will likely be doing a lot of stuff on their own.” Erick offered, “Would you like tea?”

Burhendurur nodded. “I would enjoy a cup of tea, please.”

Erick reached through a small portal and grabbed a tea set from home. A few more portals later, and there were some pastries there on the table between them. Poi prepared the tea, and soon, Erick restarted the conversation.

They spoke for an hour.

At the end of it, Erick felt much better about Burhendurur, and Burhendurur felt much better about Erick and what he wanted to build. Toward the end, the topic moved away from talk of organization and monster hunts, to talk of Ar’Cosmos, but Burhendurur didn’t actually know much, since he was under a fae seal regarding a lot of recent events going on inside Fairy.

Erick was instantly on edge at the mention of a ‘fae seal’, and so he kept his voice calm as he asked more questions. Of current events, Burhendurur mostly knew that [Reincarnation] was going well, since they had expected Erick to ask after that particular magic and so it remained unsealed, but other than that, he knew himself and his magic very well, though a lot of his life was missing.

“I mostly remember the colors.” Burhendurur said, “A sealed memory is nothing too terrible, for it is simply… Sort of washed out and yet vibrant. Like a dream vanished upon waking. This is nothing to be worried over, though. This is simply standard protocol for every high-ranking dragon leaving Ar’Cosmos, who ventures this far into known-enemy territory. It won’t affect my work.”

Erick was still frowning though. He said, “I do not like this fae seal shit. That needs to change.”

Burhendurur got a little less comfortable at Erick’s casual cursing. He said, “As Ar’Cosmos grows due to [Renew], and to taking an open position in this world, we expect these fae seal protocols to change.” Burhendurur said, “There are already talks to that effect, but it won’t happen this year. Maybe not for five more years.”

The man didn’t seem to be understanding Erick’s problem. Or maybe he was deflecting?

He was deflecting.

Erick directly asked, “Can you even do an oath of fealty if you don’t know if you’re actually lying?”

“Of… Of course I can.” Burhendurur furrowed his eyes a little, saying, “This is not an issue.”

Maybe he wasn’t actually deflecting.

“I don’t think you understand my issue, here.” Erick looked to Poi. “Can you remove that seal, or block, or whatever?”

Burhendurur answered, “He cannot.”

Poi said, “It’s not a block. Those memories have been excised and put in storage inside Ar’Cosmos. Calling it a ‘seal’ is misdirection.”

Burhendurur said, “The removal of those memories doesn’t change who I am.”

“Of course you think that,” Erick said.

Poi simply nodded.

“I do not see the issue.” Burhendurur added, “After I swear my oaths, those memories will be destroyed, and I will have lost my place on the Rotunda. It is standard operating procedure for anyone going out and revealing themselves—”

Erick called out, “Fairy Moon!”

“What!” Fairy Moon said, appearing at the side of the room. “The paperwork isn’t prepared!”

Erick glared.

“… What, our Wizard?” Fairy Moon asked, suddenly contrite and unsure of the anger in Erick’s eyes.

“You sent me a man without his memories?” Erick tried to calm his anger, but that anger came out anyway, “How the fuck can I trust anyone to make a lifelong commitment and oath with their memories modified!”

Fairy Moon frowned, then looked at Burhendurur. “… Oh! A true telling.” She frowned. “I told them not to try that tactic, it would be seen as slinging strife against what we hope to harvest from this House.” She shrugged. “Send him back to Fairy and he will saunter forthwith with all his memories unsealed, and he can contract without cause for concern. I will ensure all the rest of the resume’d receive the same non-seals as well.”

Erick looked at the fae. “… You will, huh. Can I even trust you to do as you say, in word and in intention, just like how you agreed to bring the Red Dot Dragon in for questioning?”

Fairy Moon opened her mouth to give reasons—

“I don’t want to hear your reasoning for that, for it doesn’t matter. You pissed me off there, too. You broke trust, Fairy Moon, just as you broke trust when you kidnapped me.” Erick said, “I need to know my ally is not going to fuck over my goals or how I choose to achieve those goals, for how goals are achieved is sometimes just as important in that they are achieved at all.”

Fairy Moon pulled back a fraction. Then she said, “It’s a time of turmoil. Forgive me for my foibles; I’m working on them. But besides that, these seals shouldn’t have happened anyway, for Ar’Cosmos is arranging itself in a revolution of real estate. The rune of [Renew] and power of [Reincarnation] is enabling so much more property and people that there is absolutely no slipping of secrecy that we cannot contain.” She stressed, “This really shouldn’t have happened, Erick. Apologies, and all that.”

Erick forced himself to move on, saying, “Fine. Apology accepted. When you send me your people once again, send them without seals and able to make actual oaths.” He turned to Burhendurur. “I cannot accept your oath today. We will have another talk when I see you again.”

Burhendurur frowned a little, saying, “I do not understand your reluctance. I am right now the same person I will be with all my memories intact, but I accept your ruling regardless, as a soldier does. I will make another appointment another day.”

Fairy Moon opened a pink and green [Gate] in the side of the room, swirling pastel colors into the air all around. “Come now, Burhendurur! We shall unseal your memories and make of you a true bearer of Benevolence’s benefaction!”

Burhendurur got up from his seat and went into the tunnel, briefly turning to Erick and bowing before he vanished into Springtime. Fairy Moon followed, happily waving as the [Gate] shut closed.

Erick frowned at everything.

He spat, “FUCK.”

“That was a rough one,” Poi said, mirroring Erick’s thoughts. He added, “I just received a message that the other applicants from Ar’Cosmos have also canceled. They’ll come back tomorrow.”

“Gods dammit.” Erick said, “And he didn’t even tell me until I actually pushed in and asked about it, either. He honestly did not see it as a problem. I know memory shit is a part of their survival protocols and it works for them but…” Erick paused in thought. “Am I overreacting, Poi?”

“Yes, but it is within your right to decide how your kingdom will be.”

Erick looked to Poi, with all new concerns floating around in his mind.

Poi said, “The tactical removal of non-personality-dependent information is a useful way to combat unintentional, crucial information leakage. When undertaken in a consenting manner, this is a perfectly fine way to maintain security in certain situations. But. We Mind Mages feel that Ar’Cosmos goes way too far with their seals. Their memory removals bleed into the removal of personality dependent information. I do not believe that Burhendurur’s situation was like this, for he was able to talk all about his various spellwork and how he would implement undead protections against monsters all around this land, but any removals at all do make the process of oath-taking rather suspect. In that oath-taking aspect, I do not feel you were overreacting at all.”

Erick sat there for a moment, organizing his thoughts. “Maybe I did overreact.” He frowned as he looked toward where the Springtime portal had been; where Fairy Moon had gone. “You know… I expected her to say something about [Reincarnation]. It is soulwork, after all.”

Poi shrugged. “They’re accepting [Reincarnation] in their lands to help the half dragons. They also do necromancy and soul summoning to protect those lands. I don’t feel that her problem was with Soul Magic, itself, but rather with you, a Wizard, using Soul Magic.”

“… Ah. Yes. I can see that.”

Erick fell to silent thoughts.

Poi waited.

After a minute, Poi said, “We have time in the day for one more meeting. Want to call up the first meeting of tomorrow? Most of the wrought options are still at the embassy at Stratagold. They could be here within an hour, or mere minutes.”

Erick said, “Actually, I need a break… And I think I need to see Mage Bank about my finances. 16 people from 3 factions at 2,500 average salary per month means 40,000 per month on personnel expenses alone. I’m expecting, I think, 100,000 to 150,000 gold per month to run this House.” Erick said, “Perhaps Mox’s suggestion of getting some dungeons was rather prescient.”

Poi looked at Erick like he was an idiot, then said, “You have millions in the bank.”

“What! It’s going to go fast! I can already see it.”

“Doubtful.” Poi said, “All of the larger forces who open a plot of land on Gate Road will be paying taxes. Your income will [Grow] like weeds.”

“I’m going to be investing everywhere, though. That money is going to vanish fast.”

Poi shrugged.

- - - -

Tonide, the branch manager at Mage Bank in the Gate District, pretty much confirmed what Poi had already said, though Tonide did have to repeat the overview of Erick’s finances twice. That was mostly for the man’s own benefit, though; the man was still highly worried at being anywhere near Erick. He wasn’t as bad as his staff, though, for everyone else had to control themselves not to run when they saw Erick.

Some people ran away anyway. Or at least they walked quickly.

Erick let Tonide talk, though, since it was obviously the only way to make him more comfortable.

Eventually, Erick accepted the fact that he was fucking loaded. Even after all his expenses…

Eh. He didn’t have many expenses, did he? Not yet, anyway.

At least he got to get out of the House for an hour. He got to see the Mage Guild and Bank up close, and the place looked great; defensible and yet fit for existence in the middle of a city, with a dozen towers of varying size and a certain aesthetic that made Erick think ‘futuristic stone castle’. But...

Erick said, “I get that you’re planning to be in the heart of the eventual finance district and public lands, but you’re a long walk away from the House. That’s prime real estate down there.”

Tonide nervously brushed off Erick’s concern, saying, “We’re close enough!”

Erick let it be.

- - - -

Fresh morning light and wind poured into the hallway at a shallow angle, while Erick, Teressa, Jane, and Sitnakov walked below, through the deep bowels of House Benevolence. Ophiels darted here and there, moving freshly-made glass panels into those windows, shutting out the wind while maintaining the light. It was a good morning for sprucing up the place and fixing small problems here and there, for there were a lot of small problems. Erick could probably spend another three days walking these halls, putting doors on rooms and glass in windows, and leveling the floor. When taking into account all of his other duties and goals, he could probably only spend a few hours each day doing this, though, so truly fixing up his House might take two weeks.

Might take even longer than that, due to another problem he had first noticed this morning.

Here and there, the manasphere of his House had been blanked. Erick wasn’t 100% sure what was happening, but his best guess was that some intruders had come in, tried something, and then blanked those spaces after they left.

Teressa seemed to think the same.

The fact that someone was trying something was more angering than Erick had expected it to be. Sure, people were trying shit all the time. But to actually see ‘evidence’ of those attempts? Erick found himself more furious than worried.

Erick was almost tempted to fill all of these hallways with stone to prevent anyone from coming in and doing any more of whatever it was they had done. Putting blockades of stone would serve to block off parts of the House that weren’t getting used yet, too. But. No. Erick moved on, dispersing his anger as he continued to Shape the building. He added a tiled look to the floors and arches to the ceilings. He put windows where they should go. He placed lights absolutely everywhere.

Whatever was going on with these blank spaces was not a concern that he could fix, and either way, he would foist security onto someone else soon enough, and they’d solve that problem for him.

For now, though, there were no actual security concerns.

Just… things to keep an eye on.

Sitnakov decided to speak up when they came across the fourth blank spot, “I can call in a specialist to view that spot, if you want.”

“Eh!” Erick waved a hand at the room that was completely blank, moving on, saying, “If Teressa can’t see it, then they’re too careful to be seen.”

“Sorry, Boss,” Teressa said, frowning.

Jane simply watched her flanks, waiting for something to happen.

“Don’t worry about it. I know you’ve been expanding your range and your skill, so it’s just a matter of time before you can see these spots.” Erick said, “The only way to actually solve this problem is with personnel.”

Sitnakov said, “We’ve got people ready to be hired. You have their resumes.”

And that was another conversation he had to have, wasn’t it.

Now was as good a time as any, so Erick said, “I’m sure every single person of the 45 resumes you’ve sent are great, but I’ve decided to hire 16 of them, and that’s it. I’m hiring 16 from Oceanside and giving them all [Reincarnation], 16 from Ar’Cosmos and at least two of them are going to be Paradox’d dragons, while the rest are hopefully not, and 16 from you guys. Oceanside got my Castellan and Overseer of Exterior interests. Ar’Cosmos is probably going to get my Overseer of Enforcement and one of the others. And your side can have your pick of two of the last three, which are Overseer of Wellbeing, Overseer of Magic, and Overseer of Law. Ar’Cosmos can get the leftover position.

“So that’s 2 of your 45 hired for roles of actual power, with another 14 out of 45 scattered among the smaller positions under those major 6.” Erick cast three more lights into the ceiling as they walked. He glanced back at Sitnakov, following behind, and asked, “How does that sound?”

Sitnakov had a frown, for he was not prepared to hear such an offer, and he was also angry at Ar’Cosmos getting Overseer of Enforcement…

If Erick was reading that right.

Meanwhile, Teressa looked down at Erick, worried, and then over to Sitnakov, wondering. Jane just kept quiet, though she listened well. Erick had already gone over a lot of this stuff at breakfast, but this was the first time he was telling this stuff to Sitnakov, and through him, Stratagold. Right now it was just the four of them, for Poi and Kiri were on the later shifts, and Erick was just fixing up his House, anyway.

“I don’t...” Sitnakov frowned deeply, then huffed, “Gods. A dragon in charge of Enforcement? That’s just… That’s just bad, Erick.”

Erick nodded. “It was bad already. Their applicant showed up with memories missing. This caused me to send them back to Ar’Cosmos and for me to have words with the fae. I probably overreacted there, but I think they were testing me and I don’t appreciate that. Therefore, I’ve decided to decide a few things, and adjust the schedule to my appointments.

“Originally, the plan was to see two applicants from Oceanside, then two from Ar’Cosmos, then two from Stratagold, in a revolving manner, until I got through all applicants.

“Now, though, the first two people from Oceanside proved to be very qualified for what I want, and as I went over all the other applications a second and third time last night, I realized all the wrought applicants are similarly strong. The only outlier is Ar’Cosmos, with only three applications and one of them was only three pages long.

“So I’m letting them put their best foot forward and taking the most violent Overseer position, as the Overseer of Enforcement. Unless they come back this afternoon and completely fuck it up…” Erick frowned. “They won’t do that.

“Anyway.

“Oceanside got my most politically crucial positions.

“And now Stratagold gets their pick of the next two council seats.

“And then Ar’Cosmos will get the leftover position.

“It seems politically expedient and correct to do it that way, so that is what I have decided.

“Just so you know, I plan on working most closely with my castellan, the Overseer of Enforcement, and the Overseer of Magic. Enforcement will likely be through former people from House Death, and made possible through the control of summoned creatures and necromantic monsters. They’ll be my go-to solution to monster problems outside the borders and other solutions which require violence. As for interior Enforcement, I expect them to use living people to police the Gate District, and to work with the Guard of whatever cities happen to grow up under the aegis of House Benevolence.

“The individual districts will remain embassies of whatever foreign powers come to this land, so my enforcers will remain limited in power, in that respect.

“But they’ll be the only ones I will allow to use force to solve problems. In addition, there will likely be a bunch of anti-magics blanketing this land, like they have over in Songli.” Erick said, “The Overseer of Magic will be expected to maintain those anti-magics and also run a school of magic and field a Benevolence research office, all of which I will be heavily involved in once they finally get going. And so you know: All applicants will be swearing an oath of fealty before I actually allow them to work under me.”

The four of them continued to walk forward this entire time, while Erick and Ophiel fixed small problems with the décor all the while that Erick spoke of his plans.

“… I will give you Stratagold’s response after I relay this information back home.” Sitnakov asked, “But, to clarify, it’s 16 people? Any 16 we choose, for the positions we choose?”

“You get 2 of Magic, Wellbeing, or Law; overseeing magical concerns and an eventual college, overseeing mundane education and healthcare, and overseeing justices and juries and courts. The position you don’t choose will go to Ar’Cosmos. Everyone outside of those two appointments will be shuffled around as deemed fit by my castellan, Zolan Goldbranch.” Erick said, “He will be hiring more people, of course, as he deems necessary. But for now, 48 people seems like a very good start to House Benevolence. More than enough.”

Sitnakov fell to silence as he sent off a telepathic tendril into the air. Erick continued to place lights and fill in window spaces. Now that that major conversation had passed, Teressa turned her attentions back to the world around them, watching out for danger that was likely already long gone and with tracks fully hidden. Jane glanced at Sitnakov, looking at the tall metal man, but she turned her attentions outward soon enough.

The four of them walked on, down the empty hallways of House Benevolence.
