If only they could have done it elsewhere. Each battle redrew the threads of Karma, undoing Catheya’s efforts to plot a route. Thankfully, the immediate surroundings were blissfully quiet at this moment, and she planned to capitalize on the calm to cover some ground. The [Grand Unifier’s Crown] was the reason she’d come this far, and it was the reason she had to keep going.

The item was of extraordinary nature, but it needed a Spirit to be bonded and unlock most of its power. However, allowing a random spirit to take hold would do Catheya no good. There were too many mysteries surrounding it, and only the Daedalian Court had the answers. She could feel that unlocking its potential would unlock her own, and allow her to progress further down the road she’d chosen.

Using her drive to rouse her domain once more, Catheya fused it with the amulet. The guardian’s resentment harmonized with Catheya’s Destiny, bonding over their shared Karmic link; their connection to the Daedalian Court. [Black Ice Cosmos] took on the harmonized energy before spreading down the sixth paths. Minutes passed as Catheya carefully sensed the different reactions, discarding one path after another.

An all-too-familiar fluctuation interrupted Catheya’s work when only two choices remained. Catheya frowned and got to her feet, gazing at the newly formed bridge that had connected with her location without warning. Its deck was obscured through unknown means, but Catheya knew there was a decent chance the path had been opened by exploiting her Karmic links.

Catheya prepared to pick a path at random and make a run for it. She was alone and in no condition to fight with the Buddhist Sangha. However, she held back upon realizing only a single monk stepped onto her bridge before the path behind him collapsed. Judging by the aura, he was one of the trial takers. He was also vaguely familiar, and it took Catheya a moment to realize why.

“You’re Earth’s traitor,” Catheya said, her brows furrowing with disgust upon the realization.

She recalled Zac once mentioning Abbot Everlasting Peace, who escaped Earth when his home needed him most. He only returned when the Fifth Pillar stirred. And yet, he made no attempts to contact Zac or lend a helping hand. Not so much as a thank you for saving his home world during the integration.

“Traitor… You’re right. It would not be wrong to call this poor monk a traitor. I have also made many mistakes in the name of the greater good,” Everlasting Peace said with a calm expression as he placed his hands together in prayer. Catheya watched as the lingering traces of resentment surrounding the Formation Node were cleansed.

“That is why I’m trying to right the course and find merit in this sea of regret. Karma led me here, and I believe we can help each other.”

“Help each other?” Catheya said with a raised brow. “Are you trying to recruit me for your war? Those imperials must be giving you a run for your money if you come to a Yin Creature for assistance.”

“This bridge… It should not be,” the old monk sighed. “It’s trapped and twisted so many, denying both faithful and faithless their chance at Samsara. This cycle of suffering will not end by clashing with the Sangha’s enemies. Only by concluding the trial can this thread of Karma finally end for real.”

“What are you saying? Do you want to work together to reach the court faster?” Catheya said with a thoughtful frown.

Working together with the Buddhist Sangha bordered on sacrilege, but there was no such thing as eternal enemies. The old monk could obviously manipulate the bridge of Karma in ways she could not.

“Why do you need me?”

“Because of benefactor’s abilities, and frankly, because of benefactor’s connection to Zachary Atwood,” Abbot Everlasting Peace sighed as he took out an unremarkable lotus leaf. “I’m afraid this poor monk has exhausted my Karma with Zachary Atwood, precluding me from discovering the shortcut he’s unearthed.”

“What shortcut?”

“If Benefactor agrees, this poor monk will exert some effort to provide an answer.”

Catheya couldn’t hold back her curiosity and slowly nodded. Abbot Everlasting Peace placed his hands together, and Catheya frowned upon seeing his aura wither away. The lunatic was actually sacrificing lifespan to forcibly build a new bridge. A seventh path emerged, stirring a sense of warmth in Catheya’s heart.

“Fine. We’ll work together for now,” Catheya said, stepping onto the road, holding streaks of blistering Life.
