Welen furrowed his brow as the white-jacketed warrior raised his sword into a simplistic guard. It was from the very first rank of Sparrow Kata, he was sure. Welen was an Axeman, not a Swordsman, but he’d been fighting in and out of ranked lands for decades with more parties than he could count. He knew Sparrow well enough to recognize it, and also well enough to know it to be a poor choice. The introductory sword Kata was meant for darting exchanges against the weakest of monsters. It was NOT meant for trading blows with an armored human opponent in an enclosed space. Thrast’s armor—consisting of heavily-hammered plates strapped over a layer of chainmail—wasn’t impressive, but it would easily stand up to the passing cuts of the form. For a Swordsman, Egret was what was needed when facing an armored target, and any adventurer worth the price of a whetstone would know it.

Either he’s taunting Thrast, or he really was lying about being silver. If all he has is Sparrow, he’s a dead man.

A few chuckles spread through the room, others coming to the same conclusion. One way or another, this fight would be entertaining. Either Thrast would finally get a beating—something for which he was long overdue—or they’d get to watch him work out his irritation by batting the newcomer’s body about the dueling ring like a cat batting about a dead mouse.

Thrast, for his part, clearly didn’t appreciate the laughter. After a moment of indignant disbelief, he roared, striking forward with a brutal, two-handed chop that would have split a boulder in half. The newcomer shifted his sword to catch the blow, but at the last moment, Thrast spun away from his original line of attack in a blur, his blade simultaneously bursting into flame. The twisting, momentum-defying reversal was characteristic of an advanced Kata—Hawk, perhaps. It ended with Thrast somehow behind his opponent, his blade arcing up to slam into the man’s armpit, left vulnerable from the attempted block.

As before, there was a sound like cracking ice in coldest winter, accompanied by a ripple in the air.

There was no cry of surprise or pain from the armored fighter. Seemingly unconcerned at having missed his block, he slashed gracelessly at Thrast, forcing him to dart away. The crowd cheered in appreciation once they realized what had happened.

Undeterred, Thrast went back in for another pass with his burning sword, again using an advanced technique to slip past the newcomer’s guard. This time, his blade carved a smiling line across the newcomer’s chest. There was no sound but that of steel on steel this time. The strange defensive magic didn’t trigger, and there was no ripple in the air.

The newcomer turned, the burning fabric of his jacket falling away to reveal steel beneath. Undamaged. The crowd around Welen hollered in excitement.

“He’s a bloody Defender!” Breal shouted from Welen’s elbow. “Kick his ass harder!”

“Burn him up, Thrast!”

“Yeah!”

“Go, new guy!”

Again and again, the two combatants clashed, smoke rising from the charred remains of the newcomer’s jacket as it burned away. He was clearly outclassed when it came to skill with a blade. Only once did he manage to catch Thrast’s sword with his own, and even then, it was immediately batted aside. His footwork was decent enough, Welen supposed, but it wasn’t overly challenging to keep your balance when you were just standing there like a stump.

If he’s a Defender, he might be trying to get Thrast to tire himself out. Bad idea. Thrast ain’t much of one, but he’s still a silverplate.

Thrast’s speed had kept increasing, the flames surrounding his blade intensifying and beginning to leave burning trails of embers in their wake as the man himself became a blur.

Starling Frenzy?

Welen became sure of it as Thrast’s tempo kept climbing. Starling Frenzy was an infamous Swordsman skill, despite being tier three and thus quite rare. With each successive strike, the user’s Speed would climb slightly higher, and the stamina cost of the next movement would be slightly reduced. The effect would continue indefinitely, provided that Thrast kept moving and didn’t miss.

The real limiting factor was the damage limit. In a lair, Starling Frenzy was devastating, but on the surface, with the user at silver, there was little point in using it. When even a single hit could reach the damage limit, striking faster than once per second was pointless. Even Thrast would know that.

That’s Thrast for you, using it anyway, just to show off.

The newcomer didn’t panic under the flurry of blows, weathering them like a tree in a hailstorm. Through the blaze and the smoke, Welen watched him shrug off dozens of hits before he lost count. When the warrior reactivated his rippling defensive skill, the sound of the hits merged into a warbling whine.

Thrast was now a blur, having reverted to Sparrow, amusingly. The simple, darting motions were perfect for this kind of assault, and anything more complicated would have resulted in him tripping over his own feet. This continued for several more seconds, the trapped smoke spreading until it was hard to make out much beyond the darting lines of fire left in Thrast’s wake.

He’s still going. Damn, Thrast, I’m actually a little impressed.

No sooner than Welen had thought this did the warbling tone end, the ripples in the smoke fading. Thrast’s boots skidded across the floor as he came to a stop, lowering his flaming blade. Silhouetted within the smoke, it was hard to tell how the newcomer had fared, besides the fact that he was still standing.

Damn it. Fire magic always makes for a poor—

White light pulsed, and then the smoke was gone.

Welen inhaled sharply, but his reaction was mild compared to Cessa’s. Welen glanced at the Fire Mage sitting beside him, who’d spilled wine all down her front.

Must be Mana Sight. What did she see?

“Are you done?” the newcomer asked, bringing Welen’s attention back to the ring.

Then it was his turn to stare.

Denuded of his jacket, the man stood in naked steel. From head to toe, he was covered, the unadorned plates sliding past each other with nary a gap between them as he reset his stance. Before Thrast’s Speed had grown too great, he had been targeting his opponent’s joints—as one did—but now, it was plain that there were no weaknesses there to be found.

Dystees’s glowing orbs, where did he get that steel? I’ve never seen armor like that in my life.

“So, you’re a Defender.” Thrast shook his head, then spat. “Why carry a sword at all? You clearly have no idea how to use it.”

“Speak for yourself, Thrast!” some suicidal idiot shouted from the crowd.

Thrast roared. “Who said that!?”

The newcomer didn’t take advantage of the opening as Thrast whirled, politely lowering his blade instead. Thrast, oblivious, marched around the ring, loudly repeating his demand for the speaker to identify themself.

Welen carefully hid his smile. As if anyone would be dense enough to answer.

Cessa, meanwhile, had clearly seen something else, as indicated by the sound of breaking glass. Welen glanced at the Mage to see her clutching her glass by its shattered stem, the base having fallen into her lap.

“What—“ Welen began.

“Damn it!” Thrast swore, stomping his foot loudly and dragging Welen’s focus back to the ring. He rounded on the newcomer, and after another few muttered curses, raised his blade into a form from Egret. “Okay, enough playing around.”

The newcomer nodded, returning his sword to its ready position.

Still in Sparrow.

Thrast’s eyes narrowed, the hot anger in his expression becoming cold. Dangerous.

Oh, shit.

As if mirroring Thrast’s mood, his flaming sword flickered, then died. A silent moment passed, and the blade exploded into darkness, waves of deadly black magic rolling off it like smog.

Chairs scraped and were knocked over as people scrambled back from the protective field, Welen’s among them.

“Hey now, Thrast, don’t be using that in the—“ Breal began, but Thrast was already moving.

Using the same two-handed chop with which he’d started the battle, Thrast shot forward. As before, the newcomer moved to block, but unlike before, when Thrast pivoted away to redirect his strike, the armored Defender anticipated the movement. His counter was slow, but perfectly aimed, the edge of his blade slicing right across the bridge of Thrast’s nose. Thrast’s blade still found the newcomer’s side, leaving a smoking line of darkness on his armor, but it was Thrast who stumbled back.

“Gah!” Thrast barked, clawing at his face.

“Are you okay?” the newcomer asked, turning to watch the retreating silverplate. He’d been halfheartedly scrubbing at his armor with one hand, trying to dislodge the black smoke that was clinging there. “Sorry, I thought you’d block that instead of following through.”

Thrast lowered his hand, revealing his face to be undamaged. Instead, it seemed to be his pride that had taken the hit. “You keep mocking me. We’ll see how funny you find me in a second.”

“I’m not mocking you,” the armored warrior said, looking up as the dark smoke finally began to fade away from the cut, revealing undamaged steel beneath. “That was the first time I hit you, and I don’t know how much you can take, especially since you’re not wearing a helmet. For all I know, you’re all offense. Also, you really shouldn’t use the same move on someone more than once.”

“Shut up and fight, shitstain,” Thrast snarled.

“What did you just hit me with, anyway?” the newcomer asked, ignoring the insult. “That really did a number on my saturation, the way it lingered. Wait, hang on, if I stop blocking the physical aspect, would the damage limit actually help me? Hmm. Either way, I don’t think I can let you hit me with too many more of those, especially if it stacks.”

“L-LET ME HIT YOU?” Thrast spluttered, beyond apoplectic. He hurtled forward, only to stumble awkwardly while the armored warrior darted away. The sudden reversal of the two combatants’ relative speed was like night passing into day.

There was a crash as Cessa finally dropped her broken glass completely. “Depths below…”

“What do you see?” Welen asked, not taking his eyes off the battle. Thrast and the newcomer were now trading blows back and forth. Thrast looked to be on the defensive, barely holding off the newcomer and staggering about like he was drunk. The newcomer, meanwhile, was still sticking to basic techniques, only he was now fast, tracers of wind following his movements.

“He’s stealing his Speed,” Cessa said, breathless. “Gods, that’s a lot of power, but it’s not… I have no idea what skill that is. It looks like…it looks like an AOE channel, but… He keeps adjusting the output. Thrast can’t keep up with the changes, and his armor’s already…”

Welen tuned out Cessa’s rambling, suddenly feeling like a dull in a rowboat upon spotting a Whale rising off the bow. A line of black smoke hung in the air, following the curve of the dueling barrier. Amongst the ineffectual hits Thrast had landed on his opponent, one must have gone wide.

Oh, rotten hulls.

Even without the direct hit, the malevolent Dark leaking from Thrast’s sword would bring it down eventually anyway, Welen realized. The shadow had already begun to build in the air, and the stone beneath the combatants’ feet was starting to crack and crumble, made brittle by the malevolent magic. There was a reason Dark magic was banned inside the Guildhall.

Welen glanced toward the door, where some of his more prudent fellows were already moving to make their escape. His own plans for flight were put on hold when the door was suddenly yanked open from outside. A second armored figure stood there, looking around at the faces of the Guilders as they scrambled back, crying out in surprise. The armor was almost identical, but instead of a sword, the latest newcomer held an oaken bow as tall as he was.

“Don’t mind me,” the Sharpshooter said, stepping casually inside. “As you were.”

She, Welen corrected himself. He was only mildly surprised at this point to see a silver plate dangling from her neck. He glanced at the door one last time, then sighed at his own foolishness as he settled back into his chair.

The smart thing would be to haul anchor, but the barrier should hold a while longer. The enchanter who installed it was from the City of Lights, after all.

“What is this!?” Thrast demanded, oblivious to the goings-on outside the ring. He again failed to block one of the armored warrior’s strikes, grunting more in anger than in pain. “Stop these tricks and fight fair!”

“Get better armor,” the newcomer countered, cutting for Thrast’s leg and making him dart away. “I shouldn’t be able to affect you like this.” Another cut and another dodge. “It’s totally saturated already, isn’t it?” The newcomer moved to parry as Thrast counterattacked. “Maybe if you— Ah!”

The sound of metal on metal was followed by that of metal on stone—the better half of the newcomer’s sword ringing like a bell as it clattered across the ground.

Thrast shouted in triumph, lunging forward to take advantage of the opening. His celebration, however, was short-lived. Reacting smoothly, the newcomer nudged Thrast’s blade aside with an armored forearm. As part of the same motion, he pivoted his entire torso, brutally driving his opposite palm into the shorter man’s face.

Thrast’s head snapped back violently, and he stumbled away, cursing. The newcomer dropped the useless hilt of his sword and raised his arms in the guard distinctive to Bear Kata.

Welen grinned. If I die, I’ll at least have a good story to tell in the heavens. Who IS this guy?

“Damn you!” Thrast shouted, clawing at his nose with his free hand.

“Should have worn a helmet,” the newcomer retorted, dashing forward in a sudden burst of speed beyond anything he’d shown thus far. Thrast didn’t have time to get out of the way and was slammed into the barrier hard enough for the reverberation to rattle dust from the rafters. Before he could recover, the newcomer lifted him and tossed him back into the center of the ring, chasing after him a moment later.

“He’s having fun,” a female voice observed mildly.

Welen jumped, spinning his head around to spot the Sharpshooter standing behind him, having joined the orange-robed Mage and the dagger-wielder by the quest board.

“He is,” the orange-robed Mage agreed. “How is the barrier holding up?”

“Not great,” the woman replied. She raised her voice, calling toward the ring. “You should probably finish up, Rain. The barrier can’t take all that Dark mana. One or two more good hits, and it’s done for.”

