Welen whirled to ask Cessa for confirmation, only to find the Mage’s chair empty.

“Ah, shit,” the armored warrior said, catching Thrast’s smoking blade in one hand. “I was afraid of that.”

There was a pulse of…something…the shadow deepening momentarily. When it cleared, the air was empty once more.

“That should help,” the armored woman called. “Good idea, but I still don’t like how it looks.”

“Let go of my damn sword!” Thrast yelled, yanking at his weapon with both hands.

The newcomer glanced at him, ignoring the Dark magic creeping up his arm. Whatever had cleaned away the shadow, it hadn’t stopped Thrast’s technique itself. “Call it a draw?”

“Fuck you!” Thrast swore, managing to tear his blade free with a mighty twist that would have pulled the newcomer off his feet had he not let go. Thrast staggered back, then snarled as he lunged. “Die!”

“How about no?” the newcomer replied, not even bothering to block. Instead, he exploded with orange light.

It took Welen a moment to recognize it as spell interference.

Powerful spell interference.

He didn’t need Cessa with him to know this newcomer was no Warrior. No Defender. Not even a Jack—not with that kind of power at his call. No, this man was a Mage. An Armored Mage.

“Ahhg—ack!” Thrast screamed, staggering back and holding up his sword to ward off the assault, for all the good it did him. Some of the watchers were yelling at Welen for him to get away. Others streamed for the door. Welen, though, remained where he was, grinning like a fool. He’d noticed something.

The barrier hadn’t even flickered in response to the heat.

This is controlled. He won’t hurt us. Thrast’s fucked, though.

The only other person remaining this close to the ring was Breal, which hardly came as a surprise. His reason for staying, though, clearly didn’t come from any clever observations. He was chanting, clapping in time with each word.

“Kick! His! Ass! Kick! His! Ass! Kick! His—”

Thrast’s hair burst into flame, and Breal gave up the chant in favor of a cackle of glee.

Paint was flaking from the silverplate’s armor, and the leather straps beneath had started to smoke. A moment later, they too went up like tinder.

“Surrender.” The Armored Mage’s voice cut firmly through Breal’s mad cackling. He’d walked to the center of the ring, not dodging as Thrast laid into him with his hair blazing like a torch. The smoking trails crisscrossing the Mage’s armor looked thin, overwhelmed by the blaze of magical energy from within.

What did she say his name was? Rain? How much mana does he HAVE?

“Surrender,” Rain repeated, crossing his arms, clearly unconcerned by Thrast’s continuing assault, not to mention the heat. The Guildhall had fallen into silence, even Breal having given up his chant to stare.

Thrast staggered away, coughing. He was still burning, though his hair and clothing were completely gone at this point. His armor plating had fallen from him with the degradation of the leather holding it in place, leaving only his chain shirt for modesty. Its links were glowing even more brightly than the Mage’s armor, completely oversaturated. He still clung to his sword, but the dark magic empowering it had vanished. An orange glow was beginning along its length as it, too, neared saturation.

Without warning, orange changed to blue. The fire around Thrast winked out.

“I can do this all day,” Rain said flatly, frigid energy practically rolling off him. “Surrender.”

There was a long pause, only Thrast’s dry coughing audible in the silence of the hall.

And then there was a clatter of steel on stone.

Rain stopped dumping mana into Refrigerate once the air temperature dropped to a reasonable level, already having excluded Thrast from the effect the moment the flames surrounding him had gone out. Still excluding his defeated opponent, Rain released another weak pulse of Shroud to burn up the lingering Dark mana in the air, then stepped forward, extending a hand. “Good fight.”

“Liar,” Thrast rasped, and Rain’s concern was replaced with incredulity as a smile spread across the silverplate’s eyebrowless face. “That wasn’t a fight at all.” He coughed. “You’re strong.”

Despite himself, Rain smiled. “How’s your health?”

Thrast scoffed, taking Rain’s hand to shake. His grip was firm and didn’t tremble. “I’ve had worse. If you feel bad, you can buy me a drink.” He coughed again, releasing Rain’s hand to run a hand over his now-bald head. “Preferably something strong enough to sprout hair.”

He’s a surprisingly good loser, considering all that shit before.

“I’ll see what I can do,” Rain replied.

Thrast coughed again, releasing Rain’s hand and turning away. “Duel End!” At his hoarse shout, the barrier shimmered, then fell.

Seeming to take that as a signal, the crowd broke out into applause. All but for Kick-His-Ass Guy, that was, who looked a bit put out.

Rain shook his head. These people really need TV.

He turned to see Jamus and Nails smirking at him, and he was sure Ameliah’s visor was hiding a similar expression. Smiling himself, he glanced back at his opponent, then immediately regretted it. Thrast had stooped to retrieve his sword and the fallen remains of his armor, and while his chain shirt fell just past his waist, that wasn’t nearly low enough.

The crowd, for their part, hooted and hollered at the show, jeering at Thrast as he unabashedly set about collecting his belongings.

“Oh, shut up, you bastards,” Thrast rasped. “Someone get me a damn beer and some pants.” Rising, he marched toward a table, jerking a thumb over his shoulder. “He’s paying.”

Several faces turned toward Rain, and he offered them a bemused shrug, clearing his throat. “I guess I am. I’ll leave some money at the desk.” He jerked his head toward Thrast as he moved toward Gus, his boots crunching on the Dark-pitted stone. “Fixing the floor’s on him, though.”

There was a wave of laughter at this, and Rain heard dozens of conversations start up, though everyone seemed more than happy enough to leave him alone for the moment.

Just another day at the Guild, I guess.

“You think I should heal him?” Ameliah asked quietly as Rain reached her, a smile in her voice.

Rain smiled back and shook his head. “Nah, wouldn’t want to rob him of his lesson. Thanks for coming, even if I didn’t end up needing help.”

“I just wish I hadn’t missed the start,” Ameliah replied. “So, that was your first real fight at silver, wasn’t it? What did you think?”

“It was different,” Rain said, shaking his head. “The damage limit really changes things. We should go all out when we train next time so I can get more used to it.”

“Mmm,” Ameliah agreed. “How did they work for you?”

Rain tilted his head. “Huh?”

[The new rings Tallheart made you, dummy,] Ameliah replied silently.

“Oh,” Rain replied, deliberately not looking at his right hand, not that there was anything there to see thanks to Facade. “Great. They worked great. No explosions.”

Rain smiled wider, considering just how lucky he was to have met a legendary smith. Without his equipment, Thrast would have sent him home in a box.

Tallheart, MVP.

Instead of one Malleable Ring in five slots, Rain now wore three in three, each providing a slightly greater boost than the original. Starting a few days ago, Tallheart had been working to make him a full set of five. Amazing as the smith was, though, he’d yet to complete the final two. The enchantment was apparently quite ticklish at the GranCryst level.

In response to the threat of the Knives, one of the first things Tallheart had done was to bring each of Ameliah’s stat rings up to the limit of Atantum by reforging them with additional GranCrysts. It wasn’t as straightforward for the delicate Malleable enchantment, unfortunately. Tallheart had needed to redesign it completely when he’d made Jamus’s earring, and then again to accommodate the modifications Rain had requested. Never once had the smith complained, instead saying that he viewed it as an interesting challenge.

There was a sudden, sharp sound of metal striking metal, and Rain jumped, reaching for Force Ward. Jamus and Nails whirled, ready for battle, while Ameliah calmly turned to look over her shoulder.

Gus grunted, bringing a wooden mallet down on top of a chisel-looking tool, making a repeat of the sound.

“Ah,” Jamus said, lowering his hands.

Relaxing as well, Rain stepped forward to see what Gus was working on. He smiled upon seeing the rectangular plate of silver, already with two numbers stamped into it. A one and a four.

As Rain watched, Gus picked up another die, placed it against the plate, then struck. When he took the die away, he revealed the number five, freshly stamped into the soft metal.

“I figured we could forgo the usual procedure,” Gus said, pausing and looking up. “Beating Thrast covers the test, and I know she’ll vouch for you as your sponsor.” He nodded to Ameliah. “Nice armor.”

“Thanks, Gus,” Ameliah said warmly. “I didn’t think we'd see you again so soon.”

“That’s my line,” Gus replied, stamping the final two numbers of Rain’s ID—a two and a nine. He rubbed the plate with a thumb, then flipped it over, revealing the sword and quiver symbol of the Adventurers’ Guild. He looked up, then smiled as he held the plate out to Rain. “There you go. Congratulations on your promotion.”

“Thanks, Gus,” Rain said, taking the plate. He held it in one hand, using his other to extract his old plate from a shielded compartment on his thigh. Tallheart had added a pair of them after Rain’s last cloak-destroying incident.

I really do go through them. Granted, it was a jacket this time.

Working with nimble gauntleted fingers, Rain detached the bronze plate from the chain, then attached the silver one in its place before slipping the chain over his head. He tucked his old plate away in the still-open compartment, then extracted a small vial of Tel. Its contents were just what Dozer had made in the last day or so—hardly worth mentioning in the grand scheme of things.

He held it out to Gus. “Feel free to use whatever’s left after Thrast’s beer to help pay for the floor. I know a Geomancer who’d be happy to work on commission if there isn’t one around.”

“Rain…” Gus said, glancing at the vial as he took it. “How are you so strong? I might believe a lucky blue, what with the Shift and all, but this… It’s been…what? Two seasons?”

Rain looked up at the ceiling, sticking his tongue into his cheek and thinking for a moment before he answered. “We last spoke around noon on the first of Winternight, so…six months, seventeen days, and a half-hour.” He looked down and smiled, wiggling a hand. “Ish.”

“You’re not going to tell me, are you?” Gus said.

“Maybe later,” Rain replied. “I’ve kinda got a lot to do today.”

Gus snorted. “Do you really have the entire population of Vestvall with you?”

Before Rain could respond, a commotion from behind him made him turn around. The door had banged open, and Emerton was standing there, wearing his wingsuit. “There you are!” he gasped, out of breath. “Val’s in trouble. Vanna sent me to get you.”

“Shit,” Rain swore, glancing at Ameliah. As one, they headed for the door, Jamus and Nails hot on their heels.

As the door boomed closed, silence fell over the Guild, the previous muttered conversations having died with the sudden arrival of yet a fifth newcomer. Before any of those discussions could resume, a loud rasp of a throat being cleared brought everyone’s attention to the bald man sitting beside the ring in borrowed pants.

“So,” Thrast croaked, setting down an empty mug with a loud clunk. “Would someone care to tell me just who the HELLS that was?”

Gus felt his bowels turn to water as dozens of heads turned to him as one.
