“Exactly, but once you are Eskau of War…” He sighed, waving a hand in dismissal. “Apologies, if you become Eskau of War.”

Tala chuckled but didn’t otherwise respond.

“If you do, not only will you be in a position few would dare contest—even outside our House and our allies—but anything of this nature could be put forward as a part of that war effort.”

“Exactly. It is amazing what people will endure for the greater good.”

“And after a short time, it will become the new normal.”

She nodded. “That is my hope, yes.”

“Well, I do hope that your ideas work out.”

“Thank you.” She considered. “Can we travel to Croi through the Doman-Imithe?”

Pillar Sanguis gave a slow shake of his head. “No, gated should never go into the Doman-Imithe, to do so is to invite death.” A small smile pulled at his lips. “That is, in fact, exactly why we dumped you in there last time.”

She huffed a laugh. “I was going to mention it if you didn’t.”

“I assumed as much.”

“So… Can I try? As you said, it’s not like it’s the first time I’ve been there.”

The man rubbed one temple. “…Please don’t.”

She contemplated. It wasn’t like she had to travel in that manner. Still, she was curious. “At least show me how it’s done?”

He gave her a searching look before giving another nod. “…Fine. I will arrange for a Path Finder to show you how they open the way, so long as you do not take that path to Croi.”

“Understood. I really am curious about the ‘safe’ way to get to the Doman-Imithe and travel through it.”

“I can understand the curiosity, but as stated, there is no safe means for gates or gated. The moving of vestiges—and items with vestiges in them—is the primary reason for inter-city trade across the face of Zeme, itself. Almost everything else can move through the Doman-Imithe with enough efficiency that no other means would be necessary.”

Tala grunted. “Good to know.”

“So, when would you like to meet with the Path Finder, and when should we expect you to depart?”

“This afternoon for both?”

“So soon?”

“No need to delay.”

He nodded, standing. “Very well, then. I will make the needed arrangements.”

“Do I need to bring anyone aside those I already have with me?”

“That will not be necessary, but the offer is appreciated. Thank you for your time, Eskau.”

They exchanged bows. “Thank you for your assistance, Pillar.”

With nothing more needed, Tala departed, leaving the man to what seemed to be a sizable amount of work.
