I didn’t care to think about what any of that meant. As soon as the text disappeared, I felt the dormant power inside me burn to life once again. It felt like meeting with an old friend, and the anger coursing through my veins at the humiliation brought upon by the beast fully erupted inside me.

You damned pathetic wretch! I’ll burn you to cinders!

I jumped up and performed a series of hand signs, instinct and experience driving my every move. They looked weird, seeing as my fingers had turned to feathers, and they didn’t even look like hand signs, more like a haptic movement of fluff, but I sensed Qi flowing through nonetheless.

I could tell that the efficiency wasn’t even at thirty percent of what it should be. A silent sigh left my body, though, grateful that I still had my old friend. At the peak of my leap, a tiny orange flame flared before me. It pulsed with life as it grew larger, its heat burning off the edges of the hole. It didn’t affect me, but I hoped that the Spirit Beast would enjoy its taste.

The thing screeched, and I smirked.

With a sharp thrust, it vanished down the beast’s gaping maw before the creature could even recoil, then bloomed. A muffled explosion filled my ears as fire rushed down its throat, licking out from its nostrils.

It fell, hitting the ground with a loud thump as it thrashed in the tall grass. Somehow, I knew that just one flame wouldn’t be enough, not at my current power. I wasn’t sure if I had any cultivation at all, and the Qi flowing through my body was but a literal drop in what had been formerly a majestic ocean.

I’ll find the bastard who did this to me and burn their tongue before torturing them for a thousand years. I’ll use their flesh as food for the ravens, their bones as knife sharpeners, and marrow as aphrodisiacs! I’ll make sure every nerve of their body remains intact, so they can feel pain even as nothing more than a headless corpse!

The Spirit Beast’s yelps awoke me, anger flaring up inside my body as I watched the wretched creature struggle to endure such weak flames. I weaved another set of hand signs, a kindling spark manifested inches away from me.

It was a flickering flame at first, its weak yellow glow looking like a firefly compared to the moon. Yet, the more Qi I fed it, the larger it grew. The yellow hue changed to a violent orange color that lit up the shadowy forest, the flame almost dancing in my palm as it reflected upon my beady eyes.

I hope you suffer even as your soul disappears from the cycle of reincarnation.

[Warning! Qi Dangerously Low!]

The sudden warning startled me; however, after checking my reserves, I was able to confirm that what the text said was true. I turned toward the creature with a disdainful glare, and an intense catharsis filled my body as I sent the living fire toward it.

The air became denser, melting wherever the flame passed, and the grass shriveled up into a string of dried hay before the fire even touched it.

I couldn’t feel the heat, as they were my own flames, but I was sure the Spirit Beast would, and the suffering they would cause it would be just as enjoyable as its screams.

A wretched howl blessed my ears as the thing that had chased me right after I gained consciousness burned to a crisp before my very eyes. Its black feathers instantly burned, charring away to nothingness, revealing its red skin, which melted off its bones into a cloud of black smoke.

Blood bubbled into a puddle, wherein its guts and whatever else couldn’t instantly burn away boiled into a red meat soup. It howled all the same, though its pathetic screams slowly died down.

It let out one final, unwilling and defiant roar as its throat disintegrated, creating a haunting howl that echoed through the quiet forest.

Its yellow eyes popped within their sockets with a muffled bang, becoming nothing more than two gooey pool that soon turned to ash under the heat.

Serves you right, be thankful for this light punishment. To think anyone would dare chase me, the great—

My monologue was interrupted by the strange text which suddenly appeared in front of me, showing unfamiliar numbers and names. At the same time, I felt a surge of Qi flow through me, replenishing my reserves, and alongside it, I felt my strength augment by a marginal amount.

[You have slain [Striped Black Vulture] Lvl 5]

[XP Acquired]

[You have Leveled Up]

[Phoenix Chick Lvl 1 has become Phoenix Chick Lvl 2.]

[Skill Points Acquired]

[Achievement: First Blood - Unlocked]

Hm? Phoenix, what now?

I questioned, finally deciding that ignoring the weird text was a bad idea.

It can control my Nirvanic Flames, after all.

That mere thought disgusted me, but not as much as I would have guessed.

I still don’t know who I am, or where this is… Maybe this thing knows?

“Hey!” I tried saying, however, the only thing escaping my mouth was sharp screeches.

“Hey, can you understand me?” I tried communicating again, though it seemed like the thing had no desire to talk. It understood my thoughts, but that didn’t stop me from yelling at it.

“HEY YOU STUPID PIECE OF DOG SHIT, ARE YOU GOING TO TELL ME WHAT’S GOING ON HERE OR NOT?!” Of course, they didn’t sound like anything more than the wild chirps of a small chick. I guess that’s what I was, as that’s what it called me. A ‘Phoenix Chick’.

I retreated into the small hole I had decided to adopt as a home for the time being, planning to get to the bottom of this. Alright, no more speaking out loud.

The text followed my vision, making it a little hard to see, though there wasn’t much to see in the first place. What is XP? I asked, thinking that it would give me information about things it had already told me.

[XP is the numerical value necessary for leveling up. It can be gained via doing a variety of tasks, the most popular of which is killing other beings.]

Great, I thought. Killing is easy enough, but what do levels do?

My question didn’t go unanswered, thankfully, as the strange string of text changed once again.

[Levels dictate how strong someone is. They can be used as a general gauge of power and to decide what sort of skills are purchasable or not. Your stats are directly influenced by levels, amongst other factors.]

Stats?

As soon as I finished my thought, the text disappeared, replaced instead by a series of strange, transparent, flat, orange, box-like images that floated in front of me.

Details

[Name: Fa Xiaolan]

[Race: Phoenix]

[Class: Phoenix Chick]

[Level: 2]

[Hit Points: 250]

[Equipped Titles: None]

[Bloodlines: Phoenix]

[Qi: 30]

Stats

[Strength: 22]

[Dexterity: 10]

[Perception: 18]

[Charisma: 60]

[Intelligence: 20]

[Skill Points: 5]

What the hell? It was the only thing that came to mind. Suddenly, I felt naked. No, more than naked. This was inconceivable!

How can anyone measure someone with such accurate detail? This is beyond belief… If only I had this back then. Maybe whoever trapped me here is worth soul-searching after all.

Shock coursed through some part of me, and another part of me felt like gloating after noticing just how high the ‘Charisma’ stat was. However, that died down fast after realizing how useless it would be in real combat. What am I going to do? Charm my enemies to death like those fucking foxes?! Screw that!

However, I didn’t have much time to think about what the boxes were saying, as the tree shuddered violently, sending me hurtling, scraping against the rough inner bark.

What the hell?!

Before I could have another thought, a sharp crack split the air, followed by another series of snaps that came in one after the other. A sickening, terrifying groan rolled through the wood as the tree split apart beneath me, sending me hurling through the open air.

I couldn’t even gasp before another shadow engulfed me once more, and this time, its large claws wrapped around my small body like the sharp blade of a sword.

A screech sounded through the air, followed by an indistinct language, and something shuddered around me. Ripples spread a few inches away from me, shaking in an uneven pattern.

I could tell what it was from the first glance— a barrier. But why? Why would a beast that’s captured me use a barrier to protect me?

Then I turned my head and saw them.

Cultivators.
