“Fair enough.” This time it was Gam’s turn to utter the conciliatory statement, and he blissfully fell silent after, leaving Min Gyu free to enjoy the satisfying creaks and thumps of the catapults while musing over what the half-fox had shared. Again, young Rain’s wisdom proved true as it was not the similarities which proved to be of use, but rather the differences, for they stood out like a sore thumb and showed Min Gyu exactly where the distinction lay between his Dao and Gam’s. If the Blessing of Earth was all about unity and cohesion, then the Blessing of Air was almost the complete opposite. Air did not gather and coalesce, but rather rushed away to be as far as physically possible from any other air in the vicinity. What was a vacuum but more room for air to stretch and expand? Though he’d known this all along, he’d never truly been able to put it into words until after hearing Gam’s experiences, a truth that he was always aware of, but never truly identified until now, and it gave him a fresh perspective of a problem that had plagued him for so long.

It all started with young Rain and his pervasive idea, but to be fair, the boy did warn Min Gyu before sharing. It seemed so simple at first, to take the power of a howling gale and compress it down into the palm of his hand, so that the full force of his fury could be unleashed against his foes without wasting any effort whatsoever. The sheer destructive possibilities had him instantly captivated, as this was a skill he could easily adjust the strength of to match his opponents. A common Warrior? Then not much power was needed at all, for they lacked a Domain to blunt his Elemental attack, but against a sizable Demon of considerable defence? Why, Min Gyu could empty his Core into one attack to guarantee a kill against so dangerous a foe.

Only it turned out that things were easier said than done, for all of his efforts to Visualize his Intent and contain the howling gale fell far short of the mark, resulting in lacklustre explosions that were little more than sudden, harmless puffs of wind rather than the unstoppable tempests he’d envisioned. Air did not take well to compression, and the more pressure he exerted on the Air itself, the more it slipped through his fingers. Now though... Now, Gam’s explanation regarding earth, dirt, and sand had opened up new avenues of thought to consider, ones Min Gyu never even knew existed much less thought to explore. Bending over in his chair, he reached down and took a fistful of sand before righting himself once more. Letting the sand trickle out just like Gam had earlier, Min Gyu watched it flow and blow away while Insight drifted on the outer edges of his perception, teasing him with its tantalizing closeness. He was on the right track, this much he knew, the answer so close he could taste it, but he had no words to put to this feeling because that was all it was. A feeling. Intuition. A gut instinct.

Young Rain placed much emphasis on Visualization and Intent as a means to control Chi, eventually condensing the subject down to a simple matter of Will, but what about other types of sensations? Min Gyu himself used Visualization and Intent to direct his Wind Blades, but he also relied much on instinct and intuition to accomplish feats he could not wholly explain, such as his ability to detect Concealed individuals using sweeping gusts of wind. His efforts did not paint a picture of the surroundings in his mind, for he was unable to track the wind so precisely. Instead, he relied on the properties of Chi and his unique, unnamed talent that allowed him to retain control of Chi as it passed through another living creature’s Domain to alert him to any unseen presences in the area. That was the what, but he had no words to explain the how, and yet it worked all the same. An effort of Will, which meant Will was not solely comprised of Visualization and Intent, for human beings had other senses to perceive by. Yan herself rarely utilized Visualization, if ever at all, and instead learned quickest when she was allowed to perceive the movement of wind in the physical word, which she primarily studied using her battle-fan like the Air Blessed Warriors of old. This truth became all the more apparent when Min Gyu reviewed Gam’s explanation of dirt and realized that the half-fox favoured using tactile descriptions like firm and immovable, durable and unshakable, to express his views. Did this mean that one could use palpable, physical sensations to direct Chi? Most certainly, for Min Gyu himself did so on almost a daily basis in the form of Lightening, not by visualizing himself being lighter, but conceiving himself as such through the perceived physical sensation of lightness.

The boy of course did Lightening differently, imagining it as currents of Chi buoying him up into the air, which was more of an External use of Chi than Internal. Perhaps his difficulties understanding the Dao in its entirety stemmed from his over-reliance on Visualization and his inability to recognize other denominations of Will. More proof of this lay in how Hongji eschewed Visualization altogether in every facet of his Path, not just the Natal Palace alone. When utilizing his Ethereal Palm, he did not envision his Chi and Domain forming a palm, he simply attacked with his body, and his Chi carried the force beyond his physical frame. Hence the name, for there was no palm of Chi to be seen, because it was ethereal, wholly lacking in form and substance yet capable of exerting force all the same. It was more similar to an intangible ripple of force than a straightforward attack of Chi, like one of Sarnai’s deadly shards of Chi or Min Gyu’s Wind Blades, which came as a great surprise to everyone involved. That being said, the Ethereal Palm was largely based on principles of Reverberation, and while it required some measure of Domain Plating to make use of, it was not as much as they all suspected before reading Hongji’s notes, which was disappointing to say the least.

But all this was relevant now, this much Min Gyu knew in his heart, pieces of a puzzle coming together to form a complete picture, but of what, he was not yet sure. Still watching the sand fall from his fingers, he let his mind drift where it would while remaining wholly rooted on the task at hand, focusing on nothing in hopes of finding an answer to the questions that plagued him.

Gam’s rant about the differences between dirt and sand brought up a good point, for Min Gyu had never understood why the Blessing by Earth and Air was considered Sand. In his eyes, sand was just loose dirt, but now that Gam had pointed out the distinctions, Min Gyu was able to pinpoint the influence of Air in the combination at hand. Sand was not cohesive, and while nowhere near as free as Air, it too sought to find freedom wherever it could. Sand was not stable, because it resisted against any and all constraints, shifting aside from pressure and going wherever the wind could carry it. That was why Earth and Air was Sand, and while he still harboured some doubts, at least now it all somewhat fit together.

So if sand flowed like... well, sand, and air flowed like the wind, how could he contain it under pressure?

No, no, this was the wrong question to ask, for Chi was neither sand nor air, even if it was Sand Chi or Air Chi. Chi was simply Chi, regardless of the properties it took on, so the real question was, how could he contain Chi?

The answer was simple, something Martial Warrior should know and was capable of, for they gathered and collected Chi in their Cores.

And just like that, Min Gyu had his answer. Brushing the last of the sand away, he extended his hand and placed it palm up in front of him with fingers slightly curled as if cupping a large bowl. Then, he Visualized his Domain bubbling out from his palm to create a sphere with which to contain Chi, but it was not as easy as expected. His Domain was not responding in the way he hoped, unwilling to shape itself according to his Will for reasons unknown. Recalling Hongji’s notes regarding the Ethereal Palm, Min Gyu abandoned Visualization in favour of a more tactile sensation. Reaffirming his identity to become One with the Self, Min Gyu condensed his Domain as closely to his skin as possible before setting the wind to circling within the palm of his hand, a task so familiar he could do it in his sleep. Sand and grit swirled about to show him the movement of Air, but he closed his eyes to focus on the feel of the Air instead as it brushed across his skin and fingers with impunity. How would this feeling change if contained within an orb? The moving air would... flatten, and spread out more, brushing the sides of his palms and edges of its boundaries instead of only the centre, and he felt the wind shift in his hand to match the sensation he conceived in mind.

Opening his eyes, he watched the sand swirl about with the orb he’d created, his Domain trapping the wind within to create a miniature vortex churning about. Keeping Visualization, Intent, and Tactility in mind, he conceptualized the sensation of curling his fingers without actually moving them to compress the orb even further. This was Hongji’s secret trick to Domain Plating, to treat the Domain as part of one’s physical body, but Min Gyu’s attempt fell apart before his eyes. Why? A lack of familiarity with the process, that was the issue, as it introduced a hint of doubt into the mix which unravelled his focused Will.

But he learned from this failure, and all that was left to do was try again.

And again. And again, and again.

Annoyed with his repeated lack of success, he asked Gam to keep an eye on the surroundings, but the request was not needed as the half-fox had already taken vigil around him, standing with staff in hand beneath the burning sun so that anyone aiming to get to Min Gyu would have to move through him first. Though they didn’t always get along, this more than anything showed that they were true comrades in arms, and Min Gyu was warmed by his friend’s consideration. With his safety well assured, he devoted his full attention to the task at hand and eliminated all other distractions. The thumping catapults, the screaming stones, the wailing Defiled, the cheering Imperials, the heat, the thirst, the pressing bladder and more, all of it disappeared until only Min Gyu’s palm, Wind Chi, and Domain remained.

On his one-hundredth and eighteenth try, he succeeded in creating a compressed ‘bubble’ of Domain in the palm of his hand that would compress no further, one which held for less than a heartbeat before the forces of his moving Air Chi tore it apart. Grinning at his success, temporary as it was, Min Gyu continued with his trial and error for he still had plenty of Chi to spare. Replicating his previous success with the next try, he watched as the vortex swirled within the grape sized orb, and he felt it straining against the walls of his Domain in an effort to be free once more. Unable to resist touching it, it gave off the sensation of poking an inflated water-skin, one that had been squeezed until it was taut and bursting at the seams, only in this case, his Domain took the place of the water-skin. Focusing his intent with deliberate care, he curled his fingers even more to condense the orb of Domain further, only for it to break and unravel with an unimpressive, barely audible pop.

Not quite the powerful attack he thought it would be, which was understandable as he’d not put much Air Chi into the working. Hardly even enough to stir someone’s hair, so he set about doing the same thing, but with more power. Fifty-seven failures later, Min Gyu discovered that there was a limit to the amount of pressure he could contain within a grape-sized orb of Domain. His best efforts created an orb that might well cause a few bruises if exploded against skin, but used so little Chi that it was almost negligible. More Chi was not the answer, for he lacked the fine control needed to force more power into the attack without having it unravelling apart, so he drew from Gam’s parable regarding dirt and mountains to conceive the idea of compressing a single orb Wind Chi and layering a second orb over-top it.

Seventy-eight tries later, he finally had a two layered bubble of contained Wind Chi. When it popped, it did so with enough pressure to send a minor puff of sand scattering about, which made Gam turn to regard him with one raised brow, but Min Gyu only spared him a passing grin. That was likely powerful enough to kill a man, but he wanted to see how far he could push things as he added a third layer over top the second, then a fourth, fifth, and sixth. Upon reaching seven layers many hours later, Min Gyu reached the conceivable limits of what he could accomplish for now, as he could feel how unstable the working in the palm of his hand had become. Surely the power contained within this pseudo-Core was enough to kill a Demon at least, but he lacked an opponent to test it with. He’d used slightly more Chi than what it cost him to create a single Wind Blade, but the pressure and power emanating from the working was substantially higher, which made sense as this was essentially a saber-length Wind Blade compressed into an area no bigger than a plum. To go even further and match the massive explosions he’d envisioned, he would need much more fine control of his Chi and Domain, and he was reminded of how young Rain once compared the Medical Saint’s Healing process to weaving an intricate tapestry with ten-thousand needles at a time. In comparison, this working was more akin to embroidering a sock in Min Gyu’s eyes, not that he’d ever held a needle and thread himself, but suffice it to say that his abilities fell short of what he hoped to accomplish.

