Min Gyu’s prickly predicament was in no way helped when the newly-promoted Exarch Gam decided to take a seat by his side, as the contentious old curmudgeon was never one to be outdone. Ruining Min Gyu’s efforts to appear calm and collected, the half-fox sat with arms crossed and leg bouncing as if possessed by the mother of all itches. Clearly running low on patience and spoiling for a fight, Gam watched the barrage of stones land on the Enemy below with a sour grimace that never softened except when uttering a grunt of admiration for a particularly memorable shot. “I could bring those walls down with a wave of my hand, ye know?” Gam grumbled, and not for the first time. “Sturdy stone stacked on shifting sand; one good shift and it’ll all come crumbling apart.” Min Gyu said nothing in response for he did not want to encourage the man, but regardless of the engagement, Gam continued, “I hate the sand. Why’s that, you ask? It’s just dried dirt, ain’t it, and I love me some dirt, don’t I? Well, you’re wrong, and lemme tell ye why.”

Stifling a sigh and resisting the urge to massage his temples, Min Gyu considered abandoning his dignity to loudly announce his need to piss just to get away, but knowing Gam, the man would follow him to the privy without a care in the world for privacy or consideration. “No one gives dirt the proper respect it deserves,” the half-fox began, speaking loudly enough to be heard over the commotion. “The earth is one thing, but the dirt? Who cares right? I care. For some stupid reason, the first thing everyone thinks of when they hear ‘Blessing of Earth’ is stone. Rock solid stone, so strong and durable, that’s surely the greatest part of the Blessing, right? Wrong again. It’s dirt. That’s where we truly draw our strength from, the dirt, because solid ground is nothing more than loose dirt that’s come together over time.”

Two weeks ago, Min Gyu would have shut his ears to the half-fox’s ramblings and let him drone on until he ran out of things to say, but that was before he found Insight in Chen Hongji’s notes on his Martial Path. Initially, they all desired his notes in hopes of uncovering his secrets regarding Domain Plating, but the humble Brigadier presented them with an even more valuable gift instead. At some point or another, every Martial Warrior in the Empire would be asked a single, simple question, the answer to which would define their Path: Why do you seek strength? There were many reasons for posing this question, and not just simply to uncover a Warrior’s underlying motivations. Beasts were content to fill their bellies and find a safe place to rest their heads, but humans were cursed with wisdom and required more than the bare necessities of life in order to find fulfillment. They needed a cause, a purpose, a motivating force, a reason or justification for existence, because why else would the Mother have given them the ability to question existence itself? Perhaps this was why the Dao came so naturally to most animals, because they were unburdened by these existential doubts, but regardless of the reasons, Martial Warriors who were unable to answer this most basic of questions would eventually find the way forward barred to them. The answer was something of an affirmation of one’s Dao, a reason not just for pursuing the Martial Path, but for life itself, and in answering this question, one laid bare the truth of one’s self for all to see, themselves included, so that they might better come to understand their own personal Dao.

According to his notes however, Hongji took matters one step further and bundled his answer up into a singular concept which he then used to anchor his Natal Palace in mind and soul, but while his notes helped Yan do the same, this was not the only thing a concept was good for. Young Rain’s core concept was tied to his inquisitive ways and his burning desire to understand the mysteries of Heaven, because he believed that given enough time and effort, mankind would one day unlock the secrets to controlling the universe itself. Not only did he believe this, he’d made it his sole mission in life to convince others of the same, because while others lived and died by the mantra of ‘might makes right’, young Rain had faith not in strength or power, but the intelligence of humanity as a whole. Time and time again, he insisted that discussing the Dao and his Path could only be beneficial in the long term for many minds make light work, which was contrary to widely accepted beliefs, but rather than accept things as they were, he set out to convince the world that he was right and they were wrong.

Not by sharing the secrets of his Martial Path, for he had yet to truly comprehend them and lacked the confidence to convince others to his cause. Instead, he proved to everyone what the collective minds of humanity could accomplish by releasing a book detailing all manner of inventions and ideas, and in doing so, set the world hurtling down a new course of progress and innovation.

It wasn’t until Akanai pointed it out that Min Gyu came to realize just how far-sighted young Rain truly was, for the boy also preferred to let his actions speak for him. When he first gifted Shen ZhenWu his book of inventions, people all around the Empire dismissed it out of hand and only saw value in the Runic Shields presented alongside the book, but now, more than two years later, the world was finally beginning to understand just how valuable the information contained within those pages truly were. Cast iron, pulp paper, clear glass, resilient rubber, durable concrete, and so much more, the world was changing at a rapid pace and fast leaving the entrenched nobility behind. A vast number of fortunes had been made and lost since the inaugural Imperial Grand Conference, by Rain and so many others, but now, there were new ideas and creations coming out of the woodwork that had nothing to do with the boy’s book and everything to do with the concept that drove him to create the book in the first place.

And in doing so, young Rain convinced Akanai, Min Gyu, and so many others that perhaps he was right after all, that there was a benefit to discussing the Dao with one’s peers. Ever the leader, Akanai was the first to share her Insights on the Dao, and many others soon followed suit, Min Gyu included. After Chen Hongji became the newest member to join their little Dao collective, his notes proved to be a great benefit to all, and Min Gyu sought permission to share a snippet of those notes with little Yan, which enabled her to overcome the hurdle that had denied her for so long, Natal Palace Formation. When the dust settled and he’d had some time to think, Min Gyu came to realize that a Martial Warrior’s concept, or more specifically a Dao Concept, was key to understanding not just their motivations for pursuing the Dao, but their unique perspective as well. All this time, the world believed that each must walk their own Path, but only because as a collective whole, they lacked the ability to see things from the perspective of another Warrior and discern what Insights were unique to them and what could be applied universally. Only now, Min Gyu believed that understanding a Martial Warrior’s Dao Concept was like being given a glimpse of the world from their perspective. By no means was this a perfect impression of the world through someone else’s eyes, nor was it useful in any direct manner, but any Warrior would understand the value of understanding the Dao from a different perspective. By identifying one’s Concept and sharing it with the world at large, they could create an index of Concepts for struggling Martial Warriors to compare and contrast against, so that they might take inspiration from another Concept or see where their own Concepts were lacking. This was similar to how the Imperial Army encouraged its Officers to share their experiences along the Martial Path, but with a renewed focus on the parts that actually mattered.

And now, the eccentric, elderly Gam was sharing his Dao Concept with Min Gyu, and he would be a fool not to listen.

Despite the clear gains to be harvested, his conscience would not allow him to take advantage of his friends, so Min Gyu cleared his throat to create an opening for himself to Send, “Are you sure you wish to speak of this out loud? Or at all? Your observations regarding your Blessing and Dao are invaluable indeed, but you might end up divulging more than you intend to and revealing some critical flaw or weakness for your enemies and rivals to exploit.”

“Bah.” Patting his chest with a confidence Min Gyu envied, Gam smiled and declared, “I have no flaws, for I had the greatest Mentor anyone could ask for.” Namely his mother, whom he clearly loved and idolized despite her... cool reception to his filial affection. Then again, most Ancestral Beasts were quick to strangle their demi-human children in the crib, so the fact that Mama Gam raised not one, but five of her children without assistance was telling indeed. Or was it six children? Min Gyu still wasn’t sure if the Gam beside him counted as Gam the First or Gam Prime, and he didn’t know how to ask.

Ignorant to these somewhat rude thoughts, Gam grinned and clapped Min Gyu’s shoulder so hard it left a bruise. “Besides, even if there is a flaw, you’ll point it out soon enough, and then I can get on fixing it right quick, so why shouldn’t I share my thoughts with you? I’m not one for writing or thinking my words through, so just sit there and try not to piss your pants before I’ve said my piece in full. Now where was I before you so rudely interrupted? Right, dirt coming together.” Reaching down to pick up a handful of sand, he let the loose grains flow out of his hand where it was promptly brought away by the breeze. “That’s where the earth’s true strength comes from, not being hard and solid like stone, but from unity, like dirt. These loose grains of sand are nothing even when heaped up into a mountain, easily scattered across the province by wind and boots alike, but dirt? Get enough of it together in one place and it becomes more than just dirt. It becomes firm and immovable, durable and unshakable, and that’s before accounting for other forces in play like ground shifts and gravity and what not.”

“Strength not through sturdiness and durability, but unity and cohesion.” Min Gyu could see how it made sense from a certain perspective, for even if one had the strength to blow apart a mountain of dirt, what remained would still be a mound at the very least, unless one had enough strength to destroy it entirely. “What are these... ground shifts?”

“The earth beneath your feet ain’t as stable as you think,” Gam replied, stamping his boot hard before glowering at the offending sand beneath his feet. “Well, solid earth at least. It shifts back and forth, expands and contracts, usually so slowly and steadily most never take notice.” Waving a hand, Gam continued, “Look, everything I know on the subject, I learned from Mama or the earth itself though, so you’ll have to look elsewhere for a more thorough explanation, but long story short, even the biggest landmass is still an island in the ocean, so try and think of the earth like a giant ship on the sea. Calm most of the time, except when it isn’t. Course there are other things, like mountains connected to the sea floor, and if you dig deep enough, you’ll eventually hit molten lava, but that’s neither here nor there.”

“Fair enough.” Which was to say Min Gyu sort of understood, but didn’t really, and acknowledged that understanding this particular facet of Gam’s Dao was unnecessary for now. That was one area young Rain needed to improve on, his ability to let things lie and come back to them later. Give the boy a mystery and he’d pick at it for days and weeks without end, like a child with an itchy scab.

“If it wasn’t for the unity of dirt,” Gam continued, kicking at the sand once again as if it personally offended him, “We’d have nothing but ocean to live on, you know? Aside from the odd mountain or sand pile, which isn’t much at all in the grand scheme of things. That’s why I hate sand. It’s nothing like dirt, loose, divided, and incapable of sustaining life.” Gesturing at the walls below, Gam added, “Or supporting structures all that well. They would’ve had to dig deep to set a foundation for those heavy stone walls, and I can tell from here they didn’t dig nowhere deep enough. The right force in the right place and those stones’ll come crumbling down and then some, to say nothing of the shoddy buildings inside that sorry excuse for a city. Could have it done right quick, if the Colonel General would only let me off his leash.”

It irked Min Gyu to hear Gam refer to Nian Zu by rank, because there were precious few others who warranted the same respect. Akanai for one, yet despite holding the same rank as her, Min Gyu never rated more than a lowly ‘you’, which was one of Gam’s more flattering terms of endearment. “For good reason,” Min Gyu said, spouting some nonsense about conserving strength out loud while Sending, “If we bring down the walls and buildings both, the Defiled won’t have any reason to stand still while we bombard them. It’s boring and slow going, but every Defiled we kill with the catapults is one less we have to meet with spear and sword.”

