Well, at least there was something to be gained from all this, for his success with creating a pseudo-Core meant he was one step closer to understanding Domain Plating since that was surely what he’d used here. That was good enough for today, for he could hardly expend all his mental efforts on experimentation. Separating the pseudo-Core from the palm of his hand with little more than a thought, he took a moment to extend his Spiritual Senses and explore the working in his hand. Another facet of the Dao he didn’t entirely understand, this Spiritual Sense, but he knew there were senses beyond the physical for even if he closed his eyes and ignored the sensations emanating from his hand, he could feel the presence of his Chi working and the immense pressure it was under. It was there in his mind, as clear as day and loud as a gong, yet he lacked the ability to describe the sensation of its presence, the same way he could never understand how he knew where his Spiritual Weapon was at all times, or how he used his Air Chi to sweep for Concealed individuals. He just knew, and that was the end of his understanding on the topic.

No matter though. He would understand how to better use his Spiritual Sense with more practice and familiarity. One step at a time, walk before you can run, all things Min Gyu knew well enough, but even though his new familiarity with Panacea and the Medical Saint’s medicinal baths left him feeling half his age, he only had a precious few years left to him now, perhaps even less considering he was lost in his thoughts while sitting outside of Concealment at the forefront of battle. Huffing a small sigh of regret, Min Gyu flicked his hand and idly ‘tossed’ the pseudo Core towards the Enemy lines, the same way he would cast out a Scrying. Even though today’s efforts could not be considered much of a success, he’d learned much from his attempts and would build on these lessons in the morning when -

The skies shook and thunder roared as Min Gyu leapt to his feet, for if the cannons were already in play, then something must have gone disastrously wrong. Instead, he was greeted with more or less the same sight he last remembered, with the Enemy forces still milling about the city walls while the Imperial soldiers held the high ground and loosed stones from afar. There were no Peak Experts or Runic Cannons to be seen, so Min Gyu turned to ask Gam what the noise was all about and found the half-fox staring at him in open disbelief. “What in the High Heavens was that?” Gam asked, and Min Gyu could only raise an eyebrow in turn, for he had no idea what the man was on about. “Your little... orb of Wind Chi! It just shot out and exploded.” As Gam pointed at the Enemy lines, Min Gyu spotted a handful of shocked Defiled atop the wall who were getting back up on their feet, looking as confused and bewildered as he felt. Upon closer inspection, he spotted a fairly sizable gouge in the stone wall just in front of them, perhaps fifty centimetres across, and maybe a fist deep. Nowhere near as impressive as what Nian Zu displayed with his Shooting Star, but if that had hit a person instead...

Unable to hold it in any longer, Min Gyu’s laughter echoed out across the battlefield as he gaze upon the damage he’d wrought. While this fell woefully short of the massive scale of destruction he’d envisioned, he could easily loose hundreds of those pseudo-Core Wind bombs in a single day. In fact, with his current speed of creation, there was a good chance he could passively refill his Core faster than he could expend it, which was because the creation process was agonizingly slow and surprisingly cheap in terms of Chi. The first would improve with practice and familiarity, and unlike young Rain, Min Gyu knew when to celebrate his successes, and he could not wait to share this with his friends.

Luckily, he had one on hand to listen to him boast standing right here. “Oh that?” he exclaimed, after far too long a pause to get his laughter under control. “Just a new skill I’ve been working on, hardly anything to make a commotion about.” Throwing his arm around Gam’s shoulder, he excitedly described the whole process from start to finish through Sending and took in his friend’s jealous glares with pride and satisfaction.

It was good to have a friend-written-rival once again, but that didn’t meant Min Gyu had forgotten all about his old ones. Through Solitary Sword Zhang Jun Bao had taken the lead to become a half-step Divinity, after today’s success, Min Gyu was confident that he would soon be hot on the heels of his old rival with a little help from his friends, family, and talented Grandson-in-Law. After fifty years of idle struggle, Min Gyu was finally poised to go beyond and rise above his former staggering heights, a sensation he never thought he could enjoy again.

And damn if it didn’t feel good...

Chapter Meme
