Don’t say that, stupid! I knew exactly what I was doing. I didn’t plan the bleeding out thing…but I was in a really bad place anyways after the Goblin King world. Which sucked.
That distracted Roots Mrsha for a moment. She had no idea what had happened when the door had closed, only that Ragathsi had come out of it with Chieftain Rags.
What—happened there?
The original Mrsha hesitated, but they had time—so she sat herself down and began to tell her side of the story, and then of course Roots Mrsha had to relate her tale as well. Slyly, original Mrsha also shared all the things she’d seen while being dead, and Roots Mrsha peered around.
No matter what, I hope we remember that. But I can’t believe it. A world of the future? Cool Persua?
Well, cooler-than-dung Persua.
All that and you didn’t get to watch one Goblin movie or play a Goblin video game? Or listen to a really awesome Goblin pop song?
Of all the things to be wistful about…original Mrsha just stared at Roots Mrsha until her cheeks bulged and she began to laugh. It was so silly—but both Mrshas began laughing. Then original Mrsha grew serious.
I’m glad it’s you and not me, really. Because someone has to stop the Mother of Graves’ evil plans. If I had to choose…
She swallowed hard, and Roots Mrsha forestalled her stating the obvious.
Actually, Future Moore and Future Mrsha got out. So, uh, that’s not a big concern.
Aw, poop. I was hoping for a bright side. I mean, that is a bright side, but that would have made it so you being necessary was important. Hey, if you went to their future, where are your cool movies and pop songs?
Not future enough. Although, come to think of it, I might have a cool ring. Maybe there are cool movies on it?
It had completely slipped Root Mrsha’s mind. Yes, she had technology from the future. She’d be all over it if not for the fact that Mrsha was dead.
Roots Mrsha made a show of dusting her fur off.
Well, I won’t ever understand how cool Persua might be, or how bad that world was—unless I see it from your eyes. So I guess I’ve got to do this melding thing. I just hope the incompetent Grand Design does it right. And I’m glad I’m not melding with Future Mrsha. She’s a jerk.
Original Mrsha almost laughed, then went still. Her heart, her memory of a heart, was pounding in her chest, suddenly. With such terrible, painful eagerness, but something was holding her back as well.
Guilt. Too much of it to jump for joy. She began writing hesitantly, then stopped. Shyly, she eyed Roots Mrsha.
Are you sure? You don’t have to. I could go with Death. They’re pretty cool-looking.
Roots Mrsha was nervous. But she—she felt right about it. Not just ‘righteous’, but right. Oddly calm, despite her nerves. It was like…seeing ‘No Killing Goblins’ and knowing what it meant. Seeing a [Slaver] of Roshal getting stabbed. Or the sun rising on a glorious day.
It’s the right thing to do, Mrsha. You’d do it for me.
Well, yeah. Because it would be awesome to be twice as smart.
Both Mrshas ignored the Grand Design popping in to clarify that it would not make them twice as smart. They’d be doubly as stupid as before. They knew what they meant.
So this was how it all ended. Not with a walk into the sunset, a new job, or a meeting with Death, but another chance. It was…everything Mrsha could have hoped for, even as scary and uncertain as it was.
Roots Mrsha was the one giving up more. No—that’s not how they should think of it, the Grand Design had said. Original Mrsha kept trying to see if her other self didn’t really want to do this and was just doing the right thing because she thought she should.
She realized Roots Mrsha was giving her the same side-eye. The two girls blinked at each other, then giggled. Then Roots Mrsha hit Original Mrsha with a real question.
Hey, me. Are you really okay with this?
Original Mrsha wavered.
Me? Of course. I want to live. I’m just afraid it’ll take away who you are. Or that you’re only doing this because you think you have to. You don’t. I’ll go ask Future Mrsha or…go to the real Deaths. That wouldn’t be so bad.
Her head turned, and she could still almost see them there, finishing their terrible task. Mrsha meant it; she didn’t understand the fear and dismay and horror in Root Mrsha’s eyes. Then she realized how it sounded.
Death isn’t so bad. Real Death, I mean. The actual thing sucks, and it’s scary, and I’m not sure about Kasignel…but the people who’re there for you at the end are nice. The best in the business. Knowing that is reassuring.
Roots Mrsha nodded after a moment.
I guess that makes a weird kind of sense. And I suppose I’ll know how awesome they are if we do this. But that’s not what I meant.
Oh, prithee, what then?
Original Mrsha was trying to be silly, but she really didn’t know what Roots Mrsha meant until the other girl took her arm and looked her in the eye.
I mean…hey, Grand Design! This offer’s good no matter what, right? No take-backs? No going back on your word? No matter what?
The Grand Design reappeared, and both girls saw the swirling lines of text and the code of the universe forming a humanoid shape, similar to them in appearance. A golden avatar whose voice sounded…confused.
<I would never break my promise, Mrsha. I offer this to you as I kept the [Palace of Fates] running until the end. After it is done, I may decide to change the rules for those in the future, or never make such an offer again. But I will not break my promises.>
Roots Mrsha was unconvinced and pointed at the Grand Design, narrow-eyed.
Swear?
<I swear on my existence.>
It sounded displeased, but Roots Mrsha just turned to the Original Mrsha.
Okay. So. You can say it now. If you want to.
<Say what?>
The Grand Design was confused, and so was Original Mrsha, but she did sort of understand what Roots Mrsha was getting at. She realized that, right now, the Grand Design probably wasn’t reading her thoughts. She was the most mysterious, enigmatic, and unpredictable Mrsha at this moment.
It didn’t know what Roots Mrsha meant. But the other Gnoll girl clenched one fist as she turned to the Grand Design.
I, we, mean—how we really feel about all this.
<I believe that ‘Original Mrsha’ had discussed the matter at length with myself and the Second Edition. We have gone through the very reasoning of why this happened. Her actions.>
Yes, but that’s not how she feels, dummy. She was probably holding it back because she’s dead and she wasn’t sure if you were going to blast her out of existence.
That was true. Original Mrsha nodded as the Grand Design turned its surprised face to her. You were always polite to the scary Named-rank adventurer or monster.
<I would not let emotions bias my decisions.>
Sure, buddy.
Both Mrshas thought the same thing in the same tone and exchanged a smirk. The Grand Design seemed upset. A frown crossed its face, for the second time in its existence, and it folded its arms, a glowing, celestial copy of Mrsha floating there.
<Very well. I swear that I will not change my decision no matter what. So tell me, Mrsha, how do you truly view the [Palace of Fates] and all that your actions have wrought? I am curious.>
It waited, and Roots Mrsha offered the stage to Original Mrsha. The girl stepped forwards, and felt the suppressed emotions in her chest bubbling upwards. She’d kept them buried, because she hadn’t really believed she’d make it back.
Not from this. And she had been afraid to say it. But here and now—she faced the Grand Design and told it the truth.
When I asked you about why it all went down the way it did, Grand Design, I guess I wanted to know if there was fate or something else that would explain what happened. If there were an excuse I could use. But there wasn’t. Just like you said: I wanted this. I made it happen. The many worlds that vanished are my doing.
<Not your fault, Mrsha. Not alone, nor did you know.>
The Grand Design’s voice was surprisingly gentle, but Original Mrsha just shook her head.
That’s not the point. It’s my responsibility. You and I know the difference between that and fault. I’m…guilty. I’m so terribly sad, and I think I won’t ever be properly sad because I can’t picture it.
Even after seeing the lines of souls meeting Death, the survivors. Original Mrsha’s paws trembled.
I’m numb. I am still numb to it. I’d scream if it didn’t feel like it didn’t encompass even a thousandth of it. Scream and scream…but there’s too much to do, and it would only make me feel better. That’s how I feel. But you—I haven’t told you about how I feel about your role in this.
<Mine?>
The Grand Design hadn’t seen this coming. It had focused on Mrsha’s thought-words, that sympathetic angel and devil on her shoulder living through her. Now, it recoiled, and Mrsha nodded.
Yes. If we are judged by you, then this is something you could have controlled. The [Palace of Fates] falling to ruin—you could have stopped it. You could have turned the Skill off or stopped opening doors. Or simply halted it falling to pieces. You could have blocked the dead gods when you saw them cheating. You could have done anything.
Roots Mrsha nodded. The Grand Design wavered and replied too fast.
<If I had, I would have interfered. I do not interfere. I have told you again, and again, Mrsha. I did my job as I knew it.>
This time, Roots Mrsha interjected as she and Original Mrsha faced down the Grand Design.
Doing your job killed so many souls, not just in the [Palace of Fates]. For how long?
It didn’t respond. The glowing figure shifted, then spoke.
<There were errors in my design. This I have come to understand. I am imperfect.>
You killed them.
<I did as I was made.>
Original Mrsha held up a glowing thought-card.
You still killed them. You could have thought or changed. ‘You did your job’ is a stupid answer. Second Edition was willing to change the rules. You weren’t. How do I feel about the [Palace of Fates]? It’s my responsibility. My burden. And yours. But I think you don’t want to admit it.
The Grand Design’s reply was slower in coming now.
<I understand that is how you feel, Mrsha. Feelings are new to me. I feel…poorly. But there is not enough appropriate emotion in me to encompass the magnitude of it.>
Original Mrsha nodded, and her eyes never wavered from that glowing being hovering in front of her. She thought-spoke again, letting the words exit her soul. How she truly felt.
Well then, understand this, Grand Design of Isthekenous. If I could only undo this, I would. I’d do something else. Anything, and I don’t know if I’d have the courage to enter the [Palace of Fates] knowing the consequences. But if—if I could do this all again, not risking the countless souls and worlds and only gambling with life and death for a single person I love? If the only cost was the [Palace of Fates] itself, fate, or you, I would. In a heartbeat. I would sacrifice all the dead gods and their entire creation if it didn’t hurt the people inside.
<I see. That is what I have understood of you, Mrsha. Is that all?>
Was the Grand Design upset? Its voice was cool, and Original Mrsha’s eyes blazed.
Yes, that’s all. That’s all I care for your work. Your flawed, broken rules. For death, for these lands of the dead, and for the work of gods! You’re just like them. You hide above us, pretending it doesn’t matter, that it’s not your fault. I’d gamble you and Oberon, all for a chance to beat Death again. I wish the Second Edition had replaced you. But then I’d worry more for that other world. Because you are that dusty old book of rules that murders people and says ‘it’s not my fault’.
Her paw jabbed at the figure, who recoiled slightly.
You have no guilt. No responsibility. I’m a child and I feel worse than you. The Goblin King is a monster, and you’re more pathetic than he is. The [Palace of Fates] nearly destroyed everything, and you let it happen because you were too afraid to do the right thing. You’re pathetic, and I will never forgive you. I still need you, and I suppose we’ll find out if you’re actually impartial. But we both know you’re not. Still. I had to say it.
When she was done, the Grand Design said nothing for a long time. Roots Mrsha applauded silently, an approving expression on her face, but Original Mrsha just stood, drawing in imaginary breaths.
Well, I said how I really feel. I hope I hurt its feelings. If it became spiteful, well.
Someone had to tell it the truth. Mrsha waited, and the Grand Design’s mouth opened, as if to say something like ‘that didn’t actually hurt me.’
…It didn’t. She saw the Grand Design’s form flicker, and then the copy of the Gnoll girl it had become shifted and warped, and it turned into a golden version of Isthekenous, copied to perfect detail. Then a glowing [Innkeeper], a Naga twisting upwards—
Trying to figure out what it was? Roots Mrsha and Original Mrsha watched until the Grand Design became a copy of her again. Its body trembled as it studied its paws, then—she saw a second head grow out of the Grand Design’s face.
It stretched out and looked back at itself. For it had no mirror; the Mrshas shuddered as the Grand Design inspected its own being. Then seemed to lose cohesion. The image of the Gnoll vanished, and its limbs elongated into glowing hands of every kind.
Some with five fingers, others with four, like Gazi, or countless fingers. The limbs twining outwards in an endless tangle of grasping digits, each of which belonged to a different being. Attendant manifest—and then each hand had an eye in the palm which swung around, trying to see itself, twisting, tangling—
Flicker.
The Grand Design was a cube, a perfect geometric shape that morphed into a dodecahedron, each side symmetrical, made of brilliantly structured code. Then an infinitely more complex shape that Mrsha had no name for, with angles and sides that could not be encompassed in the normal word.
Flicker.
A version of Death stood, robes trailing into the aether, gazing down at the world and the countless souls of Kasignel. Gazing over its shoulder, as if seeing those lines stretching into infinity.
Flicker.
Isthekenous, the God of Designs, stood, blood running down his back. He regarded Mrsha, and then she saw a hint of grief in those glowing golden eyes. An idea writing itself into the heart of its nature.
She flinched at the size of the emotions she couldn’t comprehend. The scope of it—her little soul couldn’t process it. No soul could, not in all those worlds she had never seen.
But it could. The Grand Design calculated its sins, its grief, and weighed its responsibilities on a scale only it knew. Growing, a heavy weight spooling itself out within its being.
