Captain Todi yanked a cork out with his teeth and poured himself some Firebreath Whiskey, and Earlia shuddered.
“Oh come on, Todi. That’s a poser Drake drink. Who likes Firebreath Whiskey? It hurts more coming out than it does going in.”
He shrugged as he took a big gulp and grimaced.
“‘Sright. It is a stupid drink. Heard a Drake once, old geezer, tell me that it used to be unpopular. They make it out of their most rotten shit. Prelons and crap—that’s why it’s so damn strong. Because they distill it so hard to make sure it’s not bad.”
“So it’s not even good?”
“Nope. During the Antinium Wars, they were low on drinks, so this became a symbol of, I dunno, Drake pride? Twenty years later, everyone says it’s good.”
“And you’re drinking it because…?”
Earlia was favoring an annoyingly good Floodwater Mudbath—whiskey buried under some blue fruit juice. Which could be too intense given how sweet blue fruit juice was, but Todi apparently had a talent for mixing cocktails. He nodded at her.
“Got a taste for it. You’ve got to learn to drink with some clients, and if they’re Drakes, guess what they order?”
“Huh.”
She sipped her drink slowly, then mixed up the blue and brown and took a huge gulp. Elsewhere in the inn, the two adventurers knew, Lyonette, Nanette, Roots Mrsha, and the others had gathered. In the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Neither one wanted to be there. They all knew, by now, what the Dragonlord of Flames had brought back. Whom.
Todi took another shot of the full cup he’d poured and silently filled it up again. Earlia did likewise.
Mining was a tough job, like adventuring. Both were heavy drinkers when they wanted to be; never on the job, but right now, everyone was having a hard drink. Or were disturbingly sober.
They were waiting for someone to come by; neither one was a high priority. Neither one had been in the [Palace of Fates] or fought the Goblin King. When the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] did open, Ishkr emerged, dirt on his arms.
He walked over to the bar, checked the cabinet, then pulled out the cheapest rum they had and poured himself a cup. Drank it all the way down and poured himself another. Drank it down as they watched.
He left the bottle there and pulled more glasses out; they had company. Calescent brought a stool up to the bar, then Peggy arrived. Rosencrantz.
The inn’s staff. Yelroan emerged last and escorted Liska to the door instead of the bar. Ishkr looked up, but the [Mathematician] came back after a moment. He jerked a thumb over his shoulder.
“She’s going to find her partner.”
“—Alright.”
Todi glanced at Ishkr, but the Gnoll didn’t even pause as he filled up more glasses. The others had dirt on their arms. They’d been burying Mrsha.
Not one of them said a word. Not one. The silence was so pressing on Todi and Earlia that Earlia spoke.
“Is—are there—do you need help with anything?”
“No.”
Ishkr refilled Earlia’s glass. Todi licked his lips.
“Was that everyone?”
“No. Imani, K—Joseph, everyone else is in Liscor. They’ll be fine for tonight.”
“Relc isn’t here, either. He doesn’t even know, I think.”
Peggy muttered. She was drinking a Velrusk Claw. Todi was focused on who was drinking what. It was easier than anything else.
Ishkr’s voice was flat.
“We’ll tell him, and Krshia, later. You two could have come.”
He turned to Todi and Earlia, and they exchanged glances. Someone else walked out of the garden and came straight to the bar. Elia Arcsinger had a big cut running down one arm, bandaged up; she took a cup and drank it down instantly.
“We…we’ll visit. We didn’t want to interrupt anything.”
Todi began, and Ishkr nodded. He leaned on the bar, and again, it was dead quiet. Earlia glanced at her team. Some of them hadn’t even picked up on the news at first, but now it was hushed.
If you had to eat, you ate. The Calanferians were as silent as ghosts. They might not have even known one of the two Mrshas had died, let alone that there had been two, but between the Goblin King and all else? This was probably not what they’d expected. Todi eyed them and wondered what they were reporting back home.
“No Thronebearers? Reckon they could use a drink.”
“Are you kidding? Do you think they’re going to go off duty?”
Earlia glanced at him, and Todi bit back his instinctive comment. Which was, ‘well, they’ve got less work now’. If he said that, right now, he’d punch himself first.
Say something. Anything. Todi watched as Ishkr refilled the glasses, and he then cleared his throat.
“So, ah…we could not show up tomorrow if that’s easier.”
“Hm?”
Ishkr glanced up, as if he’d been a world away. Todi indicated himself and Earlia, and the Silver-rank adventurer nodded. Silver-rank. She had plain metal armor on, not even full plate, and a warhammer on her back that was enchanted to be slightly tougher.
That was all. Todi had Wands of [Fireball] and an enchanted shortsword, but neither one was…that wasn’t an excuse. It was what they were.
“We’re fired.”
Todi put it out there, and Ishkr gave Yelroan a blank look. The [Mathematician] had taken his sunglasses off and was rubbing his face.
“…Who fired you?”
“No one in particular. But we are fired, aren’t we?”
Captain Todi looked from face to face as the rest of the inn’s staff glanced at each other. Ishkr broke out of the blank stare and gave Todi a genuinely irritated look.
“Why would you assume that?”
“We weren’t here when the Goblin King broke into the inn.”
A nod from Ishkr.
“Right. No one was.”
Earlia cut in, trying to be clear. She knew this was not the moment, but it’d make sense to Ishkr’s blank expression once he thought about it.
“Yes—but we left, Ishkr. Todi and my team ran for it.”
“You’d be an idiot to stay. Peggy left.”
“Yep. That was King-death.”
Peggy nodded, and Calescent did too. Rosencrantz lifted a hand.
“I also fled.”
“Right…but we were security. Not the same, correct? Our entire point is to stay when shit hits the [Gust of Wind] spell.”
Todi pointed out the obviousness of his role, and Ishkr blinked at him.
“But it was the Goblin King.”
“Absolutely. It’d be suicide to stay.”
Again, the [Server] nodded at Todi.
“Mhm.”
Captain Todi’s mouth worked.
“But we did run.”
“Right. You’re not making any sense. What did you two do, exactly, when the inn was evacuated?”
Ishkr took another gulp of his drink and grimaced.
“Firebreath Whiskey? Who took this out? This is terrible.”
He put it back as Todi and Earlia became the center of attention from the dreadfully silent audience. Earlia shrugged her shoulders, self-conscious.
“Ah—we were preparing for some trouble until the alarm began. We helped fight the Pallassians. After the announcement, we assisted in getting the guests out. I, uh, I had my teammates run a warning to the other cities. Though they laughed at us in Pallass.”
“Me too. Go on.”
Yelroan was pouring from eight different bottles into a cup, trying to get the most amalgamated liquid. He seemed different without his glasses. Far, far older and more tired. Earlia gazed at Todi. He coughed into one hand.
“Well, we just evacuated the inn. Then we were in Liscor, telling Zevara what we knew. I rigged up the door with a bunch of spells and had it ready to blow.”
In case the Goblin King was coming their way. Ishkr nodded.
“Good job. Neither of you is fired. No one asked you to fight the Goblin King. That would have been certain death. And you probably would have died, despite him being weakened.”
Earlia swallowed hard.
“But we weren’t there.”
And Mrsha was dead. Ishkr poured…the fourth drink for himself?
“Yep. No one asked you to enter the [Palace of Fates]. Maybe that was our mistake. Not yours.”
So they weren’t fired. Neither Todi nor Earlia had expected that. It was—upsetting not to be, really. They should have been.
Go on and fire us. You expected us to be fit for the inn, but we ran away. Like sensible people. They’d done everything correct, but both felt branded. Yet even Calescent was nodding along. He’d run too.
Another silence fell, so Todi, on the grounds that he could still be fired, broke the silence.
“So…what happens now?”
“We’ll close the inn after—”
“Not that, Ishkr. What happens next?”
Ishkr blinked at the magically-sealed hole in the inn and pointed to it.
“We fix that. Repair everything. Hexel will probably be here tomorrow.”
Rosencrantz raised a hand. He was drinking Rxlvn straight.
“And my Antinium can begin repairs. I imagine the inn will be open in three days or less. Though we may reduce traffic.”
“We need to re-enchant some places in the inn. And we’ll need to resurface the [Garden of Sanctuary]. It’s completely torn up. And the Minotaur’s Punch…we need to plant those seeds.”
Ishkr commented, and Yelroan nodded.
“I’ll get Montressa to do the enchanting if she’s able. If not, the Mage’s Guild in Invrisil can get us the work. No need to bother Hedault or a friend. Seed planting should have a [Gardener] do it. There’s a Planter’s Guild in Invrisil or Pallass.”
“Got it.”
Todi’s head was tracking each speaker. When it settled on Ishkr, the Gold-rank Captain exploded to his feet.
“Not that! What’s happening with—with—[Thought Healers] for Nanette! For that other Mrsha? For Lyonette? For everyone here? What about the fact that Mrsha’s dead and we’re all here and we just saw the Goblin King and—and—”
His raised voice echoed through The Wandering Inn, and Todi flinched as the words bounced back to him. Ishkr’s blank face never twitched.
“Good idea. We’ve never had those before. Where are they?”
“I…Pallass? Invrisil? I don’t know. Is this what happens after each time the inn explodes? You just—sweep up and continue on?”
Todi collapsed back in his stool and nearly went over. Someone caught him; Magus Grimalkin and a woman with a bag on her head. Grimalkin and Lady Pryde sat down, and Ishkr poured them drinks.
Wine for Grimalkin and a beer for Lady Pryde, who inserted a straw through the bag over her head. The Sinew Magus spoke.
“I can find references for Pallassian [Thought Healers] if you need them. Though that might not be appropriate at this moment. Everyone needs one. But yes, Captain Todi. Aside from a week-long break after the last time her inn exploded, I think the inn has always just…continued.”
“We stopped when Erin died. ”
Ishkr nodded, and Captain Todi gaped around. He reached for his drink, then shoved it back with a shaking hand. He whispered hoarsely.
“Dead gods, man. Something has to give.”
The [Head Server] seemed rather amused by Todi’s reactions. He shook his head slowly.
“You’re a Gold-rank adventurer, Captain Todi. You know how this goes. Things happen. The inn’s destroyed. You level up and continue.”
“That’s a Gold-rank adventurer’s life. I expect the Horns of Hammerad to do that, and they were cracked enough to fight an Adult Creler as Silver-ranks! This? This isn’t normal. That girl is dead—and—”
Todi’s voice broke a second.
“…I don’t even know what she did. I…why the hell is this inn like this?”
Mad. Utterly. But not the funny madness he’d grown used to with Erin Solstice nailing <Mythical Quests> to guild walls. This was beyond bone-deep. In the marrow.
He knew they were in shock. He was in shock. But Calescent just took a gulp of goat’s milk and Sweetberry Cider, then spoke.
“That how this inn is. Chieftain Rags warned me when I came here. She said it would be harder than the tribe. Harder than the Goblin Lord. I laughed at her. She was right.”
He’d buried children before. But never in a place like this that had felt so much safer. Earlia shook her head.
“This inn is cursed or something. Why is it this way? It doesn’t have to be this way, surely. How many times has it blown up, been destroyed, or—or—this last year alone?”
The inn’s staff gazed at each other, and Captain Todi slumped down. He just had an image in his head. Not of the body…of Lyonette.
I’ll trust you to grab the children and run. That’s what she’d said, more or less. She trusted him to be a coward. He hadn’t known. He should have…
Someone else came to the bar, and because there were no more seats, she sat on the bar itself. Bird.
“Hello, I would like all of the knockout juice please. What are we talking about?”
“Why the inn’s like this.”
“Oh. Well, it does not have to be.”
Bird took a drink and sipped from the straw as they looked at her. She was the oldest member of the inn present. Truly, one of the oldest. Older than Mrsha, older than anyone but Pawn, Relc, Pisces, Selys, Krshia, and Klbkch, and none of them were here right now. Bird realized everyone wanted a followup and spoke.
“It doesn’t. The inn is muchly crazy and silly and then—”
She waved her arms to indicate now. Bird lowered her hands.
“It is all Erin’s fault. And ours. Every time things happen, we shoot arrows at it. Or try to kill it. Or…build the inn again. If we did not, it would stop. But we are here, and because we are here, these things come. The Wandering Inn was destroyed, but never…destroyed. So, therefore, everything tries harder next time. Does that make sense? I realize I am normally silly, but I am trying to explain it.”
She tilted her head, and Captain Todi tried to say it normally.
“You’re saying the stakes rise each time.”
“Yes. Firstly, it was Skinner. Then Face-Eater Moths and Raskghar. Then it was um, Tyrion, I suppose. Then the Winter Solstice. Then the Goblin King.”
“What’s next? The four Great Companies of Baleros and all the Deaths of the Demons?”
Bird fixed Todi with a straightforward gaze.
“Perhaps. The point is that it does not have to be this way. If Erin Solstice had run away instead of fought the Goblin Lord, maybe things would be different. If she changed her mind about the big thing, people would stop attacking her.”
“The big thing?”
Earlia was confused, and Bird pointed. They all looked up at the sign hanging next to the menu over the kitchen.
‘No Killing Goblins.’
Todi let out a breath, and Grimalkin grunted as every head slowly nodded, including Peggy’s and Calescent’s.
“Yeah. That’d do it. All she has to do is move on that one thing. Or a couple’a things. But that…”
Captain Todi peered bleakly up at the sign, and he wondered how much you could trace to that one little thing. Yes, the world was so much easier if you just…gave up on that. It wasn’t her fight. She wasn’t a Goblin. But Bird pointed out the obvious with a smile.
