<I need a break before the final…I need a break.>
The Grand Design was writing down notes. Rattled, and it had already been shaken. It retreated, like a hermit crab, back into the world it knew and left Mrsha to wonder what she was supposed to do.
She rather suspected the Grand Design was checking its plan for flaws, maybe incorporating some of the feedback the Second Edition had given it. Mrsha was still worried about the future.
However, seeing the world waiting for the other peoples had given her a sense of closure. There was something. Not enough to justify this, not by a millionth, but something.
The girl was still dead. She still heard the voices crying out in anguish.
The ghost of Mrsha stood there and realized the Grand Design really was busy with its own affairs. It had left her alone.
What an error. There wasn’t even a Second Edition now. The girl cast around, then scampered off. If she was dead—well then.
She was going snooping. And she was only doing that because she didn’t have the ability to influence the real world. She had to know what would happen next.
 
——
 
Senator Errif Jealwind was one of the top [Senators] in the Assembly of Crafts. By which that meant he continued to win his office and had connections within the democracy. He was someone you went to when you wanted something done. Oh, any [Senator] could raise an issue through a lengthy process to get a proposal pushed through and made into a law or decree. It might even work—but Errif made things happen.
He was someone the High Command allowed to see security briefings and included in their deliberations about what Pallass was actually doing. The [Generals] spoke to him when they needed a policy pushed through. Of course, they reported to the Assembly of Crafts as they were the people’s military, not the other way around.
It was just that the Assembly of Crafts talked to High Command. That’s how you ensured things went smoothly. Chaldion was a good example of that: when he gave orders, things happened to make them true. You didn’t argue about that. Or at least, you hadn’t when he’d been at his best. His control had slipped in these last few years. Signs of the collapse, really, but everyone had been so used to him being in charge, no one had done anything.
It hadn’t always been so. Errif remembered a time when the Assembly of Crafts had been more factitious, less organized, and [Generals] had been forced to obey the assembly or be removed. Chaldion’s reforms as he rose to power as [Grand Strategist] had changed things.
…Because Chaldion had been the best at his job. You got away with being a bastard if you were the best at what you did. In his wake, General Edellein had risen to power.
Now, 2nd Army was dead.
Errif was walking down 6th Floor, where General Edellein had his mansion. The richest parts of Pallass were closer to the middle of the City of Inventions because it hadn’t been so tall in the past. So new money might be on the 7th or 8th floors, but anyone who really made it got closer to the 5th.
6th was a bit less impressive, but you had more space. Errif had a hood up; he had a meeting with his district in 45 minutes, and he didn’t want to be accosted before that.
The city was not quiet. It never was, but horns were blowing from the walls, a cacophony that hurt his ears, and people were flying the yellow flag of Pallass or wearing armbands, standing outside, talking. Watching the scrying orbs.
2nd Army. If not dead, then shattered. Defeated. Pallass’ best attacking army shattered in the High Passes by nine Goblins, and so publicly too. This was worse than the Goblin Lord disaster with Therrium.
Errif didn’t often fear for his position, but he was a prominent [Senator] that had backed General Edellein being made head of Pallass’ military. He saw the writing on the wall, and it said that he could bear the brunt of the blame…but it really fell on one person’s shoulders.
General Edellein. He’d sent 2nd Army after Goblinhome. He’d removed Shirka from command. All these decisions had seemed good to Errif at the time, but clearly, they were wrong. So, as the Gnoll [Senator] approached Edellein’s mansion, he was wondering who should replace Edellein. How to cast off blame and separate himself from the Drake.
He was prepared for a hard conversation with Edellein, even, potentially, having to just walk out on the man and begin severing ties. Errif had expected Edellein to be visibly distraught or in a rage—he did have a hot temper—or maybe in denial.
He did not expect Edellein to welcome him in, a pair of wineglasses in hand, embrace Errif, and to smile.
“Ah, [Senator]. Good of you to come in. A difficult day, eh? I was just about to pour a drink for us. Come in, come in.”
“Er—Edellein? I don’t have long; I have to get to my meeting in forty minutes. A drink?”
Errif didn’t need it, but Edellein chivvied him into a seat and poured them one. His tone was smooth, and he didn’t look visibly distraught. Morose—but he clinked his wineglass against Errif’s.
“To bravery and sacrifice.”
“2nd Army.”
Errif barely wet his tongue and sat there, stiff. Edellein didn’t speak for a moment, but stared at his hands with that same small smile on his lips.
Ah, he’s gone mad. Or this is denial. Errif began to speak.
“I think in light of these events, General—”
“I rather think it’s how Chaldion felt. A painful day, but a necessary one.”
Edellein overrode him and stood, clasping his claws behind his back as he stared out a window with a commanding view of Pallass. It was spelled to let him see an aerial view from high above the City of Inventions, and Errif blinked at Edellein, his back to the city flying yellow banners.
“Excuse me?”
“2nd Army. Oh, I’m not blind, Errif. I imagine you see this as a disaster, and it certainly was more than I expected. Who could predict a Goblin King? Painful, yet necessary.”
“We just—on television—lost 2nd Army. How is this not the worst moment since—well, the damned Meeting of Tribes or the Goblin Lord?”
Errif was testing each word to see if it was not the reality he was experiencing, because Edellein was in another one, clearly. Edellein twisted around.
“Well, 1st Army remains intact. Our walls are still standing.”
“General Shirka’s army is in ruins! The [Goblin Slayers] are dead!”
“—And so is the Goblin Lord of Civilizations. The Draconic Titan was fought back, the Goblin King slain, and I think our presence played no small part in his errors. Sinew Magus Grimalkin and Saliss of Lights helped fight him off—I’d like to see that in the newspapers, front and center. General Shirka has lost her [Goblin Slayers], yes. Painful wins, but victories nevertheless.”
Errif’s mouth opened and closed as Edellein’s door opened. He spread his arms.
“Ah, Senators. Come in. I was just toasting the moment.”
A few more highly-placed [Senators], and a few Drakes that Errif recognized—like Werdin Blackwing—had joined the meeting. All movers and shakers within Pallass. The head of the Engineering Guild, and other prominent individuals. Werdin was brusque.
“Asiv’s alive. So is my daughter—I was making sure she was safe. She was on the damn 8th Floor, not the inn. What the hell happened, Edellein?”
“The plan went wrong. But as I said—a victory is a victory.”
Edellein’s calm tone drew up the agitated group, and he insisted on pouring every single one a glass of wine and doing his toast again. Errif sipped his glass this time, trying to think. He was shaken. Edellein had to be spinning this, Errif’s mind told him. And yet…
“We may have killed a single [Goblin Lord], but there could be more in hiding! Our army is dead, Edellein! And you relieved Shirka of command!”
“Mm.”
He closed his eyes, at the center of all the burning attention, calm as a cucumber. It was draining off some of the anger in the room, because no one could understand. When the 1st General of Pallass opened his eyes, he raised his hands like a [Sage] declaiming wisdom.
“Yes. General Shirka. 2nd Army. Tell me, Werdin, have you ever met those [Goblin Slayers] on television? What did you think of their, ah, methods?”
The Drake was gulping wine furiously, pale-scaled from what he’d seen.
“I’m not weeping for them pulling out a Goblin’s fingers. But it makes us look bad, damn it! They didn’t do a thing against that—monster. They barely stopped the one with the sword—and those Skills! Were they just—in our city? What if something had set them off?”
He shuddered. Edellein nodded, eyes calm.
“Yes, yes. Rather unpredictable, aren’t they? Shirka herself was about to make peace with the Goblins. Take them as, oh, auxiliary forces. Which we have done, but her army is rather temperamental. Rather—insubordinate when she chooses to be. I do remind everyone here that her vanguard is mostly intact. They were spared damage. It was only the [Slayers] who perished to a man at Goblinhome. You could say the core of 2nd Army is intact.”
That caught Errif’s ear. He lowered his goblet, incredulous.
“You can’t be saying—are you suggesting you intended 2nd Army to be wiped out in the High Passes?”
Edellein shot to his feet instantly as the room gasped.
“Not at all! I never expected the Goblin King or his minions. I say again for you all to hear: this is a tragedy. But if you are telling me, to my face, it is a disaster no one saw coming…I might disagree.”
He spread his arms, and he had them. Listening as opposed to shouting, and instead of calling for his head on a platter—Edellein swung around.
“I’m aware everyone wants me to step down. But I remind you that Chaldion has sacrificed more for Pallass. Who would replace me if I went? Duln is dead.”
“Shirka’s alive.”
That comment came from one of the [Senators], bluntly, and Edellein’s lips twitched into a scowl.
“Shirka is insubordinate. She would do whatever she deems best. By all means, reach out to her. See what her opinion is on, oh, our assets like Saliss or anything else. She has no give. Nor does she have a vision for Pallass. I do, and again, the Goblin King is dead. We did that.”
“I heard it wasn’t us, but the Dragons…are we going to talk about them? What the hell—and that Harpy—”
Edellein glanced at Werdin and cleared his throat.
“I can’t comment on our information, Werdin, but rest assured…we have our own thoughts on the matter.”
“So you know who they were?”
“I can’t comment, Errif.”
The Gnoll glared.
“I’ve been to those briefings! I never heard of—!”
“You’ve been to some of the briefings, Errif. But I can’t get into the details. I will see about releasing a report—let’s speak of the future instead.”
—At some point, Errif realized he’d gone from asking Edellein when he’d step down to discussing Pallass’ future. He almost raised that obvious thought several times over the next thirty minutes. But it was…well, hard.
He knew Edellein personally. The Drake had always struck him as able to articulate the positions Errif believed in. He knew everyone in the room. Replacing him would destabilize Errif’s own position, and again, with who? A lesser [General]? Now? And General Shirka was stubborn; he’d tried to get her to discuss matters amicably, and she really was intransigent on issues she disagreed on.
Edellein pirouetted through the conversation, wearing masks of sadness, determination, aloof intellect, and the ruthless pragmatist as he needed, like an [Actor] on stage, performing his heart out.
He didn’t notice he had an unseen observer, and it was just as well Mrsha’s ghost couldn’t touch anything or he’d be covered in spit. The Gnoll girl was so furious that she followed him from spot to spot in his mansion.
This wasn’t right. This wasn’t fair! He wasn’t that charismatic, and that wasn’t even bias. She knew charisma.
Ryoka had a strange charisma—mostly for immortals. Kevin had charisma, even if it was Kevin-style. If you wanted leader-style charisma? Flos Reimarch had his brand, and Fetohep had his own.
Edellein was a 2nd-rate charisma-leader. He wasn’t Chaldion, both in intelligence or the grumpy [Grand Strategist]’s own brand of leadership.
He couldn’t get away with this. But the Gnoll girl was privy to the conversations of this select group of movers and shakers in Pallass. Edellein was pulling the group aside as they talked and tried to figure out the future of Pallass.
He had a plan—they didn’t. All things being equal, they should have still tossed him out on his tail, but there was a second interplay here that Mrsha hated.
Fear. Edellein was speaking frankly with Errif and two [Senators].
“I’d be happy to step down, gentlemen. But the question is—who replaces me? Duln was marvellously steady, but he’s gone. Thrissiam? We’ll never have a finer leader.”
He brushed at his face with what appeared to be genuine sadness. Errif muttered.
“There’s Shirka—”
“Shirka won’t listen to anything anyone says.”
“Perhaps, in light of recent events, she might not be the candidate at the moment. Which would leave…3rd Army’s General Forwek.”
None of the [Senators] wore positive expressions. Errif muttered.
“He’s a solid leader, but he’s got no charisma or interplay with politics either. 4th Army was taken over by one of your subordinates—”
“Wikem. Good Drake. Solid. I trained him myself.”
“5th Army is Ederkha. Gnoll.”
“Doesn’t she have an axe to grind against half the other [Generals]?”
Edellein’s face was carefully encouraging while remaining neutral.
“She can be—temperamental. 6th army, then? General Carcimeg? Solid Garuda.”
None of the other people around him liked the idea, both the fact that Carcimeg was a Garuda or the [General] himself.
“He’s a border-[General]. If it’s not one of the army’s leaders, then it’s…a [Strategist]. Like Esor. He is Chaldion’s heir.”
Edellein’s face fell, and he hid it with a swift gulp of wine. The other [Senators] were warming to the idea.
“Esor could fill the gap. Whether or not he has the respect?”
“He’s got the Eyes of Pallass under his command, and I haven’t, er, heard any problems. And Chaldion did teach him—”
“Garuda, though.”
That came from Errif, as if Garuda meant something bad. He was a Gnoll! Mrsha would have kicked him if she could. She saw Edellein glance around, then cough.
“Well, I have to say it might be a blow taking marching orders from Esor. But a second Chaldion would do the City of Inventions some good.”
“Do you think he’s that good?”
“Oh, he’s able to crack the whip. Give him a month and we’ll all be moving in sync with his plans. Let me tell you—he has opinions on how things are going. Me? I stay out of the areas I’m poor at, like domestic politics.”
