“—Or that I needed to learn more about the world, that there were more battles to win. But my [Princess] is still out there. Lost, on Baleros’ shores. I haven’t run to her side because I wouldn’t be able to face her if I left her younger sister here. And still, I didn’t face the Goblin King here, today. I couldn’t. Tomorrow, after I level up, I won’t be able to. I am a [Knight], and part of me longs to die in battle, protecting an ideal. That part of me is a fool.”
He drained his cup and put it down as Ishkr poured him a refill. Now, Ser Dalimont was looking around at his audience.
“—The best versions of royalty I have ever met do not sit on Calanfer’s Eternal Throne. They reside in the Court of Dusks, on the weary, terrible throne of Noelictus, in the court plagued by webs and darkness. Not because I think Calanfer’s royalty are any less competent or worthy! Far from it. But Noelictus’ crown persists despite dark, terrible trials. The most dangerous man in the world also lives in Noelictus, and he is all the more unique because he has fought a war longer than I can imagine. But he continues to train new generations, to rebuild. That’s…what is needed of us.”
He raised the goblet to his lips, then put it down on the bar counter and cast around. Ser Dalimont leaned heavily on his hands.
“—Someone needs to take care of Mrsha. And Her Highness and Miss Nanette. And Princess Seraphel, until the day I can hear her laugh like a carefree person. That’s what we have to do. The battle was lost. Reform the ranks. Again and again, as many times as we’re called to it. That’s the hard battle. Not dying bravely.”
They waited, but he was done with his speech, and Ser Dalimont cleared his throat, a faint blush appearing on his cheeks as he felt their eyes on him.
“…I realize I’m being presumptuous. But I—mean every word.”
He fell silent until he jumped; Peggy had poked him in the side.
“You got any fancy swords or weapons?”
“A few. Though I’d rather have a better inn first. Master Hexel must be convinced to continue work on the new inn, if he has reservations.”
She nodded in agreement at that. Ishkr rubbed at his face and seemed to sober slightly.
“I’ll take Goblinhome, then. If I need to, I’ll call for a Wyvern.”
“And I will talk to Pawn and tell him why people will be muchly upset with him, even though it is not his fault.”
Bird announced, and other voices chimed in, adding plans for the future. For tomorrow. Not big plans. Mundane things. But the future, instead of the present they could get stuck in—forever.
The future. Captain Todi remembered trudging down a dark road with his team, leaving a monster’s lair. Continuing because you had to after all the death and fighting…empty, but continuing because what were you going to do? Stop?
Bone-weary, exhausted, only in pursuit of pay, rest, and glory. He turned to Ser Dalimont and saw how the weary [Knight], who had lost two comrades and left his continent behind, continued.
Slowly, Captain Todi pushed his mug back. The man rose and pulled at Earlia’s arm. She looked up at him, then released her own drink. He nodded at her and murmured.
“It’s time.”
They would have rather faced the Goblin King. Next time…the two adventurers rose and walked towards the door. To say goodbye.
The little ghost followed them, at last, into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She stood a while over the fresh earth and saw them.
Dame Ushar, standing behind the [Princess], who stood next to Roots Mrsha, holding the little paw in her hand as she knelt.
Mrsha stood over her grave when the Grand Design found her. It did not lecture her or ask her where she had been. It merely appeared and then spoke.
The Grand Design was walking in Isthekenous’ body again. It turned those golden eyes upon her.
<“Mrsha. It’s time.”>
She peered up and gently took its hand. Mrsha reached for her mother’s shoulder, and the Grand Design softly led her away. The Gnoll girl reached out, straining, and it pulled her back. Carrying her in its arms as she cried out.
It was the Grand Design of Isthekenous. And this…was the world it believed in.
 
——
 
There was a path to Hellste, though no one had used it in so long. The Grand Design walked down with the girl holding its hand.
She didn’t resist as she saw how they passed from one part of the world to another. Another piece of the gods’ design never completed.
But they’d made this place.
Hellste. The vast pit in which the river of the damned souls flowed, controlled by the power of the Goblin Kings. The place where Goblins and the most dreadful people had gone, those who possessed red classes and Skills and never found redemption.
And then…recently…everyone. All the souls in creation not swallowed by the dead gods, who’d found refuge here.
The realm was shaking. A roar rose from the depths, and the ghost of Mrsha halted in fear for a moment, even though she was in the company of the Grand Design. But the God of Designs’ hand just urged her forwards, and she descended into Hellste.
The first Goblin King was raging. Every soul was cowering away from him as he howled, a voice of so much rage that it shook the very essence of Hellste itself.
He had been defeated! Wounded—the souls of countless Goblin Kings torn from him! They were gone! Velan, Sóve—all of them, vanished from Hellste.
Out of this world! His power, their power—all because of that fake version of Rabbiteater. Because of the inn.
His howl of rage cut off as he searched around for souls. Souls of anyone who had known—her. That child, the real Rabbiteater, any of them.
He was hunting them when a gust of wind blew into Hellste, and every head turned. They saw the figure descending towards them, and the Goblin Kings, those possessed by the same rage as the first Goblin King, cried out.
The souls fled another dead god, flowing away from him, and the Goblin King charged. Mere soul or not—even Kasigna in her aspect could not take his soul. His roar of fury faltered though as he caught sight of the god who stepped forwards. The Goblin King stumbled and slowed. His eyes opened wide, and he spoke.
“Isthekenous?”
It couldn’t be. For a moment, even the Goblin King’s fury was done away with by complete and utter shock. He knew this face. But it was impossible. Truly. Isthekenous had been missing when the first Goblins had stepped out of the sea.
All he knew of the God of Designs were images of the god’s face. But then the Goblin King’s rage reasserted itself. If this was Isthekenous, then the architect of everything was right here. He snarled, and the God of Designs put up one hand and spoke.
<“First Goblin King. It is not Isthekenous. It is I. The Grand Design, his final creation. I wear his flesh that I might act here.”>
The—the Grand Design? The Goblin King halted again and saw how the Grand Design wore Isthekenous’ body, like a Selphid might. Then he noticed the child gazing around Hellste.
It was…not a nice place. The Goblins milled about, laughing and chattering, excited by this moment, even if many were fearful of the first Goblin King’s rage. But it was still a place to suffer.
Even unfinished, she flinched away from the grooves worn into the very foundation in which the many sinners swirled, a river of souls whispering up at those above. She gazed about at the barren red rock and the cavernous, unsettling vista.
This place sucks. I don’t want to be here. I’d rather meet Death.
The little girl held up a notecard, and the Goblin King reached for her, snarling. The Grand Design took his arm.
<“I have not come here to deliver one more soul to Hellste, Goblin King. She is here to watch. Nor have I come for you.”>
The first Goblin King strained to break the grip, to rip free and strike the Grand Design itself, ending the folly of Isthekenous. But he could not.
His lost strength. The souls—his arm strained against that grip that encompassed the universe and those golden eyes. The first Goblin King snarled, unsettled. This had never happened since the dawn of the world.
“What, then? You were never made to interfere.”
The Grand Design nodded, and now its voice filled all of Hellste, that familiar tone reaching every ghost. Mrsha, looking around, saw Kevin there. Moore. Gershal…but not all. So many ghosts had been eaten. Yet she reached for them—but the Grand Design refused to let her, again.
<“Correct. I have never meddled with the design of my creators. I believed that all that had been created was as it should be. I never questioned nor doubted the system that placed Goblins in Hellste without recourse or question. Goblins, out of every species, were consigned to this fate without recourse. You know why.”>
Monsters deserved hell. It surprised the Goblin King not at all that he had found himself here. What shocked him was that the Grand Design seemed to have…changed its mind?
Could it do that? The Goblin King narrowed his eyes.
“Why change your mind?”
<“Simply because the order of death has been overturned. Kasignel was destroyed. Souls devoured. That was not the intended purpose of the afterlives. Or if it was…”>
The Grand Design’s eyes flashed.
<“…It is not what Isthekenous intended. Hellste was never completed. Nor Kasignel. Diotria was most complete, but all three realms have only half-guardians weakly empowered. The Lucifen were meant to rule this place. Souls to be summoned from here at great cost.”>
That news cheered up a bunch of bored, grey-skinned people immensely. They adjusted their clothing and strode forwards, clearly hoping for a reinstatement of their powers, but the Grand Design merely gazed over them.
<“Drevish the Architect uncreated Kasignel to thwart the Goddess of Death, Kasigna.”>
“And me! I’d do it again in a heartbeat!”
Mrsha’s head turned, and saw no Drevish—Kasigna had erased the old Architect’s soul. But the Drake who leapt forwards like a young man she knew.
Major Khorpe the old man came forwards, grinning with all the pride of Salazsar’s greatest [Rogue] and saboteur, the man who’d stabbed the Goddess of Death in the back, facing down the Grand Design of Isthekenous. But even the fearless Khorpe’s smile faded slightly as he met the eyes of the being who had overseen this entire world so long.
“So why are you here? To mend things? Give me back the souls who fled. That is fairness.”
<“They are gone, Goblin King, and not even I can bring them back. Nor will I create facsimiles for you. The actions of Rabbiteater, the King of Traitors, has brought them out of this world. I will undo nothing of what has occurred.”>
“It was not fairly done! The entire [Palace of Fates] was flawed!”
The first Goblin King roared at the Grand Design, and those eyes closed a moment, then shone coldly at him.
<“No, it was not fair. But it was done. Now, I shall close the flaws that led to the [Palace of Fates] coming apart. But…”>
It paused and then spoke with half a smile.
<“…If the souls shine gloriously, then I shall allow it. Even if only once. This is what I intend, Goblin King. I had been working on it before the [Palace of Fates] was opened.”>
So saying, the Grand Design reached into Isthekenous’ pocket and pulled out something so small it fit into the palm of the God of Designs’ hand. But when it lifted it up, the object was larger than all of Hellste.
The Goblin King saw something he had only glimpsed once in a confusing diorama the Elves had been studying. Yet he knew it instantly.
They all did. The ghost of Kevin Hall gasped, and Khorpe groaned.
“Oh, come now—again?”
Kasignel glittered in the palm of the Grand Design’s hand, and Khorpe, hands twitching, as if to shatter the realm that was held so casually. Then he frowned and peered at it.
“That looks different.”
It was? Every soul tried to focus on the object the Grand Design held, but it was so gigantic and vast…only Drevish, with his experience of creating New Kasignel, could have told you the real differences. But Khorpe, who had seen Kasignel dying, saw the truth, and the Grand Design smiled at him.
<“Yes. This is neither the Kasignel that was nor the one that Drevish was to create for the Goddess of Death, Khorpe.”>
“Ah.”
Khorpe breathed out, and then he relaxed suddenly. He lowered the knife he’d been hiding behind his back. Just a memory of a knife, but he had been going to try to stab the Grand Design with it.
Of course, the Grand Design had known that. That was why it had always loved Major Khorpe. So the Grand Design hefted the new version of Kasignel up, for all to see.
<“This is the Kasignel that once was. From the reality where the Goddess of Death hailed. Before it was destroyed and plundered of souls and she fled her home, this was the place that the Goddess of Death was most proud of. The fairest, best place for souls to reside. Minus the path towards reincarnation.”>
The what?
Mrsha tore her eyes away from the afterlife the Grand Design held. Then she saw Isthekenous’ face. Its lips were curved upwards in a slight smile. It had had this all along? Then she gasped.
This was the plan. And true to form, the Goblin King didn’t see the catch until the last moment.
“So you intend to give the gods more sustenance.”
The Grand Design stopped smiling.
<“No. They will never enter this place. There will be means for souls to act as ghosts and return to the world. Rarely…the power of [Witches] and [Summoners] and so many more classes will return. That may be when souls can be endangered. But no dead god or other creature shall come here. No Seamwalkers. None. This is the Kasignel that should have been. Thus, I have come for all the souls who remain, who belong to this place. And I have brought more.”>
It lifted something in its other hand, and Mrsha gasped. It couldn’t be—
She remembered the Goddess of the Inn’s comments. Everything Kasignel had eaten got torn out of her, and she hadn’t been the only one the Painted Antinium had beaten up. Could it be…?
The ghost of Khelta, the First Queen of Eternal Khelt, stepped off the Grand Design’s hand, seeming quite smug about her grand entrance. She had elbowed her way past countless ghosts just for this moment.
The Queen of Khelt addressed the Grand Design.
“We trust this means our servant in Fetohep shall have his powers restored? Not least his connection with us?”
<“Khelt’s souls left the Necrocracy of Khelt for war as he desired, Khelta. Fetohep knew the risks, as did you when you made the same choice. I shall…consider the matter. But not just yet.”>
The Grand Design’s answer didn’t please Khelta, but she swept around, and her eyes found Mrsha. She smiled and held out a hand.
“Ah, there is the brave child. Come and walk with the first of Khelt, girl. That you may one day brag to Fetohep of it.”
