“If she had, Chieftain Rags and all her Goblins would be dead. And if she gave up on Antinium, we would all be Workers and dead. It is an easy thing to give up. Everyone probably dies, though. Just like 2nd Army was about to kill Goblinhome.”
“Saving the Goblins is a huge fucking cost.”
Captain Todi stared at the [Garden of Sanctuary], then guiltily glanced at Calescent and Peggy, but the two Hobgoblins were nodding in steady agreement. Bird tapped her fingers on the glass, making a simple rhythm, then stopped. She peered into the glass of hard lemonade, the hardest given what Ishkr had poured in there, and spoke.
“That is the power of the inn, though, Captain Todi. It has terrible, awful, no-good things happen to it.”
“And the benefit is…?”
Bird’s emerald eyes shone at the Gold-rank Captain as he searched for an upside.
“The world changes. Sometimes in small ways, other times in big ones. It is that power that is worth it. Maybe.”
They all thought about this. Grimalkin nodded once, and Captain Earlia closed her eyes. The right to change the world. She’d often railed against things she hated. Damn contracts from the Merchant’s Guild for [Miners]. Bad roads. Corrupt Watch officers. Hunger, [Bandits]…not with any real expectation of changing it. When she’d become an adventurer, she’d known she could halt anything in front of her she could hit with her warhammer, but never expected to fix anything for good.
Say you could. Say you had the power to change things. How much would you pay, actually, to have the power to change the world in any capacity?
So that was how Bird saw The Wandering Inn. Of course—when they looked at her, they saw it. She believed in change. She believed in it so much she’d gone from a singing Worker to transforming into an Antinium with wings, changed her body, because she had lived it. Todi’s voice was flat as he reached for his drink again.
“You taught that kid too well, then.”
“Yes.”
That was Bird’s only response. With that, an even deeper silence fell over the room.
 
——
 
After a while, the door opened, and Numbtongue came out. Bird turned in her seat, but he just stopped there in the common room and walked out.
“…And sometimes you don’t change. Maybe.”
Bird turned her back on him and resumed drinking. Right now, Todi wanted to exit reality for a moment. Ishkr was closer to drunken oblivion than anyone else, but he raised a finger, keeping the weights from closing his eyes and dragging him down into sleep.
“Bird. Bird.”
“Yes, Ishkr?”
“Do you know why she did it? Mrsha?”
The [Head Server] was staring past Bird, at that image of the little girl running, red bandages on her side, past him. Bird was staring too, at Roots Mrsha standing in the [Palace of Fates].
“There are many reasons. Why?”
“She didn’t trust us. She wanted to bring people back. We would have helped. But she didn’t trust we’d do it right. She’s seen everyone fail. That’s why she decided it was her turn.”
The frozen bier. The Meeting of Tribes. Ishkr was counting, and he hadn’t even been there for all of them. From Ryoka Griffin till now. He clung to the spinning bar.
“We can’t—we aren’t—if she had people she respected, looked up to, actual heroes, she would have gone to them. But she knows us too well.”
That was his theory. Bird thought about it and spoke a name.
“What about Fetohep?”
“No good. Too far. And she’s seen through him too.”
Bird was nodding slowly.
“Erin is gone. Numbtongue wasn’t here. I am—me. Lyonette’s her mother. Saliss, maybe? Grimalkin?”
“No.”
The Sinew Magus spoke briefly, and Bird nodded.
“…And Ryoka is also gone. She believed it had to be her, then. She knew it was difficult, dangerous, deadly.”
Bird paused.
“She did it anyways.”
Someone spoke up from the side.
“Better to have kids like that than not.”
Everyone turned to another person who’d returned to the inn to continue drinking. Saliss of Lights. Todi gripped the table too hard and rasped at the [Alchemist].
“Seriously? You want to say that now, Saliss?”
The Named-rank nodded, hands too steady despite how much he’d drink.
“Sure. Cute, ordinary kids just scream and freeze and die. The only difference between them and her? It’s how far she ran. You want to tell me if she’d been a ‘good girl’ and told Lyonette this would have gone down differently? The only difference is that she’d have been in the inn or hiding in Liscor when the Goblin King hit the city. And then we’d have tens of thousands of dead kids. Not just one and however many millions vanished.”
The Gold-rank adventurer put down his mug to take a swing at Saliss, but several hands dragged him back. The Order of Solstice…there were only a few people left in the [Garden of Sanctuary] now.
Ishkr raised his head from the bar and looked to the closed door of the garden. He spoke quietly.
“That’s enough, Todi, Saliss. If Lyonette isn’t here tomorrow…report to me. Captain Earlia, you’re on people-duty. Keep them out of the inn unless we know and like them.”
Captain Earlia nodded, wondering if she could survive tomorrow. Then she took a longer drink and decided she’d take whatever came if she had a moment’s oblivion. Todi faced Ishkr, ruddy-cheeked, panting.
“And me?”
Ishkr glanced towards the [Garden of Sanctuary] again and gave another order in that flat tone of his.
“Todi, you’re guardian of our new guest. No one knows, no one sees—disguises. Don’t fight if you don’t have to. Lips sealed. Understand? No spies. No notes. No more drama. Vaulont makes sure of it.”
That last comment was directed at a trio of Vampires, and Vaulont the Ash glanced up and nodded once. Todi sat back down and put his head in his hands.
It wasn’t for nothing. He’d seen…
Kevin. But that twisted the fucking knife worse, because it meant that Mrsha had done all this for a reason. Traded her life for—
He didn’t know Kevin well. He’d heard of the owner of Solar Cycles, tried to cozy up to him, given up, and relegated Kevin to Erin’s side of the inn as the unapproachable crazies. But the presence of Kevin told Todi what the [Palace of Fates] had been.
“Dead gods.”
Todi whispered to himself. And there was the question. It was Earlia who turned to him and stabbed him in the back. The Silver-rank adventurer had put the pieces together, enough to know what had happened, and she gave him a too-sober stare despite all they’d drunk.
“Well, Todi?”
“What?”
“If you had the power Mrsha got, what would you do? Would you have changed anything she did?”
Every head in the inn turned to Captain Todi, and he sat there, the most selfish man in the inn to weigh in on the choice. His answer was slow, deliberate as he knocked back another gulp of Firebreath Whiskey.
“Absolutely, I fucking would have. I’d have used that damn [Palace of Fates] to steal all the gold in the world. All the artifacts. Copy the Heartflame Breastplate. All the fame, wealth, and glory.”
Elia Arcsinger exchanged a look with Calescent, and both smiled. Todi cast around, meeting every eye. They gazed back, questioning him. Valeterisa and Montressa, Normen, Jewel, Durene, Ishkr, Yelroan, Peggy…Asgra, and Sticks, all of them.
He meant it. He could say it truthfully. Todi exhaled a mist of alcohol and took down the rest of the drink.
“…I’d do that and drink myself into a damn coma so I don’t get to where she went. So I don’t think of what she did, and I just use it like a selfish bastard. Because that’s the only way to win, see? The only way to win is to be too fucking stupid to play the game.”
He gazed at the image in his head of that girl sitting and causing mischief. Writing her silly notes, and the Gold-rank Captain wished he’d stayed. He’d thought the hardest part of this inn would be…surviving the moment when it came.
No one had told him the hardest part was living with himself when he ran away.
Then the silence in the room was utterly complete until the door opened once more. Ser Dalimont walked out, and Ishkr turned.
“Is something…?”
He wasn’t with Lyonette. Instead, the [Knight] was escorting Nanette out. Roots Mrsha, Lyonette, and Ushar were still in there. Captain Todi twitched, but Ser Dalimont merely walked Nanette to the bar, where the girl grabbed a cup of wine and drank.
No one stopped her.
“No. Her Highness is fine.”
The [Knight] was lying, but no one challenged the blatant untruth. He saw Ishkr offering him a mug and poured himself some wine, but he didn’t drink as deeply as everyone else was. Instead, Ser Dalimont gazed about the room. When he saw no one was speaking, he cleared his throat and spoke in a level, measured voice.
“—Tomorrow, Dame Ushar and I will distribute certain items acquired from the [Palace of Fates], both from the dead and items from a door. To the staff and security.”
No one said anything. Dalimont’s voice was like nails on a chalkboard. It didn’t fit. After a moment, Ishkr nodded.
“Okay.”
Dalimont continued, as if he couldn’t tell everyone was willing him to be silent.
“Afterwards, I believe the new staff will need training. Her Highness has issued a moratorium on any information about the [Palace of Fates] and Mrsha. That is to say, not a word is to be spoken.”
“Dead gods, man. Do we need to hear this? Now?”
Captain Todi wasn’t sure if he should throw his drink in Dalimont’s face or use the mug to bash his own head in. Ser Dalimont turned to him, that resplendent Thronebearer in his golden armor. It was dinged up and battered with smudges of blood from fighting, but he was too pristine.
Far too much for this moment. But the [Knight]’s voice was level.
“Yes. Tomorrow is going to be more difficult than today. It may be [Assassins] will come for the inn, or there may be more reprisals for Goblinhome in the following days and months. We will be ready.”
“For another Goblin King? No offense, Ser Dalimont, but even if you trust us not to run—why the hell are we thinking about tomorrow right now? Mrsha’s…we just…”
Earlia’s voice was cracking as her eyes strayed towards the [Garden of Sanctuary]’s door. Ser Dalimont stopped speaking. He took a gulp of wine, then put down his goblet.
“—Before the Goblin King entered the inn, I saw him. I was with Her Highness at the entrance. Kevin…one of the Kevins…tried to stop him. He died. The Goblin King was wounded, and I could have attempted to slow him down.”
“Well, you’d have bought us only half a second, so you did the right thing.”
Saliss’ caustic comment didn’t so much as make Dalimont’s face twitch. He nodded slowly as Nanette leaned against Calescent, eyes gazing at nothing. Her dead sister. Her twisted version of herself—breaking worlds—
Ser Dalimont was gazing at something else.
“I realize this is…presumptuous of me. For I have not shared any details of my life up till now. But this marks the third time I have encountered the dead. That is to say, ghosts or reflections of those who were once alive. The Winter Solstice, everyone remembers. But I had met ghosts before that.”
That…drew everyone’s attention, even the ghost of Mrsha, who had curled up next to Nanette. The little witch turned, and Dalimont took another swallow of wine.
“In Noelictus, I was assigned to the 4th Princess of Calanfer, Seraphel du Marquin. It was my first job escorting a royal as the best [Knight]…I was Level 22. She was to be wed a third time, and she had little political capital. I thought little of Princess Seraphel, except as someone to be guarded, like a valuable work of art. I believe that’s how she thought of herself. The entire story is too long to be told, but suffice it to say that we met extraordinary people during our time in the Kingdom of Shade. The Singer of Terandria, the royal family, [Hunters]…and ghosts.”
“What kind of ghosts?”
The obvious question came from Peggy, who glanced at the [Garden of Sanctuary], remembering the statues on the hill. Dalimont gazed at her.
“Glorious ones, Peggy. The bravest and best warriors rose to take arms in defense of their kingdom once more. They fought incredible battles that I could not be part of. I, the highest-level [Knight] of Calanfer present, could barely even run after their shadows, let alone protect my [Princess]. I couldn’t protect the townsfolk who fell prey to the undead. Not innocents. Not children. Not then or now.”
He opened and closed his gauntlet. Now, he had everyone’s attention. Ser Dalimont went on.
“I could do nothing compared to the ghosts. But they were not—perfect. They were the bravest, most courageous warriors, but they made their own mistakes. Even so! If they were still here, if one of them were to turn to me and say, ‘charge’, I would. Into the depths of Rhir or at the Goblin King, I would go with them, I think. Part of me wishes they had. Instead, they vanished and left me with Princess Seraphel du Marquin, who had lost even more than before. The glorious dead were small comfort to her.”
“So you’re saying we’re better alive than dead. I get that. Message received many times over.”
Todi grunted, and Ser Dalimont met his eyes levelly.
“Not just needed alive, Captain Todi. Allow me to continue. After the events in Noelictus, I was resolved to guard her Highness, Seraphel, with my life. To become her worthy champion. But when word reached us that her younger sister had gone missing in Izril, she volunteered me to lead the group. You see, she had little faith in other Thronebearers, and she believed someone needed to take her sister’s side. I went because she asked it of me, but I resented the charge.”
He smiled ruefully as Ishkr remembered how the silly Thronebearers had first come to the inn. Dalimont continued.
“My intention was to escort Princess Lyonette back to Calanfer or, when she refused, to wait for reinforcements, then depart. For the truly important [Princess], Seraphel. That was how I felt, though I did my job, until…well, when was it?”
He traced a pattern in some spilled wine on the bar’s counter.
“I don’t know when I began to realize that this inn was important. Or that I cared how that young Gnoll girl lived, or for a little witch who needed a home.”
Dalimont smiled at Nanette, who tried to offer one in return. His eyes swept over Calescent, Rosencrantz.
