The nice [Witch] had asked Pebblesnatch how things were and shown her a few tricks of cooking, and then told her she needed to work hard. Which Pebblesnatch knew. She worked hard all the time! Then…the [Witch] had said they’d never meet again, which was very sad. She’d flown off and only left one thing behind.
It sat in front of the little [Cook] as she read from it, turning each page and marvelling at how easy it was to understand. It was hand-illustrated, with notes in units like ‘one handful’, or ‘half a rock’s worth’ that she understood perfectly, as if it had been made just for her.
A cookbook from the Witch of Repasts. It even had Pebblesnatch’s name on it. The Cave Goblin’s stomach growled as her eyes darted over each recipe, and her mind filled with bigger ideas. She wanted to make these recipes with magic and delightful things. And more. Pebblesnatch tapped her feet on the dirt, grinning.
The world was full of fun stuff in the future! So long as no one killed her between now and the end of the week, that was. She lifted the cookbook over her head, then went running to find a cauldron and all the ingredients she had in stock. After all, what was a magical cookbook without a little bit of experimentation?
 
——
 
Plans about the future were what you were allowed to do if you hadn’t lost someone. Hadn’t seen someone you love die.
Valeterisa didn’t know Mrsha that well, and there was still one around. 1 – 1 + 1 still equalled 1. And that…was all she had to think about that.
“[Clear Emotions].”
That went for Valceif too, of course. She didn’t have time for this. Not right now. Later, she’d have time for the feelings.
She let her apprentice cry so long as she still took notes. Montressa could barely do more than put a quill on a piece of paper, but the Archmage of Izril kept dictating nonetheless.
“Rescheduling my day. I require at least…let’s see. Eight hours of sleep leaves me sixteen hours. Fourteen to study. One for other tasks broken into twenty-minute segments per day. One hour of Relc time.”
“Master! You can’t—”
Montressa began hiccuping, and Valeterisa pointed at her.
“[Hiccup Removal]. Very well…twelve hours of study time, optionally down to ten. At least ten. You will also redouble your studies on [Restoration], Apprentice. Hm. I also need some time for diplomacy. Put an hour each day into that.”
“Master…”
Valeterisa spoke over Montressa’s breaking voice and continued.
“I will achieve mastery of the [Autocast] technique within a month’s time. I require as much gold as possible as well. The academy project—argh. Put two more hours into that. How many is that per day? Twelve hours of studying…another hour into mercantile activities. Wait. Don’t I receive [Twofold Rest] in this inn? In that case—”
She brightened up as she gained a lot more hours with a halved need to sleep. Montressa scribbled at the notes, tears running down her cheeks. Valeterisa plotted out the future until she stopped and stared blankly out her window.
It was raining. But a barrier spell still lingered over the inn and Liscor. Grand magic from…she turned to Montressa.
“Add another hour of tutoring.”
“Master. What about—Mrsha? About the inn? Everything that—we don’t even know.”
They might never know, not fully, not without seeing that [Palace of Fates]. Valeterisa wished she could have seen it. But then she thought of how the older Montressa had gazed at her, and her heart…Valeterisa touched it.
“We were not in this ‘Solstice Event’ that Relc speaks of. I think that is a good thing, Montressa. I fled the Goblin King. I…and Relc is guilty because he did not enter the [Palace of Fates]. I cannot change that. I cannot take away his emotions if he does not ask for it. I…”
She raised a hand and almost cast the spell again, then let it fall. Valeterisa turned away from the window and peered down at Montressa.
Montressa du Valeros sometimes hated the impartial, distracted Archmage of Izril she called her master. Sometimes. But right now, in this moment, Valeterisa’s distant grey eyes had focused. She was aglow with magic that lifted her robes, an intensity of spellcraft that made Montressa’s tears lessen a moment. Valeterisa’s voice was very quiet.
“A month to master the technique. But before that…I require all the funds Lyonette will give me. I must meet with Wall Lord Ascoden and any who will hear me. It is not the optimal solution, but if it comes to it, I will be ready to break through Fissival’s walls. I will have my people and my promises kept.”
Montressa’s breath caught in her throat, and she saw the Archmage of Izril turn back to the rain. It was a soft-spoken declaration of war from a woman who never saw the point in lying. Or showing mercy to her enemies.
The future had given her a vision of what might be. So, Valeterisa prepared herself to do battle with the City of Incantations. She stared out the window and ran the first simulation of how to siege a city by spell. Just as Archmage Amerys had once done.
She didn’t think of the little girl. Not right now. Nor the returned Valceif. She was too busy. The Archmage of Izril’s hands tightened on the windowsill.
She was at war. A displeasing thing. A terrible waste of time. If it had to be—
Valeterisa intended to win it. She thought of the dead clockmaker that Future Mrsha had seen on television and began to plot how to take Fissival to pieces. Brick by brick.
 
——
 
A Gnoll girl observed Valeterisa’s implacable face and saw her eyes flicking, wondering what she was thinking. She could guess; she just had no ability to peer into minds like the Grand Design.
Almost, Mrsha flitted downstairs, but she was too afraid to. So instead, the ghost of the girl ran out of the window, across the world, chasing down another perspective. She could sort of…see it, still.
Lines of fate. Connections to her, even in death. Things she’d influenced, directly or indirectly by the [Palace of Fates]. She had to know.
She didn’t care about the Walled Cities. If they fell tomorrow, Mrsha wouldn’t shed a tear, except perhaps for Oteslia—but the people in them she cared for.
In her way, this was her trying to process what she’d done.
Please, let there be more good than ill. At least for the people here. Something.
Something more than levels and another terrible memory for all those involved. She followed one of the many strings connected to her, because it led somewhere unexpected. Close by.
Not Liscor. The girl raced across the Floodplains of Liscor, where the birds had descended to devour the dead fish still floating on the water. Some Liscorians were out in boats, scooping up the fish that Sheta had killed.
Even in tragedy, life and opportunity. But how many fish would it take to repopulate the waters? More good or more ill? Mrsha recognized some of the creatures who’d gained Sheta’s blessing. What would become of them?
A swarm of ducks were trying to build a nest—no, a container and putting fish in there. Trying to hoard food for later, which struck Mrsha as a very un-duck-like idea. She remembered the Face-Eater Moths who’d gained the [Blessing of Fecundity] and hoped like heck they had flown far, far away from Liscor.
…Where was the string of fate taking her? Oh…Mrsha skidded to a stop and found a newly-built farmhouse she recognized. She padded around it, then slipped through one of the doors.
 
——
 
The farmhouse had been meant for a family, not two people, but everyone else was gone.
Fierre seldom visited, Bamer was dead, and Rivel had left.
They had always been isolated, but never lonely like this. So lonely and quiet—aside from the baahing of Mr. Fluffles.
The sheep was drinking from a bucket collecting rain. There was a single leak in the new construction, right in the living room. It annoyed Himilt no end, because he hadn’t realized there was a gap in the roofing tiles. He entered the hallway, drenched in water, having finally patched it.
Himilt didn’t seem like someone who’d just fought the Goblin King. His broken scythe was lying on the dining room table, and the Vampire barely glanced at it, but Vaulont the Ash kept peeking at the blade.
He wanted to inspect it very dearly, but he wasn’t sure if it was appropriate. If he was allowed. That blade on a farmer’s scythe? He’d heard about beating swords into plowshares, but this…
Vaulont the Ash, an assassin. A good one, who’d stayed out of the Assassin’s Guild debacle and who killed easily, for a living.
He had no place being in such a respectable household as the val Lischelles. They would have never met under any circumstances normally. But these were unprecedented times.
They were, after all, Vampires. Though even thinking that felt wrong. They were so used to being in hiding they were keeping up the act, even now.
“Himilt? Mutton bacon? No, Mister Fluffles, that’s your own species.”
“…How about fish? I pulled one of those giant Lurkersnatch fish out of the water. They sell well. I should get out there with a net.”
Himilt pulled his sodden cloak and hat off and unwound the black scarf on his neck, exposing the odd lumps of his health condition. Vaulont said nothing, and Colfa stifled a cough.
Vaulont wasn’t as badly off as they were—which he now understood was because he’d lived on city water, not well-water—but their afflictions were common to him. Noticing the look, Himilt fished in his pocket and took something out.
“Tablet? I made them. They’re supposed to work a bit.”
He offered Vaulont a circle of what turned out to be charcoal. The assassin took a tablet and chewed it.
“Activated stuff? Whatever that means.”
“I’m not sure. Ryoka said to burn up some coal, wood, even coconut to make it. Not the regular charcoal, which contains meat and whatnot. I made it myself.”
“Funny. When I got the…warning, I ate so much of the damn stuff I was shitting black for a month straight.”
Himilt’s lips quirked up at that, and he coughed into a hand. Colfa gave Vaulont a look as she brought a plate over.
“Not a discussion fit for my dinner table, gentlemen.”
“Your pardons, Lady Drakle.”
Vaulont caught himself and squirmed. He didn’t like Liscor. He was used to being the scariest person in the room, but the inn put him off-guard, and the val Lischelle-Drakles…for other reasons.
Himilt and Colfa might be the last in the immediate bloodline here, but they were one of the Old Blood. Whatever that meant with [Vampire Hunters] running about…
The ordinary-looking [Farmer] with a blade that could wound the Goblin King coughed again and offered Vaulont the plate of bacon as Colfa began to boil some rice.
“I’ll make sushi. How many are we expecting, Himilt?”
“Six, maybe.”
“In the area? I know of only three.”
Vaulont was greatly surprised, but Himilt shrugged mysteriously.
“We’ll see who shows up. Let me check on that leak.”
He got up and had to move his sheep out of the way. Mr. Fluffles obediently left and trotted over to beg for pieces of mutton bacon from Vaulont. The Vampire was debating the ethics of feeding the sheep his own kind when the door opened and closed.
He glanced up, not reaching for his daggers—but just tense. Colfa greeted the first visitor, who removed a cloak.
“Sorry it took so long. There were—issues with the door.”
“I imagine. No one’s coming from the Pallassian side.”
“I hope not. Even with the City of Inventions in chaos, we got the warning from the others. We’d rather run the High Passes than…what’s that smell? Bacon?”
“Sushi too.”
“Sushi…? I’ve never had it. What is that?”
“Rice, seaweed, and raw fish.”
“Er—I suppose it’s a time to try new things.”
Vaulont found a stranger with wide-rimmed glasses seating himself at the table. The assassin hesitated, then held out a hand.
“Vaulont the Ash.”
“Call me Master Merdec. [Merchant].”
“Ah.”
It was probably an alias, but maybe it was just who the man was. He seemed rather short of breath, which made Vaulont wonder how far he’d come. When he asked, Merdec shrugged.
“When Himilt called…oh, thank you, Miss Colfa. I could help—?”
“Sit. Himilt’s the tired one.”
“So I…hear. And saw. Is he alright?”
Himilt reappeared, wiping his hands with a cloth, and both men stared at him. Not a scar on the farmer. Of course, he’d heal fast, but…Vaulont saw Colfa put a platter of sushi down.
“And this is soy sauce, gentlemen. Mixed with blood.”
“Animal?”
“No, actually, Liscor has a blood bank. I’ll show you it later.”
“Incredible.”
The two men began trying the sushi as the door opened again. Two women whom Colfa knew by name appeared, stepping into the room. Then a few more…
They were all eating the food when Himilt decided everyone who’d make it had arrived. He stood, and they fell silent.
He was no great lover of speaking, and he still wore the stained farmer’s clothing, humble black on black. He appeared like what he was and had been all his life. But there was that strange nobility he could put on like a cloak. He had no preamble, but spoke in a low, steady voice.
“…I know it was a dangerous trip. We can discuss the Goblin King later. That was him. I don’t know the reasons, nor do I know if I am allowed to share them all. I did not call you for that.”
What, then? The Vampires blinked, and someone else rose to her feet. Himilt nodded to her.
“Colfa.”
She was the reason they’d gathered? Vaulont’s brows rose as Colfa introduced herself.
“I am Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle. I was part of the events that led to the Goblin King striking the world too early. I cannot share all of why or how. Suffice it to say that I was in a place that allowed one to see the futures that might be.”
They had questions, of course. Vaulont shifted in his seat as Colfa’s eyes flicked to him, and he noticed Himilt glancing at him. He wasn’t sure who he should be more worried about. Colfa’s wrath if he said too much, or Himilt’s—and he had never seen the man get angry. Heard the stories, of course.
Once Colfa had satisfied the others’ curiosity, she did not beat around the bush. She spoke.
“It was…a painful, surreal place. And I was not the person who mattered most. Which was good, because I was forgotten. Allowed to look around, if not take…anything. I used that time to open as many doors as I could.”
Vaulont was getting goosebumps. He hadn’t noticed that, desperate as he had been to try and guard against those damn Antinium and the chaos later. Like everyone else, he hung on Colfa’s words.
“What did you see?”
