It did not. The Wyvern Lord saw the Dragon appear and howled a challenge as he came down like a comet. For Shirka and Teriarch.
“Ah. Thunder Giant’s ballsacks—”
General Shirka heard the most hilarious epitaph from Teriarch as he tried to raise his good claws. She leapt towards him, shouting an order, and saw a fiery orange orb zooming overhead.
The [Fast Fireball] hit the Wyvern Lord in the side. Not actually hard or strong enough to do much damage, but it surprised him. He twisted, saw who had fired it at him, and slammed into a cliff as he swerved away from the [General] and Dragon.
Rocks cascaded down into the valley as 2nd Army took up battle formation, but Shirka raised her hand.
“Hold fire! Hold fire, damn it!”
Her [Soldiers] were tensed for battle, but the hairs on the back of their neck, or the scales or feathers in the same place, were tingling. They looked over their shoulders as the irate Wyvern Lord rose, hissing, and saw the Goblin.
Chieftain Rags was pointing a smoking finger at the Wyvern Lord. She’d cast the [Fireball] spell. She was panting; she must have run from Goblinhome to get here when she’d seen him in the air. 2nd Army almost turned their weapons on her.
Goblin. Goblin. But they stopped, because that twisting knot of terror in their stomachs reminded them of the Goblin Lord of Civilizations, and their eyes stole to the blasted pit of ash in the ground.
Also—Rags had reinforcements. Crimson eyes were staring out of the half-destroyed passages in the sides of the valley. There were Goblins sitting on the cliffs overhead and more coming out of the fortress.
Redscar was advancing at a walk next to Snapjaw and a full team of Hobs and Trolls. Student Rags and Dulat, the Troll Queen, were watching from the open gates.
“Stand. Down.”
Shirka breathed as the Wyvern Lord hissed and walked forwards. The [Soldiers] backed up in front of him as Teriarch got to his claws.
“Peace. I come in peace, Lord of Frosts!”
He called out, and the Wyvern Lord glared at him. The angry Wyvern didn’t understand what was going on.
What now? Why had Rags stopped him? 
The invisible Dragon made sense. It was just the kind of thing he’d do. He hated this old guy. And there were, apparently, multiple of him. The Wyvern Lord roared a challenge, and Teriarch spoke.
“I humbly ask for a conversation, Wyvern Lord. 2nd Army, General Shirka, please fall back.”
He addressed the [Soldiers], who fell back as the [General] saluted him and squawked something about not meaning offense. The Wyvern Lord hissed at her; he’d thought they were allies. She looked and smelled ashamed, and he debated giving her a tail-slap.
But Rags…had her finger pointed at him, and she offended him the most. The Wyvern Lord flapped his wings at her in a battle-stance.
You too? Time for us to fight? He gave her a wounded glare, for all he had fought and bled to protect her people.
His furious, betrayed glare washed over the Goblin’s calm face. She was as battered as he, the Wyvern Lord realized. And—his anger abated slightly—her aura-thing wasn’t raging at him. It was calm, like a swirl of sad tiredness. Telling him what her words were.
“No more fighting, Lord of Frost Wyverns. Not here. I forbid it. We are done with fighting, do you understand?”
She spoke to him, a short Hobgoblin lecturing the Wyvern Lord who towered over her as he stomped forwards. His eyes narrowed, and the blue, slitted pupils dilated as he lowered his head to breathe the smell of frozen flesh and gastric acids over her.
Chieftain Rags put her hand on his snout, and the Wyvern Lord blinked and went cross-eyed. She smiled faintly.
“Thank you. You and I are allies forever. Does your tribe want food? We have some to share. Our Frost Wyverns…do you want them back? They don’t seem to want to leave.”
Peh. He snorted at her, trying to stay mad. Oh, now she wanted to be nice after she hit him with a [Fireball] spell. Food? He knew they didn’t have much, and his weyr could eat Goblinhome out of food. Eat most of Goblinhome, come to that…as for the cowards who liked their comfy beds and Goblins taking care of them in exchange for flying only a bit—
Bah. He jerked his head at Shirka and Teriarch, who were still watching him warily. Rags grabbed the tangled mane of hair running down the back of his head, far less magnificently groomed than Teriarch’s.
“No more fighting. We’re allies. That’s why I’m telling you. Come on, I’ll give you a drink.”
That was…marginally more appealing than blasting the [General] with frost. Teriarch interjected loudly.
“I have drinks!”
This time, both Goblin and Wyvern Lord gave him a flat stare, but Rags jerked her thumb after a second.
“Well? I think he wants to say something to you.”
What if I have nothing to say to him? The Wyvern Lord bared his teeth, and Rags frowned and tilted her head, as if she were trying to figure out what he meant. However…she got it as her eyes flicked over his raised wings, the way he put a talon back and dug it into the ground, as if he wanted to push into the air and fly away.
Body language. [Aura of the Emissary]. Friendship and drinks. The Goblin [Chieftain] of the Flooded Waters tribe smiled faintly. Wearily. She appeared sick at heart, almost as sick as he felt about this terrible fighting. Nothing glorious about it, just dead people who shouldn’t be.
“That’s why we speak, even if we don’t want to. So we don’t war again. So there’s something good that comes of all this.”
She made a lot of sense. So, because it was her, the Wyvern Lord turned and gave Teriarch a wing-shrug.
Fine. Let’s do this.
The Dragonlord approached, wary and still favoring his broken claw, but he’d bandaged it up with some fancy, magical sling made out of green fabric that smelled like herbs and other alchemical junk. He dipped his head to the Wyvern Lord.
“Will you…speak with me, Wyvern Lord? Truly, I mean no…bad feels.”
He actually tried to speak Wyvern, which startled the Wyvern Lord so much he nearly tripped over his own tail. This old Dragon could speak Wyvern? His accent was terrible, but the Wyvern Lord had a clear choice to make. After a moment, he grudgingly nodded.
“My place. This way, please.”
Teriarch jerked his head in clear relief. The Dragon began to limp away. The Wyvern Lord waddled after him—then turned. He made an inquisitive, croaking sound.
“Hmm?”
Chieftain Rags glanced over her shoulders, and the Wyvern Lord waved a wing. She pointed at her face, and he nodded again. Teriarch hesitated, but then sighed.
“Appropriate, I suppose. I really shouldn’t have said we’d never meet again, Chieftain Rags.”
He winked one of his eyes at her, and she blinked at him.
He remembered her? Yes.
The Dragonlord remembered everything. His eyes rose skywards, and he muttered under his breath, so softly that all but the Wyvern Lord and Rags didn’t hear him.
“Ah! I had better cancel that bounty.”
Then he remembered his audience and gave them a guilty smile.
They both glowered at him.
 
——
 
Predictably, they went to Teriarch’s cave, where the Dragon offered both food and drink. The Wyvern Lord indicated he wanted meat and plenty of it. When he tossed the huge, roasted cows out of the cave, the Dragon seemed offended…until he saw the Wyvern Lord’s weyr descending to cautiously drag the food into the air to eat.
The Frost Wyverns were hungry; all the fighting had left game scarce, and it was already hard to compete with the other creatures around here. Not that it had been that rich higher up…but it was hot below. Their numbers had already been declining before the Frost Wyvern Lord had taken them down from the icy highlands.
Now, they were, well, dying. The Wyvern Lord felt like the Goblin, Rags, could relate. He wasn’t sure about the Dragon, who watched the weyr feasting and added more food to the pile. After all, the Dragon’s entire species was down to a handful of people left.
Dead was not the same as dying. The Wyvern Lord was failing his weyr, not living after it. He wondered…what that was like.
For her part, Chieftain Rags just requested a drink ‘Goblins would like’, and that seemed to make Teriarch uncomfortable, so the Wyvern Lord offered her a toeclaw to high-five as the Dragon got her a drink. She was busy fiddling with some ring-thing that projected a glowing screen in front of her, touching little letters that popped up as lines of text appeared.
The Wyvern Lord hadn’t ever seen text in written form aside from scratchings from his elders on the walls of caves, so he spent a few minutes trying to figure out what the symbols meant until Teriarch offered Rags a cask.
“How about a Wet Corpusclear? Selphid.”
“That sounds terrible.”
“I’m just using their terminology. Check the label. They’re rather good at making alcohol, though. Biological experts. Some of them float in the barrels while checking on the yeast. It gives it an, uh—”
The Dragon stopped talking because he was not selling the drink well, but the Goblin poured herself a cup and took a sip.
“It’s…really good. It’s very smooth.”
She seemed almost affronted by the taste, and when she poured some onto the Wyvern Lord’s tongue, it wasn’t as ‘spicy’ as he felt alcohol was, but very flavorful and closer to savory or—or a taste he couldn’t describe, much like eating a fine piece of meat.
“Umami flavor.”
The Dragonlord appeared pleased they liked that. He let the two have their drinks as they exchanged glances. The Wyvern Lord was glad Rags was here. He didn’t want to be here, though.
Teriarch understood the Wyvern Lord had some thoughts in his head he couldn’t easily express. The Dragonlord paused and added some wine to the huge bowl the Wyvern Lord drank from.
“My memories have returned. I realize it may be a poor excuse, but I did not recall all the nuance of…I killed the Wyvern Queen who led your people when I first came to the High Passes. I tried not to; I asked to live in peace. But she saw me, rightly, as a threat to her existence. We dueled. I killed her.”
The Wyvern Lord’s head rose, and he stopped gulping down wine. After a moment of thought, he silently pushed the bowl away. Rags put down her cup as well.
So, the death of his weyr truly had been here from the start. The authority of Frost Wyverns had never been the same after that. Wyvern Lords had fought the other species up there, but only the Wyvern Queen had been strong enough to keep them all safe.
The Frost Wyvern Lord thought he’d known that from the start. He just…hadn’t wanted to admit it. All that he knew and was—incomparable to a single snoozing Dragon.
Then again, he’d seen the Empress of Wings and taken her reward-thing for service. It just went to show, all his strength, his desperation, his cunning, just couldn’t match other species.
The Wyvern Lord folded his wings and waited, resisting the urge to poop on the Dragon’s hoard. The Dragon spoke.
“I…will you indulge an old man? It has been a painful few days.”
He wasn’t dead. And he hadn’t lost any of his people. The Wyvern Lord made a rude blatting sound, but he waited.
Teriarch dipped his head in silent acknowledgement. He was quiet, closing his multicolored eyes for a long moment.
“There is a tradition amongst Dragons. When one of us dies, one that is close to us or—or particularly noteworthy, we go into the world. It is our role to tell a mortal a story of those who have passed that their deeds might be remembered. It is a fruitless task in a sense, for those mortals will live and die in the blink of an eye. But we give them gifts and change their lives, one small act of good to offset a terrible tragedy. It is a thing of vanity, I know.”
His story sucked even more than the other ones. The Wyvern Lord was getting really annoyed, but he stayed for the free food he gobbled down to replenish his strength. If the cost of that was his earholes, well…the Dragonlord continued, glancing at Rags. She waited as well, just listening as she sipped her drink.
“There are other traditions, too. But I have done none of them well. I did not mourn the passing of ghosts. I did not mourn—my own death, I suppose. I woke, with half my memories, and I ran from my duties. I tried to fly, and even when I recovered enough…my first true battle and I was too weak.”
He flexed his wing and gave the Wyvern Lord a shamefaced grin.
“It took seven of me to best the Goblin King. I would like to imagine in my heyday it would have only taken three.”
The Frost Wyvern Lord supposed this was an attempt at modest humor. He shrugged his wings, and Teriarch lost the smile.
“Yes, yes. Entirely deserved. And you have every right to abhor me. I…I won’t bore you with tales of the Wyvern Kings and Wyvern Queens I knew. Only that I truly did admire them, but I was probably still superior to them. Arch, condescending, when they bore every insult from my kin and flew in dignity and grace.”
That statement drew the Frost Wyvern’s attention, but he affected not to care, gulping down more pieces of meat and chewing the bones. Teriarch seemed to be having trouble continuing.
“I…well, this is how I know I’m a fool. It’s so damned hard, even now, to rise above my base instincts. But what is this all if not proof that change is coming? For me, for the moon, for—everyone? I have seen hope and despair, and I failed to save even a single child.”
His eyes filled with tears, and the Wyvern Lord did stop then. He supposed the Dragon had lost a single child.
The Wyvern Lord hadn’t counted how many Goblin children had died, but he’d do a tally later and see where they were at for appropriate grief. His head rose to the cave’s entrance, and he gave the Dragon a grudging growl and nod.
He’d seen the moon. He supposed that was worth something. Rags spoke as well.
“We’ve done this before. Both of us. I appreciate you fighting the Titan and Goblin King for us, but we’re not Dragons. You give us stories that aren’t about us, Dragonlord of Flames. We’re outsiders to your legacy, your grief, and everything else. Do you have anything new to tell us, besides stories?”
Terrium Archelis Dorishe shook himself and raised his wounded head. He gave Rags a deep nod, his eyes flicking to the glowing screen hovering in front of her. She hit a shining icon, and it vanished as the Dragonlord replied.
“Yes, of course. I know I am lamenting in front of the two people with the least patience for it. I shan’t take up more of your valuable time. Wyvern Lord…I hope Sheta gave you what you desired. I truly do. We always envied you in our way, you know. Dragons. We mocked and belittled and even enslaved your kind, but we were jealous, I think. We envied that your peoples never waned, but could grow into great profusion while ours were doomed.”
