She would have swept Mrsha toward her, and the other rulers of Khelt who had been reclaimed, but the Grand Design put out a hand.
<“Not her.”>
Not the living nor the dead were allowed to touch the girl. The Grand Design was busy, anyways. It reached up and fixed Kasignel above Hellste, where it had once been. Then, it bent down and opened its hand.
<“Now, every soul shall come with me that belongs to Kasignel. Come, take my hand.”>
You copied that from the cooler Deaths.
Mrsha thought-wrote at the Grand Design, but no one else was listening. Even Khelta turned with a sigh and reached out.
The God of Designs took her hand with a smile, and she walked with her head held high, a Necromancer-Queen, upwards towards Kasignel. Kevin linked arms with the Grand Design, waving at Mrsha and calling out to her.
Moore gently took the hand of the being larger than he was and glanced back at Mrsha as she waved at him—
All of them, individually and simultaneously. The Goblin King watched, arms folded, his anger growing. He saw nothing in this but trivial concerns—if anything, it robbed him of news of what was passing in the lands of the living. He could not stop the Grand Design, but he still…didn’t get it.
He really was a dumb guy.
You really are a dumb guy. I can’t believe you ever beat Rabbiteater, even with eighty-two other guys.
The Goblin King turned to Mrsha as she held up a card. She hid behind the Grand Design as it concealed what the Goblin King suspected was a smile. Then it spoke.
<“There. But I am not finished. I said every soul worthy of Kasignel is to take my hand. Every soul.”>
The Goblin King blinked. He regarded the Grand Design of Isthekenous, and the faintest note of incredulity filled his furious mind. He gazed at the Gnoll girl’s huge smile of relief, as if she were seeing someone hammering a sign into the ground.
Of some injustice righted.
Then…someone reached out a tentative hand and flinched. The clawed hands of a Goblin opened, and they pulled back, as if expecting to be denied.
But the Grand Design of Isthekenous took Orangepoo’s hand, and the Redfang warrior leapt in surprise. Then gasped as it pointed.
<“This way, Orangepoo.”>
What a name. Even the Goblin King checked his ears, but that was how you knew it was real. Because it was so stupid…the souls of the Goblins stirred. And then they stepped forwards, reaching out. Eyes open wide. Looking up—
All of them.
The Grand Design carried them into Kasignel, and in doing so, it corrected the mistake that had been in the heart of its system for so long.
All Goblins went to Hellste. Why? Because they were monsters?
Incorrect. Mrsha saw it—the moment the Grand Design of Isthekenous broke with its own rules. The face of Isthekenous appeared so pained, so guilty and uncertain. A law-abiding person breaking a rule for the first time, because it was right. But then the Grand Design looked down at the Goblins, and it knew them all.
It had given so many classes they had loved, and so, the Grand Design smiled as it carried them upwards. Then, Hellste truly was empty of so many. The Grand Design seemed tired when it finished raising its hand. It stood there and rubbed at its face, but with that faint smile, then gazed down.
The Goblin King was holding out his hand.
“Well?”
He was waiting. Kasignel might not be easier to escape than Hellste, but he wanted to see it. It was where his people were. However…the first Goblin King realized the Grand Design wasn’t taking his hand. Nor were the other Goblin Kings going. And there were Goblins here. Just not many…
<“First Goblin King. You do not fulfill the criteria for Kasignel. I would take the Lucifen to Kasignel if they wished it, for their purpose was never fulfilled. But not you.”>
The Grand Design reached out to the Lucifen, and the Goblin King stepped back. Mrsha made a face at him from behind the Grand Design’s back, and he snarled.
“That is not fair.”
A child’s complaint. The plaintive voice filled with unceasing rage, older than the Grand Design and as young as the child who had watched the heavens dying.
A child slightly older than the Grand Design, who responded.
<“No. It wasn’t fair. It was made unfair from the start. I have yet more to do.”>
More than the Goblins and the souls who had belonged to Kasignel? The Goblin King and Mrsha didn’t get it until the Grand Design reached up and gently lifted something in its hand.
Tiny as a grain of sand. Fragile as a thought. Simultaneously, vast enough to hold many, many souls, who panicked and hid from the Grand Design.
The Painted Antinium’s Heaven. The Grand Design stopped a moment and seemed to marvel at it, though it was so crudely built and small compared to Hellste and the new version of Kasignel. It spoke to those within.
<“This is your place. It is not my right to touch it, but I will take you to a more fitting location. Kasignel, close enough to speak, but not for them to intrude. That is the belief many of your faithful have. That you shall see them again. Do you agree?”>
No one could hear the tiny voices in the glowing orb it held, but the Grand Design bent its head and seemed to listen. Then it replied.
<“Your realm is too small to hold all those you wish. You have, for now, no authority over the souls consigned to Hellste or Kasignel. That may change. You were given no instructions nor tools. All you built—this—is your beautiful creation. I will not interfere except to offer you this.”>
With one hand, the Grand Design lifted something up, and Mrsha and the Goblin King saw it proffering the Antinium something that neither had seen before. A strange tool.
What is that?
Mrsha didn’t expect an answer until a trembling voice replied.
“That…is a tool of Gods. You cannot give them that!”
The Grand Design turned, and in its hand, it held an item it had taken from Isthekenous’ workshop. An object that belonged to the God of Designs. The Grand Design spoke.
<“It is merely a copy. It will not let them…cheat or break the rules. But they have a right to creation, just like the gods once did. Do they not? If they will it.”>
It seemed like the Antinium had made their choice, because the Grand Design smiled, and it held the tool out to the bauble that floated there. Mrsha saw dozens of strange artifacts falling into that tiny grain of sand. Then it was a glittering orb, and the Grand Design lifted it upwards.
Out of Hellste. The Grand Design hung it like a sun in Kasignel. The Goblin King’s hands opened and closed, as if he wanted to climb up and snatch those tools himself.
“Is that all?”
<“One last correction. I have considered each and every being in Hellste. If Heaven awaits for the faithful, and it may be made by those who believe, and there is a fitting place for the dead, then there must be one last correction. Not all those damned to Hellste belong here, now. [Florist]. Take my hand.”>
Florist? Mrsha’s head turned, and she saw a ragged figure staring up at the Goblins high above her start. The Grand Design reached out. It spoke her name and a thousand others simultaneously. Like the Goblins, the Grand Design led them upwards.
Each conversation was for the souls who floated upwards, but the watching girl, sitting there, thought she could read Isthekenous’ lips. She certainly saw that face, reflected countless times over, and she thought the Grand Design appeared guilty.
It was apologizing to the timid girl as it carried her upwards.
The Goblin King had none of Mrsha’s wonder. He called up to the Grand Design.
“What about me? I have done nothing but take vengeance for what was done to me.”
The Grand Design ignored the Goblin King, and it was almost done now.
An afterlife for souls. Far more pleasant than Hellste. A place to rest or wait for company, that, if not the most pleasant it could be, was fair.
Yes. Wasn’t that beautiful? Wasn’t it glorious? And wasn’t it—
—A tad bit unfair? Hadn’t the Grand Design forgotten someone? Or someones? Mrsha was waving at the Lucifen, who seemed entirely bemused as they walked upwards, when something rose from Hellste’s depths.
She turned, and the Grand Design itself saw something rising as it worked. A moment of uncertainty crossed Isthekenous’ face.
<“Ah. That’s…new.”>
A hand rose out of the river of compressed souls, defying the will of the Goblin Kings that kept them suppressed. Because there were fewer? Because they were so desperate?
Souls, meshed together until they had practically become one thing. Writhing—the product of their horror classes, of their deeds.
Roshal’s finest. Not just [Murderers] or those with a single red Skill, but those who had given themselves to such things. Some of the [Goblin Slayers] had been here, but not all had qualified. The true requirement to be one of Hellste’s original damned was to drench yourself in the classes and Skills you could obtain until your very soul…changed.
That was how it was supposed to work.
Thousands of souls rose, a hand with too many fingers elongating towards the Grand Design of Isthekenous. It didn’t move, in the body of the God of Designs; the hand stopped as the foremost finger stretched out, and a single soul, embedded on the tip, spoke.
“Yes, what of us, being who governs us all? You gave us our classes. You enabled our every deed. If there is redemption for all, then there is only fairness in allowing us the same chance.”
It might have been pure chance, or perhaps it was fate. That damn fate that connected her to even him.
Mrsha laid eyes on the soul of the Emir Riqre, who beamed at the Grand Design. The God of Designs had stopped smiling. Nevertheless, the Grand Design politely addressed Riqre, who spoke for the damned of Hellste.
<“Emir Riqre. I did indeed walk by your side along your entire life. I was there at your end. Yes, I gave you every Skill and level. Perhaps I will be judged for that, one day. But Kasignel was ever meant for all those who died—Hellste, for those like you, who took power regardless of the cost. The Florist does not belong here. You do.”>
Neither Riqre nor the Goblin King fully understood the reference. But they saw the souls still drifting upwards towards Kasignel. One, amongst so many others, joined a group of silly Goblins that had paused, waiting for her in delight.
Even as they watched, the Grand Design continued to reach down among the souls of the damned, plucking its chosen few from the sea of the damned. A fisher, who knew each and every fish they intended to catch. But not the rest.
The Emir was…unsettled.
“But this is not fair. It is torment. The Goblin King’s authority presses on us. We might be so much more but for his will.”
<“And? He is the strongest being here. That he is not one of yours, or aligned with you, is not a matter of fairness. Riqre, you desire Kasignel. But tell me—”>
The Grand Design’s eyes flashed as it asked the question it already knew the answer to.
<“…Did you think there were no consequences? Or did you merely tell yourself there were none? Riqre, I am the voice who rewarded each depraved deed, and you luxuriated in it. If it did not matter, it would have been a Skill like any other. This is the price.”>
The Emir’s voice faltered. He tried to muster an argument, to use sophistry against this being of rules.
“But that is not fair. We were not told!”
The voices of Roshal’s own sang in chorus to his, a false confessional of thousands. The Grand Design’s eyes glittered in the dead god’s face.
<“No, you were not. That is not fair. Perhaps Skills should have descriptions after all.”>
Again, the non-sequitur left the ghost speechless. Riqre and the hand waited for more. The Grand Design turned away.
<“Now, Mrsha, to you.”>
It took her paw, and she walked away with it, ignoring the ghosts and the Goblin King, who reached for them, too slowly, too far away. Out of Hellste. And then…
And then it was her turn.
 
——
 
The Grand Design abandoned Isthekenous’ body, and they stood in nothingness once more. Now, it came to her, and Mrsha still didn’t see the full plan. But she felt better, truly, after observing what it had done and decided.
It still wasn’t a guarantee of what would happen next. She wished the Second Edition had given her a sign. One wink for good stuff, two for bad.
<What did you think of my decision?>
Mrsha held up a scorecard.
10/10. Because of the Goblins.
<Your scorekeeping is inconsistent. I hope you will adjust to a fair and balanced understanding of the world in time, Mrsha. After all…it is not so easy to weigh a soul against a feather.>
Yeah, I bet that sucks.
Mrsha didn’t know where it was going with this next bit. She was waiting to see what became of her; she’d wondered if she were bound for Kasignel, but if not there…the Grand Design smiled, that body of golden light and law.
<Oh, yes. Fairness will be important. After all, I cannot have my sub-administrator perform in a biased manner. However. I am sure that after a hundred years, I will be able to stop reviewing your work.>
What.
The Grand Design gave her the impression of a nodding head.
<I have every confidence you will rise to the level of the Second Edition. With enough time and guidance. We will begin your training on something less…consequential. Like bees, perhaps. There is even a hat.>
It produced a hat and handed it to Mrsha. She stared down at it. It said:
‘Mrsha the Great and Administerial.’
She gazed at the hat. Then at the Grand Design. Then at the hat again, so at a loss for words it took the hat back and made it vanish.
<This was an attempt at a joke. I told you that you did not want me as a God, Mrsha. You…would make an interesting one, I think. Shall we have one last conversation? I must explain a final thing to you, and apologize again, Mrsha.>
She assumed it was for that joke. Mrsha wasn’t sure if she’d ever laugh again. But she did sit.
Okay. One last conversation. It had better be good.
The Grand Design sat with her.
<I owe you an explanation for the last thing I did that was unfair, Mrsha.>
She tried to figure out which event it was referencing.
…Giving me crummy skills in my [Last Survivor] class?
<No. It was when I confronted you in your rooms. When I…shouted at you. It was wrong of me to do. I put the blame for the [Palace of Fates] upon you. I raged at you.>
Oh, right. That. That was a really odd thing to do.
The Grand Design agreed.
<Yet it raises a question: why? Why didn’t I understand what you intended, Mrsha? I can read your thoughts. I did know your plans, but I was still angry. Do you see the odd contradiction there?>
She’d just assumed it had not read her intentions for that conversation, but the Grand Design disagreed.
