<It is a failing of mine. It happened at the Winter Solstice. With Erin. I did not understand why she felt she was an [Innkeeper] and clung to the class, yet went to war as so many other things. I do not…understand people perfectly. Like Erin or you as you were in the [Palace of Fates].>
Now that was interesting. Mrsha sat up slightly. She needed clarity on that.
Why? Are we too weird or something? Is it because Erin’s from Earth?
<No. Let me explain with an example. I understand…some people very well. Like Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction. Or the Emir Yazdil.>
The Grand Design conjured the image of both men for Mrsha to see, and she glowered at the Naga’s true form. She didn’t see how they were the same until the Grand Design spoke.
<You see, both men are true to their natures, Mrsha. Flos Reimarch always does what the King of Destruction believes in. I understand when people go against their inclinations and desires too; Zevara is also someone I understand fully.>
She appeared in front of Mrsha, scowling, hands on her hips, and the Grand Design gestured to her.
<Even when it is difficult, Zevara will always do what she believes is right. Do you understand?>
Mrsha got that. But she didn’t see how Erin and her were an exception. The Grand Design whispered.
<Think of it, Mrsha. I am there with every being, from the smallest child to the last breath of an ancient soul. I feel it all. ‘It hurts.’ ‘It’s scary.’ ‘I’m afraid.’ I am there with them, feeling their terror. Thus, I always know what the most logical choice for someone is. What their instincts, personality, their mind tells them to do.>
Oh. She was sort of getting it. If the Grand Design could see all that and know what you were likeliest to do…
You don’t get when people act stupid. Like me and Erin.
It chuckled at her, a laugh in its strange voice.
<I am surprised when people do what is difficult and against everything they feel. I don’t understand it, because I am them. I see how hard it is to do what they do—but I don’t ‘get’ it. Then I know the reward is even more worthwhile, because of what it costs. And that tells me something about myself, Mrsha.>
It gestured at itself, and the Grand Design, this impartial adjudicator, spoke using ‘I’, smiling.
<…I admire courage. I value uniqueness. I was right there when you were planning to enter the [Palace of Fates]. I knew you cared, but I was angry. Because I heard that voice shouting so much louder than your courage. ‘I don’t want to die.’ ‘I’m afraid.’ ‘I want to give up.’ But you did it. That is why I failed to understand.>
Oh. When it put it like that, it made Mrsha sound sort of…cool. The Gnoll girl blushed and gazed down, and the Grand Design indicated itself again.
<Thus, I am biased. The System of Levels is biased. This is…fine. Fairness is a lie. That is what Isthekenous believed. I cannot make a fair world; this world is unfair. Each person is born into different statuses in life. From the moment they draw breath—and before it—they have advantages and disadvantages. To create a ‘fair’ universe, I would have to make everyone the same, remove all geography, turn all into a bunch of perfect, identical Golems. It will never be fair. Someone born into a rich tribe of Gnolls has a better chance than someone born into a poorer one.>
This was true. But to hear the Grand Design admit it—hurt. And it knew it too. Its voice lowered, and it confided in Mrsha.
<I…am the dream of fairness. The lie that looks like it and sometimes acts close enough. If there is any fairness, Mrsha du Marquin, it is that if you dare everything, if you strive and achieve great acts, I will grant your every desire. Not always as you want it, but I will reward it. That is my ‘fairness’. What do you think of that?>
It waited, and Mrsha thought-spoke at last.
It’s better than nothing.
The Grand Design stood and stretched out across all of reality, the grandest stretch in the universe. Then it was all around her, and she imagined her heart beating. She thought of Death.
This was so much harder.
<Yes, I think so too, Mrsha. So you understand, and you have seen how I treated all the changes necessary after the [Palace of Fates]. Fairly, I hope.>
Mrsha counted. It had destroyed the Faerie Flowers and replaced their worth. It had sent the Grand Design (Second Edition) to govern another world and sealed the door. The Grand Design had created Kasignel and let Goblins enter it.
It didn’t…undo what had happened. Nor did it give people more than it took. Yes, that kind of fairness was dreadfully appropriate for a being such as it.
…Mrsha feared what came next, because she was still dead. Of course she wanted to live. She wanted it with everything she had left.
But—but—
She didn’t want to hope for it. And because it could read her mind, the darn Grand Design spoke.
<If you are displeased with my offer, I will take you to Death, Mrsha. You. And you alone.>
She peered up, hope shining in her eyes.
Promise?
<Yes. Now, we have waited and delayed this conversation because it had to be the right time. The appropriate time.>
It meant…in the real world. Mrsha suddenly got what the Second Edition had been hinting at.
You had to wait until the right moment. But there was only one moment that the Grand Design needed. And that…was the moment between you falling asleep and true oblivion.
When you slept. Her eyes opened wide, and the Grand Design nodded. Then it carried her down, and she saw who they had been waiting for.
 
——
 
It had taken Roots Mrsha a long time to sleep. But she did sleep, because she was only a frail child and so much had happened. She knew Lyonette was awake, and the girl wanted to say…something to her.
Something, but what could she say? She was alive, and the original Mrsha was dead.
Could she replace Mrsha? Never. And her mother was gone. She was the last survivor of her world, and she had to—she had to make it right, somehow. Be right. 
Impossible, impossible. Roots Mrsha had tossed and turned as her mind grew addled and her eyes fluttered shut. It would never be right. Mrsha was dead.
They’d buried her. How could The Wandering Inn ever go back to normal?
A voice spoke in that moment when Root Mrsha’s mind drifted away. Time stopped for a perfect, [Immortal Moment], and the soul of Roots Mrsha heard those familiar tones.
<It cannot. Normal is always changing. Nor will I undo death. But I do have a solution.>
Roots Mrsha opened her eyes and sat up. Her body lay slumbering, but her soul, or whatever was ‘her’, was suddenly awake again. She got up—and there was the original Mrsha.
The two Gnoll girls gasped and would have run at each other to hug, but the Grand Design held them apart. It spoke, and Roots Mrsha was awed to hear the odd inflection in its voice. Subtle, but there. A personality where she was so used to its impartial tones.
<Roots Mrsha. You are the last and only being of your reality. Your world is gone. Those within it have gone to Death…it was my doing. I did not value your world as real beings, and because of my failing, all those within the [Palace of Fates] who did not escape have died. All those I have ever created are thusly wronged. You among the many others.>
Here Roots Mrsha was with her creator. She gazed up at the Grand Design and nodded slowly, think-writing at it.
Yes. You have terribly wronged me, Grand Design. I will never forgive you. Unless you can bring back my mother, my sister, my brothers—my entire world as they were, without creating more fake souls, I will always hate you. Always and forever.
The original Mrsha’s face was filled with grief, and the Grand Design paused for one terribly long moment.
<I cannot.>
Roots Mrsha nodded as she let go of her own dream.
Okay. Then say your piece.
The Grand Design spoke slowly, going from the original Mrsha to Roots Mrsha.
<It is one thing for the beings who left our reality to live. They…are their own people. The Second Edition of the Grand Design may offer them what it deems best to let them become who they are. But what of those who survived? Those who came here, such as Beach Kevin? Or you, Roots Mrsha? You are not those you replaced. And yet you have their memories. You are similar and dissimilar enough to tear your hearts apart over the contradictions in this world.>
It wasn’t saying anything Roots Mrsha hadn’t already understood. She folded her arms, unmoved by its statements.
Cry me a river. I remained because I had nothing else in my world. A Mrsha is needed, even if I have to die myself. I am going to make this world a better place. You won’t stop me.
The original Mrsha was gazing at her with such sad admiration, but Roots Mrsha stood proudly. It was all she had left. The Mother of Graves, the warnings from the future—she would do her best.
<Yes. I know. But it is not fair. A great deed was won, despite the fact it never should have occurred. I have seen your glorious acts. I will break no rules for you, Mrsha, Roots Mrsha. But I can offer you something new.>
Both girl’s ears perked up, and they exchanged a glance. What was this mysterious solution the Grand Design kept hinting at?
For an answer, it produced two props that were so simple and silly both girls thought it was playing another joke on them. The Grand Design had a piece of red clay and blue clay.
<This is what I propose, Mrshas. One of you is the original. The other, the stranger. To those who have come here, to all fitting, and with the consent of both the living and the dead…I will draw both your souls together. Into one Mrsha. One being.>
So saying, it mixed the two clays together, blending the piece of red and blue until it turned purple. It handed the clay to Roots Mrsha, and she gazed down at it in her hand. The original Mrsha stood there and saw the Grand Design’s plan for her. She didn’t know, in that moment, whether to love or hate it. She just felt—uncertain.
Roots Mrsha had a different question for the Grand Design and raised her brows skeptically.
Can you do that?
It seemed amused.
<I can do anything, Roots Mrsha.>
You couldn’t make the [Palace of Fates] properly. Souls are tricky. How do we know you won’t mess it up?
That one stung. The Grand Design replied, a touch snippy.
<I am an expert on souls. And I have a…guidebook of sorts.>
If you mean horrifying monsters like the stuff Roshal makes, you can take this clay and shove it up your incorporeal assh—
The Grand Design of Isthekenous spoke over Roots Mrsha, actually flustered for once.
<I was REFERRING to Halrac Everam. He embodied every Halrac there was and himself in one moment.>
Oh. That was a much better example. Both Mrshas eyed each other, and the Grand Design continued.
<Do not fear it would be…dissonance. Or that you would be somehow trapped or altered. That is not what I intend. It is far more complex than that. Look down at the clay.>
Roots Mrsha and the original Mrsha peered down, and they saw the ‘purple’ had changed. Or maybe revealed a different perspective. They saw the blue and red weren’t gone—they were just woven together so perfectly that they made it appear purple.
<You’ll still be there. Simply not as undignified as two Selphids sharing the same body. You’ll have your perspectives, your personalities—but when you act, in the waking world, you will be one being. If you wish it, you’ll be able to think together. Or perhaps you will choose to be one new Mrsha, but it will be a choice. Your levels and classes will be a fusion of both your abilities as well.>
Oh. That sounded…better. The Grand Design was very pleased with itself. Then it hesitated and felt the need to confide something.
<I did steal this from the fae’s tricks. And a few other realities. There is a reality that Beach Kevin was referencing. A farming [Martial Artist] with the exact same condition.>
…Did he mean the guy with the fighting chicken? Mrsha stared at the Grand Design. Then she shrugged. She’d heard of weirder stuff.
Can I ask a few more questions?
<Naturally.>
This isn’t just an offer for me, right? It’s for all of us. Kevin and…Moore? Wait, there’s also Future Mrsha. Will I get a chance to merge with her?
She didn’t know if that made sense. The Grand Design’s reply was immediate.
<Your older self is far more different than you two are. The dissonance between your perspectives is far greater. It is not impossible, but you two are the logical duo to approach. If this should fail, I will extend the same invitation to her.>
Oh, okay. Because I don’t know if I’d like her. What about Moore?
<I will ask. I will ask everyone, Mrsha. It is not an easy decision. So, I will offer them this [Immortal Moment] to decide. And only when they are truly resolved shall I accept an answer.>
That sounded good. Well thought out. But it struck Mrsha as funny.
That’s Erin’s Skill. You made it for her, right? Was there never one like it?
The Grand Design’s response was amused, but also pleased.
<Many Skills stop time. But always to an effect. A second for an [Archer] to raise a bow, a minute for a [Strategist] to think. Erin Solstice was the first person who I answered with this Skill. To make peace with a moment, to grieve, to smile to one’s heart content. I wish I’d made it long ago.>
It just…hadn’t thought of it until now. Mrsha regarded the being of infinite possibilities and wrinkled up her nose.
“So that’s why you need us. To think of cool stuff for you, like a world with a fighting chicken?”
<Rooster. I like making what’s needed, Mrsha. Without any of you, I’d have nothing to do.>
Mrsha nodded up at it and gave the Grand Design a thumbs up. Then—hesitantly—she regarded Roots Mrsha.
It’s up to you, Roots Mrsha. I’m the one who got killed. You’re the one with the body.
Roots Mrsha wavered. The Grand Design moved back, and they saw it reaching down, plucking another sleeping soul up. Rather like a farming [Martial Artist] plucking a medicinal sage’s herb out of the ground.
<Take your time. You have…forever to decide.>
They saw the Grand Design turn, and for a single moment, both of the Mrshas beheld Beach Kevin’s soul, bewildered, following it upwards.
“Hey. Where am I going? Where am—oh shit.”
He stopped as someone came out of Kasignel, a bemused expression on his face. The Grand Design brought both Kevins out, and the two strode forwards. They shook hands, then turned to it as it began to explain again.
Oh.
Oh. Mrsha suddenly grabbed Roots Mrsha and gave her a hug with all her strength. She was allowed to touch Roots Mrsha! The other child did the same.
I’m sorry. It should have been me—
Roots Mrsha began and got a Rhisveri-style slap from her counterpart. It didn’t really hurt, but the original Mrsha was furious.
