Himilt’s red eyes focused on his wife, and she favored him with a smile. The Vampiress, who loved to act like the old stories, rose like an image of what they had been. They gazed at her dyed white hair and her crimson lipstick. Colfa even had makeup that made her cheeks whiter than normal. All of it was bedraggled from the events that had just occurred, and the rain. But her fanged smile and those eyes…they were so sharp they made Vaulont think she looked more the part now than he had ever seen her.
Terribly cold eyes.
“What else? [Vampire Hunters]. In so many futures, we die hunted. Not a fraction of us, not a handful—we die like a burning plague sweeping across Izril, leaving only ash. With nowhere to run, nowhere to hide. We fall, lashing out and trying to have both the dignity of our blood and pretending we are better than our ancestors—until they rip the monsters inside of us out for the world to see. They will not stop. That is what I saw.”
Her words made the silent farmhouse go even quieter until the patter of rain and the last drips of water falling from the attic were all that filled the silence. Himilt murmured.
“Then we leave Izril?”
Colfa shook her head.
“If Izril is lost, it is lost. But they will hunt us over the very edge of this world. I realize my words must sound so terribly extreme to those gathered here.”
Yes and no. It was hard to credit, but it was at the back of all their minds. The fear they’d had from the moment they became what they were and had learned of how close it had come. Vaulont shifted uncomfortably, and Colfa went on.
“I need not convince you all today or even tomorrow. But I will try to make you understand what I saw. So, ask.”
Her audience was silent a moment until Vaulont asked the question many were thinking, including the watching Gnoll girl.
“These futures. Was there one where there was any hope?”
Any path forwards? Colfa smiled at the younger Vampire.
“Oh, yes. But no one surefire way. I will tell you some of them, but suffice it to say…for every moonlit future, I saw another where the attempt left only harsh daylight without shadows. Believe me—”
Her eyes flashed.
“—The worst mistake we can make is assuming this will end. It will not. So whatever we choose, it must be with knowledge of what is to come.”
The Vampires in the room went silent, and some of their eyes turned to Himilt. Then to the broken scythe lying on the table. And Vaulont thought of his ‘cushy’ job at the inn, of his funds he’d squirreled away. He could leave. Wash his hands of all this.
He was a person. But he would still be a Vampire. He listened to the rain pattering down and thought of the future.
It looked so damn dark. Dark and darker…but some people loved the darkness. Colfa val Lischelle-Drakle stood there and then raised her head. Turning it, as if she heard a faint sound.
A child, perhaps. Crying out for a spark of light. She ran, chasing another thread across the world, screaming for…
 
——
 
A hand. Duke Rhisveri stared at his hands as he sat, a ragged man. A humbled sock-puppet out of energy at last.
Out of energy. Beaten like a dog—which was actually against the law in the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, because you shouldn’t beat a pet.
But he really was battered, worse than he’d even been when Tolveilouka had gotten him.
Prouder, though. Still ashamed. Still far too weak to save even a single little girl. But he’d done…something.
Next time. Next time, he’d do better. He had to. Rhisveri stared at his hands and remembered punching as hard as he could. Flailing around and—trying. Harder than he’d tried in his life.
No grandness, no superiority, just a desperate Wyrm thrashing around. Like the wounded Dragonlord of Flames dragging himself from fight to fight.
“Rhisveri? Rhisveri…?”
They kept asking him questions about what had happened. Sophridel and the immortals. King Itorin and his advisors.
Rhisveri didn’t know what to tell them. Not just how much he should hide, but…how did he even begin?
His head rose, and he spoke when Queen Oiena was on the verge of having a [Healer] hit him with a stamina potion.
“I thought I could save the day, but I couldn’t. Neither could Visophecin. We were right there, and they beat us down. We couldn’t take them all out. I got some of them. Some of them, but I lost track. They were running around, you see. I was paying attention to the [Princess] because I thought she was the crazy one. They were all mad. Trying to save…everything that mattered.”
The doors flashed through his mind, and the root in his hand—Rhisveri opened and closed the hand and saw the bloody, torn skin on his knuckles leaking blood. He could have healed it or turned the pain off, but he let the stinging stay.
Someone asked him questions, and he didn’t hear them.
“I just lost track of them. I wasn’t strong enough, and then…she ran past me. Like she knew what she was doing. I suppose she did. I found her afterwards.”
“Who? Taima take it, Rhisveri, who and what—”
Queen Oiena was on the verge of shaking him, despite her husband holding her back, when Rhisveri wiped at his face.
“The child. She bled out. I don’t know why…someone shot her with Evercut Arrows. I could have undone the enchantments. She was running right past me. But I was too distracted. Just like Fithea. I don’t understand it. She was smiling.”
Those hands clasped together to stop themselves from shaking, and the people around him drew back. Rhisveri waited for someone to say the obvious.
You fool. Surely someone had the guts to state the obvious. He was the Wyrm of Ailendamus, the Duke. He’d been right there.
Not a single voice would shout at him. Not him. What a terrible kingdom. At least the Agelums’ bright stares and the Lucifens’ shadowed expressions judged him. The Duke’s eyes rose, and he spoke.
“I’m sorry.”
“I—don’t know what you could have done, brother.”
King Itorin II cleared his throat awkwardly, thinking that Rhisveri was speaking to him. But the Duke’s eyes just followed something slowly moving to the right. He stared through the Minister of Entertainments, his eyes tracking a little child, who was shocked he could see her.
“I’m so sorry. I’ll try to…take responsibility for what I can. But it’s too late. It’s always too late. I—”
He felt sick. Sick at heart and empty. The Duke wanted someone to shout at him, but no one would. Not the girl. Not the [Knights] nor his peers. Not the [King] and [Queen], who gazed at him as if he deserved sympathy.
Even Uziel’s bright gaze held too few recriminations. He needed more than a stare. Duke Rhisveri longed for someone to pull him up by the collar and give him a punch so hard he felt it in his main body.
A pair of jet-black, armored hands pulled his head up gently as the murmuring voices fell abruptly silent. And someone slapped Rhisveri.
You might say that wasn’t nearly like the punch he wanted, but since the hands that did the slapping were coated in metal—they left imprints on the Duke’s face. And they were packed with concentrated aura, so he did a twirl in the air before catching himself.
Ow.
A proper Izrilian slap. The Duke put his hand to his cheek reflexively.
“That one did hurt.”
He half-expected the slapper to get charged by all the [Knights] around them, but none of them moved. Rhisveri saw the armored helmet gazing at him and recognized the armor.
Order of the Thirsting Veil. Only they had that iconic black armor lit by green and purple highlights, which was stylish, but hell to paint. He thought this particular [Knight] was gauche, though, and said so.
“I appreciate the slap. But the armor’s wrong. That heraldry and those colors belong to not just any Great Knight, but the Great Knight Eclizza. Remove them or I’ll stuff you into a toilet.”
Only one [Knight] was allowed to wear the pale serpent heraldry across her chest. It might even be the same armor. Which was practical…had Eclizza’s armor been recovered?
Rhisveri was getting a touch mad at seeing the armor, but the [Knight] merely drew a hand back and slapped his other cheek. He did a half-twirl and stumbled.
“That one also hurt. I’m getting mad.”
Someone reached for the [Knight] and was promptly thrown; a Drell Knight passed by Rhisveri, and he slapped the poor fellow down with one hand so he didn’t hit the crowd behind the Duke. The hand rose for the third slap, and Rhisveri caught the wrist.
“I said—oh, that hurts.”
The other hand had hit him in the stomach. A really fine blow. Just—Rhisveri caught the hand before it could pull back and felt the figure try to throw him. He threw the [Knight] instead. You just put all the will you had into your arms, all your magic, and—
Toss.
Then you winced when they went through a load-bearing support pillar. A thick one, too. The masonry that sprayed across the ground would have hurt someone but for Uziel, who’d taken down a [Servant] with a bounding leap.
“Nice job that fellow. I—huh.”
The [Knight] was on their feet already. Which struck Rhisveri as pretty odd, because he doubted even a Drell Knight in full enchanted plate would have walked that one off easily. He stopped.
The way the stranger was tilting…her…head at him. She had a hand on the sword at her side, but he thought there was a playful smile behind the black visor. No.
“…It can’t be. They all left. You saw it. One of you did.”
He spoke to the ghost of Mrsha, who was blinking at the stranger. And even if—Rhisveri’s mind was working.
There’s no way she’d make it here. This is Ailendamus. Not The Wandering Inn. The only way she’d make it back here was with a [Scroll of Greater Teleport], and he didn’t have any.
Or someone who could teleport across continents. Like…
Viscount Visophecin nodded at Rhisveri as the shield of black flames evaporated in front of a terrified group of pedestrians. He stepped back as Uziel made a sound and Paxere gasped.
“No. This is a bad joke.”
The Wyrm of Ailendamus was dreaming. He pinched himself, and it didn’t hurt. See? But when the [Knight] strode forwards and slapped him again—
“—You left. All of you left.”
The helmeted figure finally spoke as he caught the hand. And the voice…was low, but playful.
“It was unlikely anyone would make it. Duty was fulfilled by those who left and any who might wish to stay. But the Kingdom of Glass and Glory has need of at least one mortal champion.”
He still didn’t believe it. Even when the visor slowly rose, and Dame Chorisa uttered a stifled cry. They were all staring at her, and he saw those familiar eyes flashing up at him. The hint of a smile in her controlled expression.
“I’m not even the right one.”
Her Rhisveri was dead. He was just the thief searching for something familiar. Just like the watching girl.
Even so, she bowed to him, one arm below her chest.
“I serve the idea, not any one being, Your Grace. I am needed, or so the Viscount said.”
—So she’d turned back and dared the Maiden, the dead gods, and made it here. Rhisveri blinked down at Dame Eclizza’s face. Then he sank to his knees and sat down.
“That’s a bad joke. It really is. I couldn’t even save one child. You don’t get…that’s not fair.”
He gazed at the ghost of Mrsha with a Wyrm’s eyes, and Dame Eclizza pulled Rhisveri up and shook him briskly. Then slapped him across the cheeks again, which really was starting to hurt.
“The world is not fair, Duke Rhisveri. In these moments, you act. Or you cede your position.”
That was what he’d told her, once. The Duke blinked, then opened his mouth.
“If I’m dreaming, let me sleep. Okay. Stop hitting me. I’m sorry.”
That last comment wasn’t for Eclizza, whose head tilted. The first scream of disbelief came from Queen Oiena, and then Rhisveri had to lie and say something—but his eyes found the girl. He wished…
Oh, that stupid, little child.
Did she have to keep smiling at him? What about her? He wiped at his eyes.
“All I do is cry, these days. What happened to me? I used to be so much more dignified.”
 
——
 
The little Gnoll girl could not be everywhere at once. As she journeyed back from Ailendamus, the Kingdom of Glass and Glory, another conversation was taking place in the High Passes of Izril. A far grimmer place to find meaning in.
So much death.
The bodies of 2nd Army—what remained of them—were being hauled off by General Shirka’s forces. They were in range of Goblinhome, but 2nd Army didn’t make any moves towards the Goblin fortress, and the Goblins didn’t do anything to them.
Everyone was tired of fighting.
Well—except the Wyvern Lord.
He dove down towards the [Soldiers] recovering their dead with a roar that shook the High Passes. He was wounded—his wings had been pierced, his scales worn weak by a thousand swords, and he’d fought everything from the Mortemdefieir Titan to 2nd Army to the Goblin King and the Halfling himself.
Each fight, the Wyvern Lord had been outclassed, outmatched, barely able to protect the others around him. Unable to save the Goblins, beaten down, and knocked flat.
And you know what? 2nd Army could catch these claws too! Who said there was a time for peace? The Wyvern Lord remembered the army attacking Goblinhome, and it didn’t see a reason to stop. They’d come for the Goblins’ nest once—they’d be back.
The panicking [Soldiers] below him were blowing horns and aiming bows and spells up at him as he dove for them, ignoring the two Ragses shouting at him from Goblinhome. The Wyvern Lord was filled with grief and rage. Wyverns had died. Goblins had died, and for what? He was howling at General Shirka, who stood, hatchet in hand while raising the other.
For what?
The Brass Dragon didn’t smack the younger, smaller Wyvern out of the air or use some spell or artifact to do the same. He could have, even wounded, and thereby displayed his superiority and might and volubility with a few quips or sage comments.
The old him would have. So, the Dragonlord of Flames didn’t. He merely removed the [Greater Invisibility] spell and rolled over.
The greatest technique of the Brass Dragon family. All the crushing weight of a being of metal the size of a gigantic airplane from Earth rolling over.
Verily, entire orders of [Knights] had fallen to this simple technique. And, uh, a few dinner guests at some parties where the drink had flowed too freely.
But in general, this technique was not used often because it meant showing his weaker belly. Which across so many species was a sign of submission, of defeat, because it exposed him to an attack. It was a sign of trust, peaceful intent, here. See, I will not fight you. Please, let us talk.
The Dragonlord of Flames was really hoping it would work. But like a lot of gambles over his life…
