Those two had been fighting. But right now, there was a kind of truce between them. Something…Mrsha gazed at Roots Mrsha as the girl held up a card for a Calanferian servant with a question and saw how everyone’s eyes stole to her. Then the [Garden of Sanctuary].
The shovels.
The ghost of Mrsha du Marquin approached the [Garden of Sanctuary] for a moment and gazed inside. Then she backed away.
Oh. That explained it all.
She’d made it back just in time for her own funeral. The girl saw a shroud of white cloth and a little bee, resting in the snow in the corner of the [Garden of Sanctuary].
Of course, she’d known she was dead. But when she saw that and the activities behind her, people waiting, cleaning the inn, doing anything to keep busy, and gazing at the Mrsha who was alive, preparing to bury the one who’d died—
Then it hit her, even as a ghost. Mrsha du Marquin staggered backwards into the common room of the inn. And she didn’t—she gazed at Root Mrsha’s solemn face. At Vaulont the Ash, Dame Ushar, Bird, Numbtongue, the protectors who thought they’d failed her—
The cracks in Ishkr’s low, focused voice. The entire room, like a vase about to break. No…it was already broken. They were just trying to pick up the pieces.
Bury her. They had to bury her, and they couldn’t even tell anyone, because ‘Mrsha’ was still alive.
The ghost of Mrsha wanted to laugh or—or shout at them she was alive. But no one could see her, not even Numbtongue, it seemed. A mad feeling rose in her chest, and she almost screamed at them, voiceless, and would have gone to shout at Roots Mrsha or back to her body. But then a thought struck the girl, and it overwhelmed even her confrontation of her own demise.
Mother.
Where was Lyonette? Lyonette…Nanette was right there, along with Numbtongue and Bird, and they were still moving—but Lyonette?
Was she okay? How was she? Mrsha had to know, and she began to run. Into the [Garden of Sanctuary], then into the common room, darting past people, thinking Lyonette might be doing the rounds. Then upstairs into Lyonette’s room, then hers—even up to Bird’s tower.
No Lyonette. Was she in Liscor? Somewhere else? No…Mrsha ran back down into the common room, and she saw a young woman glance down at something in her hand.
One of the [Spies], Xinthe, was reading a little message scroll that could fit in her hand. She took a deep breath, glanced around at some of the other Calanferians, then squared her shoulders and went walking out of the common room.
Towards…the [World’s Eye Theatre]. Mrsha followed her.
There, she found her mother.
 
——
 
Lyonette du Marquin was sitting in a chair, hands folded in her lap. She had no beautiful dress, but she’d combed her hair. She’d found her tiara, and put it on.
A magical artifact from the Eternal Throne. It contrasted with the apron, which was splashed with other people’s blood and Creler ichor in places, burned by magical flames. She’d washed the grime from her face and arms, and her sleeves were rolled up.
She sat perfectly still, as if a portrait were being taken of her. Back straight, looking forwards. Face composed.
It was so noisy. The [Princess]’ thoughts were so quiet, but there was a ringing in the air, and the voices—they interrupted everything.
“Your Highness. Your Highness…”
Lyonette didn’t move as someone bent over and whispered in her ear. Dame Ushar.
“Queen Ielane wishes to speak to you.”
The [Princess] didn’t respond at first. She stared ahead, then said:
“No.”
Dame Ushar stepped back and whispered. But Lyonette didn’t hear that. Then the voice sounded again.
“Your Highness…your mother urgently wishes to speak to you.”
Lyonette didn’t blink. She didn’t turn her head; Calanferian servants were watching her. Her Thronebearer waited, and Lyonette’s lips moved.
“She can see me. Her people are here.”
“Yes, Princess. But…”
“No.”
Once more, Dame Ushar stepped back. Lyonette didn’t blink. Her eyes were faraway, gazing at something else. But she sat there…until someone spoke again.
“Your Highness? I have a—a [Message] from King Fetohep of Khelt. He requests—”
“Yes.”
The [Princess]’ lips moved, and in the center of the [World’s Eyes Theatre], the circular dais in front of her glowed. The glass dome above her blinked, and the King of Khelt appeared.
He was sitting upon his throne in the palace, but he leaned forwards in visible relief when he saw her appear. She didn’t move.
“Your Eternal Majesty of Khelt.”
“Lyonette—ah, Princess Lyonette. I had waited until the crisis was concluded to contact you. Unless there is more? Khelt and I are concerned for the welfare of The Wandering Inn.”
He spoke quickly, visibly less-than-impeccable, unsettled, his golden eye-flames flaring as he inspected her. The [Princess] spoke. Her face didn’t change.
“As you saw, King Fetohep, we have survived the Goblin King’s rampage. Everything is fine. There were no casualties in the inn.”
The undead Revenant-King paused, and his gaze swept over Dame Ushar, who stood behind Lyonette, a glowing speaking stone in hand.
“…No casualties in the inn? That is indeed fortunate.”
“None at all, Your Majesty. I am gratified beyond belief for your concern. I wished to reassure you on the matter.”
King Fetohep took in her face, her attire, and his eye-flames reduced to pinpoints in his eye sockets.
“I—had theorized the entire event might be connected to Miss Mrsha. There were clues I had not pieced together hitherto now.”
“It was. She’s fine.”
“Indeed?”
“Oh, yes. She’s just in the common room. I could bring her here, if you’d like. She’s fine, Your Eminence of Khelt.”
Lyonette’s lips moved into a smile. Nothing else about her changed. Blink. She’d forgotten to blink. So she did.
The King of Khelt’s eye-flames vanished for a second. He sat back hard against the golden throne of his chair.
“I see.”
“As I said, everything is fine in the inn, Your Majesty. I am sure she will be able to bother you after today. Which I do apologize for in advance.”
“Children are meant to be impertinent. Ah…so. It seems my fears are entirely unfounded. And you, yourself, are well.”
“Never better.”
His voice reduced until it was barely more than a breathed whisper.
“A delight.”
They gazed at each other as the King of Khelt’s head slowly turned to Dame Ushar. Lyonette didn’t turn her head. Her smile continued, pleasant.
“Is there anything else I can help you with at this moment, Your Majesty? I am a bit busy. Cleaning up. I have an engagement to attend in a few minutes.”
“…Then I shall not trouble you. Fare thee well, Your Highness.”
The King of Khelt raised a hand and stared at her as she inclined her head.
The conversation ended. He vanished. Lyonette breathed in and out. She didn’t move.
“Your Highness. Your Highness—your mother is calling. Please, she’s begging you to answer—”
This time, it was Xinthe. Lyonette ignored the voice. She waited. Then someone spoke.
“Your Highness, the Forgotten Wing company—”
“Yes. Niers Astoragon.”
She waited until the Fraerling appeared with the woman who was definitely Erin Solstice and Ryoka Griffin.
“Lyonette! Is everything…”
“Yes, everyone’s fine.”
They asked the same questions as Fetohep, though different ways. Lyonette saw all three’s expressions change. At first, Ryoka’s face was openly terrified, white with fear, and she sagged with relief. Erin…was intent, frowning, skeptical.
Niers sat there, resting his chin on his hand, asking after Rags. But he broke off from his line of questions and eyed Lyonette’s face. Ryoka’s expression of relief froze up, and Erin narrowed her eyes.
“—No one’s hurt?”
“Not beyond a healing potion.”
“And no one’s been killed, Lyonette? No one?”
Ryoka’s face was draining of color again, and the [Princess] bared her teeth.
“No one, Ryoka. Everyone’s here and in one piece.”
“I see.”
Niers Astoragon’s tiny hand clenched on the armrest of his own chair. Ryoka was gazing at Lyonette’s face, eyes flicking offscreen, as if she were glancing at a little flying creature. Lyonette’s gaze was locked on Erin Solstice’s face.
The imposter spoke.
“I’m so relieved. Is there anything we can do for you, Lyonette?”
Niers and Ryoka nodded. Lyonette shook her head.
“No, thank you, Erin.”
They had a few more questions, but Ryoka Griffin turned suddenly and strode out of frame, and Niers Astoragon had gone deathly silent. Lyonette thanked them for their concern. And then it was quiet for a second before the ringing began.
“Your Highness—”
“Your Highness, your father—”
“Your Highness!”
Voices. The [Princess] ignored them. She didn’t know if they believed her. She hoped they did, or enough to keep going. Fetohep, Niers, ‘Erin’, and Ryoka…
They were too far away. They didn’t need to know the truth. She waited until a new voice spoke.
“Your Highness. Ylawes of the Silver Swords.”
“Answer it.”
He appeared, a weary and too-thin [Knight], starting when he saw her.
“Lyonette! I thought—where’s Mrsha? She normally answers these calls. Is she alright?”
“She’s fine, Captain Ylawes.”
The [Princess] lied. She sat there, hands folded, answering his questions, and she saw his face change as he stared at her. A kind of dread suspicion falling over it. But she assured him that Mrsha would be right here, and what was he to think about that?
Keep going. The ringing in her ears grew louder, voices pleading for her to speak to the one woman who knew the truth. Lyonette wondered how she’d found out.
Probably a Skill that told her the value in her granddaughter had doubled—then halved. The [Princess] had nothing to say to Queen Ielane du Marquin. Even when a servant held up a scrying orb with her mother’s face, despite Dame Ushar thrusting them back—
“Lyonette!”
Queen Ielane’s voice had more emotion in it than Lyonette was used to. Ielane was half-risen out of her chair, and Lyonette spoke.
“I’m fine, Mother. Everything’s fine at The Wandering Inn. I hope you won’t cause a fuss. It would not do to give people the wrong impression.”
“Everything is not fine. You have…a terrible tragedy has occurred. I would speak to you about it.”
Lyonette listened to the ringing in her ears. Only when she realized she had to respond did she answer with a polite smile.
“I don’t believe there’s anything to say, Your Majesty. What can we talk about?”
“I am a mother as well, Lyonette. You—”
“It’s fine, Queen Ielane. You can stop pretending now.”
“I…beg your pardon?”
Queen Ielane’s eyes widened a second, and she broke off speaking. Lyonette nodded at her.
“A piece left the board. Another piece replaced it. Everything’s fine. Good day to you. Ushar, next?”
“Lyonette—!”
She lifted a hand, and the image cut off as Dame Ushar grabbed the scrying orb. Xinthe and the Calanferian [Servants] stood there until Lyonette’s eyes swept over them.
“Next?”
Lyonette knew it wasn’t perfect. She knew they’d have suspicions, her allies and enemies. It didn’t matter. They’d see everyone alive and running about the inn…only the people inside of the inn would know the truth.
That was the only thing she could do for Mrsha. To keep her safe. This?
This was just—trying. All she had to do was sit and endure the interruptions. She didn’t need anyone outside of the inn to worry over her. Her mother didn’t have to act concerned.
 
——
 
The [Princess] stayed there, fielding questions from concerned parties, unaware that a little ghost of her daughter was watching her, tears running from Mrsha’s eyes as she saw her mother sitting like a perfect doll, a [Princess] in rags.
Lyonette’s face never changed until the moment someone stepped forwards.
Dame Ushar interrupted the [Princess] and bent down to murmur.
“Your Highness. It’s time. They…have gathered and are waiting for you.”
Then, and only then, Lyonette started. She blinked, and that perfect posture cracked. She gazed up, then slowly tried to rise. Dame Ushar took her by the arm, and the [Princess] leaned on her as she looked up the stairs.
“Okay. I’m coming.”
She walked up the stairs, head held high, trailing behind the golden Thronebearer like a wandering spirit. The ghost followed her, but had to stop when they reached the common room of the inn.
The door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] was open, but Mrsha couldn’t step through it. She saw Lyonette du Marquin halt at the entrance to it. The Princess put her hand against the wall.
“Your Highness, we can take a moment to—”
“No, Ushar. I can do this. I must. Is someone speaking…? Put me behind Roots Mrsha and Nanette. If I fall, don’t let them see.”
“Yes, Your Highness. This way…”
They passed through the door, and then it closed. The ghost of Mrsha du Marquin stood there, unwilling to pass beyond and attend her own funeral. She stared down at her ghostly body. It was quiet, then.
So quiet, without the voices nagging Lyonette. But Mrsha thought she could still hear her mother screaming in the silence of her own head.
 
——
 
A ghost stood in the common room of The Wandering Inn, too afraid to pass through the closed door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She would have taken any distraction in the world, any denial of what was happening.
She was dead. And now, it felt like there was no miracle. Or even if there was—how would it undo anything? It couldn’t. It shouldn’t.
So what would it be? She didn’t know. Not yet.
Not yet. The girl turned around, searching for anything to take her mind off the present, and encountered…well, an inn scene. It was a man behind a bar pouring a drink for a woman.
Only, it was Captain Todi playing bartender. He was checking under the bar for the good stuff and seemed annoyed to realize that the good stuff was neatly categorized by alphabet. He put the most expensive bottles under the counter.
“This inn isn’t right. Who alphabetizes bottles?”
“That’s your complaint? Seriously?”
Captain Earlia of Gemhammer was having a drink; the rest of her team were sitting around the common room, eating. Just…eating.
That was the surreal thing. The Wandering Inn looked like an inn right now. Oh, it had a hole in the roof and one of the walls, but someone had patched part of it with a barrier spell and turned it opaque for privacy, and the area had been swept for debris. Antinium had patched the rest up with Rheirgest’s undead. They had…well, practice.
Calescent wasn’t in the kitchen, though. People just went in, got the preserved food, brought it out, and fed themselves. No one was worried about coins.
Not right now, and not in general, anyways.
