That was the biggest backhanded compliment that the Frost Wyvern had ever encountered, but he supposed he’d take it. Teriarch continued softly.
“Yours is the final of the Draconid species to exist in this world, Lord of Frost. More than Dragons, Wyrms, Ryu, Amphitheres—all of us. Wyverns will inherit this world, last of all. May you continue until the end of everything.”
He bowed to the Wyvern Lord, and the hungry, wounded Frost Wyvern stopped eating and looked up. He saw the Dragon’s head fall and wiped at his mouth with one wing. Awkwardly, he croaked a few words, not really sure what to say.
The old Dragon was either grand and puffed up or sincerely depressing. He seemed to know it too, because he smiled and spoke out of the corner of his mouth.
“We are not, incidentally, counting Hydras in this ‘last-species’ discussion out of pure principle.”
The Wyvern Lord squawked an agreement. Hydras. Couldn’t stand the bastards. What were they, again? Rags just rolled her eyes, waiting for the Dragon to get to the point.
The Dragonlord laughed and drummed his claws on the ground, the broken tips striking sparks from stone. Then he shrugged.
“There is no grand ceremony I have, and to be frank, I’m tired of my own voice. I have a gift for you, if you will take it. I hope you will.”
He pushed something he’d been hiding under one claw forwards. It rolled to a stop, and the Wyvern Lord blinked at it.
It was…an orb. The darndest thing, though. The Wyvern Lord had once collected round pieces of clear ice that contained cool things, or tossed them down the mountain and let them become giant avalanches or snowballs…but this was the most fascinating marble he’d ever seen in his life.
There was something in it. The Wyvern Lord waddled forwards and pondered the orb. Then he got too close, and his nose touched what should have been the glass exterior and—
 
——
 
He opened his wings with a shriek of surprise! A trap! The Wyvern Lord blew frost around him, then caught himself. He landed in the middle of the vast, vast space, even for him, and stared around.
The Dragonthrone was thunderously silent. Yet the air…was wonderful to breathe. He heard a voice catching in incredulity.
“Wait. This place again? Why did he show this to us? To brag again…?”
Rags. She’d followed him into this spot, and she was staring around this vast area with familiarity. And wonder—the Wyvern Lord made an inquisitive chirping noise.
So this wasn’t a trap? She shook her head.
“This is…the Dragonthrone. But why?”
He didn’t get it either. The Wyvern Lord inhaled as he kept staring about, then felt the air cooling to a temperature not hot on his scales.
He whirled, and the Dragonlord of Flames stepped out of existence.
“There’s a trick to exiting and entering. You can also control some elements of this place. You can lock a foe inside or hold this place against intrusion—though some beings can enter. Few. I imagine the thrones will be of some use. Cooking, perhaps?”
He indicated the magical thrones set around the vast space, and the Frost Wyvern Lord’s mouth opened. So did Chieftain Rags’ mouth.
He…he was giving this place to the Wyvern Lord? The Dragon might be arrogant, but he was still a Dragon, and the Frost Wyvern Lord might not be good at appraising much, but he could tell how valuable this place was.
“Keep it. I have no use for it other than impressing children and stroking my own ego and memories. But you…you might use it.”
The Dragon seemed like he was in genuine pain as he spoke and regarded the throne of flames behind him. But then he turned, and the Wyvern Lord looked around again and saw it.
His mind sparked a tiny bit as he used all his newfound experiences and understandings to think. Strategerize, like Rags.
This thing was a marble, but it was the biggest place he’d ever seen. Open. Perfect for baby Wyverns to fly about without danger. You could put food in here, and it was cold.
Cold enough for Frost Wyverns not to overheat. And to nest. But you could carry this thing around in one Wyvern’s claws.
It was like a…portable…thingy. A portable home. The Wyvern Lord’s eyes snapped open. He glanced at Rags, who was cupping her chin, eyes flickering as she thought about what this meant as well. She met his gaze, and they shared a thought.
I bet you could fit some Goblins in here too. But—he stared suspiciously at the Dragonlord.
Why him? Why now? Why this? The Dragon merely bared his teeth in a long, painful grin. He opened his good wing and swept it across his chest, then pointed it up at the writing that flashed across the air.
“A gift should be truly worthy. And I…I salute you, worthiest Wyvern of this age. May you carry the story of the silly Dragon with the useful throne across your people for ages to come. Or live. Just…live.”
His eyes clouded over with tears, and he turned away. The Frost Wyvern Lord saw him vanish, and he stood, casting about this unexpected place. He saw Rags watching him and turned to her, but she just waited.
“Well? It’s your choice.”
If he didn’t want it…she’d take it.
 
——
 
The Goblin Chieftain emerged from the Dragonthrone first as Teriarch gulped more wine down and waited.
“Well? Do you think he’ll accept?”
He addressed Rags as she stumped over to the keg for a refill of her cup. Rags hesitated, then took a hand away from the spigot.
“Can I bring this back to Goblinhome? I have more to do, and I can’t be drinking.”
“Of course.”
He waited as she pushed it into her bag of holding, resisting the urge to tell her what a fine and unique vintage it was, unacquirable by anyone today. Teriarch coughed.
“The, ah—it’s a novel idea you’re working on. Not original, but new in its own way. Is that ring from the [Palace of Fates]?”
She glanced at one of the magical rings that Dyeda and Rianchi had bought.
“Yep. It works with modern [Messages]. But I was told it’s hard to…trace. Magically, that is. Is that true?”
He considered the question.
“Certainly, it’s far more adept than current spellcasting. Not impossible. I could do it, but I imagine it is quite satisfactory to your needs. If you are careful about where you use it…yes.”
“Good enough.”
She bared her teeth, and he resisted the urge to ask her about what she was doing—barely. The two waited for the Wyvern Lord as Rags folded her arms.
“Giving your Dragonthrone away isn’t easy, is it?”
“…No. It’s one of the greatest possessions I own.”
He couldn’t even look at it, sitting there, or he’d have the desire to grab it and hide it away. Rags studied Teriarch and nodded.
“If it’s hard, then it’s an actual sacrifice from you. Good. Anything less and I’d have to shoot you.”
“Quite understandable.”
That was all they said as they waited. When the Frost Wyvern Lord did emerge, it was as a shimmering glow of light, illuminating his silhouette, until he translated out of the Dragonthrone. He caught himself, looked around, and then stood still.
His eyes upon the Dragonlord of Flames, who held his breath, half-hoping the Wyvern Lord would refuse, as Rhisveri had done. But then the Wyvern Lord nodded.
 
——
 
The Wyvern Lord saw the Brass Dragon sag slightly as he accepted the gift, and that was how he knew it was important, what Teriarch had been given.
He didn’t really get all of what the orb-thing was. But he saw it in how it was made. The empty thrones were a story, one he was curious about. But most of all…it was just a big, empty place.
The Goblin smiled as the Wyvern Lord put a claw over the small orb, hefting it in one claw. He stared down at the shimmering world within and saw it for what it was. Not a symbol of glory or a Dragon’s legacy passed on. Merely…
A gift. A chance. Suddenly, all the death, the defeats, the tragedy…it wasn’t gone. Not undone. It was still terrible and bad, and his heart ached. But—the Frost Wyvern Lord threw his head back and screamed. A shriek that echoed across the High Passes, and into the Dragonthrone itself, for the first time in millenia.
The sound, not of rage, but of hope. Damned hope, which turned into a roar as the Wyvern Lord burst out of Teriarch’s cave and leapt into the air. Screaming it at his weyr, who took up the call until the mountains shook.
Wyverns, dancing from the sky. The Dragon limped out of his cave and hesitated, but then he roared upwards, once. As he watched frost blooming in the skies overhead, he smiled as snow came falling down and saw, in the flying figures overhead, the memory of Dragons flying.
That was enough. Teriarch basked in the sight for a second and then saw Harpies. He beamed up at the delighted little girl flying high in the sky, screaming his name.
“Well done, child.”
Then—he got back to work. The Goblin Chieftain did likewise. She touched the W-Ring on her finger as she walked outside and glanced up.
“This is Chieftain Rags. I need a pickup. All the Wyverns are busy.”
“Roger that, Chieftain.”
She tapped the different glowing icons in the air and re-opened the conversation the Dragonlord had seen. Rags began typing after a second, fingers dancing over the gleaming letters of the keypad.
So many dead. Two versions of her had died, and she hadn’t done much near the end. Nor throughout the [Palace of Fates]. She’d only fought the Mortemdefieir Titan, gone into a few worlds, survived…she hadn’t died here, only other versions of her.
At the end of this terrible saga, the last [Chieftain] standing fought no great wars across the world. She didn’t draw the blade that the Goblin Lord of Dreams had given her nor fire the revolver of the future. Her wars were harder. She kept typing as the Dragonlord of Flames spied on her—until she turned and glared at him.
Neither one saw the ghost of the little Gnoll girl peeking at them as she halted on her journey back from Ailendamus, gazing at the Goblin, the Dragon, and the sky of dancing Wyverns copying the Harpy Queen.
 
——
 
There. That’s all she needed. Mrsha ran back across the world, clinging to the image of the weeping Duke and the [Knight], trying to fill her heart with the soaring Wyverns. Moments that mattered, that reminded her why tomorrow could be brighter.
A moment of courage and belief…so she could set foot in The Wandering Inn. She had to…
To find her mother.
Mrsha stopped in The Wandering Inn, and it was oddly filled. Not with guests. But the staff, Calanferians, Antinium, and Goblins were a host unto themselves.
The little girl walked up the hill, past weird, round bushes that shuffled around the inn, on guard-duty with glowing-eyed skeletons. Past two piles of damp, black marble just outside the inn. There was nothing notable about them that other people observed, but the girl stopped. To her eyes, they were glowing with a pale, white light. Shining like beacons; one with the pale light that was so familiar to her, a harsh, even imperial radiance, pure and absolute and cold, but not in temperature.
The second pile of marble was infused with a far more radiant glow, green and brown and comforting. Equally familiar to her, and vast. Perhaps only she noticed, right now, or saw how the shamblers and undead seemed to move faster the closer they got to one of the two piles.
It didn’t matter.
Not right now. The girl passed through the closed door, moving down a corridor where an Antinium, Goldbody, and a Calanferian [Servant] were sending people to their destinations. The Soldier would delicately adjust the dial while the young man did the speaking.
They were both slower on the job, and the people in the inn were nervous—but transit was transit. Mrsha listened as the young man argued with an upset Drake.
“Doorkeeper Liska is busy. Excuse me, sir, you’re holding up the line. This is a public service from The Wandering Inn. If you object to an Antinium, you may return where you came from.”
Goldbody nodded and gave the affronted Drakes a look. Not the blank stare of an Antinium Soldier nor the aggressive fury of a killer, but the dead-eyed glower of someone willing to walk off the job, right here and right now.
They didn’t have to be here. They didn’t have to do this. The passengers susurrated and wavered, then waited for the door to open and their line to be called forwards.
Strange.
The girl had assumed the inn would be closed, but it was, in fact, still open, if only the [Door of Portals]. When she passed out of that room and down the broken hallway, shielded by magic from the rains pouring down from above, she saw all the shattered floorboards and splinters had been swept away. Someone had even begun patching the holes, then left their tools and supplies there.
When she entered the common room of the inn, Mrsha saw the staff were putting out food, feeding people. Everyone was moving. Vaulont the Ash, Colfa, and Himilt were here already.
Vaulont was sweeping a broom. Mrsha’s eyes found Nanette placing cups on a tray after Calescent filled them with water and wine. Roots Mrsha was here, even, silently hauling something up from the basement with Ser Dalimont.
Shovels? Mrsha saw Ishkr striding by, snapping orders at Peggy and Rosencrantz. His voice wasn’t loud, but it was…audible. There was a buzz of conversation in the air, but muted.
“Make sure the Knights of Solstice are fed. Put food out for anyone here. Does Goblinhome have enough to eat?”
“Dunno. Door’s busted. They won’t starve in a night. Lots of dead bodies, anyways.”
“I see. We’ll have to fix that. Tomorrow. Rosencrantz, is the Free Hive still preparing for war?”
“I will send someone to re-check, but Bird has explained to the Free Queen the threat is over.”
Bird? Rosencrantz pointed, and Bird was there, standing with Elia Arcsinger by the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. It was open, but no one was going in or out. The door shone, bright light in the dimmer, mundane inn, and Mrsha didn’t understand.
Everyone kept glancing towards it, but no one entered. Bird was making something. She…no, Elia was folding something with her.
Pieces of colorful paper. They were making tiny little birds, bending and twisting the paper until they became miniature works of art. The original Mrsha gazed at them, mystified. She had never known Elia Arcsinger could make such things. In any other time, they would have been fascinating, but Bird wasn’t smiling at the novelty of making the cranes. The Antinium’s fingers were trembling as she placed the third one on the counter.
Why? It was when Mrsha saw Numbtongue, sitting at the bar, staring at the open door, as Octavia stood next to him with a wiggling Reagen in her arms, that she began to understand.
Octavia was speaking to him gently, and the Hobgoblin wasn’t saying a word.
