And there it was. It wasn’t even subtle. The [Senators] exchanged glances and Errif fiddled with a ring on one of his fingers. They glanced at Edellein and did some math.
Shirka. Esor. Another [General]—they could do that. Or they could keep Edellein, who knew the head of each major Guild in Pallass by name. Who was willing to, say, invest more in Engineering Guild projects because it was a vital asset to Pallassian security. And back Senator Errif’s party politics.
Or they could elect another potential Chaldion, who’d get their way. Esor was the logical candidate. Esor could do it. And one of the things he could and would probably do was toss out all the trash.
Which was great. If you were sure you weren’t the trash. That was the maddening strategy Edellein was employing. He stood there, wine cup in hand, offering a drink around.
“Esor doesn’t believe in drinks with friends. Old Chaldion taught him well. Wonderful [Strategist]; we’ll need him in his role as chief strategist of Pallass regardless. But abrasive, you know?”
Pick. Go ahead and do it. His eyes glittered with the calm confidence of a man betting all he had because he had nothing left to lose.
Even as a ghost, Mrsha felt sick as she saw Errif leaning over to Werdin to have a word and saw the writing on the wall. It wasn’t right.
It wasn’t fair, and as they left the party, with Edellein smiling smugly behind them, she felt like this was the worst move the city could make—doubly so because it was not a move the city was deciding.
It wasn’t right.
—Fortunately, it seemed some people agreed with her.
 
——
 
Senator Errif spoke with conviction and sympathy, eyes wide as he adjusted his spectacles and peered over the podium at the gathering of his district. His crowd of four species—Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garuda—were upset, but he projected his voice over all of them, calling for calm.
“Gentlefolk, ladies—I understand you’re in mourning. We all are. But General Edellein is still in command. Until the Assembly of Crafts votes—”
That was as far as he got until another Gnoll leapt to his feet, a City Gnoll of Pallass.
“—Votes? He should be thrown off the 9th Floor! Half of 2nd Army is dead, and he was the idiot who stripped General Shirka of her rank!”
“Sir! Sir, the [Senator] is speaking!”
A few harried officers of the City Watch called out, but they were spread thin; every district was having a meeting. Errif addressed the Gnoll. [Learn Name: Constituent].
“Carrel Wifang, isn’t it? Believe me, I’ve had talks with General Edellein, and it is a shocking tragedy. But no one could predict the Goblin King—who is slain!—or this Goblin Lord. 2nd Army fought bravely, to the last, to bring down one of those monsters.”
He touched his armband, and the room muttered. Many were shocked, but Errif distinctly heard a low voice murmuring.
“They got massacred. What kind of bravery was—”
Errif saw an opportunity and pounced.
“2nd Army’s sacrifice will not be trivialized! I am going to vote to raise the widows’ pensions for every member of the army that fell the moment the Assembly of Crafts opens! They rid the world of a terrible threat!”
He talked over the Gnoll, who eventually sat as he realized he had lost his opportunity to speak. Hands shot up, and someone shouted.
“Question, [Senator]!”
“Go ahead.”
He nodded at a Garuda with a smile, and she opened and closed her beak.
“That Harpy. The Dragons—”
“Confidential to High Command. I am sure they’ll have a statement soon.”
“Then—our [Goblin Slayers]. I saw, during the battle, one of them change forms. Is that—do we have—?”
Errif was sweating faintly under his fur, and he grinned desperately. Damn those [Goblin Slayers], and damn 2nd Army! He wasn’t thinking of the [Soldiers] who had died as people now. Just as a problem he had to fix.
After all, Pallass could eminently replace them with time and funds. General Edellein even had data that showed a round of voluntary conscription would probably more than make up for the losses. Patriotism rose during such disasters; Errif smiled as he gave excuses.
“—every weapon in times of need. They did battle the Goblin King, Miss. Now, ah, if the matter of General Edellein is settled? Rest assured, there will be a vote! The will of the people is heard!”
He thought he had them as the district’s audience muttered, but then that damn Gnoll jumped to his feet again.
“What if we want him gone now? Who the hell needs a vote? No matter what, he’s an incompetent who got everyone killed! 2nd Army didn’t need to die!”
Errif growled at the Gnoll, trying to hide some of his annoyance.
“Mister Wifang. This is a public forum, not a personal place to vent your understandable frustrations. General Edellein made the best calls in the circumstances he could. Unless you think you can lecture the 1st General of Pallass on strategy?”
That should have worked. After all, it wasn’t like this fellow was some kind of strategic mind, and how did you argue with that? But to his surprise…Carrel Wifang folded his arms.
“I may not be a [General], but I’m not half as stupid as that Drake. 2nd Army should have stood down or made peace with the Goblins the moment the Goblin King emerged, not fought to hell and back. That Goblin Lord even said she came after us only because we were attacking! That’s a fur-brained move. It sounds to me like General Shirka didn’t want to fight the Goblins—who fought with us against the Titan? That’s what I heard! In which case, I will call General Edellein an idiot!”
Errif’s mouth opened, and there were gasps and shouts from the audience, but also voices of agreement. Errif tried to appear as incredulous as possible.
“Those Goblins—have you—have you been having too many drinks at The Wandering Inn, Master Carrel?”
Laughter from the audience, and confusion. The Gnoll glowered at Errif.
“No, I’ve never been there. But I do know General Edellein probably got our [Soldiers] slaughtered. Dead gods! I know eighteen Gnolls who died in 2nd Army! Is—why are you so calm about that, [Senator]?”
Carrel was shaking with emotions, and Errif realized that the other Gnoll was glaring at him. On the back foot, the [Senator] raised a paw.
“No one is grieving more than I am, Carrel. But I am thinking of Pallass’ good—”
“General Edellein walked 2nd Army into a [Fireball].”
Someone shouted from the crowd, and Errif howled back.
“That’s enough! High Command was fully in control of the situation the entire time!”
“Then they made the worst calls. We lost two flights of Pallass up in the air because he wouldn’t pull them out. Then that Goblin shot them out of the skies.”
Carrel spoke and Errif paused, as those words silenced the room. How the hell did he know that?
High Command was looking into ‘Fightipilota’, who had joined a list, which included ‘Redscar’ and ‘Rags’, of the most dangerous Goblins on the continent. But the scrying orb hadn’t shown the battle in the air…
“Excuse me? I don’t believe I know what you’re talking about, sir…”
Then, to Errif’s horror, Carrel pulled something out of his belt pouch. A familiar crystal, like the Singer of Terandria’s songs. But when he touched it, a voice echoed through the room.
“You don’t have authority to do that, Wing Commander Asiv. Take that Wyvern out.”
General Edellein’s voice. It was a recording Errif hadn’t heard before. A recording of Edellein speaking with…Wing Commander Asiv.
“What is—how did you get that?”
Carrel shrugged.
“Somewhere. It’s a recording of General Edellein knowing that Goblin was about to kill both wings and refusing air support from Manus. It—”
The recording was going on, and Errif shouted.
“Guards! Arrest that man! He is leaking classified information!”
“What? I have a recording of—are you mad?”
The Gnoll jumped and recoiled as a pair of Watch officers hesitated, then strode forwards. The room erupted into shouting as Errif leapt from behind the podium, trying to get the crystal, turn it off. How had a recording of it reached the public?
What were the Eyes of Pallass doing?
Fifteen minutes later, Senator Errif had stormed out of the meeting, and a dozen people were under arrest for disorderly conduct, assault against a [Senator], and in one case, leaking military secrets. However, the outraged members of Errif’s district followed the Gnoll until they reached the Assembly of Crafts and joined several other groups demanding answers from their [Senators].
The Gnoll girl watched. Then, on a hunch, she floated down through the City of Inventions and found a Drake.
Chaldion of Pallass was snoozing in his chair, drool leaking from a corner of his mouth. He didn’t stir and gave no orders to one of the silent figures waiting in the room next to his. Mrsha prowled around him a few times, eyes narrowed…but he just kept sleeping.
After a while, she vanished. The Drake kept sleeping, an amused smile on his lips.
 
——
 
Consequences. So many people had entered this world—but few had the inclination to stay.
This was not their fate, and…there was a version of them here already with their own destinies to take on.
That was why the Archmage of Barriers had left; how could the original Montressa grow if she was suddenly in the shadow of such an accomplished version of herself?
Most of all, it just…wasn’t their world.
“I would rather fly into that world beyond, Your Majesty, and have a life of my own. That may be selfish, but upon my hats, both of them, it is what I wish and what I will do. We all have a choice. Thinking you do not is the terrible lie we tell ourselves.”
That was what Pebblesnatch had told Laken Godart as she prepared to go. He sat, drumming his fingers on the table, an empty bowl in front of him in his house.
She’d cooked him a meal in his home in Riverfarm as they’d had a conversation. Shorter than both had wanted, and part of it in German, no less. Her diction had been excellent.
The Witch of Repasts. He got it, really. He’d never again be able to hear Pebblesnatch running around and banging her ladle on her cauldron without thinking of that older version of her in his head.
Would older Pebblesnatch have led her younger self down the same path as a [Witch]? Or was it just one fate that might await the little Cave Goblin?
Certainly, the [Witches] who’d returned from their battle with the Goblin King seemed to be regarding Pebblesnatch as a possible apprentice. They were all alive, which was a stroke of luck.
Hedag was being tended to, but the rest of them were all on their feet—Laken winced in his home.
“More or less. Gamel? One of the [Witches] just hit a tree. I think they broke their leg. Send a [Healer].”
“Yes, Your Majesty!”
—They were practicing flying brooms. Because the future had come calling and told them it might be wise to remember how to fly.
Pebblesnatch had talked with Laken a lot about the future. In a way, it was a full-circle event. In the past, he’d gotten advice from Tamaroth about the future and used it to guide the Unseen Empire. This time…a Goblin [Witch] had stopped by to tell Laken about the world she knew.
“Was für ein verdammtes Durcheinander.“
Laken muttered to himself. He rubbed at his face, weary. Then twisted around in his chair. He needed Rie and…plans. But most of all, he really wished he’d asked Pebblesnatch about Durene.
Was there a chance…? The Unseen Emperor had a feeling the Goblin would have just laughed at him. Then Laken’s mind strayed to the Empress of Wings.
The version of the future that had spoken to him and judged his worth. He wondered what she had seen. So, Laken sat back in his chair and listened for the sound of wings. He sighed as he heard the scream of another [Witch] hitting a tree.
 
<Title – Recognized by the Empress of Wings Obtained!>
[Title Skill – Levy the Satrapy (Birds) Granted!]
 
As for his new Skill…he had no actual idea what it meant. But Laken Godart suddenly had plans to entice a population of birds to join his colony. He could always do crows…but he sort of felt like that was Mavika’s thing.
Mostly, though…Laken sighed as he slumped over his table. A gift from the Empress of Wings and valuable information from the future was all very well for someone who’d failed to be the pivotal actor in this event—or even more than a minor part.
—But with that said, he couldn’t help but feel a tiny bit jealous that the Witch of Repasts hadn’t stayed. Or if she had to go…he just felt a tiny bit jealous, which he knew was crass of him. However—he couldn’t help it.
 
——
 
The Goblins in the Goblin Lands of the Unseen Empire were keeping their heads down, in a literal sense, after the return of the Goblin King. Most of them were not outside; they’d retreated to the tunnels they’d dug in the mountains or the underground cellars they’d been working on.
After all, it was harder to spellstrike what you couldn’t see. Of course, some of them were willing to be out and about, if only to reassure the Riverfarm people who kept coming by to reassure them that they were the ‘good Goblins’.
Which, at this point, was better than par for the course, so the Goblins only poked the people saying that and asked who the ‘bad’ Goblins were a few times.
But mostly, they were just asking the same questions as everyone else. What the heck had happened? A few were going to sneak off to The Wandering Inn later and see if the workers there would spill the beans.
All of them were uncertain, except for one little Goblin, who was always uncertain, but also—
Well, she’d had a strange visitor come by the Goblin Lands. A [Witch] who knew everyone, including Leafarmor and Raidpear, and had talked a lot about complex things and left everyone thinking big thoughts.
—But she’d singled out one little Cave Goblin, because, obviously, you had to pay your respects to the [Cook].
…That was Pebblesnatch’s theory, at any rate. She’d never seen a Cave Goblin like the [Witch] who called herself the ‘Witch of Repasts’. She’d refused to tell Pebblesnatch her name, and Raidpear had just shaken his head when Pebblesnatch asked who she was afterwards. Then he’d given her a weird look—which everyone had been doing, even the [Emperor]. And he didn’t even open his eyes normally!
It was a mystery, and Pebblesnatch wasn’t good at those. So she lay on her stomach, on the grass, peeking up at the skies now and then to make sure no bolts of lightning were coming down, resting her head in her hands. She was very happy, confusion or not.
