They say beauty is in the eye of the beholder, and mine have never beheld such beauty before today.

Not to say I haven’t seen my fair share over the course of two lifetimes. Take my home here in the Saint’s Tribulation Mountains for example, with all of its dazzling vistas. We have verdant forest greenery as far as the eye can see, with multiple roaring waterfalls and nestled valleys within a day’s hike, to say nothing of the breathtaking cliffside views overlooking vast swathes of the Northern Province. If nature isn’t your thing, the village itself has plenty to see, such as all the pleasing architecture with its rounded edges, bilateral symmetrically, and wide-open spaces. Then there’s the various works of local sculptors, weavers, artists, potters, and calligraphers who have become world renowned over the last decade, all scattered about as monuments to our heroes of yesteryear. My personal contribution can be seen in the many stained-glass workings set in wrought iron panes, though I merely rattled off the idea and better minds ran off with it. Didn’t think it’d give rise to a craze that’s got every household in the village sporting a stained-glass window, typically depicting a character that espouses some value like honour or courage, or more simply, a weapon like the spear, sword, or bow. Make no mistake, despite all the industrialization and modernization going around, this is a village of Warriors first, for the trials and tribulations of our mountain home is not for the faint of heart.

There are plenty of other examples of beauty to be found, in all sorts of shapes and sizes. Me though? I’m most partial to the beauty of the feminine form. A dimpled cheek, a freckled shoulder, a smouldering gaze, curved hips, or heaving breasts, all this and so much more is what comes to mind first and foremost when I think of beauty. Not without reason, as I am most fortunate to have so many beautiful wives to love, adore, and appreciate. Today however, I find myself appreciating a different kind of beauty, one I’ve been denied for too long. That’s the catch, isn’t it? You always want what you can’t have, and ever since I woke one day at twelve years young with the memories of two, admittedly fractured, lifetimes, I have yearned for this beauty before me. For years, I felt the absence in my mornings and spent evenings dreaming of what may come, and after so much blood, sweat, and effort, my dreams have finally come true.

Today, I reclaim the throne that has been denied me for so long, and more than that, the dignity lost without it. I am known across the Empire as the Savage Divinity, a title I bore with indignation and accepted because the words rang true. No more though, however, as from henceforth, I shall be known as the man who brought the Empire, nay, the Divinity who graced humanity with dignity and aplomb to separate man and beast forevermore.

“It’s so beautiful,” I say, choking back a tiny sob as I take it all in, my emotions threatening to overwhelm me in my moment of triumph. “Thank you for making this happen.”

“Don’t see what all the fuss is about. It’s just a – ”

“Shh-shh-shhhhhh.” Holding up a finger to forestall Dastan’s blasphemy, I wave him away, for his work here is done. “Thank you my friend, but you don’t want to be here for what comes next. You’ve trained long and hard to bring us here, and now I must be alone.”

“Whatever you say, boss.” Giving me a little mock salute that does nothing to spoil my mood, Dastan asks, “We still on for tonight?”

“Yes. Bring your axe,” I add, reminding him that there is still work to be done.

Dastan chuckles, showing he doesn’t understand just how important tonight is. He was was always good at following orders though, so he doesn’t ask any questions. “Will do, bossman.”

Though it’s a little rude not to see him off, my friendship with Dastan can withstand this much, so I simply nod and let him find his own way out. Walking up to my throne, I take in its smooth, porcelain curves and the polished wooden seat I carved with my own two hands. It almost doesn’t seem real, and I reach out to stroke the cool, rectangular water tank, ignoring all the ugly bronze piping that we couldn’t hide because drywall isn’t a thing. “Thank the Heavens,” I whisper, and with no one around to see me, I leave the door open and drop trough, before shuffling around in a small half circle with my pants and underwear dangling around my ankles. Would be easier to step out of them, but this is the way I always pooped in my past life, and by God this is how I’ll poop from here on out.

As my cheeks come to rest upon the cold, hard wood, I sit up straight, then slouch a bit before trying to remember what I do with my hands. Fold them across my lap? Rest elbows on knees and lean forward? Hands on knees instead? Should I install armrests? No that would be weird. What about back support? Nah, too much. Least the seat is the right height this time, not too high and not too low, so my knees have a little bend in them, yet not so much I gotta squat. Heaving a sigh, I fiddle about with my posture for a little more before finally giving up, because something just doesn’t feel right. What though? I got the tile floors and the tub across from me, my shirt pulled to one side, and my stomach churning with anticipation. Everything seems just right, so why do I feel like there’s something missing? Wracking my brain for a long minute, I come up empty on what it might be, until I reach up to scratch the back of my head and incidentally look down at my feet, which are feeling a little cold.

And are spread a little more than shoulder width apart, about as far as my pants will stretch. Why though? I mean, I get why, but I don’t have to strain the fabric to sit comfortably, except I feel that it’s necessary. A natural movement made without thought, and it takes a whole lot of thinking before I understand why, the answer to which lies in the undignified puddle formed by my pants and underwear. While it might not look like much, this too is a throne, one reserved for the same furry butt in this life and the last. The memories of my sweet, brown-furred doggo squeezing his fat ass in between my ankles come flooding back, always eager to keep watch while I do my business the same way he thinks I keep watch for him when we go out on our walks, only he likes to keep watch from a place of warmth and comfort.

Dogs and boxers are akin to cats and boxes. If it fits, it sits.

That’s how it is with the memories these days, trickling in bit by bit or flooding back without warning, and I’m still not quite sure whether I am Rayne, Falling Rain, or Amigui first and foremost. A question asked all too many times before, one I have no answer for, so instead I turn my mind to a more pertinent question.

Where’s Buddy?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The piteous whine was a heart-breaking sound, a plaintive supplication that brought to mind images of drought and famine, but Alsantset would not be fooled again.

“Enough whining,” she snapped, and the sound cut off forthwith, only to be replaced by the most mournful, doleful stare in existence as Buddy hung his head low and opened his brown eyes wide, peering up at her in hopeful misery from the kitchen floor. “And sit properly,” she added, refusing to give in to the canine’s wily ways. The dog made no effort to heed this command, retaining his ungainly posture with his back feet splayed out to one side, instead of sitting with his feet under him like a proper hound should. Of course, that only added to Buddy’s charm, as he was not what one might call dignified, or even handsome and fetching. No, her brother’s hound was an awkward and unseemly creature, with loose skin, long, floppy ears, and all the grace of a drunk, excited child. It made him a poor subject for all the portraits, carvings, and statues so many artisans thought to make, but he had an irresistibly wretched sort charm, one that had her reaching for treats before she thought better of it and snapped at him again. “Stop that. You ate breakfast not five minutes ago, then stole breakfast from Banjo and Baloo.” Turning to the bashful bears whose posture was just as ungainly as they sat upon her kitchen floor, Alsantset scolded them too. “And you two? How can you sit there and let Buddy eat your breakfast? He is one tenth your size and a mere fraction of your weight, yet all you do is cower and watch as he steals your food. Disgraceful.”

The bears dipped their heads at the sound of her tone, for they could not understand her words. Buddy certainly seemed to however, licking his chops and glancing back at the two bears sitting by their empty bowls. There was not a hint of guilt in that little beast’s heart, of this much, she was sure, for Buddy’s only regret was the fact that he was caught, which was why Alsantset had to prepare more food for her brother’s spoiled pets, or his ‘fur babies’ as he loved to call them. Thankfully only around family, as even he had enough shame to keep such things hidden from most.

“You are both old enough to hunt and forage for yourselves,” she grumbled, ignoring the bears as they sidled up alongside her to sniff at the food she was preparing. They made sure to rub their heads against her shoulders too, as if a show of affection would see them fed sooner. It’d been many years since Banjo and Baloo could be considered small, and now they towered even above the tallest person in the village when stood upon their hind legs, and just barely matched her in height while they sat on their furry rear ends. Their size meant little however, save to show just how gentle and useless they truly were, always carefully watching where they placed their oversized paws so as not to squash anyone or anything underfoot. Left to their own devices, they would likely starve within the week, or be killed by the first person they approached to beg food from, so Alsantset rationalized her efforts as a life-saving measure to keep these bears from gracing some unlucky hunter’s floor in the form of a fur pelt.

And that same hunter’s head from gracing a spike outside her little brother’s manor…

As for the culprit responsible for her extra efforts, Buddy’s quiet pleas grew more and more insistent until he was all but assaulting her calves, pushing his head and rubbing his shoulder against them as he weaved in and around her ankles. When that didn’t work, he started whimpering too, a soft and quiet cry that struck her like a dagger to the heart. There was Aura at work there, the cunning little thief literally tugging heartstrings to see himself fed. It wouldn’t work, as he’d eaten more than his fair share this morning, and would be fed by many others before noon, so she held the line and ignored him as best she could.

Not all that well of course, because when it came time for the bears to eat, she scooped up the furry little bandit and hugged him close as he tried to wiggle free from her embrace. Only for a bit though, as he gave himself over to her fingers as she rubbed his soft head and laughed at the sight of his eyes rolled up in sheer delight. “What is with you today?” she asked, exasperated by his antics. “Stealing, begging, even using Aura now? If I did not know any better, I would think you had not eaten for days, while I know for a fact you ate like a king just last night.”

A giggle from the doorway stole her attention away, and she glanced over to see her sweet daughter standing in the doorframe. “I don’t think you can make fun of Uncle Rainy anymore,” Tali said, skipping over to give the sweet hound a kiss on the nose. “Not if you’re also talking to the animals too.”

Feeling her cheeks colour, Alsantset huffed and reached out to pull her daughter into a hug. “You will tell no one, and I will overlook how you have kisses for this worthless hound, but not for the mother who raised you.”

Giving her a quick peck on the cheek, Tali giggled and pranced away, before opening the icebox which set Buddy to wiggling up a storm. There was no holding onto him anymore, not with his loose skin keeping her from getting a good grip, so Alsantset let go and shook her head as Buddy hopped out of her arms and went crashing to the ground. He didn’t land hard, as he knew well enough to Lighten himself now, and his claws clicked against the floor as he scrambled to get his legs under him. Darting over to Tali’s side, he promptly sat down and lifted his right paw, then the left paw, then spun about in a circle, rolled over onto his back, and hopped up onto his hind legs all without prompting, going through all the tricks he might be called upon to perform in his haste to receive his treat.

It wasn’t that he couldn’t understand the commands. Buddy was perfectly capable of parsing complex sentences; he merely lacked the patience to sit still and wait for them at this particular moment.

As extraordinary as her brother’s hound might be, Buddy was first and foremost a dog, and not even a working dog like those kept by shepherds or hunters all across the Empire. In his defense, Buddy’s eagerness was understandable since sweet Tali was an indulgent sort, happy to break into her personal stash of Spiritual berries to share with the greedy little hound, who reacted with sheer delight as she threw him one, then a second and a third in quick succession. None of which he caught mind you, his snapping jaws missing the mark each and every time only to lap his prize up off the floor with a complete lack of decorum. When it became clear no more berries were to be shared, he whimpered, tapped his front feet a few times, then went to lick the floor clean of any and all berry juice while watching Tali’s hands like a hawk.

