“A promise I believe you intend to keep,” Alsantset said, “Yet I notice you made no mention of how your friends might behave. Little Tali will be most upset if she learns you set them upon her prospective husband in an effort to scare him away.”

“Not away,” Rain protested, but he had the good sense to look ashamed. “Just… you know. Put a little fear in him and see how he takes it. Can’t have little Tali marrying a wilting flower, now can we? If the kid can’t handle Dastan, Ravil, Wang Bao, and a couple others, I don’t see him faring well when the Royals come a knocking. Or worse.”

A surprisingly logical rationale for sending thuggish veteran Peak Experts to threaten a young man of twenty-two. At least he didn’t ask Siyar to help out, and Ulfsaar had mellowed quite a bit in the years since, which meant Talbur had a chance of making it through the dinner untraumatized. Not a good chance, yet a chance nonetheless, meaning little Rain actually somewhat approved of the boy. “Though Talbur has been courting Tali for years now,” Alsantset began in a soft tone to humour her little brother, “And tonight’s affair will be restricted to family and close friends, this dinner will be the first public acknowledgement of their relationship. I would say such an event would be stressful enough, without your former underlings glaring at the young man the entire night.” Until now, Alsantset and Charok had only met Talbur’s parents in private, while the boy was introduced as Tate’s friend as opposed to Tali’s paramour. A distinction only made necessary thanks to little Rain’s high profile, but the parties involved had accepted the necessity with minimal pushback. Especially young Talbur, who cared nothing for little Rain’s status, as the same could not be said for the plethora of Imperial dandies and fops who unsuccessfully tried to catch Tali’s attention over the last few years.

If only sweet Tate was as wise and level-minded as his sister, instead of going moon-eyed at every pretty face. Thankfully, Alsantset need never fret about any Imperial ladies appearing on her doorstep with an ivory-haired babe in her arms...

Burying his face in Baloo’s fur, Rain let loose a muted growl of pure frustration. “Fine,” he said, stretching out the word like a petulant teen being told to finish their chores before going out. “I’ll tell them to leave their weapons at home and behave.”

“And you?”

“I’ll… limit my glaring, but there’s only so much I can do.”

Which was about the best Alsantset could hope for, so thought it best to move on. “Good. Now, before I return to help my domineering daughter prepare for tonight’s all-important dinner, was there some pressing reason you were looking for Buddy?”

“Oh right.” Popping his head up with a look of delight, he pointed towards his house next door. “The toilet is working now. You should try it out. I was going to, but I couldn’t because Buddy wasn’t around, and then I realized I couldn’t sense him, which is weird.” Which made no sense whatsoever, and Alsantset knew better than to ask. “No worries though,” Rain continued. “He’s probably at the school like always, making sure the local kids arrive safe and pestering Yan for treats. I’ll pop in during the morning break and pick him up then, so I don’t make a big spectacle of things.” Pausing a bit, little Rain gave her a look, one brimming with serious concern. “About Tate,” he began, and though she knew where this was going, she also knew she had to appear strong, because powerful though her little brother might be, he still had his weaknesses, chief among them being his love for his family. “If you think it’s too dangerous, then I’ll tell him the same and keep him from running off.”

“No,” Alsantset replied, and now it was her turn to sigh. “You are right. We cannot shelter him forever, and he is as ready as he will ever be.”

“What about you?” Hearing something in his tone, Alsantset glanced at her little brother and found him uncharacteristically somber. “Are you ready? Because I almost lost you once already, and cannot bear to lose you forever. Eternity is a long time after all, so I’ll need my big sister to keep me honest.”

Leave it to little Rain to get all melancholic about immortality. It was rare for him to come right out and say it, but clearly he hoped that everyone he loved would progress to Divinity alongside him, even if it was less than the perfect True Divinity he himself had attained. A lofty ambition, one she feared beyond even his considerable grasp. “I make no promises,” she said, pulling him in close for a one-armed hug. “I can only say that I will strive to progress as far along the Martial Path as I can.”

“Shouldn’t call it that,” Rain grumbled, which was the beginnings of a long and tired argument. “It implies the only Path to Divinity is through strength of arms, when it really isn’t.”

“Yes, yes,” she interjected, patting his head before standing up and dusting herself off to avoid listening to his rant. “Unfortunately, your niece is a harsh taskmistress, so I must return to the kitchen without delay. When my husband makes his way back, do not distract him lest he suffer her wrath, for there is still much to be done before tonight’s dinner is ready after all.”

Leaving her little brother to watch over her son, Alsantset allowed herself one last glance into the courtyard before heading back into the kitchen. There was a time when she’d have found him still brooding over his worries, but he was already happily playing with his bears again, chasing them about and rolling about the grass in a wholly undignified manner. Peace suited him in ways she never thought possible, and she was happy to see it. He’d suffered and sacrificed enough already, so if he wanted to spend the next few decades amongst family and friends, then he deserved it. As he himself said, eternity was a long time after all, and life being what it was, he was certain to loved ones along the way, while she suspected that deep down, he knew as much too.

Such was life after all, trials and tribulations without end, which was why she was happy to see little Rain enjoying these peaceful and carefree times while he still could.
