Hands holding berries for the bears, which the thieving hound once again tried to snatch, but greedy though he might be, even he wasn’t daring enough to snap at Tali’s fingers, so all Buddy could do was spin, hop, whimper, and watch as the bears gently ate their treats out of her hands.

Right up until he noticed Tali had left the icebox open, only a heartbeat before Alsantset recognized what he meant to do next.

Awkward and ungainly though he might be, Buddy was still a Divine Beast, one capable of miracles when the situation called for it. Covering the distance in a single bound, he stuck his head into the icebox and emerged with the entire basket of berries caught between his jaws. The look he exchanged with Alsantset was one of sheer disbelief, as if he himself didn’t expect to succeed, no more than she believed he had the audacity to even try. Something in her gaze drove him to action though, and he ran off without so much as a single yip, leaping over the counter and soaring out the open kitchen window into the skies as he Cloud-stepped away with his prize.

Years ago, when her Warrior instincts were well-honed and her reflexes at their peak, she might well have caught Buddy before he reached the icebox. She most certainly would’ve caught him as he emerged, or at least stopped him from making it out the window, but almost a full decade of safety and indolence had dulled her edge greatly. So much so that she failed to even react until he was away clear and free, while sweet Tali stood frozen in open-mouthed shock, unsure whether she should be angry or amused.

Well, no sense letting her daughter know just how far from grace her mother had fallen. “Let that be a lesson to you,” Alsantset proclaimed in an even and unhurried tone, as if she could have stopped the hound and simply chose not to. “Always close the icebox when you are done. Ice is not free, after all.”

Difficult to instil proper values in the girl, especially with an overindulgent uncle living next door. This was a lesson Tali would not soon forget however, and a costly one at that. An entire basket full of Spiritual berries was a priceless bounty, one even the Emperor could not often enjoy, so to lose them all to a mere dog was even more of a disgrace. Tali took it in stride however, with only a modicum of grumbling, since she had no one to blame but herself. Also because she likely knew her Uncle Rainy would make it up to her and then some, and she had other things on her mind, like tonight’s all-important dinner which Tali had woken up bright and early to prepare for.

The sweet girl had come a long way since making dumplings for her Uncle Rainy, as she was now a full-fledged Chef in her own right. An unfamiliar title bestowed upon her by that same uncle, though he was unable to explain the difference between a cook and a Chef. Regardless of the title, Tali had learned everything her parents could teach her with regards to her culinary arts, and she was dead set on putting her skills on display for tonight’s affair. Always happy to lend her precious daughter a hand, Alsantset busied herself with the prep work while Tali listed the menu out loud, reaffirming she had everything she would need for this most important meal. “Lamb poached in chili oil, braised pork shoulder, and pan-fried fish filets to wrap in the steamed flat buns, with spring onions, cucumbers, and lettuce for extra texture. That’s to start,” Tali began, before taking a deep breath and continuing. “Then crispy duck, steamed fish with taro root, fried pork belly with pickled mustard, and ginger scallion chicken for the main dishes. For dessert, we have an assortment of sweet buns filled with taro, red bean, custard, and sesame paste, as well as a sweet herbal soup to be served hot. Is that enough?”

“Mh.” Rather than answer, Alsantset made a noncommittal sound, then pretended like she didn’t notice her daughter’s consternation. After a count of five, she looked up to find Tali’s worried pout waiting to greet her, to which she gave a little shrug and asked, “No dumplings? You know how much your father and uncle love them.”

Rolling her eyes, Tali huffed and scrunched her nose before setting to work, and Alsantset watched her daughter fondly while helping out. Outside, she could hear her son hard at work with his Martial training, ever eager to join his grandparents out in the Western province. Even after so many years, there were still pockets of Defiled hiding out in the desert sands, so Papa and Mama would lead a Sentinel patrol out every spring and return in the winter. A part of Alsantset was proud to see the Warrior her sweet Tate had grown into, a stoic and sturdy young man with an athletic frame and a smile that stole the hearts of all who saw it, but the mother in her hoped that he would never have to ride out and do battle, for war was a chaotic and unpredictable affair. Doubly so with how many enemies little Rain had made, enemies he paid no mind to because they were so beneath his notice, so the quickest way to catch it would be through the people he loved, and he still doted on little Tate so.

It wasn’t Rain’s fault. A powerful man attracted powerful enemies, and there were few enemies who could threaten Rain directly. Which meant the rest of them were safest staying here under his watch, while Papa and Mama had long since shared their plans with Alsantset should they ever be taken prisoner, namely that they would seek to die fighting or kill themselves so that they could not be used against him. With Grandmother also there to watch over them, there was little chance of that happening, but two hands cannot block four swords. A single Divinity protector might not be enough, though Alsantset suspected Rain had his own safeguards in place to keep their parents protected.

And Grandmother too, though the Herald of the Storm would balk to hear it. Carefree though he may appear, there was no one more paranoid than Falling Rain, and he knew full well what the greatest threats might be.

As if summoned by the mere thought of him, Rain poked his head through the kitchen window, the very same window Buddy absconded from not an hour ago. “Hi sis,” he said, grinning like a fool before ducking back out to avoid her scowl. Scurrying around to come through the door like a proper person should, he gave her a big hug and a small peck on the cheek to make up for the undignified greeting and appearance, wholly unbefitting a man of his status. Doubly so now that the bears were throwing themselves at him, though their enthusiastic, full-bodied greetings were unable to shift his dishevelled frame even a single centimetre. “And who’s this young lady hard at work in your kitchen? I didn’t know you’d hired a professional chef for tonight’s dinner. Hello, I’m Falling Rain. And you are?”

Huffing in mock anger, Tali refused to turn around and greet him. “Not today, Uncle Rainy.”

“What?” It was adorable how genuinely crestfallen Rain seemed when Tali refused to play their game, though that didn’t stop him from hugging his bears and massaging their cheeks. “No, no, you’re supposed to giggle and say, ‘It’s Tali, Uncle Rainy’, and then I go ‘What? Little Tali? Impossible, you’re just a little girl about this high with pigtails. How can this young woman before me be Tali?”

“Not in the mood.” Leaving off her stirring, Tali rounded on the most powerful man in the Empire with her fists on her hips, and to Alsantset’s amusement, Rain truly flinched. Most men with so much strength would let it get to their heads, but her little brother was the same sweet, silly man he’d always been. Sillier, if she were being honest, and happier too, though we still had his melancholic moments and was often plagued by doubts and indecisions. There was none of that this morning however, as he seemed utterly carefree, and more than happy to cower before his beloved niece as she took him to task for his little dog’s crimes. “Less than an hour ago, Buddy stole all my berries, the special ones Uncle Taddy gave me that I was going to use to make sweet tarts. Took them right out of the fridge, basket and all, bold and daring as can be.”

“That… sounds exactly like something he’d do,” Rain said, instantly conceding before his niece. “In fact, now that I think about it, I’m kinda surprised he hasn’t done it before. Weird that he ran off with the basket instead of just eating all the berries in one go, but he is not a smart dog. How’d he get in anyways? Did you leave the icebox open?”

“Whether I left it open or not is irrelevant,” Tali replied, looking away to hide her guilt. “Banjo and Baloo can open the icebox easily, but they know better than to steal, and Buddy should too.”

“You are absolutely right and I shouldn’t have even asked,” Rain said, again conceding without a fight, and Alsantset shook her head to see it. To the rest of the Empire, Falling Rain was the Savage Divinity, the man who slew the Uniter and almost single-handedly turned back the Defiled invasion. To the other Divinities, he was the first True Human Divinity, though what that actually meant was a matter for debate. As far as she could tell, it simply meant her little brother was far more powerful than any other Divinity in existence, to the point where none cared to even test him, not after hearing how he killed the Eternal Emperor, a powerful Divinity few even knew existed. Even Grandmother stopped trying to spar with him when it became clear just how outmatched she really was. It wasn’t a matter of martial skill anymore, not when little Rain was capable of controlling his weapons without even having to touch them, summoning waves of water to wash you away, or Cloud-Stepping out of sight and Concealing himself so well you could step on his foot and never notice.

And that was simply the tip of the spear, as Rain had yet to truly push the limits of his strengths, and Alsantset prayed he would never have to.

Which was why she could smile and look fondly upon her little brother as he kowtowed to his niece, promising to replace what Buddy had stolen and then some as he slowly backed out of the kitchen. “At least that explains why I can’t find the dumb dog,” Rain said, with one foot out the door as the bears tried to drag him outside to play, while he acted as if they were merely eager little cubs rather than fully grown bears weighing a half-tonne each, if not more. “Dropped by to ask if you knew where he was, but I suppose he’s in deep hiding until he forgets he committed a grave crime. So maybe a few more minutes, give or take.”

“Remember, I want you on your best behaviour for dinner tonight,” Tali shouted. “No pranks or antics, understood?”

“Absolutely,” Rain lied, and Alsantset had to look away before she broke out into laughter, because her little brother had yet to learn how to keep a straight face. “There’ll be no pranks, antics, shenanigans, or mischief of any sort from me, no ma’am.”

Showing she still had much to learn, Tali studied her uncle’s face and nodded. “Good.” Then, with a display of wisdom that went beyond her years, she turned to her mother and quietly implored her to make sure. Reaching out to pinch her little girl’s cheek, Alsantset washed her hands and marvelled once again at how wonderous it was to have running water inside the house, instead of having to keep a basin of water separate for washing only. Drying her hands on a cloth, she stepped out to find the most powerful person alive rolling around in the courtyard with the bears, flinging one up high into the air while wrestling the other before having them switch places with effortless ease.

Only to catch his eye and devilish grin a moment too late as he lobbed a bear in her direction and shouted, “Catch!”

There was no time for thought, only action as the fuzzy, oversized projectile arced towards her, and she fell back on her tried and true training. A single breath was all it took to find One with the Self and One with the World, and her Domain billowed out around her, a shroud of energy projected beyond her Internal Core into the real world which stretched less than a centimetre past her skin. This External working of Domain Augmented her strength, speed, and durability, enough so that she should be able to support Baloo’s weight, whose adorable expression was a mixture of glee and anticipation as he tumbled head over heels through the air with mouth open, eyes wide, and hind paws clutched tightly in his claws. Strength of body alone would not be enough to catch the foolish bear though, because even if she let him crash into her chest and caught him with both arms outstretched, it might well prove to be too much force applied over too narrow an area and cause injury to them both. She knew well the theory behind Domain Plating, had read the prepared primers front to back on multiple occasions and attended countless lectures on the subject over the years. Despite all her efforts however, success had eluded her in her many prior attempts, and she suspected would continue to do so for some years yet.

Which Rain knew, and he would never risk injury to her or his bears, which meant he would most certainly step in before either one of them was hurt.

…

