When did Alsantset become someone who relied on others to keep her safe? A question asked and answered in the same breath, for she’d long since realized the cause. In the final battle against the Uniter and his hordes of Defiled, she’d been skewered by the Mataram Patriarch’s spear while keeping her little brother safe. It was less a decision and more a reaction, but if she were to do it all over again, she would not change a single thing. According to those who saw it, she might well have actually died, only for her soul to be snatched back from the very precipice of reincarnation by Rain. That was more or less the end of her part in the war however, as the Healing left her weakened and helpless, and after the death of the Uniter, there was little else for her to do save accompany Rain back to Central and leave the Royal Guardians and Death Corps to hold their foothold in the west.

That was more than ten years ago, and Alsantset had not been in battle since. Not for a lack of opportunity, as there were Defiled warbands and enterprising Warlords aplenty to do battle with in the interim. She always had an excuse on hand to avoid conflict though. It’d been so easy, as she’d done plenty, and Rain did too, so when he started to take a hands-off approach to the remainder of the war, she followed suit. These days, she was less a Warrior and more a Mother, a Teacher, or even a researcher if the need called for it, helping Rain, Yan, and Grandpa Du develop a standardized Path for all to follow. They left the war in Papa’s capable hands, and though he enjoyed plenty of success in those first few years, between politics and general fatigue, he had to fight tooth and nail for the sustained support necessary to reclaim the entire province, which was why there were still hotspots of Defiled and rebel activity there to this day.

Of course, it wasn’t as if Alsantset had abandoned the Martial Path out of fear of death. She would still fight if called upon, with the only difference being she was far less likely to volunteer out of hand. That’s why she was so worried about Tate, because she wanted to be there to watch over him in his first battle, yet she was not looking forward to returning to the battlefield, for she was uncertain if she was truly prepared.

It was one thing to die for your family, but another altogether to come back to life and risk it all a second time.

All this and more flowed through her mind as she realized what her little brother was doing. At risk to poor Baloo no less, who she would not allow to come to harm, for he was as much a part of her family as her own children. Nor would she rely on another to see him safe, for she was Alsantset, a mother, daughter, and Warrior of the People. As Baloo passed through her Domain, she exerted her Will upon him and exercised the Authority bestowed upon her by the Heavens Above to support his entire body in a cushion of Plated Domain. This was not enough to keep him from injury, so she stepped aside and turned while bringing him along with her, guiding his momentum away from the house and back until it had played out enough for her to catch him, an effort of Will and Domain that left her spent and breathless.

To which the bear responded by bouncing in her arms and licking her face, which roughly translated into, ‘Again please’.

After putting him gently back on the ground, Alsantset turned her glare upon her brother. No longer the wilting flower he’d been in his youth, he grinned like a pleased wildcat while emanating pride and confidence in his big sister, as if the thought of her failure never entered into his mind. “Congratulations on progressing yet another step along your Path,” he said, leaning over to ‘catch’ Baloo as the bear ran in and tackled him to the ground. Only because Rain allowed it however, and Banjo joined in with their games soon after, leaving Alsantset glaring at nothing at all. It didn’t take long to sort the bears out, and Rain soon had them both reclining on their backs with their heads nestled in his arms like the big babies that they were. “I knew you could do it.”

Difficult to argue against the facts, or even his methods considering how they’d pushed him in the past, so all she could do was accept his congratulations with grace. “Any particular reason for the push, or was it merely done on a whim?” Difficult to say really, for even though it seemed like Rain had plans within plans, he was prone to bouts of impulse and acting without thought at the worst of times. It had all worked out for the best thus far, and lately, he’d become even bolder about it as he came to understand truths that the rest of them had yet to uncover.

“Well, I spoke to Tate over there before popping in,” Rain replied, nodding over towards where her son was hard at work practicing the Forms. “He said he’s determined to fight on the Western Front and will leave with the next group whether you agree to it or not. Asked if I had a place for him with one of my friends, and said he’d run off to join the army proper if I didn’t. I told him I’d think about it, and I have. I think he’s ready.”

A pang of guilt flashed through her as she came to terms with the truth at hand, that she’d been holding her son back out of fear for not just his safety, but her own as well. Tate was a man grown, twenty-two and yet to fight in his first battle, which meant he was almost five years behind his peers. The issue was that he was a passable young warrior at best, lacking the instincts or talents to separate himself from the chaff. It would take years of dedicated training to make up for his shortcomings, and it pained her to think what might become of him on the battlefield where even Peak Experts were never safe. What’s more, Tate’s smile was so bright and cheery, she couldn’t bear the thought of seeing it fade when faced with the harsh realities of war and suffering, an ugly truth she’d kept hidden from her children for as long as she could. Despite everyone’s best efforts, there was still much work to be done in the Western Province, with dark days aplenty left to be had by all. Better if Tate stayed here in the North to pick up a trade than subject himself to all that, except her sweet boy dreamt of being a war hero like his grandfather and uncle, a dream he would not be dissuaded from.

Though there was no judgement to be found in Rain’s amber eyes, it was clear he was aware of her inner struggles. “We can’t protect him from everything,” he said, offering her a sad shake of his head in response to her unspoken request. “And if I go with him, it might well put him in even more danger. Better if he goes with you, his heroic mother who will stop at nothing to keep him safe, with a full company of veteran Sentinels at your side. Short of tying him down, I don’t think we can keep him from running off. If you don’t want to go with however, I can talk to some people.”

It was clear Rain himself wanted to go to protect Tate, and upset he couldn’t. His presence would invite scrutiny from Defiled and Imperial Divinities both, as they all yearned to unravel his secrets. Secrets he shared freely, yet they continued to suspect him of holding something back, suspicions founded on nought but greed and frustration. The Path to True Divinity was not easily taken, nor could it be taught or imparted, for it was a journey of self-truths and Heavenly Enlightenment, even if Rain himself believed otherwise.

“You are right,” Alsantset admitted, and she sank down to sit down on the grass beside him. “Utterly lacking in tact or consideration, yet still right nonetheless.” Across the grassy courtyard, she watched Tate go through the Forms with the grace of a bull and bearing of an oriole, which was the wrong way to go about it. Too light when he should be heavy, too hesitant when he should be forceful, too hasty when he should be careful, he had far too many flaws for her to feel good about sending him off into battle, and all her efforts to mend them came up short. There was no helping it however, so with the decision made, she moved on to something she could affect. Turning to her little brother with pursed lips, she asked, “When are you going to stop whiling your days away with nonsense and start a proper family of your own? It is high time you experienced the trials and tribulations of fatherhood firsthand.”

Though meant as a joke, Rain’s sad smile caught her off guard as he shook his head in return. “It’s not that simple,” he began, taking a moment to gather his thoughts before continuing. “Even if I was ready, which I’m not, there’s a lot to account for. Let’s say I decide I want to start a family today. How do I go about it?”

“If you still need me to explain this part, then I pity your wives.”

Her attempt to inject levity into the conversation fell flat, but Rain humoured her with a small smile. “What I meant was if I should try for a natural birth, or should I adopt instead? After helping Tursinai through labour, Lin-Lin was very clear about not being ready to have a child of her own, and I doubt that’ll change anytime soon. So if I do want to go the natural route, it’d have to be with Luo-Luo, the political implications of which are a nightmare to think about. Any child of ours would be the grandchild of the Emperor, which opens up a whole host of issues with the Imperial Family. Add in the fact that he or she would also be my firstborn, and that’s putting a lot on the shoulders of a child. Even though Luo-Luo is eager to become a mother, she’s agreed that politically speaking, it’s better if our child is second or third, if only so they only have to bear the burden of Imperial blood.”

This was nothing new. The Emperor and the Supreme Families had spent the last decade locked in contention with one another, jockeying over the scraps of power left in the wake of the Eternal Emperor’s abrupt absence. Rain had kept himself out of it thus far, but the grandchild of the Emperor and the firstborn of the only True Human Divinity would make for a powerful piece on the board in their games of politics. Even here in the village, people were not above such social jockeying, which was why Tali was so anxious about tonight’s dinner.

Rain was not done speaking though, so Alsantset held her tongue and listened. “Then there’s Luo-Luo herself,” he said, pitching his voice low as he hugged his bears close, and she wasn’t sure if he knew how vulnerable he appeared. “She would love nothing more than to bear my child, except I’m not sure if even she knows if it’s because she wants a child of her own, or because she believes that is her sole purpose in life. Not to mention the fact that I’m a Divinity, so who knows how that’ll affect my outlook on my natural born children, even though every female Divinity in the Empire seems to think that bearing my child will solve all their problems with their… suboptimal parental instincts.”

What he left unsaid were his fears regarding Lin-Lin’s possible reaction to any child born of their union, as he’d need more than a few drinks before he was ready to touch upon that. Waving the topic aside, Rain sighed and moved on. “I could adopt, sure, except once I do, I just know there’ll be a wave of demi-human babies dropped off at my doorstep, left there by Divinities who think they can build a relationship with me if I look after their unwanted offspring. I wouldn’t put it past the Emperor to drop a child in my arms either, because he’s already hinted at having me ‘foster’ or ‘Mentor’ or ‘guide’ some promising youth or another. Thankfully, Luo-Luo has kept that from happening thus far, mostly because it would invite reciprocation, and I will not send any child of mine into the viper’s nest that is the Royal family.”

Alsantset waited a good minute to make sure her little brother was done venting before deigning to fill the silence. “Not so simple indeed,” she said, slipping her arm around his shoulder and smiling as he leaned his head against hers. True Divinity though he may be, he was still her little brother, with all the same doubts and worries as always. “Take it from me though, little brother; parenting never is, and it never will be. You are as ready now as you will ever be until you take that first step, so you might as well do so sooner rather than later. Learn from father’s mistakes. Do not give your wives any reason to regret.” Smiling, she added, “If you act soon, you can lean on little Tali for help through the difficult start, as it would do her good to experience just how difficult starting a family really is.”

“Nooooooo,” Rain grumbled, sounding all of six years old as he tried his best to pretend he hadn’t heard her. “Don’t talk like that. Sweet Tali is just a baby, barely out of pig-tails, so how can she be ready to be a mother?”

Alsantset thought the same way about Tate, and how her little man wasn’t ready to be a soldier. Patting his head, she said, “It’s been years since she wore her hair in pig-tails, and should you delay any longer, she will become a mother before you are a father. Though the date has yet to be set, she is likely to marry young Talbur soon. Next spring by the latest, I would imagine.” Shaking her head at her little brother’s refusal to accept the passage of time, she added, “Which reminds me. Your niece sent me out here to put an end to whatever schemes you have planned for tonight’s dinner.”

“I already promised to be on my best behaviour,” Rain whined, but his heart wasn’t truly in it, as he was also doing his best to hide his guilt.

