Not knowing whether to dance or curse the injustice of life, Batty had compromised with a sort of sobbing chuckle while curled up on her patched-over couch that leaned one side.

A previously unknown colony of ultra-rare sanguine bats! Outside of their usual habitat further south! And it looked to be doing fine for itself!

But the small colony was being preyed on by jack panthers! Who usually lived much deeper in the woods to the north! Predators that the sanguine bats seemed unprepared to face!

Why did the two, who would have never met, have to clash right there?!

Batty's sobbing surged as she renewed her lamentations.

And then it stopped.

She dried her eyes and sat up on her couch, straight-backed, a new fire in her eyes. If the bats couldn't defend themselves, she would defend them!

Because her little fluffy babies needed her help!

Except... how? She didn't know how to fight jack panthers, and her budget was a little... strained if she wanted to hire someone.

Hmmm...

Well, she could go another week on the leftover hard bread from the bakery. Boiled in some water and topped with foraged berries, it would sustain her. And what's wrong with eating the same thing two months in a row, anyway?

That still left her with a pitiful amount, but it would have to do. The next issue was who to hire; she didn't trust the “adventurers”. They would help, sure, and then turn around and sell the colony's location to a exotic animal merchant or something.

There was only one option left that she knew of: a Free Courier. It wouldn't be direct help- you didn't hire them to go fight dangerous animals, but a courier should be able to find someone interested in helping.

She hoped, anyway.

Getting up and covering herself with her ratty shawl, she walked out of her small ramshackle cabin at the edge of town. She didn't lock the door; she didn't really have anything worth stealing.

The door didn't even have a lock anymore anyway. Someone had stolen it.

Karline looked at the posting in her hand one more time, trying to figure out the directions. Who in the pits used bat wing lengths as units of measure?

She let out a forceful sigh. The sad-looking posting had been on the board for nearly half a season when she stopped by on her way back to Riverwall. It was pretty easy to see why it had been ignored; the pitiful reward would barely cover any travel expenses the job would require, and the objective was rather vague, which always meant a lot of trouble.

Still, she had recognized the name, Batty, someone who Niala seemed to be on good terms with and had even invited to her wedding. Karline had figured she might as well help the friend of a friend.

She did owe her and David quite a lot.

Finding her way to Batty's house took up a good part of the afternoon. In the end, she just gave up on walking 230 batwing spans and then turning 25 bat claws to the north, and asked around.

Surprisingly, a lot of people knew where Batty lived, and absolutely none of them seemed happy to possess that knowledge, as if it had been something foisted on them without their consent.

When she reached the “house,” she kind of understood why; it was surrounded by wooden bat refuges, and she would bet all of them were full of bats. When night came, this place must be swarming with the flying rats, and a lot of them must have made their way toward the orchards and gardens of the surrounding farms.

Why did those two attract all the weirdos?

With another sigh, she made her way up to the front door and knocked. From inside, something shattered, and someone squeaked like a mouse. After a moment of silence, she heard footsteps rushing toward the door before it opened on a wide-eyed, gangly, frizzle-haired woman.

The woman stared at her. Karline stared back.

No greetings came. The courier cleared her throat. “You're supposed to greet me first.” She offered.

“Oh.”

Karline motioned with her head after a few more seconds.

The woman flinched. “Oh! Yes! Hi! Welcome! Who are you? I'm sorry, I don't get a lot of visitors! At least not the kind who knock on doors first.”

Karline squeezed her eyes shut for a second. “I guess that's a sort of greeting. Hi, I'm Karline. We met at Niala's wedding. You talked to me about bats. I'm here for your courier posting.”

Batty was nodding along, then froze when Karline finished her introduction. It took her a few more blinks for her brain to catch up. “Oh! Right! The courier woman! Here for the posting! Wait- the courier posting?!”

She stepped out of her cabin, hands balled against her chest. “You're really here for the posting?! You're going to help me save the sanguine bats colony?!”

Karline leaned back as Batty invaded her personal space. “Ah, yeah. I was passing through and thought I'd help a friend of a friend? Could we, huh, discuss the job? It's missing a lot of details.”

Batty's smile widened past what she thought humanly possible. “Oh! Yes! Yes, let's talk about the job! And about the little angels you're going to help save!”

A pearl of sweat rolled down Karline's temple.

The next morning, now thoroughly briefed on what the job was, and especially on what sanguine bats were, Karline had Batty show her to the colony in question.

It was situated a few bells of walk into the forest. From what she remembered, this part had been used for logging a decade ago, which explained why the trees were somewhat young and sparse. Without heavy crowns of old woods to blanket the ground, bushes abounded, and they had to keep to game trails to make any progress.

Batty seemed in her element, underdressed as she was for a forest expedition. She probably spent a lot of her time exploring the wilds, looking for bats.

The bat-enthusiast picked up the pace a few bells into their trip, almost to a jog, up until they reached an escarpment, and pointed down below while waving with her other arm. “Karline! It's here! The sanguine bat colony!”

Batty made her way toward a break in the terrain, maybe where a small landslide had occurred, and made her way down. While she did that, Karline went to stand at the edge of the drop, squinting at the terrain a few metres below them.

From up there, she noted a couple of darkened patches on the ground, with a few scraps of skin and bones. Something really was ambushing the bats as they left or came out of their caves.

She rejoined Batty on the lower elevation and looked around some more. Batty pointed out the small gap in the rocks, just small enough for someone to squeeze through, but plenty big for bats. From within, quiet scrapings and an occasional plop faintly echoed out.

Karline looked around some more before turning toward Batty. “Alright, and you're sure you saw jack panthers? At a distance, jawbits can be mistaken for them.”

Batty shook her head. “No, I know what jawbits look like, they're lousy around the chicken coops of the farms around my bat sanctuary. Plus, the fur was dark grey, almost black. Jawbits tend to be white and brown.”

Karline hummed. “But jack panthers don't like light woods like this. Not enough big game...”

She knelt and retrieved the cargo cloth with her courier tools, retrieving a small monocle and a wooden wind chime before packing everything back up.

Standing up, she put on the monocle, squeezing it in place by frowning, and looked around one of the bloodied spots. A few seconds later, she bent down and picked up a few strands of short, deep grey fur. Nodding, she opened the top of the centre tube on the chime and let the hairs fall in.

She then held the chime at arm's length and slowly turned around, rocking the chime so it kept playing its wooden notes.

Batty, mesmerized by the process, flinched when an angry knack came from the chime, instead of the softer pangs.

Karline only swung the wind instrument a few times in that direction and, when a second knack sounded, she began walking in that direction.

Batty followed her.

It took them another couple of bells, but they eventually found the jack panther's nest, with a dozen or so adult cats lazing around, and half that number of juveniles, almost adult themselves, play-fighting.

From what Karline remembered, jack panther nests were usually ringed with the bones of their prey, acting as a sort of perimeter. This one barely had anything, and the ground within the sparse wall of bones wasn't even fully patted down, with quite a bit of vegetation still around.

This all pointed to this nest being a new development, which meant these guys had come from somewhere, and the presence of the young cats also meant this wasn't a splinter group that had set out to found a new nest. In all likelihood, they had been displaced.

What had done so was the question; either a meaner beast, which, while possible, was unlikely, given that jack panthers were near the upper limit of the kind of animals that the kingdom tolerated in its more civilized parts.

Much more likely, a group of humanoids had moved into the cat's territory and forced the cats, known to be very skittish around men, to move elsewhere.

Karline frowned. They'd have to keep using the Echo of threaded paths, the wind chime, to backtrack the big cats' route.

Not today, though. They weren't prepared to go get lost in the woods.

On their way back, Batty asked if they couldn't just drive the jack panthers off. Karline had agreed that yes, they could, but then they'd just end up settling down somewhere else and would become someone else's problem. That had seemed fine for Batty until Karline floated the idea that they might just end up near another bat colony. The gangly girl quickly agreed that finding a way to get the cats back whence they came was top priority.

Back in Bellharbour, Karline started doing what a courier did best: gathering information. A few days of travel out from any major town was considered settled land by the crown. Activity within was supposed to be regulated and documented. If a venture had set up nearby, there would be traces of it.

Unfortunately, the town hall's public records had no recent permits issued for anything of the sort, nor any records of an old installation that might have been reactivated.

Her next guess was illegal activities, such as poaching, illegal plantation, logging, and so on. It was a bit harder to verify, but not impossibly so; the panthers had been displaced for maybe two seasons from what Batty told her, which meant that some goods would have found their way into the neighbouring markets by now.

Bellharbour was the closest major settlement, but illegal ventures rarely dealt with the nearest cities; they either went a bit farther or just avoided them altogether and sold their wares to travelling merchants who would stop along their way to pick up the goods.

But, no matter the method, it left traces if you knew where to look. Karline went and retrieved the public trade records for the town and put up a courier request to have the same done in the closest towns, to be sent to her attention.

While waiting for those documents to arrive, she began poring over Bellharbour's while enjoying an Old Woman at one of the boudoirs in town. She found the relaxed ambience perfect to take short breaks between long bells spent hunched over dense record books.

Overall, it took five days, and a dozen Old Woman, but she completed her semi-audit, and, while she found a few hints that some illicit trade was happening, there was nothing that fit the timeline she had.

So that was a bust as well.

As a last resort, she looked up any sort of small, isolated settlements in the region, thinking that one of them might have started a project or something that could have disturbed the jack panthers.

She did find one such settlement, but not the kind she was thinking of.

There was, a couple of days to the north, a small, but ancient, tridget grove. In fact, that part of the woods belonged to them, and given their affinity for nature, animals rarely, if ever, took offence at tridgets.

She quickly referenced maps, plotted the general direction they had investigated some days prior, and found that, unless the jack panthers had taken a curving path, the direction fit; the cats had likely arrived from the general direction the tridget grove was in.

She didn't like this at all.

Asking the few tridgets in town didn't help much. While they confirmed that they hadn't heard from the grove in some seasons, they also said that any interactions with them tended to be years apart, so nothing seemed amiss as far as they were concerned.

She knew that the only resource worth anything in a grove were the elder trees; the ones that grew from old tridgets. It was known to be as resistant as metal, and take enchantment twice as well as any other materiel. It was also a very controlled good, and extremely rare, only given out by tridget groves as rewards for services rendered to the grove, and always in small quantities.

There had been instances of groves targeted by less-than-reputable elements in the past, but the punishments were always severe in the extreme, and very public, to dissuade anyone else from trying.

Unfortunately, enough money could wipe someone's memory or make them bold enough to try anyway.

She hoped she was wrong. But she probably wasn't.

Either way, they had to get confirmation first. Karline explained the situation to Batty, who surprised her by saying that she wanted to come along. Batty's answer to why that was shouldn't have surprised Karline, yet it did so, a little. Apparently, triget groves were known to provide refuge and housing to a wide variety of woodland creatures.

Including bats, obviously.

Even after Karline said that they would only be taking a look. If it was what she thought, the grove would be full of brigands. Not something the two of them could take on.

Batty had countered that she had an idea; she would coat herself in bat pheromones and attract a hundred bats to her.

Karline asked what came next.

The woman had blinked a few times. “I'll, huh, be a scary bat-monster! I'll go and wave my bat-covered arms and make them leave!”

The courier levelled a look at her. “You just want a reason to be covered in bats, don't you?”

Batty had waved her hands. “No! Of course not! It's just... well, it's an idea! It could work!”

Quirking an eyebrow, Karline had looked at her and said, “Right. We can call it plan N, for Nothing else worked so why not? Until then, we're just going to look, alright?”

Batty had let her head hang and mumbled something.

Karline had taken it for acknowledgement.

They left the next day, with supplies enough for a full week in the woods. Karline didn't bother tracking the jack panthers, instead heading toward the tridget grove.

The trip took two full days. The weather remained clear, if a little chilly. Taking after David and Niala's camping style, she used her relic carriair as a dry, stable base to set up her pavillion-style tent, attaching it to small recessed latches she had found all over the levitating metal disc. It wasn't quite to the level of the small shack the Allwardens had, but it was style miles ahead of regular camping.

Well rested, they arrived at the grove's outskirts in the morning of the third day. The woods in this area were dense, the brushes taller, to catch more light, and navigating around took a bit more time as there wasn't much flat ground.

They eventually rounded a small elevation, almost a hill, and came into view of the grove. Karline knew that, if things had been normal, they would have been stopped by some tridgets sentries far before being able to lay eyes on it.

The second, and more damning evidence, was the sounds of wood cutting that reached their ears coming from the grove. Tridgets did not cut trees.

She sighed and turned to tell Batty to remain here. She needed to get closer and get a glimpse of who had invaded this grove, so she could report it to the authori-

Eurk!

She almost lost control of he stomach as an overpowering musk of earth and urine smashed into her nostrils and punched its way down to her lungs.

Eurk!

A hand flew up to her mouth and nose, trying to do something, anything, to dampen the smell. Her eyes watered as she fought through her urge to vomit. “Wh-what is that- eurk! Smell! Batty!”

The gangly woman turned to look at her, a bottle of brownish liquid in one hand, with her other hand busy splashing herself with its contents. Batty gave Karline a deer-in-the-globelight look.

The courier grimaced. “Are you- eurk!- I thought I said it was a bad idea!”

Batty frowned. “...No, I don't recall you saying that. You just said it was plan N.” She said, continuing to coat herself with the rancid substance.

Karline gave up, and fished out one of her smaller cargo cloths, retrieving a filtering mask that Niala had gifted her and slapping it over her face. The smell persisted for a few seconds, but soon attenuated to a manageable level. She let out a breath of relief. “Oh, thank the saints this thing works.” She looked at Batty, who didn't seem bothered by the smell at all.

She opened her mouth to say something, but shouting and yelling from the grove erupted. It was too far to make out everything, but Karline distinctly heard the words Rot, dead corpse, and fart.

It gave her pause. She slowly turned her head back to Batty. What if she just got her close and waited? The brigands would eventually have to leave, right?

Before she could say anything, however, she heard cracks and stomps coming from the forest behind them, distant, beyond the trees.

The sounds kept growing in strength, getting closer and more numerous, until it sounded like rolling thunder.

She snapped her head toward Batty. “What's in that stuff?!”

Batty furrowed her brows, looking at the bottle, then at her, shouting over the growing din. “Concentrated bat musk!”

The first few small animals- squirrels, birds, rabbits- began popping out of the brushes and around the trees, swooshing past the two women and in the direction of the grove.

Karline looked back toward the forest, just in time to see a tree topple over, its creaking crash lost in the approaching storm.

Pittin' saints!

She grabbed Batty and shoved her forward. “RUN!”

The gangly girl looked confused for a second, right before a boar came running out from a bush and nearly rammed her legs. Her brain finally understood the necessity, and she began to run.

Behind them, the forest erupted in a wall of fur and hooves.

Wade stumbled out of the grove, coughing, trying to find some fresh air. One of the trees must have been filled with rotten eggs. That was the only explanation for the smell.

As soon as he rounded one of the wooden huts, the sound of rolling thunder caught his attention.

He looked in its direction. Eyes widening, he froze, his brain trying to understand what he was seeing.

A hundred metres away, two women were running toward the grove at full sprint. Behind them, a wave of animals, all the animals, stampeding this way. And behind the animals, a dark, flitting cloud that seemed to swallow the forest like liquid shadows... were those... where those bats?!

One of the women, wearing rags, waved her arms and shouted. “RUN! THE FOREST IS ANGRY! RUN!!!!”

He turned and ran.

Karline didn't remember the next few moments very well. She recalled running straight through the groves, amidst a gaggle of brigands in various stages of retching, vomiting, or fleeing. She had glimpsed cages that held tridgets and a bunch of logging tools.

The details were lost in her mad dash away from the stampede of animals who were themselves fleeing a wall of berserk bats who latched on to any living things they could find, but who were also very clearly funnelling toward a specific point: Batty.

Karline tried to get Batty to run toward a small river that should have been nearby. If she could get her underwater, the smell would dissipate, and the bats should go back to normal.

Except she never managed it; Batty tripped and fell, and Karline could do nothing about it except try to find some high ground nearby.

She turned left, away from Batty, and scrambled up a tridget hut near the edge of the grove. The bats, as she'd guessed, all converged toward Batty's last known position, while the animal stampede rushed past Karline's hut, pushing out the brigands who hadn't been trampled yet.

She held on to the tree tips sticking out of the hut even as the building shook with repeated glancing blows from the bigger beasts, like a raft trying to survive a rapid.

Eventually, the tide passed. The flow of animals lessened, and ended.

All over the grove, brigands and animals covered the ground. Most alive, but hurt, with broken limbs or deep bruises.

Ignoring the teeming mound of bats in the middle of the grove for now, Karline went around and quickly bashed the cages' locks, freeing the tridgets, who in turn helped subdue the surviving brigands and free more of their numbers.

She retrieved a small crate of Niala's healing potions that the catkin had given her, “In case of an emergency”, and distributed them around to be used on the animals. She was pretty certain that the tridgets would have refused to help the humanoids anyway. She was surprised they hadn't resorted to outright killing them.

The elder trees were sacred to tridgets. To cut them down as these people had done was like digging up the corpses of your parents and stringing them up over the market square.

With things more or less under control, she made her way to the mass of bats, with Batty presumably under it all. Unfortunately, there was nothing she could do, so she resolved to wait.

It took six bells before enough bats had left that Batty could be spotted, unmoving, and still covered by a thick layer of the flying mammals. She stepped forward and brushed away the bats covering the woman's face.

To Karline's surprise, Batty was unhurt. The bats had simply been... rubbing themselves over her. She was sweaty and filthy, but alive.

And she looked really... content, with her eyes rolled upward and her mouth open on a beatific smile.

The woman eventually noticed Karline, her eyelids fluttering as she came to her senses. “Karline, look, I died, and little bat-angels brought me to bat-heaven!”

The courier woman stared at her.

Then she turned around and left.