Lady Rie’s voice is too calm. As if she hasn’t been here, listening to me frantically try and chase hundreds of Goblins for the last two days. It was all going so well. And then—what happened?
“Wiskeria says they must have changed leaders. She was unable to hunt the main group of Goblins. She tells me they lured her into ambushes, outsmarted her—I saw some of that myself. She’s identified a Goblin with an enchanted longsword with the frost spell. For all the good that does us.”
“Perhaps she will be able to slay the Goblin leader in battle. I assume that is what she intends to do? Take the fight to the city?”
I nod.
“The main army has arrived. Durene’s group. They took longer than I thought—we had to drag the trebuchets on wheels. Slow. But we have two there now, and Tessia and the siege team is in place. Wiskeria tells me she is ready to begin the bombardment, but she’s asked me to hold off.”
“Why, pray?”
“She’s concerned about the Goblin leader. She’s afraid of a trap.”
“How strange. That is rather cautious of General Wiskeria, especially given her stunning success earlier.”
I grunt sourly.
“I trust her opinion. Beniar’s ready to attack, but Wiskeria’s asking me to hold off, perhaps call for more reinforcements.”
“I doubt you will receive them. The settlements are terrified. Rather, I believe you will be receiving refugees en masse, Your Majesty. All of the displaced are converging on Riverfarm.”
What? I have to blink and rub my ears for a second.
“They’re coming here? To me? Why? I’m the one who’s failed to handle all these damn Goblins so far!”
Lady Rie’s voice is patient, and I sense her sit delicately as Nesor edges out of the room, still muttering and sending his [Message] spell.
“That is your opinion, Emperor Laken. But I will remind you that your army is the only force attempting to battle the Goblins. The [Lords] and [Ladies] stranded in Riverfarm are inactive, and the cities and towns have closed their gates.”
“Because none of them have an army. Because I levied their soldiers.”
“True. But the people hardly see it that way. To them, your empire is said to be the one safe place to be in the entire region. I have received two dozen [Messages] begging for your aid or further protection, and just as many messengers await you.”
“Wonderful.”
I shake my head. That’s just the lopsided, backhanded victory I need. I squeeze my shut eyelids, willing myself to see—but no, I can only see part of my army camped outside of the city limits. I look for a familiar face among the Humans, but I cannot sense Durene. I know she’s there.
“Sire? General Wiskeria has responded.”
A nervous voice interrupts my thoughts. I sense Nesor edge back into the room, and Lady Rie makes a gesture. He gulps.
“S-she sends her acknowledgement of your commands, Your Majesty. But she begs you to hold off another day.”
“For what, exactly?”
“She d-did not say, Lady Rie. Only that she wished to consult her options.”
Lady Rie makes a tsking sound.
“This is hardly the moment for prudence. The campaign against the Goblins is under scrutiny by the nobles in Riverfarm as well as powers outside. His Majesty must have a victory here. Is General Wiskeria not aware of that?”
“Forgive me, my Lady, I did not—”
“Lady Rie.”
She falls silent. I sit in my chair. No choice. I feel like a fool after all my earlier bravado. People are dying. Dead. All because I didn’t strike the Goblins hard enough. I speak bitterly as I sense them nestled in the city. I can’t see them. But I know they’re there, infesting the spot. Like insects. Murderous monsters. Unthinking. I swore never to let my people suffer them again. And I will keep my promise.
“They’re taking away my sight, Lady Rie. They’re burning my lands. Killing my people. What would Wiskeria have me do? If this Goblin leader is a better strategist than she is—don’t let them run. We need to crush them here. Tell her to surround the city. She has the numerical advantage. Don’t let them escape. Use the two trebuchets and have Tessia construct more on the site if she can. Bombard the city until it is rubble. Let’s see the Goblins escape that.”
“Yes, Your Majesty. Nesor? Send the [Message]. Don’t flinch. I will dictate it to you if need be. Emperor Laken, by your leave.”
Rie rises to give me space. I sit, my head bowed, heart pounding. I hate this. The necessity of it? No. I knew that was going to happen. But I hate sitting here while Durene will fight, while my people will fight and die for me as I sit and hide here, miles away. I interrupt Lady Rie before she can take Nesor to the next room.
“Rie? Tell Wiskeria to keep Durene safe, Lady Rie. She has to fight. But tell her—keep Durene safe.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
The door closes. I sit, hearing Rie’s low voice. And wait. In my head, the blank spots where the Goblins should be gnaws at my consciousness. They’re there. Out of sight. I can’t see. I can’t…see.
But then I see the two trebuchets being pulled forwards by oxen. I sense the [Engineers] and [Builders] rush forwards and detach the wheels, anchoring them on the ground. In my mind, I see them dragging a huge block of stone forwards and then my breath catches.
“Durene.”
She helps load the first trebuchet. I watch her as she steps back, as Tessia adjusts the aim. I see the arm go up, and the boulder flies into the air. Out of sight.
For me, at least.
 
——
 
Rags sat on the battlements of the city wall. It was her turn to sit. Pyrite was sleeping. He’d been working ceaselessly while she had been out raiding. Thinking. Figuring things out. It was thanks to him that she now knew the secret of the Humans’ strange sight. He had also kept the tribe running, tended to the injured Redfang Warriors. She was grateful for everything.
Now she knew. Rags recalled the brief conversation they’d had after she’d ravenously eaten. The news about the totems had made her hopping mad that she hadn’t figured it out before. But a larger issue had loomed in her mind.
“Can blind [Emperor]. But where is?”
Pyrite had had no answer to that. He’d shown her the map and shrugged helplessly.
“Sir Kerrig not know.”
“Sir Kerrig is smelly wolf poo.”
Rags sighed. She was faced with a stark choice. She could try to retreat and escape this Unseen Empire’s boundaries, stay until the Humans starved or besieged the city, or launch an assault. None of the prospects sounded appealing. But she had to make a move before the option was taken away from her.
At least she had time. The Humans would be stupid to attack her walls. They didn’t seem to have high-level [Mages], and their superior numbers meant very little to her fortified tribe. If Rags could only find their [Emperor] somehow, then she would have a plan. Maybe—
The Humans were doing something in their camp far away. Rags saw them swarming around a big, wooden thing and dragging a huge stone over to it. She didn’t think much about it until she heard a shout. Then she saw something flying towards her. She looked up. She saw a big block of stone hurtling through the air, falling towards the city. For a moment, Rags just stared.
That couldn’t be possible. But it was. And it was falling.
Rags stared as the first boulder fell and shattered a portion of the walls. She looked out and saw a strange thing of metal and wood move. She saw an arm of wood go up and saw a boulder fly high, high into the sky. It was impossible for something that heavy to move like that. It fell deceptively slowly and landed with a thump that she felt in her bones.
She saw the chunk of stone gouge a hole in the streets and a piece of shrapnel strike a Goblin. She heard a scream and saw them scatter. The trebuchets launched another boulder. And another. Rags stared and turned her head. No matter where she looked, she saw only Humans. Waiting.
And to the north, the Goblin Lord’s army marched on Tremborag’s mountain. The Great Chieftain heard them battering on the doors of his fortress home and roared in fury. His tribe rushed to the traps and defenses, shouting war cries as they clashed with the Goblin Lord’s forces. Tremborag bellowed one word to the Goblin Lord, a challenge.
“Come!”
Rags sat on her wall and felt the dizzying rush of thoughts coming together. She saw another boulder fly up and watched it land harmlessly outside the walls. She eyed the Humans, saw them scurry to reload, and nodded. She spoke softly.
“I have a plan.”
