The man strode around his desk, talking rapidly. The other nobles stared as he strode into the rain. Lord Tyrion snapped at the soldier on guard.
“Soldier. Strike the camp and summon my command to the war tent.”
“Sire!”
The man raced off, shouting orders. Instantly, the camp buzzed to life. Lord Tyrion strode into the rain, too quick for the others to follow. It was time. He had waited patiently. Men like Gralton could not see the use of waiting. He was a dog, straightforward, refreshingly direct. But Lord Tyrion was the hunter. And his prey was in position.
 
——
 
“Redfang. Redfang.”
Garen Redfang looked around blankly. He glanced up and saw Tremborag staring at him. The huge Hobgoblin was glaring, and Garen realized he’d been called.
“What?”
He shifted impatiently on his Carn Wolf. The massive beast paced along, twice as large as any other Carn Wolf. It was still dwarfed by Tremborag. The massive Great Chieftain of the Mountain City tribe was a colossus, and with every step, the fat on his body jiggled obscenely. He clearly did not enjoy the rain gently showering them from above. Garen didn’t mind. They were on the outermost edges of the storm front and had only been drizzled on sporadically. Still, Tremborag was annoyed. Perhaps it was being outdoors that did it.
“What are you listening to?”
Tremborag’s rumbling voice was tinged with irritation. Garen shrugged. He turned his head, listening again. It was a faint sound he heard.
“Something. Distant sound. Howls.”
The huge Hobgoblin paused.
“The scouts heard nothing.”
Garen shrugged. Tremborag eyed him and grunted. He turned, and another Redfang Warrior, one of the few that had stayed with Garen, dodged out of the way, his Carn Wolf yelping in alarm.
“Do you believe it is a trap?”
“Doesn’t matter. We go to meeting place. He goes. After…”
The Chieftain of the Redfang tribe tapped his sword meaningfully. Tremborag bared his teeth.
“True. He brought only a handful of his Goblins. So my scouts say.”
Garen nodded without a word. He ignored the faint howling and turned his attention to the road in front of him. Both he and Tremborag were walking through the forest that surrounded Dwarfhalls Rest, the mountain which Tremborag had made his lair. They had abandoned the safety of the mountain and come out this far with a minimal escort for one reason: to meet the Goblin Lord.
At last, the Goblin Lord’s army had arrived at the mountain. His army had appeared in the distance, a winding trail of black armored bodies marching across the landscape. It had taken him far longer than either Garen or Tremborag had expected. The distance had not been that far from Invrisil, but the Goblin Lord must have taken that time to heal his soldiers naturally, without wasting healing potions. He would only have done that if he expected a battle. That was wise.
What wasn’t wise was what he had done the instant he’d drawn close to the mountain. Rather than draw closer and begin the siege at once, he had stopped his army and sent a messenger of all things. Tremborag had nearly killed the Goblin on the spot, but after some debate, he had heard the Goblin out.
The Goblin Lord’s message was simple. He had arrived. He was a Goblin Lord. And he expected the other tribes to follow him. Since they had not, he demanded that they meet. Chieftain to Lord, as it were.
Garen’s teeth ground together as he recalled the Goblin boldly delivering the message in the heart of Tremborag’s mountain to the jeering Goblins of the Mountain City tribe. It was a command worthy of a Lord, but coming from him—Tremborag had threatened to crush the little Goblin until he had heard the terms.
“Come alone. Just we two Chieftains and six escorts. He will bring six too. Far too small a number for an ambush. And he would be a fool to try and hide Goblins from Goblins.”
Tremborag mused as he walked through the forest floor, snapping branches that threatened to strike his face. Garen nodded.
“Talk?”
“He must think he can persuade you or I. Fool.”
Tremborag grinned, and his red eyes flashed. Garen nodded. His stomach clenched at the thought of meeting the Goblin Lord, and his hand fell to the red blade at his side. Redfang, the enchanted artifact that was his greatest possession. His Carn Wolf growled, sensing its master’s mood.
“Take out small Goblins first?”
“You do that. I will rip his head off myself.”
The Great Chieftain flexed his massive claws. Garen nodded and focused on the trail ahead. Of course, the Goblin Lord had come to parley. Of course, it would be treacherous to slay him. But they were going to do it anyways. There was no better opportunity. Two Chieftains versus a single Lord? If it were any other Chieftains, it would have been suicidal. But Garen and Tremborag? They were far too powerful. The Goblin Lord had made a fatal error.
Garen wondered if his tribe would have considered the trap a betrayal. His teeth ground together as he thought of them, somewhere else. He wondered if they would have dared to protest this. And then he thought of Rags. What would she have done? Refused to join the ambush? Or laid a more cunning trap?
Such thoughts were a distraction. Garen shook himself. As he did, his Carn Wolf raised its head and sniffed the air. Tremborag halted.
“Here.”
The two Chieftains slowly entered a cleared space in the woods. The six Redfang Warriors spread out behind them, their Carn Wolves sniffing and growling as they sensed what was ahead. The Goblin Lord and his entourage.
He sat upon a Shield Spider, a massive example of the species. It was dead. Something had ripped its belly apart, and yet the Shield Spider still stood. The magic had reanimated it, given it second life and so it still served as the Goblin Lord’s mount. Next to him rode a Hobgoblin with metallic teeth and too large a head on a horse. Snapjaw, his fierce lieutenant.
On his other side, a Hob nearly as tall as Tremborag stood with folded arms. Eater of Spears was all muscle compared to Tremborag’s bulk, and the Hob fearlessly met Tremborag’s eyes as both Goblin parties halted and stared at each other. Four more Hobs stood behind the Goblin Lord. But it was he that Garen looked at. He saw two black eyes with white pupils turn and felt the shock of hatred the instant their gazes met.
“You.”
The Goblins stared at each other in silence. Garen tensed as he leaned over his Carn Wolf. The Goblin Lord’s eyes flicked from him to Tremborag. Weighing. Judging. Assessing. This close, Garen felt the urge to kneel, to follow the Goblin in front of him. But he resisted with every fiber of his being.
There were no flowery speeches, no opening niceties. That was not the Goblin way. The Goblin Lord spoke abruptly, his voice educated, direct. Authority rang through it, commanding with every syllable.
“I am a Goblin Lord. I am Reiss. Your tribes will join my army.”
The two Chieftains looked at each other. They turned back to Reiss and laughed. They spoke as one.
“No.”
The word was as powerful as the Goblin Lord’s request. One of the Hobs behind Reiss actually took a step back before catching himself. Reiss did not move. He looked at Tremborag and then at Garen. The question was meant more for Garen.
“Why?”
Garen held his tongue. His chest was burning. With betrayal. With hurt. With rage. He stared at the undead spider, and it was Tremborag who answered with a booming laugh of contempt.
“You are arrogant, little brat of the south. Who do you think you are, coming to my home and challenging me? I am Tremborag! Great Chieftain of the Mountain! If you are wise, you will turn and run. You will never take my tribe, little Goblin.”
His words made Reiss’ entourage shake with fury. Snapjaw glared up at Tremborag and shouted at him.
“Show respect! You speak to great Goblin Lord! Not Chieftain.”
She interjected as much contempt into her tone as she could. Neither Garen nor Tremborag seemed affected by the comparison, though. He glanced at Snapjaw dismissively.
“How the female barks for her master! I am no small Chieftain. I am old! I lived decades ago, when the Goblin King was an unborn seed! I heard his call, and I refused him to his face. I am no small Chieftain with the lifespan of a fly! I was here when Velan the Kind gathered his armies. I was here when he fell. I remember the Goblin King’s face!”
“So do I.”
Silence. Reiss looked around the clearing. When he spoke, the past weighed on his words.
“I have seen Velan’s fall. I know his rage but not why. I know our history. And I will make sure it does not happen again. Look at my army. I defeated the Tidebreaker, hero of Drakes. I destroyed Drake and Human armies. Join me and I will make a kingdom for Goblins. I will bring us peace and make other species afraid to strike us! Do you not wish that?”
The Goblins behind him raised a cheer. Garen’s heart felt a twinge, and his hand gripped his sword’s hilt. He stared at Reiss. The same words. Good words. But his eyes—
Again, Tremborag snorted. He looked down on Reiss with contempt in his red eyes.
“You speak of kingdoms and peace without knowing the truth, little slave. Grow as mighty as you want. The Humans and Drakes will never let you know peace. You will be hunted. And you will never be a King. A slave cannot lead others.”
And there it was. The hiss from the Redfang Warriors behind Garen said it all. Reiss’ Goblins shifted, and Tremborag pointed down at the Goblin Lord.
“You are not Goblin. You are a pet. A thing. You cannot bring peace. You do not even deserve to be Chieftain. Let alone Lord.”
“Yet I am a Lord.”
Reiss met his gaze, unflinching. Tremborag laughed.
“A poor one. Your army is small. You bow to a master. You copy Humans! Humans! We are Goblins. We steal and take. We do not copy formations and armor and—this.”
His wave took in all that was Reiss. From the way he spoke to his eyes to everything else. Tremborag shook his head.
“Turn around little Lord. This is the last time I offer. The Goblin King himself could not unseat me from my home. What makes you think you can?”
The Goblin Lord sat calmly atop his Shield Spider and closed his eyes. When he opened them, his white pupils were unflinching as he met Tremborag’s gaze.
“The Goblin King was kind. He let those afraid to die run. He left your home and your tribe alone, Great Chieftain. But I am not kind. Your tribe is mine.”
Without waiting for Tremborag to respond, Reiss turned his head.
“The ‘Great Chieftain’ declines. But what of you, Redfang? You swore to follow me if I had the right idea. If I had a vision. Do you forget your promise of long ago?”
All eyes darted towards Garen. Tremborag’s expression changed to one of alarm and sudden paranoia. He took a slow step backwards as Garen rode forwards. He stared up at Reiss. The Goblin met his gaze with foreign eyes. Who was he now? Garen spat on the dead Shield Spider.
“Becoming a slave is not good idea.”
“Sometimes it is the only choice.”
Reiss whispered down to Garen. The Hob grinned mirthlessly.
“Better to die than be slave.”
“I disagree.”
The two stared at each other in silence. Garen’s Carn Wolf growled, and he tensed, his hand on his sword. The Shield Spider’s dead face was right in front of him. Reiss sat far above.
There was no signal. Garen ripped his blade from his sheath and hacked at the Shield Spider’s head. He shouted as he did.
“[Deeper Cut]!”
It was a basic Skill. But it was all he needed. The enchanted blade sheared the front of the Shield Spider’s face off, and it collapsed. The other Goblins around Reiss shouted in fury and alarm. Garen heard Carn Wolves howling as his warriors leapt to attack, Tremborag’s roar. His Carn Wolf leapt towards where Reiss had fallen. He swept his sword up.
“Traitor! Cowardly coward!”
Snapjaw lunged, biting, and Garen twisted to avoid her jaws as they bit for his neck. He twisted, and his Carn Wolf snapped at her horse. They circled each other, trading blows.
Behind them, Tremborag had charged forwards and met Eater of Spears. The younger Hob was smaller, but he stopped Tremborag’s charge with ease. Tremborag cursed him and clawed at Eater of Spears’ arms, but the Hob pushed Tremborag back. He was trying to pull the Chieftain’s arm off, and Tremborag’s howl of pain echoed through the clearing. Eater of Spears felt Tremborag straining against him but knew he was stronger. Then he felt muscle and fat ripple under his claws. He stared at the Hob in shock as Tremborag’s form grew.
Something else grabbed Eater of Spears’ arm. It lifted the gigantic Hob up, and something threw him as if he were a toy. It was not a Hob. Tremborag’s voice deepened into a roar as his body changed, grew larger. In a blink, the fat became muscle and he turned and tore a head off of a Hob. He howled.
“Weak, brat! Decades too weak to face me!”
Then he charged at the Goblin Lord. Eater of Spears tried to stop him, but a single blow sent him reeling backwards. Tremborag raced forwards on all fours at where the Goblin Lord had fallen behind the Shield Spider. The Hob didn’t waste time circling the fallen undead spider—he picked it up and hurled the thing away, breaking it to pieces as it struck a tree. Tremborag turned, grinning, and saw Reiss pointing up at him.
“[Deathbolt].”
The black magic struck Tremborag in the face. He cried out and stumbled back. For a moment, his face went grey, and then he roared and swiped at the Goblin Lord. But the Goblin had already dived for safety. And something burst through the ground as Eater of Spears once again charged Tremborag from the side. A huge hand shot out of the soil, and a massive, hulking Human burst upwards. It grabbed Tremborag by the leg as a dozen undead burst out of the ground, surprising the Redfang Warriors.
“Draug!”
Garen snarled the instant he saw the huge hulking undead. He lunged to one side as the first Draug swung at him. They were deceptively quick! He parried a blow from Snapjaw and countered.
The edge of his sword slammed into her open mouth, sending her reeling backwards. It didn’t shear off the top of her head—the blade had struck her teeth! Garen saw several break, but the enchanted blade cut no further. Snapjaw spat blood and jumped at him.
He stabbed her horse. It went down, squealing, and his Carn Wolf lunged forwards and bit once. Snapjaw cursed, but Garen leapt past her. He would have rushed at Reiss once more, but three Draug blocked his way. Garen snapped an order, and his Carn Wolf bounded back. He cursed and saw another black bolt of light. He instantly leaned sideways, and the death magic missed him by inches.
