They started laughing when the trolls fought off anyone trying to remove them from their new home and then as they demanded payment from the goblins trying to cross their bridge. Some of the delegates were in fits of laughter as dozens of the goblins gave up their weapons to cross the pointless bridge. Even one of the investigators smiled at the dumbfounded goblins as they milled around and didn't know what to do.

Everyone stopped laughing and smiling when the goblin mage sacrificed them and summoned Anansi. They all fell silent as the humongous spider appeared, then everything went dark as Ren was covered in webbing. After a minute or so, they heard Ren sigh and grinding and snapping noises, then suddenly the webbing split open and revealed an 11 foot tall dark elf.

“He transformed.” Someone whispered, and no one else spoke as giant phantom spider limbs tore apart the rest of the webbing to free Princess. Suddenly, 10 small pieces of steel rebar were in his hand and they glowed for several seconds, then Dark Elf Ren grunted as he threw them as hard as he could, they became spears, and they magically increased from 10 to 100.

“Good god.” Another voice whispered as Dark Elf Ren pulled out his basic iron sword that had been folded a million times, quadrupled its size, then he yelled as he leaped through the air and followed the same arc as the spears he had thrown.

They watched the humongous spider be impaled by the spears, then it turned to face Dark Elf Ren and the spears exploded. The spider stumbled a step and collapsed onto the screaming goblins below it, and Dark Elf Ren took out his anger on it. The scene ended when Dark Elf Ren walked over to Tatya and changed back into his normal self.

“Well.” The woman that sat in the center spot said. “That was... enlightening.”

“It really was.” Tatya said. “If I may continue?”

“You may.”

Tatya kept talking and told them about travelling across their own lands and then about the incident with Dilseffa, then the follow up incident with Rimsoh. She finished her account of the trip by ending with coming to the delegate building.

“We shall pause here.” The woman said, and Ren deactivated the statue. “A short break, with refreshments, then we will move on to Kenkoth.”

Conversation started up right away and everyone talked almost as one about different things; but, no one left the room. One of the guards opened the door and all of the attendants came in and served snacks and beverages to everyone. After the short break, the attendants left and Ren activated the statue again. Kenkoth's deposition went faster, since all he was doing was corroborating Tatya's testimony.

They had experienced almost everything together and Ren discovered that their roles really were reversed in every other kingdom but their own. His story had a different perspective for the battle, since he was a part of the flanking force and hadn't even known about Anansi until after the battle. Other than that, their stories were almost the same.

Beholo the healer was next and his recounting went even faster, since he wasn't quite as involved in everything as Tatya and Kenkoth were. He had seen the hospitals and medical wings of various places, instead of barracks and military posts. Other than that, there was almost nothing of real interest in his testimony until he mentioned the bracelet and wand that Ren had given him.

“The only thing I regret is not having them during the rest of the trip before arriving in the Human Kingdom.” Beholo said. “I wouldn't have been so taxed dealing with everything else going on.”

“Yes, they would have been a wonder to examine if you had turned them in.” The woman in the center spot said.

“What?” Beholo looked at her with wide eyes. “Of course I handed them in! I handed everything in!”

“There was no Mana bracelet or even a magic wand present in your belongings.” She said and waved at the side of the room. An attendant pulled over the heavy sled and opened the compartment Beholo used for his belongings.

“Wh-what... what...” Beholo took out all of the items and they were all there. “Look, this is the bracelet!” He held up the gold bracelet and grabbed the steel bar with the diamond attached. “This is... the... wand?”

“As you can see, neither item has any magic properties.” The woman said. “The diamond is worth about 3 platinum coins, if it can be removed from the holder.”

“I... I don't understand.” Beholo said and tried to pour Mana into the wand and nothing happened. “I've used them. I really have!”

“Filing a false report isn't a serious offence, so we are willing to overlook...” She stopped talking when Ren raised his hand and waved to her. “I suppose you want to speak?”

“I do. Thank you.” Ren said. “Both of those items were what Beholo said they were, before I absorbed their contents and deactivated them.”

“Why did you do that?”

“It's a bit of a complicated story.” Ren said.

“Well, then.” The woman said and waved him to step forward. “Take Beholo's place in the Circle of Testimony and we will hear your description of what happened.”

Beholo stepped out of the circle and held both items as if they were toxic or something, and Ren put a hand on his shoulder.

“I'll fix them when we leave the building.” Ren said.

Beholo nodded slightly and moved back to stand where he had been before. Ren stepped into the circle and felt a shiver of Mana flow over him. The circle glowed brightly and all of the investigators sat up straight in their chairs and looked down at the floor, as did everyone else, and Ren felt their surprise.

“What... how...” The woman in the center spot whispered.

“What is it?” Ren asked and looked down. He tried to use identify on it, and all the popup showed was 'floor'.

“It's... can you tell us what happened?” She said instead.

“Where should I start?”

“Within the circle, it is best to start at the beginning.” One of the other investigators said. “Tell us how you discovered the caravan.”

Ren wasn't sure what was going on, or why they were so surprised at the glowing floor. He knew that now wasn't the time to ask those questions, so he started to tell them the story instead. As he talked, he kept casting Full Illusion and played the appropriate scene on the wall display. Unlike the others that had spoken, he felt that leaving out details or skipping things would be a bad idea, so he told them and showed them everything.
