“It's nice doing business with you.” Ren said, walked over to the high stone wall that was around the back yard, and jumped to the top of it. He jumped down to the street on the other side of the fence and opened the Instant Tower recipe. He didn't need it 20 feet by 20 feet, since that wouldn't fit by the town hall, and cut it's dimensions in half except for the height and made the door big enough for a cart. It halved the recipe requirements, so Ren activated his Craft Wondrous Item ability and added 25 iron bars, 50 stone bricks, 50 gold, and 5000 Mana while he concentrated on Clint and gave it a command word. The 1 inch wide cube was formed, and Ren ran back to the town hall.

“That was fast.” Elerlyth said.

“They had a good back stock.” Ren said. He took out the modified Instant Tower, placed it at the right spot beside the town hall, and activated it. A 10 foot wide by 10 foot long by 30 foot tall tower appeared and Ren put the cart of dark elf bodies inside and shut the door.

“You... can't leave...” The guard shook his head. “How the hell did you do that?”

Ren chuckled. “We'll be back.” He said, climbed up onto Princess, and took off with Elerlyth beside him on her Phantom Steed. They arrived back at the collapsed cavern, and Ren hopped off of Princess and took out his own tower and activated it. It sprang into it's full size, and he looked at Elerlyth.

“You've got a choice to make.” Ren said. “I've got to log out for a while, probably for the rest of the game day and game night.” He said as Elerlyth climbed off of her mount. “You can come into the tower and stay there, you can log out with me, or you can stay out here until I come back.”

“There's no choice there.” Elerlyth said and hugged him. “I'm coming with you.”

Ren nodded. “I've just got to tell Clint.” He said and Elerlyth let him go. He ran over to the collapsed cavern and jumped down to the tunnel entrance and ran down to talk to Clint, then told him about the thin tower that he had made to put the cart in.

“Ren, you...” Clint shook his head in disbelief. “Yer crazy fer givin' everythin' away.”

“I'm not going to leave you guys this far away from your place without somewhere safe to stay.” Ren said. “Plus, it's considered a safe zone. You can set a spawn point inside for yourselves.”

“Yer jus' too good ta be true.” Clint said, and Ren chuckled.

“I'll see you later.” Ren said. “Oh, and Elerlyth is coming with me.”

Clint nodded. “See ya.”

Ren ran out of the cavern and through the tunnel to the collapsed cavern, then climbed up the side. He ran over to Elerlyth and opened the door of his Instant Tower to let her in.

“Princess.” Ren said, and she looked at the doorway.

I might not fit. Princess thought.

“It's a standard door.” Ren said. “Come on, there's lots of room upstairs.”

All right. Princess walked forward and ducked her head a little. She walked through the doorway with no problem, and Ren took her up the stairs.

“You seem nervous.” Ren asked her.

I do not like being inside something that can crush me. Princess thought to him.

“Hey, don't worry. I can speak the command word, and nothing will happen with us inside.”

Princess huffed when she felt Ren was going to speak. Do not test it!

Ren chuckled. “I'll make you a mattress, and you can relax.”

Don't forget food.

Ren made her a mattress and a small table, then took out 2 plates of food for her. “I'll be back in the morning.”

Goodnight, My Lord. Princess thought and plopped down onto her new mattress. Ren made a spawn point in the middle of the floor, then set his own to it.

“Elerlyth?”

“I don't expect any danger, but...” Elerlyth set it as her spawn point, too. “...just in case.”

Ren smiled and stored his armor, then climbed onto the bed. Elerlyth stored her armor and climbed onto the bed as well, then snuggled up with him.

“See you in a minute.” Ren said, and they logged out together.
