“As for the benefits, they would be many. Mostly, we would significantly increase the temple guard presence around here, and give you access to our services which will include a large hospital, diplomatic benefits, and many others. Do you know that Captain Lorn has declined a change of post? Him and a few other key members of his squad. Let me tell you that this is a rousing endorsement.”

“Then why is everyone looking like they swallowed a pinecone.”

“Ah, well, there is just a small matter to solve first. You see, a bishop of ours disappeared a few months ago. I would just like to ask you a few questions to… make sure nothing is amiss.”

Ah.

She knew this would come back to bite her in the ass soon enough.

***

“Let the trial begin,” Farren said with annoyance. “High Inquisitor Jaks?”

“I will ask the questions. I would like to inform you in advance that I have a skill that detects falsehoods. You may make mistakes, or you may be remembering wrong and that is fine, but if you lie, whether outright or by saying something that could ‘technically be true in a certain light’, I will know and you will be treated accordingly.”

Jaks waited for a reaction. Viv shrugged.

“That’s fair.”

“Did you murder the Bishop?”

“No, I did not murder him. I was with the temple guard at all times.”

“Did you have him murdered?”

“I gave no orders to that effect.”

That was the truth. She had made a suggestion to Solfis, and let the golem decide. She had not ordered anyone to do anything. In fact, she had not even told Solfis to kill him. Solfis could have decided to scare him instead, though that was unlikely. Obviously, Jaks latched on to the peculiar turn of phrase like a pitbull on a marrow bone.

“But did you start a chain of events that eventually led to the bishop’s death.”

“Yes, technically,” Viv admitted, then she continued before the others could throw accusations.

“I did my best to get the temple guard to leave with me, which left him vulnerable. With them, he would have surely reached the yries’ city. There is simply nothing in the upper level of the mines that can contend with the temple guard. So in a way, I am responsible for his death because I took his defenses away.”

The expression of vindictive triumph on Jaks’ face dawned and died in a heartbeat. He stopped, thoughtful for a moment.

“And you insist that beasts killed him?”

“I am certain of it. We found the bodies of two members of his escort. They were eaten on site by rock moles. The wounds were consistent with large teeth and claws. We found the same traces on remnants of the bishop’s robes. He was killed by monsters. For sure.”

“Hmmm, you seem to believe that firmly.”

“I was not present but all evidence points to that.”

“Hmmm.”

“Look, I will not lie when I say his death simplified my life, but I was already on my way out of the city when it happened. I left to Helock literally a few days after.”

Jaks did not give up. He asked a few more questions, trying to catch Viv in a plain lie. One of the methods he employed was to get her to admit she wanted him gone, then work from there to ask her what she had done to ‘get rid’ of him. Viv took her time to answer every question, never losing her temper, never hurrying to defend herself or speaking too much. She kept her replies short and to the point. If she could have, she would have chosen a lawyer to represent her, but that wasn’t the way on Nyil.

Seeing that this wasn’t working, Jaks used another strategy. He used body language to try  and make her relax, see things from her perspective. He only wanted to help her and for her to help him. The assassination was in the past and this was a good opportunity to move forward. She just had to tell him everything she knew.

Viv was aware the good inquisitor was finishing at that point. Once again, she did her best to keep calm and measured every word. It was paramount not to share too much. Eventually, her patience and the calm that came with leadership and high mental stats allowed her to stall long enough for the other two judges to grow annoyed. Even Jaks appeared to give up. At least for now.

“I will be honest, I can tell from the shadow in your soul that you are not telling me everything, but I will try to inspect the scene of the death to see if I can learn more.”

Viv did not react. Inquisitors such as Jaks could learn much from a body or a crime scene. There were even rumors they could see the memories of the dead. Of course, the bishop was long dead and digested by now, and the crime scene had been contaminated beyond salvation, so there was little he could do.

Jaks could also resort to a more violent form of interrogation by using that golden light Viv had seen Denerim wield against Lancer’s agents, before they’d taken Kazar back. She knew he wouldn’t dare use it on her though, not without good reason. It would be a declaration of war.

Jaks was at an impasse. Viv was most likely cleared.

“So for now I will pass the judgment of guiltless, though I reserve the right to reopen the inquiry.”

“Witnessed by me,” Farren said.

“So witnessed,” Denerim added.

There was silence for a few seconds as the atmosphere relaxed. Viv smiled pleasantly.

“Are we officially done then?”

“Yes! Yes, thank you for your time,” Jaks said.

He placed both hands on the table and made to leave.

“If you will allow me a moment, Solfis come here please,” Viv said.

The golem’s familiar, skeletal frame slid silently into the room, its baleful glare settling on the inquisitors. They did not take a step back but hands hovered ever so slightly towards the handles of sheathed blades.

“I had the bishop murdered. We killed him,” Viv stated with a polite smile.

Jaks’ face formed a hilarious ‘o’ of surprise and he froze where he was.

“Sit,” Viv invited, still with the same pleasant smile

They did, all four of them.

“No sophistry. I will not share the details but I did it. I’m guilty. So now listen well, because this is important. The bishop’s intentions were to break the contract between the temple and the yries clan to obtain the entirety of Min Goles’ iron reserves. He made no secret of it.”

She leaned forward over the table, still smiling, fingers intertwined.

“The yries came here with little resources and many died on the way. They have a secluded valley where they can grow crops, but we have run some predictions and they will never have enough to sustain their population. The ground around their city is also ill-suited for mushroom farming. Too dry, you see. They need food from around Kazar and they trade for it with iron. No iron, no food. Lak-Tak already told me in no uncertain terms that they would fight rather than be chased off again and risk losing most of their young. The temple is free to break its contracts if it wishes. I have no say in how you act. I do, however, have a say in how the yries are treated.”

You could hear a pin drop. Both inquisitors and Farren were listening with rapt attention, possibly because Viv felt her leadership skill working. It was the right moment, the right mood. She had them and now she would deliver her message.

“The yries have joined their banner to mine. We are allied. They are part of New Harrak and the vision I have of what this place can become. The same is true of the Hadals, of the Enorian refugees, of your wounded veterans. Everyone here who swore obedience to our rules. They are my people. Your bishop was going to use the power of the temple to evict my people from their home.”

She leaned further.

“They are mine and I protect those who are mine. I will protect everyone here even if I have to kill every last invading motherfucker on this continent. I will honor my word and I will use any means necessary to do so, and if it means I have to pour molten gold down another royal throat, with the gods as my witness, I will. If I have to send Solfis after a high priest, I will. If I have to cross the forest in a tide of blood and ash, I will. Anyone who comes and treats my people like second-class citizens will get my first-class attention. No exceptions. Now, you know what I did and why. You can decide to withdraw your support. I don’t mind. I will never sacrifice one of my factions for a bigger, better one. But I want to make it absolutely clear that I feel no guilt for what I have done, and if I had to do it again, I would, and without a second of hesitation. So a word of warning. If you do decide to come after me for that death… you’d better not miss, because Solfis is always looking for more heads and I have no fucks to give. I hope I’ve made myself perfectly clear, gentlemen. And a good day to you.”

The air smelled of scales and hot breath as she finished. Viv stood and left like a queen, feeling really good about herself. There might be dramatic consequences but for now she was perfectly at peace with herself and that was extremely important.

Draconic Intimidation: Expert 3

“I knew you’d understand, Nous.”

Viv got her answer a few hours later. There would be a large fine to pay from her personal pocket, but they were willing to let it go.

Viv didn’t know what to think about that.

***

As a last touch, the head merchant that came with the inquisitors came to see Viv.

“Your Grace, I have found what you were looking for.”

“You’ll have to be more specific.”

“The flowers. It was hard to find but a collector from Mornyr had them. He was pleased with your initiative to revive the species, and sent more than three times the required number of seeds. Here.”

Viv picked a large pouch and removed a single, light blue seedling from a larger mass.

“Get me one of the earth shapers.”

“Immediately.”

It took five minutes for one of them to fashion a small pot of soil, then to make the plant bloom very quickly. Soon enough, Viv was left with a rose with a dark stem and shockingly blue rose of a hue like pale ice. It was gorgeous.

“Thank you,” Viv told the merchant.

She pocketed the seeds and gave him the four gold talents he’d requested — a fortune for flower seeds — but it was a symbol as well. She found Solfis near her tower. He stared fixedly at the flower in her hands.

//You Grace.

“I found them. Harrakan roses.”

//I see.

With more care than Viv had ever seen from the mechanical being, Solfis picked the pot and caressed the petals, revealing a pale white carpel in its center. He remained silent for a moment, but Viv knew it was an eternity at his speed.

//I thought they were extinct.

“Some herbalists and nobles have kept it alive.”

//And a good thing they have.

//Look at this color.

//No other plant can produce it.

He looked up after a while.

//Those were my master’s favorites.

“I remember. Got a whole bag here. We can seed them again, make sure they thrive.”

//Yes, we will.

//Thank you.

He lifted the pot.

//Welcome home, little one.”
