“Indeed, indeed,” Wu agreed. “From studies of the shards of that stone which remained at the caldera, and from looking at records of what was recovered from Ogodei’s battles, the stellar material used by the nomads is…impure. It is somehow mingled with terrestrial material. It was theorized that this is merely part of the decaying process, a temporary and unstable state, and that may be so, but it is not a subject given much study.”

“That will have to change given the increasing amounts of starstones showing up in unwanted places,” Meng Dan said mildly. “I have read Lady Cai’s reports on this labyrinth within the glacier you have discovered at Snowblossom. Will you be plumbing it soon?”

“Relatively, I’m sure,” Ling Qi replied.

“Relatively, of course.” Meng Dan chuckled. “Will the study of any artifacts or treasures be done here then, or will they be sent back to the capital?”

“I hadn’t really considered that,” Ling Qi said. “But I suppose the right facilities are being put up…”

“It is a distant concern,” Cai Renxiang interjected. “Any exploration will have to be after the summit so it’s some months out to even begin exploring the location.”

“Well, I would of course be pleased to have real stellar materials on hand to study,” Wu said. “That said, as proud as I already am of the facilities, they are still much inferior to the workshops of the Xiangmen.”

“Moving any materials to Xiangmen will result in a significantly longer wait for results. Unless something truly catastrophic were to occur, enough to move mother to intercede directly, there would be many other tasks and studies ahead of our requests.”

“That titan who appeared at the caldera is not catastrophic?” Ling Qi asked incredulously.

“You would imagine so, but no.”

“Academia is a slow moving battlefield where every skirmish may take years or decades,” Meng Dan said. “So far as I know, most consider the caldera titan to be merely a dangerous high realm or spirit beast. It is certainly something to be alarmed by, but it is considered military business, not theirs.”

“Yes, I suppose the young sir is right,” Wu said weakly. “It can be difficult to get new projects into the highest workshops. The overseers and administration are quite stubborn."

“Ling Qi, it may be a minor matter now, but it is best settled soon so that proper arrangements may be made. It is my opinion that using local facilities for anything we might find in our explorations will be the superior option. You are free to convince me otherwise.”

“No. I agree with you, Lady Cai. To begin with, anything we dredge up should be studied with more urgency. If the capital would like access to our research results, they can always order it later when they are ready.”

“Wonderful,” Astronomer Wu enthused. “I am sure my junior colleagues will be pleased to have more chances to earn merits, along with our sponsors in the Meng clan. I do have some more technical details on the collaboration I could bring to your attention, if you’d like to begin, Lady Cai…?”

“Yes. However, Ling Qi Meng Dan, you two may resume your other duties. I merely wished for your council and attention on the larger questions.”

“Very well. Shall I inform Gan Guangli when I see him next?” Ling Qi asked.

“I will see him first. He was only not here because his appointment with the Jia could not be altered on short notice.”

Ling Qi gave a small bow, as did Meng Dan, and they took their leave as the telescope room unsealed.
