Even as he delivers his condescending statement, I continue attacking until my head grows light and shoulders heavy from the exertion, but my efforts melt away before they ever reach him. I can’t push myself any harder because even though the pain and agony from utilizing Chi was an illusion he crafted, I did overreach in my attempts to Heal Dad and I can feel the aftereffects. Whether my Healing attempt worked or not is still up in the air, but it appears Zhen Shi was lurking about in the metaphorical and metaphysical shadows and used the opportunity to strike.

“Unmatched?” I sneer, having spent enough of my anger to keep the rest of it in check, bubbling beneath the surface of a thin veneer of calm. “You’d like me to believe that, wouldn’t you? Then that would make it true, but I know better. You are no god, not even a man anymore, just a rabid beast that needs to be put down before it causes any more harm.”

For a moment, his absent-minded distraction disappears as he focuses the full force of his focus upon me, a weight which presses in from all directions and restricts my ability to even breathe, or at least that’s how it feels despite not having lungs to fill or even air to take in. “Little worm overestimates his own worth,” the monster replies in that same cold and robotic fashion, his focus fading soon after and freeing me from his attentions, but I remind myself that this was nothing compared to the unbearable agony he inflicted upon me with but a thought when I was caught within his Natal Palace. “You have faced only lesser beings before, but here and now, you stand before this Sovereign when you should instead kneel.” And just like that, the world shifts and I no longer stand while he sits, but kneel while he stands, our positions reversed faster than the blink of an eye with no transition in between. An effort of will frees me from his grasp, but only because he does not care to keep me within, a catch and release he carried out with barely a modicum of effort, whereas it took almost everything I had to break out. Fear seeps in between the cracks of my calm and anger, poisoning my Will to resist, but I hold firm to reckless courage and indomitable defiance to stand even taller before him.

Metaphorically speaking, at least. Even sitting, he still looms overhead when I stand at full height, a disparity that is so natural and ordinary I have an inkling that this is not a part of his power games, but rather the true difference in our actual physiques made manifest in this place. My foe is well over two and a half metres tall, and while he appears slim and svelte when taken as a whole, his strapping shoulders and barrel chested frame still make me seem like a spindly child in comparison. Then again, it’s possible he’s not actually this overbearing in real life, and this is merely how he views himself, the same way I look different inside my Natal Palace. This is not my fortress of mental solitude however, but a different place, neither the Void nor my soul, but somewhere that exists in-between is what he called it. I take this to mean we are at the border of both, the delineating area where one metaphysical area ends and the other begins, but it’s not as simple as calling it a border, for reasons that go far beyond my limited comprehension of non-three-dimensional space. Though my soul touches upon the Void, to say that it exists within the Void would be incorrect, because my soul also touches upon the physical world through its connection to me. Suffice it to say that the Void, the material world, and our souls all intersect in some way, and I perceive that intersection as this white, empty nothingness because my human mind cannot comprehend its true existence.

This must be what they mean when they say Shatter the Void, to comprehend and harness the power of this ‘in-between’, a crossroads of the physical and metaphysical both. As Zhen Shi says and I discovered first hand, this is a place where Will reigns supreme, and while I was able to overpower Gen Shi with relative ease, I’m sure the real deal will prove a much tougher match.

That doesn’t mean I’m ready to roll over and die though, because I am nothing if not stubborn. “So the cowardly Zhen Shi finally sees fit to put aside his puppet screen and take action himself. Had you done this before sending your puppet to fail so many times, you might well have succeeded, but you fell victim to one of the classic blunders.” Now does not seem like the time to crack jokes and make light, but even though I don’t get why saying this makes me smile, I realize that it’s exactly what I need, to ease up and find Balance so as to better match up against my foe. “Never go all in against the Undying Savage when death is on the line.”

Though he hides it well with his expression of distracted musings, I can tell my foe is surprised by how quickly I’ve recovered. It’s his fault really, for being so in love with the sound of his own voice and anally specific that he gave away crucial information he shouldn’t have. The best part is, I don’t think he’s even realized it, and he proves it with his next statement. “So little worm knows more than he has revealed thus far, improving by leaps and bounds as usual, but worm or caterpillar makes no difference to the boot looming overhead.”

Scoffing at the sheer absurdity of the statement while simultaneously hoping it’s not actually true, I mentally girdle my loins and brandish my scorn like sword and shield both. While preparing to unleash a torrent of long-winded defiance, I take a moment to really study my opponent in full, from his golden robes embroidered with all manner of atrocities to his corpse-themed jewellery which includes fourteen rings spread across ten fingers and at least six metallic bangles poking out from his wide sleeves, with more possibly hidden underneath. The Tyrant OuYang YuHuan similar has a love of jewellery, and given how every goddamn Chosen has a set of Runic Armour, it’d be stupid not to expect Zhen Shi to not have Runic gear of his own, though in this place and on this non-corporeal form, it’d be more accurate to call them Keystones instead.

Which means I could probably create my own Keystones to use in a fight against him, but I would much rather keep that in my back pocket for now. Surprise is the strongest element after all, and I would hate to give the game away so early.

One point of interest is that unlike the massive, multiple galaxy-sized Zhen Shi I saw inside his Natal Palace, this version’s robes lacks the seemingly infinite vastness and thread-work of captured Spectres contained within, a working I only now recognize as a melding of the physical and metaphysical both. If that’s the case, then does this not make it the hallmark of a True Divinity? We call Heavenly Energy the power of Creation and Destruction because it seemingly violates the laws of physics, but only as we understand them. Destruction is easy to interpret, to unmake something and erase it from this plane of existence, while Creation would be to make something from seemingly nothing and bring it into existence, or perhaps more accurately, to tie the physical and metaphysical together as one into something that belongs in both worlds. The Demons are one such example at an attempt of just such a working of Creation, but a failure, because even though they have ties to both worlds, they belong in neither. Spiritual Hearts are another example, except that rather than belonging in both worlds, they are too firmly tied to the physical and not tied enough to the metaphysical. Too much of one, not enough of the other, the results differ vastly, but enlightening as all this might be, it’s of no real use to me in my current situation, or at least I can’t see how it might be relevant.

The important takeaway from his lacklustre robes is that this is not the true Zhen Shi, but something akin to a Natal Soul, more of my own tactics turned against me just like the illusion showed. A disturbing thought, the Defiled armed with crossbows aplenty, but luckily the West is sorely lacking in natural reserves of iron, coal, wood, and really everything you’d need to forge high quality steel, meaning there’s no way he could’ve outfitted too too many of his Chosen with such powerful crossbows, assuming he even found a way to replicate Husolt’s work. Then again, with the talents and resources of an entire province to draw from, I’m fairly certain he could’ve put together a brain trust to come up with a working blueprint and enough steel lying around to cannibalize for weapons. Hell, given his familiarity with Runic items, it’s possible he’s already figured out the Runic Cannons too, which means I might well have delivered him the weapon he needs to raze the Empire to the ground.

No, no. Calm down. Don’t panic and think this through rationally. Yes, he can churn out Runic Armour like no one else, but after bringing a bunch of sets home to study, we discovered that the generic Chosen armour only came in three sizes. This led Taduk to theorize that Zhen Shi isn’t inhumanly fast or in possession of a team of Runic Craftsmen, and instead might well have created a simplified process to create Runic items, one he is able to teach others like Yo Ling. What’s more, Taduk wasn’t even sure if the armour was actually Runic as we understand it, because no one has ever heard of Runes usable only by the Defiled. Even though the armour bears an unpleasant presence, the nigh-indestructible Chosen armour behaves like mundane steel when worn by regular Imperials, and even I couldn’t bring out its protective properties. Hell, after I tried it on, the armour even lost its palpable aspect of Defilement to become a mundane piece of armour that simply looked similar in shape to actual Defiled Runic Armour.

So in all likelihood, Zhen Shi’s method for creating Runic armour is just a different way of doing the same thing. An easier, more efficient way perhaps, but that doesn’t make him an all-powerful being, just an innovator and trailblazer that has come up with something new. Hell, I’ve done the same multiple times both directly and indirectly, so it’s not something to be intimidated by, especially considering it took him like eight-hundred years to get this far. I’ve done more to progress technology in a single decade, so even if he does have Runic gear and crossbows, I doubt he’s figured out Cannons so quickly, though he’s probably frantically working on it as fast as he can. That’s why he refuses to fight with my army and is trying to stall my advance with scorched earth tactics, because he knows the odds are stacked against him and he needs time to even the odds.

Zhen Shi might not be scared, but he’s most certainly on the back foot, which means I hold the advantage in our war out there, an advantage I need to use in here. Confidence is key, and while I am far from the most confident man in the world, I could give a master class in how to fake it ‘til you make it.

Straightening up even further, I throw out my arms in welcome of violence. “Go ahead then. Stomp me flat. Except you won’t, because while you might be stinky and leathery, that’s about all you have in common with a boot over my head. You’ve been trying to get rid of me for years, and here I still stand, because you have failed time and time again. We’ve done this song and dance so many times before, I even know your next move. You’ll show off a little bit of force to spook me and then ease off before I retaliate, claiming you are so magnanimous and merciful that you cannot bear to ruin so promising a seedling or some other stupid nonsense. Then comes the invitation to work together to overthrow the Dog Emperor, a label I personally take offence to because you mean it as an insult, but dogs are awesome, so fuck you very much. I’ll turn you down and you’ll utter more threats, then leave and inevitably fail to follow through, just like you have each and every time before.” Pausing to take a breath for added effect, I cross my arms and purse my lips to convey just how unimpressed I am as I wait for his response.

There is no anger or indignation from my foe, not like I would have gotten from Gen Shi, nor is there even any indication he’s heard me at all. Instead, the moment it’s clear I’ve finished talking, he continues on from before as if I haven’t said a single thing. “Clever though little worm might be, your personal strength is still nothing to be wary of, and not even your potential can shake this Sovereign’s confidence. No, as stated before, you are but an annoyance, a fly who refuses to cease his irritating ways despite the mercy this Sovereign has shown, and thus have proven yourself worthy of death.” Conjuring up a Runic Cannon, Zhen Shi studies it in a distracted fashion and says, “Your father has been dealt with, and your allies will soon follow suit, and then this Sovereign will have both body and soul in hand, alongside these wondrous weapons of war little worm hath commissioned. Imaginative, but that is all, for you had no hand in their creation aside from providing the spark which set the blaze, taking credit where none is due as little worm is wont to do.”

