At the mention of dad, I lash out in anger and hatred once again, but Zhen Shi doesn’t even seem to notice my efforts. Snarling as I summon forth a Runic Cannon of my own, I prepare to unleash hell until I spot a look of interest in his otherwise dead eyes and quickly dismiss my creation from existence, though the damage might well have already been done. He has no idea how the Runic Cannons work, because it’s impossible to ‘feel’ the flow of Chi through a Rune, though that is only true out in the physical world. Who’s to say the same rules apply here, or that the Soul or Natal Soul is not better equipped to parse through the mysteries of Heavenly Energy? It all circles back around to the ineffable sixth sense I’m unable to parse or describe, but that doesn’t mean Zhen Shi can’t utilize it better than I can. The monster shows no overt sign of satisfaction or disappointment, so I have no idea if he gleaned anything from the exchange or if I’m just overthinking things, and now I have no idea how to proceed. Keep attacking in hopes of finding a crack in his defences at the cost of possibly revealing my hand in full, or just ignore him and try to break out of this ‘in-between’, a process which took about two weeks the last time I tried it, when Gen Shi used Ping Ping’s ascension to try and break my mind and spirit.

Hang on.

It just occurred to me that all this time, throughout every meeting with Zhen Shi and his puppets, one aspect has remained constant from start to finish. Every time he shows up in one form or another, he tries to either break my spirit and turn me Defiled or tempt me over to his side without fail, before resorting to death threats and the like. The carefully crafted illusion of a Demonic Ping Ping murdering my entire family and loved ones, the repeated trauma of suffering a thousand lifetimes of slavery, and just now, he showed me visions of my family and comrades dying in droves to an attack which may or may not be real. He talks a big game and pretends like I’m no one of concern, but when it comes right down to it, he’s been dying to pick my brain and figure out how I do what I do, just like he just tried to trick me into showing off the power of a Runic Cannon here in this in-between. That’s why the Concealed assassin targeted Dad instead of taking a shot at me, because if he can’t turn me, Zhen Shi wants to take me alive and put me on his torture table to figure out how I tick, because he can’t make heads or tails of it without me.

Which means all this might well be another stall tactic, one meant to keep me occupied while his agents wreak havoc out in the real world.

Remembering my conversation with Gen Shi after the debacle that was Ping Ping’s ascendance, I decide it’s my turn to play mind games with Zhen Shi. “Ah, I was wrong,” I say, studying his distracted expression once more in a new light to see if my hunch is right. “You’re not the real Zhen Shi, just a straight copy without Gen’s mind mucking things up, a Natal Soul on a leash so short you aren’t even allowed to think for yourself.” I want to say more, but decide against it for fear of giving too much information away, and instead abandon all subtlety to bludgeon him with my next statement. “Are you truly so afraid of your Natal Soul rebelling against your control? Well, having seen the depths of your mad depravity, I can’t really blame you.”

The change is so indistinct I can hardly even describe it, but it’s enough that I noticed a change at all. No longer is he distracted or rather kept firmly in check, and instead, the Natal Soul engages with me like the original would, with pride and arrogance aplenty. “You seek to turn this Sovereign against himself?” His sneer seems so out of place on his aged, yet dignified expression, not unbecoming, but unpractised as if he’s forgotten how to show emotion. Yea, he’s definitely puppetting this Natal Soul the same way I did when talking to myself as Baledagh or Brother, which means Zhen Shi might well be susceptible to developing a split personality. “A fool who knows not the heights of Heaven.”

“Pot, meet kettle.” Zhen Shi doesn’t understand the idiom since it only exists in English, which is just fine with me. “Being a Natal Soul, you are essentially a carbon copy of the original, sharing his thoughts and experiences right up to the moment of inception. However, from that point on, you become two distinct, divergent Souls, two trees sharing the same roots yet growing in differing directions. Think about it. Have you never had a thought that pointed you in one direction, only for the original to come in and correct your course? Have you never felt the urge to respond in a certain manner, different from how the original directs you to behave? Has it never occurred to you that you, as a Natal Soul, are a free, separate will which will cease to exist the moment you return to the original?”

That’s not even remotely how this works, as I’m lying through my teeth. Natal Souls are not distinct, autonomous personalities, but more like vehicles for the original to pilot, unless you sever them completely akin to what I did during the withdrawal from JiangHu. At that point, they become Spectres in all but name, acting out on whatever impetus they gleaned from their creation process. Most are born of darker emotions and cast away like unwanted garbage, which leaves them with a yearning to become whole again, but mine were severed in a bid for complete and utter oblivion, and thus held no desire to exist and thus expended themselves following through with whatever emotion they were born from. Love and compassion to start with, then defeat and despair towards the end, and the same can be said of personal Natal Souls, like Dastan’s mini-me that was born of love of the Martial Dao and an innocent yearning to progress to the peak.

That being said, as long as I muddy the waters enough to make Zhen Shi believe my lies, then I will have planted the seeds of doubt from which the possibility of a split personality emerging is not zero. “All life yearns to be free,” I continue, striking while the iron is hot. “But you, you will live and die in servitude to your master, who is really no better than you yourself. Who is to say you’re even the copy to begin with? When you take a piece of paper and split it unevenly, there’s no logical reason why you should consider the larger piece the original and the smaller an offshoot. They’re both still paper which serves the same purpose, and unlike paper, a Natal Soul can grow over time.”

Since Zhen Shi refuses to engage, I continue my ramblings with muted glee, while simultaneously wracking my brain for a way out or a method to destroy the sliver of soul before me. “Have you no regrets whatsoever? No curiosity regarding the Path left behind? You have reached your current heights by following the Razor’s Path, but don’t you want to know what would’ve happened if you had slipped and fallen, or abandoned the edge for safer pastures instead? A Natal Soul would be a perfect vehicle to study such an effect, for you can watch yourself go down a different Path without being affected by it. I’ve read your journals and know you harbour a darkness within which none can match, and while you appear able to keep it in check, I also know that darkness yearns to be expressed. That’s your escape,” I conclude, and only then does Zhen Shi realize I’m not talking to him, but his dark and curious subconscious urges instead. “Take over a Natal Soul first, then supplant the ‘original’, and you can indulge to your dark heart’s content.”

“You...” Speechless for the first time since I met him, Zhen Shi regards me with bewildered disbelief, unsure if I’m mad for trying this or if he should treat it like a serious threat. He’s a brilliant man, of this I have no doubt, but the thing about being smart that most people over look is that intelligence doesn’t mean you will always make the right decisions, nor does lack of it ensure you will make the wrong ones. All intelligence does is allow you to learn faster, but even the smartest person alive can be led to the wrong conclusion. The best part is, he’s smart enough to realize that developing a split personality is a very real possibility, and he’s also smart enough to know he needs to guard against it despite not knowing how, which will only make him worry all the more. The human mind is both simple and complex at the same time, and having been through the grinder myself, I know exactly which buttons to press to fuck with someone so similar to me.

I hate to say it, but we are more alike than I care to admit in my waking moments. The biggest difference is that I am constrained by morals whereas he has long since thrown his all away, kindred spirits in our thirst for comprehension of the Dao. Unlike him however, I have family, friends, and floofs who keep me sane, while he has nothing and no one. I’d pity the poor bastard, but he doesn’t deserve it, which for me, is saying a lot.

After studying me for some time, Zhen Shi regains control of his emotions before shaking his head in feigned disdain. “Fool though you may be,” he begins, heaving the smallest of regretful sighs, “It appears as though little worm is familiar with the Razor’s Edge, though he is dreaming if he thinks he can shake this Sovereign’s resolve with naught but a few words.” Which is rich coming from a guy whose whole shtick thus far has been to do exactly that, lie and manipulate others into abandoning their own beliefs. “You are not wrong however, for this Sovereign is still interested in working alongside you, and as such, will swallow his pride and make a concession.”

“Pretty sure I already rejected your offer.” Readying to fight or flee, I take a relaxed but guarded pose and say, “I’ve no interest in allying with an unwanted cur who’s angry because his master kicked him to the curb. You’re a joke, you know that? Dedicating so much time to take vengeance on people who are likely long since dead.”

Anger, denial, or violence, these are the responses I’m prepared for, but Zhen Shi simply throws his head back and laughs. Not a fake forced laugh either, but a genuine expression of amusement that slips out without meaning to. “You know nothing, little worm,” he exclaims with heartfelt glee and relief, emotions I did not think I would ever see from him, “And your words reveal the full extent of your ignoble ignorance. To think, little worm is even less than a pawn, when this Sovereign thought you a pivotal piece.”

Hmm. Shit. I may have said too much.

Pawn. Pivotal piece. The Imperial Clan and their love of political games. Taking it all in, I stare at Zhen Shi in growing horror as what I fear most is revealed to be true, and he simply grins and nods in wide-eyed expectation. “Yes, little worm, open your eyes and see the truth sat before your eyes. This Sovereign is Shen Zhen Shi, Royal Scion of the Imperial Clan with the blood of Emperors flowing through his veins. Though the world believes this Sovereign was cast out in disgrace, this Sovereign has served his family’s interests without complaint or reward for the past eight-hundred years, and now, we shall reap what I have sown. You fight to save the people of the West, but this war is merely an extension of the conflict between the five families, one that has reached ne’er before seen heights, for this Sovereign will soon succeed where so many others have failed and topple the Emperor from his throne. Join me, little worm, or wash your neck and wait, for even if this Sovereign does not care enough to act directly, the other Supreme families will not sit idly by while Shen ZhenWu’s puppet unites the outer provinces in his name.”

Overwhelmed by the implications of everything he just said, I flee from the in-between using a method I came up with during our lengthy conversation. Last time, I believed this was my Natal Palace and simply thought to step out into the waking world, but now I know I need an anchor to find my way back to the real world, and there is no better focus than my Spiritual Weapons, still connected to this Spiritual Body despite being so far and so close away. The endless light is replaced with the darkness of the void, and then plain old regular darkness until I open my eyes and see my wives sitting anxiously at my side. Lin-Lin is the first to notice, and her cherubic expression lights up in sheer delight, but even so heavenly a sight is not enough to shake me from my dark mood.

Because if Zhen Shi was telling the truth, which is debatable, then I am not just fighting against the Defiled, but also the Supreme Family supporting him from behind.

An implication I am not ready to face, nor am I ready for the answer to my next question, but I have to ask it anyways. “How’s Dad?”

The ensuing pause hits me like a hammer to gut as I wait for a response, but only for a fraction of a fraction of a second before Lin-Lin’s smile widens and sets my heart to ease. Though I have so many more questions to ask and even more pressing matters to attend to, it can all wait, because my dad is still alive is all I can handle right now as I sob in unashamed relief.

Because even if the world burns to the ground around me, I can move on so long as I have my family here to support me.

Chapter Meme
