The world heaves as it’s pulled out from under my feet, a rude awakening if there ever was one.

But not half as rude as peering out from under leaden eyelids and coming face to face with a red-eyed bull-headed Demon.

Panic and adrenaline shatter my muddled exhaustion as my boots connect firmly with my minotaurian assailant, sending a jolt of pain lancing through my legs as if I just tried to drop kick a fucking mountain. Bones fracture and joints dislodge as the scene shifts around me, my rescuer hurling me away from the Demon to what I presume is relative safety. Never one to take anything for granted, I tuck and roll to turn and face the creature even as gravity takes hold and sends me plummeting back down to the earth below, my numbed hands reaching for weapons I cannot for the life of me find. Overwhelming despair forces me to abandon the fight, and I settle for trying to make sense of things around me. Darting my eyes about to take in the situation, I see chaos in all directions as Grandpa Du unleashes a powerful blow at his Demonic foe, the same quick-draw strike I’ve seen Song use thousands of times before, but one which strikes with a thunderclap of fury that she could never match. To my right, Kuang Biao drives his sword into a second Demon’s torso while its taloned hands rend his flesh and expose bone underneath, but the stoic Death Corps Guard only grits his teeth and follows through with his killing blow without a care for consequence or reprisal. On my left, Binesi whirls his spear about and fends off two more Demons, bestial creatures Cloud-Stepping about on all fours while gnashing fangs and slashing claws, yet no matter how they duck and weave, they are unable to make their way past the Immovable’s flawless defence. That’s how he got his reputation after all, by being much better at defending than his opponents are at attacking, a rare reversal of strengths in a Martial Warrior of his calibre.

Naaran, Kanri, Gao Changgong, Situ Jia Yang, and more, familiar faces one and all surround me on all sides as they fight for their lives while fleeing from the veritable horde of Demons chasing them through the skies. Our Enemy is not here for them however, for their Demonic gazes are all affixed on me, their murderous intent made clear without the need for Aura, facial expression, or even recognizable body language. The threat they present is clear, and as I right myself in the air to face my foes, I allow myself a small smile of dark satisfaction, for these Demons think themselves the predator, when in fact, they are merely prey.

Sword and shield appearing in hand, I right myself in the air and open my Core to the Energy of the Heavens -

Only to be struck down by a bolt of lightning delivered from on high.

No, not lightning, nor was I attacked, which I only realize after long seconds once the throes of agony clear away to leave a haze of constant but lesser torment in its place. Pain and suffering are all I feel, but I am nothing if not enduring, so I grit my teeth and wrack my mind for answers to the questions plaguing me. My Chi system is borked, which is about as much as I can understand, the searing pangs a result of pushing myself too far too fast. It’s akin to a muscle tearing from being pushed far beyond its limits, nothing I won’t recover from, but not soon enough to fight off this formidable force of Demons intent on claiming my life. All I can do is watch as other Peak Warriors fight to keep me alive, but their foes are fearless and determined to drag as many of my guards down with me as they can.

Naaran is first to fall, gored from behind by the Minotaur while fighting off two more Demons in front. In his final moments, his amber eyes turn to meet mine and his bloody lips part in a gasp, his gaze so full of pain and regret. Then the light fades away as his life comes to an end, and Naaran is dead and gone, but I lack even the luxury of grief as Grandpa Du appears at my side and pulls me away to relative safety. The deafening rush of air mutes out the sounds of battle, but my mind fills them in as I watch the carnage unfold. Kuang Biao topples over not from a new attack, but from sheer blood loss as he passes out mid-attack, his Oaths pushing him to his limits and now his inescapable death. Kanri has long since been out of his depth, a naive young Aspirant who was fresh to the cause when the Confessor betrayed the Empire and toppled the poor youth’s world views. He shouldn’t even be here, having taken over from Gunan at Luo-Luo’s side after his friend died protecting her in District Seventy-Eight, but there he is, fresh faced and grim gazed as he fights tooth and nail against a feline Demon that is clearly playing with its prey. Bleeding from dozens of lacerations, his slow, sluggish movements make it painfully clear how he is no match for his foe, and he knows it too but refuses to give up. Alas, determination alone is no shield against claw and fang, and after unlatching its jaw in an almost impossible fashion, the cat-demon swallows the poor youth whole, his legs kicking and lungs screaming all the way down.

Three Peak Experts dead without even time to blink between them, but they are not the first, nor will they be the last. Bereft of stable ground beneath his feet, Jia Yang’s ring of whirling defence is easily broken through overwhelming force alone, and his broken body drops out of the sky in a most disheartening end to this one-time foe who has since become a staunch and dependable ally. Immovable Binesi blocks a blow that sends him tumbling through the air, only to slam face first into the fist of a six-armed ape that smashes his head into a bloody pulp before taking a fanged bite out of his still-warm flesh. Gao Changgong weeps as his countrymen die around him, a fate he consigned them to when he sought shelter under my banner, his grief and anguish almost as difficult to take in as his inevitable death. Guts torn open and entrails spilling out, the Siegebreaker continues to fight the good fight until the bitter end, one which comes both all too soon and not soon enough as two Demons latch onto his body and drag him down out of the skies, putting an end to his staunch resistance as his silent screams sound audibly in my mind, if not to my ears.

So many others die alongside these notable Warriors, Peak Experts one and all, for that is all I brought with me out on my hunt for the Defiled. Tears stream down my cheeks faster than the whipping wind can wick them away, and my chest aches with a pain that is even worse than the unspeakable agony I only just suffered through trying to channel Chi through my broken Spiritual system. Kuang Biao, Han BoHai, Exarch Bralton and Eriene, and more, they all fight and die to keep me safe as Grandpa Du brings me away, but the loss of even a single one is not worth it, for I am the cause of their death.

I am truly a calamity to those who love me. Better if I had died all those years ago and rotted away instead of relying on others to make it this far.

Bodies continue to drop out of the skies in a veritable storm of blood and corpses, but the Enemy forces only grow in number as their own Peak Experts join the fray. Their focused ferocity turns a fighting retreat into a full-fledged rout, one Grandpa Du quickly leaves behind in a burst of unprecedented speed. In the brief lull that follows, I recognize the landscape around us and find my bearings just in time to watch Huang Hai harbour pass underneath, only for it to fade fast into the distance as Grandpa Du continues to Cloud Step away, unleashing a flurrying of Wind Chakrams in all directions to cut a bloody path out of this mess I’ve gotten him into, but not fast enough to keep me from seeing the dire straits the defenders have found themselves in. Beset from all sides with only shoddy, crumbling walls to protect them, the beleaguered Khishigs and Warriors of the North form up for a losing fight as the Enemy swarms in around them, Concealed Chosen revealing themselves and the weapons of war they wield, familiar massive steel crossbows akin to the Monstrosity Husolt crafted for me on request. As the Demons tear into the Imperial lines, the Defiled unleashed a coordinated hail of bolts at the gathered Peak Experts without fear of injuring their hardy, inhuman allies. Imperials drop like flies rather than the rare and precious Warriors that they truly are, so many lives ended before they can put up a proper fight, but still more stand strong and fight on with blackened steel piercing their flesh and insidious poison coursing through their veins.

For just as the details grow too small to see, a shimmer of light catches my eye, and my focus is drawn to the blackened steel tips of the Enemy’s bolts, glistening with the signature poison those insidious assassins were best known for. A bolt just like this pierced through my father’s heart and claimed his life, a life I failed to save, because if I had, he would be right here fighting to protect me, no matter how tired or injured he might be.

The shame of failure and the emptiness of loss are both superseded by the pain of knowing I’ve brought about the deaths of so many heroes, for even though I thought my tactics would lessen the gap between commoner and Peak Expert, I never thought how it would also close the gap between Defiled and Imperial at the same time. I’ve shown the Enemy how to turn their numbers advantage into an overwhelming and unstoppable force of mayhem and slaughter, because one Imperial soldier is no longer worth ten Defiled on the battlefield, tilting the balance of power heavily in the Enemy’s favour.

Anger wells up from within as I grasp what has happened here tonight, a burning fury to cover up my shame and heartache. My ire is largely reserved for the Enemy, but a good portion of it is turned inwards towards myself for allowing things to get this far, because now Grandpa Du will have to turn around and go back before I can save everyone, precious seconds that will cost us dozens of lives, if not more. Even without Chi to fuel my attacks or Aura, I only need to speak two words to flip everything about, a move I’ve been saving for an emergency and I can think of no better time to use it than now. Wishing I could Send or shout to warn Grandpa Du, I point at the Minotaur with hate in my eyes and scream, “Hydro Pump!”

Rather than the wave of watery destruction I expected, an influx of agony courses through me as if I just tried to use Chi again, and I cannot for the life of me understand why. Gritting my teeth, I don’t even bother waiting for my vision to return before screaming the same words again to similar effect. Unable to make heads or tails of the situation, I triple down and try a third time, because maybe I can’t be heard over the rushing wind that has deafened me to all else, and again, agony is all I receive for my efforts.

In a moment of crystalline clarity, the answer hits me like a bucket of cold water on a hot summer day, and my body goes limp in disbelief. Grandpa Du is caught and dismembered by the Bull Demon, but I cannot be bothered to grieve, because even though I believe I’ve arrived at the right answer, I could still be completely wrong. The trick is to figure it out without giving the game away, so I watch Grandpa Du’s death with all my focus instead of mentally distancing myself as I have been to keep myself sane. The sudden stop, the tang of metallic blood in the air, the pop of pressure equalizing in my ears just in time to hear Grandpa Du’s scream of pain, his eyes rolling back in his head as the Minotaur’s hooved feet break his legs in mid-air, all of it is so vivid and real I have trouble believing this is merely an illusion, but as I process everything else I’ve seen and experienced, the proof piles up until it cannot be ignored. My Chi-less attack being strong enough to fracture my own bones, my eyes seeing so clearly despite the whipping wind deafening me, the quiet, orderly fashion in which the people I knew died one after the other, and most importantly of all, my verbal command causing my body to react as if I were attempting to manipulate Chi, when instead I was trying to communicate with someone Zhen Shi is unaware of.

I shouldn’t even think about him, because I have no idea what Zhen Shi can see or hear.

The clouds overhead, the seas underfoot, and the grisly scene of Grandpa Du’s death fades away and is replaced by a suffusing whiteness all around me, and I find myself lying on the floor of a sterile white room, a place I’ve been before and hoped to never return to, as it is where I encountered a most unwelcome intruder once before.

“You mother-fucker…”

Bolting upright to confront my foe, I come face to face with Zhen Shi in all his golden-robed glory, sitting atop empty air with a look of bemused curiosity etched across his all-too-dignified features, his focus largely elsewhere but still paying me some attention. Belatedly, I notice I didn’t actually sit upright, I just thought about doing it and I shifted into that ‘physical’ orientation, a lesson I take to heart as I harness my Will to rend and tear this pretender apart out of sheer indescribable fury. Power flows out of me and crashes into Zhen Shi, or rather the thin film surrounding and protecting him from just such an attack, his own Will made manifest and unshakable in his conviction.

“Futile efforts, little worm,” he says, his tone booming yet cold, passionless, and almost bored as he reclines in place, seemingly at ease yet so stiff and rigid he might well be hewn from stone while emanating an air of arrogant confidence which no puppet can fake. “This is neither your Natal Palace nor the Void, but a place which exists in-between where we subsist only by the power of our Wills, an area in which this Sovereign is unmatched.”

