Ren heard Tommy clearly, even though Tommy was about 20 feet closer to the house and faced the other way. Thanks, Tommy. Ren thought, and stopped himself from smiling so no one would know he had heard everything that was said.

“I wasn't gonna say anything about it.” Billy responded with his voice lowered, too.

“When ah asked Ren abou' skinnin' tools, he grilled me ovah wha' ta do wit 'em and how ta do it.” Clint said and smiled. “Then he offered ta come out an' do it himself.”

“That was really nice of him.” Dillon said, a bit skeptically.

“Clint was the first friend I made in the game.” Ren said, then looked at Tommy. “Tommy was the second.”

“How many friends do you have on your friends list now?” Billy asked.

“Including these two?” Ren asked, and pointed to Clint and Tommy.

“Yeah.”

“Two.” Ren said, and they all laughed.

“Ah didn' know tha'.” Clint said. “Have'ncha met anyone else since then?”

“Yeah, a few people.” Ren chuckled. “No other friend requests, though.”

Tommy shook his head. “Then they don't know what they're missing, man.” He said and took out Ren's custom made weapon. “Hell, I've neglected to keep in touch with you, and you still made this great bow for me.”

“That reminds me.” Ren said and took out the bow he had made for Billy. “Clint said Billy was looking for another bow, and I just happened to bring one with me.”

“Ha!” Clint barked a laugh. “He jus' happened ta make it a few minutes before we lef' his shop!”

“You're kidding!” Billy said and everyone walked over to Ren and Clint.

“Does anyone have the Identify skill?”

“I do.” Dillon said, and Ren held the bow up for him. “Good god, is that for real?” He asked after he read the popup. “How the hell did you get that kind of enchantment on a normal wooden bow?”

“Lots and lots of practice.” Ren said, and they all laughed again.

“I hear that!” Hank said, and flexed his muscles. “I didn't get this big by just sitting on my ass and watching television!”

“What kind of enchantment is it?” Billy asked.

“Clint didn't know what kind you wanted, so he said to do the same enchantments as Tommy's bow with Damage and Lightning.”

Dillon told them what the actual enchantment did, and everyone went quiet. Billy looked longingly at the bow.

“How much is it?” Billy asked.

“How much have you got?” Ren asked and grinned.

“Don't say anything!” Tommy said and started to laugh. “His store manager put me through the ringer after a question like that!”

“Look what you got from it, though.” Billy said. “It was worth it, wasn't it?”

Tommy nodded.

“Then I've got 27 gold and 15 silver.” Billy said. “I was saving up for the 30 gold coins I needed for the high quality bow at the general store; but, that thing you have is a hell of a lot better than that!”

Ren glanced at the guys around him and saw the looks on their faces. Clint and Tommy looked a little worried, and Hank and Dillon looked like they thought Ren was going to take it all and let Billy suffer in poverty.

“Send me a friend request.” Ren said to Billy, then Clint and Tommy smiled and nodded. Billy sent the friend request, and Ren accepted it. “It seems you qualify for the 'friend of the owner' discount.” He said, and grinned. “16 gold coins should just about cover it.”

“No way!” Billy exclaimed, and looked at Clint and Tommy. “Is he serious? 16 gold?”

“I wouldn't look a gift horse in the mouth.” Tommy repeated one of Clint's favorite catch phrases.

“An yer checking this one's teeth.” Clint finished, and they all laughed.

“All right, all right! I know the deal is too good to be true.” Billy said and gave Ren 16 gold.

Ren handed him the bow. “Enjoy.”

“Holy Mary, Mother of God!” Billy said. “It has my name on it!”

“WHAT?” Hank yelled. “You've got a personal weapon?”

“Yeah!” Billy said. “It's not bound to me, but no one else can use it! Ha ha!”

“It's true.” Dillon said and smiled. “I left that part out when I described it, so it would still be a surprise.”

Hank took Dillon into a one-arm hug. “You're a good friend!”

“Not as good as him.” Dillon said and pointed to Ren. “I appraised it at 80 gold.”

“80 gold!” Billy exclaimed and looked at Ren. “Are you crazy or something?”

Tommy laughed and put a hand on Ren's shoulder. “So, you really did give him the one-time-only 80% off special.”

Ren nodded. “I always treat my friends well.” He said, then took out the set of Bracers of Archery he'd made and gave them to Billy, too. “I almost forgot the bonus item you get with a major purchase.”

Ren immediately received 2 more friend requests from Hank and Dillon, and accepted them with a smile. Billy stood there and stared at the Bracers of Archery and didn't know what to say.

“Now I just have to decide what I need.” Hank said as he rubbed his chin in thought, then looked at Ren. “What do you sell?”

“It would be easier to ask him what he doesn't sell.” Tommy said and laughed.

“I know what I want.” Dillon said. “Is there any chance I could get one of those wands?”

“I'm sorry.” Ren said. “They aren't for sale.”

“Well, damn.” Dillon said and sighed. “We don't have a healer, and all I have is defensive magic spells.” He said. “If I had a healing wand...”

“Actually, even if you had the wand, you'd still need the training to use it.” Ren said.

“You used it.” Dillon said, and Ren nodded. “Wait, you...”

“I have the Healing skill.” Ren said. “It's only at Intermediate Level 4, so I can only diagnose Minor and Normal wounds properly. I'm pretty sure I'll unlock Major wound diagnosis when I hit Advanced, though.”

“Geez, man! You're a healer, too?!?” Tommy asked, surprised.

“I don't have that title or classification; just the skill.” Ren said and smiled. “So far.”

“How many things can you do now?” Tommy asked.

“A lot.” Ren said and grinned.

“What about that?” Dillon asked, and pointed to Ren's wrist that had the Bracelet of Unbelievable Magic. “I could never afford it, even with an 80% discount; but, is it for sale?”

Ren shook his head. “It's... well, it's too powerful to have on the open market.”

“I'd say.” Dillon said. “The things I could do with 10,000 Mana.”

“Ten thousand Mana?!?” Tommy exclaimed and looked at the golden diamond-covered bracelet on Ren's wrist. “How?”

“Mana Boost rune combined with Mana Production, and Intelligence and Wisdom enchantments.” Ren said.

“I'm not going to ask how you did it.” Tommy said. “Geez, man. You're unbelievable!”

“Clint!” Billy said. “I just had a great idea!”

“Here it comes.” Hank said. “This should be good!”

“He's got gold left, he's gonna want to see Jennifer again.” Dillon said and laughed.

“Hey!” Billy said. “It's not that... but, now that you mention it... that's a good idea, too.”

“Billy!” Clint said. “Wha's yer idea?”

“Right, right.” Billy said. “We should ask Ren to fill one of our open party slots.”

No one spoke as they all exchanged looks. No one frowned, though; and they all looked like they were considering it seriously.

“It would be nice to have access to a dedicated blacksmith.” Tommy said.

“We could save a lot of money on repairs, especially if we strike a good deal on gathering supplies.” Hank said. “My armor's getting pretty dinged up as it is.”

“I'm sure he could make me something eventually.” Dillon said. “Plus, his mount looks really cool.”

Princess huffed, and several of the guys chuckled.

“Ah wonder if'n we could work ou' a deal.” Clint said. “Ah don' think Izabeal can wear full plate armor; but, ah would like some reinforcmen' fer her. At leas' on her flanks.” He turned and looked at Ren. “Whaddaya say, Ren? Wanna give it a try?”

Ren looked at their hopeful faces. “Let me think about it.” He said. “Show me the wolves you want skinned, and I'll have an answer by the time I'm done.”

“Tha's fair.” Clint said. “They're righ' ovah here.”

Tommy, Hank, Billy, and Dillon, watched as Clint and Ren walked towards the covered cart near the barn.
