"We can take care of the rest," dad spoke to the crowd, trying to calm them, "and if anyone needs help afterwards, they'll have it," his words carried some weight, and with the two of them together the crowd backed down. It was tense as everyone paid, mostly in goods, but nobody tried to attack the official or his guards.

When it was all said and done, I sighed in relief.

"Well at least nobody got hurt," I said.

"They will in other places though," Rod pointed out.

The town could have thrown a parade for my teacher, who, to my surprise came back to my house with the family.

"If they keep this up there'll be a full scale rebellion," he said to my father as we all set down to talk.

"I shudder to think of what the riots in any major town will look like if they try it there," dad returned, "Blood in the streets for sure," he nodded.

"That was a lot of money, are you sure it's okay?" I asked Mystien.

"Most of it came from the mayor, or the army in town," he informed me.

"What? Why?" That was a bit confusing.

"Mayor came to see me the other day, begged on his knees for you to be available this year to do the same as you did last year. The three of us discussed it, as the old man didn't want you to lose practice on what you'd learned," dad answered me."The money was the main part of my demands. It'll take some of the pressure off locally," Mystien explained.

"I got a few other, things," dad said, he paused as he thought.

"You'll have to keep up with some of the work you've been doing making bread, something he doesn't know about, so don't tell him. A few local boys will be stopping by the village every few days to pick it up. They'll get some equipment, along with some perks in the town for us,"

I nodded as each was explained to me, it was nothing too much, but enough to take a lot of the pressure down to manageable levels.

So my winter was spent much as it had been the year before, with a few exceptions. My uncle Barro had acquired a few new pieces of furniture, to make his house just a bit nicer. Every other day runners came to take baskets of bread back to the hamlet, nobody outside of it knew I could make bread, so it was no big issue. The number of soldiers I was healing a day was also capped, this had been part of my father's demands, which the mayor had no choice but to accept.

Spring brought with it another season of painful drudgery for everyone. The labor shortage was still an undeniable problem, and try as everyone might, there just wasn't any way to plant all the fields. This was compounded by the fact that several other of the little outposts of our village had lost a few more men to the tax official's guards, in a pointless loss of life.

It was a couple of weeks after the planting finished, during one of the lulls in the cycle of labor that was farming that something odd happened. Late that night, after dinner, but before we'd gone to bed, a knocking came at the door.

"Verren, it's me," Mystien's voice came through.

Dad cautiously opened the door, "What is it? You wouldn't come for anything that could wait." he asked.

"We need to have a discussion. We've a visitor, it'll take a while," my teacher told him.

Dad nodded, and after the wizard had stepped away came over to mom, "When I come back, I'll knock in three groups of five. Don't open the door for anyone else," with that he left.

It was over an hour before he returned, knocking exactly as he had described.

"What was that about dad?" Rod asked.

"Not something you kids need to worry about," he didn't elaborate more than that.
