The darkness shifted much as his Eldritch Physiology did. It turned into a chain of saw blades dragging against his flesh. Yet, even at baseline, his Toughness was hard to shred.

A miserable grinding sensation rattled Shiv’s body, and that was the only discomfort he suffered.

Shiv's retaliation was far more potent in comparison. Ebbing waves that split and severed erupted out from Shiv's curving ribs. The bones folded out from his body as swinging sabers, their bends gleaming the bright red of Vitae; the air around them quivered with distortions that could hew any form of matter down to its quivering marrow. Where the shadow saw failed to bleed Shiv, he carved the darkness asunder—and then some. An orc spilled apart in several pieces, splattering crimson and gore across the ground. As Shiv walked over the remains, it was further minced down to little more than diced bits and bloodied mash.

Some other orcs tried to regain their momentum. Shiv ruined that by growing more blades out from himself. New, edged lengths of bone ruptured free from his arms, and his cutting aura began cascading in all directions. Orc Vanguards bifurcated themselves as they slammed into Shiv. They were pieces of butter being flung against an upraised blade of unparalleled sharpness. The following barrage of spells was a bit more difficult to rupture through, but bleed and break the spells did.

Then, from seemingly nowhere at all, a part of Shiv was wrenched away from his body. A moon-colored slash split the land from over the horizon and took the upper half of his body. Once more, the bliss of being headless returned. It actually took him a moment to realize he was missing his right arm as well.

That was a pretty good attack. Cost me a fifth of my biomass. But guess what? It still isn't fatal. Shiv loved Eldritch Physiology. This was where he wanted to get to with his Biomancy: to easily re-mold and rebuild his body on a whim. To survive beheadings and dismemberments like they were slight inconveniences.

In an instant, his head regrew, his arm erupted out from the hollow socket that remained, and he was back in the fight once more. A bit of him had been shorn away, but he was still alive and would remain alive so long as a critical mass of biomass remained.

Shiv scanned his surroundings, trying to anticipate where the next strike might come from, but he soon chided himself as he realized he had new options available. He grew eyes all over his body—and immediately felt a headache come on. Seeing from all directions was beneficial, but also chaotic and overwhelming. Much like with controlling multiple bodies, a human was not meant to process so many things at once. Shiv bestowed the burden of that on his Bifurcated Processing—but let out a surprised yell as his body ignited from within.

He didn't have time to decipher why. Another moonlight slash was coming toward him. This one so vast it was practically the size of a descending tsunami. Should it strike him, Shiv didn't think there would be anything left of his body to regenerate from. So he let himself burn and focused on reshaping himself instead. His arms and legs bled into his torso, everything pooling together. His head shrank back, blending into his shoulders, as a portion of tissue extended out from his forehead, bending back to make a curved tip.

He rendered his entire body sharp, and he flared bright with Vitae and an edge that could butcher a soul. With that, he drove himself forward like a dagger seeking to greet the moonlight slash edge to edge. Tides accelerated along Shiv’s sides. The world before him unraveled into an expanse of all-consuming silver. At the same time, a constellation of siege-tier spells began cleaving into the flat sides of his body. Beams of Pyromancy and more stripped bits of him away, and he was being ground down as he burned. But what boiled him the most still seemed to be his Bifurcated Processing. Whatever had gone wrong earlier caused him to consume himself from the inside.

Maybe it's because of my recursive biology, Shiv thought. Maybe it's because every part of me now does the work of my brain. There's no single organ; everything suffers the same if there’s no concentrated point of failure.

And with that, he had learned that even incredible skills still had brutal downsides. But the weaknesses of his Eldritch Physiology were nothing compared to the martial feats it allowed him to achieve.

Like splitting an enemy's cleave down the middle. Somehow, Shiv had used his Severed Shadow skill to cut and cut. Blades weren't meant to be split down the middle, but Shiv managed. Worse than that, he also achieved a perfect parry, and thus both halves of the moonlight attack went sailing back toward its sender.

A chain of levels followed. A spill of notifications filled Shiv's mind, and there they remained, even as his senses winked out, even as the last bits of his being were boiled away. By the time there was only a third of him left, he dissolved into an incoherent slurry, no longer able to sustain his own existence. A second after, even that turned to dust.

Death claimed Shiv, but death claimed Shiv because of his own mistake. Because he suffered a uniform consequence for using one of his most reliable skills. That was a lesson in understanding his new nature, his new capacity. To achieve maximum effectiveness, he would need to switch between his Eldritch Physiology and baseline biology.

But one thing was certain: Shiv really wanted to level his Eldritch Physiology skill as much as he could, as soon as he could. He wanted to see what evolution followed and what other benefits it might bring.

With that, his mind drifted toward Merrielmel and the Slipgate, and the most reliable means of improving his eldritch skill.

There really wasn't any consequence to losing his expendable bodies. He would come back every time. It would make him better. It would make him stronger. And it would prepare him for the future, for his restaurant, and for all the other problems to come.

Sometimes, it was good to remember why being a Pathbearer was just godsdamned felling awesome.

Eldritch Physiology 8 > 15

Return to Sender 108 > 110

Pillar of Orichalcum 295 > 299

Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides 509 > 510

This Severed Shadow of Blood and Bladed Soul 166 > 169
