I should have died. I should have died. The Outsiders… They should have claimed me like the others. They should have…

But they didn't. I… I am recording this on my Diviner Compass for posterity! Brother, if you ever find this, it wasn't your fault. It was mine… I passed into some place where they refused to go. I can see them now, outside the crevice of this cave, if this is even a cave. The walls here are too stable; they're not made of recursive biomass. I thought it was a stable point in the Outside, in this chaotic, nightmarish place. I thought it had been a location from our world pulled over. But when I felt the walls, they were smooth, cold to the touch. This is not natural. This is metal, alloyed. Someone made this place. Someone created this refuge, this sanctuary. And for whatever reason, those fingers won't come in. There's nothing blocking them from coming in. There are no wards placed over this place. There are no spells, there's no defenses. Nothing. But they're just staring at me. They refuse to draw closer. It's like there's something in the air.

But it's not just the Fingerlings. I feel like I'm getting weaker as well. I tried using my Analyze skill on the metal. It didn't work. I received no notifications.

It hurts being here. It hurts. It feels cold. And it feels like something is drifting further away from me. Further and further… My Physicality is… fading? I've lost too much blood. Ascendants… Why does it hurt so much? Why does my flesh feel so soft… I’m an Adept. My skin should…

…

Wait, what's that? Is someone there? I can hear you! Come out! I can hear you creeping around in the dark!

What are… Wait… are you a person? Oh, thank the Ascendants! I thought—

[Neuro-Shocker Firing]

—Recording of Hero-Enchanter Dustin Merrielmel

307

To Break a Curse [IV]

Shiv's first lesson in learning to trigger his Eldritch Physiology skill started with an autopsy. He wasn't sure when or how Hymn had managed to secure one of the Stranger's Pinkies, but lo and behold, the eldritch monstrosity lay dead within one of the gene pods in the Court Leviathan's bowels.

Once, this place was used by the First Blood to spawn uncountable blood horrors and experiment on prisoners. Now, it served a new purpose and a new master as well. Behind a translucent membrane, further shielded by a series of Biomancy spells, Uva, Adam, Roland, Shiv’s Severed Shadow, and Valor watched on, protected from direct exposure. Within the flesh-crafting chamber itself were Hymn and Shiv, looking down at the Pinkie. The three were shrouded by a dim glow of overflowing Biomancy mana, and the slick walls that surrounded them glistened with a layer of glossy mucus. The biomass of the pod resembled that which might be found inside someone's inner mouth.

Though soft to the touch and easy to lacerate or bruise, the gene-pod healed quickly—it was imbued with a substantial regeneration—and could also reach out and link itself with any organic entity through threads of Biomancy mana. From there, the biological architecture of the bound creature could be changed to suit the Biomancer’s desires. With nothing more than an offering of flesh and organs, new blood horrors could be created.

The Pinkie, however, didn't work the same way. Its body was shrouded in a weave of micro-spells, like a flea caught in a magical web. Yet its nature was aberrant—unified, but also desynchronous. As Shiv studied the many small shapes that made up the constellation of the Outsider’s molecular biology, he found himself speechless and confused. The Pinkie didn't have any separate organs. It didn't have different patches or architectures that denoted blood from skin or muscle. It didn't have any systems running inside its body, either. Every single micro-spell was of the same shape. They were all connected to each other. They were all of the same size as well. The only difference was how easily they shifted from place to place.

And that wasn't even getting into the vivisection itself. There was nothing of substance inside the Pinkie. It was just a sprawling mass of bubbling black particulates. Even though the Pinkie was dead, the particulates continued to flow and blend. Clumps of darkness slammed together, fusing back into shape. The incision made down its torso quivered, trying to close. Even dead, it seemed to have a natural inclination toward wholeness. Shiv didn't understand why. It didn't have any kind of mind to guide it. It gave off no life force. There wasn't even any magic. Like practically everything to do with the Outside, the eldritch physiology of the Pinkie made no felling sense.

"You said this thing was dead?" Shiv muttered.

Hymn nodded. "Most certainly. It is severed from the Stranger's control, and that paltry peanut that comprises its own mind has also been obliterated. No need to worry about it suddenly resurrecting and killing us." The Headmaster paused and considered Shiv with a muted smirk. "However, with you, I suppose that is a valid worry. You and the Outsiders really are more alike than you can imagine. The rules really just don't apply to any of you."

Shiv remained on guard. He scowled down at the two-meter-long finger-shaped monster, prepared to strike it down if it came back to life. During Blackedge's time on the Outside, the Pinkies had gained a terrible reputation—one that eclipsed both the colossal Recollectors and the Titanic Indexes. While the latter two were regarded more like natural disasters, the refugees of the town hated and feared the Pinkies like the predators they were.

Unlike their larger brethren, the Pinkies were capable of being stealthy, and worse yet, they enjoyed devouring and then using the temporally displaced screams of their victims to draw more prey away from crowds. According to Uva, they could temporarily appear as someone they'd recently consumed by chronomatically flickering between their present and their past. Things got bad enough that some more paranoid townsfolk deliberately chopped off their own pinkies, as if afraid their hands or fingers would betray them to the Stranger.

Shiv side-eyed the Headmaster. "Do me a favor, Hymn: Never compare me to this thing again."

"Ah. Scorn. An appropriate reaction when it comes to the Outsiders. But I will grant you something more than that. I will grant you the knowledge to use the power you've taken from them. In the same way they have defied the natural laws, you can as well." The elf hummed. "Udraal really must’ve done something special to your soul. Eldritch Physiology is most commonly acquired by Void Dragons or other creatures that repeatedly feed on Outsiders. You said the skill appeared when you used your Biomancy to assimilate some of the Fingerlings?"

Shiv nodded.

"Uncommon, but just as well. Understand that Eldritch Physiology is not an attuned skill. There is no lore to speak of. There is no lore to deform. It is a skill that transforms you physically, that changes your body into the same composition as that which makes up this here Pinkie."

"So I'm going to turn into a chaotic soup of darkness, eyes, and pointed fingers?" Shiv asked. "Not sure if I want that. I'm already bothered by how ugly I look compared to Adam. If I turned into a messed-up finger thing, you're going to be practically insufferable."

"You mean positively insufferable?" Adam's muffled voice came through the magical patterns lining the walls of the pod.

"Yeah. That."

"Oh, I'll guarantee you'll be much uglier and more nightmarish than the Pinkie," Hymn replied with a laugh. "It looks the way it does because it is an extension of the Stranger's will. Eldritch Physiology is more directed by what you think you should physiologically look like. Only the skill tries to materialize that look using ingredients derived from your natural biological makeup."

Shiv tried to process that information. "So if I think I have a coat, it's going to make me a coat made from my skin?"

"Skin, teeth, muscles, tendons—anything, really. The aesthetic will be there, but the materials and design are fundamentally recursive and abominable. Because ultimately, the Outside doesn't understand patterns reliably. Always remember that it is a place untethered from all but thematic concepts and unformed laws. The beings there refuse to be contained within patterns. Frankly, I could lecture on them for a hundred years, but it eventually becomes a practice of processing nonsense, and you don’t strike me as the academic type."

Shiv wasn't sure if he should be offended. "Hey, I'm literally enrolled in your academy."

"You've barely taken three classes, boy. And from what I can tell, your writing, math, and other rudimentary learning skills are sub-Adept. You don’t have a Logic or Physics Skill, either."

"Let’s just say I had aggress—uh—arrested development?" Shiv turned to his friends for confirmation. Adam offered a thumbs-up.

Hymn hummed. "I’m not judging. I didn't learn most of my basic skills until I was over ten. In fact, I didn't even know how to wipe myself until I was twelve. Clothes continued to remain a mystery until I was thirteen, however."

Sometimes it was hard for Shiv to tell when the Headmaster was bullshitting him for giggles or actually being honest. "So... your parents had you streaking around naked until you were thirteen?"

"Not exactly naked, it's just that the placenta of Outside touch-beasts aren't regarded as commonly accepted attire in polite society. My mother also demanded I wear a corset made from her bones to honor our family." Hymn’s expression darkened. "She insists upon it even now, though she's been dead for an unreasonable length of time."

Shiv grunted, refusing to internalize anything the Headmaster had just said. "That’s rough, man. Anyway, how does this skill work?"

His pure callousness made Hymn laugh.

Comedy 13 > 14

Shiv gestured at the Pinkie. "Please don't tell me I have to wrap myself in some messed-up beast's womb meat. Actually, does that feel good?"

"Oh, yes, like a very comfortable glove around your body. It's soft and insulating. It does smell terrible at times, though. Feels a bit slimy too if you don’t like that. But no, you don’t need to do that; that’s for another ritual entirely. Instead, I’m just going to kickstart the skill by having you inject the Pinkie’s biomass into your body."

The Fingerling’s corpse continued to bubble and shift. Pitch-black matter flowed in sinuous rivers. The thought of letting that tar-like substance inside him made Shiv’s stomach churn. Wouldn’t be the grossest thing I've shoved inside myself, though.

“You know, a Recollector dumped some of that stuff inside me,” Shiv said, thinking back to the brawl that destroyed Gate Theborn. “Felt like something was growing inside me. It hurt like a bastard, like my organs were trying to escape my insides."

Hymn nodded as he'd described the most natural feeling in the world. “Ah, yes, that’s also a function of Eldritch Physiology. It burns through biomass at an alarming rate, so the Outsiders tend to be… quite gluttonous as a result. Spiritually as well. Aside from the Outsider Gods, most of the lesser abominations are unable to sustain themselves in terms of mana or material. Their souls are incomplete, in a sense. But don’t worry about being consumed from within. It should go the other way around this time. I think. Worst case is death, and I understand that’s rather beneficial in your case.”

Shiv huffed. The Headmaster wasn’t wrong.

And so, he shrugged his self-doubt aside and plunged a head of his mana hydra into the Pinkie. His Aegis highlighted all the aberrant qualities of the Outsider’s nature, and an unsettling sensation scuttled out from within Shiv’s soul before seeping out under his skin. The transfer occurred with a sharp stab of pain as Shiv breached the insulating inner layer of his Biomancy field meant to protect him from biological attacks or, more often, his own mistakes. The Pinkie burst apart in ropy trails of sticky darkness. Shiv jabbed the ends of the unraveling Outsider directly into his body and felt his insides turn to lead. An immense weight coursed parallel to the flow of his blood as a secondary architecture began to layer itself under his biology.

Scrying into his own biology, Shiv observed a terrible but enchanting sight: The complex shapes and structures that represented his organs were changing. The eldritch biomass he infused was bleeding over into his cells, lining his bones, coating his muscles—and ultimately absorbing them. But what he saw wasn’t what he felt. Aside from a crawling of static dancing along his nerves, Shiv felt normal. And that disturbed him. From what he was seeing, his stomach should be missing by now.

“Should I be in pain or uncomfortable? Because I’m not.”

“I have no idea,” Hymn said. Shiv suddenly noticed how the Headmaster had a floating quill and notebook hovering beside him. “Eldritch studies are closer to interpretive art than a proper lore or science. And your soul is quite frankly an aberration as well. So. Wait and see.”

“Hymn. If I grow a placenta out of my asshole or something, I’m ripping it off and ramming it up your ass.”

Atlas of the Flesh Scryer 125 > 126

