Then, for no particular reason at all, Shiv’s hand started melting. Dollops of flesh began to sway like lengths of descending wax. As his skin came down, Shiv found the insides of his fingers to be made from a chainmail of orichalcum-tinted teeth. Red-gold fangs of enamel were riven together in a mocking replacement for bone. But as his other hand spilled apart, he found it to be a mess of tumorous tissue and teratoma. Soon, the rest of Shiv’s skin detached from his front—and then shifted to his shoulders. A cape of sloppy, flayed skin drifted behind Shiv as he stood, a mess of slatted teeth, bone, and hardened tumors. His exposed ribs resembled jagged blades. His elbows and knees had stiletto-like extensions that gleamed bright with a tinge of vitae and cutting aura. The lengths of his forearms, knees, and spine were curved and edged like cleavers, and further ripped with an intent to cleave.

Hymn took a step away from Shiv as he studied him. “Hmm. Interesting, interesting. But also, this makes sense.”

“Makes sense?” Shiv asked, using Psychomancy in place of his now missing tongue and throat. He gazed upon himself with growing disbelief. “I don't even have any tissues in my neck anymore. None of this makes sense. I’m some kind of… of… skeletal knife-cancer monster.”

“Because that’s what your legend understands your body to be,” Hymn explained. “A pseudo-skeleton that wants to rip and stab people. The cape, however, eludes me.”

“I’m proud of you for not vomiting, Adam,” Uva said from the other side.

“It was a near thing, watching his lungs turn to sludge. But I think I can answer the part about the cape.” Adam cleared his throat. “It’s probably because the damned dimensional cape has been bound to Shiv for so long that he doesn’t feel right without it.”

“I think I can move it, actually.” Mustering a bit of concentration, Shiv directed his skin-cape back and forth. It slithered and glided through the space around him like a tail—or a whip. With a thought, Shiv tangled it into a dense series of knots and struck the supple walls of the gene pod. Blood squirted out from the point of impact. A jet of red left a trail down Hymn’s back. The laceration placed upon the chamber healed in an instant, only for Shiv to unleash a barrage of lashing strikes that opened more cuts everywhere. Sprays of hot red fluid rained down as he lashed his skin-cape around in a delighted frenzy.

“Yeah! It feels pretty good. Like I’m just moving my arm around.”

“How grand,” Hymn commented, drenched in crimson splatters. “This is an effect of your recursive biology. Though Eldritch Physiology isn’t exactly a shapeshifting skill—“

The Headmaster’s lecture was interrupted as Shiv’s inner arm erupted in a branching mess of new fists and jagged bones. “Whoops. Shit. Not sure how that happened.”

Eldritch Physiology 5 > 8

"As I was saying, your biology is now recursive. You can't reliably shape your form into something like a dog, a cat, or a cuttlefish. But you can grow and create additional versions of your existing biology at any moment. It does cost biomass due to how unstable it is, but you don't need to worry about cancers. Every bit of eldritch mass is the same as another bit. It's practically a desynchronized unified organ."

"Does that mean if I cut my own head off, I can grow another head?"

"Yes."

"Wait, can I grow more eyes right now? You know what? Don't answer that. I’ll try it myself.” His jagged body shivered in anticipation. “No cancers, huh? This is gonna be great."

Thrilled by the possibilities offered by this new skill, Shiv commanded his flesh to change. Previously, any unstable reconfiguration of his biology would cause a cascade of fatal mutations at best. Now, thanks to his Eldritch Physiology skill, those restrictions were no more. But rather than growing a massive cluster of limbs from his arms or turning his body into a forest of blades, he decided to enhance one aspect of himself that was still desperately lacking.

Shiv's baseline awareness left him vulnerable. He didn't see far enough. He didn't see wide enough. And he lacked all the spectrums of sight an animal, or someone with a dedicated skill, possessed. On top of that, he wanted to stack more senses together without easy access to his Voidmantid armor—which now seemed somewhat obsolete in a variety of ways.

I’m gonna give myself some new eyes first. That’ll give me, hmmm… Insight. Yeah. I need a bit more insight, don’t I?

He suppressed a snicker and got to his glorious task. There was no pain as parts of his flesh opened, unveiling a new set of eyes. He felt more adaptable and flexible than ever before. It was like he could control every aspect of his body, like he could feel his very cells. And they responded to his mind intuitively. There was no intellectual capacity involved when invoking the Eldritch Physiology skill. Everything was a facsimile of actual organic tissue, and whatever he invoked mentally materialized on him physically a moment later.

There was just one problem: he couldn't see out of his current manifestations.

"Hymn, there's something wrong. I tried to grow some eyes inside my ass to see what it looks like inside. I think I grew the eyes, but I’m not seeing anything."

Both of the Headmaster's eyes twitched. "Is your ass perchance bright on the inside?"

Shiv paused to consider that. "No?"

Hymn held out both hands open in front of him and said nothing else.

"I kinda forgot about that," Shiv admitted.

"Not an uncommon mistake," Hymn replied. "I recommend growing eyes along your exterior. Since you don’t have the Darksight Skill, you’re likely not going to be able to see anything inside yourself. You can’t use your Physiology to make up for missing skills. There’s only so much cheating the System will allow its lesser kin."

"Lesser kin?" Uva asked from the other side of the protective wall.

"Oh, yes, I’m quite certain the System is an actualized Outsider God. Or at least behaves as one might. Consider: humanity and a section of reality existed before the System. That suggests the most likely hypothesis for the System is an Outsider God that sees the world through strife."

A long gasp of suffering escaped Adam. “That sounds so miserable that I think it’s more than likely to be true.”

Shiv provided a nice segue to the conversation by lopping off his own head. He didn't use a knife or his Last Morsel. Instead, he simply slammed the edge of his arm against his neck. Even his baseline Toughness felt like little more than salmon under a kitchen knife. For the first time in Shiv’s life, his head rolled off his body, but he remained alive. Deprived of most of his senses, but alive. He could still feel things, but sight, sound, and smell were all gone.

It’s… actually kind of peaceful. I think I want to stay this way for a while. Headless life is pretty good…

Alas, his peace wasn't to last. Something prodded him, striking his consciousness and pushing thoughts through. “Shiv, are you alright?” Uva asked.

“I'm more than alright. Pretty nice, not having a head. There's nothing to bother you. No bad smells, no bad sights, no noises that make you flinch. It's really peaceful. You should try it…”

But while he remained in a state of beheaded tranquility, Uva was far less willing to detach such an essential part of herself. She might have strained her mind and mana to their very limits, but self-mutilation still disturbed her.

Done soaking in refreshing silence, Shiv compelled his body to grow a new head. But instead of reforming it where it once existed atop his shoulders, he opened up a crevice within his chest and nested his skull there. The first thing to appear was his mouth. It tore open but offered no blood. His ears were muffled. However, they pressed against what felt like the ridge bones of his insides. He wasn't exactly sure what those were, since his lungs and other organs had now completely dissolved. But he would have time to figure that out later. His eyes erupted out from the substance of his biology like twin islands surfacing beneath a cream-colored sea. He added a throat somewhere inside his body to be able to speak. And then, finally, he remembered he was supposed to have a nose.

With the ensemble completed, Shiv began shuttling his head from place to place. His body was like sand before his will. Everything that was classified under his physiology bent to his touch in an instant. Shiv's head surfaced like a buoy from his back, his shoulders, his armpit, his ass. Finally, it resettled in place atop his neck.

"You know, this is pretty fun, actually."

The Headmaster gave Shiv a genuine smile. "I know, right?"

"Oh gods, their mental illnesses are synchronizing, Uva," Adam choked out.

"Our mental illnesses," she corrected flatly.

"Well, I don't bloody want a skill that can make me push my head out from my ass."

"Now you're probably going to get it," Uva replied, doubly reassured. "You know better than to annoy the System, Adam."

"Felling Hells…"

"So you experienced no discomfort or pain at all, did you?" Hymn asked Shiv.

"Nope," he replied. "Not even a little. Actually, even beheading myself didn't hurt that much. It felt… Well, everything just kind of feels ticklish, actually."

"I see. You've taken to this transformation well. Some people describe this as claustrophobic, and they often exhibit suffocation-related symptoms. Have you suffocated often?"

Shiv thought back to all his deaths. There were many, but suffocation? "Oh, wait. I did suffocate a couple of times when a cave biter sat on me. That wasn't very fun. But this doesn't feel anything like that."

Hymn nodded. "Good, good. I think we should move on to something more strenuous now. Stress testing."

"How's that supposed to work?"

"It's quite simple. We're going to stand outside and have a group of orcs try to kill you. To keep going until they succeed. Along the way, we discover if you have any other eccentricities or special privileges in relation to this skill. I also want to see how easy it is for you to simulate someone else's biomass. That's also a benefit provided by Eldritch Physiology."

Shiv grinned. "Say no more. Ripping people apart and stealing their meat is pretty much every day for me."

***

"I can't believe it. Shiv… you’re actually a full cockroach now. This is… Broken Moon, I think I'm going to throw up. I'm going to throw up right now. How is anyone supposed to kill him now?" True to his words, Adam actually looked three shades of green.

But while his complaints flowed like bile, a cacophony of joyful violence unfolded far below where he hovered in the sky. Spells descended like falling meteors before him, bombarding the place where Shiv stood, which was a crater one kilometer deep and ten times as wide. Once, the earth was comprised of black and rich soil lined with a veil of ash and decaying bone. Now it was glass.

A fork of lightning painted a path across the sky. But rather than being a spell of pure Aeromancy, every bolt held spikes clasped at its end. From a distance, they seemed like metallic needles. Yet as they drew closer, each revealed itself to be a hundred-meter-tall spire charged with ferromagnetic energy. Shiv was little more than a flea beneath their descent. The first struck the ground, and waves of glass rose into the air like shrapnel, causing a rain of jagged blades to fall for leagues across. Then came the second and third spikes, each landing one atop the other. The following ten impacts followed in a cascading chorus. Rather than being a ladder of needles, they became hammers upon the first spike, driving him deeper and deeper into the ground.

In scant seconds, Shiv found himself driven kilometers deep into the parted ground. Without his Pillar of Orichalcum strengthened, the sheer kinetic energy imparted by the magnetically accelerated towers was gargantuan. The damage saw his head, arms, and legs bent in impossible directions, folding badly enough that he would have sustained crippling fractures if he were still a normal organism. With his Eldritch Physiology, however, breaks, lacerations, and minor ruptures did no damage at all. He snapped his limbs back into place. His head sank down into his body and popped back out without any cost.

With an almost contemptuous shove, he launched the many towers pressing upon him off his body. His Shapeless Tides flung them back into the air, and they tumbled past the clouds and beyond sight. One of them sailed a bit too close for Adam's comfort, and the Gate Lord was forced to dodge. Out from the deep chasm rose the Deathless, unharmed, unburdened, only coated in dirt.

Shiv shrugged casually. “I think we should go back to cutting and incinerating attacks. Maybe some of those dissolving spells too. Right now, all this concussive stuff isn't really doing anything at all.”

He could almost hear Adam gagging in the distance, trying not to lose his lunch.

"Monstrous," Uva declared, agreeing with Adam. "Absolutely monstrous. Shiv, the Heroic Orcs have been attacking you non-stop for an hour. Just how much of your biomass do you have left?"

He stopped and examined himself as more attacks came up from all directions. With the magi shaping their next round of spells, the Vanguard and Shadows came, bringing weapons and skills to bear. Colossal hammers impacted Shiv, sending him sprawling across the ground. He kicked up a cone of devastation. Through it all, his expression remained unchanged. Getting hit still hurt; his back still caved in. However, his sunken flesh soon re-inflated, and it was like he had never been struck at all. Shiv didn't even try to regain his bearings. He let his momentum bleed out naturally. And then a wave of jagged shadows erupted from the ground, biting into his ribs, digging against his torso.

