The party darted to the opposite side of the street to open some room, but they couldn’t afford to stop. Nick hit the big bastard with a barrage of Mana Darts while Bandit covered it in shadow flame, distracting the creature long enough to run past and adding a third contender to the chase. Over the next breathless seconds, they used the same technique to bypass two more mimics.

Another quarter mile to go, and they would be home free. They would have to contend with the node’s predators again on the way out, but that was a problem for another day.

That was when he noticed the floor was shaking. It isn’t just the platform we’re standing on; the entire web is vibrating.

It could only mean one thing. A flash flood of fear poured adrenaline into his veins when he realized something immense was headed their way.

The rest of his party had sensed it too. Without needing to confer, they burned through their stamina while racing for the conduit ahead. A half-dozen mimics that had been lying in wait fled for their lives as something even more dangerous made its presence known.

When Nick glanced through a crack in the platform below, he caught sight of the murky outline of a gargantuan body with far too many legs. It was still quite a ways out, rising from the depths by climbing the exterior web. Even still, the sight made his heart race like a hummingbird’s wings as terror electrified his nervous system.

“Oh, shit!” he yelled. “It’s time to go. I think it’s the creature that spun the mesh around this node.”

Size Up was wailing like a banshee, but he didn’t need the informational skill to know the situation was as dire as they came. If his team was still in the node when the colossus arrived, they were going to die—an outcome as certain as dawn following dusk.

By now, the platform was shaking so violently that only his superhuman Dexterity let him remain upright. Nick shut out his fear and pushed his body into a burst of speed—glad that Kenji had a head start and Bandit was riding Lurk, who was even more agile than he was.

By now, he could see the rift, a gash in reality that offered salvation if he could reach it in time.

That was when the first titanic leg cleared the rim of the platform.

As he followed a shrieking Bandit into the rift, he caught a glimpse of the horror’s head as it crested the precipice and tuned his way. It was a sight that would haunt his dreams for months to come, a horrific amalgamation of hunger and hatred ruled by an alien will.

Holy shit. That monster is Tier 3 for sure.

The thing met his gaze with the promise of murder clear in every crook of its features.

Mana exploded from its core as it started casting a spell.

Before Nick had the misfortune of discovering more of the details, he passed through the yawning slit in spacetime and his world vanished in a flash of light.
