Ren beamed a smile at her and went into the curtained-off area and she followed him in. She closed the curtain, Ren stored his clothing, and put his Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak on the chair beside him. Deresdra performed the examination, and while she worked, Ren relaxed. She felt the change in his muscles as the tension left them, and she wasn’t sure what that meant.

Usually, he stays at the same tension during the whole thing; but, now it seems like he’s enjoying it. Deresdra thought, glanced down, and saw the bulge in his underwear. Yes, he’s definitely enjoying it. She finished the examination, and Ren had a big smile on his face.

“You’re cleared for work.” Deresdra said.

“Thank you.” Ren said happily, equipped his clothing, and put the cloak back on.

“You seemed to enjoy that.” Deresdra commented when Ren reached for the curtain. He stopped and looked at her.

“To be honest, I always saw this as a necessary evil.” Ren said. “If I didn’t do this every time I came back, I wouldn’t be able to work.” He smiled. “It wasn’t until I came here and saw that I could be suffering through this with a man touching me like that, that I realized how lucky I am.”

“You really believe that.” Deresdra said, a little surprised. “Even after everything that happened, or could happen, between us.”

Ren chuckled. “Believe me, that’s the least of my worries right now.” He said. “But, now that you mention what can happen between us...”

Deresdra smiled. I knew he couldn't keep resisting my charms.

“Why are you trying to seduce me?”

“Wh-what?”

“The last time you did something like offering me sex, you wanted the money to buy your contract.” Ren said. “I'm just wondering what you want from me now.”

“I... I don't want... ah...”

Ren smiled. “Are you having a hard time lying about it?”

Deresdra looked at him with surprise on her face. He stepped close and put his hands on her shoulders.

“Just tell me what you want.”

“I...” Deresdra sighed. “If I tell you what I really want, will you get angry?”

“No.”

“I... I want your Healing Wand.”

Ren remembered how he'd slept with her to make her forget the pain he'd inadvertently caused her.

“That's not your pet name for my appendage, is it?” He asked, then grinned at her deep blush.

“N-n-n-no.” Deresdra stammered. “I-I-I meant your Major Healing spell wand!”

Ren chuckled and let her shoulders go.

“Okay.” Ren said, and took out the two wands he'd just prepared for her. “Here's a Minor Healing wand and a Major Healing wand.”

Deresdra stared at the two wands, and didn't know what to say. She thought it would take her weeks of seduction to get a wand from him; and now she had two.

“Don't throw them away when they're empty.” Ren said. “I'll recharge them.”

Her mouth dropped open in shock, and he chuckled. Ren took her hand, and bent over it.

“Have a good day, Ma’am.”

Deresdra didn't respond and he left the medical tent. Ren ran to the workshop to check and see if the blacksmith on duty needed his help with anything, and when he didn’t, Ren ran into the mine to help the current crew. He worked for the 8 hours required by his contract and received the false feelings of relief and happiness. After he worked for another 2 hours as he’d promised, he ran back to House Neram Keep. Once he was there, he mounted Princess again and rode her back to the Garrison.

“We’re going to the crafting section.” Ren told the guard and Princess at the same time, when they stopped at the front gate. The appropriate gates were opened for him along the way, and Princess ran through them to the right spot. He dismounted and went to the door marked 'CRAFT'.

“What do you want?” One of the belligerent dwarves asked as Ren entered the crafting section.

“Everything.” Ren said.

“Wh-WHAT?!?”

“Bring me a list of everything that you’re doing here.” Ren said and looked at several other dwarves that were standing around. “That goes for all of you.”

They all looked at each other, and Ren put on his overall command uniform, and concentrated on his Command Aura.

“The budget is due next week, and if you can’t prove what you’re doing here is worth it, you won’t get your allotment of 200 platinum this year.”

“By the gods!” One of them exclaimed, and took off at a run. “I’ll bring a full list right away!” He said before he disappeared through the next gate.

“There’s the enthusiasm that I’m looking for.” Ren said and looked at the belligerent dwarf. “Don’t you think you should get me a list, too?”

“No.” He said, and crossed his arms. “Just because you own the place and locked us down, doesn’t mean I can be intimidated into turning all of my work over to you.”

“I don’t want your work turned over to me.” Ren said. “I want to know what you spend 200 platinum on.”

“What if I say that’s none of your business?”

“Then I’d say it was nice having you as an employee, but your services are no longer required.” Ren turned and waved one of the guards over. “Please escort this man out of the Garrison.”

“Yes, sir.” The guard said, grabbed the dwarf by the arm, and dragged him towards the gate Ren had come through.

“Wait… wait!” The dwarf said.

“What is it?” Ren asked.

“Fine! I’ll tell you what I’m working on.”

“I think it’s a little too late for you to make something up now.” Ren said. “You’ve denied my reasonable requests several times before this, and I’m tired of your unwilling attitude.” He said. “What you don’t realize is, since the budget is decided by the Council and is dictated by the amount of people that work here, the only thing I do have control over is firing people and how to disperse the budget.” He sighed. “Even though it’s my money, I’m not allowed to add any; but I can take your budget away… and maybe give the soldiers a raise, or even double the cafeteria’s budget.”

The guard holding the dwarf grinned, and the other dwarves that had stood there and listened, took off at a run to get their lists.

“That’s better.” Ren said. He turned around when Teepo said someone was coming out one of the other gates.

“Hello.” The dwarf said as he came over to them. It was the one that had examined Ren’s construction of the Main House. “Here’s my list.”

“Traitor!” The belligerent dwarf said, and the new dwarf laughed.

“He owns everything, you idiot.”

“You’re the idiot!” He responded. “Lord Lodur left us alone! He never asked us what we were doing with the money!”

“That’s because he honestly didn’t care what you did, as long as it didn’t cause him any problems.” Ren said. “Once I took over, you’ve done nothing but cause me problems.”

“That’s because you’re interfering!”

“He must really need his part of the budget.” Ren said to the new dwarf.

“He’s never said what he uses his part of the money on; but, perhaps he desperately needs it for something.”

“Yeah, and not for work.” Ren said and looked at the belligerent dwarf. “What are you going to use the money on?”

The dwarf clamped his mouth shut, and Ren sighed.

“You’re only hurting yourself by keeping quiet.” Ren said, and looked at the list the other dwarf had given him. “You’re modifying an enchantment-based engine?”

The dwarf nodded. “Our normal ones have a single enchantment, and it’s based on faith.”

“You’re kidding.” Ren said. “The engine in my ship is run from an enchantment?”

“You didn’t know that?”

“I haven’t had the chance to get into the engine room yet.” Ren said. “I’ve been really busy lately.”

The dwarf nodded slightly. “We heard.”

Ren smiled. “I actually can’t stay here for long. I have to get out to the giant camp and check the enchantments I put there.”

“That’s too bad.” The dwarf said. “I’d be happy to give you a tour of my space.”

“I’d like that.” Ren said. “I look forward to doing that…”

“…when you can spare the time.” The dwarf said, and they both laughed.

The other dwarves came back and handed Ren their lists, and Ren thanked them.

“You aren’t going to check them over?”

“Not right now.” Ren said. “Maybe tomorrow.”

“But… you said…”

“I’ll read these before I come back.” Ren said. “If I have any questions, I’ll let you know.” He nodded slightly to them, and looked at the belligerent dwarf. “Have you changed your mind?”

The dwarf didn’t say anything, and Ren nodded slightly at the guard.

“Have him searched, and make sure he doesn’t have anything that belongs to the crafting section.” Ren said and stared at the dwarf. “I’m tempted to have his coin pouch confiscated to make sure he’s not hoarding Garrison money.”

The dwarf’s eyes widened at his statement.

“It seems that I should do just that.” Ren said, when he saw the reaction.

“NO!” The dwarf broke away from the guard and started to run. The guard took out his sword and looked like he was going to end the dwarf.

“Just follow him.” Ren said, and started to go after the dwarf. “There’s not really anywhere for him to run to.”

The dwarf they chased arrived at the nearest gate, and opened it.

Teepo.

“Are you sure I should leave your side?” Teepo asked.

Ren nodded slightly, and Teepo took off flying after the dwarf. They both disappeared through the gate and Ren followed them at a good distance. He didn’t want to spook the dwarf by showing him that he could easily be caught. Ren wanted to know why the dwarf needed the money, but didn’t want to tell Ren why.
