Ren ran to Princess and climbed up into the saddle. “We’ve got work to do.” He said, and she took off towards the other side of the camp, and jumped over the trench that faced the giant lands. “I hope they finished it all the way around.” Ren said as Princess came to a stop, and he took out several steel squares. He enchanted them with Water Spray glyphs, just like his ring, and activated them. Water gushed out like fire hoses from each of them, and Ren directed it into the trench. It looked like it was going to take a lot of water to fill, so he tossed the squares into the trench and Princess trotted around the edge.

The trench was 20 feet deep by 20 feet wide; so, Ren dropped another steel square enchanted with Water Spray every 30 feet or so. Princess’ trot was pretty fast, so by the time he had enchanted another square, he had to throw and activate it. They went all around the circumference of the trench, and Ren was relieved that it had been finished, and the dirt had been left on the outside. It was already in kind of a mound, but it was mostly flattened out.

“How’s my time, Teepo?” Ren asked, and climbed down from the saddle.

“You’ve got about 40 minutes before Lara tells the Chancellor the actual location of the giant’s camp.”

Ren nodded and took out a shovel.

“What are you doing?”

“I’m going to build a dirt wall around the camp.” Ren said and started to dig in the churned-up dirt.

“You’ll never make it high enough to stop the giants.” Teepo said.

“The wall itself isn’t going to.” Ren said. “I’m going to embed steel squares into it to aim up at the giants.”

“Sweet.” Teepo said.

Once Ren had a mound about a foot high, he set a steel square in it and enchanted it with a glyph of Fire and Wind runes. Ren kept going, and went along all the way around the trench. He settled into a Serene State of Mind as he worked, and kept his pace and breathing even as he continued to dig and place steel squares. He was tempted to drop a few Screaming Terror enchantments, but the last time he tried it, it didn’t work well without the boost from combining them.

There’s no way for me to make a Connection between all of them, even if I made one Connection at a time. Ren thought. I need to keep making Connections every 2 minutes, and I can’t do that if they aren’t within my Aura’s radius.

“Princess, let’s go out about half a mile, and drop some more steel squares.” Ren said an hour later, once he was done with the small mounds and set the Fire and Wind enchanted steel squares in them. He climbed up onto Princess and sat on the saddle.

“Well, nothing happened after Lara told the Chancellor the information.” Ren said. “That's a good sign it's not happening right away.”

Princess took off at a run and went out to where Ren said, and he enchanted a steel square with a Magic Mouth spell, set it for activation when something large passed by it, and had it scream repeatedly as an early warning system. The scream he used was appropriate, as it was the same scream he’d heard the giants make when he was excising the Brain Arthropod Grubs from their heads.

“Is half a mile far enough?” Teepo asked.

“It should be.” Ren said. “We saw how much ground they can cover when they run. I should be able to activate all of the enchantments around the camp as I ride Princess around it long before they can reach here.”

“So, you’re not going after the ones that left?”

“I can’t.” Ren said. “I don’t know where they went, or even know where to look.”

“It’s too bad that both giants with an inventory left.” Teepo said. “They were a big help.”

“Yeah.” Ren said as he dropped another square on the ground. He thought about setting them up in specific spots, but the giants were so big that if they were going to pass near enough to the square, it didn’t matter if the steel squares were 5 feet off the ground or on the ground itself. It didn’t take long for Ren to cover the whole area with them, and he made sure their area of effect of 20 feet touched the others; that way, no giant passing through could miss hitting at least one of them.

Ren had Princess go back to the spot he thought was the most likely approach for the giants to come, and climbed down to wait.

“You’re just going to sit here?” Teepo asked. “They could be coming right away, or they could be here a week from now.”

“I know.” Ren said. “I probably should have asked Lara if they had a portal spell or something.”

“Even if they do, could she tell you about it?”

Ren opened his mouth to respond, and then laughed. “Nope.”

*

Nathalia woke up and found Ren wasn’t beside her. She got out of bed and looked out on the couch. Well, he didn’t 'leave' again. She thought, and went to the kitchen. He didn’t eat, either. She sighed and went to Ereka’s room. When she opened the door, she saw that Ereka was alone. He’s not there, so he hasn't told her that he accepted her offer. She closed the door and went back into the kitchen. She glanced down at her Sending Ring and thought of him.

“Ren?”

*

“Good morning!” Ren said. “I’m sorry I had to run out so early, but Lara sent me a message that said the giants wanted to know where the refugees are.”

“Why does that sound like a bad thing?” Nathalia asked.

“Because you catch on fast.” Ren chuckled.

“I take it you’ve set up some defenses.”

“Paltry ones.” Ren said. “It’s a trench that currently filling up with water, and a pile of fire and wind enchanted steel squares.”

“You can’t activate them all at once, can you?”

“No.” He said. “Only the ones within my Aura.”

“How long do you think it’ll take them to get to the giant camp?”

“No idea.” Ren said. “It took 2 days with Princess pulling a giant cart to go from where Groggot was being held to the giant lands; so I assumed it would take about a week for a giant.” He sighed. “I’m thinking I should head back to the Garrison and let them know there’s no set time limit for all of this.”

“You definitely shouldn’t just sit there and wait.” Nathalia said. “That’s just wasting time.”

“All right, you’ve convinced me.” Ren said. “I’ll head to work instead, and leave instructions for the Garrison to contact me.”

“You should get something to eat, too.” She said. “See you tonight.”

“I have Adventurer’s business to handle, too.” Ren said. “The good news is, it should be short.”

“That is good news.” Nathalia said. “I love you.”

“I love you, too.” Ren said, and the Sending Ring stopped glowing. He got up and looked at Princess. “I know I probably shouldn’t ask you this, but… do you feel like a quick run out 50 miles or so? I want to see if we can find the giants that left.”

I would rather do battle. Princess grumped.

“Don’t worry.” Ren said. “We’re both going to have a lot to deal with soon enough.”

Very well. Princess thought to him, and Ren climbed up onto her back.

“Let’s go.” Ren said, and Princess ran out at an angle for 50 miles, then made an arc along the area Ren thought the giants would have gone, and then went back to the giant camp. “Damn, not even a trace of them.”

“Maybe they ran all the way?” Teepo suggested. “If they did, they’d be a couple of hundred miles out by now if they left yesterday.”

“That’s assuming they all could run for that long.” Ren said. “At least they don’t have a portal spell, or someone with a portal ability.”

Ren asked Princess to take him to the center of the camp to see Laurelia, and she knelt to talk to him. He explained to her that he set up some defenses, including the warning system, and that he would be back to check everything later that evening. She looked disappointed for a moment, then she smiled crookedly.

“I hope nothing happens before you come back.” Laurelia said. “No one left can handle any kind of battle.”

Ren put a hand on her arm. “I’m sorry they abandoned you like that.” He said. “I assume it was mostly men?”

“Mostly.” Laurelia said. “A few of the women that didn’t think you could get any kind of response from the Chancellor wanted to get back to their families.” She sighed. “Including the child and his aunt.”

“Oh, no.” Ren said. “He can’t handle that kind of journey, even if they had enough food!”

“I… I tried to reason with them; but, once they had enough people behind them… there was no convincing them to stay and wait.”

“I didn’t see any trace of them when I did a patrol.” Ren said.

“We can move fast if it’s necessary.”

“How fast?” Ren asked.

“We double our stride once we get enough speed.”

“Oh, crap.” Ren said. “That means…”

“We’ve got maybe 2 days.” Teepo said. “They can go just as fast as Princess pulling the cart.”

“They’ll be here soon.” Laurelia said.

Ren nodded. “I’ll be back.” He gave her arm a pat, and rode Princess to the Garrison. The gate was opened for him, and he asked Princess to stop at the section with the Commander’s office. Ren climbed down and knocked.

“Come.”

Ren opened the door and looked at the Commander.

“Did you deal with the giants yet?” The Commander asked him.

“No.” Ren said. “They could be here in several hours, or within 2 days.”

“Well, thanks for the accurate assessment.” The Commander said and Ren smiled.

“Well, considering I was expecting 2 days to a week for their arrival, it’s a lot more accurate than I assumed.”

“Okay, I’ll give you that.” The Commander said. “What can I do for you?”

“I’m here to pay for the food you bought for the giants.” Ren said, and the Commander told him how much it was.

“Do you want another shipment sent?”

“No.” Ren said and paid the money. “The two giants that were helping with that left yesterday.”

“Left?” The Commander nearly exclaimed. “Where did they go?”

“Home.” Ren said. “Or they’re trying to, anyways.”

The Commander shook his head. “They made a pile of edible food and took it from that shipment, didn’t they?”

“Unfortunately.” Ren said.

“Even dwarves experienced with the wilderness and living in the rough, would balk at a journey like that.”

“I know I wouldn’t do it if I didn’t have my mount.” Ren said. “Or a party to watch my back.”

The Commander nodded slightly. “Same here. No one in their right mind would try it without the proper resources.”

Ren nodded slightly in response. “I’ll be back this evening to check everything.”

“Where are you going?”

“To work in the mines.” Ren said. “See you later.”

“All right, but you know the budget is coming due in a few days.”

“Don't worry, I have it.” Ren said. “I want to talk to you about it’s distribution, too.”

“I’m looking forward to that conversation.” The Commander said sarcastically, and Ren laughed as he left the office. When he shut the door, he remembered that the Commander had wanted Sending Squares. For 5 minutes, Ren made a dozen pairs of Sending Squares, then knocked on the office door.

“Come.”

“Hello, again.” Ren said. “I forgot to give you these.” He put 12 stacks of pairs of Sending Squares on the Commander’s desk. “I didn’t have time to make more than that.”

The Commander stared at the Sending Squares. “Those are what I think they are, aren’t they?”

“Each pair can be used just like the ones we have.” Ren said. “Have a good day.”

*

The Commander watched Ren leave the office, and then touched the Sending Stone in his top desk drawer.

“I need a few runners.” He said, and someone responded that they were on the way. The Commander would have to wait for an hour before he could use the Sending Stone again. He looked at the 12 stacks of Sending Squares, and smiled. He no longer had to wait like that anymore.

*

Ren rode Princess back to House Neram Keep, dropped her off with some food, and ran up to the workshop. He was nearly out of steel squares, and filled the mold several more times and made another 500 of them. Once that was done, he ran for the mine so he could get to work. The guard opened the gate as he approached, and Ren ran through and nodded slightly to him.

Ren ran up to the medical tent, and stopped just outside. He took out two of the Fireball wands, absorbed the charges from them, and replaced them with Minor Healing and Major Healing. He stored them in their own slot and was relieved to hear a woman’s voice as she discussed, quite loudly, the benefits of proper hygiene.

Ren tried not to smile as he stepped into the tent, and saw that the conversation with a dwarf, who was more dirt than man, had just ended. The dwarf passed by Ren, and Ren held his breath. The dwarf was pretty rank, and Ren let his breath out after the dwarf left the tent. Deresdra was so distracted, she didn’t see Ren as he approached.

“I’m really glad to see you.” Ren said. Deresdra whipped around in surprise that someone else was there in the tent with her, and her eyes widened as Ren took her into a warm embrace.

“Where did you come from?” She asked.

“My parents.” Ren said, and she chuckled.

“That is usually how it happens.” Deresdra said, and felt a little weird that he was holding her like that, and wasn’t trying to do anything else. Almost as if he felt her discomfort, Ren let her out of the hug.

“When I came in to work yesterday, you weren’t here.” Ren said.

“It was my day off.” Deresdra said.

“It was some male dwarf that I’d never seen before.” Ren said, and shook slightly.

The other healer had told her all about the incident, and Deresdra watched Ren closely to see his reaction.

“He wanted to… to…” Ren shivered.

Deresdra put a hand on his arm. “He’s supposed to examine you.”

“I… I couldn’t let him do that.” Ren said. “I’ve had a lot of bad experiences with that, and… and I…” He shook his head. “I’m really glad you’re here.”

“Does it really bother you that much?” Deresdra asked. “For it to be a man instead?”

Ren nodded slightly several times. “I told him that any day he was here, it was my day off.”

“Oh, Ren.” Deresdra said. “What happens if I take two days off? Or if I get hurt, or don’t feel well?”

“I won’t be here if that happens.” Ren said. “I will not submit to an examination if a male is doing it.”

Deresdra wasn’t sure what to say about that. He’s always been so confident and self-assured, and now he’s… vulnerable. “Well, I’m here today. So, let's get you checked out and you can get to work.”

