“Actually, if it's not too much trouble, can I just have some of your shed skin?” Ren asked. “That way you don't have to hurt yourself, and I can still get a snake scale for this weird recipe.”

She nodded and slithered over to her tunnel.

“I need another piece of bacon, too!” Ren said, and one of her hands waved before the shadows covered her. He looked over at the closest succubus and took out an empty potion bottle. “I know this won't be very lady-like; but, can you spit into this for me?”

The succubus crawled over to Ren and stayed as low to the ground as she could. He held the bottle out to her, then she put her lips on it and a pile of saliva came out of her mouth.

“Thank you.” Ren said, and she closed her mouth and quickly crawled back to her hiding place.

“Does it say you need something from the Pixies?” Teepo asked.

Thankfully, no. Ren thought. I'd never be able to get it during this trip if it did.

Ren looked at one of the skeleton knights, and it walked over to him. “The tip of the little finger should be enough.”

It snapped the whole finger off from the hand and handed it to him, and then the finger reformed almost immediately.

“That was a bit much; but, thank you.” Ren said and the skeleton knight went back to stand behind it's barrier. The Marilith demon came back out of her lair with a very large piece of partially translucent snake skin and a big chunk of meat.

Ren carefully took the snake skin from her and slowly ran his hand over it. “It's so soft.”

Her face flushed to a deep red as Ren caressed the skin and scales. “That's... very erotic.”

“Hm?” Ren blinked his eyes at her. “Oh, sorry.” He said and stored it. “I get distracted by beautiful things sometimes.”

His frank honesty made her blush even harder, and he took the piece of boar demon meat from her and shoved the end of it into his mouth and started to chew.

“Wh-what are you... but, I thought...”

“I only need a little piece.” Ren said and cut a small piece off the other end of it. “I'm not letting the rest go to waste.”

She laughed as he put the end of the meat back into his mouth and he started to chew on it again. He stored the last ingredient and received a popup.

Notice!

You have revealed the hidden Wondrous Item recipe: Corrupted Helm of Limited Polymorph (Singular). This helm will allow you to temporarily transform into other humanoid-type creatures used in the creation of the helm.

Time limit: 5 minutes

“Whoa.” Ren said.

“What is it?” The Marilith demon asked.

“I... probably shouldn't say.” Ren said and dismissed the popup. She was about to grab him again and he held a hand up to stop her.

“I don't want to tease you with what it might mean.”

“I will deny you passage, unless you tell me.” She said.

Ren sighed. “But... I don't want to hurt you.”

“Is it a massive weapon? A special bracelet of the Void? What?”

“No, it... it's much worse.” Ren said.

The Marilith demon slithered close and looked at him with pleading eyes. “Please, just tell me.”

“It's a recipe for a helm.” Ren said.

“Well, that doesn't sound so bad.” She said. “What does it do?”

“It grants the wearer a limited 5 minute Polymorph ability to change into the humanoid creatures used to make the helm.” Ren said.

The Marilith demon stopped breathing as she stared at him with an open mouth, and then she fainted.
