"Apparently, his mind is broken, and the Hatchling is trapped inside the ruins of his consciousness. You know, typical Shiv things."

Valor let out a pitched laugh. It was higher and brighter than anything Adam had heard from the old lich before. "Ridiculous. And did he come up with this plan on his own?"

"Actually, no. This was entirely Hymn’s idea."

"Ah. You can't fault me for assuming, though. Every part of this plan had Shiv written all over it: the self-destruction, the recklessness, the taking of his enemies down the same ruinous path, but knowing that he would be the only one to surface thereafter." The ancient Legend hummed. "What an absurd boy. But what other way should someone be in a ridiculous world?"

Valor sighed—and settled his gaze on Adam. "And how are you, Adam?”

A pained noise left Adam as he tried to enunciate everything he'd been through since his internment at the Rubix Well. "I fear that might be a bit beyond words to elaborate, Legend Valor."

Valor smiled lightly, the expression as human as any other person's, now that he'd retained a semblance of flesh and skin. "And I fear I understand how you're feeling right now all too well, Hero Adam. Nonetheless, it gladdens me beyond measure to see that you are still alive, my apprentice."

As Valor leaned in closer to Adam, his look of serenity never faded. This was Valor, unbroken, or close to wholeness. This was the true form of Legend. Not that scattered remains, not a scared man, missing most of his memories, deprived of most of his power. This was Valor, returned of not only his greatest Skill, but the grandest sense of who he was, and the keenest insight to go with it.

"Has the Culturist done something to you?” Valor frowned, and then his expression softened as he made a perfectly accurate guess. “Ah. He infested your soul?"

Adam didn't need to say anything. He simply swallowed, and Valor knew.

"Who did what?" Footsteps followed. Roland limped over from the other side of the room, his eyes wild, darting between Adam, the legendary orc, and Valor. "What did you just say, son?"

But Valor ignored Roland's intrusion into their conversation. "I suppose we will have to do something about that soon, won't we, Adam?" The ancient lich was looking at his Nemesis now. The orc had his back turned, but he heard every word they said, and his posture trembled with barely withheld violence. "For now, we must let him work. And let me see if I can do anything to progress Uva’s metamorphosis."

"Progress?" Adam didn't understand. "We're trying to stop it. We're not trying to progress it."

"Oh, quite the contrary, Adam. The way to stop it is to progress it, but to progress it in her favor." Valor's smile was cold and cruel. The light of joy never reached his eyes. The almost-human appearance of Valor briefly flickered, revealing a skeleton with corrosion leaking forth from its empty eyesockets, a visage of death. "The Eldest has delivered an insult upon us. They have stolen one of my companions, someone to whom I owe a debt. And now I will take things back from the Eldest, just as I have taken things from the Stranger for his offense. They must be taught again. They must be reminded why they were never meant to reach across into our world, why they needed to keep their tendrils and fingers to themselves."

With that, Valor strode forward, summoning a faint trace of pale blue mana from his being.
