Fithea ran, screaming, through the hallways, searching for…she felt it too. But the target, the one who was dragged, running through the hallways where no mortal woke, not even the guards, was the Wind Runner.
She didn’t know which way she went. She was running down ancient corridors of stone, through older parts of the palace, founded at its inception two centuries ago, through parts leading to catacombs, storage rooms…where was she going? Why?
Something came to her, as, heart pounding out of her chest, she nearly collapsed. Ryoka Griffin heard a scream in her mind as thoughts finally caught up and collided in realization.
The fae came every year. Winter Sprites, they called them.
The gateway was old. Once, they came freely. Until tragedy.
This palace was built on a leyline. A—
Her head snapped up. She stared at something, buried at the bottom of Ailendamus’ palace. Forgotten by all.
A broken stone archway. A near-perfect circle, long-since broken, but still tracing the entryway. Writ with words so faded that they had lost all meaning. Covered in old lichen.
Ryoka’s breath caught in her chest. She stumbled towards the gateway, felt at the air.
There was nothing there. Just empty air. Yet she, for a second, touched the stone and saw them.
A bare sliver of an opening. So thin, perhaps even they couldn’t sense it. A risk, but one taken. Just a sliver, like a door ajar. So that you could press your eye to the crack and see…
The Court of the Fae stared at Ryoka. Sikeri stood before twin thrones. He looked at her and sat back.
Well. Ryoka Griffin froze. Those eyes caught her. Well now, you are here. All things are in place.
Let the deliberation of the fae begin.
 
——
 
From afar, they argued. She could see them, like a vision, that of someone from a mountain’s peak staring down below the layer of clouds to a tiny prairie below. That was how far it was, if you multiplied it a thousand times.
Even so, she vaguely caught the meaning. Not the words. Not more than the scene.
The Fae of the Winter Court, the great Wyrm, cowering before the ruler of this place. An audience of…visitors. Three Kings. Who smiled at her. Nama, waving.
A crack in the gate. Why? Just for her? No, Ryoka realized. Because she was needed. What was this? A trial?
Ivolethe was on one side, Melidore, the other. Fae were arguing their case before the Faerie King. It was as simple as the oldest arguments and trials in history.
One side was for, the other against. What…now, there was the key. Yet, as the Faerie King listened, it was clear something was off.
They weren’t arguing about what mattered. He was barely looking at Ivolethe and Melidore as some of the fae actually fought, with hands and claw and tooth or ringing swords, so furious was their debate.
But it wasn’t what was actually at stake. Two piercing eyes found Ryoka. Brown, like the world tree’s roots. Shifting to green, like the growth of every new life.
Oberon looked at her. What did he want? Then at the cowering Wyrm. There were clues here. The Wind Runner tried to piece them together.
She was no stranger to the rules of the fae, but she was still rather simple. Even Ivolethe admitted that. The Court of the Fae watched the young woman’s slack face trying to piece together what was expected. And because they were the Court of the Fae, they had no time for her meandering mind. They skipped ahead to the point where she got it in time, as casually as you changed postures.
“That one interfered! That one had no right! Because of a silly serpent, she throws fate into disarray. She meddles!”
A Fae of frost and winter snapped, pointing at a Wyrm, a guest of their realm. A member of the Summer Court, gleaming with life among somber cold, retorted.
“Meddles in prophecy! Hold your tongue, fool! That we should grant either thread of destiny a passing glance there is too much. I say it is not worth any cost! Any chance.”
The Faerie King heard both arguments and frowned at Sikeri. He did not speak. He did not need to, for he could think louder than either could scream.
That one had violated rule. Hospitality, the law set down as the guests attended. She had meddled.
Sikeri begged forgiveness. She would have thrown herself on the mercy of the court and probably squashed them, if the Winter Court had mercy to spare. They did not. They jeered and mocked her.
Yet again, that was not the issue. Or else…those eyes moved and the one called Ivolethe quailed. Others had interfered and broken law, twisted destiny just as strongly. So, he waited.
Waited, until at last, the Wind Runner spoke. And the audience realized she was not here to testify. She was not the accused. She was not the jury, either! Certainly not the judge or bailiff. Even Melidore and Ivolethe were surprised. They looked at Ryoka, and everyone realized.
She was the victim. The plaintiff.
Ryoka Griffin realized it too. She also knew, then, she had to advocate for herself. What did she say? She tried to lay down the facts.
“Milady Sikeri’val-Toreshio-Maresssui did interfere with me in no small way, your Majesty, Fae of the Winter Court. My fate may be tangled, it is true…”
The fae waited, impatiently, some shouting insults at her, others laughing at the confused mortal in her pajamas. Visitors from afar murmured.
“What is that?”
“Human. What world hails she from?”
“Why before him himself?”
“Is there anything to eat?”
Nama handed the last speaker a mushroom. The visitors from worlds apart watched yet one more.
“I…I don’t wish to press charges, your Majesty. Sikeri has caused me trouble, but I do not wish retribution. I am stuck where I am. Perhaps something has gone astray. It’s done, isn’t it? So…so…”
They waited, so impatiently, she felt it. Even the Faerie King looked as if he was about to roll his eyes. So, what? Ryoka Griffin tried to think. It was done. Even he couldn’t undo the past…probably. Punish Sikeri? And risk her wrath? It might even help, and the Wyrm was giving Ryoka the side-eye of legends. So what?
Then she had it at last. Oh. It was the nature of the day, and her realizations. Ryoka smiled broadly, with relief.
The Faerie King, Oberon, nodded. He was already smiling as she finally figured it out, and spoke it. Exactly what he wanted and waited for. He had heard her request and summoned Sikeri. He had called the Court of the Winter Fae. Just so she had all the pieces to make the request he knew she was going to make.
Fae logic. The Wind Runner, who danced on the kindness of immortals. The messenger girl with no real value of her own. She bowed before the Winter Fae, but there was a sparkle of daring in her eyes that made her friend clap her hands and laugh.
“This is all but one petty life, Fae of the Winter Court! It should not concern the Faerie King, or you at all! Fate? Mine is but one world, and a world some despise.”
Melidore glared at her. Even he nodded at that. Yet, the mortal girl swept them a bow.
“Even so, someone from the lands of the fae did interfere; what of it? The fair folk cheat and lie and do what they please. I expect no less from my great friend!”
A peal of frozen laughter. Ryoka concluded her argument as she looked at Sikeri, who didn’t understand, out of all of them now.
“So why deliberate? Why worry? Because…for every deed there are consequences. Every prank, the potential for retribution. Don’t worry about the consequence. Accept what happened. Still, I, Ryoka Griffin, humble mortal, was sent across a world—no, two worlds bearing a message. A message I had no idea I carried, but a letter still. From Sikeri’val-Toreshio-Maresssui to Rhisveri Zessoprical, from Wyrm to Wyrm. I may have little worth! But I am still a Runner. I am a Courier. And all deliveries require fair payment in kind. I demand Sikeri pay me the cost of running a message across the lands of the fae and from world to world.”
“What!?”
The grovelling Wyrm’s head rose. The Court of the Fae stopped. Nama chewed on a mushroom.
Oberon smiled. At last, the pieces were in place. The request had been made. It took her a while to get there.
Now, all the fae heard it. There was a breathless moment of silence. Then a whoop of laughter. A cackling guffaw from the friend of the plaintiff. Then, the fae laughed, and laughed loud. The Wyrm protested. She shrieked. She made her case, and Ryoka Griffin watched from a world apart as the court deliberated.
Yet the Winter Fae laughed, with that icy edge of cruelty and mirth. Oh, they rather liked that idea. Sikeri was screaming, an approximation of ‘over my dead body’, and the trial was in chaos.
Then. He rose. The Faerie King stood, and all was still again.
For a lesser trial, it might not have mattered. But the problem was the gate. Even to open it a sliver, he was here. Oberon looked at Ryoka Griffin. That was why Melidore and his folk protested, Ivolethe argued for.
What was the worst that could happen?
He knew. Surely, he, of them all, knew more than anyone else what could happen. Even so. The Faerie King reached out, a short distance, just plucking with his fingers.
A span unimaginable, in a fraction of a second. He pressed his fingers against the closed gate, against the crack in reality—and pulled.
 
——
 
They felt it. Six of them, two following the lost one warily through the ocean, two more playing games with their chosen, one more the ruler of this place, fighting with the angry dead—all of them felt it.
Their heads turned. Towards Terandria.
“What? Now? Why? They closed it!”
The Huntress was wary. The Dancing man warier still.
“Do they mean to make war? It would be the height of folly.”
“Yet they might triumph. Would they pay the cost, though?”
The two were all but ready to flee. Even the ghosts felt it, and flocked around in confusion. A Void Dragon seized the chance and took wing, flying across the ocean with the recent dead, representatives.
The six hesitated. A crack was danger, but for both sides. Why? They sensed him staring at them with malevolence. The Bearded Leader raged.
“What are you doing to our world? How dare you?”
Oberon smiled. Mockingly. Through just a tiny crack in a door.
Why? To mock them. Because it mattered.
There were many reasons. For fate. For chance.
But most of all…Ryoka Griffin stared as the broken gateway moved. The world twisted. for a second, they locked gazes and she felt an understanding shoot through her. A Dryad wept, falling, crying out. She heard countless voices calling her name.
“Cousin!”
Why? The Faerie King pushed something through, dropping them at Ryoka’s feet.
Because it was fair. Because there were rules. And he of all the fae—kept his word. He had always kept his word. No matter what it cost.
The gate slammed shut. Ryoka Griffin was alone once more. The palace rocked, and mortals began to wake. She saw the gateway crumble, another link broken.
The Wind Runner resolved to never, ever, say his name again. Not like that. Not three times. Unless she had to, of course.
What had he left her? What had Sikeri forfeited? Ob—he had paid it in stead of the Wyrm, and no doubt she’d have to pay the cost. Ryoka did not envy Sikeri.
He’d paid it? Suddenly, her breath caught. She bent down. It was dark. She couldn’t see what it was, at first, so she whispered, searching for the wand she’d been given to find the bathroom at night.
“[Light].”
The magic of this place shone down. She found what the Faerie King had left her, a pile of it. It was…weathered stone.
Little stones. Native to the strata of whatever land they came from. Rocks, not very big; none even half the size of her hand. Some very small. Some were granite. Others basic stone. Sandstone?
They had…holes in them. Holes, not always in the exact center. In older mythologies, people liked to say they were magic stones. River stones that had a gap just like…
Stones. Ryoka saw dozens rolling about. Not magical. Stone.
Now, a lesser Ryoka would have begun screaming hysterically about the world’s most valuable private rock collection. She would have been stupid, for a while at least.
The Wind Runner just looked down at the stones. Then, abruptly, turned the [Light] spell off. In the darkness? She took another glance downwards at the stones in her hand. From…a different point of view.
Then she saw. Saw how each one was different, each bit of stone written, marked with a magic that had no box and never would.
Written with words. She couldn’t even read them. She didn’t know the language. Yet Ryoka held up one and felt the inner heat. She knew it, because it was what the word meant.
Fire.
Each stone written differently. Each one, a coin. Currency. His people’s currency. Ryoka looked down at the money.
Obol of the Faerie King. She felt at her pockets for a bit of string. After all—she was fairly certain she was rich. And she was definitely going to flaunt it.
 
——
 
So then, that was how the Wind Runner’s name reached Itorin II again. He was already intending on talking with the young Lord of House Veltras, but both his son and daughter brought up her name.
So did some of the ministers. Something about the Court of Masks? The royal family heard her name more than once that day.
A [Princess] of Ailendamus and a little [Prince] both crowded towards the window, fascinated. Their father held them back, eying the figure standing there, fists clenched, warily.
Duke Rhisveri. He stood there, staring out the window like thunder, and no one, not even the royal family, disturbed him. Yet he was not the only person.
Baron Regalius, Fithea, Conservator of Forests, a liaison to half-Elves, and far more. They looked at her by morning.
The Wind Runner of Reizmelt, Courier, prisoner of Ailendamus, standing in the courtyard. Letting a little boy sail around to peals of laughter. Sammial Veltras.
Children, her adoring fans, stared as the wind blew harder. Ryoka Griffin stood there, as the wind whipped around Ailendamus’ palace. She was smiling.
No one pay any attention to me. I’m just doing my own thing. Nothing to see here.
She winked at Sammial as her hands moved. Juggling coins as she faced the palace. Currency you had no name for. Ryoka Griffin, approximate wealth: richer than a certain Wyrm.
Faefriend. Willing to make a trade.
Depending on what you had to offer.
