It was then that he heard Ryoka’s name. Sammial turned. He saw a girl talking excitedly in noble clothes with some friends. He marched over and the group of girls stared at him.
“Where’s Ryoka?”
Sammy demanded. They looked at him a bit askance. He had on the guest clothing, but his accent, lack of manners, and everything else painted him as a foreigner.
“You’re not polite. I’m a Duchess. Go away, boy.”
One of the girls sneered at him. Sammial’s eyes narrowed.
“Where is Ryoka?”
And once again, he used his aura. His aura, which everyone in his family knew was so powerful at his age that it defied belief. A prodigy, they said. To develop one so strong at his age?
What was it like, though? Well, an aura was who you were. Untrained ones like Sammy’s were pure expressions of class and personality; later on they could become a theme. Like Pryde, who was sheer, well, pride.
Sammy did not wield his aura like she could, or many [Ladies], who could change from a delicate cloth to a razor’s edge.
Meeting Sammy’s aura was like being smacked in the face by a hammer with ‘Sammy’ written on it. He had as much finesse as a certain [Innkeeper], but more force than she did out of her inn.
The young [Duchess] went cross-eyed and nearly fell out of her seat. Sammy could throw people out of rooms, make horses run away, and even force people to do things sometimes. However, no sooner had the [Duchess] recoiled, then her six friends all stood up.
“He’s using his aura! Rece!”
“Stop! Stop!”
They pushed at him. Children turned and a few of the minding staff saw a shouting match erupt. They walked over, not seeing the invisible battle between one boy and seven girls. They pushed, but none of them were Sammy. A few had higher-ranking classes.
Sammy had Sammy. Who also had Sammy.
“Where. Is. Ryoka!?”
“Here now, let’s n—”
A [Carer] recoiled, stumbling backwards, and fell over a bench from the shock of hitting the aura. The other adults stared, and half the girls were in tears. Two more glared at Sammial. One just looked at him, confuzzled as everything. She answered—no, three did. They had to.
“We only met her! You’re so mean!”
“You didn’t answer me! Where is she?”
“Outside! She let us fly!”
More [Carers] and bodyguards were rushing over, attracted by the row. They were careful, but their wards were in trouble, so while they might not kick this unknown child to the moon on the chance he was a noble or [Princeling], they were going to do something.
Sammial didn’t care. He pointed at the most authoritative of the girls, who wasn’t bawling for her caretakers.
“Where is she now? I have to rescue her!”
Instantly, two more girls stopped crying. They stared at Sammy with interest.
“Rescue her?”
The girl wearing a brocade dress of silk herself looked at Sammy. Then a girl burst out.
“She promised to come back and let us fly! But I heard the Baron of Rules say he was taking her to the Court of Masks!”
The other girls oohed. The guards and servants slowed as the crying stopped. Should they interfere? The little boy pressed the girl who’d heard this.
“Who’s the Baron of Rules?”
“Baron Regalius. He’s always around. He wanted to show her to the Court of Masks. She might be there!”
“What’s that? Explain!”
Patiently, the girls and their leader did.
“The Court of Masks is where Ailendamus’ main court is. We’re not allowed in alone until we have our majority. But everyone looks like everyone. I went in there with my mother. It’s…scary. I mean…important.”
“Where is it? Tell me. I have to rescue Ryoka!”
“Rescue her from who?”
“The Duke.”
The girl in the brocade dress peered at Sammial. She had reddish hair, but it was marred, by the high standards of hair-color in Terandria, by dark violet. She eyed Sammial, then beckoned. He stomped over impatiently and she whispered in his ear.
“Is she the one the Duke’s mad about? The…Thief?”
He looked at her. How did she know that?
“Yes! Where is she? He’s going to zap her with lightning again! Or take her clothes!”
“Take her clothes? He strips her?”
She was horrified! The boy hesitated. Sammy was a bit unclear on the details, but it did seem like Ryoka tended to lose her clothes around Duke Rhisveri. He’d seen Ryoka naked, they had to take off her clothes once she started sweating blood, and he could have sworn she’d lost them recently in his presence, although the details were unclear.
“Yes!”
“I didn’t know he did that! I hate him. I’ll tell you where the Court of Masks is. No one will be able to find you when you’re in there.”
She whispered in his ear. Sammial listened.
“Thank you. I will remember this! A [Lord] remembers favors.”
He dashed off. Then ran back to take a huge bite of his steak. The girl watched him go. Only then did the breathless caretaker even manage to fight her way towards the group.
“Your Highness! Are you alright? Did that ruffian hurt you?”
“I am alright. Nanny Lemra?”
“Yes, your Highness?”
“…Does Uncle Rhisveri have a habit of behaving…uncouthly towards guests?”
The [Nanny] bit her lip before figuring out which lie to tell. Which, for a smart child, was really all the answer you needed. The [Princess] of Ailendamus stared after Sammial Veltras. She wondered who the Wind Runner was. Her brother had assured her she would believe a [Princess] could fly. She hoped she’d get a chance.
 
——
 
That was how Sammial Veltras came to the Court of Masks. The attendants stared at him as he marched up.
“Sir, the Court of Masks is not open to those under…”
Sammial had a way to deal with people like this. Not a good way, but it was one he’d learned worked. He lifted his chin, glared at the poor man, and spoke.
“My friend is inside. I am going to find her. Out of my way!”
“I—”
The [Servant] looked at the others, who fed him to the dogs…or Sammial. Either he could deny this young man and risk wrath, or let him in and hope all went well.
“Absolutely, sir, but you will need a mask.”
“A mask? Why?”
Sammial listened to an abbreviated explanation of the Court of Masks and understood exactly 0% of it. He eventually lost patience, snatched a mask, and ran inside. Sammial Veltras found himself standing in a void of the abyss. He looked around, disoriented, shouted, and realized he’d…changed.
He was bigger. His voice sounded different. Sammial looked about. He saw the distant ‘rooms’, like far-off visions of places in the oasis of the void.
His heart was suddenly beating out of his chest. Sammial ran, clumsily, towards the rooms. He found himself in one, a desert court, and stopped, panting.
“Steady there. Is something wrong?”
A mask like a starfish addressed him. Sammial jerked.
“What? What—no, I…I’m looking for a friend.”
He sounded older. Starfish nodded.
“Fair enough. Say, what have you heard about this Five Families business?”
“The what?”
“You haven’t heard?”
Starfish was delighted.
“The Pride of the Wellfar itself is sailing towards our blockade at sea! Tyrion Veltras himself is on it. They have some objection with the kingdom, or so it appears. Maybe it’s just flexing muscles, but it’s dangerous. What do you think, eh?”
“Father.”
Sammial muttered. Something pressed at his chest.
“What was that? What do you make of it?”
Starfish turned his head. Sammial looked at him.
“I said, House Veltras is going to stomp Ailendamus’ fleet flat. Good!”
The Starfish mask recoiled.
“Well now, I can see you’re going to be a lively one. I’ll remember you…”
The mask peered at Sammial’s face. As it did, the overly red Starfish, encrusted with little gems, loomed larger. Yet there was no face behind it.
There was, and wasn’t. Sammial saw a Minotaur’s cheeks—then a Naga’s slitted eyes, and body—but he knew it was his mind playing tricks. Only the mask was constant.
He had no idea who this was. 
“Why don’t you say why it was deserved? Or was that hyperbole? Here.”
Starfish patted a cushion of Nerrhavia’s courts, but suddenly Sammial was backing away. His breath caught in his lungs.
“No. Who are you? Where is…she…?”
“Ah, ah. No names here. You must be new. That’s a clue. You don’t want to be giving them out.”
The Starfish waggled a finger. Sammial didn’t answer. He looked around. So many masks. So many faces, voices without identity.
The boy turned, breath suddenly coming in gasps.
“Who…is this?”
A voice. Sammial turned and saw a looming horned figure. Glowing eyes, the face of a—a monster—
Starfish rolled their eyes.
“Don’t do that, Blue Demon. This is—”
“S-stay back!”
The words came out of Sammial’s mouth. He looked up at the looming figure. Then the Blue Demon’s mask was on a short figure. It regarded Sammial, perplexed. But the boy’s eyes were wide.
He realized what the girl had meant. Spooky?
Even for an adult, the sight of so many masked faces might be disconcerting. Frightening. For Sammial? He looked around, then ran back the way he’d come.
“Hey, wait!”
Starfish got up, but Sammial was in the void. And that was terrible too. It reminded him of the journey he’d had with Ryoka.
No. It reminded him of lying in his bed, feverish. Dying.
All the masks. Sammial broke into another room and froze. They turned, scrutinizing him.
Masks. Like [Assassins]. 
“Who are you all? Where is she?”
The boy screamed. But the masks just laughed at him.
“Who’s this fool? Shouting gets you nowhere in the Court of Masks.”
“Someone from the countryside, I’ll be bound. A new boy just come of age.”
“Say now. Is that implying you have something against provincial nobles, or the young?”
“No, I was just making a point about—er—causation—”
The mask spluttered as Sammial looked around. Another mask leaned in.
“Why did you assume it was a boy?”
His breath. Sammial clutched at his chest. Then he ran.
“I’m looking for—”
“Hey. You can’t just barge into a conversation! There is such a thing as decorum!”
A half-mask turned to him, offended. Sammial saw the group flick their fingers and something pushed him back. Terror turned to rage, and that was comforting, at least.
“Don’t you dare push me! I am—listen to me!”
He remembered the rules just in time, and threw his aura at them. But even his aura was wrong. It was…blank. Denuded of personality.
It still worked. Snarling Dog rocked, but Half-Mask and Majestic Owl instantly threw up their hands. Something met Sammial’s aura, and abruptly—blew him back along with the magic of this place.
“Now there’s someone without tact. Apologies, where were we?”
Head ringing, Sammial stumbled. He looked around, breathing more wildly.
“Hey! Listen to me! Someone—someone speak to me!”
He cried out, trying to look for something that wasn’t a face. But suddenly, Sammial was aware of the shade-people. He was surrounded by masks and ghosts. His aura wasn’t working properly here and they were blocking him out of groups.
The [Lord] ran right, and then left, shouting, but the others just excluded him. Now he felt like he was in one of his dreams. Trying to talk to people, his father, but no one listened. Surrounded by shadows. By masks. Only, this was reality, not a dream.
Yet for the boy, they began to merge. He was surrounded by ghosts. His mother. His breath caught.
He didn’t want to see his mother. Not here. The dead. They were all dead and so was he.
He clutched at his chest. His mind wasn’t working right. Neither were—his—lungs—
Overwhelmed, his breath catching, starting, stopping, unable to inhale, the masked figure collapsed, to the amused laughter of those watching. Sammial lay on the floor as a few shadows dithered over him. He tried to breathe. He tried to scream for help, but no one knew his name. No one cared.
Help me. Please. No one moved. Sammial tried to shout, to tear the Cracked Raven’s mask off his face. He was alone. He couldn’t breathe. The world turned dark as he tried to…
“Mother?”
She was coming. Coming to take him with her. He tried to run, to crawl, as a dead woman, a mask, reached down for him. His eyes opened wide.
Then air filled his lungs. The wind blew, in the Court of Masks, and a Sunburst mask bent down.
“Sammial?”
The boy looked up as an unfamiliar voice and body spoke his name. But then, Sunburst was helping him up. Even their hands felt different. Yet they spoke to him, and the wind blew, giving him air.
“It’s me, Ryoka. Sammial, how did you get here? What’s wrong?”
“R-Ryoka?”
The Cracked Raven looked at Sunburst. They were both there. Only, instead of finding her—she’d rescued him, again. He clung to her, shaking.
 
——
 
Sammial Veltras was here. Somehow, he’d escaped his room, found his way into the Court of Masks. Ryoka couldn’t believe it.
But it was him. She saw him, eyes welling with tears, face relaxing from terror. He was no longer choking, having a panic attack. The wind blew around them.
A few masks were looking over, realizing something had been actually wrong. Ryoka stared about. She looked at Sammial, at Baron Regalius, peering at her from behind his mask.
Half-Mask. Snarling Dog came over with the others.
“Was something actually wrong with Cracked Raven, Sunburst?”
“Something was. I think it’s alright.”
“Let’s call for a [Healer] or the staff—unless Cracked Raven is fine? Very well, as I was saying…”
Snarling Dog needed to make her point. Her point. The military mind telling others why the Five Families’ involvement was such a problem might have been one of their finest [Generals]. Looks were deceiving, after all.
…But she looked like a [Head of Staff], a mother behind her Snarling Dog mask. Or was she a [Head Baker]? Did they let those in? Ryoka swore it was flour on an apron.
Not that she saw that. One second Snarling Dog was a Gnoll [Hunter], the next, a Drowned Woman, half Quillfish. No one could see through the mask and their magic or Skill or whatever this was. It was a layer of reality separate from the regular one, to preserve anonymity.
A shame then, that to Ryoka Griffin, it was all just…a matter of perspective.
She honestly had no idea if she could have done this before the land of the fae, but the instant she had set foot in here, it had reminded her of that place.
See the world a different way. It was far, far easier to look behind the masks than it was to change the Faelands to another perspective. As Sammial calmed down, Ryoka tried to explain. He was agog.
“You can tell? How?”
“…Good eyes. Can you do it, Sammial? All you have to do is…look at reality from a different angle. See the meaning from the other side. I don’t know how to put it into words, but it’s possible. Do you understand?”
