“Little boy. Hair so…stands so…eyes so…”
The masked…masks…informed her. Gilaw’s head turned and she peered at Sammial dangerously as he admired ‘his’ feather. Ryoka’s skin prickled. She was asking for a description.
She was going to remember that.
Ryoka could have stayed and tried to puzzle it out herself. She was closing in on the answer, the truth, but she didn’t have time.
She hadn’t expected to find this place, in truth. She had already set the entire Court of Masks abuzz, to the point where the creator, the Court itself, Sophridel, was staring at her disapprovingly.
“From every corner, a name. Sunburst. Arguments and discord. That one. That one. Come hither. Resolve.”
It was speaking to someone. Ryoka’s eyes flicked to the door they had come through. She sensed, even in this place, the wind blow slightly. Warning her.
Someone very unhappy was coming. That was enough. The tree woman touched Gilaw, and the strange woman started.
“Gilaw! Do you feel it?”
The foreign woman tilted her head, clapped a hand to her neck muscles, and nodded. Sophridel looked over.
“Fithea. What?”
“The wind. She walks with the wind. Windfriend of old!”
This was what it was. Ryoka Griffin realized, as the trouble she’d caused in this genteel forum finally caught up with her. A figure went tearing through the Court of Masks, ignoring the faces he could see behind. The ruler who didn’t bother to play the games.
Duke Rhisveri, the Wyrm. Just as planned, really. Aside from this. When you caused trouble, someone had to sort it out, even in this so-called impartial realm. He knew exactly where Ryoka was, perhaps aided by Sophridel, and stormed into the room. He beheld Ryoka and Sammial and stopped, seeing they’d ferreted out another secret.
The Wyrm was incandescent. However, even he stopped as Ryoka stepped back. Sunburst pointed a finger as all the pieces came into place.
“It’s not just you. It’s not just you. Immortals. Immortals and…”
That was obvious. But what were they? Her gaze swung back. Gilaw? No clue, but she was clearly wearing another mask on top of the one she already had. Transformed? The other two…Ryoka looked, and it came to her.
Sophridel. An…elemental. Yes, an elemental. But not of what you’d think. Not of fire, or ice. An ancient Elemental of Masks.
You could mistake Fithea for the same. Until you saw her. Wood turned to stone. A fossilized, ancient of nature. A stone…Dryad.
It burst out of Ryoka. So that was what Ailendamus was, at least in part. That was why here. That was why masks. Immortals. Perhaps the last of their kind.
“Sanctuary. Sanctuary!”
A sanctuary for the last. A kingdom protected by the immortals of old. More than Wyrm! Led by the Wyrm, but a collective.
The Minister of Decorum, Sophridel, turned, confused, to the Duke of Ailendamus. Fithea, the prickly Conservator of Forests, another high-ranking official, turned to the Great Knight Gilaw. That was what Sammy saw, even when they were marched out of the Court of Masks.
A tall, blank-faced half-Elf, Sophridel. An old Dwarf woman, scowling at Gilaw, a dark-skinned woman with a mane of hair punching her palm. Fithea grabbed Gilaw before she could knock Sammy’s lights out.
And the last, the angry man with the goatee that Sammy hated already. The great magician, brother of the [King]. Rhisveri.
He was screaming at Ryoka. Sammy put hands over his ears, and then remembered he had a feather. He clumsily put the quill into his belt so it trailed behind his head, like a crazy parasol. He could still hear, even blocking his ears, the roaring argument.
“You dare to upset my Court of Masks and trespass—I will have your fingernails plucked from your hands and fed to you!”
“Rhisveri. Rhisveri. Is this the Thief?”
Fithea interrupted. The angry Duke snapped at her.
“Yes! How did you let her find the inner place, Sophridel?”
The Elemental was hurt. Stately, the half-Elf drew himself up. Even now, Ryoka could see him and both of them knew it. After all—he was still his true self, just disguised.
“She sees. Impoliteness, Rhisveri Zessoprical, hurtful. Others should know.”
Others. Rhisveri’s head turned as Ryoka’s ears perked up. He snarled.
“This is my affair and I will deal with it.”
“It is not any longer. She walks with the wind. She is a friend of the furthest travellers!”
Fithea interrupted. The Dryad grabbed at Rhisveri’s arm. He went to shake her off—then caught himself and stopped. Almost gently, he prised her hand off his arm.
“I know that. Do you think I am a fool?”
Fithea and Sophridel looked at each other. Rhisveri snarled.
“Do not task me at this moment. That was what the Thief claimed. I also smelled…”
He gave Sammial a wary look. The boy was picking his nose.
“…I will tell you later. I thought the Thief was dangerous, but her claims were beyond outlandish. The furthest travellers…I was going to ask you, Fithea, about them.”
“Not do anything with her?”
The Dryad was appalled. Ryoka found it was time to break in. She bowed, to Sophridel and Fithea.
“My name is Ryoka Griffin. I am—”
“Shut up!”
Rhisveri blasted a [Silence] spell so hard into Ryoka that Sammial saw her fly backwards. He clenched his fists.
“How dare you! I’m going t—”
Rhisveri’s head swung around. Sammial stared at the livid face. He slowly backed away. He was learning. Arguably faster than Ryoka.
The Duke took a shuddering breath as Ryoka lay flat on her back. She slowly sat up as he snapped at his companions.
“I was content to wait. We are at war, and that little thing is leading us into conflict with the Five Families.”
“That was your fault. We advised you to—”
“Shut up. The Thief claimed protection from the furthest travellers and tried to invoke them, so I did not melt her on the spot. I was content to wait.”
“Until when? Dubious.”
“Until they arrived! With the winter! However, it seems she was not content to avoid my wrath. Five days and she puts the Court of Masks on its head!”
“Were you planning on keeping it from us until our next meeting? I wish to speak with…”
Ryoka Griffin got up. Her head was spinning, but the magical mute button didn’t keep her from hearing. So that was what Rhisveri had been planning. He…was going to be disappointed about the winter idea, but it made sense.
The Wyrm kept arguing with his companions, but it was clear who was in charge. Fithea stormed off to tell the ‘others’, with Gilaw hopping, literally hopping behind her, as Sophridel went back to sort out the Court of Masks. Rhisveri turned on Ryoka.
“Take that brat away.”
“Ryoka! Unhand me! That’s my feather. I found it! Ryoka!”
Sammial kicked as his pursuers finally caught up with him, but he was actually wise enough not to put up much of a fuss. Rhisveri was left with Ryoka outside the Court of Masks. He looked at her.
“I could kill you now for this, Thief.”
The Wind Runner moved her mouth and found she could speak.
“My name is Ryoka Griffin, Duke Rhisveri. I am under two protections, as you know. I want to explain my case for why I tried to steal from you. I want to negotiate for—”
His eyes began to bulge.
“For what? You? Negotiate? Let me make something clear. The only reason you are not dead or hanging in a torture chamber is because of your benefactors. Do you think you have room to negotiate?”
Ryoka hesitated.
“I don’t have time to waste. I want to negotiate, and you refused to see me, Duke Rhisveri. You know what was on me. Sikeri’val-Toreshio-Maresssui, remember? If you’d just listen.”
The Wyrm was looking about. He muttered, half to himself, half to Ryoka.
“Listen. This thing demands my attention when—listen? To you? Pay attention, mortal Thief. Because I will tell you this once: I will interrogate you as to the particulars of your ‘benefactor’, the furthest traveller’s connection, and that charming lady at my leisure. You do not make demands of me.”
He pointed at Ryoka, then advanced so he could begin aggressively poking her in the chest. Ryoka glared and tried to swat the finger down, but Rhisveri was strong.
“You. Have. No. Value! You are a glorified letter! A busybody socialite, like the countless flies demanding my attention! You represent and associate with greater powers. You yourself are worthless. When I wish to negotiate with a higher power, I will reluctantly do it through you. Why should I listen to a word you say?”
“Because the gods are coming back!”
Ryoka almost shouted it. Almost. But she didn’t, because she knew it had to be said.
Just not necessarily to Rhisveri. After all. Which side might he choose? What might he do if…?
One look at the way he stared at Sammial was proof enough he might land the wrong way. Even so, she was struck for a second, as he raged at her.
Wait a second. Is that right? Am I not the same person who went to the lands of the fae? Who knows Tyrion Veltras, Magnolia Reinhart, Teriarch, Lord of Flame? I am. But does that mean I’m essentially a glorified…social climber?
They have all the power. I do not. My power is derived from friendship. 
Rhisveri was done screaming in her face. He stared at the Wind Runner, flecked by spittle, as some of the guards, including the Knights of the Thirsting Veil, and a curious [Princess], all stared at the target of the Duke’s pique. The Wind Runner stood there, looking stunned. Then she spoke.
“Dead gods. I’m a…a sycophant?”
She sounded so genuinely, horrifically appalled that Rhisveri’s enraged expression cleared up. He stared at Ryoka. Her look of self-actualizing disgust.
His eyes did that bulging thing again. His cheeks swelled. He tried to stop it. Then Rhisveri burst out.
“Hah!”
He laughed, for a second, as the unexpected humor came out. Then he glared at Ryoka. How dare you make me laugh?
A window opened. Ryoka Griffin felt an invisible hand seize her foot. She had a sudden premonition.
“Wait, waitwaitwait—”
He tossed her out the window.
 
——
 
That night, as the hubbub died down, Ryoka Griffin had cause to retract her instinctive conclusion to Rhisveri’s comments. Sammial was somewhere else, and she had been unable to see him, confined to her quarters, but she assumed he was well now that more people realized he was Sammial Veltras.
She had done some thinking. A step forwards in finding out the secret group in Ailendamus and realizing more of what this nation was. The [Knights] hadn’t beaten her with sticks for causing trouble, just marched her back to her room. Sammial had met her and she’d prevented him from dying from lack of oxygen.
All wins. She had even met the Duke again—but failed to get him to come to the negotiating table. That was because he was right.
Ryoka was a glorified socialite in a sense. She had very little actual power save for the people she rubbed shoulders with.
In the grand scheme of things. The Wind Runner reminded herself that she was Courier Ryoka Griffin. She had won the wind’s friendship and power. She had walked the lands of the fae. Her being able to navigate the Court of Masks proved that. She actually had a decent amount of wealth too. Not as many artifacts as established Couriers, but she was not worthless.
She just wasn’t able to move a Wyrm or negotiate on the level it took to make Rhisveri pay attention to her. She could not offer Teriarch much that he didn’t have. That was the same problem. Ryoka Griffin had moved up in the world, but she was now the literal messenger-girl in the game of kings. Or the letter itself, as the case might be.
Ryoka thought she could push Rhisveri based on promises, Sikeri, and so on, but he was right in assuming the odds of the fae coming to this world were remote. Even remoter than he thought, in truth.
Teriarch was also unavailable—as he was—to lean on. So Ryoka was left with Ryoka’s resources.
“And I don’t have enough.”
The Wind Runner scowled. As she lay in her comfy bed, she didn’t have the immediate answer out of the situation. Make friends with people like Baron Regalius, forge ties, albeit as a captive of Ailendamus.
As the Wind Runner lay there, her thread and mind kept snarling around Sikeri. That was what Ryoka couldn’t understand. If Rhisveri met her…she assumed it wasn’t a casual invitation extended. Why him? Were there no male Wyrms in the lands of the fae? What did Sikeri know?
 
——
 
What did Sikeri know? Well, it was also fair to ask what she didn’t know. What had she done?
The Wyrm trembled. She stood there, for…how long she couldn’t even tell. The Faerie King looked at her, then past her.
Then Oberon, King of the Fae, stopped. He held still, waiting. Everyone, visitors from far-off worlds, guests of the Realm of the Fae, the Winter Court and other fae, all held their breaths. Sikeri waited.
But nothing happened. He waited. The Faerie King waited and the moment was but a moment, but it lasted…how long? No one could say. He waited for the right point in time. Looked straight at Ryoka Griffin.
And spoke.
 
——
 
She was asleep when the voice called into her head, just like it did to so many who levelled. A voice in her mind. Only—a different one.
Distant, yes. Very distant. But far stronger.
Far louder.
“Ryoka Griffin.”
Her eyes opened in the middle of the night. Blearily, the Wind Runner looked around. But no one was in her room. Her eyes fluttered back closed, and she assumed it was like when you heard someone ring the doorbell but no one had. Phantom noise. It wasn’t a level up, anyways. She’d never hear that again. She began to drift off—
“Ryoka Griffin.”
This time there was no mistaking the voice. When it came the second time, it shook the entire room. Ryoka Griffin was out of bed and halfway under it by the time she came to her senses.
“Oh no. Oh fuck.”
She turned around. No, nononono…it had come for her at last. The consequences of being an idiot.
That voice. She knew that voice. She had heard it once before. It was him.
How? Hadn’t he said the gateway would be closed? Why?
Because she’d called his name. Three times. Oh dead and hopefully rotting gods which weren’t as bad as this! Ryoka raced around the room, then ran out of it, screaming inside her head. Something dragged at her.
The terrified wind, in the dark corridors. Ryoka stumbled past four figures and saw the [Knights] asleep at their posts. The wind was dragging at the Wind Runner and Ryoka ran.
I’m so dead. I’m so dead! 
 
—Ryoka Griffin, 20??, died of never keeping her stupid mouth shut! Again!
 
She didn’t know where she was going. Only that she was summoned. And she had to attend. When the third time came, Ailendamus’ palace shook.
“RYOKA GRIFFIN.”
A Wyrm froze as he felt the entire palace move. He sensed the unfamiliar power, whispered ten thousand curses, and began preparing for what? War?
