The Wyrm froze. The court rocked with the name, invoked here. She would have fled, screaming, and was turning, but too late. Too late…Ivolethe’s eyes gleamed. Nastily, with a mirth that her mortal friend knew only too well, as she pointed at the trembling Wyrm.
“For the judgement of the Court, I call him too. Oberon!”
Two times. Everyone was watching. The empty thrones, the Wyrm, who had flung herself on the ground. Two times…there was a law of three. This time, the guests, the court, Melidore and Ivolethe all chorused it.
“Oberon.”
He was there, sitting upon the throne. As if he had always been there. Two eyes older than any other being here stared out underneath a frozen crown. They caught Sikeri and she quailed. The Faerie King pointed down, and the warriors of frost moved from their posts.
A storm blew, as if the Wild Hunt prepared to ride. The shaking Sikeri looked up. Lips moved, as the Faerie King slowly rose from his throne.
…It wasn’t a light matter after all. Now, the eyes said. Now, let the judgement begin.
The Faerie King held up his hand. For one second, his eyes roamed, searching. Everyone waited. He looked right, left, at things unfathomable. Waiting. Waiting…
For something, as Sikeri shook and cursed the mortal girl.
It was all her fault!
 
——
 
Ryoka Griffin lay in a bed, staring up at a ceiling with some kind of architectural art design going on. These interlocking pillars, which created a hypnotic effect as the dark marble ceiling, a good ways up, way too high for anything but showing off really, let bright dawn’s light spill in through two much lighter windows.
She was thinking. The Wind Runner had on some rather nice garments. All silk, if you could believe that. Who made so much clothing like that? A kingdom which wanted to show off, that was who. Ryoka wore deep, almost jet-black silk, dyed to exacting standards. It had just a hint of royal purple, another nod to the Ailendamus motif; their colors were purple and black.
A light green, rather pretty color broke up the super dark colors, the better to highlight. Light green or silver were the secondary colors.
Just like a certain someone’s features. The colors were almost spot-on. Now there was an ego for you.
Privately, Ryoka actually really liked the colors. If she was going through her super-rebellious phase, only a few years ago…let’s be honest, she had still been in it when she appeared in another world. It just looked different.
If she’d been dressing in all-black and experimenting with eye-shadow…this would have been her thing. Ryoka shuddered.
“Dead gods. Imagine that. A [Goth] in this world. That’s all we need.”
Now there was a stupid thought. She wondered if it were possible, though. There were already [Philosophers] and their equivalents, [Sages]. Could there actually be…she tried to remember some of the more outlandish ideas.
“[Superheroes]? But that implies they have powers. [Magical Girls]? That’s…a bit too close. Uh…uh…[Cultivation Experts]?”
If any one of those classes was actually possible, she’d clearly chosen the wrong thing to invest in. Then again…Ryoka’s head rose, and then she flopped down onto the bed.
It was so comfy. Clearly enchanted to make you just nod off. She wondered if there was an actual [Sleep] enchantment on the covers. Ryoka just wanted to lie there and not face reality. Everything was easier in abstract.
Like Ailendamus. She had been under the wrong assumptions when she came here, but she’d known she should go here, for the chance, despite the risks. Given her pursuit? Definitely. She hadn’t counted on Sammy tagging along.
Or the Duke Rhisveri being a Wyrm, rather than a Dragon. Ryoka, in her hypothesizing, had sort of just assumed he’d be a Dragon. Or a super-angry Elf. If she’d had a third guess, it would have been a Djinni in disguise.
Him being a Wyrm complicated things. For instance—Ryoka had been prepared for a lot when she came here. Not the Death of Magic killing a Great Knight of Ailendamus mid-transit, or Rhisveri trying to kill Sammial or strip-searching her.
But had she been thinking—‘if this is the third damn Dragon I’ve met, will I do what I need to in order to grab that scroll?’ Absolutely. It had been an outside shot, but if seducing a Dragon was what someone had to do, Ryoka was willing to give it a shot if he’d been the right age. Essentially between Teriarch and Trash Dragon.
For the good of Erin Solstice and all that. Not that she’d really been thinking it was an option! Just…
“This could be a problem.”
Ryoka rolled over one more time, went crashing out of bed, and lay on the ground in a tangled mess of her sheets. She didn’t move, but stared up at her right hand. The one with two fingers missing. Oh—and a bracelet made of different-colored jade interlocked together.
The problem with Wyrms who didn’t even look at you as remotely viable, and more of a glorified letter with perfume attached, was that they were too damn practical. The magical artifact was an unbreakable tracking bracelet. Rhisveri had told her he’d fry the blood in her veins before she escaped.
He also knew her name and could scry her, so between those two problems, Ryoka was well and truly a captive. Not that she intended to leave without getting something, but Ryoka had a second problem.
She was…lying in the bed here. Not being tortured or mind-probed for more information. Given that Rhisveri was more likely to go for the actually nasty medieval torture devices rather than hot wax, that was a good thing. On the other hand, it was still a bad thing. Because Ryoka was here, and he hadn’t summoned her for further interrogation or…anything for the last five days.
He might have forgotten she existed. Ryoka certainly mattered, but now that he’d caught the thief who dared to try to steal from him, the Duke and Wyrm of Ailendamus had more to do. So Ryoka was just a hostage with less importance than she wanted.
“I met a Dragon. That’s worth something! Doesn’t he want to know more? About Sikeri?”
Ryoka got up and paced. She was in trouble because she was a Wyrm’s hostage, and lacking pressing, urgent, you must strike a deal or get knowledge from me pressure, she could well imagine him keeping her for years!
She didn’t have years. She didn’t have a month. She had to get his animosity off her back so she could go after Mrsha, get the scroll of whatever-it-was for Erin, or both.
Now. The problem was…Ryoka walked to the door. She opened it, walked into the guest room’s antechamber. Then a living room. Then she chose the wrong door again, and walked into a parlour. Out the parlour, and finally found the room to the hallway.
She stepped out of the door, peered right and left down the huge, just absurdly giant hallway. Ryoka was no stranger to money, and from her family, she knew that the newly-rich liked big mansions, usually with the latest trend that looked rich but was about as comfy and homey as an overpriced hotel suite.
White marble, giant, expensive things like wine racks—no taste, just what people think rich should look like. She gave Rhisveri credit; his palace was not tacky. It was absurdly huge, but now that she knew each corridor was large enough for a Wyrm to move through, it made more sense.
Apparently, along with designing entire wings, the Wyrm had actually carved up other palaces from the kingdoms Ailendamus had conquered and had them connected to this place. There was some style in having someone else’s throne room as your tea parlor.
Anyways, this area was right next to the royal wing, which was off-limits to all but the royal family except via invitation. Rhisveri’s haunting grounds. Even this area was remote from the usual guests of court. Sammy was somewhere around here, but Ryoka had yet to find where he was.
She looked around the huge hallway, past the pillars reaching up to a domed walkway with a giant relief of Ailendamus’ first War of Reclamation of ancient lands, nearly two hundred years ago. A piece that was thousands of feet long and told the entire story. Chronologically.
It seemed like no one was here. Ryoka Griffin slowly shut the door behind her, and it magically locked itself; only she or the staff or someone with the right authority could open it at will. Not much for Ryoka’s privacy, but such was a prisoner’s lot. She stepped down the corridor, glancing around again…
“Do you wish for something, Miss?”
A voice from the side. Ryoka whirled, cursing. She didn’t kick the figure standing to the side of her door, mainly because a bare foot kicking plate armor was really stupid.
The Knight of the Order of the Thirsting Veil watched her without much friendship in her eyes. Three more [Knights] all stood there.
Female [Knights], and the same Order that Great Knight of Ailendamus had belonged to. They had been posted on Ryoka, proving Rhisveri had [Knights] to spare. Ryoka smiled.
“Um. No. Just looking to see if you were here…”
“We will accompany you to your destination without drawing attention to ourselves, Miss. You may find refreshments that way. The royal wing is in the other direction and off limits.”
The blank-faced woman pointed, her expression never changing. Ryoka nodded. She started in the other direction, then turned back.
The Great Knight who the Death of Magic killed was apparently part of their Order. Probably beloved, if the casual looks they were giving her were any indication.
Purely professional, but with that underlying edge that told Ryoka they hated her guts. She was a professional stink-eye expert, so she knew what she was talking about. It read as, ‘we are here to escort you because you’re a prisoner and we’ll be so professional you’ll never see us, ma’am. But if we get the order, we’d just love to gut you and leave you dying on the floor.’
That kind of stink-eye. And yes, Ryoka got all of that from the look. She had also seen the ‘we are co-workers, but I will happily run this heavy piece of machinery and turn you into paste if I ever get the chance to fake an accident, because I hate you and your stupid orders that much’. Come to think of it, she wondered if that had actually happened. Two months later, she’d seen there was an accident in the newspaper…
“Alright, then. Thank you.”
Ryoka trotted down the corridor, and didn’t even hear them keep up. When she turned her head, she saw nothing.
Permanent invisibility or camouflage spells, muffling enchantments on their armor, and I just bet they have enchanted weapons. They also use poison. Great.
She knew they were there because the wind vaguely told her something was displacing it. But Ryoka thought, privately, this was the hardest challenge yet. Convince the angry Wyrm to give her a treasure and stop holding a grudge. Ryoka Griffin.
Why couldn’t he have been a Vampire? A super-hot one? Ryoka had been all ready to put down the Fierre card.
 
——
 
King Itorin II was one of only five rulers in Ailendamus’ history. He was still somehow Itorin II because they had to re-use a name. Dead gods, there were Terandrian kingdoms that hadn’t come up with a new name for millenia!
Two hundred years. Ailendamus had gone from being a minor kingdom that had emerged from an old bloodline after the Kingdom of Thire lost the last eligible member of its royal house and collapsed—it was turned into multiple new, smaller kingdoms on the hopes some might fill the vacuum—when it renamed itself as Ailendamus and quickly began to gobble up everything in sight.
It was the success story of Terandria; the little nation that could and did and then stomped over everyone else and became a world power. Of course—Ryoka closed the history books.
These accounts don’t talk about Rhisveri. The ‘miraculous battles’, the ‘daring strategies and revolutionary ideas’ not to mention sudden boosts of magical, metallurgic, and other knowledge all were glossed over in the telling of their history by very biased accounts.
“But fill in the gap with a ___ and there you are.”
Ryoka Griffin stopped. She made a face.
“Rhisveri is a ___. He’s actually _ ____ __ ________. Fuck. That ___ ______ ____!”
The bracelet was better than she thought! No wonder Rhisveri hadn’t made her a prisoner confined to her room. She couldn’t even think out loud in the library—one of them—without triggering its effects.
“Better than a [Geas] spell. But it makes sense. If he can do this, imagine what happens if they need to win a battle. One second they’re facing the ‘outnumbered yet dauntless army of Ailendamus, outnumbered eight-to-one,’ the next? Angry ____ breathing ____ all over the entire army.”
It was like having Teriarch in your back pocket for emergencies. The other Terandrian Kingdoms were not ready for it. In the past they might have slain Giants and Dragons, but in this era?
A Wyrm-backed Kingdom, slowly swallowing up the other ones. Can he even be stopped? Is there a check on Ailendamus’ power? Probably, if the other nations team up. But he’s playing the long game. He might be ready to slowly grow in power and make alliances for a thousand years.
Ryoka put her feet up on the table and leaned back in the very expensive chair. She kept doing it, staring up at the ceiling, until someone made a sound.
“Excuse me, miss? That is the property of Ailendamus.”
Ryoka looked up as an angry man strode over. She stared at her bare feet on the table.
“This is a reading space!”
“Sorry. I’m just resting. I am a guest of the palace.”
She didn’t move. She had it up to here with being bossed around. The staff escorting her and feeding her knew she was a prisoner, so she didn’t exactly get good—or even warm—food delivered to her room. Rhisveri might have ordered it, he might not have. She didn’t know.
“Take the thief to a room and ensure she does not leave the palace. The same with that boy. I will send for them later. They are spelled to make sure neither can escape or betray Ailendamus’ secrets.”
Rhisveri had ordered the guards to do that when Itorin II, the [King], had come to ask what was happening. Ryoka hadn’t gotten close to him since then. The [Knights] helpfully blocked the hell out of her whenever she wanted to go anywhere important, and she didn’t really want to either be beaten or choked unconscious, as it was clear they were ready to do so.
So this petty person wasn’t going to make her put her feet down. Ryoka ignored the man.
“Put your feet down, Miss. Now. This is a library.”
“Take it up with Duke Rhisveri. I’m a guest.”
Ryoka knew she was being petty, but she liked sitting like this, and glaring at her bare feet in this empty library was just a show of power from some petty person. She rocked back even further, and wondered if he was going to try to kick her feet off the table. Or if the guards would stop her.
