The man did neither. He just took one look at Ryoka, turned red, then unexpectedly calmed down.
“Very well. You are banned from the library today. [Forced Removal].”
“Wait. Wh—”
The [Librarian] clapped his hands and something tossed Ryoka out of the library. It picked her up and threw her out the entryway, past a pair of [Strategists] and some military officer.
They watched as Ryoka slid a good six feet on the marble. Carefully, all three backed up, wiped their feet on the rug, checked the rules on the library’s front, and went in, voices low, whispering.
Ryoka sat up.
“There are [Librarians] in this world. Cool. I hate it.”
Then she lay down. Right up until one of the cleaning staff asked her to move.
 
——
 
She had so many questions. What kind of high-level Skills did [Librarians] get? Sorting Skills seemed like Level 30 at most. Did you unlock hidden wings of books lost to time at Level 50? Could you defend your library from an army at Level 60 single-handedly?
She didn’t ask, and it was a pity. Ryoka Griffin paced Ailendamus’ palace, and felt…well.
This was familiar.
Strangely, yes. A Terandrian Kingdom had a mostly Human population, as expected, but there were half-Elves and Dwarves instead of your odd Gnoll or Drake. It was a bit disconcerting to see more than a token representation of their species.
Architecture different. Culture different. All these [Knights] and a certain amount of pomp that even Magnolia Reinhart had lacked; if she was the [Lady] with [Butlers] and [Maids], this was more high renaissance to Ryoka’s mind. Not the historical, mind you, but what Earth wished it could have been.
Where magic met imagination, you could make amazing things happen. So, different culture, different architecture, different captor.
Same prisoner. It reminded Ryoka of, well, a number of interactions. Had she been a hostage of Az’kerash? No, but the animosity felt familiar. Dealing with the Dragon wasn’t as hostile as this Wyrm, but it was certainly like her journey in the land of the fae.
Powerless, helpless Ryoka. An immortal with something she needs. All check. The Wind Runner scuffed along the floor with her bare feet. She looked around vaunted Ailendamus and felt something was wrong.
But what? She saw as many guests of the palace as servants. Ailendamus was no place for just court; half the people she passed looked like administrative assistants of some sort. Huh. So this place had an actual bureaucracy. She didn’t exp—
“Miss. This area is off-limits.”
A [Knight] materialized, scared the daylights out of a [Scribe] and Ryoka, and blocked her path forwards. She looked up and read the archway.
Administorum du Status.
Her lips moved silently. Either it was stupid, or it was some kind of bastardization of Latin and Terandria’s naming convention. Administration of State?
She looked at the [Knight] as the staff instantly made a gap around them. Ryoka shrugged. The unfriendly [Knight]’s face was visible behind her visor. Well, blankly unfriendly.
“Alright. Where can I go?”
“Nowhere in session or use. No higher official areas of the palace. You are confined to public areas and the immediate grounds, Miss.”
What an unhelpful reply. Ryoka was starting to dislike this [Knight] as much as the woman clearly—
No, no. Ryoka drew back. Wait a second. This was also familiar. Instant hostility only makes it worse. Imagine they’re like you.
It was a lesson hard-won, by meeting enough people willing to literally kick the crap out of her. And also by beating a copy of herself to death. Did wonders for your mental perceptions. Ryoka would recommend it, again.
“Thank you, Miss Knight. Can I ask where I could go to…stretch my legs?”
The Thirsting Veil [Knight] stared at Ryoka, then reluctantly replied to the reasonable tone and request.
“I suggest the outer gardens, Miss. They are typically unoccupied. However, formal events or gatherings…”
“…Don’t need me. Understood. Thank you.”
Ryoka Griffin walked back the way she’d come, ignoring the looks. The thing was, Rhisveri was ignoring her. Sensibly, in a way. What could Ryoka do?
He’d found his thief. Uncovering her identity and Teriarch’s status was clearly important, but not pressing. Ryoka needed to reverse that. She needed to also find where Sammial was and if he was safe.
Tyrion. What was he going to do? He had just nearly lost Hethon and Sammial. Now? Ryoka bit her lip.
This could be ugly.
“Um. Could I visit another prisoner? I have a friend. Sammial. If I could—”
“No interactions between prisoners are allowed.”
Ryoka stared at the unhelpful [Knight]’s vague shape in the air. This time she didn’t hide how annoyed she was.
“He’s a boy. I asked yesterday to have my request relayed—”
“His well-being is assured. No prisoners may meet without approval.”
“And who can grant approval?”
A moment of silence as she saw the three other invisible [Knights] shift.
“…Duke Rhisveri and the royal family are the only figures with the authority to grant permission.”
Ryoka narrowed her eyes.
“Then, may I petition for an audience with Duke Rhisveri?”
“No. The Duke will summon you when appropriate.”
There was a definite note of satisfaction in the [Knight]’s voice at this infuriating bit of logic. The Wind Runner’s kicking foot itched. The wind blew ominously around her. For a second.
Then she turned.
“Very well! Thank you for your help, Miss [Knight]. I’m sure Sammial’s safe and well-cared for. I wouldn’t dream of a [Knight] endangering a child, and I’m glad Ailendamus is holding to those high standards.”
She heard nothing but silence after this as she quickened her pace. Ryoka hoped that if Sammial needed anything, he’d get it.
As for this…Ryoka glanced back at the invisible [Knights] following her. She wasn’t certain, but she suspected she was getting four invisible glares under the visors. An enemy in enemy territory.
…Why did something bother her? Ryoka was working on it.
 
——
 
The ‘gardens’ were predictably the largest, most manicured area of green that Ryoka had ever seen. If you had a great palace of marble and stone and metal, you needed to prove you could also command nature.
It was nice, though. Ryoka stepped more lively down the steps of one of the entrances leading out of the palace, inhaling fresh air. Flower beds, multiple gazebos, some over water, an entire lake someone had decided to convert into a place to row boats, long walkways around exotic plants…
“It’s like someone crammed every single idea into one place. All this place needs is a menagerie.”
“The menagerie is that way, Miss.”
Ryoka bit her lip. Then she had to grin. She turned her head to hide it. And it wasn’t even a mocking smile.
There was something actually amazing about having this much space. Not about boring wealth, as Ryoka had observed. Buying a rich mansion that looked like exactly what other rich mansions looked like was stupid and self-aggrandizing. But this?
You could run for miles and not lap Ailendamus’ palace. What runner, in this or any other world, didn’t want a private running track? It wasn’t even as if this garden was artificially made either; Ryoka saw and heard a number of birds flittering around, and even some of the more acceptable bugs like butterflies.
It made her want to…run. Ryoka glanced over her shoulder, and sighed.
“I don’t suppose running is allowed in the gardens?”
She expected a happy ‘no’, but to her surprise, the [Knight] instantly reappeared.
“Running is acceptable, Miss.”
The Wind Runner paused. Okay, now they were going a bit too far. She scuffed at the ground.
“I’m not sure you know this, Miss. But I am a Courier.”
“Your magic has been disabled, as have your Skills. We are capable of keeping up with you if you wish to exercise.”
“Really.”
The [Knight] did not reply. Ryoka stared into the deliberately blank expression. Was that taunting she…?
Oh yes. Ryoka began to jog forwards. Instantly, she sensed the four figures following. Ryoka turned her head. Were they really thinking they could keep up in plate armor? Maybe it was enchanted. Maybe they had Skills. Even so…
She began to accelerate across the ground. The Order of the Thirsting Veil followed, silent as a whisper. But not intangible. Ryoka sensed them at her back. So, she picked up the pace.
Her legs felt good, moving after so long in captivity. She lengthened to her long stride, and then decided to pick up speed.
Niers Astoragon would have been happy to see someone who could run. Ryoka Griffin could run. She began flying down the road, faster than she had ever been before. She ran for a living, not just to push herself like on Earth. A diet of magic and Skill-enchanted foods made her body stronger; she’d observed that. Most importantly? A stamina potion meant you could beat any marathoner in the world.
The wind blew around her face, lifting her raven-black hair behind her as the Courier ran. Her eyes opened wide. She was smiling. She accelerated into near top-speed running. And then did a double-take.
“You’ve got to be—”
They were right behind her! The four figures were actually more visible as wind gusted over their enchanted armor, revealing the invisibility with minute specks of dust and whatnot. What the…
Ryoka sped up. She was practically sprinting. She didn’t even need to turn her head to know they hadn’t lost her.
How? Ryoka’s ego instantly protested this was wrong. Her brain began to fight with it.
Levels. They were all [Warrior]-classes at least Level 20. Skills; their armor might even boost their natural strength. Not to mention…she chanced a glance back.
Were those eyes she saw? Burning a hole in her head? Oh, yes. They hated her guts. And they were also Ailendamus’ finest.
[Knights]. Women who might have been selected from thousands to be the best of the best. They…they were competitive, polite to the point of being aggressively hostile, and thought that they could do anything Ryoka could do.
In short, they were exactly like Ryoka. To the point of practically challenging her to a footrace to prove they could beat a Courier without Skills.
Oh my dead and hopefully rotting gods, they’re me. Ryoka realized—she was staring at four Ryokas. If she had existed in this world, not come from Earth, what would her natural personality probably lean towards? If she was patriotic and had found a way to channel her levels…
Five Ryokas ran down the garden, the visible Ryoka attracting a few curious looks from passersby. That was way too many Ryokas. And they all hated themself. Each other. Ryoka would know.
There was just one thing. Ryoka looked back at the female [Knights] running with actually good form behind her. She couldn’t help it. As they stared silent murder at her—she grinned. Her teeth flashed and she grinned.
“Okay. You’re pretty fast. Let’s see if you can keep up.”
She turned, and sped up. All four [Knights] felt the wind change. From blowing in their faces, the headwind turned into a tailwind. Of course, it helped them too, and they followed her with ease. She was pretty quick without Skills, but they were—
Ryoka was headed straight for a six-foot tall hedge politely separating two parts of the garden. The [Knights] hesitated. Then the Wind Runner turned. She had spotted a decorative rock next to the wall. She dashed towards it, leapt, and performed a safety-vault, pushing off the top of the rock. She landed on the other side, scared the heck out of a young couple kissing there, and kept running.
“Sorry! I was j—what the hell!”
Ryoka’s parkour trick had been meant to lose the [Knights]. She saw one of them appear over the hedge, copying her move. The other three came over as well. By jumping. They landed, losing speed, then shot forwards in a sprint.
Jumping boots? Oh, come on!
Ryoka took one look at them. Oh yes, the four mini-Ryokas all stared back. The Wind Runner grinned harder.
Well then.
 
——
 
Baron Regalius, the [Baron of Ceremonies], was touring Ailendamus’ gardens after another knighthood ceremony. The second this week; it had been six hours long. Even he felt rather tired, so he was walking the vast palace.
In fact, he’d stopped to address some of the newly-knighted Order of the Hydra training in one of the open practice courts. Inspire, commend, invigorate. That was Regalius’ duty, and he took it seriously.
“It should be my pleasure to host a number of your Order, Ser Yoriven, at my mansion in the capital tonight. A toast, before you venture forth to claim the Dawn Concordat!”
The [Knights] were exceptionally flattered by the invitation; it was doubtless the first time they’d been invited to a noble’s mansion.
As always, the key was that Regalius did not ‘condescend to show the commoners true refinement’ as an uncouth peer might. He truly intended for a fitting meal and entertainment before they headed off. After all, a [Knight] who distinguished themselves might well be a peer in time.
He was just debating taking off his jacket to do a bit of sword practice himself and checking the position of the sun when something caught his eyes. The wind changed. One of the Hydra Knights turned and pointed.
“Now there’s someone hard at work too. Look at that woman move.”
They were pointing at a distant young woman, running barefoot across the royal gardens at top speed. Regalius’ plucked brows rose.
“Who, may I ask, is that? A [Squire]? A Runner?”
The Hydra Knights had no idea. Regalius frowned at the young woman. She was vaulting some of the hedges placed around to control the flow of traffic, leaping over flower beds, and kept glancing over her shoulders.
A guest of state? There were limits to how one could behave. He began to stride forwards, to call out to the young woman. Then Ryoka Griffin really began to challenge her pursuers. She took two steps towards another low-rise hedge, but rather than jump over it, she did a running front-flip, touched the ground, and kept going. There was another hedge no more than fifteen paces ahead. The Courier headed for it.
Regalius, and a pair of little boys fighting with toy swords, clearly waiting for their parents to finish their business, saw the Wind Runner do a running side flip, curling up like a living cannonball, hit the grass and do a roll into a spring back to her feet. And she was still running.
“My word!”
The Baron’s eyes popped. Then he saw four figures materialize. He recognized the Knights of the Thirsting Veil by their darker armor, sigilry, and distinctive, all-encompassing, water-proof armor to handle the poisons that were sometimes liquid, sometimes airborne.
They were following this young woman, this Runner—she could not be something else! They tried to copy her. Two did and went crashing through the hedge like thunder. In plate armor.
