I airstep upward to appraise the silver diamond spear tip falling through the air before opening a spatial magic portal to let it fall into my item storage.

[Metal Fragment of Infinite Regeneration][+338% Strength][+290% Mental Strength][+277% Defense][Hidden Ability]

In the same upward movement, I pinpoint the 6th ranked dark guard way off in the distance flying away from me at high speeds.

I don't hesitate to blast off and follow it through the sky at an even faster rate using all of my buffs and wind magic skill.

I'm able to catch up to it in a matter of minutes, but the amount of mana I used to rocket through the sky this far would be highly inefficient for high-speed travel over long distances. It is much more efficient at flying than I am.

However, this doesn't matter as I swing my Qi-infused sword two times and slice off both of its wings at their bases.

The creature doesn't react until it's too late, erupting into a sea of orange soul energy while I stand on its back with my blade pointed at its neck.

We both plummet toward the desert floor. Its severed wings spin away into the wind by our sides as I open a telepathy link with the creature.

"Don't try anything stupid, your life is in my hands now."

As it feels my Qi-infused sword start to melt through the back of its neck, the violent orange crescents of wind that was forming all around us disappear and it responds.

"Impossible... you defeated number 2...? That is... just not possible."

I shove the blade deeper into its neck again as we fall through the thin cloud line and the golden desert sand becomes visible below us.

"Well, I'm here now and your partner isn't here to save you again. So, it is in fact possible. I killed number 2."

I twist my blade and continue talking.

"Now, you're going to tell me a few things, and in return I'll set you free. How about that?"

It lets out a painful screech after my blade rips through its feathers and muscles, colliding with its upper spine. However, the bird doesn't respond.

"I take this vow of silence as a wish for death..."

I channel more Qi into the blade, and it begins burning more flesh.

"Very well..."

The desert floor gets closer as I ride the wingless bird at an increasing speed toward the ground. I thrust my sword forward to kill it here and now, but it replies through our link.

"WAIT! I'll tell you what you need? What do you want? You'll really set me free? A-And my wings what about my wings- I-"

I smirk and stop my forward thrust, pulling my sword back right before where I could have severed its head from its spine.

"Sure, you'll get your wings back. Tell me what other guards are on their way, and what other forces can I expect to face coming here in the near future. I want time frame estimates, power levels in comparison to yourself and that 2nd ranked dark guard. Then most importantly, where can I find The Dark One?"

I feel fear shiver through the bird's body, and a moment of hesitation in its reply come after my questions, so I stab the sword back in its neck.

"Answer me before we hit the ground."

It replies the moment it feels my blade's tip hit its spine again.

"I-Alright- I'll tell you what I know! I promise I'll tell you everything, just-"

"Go on."

"Number 2 is the Dark One's trusted exterminator. There is no job it cannot complete and no human it cannot kill... Only the 1st Ranked Guard is Stronger, but no one knows its strength other than the Dark One. I'm the fastest flyer, so number 2 and I were sent out to eliminate all double-ranked up threats before the other units arrived for cleanup. That's all I know"

I thrust the blade in harder, cracking its bones, and hear it let out a shriek of pain.

The ground is getting closer, we don't have much more time until impact.

"What's cleanup...? Explain. No vague details."

"The remaining Dark Guards will lead the cleanup. They're coming by foot with the Dark One's Army of Wraiths and Ghouls. It should take a week or two for everyone to arrive, but some Dark Guards may be faster than the main forces. They'll loot this town dry and take over Sector 2, just as planned from the very beginning."

I shove my blade even deeper, causing the bird to cough blood out of its mouth, and I hear an audible crack in its bones.

"The Dark One. Where can I find your leader?"

It doesn't respond.

All I hear is the whistling wind by our side and watch the sandy dunes grow larger below us.

"Where can I find the Dark One?"

Still, no response comes back.

"Last chance..."

"None of the Dark Guards know. You will not find the Dark One, it will find you."

As these words enter my inner ear, I thrust my sword all the way through its neck, and we make impact with the sand below.

[Level Up] x23

[Use Absorption]

MCP: 145,262,900MP

[YES][NO]

I reach level 1163 and absorb its MCP as a large crater is formed in the desert and most of its body is incinerated by the force of the fall.

"There, you're free."

As the dust cloud settles, I let out a sigh and pick up the only remaining piece of its body, examining it with my appraisal skill.

[Desert Hawk's Beak][+281% Speed][+222% Agility][Wind Attribute]

The large beak that glows white with miniature swirls of wind magic falls into my item storage while the two wings I severed from its body fall into the crater beside me.

I airstep up through the dusty cloud it creates and murmur under my breath.

"There are your wings back too, a deal's a deal. Now we're even."

I self-regenerate my full body to try and restore some of the built-up fatigue from my fight against the 2nd ranked guard, but it feels like something only sleep or Abby's Full Restores can fix.

Once I make it back to the town, my Flame Emperor's disguise goes back up, and I float toward the center of town to directly confront the issue at hand.

Using telepathy, I let Abby know I'm coming, and update her on the outcome of both battles.

She may understand, but the citizens of this town that was established just this morning may have very mixed opinions after seeing an energy attack that could have killed all of them instantaneously just barely get deflected less than 100 meters above their heads.

To my surprise, not a single one of them has disconnected from my Rising Emperor's Domain System, so it seems like they all still see me as their leader. However, it's best to come clean and tell them exactly what is happening to keep this trust in the future.

As I make it over the center of town, then stand on top of the guild hall just like I did earlier. Many heads turn to the sky where I stand, and I see a mixed use of stares of awe, religious bliss, confusion, and even excitement fill the crowd.

Abby floats up to the roof behind me, and I begin to give a speech.

"As all of you have seen, our town is under attack. This is a very important detail I did not reveal when you all swore loyalty to me. We are at war with the underground leader of Sector 1. Their army is on the way, and it will be sending many other opponents like the one you just witnessed me fend off."

I stand in silence for a moment to let the crowd soak in this information, then speak up again.

"Considering these new events, if you wish to leave the city and receive a trip back to Sector 4, I will be more than happy to arrange this travel. However, just know that putting your trust in me aided my victory in this last battle. I'm sure many of you felt slightly weaker before my clash in the sky, but now are back to your normal selves, am I right?"

Chatter from the crowd begins to grow. Many people confirm that they did feel weaker, like their power was being drained. I speak up again before too many opinions can be shared.

"I know most of you are not warriors or hunters, and wish to live a simple life in this village. This is a lot to take in after months of forced labor, and on your first day of freedom. If this simple life is all you desire, that is more than enough to help my future city thrive. Do not feel pressured by my words to do something that is not in your nature. However, if you wish to become more... If you wish to become strong and fight by my side, I can lead you to a path of immeasurable strength."

After these words leave my lips, I activate my Rising Emperor's Domain again, and use it to share my power rather than take it.

[Power Holder: Activated]

[10% Power Share: Contribute]

[Select Party Members: ALL]

[Select Stat Points: ALL]

[Select Mana Control: ALL]

The contributed stat points are nothing special, as 10% of my stats are evenly split between all 140 townspeople. This boosts everyone's base power by a few points on each stat.

However, the mana control is where the difference is made.

Tens of millions of MP worth of mana control are granted to each and every person below me.

This is enough to begin sensing mana in a very different way than normal hunters, its around the range of mana control a hunter between level 300 and 400 would achieve when they're destined to become an Elite.

An incredible surge of energy is felt in every one of the people below, and they all are hit with a simultaneous burst of euphoria from receiving this power.

Many of the hunters in the crowd activate their skills and can't believe the new efficiency they've been granted.

Elderly and simple merchants move around with far greater agility and ease.

The small group of new religious believers all get down on their knees and begin bowing at the gift from their god they've just received.

I allow everyone to react to the power in their own way, and allow them to talk amongst themselves for almost a full minute, then speak again.

"My ability has the power to grant my followers gifts in times of need, and in return, I'm able to receive your power if necessary in battle as well."

I deactivate my buff, letting the power come back to me and leave everyone in their unaltered normal states.

"So, knowing this information now, decide what you will do. The first option is to get a ride back to Sector 4. The second option is to stay and live a simple quiet life in this city. Lastly, the option I am extending to those of you that are ready to take the leap, you may join me and become the first members of The Flame Emperor's Army."
