She was a woman of soft purples fading into deep violets, with horns on her head looking as though they were made of amethyst. They weren’t crystal, though; they were her true horns. She did not have a tail, but there was absolutely no way anyone would mistake her for either a dragonkin or an incani. She was a dragon in ‘human form’, and was rather open about that fact. She stared at Erick with glittering violet eyes, then her gaze drifted down...

She wanted him, but not sexually, or in any way that Erick would ever be comfortable with. She wanted his heart, or probably his core. She stared directly at his core and then smiled, showing off a smile that was too large, and fangs that were too sharp.

“He is not yours, Illustrious,” Fairy Moon said, trying not to be too sharp in tone. “He is mine.”

“There’s enough of him to go around.” Illustrious said, “Just look at him! He’s a baby but even I was terrified of him coming here, and now you show me that he’s a Wizard! I owe Bright Smile a hundred truegold.”

“You mistake why I have invited you, and you continue to mistake why you are here. This is his choice; and it is not up to you to make it for him.” Fairy Moon turned to Erick, saying, “So choose: My way, or I hand you over to the tribunal and they decide what to do with your Wizardly nature. This second choice means that Illustrious Moon gets to bid on your Breaking, and then you will be broken into Fae, or Carnage, or Death. If you take well to the Breaking then you might even find true power and happiness in those lives. But, you and I have a connection already…

“And so if you choose me, then I will guide you in the ways of the fae for however long it takes for you to open the Grand Pathways once again, and for me to be sure that I have not created a cancer to deal with in the future.”

Erick—

Illustrious Moon gasped. Everything about her changed; from vicious to bewildered to contrite and then to amazement and wonder, all in the blink of an eye. She whisper-shouted, “You don’t really believe that dung about him opening new worlds, do you!” When Fairy Moon said nothing, Illustrious leaned back, slowly turning serious by measured degrees. She eyed Erick and Fairy Moon a second time. “… We’ve been laughing over that for the last year… But if it’s true...”

“I don’t know if he can.” Fairy Moon continued to stare at Erick. “Fate seems to want him to go that direction, and maybe it is time for me to move on from this land. Maybe it is time for my brothers and sisters to return. I was honestly enjoying the break from all their antics, but… Seasons shift and dynasties die at the whims of true Wizards.”

“Ah…” Illustrious Moon said, “Well then. I apologize for eyeing you like that, Erick. It’s hard to know that I could save another hundred kids this year…” She said to Fairy Moon. “I’ll still take him, though.” She looked to Erick. “I will see you treated right if you choose me, but there will be some distinct changes in your usual operations.”

Erick almost exploded at Illustrious.

He dearly, dearly wanted to.

But he contained himself.

By Illustrious’s words, Fairy Moon seemed to lose most of her earlier anger. She said, “Those are the options, Erick. Fall in with the fae and test your Fate, or test your luck and your life upon the tribunal.”

Erick took a moment to breathe, and then he said, “I choose my own Path, and if you want to walk it with me, Fairy Moon, then you may accompany me for a while.”

Illustrious’s eyebrows rose. Maid Maria paused as in her preparation of the plates for lunch, but she resumed almost as fast. And then both Illustrious and Maria looked to Fairy Moon.

Fairy Moon met Erick’s gaze with her own. She was judging. Weighing. Then she decided, “This accord is acceptable, though it would be easier for you if you yoked yourself to my mandates.” She stared. “I can make you do anything I wish now that you have broken hospitality. Ware this warning but once, Erick Flatt. If you should not apply yourself I might decide that you aren’t learning fast enough to outrun fate, and that will go poorly for you, but it will still go the way I choose it to go.”

Erick stared right back, though he kept his anger and his true emotions out of his voice, “If you would have come at me with a combination of more candor and care, and less subterfuge and seals, then maybe I wouldn’t be rightfully riled or, no matter how this shakes out, resentful.”

Illustrious Moon and Maid Maria almost gasped at Erick’s disrespect.

Fairy Moon simply nodded, though, saying, “I know that according to your kind our last meeting and the subsequent ones went poorly, but in time, you will see that this was the best outcome for all. Stealing away a pretty mortal into the fae can be quite the pure-motive pastime, for there are a lot of rules for me to follow in this regard, so you are not in any actual danger unless you upset the unity of this slice of the Old Cosmology. Take ware the warnings and you will flourish and find your way. Make wrong choices and make yourself a crypt.” She added, “Besides! You want to make Elemental Benevolence! Take heed of this benevolence of mine and adjust your mind to your new environs. You might be here a while.”

Illustrious jolted at the idea of Elemental Benevolence, which meant that this was her first time hearing that idea—

Dragons were very expressive? Did Erick have that right? Illustrious and Maria had to be old, right? But here they were fully expressing their emotions on their faces.

— Illustrious exclaimed, “Elemental Benevolence!”

Illustrious Moon was surprised for multiple reasons there, all of which Erick barely gleaned. Erick was more focused on Fairy Moon anyway, for he did not like what she was saying. She called this ‘her benevolence’? This kidnapping and all the controlling shit? And that was her honest feeling, too, from what Erick could gather. She wasn’t lying about how she felt about anything. She truly believed that she was doing the best thing for everyone.

Fairy Moon added, “What I will apologize for is speaking of my age, or the ages of anyone in that meeting. That was rude of me.”

That was too much. Erick snapped back, “But kidnapping wasn’t?”

“Not at all. You stepped into the Path of your own volition. I merely took advantage, as was my right.”

“Let me switch back to my Normal Self.”

“No. You are to learn proper magic and proper Wizardry and you won’t learn any of that in your already Script-enhanced body. Take it as a boon of the Path that you were granted this whole new life before you got here, and that you didn’t fuck it up before I got a chance to get to your proper re-creation. And now:” Fairy Moon set a necklace down in front of Erick. It was made of the finest silver with a small pink/green/white crystal droplet in the center. “Wear that and you will be immune to the Sights and dangers of others for as long as you live peacefully in this place. It won’t protect against any average defenses so don’t go dawdling around in unapproved places, like on the outsides of houses either big or small.”

Too many things were happening all at once.

Erick kept up with all of it, but he dearly wanted to go back to the part where he had been kidnapped. He was not done being angry about that, and now he was also mad about almost being fed to the dragons of Ar’Cosmos. But with Fairy Moon’s last statement she had obviously seen Erick look out the windows up there and contemplate running away.

Yeah... Big news. Whoop-de-doo. Erick was under constant surveillance. Probably mind surveillance, too. Erick took the necklace and put it on. It probably had a tracker in it to directly allow her to observe him; he wouldn’t be surprised. He couldn’t tell that anything had changed, but Illustrious stopped glancing at his chest.

The violet dragon-lady whispered to herself, “That’s much better.”

At least the people around here seemed to be wearing their emotions openly.

Erick ignored Illustrious and turned to his [Familiar]s. “What happens if I break the glass?”

“They are free to wander around, though whatever they do comes back to you.” Fairy Moon warned, “Be ready to contain your feathered one if you should let him loose.”

Erick instantly smashed the glass orbs onto the stone ground beside his seat.

Both orbs shattered. Yggdrasil flew up to Erick’s left shoulder, but Ophiel fluffed out like an eldritch demigod, filling most of the airspace above the table before Erick could think otherwise, going knife-feathered and sharp-eyed, but no one seemed to care—

Fairy Moon warned Ophiel, “I’ll put you back in a bubble and the second one won’t break so easily.”

Erick regained full control of Ophiel and brought him back down to his front, and then he loosened his grip. Ophiel forgot his anger once in Erick’s warm embrace. The little guy batted at him with his wings a bit before switching to hugs. Erick hugged him tighter, too, and for a brief moment, everything was fine.

But everyone was looking. Maid Maria had a small smile. Illustrious had a sad, almost empathetic expression. Fairy Moon just stared a little, like she wanted what Ophiel had, but she could not, for she had done too much to ever deserve such honest love ever again.

… Erick was not touching that minefield with a hundred-meter pole.

Erick held Ophiel a bit more, and then Ophiel calmed down and eventually climbed onto his other shoulder, opposite Yggdrasil. With the fluffy guy on his right and the iridescent eye on his left, Erick breathed deep, and said, “So when does this Wizardry learning start?”

Fairy Moon instantly said, “After. First, a meal. If you will, Maid Maria.”

Maria set out the filled plates.

Fairy Moon took the first bite of pork, declared it good, and then Illustrious Moon began to eat. After a moment of indecision, the food smelled too good and it made Erick’s completely empty stomach grumble hard. Eventually, he ate.

… It was, perhaps strangely, one of the worst, well made meals he had ever had. Maria was a great cook. The spices were on point. The meat was seared well and the vegetables had lots of butter. It was very, very good, in presentation and smell and taste and texture. But it was also terrible. Perhaps Erick would have enjoyed it more in a better setting. Still, though, he ate. Everyone ate. Maid Maria even fixed herself a plate, but she ate in the other room. No one spoke.

Erick finished relatively first because he was more hungry than he realized.

Illustrious and Fairy Moon both stopped eating when he did. Maid Maria rushed back into the dining room shortly thereafter and began clearing the plates and the lunch.

Erick spoke first, asking, “Where are my rings and my Crystal Star?”

“The rings are broken, for I would not risk those things corrupting people with even more Stats.” Fairy Moon said, “The New Stats themselves would not work within Ar’Cosmos anyway, for none of the boosts of the Script apply in this land, except in the most basic of ways, but they would unlock the New Stats for anyone who should think to wear them. Therefore, they had to be broken in my first disagreements between Illustrious Moon and myself. They wouldn’t do you any good while you are here, anyway, for it is only through the Script that that form of enchanting works at all.”

Illustrious Moon withheld her disdain for that particular decision, though her emotions still showed upon her face.

Erick withheld his own annoyance at Fairy Moon, too. Whatever. He could make his rings again. That wasn’t a problem.

And then Fairy Moon continued, “The Crystal Star is another matter. That is in the vault, for now. This will soon change. With your decision to allow me on your Path, we shall be returning the Crystal to the Church of Koyabez, along with a letter detailing that you are safe and under my protection.”

Erick started—

But Illustrious got there first, speaking with horror in her voice, “You would let that twisting artifact return to Veird? I thought it would get lost in the vaults!”

She did not mean ‘lost in the vaults’. She meant ‘destroyed’.

Erick glared, saying, “You have no choices to make regarding the Crystal Star other than to return it to me.”

“No.” Fairy Moon said, “The divine energies invested into that trinket and the soul twisting power you placed within will hamper your growth as a true Wizard. Therefore, it is to be given back to the god who helped make it and you are to never touch it again.” She gazed at Erick, saying, “And! When we get the time, we shall have a good and long talk about what justice truly is.”

And now Erick was mad for an entirely new reason. “You would rather kill someone than let them become someone new? You would deny those who wrong others the ability to see how they have wronged others?”

“Death is cleaner.” Fairy Moon said, “In the jumbling of souls that occur between one life and the next, whoever comes out the other side is not who went in. What you have done is an abomination to the natural order—”

“There is no such thing as a natural order.” Erick said, “All we have is what we make of it, and what we make is justice and society and civilization. It is not natural, and you attempting to naturalize the unnatural is you imposing your own outdated beliefs on others.”

Fairy Moon smirked. “And is your Crystal Star not doing the exact same thing? Imposing ideas?”

“Of course it is! Society is about imposing ideas on each other and working out compromises.”

“And when I say ‘natural order’ I mean exactly that. You think I know nothing about the unnaturalness of my nature?” Fairy Moon said, “When I speak of natural order I mean to see civilizations grow up, without outsized influences upon them, and besides that: your Crystal Star needs to be in the hands of a collection of desires, at the very least, and not in your own personal hands. One man does not get to gradually corrupt the cycles of death and resummoning, for I have seen where your Crystal Star ends up, Erick, and it is in a world of stagnation and excess that eventually falls to the monsters outside that society.”

