Springtime moved fast, but then it slowed, stretching on into forever like a lazy dream that would never end. The pink dragon no longer hurried. The rider above no longer worried. She laughed a springtime laugh, and then she cried for the loss of the red one. Small words floated by as the pink one did not think that red would perish that easily. The rider took comfort in those words, but her comfort was a false one.

Erick barely understood any of it.

Something had wrapped around his mind and would not let go.

And then that something wrapped tighter.

- - - -

Springtime collapsed into a large room at a tall tower. Sunlight streamed in from a tall window, while a cool breeze blew through the room. A woman in pink carried Erick bridal-style onto a soft white bed with fluffy fabrics to lay him down upon too many pillows and too much comfort. The woman was Erick’s own size, and Erick was not a petite person, but the woman moved him around to make him comfortable and there was no strain upon her face. There was only a small smile.

And some horns on her head.

A tail flicked out from the back of her dress. Her nails were sharper than they should be, but Erick could only tell because she took care not to let those claws touch his skin. That all meant something, but Erick could barely link one thought to the next.

The pink woman stepped away.

A second pink woman, this one without horns or anything else like that, stepped forward to the end of Erick’s bed. She had a white breastplate on her chest and shoulders, protecting her core, but her pink skirt looked weightless as gossamer silk. One green eye and one pink eye stared down at Erick, as she smiled at her triumph. Erick felt… Something about her. He couldn’t say what.

Worry?

Hate?

No. Probably not hate. That wasn’t who he was.

Anger, though… Maybe.

The smaller woman pulled out two small glass globes, each only a handspan across. One of them held a prismatic eye that was only visible sometimes; it swirled around inside its glass cage, focusing on everyone in the room, but mostly on Erick. The other globe held a thing of wings and eyes. The wing-eye thing puffed up, filling its entire cage with itself, before shrinking back down. It tried this three times, and for some reason, there was a wetness on Erick’s face.

The woman set those two trinkets on top of curvy, airy, golden crystal-ball holders, at the foot of Erick’s new bed.

“See?” asked the woman with the heterochromia. “He is harmed-not, and here you hold to see for yourself. This truly be temporary, anyway.”

The things inside of those trinkets then focused fully on Erick. The winged eyes fluffed up a bit, but turned calmer. The iridescent eye glanced at Erick, then turned back to the woman…

The other woman, the fully pink one with horns, was gone. When did that happen?

Heterochromia nodded to the little glass balls, then turned her attention to Erick. With a gentle smile, she spoke, “Welcome to Ar’Cosmos, Erick Flatt. I will endeavor to elucidate my words in the manner to which you made a request, but only past this preamble. Words of welcome and warning need be said, and they need be said securely.

“You are currently corrupted by the Fae.

“It will wear off with the wearing of obedience.

“The rules are written thusly:

“The Script survives-not in this land of no lies.

“Do as you will and your will will be done to you, though the re-doing of duress need not be of exact equality; I am the judge and the jury in cases of justice, and my decrees define this land, and your life.” The woman breathed. “And so we enact the etiquette of our existences.”

The room felt different, somehow. Erick had no idea how, but it was.

The woman spoke again, “But for you, there is an additional arrangement: You may leave when I give you leave, and there will be no gainsay in this truth.” Heterochromia said, “Let sanative sleep claim you; your curriculum shall surely last.”

Though the sun shone brightly the room was cool, and the blankets warm. Heterochromia went out the door, securely shutting it behind her. Solid stone walls seemed safe enough, so Erick cuddled into the covers, and let sanative slumber take him to a humble hibernation.

- - - -

Erick dreamed of white clouds in a blue sky, a shadowy existence on the horizon, and a lot of angry words being thrown against a pink and green fire. He had no idea what was what, but he was…

Getting…

Something.

Something was happening.

Something white hot began to form in the center of his being.

… No. Not ‘form’. Wake up.

Something was waking u—

- - - -

Erick slammed awake.

Everything happened very fast, and then not fast at all. He tried casting a [Luminous Beam] at the pink dragon-lady standing by the window. It failed. He tried manually casting a [Luminous Beam] at the pink dragon-lady; also failed. He briefly recognized that he was having a moment.

He briefly recognized that his mana sense was thrown wide and yet he could barely perceive more than four meters away from himself. This was double the size of his bed, and not much larger than that. It was a very nice, very large bed. Erick wanted to burn it. He wanted to burn the stone tower all around, he wanted to kill everyone.

He started speaking, “A power now I do hard-claim, a power now of mine to tame. I—”

The dragon lady’s eyes went wide—

Something ephemeral wrapped around Erick and held him tight, slamming him backward. Sleep tried to claim him again, but he fought, though it was like fighting an avalanche with a steel shield; he was still buried under a mountainside’s worth of power.

And yet he held onto consciousness much longer than he thought possible.

For Fairy Moon had strode through the suddenly-open doors, declaring, “Here are words of power be: I tame you now for all to see, a Wizard-born and Wizard-be, you are to now to take a knee, for murder tried and murder failed you are to now be ever-jailed. Only by my true decree, are you to be ever free!”

Thoughts ended.

And then restarted.

Erick was quiet, and calm, and not himself. He recognized this as one would recognize that they suddenly lost an arm, but for him, he had lost his entire body, and some of his mind. He wasn’t even sure if his soul was still his. But it had to be, because he was making this observation about himself?

He could still make observations, yes.

The anger was still there, but it was hidden behind an adamantine wall of Fae Magic.

Fairy Moon pointed to the floor beside her. “Get up and stand here.”

Erick got out of bed, walked over to where she pointed, and stood there. For some reason he was naked, but he didn’t seem to care, and neither did anyone else. His nudity was probably to make it easier to clean him while he slept. Probably to deprive him of his items, too; his rings and his Crystal Star were gone. How long had he slept?

Fairy Moon looked him over with discerning eyes. After a moment she pulled back. “Your problem is in your other self. Show it to me.”

Erick transformed into his Other Form; it was almost instinctual to shift to his monster-form these days. Fairy Moon had spoken about how he wouldn’t have Script access as a part of her rules, and he tried bringing up some of those familiar blue boxes, but they were all gone. And yet, he could still transform at will. He could probably use the other parts of his protean species, too. [Greater Lightwalk], [Luminous Beam], [Lodestar], [Perfected Polymorph], and of course, what he had just done, which was [Paradox Shift].

The pink dragon-lady gasped. “You called him a Wizard but— He really is!”

“Yes.” Fairy Moon relaxed, and spoke plainly while she looked him over, “And no one else is to know of this. I will honor the hospitality rites that brought him here. His Wizardry seemed based on that of a dragon, which is Rozeta’s deliberate doing, no doubt. It will make teaching him a trivial matter… Looks like his core is harmed; a buildup of degradation.”

Erick had seen his own core, but he didn’t feel a reason to fix the small fractures at the edges that would undoubtedly lead to catastrophic failure soon enough. He couldn’t seem to do anything on his own except to think some odd thoughts here and there, and to look around as his various senses allowed. He must have been out of it for days, though, with that level of breakdown.

The dragon lady said, “I’ll go get some spare rads—”

“There’s no need.” Fairy Moon stared at Erick. “Heal thyself.”

Erick cast [Renew], flowing light into his core while he began rotating his mana, filling out every little nook and cranny with solid, unblemished mana, healing the damage that time had caused. He bottomed out on mana rather quickly, but he kept cycling his core, flowing the mana around and around until he felt supremely solid. He sighed with relief and felt a smile come to his lips, and he saw no reason to rid himself of that expression, so he left it there.

“… What was that?” asked the dragon lady.

The question didn’t come from Fairy Moon, so Erick ignored it.

“It was something I saw him do once…” Fairy Moon repeated the question, “What did you do to yourself? Explain to educate.”

“That was [Renew].” Erick explained, “I made that spell back in the Core before Rozeta was going to help me learn of Wizardry and how to fix everything. But then Melemizargo fucked that up with ending our communion but Rozeta still managed to help me some and now I have to learn Wizardry proper from the ground up. [Renew] is all bouncy conformist mana that anyone can use to support any currently-active spellwork, and it is only by a twist of reality that I wasn’t quite aware of that [Renew] works well on monsters, and Wizards are monsters, and so here I am a monster and a man both with [Renew], able to support my own growth without the need of rads, which I understand makes monsters go crazy. I am glad I don’t have to go crazy.

“I still need to learn how to do all this Wizardry stuff, though, from turning my bones and organs to mana crystals and then all of that junk, but I don’t want to do that until I learn it all proper like, because I don’t want to be cut from the Script until I am able to live on my own as a Wizard out and about in the world. Rozeta warned me that she would cut me off from the Script if I did anything too wrong, so don’t ask me to harm anyone, but I’m going to be cut off anyway once I learn myself.

“So for now I am both Wizard and Not.

“In eleven-ish months, though, [Renew] gets out into the rest of the world and they all learn that I am a Wizard even if I am not ready to separate from the Script.

“But anyway: Rozeta installed a kill switch so if I go off the rails in my Wizardry she can pull me off the Script and kill me. That’s what this Other Form is. I think. Not sure what will happen there. If I lose the Script I lose a lot.

“I still need to remake Strong and Clarity and the like, too, as well as Paradox this Other Form of mine and my Normal Form together into a cohesive whole. I was hoping to get to do all of that after Oceanside but then you kidnapped me and now I am here talking to you about stuff that I really shouldn’t... be speaking…” His voice trailed off.

His words had all come out in a jumble and he had barely answered Fairy Moon’s question before he went off on a tangent… Because he wanted to go off on a tangent? She was surely smart enough to understand his words, even if he himself had barely kept up with that verbal diarrhea.

Why was he speaking like this, though?

Well… Because he Had To Do What Fairy Moon Wanted, of course.

It all made perfect sense when he thought of it like that.

He could have answered her better, but a part of him was glad that he did not.

… And that part of him stared out from deep within the depths of his soul, stirring against its confines, watching, waiting. It would strike when it could. Not yet, though.

Fairy Moon glanced from Erick’s eyes, to his core, narrowed her gaze, and then returned her sight back to Erick. “Both of you understand the depth of your near-depravity. Your yearned-for murder of my Maid Maria has landed you in this losing position. Prepare thyself for even worse should you scheme and actually slay anyone at all.

“I do this kind-ways first. I do this terrible-ways when I owe that obligation.”

Heard and understood.

“How does this Other Form work?” Fairy Moon asked.

“I [Paradox Switch] and I get a new Status. It was level zero, but [Renew] and then cycling has gained me levels.” Erick said, “Level 27, as of the last time I was able to check. The Script doesn’t seem to work here.”

“The Script does not reach this land and it never will.” Fairy Moon frowned a little.

And then Fairy Moon stepped closer and stared up at Erick. Erick glanced downward. Fairy Moon was half a head smaller than him. And then she started walking around him, leaning over to get a closer look at his legs and his back and his stomach, and especially his heart; she was surely looking at his core from all sides, for she had to have a good mana sense at her age. Erick almost wanted to ask if she really was a million years old, but he did not.

He could not.

And that brought him up short again. He realized something was deeply wrong and he could do nothing about it.

“You haven’t spent any points in this Other Form at all, have you.” She kept walking around him. “None at all. Not even on basic things like Meditation or higher Stats.”

It wasn’t a question, so Erick didn’t answer.

Fairy Moon got to his front again then stepped back. She glanced to the dragon lady, her Maid Maria, saying, “Prepare a grand luncheon. Invite Illustrious. Tell her nothing.” She stood as tall as she was able and turned back to Erick, “Attend this announcement, in order: See to your young ones. Contact no one outside of Ar’Cosmos. Remain in this Other Form from now until I say otherwise. Clean yourself up in that bathroom. Put on whatever clothes you find in the dressers that you wish to wear. Then, and only then, you will join me in the dining room downstairs to continue this discussion. Find yourself freed from this ensorcellment by the surety of your steps.” She added, “A tribulation shall greet you should you gainsay these trials.”

And then she left.

- - - -

Erick did as he was told.

He went to the globes first. The one containing the feathered eyes bounced and fluffed, making tiny taps at his glass cage at Erick’s approach, while the iridescent eye simply bobbed a bit. Erick picked up the noisy one first—

Ophiel.

Erick held Ophiel’s orb in his hand and the little guy’s name was a bolt of lightning erupting from Erick’s very soul. And then the flash faded. With a simple smile, Erick put Ophiel back down on his stand.

