Ophiel bounced even harder against his solid glass sphere. Plink plink. Plink plink.

Erick picked up the eye—

Yggdrasil.

Like a clearing sky, Erick realized that Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye had been trapped inside the globe. Yggdrasil’s eye spun a bit, staring up at Erick, hoping for… Something. Erick had no idea what. All he could do was hold the globe tighter. In a spur of need, Erick glanced to Ophiel’s orb and grabbed that one, too. He held both in his hands…

And then he went to the bathroom.

Erick was sure, that if he were in his proper mind, that he would have loved to be here, in this bath in a more friendly setting. The bathroom was as magnificent as the bedroom, with solid grey stone fixtures and fountains pouring out of the wall and a hot basin of water which was easily two meters wide and four long, and a meter deep. Erick set Yggdrasil and Ophiel in the water with him as he grabbed some soap and cleaned himself up. The water got dirty, but it was rapidly cleaned by some sort of magics.

Halfway through his cleaning, he realized he needed to use the other facilities, so he went to the other side of the room and did that. Yggdrasil and Ophiel were still bobbing in the bathwater when he came back and redid his instructed cleaning…

Erick slowed down as he finished washing the soap out of his hair.

He was clean, and…

Some thoughts came back. A vise loosened around his heart and soul and mind.

He looked to the bobbing trinkets and grabbed Ophiel and Yggdrasil. He held them tight. He could feel his connection to both of them, but… He couldn’t summon another Ophiel, and he barely even realized that he could do that, anyway. Erick sat there in the shallow end of the bath for a while, just thinking, trying to understand the depth of the danger all around. For there was danger; he recognized that, now. But thoughts remained as elusive as all his usual magic, and he only had the barest bit of Mana left, anyway.

Erick had enough wherewithal to recognize that Fairy Moon had made him empty his mana while she was watching, and then she had recognized that he had no mana, and she had told him to stay in this Other Form until she said otherwise. If not for that instruction, Erick felt he could easily switch back.

A fog still lingered, though. Erick didn’t feel like breaking anything right now, least of all Fairy Moon’s instructions.

Eventually, Erick got out of the tub and went to put on clothes.

His skin felt great after the bath and the clothes felt wonderful, but as he put them on another part of his self came back.

Fairy Moon had fairy-fucked him, hadn’t she.

Ah. Shit. He couldn’t even transform back to his Normal Self to cast any larger magics and he didn’t have Meditation in this form, so the last hour he had spent in the bathroom, very much not Resting at all due to sudden stress, he had only regained a pittance of mana. Not even enough for 2 seconds of [Greater Lightwalk] movement. At his current cap of 200 mana, even if he Rested for the necessary 2 hours, he still couldn’t cast a single [Luminous Beam], either; that spell cost 500 mana, and he didn’t have Clarity.

He couldn’t do shit.

He couldn’t even [Cleanse] himself until he had gathered 9 of the 10 required mana, and that was only because Intelligence had dropped the costs of his spellwork by 10%… But did that even work here in Ar’Cosmos?

Did… Any of his preconceived notions about magic work?

Erick had no idea!—

No wait! He had [Renew]ed himself back there. He still had all his spells. Those spells were inside his soul, which was currently locked to the core sitting beside his heart, nestled in its own set of veins and arteries that did not pump blood at all, but which looked like they could. Maybe they pumped something else? Did they pump mana? Why? How?

… Anyway. If he had the mana he could use it. But that likely wasn’t happening anytime soon. He had a max of 200 mana and no Clarity (did Clarity even work in Ar’Cosmos?) which meant that he was fucked. And all because he had decided to wait to put points into his Other Self’s Status…

No. Wait.

Something was wrong with that idea.

Why did points into Willpower, which would have increased his base Mana in this Other Self, still matter here in Ar’Cosmos? Wasn’t this place like the Old Cosmology? Stats didn’t matter? Only—

Oh.

Stats fortified the part of oneself that allowed one to have more mana in the first place. His Stats would have still contributed to his Mana reserves here in Ar’Cosmos if he had ever spent them, but he had wanted to raise his Other Self right, and fortify his body in the old ways, since he was eventually going to lose Script access entirely. Saving his Points and then seeing how they fortified his body and soul had been his goal…

But now he was here, in Ar’Cosmos, and that original plan had fucked him over—

No. Wait. Even if he had spent the points, then… Nothing really mattered in the face of Fairy Moon, did it? She would do what she wanted, and Erick would need to go along, or else she would take away his ability to resist her.

This was not his fault. This was Fairy Moon’s fault.

… But he still tried doing what he always did when he added points to his Stats, which was to open his Status and then adding points from the pool, but there was a major disconnect there. First, he couldn’t open the Status. Then, he couldn’t spend points. Even if he tried to do it instinctively, nothing happened.

No blue boxes.

Nothing.

Did he even have Health? This was Ar’Cosmos and there was no ‘Health’ back in the Old Cosmology; only mana— No ‘Mana’ either! Just mana, that was in the air and everywhere else, and what one managed to shove into their core to allow them to cast magics in the first place—

Okay. So his Intelligence was still working a bit. He didn’t seem slower than usual.

— So how much mana did he actually have, then? If his Core was his mana, and he was a Wizard making a million mana a day, then he should be able to cast from that pool of mana…

He tried another [Renew]; the safe choice.

Light sputtered inside his chest and then failed to blossom.

It seemed some rules applied, and others did not. He was still connected to the manaminer aspect of the Script; his mana production was not his own, for it was shunted off into the Core of Veird, or something like that. Try as he might, Erick could not cast anything.

Ah.

… Could he phone Phagar for help? Request aid from Rozeta?

… Message Melemizargo?

He thought for a moment longer about everything that was happening to him and his very limited options, and then he grabbed orbs that contained Yggdrasil and Ophiel and left his room. He turned toward the stairs and walked down; the only direction he could go.

He passed windows along the way, and gazed out across the grounds.

Skyscrapers in a myriad of styles dotted the land, each at least twenty stories tall, while a lush forest grew down below. Half of the towers were pagodas. The other half were more Greensoilian or Wastelandian; tall spires of almost-gothic architecture.

Erick edged to one open window, seventh from his room, and stepped out to the short balcony. Down below was a large yard filled with a small farm, while beyond that farmland was a wall that divided this estate from the roads and businesses outside. The streets were filled with people of all sorts, with a lot of them looking like the dragonkin that Maria was (his Perception seemed to be working well enough, Erick realized) with the thick tail and horns and very little in the way of scales. Some of them had actual scales all over their bodies, and looked almost like Apogee back in Spur. Some looked like people wearing prop items; they had no scales on the bare arms or legs that Erick could see.

Two types of dragonkin?

And now that he thought about it, Maid Maria had no scales on her face and very few on the rest of her. His mana sense was shortened considerably, but it hadn’t been small enough to not notice everyone around him, when they had been near. Maria had had a small rad beside her heart, too, though hers was perfectly spherical without any facets and actually under her heart. Like a pearl. Erick’s was more like a cut gem.

Fairy Moon had been inscrutable, though. It was only now that Erick realized that he hadn’t been able to see inside of her, when she had been peeking inside of him. He hadn’t really looked too hard, but his mana sense was up and active at all times, anyway.

And he didn’t see anyone else around in the castle with him. Sure, there were lots of people on the distant streets, but… None of them looked up and glanced at Erick, even though he had mistakenly stood by some of those windows for too long.

Something fuckey was going on.

Probably multiple things, actually.

… Proceeding more cautiously, Erick strode down the wide, spiraling staircase that spanned the whole of this particular tower. He glanced out every window he came across.

Fairy Moon’s compound was massive and gothic and old. The main compound down below was the size of Erick’s own mansion ten times over. Her towers were fifteen to thirty stories tall. Taller than anyone else’s. Everything was arches and alcoves and balconies and sculptures of all types of people and pillars—

Something small with great big eyes and stone-grey scales peeked at him from behind the head of a stone sculpture on the next tower over, briefly meeting his gaze. And then the thing instantly retreated. It was a… A lizard, maybe? Yes. It was a lizard.

… Or maybe snake—

Oh. Wait.

A baby dragon?

Might have been a dragon.

Okay, so. Erick’s Stats were down about 70 points from where they usually were. He still had Perception and Intelligence, so he was a great deal above ‘baseline-human’, but not as capable as he usually was—

So why not switch back and make some rings—

Erick shook his head.

Rings wouldn’t matter anyway; useless in this Other Form.

Erick also ignored the possible-baby-dragon and continued down—

He froze. He should switch to his Normal Form and then he could esca—

He continued down the—

He stopped. He should switch—

Erick continued down the wide, spiraling staircase; the only way he could go—

Unless he wanted to jump out a window and flee? Nah. He’d probably fall to his death. He might have Dexterity and some Strength, but both were at 10, and he was never very good at the physical side of adventuring… He was never really a good adventurer, anyway, even if he was a guild member and ‘Star 11’ or something like that.

And besides! There were baby dragons out there climbing all over.

… Or maybe they were guardians meant to stay out of sight, but warn people of their presence when people looked like they were making to climb on the architecture. Erick breathed deep. Yeah. Okay. That seemed more likely. He was trapped. That made more sense than baby dragons crawling around outside on the decorative arches and sculptures.

… And he kept walking down the stairs. This tower was pretty damn huge, eh?

Erick eventually made it to the bottom of the stairs and found himself to the side of an end of a hallway. The actual end to the hallway was a set of open double doors and a nice little breakfast balcony, overlooking the gardens down below. The floors inside had a nice carpet heading from those open doors to further into the house. Erick considered the balcony. It wasn’t much of a jump down—

One of the lizards poked up from the edge of the balcony, eyed Erick, and then vanished back behind the solid stone.

… Guardians then. Not baby dragons.

Erick followed the carpet down into the bowels of Fairy Mansion, or was it Clan Fairy? The people around here did things like the Nelboorites did, with pagoda architecture and ‘clans’, according to what Erick had heard, so it probably was ‘clans’, and not ‘houses’. Eh. Whatever.

The smells of cooking bread and something savory wafted on a breeze that flowed through the house. Erick followed both the carpet, and now the smell, until he ended up in a central dining room. The table was a massive oak thing made of dark wood with white inlays, while the chairs were similarly weighty. The whole edge of the room was festooned with hand-carved sculptures and paintings and other works of art, while the luncheon spread on the table mirrored that of a state-level dinner. Candelabras made of twisting serpents that ‘breathed’ candles that were lit with a perfect-white flame. Mounds of food layered atop multi-leveled silver platters. A full roast pig, with a tarip stuffed in its mouth. Maid Maria started carving the pig the second Erick stepped into the dining room, making pulled pork out of the carcass, while Fairy Moon sat at the head of the table, and a third person sat at the third seating. Erick assumed the open seat was for him.

So he went to his seat. All the while Fairy Moon and the other person watched him. No one said a single word. Erick set down Yggdrasil’s and Ophiel’s orbs on some obviously-for-him orb holders near his chair and sat without giving a single word, either—

His butt touched the soft leather seat.

Suddenly, his mind cleared. The fog went away.

Perhaps most oddly, the first thing he realized was a correction to his previous thought about ‘House’s versus ‘Clans’. Ar’Cosmos used ‘Houses’. Erick had already been told this a few times, and most recently in Archmage’s Rest, by Prognosticator Aisha, when she named the three Houses of Ar’Cosmos as House Fae, House Death, and House Carnage; each one named after the change that they had enacted upon their Dragon Essence to rid themselves of the Dragon Blood Curse.

And then he realized that he had noticed that he was under a mind fog, but it wasn’t truly gone until now.

Quickly coming around to the idea that yes, he was fully cleared—

He tried switching back to his Normal Form, and found himself unable.

Not fully cleared, then.

But at least he recognized that he was… Soul-shackled? Yeah. Probably. There could be only one reason why he was able to recognize all this, though: He had fulfilled all of Fairy Moon’s instructions. Yes, that had to be it. Erick ignored that for now...

Time had seemed to stretch as Erick finally took in the situation happening all around him.

Fairy Moon, if she was presenting as her true self, was incandescent with silent, barely-visible anger. But it wasn’t directed at Erick. It was directed at the woman sitting across from Erick; The only person in the room unknown to him.

