“First of all: I much prefer the term ‘reincarnation’. Ecks leaves much to be desired when it comes to concepts of rebirth—” And then Erick realized he wasn’t arguing for an outcome he truly wanted, anyway. He did not need the Crystal Star. He would be happy to let the Crystal Star go back to Koyabez, but… “I would be happy to let the Crystal Star return to Koyabez, but I was going to use that model of magic to try and cleanse all of the dragons of Ar’Cosmos of their Dragon Essence Curse. To turn Dragon Essence into Elemental Empathy. But now? Fuck you,” he said, looking at Fairy Moon. He turned to Illustrious Moon, saying, “If anyone could have used some Elemental Empathy it’s you.”

Fairy Moon almost said something—

Illustrious spoke first, half-incredulous, “You. A Wizard. You would have come here willingly?”

“Yeah. After I figured it all out first and probably cured the Headmaster, first.” Erick said, “Though I’ve been told that a true flight of dragons would destroy this world, so I have no doubt that someone would have talked me out of it. I still would have countered that the idea of Elemental Empathy could not be co-opted into murder-for-all or some other horror show all that easily. I feel I would have won that argument, eventually.”

Fairy Moon withheld whatever she was going to say, as she gained a small smile.

For Illustrious had heard Erick’s words, and she looked, for a long and terrible moment, like a woman who had found out she had won the lottery the day after she threw away the ticket. Erick felt a profound sense of joy at seeing Illustrious fall apart, no matter how small that crumbling was. And then he realized that he shouldn’t have so much joy at Illustrious’s suffering.

Then he went back to his first feelings. Illustrious was very ready to take him and ‘Break’ him in order to make new dragons. Therefore, Erick decided to hold onto his schadenfreude for a while longer and not feel too guilty about seeing the pain he caused in Illustrious.

Honestly, this whole situation was fucked up.

“Honestly, this whole situation is fucked.” Erick said, “I was going to come here anyway. I was trying to help you assholes.” He wanted to slam his knife into the table, but he did not. “Why did you do this, this way?” He glared at both of them, asking, “What the fuck?”

Neither Illustrious or Fairy Moon had the decency to look ashamed.

Maid Maria, who was currently between rooms, winced, as though she realized she had stepped in dog shit. At least one person here was capable of empathy. Maria was probably younger than both Illustrious and Fairy Moon. Fairy Moon was older than at least one universe, though, so her way of thinking was simply…

Fairy Moon was simply alien, and that was the truth. Maybe she was incapable of true empathy? An amoral fae… Well that was pretty cliché. But the more experience Erick had with Fairy Moon, the more he realized that she was simply, truly, foreign.

Erick was still having trouble grasping that idea, though. To him, everyone was understandable if you tried hard enough. It was quite infuriating that Fairy Moon was the way she was.

Illustrious was easy to understand, though, for all her age and power and separation from the real world. She was in denial, as she said, “The Headmaster would never let you come here if you looked to help us, and we both know what we do to Wizards. If it weren’t for Fairy Moon then we would be doing that to you, right now; trading one life for a hundred. And it would be the right thing to do.”

“I gave the possibility of redemption to six Shades.” Erick rhetorically asked, “What makes you think I wouldn’t want to help your people from needing to consume Wizards just so you could move around without killing each other on Veird? Those dragon fights kill thousands each year, and according to everything I know the fact is normal dragons just cannot help yourselves. That Curse is an affliction that needs to be cured.” He added, “But maybe it is like others have said: ‘The world cannot handle a true flight of dragons’, and maybe they were right, if this is how you treat people once you have them under your sway.” Erick almost told of how maybe the Dragon Stalkers were right to murder every dragon they could find, but that was a step too far. The Stalkers were in the wrong, too, and not just because their zealotry had harmed Poi. There was no clean side in this conflict. Just pain all around.

Illustrious wanted to speak—

Fairy Moon got there first, saying, “One life for a hundred is an argument that could be agonized over for a million years, and whatever outcome came out would still be wrong, for the scales of justice wander and wither in the face of weighing lives against lives. Speak no more of this pedantry at this time, for this discussion is too large to have at the moment. We are talking of actual tasks to undertake, not theory to theorize over.”

Erick could tell (at least) that Fairy Moon seemed to love to argue, for she very much wanted to talk of the nuances of justice, but as she said: there were larger, more personal things to discuss right now. Still, Erick almost launched right into a talk of ‘justice’, if only to countermand the fae’s demands to move the conversation along.

Fairy Moon said to Illustrious, “You know the truth of Erick. Do not spread any truths discovered at this dining. Instead, be ready in all ways, and especially prepared for when [Renew] enters the Open Script. And be ready to assist with core formation and growth, for Erick will need a teacher, and one must be provided that is closer to draconic than fae.” She turned to Erick. “Before you learn Wizardry, we will speak more of this Elemental Benevolence you named back at that beach, along with several smaller ideas, for acclimation comes before academia.”

Illustrious got up from her chair, and Erick saw for the first time that she was a truly tall woman, and that was before her horns. She said, “I wish to hear more of this new House you wish to raise, Fairy Moon, but I will accept a full debrief when this orientation is over. Welcome back to Ar’Cosmos.”

— A new House? Why the fuck would Erick agree to that? Why would he agree to anything these assholes wanted, at all? Like, well… It was the easy way out. ‘Give the mugger your wallet, because it isn’t worth your life’ but Erick had thought he was past that part of his life. Apparently not, though.

… Obviously he wasn’t past this part of his life.

Erick scowled a little, but he was unsure who he needed to be scowling at the most. Everyone here deserved a lot of scowling, though. Perhaps some more snappy snipes, too. There wasn’t much else that Erick could do in this situation, anyway, because he couldn’t summon more Ophiel, Ophiel couldn’t summon more Ophiel (Erick had tried once, just to see what would happen, and he got a minor Error message from the Script… But they were in Ar’Cosmos now… Could he…? Something to test later), and he didn’t want to risk Ophiel being taken away from him, anyway. If he acted out, at all, besides with words, which seemed to be okay, then there would be consequences. Erick didn’t want to experience any more of those consequences, thank you very much. He was still reeling from the horror of having all his bodily autonomy and mind taken away from him, but he was able to compartmentalize that.

… That compartment was getting pretty full, and like an overfull closet, Erick couldn’t close the door anymore. Stuff kept spilling out. He would need time and calm and… not this, if he were ever to regain his full sanity.

And yet, Erick maintained.

Fairy Moon said, “I am not sure if it will be a House, but it might have to be. Whatever Erick makes needs to last for All Always and the usual way to do that is with pervasive life, for Elemental Benevolence will be this New Cosmology’s anti-Sundering Element.” She frowned a little at nothing in particular, saying, “I do not want to go through that Sundering nonsense ever again, and I don’t want anyone else to, either, but this act of Creation will be challenging, because Erick has already been set upon the path of Paradox.” She got up from her chair, and she seemed like a child compared to the very tall Illustrious. She said, “Your welcoming is well received, Illustrious. I look forward to auditing the House after I get Erick settled in with some proper scrolls and spellwork.”

Illustrious’s eyes had been wide with every new announcement from Fairy Moon. Her voice was a whisper, “Anti-Sundering—” She recovered. “An auditing will be availed to you whenever you wish.” She bowed, then she left the dining room, down the tunnel toward what Erick could only assume was the front entrance.

Fairy Moon turned toward Erick, saying, “The Dragon Curse is only part of the reason for that hungry look she gave you in the beginning.”

Erick felt whiplash as he reoriented to Fairy Moon.

Fairy Moon continued, “The Script itself is a terrible burden for all beings who ascend, for it makes their mana no longer their own, and monster and man alike is forced to take in the mana of the conquered, or be driven insane with anger like the common monster.” Fairy Moon gained a bit of her own anger, but it was well controlled, as she said, “When Idyrvamikor laid down that Dying Law against his murderous brother, it only compounded the problem of being a dragon on Veird…” Her voice trailed off as she looked away.

Erick could infer a lot from Fairy Moon’s sudden bout of emotion.

The woman obviously had had some sort of relationship with Idyrvamikor, and she probably knew the most about what the Dragon Curse was. Perhaps this was why she threw in with the dragons. Perhaps she was the one who even made the Gate Network in the first—

… No. There were too many ways Erick could be wrong about that. He stopped himself from making any preconceived notions. He decided to just ask her.

“Did you make this land?” Erick asked, “Or did you take the Gate Network laid down by the Old Dragonkin and make it into something larger?”

Fairy Moon continued to gaze out at nothing for a long moment, then she turned to Erick, asking, “How much do you know of this land? Of the current-day workings but also of the founding years of what was to be the greatest civilization in this New World?”

“Of history, I know the broad strokes.” Erick said, “The founding of the Old Dragonkin Gate Network happened in year 2 or 3 in what would eventually become the Forest of Glaquin. There were a few decades of peace and then came the Death of All Halves, in year 25, which was caused by the Old Demons in their efforts to create their own hybrid human people, the incani, and to deny the angels their alvani; the half angels.

“Fully repairing the Script from the Death of All Halves caused the creation of the orcols, combining orcs and trolls into one people, which caused the Rage Wars. [Teleport] didn’t come along till year 100 or so, though, so the Gate Network left by the Old Dragonkin was the only way to get around Veird in any timely manner, so the orcols tried to capture the Gate Network. They succeeded some, which caused the Rage Wars to spread nearly unchecked.

“But all the rest of the world eventually fought the orcols to a standstill and then Aloeth, the elven goddess of beauty, captured the Rage of the orcols and transformed herself into Aloethag, actually ending the war. But by that time the Old Dragonkin Gate Network was in tatters.

“Idyrvamikor’s Dragon Curse happened somewhere in there, I think, but I do not know the exact timing, or the circumstances involved. His name is scrubbed from the history books.” Erick said, “I also have no idea how you are involved, or how the dragons came to be here, or anything of note with why it is the way it is, except for that dragons can come to Ar’Cosmos and not be affected by the Dragon Curse.” He added, “And Wizards can remove that Curse.” He added a bit more harshly, “And you kidnap Wizards all the time and harm them to get what you want. For multiple reasons, all of which boil down to the people of this land all doing what they want and not caring about how it affects other people, or the Curse making the people in here act certain ways, or other workings of circumstance, you are a danger to the outside world; Yet another enemy of Veird.”

Fairy Moon ignored all of Erick’s anger, saying, “It seems we are in need of a history lesson and a tour, first, for while you have touched upon the touchstones of this land, you know very little. Get up, and follow me.”

Erick got up. He asked, “I’m not really safe here, even when under your aegis, am I?”

“If you are worried about Illustrious then you are smart, but while she will try something, I will be there, and I doubt she will actually reveal your Wizardry to anyone else. If you are worried about all the lesser dragons around here, then you insult me with these words.” Fairy Moon added, “By that same token, if you get into trouble that is of your own making or if you out yourself as a Wizard, then I will only rescue you when you are nearly dead, and the secret will be too large to keep quiet if that happens.”

Erick was having a hard time understanding many things about Fairy Moon and her motivations, and he wanted clarity in this regard, so he asked, “And you’re really not out there telling everyone that I’m a Wizard? Or letting this information flow out of control?”

“I did not tell anyone. They saw your truth for themselves—”

Erick ignored the rage in his heart.

“— But in the case of Illustrious Moon and Maid Maria, they’ll both be involved in helping you become a proper Wizard and they know better than to cross my creations. That necklace will prevent any accidental reveal of your truth, though.” Fairy Moon said, “I expect this attempt at subterfuge to fail rather fast, and even faster as soon as other people realize you are here, and that you can’t do nearly as much magic as you should. If you want to play like you’re here to help us solve the Dragon Curse and to learn of Wizardry, then that lie might be manageable. Do you wish to navigate with this narrative in mind?”

“… Are you controlling my communication with the outside, too?”

“Yes.” Fairy Moon waved a hand, deciding, “We will discuss all of everything else as the present permits, but let us move to our first lesson: a true telling of legacies and legends lost to time. We go to meet with the creator of Veird’s original Gate Network.”

Fairy Moon started walking.

… Erick decided to start following.

And Erick checked himself, briefly.

