For one thing, Erick was interested in finding out more about Ar’Cosmos. He didn’t think that inquisitiveness had anything to do with whatever controls Fairy Moon had put on him. In fact, most of those controls felt gone. But Erick knew those controls were just dormant.

He knew those controls were mostly dormant because he was still really fucking angry; he was capable of being angry, and capable of having murderous thoughts, like picking up the knife back on the table and driving it into Fairy Moon’s left eye. But if he tried to switch back to his Normal Form, he could not.

… He had a good reason for being angry. It had only been through his own words and demonstrated scope of what he could promise, that he was not currently being ‘Broken’ into yet another Wizard for these dragons to ‘eat’. All the good that he had done before and all the plans he had in place to do more good for everyone, including these dragons, didn’t fucking matter to any one here.

That really pissed him off. The kidnapping and everything else up until now was actually a close second compared to the rage he felt at the injustice of it all. The pure close-mindedness. The inability to see Erick’s history, and his Truth, and still judge him as incapable of helping even those who don’t deserve help at all.

The third thing making him angry was that Fairy Moon was apparently some ‘fae of justice’ or something and she couldn’t see the shit she was doing to him, or perhaps she was willfully ignorant—

Compartmentalize. Stuff that box full. Bury it in the depths of your mind and look to the brighter things in life. He was alive. Ophiel and Yggdrasil were here with him. He was clean and uninjured and had just eaten.

… And he could cycle his mana whenever he wanted. He did that as they walked, and instantly felt bet—

“You’re doing that wrong,” Fairy Moon said, “Continue as you must, but I’ll show you a better method later.”

For a long, terrible moment, Erick felt like he wanted to fall to the stone ground and lay there, pretending to be dead. Fairy Moon could see inside his soul, even when the necklace should have blocked everyone from looking, but of course she could see past it. And now Erick didn’t want to walk anywhere. He didn’t give two shits about history, no matter how much relevance it had on the current day.

He hated how much he wanted to kill Fairy Moon.

But he kept putting one foot in front of the other, and eventually those awful feelings passed into the background.

Down another hallway they went, and then toward a closed door.

Erick said, “I expect recompense for this terrible treatment.”

Fairy Moon stopped in her tracks, but she did not look at Erick.

Erick added, “And also! Before we go on, I need you to tell me why you chose to kidnap me back there. Why do you think that this is somehow ‘justice’? Why did you need to be in control of something that I was already handling without your interference?”

“My goals, then?”

Erick would take that, too. “Your goals. Unvarnished and uncomplicated.”

For a long moment Fairy Moon was quiet, then she said, “It has to do with the pedantry of arguing over one life versus a million deaths in the near future, or a trillion trillion lives in the far future when this universe inevitably allows for another Sundering. Is there a point to try for titanic civilization ever again? Perhaps not. But, perhaps, if we lay the laws down properly and prudently, and if we have the right of it in the beginning… But is that hubris? To think ourselves better than all of everyone else who came before? Better than all those who failed to find their way to Veird, or failed to stop the Sundering? Yes. This is hubris. But also: this is a topic too large to fully embrace in a single hallway’s walk, or to speak even the slightest weight it truly requires on timelines as large as star shifting in the sky.” Fairy Moon breathed, then said, “But that is my true goal. My life, and my Truth.

“I arrive at the answers to the ineffable and impose those findings on the firmament. I conform chaos and order into something more substantial, and less chaotic. I am the friend to the faithful and the lost looking for light, and the foe of all who would forswear the lives of others.

“And you, right now, are plowing heedlessly ahead. You make plans and other people perish to the sides, never to be seen ever again in this life. You think to work with the wrought and they would wring you for all you were worth, and then leave you out on your lonesome, or worse! With a sword across your neck at the dying of the day. And I see your anger against this announcement. You don’t blame yourself for trying better than all those who came before. And I don’t either. But the fact remains:

“You play with powers that you have no standing to side with, while those sides play around you, gaming for trifles of the treasure you will create.

“There were two ways this meeting between you and I could have ever possibly gone,” Fairy Moon said, “Either I would give you to the dragons, and continue my support of those sorry people, persecuted by the one who should have been cast down long ago.

“Or, I help you do this right. We build for eternity, instead of for emergency. Not a Script, but something better.

“Before I knew you as a Wizard I had high hopes for you, Erick, but then I discovered that you were the one thing that could destroy or recreate everything, as he deemed necessary. This was too much power for you, and I truly did think that you would be better off dead, or used to enact some of my own agenda; it would be a reduction of ideas and a recycling of life into what could be salvaged. But you have proven your true character by your actions and your words a thousand times over, and yet again there in that luncheon with Illustrious, you proved your character.

“And so… I have decided to help you.

“For it is as that Inquisitor of Rozeta’s has said: You are to be the firmament upon which the rest of civilization will rest. Maybe you won’t end up like Xoat, who was strewn across all of their Old Cosmology in order to enact that universe. Or maybe you will. Only time will tell.” Fairy Moon added, “All I know is that you need a lot more help, and I must give it to you. Wherever that help leads is up to you and I, and if things seem to be going wrong, and they cannot be salvaged, there will be a salvaging of a different sort, and you will not survive that event.”

Erick had a lot of thoughts about all that. Mostly, he did not like the idea of being a ‘firmament’. He just liked to help people. That didn’t mean he wanted to actually go around being the basis upon which everyone else relied.

But as Fairy Moon’s words sunk in, he realized that she was at least right about one thing: his wishes for a better world would mean a lot of changes, and those changes would cause catastrophe, and that he wasn’t being nearly tough enough on himself.

What he wanted to do was a lot larger than the simple flight of fancy that he had originally intended it to be, when he mouthed off to that Lower Trademaster of Portal, Caradogh Pogi, about cutting their Pearl Kingdom out of all trade by Erick making his own [Gate] network. Now that was him mouthing off, and to the detriment of everyone around him. That was one of the reasons he stopped himself from mouthing off again to Fairy Moon, and her idea of him being the ‘basis upon which all else would come’. Her little warning there at the end barely registered, since she had already said as much before then, but it was good to know her measure, in full.

But everything was way more complicated than Erick had ever planned.

Erick said, “All I ever wanted to do was to help people. I thought I would figure it out, eventually. Go slow. Learn what it meant to open the world to easy travel— It’s not like [Teleport] isn’t right there in the Script for anyone to take. It’s not like I’d be upsetting much, except… Travel in and out and around the Underworld would change dramatically. I didn’t even think about new worlds until everyone started talking like that. I did not think I was doing something this large when I started.”

And now he was here, prisoner of the fae.

Fairy Moon nodded, saying, “I know you don’t appreciate it now —no one ever does— but in fifty years time, if everything should work out, when you’re still out there living the life of an unchained Wizard, and anti-Sundering magic has been on Veird for 49 years, you will look upon what had happened here in Ar’Cosmos as the best possible outcome of all fractured figments. But make no mistake. This will not be easy.”

Erick breathed in, then looked to the door, saying, “I still wish you would have simply asked.”

“We both know that never would have worked.”

“… It might have.”

Fairy Moon ignored Erick’s small words and opened the door to a garden path. The sun shone brightly. The sky was a cloudy blue. The flowers smelled sweet. Beyond the path lay the five-meter high stone wall of Fairy Moon’s compound, along with a gate ten meters tall, and open.

Beyond lay a forest path.

Erick walked beside Fairy Moon, neither of them speaking, for Erick had nothing more to say, and neither did Fairy Moon. So Erick gazed around, taking in the sights.

He noticed something fucky right away, with Fairy Moon’s mansion, rising up behind them. The place had five towers, four of which were about seven stories tall with one that was ten tall, all of them scattered among three main house-like structures, each at least three stories tall. The place was practically an art piece itself, with sculptures of stone people dancing and praying and other sorts of actions, while the architecture was very gothic and solid. But it was not what Erick had seen from the windows when he came down from his room.

Erick tried to mentally chart the path they had taken to get to this point outside the garden walls, but he could not. The tower that was his bedroom had to have been 20 stories tall, and he saw none of that, and his bedroom had been on a corner tower for sure, for his tower had been smaller than the other towers by a lot, but all of the towers he now saw were about the same height.

Non-euclidean geometry? Probably. Made a lot of sense, actually.

It was just one more thing to explore with regard to [Gate], for at this proof, it seemed there truly was such a thing as ‘Fae Space’, like Tasar had named.

And so, they exited Fairy Moon’s place, stepping deeper into the forest—

They were headed away from the city, it seemed. Erick would have thought that their historian would be with all the other people. But… Guess not?
