At some point, Erin slept. At some point, Erin woke up. These were minor details. What mattered was the sound.
Knock. Knock.
She tried hard to ignore it. But it kept going and going, waking her up from her peaceful oblivion.
After a while, the knocking was too much to ignore. Erin opened her eyes and sat up. It was far too bright in the world. And noisy.
Someone was knocking at the front door. The locked front door. Erin thought about going back to sleep, but the knocking hadn’t ceased for the last few minutes. It was the kind of knocking that said the person on the other side knew there was someone to bother, and they would develop the cadence and volume to be annoying if they did this for an hour straight. So, at last, Erin reluctantly got up and opened the door.
She greeted the knocker with the world’s hugest scowl, like she would her mother waking her up early after a late-night study session.
“What do you want?”
Pisces the friendly mage gave her a brilliant smile.
“Greetings, good Mistress. I was wondering if I could impose upon you—”
Erin shut the door. After a few seconds, she opened it.
“Fewer words. Get to the point.”
The [Necromancer] looked haughty—but then caught himself as an audible little growl escaped his stomach. He coughed delicately into one sleeve.
“Um. Very well. Are you open today?”
The [Innkeeper] actually turned around blankly.
“Who?”
“You. This establishment.”
“Here?”
Pisces blinked a few times. He spoke very carefully, pointing at the ground and enunciating each word clearly.
“Is this place open? Do you provide sustenan—food? I pay, I eat?”
Erin finally caught on and glared blearily at him. She thrust the door open further.
“It’s early. Yes, I guess I am open. Come in.”
She stomped inside. After a moment, Pisces followed.
“I would like to peruse your menu if I m—”
Erin’s glower cut him off. She came back with four blue fruits and tossed them on the table. Pisces stared at the fruit and opened his mouth. He looked at Erin’s expression and amended whatever he was going to say.
“If I might trouble you for a knife and fork—”
She slapped them down on the table and walked away. 
“And a plate?”
Erin’s service came with a huge frown. But he did get the plate. She would have liked to go back to sleep, but the sounds of Pisces shifting and the clink of silverware on pottery was too distracting. Instead, she got her own blue fruit and started a fire to warm up her pasta. She munched on the sweet fruit in dour silence.
Outside, it began to rain.
 
——
 
Rain. Rain fell down from the heavens like hail. Well, actually it fell like rain, but these were bigger drops that fell a lot faster and harder than normal. The hammering of rain against the rooftop was nearly deafening.
Nearly. Behind her, Pisces set down his knife and fork and sighed loudly. Erin wished he weren’t here. It wasn’t that she disliked company; she was starved for it. She just wished her company wasn’t him.
“That’s a lot of rain.”
She was talking to herself, but he seemed to take it as an invitation to speak.
“It happens quite often. A natural weather phenomenon, you know.”
Erin turned and glared at Pisces. He raised both eyebrows and held up his cup.
“Another drink if you would. My cup has run dry.”
“Where did you find—stay out of my kitchen.”
“I would be only too happy to. But I fear I was quite parched, and if you would be so good…?”
Erin’s eye twitched. But she went and got a cup for herself as well. She didn’t pour his drink, but rather set the pitcher of juice on the other end of the table so he had to reach for it. She glanced out the window and saw, well, nothing.
Even the darn mountains had been obscured by the kind of rainfall that made you hope your gutters were clear back home. Erin could barely see ten feet into the downpour. She shivered; that kind of onslaught was one thing in her home or indoors, but this inn felt a bit too—fragile. Pisces, for himself, seemed quite glad he was here, not anywhere else. Erin turned to him and gestured outside.
“Does it rain like this a lot?”
He took his time replying, and when he did, his voice was distinctly self-satisfied, lecturing. Almost like a pompous college professor—not that Erin had ever gone to any classes, just been accepted.
“Seldom. It is a seasonal weather pattern to rain like this in the spring. Fall downpours like these are an aberration. Normally, I would not hazard a guess at how long the rain would fall, but someone has been interfering with the weather. So we’ll have a brief storm, that’s all. Hardly anything as memorable as magical rain.”
That statement was loaded. Erin took the bait because she had to.
“Interfering with the weather? How? And what do you mean—magical rain? Like what?”
He smirked at her. She noted with displeasure that he was already on his second cup of blue juice.
“With magic, how else? Some shortsighted fool must have cast a localized weather control spell. Impressive, I suppose, but clumsy in execution. As for magical rain—have you never observed glowing rain in any color? Magical typhoons? Ah…raining toads?”
Erin glanced back at the furious downpour—it did indeed seem to be lessening already.
“Raining toads? Doesn’t that only happen when a tornado picks them up?” 
Pisces hesitated. Erin turned back just in time to see his look of surprise covered by an attempt at banal amusement. He made a show of taking a sip from his cup.
“Ahem. Of course, that is how the phenomenon actually occurs. But the impetus is largely magical…I see you know your way around some natural events. This particular storm will not be raining any creatures, however. It truly was someone simply sending unwanted rain our way. It may be a scandal, although given how the Drake cities squabble—I detected it from the south. Perhaps as far as Pallass.”
Erin had no idea what Pallass was, but other cities of Drakes? She leaned too-casually on the table, now giving Pisces her full attention.
“Wow, that’s far, right? Wouldn’t you have to be a pretty powerful sorcerer to do that?”
“The term is mage, good Mistress.”
“The name is Erin, idiot.”
He smirked, already cocky again.
“Aha. Accept my apologies. But if you are referring to one of my exalted brethren, mage is the best term to use.”
Erin stared at him. He didn’t appear abashed in any way.
“You don’t have wizards or sorcerers or…warlocks? Witches? You’re all just mages?”
Pisces flicked his fingers haughtily, then decided to wipe them on his robes instead.
“I did not say specialization is absent from the magical world. Rather, shall we say that those are titles for mages who meet certain requirements? A [Wizard] is an arcane researcher and true student of the arcane arts. Such individuals are similar to myself, but prefer to study the mainstream branches of magic. [Sorcerers], on the other hand, are quite simplistic and refer to those who use no spellbooks and have little formal education. [Warlocks] obtain their powers from other sources such as summoning, while [Witches] practice alchemy along with specialized schools of magic. Their…very peculiar magic, which is so rooted in folklore. Nevertheless, [Mage] remains the generally accepted title to refer to all those who practice magic as a catchall moniker…”
He trailed off. Erin was staring at him. Pisces gave her a confident smirk. She raised her eyebrows.
“Okay. So you’re saying [Mage] means anyone who uses magic. Next time, just say that.”
His face visibly fell. Pisces moodily stabbed at a piece of blue fruit.
“You asked. I was merely fulfilling my role as a guest.”
“Good. For you. So what, a—mage did this?”
He shrugged.
“Yes. And it’s not as if this is a particularly difficult task. I realize it may look so to the uninitiated, but a spell like this could easily be cast by a level 30 [Mage]. Less, I suppose, if the individual were specialized.”
“So…?”
“As I said, not that impressive. Many mages could cast a spell like this.”
“Can you?”
Pisces paused. He chewed slowly, looking past Erin.
“My specialization lies in other areas.”
“Like dead bodies.”
The young man’s jaw tensed ever-so-slightly. Erin saw his thin frame—and he was thin and hungry, judging by how fast he’d eaten her blue fruits—shift in his chair. Pisces glanced at the door and avoided Erin’s gaze and drained his cup.
“Merely another branch of magic, good Mistress Erin. I note you don’t have the same aversion as a less-informed fool. Let me assure you—”
Erin stared at him. She opened her mouth, but then the door slammed open. Both Erin and Pisces turned as a wet, dark figure sauntered into the inn and threw his arms wide.
“Good morning everyone! Weird Ant behind me, friendly Human, and—oh.”
Relc strode into the inn, beaming, then visibly did a double-take when he saw Pisces. The [Necromancer] jerked in his seat, then froze. Klbkch closed the door and bowed slightly at Erin.
“Please pardon our intrusion. Is this establishment open for business?”
“What? Oh. Yeah.”
Erin scrambled for words. Relc was still staring at Pisces, who studiously ignored him as he refilled his cup. She smiled at Relc, glancing at Pisces.
“Hey, you two! Klb—Klbk? It’s been a while. I guess. But come in. Or come in more. Have a seat. Want something to eat?”
“If you would be so kind. Thank you, Miss Erin. It is Klbkch, but you may refer to me as Senior Guardsman if that is simpler.”
Klbkch wiped his feet and stepped over to a table. Relc was still staring. He frowned at Pisces then jabbed a claw his way before eying Erin suspiciously.
“You multiplied. Can Humans do that?”
“What? Oh no, that’s just Pisces. He’s annoying, so ignore him.”
Erin waved Relc over to a seat as she went to the kitchen for plates. Relc kept staring until Klbkch kicked him and motioned him to a seat.
“I believe staring is considered rude in most cultures. Sit down and cease your rudeness.”
Relc glared and sat, rubbing his leg. Klbkch turned and nodded to Pisces.
“Please excuse my companion’s lack of tact.”
Pisces waved his fork airily, but Erin, poking her head out of the kitchen, realized the young man was no longer smiling. He had pushed his chair back from the table, and he kept glancing her way. It didn’t stop his mouth from running, though.
“I paid no attention. The plebian masses are a burden to be endured; I bear no ill will to the misinformed or ignorant for their rudeness.”
Klbkch and Relc exchanged a glance.
“Indeed. It has been nice to make your acquaintance.”
“Humans. They’re so—”
Erin reemerged from the kitchen, trying to hold a pot of hot noodles and several plates with only two hands. She interrupted the two.
“Do you guys want pasta or blue fruit?”
Relc broke off, coughing.
“Ah. Eh. Um, what I meant was—”
Klbkch raised one hand politely as he kicked Relc subtly again.
“I would be delighted to try the blue fruit. I believe my tongue-tied partner would like some as well.”
“Right. Food. I’ll have some.”
Pisces waved his fork again. 
“And me. A second plate and a refill of my drink, if you would.”
There was something so presumptuous about his tone that Erin scowled. She slowly walked into the kitchen, put the pot back down, and then came out. She jabbed a thumb over her shoulder.
“You want pasta? It’s in the kitchen. Get it yourself.”
Pisces’ outraged sniff at the discrepancy in service was ignored. Turning her back on him, Erin smiled at Relc and Klbkch.
“So, um, hi again. It’s been a while. Klb…Klbkch and…?”
Klbkch nodded while Relc looked expectant.
“Um. Uh…”
“Relc.”
Klbkch murmured softly. Erin beamed desperately.
“Relc! Right, right.”
“What? How come you remembered this idiot’s name and not mine?”
Relc looked aggrieved. Erin blushed.
“Um, sorry.”
The Drake leaned over the table, frowning. He looked bigger today, or perhaps it was being able to contrast him with Pisces. Relc was over six feet tall without the long neck spines that ran from the back of his head like a thin mohawk. He was also, Erin realized, wearing all-leather armor, and today, he’d leaned his spear against the table. 
He even had a shortsword at his side and a dagger and a belt with two glowing bottles and a few pouches.
Belt pouches seemed like a style in this world, because Pisces had them—and so did Klbkch. Although—Erin noticed now—the Antinium had two swords sheathed at his waist. And two daggers.
Wow, they were armed. Was this the level of police in this world? Then again—if that was the case, Erin supposed they were just regularly armed. But it might be why Pisces kept glancing at them. He had no weapons, she noted, just a stick at his side.
Wait, was that a wand? Erin turned and stared at it, but Relc tapped the table, interrupting her train of thought.
“Aren’t I the better-looking one here? What gives?”
Erin turned and gave him an embarrassed smile.
“Sorry. It’s just—uh, you know. I’ve got a bad memory.”
“Really?”
“…No. Sorry. It’s just been a busy two days.”
“Oh.”
He looked deflated. Erin tried to cheer him up.
“Relc! I’ve got the name, now. And I’ve got more pasta. Well, it’s old pasta, but it still tastes good! And more blue juice. And blue fruit! It’s, uh, not poisonous if you only eat the outer bit.”
“Ooh, pasta!”
Relc perked up instantly. Erin went to fetch the pasta and placed two steaming plates in front of the two.
“My thanks.”
Klbkch nodded at Erin, and both began eating. Around mouthfuls, Relc eyed Erin and then Pisces.
“So, how’re you doing? Level up again?”
“Actually, I did. Right after you two left.”
“Ooh, congratulations! Did you get a new skill?”
“[Basic Crafting]. It helped me make a basket out of grass.”
He chuckled knowingly.
“That’s quite useful! Most craftsman and artisan classes get that early on. I guess [Innkeepers] are sorta like that, right? Got to take care of the inn, repair windows, fix tables, and all that.”
“I guess. I haven’t ever tried that, and besides, I don’t have a hammer. Actually, I’ve never swung a hammer in my life.”
“Well, you’ve got the Skill for it, so it’ll be a breeze. And you can buy a hammer no problem. Just head down to the city, and you can get a good one for only a silver coin or two. Tell you what, if you’re ever in the area, I’ll help you get one at a discount.”
“Really? That’s really generous. Thank you.”
Erin smiled hesitatingly at Relc, who grinned back at her as he slurped down a noodle. Klbkch set down his fork and nodded at his companion.
“Not entirely. I do believe my companion would earn a small fee for directing any business to his associates.”
