“You can do that? Like—sensing each other’s power levels? Really? How?”
The Drake’s mouth opened, and he eyed Klbkch, who scratched at his antennae. However, Pisces interrupted with a huge sneer of his own.
“A keen observer would discern his opponent’s weaknesses and strengths and make assumptions based on their actions and ability. These two, on the other hand, are just using a Skill.”
Relc eyed him. So did Klbkch, but it was more subtle. The Drake shrugged, unperturbed.
“Well, he’s right. We do have Skills. They’re part of our classes, although in my case I’ve got [Dangersense]. But I’m also a former soldier. And Klb? He’s the Slayer. We can tell you’re not hot stuff, Human.”
Slayer? Erin glanced at Klbkch, and the Antinium’s mandibles lowered and came together as he stared at Relc. The Drake lifted a claw, wincing apologetically. What did that mean? He hurried on; if anyone reacted, it was Pisces, who turned dead white as he stared up at Klbkch.
“My scales aren’t itching, so your Human friend here isn’t that good at magic. They always itch when I’m in danger. That’s not a Skill, either. But your friend can’t even trigger my [Dangersense]. Not even a little ring.”
Erin held up her hands, hesitating between Pisces and Klbkch. Slayer. Did that mean he slew…?
“He’s not my friend.”
Relc shrugged.
“But he’s Human.”
The Drake said that like it meant everything.
“That’s—”
Erin struggled for a response. Meanwhile, Pisces’ sneer deepened, and he curled his lip, oblivious to the danger.
“Spoken like a truly ignorant fool. What would you know of magical mastery? My powers may not lie in mere confrontation, but I assure you, I have more power in my fingernails than you have in your entire brutish body.”
Relc stepped forwards, fist raised.
“Okay, that’s it. Close your eyes, Miss—”
For one moment, Erin wasn’t sure if she wanted to get between Relc and Pisces or duck out of the way. Klbkch made the decision for her. He grabbed Relc, and pulled him back. Not easily; but there was more strength in those wiry ant arms than Erin would have guessed.
“Relax. I would prefer not to damage this establishment. Nor would the owner or even you, I suspect.”
Relc hesitated. He looked at Erin, who decided to add her support of denial.
“Yeah, let’s calm down before someone gets hurt. Like me.”
Erin grabbed the jug of blue juice and began filling cups. Relc accepted a glass, drained it, and then sipped at the refill.
Erin went to fill Pisces’ glass, but he shielded it with one hand.
“No—no need, good Mistress Solstice. I am quite satisfied at the moment.”
Relc was still glaring daggers at Pisces.
“Peh. You should drink. It’ll be the last tasty thing you eat for a long time. Actually, what am I saying? This stuff’s way too good for you. Just remember what you’re missing when we lock you away.”
“If you can.”
Erin eyed Pisces. He was still sneering, and she wasn’t sure why. If she was any guess, Relc was two seconds away from turning his face into raw beef.
Relc scowled. He closed his hand, and Erin watched his entire arm ripple. She’d seen ripped guys before, of course, which wasn’t that impressive, but this—
“Last I checked, you were within arm’s reach. That means your fancy spells aren’t going to do a thing before I hit you hard enough to make your brains pop out. Trust me. I’ve done it before.”
Again, Pisces didn’t seem affected by Relc’s threat. At least visibly.
“I am a powerful [Mage] far beyond your capabilities. Even if your paltry Skills cannot detect my—capabilities—you would do well to be wary of my hidden…capabilities.”
He seemed to have forgotten synonyms for ‘capability’, like potential, talent, ability, and so on. Erin had the unfortunate desire to laugh. But Klbkch didn’t twitch.
The Antinium moved his head slightly. His expression didn’t change, but then, there wasn’t much to change. He lowered one of his four hands to his side, and Erin saw the hand rest casually on the pommel of his dagger. More sweat beaded on Erin’s lower back.
“Such as?”
Pisces drew himself up in his chair slightly.
“I have studied countless schools of magic. You see before you a practitioner of the elements, a weaver of illusions, a refined chanter, a master of alchemy, pyromancy, aeromancy, geomancy—”
“And necromancy.”
Erin helpfully chimed in. Pisces choked on his next words. He glared at her. She shrugged.
“What? You told me yesterday. Oh, and were you the one who stole the skeleton upstairs? I just realized that was probably you.”
Pisces lost his sneer and now looked uneasy. Relc, on the other hand, grinned again.
“Well, well. Theft of a corpse and reanimation, no doubt. That’s another big mark on the list of charges. But necromancy, well, that also means we don’t have to bring you back alive anymore.”
Erin opened her mouth, and Relc waved a hand. He looked exasperated as he glanced her way.
“Yes, yes. But we’ll just hit you and drag you back so Miss Erin doesn’t see anything nasty. But you’re in serious trouble now, Mister [Necromancer].”
“Oh, really?”
Pisces sat back in his chair. He was still pale, but he looked far more confident than he had any right to be.
“Regardless if you know my identity or not, I still believe you will find capturing me no easy task.”
Relc blinked. He scratched the spines on his head and then shook his head gently.
“Humans. You’re so arrogant and crazy. It’s almost funny. If you’re so full of powerful magic, dodge this.”
He swung his spear forward, the butt of the spear first. Erin shouted and tried to grab the spear, too slowly. But where the spear should have cracked Pisces over the head, Relc’s swing met nothing but air. Pisces was suddenly gone.
“What the—”
Relc blinked. Erin gaped. Klbkch instantly swung his swords in an arc, slashing the air around the chair. But he touched nothing.
“Gone.”
Relc swiped the air where Pisces had been with his spear and growled deep in his throat. Erin stared.
“He’s not invisible? He did that once.”
Relc shook his head angrily. 
“No. I’d be able to sense if he were within a few feet of me. This was an illusion spell. A damn clever one, too. He pretended he was here and walked off while we were busy chatting. Most idiot spellcasters aren’t that stealthy or…when did he creep off? Klb, it was when you let go of him! I didn’t even see the chair move—damn, the chair’s an illusion too! Normally I can hear idiots skulking around even on the battlefield! This bastard tricked me! Me!”
He kicked a foot of the chair, and Erin gasped as the chair vanished and reappeared, further back. Klbkch looked to the door.
“I am unsure of when he left. He may have escaped only a few minutes ago. We may still catch him if we hurry.”
“Right, right.”
Relc cursed and swung his spear angrily. It made a terrific whooshing sound as it cut the air. Erin held her breath, afraid he’d let go and accidently cut her.
Klbkch turned and bowed his head to her.
“Thank you for informing us of his class, Mistress Erin. Although he posed no threat to either Relc or I, he is far more dangerous than we had believed. I did not notice the illusion spell. I have grown inattentive, lax. Relc as well, but this is a critical failing on my part.”
The Drake glared as Erin hesitated, looking at where Pisces had been sitting.
“Really? I thought—he didn’t seem dangerous. I mean, I hit him with a pot, and that knocked him out.”
“Oh, he’s probably as dangerous as a frog in a fight. That’s not the problem.”
Relc shook his head.
“We thought he was just an illusionist. That’s annoying, but really all he can do is scare folks into giving him things. But a necromancer’s worse. Far worse. We could let him go if he was just a normal [Mage], but we’ve got to find him now, and he knows it.”
“Why?”
Relc muttered to himself. He was still looking around, and his tongue was flicking out of his mouth, as if tasting the air. It was the first time he’d really reminded Erin of a lizard from her world.
“A rogue [Necromancer] on the loose does nasty things. Even a low-level one can bring down villages if you give him enough dead bodies, and they level fast when that happens. Damn, I’m not going to be the one who let the next Az’kerash get away, Klb. We’re gonna have to hunt this guy down. If we can’t catch him today, I’ll have the Captain send out multiple patrols once we get back to the city. Erin, we have to go, but I think you’re safe if that guy didn’t do anything last time.”
Erin nodded. Then she hesitated.
“So. Does…that mean you’ll be back soon?”
Relc nodded.
“Less than an hour, but we won’t be able to stay. Sorry. I’ll try to get the patrol out faster, but you know how it is. We’ve got to shift around guardsmen on patrol, set trackers, get armed up, etc.”
“Oh. Okay. But, uh, does that mean—how long does it take to get back?”
“We should be able to cover the distance in approximately ten minutes if we run.”
Relc nodded in agreement.
“So we’ve gotta go. Why? Are you worried he’ll attack you?”
“No, not that. It’s just—the city.”
“The city? What about it?”
“Um, where is it? Is it that teensy little wall of stone in the distance?”
Relc and Klbkch stared at her silently and then exchanged a glance.
“…You mean, you don’t know? By the way, things look smaller in the distance, Miss Solstice.”
“I know that! I just don’t know what I’m seeing! Should I? It’s not like there’s a sign or anything around here. And I can’t see it at all times.”
Relc looked amused.
“Don’t be snippy. But it’s easy to spot. Look, you can even see it out the window here.”
He walked over to a window and pointed. Erin squinted. Now that he mentioned it, the viewpoint here did let her pick out that same landmark. It was just that she needed to look hard to spot the edge rising over a hill.
“…Is it that grey stuff there?”
“Well, yeah. Isn’t it obvious?”
“No, it’s really not. It could be a rock. A square rock.”
“It’s not a rock. Why are you having a hard time believing me? Can’t you see the buildings?”
“No, I can’t.”
“I do not believe she can, in point of fact.”
Relc and Erin turned to look at Klbkch. He studied her and then brought his face close to hers. Erin flinched as he did.
“Do not be alarmed. I mean you no harm.”
“Sorry—sorry. It’s just the pincers. And the eyes. It’s just—sorry.”
Relc laughed.
“Don’t mind Klbkch. He’s ugly even for an ant. But you really can’t see the city from here?”
Klbkch nodded. He seemed focused on Erin’s own eyes.
“I believe Humans have more limited eyesight than you or I.”
“What? That’s stupid.”
Relc huffed to himself. He pointed out the window at the black dot.
“Look, the city’s that way. It’s only a twenty-minute walk, and there aren’t many monsters along the way. Besides, once you get within a few miles, the area is regularly patrolled, so you won’t have any problems. And if those idiots at the gate stop you—which they won’t—just tell them you know me.”
Klbkch nodded.
“Or me. However, you should encounter no problems. Only those with past records of crime are unwelcome in Liscor.”
“And speaking of which…we’ve gotta go. It’s my day off, but we’ll report that annoying Human maggot-mage back at the barracks. If we move fast, we might get him before he runs too far.”
Relc was on his feet. He moved so quickly that Erin was left gaping. One second he was sitting down, the next he was at the door.
“Hey, Klbkch, coming?”
And then Klbkch was there too. If Erin hadn’t seen the black blur that swept past her and felt the rush of air, she would have sworn he’d teleported.
“Indeed. It is unfortunate we must leave so soon. Our apologies, Miss Solstice.”
“No—no problem.”
“Well then.”
Klbkch nodded to her. Relc waved and was out the door in a flash. Erin was left sitting with a table full of dirty plates and a state of mild shock.
She had just picked up the first plate when the door slammed back open. She jumped, but Relc waved at her.
“Oh, sorry we forgot to pay. We’re in a hurry so—put it on our tab!”
The door closed. Erin stared at it hopefully, but it didn’t open again.
“…What tab?”
