Relc glared at Klbkch. He tried to kick him, but the Antinium had scooted his chair back too far. They were both sitting fairly wide of the table, Erin realized. Oddly so.
“Shut up. Do you have to ruin everything I say?”
“I am merely pointing out the truth.”
“Well…stop it.”
Erin had to smile as the two began bickering. However, she was the only one amused. Across the inn, Pisces drained his mug and plonked it down on the table.
“If we’re done with the lovely chatting, my glass is empty. Isn’t attending to one’s customers part of my service?”
Erin glared. Relc glared too. Klbkch—well, she still couldn’t read the ant man’s expression, but he definitely gave off a silent air of disapproval.
“Nice customer you’ve got here.”
“Yeah. Hey—shut up!”
Pisces raised his brows.
“How discourteous. I believe I shall bring my business elsewhere next time.”
“I don’t want it anyways. Besides, you tried to rob me last time. You’re here on sufferance because I feel bad for you.”
He sighed and rolled his eyes heavenward. Erin sniffed and debated whether she should refill his glass anyways, but felt a sharp poke in her side. She screamed and jumped.
“Sorry.”
“Don’t—don’t do that!”
Erin rubbed at where Relc’s claw had poked her. He looked startled at her reaction and actually apologetic.
“Sorry. Again. But…you said rob? As in, that guy over there tried to rob you?”
Relc’s voice was a low hissing whisper as he glanced over at Pisces. He needn’t have bothered, though. Pisces was still engrossed in his cup. Erin grinned maliciously and whispered back.
“Yeah. Last night, I was visited by a scary monster. But when I hit it with a pa—pot, it turned out just to be him. So I got him to pay up for scaring me. That covers all the food he ate, I guess.”
“The fee was extorted under duress.”
“Shut up! You’re lucky I didn’t just toss you in the stream and let the fish eat you!”
Klbkch and Relc exchanged a glance. Relc gave the Antinium a slow nod, and Klbkch returned it. Relc turned a goggle-eyed gaze back to Erin.
“And…you let him come back for breakfast?”
“Well, it’s not like he’s dangerous. Just annoying.”
“And you didn’t think to report him to anyone?”
“Like who?”
Erin stared blankly at Relc. He stared at her. Klbkch finished his plate of noodles and set down his fork. Then he stared at Erin too. She looked at the [Guardsmen] and slapped her forehead.
“Oh. Oh. I forgot. And besides, you weren’t here yesterday.”
Klbkch nodded.
“Very true. Our absence was most lamentable. But allow us to perform our duty now. Incidentally, Mistress Solstice, the pasta was delicious.”
“Yeah, it’s great! Hold on.”
Relc grabbed the fork and started shoveling the pasta in his mouth. He was able to cram nearly half the plate down his throat in one huge gulp and munched down the rest in seconds. Erin stared with fascinated horror and a tiny bit of envy as he gobbled.
That done, Relc exchanged a glance with Klbkch. Then he turned to Pisces.
“Hey, you!”
Pisces looked up with a scowl. He glared at Relc and made an irritable harrumph.
“Do you want something? I don’t do magic upon request. If you seek a certain spell, I would be happy to discuss my remunerations…later.”
“Really?”
Relc grinned in his seat. He shifted, exposing one huge bicep, as he moved his right arm towards his spear. Erin felt a prickle run down her spine. Wait. What was…was what she thought about to happen? No way. No—
“How about you do the magic spell where you turn into a monster? I’d love to see that. Or better yet, do you have a spell to get out of trouble? Because you’re going to need one now.”
Pisces’ face went blank. His eyes flicked to Erin and then back to Relc and Klbkch. Erin saw his jaw tense, and then he smiled at her. A glassy, empty smile. She felt a pang in her chest, and she didn’t know why. Only that the slightly supercilious look in his gaze had turned to something blankly hostile. No…resigned? As if he had expected…
The young man made a show of standing up, dusting off his robes.
“Ah. I see the good [Innkeeper] holds a grudge. Well, I’m not sure what she told you two, but I assure you, I have compensated her more than adequately for my…mistake. It’s nothing two soldiers need concern themselves with.”
“Oh, but it is, it is! And you’re wrong, by the way.”
“About what?”
Relc exchanged a glance with Klbkch. He grinned. Or rather, his mouth opened and he showed Pisces his teeth.
“We’re no soldiers. We’re [Guardsmen]. And we’ve been looking for the bastard who’s been robbing homes with illusion spells.”
“Ah.”
For a second, Pisces was very still. Then, with a surprising burst of speed, he sprinted for the door. Erin saw his legs move—then he flickered forwards.
It was like he teleported! One second he was there, the next, five feet away, lunging for the doorknob! But he stumbled, nearly falling over himself, arms flailing. He would have still gotten out except for how fast the two [Guards] reacted.
Relc kicked himself back from the table as his right arm snatched the spear. That was why he had been sitting so far back—he whirled the spear up and threw it in one motion. Erin was only aware of a blur of movement and the whoosh of air past her face. She screamed, and his spear blew past her ear, but it didn’t strike Pisces. The spear flew between his legs as he tried to grab the doorknob and tripped him up. He sprawled to the ground as Relc pushed his chair back. 
Klbkch was already on his feet. Like Relc, he’d given himself plenty of space. He didn’t draw his swords, just strode over to Pisces and put one arm in a lock. Another of Klbkch’s arms held Pisces’ head down.
“Do not move. You are under arrest for intimidation and attempted theft. Remain still. Any sudden moves will result in bodily harm.”
With one arm, Klbkch dragged Pisces up. The mage didn’t struggle as Klbkch deposited him back in his chair. Relc grinned at Erin as he picked up his spear. Pisces was panting, looking from Klbkch to Relc with clear unease.
“Good throw, huh?”
She tried to answer and croaked.
“Y-yeah.”
Relc’s eyes widened slightly.
“Oops. Sorry, did I scare you? I forgot normal people aren’t used to that. Don’t worry—I never miss when I throw.”
Erin kept looking at Pisces. His eyes darted around the room, but Klbkch was standing right over him. She nodded slowly—what were they going to do with…?
“I’m sure. I’m sure. And I’m not scared. Just—surprised.”
“Good, good.”
Relc patted Erin gently on the back. She nearly fell out of her chair but caught herself on the table. He didn’t notice. Relc sauntered over to Pisces and grinned down at him.
“Gotcha. Tried to run from me, did you? No one ever gets away.”
He looked over at his companion.
“Klbkch, got anything to tie him up with?”
Klbkch shook his head.
“Alas, I did not anticipate an arrest, and my gear is signed out at the barracks. I am without manacles or spell-bind rope. We shall have to be attentive with its lack. Unless Miss Solstice has anything to bind him with?”
Klbkch looked at Erin. She spread her hands. So there was a prison? In the city she’d never been to?
“Uh, no. No, sorry.”
“A pity. But we shall do without.”
“Indeed you will. This is an affront!”
Pisces tried to push Klbkch away. His face was pale and sweaty, but he still maintained his haughty tone, if slightly strained.
“I am completely innocent—utterly so. These baseless accusations are false and—”
“You are lying.”
Klbkch said it flatly and without a hint of doubt.
“[Detect Guilt] is a basic Skill most [Guardsmen] get. I can sense your guilt, which is enough for me to justify this arrest.”
“Plus, we already know all about you and your crimes.”
Relc folded his arms and grinned even wider. His teeth were yellow, and very, very sharp.
“We’ve been looking for you, Mister Mage. Or should I say, the scary creature that threatens travellers and people living by themselves? You’ve been stealing food and money for nearly a month. There’s even a bounty on your head, which I’d love to collect.”
Erin stared at Pisces, who’d turned a paler shade of white, but Relc wasn’t done.
“Okay. Here’s what I’m thinking. Me and my friend here will drag you out back, beat you with sticks or rocks for a while, and then drag you back to the city for a reward. Then we’ll give half to our lovely innkeeper here. Sound good?”
Pisces’ smile was strained by now, and he shifted, but Klbkch was leaning on his shoulder, pressing him down in his seat. 
“Actually, I would prefer—”
“Too bad!”
Relc cracked his knuckles. Erin, who had been staring in fascination and horror, raised a hand.
“Um. Isn’t that wrong?”
“Wrong? Why would it be wrong?”
Erin searched for words as Relc stared at her blankly.
“Aren’t there rules? Like, rules against police—guardsmen hurting people once they’re caught? Like…like no beating someone once they’re on the ground?”
Relc stared at her. He turned to Klbkch.
“Do we have rules like that?”
Klbkch let go of Pisces to scratch at his head. He stepped back, but kept one hand on the hilt of his swords as he talked, keeping Pisces well within range.
“I believe that may be a Human standard.”
“Oh, good. I got worried there for a second.”
“Yes, we wouldn’t want to ruin the enjoyment of mindless thugs like yourself.”
Pisces sneered at Relc. He seemed incapable of keeping his mouth shut even when it was for his own good. Relc made a fist, and he flinched. 
“Hold on, hold on. We don’t need to beat up Pisces. Like I said, he only tried to rob me. And I already hit him with a pot. What’s this about beating him up?”
Erin grabbed Relc’s arm. It was instinctive, but once she touched his scales, she nearly jumped away. His skin, or rather, scales, were surprisingly cool and easy to grip. But it felt so alien to Erin that she was quite unnerved. It made everything seem frighteningly real.
Relc glanced at Erin and peeled her off gently. He was so strong that he broke her grip effortlessly with just two of his fingers.
“Don’t worry, miss. We’ll do the punching outside where you don’t have to see.”
“Or—or you could not. Isn’t that what nice guardsmen do? You could just arrest him and skip the punching, right?”
The Drake nodded with a blank, uncomprehending, cheerful look on his face.
“Yeah, but he called me a common thug. I want to punch him for that.”
“Well—he’s a jerk. But I mean, you’re a guardsman. Insults like that are ten a penny.”
“Ten a what?”
“I believe she is saying insults to our position are quite common.”
Klbkch clarified. He looked at Erin, who shrugged awkwardly and gave him a sheepish smile.
“What?”
Relc seemed slightly hurt. He looked at Erin with his eyes narrowed slightly. But rather than angry, that somehow made his face look sad.
“No one insults me regularly. Except Watch Captain Z and Klb, come to think of it. People like me. Everyone likes us. We’ve got a special job.”
“But one you sign up for, right? I mean, sure, it’s a great job, but—it’s just a job, right?”
Erin faltered. Relc was staring at her in disbelief. His tone rose in indignation.
“It’s not just a job. It’s a highly prestigious job! Not just anyone can be part of the city guard, let alone a Senior Guard.”
Erin blinked.
“Really? I thought you just…signed up.”
Relc scoffed. He turned to Klbkch.
“Signed up? Can you believe this? Humans.”
Klbkch was unimpressed. He carefully munched piece after piece of blue fruit.
“Perhaps if you explained our function more properly there would be no need for outrage. Clearly, the nature of guardspeople differs culturally. I thought Humans did it quite similarly in the north, but…elaborate, Relc.”
“Right, well. It’s still not—okay.”
Erin crossed her arms. Pisces sneered and took another swallow of juice from the table. He began mumbling to himself, but Erin, Relc, and Klbkch ignored him.
Relc sighed. He scratched the spines at the top of his head.
“Look, I’m not sure what Humans do, but in our city, the city watch isn’t like mercenaries or personal bodyguards. We don’t just sign up. We have to be voted in.”
“Really?”
“Really. See, we’ve gotta get at least fifty ordinary citizens to vouch for us before we’re sworn in. And to become Senior Guardsmen like us, you’ve got to get at least four hundred. Impressive, right?”
Relc grinned and pulled something out of the belt at his waist. He showed Erin a crimson badge edged with gold and striped twice with purple. It was shiny. It had the logo of a city, well, a stylized city, over…Erin squinted. Was that water? Little wavy lines. It was quite beautiful, and she had to guess it was costly.
“Nice. So that’s your official badge?”
The Drake polished it on his front as he placed it back in his belt pouch.
“Yeah. We’ve got to keep it on us at all times. Some guys wear it on their chests, but it can get ripped off. Besides…”
He tapped his scaly arm.
“Doesn’t stick so well on scales. Anyways, we’ve gotta pay a fine if we lose it, so why risk it, right? I only need it when I want to prove who I am or pull rank, anyways.”
“Fascinating. But it’s still the elevated status of a common enforcer when all is said and done, isn’t it?”
Pisces sneered at Relc. He seemed full of confidence all of a sudden. Relc glared, making another fist the size of a brick.
“You’re still under arrest. I can hit you. It’s only because I’m being considerate of Miss Solstice here that I don’t. But I will. If you don’t shut up.”
Eyebrows raised, Pisces drew a finger across his lips.
“Pardon me. I would not dare to interrupt such august personages such as yourself. Please, proceed.”
Erin sighed, and Klbkch made a sound that sounded quite similar. Relc, on the other hand, just scratched his head.
“Right. Good. Anyways, we’re the ones with weapons, and you’re just a [Mage]. Not a high-level one either or you’d be teleporting away.”
Klbkch nodded.
“Or destroying us in a number of ways. The lack of lightning falling from the sky or [Fireballs] confirms this.”
Erin, suddenly quite nervous, edged behind a table. Her wooden table and the wooden inn.
“You sure about that? Really sure, I mean?”
Relc grinned at her. It was a grin with entirely too many teeth.
“Don’t worry, Miss. He’s no threat or we’d have taken him out when we first realized who he was. He looked more dangerous than he turned out to be. You see, both of us can tell if we’re in danger or the enemy is strong. This idiot couldn’t even use [Flash Step] properly!”
The [Necromancer] turned beet red, but Erin was fascinated.
