Merrick nodded. “I thought if I could earn enough to leave the village, at least he wouldn’t be exposed to so much ichor on a daily basis.” His eyes darted briefly over to the demon’s bandages. “I’m sure you’re well aware, but there’s no cure for ichor-poisoning. My wife passed away during childbirth. He was all I had left. I thought, the very least I could do was let him live comfortably before…” his voice trailed, but the implication was clear. The man shook his head.

“Looking back, I wonder if that was the right choice. I spent so much time working that I could’ve spent with him instead. I used money as an excuse, but in truth, I think a part of me was too cowardly to face him.” A small, bitter smile spread across his face. “He wanted to be a knight, you know. He always begged to come along during leveling trips, but I never let him. I just left him alone while I worked. I wouldn’t be surprised if he hated me by the end.”

Pyre waited for some instinctive response, maybe an old memory that knew what to say, but there was nothing but the same vast hollowness that had been there since she’d woken up in this world. She felt a twinge of something resembling dissatisfaction rise at it, the same way it had when she’d stepped into Winrow the first time, when she’d watched Callan lay eyes on his dead body, even when she’d seen those flashes of Tivona’s memories. Subtle, fleeting, and out of reach.

Before the demon could process what that meant, a tremor in the earth alerted her to movement. She turned and saw Declan standing a little ways away watching them, the spears gone. He shifted uncomfortably as both eyes landed on him.

“Uh, they’re locking the armory soon. I asked them to keep it open long enough for us to put the bows back, so we should—we should probably hurry,” he muttered.

Merrick nodded and went to retrieve the arrows that had hit the targets, effectively ending the conversation.

Soon the trio made their way over to the armory to put the bows back, watched closely by an annoyed-looking guard the whole time, then began walking towards the barracks. The whole time, no one said a word. The sky had turned inky black above them.

It wasn’t until they’d almost reached their destination that Declan suddenly spoke.

“When the war started,” he blurted out, “and my parents were deployed, sometimes I’d miss them so much I didn’t know what to do with myself. I even got mad at them a few times. Blamed them for not being around.” His eyes shifted hesitantly over to Merrick, who had gone quiet.

“But,” he continued, “even when I was mad, deep down I still knew they cared about me. I’d never—I never resented them or anything like that. Not really. I know why they couldn’t come home.” He swallowed and shifted his weight. “So, uh, yeah.”

A new silence stretched out between the group. Declan seemed to be seriously regretting talking when a small smile spread across Merrick’s face.

“Thank you,” he said. Declan ducked his head sheepishly. Neither said anything more.

Pyre watched the interaction in silence. They continued the rest of the way to the barracks, the cool night wind whistling around them. Declan and Merrick both seemed more relaxed now, some invisible weight lifted from their shoulders, and Pyre felt that nagging sensation rise again.

The demon shook her head and kept walking. There was no point in thinking too hard on something she had no answers for. For now, she’d focus on getting into the manor and finding the horn.

She was already so close.
