The sheer emotion in those three words sends me collapsing to my knees, shaking like somebody caught in a blizzard naked. Every instinct told me to stay quiet, but my curiosity got the better of me. "You look surprisingly alive for somebody dead," I struggle to say.

The heavy atmosphere vanishes as if it didn’t exist in the first place, and I'm again free to climb to my feet. "Please, we both know I'm only a fragment," the avatar's voice whispers in my ear. "A fragment left behind in the statue you touched, channeled through the bracelet you now wear," he explains freely.

“And your name?” I can’t help but ask.

The hooded figure doesn't have a face, but it feels like he's smiling at me. "I was known as Zelous, God of the System.”

My soul under my feet trembles at the name, but I ignore the shaking as a million questions spring to mind. I had always wondered who created the system we all use, but I figured it was a combination of all the gods, not just the work of one of them.

"You created the system?" I repeat in wonder. “I thought gods embody aspects of nature?”

My question earns me another chuckle from the avatar hovering in front of me. “Met a few of my siblings, have you? Aren't you special? True, each of us gains power through governing the laws of this world, but that only concerns the aspects we choose to represent. While my siblings selected to embody the fundamental elements of life and death, I elected to be different. While they were crafting this world at the dawn of time, I sacrificed part of myself to view other worlds and realities, expanding my knowledge of what is and what could be.”

I was trembling with excitement; this was the knowledge I desperately craved from Ebeon and Ilia, which they refused to give me. I hung on every word of Zelous, committing everything he said to memory. There had to be a reason he was telling me all this. I had a million and one questions brewing in my mind, but I wasn't going to interrupt while he freely gave out important information.

“By the time I stopped scanning the expanse, my siblings had already finished crafting this world and filling it with life," he continues. "They drew more power from the mortals they helped to create, and in doing so, it made them exponentially stronger than I, who chose knowledge over power. I needed to embody an aspect, but all the major ones were taken. I could’ve fought to seize partial control, but that would’ve meant my death at the time.”

"I asked my siblings for help, but they mocked me for looking outside our reality when I should've been looking in. But their mockery quickly turned to jealousy after I made the system," I could hear the mad delight in Zelous' voice.

"You see, my siblings created the world and reaped its benefits, but they cared little for the mortals who inhabited it, treating them as sources of power rather than anything else. So, when I used my knowledge to create the system to bolster them, they started worshiping me over them."

"And unlike my siblings, who needed to wait for specific conditions to be met to gain more energy from the mortals, my system provided me a constant source of divinity," Zelous brags. "Over tens of thousands of years, I grew in power to rival all my siblings. And then, once I was about to eclipse them, they begged me to include them in the system.”

“Of course, I accepted, but with the stipulation that each needed to bind a part of themselves to it; that way, once they did, they could never dismantle my masterpiece.”

"Even now, with me gone, my system remains," Zelous cackles like a B-rank villain, and I question if everything he's saying is true. He sounded more than a little unhinged, but that could be because he was only a fragment.

“Why are you telling me all this?” I swallow a nervous lump in my throat.

“Why indeed,” the avatar replies cryptically. “Maybe I want someone to know my legacy. On the other hand, maybe it's because you have two of my skills,” Zelous points down at the surface of my soul, and I feel both Soul Devourer and Experience Transfer react to the gesture. “I created those skills so mortals could challenge the gods; remember that."

"What?" I'm about to demand he explain further, but before I can get the words out, the sky above my soul shatters, and two of the moons overhead turn into giant eyes.

"It seems I was finally noticed," Zelous's avatar looks unflinchingly up at the eyes.

Before I can do anything, Ebeon and Ilia's avatars materialize between Zelous and me as if to shield me from him. Then, with a casual wave from Ebeon's avatar, my consciousness is flung backward away from the god of the system.

"Sisters, what took you so long?" The smaller avatar taunts the two larger ones.

“How are you here?” The light coming off Ilia is so blinding that it feels like I'm looking at the sun even with my eyes closed.

I'm about to call out in pain when suddenly, the light is blocked. Tentatively opening my eyes, I spot Ebeon’s avatar before me, her darkness shielding me from her sister's light.

“It’s not him, Sister,” Ebeon’s avatar places a placating hand on her sister’s shoulder.

“I know that!” Ilia snaps, continuing to rage to the amusement of Zelous' fragment.

"That's right, dear sister. I am but a whisper left behind in the dark, hidden by the system until someone worthy should come along," Zelous's avatar looks past his fellow gods at me. “Remember, traveler from another world,” Zelous’s hooded, featureless face pierces through my entire being like a knife. "Never stop. Never settle. Climb higher until my siblings fear you. Avenge me. Become my champ—"

Before Zelous can finish his sentence, Ebeon and Ilia wave their hands together, and Zelous' fading avatar explodes into countless motes of grey light.

I barely have time to process the countless specks of light impacting the surface of my soul before Ilia turns toward me as her anger shifts targets. “Why didn’t you call for us!?” Ilia’s avatar moves toward me, and my soul trembles with each step.

“I, I, I,” I can’t stop stammering under the sheer amount of animosity directed at me.

“It isn’t her fault, Sister,” to my relief, Ebeon shields me from her wrath. “He was hidden from our sight; not even our fragments sensed him until his power started to wane.”

"Yeah, but—" Ilia starts, but Ebeon cuts her off.

“Sister, do you truly believe a mortal could’ve done anything in front of our brother? Fragment or not, he is a god; she is but a mortal."

The blinding light radiating from Ilia's avatar started to dim, but that didn't mean I was in the clear yet.

"Still, she knows too much now," Ilia does not attempt to hide her hostility towards me. "You heard our brother; she could be dangerous for us in the future.”

Ebeon doesn’t immediately refute her sister, which scares me, but it's the fact that I found myself unable to speak in my defence that scares me more. I was utterly at the goddess's mercy.

Finally, Ebeon sighs, which is weird, considering her avatar doesn't have a mouth. “My sister has a point,” Ebeon admits, causing me to flinch back in shock. “However, knowledge does not warrant execution. And due to the limits we all agreed upon, we can’t dish out punishment unwarranted.”

“I haven’t done anything," I somehow manage to speak.

“You have not,” Ebeon confirms. “You are rightfully confused; you have heard only half of a story. I shall tell you the other."

“Sister, you can’t,” Ilia exclaims.

Ebeon ignores her sister's protests and focuses on me. “What our brother said was partially true. We were jealous of his power and sought to take part of it as our own to maintain the balance between us, but that is not why we destroyed Zelous.”

“Yes, he advocated for mortals to grow stronger, but it wasn't completely out of the goodness of his own heart. We didn't realize until after we had all sacrificed a portion of our power and bound ourselves to improve his system that he gained small amounts of power through everything the system did. With every skill a mortal earned or leveled, each kill, and each item crafted, Zelous gained more power. And as his power grew, so did his desire for more."

"He devised new unfair skills to take advantage of his system and gave them to his most loyal followers. They, in turn, became monsters only interested in gathering more strength for themselves and, by extension, him. As a result, his people conquered and slaughtered anyone who stood against them, all in his name,” Ebeon explains in a sorrowful voice. “It took all of us empowering our own followers to combat Zelous’ forces.”

“The great war thousands of years ago,” I mumble in realization.

“The very same,” Ebeon confirms.

“The crater we found, the city that used to stand there?" I ask.

“Once one of the grandest cities devoted to Zelous,” Ebeon tells me. “One of the last to fall. It was only thanks to our other sister Sepia’s champion, sacrificing everything, that, in the end, it was destroyed. But apparently, it wasn't enough. How many other fragments of our brother are still out there?” Ebeon muses out loud to herself.

“And I’m going to be punished for having his skills?” I nervously ask.

Ebeon doesn't say a word for a painfully long time, and when she does, it isn't necessarily good news. "It all depends on you," she warns me. “Our brother’s skills are the quickest way to gain power, but….”

"But they come at a cost," I finish for her, seeing where she’s going with this.

“Exactly," I swear I could feel Ebeon's avatar smiling at me, though it felt gentler than when her brother did it. "You have shown great resolve in using our brother's skills where many would succumb to their temptation. If we could’ve, we would’ve sealed all his skills away, but even with him gone, we six cannot change the system he designed. It is up to you how you use the skills you’ve earned. For good,” Ebeon holds up one hand. “Or for evil,” she raises the other. “It’s all up to you.”

“No pressure,” Ilia’s avatar growls nastily off to the side.

Ebeon nods. "It's time you return to the real world," she says as I'm about to ask more questions. All she had to do was flick her hand, and I felt myself being flung back to reality.

“But what about the bracelet?” I shout as everything becomes fuzzy again.

“It is the same as your skills,” Ebeon’s voice echoes in my head. “Use it, or let it use you. Make good choices; we'll be watching— All of us." It's hard not to notice the thinly veiled threat in that statement.

I'm left wondering what choices I'll be forced to make in the future as I open my eyes back in the real world. But this time, I didn't get an answer from Ebeon, and maybe that was a good thing because I had a lot to think about. But I'll have to be quick about it because even though I got a fantastic history lesson, nothing I learned was going to help us against the lesser dragon.

Knowledge is power, but this wasn't the kind of power we needed. At least for now, I learned the bracelet isn't dangerous, but that just meant I could focus on other things without worrying.

Gods or no gods, it was time I started the final preparations to face the lesser dragon. Everything was going to come down to what I can accomplish in the next few days.

No pressure.
