Viv spent the next few days practicing for the examination in the morning and colorless magic in the afternoon. She knew the material reasonably well by now, in part due to her training with Varska and in part thanks to her hard work since then. Sidjin helped even more by giving her tips, especially on the written part of the exam. It was the difference between having the materials and being helped by a tutor who had passed themselves and knew all the tricks.

“The written part matters less for instinctive casters. Essentially, some mage classes have prerequisites that can be cleared by having a high-enough grade in the entrance examination. I suspect they will be of limited use to you. We can discuss this further after we have arrived… if you still want to stay with me, of course.”

He would sometimes give her a way out of their budding relationship. When that happened, she would try to hug him, which always made him squirm until he relented.

“Of course I’ll keep you around, you are too irresponsible to be left out on the streets.”

“Thank you, and… thank you.”

Sidjin’s warmth comforted Viv. He smelled pretty good as well, which was always nice.

The last stop before Helock was the city-state of Talyris, on the northern shores. It was the first major northern city they came across, and the difference with Enoria was quite telling. The northerners favored cubic architecture and brightly painted walls. The street food Viv bought was spicy and fresh. Sidjin bought roasted hearts and gizzards of small creatures served with slices of palate-cleansing vegetables. No one bothered them, no one petitioned them. They were just a couple out in the street, some local gentleman and his exotic wife or something. By Sidjin’s own request, they didn’t attempt to regrow anything this time. He needed to help her perfect the spell first.

“The issue I’ve had is that I don’t have a model of the original body. So far, I have used remaining limbs as a model to regrow the lost ones, which was good enough for most cases until someone came with two missing legs. What I did then was to use their body as base to avoid rejection, then rebuild limbs with my experience and knowledge of anatomy. In both cases, those are not true copies of the original.”

“What do you mean by that?”

“If someone breaks their arm and the fracture doesn’t fuse properly, the arm can be bent. It’s not the original shape of the arm and yet someone’s soul will consider it the new normal. The same is valid for scars and other marks of, well, essentially living. Someone specialized in fighting with a spear will have a slightly different muscle structure from someone training with a sword and shield. They are all the current arm of the person. Flesh is malleable. The limbs I regrow without a model are functional but they could be shorter or longer than what they would have been before the amputation.”

“You just say flesh is malleable. I also know that the body compensates for losses, so a period or reeducation will almost always be necessary. So long as the regrown limb is functional, it should not be too problematic, should it?”

“Yes, however we could limit this drastically by rebuilding as close to the original as possible.”

“I can see how that would be preferable. Hmmm.”

Sidjin considers his options in silence.

“We could modify a memorial spell, an extremely rare and niche construct developed by Hallurian investigators to reconstruct the image of a body from a single piece of flesh. It is frequently used to identify unrecognizable bodies. I think I could make it work. I only have one request: after we have finished the upgraded spell and you operate on me, we should start with my missing muscles before we work on my, ahem, crotch.”

Viv gasped.

“You care more about your dick than about full leg functionality?”

“Yes.”

“Typical male.”

“Yes. And when I recover fully, you will understand why it was also in your best interest.”

“Hoho, very bold of you sir. We shall see if you can put your junk where your mouth is.”

Viv stopped and winced.

“That didn’t come out the way I thought it would.”

“I think it came out just fine.”

Arthur changed her relationship with Viv following their conversation and after she spent some time fangirling. She took Viv’s advice to heart, and tried to communicate her desires and opinions more often. Unfortunately, and unsurprisingly, she wanted more meat and more gold. Viv managed to lure her away from those base concerns with magic and flight, using Sidjin’s help. The dragonette could immediately move things around with her mind when she understood the concept, and she did so better than Viv despite this being her first try. Viv found it mildly frustrating.

“And to think you thought me gifted,” she lamented to Sidjin.

“I regret to inform you that you are not, in fact, better than a dragon at magic. I hope your self-esteem will recover from this terrible revelation, one day.”

“Ha ha. How about flying then?”

Arthur tried lifting herself with mana and declared it inferior to her method in every way, sounding very smug about it. She did concede it could help for sharp turns. Viv thought the exercise a waste until she found the dragonette suspiciously quiet.

Arthur was sitting quietly on the deck of the ship.

A small bag of nails lifted slowly from a nearby barrel, then landed again. It happened a few times in a row. The clink of metal rang softly.

Her eyes narrowed in cold calculation.

“No!” Viv interrupted. “Don’t even think about it.”

“Squee?”

“Don’t pretend, I know exactly what you are thinking about.”

“Eeeeeee.”

Viv frowned at the dejected wannabe pickpocket. Such greed. In any case, her idea could be of use. Arthur didn’t learn magic per se because she didn’t have to, but perhaps giving her a glimpse of what could be achieved would help her develop in a way hunting could not. Viv decided to expose her to a lot of sorcery after she was admitted. Hopefully, it would keep her interested.

As they approached Helock, the landscape changed drastically. So far, the River Flower had coasted along green shores of endless glades, then prairies of dry grass as they traveled along the edges of the Kark steppes. Soon, however, the relief grew steeper with tall, tree-covered peaks and strange needle-like formations, most of which should have collapsed at the slightest tremor.

“We’re arriving. Here is the vigil rock, floating between those two mountains,” Sidjin soon said.

His words slowly registered in Viv’s incredulous brain.

“I’m sorry the rock is doing what?”

“Floating?”

“Floating? Floating?”

Viv rushed to the prow and gawked at the new sight. For the others, the unassuming piece of weathered rock crawling with ivy might have been mundane, but to her that was absolutely insane.

“It’s flying! What? How can it be flying? It’s a trick of the eyes? Are you pranking me, Sidjin?”

The man seemed to be at a bit of a loss.

“As much as I enjoy your trust in my abilities, I cannot casually lift several tons of stone for a practical joke, I’m afraid.”

“How come I never heard of floating rocks? Should they not mention that in the… hmmm…”

Come to think of it, most of what she had read were dry historical recountings and exam material.

“I didn’t read it in anything I’ve seen so far.”

“You must have read about the attempt to reach the Chalice?”

Viv used her stat-enhanced memory to remember that particular tidbit. Some people had tried to explore this high place several times throughout history, but had always failed due to mana-reinforced storms.

“I always assumed it was a mountain.”

“It’s the largest floating rock, vaguely shaped like a cup as its name infers.”

“It’s just weird that Varska never mentioned it.”

“Ah yes, well, I can understand if she didn’t want to talk about the place that exiled her.”

Viv frowned. Varska had shared memories, but most of them had been specific moments that had marked her, not full accounts of Helock and its features. She would still have thought someone would mention it.

“I bet you are wondering how they levitate,” Sidjin remarked excitedly.

“Of course I do.”

“It is due to a stone called gravitite that reverses gravity when subjected to intense mana concentrations. Helock was founded on a confluence, a place where ambient mana is more potent. The deep woods are such a place, and so is the Harrakan palace, for example.”

“I see.”

“You can find gravitite everywhere if you look hard enough, but it is mostly indistinguishable from quartz so most people will not bother.”

“Ok so where are my flying ships?”

“I beg your pardon?”

“Nyil has flying stone so obviously there should be flying ships, no?”

Sidjin looked a bit surprised, then sighed.

“You have a strange sense of priorities. As for using gravitite to create anything, you will have to face several challenges before you can accomplish anything. First, the larger the vein and the more potent the effect. Second, a broken vein loses a large amount of efficacy. Two pieces of gravitite are far from being as effective as a single piece made from both, so carving it out presents massive risks. There is also the issue with feeding the stone enough mana to keep it aloft anywhere else but here. Finally, Helock strictly prohibits tampering with the floating rocks, not just because they are considered features of the city, but because breaking a vein would likely cause the entire rock to collapse. The Chalice levitates two hundred meters above the government district and the academy. If it were to crash, the ensuing destruction would destroy Helock’s heart. That is why generations of archmages have tried to scout it, in vain. The surrounding mana disables enchantments while gales blow beasts and vehicles against nearby rocks, smashing them to smithereens.”

“Damn, there goes my dream of a floating ship.”

“You can always look into it after you have saved yourself from death.”

“Maybe using a brown mana specialist to fuse veins together carefully…”

“AFTER… you have saved yourself, Viviane dear.”

“Yes, of course.”

“And learned space magic.”

“Oh, yes.”

“And perfected your regeneration spell.”

“I got it, Sidjin. I’m capable of prioritizing my projects. Let me be excited for new things, alright?”

Sidjin flinched, mortified.

“I apologize. So many have tried to take me away from my pursuit and now I’ve done the same to you.”

“Don’t worry about it. I know you care about my survival.”

“I do…”

They fell into a contemplative mood as the River Flower approached the floating rock. As the ship moved on, the river widened. Terraces appeared and they were not the bareboned alterations of the mountain folk, but complex systems with clear irrigation paths. Some of them were being drained and laborers walked through the soaked ground to harvest a rich bounty from the revealed stalks. Travelers, wagons, and horsemen clogged the roads. Viv even saw a cavalry detachment with banded armor and spears help clear a traffic jam through a generous application of violence. Ships were more numerous too, not just transport ships like their own, but also fishing boats and, in one case, a heavily fortified and enchanted frigate. The dress style here reminded her of Varska’s dresses, with large sleeves and a slight oriental feel, though that might just be her bias. Padded shoulders were a constant for both men and women, at least among the rich ones.

“I know you also enjoy the company of the fairer sex,” Sidjin said, interrupting her musings.

“Yes?”

“Helock tolerates almost of forms of intimacy, on account of its mages coming from extremely diverse backgrounds. The Academy is especially rife with connections. It means that you will be surrounded with young, healthy, capable people who might very well be searching for partners.”

He sighed and placed his hands on the railing, but his eyes never left Viv’s and he sounded quite serious.

“We have known each other for only two weeks, and I realize I have no right to make demands of you. I love what we have. You are making me feel human again, that not all is lost for me, and I am someone who deserves to be loved. Your smiles have opened a pit of emotions I had bottled since the torture started. You have made me brittle, but in a good way. So please, do not disappear on me. I can accept if you want to end it, but please do not play games with me. I will still teach you what you need to know. I just do not want another betrayal.”

“I understand. And I accept,” Viv replied with solemnity.

Sidjin grunted, and stretched. Something creaked in his shoulder. Now that his teeth were fixed, he was eating more, which was good, Viv thought.

“You know, a Glastian princess would have been disgusted by my confession. She would have taken it for weakness.”

“I don’t think you’re weak, Sidjin. I think you’ve endured a lot and have the scars to prove it.”

“Good, because I don’t think I’m weak either, and I will remind those who stole my research of that fact.”

Viv remembered why Sidjin was coming to Helock.

“Do you have a plan?”

“I have options, depending on what the situation is. I could use your help if you are willing, but first, we need to get you admitted. Whoever stole my research has backers. It would be a shame if they managed to veto your presence before you had a chance to forge your own connections.”

“We will need to find a place to stay and contact the church as well.”

“And we will do all of that after we have arrived.”

