The first thing Viv saw of Helock was the ocean. Past the city, the Shal spread wildly then spilled its gray waters into the sea’s blue. A storm was brewing over the horizon. The low, dark clouds hung over in shades of cobalt lit by the afternoon sun until the sea and the air merged in a dizzying overlap of cold hues. On the west embankments, private estates peppered the hills behind layers of hedges and copses of trees while the east contained the Helock harbor hidden behind a forest of masts. Buildings covered the rise on which the city had made its nest, each district forming a band of progressively cleaner, more expensive constructions. Churches and markets sat like fat cats among their lesser brethren, forming small courts, but the city was clearly dominated by a massive dome around which grew a great many towers in all shapes and sizes, next to a large park. She recognized the academy from her textbook. Pennants fluttered in the wind, visible even this far in their multitude. The smell of humanity and spices reached her even here.

“Breathtaking, is it not?” Sidjin asked with a smile. “I remember the first time I traveled here. I had not left Glastia before then for more than a couple of days. In truth, you have traveled more than I have, Viviane the outlander.”

“It’s moments like those that make it all worthwhile.”

Leit joined them with a smile. The merchant kept his distance after the tongue lashing he had received, not that Viv blamed him. Clear relief flooded his happy face. Viv bet he couldn’t wait to see them go.

“Our destination, at last.”

The River Flower sailed into a private stone pier. Dockers rushed forth to help unload the cargo while the passengers disembarked. A civil servant in a yellow robe bid them welcome and had Sidjin pay a reasonable entry fee, but Viv got exempted as a prospective student. He also seemed to know about Arthur and made no comments on her, merely bowing and wishing her a pleasant stay, which made the dragonette preen.

“How did he know I was here for the Academy?” Viv asked after he was gone. “I could have been lying.”

“Custom officers have modified inspection skills that give them business-related insights. Even if it didn’t, anyone who has practiced magic to any reasonable degree will feel the way mana shifts around you when they get close enough.”

“I see. Well then, let’s find a place to sleep for tonight.”

“And tomorrow we will go to the academy and register you.”

They said their goodbye to Leit who advised them to take a room at a nearby hotel owned by the guild. The room was cramped, but clean and affordable. It would be fine for a few days. They had a lot to plan.
