It was day, then it was night. There was no time to leave, no time to plan, not even enough time to look up before a wave of pure world-bending mana drenched her soul under a torrent, numbing her senses.

Once, Viv had gone diving off the coast of Eilat, at the south end of Israel. There was a peculiar feeling to going down when the pressure increased and water seemed to close around her. She imagined a deep diver must feel something similar while the more primal part of their brain screams incoherently. There was exactly one flap, one so powerful it lifted rocks, then the dragon was on the glade.

He took a lot of space.

Viv caught a taloned finger moving as the monster settled, more graceful than a creature this size had a right to be. She lost herself a few seconds in the vastly complex, mesmerizing fractal of mana emitting from the obsidian scales like heat from desert sand. It was Arthur who woke her up from her reverie.

The dragonette raced around, hunting her tail then squealing excitedly. She bounced around the clearing then climbed a flabbergasted Viv.

It’s him.

It’s hiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim.

She finally looked up into a green iris larger than her head.

It was him.

It was really him.

The book really didn’t give it justice.

The Desolation of Aristan pulled his wings back and sat comfortably. Suddenly, it was day again.

His aura withdrew.

Viv fell forward, one hand on the ground. She felt every detail of the grass under her with perfect clarity. Her mind was fully her own again. The dragon had sent a message when it landed. Now it sent another. The first was about power, and the second, about control.

Arthur’s obvious excitement gave the surreal scene a farcical angle that tested Viv’s sanity. She had rubbed elbows with her fair share of nobles, but the desolation operated on another level. The dragon was a myth, and that myth was now looking at her with his emerald eyes, patiently waiting for her to recover.

Greetings.

Again, the tone was given. The dragon could probably melt Viv’s brain inside of her skull with a roar, but right now his mind carried concepts directly to her with a light touch.

“Wow, huh, hello.”

Viv stood there like an idiot, unsure of what to do except to keep her balance while Arthur repeatedly bumped her knee.

You must come from an unusually egalitarian culture.

Most humans kneel by reflex.

“Oh, uh, no offense meant.”

Worry not.

I understand where you are coming from, and how it affects your behavior.

“You came for Arthur then?”

VIv knew what the answer was, but she hoped they would have a little more time.

I came because she called, and our meeting was long overdue.

I have been observing you.

And the way you cared for She-Who-Feasts-On-Squirrels-And-Gets-Much-Gold.

The adult dragon turned his head to his tiny kin.

It is spiders now, she tells me.

I will remember.

He returned his attention to Viv.

I have known of your existence since Cold-Gale-Over-Spring-Meadows warned me.

He was wise to inform me of this matter without delay.

“Is he the green dragon we met in the woods?”

Yes.

“I… assumed his name would be longer.”

We shorten our names as we grow older and more powerful, thus refining the concept we wish to be known by.

Cold-Gale-Over-Spring-Meadows is still quite young.

Viv was pretty sure the green dragon was a century long, probably older than that. This was… interesting.

“So, may I know your name?”

My name is Judgment.

“Ah.”

We are solitary creatures, as diverse as the world meant us to be.

We push many fledglings into the wild to spread their wings.

The wisest and strongest live to adulthood.

Dragons can fly, and our mastery of mana is unmatched.

One who picks the wrong battle against a powerful beast and loses, deserves it.

This is the way it should be.

The strong and wise survive, leading to stronger and wiser offspring.

Viv realized the implication immediately.

“But humans and other sapient species change that.”

They hunt those they believe they can defeat.

Too many promising young ones would be lost.

And so, I took it upon myself to be the shield for those who need it.

“So dragons cannot be kept as captives because…”

I act.

The sapient races are welcome to share this world with us.

Sometimes, they grow too arrogant.

Sometimes, they wish to mine breeding grounds for wealth.

As Aristan did.

An event your ward seems quite knowledgeable about.

“She loves the story. She finds your performance inspiring and wants to grow to be as large as you.”

Viv didn't quite get his answer this time, but it evoked pride and hope for the future. She felt that Judgment’s vision of the future was rather more complex than what she was used to, and why should it not be? He would probably be there to see it.

This leads me to you.

I have set rules of my own on interventions.

A dragon who attacks humanity to serve their own greed will receive no support from me.

I have decided to observe you before passing judgment.

You have acted like a parent, while taking into account the difference of your ward’s nature, compared to your own.

Some of your rules and codes will serve her well in growing her own.

Especially the hygiene rules.

The dragonette fell dramatically backward and rolled on the ground squealing piteously at this odious betrayal. Her idol had sided with Viv on matters of keeping one’s claw fishless and soap-scented. Oh, the dragonity.

Judgment huffed, his hot breath pushing Viv’s hair back. It felt like standing in front of an open smelter.

Thus, and despite your many failings, I have decided to let you live for her sake.

“Thanks? I guess?”

I have shared information with the dean of the academy, in Helock.

He will facilitate her stay.

If you are admitted.

But you must realize that your time is running out.

She will foray farther and farther.

Such is our nature.

You will know to let her go.

“She’s still very young.”

She is.

And you will let her go.

When the time comes.

“How do I know? I don’t want to send her to her death. I don’t give a damn about your survival of the fittest philosophy. I want her to live.”

You will let her go, because this will be her choice.

Viv was about to object when Judgment stopped her. He pressured her into silence, not too strongly but as a warning. Arthur had been unusually silent during the later part of the exchange, and this latest disagreement worried her. Viv provided the requested scritches.

One last thing.

“Hmmm, yes?”

Did you inform She-Who-Feasts-On-Spiders-And-Gets-Much-Gold that I pressure-cook knights?

Awkward silence spread over the clearing.

“I mean, do you?”

No.

“Squee?”

I have spoken all that needed to be said.

You know what must happen.

You will not share what you know, nor speak of dragon rearing.

I have tolerated your choices because, at the time, you saved the young one.

Her mother was too proud, but we still felt her loss.

The return of the child absolves you of your meddling.

The dragon waited, perhaps expecting some sort of reaction. Viv didn’t speak.

Goodbye, Viviane the Outlander.

Judgment jumped up, then spread his wings and flapped them. It felt like standing next to a helicopter.

In a few instants, the older dragon was gone, disappearing completely from her sight. Only the mark of his claws on the ground confirmed that the meeting had not been a fever dream. Arthur still had stars in her eyes, but Viv was more circumspect. She didn’t like the implications. Judgment had observed her. Even his last sentences had been a test of sorts. Perhaps he had expected her to demand a reward for the return of a child, or at least some protests at the high-handed treatment. Viv believed she knew better. Dragons were an unknown, motives-wise, and one didn’t play games with unknowns unless one was desperate.

It was true that the nail that stuck out got hammered down. She didn’t need more attention than she already had, and especially not from a being so beyond her powers, even all of Kazar’s current military couldn’t put a scratch on him.

“Squee?”

“Let’s head back for now.”

Arthur agreed, still dizzy from her recent encounter. Viv thought about what Judgment had said. Arthur had grown quickly, too quickly. She assumed growth slowed down with age, and that lone hunters would have trouble finding meat with potent enough mana to fuel a quick development. It was still very impressive, and possibly unusual. Her theory that the dragonette was older was making sense. It was a shame she couldn’t ask Judgment more about proper upbringing, but he had made it clear it was not for her to know. It was still a shame.

The outpost Viv returned to shocked her by its normalcy. No one had seen Judgment land like the fire-breathing jetliner he was. The laborers went on with their tasks while children played in the vegetable gardens under the benevolent gaze of their elders. Soft-spoken conversations in the northern tongue rang throughout the couple of streets surrounded by high walls. The locals mostly ignored Viv. Or at least, they pretended to.

It was yet another aspect of this world that marked Viv. Back on earth, peasants had formed the backbone of every society until the late days of industrialized society. It was the same here. Politics, wars, and monster hunting were performed by the minority of those who didn’t toil in the fields and orchards. Viv was part of that minority whether she wanted to or not. She wouldn’t trade the ability to cast and defend herself for anything, yet watching those kids running after a cloth ball reminded her another life was possible.

She’d probably be bored to death after a month.

“Are you alright, Viviane?” Sidjin asked when he saw her. He squinted, inspecting her face and the still-bouncing Arthur.

“Long story. I’ll tell you over dinner.”

That night, Viv went over everything that had been said from the admittal of her limits to Judgment informing her she would have to let the dragonette go. Sidjin listened quietly, carefully refilling her glass. Meanwhile Arthur was blissfully asleep.

“Even if she leaves, it will not change the fact you raised her. She will return.”

“Are you quite sure?”

“Dragons are territorial yet also emotional. The few times dragons were taken down in history, the fiery vengeance was brought by their relatives. You left your home yourself. Did you never think about returning?”

“I am human, she is not.”

“You are her adoptive mother. I am certain she will come back to you often. It is also possible that she would choose Harrak as her range when she claims a territory. If what you say is correct, the areas of life are quickly expanding. It is likely she will return.”

“Of course…” Viv admitted. “And I have forgotten the main motivator. Yes, you are right, she will definitely return to me even if she leaves to travel. I am sure of it.”

“She already discovered a proper lair?”

“Worse. She discovered banking.”

The next day, Arthur simply wouldn’t shut up about her experience.

Did you see? Did you see?

“Yes I did.”

He was soooooooooooooooo big!

“Absolutely massive, bigger than some castles.”

And did you see? Did you see?

He was sooooooooooooo strong!

“I bet he could crush a rock between two fingers.”

I can do that!

“A very big rock.”

Oooooh yes! Very big. And his control…

She wouldn’t stop for the whole morning and Viv didn’t have the heart to dampen her enthusiasm. Thankfully, the small one decided she would practice how to land like he did. While she did not attain the level of ponderous majesty Judgment had displayed on account of being the length of a timber wolf and about as heavy, her efforts were commendable.

Despite the belief Arthur would return to her eventually, Viv could not completely shake out the funk she found herself in, so Sidjin came to her rescue.

“When events caused my mood to grow somber, I would throw myself into training.”

“Of course you would,” Viv answered, then softened the jab with a light kiss.

“You are trying to distract me, woman. I was the one supposed to distract you. How about telekinesis? I bet I can teach you how to juggle before we arrive in Helock.”

“Oh, that sounds nice.”

They practiced more. Viv was able to hold objects reliably now. The spells’ feedback was strange, like flexing a muscle that didn’t quite exist. It was not just applying pressure. She could feel the object’s shape in her mind, though the details escaped her. Moving two at the same time proved easier than she expected, until Sidjin asked her to move them in opposite directions. There, the difficulties started. She still thought the spell had enormous potential.

“Why don’t I see mages flitting across the battlefield?”

“It can be a good option in some scenarios, but definitely not against humans and especially not against Enorians. Even gray casters would hesitate to take to the sky against an army with the continent’s best archers. There are variant artillery spells with homing functions as well, though a master can dodge them. You also forfeit the use of a circle.”

“Hmmmm.”

Telekinesis gave her an idea. The cave where she had discovered the hive shield’s template had glyphs directly in the walls. What if she could forge runes and hold them in the air to create a three-dimensional circle? That would be tiring, but multiply the potency of the spell. It was worth pursuing in the short term.

