Was the teleport necessary, strictly speaking? No. Of course not. But it was fun. She thumped into Ranthia’s chest—weirdly, not her armor—and let out a happy cluck. It was always so good to see her human, safe and sound, after one of her ‘hunts’. After she faced death anew. Sure, the fact that the Skill for their Bond remained proved that Ranthia was alive, but ‘alive’ and ‘safe’ weren’t the same thing!

“I’m glad to see you too, sweetling. …Issues with the bear aside, the rewards were nice. I got [Reflections of Reality] up to 575, [True Grace] up to 579, and [Adamantium Will] up to 221. At this rate I don’t expect them to catch up to my class levels by the time we class up again, but they’ll be much higher than they would have been had we never met. And that should help my class qualities.” Ranthia stroked her chin and cheek just right.

Honestly, her human had such weird Skill names. They were a far cry from the simple majesty of her own Skills. [Blinkies!], [Change!], and [Wise Ears!] were much, much better than [Reflections of Reality]. Like, what did that even mean?

“Meanwhile you are finally level 568. You’re lucky that my classes love going after new and different challenges… like a proper Adventurer should.” Ranthia put a playful lilt on the last bit as she set Clover back down, before she walked into the kitchen.

That gift from the scarred elf Clover disliked. There was only one reason Ranthia ever used the accursed thing—company. Things would be noisy and unpleasant, once again. It was bad enough when her human used to bring elves of the same biological sex over to engage in false mating behavior for whatever reason (sure, sure, books claimed that it was pleasurable, but could there truly be any pleasure in life that came close to the bliss that was a safe, sun-filled park full of tasty plants?). But she hadn’t done that since the long sad.

Instead, it meant that her fellow Hunters would be over. Anthelleon was fine enough, but the new guy was very loud. His bond was even worse—the monstrous female was just plain mean!

Clover growled at the oversized griffon before she hopped further away from the mean, nasty thing. The first time they had met, she caught the scent of rabbit blood from the horrible lady’s cruel beak. Thus, there was never any hope for peace between them.

Clover liked living and the giant winged monster liked eating. They were from different worlds!

Worse, everyone carried on and on about how ‘smart’ the stupid griffin was. Clover doubted that the bully even knew how to read the basic little kid books, let alone masterpieces of scholarly wisdom like the Medical Manuscripts!

“I’m just glad Solareon is okay. I know there was no blood in the air, but that bear hit hard.” Ranthia was outright ignoring Clover’s struggles, instead she was focused on being charming to their guests.

“She’s a tough girl, isn’t that right Sol?” The loud man asked loudly.

The griffin screeched in answer and Clover found herself tempted to use Biomancy to make her ears stop working for a few hours. She could do it. Probably. It seemed possible, even with her limited Sound-type class.

Too bad she lacked the mana and magic power to Biomancy the griffin. Wait, no! That was a bad thought. She needed to be a good girl. Not that she was allowed to have any of Ranthia’s cooking—her human ‘lacked the Skills’ to make it safe for her. But the jar of treats was there on the counter, tempting Clover to not cause problems.

The current treats were made with bananas. They were so, so good.

“How long will it take for her feathers to grow back so she can fly again?” Anthelleon asked.

“Eh, shouldn’t take more than a few days. I’ll keep singing to her to help them regrow a bit faster.” Yet another too-loud response.

Clover hadn’t even noticed the griffin was missing some feathers. She still seemed to have plenty, but not being able to fly sounded… sad. It would be like not being able to hop!

Clover was moody about having her quiet night ruined. But… she supposed she could try to be nice to the griffin.

“Oh, the wine cask is empty! I’ll be right back; I’ve got another in storage.” Ranthia stood up from the table and pranced her way out of the room.

“Er, is she going to be alright? It’ll get awkward if she starts weeping again.” The loud elf failed miserably at being quiet enough.

“That was that damned dangerous brew the Lodge’s owner gave me! I never get that drunk, nor am I a sad drunk!” Ranthia retorted from across their home, clearly annoyed.

Silly elves, why did they persist in underestimating bunny hearing? It just made sense that Clover’s human had good ears! They were Bonded!

About that moment, the griffin leaned down and gently brushed her beak through Clover’s fur. It was sweet, it was a feather-light (sorry!) touch, and it was plainly meant as a display of affection.

Clover still bristled and left the room at top speed.

Instincts were her rudest enemy.
