Jen laughed. “No, I don't need any more money.” She said. “What you gave me was more than enough to cover the cost of everything for the next three weeks.”

“Even the extra work crews?”

“Yes, even the extra work crews.”

“I'm glad.” Ren said and looked at the crews. They had just finished the last house and were giving each other high-fives, so he took out the Haste wand and refilled it's charges.

“Ren, did you just-”

“Yes.” Ren said and smiled as he put a finger to his lips. “Shh.”

“That was exhausting!” Jhulune said as she came over to them, with the other workers right behind her.

“Are you out of Stamina?” Ren asked and took out another wand.

Jhulune chuckled. “Yes, but it'll recharge on the trip back.”

“I can...”

“It's all right.” Jhulune said and put a hand on his. “I'll be fine for our date.”

“I'm not sure where to take you, though.” Ren said. “There's not a lot of places that serve food around here.”

“Ren...”

“I know, I know.” Ren said and smiled at her. “I'd like to just spend time with you, too.”

“If you can't think of anything by the time we get back to Aurora, we can just hang out or go for a walk or something.”

“Everyone got their tools?” Jen asked the crew.

“Jhulune's got them.” Someone said, and Jen looked at her. She didn't see her carrying anything, then Jhulune showed her the Ring of Storage that she had.

“Oh, my.” Jen said. “Where did you get-” She looked at Ren and saw his big smile. “Never mind.”

Everyone laughed, and they climbed into the three carts they had arrived in.

“I didn't even notice that the other carts had left.” Ren said and laughed. “I'm pretty observant.”

“Me, too.” Teepo said. “I didn't notice, either.”

Jen climbed up into the front cart and sat in the passenger seat. “I think we can squeeze you in.” She said. “I didn't even think about holding a cart back for you to ride.”

Ren chuckled. “It couldn't take me anyways.” He said. “I need my special mount to carry me.”

“Well, then.” Jen said. “Driver, let's go.”

“Yes, Ma'am.” The driver said and flicked the reins, and Ren cast Haste on the horse, then on the other 2 horses and himself. He kept pace with the much smaller caravan, even though he could run quite a bit faster than them.

Imagine if I had the Haste spell way back during the Aurora Expedition. Ren smiled at himself. Or any of the spells I have now.

Ren pictured himself outrunning the troll and getting off the bridge before it collapsed; then he frowned. No, I shouldn't think like that. He thought. If I hadn't taken that fall into that dark abyss, I wouldn't have completed the quest without any loss of life to either the players or the soldiers. He smiled. Everything happens for a reason, and if that reason changed, then everything would change with it.

The horses stopped when the Haste spell wore off, and everyone took a break with the horses. Since there was only 3 of them, they were quickly fed and the break was only short. They got on the road again and kept going, and did the same thing when the spell wore off again. This happened 3 more times and they made it back to Aurora just in time for supper.

The streets were practically empty as they went down the street, and Ren saw the hastily constructed market stall that a guy had sold him ale from the day before. It was empty, just like it had been that morning; but, it reminded him that he still had that ale. The drivers took the carts over to the lumber yard and came to a stop. Everyone hopped out and the carts were positioned by the mill to await the next trip.

“Thanks a lot, Ren.” Jen said. “We got to stay a lot longer than we normally would, and we completed the entire 50 houses of this batch.” She pat him on the shoulder. “I thought we'd be stuck out there until tomorrow.”

“We could have stayed.” Ren said as everyone gathered around. “There was plenty of room in the Main House.”

Jen shook her head. “We had to come back to get more supplies anyways.”

“If I can't go with you in two days, I better give you a key to the place.” Ren said and opened up the house owner menu, and added Jen as an occupant. A small key appeared around her neck with the others that she had, and she put a hand on it.

“Thank you.”

Ren closed the menu and smiled. “You're welcome, and thank you for today.”

“You're welcome.” Jen said. “Okay, you mooches! Get lost, and I'll see you in the morning!”

“Wait!” Ren said, and everyone looked at him. “Would anyone like a drink of ale?”

“I sure would!” One of the guys exclaimed, and his friends laughed.

“I've only got one keg...” Ren said, and there was a loud whoop.

“Tell me you've got tankards!” The guy said, and Ren shook his head. “Aw.”

“I do have these, though.” Ren said and took out an expensive looking blue mug covered in sea shells, and the handle looked like a seahorse.

“That's so pretty!” Jhulune said as Ren handed it to her, then handed out 35 more to the crew, and one to Jen. He carefully split up the keg among the held out mugs, and ran out just after filling Jen's and Jhulune's mugs. He stored the empty keg and looked at everyone. They stood there and looked back at him.

“Where's yours?” Jhulune asked.

“There's not enough for me.” Ren said. “Go ahead and enjoy it.”

“Take out your mug.” Jhulune said, and he held one out, and she poured half of hers into it. “There!” She said, and turned to everyone. “Three cheers for Ren!”

“Ren!”

“Ren!”

“REN!”

After the last cheer, they all took a drink.

“Whoa-ho-ha!” One of the guys said. “That's great stuff!”

“Yeah!” His friend said and took another drink. “Thanks a lot, Ren.”

“Thanks!”

“Thank you.”

Everyone stood around and chatted while they finished their drinks, then handed back the mugs. They all said goodnight, and went home to have supper.

“Jhulune? Don't forget to drop off the tools.” Jen said.

Jhulune went into the building to hang them back up, and left Ren and Jen alone.

“I've got to lock up and get over to my place.” Jen said. “I'll mention the stable idea to Catalina.”

“And temporary houses for the workers.” Ren said. “If we can teach some of the villagers how to handle the animals properly...”

“You won't be taking other people away from their normal jobs.”

Ren nodded. “Goodnight, Jen.”

“Goodnight, Ren.” Jen said and started to walk away, and saw Jhulune as she walked back over to Ren. “Have fun.”

“Hopefully.” Jhulune said and stopped in front of Ren. “So, have you thought of where to go yet?”

“I'm sorry.” Ren said. “I'm drawing a complete blank.”

“A walk it is.” Jhulune said and took his hand. Ren smiled as she led him down the street and over a couple of blocks, and came to a stop in front of a moderate two storey house. “Ren, I had an idea.”

“Is it a good one?” Ren asked as he got the plans to the house.

“Probably not.” Jhulune said and led him to the front door.

“Jhulune, is this...” Ren started to ask, then his Etiquette skill activated when Jhulune opened the front door.

“I'M HOOOOME!” Jhulune yelled.

“It's about damn time.” A deep baritone voice said from the living room. “I felt something weird pass over the house a minute ago.” He said. “It's not going away, though.”

Oh, crap. Ren thought, and Teepo chittered in laughter.
