Sylphie seemed to get a bit more serious as she opened her wings, making the sphere of wind expand. Crosswinds formed as the wind seemed to blow from all directions at once in her vicinity, and once more, the King found his attack nullified as the winds sheared the golden beam apart.

With another wave of his hand, five golden orbs appeared floating above the King, each shooting a beam moments later. Sylphie had to actually flap her wings once this time around to nullify the attack, though she’d yet to move.

“Her winds have gotten stronger,” the Sword Saint commented.

“Yeah,” Jake nodded. “It seems more... solid. Physical. Not quite sure how to describe it.”

“The wind energy has definitely been compacted and intensified,” Dina nodded. “But there are a lot of concepts at play I have no insight into.”

She glanced at Minaga after saying this, but the Unique Lifeform just shrugged. “You’ll figure it out someday. Or not. Either way, I’m not gonna spoil anything.”

None of them commented on Minaga’s reluctance to share, and Jake even found himself relieved at not knowing, as it would indeed be more fun to figure it out himself. They all remained quiet for a while longer as they saw the King shoot off attack after attack, finding himself unable to even make the bird move.

Despite this, the Unique Lifeform did not appear frustrated. Quite the contrary. He focused entirely on every attack, trying to refine and improve it as the energy traveled through his new vessel. Jake even saw a few attacks clearly blunder as the King messed something up, making it weaker than the one prior.

Sylphie also seemed to enjoy herself as she got some good practice with using her wind magic purely defensively. As they had commented on earlier, it seemed a lot more solid now, allowing it to play a far more defensive role than before.

Jake couldn’t help but smile watching this scene of the two tearing up the local landscape. There truly was no better party game at a reunion than shooting deadly attacks at your friends to learn if they'd gotten better at not getting killed. Definitely way better than beer pong. Unless it was beer pong played with live grenades... in that case, beer pong might have been more fun.
