Barbara grinned. “I guess he's just experiencing everything the game can offer.”

Denise snorted a laugh and looked at the blue screen on the television. “He sure is.”

“He said he wasn't going to have sex with them until he talked to the others.” Barbara said. “I'm not sure who he meant by others, though.”

Denise laughed. “Yeah, did he mean his virtual playmates or his real life ones?”

“It's hard to say.” Barbara said. “Sometimes I'm not sure if it even matters to him.”

“What? You mean real and not real?”

Barbara nodded. “He's had such a hard life before all of this.” She said and touched his hand. “The game unlocked a whole new world for him; but, it's been getting more complicated and in-depth than anything we've seen before.” She took her hand back and sighed. “If he had to choose just one to live in for the rest of his life, I honestly don't know which one he would pick.”

Denise opened her mouth to say that he would pick the real world without question, then she thought about how much time he spent in the virtual world, and all the things he could do there that he physically couldn't do in the real world.

“Neither do I.” Denise said, reluctantly.

*

Gloria climbed out of the shower after another long shift at the garage, and dried herself off with a towel. She slipped on a bathrobe and took the towel with her, and prepared for what she hoped would be a good long night of fun with Ren.

I can't wait to tell him I graduated! Gloria thought as she sat down on her old recliner. Despite having a lot of ready cash, thanks to her last paycheck from Stella and the medical research grant, she didn't replace the old and comfortable chair. I get to pick up my diploma tomorrow, too!

Gloria put the towel between her legs in anticipation, put on her heavily-modified VR headset, and laid back to enjoy herself.

“Flow Login Start.”

********

Elerlyth woke up on the bed in the bedroom of Ren's third floor apartment above the shop, and looked around. She equipped her clothing and got up, and wondered where he was. According to Stella, he was supposed to be back in Aurora.

“Ren?” Elerlyth asked and opened the bedroom door. She saw that Anabelle was asleep on the bed in the living room, and she reached over and shook the sleeping woman. “Anabelle! Where's Ren?”

“What? Who?” Anabelle rolled over and looked at Elerlyth, “Oh, it's you.” She said. “He's gone to the house.”

“To the... what house?”

“You've been gone for a while.” Anabelle laughed. “A few things have changed around here.”

“Like what?” Elerlyth asked.

“A fire elemental lives in the kitchen now.”

“WHAT?!?” Elerlyth yelled and turned to look in the kitchen. Sure enough, the place was lined with paving stones and there was a section filled with fire. “What the hell?”

“Her name's Zetaya, and she's Ren's.” Anabelle said and sat up on the bed. “His mount Princess was staying there, but she has her own room in the new place.”

“What new place?” Elerlyth asked.

“He owns a big house in the Housing District.” Anabelle said. “I'm tempted to tell you who he's there with, but I think I'd rather let you see that for yourself.”

“You don't have to be such a bitch about it.” Elerlyth said.

“Neither do you.” Anabelle said. “But that's how you've always acted around me.”

“That's because you're a-” Elerlyth stopped herself before she said anything else, and Anabelle smiled.

“The new house is right in the middle of the Housing District, so you can't miss it.” Anabelle said and laid back down. “Don't let the door hit you on the way out.”

Elerlyth was going to respond hotly to her comment, then shook her head and left the apartment. She went downstairs and out the back door, just so she wouldn't have to go through the whole shop to get outside, and she walked at a fast pace down the street and over to the Housing District. When she got there, she stared at the huge house. It filled the lot it was in, right up to the edge of the property. It was also two stories tall, unlike the other two houses in the district.

Elerlyth walked up to it and looked at the door. She didn't have a key for it, and she knew it would be locked. She was tempted to pick it, but she was pretty sure she'd be caught and charged for it, since there was literally no cover at all from being seen. She sighed because she wouldn't have even contemplated what she was about to do next, before she had met Ren. She raised a hand and knocked on the door.

A moment later, she heard feet coming towards the door; and she opened her mouth to tell Ren the good news that she had... and froze. Some kind of water being that she'd never seen before, with translucent skin and swirling water currents underneath, stood in the doorway.

“(bubble) (gurgle)?”

“Wh-what?” Elerlyth said, surprised that the thing had just gargled it's throat at her.

“Oh! Sorry.” Railyse said. “I sometimes forget to speak properly.”

“Wh-what?!?” Elerlyth said, even more surprised that it could speak so well.

“Can I help you?” Railyse asked.

“R-R-Ren...” Elerlyth managed to get out.

“He's upstairs in bed with the maids.” Railyse said. “Maybe you should come ba-hey!”

Elerlyth slipped past her and ran up the stairs. In bed with the maids?!? She thought, incredulous. Not a maid! Maids! She got to the top of the stairs and opened the first door she came to, and lucked out that it was the main bedroom. Inside was 5 large cabinets, several dressers, and an extra large bed. On the edge of that bed was Ren, and he held a really short woman in his arms. The two of them laid beside a pile of other short women, and Elerlyth couldn't tell how many there actually were because they were so tangled up.

Elerlyth stalked over to the bed and looked down at him. He looked so peaceful while he was asleep, and she thought he didn't deserve a peaceful sleep for sleeping with so many women like that.

He didn't even bother telling me before doing it! Elerlyth thought, angrily. She leaned over him and hauled her hand back.

“REN!” Teepo yelled.

Elerlyth formed a fist that glowed a little, then punched him right in his peaceful face.
