Nick deactivated Force Acceleration a fraction of a second before his boots touched the ground, causing a ring of debris to billow from his position.

Fritz’s epic attack had left Zora broken and bleeding—unable to flee or gather the concentration required to control its Concept. The impact wasn’t sufficient to daze the dreadbeast for more than a few seconds, but that was all Nick needed to end the monarch once and for all.

Taking aim with mage sight, he fired a Sonic Slice that filleted the moth’s flank, cutting the creature all the way down to its core. In that moment, he realized he had a dilemma on his hands. His Concept refused to relinquish the power that Devouring the dreadbeast offered, but he didn’t want to imprison it in Blightbane for another prolonged battle and risk putting himself out of commission for weeks or more.

Zora was starting to recover from kissing the paving stones at terminal velocity, which meant whatever he was going to do, he needed to act fast. He was getting ready to replicate the move he’d used to subsume Vashir, although he sensed it wouldn’t be nearly as efficient outside the Blade World, when something inside him stirred. His newest bloodline was singing to him on a cellular level, showing him a better way.

Guided by Dreadeater, Nick sheathed his sword and plunged his Devour-wreathed fist into the moth’s massive torso. He wrapped his fingers around its core and yanked it out, extracting the entirety of its energetic network in the process. The channels in his hand penetrated the pulsating sphere and pulled, claiming its dense energy for his own. He thought the process was complete, which left him completely unprepared for what happened next.

His eyes went wide when his bloodline dragged the dreadbeast’s core through his channels and into the space below his heart, filling the seed of a realm that would one day blossom into an Inner World of his own.

Maybe this wasn’t such a good idea. The thought crossed his mind as his consciousness was drawn inward, but he was already past the point of no return. Acting on instinct, he drew every scrap of his Concept into his energetic center, engulfing the foreign body before it had time to fight back.

While this development was unsettling on any number of levels, Nick’s fears proved to be unfounded. The All-Devouring Blade siphoned every mote of magic from the creature’s core, conquering, purifying, and refining it in turn. Blightborn and Dreadeater took their due before Devour consumed the remaining bites of essence, vital energy, and Nightmare it had assimilated.

The battle had reached its epilogue, but it wasn’t over yet. The dreadbeast’s soul still raged inside him, a callous amalgamation of ambition, hunger, and hatred. Zora began a desperate, last-ditch effort to subjugate his synapses and control his body. This was a form of energy his Concept couldn’t touch, which meant it was up to his will to crush final bastion of the creature’s resistance.

Though the monarch was more powerful in many ways, in the realm of minds, Nick reigned supreme. Zora put up a better fight than Vashir or Xuthu, but its frantic attempts to take over could find no purchase. He snuffed out the fading embers of its resistance, ending the Death of Dreams and reducing its legacy to memories and ash.

After the last speck of its soul was subsumed, his bloodlines took over, claiming the dreadbeast’s energy and converting it into a compatible form. The magic infusing Blightborn and Dreadeater catalyzed their advancement, while the rest became raw materials to upgrade his body, brain, and core.

When he came back to himself, no trace of Zora remained. The hideous moth was gone, and its Nightmares had vanished like smoke on the breeze. When he turned in a circle, all Nick could see was deserted streets and a message from the System floating in the periphery of his view.

Congratulations. You have accumulated enough experience to reach level [50].

You have gained 1 point of Magic, Creativity, and Mind from your class.

As a milestone reward for reaching level [50], you have been awarded 2 bonus free attribute points.

You have 5 free attribute points awaiting allocation at your discretion.

He was vaguely aware that he’d been granted two bonus points for hitting Level 50 instead of one, a trend he hoped would continue going forward. He was thrilled to have cleared the requirements to unlock his next class, but celebrating the accomplishment and exploring his options could wait a little longer.

Right now, Nick was too exhausted to do anything but smile and swipe to the next page.

You have improved the following baseline attributes:

Psi has increased from [22] to [25].

For reaching the Grade-D attribute cap in Psi, you have been awarded with 5 additional points of Psi.

The bloodline trait Dreadeater has advanced. It is now Enhanced.

Dreadeater (Enhanced): You may consume the cores of dreadbeasts and other parasitic entities, gaining a significant portion of their attributes and innate resistances while converting their essence into a form that is compatible with your own.

The bloodline trait Blightborn has advanced. It is now Superior.

Blightborn (Superior): Your bloodline trait capacity has tripled. +27 to all attributes.

Warning: Your cells cannot incorporate the additional baseline attributes afforded by this advancement. They will be converted into free attribute points and allocated at the indicated ratio to prevent catastrophic generic damage.

By absorbing Zora the Death of Dreams, you have gained:

9 Strength

14 Dexterity

12 Toughness

19 Mind

22 Psi

21 Magic

13 Meta

Increased resistance to darkness, death, fire, and psychic attacks.

Note: Your species has not awakened to Meta. The energy will be held in reserve until your next evolution, at which point you may decide to integrate it or allow it to disperse.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Arcane Shield to Rank 6. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Enhance Physical Senses to Rank 6. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Force Armor to Rank 6. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Force Acceleration to Rank 6. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Force Riposte to Rank 6. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

You have accumulated sufficient essence to advance Heavy Blow to Rank 6. However, you lack the understanding required to advance the ability at this time.

Unreal. Nick knew there were more updates waiting on the next page. He hadn’t received his quest rewards, and he should have unlocked quite a few classes from his recent accomplishments, including the Epic class the System mentioned.

He pushed past his fatigue and swiped the screen, eager to examine the full extent of his gains. However, that was not what happened next.

In a day filled with unprecedented developments, Nick was about to receive the biggest shock of them all. Size Up issued a last-second warning, but there was nowhere to run. Before he had time to wonder what was going on, something vast and incomprehensibly powerful reached across the void between worlds and grabbed hold, drawing his consciousness out of his body and toward the limitless heavens above.

He shot past the stratosphere and kept right on going, exiting the solar system at a mind-boggling rate. His psychic projection soared through the fringe before moving beyond the boundary of the Labyrinth, streaking through the System’s territory and leaving integrated space. He crossed galaxies and traversed deep space before arriving at the origin of this strange and irresistible attraction.

He found himself floating in an onyx void, surrounded by celestial beauty. While a stray corner of his mind was basking in the glorious panorama stretching out before his eyes, most of his attention was devoted to his energetic senses, trying to comprehend the strongest signature he’d ever encountered.

When Nick realized what he was looking at, terror and wonder warred within his heart. He was staring at a swath of real estate that was home to millions of stars. They only comprised a slim fraction of the galaxy where his soul had been summoned, but these suns and the planets that circled them were saturated with a familiar energy that resonated with his DNA—albeit on a level far beyond anything he’d experienced before.

He had no idea how or why he’d come to this place, but there was no doubt that he was gazing upon the Crimson Blight, the calamity-class parasite that had spawned the strain that destroyed Fritz’s world and nearly hijacked Nick’s body to conquer the Earth. The Blight’s progenitor wasn’t nearly as big as the System, but its power was considerably more concentrated—an unthinkable entity beyond the realm of divinity that made Taltos seem insignificant by comparison.

As shocking as this sight was, it was nothing compared to the consummate astonishment that suffused every fiber of his being when the star-spanning fungus spoke within his mind.

“Greetings, my child. Do not be afraid. I shall not harm you. When our conversation comes to a close, you shall find yourself back in your body once more.”

Nick knew he should be afraid, but he could sense the truth conveyed within those words. Besides, there was nothing he could do. This entity could erase him effortlessly—rewire his brain and use his body as a puppet if it desired. However, the Blight had no intention of making him its pawn, literally or figuratively.

He was flabbergasted to discover that unlike the parasite that tried to consume him, this being was warm and nurturing. He sensed curiosity and surprise flowing through their bond, an intense desire to understand the circumstances that had brought them together and a willingness to help if it could.

“What are you? Why have you brought me to this place?”

“Excellent questions. I shall answer the second first. I sensed a resonance between us when your blight-altered bloodline reached a Superior state. To find a child so advanced and so far removed from my territory piqued my curiosity, but that was nothing compared to the amazement I experienced upon reading your story in full.

“You are standing at a nexus of destiny and coincidence—part of a pivotal moment in the history of this plane of existence, whose outcome will affect all life in the universe. I will explain from the beginning, and in the process, address your first query and alleviate the distrust instilled by your encounter with my distant progeny.

“You have experienced astounding growth since the System arrived, evolving your species grade thrice and ascending a tier. Although it is only a small step down the endless path to power, you understand more than most newly awakened beings. I was once much like you, alone, afraid, and surrounded by creatures incomprehensibly more powerful than myself. You witnessed the tale of the child you consumed, so I will advance my narrative to a later chapter.

While the Blight spoke, Nick was carried to one of the planets it comprised. He was astonished to see a flourishing civilization and rich biodiversity. Though every creature had been mutated by the parasitic fungus, they had both individual and collective consciousnesses. They lived in harmony with each other and the natural world, pursuing personal ambitions and promoting communal growth.

This isn’t the work of a parasite; their relationships are symbiotic. He felt the Blight’s pleasure in that realization.

“I stopped expanding millennia ago, prioritizing enlightenment and unity after reaching an optimal size. Unlike my descendants, I have no desire to erase individuality or force my Order on all of existence. Every creature in my care can leave the collective if they desire. I would invite you to join us, but you have another, vitally important role to play. Forgive me. In my excitement, I’ve gotten ahead of myself. Allow me to provide additional context before arriving at the here and now.

“As entities climb the Tiers and continue to evolve, they eventually arrive at the realm of divinity. Concepts become Paths and transition to Ways, which are sometimes known as Daos. However, godhood is only the midpoint of this transformative journey. When deities are elevated to Ascendants, their Ways transition into Orders, philosophies powerful enough to rewire the fundamental laws of reality.

“Some Ascendants are content to control a relatively small swath of space, like the modest collective I supervise. Others seek to conquer galaxies or dominate this universe itself, fighting for territory and followers in a macrocosm of the gods’ endless struggles.

“You are in the unusual position of having been touched by three Ascendants, myself, the System, and the Dreadlord, also known as the Hollow God. Our Orders represent different approaches to scaling the peaks of power—harmony via assimilation, strength through conflict, and conquest through consumption.

“While we differ in philosophy and methodology, we are all children of this plane of existence. The System is young and still growing, seeking to prove the veracity of its approach. While it can be brutally indifferent, its ultimate goal is cultivating champions, and it enriches the worlds it seeds.

“The Hollow God is a tyrant who has brought ruin to untold trillions. He is the absolute master of every dreadbeast in existence, claiming a portion of the energy they absorb in pursuit of his endless advancement. While his kind bring calamity to any planet they touch, he forbids his progeny from killing microscopic lifeforms. His Order gives worlds time to regenerate and form new cores before harvesting them anew, like a farmer letting fields go fallow to preserve their vitality.

“Before I arrive at the heart of the matter, be warned. Killing a dreadbeast normally returns the bulk of its energy to the Dreadlord. You, however, have stolen from the Hollow God, devouring his children while escaping their curse. He will never forgive you, and I pray you never meet.”

Nick had by no means begun to process this procession of world-shaking revolutions. However, the Blight’s warning made him wonder why it didn’t resent him too. It was happy to provide the answer.

“While I seek only to perfect myself, my children frequently devour each other and change in countless ways. I would not resent you if you had erased my touch, but that is far from the case. My genes have become your own, and you are just as much a part of my legacy as the controlling core you defeated—Blightborn in every sense of the word. Perhaps you will one day be the father of an entirely new strain and form a collective of your own.”

Nick could sense the Ascendant was entertaining itself at his expense, but it wasn’t lying either. He wasn’t ready to ponder the implications of that information, listening as the Blight arrived at the end of its explanation.

“You have encountered three Ascendants. Three divergent approaches to ultimate power, each founded by an entity whose influence spans innumerable stars. The Labyrinth is something else entirely.

“It is an embryo of the abyss. A Seed of Corruption from another plane of existence filled with unimaginably ancient beings, eldritch horrors beyond comprehension. They seek an entry point into our reality, a portal that must consume untold suffering and a staggering amount of energy before it grows strong enough for them to pass through and devour the universe.

“That brings us to you. Nicholas Henry—Child of the Blight, Scion of the System, and Nemesis of the Hollow God. Quite a list of accomplishments for such a short life. In addition to your unique Heritage, your homeworld has been drawn into the periphery of the Labyrinth and you stand within striking distance of the carnivorous maze’s heart.

“While the odds are long, there is a chance, however fleeting, for you to become something capable of crushing the Seed of Corruption before it germinates into the embodiment of ruin. There is only so much I can do from such a great distance, but it is within my power to bring your disparate aspects into alignment. This gift is given freely, but only you can decide whether to embrace it or follow another path.

“With that, it is time for you to go. Your soul cannot endure being separated from your body for long, and I do not wish to cause irreparable harm. Farewell, my child. I am glad we met. From the far side of the universe, I shall pray for your success. Perhaps one day, if fortune smiles upon our endeavors, we shall speak again.”

With that, Nick’s consciousness was cast across the cosmos. He left the Blight’s domain, passed through System-integrated space, and entered the Labyrinth before snapping back into his skin, where a new update was floating before his eyes.

Overwhelmed by everything he’d experienced, he forced his thoughts away from those astonishing proclamations and toward a far simpler matter, reading the words on the floating screen.

You have cleared the requirements to unlock a Legendary class at your next class selection.