Over two million level-up notifications are already registered in my mind, and the longer we float within the void, the more system mechanisms churn in the depths of my consciousness.

These near-infinitely small glyphs do not seem to work under the same rules that I assumed they did.

Instead, the moving parts I managed to peer into while still in the purple zone of the Upper Realm were merely the outer layer. It is the complex mechanism completely made of ether and mana. I can still see this completed layer in my mind now, but it is very simple, and there is no need to concentrate on it any further.

The inner intricate mechanisms that are being laid bare before me now are almost entirely made of the invisible laws that ripple through this void.

If I focus hard enough on certain areas, I can tell that the shapes they make up to look like glyphs are merely a façade. It is only a mental illusion, repurposing what my newly enlightened mind can handle. If there were no common language within these energy fields, it would all be complete gibberish.

Once these manifestations are digested further, they twist and ripple into even more complex forms, continuously pushing my mind to the limits of its comprehension to understand what is really in front of me.

I watch in real time as the laws of reality are shifting and interacting with the outer layer of the system. Each significant shift coincides with a single level-up notification and the corresponding domino effect of the seals that are unlocked throughout my body. Every single one constantly releases more availability to the raw power of the void in extremely complex ways.

One of the extremely large shifts lights up a massive silver, white, and purple panel in my mind. It is the activation of my innate primordial-grade absorption skill, granting me true access to the primordial-grade [Space Time Manipulation] skill on Noctus' status. I mentally press [YES], but this is the first time I get to watch the infinite void of laws opening up and triggering mana- and ether-based seals to move away. I can feel and see the intricate outline of my unique skill and instinctually feel a very profound resonance flowing through me once the transfer is finished.

Unlike the level-up notifications, which are a one-way transaction of seals opening up to allow me to act upon preset laws, a very strange feeling washes through me, like I've altered the dark pool beneath the system.

The feeling fades away as more notifications continue to trigger.

Where there was a pseudo skill before, now I watch the true skill that produces Realm Waves appear on my status.

The intrinsic understandings of its activation are ingrained in my being, and I begin to see that the copies I was creating were truly just that. They were shells of the real thing. I was replicating the size, shape, and function of the glyphs that make up the outer layer of the system. They were not directly linked to any of the actual system's laws.

Prolonged viewing into this inner layer of the system begins to illuminate many new things. I can start to see the patterns of laws bending and forming together, and can predict exactly when new notifications are going to trigger next.

The more complex the shift, the longer it takes for every glyph to spin and activate in the right place.

There are multiple underlying system commands that are lagging behind and waiting to trigger.

One is linked directly to my blade. It feels as though it is in the process of leveling up again, but I cannot predict the intricate details, they're far too deep in the abyss of complexity.

Though, there is another notification that is closer to the surface. This is a sign that it will manifest itself into reality much sooner. It feels just as complex and profound, but shares far more patterns that my mind can easily comprehend. It feels strongly connected to my soul and an immense number of soul ties.

It is even linked to the construct surrounding the Origin Plane.

Every passing moment connects the outer layers of the system to this construct with greater strength, as though an absurdly complex notification is about to trigger.

Its outline looks like the text boxes that appear when a new milestone of the Rising Emperor's Domain is met.

The last time this buff was triggered in the Upper Realm, I claimed access to the rights to borrow 95% of the power from any one of my links of loyalty. Now, as my focus deepens, I can watch the inner mechanisms shift upward. My consciousness manifests the many waves of laws connecting to the system as numbers I can comprehend, rising upward to 96%, 97%, 98%, and even 99% as it rises higher and higher to begin turning every single glyph in the depths of my soul.

Not only is this system shift affecting me, but I can feel the connections to the exact same system shifting throughout every living being in the Upper and Lower Realm.
