“I shall require some provisions. After we awaken Zang Zeng, I shall be heading north to resupply Lu Ri,” he informed his grandson.

Pi Pa was given that task, and Wa Shi finally awoke to eat his fill and then go back to dozing.

The sun was barely up when they entered the fortress, Zang Shenhe there to greet them at the door. The Shrouded Mountain Sect disciples were restless, but their behavior had been good. They were supplied with some more medicine, and Jin made small talk with Shenhe about what they needed, while Shen Yu simply settled in to wait. They questioned some of the other members of Zeng’s team while they waited, but the men had little information and had not been informed of their leader’s whole plan.

Naturally, his granddaughter was skilled beyond measure—and with some enlightenment from her, Zang Zeng awoke and was ready to report.

A report that left Shen Yu a bit conflicted. The man was massaging the truth a bit, but not lying. He had clearly been intending to assault Shen Yu’s grandson, and had broken his orders… but he had also been directly targeted by a disciple of an Imperial Realm Demonic Cultivator and had managed to resist both her and a puppet worm in order to act righteously. His interference in the fight had allowed Jin to come out less scathed than he otherwise could have been.

Yet he had also known about the Patriarch and the dark secrets of his sect.

He asked his boy what he wished… and Jin just didn’t care. He would receive healing for his assistance in the battle and leave with his life, as long as he stayed away from Jin’s home forevermore.

Shen Yu washed his hands of the man… and left the Shrouded Mountain Sect to have their internal breakdown. This one was boring to watch, because he quite liked Shenhe, so he went to do his other duty.

==========================

The flying sword strained him, but Shen Yu was not about to admit defeat—and this was also the quickest way, and much faster without having to carry others. Shen Yu arrived at the captured base swiftly, Lu Ri radiating a beacon of Qi to guide his path.

“I see you have been busy, Disciple,” he called when he arrived, casting his gaze at the formerly hidden base.

“Lu Ri greets Master Shen,” the man intoned, bowing politely outside the captured base. Not a hair was out of place, not a drop of blood stained him—despite the several dozen corpses that were lined up and ready for cremation. “Forgive this Lu Ri for the mess; he just finished mopping up the stragglers and was going to commence the funerary rites for unwilling enemy combatants.”

Shen Yu smiled at his voice and actions. Truly, Lu Ri was upon the path of the Founders.

“I bring you resupply. My grandson and Pi Pa assembled the victuals.”

The man perked up at that statement, a small smile on his face.

“You honour me, Master Shen— This one accepts and appreciates your goodwill.” Lu Ri bowed again.

“Nonsense. A reward and an apology must both be delivered in person.”

The man rose and blinked as the words reached him. “Apology? he asked, sounding confused.

Shen Yu clasped his fist in his hand and bowed. “This Shen Yu must make amends. He briefly questioned your honour, and the honour of the Cloudy Sword Sect, when he found you absent from the defense while you were striking at the core of the enemy base. This Shen Yu offers his apologies to Senior Disciple Lu Ri of the Cloudy Sword Sect, and asks for his forgiveness.”

Lu Ri’s eyes genuinely widened and he seemed at a loss for words. The man opened and closed his mouth several times, before he cleared his throat and returned the gesture of respect. “Lu Ri accepts Shen Yu’s apology. Past actions of the Cloudy Sword Sect destroyed a lifetime’s worth of trust, and it is only natural that it will take time to rebuild. This Lu Ri will endeavor to once more make the Cloudy Sword Sect’s honour unquestionable.”

Even in accepting an apology, Lu Ri was above others.

“Shen Yu thanks Lu Ri for his magnanimity,” Shen Yu said, rising and laying eyes upon the man again. “But I will insist upon setting this matter to rights properly. I owe you a boon of your choosing—we shall discuss it further when Brother Ge arrives.”

Lu Ri inclined his head.

Then, Shen Yu looked around as they both began to walk into the base. “You said there was another here, a Yuanlin?”

Had she been here, he would have told her about Nezan’s state. She deserved to know that much.

“Yes, Master Shen. I told her to go back and check on First Den while we wait, to make sure things are still fine. She was instrumental in our speedy advance and finding this base in the first place.”

They lapsed into silence as they began to tour the facility, fully intact in a testament to Lu Ri’s talents and intelligence. He had already captured everything he could in a recording crystal, but had declined to touch the formation should he accidentally set off some kind of warning.

If they could analyze it completely, they could craft their own artifacts and formations to seek out the formation’s unique Qi signature—allowing them to find these anywhere in the world they might try to hide—and for that they needed an intact example.

“Excellent work, Disciple,” Shen Yu said. He had seen enough to give information to Ge when he arrived… but was in no state to start gutting the place himself. “Please, eat. You will be relieved soon.”

Lu Ri bowed and made the gesture of respect, then opened up one of the jars that had been sent along with the meal.

Lu Ri’s eyes widened and a faint smile crept onto his face.

“Ah, Miss Pi Pa has outdone herself,” Lu Ri murmured as he ate the sweet.

Shen Yu chuckled and he ascended back into the sky.

===================================

He returned about an hour before midday with his joints screaming at him. He briefly checked on the Shrouded Mountain Sect, who were all in varying states of shock, before dismissing them and going to observe what Jin was doing.

His grandson had out a piece of paper, a chart, and was getting people to use their techniques on the pile of corpses in thirty-second intervals.

Curious, he had asked—and Jin had told him about the charts, the intervals, and repeated testing, as well as the different “states” of Demonic Qi.

Jin’s information was not new… it was just not often so quantified. Most scrolls were rather vague about the phenomenon. Demonic Qi was not generally completely static. It could change “states” quite readily—doubly so in some techniques where the Demonic Qi actively fought back, so it was generally best to learn how to grind it down with one’s own Qi.

It was slow, but it worked, and could readily be done with meditation and while cultivating… and so most were simply left to figure out the “states” by themselves.Even the Cloudy Sword Sect seemed conflicted on the changing nature of Demonic Qi. There was much discussion about it amongst the Founders of the Cloudy Sword on the phenomena, but they all called it something different, or had different terms for it—to say nothing of other sects.

His grandson’s understanding was perhaps not complete, but the theory was understandable in a way most weren't. The organized, repeatable tests swiftly collected data, and the writings produced from said data were easily understandable, enlightening all who would look at them.

Instead of one expert using their Qi and making proclamations about the nature of Demonic Qi, Jin had over sixteen types of Qi that he was experimenting with, from a variety of styles—while other disciples also gave their input and thoughts.

It was an interesting way to approach the problem, so different than what many did.

As it was, the work was not yet done, and Shen watched with pride as Jin frowned at the charts, clearly ruminating on the nature of it. He looked at the results of his tests—then at the Hongs’ siphoning formation, and his own formation for growing plants, and scratched his chin.

“Multi-stage destruction array?” he murmured to himself. “Use different types of Qi to destroy it faster and more efficiently? Or siphon the different states into separate places to destroy them?”

All Shen Yu could do was smile.

Then… to his surprise, the day got even better as Yun Ren ran back to the house, waving Nezan in the air.

The wily bastard had lived.

Shen Yu’s grin stretched across his face. How long had it been, since he had had a victory like this? Where the stakes were so high, so involved with his family, but the price so light?

He did not know. But this victory was not his alone. He got to truly revel in it.

He drank with the fox and made merry with the others, celebrating Nezan’s return—while he waited.

His comrades were surely just past the horizon. They would arrive… and then this victory would be truly complete.

Shen Yu was a cracked wreck compared to what he once was, and yet his smile took up his entire face.
