“Our affiliate engaged this threat in battle and defeated it,” Lu Ri continued, his voice still unchanging. The swelling sea of emotion within Xi Kong shifted again to a peak, but he was sure it would drop just as swiftly. “However, before this occurred, the enemy sent an assault force… to the Azure Hills. This was composed of over one hundred Artificial Demons ranging from the Fifth Stage of the Initiate’s Realm to the First Stage of the Spiritual, three Earth Realm cultivators, and one Sky Realm Cultivator construct.”

There was a choked wheezing sound coming from someone. Xinlingi had spilled her tea, her hands shaking so much they couldn’t even reach her lips. Ulagan Baatar’s face was pale and pinched, the man gripping the stone desk before him with all his might. Fortunately, the stone of the Earthly Arena held true.

Tie Delan simply threw his hands up and slumped back in his seat, staring blankly ahead.

“From here, I turn it over to the primary investigator for this body, Commander of the Grass Sea Dong Chou,” Lu Ri finished. At this the man stopped speaking and turned, nodding at Rags, the man who had started this investigation in the first place.

The silence stayed, heavy and oppressive, as Rags cleared his throat.

“The Grand Marshal and members of our alliance had gone to spend the Solstice with Master Jin and were present for the attack. Thus, Master Jin, his household, the Grand Marshal, Commander of the White Tigers Rou Tigu, Sect Master Liu Xianghua, Commander of the Blazing Swords Liang Yin, Head Mason Tie Delun, Ambassador Huo Ten, Zhang Fei, and Shaggy Two engaged this force in battle. During the course of this battle, the Grand Marshal used the unique geography of the area and a secret Qi source granted to her to perform a secret technique of the Verdant Blade Sect—a technique that reverberated throughout the Azure Hills as the Qi anomaly that was recorded on the solstice. With this technique the Grand Marshal was able to slay one of the Earth Realm Demonic cultivators; the rest fled or were defeated by Master Jin.”

Xi Kong couldn’t even feel shocked anymore. His daughter had ascended to the Spiritual Realm, and transcended her Realm to defeat one in the Earth Realm.

“That's… that's impossible,” the Master of the Azure Horizon Sect uttered weakly. He obviously could not believe it.

Xi Kong almost agreed. That kind of thing just didn’t happen here. It sounded too fanciful. It sounded like they were making things up. Xi Kong himself could barely believe it, and he trusted his daughter implicitly.

But the Senior Disciple of the Cloudy Sword Sect refuted nothing they were saying. No, instead, the man confirmed it.

“It has been recorded by the Cloudy Sword Sect. The Grand Marshal acquitted herself well; her deeds were impressive to my Master, as was her bearing. It is for this reason that we are here addressing this body.”

The man’s Qi hid nothing, for it did not need to hide anything. His intent bore down upon them, daring them to question the honour of the Cloudy Sword Sect.

None were so foolish.

“Upon finding out about the first Qi anomaly,” Rags continued, “We began our investigation. Due to the pulse of Qi, multiple secret vaults were opened and there has been damage to transmission stone networks across the province. There were minor secondary Qi anomalies from this. Additionally, when we reached Pale Moon Lake City, we discovered a second Qi anomaly, one which had damaged more crystals there. This second, greater anomaly has been deduced to have been a ship from Soaring Heaven’s Isle making all haste north; with the main forces of the Demonic Cultivators defeated, the affiliate of the Cloudy Sword Sect sent word to the Sect and their allies. Soaring Heaven’s Isle and the Cloudy Sword Sect then scoured the Sea of Snow, putting the rest of the demonic cultivators to the sword and destroying every hidden base they found.

“A token force will remain in the very far north on guard for any other demonic cultivators.” Rags took a breath. “This concludes our report. I hope the Elders understand the truth of the first transmission I sent back. The situation was resolved, no longer dangerous, and could not be conveyed over a transmission stone.”

Rags bowed and stepped back.

For a moment there was nothing.

And then Xiulan, his daughter, cultivator in the Spiritual Realm, a woman that had impressed the Cloudy Sword Sect, stood.

“It is a lot to consider,” she said. “We shall recess and reconvene in an hour, where we will be available to answer most questions. All in favour?”

Slowly, shakily, hands rose.

A recess was called. Xiulan left the room, with the Azure Heroes trailing behind her.

For a moment more, there was silence.

Then Bai Huizhong broke it.

“I need new robes,” the normally bombastic man said in a tiny voice.

Xi Kong was quite close to needing the same.
