I raised both my hands. She stepped closer. Without an imaginary gun in my own hand, I couldn’t fight back. She walked up and raised her hand. She placed her fingertip against the bottom of my chin. With one squeeze, I would die, even if it was just pretend.

She whispered, “Lean over.”

I did as the gunwoman commanded. She continued in a hushed tone,

“A little more.”

I bent over until I was almost eye level with her. She kept her finger tip against my chin,

“Now stand still, or else I’ll fire.”

She raised up onto her toes before pressing her lips against mine. My first reaction wasn’t shock at her kissing me, but a shock at just how soft her lips were. They always looked soft, but I never imagined they would be like velvet.

She reached her other arm around my neck, the kiss growing longer. It was warm and delicate. The taste on her lips was sweet, a bit of the strawberry lingering from her meal. She pressed her body against mine. Even thought it was against my armor, I felt her as if I was touching her with my bare skin.

I breathed deeper. I wrapped my arm around her waist without thinking, pulling her to me. I laid a hand onto her cheek. As I did, my armor molded away from my hand. For the first time in months, my fingertips touched something. It was something soft and smooth.

I leaned into the kiss. We wrapped around each other, exploring the others body with excitement and pleasure. It was a release of tension. We both wanted each other for so long. Althea took the first step, and now I was struggling not to just fall into deep water with her.

We grew passionate. My hands wandered across her. Her own hands went over my own body. As she touched me, my armor flowed around her. It let her touch my bare skin, the electrifying sensations like fireworks. We both yearned for each other. We both wanted each other like a starving wolf wants meat.

Before I knew it, we were moving towards her room. She had made her own cavern by slicing through the stone. Within it, there a cozy bed and the warm light of an old lamp. It smelled of earth and stone. We walked into the room, our bodies tangled together.

She fell onto the bed, her voluptuous body bouncing in the all the right places. I fell onto her, my armor molding away from her, letting us touch. My skin pressed against hers, Althea’s warmth seeping through where we felt one another. Without my armor, I felt exposed. Everytime Althea touched the fresh skin, goosebumps raised over me.

It was like pulling off a bandaid and touching the new, healed skin. It was sensitive and new. I expected intense discomfort from removing the armor. As Althea took off her own clothes and pressed her body against mine, another sensation took control.

It was like I was starving, and an enormous buffet was laying in front of me. My armor peeled off me, covering the entire bed. It even wrapped around Althea, as if we were in our own little world.

Like that, we stared at each other for a minute. She stared at me, her cheeks flushing,

“That was...wow.”

I grinned, a cocky look on my face, “Eh, constitution has its perks.” I looked at Althea, her body’s curves like a painting. I pressed against her, and she shivered,

“Besides, you don’t look too bad either.”

She swatted at me, her fingertips grazing my skin with a gentle touch. I kissed her lips, the sensations like lightning. I felt her body, the soft, seductive places pulling me in. I grabbed her wrist, pushing it down as she whispered in a shaky voice,

“Please slow down. It’s my first time.”

I kissed along her cheek, then down her neck, then I reached her chest. She shivered again as I kissed her. I whispered back, my voice more careful than I imagined it could be,

“I’ll be gentle.”

My body fell into hers. Her warmth surrounded me, softer than silk. She shook as I tasted her, her excitement overflowing. As sex absorbed us, the carnal sides of us both took over. Althea moaned, her nails scratching along my back. Her breath, hot and heavy, brushed against my ears with the sound of her pleasure.

I enjoyed myself too. I kept my touch firm but not forceful. I kept control, but I let her move and shift as she needed too. I pushed into her, keeping a steady rhythm. She wriggled back and forth as I kept myself controlled. Her body tightened as I continued, each a pulse pleasing us both.

She grabbed my back, wrapping her legs around me. She moaned and shook her hips with mine. Her back arched as she pressed herself against me, her body tightening on me. She gasped, overwhelmed as her legs pulled me against me. The jolt of bliss flooded me too.

I finished before laying against her. We both heaved for air, more from the excitement than the actual exertion. I laid my hand against hers, and our fingers intertwined. She nuzzled her cheek into the nape of my neck, a euphoric smile plastered on her face.

She whispered into my ear, “That was heaven.”

I grinned, “Tell me about it. That was amazing.”

She giggled before we laid with each other for a few minutes. After the comfortable, warm silence, Althea whispered,

“I love you.”

Hearing the words melted my iron heart. In the moment, I whispered back, “I...” The words caught in my throat before I finished them, but when I said them, I meant it.

“I love you too.”
