Niala drilled holes in her father with her eyes, while he sat, folded upon himself. David, next to her, wisely remained silent.

Her ears wiggled, and she let out a puff. “Seriously, Dad! When Angeline told me you'd set up a whole second wedding reception just in case there was an issue with the first one, I didn't think you'd also ordered extra food.”

Cornelius made to speak, only to retreat into silence when she shot him a spearing glare. “And not just extra food, five times the food. Urgh!”

Her head slumped forward as she forced her annoyance out. She looked back up at her father with resigned disappointment. “Fortunately, Angeline had already arranged for all that food to be collected and distributed to food kitchens... alongside plenty of posters and banners announcing she and Isaac were the ones behind the donation...”

She frowned. Yeah, that sounded like her sister...

Cornelius jumped at his daughter's silence to speak up. “You have to understand, dear daughter! I couldn't bear the thought of Angeline's wedding being ruined by anything!” He turned to look at David. “You understand, right? I'm sure if you'd the means, you would have prepared a second reception for your own wedd-”

“Dad!”

Cornelius, wide-eyed, blinked, but looked back at David.

Niala followed her father's gaze, toward her husband as well.

David, under both their stares, eventually committed to an answer. He settled his attention on his father-in-law. “I would just quote a famous man, who once said that, no matter what, resources are always limited one way or another. A great man will conserve them, a good man will share them, and a wise man will profit from them.” He ended with a grin.

Niala looked like she wanted to both punch and thank him, while Cornelius's face scrunched up, uncertain how to deal with his own quotes being used against him.

The catkin shook his head. “Very well, I agree that I might have mishandled the resources involved, but can you really blame me? I had nothing but love and care for my beautiful daughter!”

Before Niala could retort, David spoke again. “Ah, but emotions are dangerous. Use your enemy's against himself, let them fuel actions, but never let them control your hand.”

He positively dripped with smugness while Niala hid her face behind her hands.

Cornelius's brain had shorted, and he just stared at his son-in-law.

Yes, he was using his quotes against him.

But nobody else, apart from his daughters, had ever bothered to remember his quotes.

In the end, shame was temporary. Fame was eternal. He smiled. “David, my boy! I'm so glad you've taken my lessons to heart! Indeed! I have erred, as my own recorded wisdom so easily proves!”

David glanced at Niala, who was peeking through her fingers at him, and grinned. “Indeed, Cornelius. It is as you said and wrote: failure is not a debt, but an investment, something that will pay back dividends ten times over!”

Cornelius actually meant his smile by now, ears flopping and tail swishing. “Yes! Yes! Too true! What other words of my wisdom do you remember?!”

Niala groaned, cutting short their back-and-forth. “Stop, please, or I'm going to pass out.”

David put a hand on her back. “It's alright, Kitten. To know one's limit is not an admissio-”

A forceful pinching on his leg made him shut up. Niala let go after a few seconds.

He decided he'd teased her enough.

She leaned back into the couch, sighing. “Anyway, the wedding is over, the food wasn't wasted, and Angeline and Isaac are off on their honeymoon. We can discuss some important things now.” She said, looking at her father.

A frown flashed on her father's face before he tilted his head, his ears standing up. “Important matters?”

Niala nodded, retrieving a small cargo cloth from her satchel and unrolling it on the low table between them. She extracted its contents: a single, thick leather folder. Picking it up, she went to sit next to her father, opened the flap and began retrieving documents.

“Totori managed to get us designs from the Fairlands. These are the design documents for advanced mana-gathering arrays.” She held up another stack of paper. “This is for different models of fairy mana-reactors, along with Marshalla's notes on how she thinks they could be used alongside mana-hearts.”

She stacked the documents in her father's hands and retrieved several more. “Manuals on imbuement from the Wardenfel's arcanosurgeons, explaining how to miniaturize runes. Translated documents from the Luminous Reign on advanced alloys that will hold enchantments better, and this is on how to build complex golem cores and bodies.”

Cornelius stared at the growing stack of documents in his hands. His eyes glinted with promises of fame and fortune, his mouth hanging agape.

He was no magitech engineer, but he knew enough to glimpse at the potential: a nearly autonomous airship, plated in advanced metals, without the power problems that the Alchemical Star had.

His beautiful, resourceful, and genius daughter was not done, however. She removed more documents from the folder and held them up. “These, Dad, are about alchemy.”

The catkin's eyes opened wide as he hyper-focused on the papers in his daughter's hands.

Niala grinned, having gotten the reaction she was hoping for. “In here, you'll find my notes and thoughts on alchemical processes I adapted from the Luminous Reign's own alchemy, but also what it called chemistry.”

She pointed to another stack of documents. “I've also included my research on using bumblemoss to concentrate compounds higher than anything I've ever achieved in a lab. That is a design for the Handy brewer, a brewing apparatus that incorporates the processes I mentioned, that I came up with!”

The airship-related papers forgotten, he began flipping through the alchemy ones, faster and faster, his ears waggling like dog tails.

He stopped, mid-flip, and looked at his daughter. “...Niala...”

“Yes?”

“...Niala!”

“...Yes?” She repeated, angling her head.

“We have to try these! Right now!” He sprang to his feet, the undesired documents catapulting from his lap. He grabbed one of Niala's hands and bolted away, dragging her along, holding the alchemy documents out and up like a torch. “To the alchemy lab!” He shouted before kicking a door open and disappearing through it with a stumbling Niala in tow.

David blinked and looked as the airship documents finished tumbling through the air to land all over the place. He turned his head up at the door. The room was silent, except for a mechanical clock.

He sighed and picked up the discarded documents, stacking them up on the table, and then scratching his temple.

They'll probably be at it for most of the day. Huh, I wonder if they have enchanting tools?

It turned out that yes, they did.