Minerva Aegis, Prophet of Purple Eyes, Mother of Archetypes, and now, apparently, Rescurer of Babies, cursed her lack of foresight. She should have remembered tonight would be the night of the fiercest blizzard the region had seen in decades. She should have dressed for the weather. She should have packed a blanket.

And yet.

She braved the blinding blizzard for the sake of the baby snuggled warm against her skin. The baby had appeared before her—at the wrong place, at the wrong time—and being a prophet Minerva had known who the child was, who she would become, and where she was meant to be. She had, of course, hesitated. She knew what was to come for the child. She remembered the scoldings and the beatings and the fear.

Presently Minerva crossed into Appledell, a small town in the Valley of Three Rivers in the Province of Shannon. The buildings provided some protection from the wind. Minerva took a moment to catch her breath and shake the snow from her hood.

Sacred Heart was the largest building in town, and the old prophet laid the child upon its front step. She knew the baby would be found soon, that she would not suffer long in the storm.

"You are where the story starts. I suppose I must be where it ends."

• • •

Piety Churchstep spent her first few years in the nursery of Sacred Heart, a small, cramped place ruled by acolytes with deriding glares and sharp tongues and firm hands. There were other orphans in the nursery, but as soon as Piety learned to be curious about them, she was set to work scrubbing pots in the kitchen and sweeping dust in the hallways, leaving her too tired for curiosity.

Still, she managed learn.

She learned she was lesser than the acolytes, that her plain clothes marked her an orphan. She learned she and the other orphans were apart from the Daughters of God, who He had chosen for His service, and that only the charity of the acolytes and sisters and especially the Mother Superior guaranteed her a place to live and food to eat and clothes to wear. She learned her pure white hair and tendency to use her left hand set her apart from the other orphan girls who all had brown hair to match brown eyes and brown skin, and who all used their right hands without error. Piety learned that she stood out and to stand out was bad.

At four years old, Piety was removed from the nursery. A tall sister with a serious face and long fingers came to the nursery and introduced herself as Sister Sheliah. The sister knelt and placed her hands firmly on Piety's shoulders.

"I'm the Mistress of Orphans. Happy birthday, Piety."

Piety didn't understand. She didn't know what a birthday was, why it should be happy, or why it should be any different than any other day. So far as she knew, only the eight holy days were special, and winter solstice had passed a couple weeks ago. But Piety did understand Sister Sheliah had paid her a compliment.

"Thank you, Sister," she whispered.

Sister Sheliah nodded. "You're four years old now. It's time you learned to make yourself useful."

Not wanting to be thought useless, Piety spoke before her learned reticence could stop her. "Sister? I know how to wash dishes."

Sister Sheliah smiled at her, and the rare expression put a glow in Piety's chest.

"Good girl, but we'll be teaching you a good deal more than dish washing."

Sister Sheliah took her by the hand and led her down cold, stone hallways interspersed with grey curtains. They stopped at one and Sister Sheliah pushed it aside to reveal a small stone room containing two beds, a wooden chest, a small table with a stub of candle on it, and a girl clad in a simple grey dress. The dress was similar to Piety's, so Piety concluded the girl was also an orphan.

The orphan girl stood when they entered and bowed to the sister, her hands folded at her waist. "Good morning, Sister Sheliah."

"Temperance, this is your new roommate, Piety Churchstep. Piety, meet Temperance Sunday." Sister Sheliah gave Piety a push into the room.

The girls looked at each other.

"Temperance, you'll show Piety to meals and chores and classes today. Understood?"

Temperance bowed again. "Yes, Sister."

"Good. You know where to find me if you need me." Sister Sheliah pulled the curtain closed behind her.

For several minutes, the girls examined each other shyly, neither sure what to do.

Piety couldn't help but notice Temperance had the same brown hair as everyone else, but, rather than contemptuous, she looked friendly. She was short and slight, no bigger than Piety, but surely older to be put in charge. They might have stood there a good deal longer had the morning bell not rung, signaling six-hour.

Temperance took Piety's hand. "I suppose we'd better get to breakfast, or we won't get any."

Again, Piety was led through the hallways until they reached a large room with long, wooden tables: the refectory. Piety had always eaten breakfast in the nursery, only passing through the refectory to go to the kitchens for dish-washing, so it was a novelty to sit at a table with all the other orphans. She squeezed onto the end of a bench, next to Temperance.

Soon, more orphans came from the kitchen and served them, starting with the few sisters chatting quietly at the head table, then the acolytes spread out between two tables, and finally the orphans crowded at one. The porridge and roll and water was the same as she'd been given in the nursery, but for the first time, she saw that the acolytes ate something else, something that smelled wonderful. The acolytes who tended the nursery didn't eat in the nursery, but she always assumed everyone was given the same breakfast: porridge and roll and water

"What's that?" Piety asked Temperance, indicating the acolytes' breakfast. She craned to see it.

"Shush," said Temperance, and her urgency made Piety remember the acolytes' hard hands and an orphan's proper place. She and Temperance ate breakfast in silence.

After breakfast came kitchen duty where Piety was put to work doing what she usually did, washing dishes. After kitchen duty came laundry duty, a new experience. It was similar to washing dishes except done outside in the laundry yard, which, in the winter, was icy work. After laundry duty came lessons taught by Sister Jayne.

"Who are you?" Sister Jayne demanded as she approached the bench where Temperance and Piety sat together at a small desk. Temperance had been reading softly to Piety from the Scriptures, the story of Saint Zyta and the Endless Ocean. The acolytes in the nursery had read to them from the Scriptures daily but had done so in a quick, bored tone.

Piety stood from the bench and bowed her head. "My name is Piety Churchstep. Sister Sheliah said I was to learn to make myself useful."

"Look at me, child."

Piety looked up at the tall Sister.

"I do not abide laziness, foolishness, or stupidity. I will teach you to read and write and figure, and I expect you to learn. Understood?"

"Yes, Sister."

After class came more chores: she ground herbs in the cellar, changed candles in the hallway, then swept the hall outside the room she now shared with Temperance. After chores came dinner: soup, roll, and water as always, but different from what the acolytes ate. After dinner, Piety followed Temperance into the sanctuary for evening sermon.

Piety had never been in the sanctuary before and was so stunned by the grand room that she stopped moving. They entered the sanctuary through a side door hidden by thick, velvet curtains of red and gold. The large, heavy benches were built and carved of wood, stained almost black, and polished to a shine. The walls, where they weren't covered by the curtains, were a pure white stone gleaming in the light of so many candles the air smelled of wax.

Piety wasn't given long to stare. Temperance took her hand and dragged her to the back of the sanctuary, near the outside entrance, and they sat on a bench with the other orphans. All the orphans sat at the back while acolytes and sisters sat in front with the people from the village sitting in between. From here, Piety could see the head of the sanctuary where was a raised dais. Several sisters sat on large, ornately carved chairs upon the dais. Behind and above the dais was a large, round window comprised of colored glass arranged in a stylized sunburst with nine rays, the symbol for God.

A shiver ran through her as she took in the window for the first time.

Behind them was a similar window set above the main entrance, almost right above their heads. Most evenings, she realized, the sun would shine through the window, bathing the sisters on the dais in brilliant colors, but the early dark of winter required candlelight.

"Piety," Temperance whispered urgently, "Piety, sit down. Please sit down."

Piety realized she'd stood on the bench to turn around and gaze in wonder at the stained glass window above her. The other orphans looked at her with varying expressions, some with concern, some snickering behind their hands, some with the same disdain the nursery-tending acolytes had. Piety sank slowly onto the bench, but Temperance's warning had come too late.

Piety was grabbed by the shoulder, pulled from her bench, and hurried down the central aisle. Her feet barely touched the floor as she was hauled over the scarlet and gold rug running from the entryway to the dais. Shocked, Piety was to the dais before she thought to look up at who had grabbed her.

The woman was the angriest looking sister she'd ever seen. Her dress was the same colors as the decorations in the sanctuary, scarlet and gold. Her sunburst pendant was shiny gold and sparkly red stones, her greying brown hair was pulled into a tight bun atop her head. Her grip was strong and her fingernails sharp.

From her new position, Piety could see detail on the chairs at the back of the dais: scroll patterns, tiny sunbursts, and words she didn't know. The sisters who sat in those chairs looked at her with varying degrees of non-expression. Piety recognized some, Sister Sheliah and Sister Jayne she'd met just that morning, others she'd seen before but didn't know.

"Who is this?" It was the woman who had grabbed Piety, and her voice was as harsh as her expression.

At first, Piety thought the woman was addressing her, and she tried to think of a polite way to admit ignorance.

Sister Sheliah answered.

"You named her Piety Churchstep, Mother. Today is her fourth birthday and I brought her to the dormitories."

"Her fourth founday you mean. We do not know her birthday," the woman replied, rebuke evident in her voice.

Sister Sheliah bowed her head. "Yes, Mother."

"What's wrong with her hair?" the Mother demanded.

No sister answered. Piety realized this woman spoke to the sisters the same way sisters spoke to acolytes, the same way acolytes spoke to orphans. This was the Mother Superior.

The Mother knelt next to Piety and grabbed her hair. Piety gasped, and tried to hold still. The Mother put her face close to Piety's. Piety could see her pale brown, almost golden eyes, could see the faint wrinkles across her forehead, could smell the sweet-scented soap in her hair.

"Never before have I seen a child so clearly marked as unclean. You must feel fortunate, Piety Churchstep, that we Daughters of God found you. Your hair marks you. You'd be dead before you could walk had we not taken you in. Hanged for theft, or worse."

"Yes, Mother," Piety replied, mimicking Sister Sheliah's words.

The Mother released Piety's hair and Piety could not stay standing. The pain and shock had drained her. She fell to her knees, bowed her head to the rug-covered dais, and tried not to cry.

"That's right, girl," the Mother said, "kneel and pray to God for His mercy."

The Mother turned away from Piety and addressed the gathered sisters, acolytes, citizens, and orphans, expounding on God's mercy and His punishment for those who displeased Him. She spoke on how God would mark those who were sinister, unclean, unfit to be in His service, He would mark them with unnatural coloring. But Piety wasn't listening. Instead, she did as she'd been told, she knelt upon the rug, lifting her face only enough to see the great stained glass window at the other end of the great room, and she prayed.

For as long as she could remember, Piety had been told about God, about how He lived in the sun and watched from above and loved everybody, even dirty orphans. She had been told to pray and had bowed her head and stayed quiet while the nursery acolytes recited words. But she'd never offered a prayer herself.

For the first time, she considerd asking God for something. She could ask for anything, she realized, and her first thought was to ask God to punish this mean woman, but at the last moment decided against it. She didn't like the way the thought made her feel.

So, instead, she asked for love.

That felt nicer.

Piety's breathing slowed, her thoughts focused, and she felt a tingle in her chest that spread to shoulders and hips, the base of her head and the small of her back. It tingled along her arms all the way to her fingertips and along her legs to the smallest of her toes. It filled her head, her vision, her hearing, until she could see only a fuzzy whiteness, and hear only a glorious, chiming harmony.

From the haze of light, a form sharpened in her mind. It was a place. A room. A room in her mind where no one else could go, a place to be alone with her thoughts, a place to be unafraid.

"Wretch!"

Piety was knocked from the place in her mind by a blow to the back of her head that sent her sprawling. The tingle suffusing her body fled, chased away by a crushing nausea and a heavy pain that repeatedly struck her back and side. Above her there was shouting, angry voices, but for Piety, the world faded away.

Three days later, Piety awoke, stiff and sore, but whole. Temperance embraced her but let go when Piety groaned in pain. Temperance explained to Piety that she had begun to glow and the Mother Superior had never been so angry. The Mother had beaten Piety, kicking her when she fell until Sister Sheliah intervened. Sister Sheliah had been expelled from Sacred Heart.

"I glowed?"

Temperance nodded, her face shining with excitement and creased with worry. "Yeah. Everyone saw it."

"Are you sure?"

"Of course I'm sure."

Piety had her doubts, but kept them to herself.

When Sister Clarice, who introduced herself as Sacred Heart's healer, said she was well enough, Piety returned to chores and classes, and life at Sacred Heart progressed through the years.

