She learned to read from the Holy Scriptures and to write by copying the Scriptures onto a slate board with soft chalk. She learned numbers, how to add and subtract and multiply and divide. She learned how to mend and wash clothes, to weed and harvest a garden. She learned to make candles, and grind herbs, and scrub floors. Piety learned to hide her white hair, the mark of God's displeasure, with a scarf lest she be berated by every passerby with the authority to do so. Unfortunately there was little she could do about her white eyebrows standing sharply against her brown skin. She learned to use her right hand rather than her left, lest her knuckles be rapped until they bruised. Sometimes they bled. She learned to recognize the Mother Superior's distinctive stride, even in her sleep.

She learned to be unobtrusive, to stay out of the way, and in so doing, to avoid harsh words and harsh hands. She accomplished this by sweeping. To sweep the halls and the refectory and the kitchen and the sanctuary and especially the cellar, was the least of tasks among the orphans. No one wanted to do it because it was boring and lonely and time consuming. For Piety, it was perfect. She preferred to be alone, it meant she didn't have to deal with the cruel commentary of her peers.

Soon, sweeping became Piety's primary chore, so much so that it became her name: Sweep.

Sweep learned she had no talent for cooking or any task associated with cooking. No matter how many times she was spanked for ruining the meat because she could not turn a spit properly, or for putting too much salt in the bread, or for burning the sauce, she never got it right. Unlike her other lessons, she never learned to do it correctly the next time, or even the time after. Eventually Sister Dora, Sacred Heart's head cook, limited her kitchen duties to washing dishes and cleaning tables, for which Sweep was grateful.

She learned of God and His Eight Saints.

Sister Jayne taught them to read using the Scriptures, the stories of the Eight Saints, which taught lessons of acceptance, tolerance, and community. She read about Saint Esther and the Dread Necromancer; Saint David and the Centaur Herd; Saint Mary and the Flight Through Heaven.

She read the stories again and again, and soon she couldn't help but think the Saints wouldn't have cared that she had white hair or used her left hand or was an orphan. Which, inevitably, lead her to think the Mother Superior, and by extension most inhabitants of Sacred Heart, had it all wrong. She began to think they were wrong when they claimed to know God's will or what He cared about. But she shared that particular revelation only with Temperance and only late at night when everyone else had gone to sleep.

Temperance nodded and shrugged. "But it doesn't matter. We're orphans. I think you're right, but you won't convince them."

Temperance was Sweep's confidant and only friend. Despite the negative attention Sweep received, Temperance didn't regard her as unclean. When the other orphans tossed snide comments at Sweep, Temperance was quick to defend her. When they tried to play nasty tricks to get Sweep in trouble, Temperance would warn her. When she fell behind in her studies because she'd been assigned extra chores, Temperance tutored her. And yet Sweep's status as anathema never translated to Temperance; the others accepted Temperance and pitied her for having to share a room with the white-haired wretch, no matter how Temperance defended her.

Of everything Sweep learned at Sacred Heart, it was what she learned on her own she most cherished: how to go to the secret place in her mind whenever she wanted.

Late one summer evening, when she was nine years old, under a cloud-scattered sky, Sweep found herself alone on the front step of the sanctuary, performing the task for which she had become known. That step, in the shadow of the large double doors, was where she'd been found as a baby, it was where many orphan girls were found, so she always took care to do a thorough job sweeping it.

Once finished, she stepped inside and was ready to go to bed when the clouds shifted and the stained glass window above the door was suddenly lit to as brilliant as she'd ever seen it, casting a multi-colored pool of light upon the dais where the Mother Superior gave her sermons.

Inspired, Sweep walked to the dais but not onto it, afraid to enter the pool of light. With a slow breath, she knelt, laid her broom at her side, and closed her eyes. She cleared her mind, slowed her breathing, and relaxed her body, as she'd been taught for prayer.

But she didn't ask God for anything.

Sister Jayne taught that communicating with God required one to quiet the body and mind so as to ready the soul for asking Him to hear a request. Sweep often overheard the other girls asking for silly favors: rain so weeding would be canceled, or berries in the porridge, or fewer math sums. But Saint Zyta the Poet taught that prayer was to "Empty yourself of self, of selfishness. Only then can you be open to the message of the Divine."

Sweep tried to empty herself of self.

A tingling started at the base of her head, her shoulders went numb, and she was suffused with buzzing vigor, chimes at the edge of hearing. As she had five years before, she saw a place in her mind, a place that was hers, and this time, with no one to stop her, she went there.

A moment later, she blinked away a greenish-yellow afterimage and looked around a small room. It was stone, like the room she shared with Temperance, but this one contained a bookcase filled with eclectic variety, a small table where rested a small wooden box, and a large, comfortable chair upholstered in silver and patterned in swirls and angles of black. There was no door to the room, no windows, but Sweep was unconcerned. Intuitively, she understood this room existed only in her mind and she could leave any time she liked simply by willing it.

Examining the bookcase, she found books she'd never seen before. She knew books other than the Scriptures existed, she had seen them in the library on the rare occasions she was required to sweep it, but few of the titles she read now were the same as those she had peeked at. Sweep had only ever read the Scriptures, and much as she loved the Eight Saints, the prospect of new stories excited her.

The box on the table was held shut with a simple latch and inside rested a stack of something she had no name for—thick pieces of smooth, shiny paper with numbers and shapes on them. Flipping through them she discovered there were only four shapes and each shape was assigned a value from one to ten and each shape also got three portraits, though who the portraits were meant to be of, she had no idea. Interestingly, though some portraits were of people who looked like the people of Sacred Heart—brown hair, brown eyes, brown skin—some depicted people of different colors: pink and black skin, blue and green eyes, yellow and red hair. She was stunned to see such a variety.

None was white-haired, like her, though.

Finally, Sweep turned her attention to the chair. It was a chair similar to those she'd seen in sisters' private rooms while sweeping. It had a high back, sturdy, claw-shaped feet, and a well cushioned seat. She reached out and touched it gently, tracing the black swirls and angles with a finger. As she did, some of the black patterns wavered and became white.

Sweep snatched back her hand and gasped.

In the next moment, she was back in the sanctuary, kneeling on the rug before the dais. A quick look around revealed she was still alone. With a small, relieved sigh, she picked up the broom and left for the dormroom she shared with Temperance. As she navigated the stone corridors, a disquieting thought occurred to her. Sweep had been different for as long as she could remember, and though a secret place she could access whenever she wanted was an exciting prospect, it was also another difference.

Temperance sat on her bed, reading the Scriptures by candlelight, when Sweep entered.

"Temperance, what happens when you pray?"

Temperance looked up and blinked at Sweep. "Uh... well, mostly I try not to fall asleep. Either that or every little thing distracts me."

"So you never, uh, you never go anywhere?" Sweep leaned back against the wall.

Temperance set her book aside and scooted to the bed's edge. "No," she said slowly. "Do you go somewhere?"

Sweep nodded; she tried not to shiver.

"What's wrong?"

Answers galloped through Sweep's mind: I have white hair, I'm left handed, I'm unclean, I'm sinister, I'm different... But she couldn't articulate them. Instead, Sweep dissolved into tears, unable to speak. Temperance helped her to bed where she cried against Temperance's shoulder until exhaustion claimed her.

Eventually, Sweep was able to tell Temperance about the room in her mind, about the book-filled shelves and the small table and its box with odd papers and the chair that had changed color. They talked about it in quiet voices over the warm, soapy water of a laundry tub a few afternoons later.

The laundry yard was dominated by three copper tubs large enough to hold Sweep four times over. The ground was so trampled that grass never grew, and water sloshed over the sides to make mud near the tubs. Wooden clogs big enough to wear over slippers, were stored near the door, making the yard traversable. The yard was lined with a tall wood-slat fence almost twice as tall as Sweep with a narrow gate in one corner held with a wooden latch. Often, while doing laundry, Sweep would imagine what lay beyond the narrow gate.

"A room in your mind. That's incredible," Temperance said.

"It's scary," Sweep countered, though she wanted Temperance to be right.

"Why?"

"Because it means I really am different. The Mother is right."

Temperance frowned. "Don't say that. You've never believed that."

"But..."

"No. You've got a power, like the Saints. You're not unclean, you're special."

Sweep spent the next few moments in silence, trying not to blush. She believed the Mother was wrong about the marks of disfavor, but she couldn't believe she, a simple orphan, was special.

Temperance went on. "Can you go there whenever you want?"

Sweep shrugged. "Maybe. I haven't tried again."

Temperance laughed with delight. "So you could go there and ignore the Mother's boring sermons."

Sweep smiled.

"Where did the books and stuff come from?"

"I don't know," Sweep admitted. "Most of them I've never seen before."

Temperance laughed again. "Your mind knows more things than you do."

Though Sweep was unconvinced of her specialness, she visited the room in her mind often. During the hours long sermons on holydays, she'd play solitary with the playing cards, those thick pieces of paper, using rules from a book she'd found on the shelf. On nights when Temperance slept soundly but she could not, Sweep would go to that private room and read books with titles like the Art of War and Misdirection, and Sky Wars: an Epic in 9 Episodes, and Attic Lights and Sidwalk Endings.

New books would arrive from time to time and Sweep, though thankful for the opportunity to read something new, couldn't stop wondering where they came from. Sometimes she would sit in the room in her mind for hours, sometimes she would enter and exit several times in quick succession, she even considered leaving a note, all hoping to meet whomever it was who added those new books. But the truth was she didn't want to know. If there was someone else, it would mean the room in her mind wasn't hers alone. That it might not be safe.

She never wrote the note.

Sweep considered that she might be making it all up as a way to escape, or perhaps she was hallucinating. But the cushions of the chair felt real, and the games of cards were complex, and the stories in the books were so far outside her experience that she couldn't believe she'd created them all.

Nearly a year later, Sweep found an answer for those unfamiliar items in her mind. In a book called Psychology of Man, Sweep read about the subconscious, a theory about a person's mind below the level of thought. It seemed an odd idea, but it was an explanation she was desperate for. It allowed her to think of the books she'd never read before and the games she'd never played before, as having been absorbed somehow by her subconscious. After all, if her mind could contain a special room, why couldn't it also fill that room? It allowed her to push those worries aside.

Which was how she learned to lie to herself.

When Sweep was eleven, something new appeared in the room, a small table and two short stools. Upon the table was a board patterned in alternating black and white squares and upon the board two sets of delicately carved figures and a small book describing the rules to a game called chess. The game involved sets of pieces, each set with a special movement pattern. The goal was to capture a unique piece: the royal.

Sweep was immediately fascinated, and she made an opening move with a white pawn. A few days later, when she returned, a black pawn had moved.

At first she was frightened.

"It was my subconscious," she told herself, and the fear subsided.

And so she moved another pawn, and the black player responded, and on it went. Sweep lost the first game, and the second, and the third, but she enjoyed it. It was interesting and complex, and she continued to play.

Outside the room in her mind, Sweep suffered at Sacred Heart. She learned suffering was part of life, though orphans suffered more than most and she more than the rest. Sisters smacked her when she wasn't quick enough or humble enough or quiet enough. Acolytes called her names and mocked her hair and reported her to the sisters for 'improper behavior'. Most distressingly, the Mother Superior carried a stout rod for punishing wayward girls, and Sweep felt it on her back frequently.

But Sweep knew there was more to life than suffering at Sacred Heart. She knew because her earliest memory, before the anger of the Mother Superior, before her friendship with Temperance, before even the crowded nursery, was of a pair of bright purple eyes. She dreamed of those eyes sometimes. And every time she was mocked or smacked or beaten, she remembered those eyes and the other life they promised.
