“Escaping,” Shiv muttered. He looked back at the fortress and, for the first time, saw that the prisoners had been fleeing across a bridge. Fifty meters away, running all the way to a second set of gates, was a mess of disfigured flesh that had once been people. Hundreds had been boiled to death, with their skin and meat peeling from skeletons. Some survivors whispered for death while others were melted into the flesh of their fellow escapees. And then there were the castle walls themselves. They were of a stainless metal.

The kind used for flat-top grills.

The flames Shiv had been seeing were coming from below. They shot upward and curved around the castle at the end of the bridge, heating it. Like it was a pot or some kind of pan. Some of the flames tumbled even higher into the air and left flashes of light lingering in the sky, combusting as brilliant fireworks in the aftermath.

What kind of hell… Shiv’s mind whirled in a daze. This… all this is a kitchen?

A pained cry from the thin boy drew Shiv’s focus back. Cuntus had the child hanging from a seized arm. One of the other slaves tried to intervene—but Cuntus reduced him to crimson mist with a globule of spit before Shiv could comprehend what was going on.

He acted. There was no thought. He blurred forward and clamped his arm around Cuntus’ as he pulled the man back.

“The fuck are you—let go of me and deal with them!” Cuntus snarled up in Shiv’s face. “You came down here to help with the cooking, right? You want to impress your new daddy? Well, here’s your first job: Them!” Cuntus pointed at the miserable, dying, wretched slaves. “Deal with the commis waste-flesh.”

“Deal with,” Shiv breathed. Something inside him cracked. “Commis… waste-flesh?”

“Oh, for—you picked a wonderful time to go back to being a fucking simpleton, didn’t you? Yes. Them. Just chuck the slaves off the sides. Can’t take you more than a second.”

Shiv’s head turned like his neck was a rusted hinge. He stared at the slaves. They stared back. One of them sobbed. Another two fell to their knees and started to pray. The last managed a word through quivering lips. “Please…”

“Let me go!” the dangling boy cried. He kicked at Cuntus. “Let me go! I don’t want to!”

“You ungrateful little shit!” Cuntus seethed. “Them, I can see. They’re worthless, useless, and stupid. You? I was good to you. I was kind to you. So why are you with them? Why did you betray me like this, sweet Henry?”

“I don’t want it!” the boy all but shrieked. There was a raging flood of near-madness that came with his suffering. Just being touched by Cuntus made him feel ill. “I don’t want you—”

Cuntus’ expression twisted in a grin of savage glee. “Well. Like I told you before, sweet Henry. It doesn’t matter what you want. It’s what I decide to give you that counts.” Cuntus’ grip closed. A snap sounded. The boy’s wrist folded as bone and flesh pushed through skin. His screams took on a tortured dimension. With a frantic motion, Shiv pried Cuntus free from his victim and pinned the chef to the ground. Before Henry could crash to the ground, Shiv caught him with his other hand and reflexively tried to heal him.

But his physical body didn’t have Biomancy infused. Shit.

“What the fuck is this?” Cuntus cried. His eyes were wide and leaking steam. “The hells are you doing, you stupid cunt?”

“You broke the kid’s arm!” Shiv all but screamed. “You disintegrated the other one! What do you mean, what am I doing? What the fuck are you doing?!”

The inferno summoned by the Fire Dimensionals grew brighter in the backdrop of this hellish world, and the arrow they were shaping adjusted its angle and now pointed at Shiv.

Cuntus’ expression twisted. “They’re mine! All of them are mine! This place and everything in it is MINE!” As he screamed, the steam erupting from his eyes was suffused with a blazing incandescence, and with each syllable he spat, his voice grew layered.

Georges was on the surface, but there was also something else below.

Another voice. One Shiv recognized for what it was. “You,” he whispered.

Cuntus stopped struggling for a beat. Slowly, a sneer spread across his face. One more mocking and disdainful than all the ones before. “So. You actually recognize me.”

Shiv felt his insides twist. His breath was coming fast. He knew why Georges had gone to the Fairwoods. He knew what Georges had been trying to escape from. Who he'd been trying to escape from. What had been done to him.

Shiv had known. He just hadn't wanted to consider the possibility of someone else wearing Georges’ flesh.

But the System didn’t care about what Shiv wanted either. Neither did Evanescia. They just wanted him to hurt and fight.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Shiv. You know what you have to do. It’s not him. It can’t be him anymore. I’m sorry.

And to that, there was only one response: “N-no,” Shiv said, his voice cracking. “I don’t think I know you at all. Sorry, Georges. S-sorry.”

Before the Ascendant wearing his adoptive father could respond, Shiv drove an elbow through his head.

Georges’ skull broke apart.

So did Shiv’s heart.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart 167 > 170
