Pick up the blade again. It does not matter that you are wounded. It does not matter that my heart screams for you; that every instinct inside me howls for me to stop—that I could kill my own flesh. It does not matter how many times you cry out my name. So long as we stand in this ring, we are not blood; we are enemies.

The moment you crawl out of the circle, we return to being family, and I will take you into my arms. But never a second before.

I want you to know something, Udraal. The world outside the circle is a fantasy. Every second you've spent next to me was imagined, illusory. You live in a garden that I have created. You live protected by my shadow, for few are foolish enough to incur my wrath, even among what paltry rivals I have deigned to spare. But you are not me, and your status as my son only goes so far. Without your own power, without your own skills, you will inevitably be victimized. So, again! Pick up the blade, or turn away and run!

You cry. But you don’t flee. I know. I wish it weren’t this way. I wish the world weren’t so wretched. But such is the will of the System. Such is Integration. Our lives are ruled over by a thing that lusts for conflict, and so conflict must become the bedmate of your soul. I know. I know. I’m sorry.

But it does not matter that I am sorry either. Philosophy and intellect will not spare you here. This is meat on meat, bone before bone, and steel upon steel. And I want you to know right now that I will be the second greatest enemy you will ever face. For I am the one who sculps you without trying. Your mother and I. From us to you are seeds that must flower or wither, and should we ever become true foes, then you must strike! Strike first! Strike without hesitation or mercy! Because I know you. You are still within my shadow. You remain my shadow. And nothing my shadow can do will surprise me.

Until it does.

Maul your heart. Carry that blade. Seek to perform the impossible and, if that is the way it must be and our differences truly cannot be put aside, strike me down.

It is the bitterest freedom one can earn.

—Valor Thann to Udraal Thann

337

The Boiling Toad

If hell were a kitchen, it would be The Boiling Toad.

The eeriness began long before Shiv descended into the bowels of the keep. Following Cuntus, he studied his surroundings as he told his new “Head Chef” about the Georges he knew. But while he spoke, while Cuntus listened and snorted, Shiv noticed something else; the individuals depicted in the portraits lining the walls had turned their faces askance, where moments prior they faced forward. Cords of fear stretched out beyond the lip of the portrait frames, but they weren't given unto Shiv; instead, they formed a messy nest around Ser Cuntus, shrouding him in a dense hive of dread.

Georges had been feared in his kitchen, but he'd also been respected. He had struggled alongside the lesser chefs. He never presented himself as a boogeyman.

But Shiv knew terror; he fed on it like a leech. And the tithes of horror offered to Cuntus by those they passed were rich enough to make Shiv a colossus were they directed at him instead.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: He is not Georges. Not the same, at least. Get that through your head. And control yourself. He can taste our emotions. Don’t give him any more insight.

I’m trying! Shiv barked back, doing everything he could to mask the discordant feelings within.

Isolation became another bedfellow on their journey through the keep. The outside buzzed with activity; the Princess loudly proclaimed her urges, and thousands of faces scrambled to meet those glorious demands. Within the pendant resting upon her breast, however, there was only silence. A sense of emptiness—a wrong kind of emptiness, like a field harvested barren of wheat before the proper time. There should have been more people in the halls; at least hints of life or signs as to where everyone was. Instead, the keep was devoid of individuals and polished of architecture.

Like a story missing details between the pages, was the intrusive thought that wormed its way into Shiv’s brain.

Even when he used his Atlas, he saw nothing but a scant few glints. None of them were nearby, either. They were all scattered in different corners of the keep.

Is this place bigger on the inside? Feels that way. Feels too vast. Maybe there's some kind of Dimensionality at play here? But my Portomancy isn't picking anything up. Shit. Adam would’ve figured this stuff out in a second. Uva too. Hope they’re doing alright.

“Wondering if all the cunts are slacking off, are you?” Cuntus suddenly asked.

The question struck like a flicking blade, stabbing straight at what Shiv was thinking. “Something like that.”

Cuntus chuckled dryly. “Asked myself that question when I first got here too. Place’s too godsdamned fucking empty to hold enough staff to service a big lass like the Princess. But that’s because this place isn’t a place. It’s more like a kind of… corridor. Each of the royals has one.”

“A pendant?”

“No, a fat, hairy cock. Of course I’m talking about the pendant. Not all of their pendants are as big, but here’s the kicker, right? I think all the pendants… are actually the exact same one. Just being worn on different necks. Equipped to different Court nobles. Connecting different places. Figured that might be the case during one of my earlier escape attempts. No point in trying, by the way. I managed to slip out of His Radiant Lordship’s necklace and avoid getting turned to ash-powder for his tea, but didn’t make it much farther than that before Evanescia fucking turned the pages back. She’s always watching. And even when she ain’t, she can undo whatever she doesn’t like when she notices it… Although, she’s been a bit more aggressive recently.”

“Aggressive how?” Shiv had a suspicion. He and Uva had been swallowed by the Watchtower. Though his Unique Skills were spared from assimilation, everything else had been copied over. He was effectively a character in a story now. At least in part. Uva was burned worse than he was.

“Aggressive, like her flipping pages back and forth on a whim. And a lot of flipping ahead. It’s like she can skip or change the chapters of the Fairwoods at any moment—whenever she fucking pleases. Before the last few days, it took quite a bit of shite going off the proverbial rails before she decided to start the book over again, so to speak.”

Yeah, definitely our doing. But she doesn’t have Adam yet…

With that came a chilling thought: What would Evanescia be capable of if she did manage to capture Adam? It seemed like Shiv and Uva’s incorporation into the Broken Watchtower had changed the foundations of the Fairwoods to some extent.

I don’t want to find out. Gotta figure out how to escape as soon as possible. And Adam needs to stay missing for as long as he can.

The realization that a seed of Divinity had flowered within Adam came back to Shiv. Maybe… maybe he managed to take something from the Watchtower. Maybe that’s why. Just can’t stop changing us, can you, System?

Existence didn’t need to offer a reply—Shiv could feel its cruel hand laid upon his person with every encounter he survived. In the shape of Evanescia, it had gained an avatar to embody its worst impulses.

“Ser Deathless,” the Vestment’s fairies moaned. “A moment of your notice, if you may. We are still wounded and have need of sustenance. If you can, find something edible and feed it to the Vestments—a meal of good quality and flavorful taste, if you can. Raw ingredients can work in a pinch, but cutting corners often brings forth miserly results.”

“Wait, this armor heals by eating food?” The notion seemed absurd—but his bafflement was quickly replaced by genuine mirth. “You know what? I can work with that. I think I can work with that real good. Hey, fairies? I think we’re going to get along pretty good together.”

“It gladdens us to hear you think so, Ser Deathless, but this was long known. The Princess’s tastes are never wrong: Not in consumption, and not in her choice of companions.”

The walk lasted a short while longer until they reached the end of the corridor. There, a set of doors multiple stories high stood before them, radiant with sunlight—and seemingly forged of it as well. Rather than being made from gold, the closed portal appeared to be Pyromancy mana smelted into matter. The magic suffused into the frame was dense enough to be at Master-Tier, and it snapped open as Ser Cuntus gave it a wave. On the other side, inexplicably, was a door leading to a platform. A huge elevator shaft greeted Shiv, wide and high enough to fit a building.

“Don’t think too hard about the architecture here,” Cuntus said with a scowl. “It’s been bloody forever, and she still doesn’t care enough to add proper detail. Eons and ages, and the bitch can’t seem to figure out how to transition a scene properly.”

His words made the wheels in Shiv’s head turn. “Yeah. The entire place is kind of messy, isn’t it?”

Cuntus snorted with derision. “It’s not finished, is what it is. Problem with trying to translate a story to an actual world: Text isn’t enough to convey the whole of a bloody thing. So, you’re just missing a bunch of shit. Going from one area to another isn’t very narratively exciting unless you’re experiencing a development or running into some interesting sights along the way, so guess what? You’re getting a bit of a jump-cut from one scene to the next. If you manage to slip out from here and rush north, don’t be surprised if you take three steps and find yourself going from a nice and happy little farmstead filled with grinning, cheerful fuckers to a swampy graveyard filled with moaning corpses who want to drain your vitality to feed their Mother Green.”

“It really works like that?” Shiv asked. He looked up. “Evanescia… You’re really kind of lazy, aren’t you?”

That didn’t get a reply either, but he was sure he'd offended her at least somewhat, since his Sticks and Stones Skill trembled with slight delight. “Hey, Cuntus. How long have you been here anyway? Seems like you’ve tried to escape a bunch of times.”

“Lots. Thousands. Millions.” Cuntus sighed. “Who the fuck knows. I lost count. And it doesn’t matter. I’m not getting out of this shithole. Neither are you. Neither is anyone who had themselves thrown into the flame. So. Just accept it. Deal with it as best you can—and remember, there are no consequences to anything you do here, so long as you keep the Reader happy.”

There's something about how he said those words.

“But how long?” Shiv pressed the question. “If you had to guess, how long do you think you’ve been here in the Fairwoods?”

“Not exactly like there’s a calendar, but I counted over…. well, fifty thousand loops before I just gave up.”

Shiv blinked, and he exercised his meager math abilities for a few moments. “That… can’t be right. That’s over a hundred years.”

“Sure as shit feels like it.”

“No, I mean mathematically, that’s literally like… one hundred and thirty or forty years, I think.”

Cuntus shrugged. “Yeah. Might be.”

“But it hasn’t been nearly one hundred and forty years since Georges escaped from Longinus,” Shiv insisted. “It couldn’t have been more than a few decades.”

Cuntus eyed him. “Well, maybe I counted wrong. But also, I said loops. Not days. Loops are longer than days, Deathless. A loop is four seasons. Four seasons are as long here as they are on Earth.”

Shiv’s mind became a vacuum. All his thoughts were ripped right out. “What… That's… That would be so much longer than—”

“Feels like one eternity stacked on top of another. Yeah.”

With that revelation came a period of quiet. But that can’t be right, Shiv thought to himself. I was connected to my other bodies—I’m still connected to them. This can’t be right. If that’s right, then it should feel like time is flowing differently between two places, and my Chronomancy should have felt something wrong.

But Shiv wasn’t the only one with time magic at his disposal. His own wasn’t even worth mentioning compared to that of the Post-Legendary Pathbearer Evanescia had inserted herself into during their brief battle.

A new question arose: At what Tier could someone use their mana field to cover a continent or world? At what Tier could they accelerate the flow of time within so severely that everything outside felt like it was standing still?

Shit, Shiv summarized. Shit. Fucking shit. Fuck! If she lured us in—if she knew about us from Harkness’ memories, she could have kept that Skill in reserve—only activated it after we were trapped in her cage. She shattered the dimensional gateway connecting the Tutorial to the Fairwoods on a whim. How much power would that take? Seems like a lot. Oh, godsdammit.

“Yeah, there’s a feeling I love.” Cuntus chuckled darkly. “A bit of hope just spilled out from your prolapsed asshole, didn’t it? I remember feeling that way. I remember all the others like us realizing that there was no way out. Most of them lost their minds—lots ended up dead. But the Fairwoods have a way of keeping you around even after your death. New Fae gotta come from somewhere, right? Well. While we make more of ourselves through a bit of hip work, this place runs on inspiration. And individuals and monsters make for pretty good kindling if there’s enough mana inside of them.”

And the Watchtower burned me and Uva. Shit, are there Fae versions of me and her running around already? Wait. Am… am I a copy of my original self?

