The existential terror lasted less than a half-second. No. My Unique Skills didn’t lose levels with that reset. The Watchtower didn’t manage to eat all of me. I’m still myself. I think.

“Got a question for you now, son.” Cuntus coughed. “How long you guess you’ll last here? Before you try to finish yourself off or she cracks your will for good.”

The words were meant to provoke, to chisel a chasm of despair into Shiv's shaken spirit. They had the opposite effect. Shiv drew upon his Dread-Tainted Feat as he delivered his reply. “You ever eat something that made you sick for days? Had you spewing out from both ends?”

The beginnings of Cuntus’ mocking smirk vanished. “Can’t really remember. Why? The fuck’s that got to do with my question?”

“I am that something. For Evanescia. The Fairwoods. And the System. If she’s listening right now, I want her to know that she didn’t put a wild animal in a cage. That’s not what I am. I’m a bomb. One that keeps going off over and over and over until everything around me is rubble. Your question is wasted on me. You say that shit to her the next time you two talk or fuck.”

Shape of Monstrosity 163 > 165

Flashes of Daughter’s suffering bombarded Cuntus—and Evanescia, if she was listening in. The former tried to hide his surprise, but failed. And for the first time, Shiv saw something break the strange waters that composed Cuntus’ emotional core: fear.

Ah. There you are.

“The fuck was that?” Cuntus gasped hoarsely. He stared at Shiv, his gaze less certain than before. It also presented a hardness that wasn’t there prior; a hint of recognition as well.

“Just a little something I picked up the last time someone tried to trap me in their prison. The prison doesn’t exist anymore. Said someone got a new scar from me. The others learned to leave me alone. Let’s see if the Usurper-Narrator is smarter than Daughter the Deadly.”

Cuntus was speechless. Something at the corner of his lip quirked, but Shiv wasn't sure if it wanted to move up or down. “You…” The words stopped coming for another few moments. He turned away and glared down at the platform. “The Boiling Toad. Make it fast, you shit.”

The Pyromantic doors slammed shut. The elevator plunged down sharply, carrying the two into the bowels of the keep. A tension built between them. With a few words and a hit of Dread-Tainted, the dynamic between them had shifted. Before, Shiv was wary of Cuntus because of the way he acted, his resemblance to Georges. Now, everything was inverted.

Cuntus continued looking forward for a while, staring at nothing, before he finally asked, “How?”

“How what?” Shiv replied.

“How did you get into a fight with Daughter the Deadly? How did you do that to her?”

Shiv considered telling him. He decided against it. “I think I’m going to keep you in suspense for now.”

“You fucking—are you serious?” Cuntus barked. He spun on Shiv as steam began whistling out from his eyes and ears. “You hit me with that vision and don’t tell me shit? What the fuck is that?”

“Just something I do to people who aren’t very nice sometimes,” Shiv answered casually. “I might tell you if you tell me what you know about Daughter?”

“What do I know about her?” Cuntus’ face was tomato-red with anger. His eyes grew bloodshot as red veins burst in the white. “What don’t I know about the little fucking monster? She can’t stop killing, she can’t keep her claws to herself, her mother can’t be assed to keep her fucking bastard under control, but won’t accept anyone hurting the sack of shit she abandoned. So the entire Republic suffers for it. So I suffer for it. So everyone has to deal with the fact that there’s a literal godsdamned horror running around, butchering and wearing girls to keep her skills fueled. How’s that for an answer?”

“About sums it,” Shiv replied. His heart softened. But his vigilance endured.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: Do not give him anything concrete. We don’t know what kinds of trauma Georges endured at the hands of the Ascendants. If this Cuntus is a Fae copy based off of him or some other manner of facsimile, it would be unwise to traumatize him.

“Let’s just say she didn’t try to keep her claws to herself when it came to me,” Shiv said. “And her claws didn’t quite go deep enough. But mine did.”

“She’s a fucking god,” Cuntus breathed. “You couldn’t have hurt her.”

Shiv rolled his eyes. “She sure didn’t scream like a god. More like a hurt, insane kid.”

Cuntus almost choked. “You’re a Legend. At most. You have to be. And that’s not enough.”

“Alright,” Shiv grunted.

“Alright? The fuck do you mean by alright?”

“Not my job to convince you of what happened. Believe it. Don’t believe it. I don’t care.”

“Then what do you care about?” Cuntus’ Adam's apple bobbed. Then, his eyes narrowed. “Me. You got some strange feelings pointed at me there, don’t you? Meant that much to you, this Georges did?”

“Yeah,” Shiv answered honestly.

Cuntus calculated his next response. “And I’m like him?”

“Just enough. Just enough for me to have a hard time looking at you.”

Cuntus smirked. “Well. I’ll take that as a compliment.”

But it really wasn’t.

A small mercy came as the platform came to a sudden stop. A looming set of gates came into view, their surfaces marred and battered from something trying to bash its way out. Shiv narrowed his eyes at the blockade before them. The gate was made from adamantium. He could tell by the texture alone. Behind the door was a vast expanse of glittering lifeforms. There were hundreds in the vicinity, and exponentially more beyond. Shiv tried to use his Atlas to get a better look, but felt his Awareness bounce off the gates instead.

The doorway physically rattled on its hinges. Dust and bits of stone tumbled out from the surrounding walls.

“Tried to take a peek into my kitchen, did you?” Cuntus laughed darkly. “Surprised your eyes aren’t popped. Most people who launch their Awareness at what’s mine don’t get to keep their senses.”

And indeed, Shiv was currently blinking repeatedly in an attempt to clear his eyes. It felt like a High Heroic-Tier Pathbearer had jammed their thumbs into his eyes while clapping his ears and flaying his taste buds. “Felt a bit like running into a wall,” he grunted. “You got Awareness blocking wards?”

“Not just one set, but considering I run the single most productive kitchen in all the Fairwoods, well, I got no shortage of resources, no shortage of favors, and no shortage of mithril.” Cuntus looked Shiv up and down, and his lip twisted like he was trying to stop himself from snarling. His core combusted with visceral blasts of violent anger, and Shiv watched in fascination as the man bottled up all that malicious intent with barely any of it showing on the surface. “I’m going to tell you this once, yeah? Just once. I don’t appreciate what you just did. Don’t reach or touch what’s mine without asking. I’m fine with a lot of other things—fuck, I love sharing. But when it comes to my stuff, you ask me for permission. Otherwise, there’s going to be a real fucking problem between us.”

There was a biting weight behind every word. Shiv felt something snap at him. It was an unseen pressure—invisible and heavy, like the jaws of some kind of hidden beast. Shiv's chest actually ached under the weight. A Social Skill? Some kind of Psychological attack?

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: It hasn’t compromised our thinking yet. Maybe something more esoteric. Be careful. Even if his teeth seem easy to pluck, he hasn't shown us every row.

“Alright,” Shiv finally replied. “I’m sorry. I’ll be courteous next time.”

His words forced another sneer out of Cuntus, but the Chef of the Summer Court let things stop there.

A sudden crash shook the adamantine doors. Shiv flinched back and saw a particularly large lifeform pressed against the doorway. Even in a glimpse, he could see they were badly injured—their biological simulation told of multiple lacerations—a spell Shiv could cast on a whim. There were also so many contusions and—

“Fucking hells, look at this shit. Look what happens when I’m not there for a few bloody minutes.” Cuntus snarled as he stormed toward the gates. “All the collared cunts forget my face. They forget what’s coming their way when I get back! Always! Never changes! They never fucking learn. But today, they’re gonna get it. And you’re gonna help me. As long as the Princess doesn’t call, you’re gonna help me. Because this is your fault!”

“My fault?” Shiv frowned. “What do you mean it’s my fault?”

“You distracted me. You made me cross over. If I were here, this would have never happened.”

As he said that, Cuntus finally arrived just before the double doors. Cuntus was dwarfed a hundred times over by the gate. He was effectively a toddler man trying to pull open castle doors—but he managed with a casual flick of his wrist. Both doors swung outward from the elevator room, striking whoever was on the other side. The adamantium rumbled from the impact. The unmistakable sound of a skull fracturing crackled through the air, followed by whips of trailing blood untangling like cords in the air.

In an instant, the insides of The Boiling Toad were unveiled to Shiv, and he found himself blasted by waves of miserable heat, gazing into a blasted landscape of oppressive smoke and raging flame. The vast horizon was consumed by pillars of spearing flames, and they cast a glow that was so bright it smote all detail from those standing before Shiv, reducing them to shadows moving across the walls of a cave.

Cuntus’ figure was unmistakable, as was a set of fortress walls far beyond. Why a kitchen would need—or have the space for—fortress walls was another question. A question that was further exacerbated by Fire Dimensionals hovering at the top of the walls, pooling their mana fields to shape a tower-sized arrow forged from hateful flame.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: With emphasis on hateful. There is more than fire magic in those flames; there is an aspect of me there as well. A mirroring skill. My Enkindled Flames. What is this place?

Shiv got his answer as his eyes adjusted. He saw Cuntus walking toward a downed figure. A huge, olive-skinned humanoid lay splayed across the ground, clutching his face. Blood was pouring between the three fingers of his hand, and the ragged loincloth that offered him modesty did little to hide the horrific scars lining his back and chest.

The sight of the scars hit Shiv like a lightning bolt. I know those scars. Saw them on the slaves in Theborn. Those come from whippings.

A keening moan of pain escaped the giant. He was over twice the height of an orc—eight meters tall maybe. What is he?

The answer, aside from the race, was terrified. The huge humanoid was on the verge of madness, despair, and complete emotional collapse. “P-please don’t! I’ll go back! I’ll be good! I’ll go back to helping stir the pot. Not the pit! PLEASE DON’T PUT ME IN THE PIT!” His squeals were unbefitting of his size. He sounded young. Like a teenager begging his father to stop hitting him.

Cuntus was practically an insect before the downed giant. But he stared daggers of scorn at the behemoth as his core churned with ill intent. “Oh, you’re not going into the pit. Don’t fucking worry about the pit. You know the rules. What are the rules?”

“Please—” the giant whimpered.

“What are the rules?” Cuntus hissed. “Since your fat skull seems to have leaked out everything I beat into it, I'll so gracefully remind you: You try to run, you go from being a commis to being food.” He put a foot on the boy's cracked and bleeding head and pressed down until he screeched. “And it’s been a while since I added some cyclops to my soup. Might make them boil you extra slow. Set it all to simmer. How’s that sound?”

The cyclops began to sob uncontrollably. He curled tighter around himself and did all he could to retreat from the world. Beyond the huge form of the boy were others as well. Others that looked on at the terrible scene. There were thirty of them. Most sported disgusting burns, with their flesh peeling off the bone, tissue smoking as it hung in flaps. Most of them were ragged and clearly desperate. Their breaths hissed forth wet and wheezing, while their eyes dimmed with building despair.

At the center of the group was a small boy. He stood as an anomaly among the others. While they were dressed in rags, he wore a pristine white toga that some of the Republic’s nobles fancied—one that was a bit too transparent for Shiv’s comfort. There was also something about his hair, dark as midnight, and his skin, pale as ivory, that called out to Shiv. Worst of all was the child’s gaze.

There was something broken there. His core was withered as well. A part of him had been corroded and rotted, unable to feel—or perhaps unable to endure the traumas that ailed him.

The boy never looked away from Cuntus, and after a second, the chef noticed the boy as well. What rage simmered inside Cuntus raged until it reached new heights. His core was an inferno of fury. Outside, he went perfectly calm. He even smiled. But it was a trembling smile. One that spoke of ill things to come. “Henry. What. Are. You. Doing. Here. With. Them.”

“Cuntus,” Shiv called out from behind, shaking off the sights. “W-what’s going on?”

“You got eyes, don’t you?” Cuntus spat, spinning to glare at Shiv. He waved a hand at the slaves. “They’re escaping.”

