Edmund’s gear never got a chance to dry.

Raindrops pelted his body as he emerged from the darkness between levels, a gentle drizzle that blotted out the false sky above. It seeped through the gaps in Edmund’s armor, joining the lake water from the previous floor in the little pockets that trapped it.

Edmund sighed. At least now he had a camp in which to dry off, if he ever found the time to stop and rest. The mark of the shouted gauntlet weighed heavily on his hand.

So he got right to work. First things first: immediate surroundings. The fairness accords guaranteed relative safety while he lingered by the entrance, a safety of which Edmund had grown accustomed to taking full advantage.

He stood at the bottom of a great gulley, some thirty feet wide at its base before a steep slope walled him in on either side. Towering conifers littered the space, impeding Edmund’s line of sight far more than they did the rainfall. Their fallen needles protected his boots from sinking into the mud, blanketing the hills and valley alike in their dead and dull browns, each soft and swollen with the rainwater they’d absorbed.

The flat light of the storm clouds above cast the space in shadowless gray, robbing the otherwise vibrant forest of its hue and texture.

The raindrops themselves carved paths through the smoke, leaving faint trails in the air as they passed, narrow lines that lingered for the scarce handful of seconds before the haze could reclaim its lost territory.

The earthy scent of wet soil and mossy bark clashed against the familiar acridity in Edmund’s nostrils, painting the gully both in the verdant tones of life and foul ones of death.

Beneath the patter of the rainfall, a panoply of sounds echoed through the air, a veritable symphony of tapping paws and rustling needles, percussed irregularly by the intermittent snapping of a twig somewhere in the distance. No amount of rain would reduce this wildlife to slumber.

Edmund managed to decipher exactly two pieces of information from the mess that reached his ear. The first, unsurprisingly, was that there were creatures out there, doubtlessly ones that would try to kill him. The second, far more curiously, was that they seemed to be moving away from him. The sounds, as he stood and listened, grew fainter by the minute.

He wondered to what these beasts raced, or worse, from what they fled. He doubted they ran from him.

First things first, he had to test the limits of his surroundings. Lifting and setting his feet gently onto soft ground, he took a hard left and crossed the dozen paces between him and the hillside. Water ran down it in little streams, cutting a web of paths in the dead needles that littered the ground. The angle of the slope made climbing it a hazardous prospect at best, but one Edmund would’ve been remiss not to attempt.

So attempt he did.

The toe of his boot sank several inches into the muddy hillside offering at first glance some semblance of a foothold. The quagmire failed, however, to hold his weight, sending his foot slipping right back out and back to the gully floor the moment Edmund tried to step up.

Next, he pulled the two tips of his hyper magnetic spear from his forearms, grasping each in an underhanded grip before plunging them into the mud. Well over a foot they sank in, deeper and deeper into the muck until the base of Edmund’s fists met the damp earth. Edmund gave them a tug. They held.

Withdrawing one, he yanked hard on the other, pulling his body up to jam the second in higher than he could’ve otherwise reached. For several seconds he dangled there, feet flailing about as they tried and failed to find purchase on the rain-slick slope.

In the end, it wasn’t his grip that gave in.

It was the hill.

A layer over half a foot broke away from the hillside, sending Edmund sliding down with it. He leapt back, trying to use a windstep to his advantage, but without anything in front of him to push off against, he failed to gather any backwards momentum.

Edmund hit the ground mid mudslide, the soft and saturated earth cushioning his fall even as it buried his lower half.

Edmund groaned.

“Tsk tsk tsk,” A familiar voice sounded from behind.

Edmund craned his neck to find Liam, complete with waterproof leather boots and a waxed canvas umbrella, looming over him.

“When will you learn, when will you learn,” the dungeon continued. “You can’t just abandon the intended path.”

“It’s a hill, not a wall.”

“Potato, potato,” Liam countered. “What is a wall if not a particularly steep hill? Don’t answer that. It’s actually in the accords.”

“Anything over sixty degrees and sufficiently unclimbable,” Edmund quoted, “whatever that means.”

“There’s about ten pages of legalese out there describing exactly what that means. You don’t need to worry your pretty little head about it.”

“Not that I can,” Edmund grumbled. His little pocket book on the accords didn’t include the finer details. “What do you want, Liam?”

“Ooh, where to begin? I’d like a dry gin martini with two—count ‘em, two—olives, a nice bowl of mixed nuts that goes heavy on the macadamias, light on the almonds and extremely light on the pistachios, and someone to play cribbage with who both isn’t terrified of me and perceives time in a linear manner. It’s no fun when they already know what cards you have.”

Edmund glared at him.

“Oh, you mean from you! Same things I always want: quality entertainment and the chance to get a few zingers in while you’re stuck in the mud.”

Edmund rolled his eyes. “You planned this, didn’t you?”

“Let me get this straight: you’re accusing me of designing an entire floor with just loose enough topsoil and the perfect amount of rainfall to trigger a mudslide on the off chance you tried to climb your way out rather than actually attempting the level, just to make you fall into the mud? Because yes, I did absolutely do that.”

“He’s a child,” Edmund muttered to himself. “A murderous, immensely powerful child.”

“And maybe if you found a little childlike joy, you wouldn’t be so…” Liam gestured up and down at the entirety of Edmund. “Like that.” He grinned. “Besides, we all need to fall in the mud once and a while. Something about not taking ourselves too seriously or getting too wrapped up in our own self-importance and whatnot. There’s no dignified way to climb out from being stuck in the mud. Trust me, that’s a law of nature.”

“And when have you ever been stuck in the mud?”

“Now why would I answer that? Didn’t you hear what I just said about it being undignified?” Liam leaned back against a nearby tree trunk, crossing his arms as he looked down at Edmund. “Now come on. Give it a go.”

Edmund Broke Through.

A great and horrifying slurp echoed through the gully as Edmund shot free of the mudslide. He slid wildly backwards, skidding across the slick ground until the back of his head finally came to a stop against the first tree in his path. His helmet rang like a bell, reverberating in his ears in a deeply unpleasant tone.

Even worse, as Edmund glanced down on his mud-coated self, he found a piece of gear missing from his person. His left blackbone boot, part of a set that matched his leggings, had disappeared from his foot.

Liam applauded. “Beautifully executed. Ten out of ten. Would’ve given you a nine, but I bumped you up for losing a shoe like that. Muah.” He kissed the tips of his fingers. “Perfection.”

Edmund scowled and pushed himself to his feet, stomping back across the gully. Already more mud had fallen to fill the gap he’d left.

“Ooh, and he’s back for more. Ladies and gentlemen, what a stunning display of Ahab’s trademarked stubbornness.”

“Who are you talking to?”

“You, mostly. A little bit myself. Come on. I want to see if you fare any better on the second try.”

Edmund fell to his knees, removed his finger armor for fear or losing it too, and reached into the mud. “I just need to get my—”

Something shifted. Another chunk of hillside broke away. Edmund yanked his hand free and leapt back.

“Yeah, I think that boot’s gone for good. Unless you want to go for take three?”

Edmund glowered and stepped back.

“Yeah, didn’t think so.” Liam smirked. “Have you learned your lesson? Are you finished trying to leave the boundaries of the levels?”

“Fuck you.”

“I’ll take that as a yes.” Liam twirled his umbrella. “And all it took was losing a piece of loot. Maybe I’ll start taking away your toys more often. Who’s the child now?”

“Still you.” Edmund assembled his spear and stepped past the obnoxious avatar. He’d had enough games. The sooner he cleared this floor the sooner he could get out of this damn rain. It was starting to bother him. Was it just him, or was it coming down harder than before? He couldn’t tell for certain, but the possibility spurred him forward all the more.

He stopped just before setting off to remove his other boot, sacrificing its protection in favor of maintaining balanced footing. With any luck the mud would cling to his bare feet less.

He handed the spare boot to Liam.

“For me? You shouldn’t have.”

“Well, you’ve taken the first one,” Edmund said. “Now you have a matching pair.”

With that he set off, keeping to the gully’s left side for the limited protection the slope offered. He stayed an arm’s length from the hill itself lest another mudslide restrain him at a less than opportune time, though that particular occurrence didn’t strike him as particularly likely. The soil was already so saturated that the rainwater ran right over it. If the rain alone hadn’t been enough to trigger a slide yet, it probably wouldn’t in the future, not on its own at least.

That didn’t stop Edmund from keeping an eye to his left at all times. He’d yet to spot any of the wildlife he’d heard, and something could just as easily have lurked in the trees that sprang from the hillside as in those along the valley floor.

He moved slightly faster than his normally glacial pace as he progressed down the slight incline of the gully, for a variety of reasons. As he’d struggled against the mud and Liam alike, the woodland noises had all but disappeared from the distance. Those creatures were going somewhere, and Edmund instincts screamed it had to be for a reason. His best guess was that it had something to do with the growing intensity of the rainfall.

The second reason for Edmund’s relative haste was simple enough: he wasn’t checking the hillside for secrets. After the way this floor had begun, poking and prodding at the muddy hill seemed like a recipe for trouble.

The way grew more treacherous with each passing minute as the trickles of runoff grew broader and more plentiful, melding into each other even as more flowed in from the hillside. Already they’d gathered enough strength to whisk away the odd pine needle in their path, leaving a network of slick streams ready to disrupt Edmund’s footing.

Ten minutes into his trek, he had to devote more attention than he would’ve liked to sidestepping the rivulets. Twenty minutes in, he gave up entirely. By the thirtieth minute, the blanket of needles had washed away entirely, leaving only soft soil with a near-uniform half-inch of water running over it.

It was then that Edmund found the body.

It had resembled a squirrel once, albeit one the size of a large dog. Now, only its massive incisors and bushy tail retained the likeness, the rest of its matted brown fur little more than a bloody mess. Something had not only torn this thing to shreds, but seemed to have melted parts of it. Something obviously larger and more dangerous, yet interestingly, something that hadn’t eaten it. Edmund wondered if the mystery predator had abandoned the carcass to escape alongside the other wildlife, or if it’d simply killed the giant rodent for fun.

He wasn’t sure he liked either option.

On he went. Still the sounds of nature eluded him. Still the fleeing fauna maintained their lead. If Edmund was certain of anything, it was that they didn’t flee from him.

He made it another ten minutes along his way before he reclassified the water at his feet from a stream of runoff to a flood. It moved faster than he did, leaving a wake as it broke around his bare ankles and splashing up with every step he took. Even beneath the growing roar of the deluge, there’d be no masking Edmund’s footsteps.

He still had yet to spot any monsters when he realized the true peril of his situation. The water level had risen to just over six inches, high enough to threaten to yank him from his feet at the slightest misstep. Edmund paused for a few moments, running his mind through his limited alternatives, before opting to sacrifice combat readiness for improved stability.

He plunged his spear into the mud, grasping it with both hands to steady himself. Once stable, he dug in his feet until the silt’s grip held firmer than the water’s tug, only to withdraw his spear and plant it yet further down the path. Bit my bit he worked his way forward, inching ever onward as the downpour thickened and the waters rose.

Another several minutes of glacial progress later, the water level had climbed high enough to both eliminate Edmund’s current plan and give rise to a new one. He set his sights on the nearest tree, one whose trunk stretched further around than his arms could reach and whose branches didn’t begin until nearly two dozen feet from its roots, and made his way towards it. There, he planted his spear in the ground between him and it, letting the floodwaters press his upper body into the weapon as he reached for the cutlass at his hip.

He raised his poisoned weapon, swung for the conifer ahead of him, and activated Savage Rend.

To say he cleaved clean through the broad trunk would be untrue.

There was nothing clean about it.

Chips and splinters exploded out in all directions as his blade met the bark. A deafening crack echoed across the gully, drowning out the rumble of the deluge and roar of the floodwaters alike. The force of the blow sent the base of the tree launching away from Edmund towards the hillside, breaking off in jagged chunks from the root system below.

It landed in the mud, sinking in as its branches caught on the canopy above. Edmund stepped up onto the trunk, slipping his bare feet in between the spikes of broken wood. He grimaced as a handful of splinters made their way into his flesh, but he could deal with those later. For now, he had a raft to secure.

