He leapt up off the solid surface, burning both windsteps to build enough altitude to land atop the leaning tree. Its steep angle and rain soaked wood made for a treacherous climb, but one Edmund managed nonetheless. His fingers found grips in the bark, his legs clamped around the curved surface as best they could.

He didn’t have to travel far to reach the lowest branches. He grabbed one, clinging to it as he planted his feet against the trunk of the tree. There, he counted the seconds until his windsteps recharged, until his cooldown refreshed.

Finally, Edmund again drew his sword, again he swung, and again he brought to bear his Savage Rend.

Edmund leapt from his perch as the trunk plummeted, cut free from its branches’ entanglement. It landed with a splash, sending two waves over twice Edmund’s height up and out as he caught himself with a step on solid air before landing atop the severed log.

He held his breath as needles and twigs and wood chips rained from the canopy, as the waves rippled out and back and out again, as the storm and the flood and the forest itself absorbed the chaos he’d created. No monsters pounced. No trap sprung. Within moments it was as if nothing had happened at all, as if that log had always sat there. Only the water level, nearly an inch higher than it was before, proved the passage of time.

Edmund exhaled. He sheathed his sword and sat upon his newest craft, straddling the log like some noble steed. Now, he needed only wait.

For some half hour he rested there, catching his breath and drinking from the rainwater that pooled in his cupped hands. He scrubbed mud from his armor, cleaning himself of muck and grime as best he could for little more than opportunity’s sake. It wasn’t like he had many other ways to wait. He dared not venture into his camp for fear the log would depart without him.

By the time the floodwaters grew high enough to lift the massive log from its bed of mud, Edmund was more than ready.

He made it eight feet before catching between two trees.

Edmund pushed himself to his feet and walked along the length of his makeshift raft, pushing hard against the nearer of the two obstacles to maneuver the log through the gap between them. As the rushing water whisked them off, he fell back into his more secure straddle.

He kept his spear assembled as he floated downstream, pushing against various obstacles in an attempt to steer as best he could. The task grew easier as the log rotated, spinning enough to travel lengthwise down along the torrent.

Faster and faster the floodwater took him, further along the gully until, by hour’s end, Edmund finally caught a glimpse of the fauna he’d heard before. Giant squirrels clambered across the canopy, leaping from branch to branch as they escaped the flood. Dull green snakes swam downstream, eliciting Edmund to yank his legs from their submersion for fear of a bite. He need not have worried. The serpents were the least of the danger.

He felt the thing land on his log before he saw it. The motion nearly threw him from it as his makeshift vessel bobbed up and down wildly. Edmund caught himself with his spear.

A low growl pierced the roar of the deluge.

Edmund turned to find an ebon-furred feline, nearly as tall as he on its four legs. Twin tails swished through the air behind it, each ending in a curious bulb that didn’t match any cat Edmund had ever seen. Metallic claws dug into the bark of the tree trunk, holding the beast securely in place even as the floating log bobbed about.

More striking, however, than its curious tails or metal claws or coat as black as the darkness between levels, were the eyes upon its face.

Specifically, the lack thereof.

What seemed to be a skull that lacked eyeholes entirely left a solid surface atop the creature’s snout. The cat must’ve sensed him somehow, but Edmund had neither time nor attention to spare on such details. His thoughts instead were drawn to the razor sharp fangs it bared at him, and smoke that drifted off its hide.

Singetail Panther

The delver’s mark of the challenger on Edmund’s shoulder tingled with activity, but before he could register any changes to the creature before him, it pounced.

He lowered his spear, planting its base into the log and leveling its tip at the panther, but the blind beast reacted even faster. A wide paw batted the weapon away, wrenching it from Edmund’s grip. At the last moment as it left his grasp, he issued the mental command to disassemble, its pieces whirring through the air to attach to his various limbs.

It did little to keep the monster off him.

Several hundred pounds of desperate panther bowled Edmund over, landing atop him as he fell onto his back. Luckily, the beast’s own need for stability kept its claws constrained to the log on either side of him, simultaneously keeping Edmund from falling to the water and sparing him their razor tips.

Massive jaws clamped down onto his helmet.

Edmund tried for his still untested Collateral Damage, but the ability refused to activate, missing some condition he’d yet to discover. Failing that, he opted for the tried and true.

He Broke Through.

He shot up and into the panther’s underside, forcing the air from its lungs in a pitiful cough yet failing to wrench its claws from the log. Edmund fell limply onto his back again, earning himself little more than a moment’s respite for his cooldown as the beast fought to reclaim its air.

And then it was upon him again.

His ebonsteel helm kept the fangs at bay, yet even it buckled under the panther’s mighty jaw. Its sides caved in, pressing painfully against his cheekbones, bruising and cutting circulation and eventually cracking them under the pressure. Pain exploded across Edmund’s face, but he shoved it aside behind a veil of smoke.

His hands scrambled desperately for something, anything he could bring to bear against the beast atop him, finding little pinned to his sides as they were. He needed time. He needed space. He needed the freedom to move.

A spell came to mind, one he was loath to use under such circumstances, yet alternatives refused to present themselves.

With his focus fixed on the paw just beside his right elbow, Edmund cast Magma Fissure.

A cloud of steam burst into the air as the log split open and lava spilled out. Edmund’s rerebrace did precious little to temper the heat as the skin beneath it blistered and burned. The panther’s paw fared no better.

The magma set its fur alight, flames licking up its leg before the rain could put them out. The beast recoiled, yanking its paw from the source of the heat even as the downpour cooled and hardened the molten rock. Edmund didn’t let the opportunity pass by.

He kicked against the panther’s rear legs and rolled over his burnt right arm, slipping under the beast’s raised paw to fall into the water below.

The current pulled him under.

The roil of the floodwaters tossed him about, slamming him into the mud and the rocks and the trees it carried him past. Edmund struggled to right himself, paddling desperately with his arms and legs as he directed his will into his belt of the slumbering deep. He shot upwards, over-buoyant enough to completely clear the surface and fly through the air for an uncontrolled moment. He landed again with a splash.

Up ahead the panther prowled back and forth upon the log, claiming his raft for its own. For a second, Edmund considered letting it have it, letting the floodwaters take him where they may.

A sharp pain appeared in his left foot.

Edmund cursed.

The snakes!

He assumed it was a snake. Thrax knew what other biting beasts may have lurked below. He had to reclaim his log. He was too exposed, too slow, too helpless against the current as he was.

Another bite struck his right achilles. Edmund bit back his yelp and swam forward.

The panther didn’t sit idly by. It paced about and growled threats as he approached, saving its final weapon for once he got in range.

As one, its tails whipped about, the strange bulbs compressing at their bases to send globs of dull yellow liquid shooting through the air. One flew over Edmund’s shoulder. The other struck the caved-in cheek of his helmet.

A soft sizzling sound met Edmund’s ear. A foul stench followed.

Edmund cursed and dunked his head in the water, rinsing the acid away as best he could. He surfaced again just in time for another volley.

Edmund deactivated his belt, hiding below the torrent as he made his approach. He drew his shield, hooking it over his arm as he swam along the gully floor. His other arm he kept free, leaving his spear and cutlass strapped safely to his person.

Against the current he maneuvered himself to the log’s jagged end, hiding beneath it to evade whatever detection the panther used in lieu of sight. He hoped against hope the water would disrupt its vision. There he waited, grasping the spikes of broken wood and feeling with his lesser tremor sense for the creature’s motion. When it reached the far side, he made his move.

He yanked hard against his handhold and maximized his belt’s buoyancy at the same moment, launching himself up and out of the water. He took a windstep forward to position himself back atop the log, and raised his shield just in time to catch the next acid projectiles.

This time he had nowhere to dunk the affected piece, leaving the chemical free to do its corrosive work as he advanced on the giant feline. It spun to face him.

Edmund drew his sword.

The panther leapt, but this time Edmund made no attempt to meet its assault.

He jumped.

He spent both windsteps to walk on the empty air alongside the floating log, taking a swing at the pouncing panther as he passed. His blade bit flesh just above its shoulder. He tried activating Savage Rend, but the blow hit at too shallow an angle to carve more than a handful of fur and the slightest bit of skin. Still, the cutlass applied its venom to the desperate beast. He landed behind it on their shared raft.

His shield fell askew.

Edmund cursed and glanced down to find the acid had eaten clean through it, burrowing through the ironwood and arm strap alike. He turned his arm vertical to make up for the now single point of contact, bracing the lower side of the shield against his elbow. He prayed it would hold.

The panther growled in pain.

The snake bites in Edmund’s feet throbbed to match.

It was only a matter of time before one of them succumbed to the venom flowing through them. Between The Island and his health regeneration, Edmund held out hope it wouldn’t be him.

The panther, it seemed, had no intention of waiting to find out.

Again it leapt, and again Edmund jumped to the side with his windsteps.

But this time, so did the panther.

It too ran upon solid air, spending windsteps of its own to match Edmund’s motion and meet him midair.

He slammed his shield into its face, vaulting up and over the wounded beast. It ran past him, comfortably using a dozen windsteps as Edmund frantically repositioned himself to land back on the log. His arms flailed out to catch his balance. The cat launched another volley of acid.

Again he caught it on his shield. Raindrops washed the acid down, carrying it along the face of his shield in streaks, carving lines where it went. It wouldn’t hold much longer.

Dots appeared in Edmund’s vision as the pain from his various wounds joined the snake venom in assaulting his senses. He dared not falter. He dared not flag.

He knew the panther similarly suffered. He knew his rotflesh did work of its own, spreading wide and wreaking havoc. It may’ve been stronger, it may’ve had more windsteps or grace in its motion, but there was no way this cat could match his resilience.

Smoke seemed to pour into the panther’s wounded shoulder as if agreeing with Edmund’s conclusion and thus joining the assault.

Still it growled. Still it bared its teeth.

And again it pounced.

Edmund didn’t bother windstepping now that he knew it could outmaneuver him in the air. Instead he dove, holding his shield above his head as he passed beneath the panther’s leap.

Its claws tore clear through the corroded ironwood, snapping the buckler in two. As Edmund pushed himself to his feet, he did so without a shield strapped to his arm.

He cursed as the next volley of acid met no obstacles in its path to his person. They struck against his cuirass, eating away at that too as the rain washed it down in sizzling streaks. He wiped at it with his fingers of the crimson hand, the artifact the only item in his possession unharmed by the chemical. He couldn’t prevent the damage to his breastplate, but he could keep it from dripping lower, from reaching his belt. His crystal cuirass could repair itself. Once his belt snapped, he’d have to replace it.

The panther came again, and this time Edmund met it with neither shield nor spear nor poisoned cutlass, but with claws of his own.

A metallic talon pierced clean through Edmund’s palm as he raised a hand to defend himself. Again the creature bowled him over. Again it pinned him on his back.

But this time, with its claw impaling his hand, Edmund’s own fingers could reach it.

Two of the three lesser pieces of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh burrowed through wet fur to find bare flesh beneath.

Together, they drank.

Life force flooded from the panther into the Crimson Hand, rejuvenating Edmund and charging his Blood Bolt at once. The burn on his arm smoothed over. The bites on his feet sealed shut. The skin of his hand tried and failed to close around the claw that pierced it. Even his cheekbones, snapped as they were by the collapse of his helmet, tried and failed to reassemble.

It hurt like hell.

And it worked.

Smoke flooded from the air into the panther’s open wound, pushing the rotflesh venom along as Edmund drained the beast of its resistance. It snapped its jaws around his helm for a few desperate moments, before that strength too left its failing body.

It collapsed atop him. Edmund shoved it free.

Its body tumbled into the water.

Edmund exhaled.

What in the forty-seven hells was that? There was no way that had been an ordinary monster. It’d nearly killed him a dozen times over, not to mention ruining his shield. Thrax, between that and his boots he was already down two pieces of gear this floor.

Godsdamned Liam and his godsdamned newly-designed floors. He’d have a few choice words for that asshole when he next showed his face.

A distant roar up ahead pulled Edmund from his thoughts. He bolted upright, his hand still bleeding as his health regeneration worked to patch the hole.

