As he glanced around the floodwaters, he spotted more and more of the forest’s denizens swimming for their lives, each seeming to specifically target the rightward bank. When his gaze shifted upward, he found those that had managed to remain in the canopy similarly kept to the right. Wherever they were going, it would be on that side.

The smoke alerted him to the waterfall before his eyes did.

It seemed to bend in the air, turning and flowing straight down in the distance as if there were somewhere down to go. It stood to reason there was.

No mist filled the air. No droplets or splashes or other signs of water crashing down onto rocks below. The river simply… ended.

Edmund looked to the trees, finding they too came to an abrupt end some hundred yards downstream. Some hundred yards that were vanishing far too quickly.

He gave up on his log. There’d be no stopping it. He similarly dared not try and swim against the current. No amount of buoyancy would overcome that much moving water.

He’d done well to get himself moving. Now all that remained was to stop.

He picked the second to last tree on the right, saving himself the final one as a backup as he targeted the direction in which the animals fled.

He counted down.

He steadied his footing.

He cast his Smoke Lash.

And Edmund jumped.

His lash wrapped itself around the tree’s lowest branches, securing itself as he willed it and swinging him around and into the hillside beyond. The mud loosened where he struck it, triggering a mudslide below, but already Edmund was falling back towards the trunk of the tree.

He watched, dangling from the Smoke Lash around his wrist, as his log disappeared over the water’s edge. He saw nothing beyond. Not above, not below, not in the distance, only falling rain and the haze of smoke as far as the eye could see.

On the final tree, however, the one directly adjacent to his, Edmund spotted a wooden platform. It sat comfortably up in the branches, crafted of planks angled just enough to allow rainwater to drain through them. Atop it rested two things. A gilded chest, and an open door.

Animals flooded through the latter, disappearing into the darkness between levels just as the azure fox had. Edmund got the impression these wouldn’t be showing up on the other side.

It took both his windsteps to launch himself into the tree in question, from where it was a matter of wrapping his arms around its relatively narrower trunk and shimmying up. As he pushed himself up and onto the wooden platform, a chime rang out.

Edmund breathed.

The temporary mark on his hand tingled as it took note of his achievement.

He lay onto his back and let the rain wash over him, the woodland creatures leaving him be now that the floor was cleared. Thrax, he hated this place.

After a moment’s rest, Edmund got back to work. First things first, he had to remove his helmet. The task proved excruciating as he pounded and tugged the caved in sides over his head, deepening the cracks in his facial bones even more in the process. Once finished, however, his health regeneration could do its job while he hammered away with the hilt of his utility knife to repair the helm.

Next, he stabbed an unsuspecting squirrel as it passed, smearing its blood across his cuirass to feed it self-reparation enchantment.

Finally, he opened the chest.

Drelnleather Boots

Provides major protection against magic, thermal, and corrosive damage. Vulnerable to piercing damage. Waterproof. Once per day, allows for sixty seconds of water walking.

Edmund had no idea what a Dreln was, and he didn’t particularly care. The deep black leather boots reached halfway up his calves, providing more protection than his old blackboon boots had at the cost of their vulnerability to piercing damage. Some form of carved resin left treads along their soles, offering far superior traction than anything Edmund had ever worn.

The water walking was just an added bonus. As with most of Edmund’s loot, it would’ve been incredibly useful on the floor he’d just cleared, but provided nebulous utility moving forward.

He slipped them on all the same.

Last but not least, he shut his eyes and brought up his constellation. He’d already decided which combination he wanted to make, so his attention immediately fell to Wrath and The Fissure. He’d questioned, on the previous floor, Magma Fissure’s versatility. It may have hurt like hell, but he had to admit it’d saved his life against the panther.

Something strange caught Edmund’s eye, though. Madness and The Guerrilla both lit up when he looked them, as if implying they could form a confluence.

But that was impossible. Madness was already one of the components of The Guerrilla. Everyone knew you couldn’t fold an Aspect in a second time.

Was this a paragon thing? Was this a Madness thing?

Despite himself, Edmund almost wished Liam was there so he could’ve grilled him on the topic.

Instead, his mind’s eye drifted over to another Aspect.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher - Silver+ Resonance

Level 3 - Glimpse the alternatives.

Was this an alternative? A chance to combine Aspects that shouldn’t have been combinable?

The more Edmund thought about it, the less certain he grew. For all he knew, this was a strange quirk of specifically Madness and The Guerrilla. Either way, he had only one way of learning more.

He made the confluence.

Tier 6 Aspect: The Anarchist - Platinum+ Resonance

Level 1 - Be uncontrollable.

Edmund quashed his disappointment at receiving yet another weirdly cryptic and seemingly useless Aspect. Other than Madness itself, it had the highest resonance he’d ever seen, and as a tier 6, it had to be powerful. Better yet, the combination came with its own slew of level-ups.

The Guerrilla, The Tactician, Wrath, War, The Recluse, Elements, and Solitude all leveled up as normal without any changes to their description. Madness, to Edmund’s dismay, didn’t level up twice despite its dual involvement in the confluence.

In the end, only a single Aspect changed its description.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher - Silver+ Resonance

Level 4 - Escape.

Edmund had long given up trying to figure out what The Philosopher was talking about. He trusted it would be powerful eventually. Thrax, if it was the reason behind his new rule-breaking confluence, it already was proving powerful.

His curiosity far less satisfied than he would’ve liked, Edmund set his constellation aside and set about his final task for the floor. He raised his left ring finger to his mouth, kissed the silver band around it, and spoke his message.

“Twenty-six cleared. I got a strange Aspect. We’ll talk about it when we see—”

The ring vibrated. He sighed. Apparently that was all he got. Edmund lowered his hand. Presumably Amelia could infer the rest of the message.

His missive sent, his boots upgraded, and his constellation behaving more strangely by the day, Edmund finally escaped the torrential downpour and stepped into the darkness.

Hivemaster Edmund Montgomery Ahab, The Crimson Hand

Aspects Unlocked: 27

Tier 1 Aspect: Wrath - Red Resonance

Level 6 - Provides access to the Brutalize active ability.

Tier 1 Aspect: War - Gray+ Resonance

Level 13 - Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt. Provides a lesser decrease to all damage taken.

Tier 1 Aspect: Elements - Gray Resonance

Level 11 - Provides access to the Firebolt spell.

Tier 1 Aspect: Solitude - Red Resonance

Level 13 - Provides a greater increase to constitution while fighting alone. Provides a lesser increase to celerity while fighting alone. Provides a lesser increase to perception while alone.

Tier 1 Aspect: Perseverance - Gray Resonance

Level 12 - Gain health regeneration. Gain greater health regeneration outside of combat.

Tier 1 Aspect: Madness - Prismatic Resonance

Level 21 - They’re coming for you.

Tier 2 Aspect: Vengeance (Madness and Wrath) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Reveals all enemies that have damaged you in the past two minutes. Provides a lesser increase to all damage dealt to such enemies.

Tier 2 Aspect: Fervor (Madness and War) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 1 - Empowers the effects of Madness and War for each consecutive second spent in battle.

Tier 2 Aspect: Sorcery (Madness and Elements) - Gold Resonance

Level 2 - Provides access to the Smoke Lash spell.

Tier 2 Aspect: Obsession (Madness and Perseverance) - Gold Resonance

Level 4 - Gain strength and agility for each consecutive day spent pursuing your obsession. Gain mana for each consecutive month spent pursuing your obsession.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Recluse (Madness and Solitude) - Gold Resonance

Level 6 - Empower the effects of Madness while alone. Lessen the effects of Madness while accompanied.

Tier 2 Aspect: The Island (Solitude and Perseverance) - Gray Resonance

Level 7 - Grants greater resistance to over-time effects while in groups of two or fewer.

Tier 3 Aspect: Focus (Elements and Obsession) - Silver Resonance

Level 2 - Doubles spell damage when attacking a single target.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Challenger (War and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Challenge active ability.

Tier 3 Aspect: Artillery (War and Sorcery) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Firestorm spell.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Warmonger (War and Obsession) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides a greater increase to all damage dealt and a greater decrease to all damage taken while engaged in combat you initiated.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Philosopher (Elements and The Recluse) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 4 - Escape.

Tier 3 Aspect: The Rift (Madness and The Island) - Gold Resonance

Level 6 - Provides access to the Savage Rend active ability.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Tactician (War and The Philosopher) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 3 - Deal double damage when executing a pre-crafted battle plan.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Target (War and Focus) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Allows the marking of a single enemy as the target. The target takes increased damage from all sources.

Tier 4 Aspect: The Fissure (Elements and The Rift) - Silver Resonance

Level 3 - Provides access to the Magma Fissure spell.

Tier 4 Aspect: Rebellion (War and The Rift) - Gold+ Resonance

Level 2 - Grants resistance to mind controlling effects. Deal bonus damage to enemies above your level.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Guerrilla (Wrath and The Tactician) - Bronze Resonance

Level 2 - Take reduced damage while executing a non-conventional pre-crafted battle plan.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Breach (War and The Fissure) - Bronze+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Break Through active ability.

Tier 5 Aspect: The Insurgent (Wrath and Rebellion) - Silver+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Collateral Damage active ability.

Tier 6 Aspect: The Reckless (Wrath and The Breach) - Tin+ Resonance

Level 1 - Provides access to the Reckless Charge active ability.

Tier 6 Aspect: The Anarchist (Madness and The Guerrilla) - Platinum+ Resonance

Level 1 - Be uncontrollable.

Delver’s Mark of the Challenger

Empowers nearby dungeon monsters. Significantly increases the value of loot chests you open. Slightly increases the resonance of Aspects you unlock.

The Crimson Hand

Grants minor resistance to piercing damage. Bestows ownership of the Dread Gauntlet of Kor’Ilinesh.

Hivemaster

Grants lesser tremor sense. Bestows the right to challenge other hivemasters for control of their hives.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Azure Adept

The fifth step on the Path of the Azure Fox. Increases agility. Grants two windsteps. Grants ten feathersteps. Increases positional awareness.

Trailblazer bonus: Sharpens hearing.

Trailblazer’s Sigil of the Rootmother

Non-intelligent Strethian lifeforms will treat you as an ally. Gain the ability to draw water and nutrients from fertile soil.

Trailblazer bonus: draw water and nutrients from all soil.

Sigil of the Slumbering Deep

Gain greater health regeneration. Gain immense health regeneration while sleeping. Gain water breathing. Gain lesser dark vision. Gain lesser subaquatic sonar.

Delver’s Mark of the Shrouded Gauntlet (Temporary)

Rewards loot of the Shrouded category based on the number of floors cleared while the mark is worn. Prize to be granted at dissolution of mark.

Time Remaining: 7 days.
