Ranthia, as promised, knelt at her altar and began to pray. She rambled. It was a clumsy prayer that moved from point to point as Ranthia tried to sort out her own feelings. She recommended Hunting as an angel candidate, though she admitted that he was unlikely to accept. Hunting had never seemed to have any interest in the gods, and she was all but certain that the man would rather let Black Crow carry him to Samsara—where he could seek his next adventure.

It was too selfish to ask to meet whomever Hunting became in the future, but Ranthia danced around it before she managed to quash the urge. Instead, she spoke of who Hunting was. In a lot of ways, it was strange how intensely his parting hit her. In truth, they hadn’t spent that much time together. But he had helped her so much on her path. The man was—had been—an ass, but he had never questioned her potential.

If anything, he saw a brighter future for her than she did.

Hunting had always reminded her of a strange meshing of Tatius and Pupius. It was impossible that either of their souls resided in him, but he was cut from a similar cloth as her fathers were. They were all men that had served in the Legions and sought to become something more—even if they had wildly different ideas about what that meant. So, losing him was like losing her fathers yet again, even before the debts that she owed him.

Hunting had done what he believed was the best for her, even if it left her bruised and confused. He was the kind of mentor that was easy to hate, yet he was inexplicably likable in spite of everything. He had his awkward parts too, like his inability to refer to his friends and peers as anything outside of their titles. And he was forever marked with grief from the loss of his closest partner.

Ranthia could at least pray that Hunting and Katastrofi would meet again in another life.

Her prayers stretched for hours as Ranthia’s thoughts meandered through the scars of her emotions, but through every last moment, she felt Xaoc’s presence. He never reacted, but He listened to every word she sent Him. And that silent, patient acknowledgement meant more to her than any response ever could have.
