And she was doing her level best to protect the fragile fragment of parchment from annihilation.

Night crouched near her, but Ranthia, for once, ignored her revulsion at his close proximity. The parchment was blackened by heat, but one small segment had yet to crumble. The black dust that coated the sediment around it suggested there was once quite a bit more to the message. She had no idea if it was even a message—it was incredibly difficult to make out the charcoal symbols smudged atop the ash.

Silence reigned as they assessed the remnants that were once parchment. Twice, Night produced a gemstone, but he seemed to silently discard the possibilities the Skills imbued in the gems promised each time. Eventually, Night spoke and explained that the symbols were the shapes of Ranger hand signs, then the two of them started debating with one another about what the few precious symbols that were left meant.

‘City’ was the first one that they agreed on. The shape was distinct and neither had any doubts, even when Night blew a gem to grant them a few precious moments of brilliant illumination. The others were more ambiguous, which made it harder to be certain. ‘Fire’ and ‘danger’ shared the same foundation for their shape, and it took quite a bit of back and forth before Night finally convinced her that ‘danger’ was the only sensible translation.

But there were only three “intact” (again, charcoal on ash) symbols, and the other four(?) were too incomplete to do much more than eliminate a handful of blatantly incompatible shapes.

And Ranthia was never, ever admitting that a small (tiny, even!) section of the burnt parchment fragment had crumbled when she tried to pick it up, even with her dexterity. She was beyond human rationality, but ash just wanted to crumble. She felt terrible about it, and she had no way to know whether or not she had cost them some precious piece of context.

But if Night asked, she was absolutely claiming the black dust on her finger came from the dirt around the intact segment.

“So, we have ‘large’ and ‘city’ together and, from a different line, ‘danger’.” Ranthia summarized, once the debates had come to an end.

Night simply nodded, but he chose to remain silent. Their certainty level was far less than either of them would have liked. Had the parchment been just a bit further away, perhaps more of it would have endured. …As if that was the tweak to reality that Ranthia would have wished for.

The search had required just enough attention that it let her put off thinking. The puzzle of trying to make out the symbols and find meaning in the ashes was an even more welcome distraction.

And she was out of excuses.

She had already checked the crater as part of her hunt through the rubble. It was still hot enough that she had to dance across it at speed to keep her sandals from failing, but there was nothing at all to be found within its glassy confines. She desperately wanted to find something else she needed to do—Night’s pensive expression promised an imminent dire conversation—but…

“He was expecting to hit level 704 soon, or so he stated when we last spoke. Hunting came so close to escaping this fate. We all knew the risks, but even I found it hard to resist discovering hope as he drew closer to the next class up tier.” Night spoke into the lingering silence before Ranthia found an implausible escape route.

“Can you move to block the wind? I need to stand.” Ranthia tried to refuse—she did her best to not think about what over 50 levels in less than a year truly meant. Or that there had only been a mere 64 levels to go.

“I do not believe that either of us needs to try to protect the last fragment of the message, it is unlikely that additional time will grant us new meaning. Neither of us possess the Skills required to restore it. They exist, and I have known people who could have aided us, but I never saw fit to carry gemstones with such niche talents.” Night explained while he smoothly rose back to his full height.

Ranthia exhaled slowly as she stood and stepped to the side. Before her eyes, the burnt remnant of Hunting’s fin—Hunting’s message slowly shattered on the breeze that blew through the ravine.

“We should depart soon. The Legion’s leadership will need to know of the message that we found. Hunting may or may not have intended to speak of the city that the Legions move on, but whether he was intending to warn them of danger or he was warning us that a greater danger lies in a different city, I am unable to say. They should know, either way, just in case the incomplete intel still proves useful.

“I must also send word to Remus, that Hunting is to be added to the—”

“No!” Ranthia cut Night off hurriedly. At his flat look, she fished for a viable explanation. “I know the wait period for a missing Sentinel is diminished because of the war, but he might still be out there! He has to be…”

“I can wait until my next trip to Remus. It will be at least eight days, possibly longer.” Night offered in a kind tone.

Ranthia couldn’t find the words to respond to that, so she finally just nodded.

“Grace, if I might impose on you, I can see that the sun has begun to rise. I am carrying a large, thick sailcloth that is inscribed. If I might request your assistance to see myself wrapped, so that you may get me back to your base without issue?” Night’s priorities shifted after an upward glance.

The sky was starting to color with the touch of dawn.

Ranthia eyed Night and—with a head full of images of her carrying a bundled vampire in her arms, his fangs nestled entirely too near her neck—she shook her head.

“I have a better idea: I saw some trees over that way. Just… cover yourself and give me a moment!” Ranthia countered, before she took off at her top speed.

One final dance across the crater.

The trip back to Remera proceeded remarkably smoothly. The dust storm had settled into a vaguely uncomfortable dust haze that induced more than a few coughs from Ranthia—Night was seemingly unbothered, possibly because of the thick canvas that protected him—but it wasn’t perilous to her images any longer, at least.

Ranthia guided four of her images, each of which held a tree limb that hooked under the expanse of sailcloth and kept Night from tripping over his own protection, while the limb he carried kept the cloth off his head. It worked, especially with the cloth’s inscriptions darkening the shadows beneath it.

The shimagu seemingly continued to avoid the area where a gargantuan explosion had changed night into a brief-lived day. Which probably—and uncomfortably—suggested that they possessed a greater sense of self-preservation than Ranthia did. But she had really good reasons to venture out! The thought was grating, but it was more pleasant than most of the thoughts that tried to assail her during their trek.

The sun had ascended into the sky before Ranthia passed—grudgingly—through Remera’s excessively dangerous gates. The guards on duty quirked an eyebrow at her unusual behavior and Ranthia shrugged before she gestured to the vampire-in-a-mobile-tent behind her, escorted by four of herself. Some sights were absurd enough to serve as their own justification.

One of the [Healers] that screened them finally asked why Sentinel Night was under a tarp. “I am afraid that sunlight disagrees with me. I have had others theorize that it has to do with my complexion.” Night’s ridiculous reply somehow satisfied the man, and they were allowed through.

The urge to tease Night over his deceitful response passed as swiftly as it came; Ranthia just wanted to deliver the vampire to whatever shelter he mentioned and get home. Remera was, in many ways, a more hazardous region than any earlier part of their journey—Ranthia had to keep her perception at its limits to give her images time to avoid obstacles and inattentive legionaries while they circumnavigated the inner walls. The fact that she had to do so without jostling the fabric too much forced her to personally intervene more than a few times.

“Here.” Night’s atypically solitary word stopped Ranthia behind a pair of quiet storage tents. Even with Night’s instructions guiding her, it still took several long—and increasingly awkward—moments before Ranthia found the concealed handle. With a grunt of effort against the weight, she finally pried the base plate open, revealing a small hollow within it.

Just enough space for two or three bodies. Laid horizontally.

“My gratitude to you, Grace. There is no need to look for me tonight, I must return to Coalition City as soon as I am able. I wish you well.” Night’s canvas covering bobbed with the vampire’s respectful nod, before the man… slithered into his nightmarish hole.

There was no nicer way to put that.

Ranthia just closed the hidden panel—trying not to think about what being in there would be like—and then shoved all of that out of her mind. She was ready to get home—a prayer or eight would mean the world to her, and she was eager to show Avyna that she was safe.

And she was still legitimately relieved that Night declined her hospitality, even if she was pretty sure that she would snap if she tried to spend a day in such a confined space.

“My love!” Avyna launched herself from the bench at their table, somehow managing to set her mug of tea down without incident despite her rush.

“Hey babe. It’s okay, there was no danger.” Ranthia… well, even she couldn’t in good conscience claim those few words explained anything. But they were the best she had at that moment.

She gave her wife a quick kiss, but she declined to let the elf embrace her—she needed to center herself a bit more before she could withstand her beloved’s embrace. Her emotions and thoughts needed to settle before she could let herself relax. Somewhat woodenly, Ranthia shifted out of her armor as she stepped into their private area and retrieved it from the image she dismissed. The armor was a bit dusty, but nothing was an immediate problem—she could clean it later. Her sandals were, remarkably, still in good condition too, even if they were filthy. She placed everything on the stand.

Their home was illuminated again; she could only assume that Avyna had repaired the damaged enchantments while Ranthia was out. Everything was where it should be. A piece of her world was still intact. She had planned to head straight for her personal altar and start praying to Xaoc until she felt strong enough, but she instead found herself looking around their home, as if she was trying to find something out of place—some sign that reflected how wrong the world felt.

There wasn’t one, of course. Even if Avyna had moved anything during the repairs, the elf was far too perfect and meticulous to leave a mess in her wake. If something was worth doing, it was worth doing completely and thoroughly—Avyna wasn’t one for half-measures. Ranthia loved that about her.

Just before she gave up on her inexplicable desire to stall, Ranthia’s gaze landed on mage-rock. She never actually told Hunting about mage-rock. But why hadn’t she? Sure, no one else seemed to find the notion of a regular rock being a [Mage] of burgeoning talent amusing—but she was, suddenly, surprisingly certain that Hunting would have. She already had mage-rock the last time she saw Hunting. She had even told him about what she did during the hell months to the trainee candidates. So why had she omitted mage-rock from the story?

Hunting would have laughed. She could picture it so clearly that she could almost hear his guffaws.

He would have.

…He truly would have.

But it was too late.

Hunting was gone. She missed her opportunity. He had been so close by, at least by her standards—yet she had never even fucking known.

Ranthia staggered breathlessly as the grief that she had tried to seal away beneath an impenetrable layer of denial finally hit her properly. She could no longer deny the obvious truth. And, even as she crumbled beneath her emotions, Avyna was there. In the arms of her beloved, Ranthia abandoned her efforts to rein the maelstrom of misery in.

She wept, supported only by Avyna’s strength.

At some point, Ranthia fell asleep while she bawled like a child against the love of her life. Ranthia felt sufficiently better when she woke up, with her head in Avyna’s lap, that mortification came to her almost immediately. Gods and goddesses, she was a grown woman!

Ranthia tried to extricate herself, but Avyna’s fingers were still resting on her scalp and the elf stirred when Ranthia tried to move. Avyna was all smiles and gentle, affectionate positivity—without a hint of judgment or discomfort. Ranthia acquiesced to a shower and Avyna even allowed Ranthia to wash her flowing hair—a rare treat; Avyna tended to be protective of her gorgeous, silky locks.

“What do you want for lunch, my love?” Avyna asked in a too-innocent tone while she toweled herself off.

Ranthia could still admire the view, even while she was unable to muster the energy required for lust.

“…Wait, shouldn’t you be at your shop?” Ranthia finally realized.

“I intended to wait for you, and you were in distress at the loss of your mentor. It is no problem, my love.” Avyna answered with a reassuring smile.

“Oh, babe… You are entirely too good to me, but seriously—I’m fine now. Let’s just eat something quick so you don’t lose the full day?” Ranthia offered.

A nutty bread with some cheese and a few shared pieces of fruit served as their meal. Avyna was hesitant to leave Ranthia alone, but Ranthia promised that she would just be praying at her altar for a while. Finally, Avyna gave in and, a few loving kisses later, made her way out to open her shop.

