When more monsters came, they came for Ophiels, or to investigate the Imaging, or to prey upon the animals that came for the meat, or for the meat itself. Erick tried to dissuade every encroaching monster from the first three targets, just as he did for the animals, but where animals learned that only the meat was fair game, the monsters seemed incapable of learning.

By next morning, and after being woken up every hour, it seemed, the meat pile was very large, and the root-system Imaging was mostly done.

Erick cleared up the meat pile with [Cleansing Flame] over breakfast, an hour before it was time to investigate the Imaging and the Labyrinth, too. He didn’t need violent wildlife hanging around while he personally studied what the Imaging had revealed.

- - - -

Erick walked through the air, light splashing under his feet as he explored the illuminated root system. There was something here besides just what he was seeing, and what he was seeing was that the Twins were mirrored underground as well as above. He already knew this, but now he saw the full extent of the mirroring.

The major roots of the left tree went left, while the right tree’s roots went to the right. There was little tangling of large roots between the two trees, almost as if both of them had been planted on mirrored, opposing cliffs, instead of right next to each other on the same Forest floor.

The only exceptions to this phenomena were amongst the smaller roots. Anything less than a few centimeters in diameter was a mess of growth that grew in whatever direction it felt like growing,

While the larger roots were mirrored systems that grew away from each other, the smaller roots in that small space between the two Twins, directly under the [Gate], took on a rather peculiar pattern.

Erick saw the pattern. He memorized that pattern as easily as he had replicated Van Gogh’s Starry Night with a single cast, back in that art supply store. He saw how swirls of roots obviously moved mana around like the Twin Trees were some sort of living enchantment.

But he didn’t understand any of it.

There was no known language in that pattern; Erick checked rather thoroughly for Ancient Script, and then all the other languages he had learned since coming to Veird. Gargantual, the language of the Orcols. Inferni, the language of demons, and thus the base language of the Incani. Karstar, the language of Angels, and thus the language of many humans, but more accurately the language of human nobility in several parts of the world. Ecks, which was actually a blend of Karstar, Inferni, and many other languages, and the main spoken language of most people on Veird.

There was no language pattern in the patterns of the roots under the [Gate].

There was a pattern, though. An enchanted pattern, was Erick’s guess. Not a gridwork pattern, or a basic enchanting pattern, but with a bit of expansive mana sense, and knowing what he was looking at thanks to the Imaging, Erick could feel the flow of mana through the roots, and the trunks, and the air. There was a system of mana movement here, for sure. That system likely gave rise to the magic in this space, but whatever that system was, it was beyond Erick, for now.

Tenebrae hovered not too far from Erick, his robes and small parts of his body wisping away under the effects of his [Greater Air Body]. He glanced toward Erick every now and then, but he mostly studied the glowing root map, too.

Everyone else was watching out for threats from the outside.

Erick asked Tenebrae, “The metal Gates, inside the Vision? They have more of all of…” He waved his hand at the Imaging in the air. “All of this?”

“A great deal more.” Tenebrae said, “Easily a hundred times more complicated.”

Erick started speaking aloud, “Maybe… You said before that the Vision is just connected to this space though this attached [Gate], and that it is not a separate reality that just begins at this connection.” He asked, “But in such a case, where is this Vision, then? Physically?”

Tenebrae said, “Maybe I was not understood. This Vision is there on the other side of this [Gate] space.” He pointed toward the [Gate], then curled his finger up and over in a gesture that was almost like a hop of his hand, saying, “It’s on the other side of this [Gate]. It is physically there. Right over there.” He lowered his hand. “But the Vision’s Domain allows it to make its own Reality, which we then invade when we go through this [Gate].”

Erick hummed. “Okay. That clears up some misconceptions.” He pointed at the tangled, patterned roots, asking, “Have you tried damaging the roots? What happens?”

“They regrow based on the damage done.” Tenebrae said, “Takes a while.”

“So the Vision reconnects itself to this space? Or someone else reconnects it? Or the Twins reconnect on their own?”

Tenebrae said, “The Twins regrow the pattern depending on how damaged it is. Cut out a small piece and it comes back in a day. Cut out a square meter section and it comes back in a week. I did not test further than that and I would advise you against this.”

“I wasn’t going to suggest destroying anything, but it’s good to know it comes back, eventually.” He asked, “Have you made new Twin trees anywhere, to see if you can move the [Gate]?”

Tenebrae frowned a little, but that expression didn’t last long. “I have. It won’t move from here. I’ve replicated the mana flows and everything else perfectly. Still, the [Gate] will not switch locations.”

“Then the [Gate] regrows itself, but the Vision is what connects to this space. Or maybe the act of reconnecting is what produces the regrowth in the Twins. Or—”

Jane spoke up, “Activity in the west.”

Ophiel chirped up a second later, confirming what Jane saw.

“Huh.” Erick said, now looking. “What is that?”

Past a good dozen ten-meter wide trees, in the small spaces where the dark was as deep as the bottom of the ocean, eyes hovered just to the sides of the trees, glowing with a reflected light. Something was spying on this space. A good five somethings, at least.

The interlopers startled; they saw Erick seeing them.

They lit up with tiny lights, illuminating what looked like wide-brim hats upon their heads and lines of pearls along their arms, and then they ducked behind their trees.

Erick had no idea what they were, but they were obviously smart.

Tenebrae said, “Looks like Forestspawn.”

Jane asked, “They’re not shroomspawn? No Bleeding Veil to worry about?”

“Similar, but vastly different creatures. Both are monsters of the mushroom variety, but Forestspawn follow around Forest-Crowned Stags. They’re technically monsters, but they won’t attack unless we attack their Stag and there’s no Stag around here. They either got lost or were just born, or something. Whatever the case, the light of the Imaging might have confused them. We would never have seen them, otherwise.”

Teressa stood beside Jane. Both of them were eyes-forward on the part of the Forest where the monsters had been. Jane looked ready to kill something, but Teressa had a faint smile. She looked ready to cheerfully kill something.

Erick asked, “Can we ignore them?”

Tenebrae waved off Erick, saying, “They don’t matter!” He pointed at the [Gate]. “Focus. You have enough of the damn Stat, don’t you?”

“Enough to focus on multiple things at once. So! About these Forestspawn?”

Tenebrae spat out, “Bah! It’s like you want a damn book shoved under your nose with all the answers! Focus on the [Gate]! Tell me what you see!”

“Forestspawn are mostly harmless. Worse than a slime, better than a shadowolf.” Teressa said, “They eat the bugs and small life that sprouts in the wake of a Stag, but if you kill one, it explodes, showering the area in virulent Decay; that’s the worst they can do to you. More Forestspawn will grow from where another has detonated.”

Erick nodded. “Thank you, Teressa.” He looked to Tenebrae, saying, “Didn’t think to mention the exploding?”

“Not relevant,” Tenebrae said. “You would have found out.”

“Fine, fine.” Erick gestured at the massive root Image before him, saying, “I’m certainly not finding anything more out about this, though. I have no idea what is going on here, except there is an obvious movement of mana that somewhat resembles the movement inside enchanted objects.”

Tenebrae sighed. “Must I teach you enchanting, too?” He muttered, “Dammit.”

“I’ve read all the theories!” Erick said, “I’ve just had trouble putting them all together. A lot of it is contradictory.”

“There’s not a single damn thing in any damn enchanting book put out by the damn Arcanaeum Consortium that is damned contradictory with any other damned book!”

Erick could not help himself. “Well damn! Since you put it like that, it all makes sense!”

“Don’t get snippy with me.” Tenebrae said, “Just because you can’t understand what you’ve read—”

“Here’s an example:” Erick said, “Why does the Grand [Prestidigitation] stove use what I now know to be gridwork to make almost all of itself, but a wand of fire-spewing [Prestidigitation] only uses Ancient Script for the spell but with a bit of different characterization in the interior inscription?”

Tenebrae paused as he looked at Erick. “That’s a high-level question. I thought you were going to ask about [Force Bolt].”

Erick replied, “—

Tenebrae rolled over Erick’s words with a louder voice, “I’m going to lay all of enchanting out for you, so listen up! All enchanting is about eliciting magic from the manasphere. Low-level enchanting is about learning all of the basic tools in the enchanter's arsenal. High-level enchanting is about applying difficult Shapings and sometimes contradictory ideas to that eliciting, like using Ice and Fire Alterings in the same spell! You have read contradictory enchanting ideas in all those damned books because magic itself is contradictory! Mana is possibility, and that includes going left and right at the same time when you’re supposed to go forward!

“None of those books are contradictory. They’re all just pieces of the whole puzzle.

“When you spoke to me the other day about Sound and about picking magics out of the air with resonance it sounded like you had already found your enchanting path. But this question reveals to me that you have not.” Tenebrae said, “So think on what I said, and also on these Gates and [Gate].”

Erick flinched backward.

Tenebrae had slapped him with some high-concept enchanting, resetting his entire idea of the whole field of meta-magics.

An idea developed in Erick’s mind. An idea that involved the gramophones that he had reinvented.

But first…

Erick said, “Thank you for that, Tenebrae. Shall we go inside, now? See how far we get?”

“Yes, dammit. Finally!” Tenebrae said, “[Dispel] this Imaging; all it’s doing is attracting problems.”

Erick dispersed the light in the air with a thought. Gloom swallowed the party. The Forest sounded of animals and monsters in the dark, while eyes opened up in the far distance, but that was normal. It was time to get going.

A Rocky, Teressa, and Jane were the first through the [Gate]. The rest of the party followed. Everyone had their long-term spells active. Everything was the same as it had been in their first excursion into the space.

Except, Erick cast an [Alarm Ward] over the entrance to the Vision, and he also had the Ophiel on his shoulder cast [Scry] into the air a good distance from the Twins, to see if anyone came in after them. He wasn’t sure if the [Alarm Ward] or if the [Scry] would work because both spells would likely have some issues sending their signal to Erick, or Ophiel, while they were inside the Vision. But if this didn’t work, if the larger monsters appeared right away, then that only meant that he would have to try something else to monitor the entrance.

Walking through land beyond the [Gate] was simple and silent.

And then, almost half an hour later, the Ophiel on his shoulder poked Erick in the face to get his attention, and then he mentally showed him an image of what he had seen. The [Alarm Ward] had failed, for whatever reason, as the intruder walked right through the invisible space without setting it off, but Ophiel’s [Scry] had not failed.

Erick sent to the party, ‘A Rocky entered the Vision at the entrance.’

Tenebrae rounded on his Rockys and glared at them like the world’s angriest man. At that moment, he might have been. Erick didn’t need to elaborate on what the unexpected Rocky meant; it could only mean one thing.

Ten seconds later, the Red-Furred Armed Sloths appeared. They zeroed in on Erick, again, for some reason.

After Tenebrae vented his anger at the first four Armed Sloths, turning them into little more than red rain, the entire party started to run and Erick got to experiment with [Slowing Bolt] on the oncoming eight Armed Sloths. 200 mana caused a Slow that lasted 10 seconds, where the afflicted Armed Sloth moved at half speed, and rapidly fell behind all the rest. A thousand mana caused a three second complete cessation of movement —a Stop— followed by 30 seconds of Slow.

Erick suspected that if the creatures were not literally subway-train sized that his Slows and Stops would last a lot longer. As it was, everyone who could helped to erect [Force Wall]s into the air as the entire party all ran against the flow of mana, toward the nearest exit.

Two minutes later, everyone had escaped from the Labyrinth.

Tenebrae started yelling at his Rockys. For the part of the rock men, they looked ashamed. Erick heard a lot of ‘we didn’t want you to die’, so Erick wasn’t really mad. This was quite a dangerous event, after all. And then a Rocky did something Erick was not expecting.

