Her connection to it was immeasurably stronger than it had been in her first stage of perception. She felt it carry her around treacherous cliffs disguised in the underbrush, towards some destination—Ivolethe perhaps—and most crucially, away from the myriad dangers here.
The spiders were only the first of them. Twice, Ryoka had spotted vast shapes moving through the lesser trees amid the world-sized ones. Once, a shape high overhead, and a call so terrifying she’d huddled under a root network in fear for fifteen minutes before coming out.
Flora and fauna were strange. She passed by a perfectly red tree, taking care not to touch the bark, and did not eat any of the fruits or drink from the water of any stream.
And still—she felt the pursuers at times. In this modality, they were like distant blizzards sweeping across tens of miles away. Still so cold they sent wildlife running. And this time—she was sure she would not outrun them.
Perhaps her humble place in the forest was just as well. But Ryoka still cursed as she saw another flat lake barring her way. The wind urged her to not even go around the shore, and Ryoka did not trust the serene, glowing yellow-blue waters.
Anything could lurk there. And yet, for all she had seen great beasts, even chased strange predators away with the stink-potions, she had not seen one of the fae yet. No living forms of sentience besides the rabbit, the pursuers, and the warrior.
Ryoka was beginning to believe she would never meet anyone. That was when she did. The wind blew her left—and she came upon a door set into one of the vast trees.
It was slightly larger than she, but a homey thing, with a cut, decorative opening lined with glass at the top. No sign or windows or anything else, but Ryoka thought it was a wonderful little door.
She did not knock. Nor did the wind urge her that way. In fact, the instant Ryoka laid eyes on it, it tugged her urgently back. As if the wind itself had not expected the door to be here.
Hardly reassuring. Ryoka backed up, licking her lips nervously. The wind blew her backwards—
And nearly into the…foot…Ryoka stared at a huge, cracked toenail. Fungus and dirt underneath. Yellowing, unclipped. A foul odor. How had she not seen it a second before?
The answer came as she looked up at the tiptoeing giant thing behind her. It grinned, three eyes focused on her. Its skin was off-yellow, its ‘hair’ long, a continuous growth from its spine to its neck. It exhaled fumes with the noxious odor of putrid meat and—
At this point descriptions needed to end because Ryoka was already backing up. She scrabbled for a potion at her belt.
“W-wh—stay back!”
The thing did not answer her. It bent down, down, as it took a step as quiet as the rustle of leaves. It was so large one finger was larger than her. But still, it had crept up on her.
“Mortal flesh.”
That was all it said. Or—Ryoka heard a rumbling tongue. Words that hurt her ears. But she understood the meaning. She saw the hand dart forwards. She screamed, and tossed the potion.
The burning oil struck the hand. It didn’t so much as stop it. Ryoka saw the huge hand move towards her—
The wind blasted her off her feet. That saved her life. The giant had misjudged his strength; had he struck her, she would have been paste. As it was, she landed with a bone-jarring thump. The thing made a sound.
“Wind and mortals and hunting cold. Long have I hungered for flesh, since eight stars grew cold.”
…Is what the translation said. His true tongue she half-heard, a rumbling sound conceived before Humans had ever existed. She scrambled backwards, but it was so quick. It blocked her on one side, digging up dirt to form a vast wall—then did it again.
Like a boy would to trap a frog or mouse. Ryoka scrabbled for something that could harm this thing. Carefully, it bent, trying to squeeze her with two fingers.
From peace to death in an instant. This was the authentic fae experience. Ryoka cried out for the wind, and it assailed the monster, but it just laughed as the wind barely blew a refreshing breeze that moved the strands of hair slightly. Ryoka resolved to toss the pepper potion into its eye when it grabbed her when she heard a voice.
“Come inside. Or do you wish to let it eat you?”
Both Ryoka and the three-eyed giant looked over.
The door had opened. Someone stood in the humble, lovely little home. Ryoka’s eyes focused on a furry face. Two tufts of bushy hair that might have concealed ears.
Forest brown, russet brown, and a slightly rotund figure. She had…spectacles. And blinked up at Ryoka with a broom in hand. Ryoka thought she saw a pointed nose—but again, descriptions were not for this moment.
“Wh—wh—”
“Come in. If you wish to. But I rather think that your hunters and this one would eat you. I promise to do no harm.”
Ryoka hesitated. Above her, the giant was rumbling.
“That is mine! My mortal!”
“Away with you.”
The kindly woman waved her broom at it. He growled furiously and two beady eyes narrowed. Hers. His were locked on Ryoka’s. She looked at the woman, the door, and had a thought.
Brownie. Ryoka took a chance as the wind tugged at her. Between the giant and the woman?
She dove. The giant howled. Ryoka rolled past the furry, rotund figure. She saw a long tail, almost like a rat’s? And she realized the woman had been wearing an…apron…
Right before she shut the door. Ryoka leapt to her feet on the wooden, homey ground.
“No! Don’t—”
A roar shook the air just outside the door. A roar so loud the entire world’s tree shook. The giant voiced its fury—and then Ryoka heard a howl.
If one was a person’s fury, for all he was primitive and a titan—the other was animal. Primal. Ryoka heard a shout of fear, and then crashing footsteps. She herself quaked, but then there was only a kindly sigh and the door opened. A smiling woman walked inside with the apron and broom.
Brownie? Ryoka gaped. She had heard tales of the faerie folk who were helpers to mortals, fierce protectors if angered, but mostly just gave out food and were helpful guests or even servants for a time. But she had never dreamed of finding one of them.
“No, and you won’t, not thinking as you do. My, why did you want to see things this way, girl? And why did you come into the forest? The city would have been safer, even with the cold folk hunting you. Well, all’s mended now you’re here. Come, sit, sit.”
The woman swept past Ryoka in a moment. The Wind Runner whirled with the passing—
And she found herself sitting in a comfy, nature’s home. A seat made of a stump, a smooth table, a kitchen leading into the dining room, and two open windows that revealed nature without a guard of glass.
She looked around, and found she was holding a wooden mug and staring down at a plate of food. The woman smiled at her.
“Your wind is rather flighty. It should have taken you out of the forest long ago, but perhaps it feared the Winter Court more than what lay here. Silly wind.”
She blew something into the air and it swirled about before landing on the floor. Tea leaves? She also addressed the breeze around Ryoka as if it were one kind of wind.
“Of course it is. Now, eat. It has been far too long since your kind stepped foot in my home. I hope what you have is to your liking?”
Again, the woman spoke. Ryoka jumped; but like Sikeri…she peered into her mug. She saw a thick liquid, creamy, slightly yellow…she took a suspicious sip.
Eggnog? With nutmeg? That was what it seemed to Ryoka. She smacked her lips then stared at the pancakes and eggs with syrup on them that the woman had been cooking. Ryoka blinked at her cup, and realized it was the fifth one she’d had.
“I don’t know—excuse me, thank you for saving me.”
“Would you stop saying that, Miss Ryoka? It’s the sixth time, you know. Gratitude wears.”
A spoon tapped Ryoka on the head. Hard. The woman handed Ryoka another cup. The Wind Runner realized she was sipping—and she’d eaten part of the food in front of her! She put down the fork instantly.
“I—I shouldn’t do this. Eat food? Here? Thank you for saving me, but I don’t even know who—what—you are.”
She stared at the woman with trepidation. How had she sat long enough to have five cups of drink? The food? She was sure this woman didn’t know how to make fluffy pancakes and processed butter the exact way Ryoka liked them, and if they had factory-produced chicken eggs…
“Sit. My, you’re a strange one. So anxious.”
This time the bonk on Ryoka’s head actually made Ryoka see stars. She slumped into the chair and the woman tsked.
“When I invite someone into my home, they will partake of my hospitality. What you eat is what you desire.”
“P-pancakes and eggs?”
“More reassuring than some grand feast, I imagine. What a delightful little drink you have.”
The woman had a cup of her own, sipping it as if she had no idea what she’d served Ryoka. She smiled, and was sitting before Ryoka could blink.
“I know, I know, it’s all sudden and you’re terribly frightened. Mortals often are. Especially when they used to get lost in this forest. Those who met me—well, they were usually braver sorts than you. But you must have been special to get here. Even today.”
She looked Ryoka in the eye. Ryoka opened her mouth—
“Your friend? Ah, she’s not here.”
—Time fast forwarded again. Ryoka stared at the slight stain around a cup; sure proof that you needed a coaster. She stared up in alarm and the eyes twinkled at her.
Green, like hers, amid brown. The…brownie…if that was what she was, rolled her eyes.
“I know it’s impolite. But you’re in a hurry, so I thought you needed the content without the delivery. How do you feel? Another cup?”
Ryoka realized her bladder was empty, her stomach was full—but she’d been digesting it, and she felt relaxed. Her bug bites were soothed, and the chafing on her feet? She stared at the bandages wrapped around her bare feet, a primitive but effective foot covering.
“How long was I here?”
“Five minutes. And five hours. Would you like to sleep?”
Ryoka hesitated.
“I ate faerie food—”
“We’ve been over this. Don’t start fretting. My, you panic about everything. Do I wash my hands?”
She snorted. Ryoka leaned out of the way of the spoon of wrath. She must have asked that. The woman waved a finger.
“This is hardly that food. If you meet the tricksters, don’t talk or take anything from them. But we could hardly all be getting about if all food was wondrous entrapments, could we?”
“I suppose that’s so. Um—t-thank you. Have I asked what you are?”
“Four times.”
“And did you answer?”
Twinkling eyes were her response. Ryoka looked around the room.
“It’s a lovely home you have here.”
“I made it of the biggest tree I could find, but it’s still somewhat small. But that’s perspective for you. If I wanted, it could be vast. But I like keeping it here. Now, tell me more about this world of yours.”
Ryoka did, or thought she did. Another minute passed and she was sitting up on a couch, apparently hand-stuffed. The fabric…leather? Some hide, soft. Comfortable as could be.
“I see. I see. You’re from that place. Such a terrible thing. No wonder they hunt you so. So Ivolethe must be one of the Winter Court. They seldom come here. Your breeze tugged you in both directions because you want to go in.”
“In?”
Ryoka leaned forwards. She blinked at the dishes she was washing. She must have insisted, because the woman was taking her ease, smoking a pipe as she watched.
“Of course. You came from the outer place. Gateways. The forest and city? Well, we’re closer, but you want to go at least one level further. That’s where the courts are.”
“By in, do you mean, a different level of…? Another plane? No—”
Blink. Ryoka had it, and wondered how long it had taken.
“Four minutes. You do know some things.”
Ah. She vocalized the answer.
“It’s all one plane. But instead of geographical distance, I’m travelling across areas. I need to go through the forest or city to get to the next spot.”
A beaming smile was her answer. Ryoka felt like she’d won a medal. The woman waved a paw.
“And now you’re rested and you have proper footwear for your journey! I’ll take you to the edge of the forest as well. All in less than ten minutes. Just as you wanted.”
Ryoka stood, and wondered if she had stayed here ten minutes or ten days. The woman seemed to be moving Ryoka through her time as she pleased. Perhaps that was for Ryoka’s benefit, but—
 
She stood, looking up at the two framed pictures. And knew they were not framed nor pictures. That was just how they saw them.
The sunlight was rising and her gracious hostess still abed. The Wind Runner looked up at them and then realized she had slept in the little one’s rooms.
“Then…”
“Yes, my dear. Even we die. Just not of age.”
Ryoka spun, guiltily. Her hostess was looking at her, tiredly from the opening. 
“I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to—”
The Wind Runner spoke nervously. The woman shook her head as she walked past the two books Ryoka had read yesterday.
“I invited you into my home, Miss Ryoka Griffin. Now, rest. You must rest. You ran further than you know, from the cold folk. One more day…”
But as she looked up at Ryoka, the young woman knew her welcome was—
 
Memory flooded back. Ryoka looked at the stranger.
“Nama?”
Nama the…hostess…smiled.
“I knew you’d figure out how to remember your stay. Sooner rather than later. Some never remember.”
“I don’t know how I can repay your hospitality. Will you take something, at least? Gold? Potions?”
“Ah.”
The eyes lit up. Ryoka saw a moment of greed, or perhaps, simply desire in the woman’s eyes at last.
“Now those are things of value. Don’t give them away so lightly.”
“They are? I mean—they are. Because…”
Ryoka’s entire collection of items was set out on a table. The woman plucked three healing potions from the bag and looked at Ryoka.
“Of course they are. They’re from your world’s rules, after all. And each world has different rules. For instance…these? Very valuable. I will have three, if that is fair.”
She shook the best of the healing potions in the bag of holding at Ryoka. The young woman thought it was cheap—but she saw the hostess’ meaning.
“Of course, Nama. Take them. And if you want…?”
“No. You may have need of healing.”
The woman stopped Ryoka. Slowly, the Runner nodded and put them into her pack.
Twenty minutes. When she rose, Ryoka Griffin stretched. She felt light as a feather. The bindings on her feet? A second skin that neither thorn nor insect would pierce. She had never felt better.
She would remember her stay. Later. But she was in a hurry, so she turned and bowed. Nama tsked.
