Chrysanthemum’s subtle scent blew upon the halting wind. A breeze which moved between the dappled light, spotted shadows traced beneath the sky of branches.
Green eyes, like the leaves of the very trees she stood underneath, opened. The young woman’s torn clothing ruffled in the breeze. A splatter of dried blood rendered scentless stained her upper sleeve, beyond which recently-mended flesh lay, like a pale scar between her royal blue tunic, sewn together and mended with the sigil of House Veltras in patterns around the edges.
Ryoka Griffin felt the wind shift her raven-dark hair and looked around to see an aged wall of bark in front of her. Wonderingly, she put her hand out and felt at the rough texture. The bark flaked away in her grasp.
“Strange.”
She murmured, her voice slightly husky in the changed air. The changed world. The young woman studied the tree’s trunk. Then she looked around.
What had before been a small clearing in the forest had changed without sound, only in perception. A vast trunk lay in front of Ryoka, akin to a wall of wood. She stared at it. And realized that what had been before a tree was now—
The world’s tree stretched upwards, so vast it had a beginning and no end. The roots she could have run across, stumbling, scraping at her knees, feeling the rough bark of countless ages ascending upwards.
The tree towered beyond the limits of her vision. High overhead, leaves so vast as to be rooftops of their own betrayed the false sky with faint points of light.
And the branches continued to stretch across the sky. Reaching out, and then tangling with…
Other branches, like a spider web across the forest’s ceiling. Ryoka gazed upwards and a flash of insight revealed the truth: this was but one tree in a forest.
And yet, the one tree encompassed more than she had beheld the moments prior. The young woman started, and her heart caught in her throat, adding a wobbling cadence to her next words.
“I—what happened?”
A slight exhalation of breath. Then she turned and saw how the land beyond lands had altered.
The ring of fungi had altered markedly as well. What had been slightly discolored, ordinary whitecaps or some other form of indigenous fungi had sprouted higher. Until Ryoka could safely walk under the vast caps of reds and violets, gaze upwards at the lines of the mushroom’s growth.
And see life, where life had not been before.
A profusion of webs caught her eye, scintillating lines of glittering silk spun with dewdrops and the remnants of prey. The young woman reaching out to touch the uneven mushroom’s stalk snatched a hand back.
For she saw the glittering eggs lining the trunk. And overhead, the interior webs splayed about the inside of the mushroom’s cap, eaten into the half-rotten vegetation.
Spiders, not Shield Spiders but of a stranger variety still, stared down at her. Hanging from strands of silk, some as large as her head.
Tens of thousands. The largest of them began to creep downwards and Ryoka leapt away from the fungi, a curse on her lips. She stumbled forwards—foot striking a shard of pain from a buried rock—
Into the heart of the faerie circle of mushrooms. The young woman halted as the wind blew again, catching an unwary foot as it drifted downwards. The tug was fierce and insistent, a physical barrier of air which resisted and pushed her back.
To safety. For Ryoka Griffin saw the grass had grown wild, in profusion, bearing plentiful, fat seeds, among wild flowers and plants of every nature.
No weed but grew in this forest, as there was no great gardener. Already, Ryoka had felt the prickling of weeds; a nettle’s faint kiss which made her swear and adjust her posture.
“What happened? This wasn’t here a moment ago.”
The confusion tangling her thoughts did nothing to change the reality she now found herself in. Indeed, Ryoka believed this circumstance more than that of a second ago. A second kiss of another nettle made her reach for the emergency boots she carried in her bag of holding.
Ryoka sat on the grass of the faerie circle, applying a balm which soothed the biting itch and at the same time put on socks and the enchanted boots she had taken from the Archmage’s mansion.
The worn leather was a tad bit too large for her and left room on her feet—but it was preferable to standing on the grass. She had used it to run over stone and rock, and Hedault had claimed they would be proof against the thickest of thorns. A wise investment to keep them, Ryoka reflected in that moment.
Still, the City Runner’s eyes were roaming the glade nonstop. Now she stood below a single tree, and this circle of mushrooms, however vast and home to inclement life, a footnote before the tree itself.
Life chittered around her, creeping spiders which she hastily stood up to avoid contact with, forest beetles, and, climbing the lesser trees craving for light, squirrels and other mundane animals.
Even there, though, Ryoka espied a difference. One of the squirrels turned a multi-faceted eye, yet still flesh rather than chitin, at her. Eight eyes where one should be. It was as long as her arm minus the ragged tail, and it regarded Ryoka as a possible foe, rather than danger. She backed up—
And the wind blew her foot back. This time the City Runner’s stunned mind focused on what lay beneath.
An egg. It was ovoid, glittering. The translucent membrane faintly orange crossed with strands of green and turquoise. A large egg, to make no mistake of it; as large as a stomach, or perhaps a basketball, half-sunken into a depression in the ground.
It lay perfectly in the center of the faerie ring. And Ryoka, backing up now, realized that the spiders, wildlife, all avoided the grass around this spot for about six feet. The wind had twice protected her from stepping on it.
For good reason, it seemed. The egg lay at a natural ley line between the mushrooms, which were so evenly spaced as to be unnatural, for all they had grown with the perfect randomness of nature.
The mushrooms were not in themselves anything perfect; for all they were vast titans to the normal fauna. Some were half-rotted. And Ryoka suspected each were infested by the arachnid populations, which consumed local wildlife, and no doubt cannibalized each other.
But through the imperfection of the component parts had come this ideal spot. And into it—the potentiality had begat life. Either that, the Wind Runner thought, or this place has sprung into being around this very egg.
She gazed into its depths and saw a shape forming within the translucence. If she had dreamt of a winged shape, or some sparkle of a glorious being, the Wind Runner was disappointed.
But only just. The budding spider glowed. With the same vividness of existence that Melidore had, a kind of supernatural aura below the skin that Ryoka sensed, by virtue of her own understanding of immortals.
To summarize then: she backed away slowly, feeling the building hostility in the caps of the faerie ring towards her. If she had stepped unwisely, it would have been her last gesture, she knew.
The wind had saved her from disturbing this spider. Its lesser kin had built nets around it, perhaps as a form of worship. Perhaps to be consumed, or led to some glorious future when it was born.
A single spider’s egg. Ryoka could not fathom what the adult of it would be—or if it had ever walked this world. All she knew was that as she hurriedly stomped out of the faerie’s ring, she crushed spiders covering the grass, and began to run before the adults took further umbrage at her intrusion.
A faerie ring. Trees so vast each one could have been a world’s tree in my world. Ah, I see it now.
The Wind Runner caught her breath sixty meters away from the ring of mushrooms. More strangeness; she felt the stitch in her side more keenly now. A sharp, ragged bit of pain.
She had not felt such in her flight from the Wild Hunt before. Nor, Ryoka realized with another gasp of insight, had she perceived the distance she’d crossed in any quantifiable form.
Here, she did, in every step across mottled grass, over more thistles her boots protected her from. She was realer in this place than before.
She had run past countless trees of the same ilk she stood under. Thus; she had no doubt crossed leagues upon leagues in her other perception.
“Perception is the key. Drink me. Alice in Wonderland syndrome.”
The Wind Runner chuckled to herself. Of course. Faerie rules. Alice in Wonderland syndrome, like the story it was based off of—and Ryoka’s experience to some degree—was when someone perceived things as being larger and smaller than they were.
Extend that metaphor to her current condition and Ryoka’s hypothesis was that she had shifted everything, not just her sense of scale. The humble trees had been here, instead of the forest a moment ago. Or…had they truly been so humble?
Questions without answer. The City Runner walked on, shuddering and brushing off a hanging spider from her sleeves. She could not say whether this was better, in truth. Now, she keenly felt she was in a forest without end, such that her only hope did not lie in simply running as far as she could. Even in this place, she would take countless days to find the edge, even if she retraced her steps.
Could she shift her viewpoint once more? The Wind Runner tried, but she did not quite fathom how she had done it to begin with. Perhaps it was unconscious. Or perhaps—
A noise stopped her, a rumbling susurration of vast lungs within the forest. It was so intense a sound that the spiders went silent, the other wildlife quieted, and Ryoka Griffin herself felt her heart stop in her chest, a flash of panic overwhelming her other senses and thoughts.
What was that sound? She glanced about her—and then saw the beast which had uttered the noise.
It was, naturally…the rabbit. But what had been a mere white rabbit, small, without noticeable detail was now…
A vast, raggedly-furred creature stared down at Ryoka. A torn ear near the left’s tip, brambles and thorns caught in the pelt of the lord of rabbits. Some ancient beast with eyes far too intelligent and cunning for a regular animal.
Teeth, as it yawned, that could tear her apart in a single bite. Its passage through the forest had left countless burrs and other markings on its fur, but a lance would have hardly penetrated its body.
It regarded Ryoka, slightly unkindly, but with indifference. She gulped and halted in her tracks, her bowels suddenly urging her to walk behind a tree.
She was too afraid to move. Ryoka’s flippant comment the moment before dried her mouth.
“I—I—I’m sorry if I offended you. Lord Rabbit?”
She felt as though this beast were not an animal, but akin to something far greater. At least it could have eaten Carn Wolves for breakfast. She saw one vast eye open, and the brown sclera, in itself a tapestry of complex biology, regard her for a second. She saw the untorn ear flick, and the great thing heave itself to its feet with a sigh.
“Granted, mortal.”
The rabbit spoke. Ryoka felt her jaw drop; she had expected intelligence. Not vocalization. She saw the muscle and fur ripple—then it launched itself from its hindquarters.
The lord of rabbits or whatever it was, leapt out of sight. Bounded off a trunk—and vanished. The leap was so fast that the passage of air made her stumble. She felt the impact; caught herself, whirled—
And it was gone.
“I—buh—that was—did I—?”
Stupefied, the young woman stared at the flattened bit of grass. Then around at the forest of the fae. She felt grateful for having met whatever she had met. Then—terribly uneasy. She heard a chittering and realized that she had benefitted from more than one way by the white rabbit’s presence.
It had staved off the wrath of the spiders. Ryoka glanced over her shoulder as a wave of multi-faceted legs and eyes surged towards her. Shield Spiders and these magical ancestors alike. She ran, heart and legs pumping.
 
—-
 
The strobing pattern of lights was growing harder to watch from the ritual. It seemed as though countless conceivable spells were melding together to form one complex, unknowable effect.
That was how it appeared to the Blighted King, Othius the Fourth. To the mages, struggling as they linked hands and forced magic into the ritual, the effect might have been different.
He was keenly aware of the flaws in the moment. The stone dust shaking down from the ceiling, possibly disrupting the intricate magical flows.
His own disorganized clothes, slightly askew. Twice now he had attempted to correct it and failed, given up for sheer annoyance. This moment should have been timeless.
Instead, Othius kept staring at Nereshal. The man was one of the imperfections. He kept exhorting the others. The [Chronomancer]’s job was to be such, but it still rankled.
“Maintain your mana flows! High Mage Lerid! Your output is faltering!”
As if he were coaching students. Othius bore it as a necessity. Still, he longed to tell Nereshal to be silent. As well as inform the man he has some spittle glistening on his chin.
But Othius had forgone his servants, his host of colorful and resplendent courtiers and accompaniment. This was to be secret.
For this ritual would differ in considerable ways from those past. Already, the scope was far different.
“Ten thousand souls we sacrificed for a bare handful, a fraction of that last time. This time shall be different. Even spread out as they may be. I will bring the Demon Kingdom down to its knees and purge Rhir before my end.”
The compulsion gripped Othius. Nereshal nodded.
“It shall be, my king.”
The Blighted King scowled, for he had not wished a response nor meant to voice that feeling aloud. But Nereshal at least understood part of Othius’ great burden, his determination like adamantine to do what must be done.
Ten thousand of Rhir’s children had been sacrificed unborn last time. This time…
High Mage Laisa cried out as the magnitude of the spell struck her again. She was only providing power, yet—yet something seemed wrong to her.
“Your Majesty! Please, let us lessen the scope of it!”
“No.”
Othius snapped his reply. He had heard their fears. The spell was exponentially more powerful the more it was scaled up. The High Mages feared what it could do. But let it tear a hole between worlds! Let it bring him the armies the children had spoken of.
Let it be a worthy end, such that the world would ever remember his name. The Blighted King knew the incisive moment was still ahead. He waited, sitting impatiently, adjusting his clothing.
Laisa—Laisa felt something was going wrong. But she could not stop this. Not now.
 
—-
 
After about four hours of trekking through the undergrowth, Ryoka had trusted to the wind to see her to safety.
