It was a sandy, sunny field that stretched off about 500 meters all around, surrounded by faint walls of mist. Beyond the mist lay Fairy Moon Manor, though that could change as Erick wanted. It was just the start of House Benevolence’s Layer, too, for if Erick supplied more mana to Ar’Cosmos, and once [Renew] entered the Open Script, it would likely become much larger. He could even connect it to other parts of Ar’Cosmos as he desired.

Later, he might even get to try out some new spellwork on that sandy field. But now, it was time to talk to dragons, and to the consequences of his actions—

No. That was the wrong way to approach the threat of being known; the problem of dragons and danger—

No. Not a ‘problem’. An opportunity.

Yes, he was a Wizard. Yes, Fairy Moon had fairy-fucked him over with mind and body control. Yes, the world was coming for him. Yes, there were all those complications and more, but also, if he threaded the needle correctly, if he spoke the right words and enabled the right possibilities among all those involved…

Then he could make the world a better place.

He could turn the Crystal Forest green. He could raise cities out of sand. Push back all the monsters both on the Surface and in the Underworld. He could bring rain to the people, and bring the people together in harmony. He could found entire new worlds. All problems could be solved, for the most major, most dangerous ones had been solved. The Sundering might not ever happen again. Melemizargo was getting better. The Shades were mostly gone.

The solutions to every problem might not be apparent at first, but those solutions were out there, somewhere, waiting to be discovered, or created.

Yes.

That was the right way to think of this.

And so, that was what Erick did.

- - - -

The Rotunda was located in the layer of Ar’Cosmos known as the High Road. Everything in this layer was made of pale, tan stone, reaching heights that shouldn’t have been possible with normal engineering. All the buildings were layered above one another in a way that certainly should have everything collapsing, but the High Road remained. In addition to that, the deeper parts of it were a maze, but the upper parts were not. It was quite nice at the top.

It was all quite a lot airier and with more greenery here and there than was probably strictly necessary, but this was the bureaucracy layer of Ar’Cosmos, and so a certain amount of ostentation was a necessary display of power.

Some specific buildings stuck up above the general horizon of the High Road. Each of those buildings were identifiable at a glance by their shape. The Rotunda was one of these places.

It was shaped like a rather thick, round skyscraper, and if it weren’t for the tan stone exterior and architecture made of arches, Erick could have almost imagined the Rotunda in any skyline on Earth. It had many half-moon towers rising all around that central tower, though; that was rather non-Earth-like. City hall, which rose next to the Rotunda, was much more normal in appearance, being three simple, blocky towers.

The current skyway under Erick’s feet led straight to city hall. From there, it was a short journey to the Rotunda, the forum within which the heads of house and their compatriots (and the Free Dragons) debated and crafted laws which everyone would then follow.

The roads did not have many people on them. This fact was evident in the glass vials that rose like tiki torches here and there upon the skyway. The candle flames inside those vials burned low. Erick could already tell the lack of people in this place through Ophiel, though. The few people that were on the roads were the soldiers of House Carnage, dressed in their red enamel plate armor, and looking a little bored here and there. Mostly all of them looked like half dragons, like Maria.

Behind Erick and Fairy Moon, Maid Maria walked like a guard; alert, yet playing at being relaxed.

Ten minutes of walking later, and they finally reached some traffic, most of which came up from the nearby stairwells nearer to city hall. Most people did not walk across the High Road to get here, after all; they came up from the other layers of Ar’Cosmos.

The massive, thirty meter tall doors of city hall stood open, like a great yawning portal into a land of paperwork and lawyers. Here, closer to the governing heart of Ar’Cosmos, were people. People of all kinds, from dragons with no tails and well-formed horns and barely any scales, to half-dragons with an assortment of whatever body parts they were born with, but mostly the tails and the scales set them apart. All of those people were either waiting in line to get served by clerks off to the side, or headed off to somewhere else after checking in with the people at the front desk. The inside of city hall was mostly austere and professional, but here and there were some large bits of opulence in the form of paintings and sculptures set to the sides of the wide, wide hallways, which detailed the history and the big names and faces of the larger powers of Ar’Cosmos.

The first, most obvious bit of opulence was Fairy Moon, appearing in white, pink, and green crystal, standing like a sentinel upon a large dais in the center of the main room, right behind the front counter. She was only slightly larger than life-size. Lights illuminated that sculpture most brilliantly, drawing the eyes of everyone who walked through the large doors.

But it was here, after Erick and Fairy Moon reached the doors, and then stepped inside, that the true sculptures of the room were revealed; further back, and to the extreme edges of the main room, for there was no other space for them otherwise.

Life-size sculptures of dragons, looming in the bright recesses of the room, formed wall-like sections of city hall with their snake-like bodies, all twisted and curled in on themselves, save for their heads, which stuck out a fraction into the main foyer of the main entrance. They were all made of solid crystal. One violet, one grey, one bright red. They were lifelike, for sure, and Erick was a bit nervous seeing dragons, but then he realized he shouldn’t be.

The guards to both sides of the entrance hall bowed. Erick didn’t get a chance to see much more of city hall before a nervous runner from House Fae stepped out from behind that front counter and walked straight up to Erick and Fairy Moon. Apparently, the powers of Ar’Cosmos were ready for them to show up. The nervous man was a little nervous because of Erick and Fairy Moon, but mostly he was nervous due to whatever was going on in the Rotunda. Erick glanced around the room and took in the sights of a hundred different people, each either glancing his way, or turning away trying not to be noticed.

Erick and Fairy Moon followed the nervous man through the main hall of city hall.

And for some bizarre reason, as he passed the large sculptures of Bright Smile, Illustrious Moon, and Inferno Maw, Erick couldn’t help but think that there was room for a fourth dragon. Perhaps replacing that other wall, over there. One made of Benevolence white crystal.

Wasn’t that an odd thought.

- - - -

A short bridge separated city hall from the Rotunda.

The building was much larger from this close.

The outermost parts of the Rotunda looked like layer upon layer of aqueduct arches, spiraling around a central core, gradually rising from the depths of the High Road, up to Erick’s current position, and then further still. It spiraled up into the sky like a very tightly coiled spring. And that was just the first, outermost shell of the Rotunda. A second, similar shell, held inside the first. And then a third shell after that.

The arches themselves were 25 meters tall at their tallest point, and about that much wide, too. As closely packed as those arches were, the whole design sort of seemed like a very airy Tower of Pisa, or something like that—

A full-sized dragon slithered out of an archway. And its body did not exit that fast. The dragon was a long one, for the dragon’s long body kept coming—

And then the green dragon stopped, and stared at Erick and Fairy Moon. They had seemed beyond furious and highly disgusted by whatever was going on inside, but they lost that expression in that single instant of recognition. They paused, nodded/bowed, and then turned right back around, reentering the Rotunda through another arch.

The guide from House Fae rapidly spoke about how things were deteriorating, but maybe things would be better now that Erick and Fairy Moon were showing. The guide led them down the bridge, leading into the Rotunda.

Erick and Fairy Moon followed—

Erick crossed an invisible barrier in the center of the skyway and sudden sounds filled his ears, like listening to news anchors fighting on a TV inside the next room over, but with those news anchors being dragons and with voices of comparable power. Erick steeled himself and followed the guide, into the depths of the Rotunda’s open air design.

He saw a few dragon tails before he saw the actual congregation, and as he moved forward, the sounds of argument began to fall quiet. Heads pulled back to glance at Erick and Fairy Moon as they walked forward, to the center, to a place that was set aside for them, or for any other people-sized persons who wished to participate in the discussions. From the nice stone chairs set not a meter from the edge, Erick guessed that this was Fairy Moon’s personal ‘skybox’.

The entirety of the Rotunda was quite simple in construction. It was five concentric layers of aqueduct arches, like five nesting dolls, with the central layer having an open space in the middle, about 250 meters wide. It was like a round courtyard. That rotunda started about fifty floors down from Erick’s current position, and continued up into the sky for another 20 floors. There was no roof; only open sky.

The interior aqueduct arches formed little balcony-like areas for the dragons to position themselves within, giving each individual dragon space with which to participate in the proceedings. There was some sort of height-based arrangement to the setup that had to do with hierarchy, but for the most part, the dragons who were arguing were floating in the center of the space, like streamers of brightly shining colors draped upon the air. Red, green, and blue, were the current speakers, with the red one seeming to be some sort of judge, if based upon her position above a bit of floating rock, while the other two free-floated; the debaters, no doubt.

And for a moment, upon seeing the full forum, Erick felt sweat trickle down his back.

Hundreds of sinuous, snake-like dragons poked out of all the other holes around the Rotunda, with their arms crossed and resting on the floors in front of them. As Erick stepped forward, those heads turned toward him. There were at least four hundred dragons sitting around, debating or listening.

There was a lot of power here in this Rotunda.

A lot.

The red dragon floating atop the floating rock, inside the hollow of the Rotunda, spoke quietly and rapidly toward the debaters, “This part of the discussion is shelved. Please take your seats.” Green and blue complied, though neither of them looked happy about it. And then the red dragon spoke with a voice raised for all to hear, “This congregation welcomes Archmage and Wizard Erick Flatt to the Rotunda of Ar’Cosmos. We appreciate your attendance.” She explained, “I am Mikatiti, the coordinator of this honorable Rotunda, and I will lay out some small rules for your non-dragon participation in this assembly—” Her voice shifted a fraction as she projected her words slightly more toward everyone else, “You will speak whatever you wish to speak. After that, we will have questions, as outlined by prior arrangements, that you are free to answer or deny as you deem necessary. When we are through with our questions we will discuss what you have said for a single hour, and then we will have more questions. You are free to remain while we discuss what you have said, but you are not required to do so. As you are the guest of honor, feel free to interrupt our own discussions at any point in time.” There were some minor grumbles and anger out there from the hundreds of dragons peeking out from the inner edges of the Rotunda, but no one interrupted Mikatiti. She continued, “After that hour of discussion, we ask for another round of questions. This cycle could go on for a while, or until you decide that you have had enough, and you decide you have other things to do.” She turned her full attention to Erick. “Do you have questions? Do you find this arrangement acceptable?”

Erick rapidly realized a few things, but one stood out most of all. Not a single dragon was visibly using voice enhancement magic. They were just that loud. So while it was probably embarrassing to need to cast such a magic, Erick did so anyway, twisting his aura to cast some magic to make his voice loud enough to be heard, “How many questions will I be answering per round? How long do you expect a cycle to take?”

Instantly, some people in the audience guffed out annoyance.

“Spellcasting is frowned upon. Use your normal voice; we can hear without needing you to speak loudly, either.” Mikatiti answered, “We have agreed upon four important questions, to start; one from each House, and one from the Free Dragons. We expect a little back and forth during each question, if you please. We expect a cycle to take an hour but it could take as long as two.”

Erick dropped his magic and spoke normally, though he did project his voice a little, “I want to confront the wrought contingent that is expected to show up at noon, for my hope with such a confrontation is to create less conflict and more prosperity and I need to talk with them, too, to ensure this goal. Aside from that, and from whatever other needs might occur, I will participate in this assembly for as long as I am able.”

The gathering seemed to mostly approve of that, though some dragons were obviously ready to speak out against the wrought. No one actually spoke out, though.

This was a lot more civilized than Erick had imagined.

Mikatiti seemed to relax, her entire 50 meter long body coiling downward a fraction, though she remained firmly hovering above her stone platform. “Then this assembly will have your opening statements. What do you desire from Ar’Cosmos? What can Ar’Cosmos expect from you in return?”

