Erick centered himself, and then he began, “With the Shades mostly gone, the largest source of malfeasance on Veird has nearly been nullified. Going forward, I wish to solve many longstanding problems that continue to plague this world, and one such problem is the Dragon Blood Curse. A true solution to this problem will likely take decades to both manufacture and bring Kirginatharp to the table in order to cure that Curse, but there are smaller solutions to enact before then.

“With my creation of [Renew], and due to the way it allows cast-mana to become self-mana, which is a process we are still exploring, we are able to clear bloodlines and malformed Dragon Essence from those you call half-dragons. It is a cure and a transformation into a new body, all in one. It works. The half dragons already tested are recovering; their half-dragon nature having been stripped from them, along with all other elemental influences.

“An attempt was made to create a system which imbued a bloodline into a person, but that system failed for unknown reasons. So far, the only cure we have is for half dragons. I don’t believe such a system would allow a dragon to actually remain a dragon. All it does is strip all bloodlines from a person and give them a basic body.” Erick had repeated those facts a few times, to ensure that the dragons here understood it was not a way for them all to gain relief from the Curse. They seemed to. “I’m calling it [Reincarnation], but other people might use different words for the process in the future.

“And so, using this new magic, I hope to help everyone here in Ar’Cosmos who is unable to complete the Trial of the Wyrm to rid themselves of their half-cursed nature. In doing so, it is my understanding that such people will be able to leave Ar’Cosmos and resume normal lives outside of this space, out there on Veird.”

Practically every single dragon out there, under the myriad arches of the Rotunda, were on the edges of their stone seats. Some had tried to interrupt when Erick mentioned Kirginatharp, but Mikatiti, without even looking, silenced them with a flick of her tail. She did not cast any magic, but the offending dragons silenced themselves.

They listened attentively, so Erick continued.

“I also created Elemental Benevolence the other day.

“I’m a Wizard… apparently.

“And so, while I highly doubt I will be able to be taken easily by anyone who is not Fairy Moon, I do not wish to remain here in Ar’Cosmos, but when I am out there I will be targeted. To that end, I offer an invitation to Ar’Cosmos to come build a city beside Candlepoint’s lake. When I finally create [Gate], which I expect to be able to make… maybe later today, I expect Yggdrasil to become a world hub, where all the nations of the world can come and go in peace, and hopefully we’ll create some prosperity in that organization.

“I had originally planned to reveal my Wizardry in around 8 months, well after having a Gate Network up and running, but that plan has changed, and so we are here.” Erick breathed, and said, “To that end, I would like to tell you a little bit more about where we are in worldwide current events:

“Elemental Benevolence is the anti-Sundering element, and as such, it is primarily centered around Super Long Range anti-apocalypse prognostication awareness, with a primary purpose of helping the user spot both opportunities and problems when it comes to large-scale shifts in population. And so, I have already seen some problems that I am still considering how best to deal with, but none of those problems or opportunities look too pressing.

“I might make a House Benevolence to help with this sort of endeavor, but it won’t be one of Paradox’d Dragon/Benevolence Essence. If the creation of such a House seems reasonable and possible, then I will be looking for new house members to help me form that House. I expect our first task to be transforming the Crystal Forest into habitable land. Whatever happens after that remains to be seen, but I primarily see myself as heading an organization which helps people who request help, and which heads off large-scale problems without needing to be asked.

“I also foresee some heavy posturing in the beginning, made against all the other powerful forces of the world, like Kirginatharp, and the churches, and the wrought, and the Mind Mages, and especially the Dragon Stalkers.” Erick said, “But not all of those organizations are the same, and I hope to have open dialogues before I resort to war, because if I go to war then I will win that war.

“I don’t want to win a war through violence ever again, but I will if necessary.”

The dragons were concerned about Sundering talk and House Benevolence talk, but they also had hundreds of other emotions, too. Dragon faces and bodies were not quite as easy to read as normal people, and while there was a fair bit of distance between Erick and everyone else, except for his neighbors directly above, beside, and below him, he mostly understood what he was seeing. Far from being incited to harsh words, as Erick had imagined they would be, as soon as Erick got past the Sundering talk a lot of them had open greed writ large upon their faces, or perhaps some sort of hunger. At least two dragons out there were eyeing him as one would eye a particularly juicy cow.

After a moment of silence, Mikatiti announced, “And so, Ar’Cosmos gains Sight of the possibilities arrayed before us. Which section will ask their question first?”

Eyes and heads shifted as dragons sighted the dragons they were interested in hearing from next, or something along those lines. There were too many unknowns in this crowd for Erick to pick apart every nuance of the crowd, he did, however, think that the directions of the faces pointed was some sort of voting mechanism. He did notice, though, as three different dragons—

Nope. Four different dragons. One was below Erick by four floors.

Those four dragons stuck their sinuous tails out into the large space, raising them so they were seen by all.

A red dragon to the left. A white straight across. A grey to the right. A violet dragon down below.

Erick had never seen any of them before. As he looked around, he did not recognize Redflame, or… Well. Redflame was the only dragon he had seen in dragon form— But! Ah. Right. Dragons kept their same horns throughout all their forms, unless they were purposefully engaging in subterfuge. With that in mind, Erick reevaluated who he saw…

Nope.

He didn’t know any of them.

Mikatiti called upon the red one first, saying, “Akendri, Speaker for House Carnage.”

Akendri spoke up, “Will you be working toward making a form of Renewal Tank that fosters growth of the mutated Dragon/Other Essence which allows us to maintain our dragon forms outside in the rest of the world, while also avoiding Kirginatharp’s Dragon Curse?”

“[Renew] will come out in the Open Script in around ten or eleven months.” Erick said, “I expect other people to create that particular magic. As of right now, I don’t believe the current system or methodology will allow dragons to circumvent the Dragon Curse like they currently can, though I fully expect someone else to be able to create this particular magic.”

Greed glinted in the eyes of almost every dragon in the congregation. Some were worried, though.

Akendri digressed, “That is all.”

Mikatiti nodded, then announced, “Light Blight, of House Death.”

The white dragon, Light Blight, spoke, “I speak with specific regard to the wrought. Unlike most of my compatriots, I do not believe the Mind Mages will be a problem as long as the wrought decide to forgo open war. Since you are already allied with wrought, even though you are now revealed to be a Wizard, do you foresee them actually allowing you to live? Do you honestly believe that peace is possible? That they won’t try to get you to lower your defenses, and then attack when you are vulnerable?”

A loaded series of questions. Light Blight did not believe peace was possible at all. Many other dragons felt the same way, if Erick was reading them right.

Erick said, “I have made myself vulnerable to them before. Now that certain secrets are out, I will not be making myself quite that vulnerable ever again, or at least not until after a good ten years of easy cooperation.” Erick said, “For the wrought have been cooperative before, and I still have a link to the Script, which means I haven’t angered Rozeta too much. Considering their primary function is to be neutral and to ensure the world survives the worst case scenarios, I hope that my creation of Benevolence will grant me a great deal of goodwill with them. Rozeta has tried to work with Wizards before, and so, I feel I qualify for at least that much benefit of doubt.”

Light Blight asked, “What sort of defenses are you prepared to enact to secure this proposed city beside Candlepoint. How will you defend against outside threats, like those posed by the wrought?”

Erick said, “I can go into specifics, if you would like, but I will not go that deep because this is a security matter.”

“Specifics are not necessary.” Light Blight raised his head a fraction, then said, “I ask this question because House Death would provide supplemental infantry defense for this new, proposed land, if you can provide primary defense.”

“Overall, the plan is runic webs in the walls, widescale [Renew]-enabled archmage-level defenses across the entirety of the land, Yggdrasil’s defensive power, preventative magics everywhere, and treaties with all other governments that might need to be considered. Smaller scale security will likely be a continual issue, but there isn’t a city out there without a guard, and anything I create would be no different in that regard.” Erick said, “House Death’s offer is duly noted.”

Light Blight bowed his head a fraction, pulling back.

Mikatiti announced, “Proxy Dearth-of-red, of the Free Dragons.”

The grey dragon, Dearth-of-red said, “The Highlands know of Archmage Flatt’s measure and we approve, but we would like to make one thing clear: When you get back to Veird, we would ask you to research how to strip the Curse from a dragon, without needing to go through the tragedy that is Paradoxing. If you can do this magic then you will have a thousand dragons offering you their allyship, without reservation. Know this, Archmage Flatt: The Curse is the only thing holding us back from grinding the problems of Veird into nothing, be they monsters or murderers or face stealers or Hunters or Dragon Stalkers, or tyrannical wrought, or even Melemizargo himself. We can make this world a paradise, if only the Curse did not exist. If you can erase that curse from individuals, or as a whole, then we are pledged to you for now until forever.”

Mikatiti’s tone or posture did not change, but she felt a bit irritated as she asked, “Does the Speaker have a question?”

“All our questions about Erick and what he wants to do with this world have been answered a thousand times over.” Dearth-of-Red said, “The only thing that remains is to see him protected from any of the thousand and one threats still out there.”

Erick felt both good and bad about Dearth-of-red’s words. He had thought he had processed the emotions of a ‘flight of dragons’ being loosed on Veird, but apparently he had not.

Erick said, “I appreciate the offer.”

Dearth-of-red nodded.

Mikatiti moved on. “Asteroid Stars, of House Fae.”

Erick stuck his head back out over the edge.

The purple dragon’s eyes lingered on Dearth-of-red for a moment longer, then she raised her gaze up toward Erick, just a few floors above her. “We want you to get [Duplicate] from Kirginatharp. Can you do this?”

“… Why do you want that spell?” Erick said, “Illustrious Moon spoke about that desire, too.”

“Since the option exists where we can have everything if we want it, we should be allowed to have that option.” Asteroid Stars said, “Every single person you see dying from hunger, or from lack of shelter, or from lack of any material thing, is one more casualty in the tyranny of [Duplicate] being locked behind Kirginatharp and Rozeta’s decrees. We desire everything for everyone. We desire economies of thought and action, and to mitigate all economies of scarcity and greed.”

Ah.

Well...

“I’m right there with you, Asteroid Stars,” Erick said, “When new worlds open up, I’m sure that somewhere out there there will be a Script with just a few spells offered, and [Duplicate] might be among those offerings. But the wrought would never go for it here on Veird and I have already brought too much upheaval to this world. I don’t feel that the proliferation of [Duplicate] would do anything but cause a lot more upheaval.”

“But see! This is precisely the reason to proliferate this magic, today, or at least as soon as possible.” Asteroid Stars said, “The world is changing. Why not change everything to be better, all at once?”

Out in the audience, Asteroid Stars seemed to have a lot of supporters.

“I would prefer more incremental changes.” Erick said, “My main fear with the release of [Duplicate] is that it has a very large chance of causing untold destruction when some malefactor decides to copy Extreme Light materials and scatter them everywhere, while also causing a god to go Dark, like Atunir almost did back in the fall of Quintlan.”

“Ah! So a smaller release of [Duplicate] would be acceptable?” Asteroid Stars asked, “How about if such magic were to be given to the heads of the Houses of Ar’Cosmos? Or to trusted advisors?”

Erick had been led into a small trap that had the capability to turn into a very large one, for he saw the greed in the eyes of every dragon in the Rotunda. He knew that saying ‘no’ would lose him a lot of goodwill. That possible loss of goodwill might have stopped him from saying ‘no’ a year ago, or if he had fallen with Jane into Ar’Cosmos instead of the Crystal Forest and was thus raised with draconic overlords overseeing his life. Now, though, he had seen more than enough terrors that a tower full of dragons only ranked in the top 10 of his most terrifying experiences ever.

“I don’t feel that the pros of releasing [Duplicate] to the many is enough of a reason to anger the wrought and potentially topple all of the current governments of Veird.” Erick said, “I am trying for stability.”

Asteroid Stars smiled a little, saying, “Asking for simple peace would never work, therefore, we must ask for more, and be talked down to something lesser. Now that the Shades of Ar’Kendrithyst are gone, it is time for dragons to finally take the field!

