“House Fae plans on demanding the wrought let us settle lands in the jungles of Continental Nergal. House Death wants Quintlan. The Free Dragons plan to gain control of Nelboor. House Carnage wants Glaquin, though we know they are already willing to share lands with House Benevolence. In fact, all of our people desire to share lands with House Benevolence.

“Right now, our power is limited, but I and all of House Fae believe that true peace is possible, and so we must shape what is to come, and part of that shaping is the demand for certain changes. The demand for [Duplicate] is something we are willing to give up with regard to gaining all of the world, but you don’t honestly want all us dragons out there keeping the world clear of monstrous threats without some personal benefit, would you?” Asteroid Stars said, “Personally, I want a bed of warm gold, and gems, and pearls. I would rather have a bed of riches that I [Duplicate]d than one I had to gather from all the peasants that live under my aegis. They never pay enough and they always complain.”

Asteroid Stars’ words resonated with a lot of other dragons. Erick felt that he should have been a bit surprised by Asteroid Star’s open greed, but he wasn’t. Not really. Dragons and greed were a multi-universal concept, it appeared.

There was only one way to respond to such a hard-line stance, though.

Erick said, “That’s a perspective I hadn’t considered. I’ll need to think about that.”

There were more than a few small huffs of laughter all around the Rotunda. They all knew that Erick was refusing to answer. Asteroid Stars huffed a small laugh too, then nodded to Erick, and then to Mikatiti.

The redscale arbiter of the Rotunda announced, “And thus ends the first round of questioning. We shall begin the discussion.”

Instantly, tails flicked out from beside their owners. Mikatiti called upon a tealscale. That bright dragon then spoke of how he wanted more information about the Renewal Tanks, and their limitations. In response, Light Blight, the dragon from House Death, began speaking of Inferno Maw’s current investigations.

Behind Erick, a man and a woman came forward with small refreshments. Another usher brought forth a perch for Ophiel to sit upon. That perch had a thick base and a long arm that could extend out into the Rotunda by two meters; it would allow Erick to look down, or up, without having to actually look over the edge. Fairy Moon was already seated on her not-a-throne. Erick took the seat beside her.

And so, Erick and Fairy Moon sat at the edge of the Rotunda, with Ophiel seated about two meters out, hanging over the abyss of dragons, his watchful eyes allowing Erick to view everyone, including dragons directly above or below.

Mostly, Erick listened, though.

And he wondered about many things. Perhaps the smallest of which was the question of what sort of anger had been erupting that had required the runner from House Fae to come out and collect him so early. Were these dragons just being polite now that Erick was here? Or was it Fairy Moon’s presence that caused them to act civilized? Or were they always civilized? And if they were always civilized…

Had that runner made Erick come out here early specifically so he didn’t get a chance to play around with Benevolence?

… No. That was too much paranoia.

Or perhaps it was just the right amount?

- - - -

An hour of talk passed faster than Erick would have thought possible, and while it was interesting, it was mostly about things outside of his control. Or rather, things he decided that would remain outside of his control.

The dragons were planning on dividing up the Surface of Veird amongst themselves, and not a single one thought that their goals were impossible. As soon as [Renew] helped them solve the problem of the Curse, then they would pour out across Veird like a Benevolent tide.

They had used that word exactly like that, too. ‘Benevolent’ tide. They were including Erick in their plans for world conquest.

He wasn’t sure how he felt about world conquest, though certain societies would surely benefit from someone taking them into hand. Like the Sovereign Cities. That place was still having a civil war apparently, between the rebels and the nobility. Erick cared not for either side except in that general way one cared about other people, but everyone in the Sovereign Cities was horrible, so a draconic master might actually be able to impose some good reforms in that land.

House Carnage was looking forward to ending that civil war.

Other Houses had other desires.

Continental Nergal with the slavers in the jungles was a problem that House Fae wished to solve, and they already had pixie allies down there.

In a similar, yet different way, The Free Dragons wanted to end the wars on Nelboor through the rise of ‘Empire’ Songli.

House Death wished to bring Necromancy mainstream; to stop the persecution of Necromancers the world over. They also desired to legitimize the Fractured Citadels of Quintlan, to make others see that land as one of civilization, and not as a land of monsters. Living Undead were just a different type of person, after all. Erick’s [Reincarnation] magic, once they figured out all of those intricacies, might even allow them to bring the dead back to true life in a [True Resurrection] sort of way. There were always problems with [Resurrection] magic, but [Renew] might actually solve those problems, since [Renew] completely mitigated the myriad different-mana issues that naturally arose during the course of an attempted resurrection.

House Carnage also wanted to end the Quiet War on Glaquin; to bring both the Wasteland Kingdoms and the Greensoil Republic to heel. They expected Erick’s assistance in this eventual goal…

Erick gave some lip service toward ending the Quiet War on Glaquin, and every other question posed to him, but mostly he abstained from any true commitments.

He wasn’t sure how he felt about draconic overlords.

For some reason, he thought back to Apogee, the copper dragonkin, planar, former guildmaster of the Wayfarer’s Guild back at Spur, actually-a-half-dragonkin-now-that-Erick-knew-better. That guy had gotten through almost all of the Worldly Path, but he hadn’t wanted to take that last step; he didn’t want to make [Gate]. Erick had believed that Apogee’s reasons could have been anything from not trusting Melemizargo, to being a slight misanthrope, but as Erick sat here he knew yet another reason why Apogee had never taken that final step. Apogee had even said as much.

That man hated the draconic overlords of his previous world.

The dragons of this world treated their dragonkin offspring rather poorly, too, for they usually absconded at the earliest possible convenience as soon as the offspring didn’t show any potential for true power. Poi had even been subjected to this. His father was actually a dragon, and that guy had left Poi, his sister, and his mother behind, as soon as his draconic nature was discovered. Poi’s story was not unique at all.

Like, sure, maybe the dragon up and left to prevent other dragons from coming down and starting a fight, but then there was Al, and Savral, and Erick was almost 100% sure that Al was actually a dragon. He stuck around with his kid. Most dragons did not do that.

Maybe there was more to it than that, though?

Maybe Poi’s father had been found out as a dragon. Or maybe it was just the Dragon Stalkers who forced the issue.

But even so…

Erick didn’t know how he felt about creating a world of draconic overlords.

Personally, for him, having all these dragons allied with him was like allying with hundreds of immortal archmages who also happened to be archwarriors. Erick would not be unassailable in such a world, but he would be a lot safer. And besides that, these dragons were not like the dragon kings of Apogee’s homeworld. Some of them seemed like good people. (Though Erick was absolutely sure that they were putting on a good face for his benefit.)

And yet…

Rozeta had said that Veird would not survive a true flight of dragons.

Perhaps…

Was all this talking just a smokescreen? To hide their innate viciousness?

Ar’Cosmos was the only part of the world where they could be themselves, this was true, but it was also the only part of the world where a very, very old fae enforced rules of non-violence. Maybe they weren’t actually being pleasant because of Erick. They were probably being pleasant because of the very, very powerful fae sitting a meter to Erick’s left.
