Philosophy!

The most useless of skills, yet the most enslaving of skills. A skill that cannot shatter stone, cannot start a flame, cannot twist a river, cannot build an aqueduct, cannot dry a seabed, and cannot tame a beast. A skill that stands for naught when your enemy is armed with steel, or even stone, a skill even the highest of ideations of which are so easily brought down by the vilest of beasts.

Despite all this, philosophy still entangles us. We just cannot help but dream. Religion and mythology stand as one when gods are severed from the concoction. Beyond philosophy is more than mere faith, but perhaps even an explanation of faithlessness or a conception of the greater good beyond the existence of a god to call master.

Far too many of those who call themselves warriors discount philosophy, think themselves unneedful of such a thing, yet are governed by the philosophy of hedonism without even knowing it. Even those blind to their own governing principles possess an idea that guides them, an urge and a framework that cages their actions. They kill, and they justify their butchery, for there is a dissonance within that needs to be soothed, lest they are more cold-blooded beasts than men, merely creatures of brutality dressed in human skin.

Even the lowest sociopath yearns to see the world in a form of order, and so philosophy rules over them still, yet in an altered form, perhaps one of a more alien notion. To think, to conceptualize, to imagine already condemns you to this most Gnostic of plagues.

You must have a governing philosophy. Even the belief in nothing, that reigning nihilism, oh so common in our little world, is still a framework to view it. Once you understand how you view the world, you might be able to negotiate with yourself about changes necessary for a certain question of free will. For if you do not know why you think a certain way, how then do you choose to think another?

When faced with an adversary, what then can you do to them if you understand the very roots that govern their worldview?

If all the world's a stage and all the players bear their wooden planks, then I ask this: Would it not be best to be the one who holds the lines and sees the narration? Would it not be best to know what fetters another?

—Hero-Playwright Kathereine Chandler of the Dust Kingdom

378

This Shared Moment of Flavor and Monologue [I]

“By the Ascendants, you're actually alive.” Isabella Van Stormhalt looked upon Rose Van Erren with a mixture of absolute horror, reverence, and awe.

For years, she'd known her fiancé's mother to be dead, murdered when he was a young child in a depraved ritual.

Yet here was the Lady of Blackedge, in the flesh, standing before her, unblemished, red of hair, examining her son's fiancée with a curled lip as if she was a bug that had crawled in from the outside.

“If you asked that question a few months ago, there wouldn't have been anyone here to answer you.” Rose directed a mocking sneer at Shiv, but there was a twinkle of amusement in her eyes. “But this one here just couldn't let the dead rest. Just had to go reaching into the Ascendants’ embrace, ripping me away from the bliss of the afterlife, without ever giving me a chance to choose.”

Isabella's eyes widened, and she slowly took a half-step away from Shiv. “Is that how your resurrections work?”

Shiv lifted an eyebrow, examining the fox-like grin Rose was giving him. Behind her, Adam lay within his realm of blissful peace. The painted garden surrounding him still had that charcoal threshold, ensuring no one could disturb him. Upon that bed, he bled, and he gasped. He moaned for death, yet his struggles were reduced compared to before. He too had been treated, but he experienced nowhere near the release Isabella did.

“Yeah,” Shiv said, playing along with Rose's impish scheme. “It's a pretty foul power. I mean, she was screaming the entire time trying to shove herself back up Maiden’s ass—which was a pretty interesting place to find her, but hey, who am I to judge? Anyway, after unlatching her from the taint hair—”

A pale, slender middle finger was suddenly pressed up against the bottom of Shiv's chin. It took Rose reaching straight up with her extended arm to plant her insult against Shiv's jaw, and he smirked slightly, enjoying the sour look on her face. “Hey, Lady Van Erren: if you mess with me, I'm gonna mess with you too. That's the way it goes.”

Comedy 25 > 28

A curtain of Biomancy wards, supplied by Ekkihurst and Helix, kept Isabella in a sterile bubble. To make sure nothing went wrong, Shiv shared a few flies, and they hovered close behind him, circling around the recently treated Young Lady of House Stormhalt. With all these precautions in place, she was personally escorted by Shiv up to the very heights of the Perch, where Roland and Rose waited, guarding the suffering body of their son.

The little levity between Shiv and Rose lingered as long as a mayfly between the seasons. Isabella's attention slipped past both Shiv and Rose and fell upon Adam, where her grief bloomed like the flowers that surrounded him.

“Oh, oh, Endbreaker,” she gasped.

Roland and Shiv shared an awkward look. Well, she is a Stormhalt, Shiv remembered. Havel was an Avatar of Halsur, and so it was no surprise that the Endbreaker was to House Stormhalt what the Starhawk was to House Arrow.

Isabella's steps were tentative and slight. Her chest radiated cold waves of overwhelming fear. She was petrified for Adam. Truthfully, Shiv could practically taste the nausea rising inside her as she watched her fiancé's open skull gush another flood of blood. But despite the horror that enchained her, she would have gone to Adam's bedside if not prevented by the Educator's charcoal borders. Her fingers curled the hem of her medical gown into clumps, and she pressed hard against the threshold preventing her from stepping into the painted demiplane. Her eyes glistened like glass marbles, hazel bright and reflecting the faint embers of divine incandescence leaking from her fiancé.

Adam remained as Shiv remembered, a ruined husk of himself, but at least his thrashing was far reduced. Perhaps his uncontrollable Awareness skill offered a small mercy unto itself, for it kept him incapacitated rather than driven to shed blood and take life—though the torment would have to be extreme for Adam to sink to such a point.

Even still, Isabella refused to shed any tears. She kept herself composed and wheeled on Shiv, her mouth already moving before her mind calmed. Questions spilled out of her in a tide of gibberish as she fought to bring a measure of coherence back to her words. “Ah—if—unh—You said the crown was technological? What kind? What era? Can I see it? Do you know how it functions? The mechanics? Schematics?”

A frantic energy took hold inside Isabella. Shiv could see she wasn't the kind to stay idle. Already she was looking for solutions, anything to help alleviate Adam's burden—and while her thoughts spun like a hurricane, her heart cramped from an overload of desperation. “I might not be able to disassemble it myself, but I know people back at the capital. My father has connections—he can appeal to the Endbreaker, and if not him, then Maiden definitely!”

As she invoked the name of the Ascendants, Roland looked aside, refusing to meet her eyes at this moment. They had already been failed by an Ascendant—perhaps the most noble of them all. The fact that Piety was technically at war with the gods of the Republic was brushed aside by the simple reality that even if all seven of the dead Ascendants were resurrected, all twenty then returned to their prime states, and all were willing to help Adam, they would still be defying the Red Rider’s will in attempting to do so.

And that led to a bleaker question: How much effort would it take for a ravenous beast to butcher one toddler compared to twenty? For as Shiv felt it, such was the magnitude of distance between the God of Strife and the founders of the Yellowstone Republic.

“Gir—ah, Lady Stormhalt.” Rose gritted her teeth. “Look.”

“Wait. Stop.” Shiv had his Harbinger reach out to Rose, stopping her before she could demoralize the girl and speaking psionically. “Logic isn't appropriate right now. Let's give her something to work on, something to keep her spirits up while we keep looking for solutions ourselves.”

“If no one in this state could do anything for Adam, what fucking hope does she have?” Rose asked, though her words bore no malice. “It's better if we just let her know—no bullshit—so she doesn't waste her time.”

“She needs to waste her time. She needs to hope. She needs to have something to do. She probably logically knows that there's not much she can do, but she still hopes, and so she's gonna try. I'd say we let her. She just woke up from a near-death delirium. The last thing we need is her mind going in one direction, her heart going another, her ego tearing, and her suffering some kind of psychological breakdown.” Shiv stared at Rose until he was sure she got his point. “This isn't about being honest or facing facts; this is about her emotions. That's the way it's been for practically everyone. You can't build a dam using thoughts to parry someone's heart. I've made that mistake enough to know that it doesn't work. The passion needs to die first—and needs to die real slow, otherwise everything inside collapses all at once.”

“Are you two using Psychomancy?” Isabella asked, looking between Shiv and Rose.

“Yeah.” Shiv shaped a technical truth to mask the most hurtful aspects of the telepathic conversations. “We were talking about Adam’s state and what to tell you—what might be best for you to know.”

“Best for me to know? I need to know as much as possible, everything about this device that you can tell me!” A hint of infuriation spilled over from her voice, and Shiv knew that she was agitated—on the verge of being alienated.

“Yeah, I know. That's what we were talking about. We weren't planning to hide anything more from you; we just don't want you to be demoralized. This thing is Earth tech that predates the System’s arrival. It was personally enchanted by the Challenger and was specifically made to hurt anyone it's implanted in as much as possible. The only person here who's probably qualified to say anything about the thing might be Can Hu—I'll introduce it to you soon, and it can give you the technical details. Right now, though, you remember what I told you about what the orc skill did to me, right? Back when this place was still called Theborn?”

Isabella’s expression paled.

“That's a pretty proper response. Well, I want you to know it's probably even worse for Adam, and on top of that, his Awareness Skill was tearing his mind apart even before he got the Crown.” Shiv sighed. “Put both of those two things together, and you got quite a problem to solve—but you know what? We'd still welcome any help you can give. Even the smallest chance is better than none.”

With that, he made clear the colossal difficulties they faced while also not denying her an opportunity to prove herself. Perhaps she just might be able to offer them an insight. The chance was infinitesimally small, but there was no harm in letting her try. Definitely not for her ego, anyway.

Isabella looked at once hesitant but also grateful as she considered a response. “I also understand that something very confusing and very… worrying is happening in the capital. I know my family and… and…” She stopped talking as she realized Roland was faced away from her entirely.

Once more, Shiv intercepted and answered the question he knew she was about to ask. “Isabella, it's not that we don't want to do everything we can for Adam; it's that trying to involve the Ascendants will just make things worse. Even if the Challenger doesn't just rip her head off for interfering, Maiden is more likely to keep Adam in a cage and torture him, or cut him open, or some other disgusting shit like that, than grant him any help.” He saw her face twist in outrage, and he pivoted before an emotional argument could form. “But it might not be because of them either. It might be because of rogue elements inside the Republic twisting and deceiving the Avatars—the result is that we can’t go back to them without risking Adam’s life, and none of us wants that.”

His final statement was infused with emotion, psionics, and physical severity. The words were paired with Shiv squeezing Isabella’s arm briefly, intuitively influencing her mood and psychology by planting the idea they were on the same side rather than any kind of adversaries. Yet, just to be sure, he did something that was slightly vicious. He twisted the knife; he hinted that she might be the villain if she disagreed. “At least I don't want that. I didn't fight so desperately to break out of the Rubix Well with Adam to see him put back inside there.”

And though her brow furrowed and she began bunching and clumping up the hem of her medical gown evermore, she lowered her head in an accepting nod. “I don't either, I just want—”

“We all want to help him. And we will. We have to.” Shiv shot a look at Adam, and the ghost of his own guilt returned to haunt him. “Whatever it takes. So, I'll be more than happy if you can pull off a miracle or come up with some kind of angle that we haven't thought of yet. In the meantime…” Shiv looked at Roland and Rose. “I think you should spend a bit of time here and, uh, talk with your in-laws. We're all going through the same things right now, but they probably understand what you're feeling better than most. Best not to face this alone, and—”

