Whatever else Shiv had to say was interrupted as a thread of Uva's Psychomancy brushed against his mind. Her touch briefly recoiled from his Magical Resistance, but he let down his guard and allowed her to sink in. “A new delegation has arrived at the Abyssal gateway: The representatives from the Descenders Union are here. The Lance is made up of High-Tiers, five Legends at the very least, judging from their mana fields. Also, Marikos is with them, and he is personally calling for you to greet him.”

Shiv's head perked up in surprise. “Damn, they got here a lot faster than I thought. Also, didn't that Umbral girl say Marikos’ boss put him under confinement for ignoring the political will of the Five Faiths or something in coming up to the surface to fight Sullain?”

“According to more verifiable information that has reached the Gate, that was indeed the case. But considering you sent for him by name, and that he's a Legendary Pathbearer, short of the most extreme of transgressions, the only punishment he will experience under his own Faith is little more than a swat on the rear. Though if you do not make haste, I fear one of your favorite orcs might be eaten. He’s trying to challenge Marikos to a ‘tit-for-tat.’ Both of them are to trade hits, and the first person to die loses. He's also willing to let Marikos go first.”

Shiv barely caught himself from barking a laugh. “Alright. Thanks, Uva. I’ll go settle things before we have to pressure blast the archway outside with a Hydromancy spell to clean off all the orc chunks.”

“Perhaps you can distract and entertain the guests with your new swarm of questionable flies.”

Without a clear line of sight to Uva's core, Shiv couldn't tell if she was being sarcastic or not, and in the moment, both her thoughts and her emotions were flat, giving him no hint as to her true intentions. “I do not jest. I truly think this is a good idea. The Descenders admire strength, and a Heroic-Tier Disease Resistance Skill is likely possessed by few among their numbers as well. If you come out with such a display, even if it is slightly grotesque for most to behold, you might be able to gain a measure of respect from the Dragon-Knights. And live up to how Marikos has portrayed you in his tales.”

“Oh, right, all the boasting he did on my behalf.” Shiv suppressed a stupid grin; though Marikos had his problems and exaggerated Shiv’s reputation he may have, he did appreciate the dragon for everything he had done for him. Despite the ugly grudge between him and Valor, Marikos was there when Shiv needed him. Marikos was there to turn the tide and spare Shiv from an ugly death when the Tarrasque descended upon Blackedge. Without his arrival and the sacrifice of his fellow knights, Sullain’s dream of delivering destruction upon the town might have very well come to fruition.

Good to have someone who’s pretty much wholly and unrepentantly on our side, Shiv thought. As Uva tried to pull away, Shiv caught her puppeteer string and delivered a question to her before she could attend to her tasks: “Hey, before I forget, what do you think about my new skill? The plague flies had Jessica trying not to throw up, and Roland shaking like a child. Didn’t hear anything from you, though.”

“I am hardly in an optimal position to judge how strange or eccentric another skill is. Especially considering all the evolutions I have undergone. Nor do I have any particular inclination to fan the flames of your ego, seeing as a Legendary Dragon-Knight will be partaking in that effort soon enough. But I will say this: the implications behind what you can do with plagues and diseases are awesome, terrifying, and enticing—which has me thinking you should dispatch a body toward Weave post-haste to see if you can offer some relief for the ferals, if possible. The Order and Her Lady Arachnae would doubtless be grateful for any relief your efforts might bring… Just don't mention the Sculptor’s presence here. Not yet. And mind your flies—I find them cherubic, but they are so round and fleshy that they triggered a hunger-response in Still Water and Liquid Serpent when I synced memories detailing your latest evolution with them.”

“Ah, right, the spiders and flies thing.”

“Quite.”

Something else to look forward to then.

“Isabella,” Shiv said. “I’m going to shift bodies in a second—going to use this one to say hi to an old friend. Don’t freak out when my Severed Shadow cuts over, alright?”

Isabella frowned. “Severed Shadow? Oh, wait, that's what you called your… Revenant, right?”

He hummed with approval. So she was listening.

“Is something wrong?” Roland asked.

“More like something's going right,” Shiv replied. “We got the Descenders Union incoming—with Sir Marikos at the gateway down in the Abyss. I’m going to go invite him in before we experience an incident before the council can even begin.”

“Sir Marikos? You mean the dragon that incinerated you before you got to Weave? That Sir Marikos? He's here?” With every question, Isabella's voice climbed higher, and her eyebrows made for the apex of her forehead. Her heart filled with mutual emotions of fascination and anticipation, but there was also more than a sprinkling of fear. Shiv might have gone a little too much into detail about how easily Marikos incinerated him during their first meeting.

In the next moment, Isabella flinched as Shiv's chest was split open in a chasm of blinding white light. A second later, his Severed Shadow came into place, replacing the flesh and blood body that once stood in the chamber. Though already forewarned by Shiv, the Young Lady of House Stormhalt flinched back as Shiv's Revenant cleaved its way across existence. “Whoa,” she breathed.

“Do you need me with you?” Roland asked.

Shiv waved him off. “Nah. Frankly, I think it's better if you don't show up for now. Marikos might think highly of you, but the same can't be said for the other Dragon Knights; quite a few people still have bad memories of the Dread Horizon from the Abyss War.”

Roland's eyes dimmed. Both his mind and heart grew clouded with forlorn memories. He held to his silence, but Shiv understood how he felt, could practically read the regret leaking from his expression.

“You guys feel free to get acquainted while I'm doing that, but Isabella, if you want to ask me anything or need anything from me, just speak. I’m still here, I’ll just be a little distracted.” Shiv’s physical form was already accelerating toward the Abyssal gateway.

“Uh, yeah, sure,” Isabella replied, her uncertainty clear. “It’s just… How? Is this a skill?”

“Several,” Shiv said, straining his Legion of Self ever so slightly to answer her question while guiding his physical flesh. “Multitasking Evolution and Severed Shadow. The former lets me think along multiple tracks at the same time, and the other gives me bodies to do things with.”

Her mouth fell open. “Just how many bodies can you control?”

“Right now? A bit below ten. As long as they're not doing anything too complex.” Shiv kept things deliberately vague so that Isabella didn’t know everything about him.

She mouthed the word "ten" at him in abject disbelief, and her heart skipped a beat as she laid eyes on the Red Rider’s Hand lingering close behind his Severed Shadow.

It was little moments like these that reminded Shiv that he really was a Legendary Pathbearer. He had the power. It was just the experience he was lacking.

As his physical body prepared to cross the threshold between dimensions, he shed all his plague flies, allowing them to billow out behind him to engulf his flesh and clad him in a swarm born in his image. The slumbering diseases within Shiv woke to his call, and as rivers of plague flies spilled free from his mana, his body grew in size, building in immensity as the inflammation within his stomach amplified his physical might. His muscles bulged, his bones cracked and extended. His body went from being less than two and a half meters tall to over twice that in less than a second, and his presence was further magnified by the creatures streaming behind him, billowing more like rivers shaped from writhing limbs and shifting bodies.

The plague flies served him as armor, as a cape, as a banner of his approach. There was no subtlety when he called them forth: however large his body grew, it was the beasts of plague that truly announced his presence, for they were as if a storm cloud choking the horizon, making him visible from kilometers away and earning him fear chains from all across the gate. Umbral guards tasked with protecting the Abyssal gateway turned their gazes high as he speared through the dimensional passage over them. He caught sight of their eyes wide and white with alarm just before his plunge.

They weren't the only ones unbalanced. The four Dragon-Brokers, still chattering away, sharing cups of tea, had fallen silent and had all turned in his direction. Doubtless, they already knew about his new Skill Evolutions. Word spread fast in a Gate so sparsely populated.

His mana fields were beginning to expand as well, allowing his magic to keep pace with his staggering physicality. And it was in such a state that he emerged in the Abyss, preparing to greet the newest guests come to gather as part of the Coalition Against the End.

Shape of Monstrosity 173 > 177

***

“You are bold, Adept orc! Very, very bold. I appreciate this in a Pathbearer, but I will not say it again. To deny me access to this Gate is to challenge my honor and disrespect my deeds. Any more delays and I will demand a duel to see this affront sated.” Sir-Legend Marikos Valdemar tried to keep his voice under control. He really did. But after countless campaigns and years of nigh-constant yelling, his skill evolutions left him a vessel of destruction in terms of matter, magic, and even sound.

As such, the air turned to thunder with every syllable he spat, and the ground was sundered down to soil and bedrock below. The very atmosphere trembled with Sir-Legend Marikos Valdemar’s presence, and the hundreds of magical turrets arrayed against him were but candles before his magnificence, the mana infusing them flickering, on the verge of being put out by his mere breath. The twenty sporadically spaced trench lines dug were filled with all manner of biological horrors and summoned dimensionals, but they did not resemble anything fielded by the First Blood or Compact. No, they were summons of alternative make entirely, and though they were hundreds in number, Sir-Legend Marikos Valdemar smelled the scents of far more in the trenches.

Orc scents. Thousands of them. But he could see only one. And when Sir-Legend Marikos Valdemar suffered such a situation, an ambush was usually not far away.

Such would be his usual assessment, but on this day, the orc he faced gave him a different feeling, one that was closer aligned to annoyance than any manner of wariness.

“What?” The loincloth-wearing orc called out to him from about two hundred and fifty meters below Sir-Legend Marikos Valdemar’s ears. The brute braced a massive wooden club against his right shoulder and held a hand out beside his ear. There was nothing genuine about the way he presented himself. Every bit of him was refined mockery. Pure distilled sarcasm meant to needle a proper warrior like Sir-Legend Marikos Valdemar. “You know, for a dragon, you're way too quiet. Did you say yes? Did you say yes to tit-for-tat? Because that's the only way you're going to come into the Gate. You get to take a swing, and then I get to take a—”

Whatever else the orc had to say was cut off as the vast dimensional gateway behind him deformed and bulged.

Sir-Hero Tallowine, the youngest knight in Sir-Legend Marikos Valdemar’s new band of seven, drew back on her dragon-spine greatbow and nocked an adamantine arrow in anticipation of the coming threat. Before she could take aim, Sir-Legend Marikos Valdemar’s hand shot up, commanding her to halt. Her long neck curved in his direction in surprise, but she didn’t question his orders. Though young and fiery with an urge to prove her worth, she kept her dignity intact and gave courtesy to her elder—a good sign for a promising knight.

“It looks like a swarm of somethin’,” twelve voices speaking in a chorus came from beside Sir-Legend Marikos Valdemar. He looked down and found his old and considerably shorter friend squinting at the shapes pushing free from the distorted gateway with all twelve heads. Built far differently from most other Knights of the Union, Sir-Legend and Hydra-Knight Tall Ben had his favored halberd grasped in the claws of one of his four stout limbs and held close to his body, and its crimson edge burned with enhancing Biomancy, attuning his senses deeper with the art. “Whatever we’re lookin’ at, it isn’t just a-one.”

Sir-Legend Marikos Valdemar glared at the offending orc from six hundred meters, and thus a good five steps away. “Speak, grayskin! What manner of deceptive subterfuge is this? What foolishness do you have planned for…”

Sir-Legend Marikos Valdemar never got to finish his statement, for something emerged from the gateway as a flood. A spillage of flying monstrosities the size of a human’s head crashed forth, and they swirled about in the air, spreading wide rather than blasting forward. Extending in all directions, they tumbled about like wings, and at their epicenter came a singular figure, the bud at the center of the petals.

Sir-Legend Marikos Valdemar’s eyes widened at the sight of the newcomer, for he knew the Pathbearer; he had known him since the boy was but a mere Adept.

