“Some do. Most just go between Lyrie and Perrion, or to Karlsbrugg. I think some of the ships are too broad for the river, and anything only powered by sails and wind may not make it upriver to Anvakar.”

“You ever been on a ship here?”

Silvie smiled, almost absentmindedly. “A few times, when I was a kid still. Perks of having the right friends I guess.”

She didn't elaborate and Veron didn't ask. Soon, he heard the rushing and cold waters of the Karrian river. It parted the city like a knife, six broad stone bridges connecting the two parts. The sheer size and complexity of the constructions starkly contrasting the might of magic and the technology otherwise available.

I guess magic skews what I think should and shouldn't be possible based on other technologies I've seen.

The bridges were high enough to let medium sized boats pass below. As long as they either didn't have masts or had a way to retract them. On the two boats that he saw, Veron couldn't spot oars, sails, or rising smoke, which made him curious as to how they moved against the current. Or more precisely, what kind of enchantment or mage they employed to move them.

“They're powered by enchantments, right?”

“Yes. You need some pretty high-grade stuff to move a boat though. Especially upriver.”

“Did you ever work with stuff like that? You're trained as an Inscriber, right?”

“Yeah, I learned to inscribe. But not the kind of stuff that can hold anything above a modest essence. Whatever is being used there is far beyond my pay grade, or the pay grade of most people I know.”

“Is Reka an Inscriber too?”

“Inscriber and Extractor,” Silvie said. “More experienced than I am too.”

So they could both work a safe and probably well paid job behind some city walls. And yet, they're out here as adventurers.

They walked along the river and soon reached the harbor. There were dozens of boats here, most of them looking far less sophisticated and at the same time larger and sturdier than the ones Veron had seen in the river. “Are any of those built here?”

Silvie laughed. “Gods no. Most of those have probably been built in Karlsbrugg. You can say what you want about Felrak and their ways, but they certainly know how to build something that lasts.”

It almost felt strange here that Veron wasn't smelling any salt in the air. The harbor reminded him of some he had been to in France, though admittedly the mostly wooden ships couldn't begin to compare to a modern freighter. But what they lacked in size, he found, they more than made up with charm.

It didn't take them long to find a stall that sold fried fish. Supposedly freshly caught.

They grabbed a few portions and sat on the stone railings looking over the port. Veron ate and enjoyed the view of the ships. He imagined them going to far away harbors, arriving near lush forests or dry steppes after weeks or months at sea. Of course he knew that they only had two reasonable destinations, and that they weren't more than a few days away.

He wondered how he could ask about the sea without revealing more about himself than he was willing to share.

“I've heard stories about even bigger masses of water,” he said.

“The sea?” Silvie asked.

Oh thank you.

“Yeah. Are there big harbors that trade with distant lands? Like here?” he asked.

She laughed, considering with a bit of a confused expression. “That’s crazy. No… I mean I’ve heard of some expeditions going out there but no. All they’ve found is death at sea. It is endless, you know?”

“Is it?” Veron asked. Should I go there. Yeah. Why not. “Wouldn’t a ship end up on the same land once it sailed all the way around the planet?”

“Yeah, I mean, sure. Theoretically, but anything can happen on the way. I can’t imagine how long such a journey would even take,” Silvie said, shaking her head. “You’ve got some crazy ideas.”

“Do I?” Veron asked.

“Yeah, you sound like some of the folks from the Academy. But sure, feel free to join an expedition and find out for yourself. Maybe there really are other places out there. But I don't know why you would even go there.”

“You’re an adventurer, aren’t you?” he teased.

She laughed. “Yeah, I guess you've got me there.” Her expression sobered up somewhat and then she looked out towards the ships. “Maybe I would have liked the idea at some point.”

They were quiet as Veron finished eating his fish, looking over the late autumn lake and shivering slightly in his clothes and stone armor. The winds were different here than deeper within the city. Strong and difficult to connect to. Perhaps one day, he thought and smiled.
