A massive battle. Far larger than the ones even Redfangs could have conceived of. And powerful weapons. He felt full of nervous energy just seeing it.
“Strong Minotaurs.”
That was his comment to Talia. She smiled at him.
“That’s all you have to say, Ser Solstice?”
He shrugged, embarrassed.
“[Pirates] were the most clever. Good tactics.”
Hit-and-run. The Redfangs fought like that. Talia pursed her lips. She thought it was dishonorable. But the [Pirates] had lost, what, three people total? It made sense to hit the enemy where they couldn’t hit you back. In a fight with unarmored enemies, every single Redfang went for a groin-kick against male opponents. Or stab.
“Want to practice fighting?”
Just like the others, Rabbiteater was restless. Talia nodded, and they found an open space on the deck to practice. In that, the [Knights] and Redfangs were very much alike.
The theory was known as the ‘domino effect’ on Earth. The battle and subsequent declarations of war had…eased a pressure on the world. The looming threat of the King of Destruction in the background. So many nations suddenly going to war was like a mental cascade. A catalyst.
It had unexpected consequences. Rabbiteater was hefting a practice axe; he still needed to master Headscratcher’s gold-jade battleaxe. Talia was warming up when her head turned.
“Ship to port! No—ships!”
The watcher on the crow’s nest shouted down. The [Captain] of the vessel, and some of the crew and [Knights] went to the railing. Rabbiteater was focused—until he heard a shout.
“That flag. Those are Ailendamus’ ships!”
Talia and Rabbiteater looked sideways. The Hobgoblin saw, waving from one ship, a…bow. Some kind of stylized bow with a lance instead of an arrow. Then he heard a shout.
“They’re moving to intercept—”
“Starboard! Raise our colors! This is a transport ship, not a—”
Rabbiteater saw a flicker in the air. He jumped forwards and thrust the axe out. Talia recoiled and heard a thunk.
The first arrow stuck in the wooden practice weapon. The Goblin whirled. Two of Ailendamus’ ships were coming from the port side.
“This is a peaceful vessel! We are not Pheislant’s or a Terandrian nation! Do you hear me?”
The [Captain] roared. But a second volley of arrows was coming. The crew and [Knights] took cover. And then Rabbiteater heard a roar from one of the [Knights of the Spring].
“Talia! Ailendamus has crossed the border of Kilav. It’s war!”
“What? But—”
The [Summer Knight]’s head swung around. It was too soon! Grandmaster Calirn hadn’t predicted war for another month, at least! But Ailendamus had struck before even they were perhaps ready, much less their enemies.
Synchronicity. 
Ailendamus declared war on the Dawn Concordat as its armies marched over the border of Kilav and its ships began to blockade nations such as Pheislant.
Rabbiteater decided he actually wanted to go back home.
 
—-
 
Magus-Crafter Femithain was found half the time enjoying a civilized brew of stamina-potion in his cup in the open terrace of his personal quarters in Delicrel, the temporary ‘capital’ of the Illivere League. That was because it was made up of smaller crafter-states, who elected their Magus-Crafter periodically.
Femithain had been in power for a long time, which was a sign of confidence in the other crafter-states. In more contentious times, they might replace the Magus-Crafter every six months. But Femithain had kept everything running smoothly.
Like clockwork. Which was how the Illivere League liked it. In truth—there wasn’t as much politicking as in, say, Belchan.
Which was why half the time Femithain drank straight stamina-potion instead of tea or a lesser product to start his day. The other half of the time, he could be found face-down on a desk, having fallen unconscious after drafting new designs for Golems in his workshop all night long.
There was a copy of Chandrar International on his table on the veranda. Appropriate, since he’d been one of the financiers. Femithain picked it up and read.
He nearly fell out of his seat.
“The King of Destruction lost a battle?”
He hadn’t known. He’d been working on his personal bodyguard-Golems last night for hours after midnight. He read quickly, nearly forgetting to drink the stamina potion.
“Yes. Even with his [Army of the King]. Savere intervened. The Siren’s sister.”
Femithain realized he had a guest. Or…prisoner of war, if you wanted to be accurate.
She was certainly a prisoner. You could tell by…Femithain eyed Nsiia’s clothing for a second and was distracted, but kept reading as he reached for whatever the staff had placed in front of him for sustenance.
Definitely a prisoner. Savere had asked. Nerrhavia had asked. The [Empress of Beasts] was 100% a prisoner and you couldn’t go higher than that, could you?
You could tell. She had her own private quarters—she lived under house arrest. Housekeeping—er, jailors—kept a close eye on her in case she was hungry or something.
This was clearly a jailbreak. Like last time. Nsiia had probably overwhelmed the guard-Golems by walking past them, or cunningly hopped over her terraced porch to visit Femithain in the morning.
He was probably in fear of his life. Femithain realized there was half an ostrich’s egg in front of him.
“What is this?”
He eyed the fat omelette. Nsiia shrugged.
“I asked for one so your [Chef] made it for both of us. Have you read everything?”
She was aware Femithain liked to have a full possession of the facts before deciding anything. The man adjusted his spectacles.
“Almost. Would you like a towel? I assume you’ve been swimming.”
“This morning.”
She’d jumped in the Magus-Crafter’s pools, a luxury he himself availed himself of…once a year.
Illivere was not a paradise, even if they’d applied for the position to…whomever decided such things. It was simply a nation based on Golem-labor, which meant that they had, like Khelt, done away with most menial tasks.
Golems tilled the fields and [Farmers] only had to harvest and manage the areas since harvesting was hard for all but Golems with fine dexterity. Golems hauled water, provided ‘free’ transportation, labor, and so on.
It wasn’t perfect. If you didn’t own a Golem, you were almost certainly poor. However, Femithain and wise Magus-Crafters before him had concluded that rebellions of the poor were bad for business and health and so on. So there were institutions in place such that anyone could have cheap food, a place to sleep, guaranteed work, and so on.
The lower classes, with the Golems, provided the true elites—the [Golem Artisans], Crafter-Magi, and so on, time to create more servants and perfect their craft. Live in opulence too. But most of the hereditary families were…interesting.
A few did tend towards excess, but the ones like Femithain were just Golem-addicts. Whether by breeding or culture, Illivere had created within their elite the drive to improve their nation, even if it was only in the production of more high-end Golems.
Anyways…definitely-a-prisoner Nsiia was here for breakfast. She sat in front of Femithain, waiting for him to put down the newspaper.
“The King of Destruction is at war with…Nerrhavia, Savere, Medain…ah.”
The ah was a realization on Femithain’s part. This was bad for Reim. Also—it explained another thing.
He lowered the newspaper. Nsiia nodded as she leaned on the table, her skin glistening from the water in his pools, drying in the sun’s heat.
“Flos Reimarch and Reim go to war with so many nations. He has allies. Such as Savere was. But we are too scattered. Too weak. He needs support.”
Something else needed structural support. The former [Empress] was, in fact, topless. Femithain looked at her. And then he raised the newspaper and checked the count of nations.
“And Illivere would be a timely ally. I see, I see. So no towel, then?”
Nsiia scowled. She’d tried this before. Femithain was completely immune as far as she could tell. He might have the self-control and force of will she had respected in him during the war. Or—he might have only been interested if she was five feet taller and made out of obsidian, or jade, or some other Golem-material.
She wasn’t sure yet.
“You won’t consider it? Eat your food. Your servants worry about you.”
Femithain lifted a finger as he continued reading.
“Staff, actually. They’re employed. Different from [Servants]. They seem happy you’re around.”
“Because I make sure you’re not starving in your workshop. And because they have someone to pamper.”
The Magus-Crafter didn’t respond to that. He did, however, begin eating when she pushed the plate in front of him. Nsiia left at some point; she’d interrupt him when she wanted or he’d get back to her after he had calculated how Illivere fell into this situation.
“Not war with Reim.”
Femithain heard a sigh from Nsiia. She had climbed onto the crossed beams that formed a ‘roof’ over the veranda. Purely ornamental; the spells kept out rain.
Ordinarily, during her harsh captivity full of deprivations, sadistic torture, like having to fill her own water pitcher at night, and indignities on the parts of her captors—being ignored by Femithain—Nsiia prowled around like, well, the [Empress of Beasts] of Tiqr.
She was a captive. And even if the other bits were exaggerated to placate the Siren of Savere—she couldn’t leave. She was guarded—for her protection. The Siren wanted her enemy, and the other nations would have happily disposed of the leader of Tiqr, who continued to resist even after being conquered.
“No war with Reim. Is this bias?”
Femithain continued thinking from below. He was aware his budding friendship with Nsiia might influence his decisions. However—after analyzing his own decision, he concluded that was a safe decision.
Illivere did not need to declare war. The other nations might pressure them to, but Reim was far away. A war declaration could be made at need and ignored, but there was no need to do so just to follow suit. Moreover, war with Reim would keep the other nations from bothering with Illivere.
And…if Reim did come out ahead, there was a decided importance to not being on the King of Destruction’s bad side.
“That does not mean we will help Reim now, no matter what you request, Nsiia.”
The former [Empress] sunbathed above him. She had caused quite a stir. At least three dozen younger [Crafters] had dedicated Golems to her, made in her image and the warrior-queen had her own admirers of both male and females alike.
She struck a chord with the restless young. Femithain heard Nsiia moving.
“And I have nothing to persuade you with?”
He considered this.
“Not in any immediate sense, no.”
He heard a sigh from above. Nsiia sat up. Femithain listened. She was dangerously intelligent; he’d lost more than one board game against her despite being ranked among the Top 100 in his nation consistently. She was a polite, even amenable guest so far. But he still had her watched.
“You know, we won’t sit idly. I waited for him to rise faster. He let me down. But if I had my nation, I would still follow him over all these other nations. The others won’t rest now, either.”
“What others?”
“His allies. The King of Destruction has not a tenth of the vassals I think are loyal to him. The Mad Ones…the full strength of the Rustängmarder…this may force them to move.”
“We shall see.”
The Magus-Crafter had an enchantment which allowed his spectacles to reflect more than they should have. He pretended to read while he watched the reflection of her above him. Nsiia spoke to the skies.
“Illivere stands at a crossroads, Femithain. They will force you in the end, as they did me.”
Words of caution. Femithain did not forget. Nor did he take Nsiia lightly.
“That may be, [Empress]. But I work for my nation. For now—Illivere has little to gain and everything to lose from allying with Reim.”
He saw her shift and glanced away for her modesty, not his. Perhaps that was why she employed the tactic.
“Golems are Illivere’s blood, like the animals of Tiqr. I understand this now. Your nation pursues these…creations more than gold or blood or power.”
“They are all to us, Nsiia. They are art and purpose.”
“If you could be a Golem—would you?”
The question threw Femithain. Nsiia looked down at him, her eyes sharp. He was off-guard, and the reply slipped out of him.
“Not if it were the ones I make.”
“Ah.”
Her eyes narrowed. She said nothing more as Femithain rose.
“I need to call together the Crafters. We will need to make a public statement at the very least. Empress…”
He looked around. She was gone. That worried Femithain, a bit. He had stopped Nsiia’s covert attempts to suborn his staff into helping her contact her people—by telling them to stop and confronting her directly. But she was a caged beast. And like any animal in a menagerie—she wanted to be free.
Femithain liked and respected Nsiia. But Illivere was his responsibility. He hoped she would not force his hand. For now—he rose, leaving the omelette half-finished.
Therein lay his mistake. When he was gone, Nsiia swung herself up onto the balcony again. She had climbed all over her palace as a girl and she used to ride her beloved friend, Thef. She missed him every day. Wept for him still.
But the former [Empress] could not lie about forever. Nor…was she a fool.
“Here. Here, Teska.”
She raised her hand and a bird fluttered down. A red bird, related to a finch. The Largebeaked Marraw was her friend. She had trained him for the last month in secret. She rubbed at his head. Then she carefully tied the little bit of parchment onto his claw.
“Go, go. Find Vasraf.”
Maybe he’d make it. But Femithain was savvy enough to watch the skies. Either way—Nsiia had learned from playing board games with Femithain that you always had a backup plan. A second layer.
So, knowing full well the Magus-Crafter was gone and his servants would never dare enter his workshop, Nsiia padded barefoot into his private area. She looked around.
“Mhm.”
Her eyes glowed, capable of dark vision like an animal. Nsiia moved around some objects. Femithain was tidy and untidy; in his inspiration he…forgot things. Didn’t keep the perfect inventory until he sorted and requested more.
He’d find himself missing some enchanted stone, a pair of the premade control inscriptions. Bits and pieces he’d never notice; Nsiia carried them off. She was quite smart. It was new to her, but she was feeding off the most accomplished [Golem Artificer] in all of Illivere.
Anyways, the Empress had to hope the King of Destruction survived. But at least she was leveling.
Nsiia of Tiqr. [Golem Maker], Level 14.
 
—-
 
