Nevertheless, the proof was in the past. And as Calruz had said—there was no other evidence. Just a Drake’s…affection. A regard for his innocence.
“Bezale. Would you do me a service?”
The [Spellscribe] started.
“Perhaps. What is it?”
Calruz looked at her. Then he stood straighter.
“You have done me a service by showing me the House of Minos’ stand against the King of Destruction. And Zevara has…allowed me to see the world passing as well. Perhaps there is a way to resolve this. I would ask that you send a [Message] for me.”
The Minotauress’ eyes sharpened.
“The House of Minos is far away, Calruz. To whom would you send it?”
“Someone with the right to judge. Which neither you nor I have.”
The [Spellscribe] realized what he meant. She sighed. Then she nodded to him, almost a bow.
“Yes, Calruz of Hammerad. I will take your letter.”
So he spoke, and she wrote. And the letter was sent.
Calruz fed Rhata a grape.
 
—-
 
Venaz of Hammerad put down the letter he had received. The news was good and bad.
“There is a cure!”
The others were celebrating. And the Minotaur himself was smiling. Yet—the cure was not easy.
“It needs to be applied in doses. Yerra’s too small to take the antitoxin. And it needs to be made. They’re asking the best [Alchemist] in Pallass to make it up. That’s either…Xif the Multicolored or Saliss of Lights.”
“Try for Saliss.”
Wil was sleep-deprived; he had been frantic these last few days. But at last, he might be able to rest. The battle was far from over; they had private rooms in Oteslia that were warded and guarded, but the Diamond Swords of Serept were still a target. And the medicine was costly.
“This…this is excellent news. How long will the antidote take?”
“Depends on the alchemist. I will ask my tribe to help petition Saliss of Lights. He would be better at antidotes as an adventurer and have more Skills that ensure it works and give it potency. But we did it, yes?”
Feshi was grinning. Even Yerra’s cries were silent; she was sleeping thanks to the draught the [Healers] had made for a Selphid.
Venaz smiled. He saw Merrik and Peki high-fiving. They were all still energized by the battle. Venaz himself had had to run three laps around Oteslia before he stopped shouting and challenging everyone in sight to a sparring match he knew would end poorly.
His blood still boiled. He would have liked to be there. Ozem might have been able to save some of the army if he had.
If they had gone to Chandrar first…but Yerra mattered more. And now—Merrik saw Venaz fold the letter up.
“What’s that? Bad news?”
“Not…really. A member of the House of Minos has written to me, Merrik. The letter was—impressive. I think I am needed, as a representative of Hammerad. An arbiter.”
The Minotaur struggled to put the missive into words. The others looked at him.
“Arbiter?”
“One who metes out justice.”
Wil explained to Peki. Venaz nodded slowly.
Calruz of Hammerad.
“It may be that I need to go to Pallass.”
“We could go there directly. Some of the ingredients from Oteslia are needed though…and Yerra’s too sick to move. If one of the [Alchemists] makes the cure for the first few doses, we can go north for the full batch. What does this Minotaur want you to do, Venaz?”
The [Strategist] clenched his fist and turned away. It was a magnificent plea, from one son of Hammerad to another. The sender, Bezale, had added her own words. He had to go there, see the whole truth. But if the letter was accurate—Venaz took a long breath.
“He wants me to help him die.”
 
—-
 
One last group was powerfully affected by the news from Chandrar. Or rather—one last one that took direct action.
Everyone saw it. Everyone from the Death of Magic, who watched and laughed, to the Seer of Steel, to Emir Yazdil, the Grand Magus, Magnolia Reinhart as she sat on the famed warship and evacuated her staff away from danger…
But this last people saw and moved because of what they had seen.
“So those two armies could be considered among the best this world has to offer. What do you think, Wrymvr? Could you kill the Illusionist?”
The Slayer stood with the vast Antinium in the auspices of the Twisted Hive. Not with Anand; the [Strategist] and the Painted Antinium feared this place. Klbkch saw their reasons. But here was a second Centenium and a Queen who had given everything for victory.
Wrymvr’s answer came not in words, but in the link they shared, the three of them.
(Yes.)
Klbkchhezeim raised his mandibles and opened them. He laughed, a fluttering sound.
It was a joke. Also—certainty there. He had missed that.
“We have been here too long. Look how these other nations grow stronger. An entire continent—three could reinforce Izril. We have been stalemated here. Had we taken Izril, I would be content.”
The Slayer rejoined the council of war with Wrymvr and the Twisted Queen. And he received nothing but affirmation from the two of them.
“What. You say is all. We. Have concluded. Klbkchhezeim.”
The words came painfully from the Twisted Queen’s mandibles. At the same time, her sending was far more eloquent, betraying the intact mind in the ruined body.
(Yet we lack a way to cross the sea. We are landlocked and of every nation in the world, the Walled Cities are among the most unassailable.)
“We should have landed on Terandria.”
That was the plan. Of course—any continent would have worked if not for the damn water.
(Minotaurs. Dangerous weapons for ships. Not on land.)
Wrymvr projected an image of their enchanted weapons destroying countless, fragile wooden vessels. Klbkch nodded. That was where they’d be strongest. An army of True Antinium…wouldn’t fear the artillery barrage as much as other species. If linked, they’d just dodge each shell with a thousand eyes and minds working at once.
[Army of the King] bothered Klbkch more. And the [Pirate]’s ship.
“The Illuminary puts a hole in Xrn’s plans and ours. It is clear that ship could destroy any vessel we seize. So even if we sailed from First Landing after stealing a craft…any high-level [Captain] could sink our vessel.”
(True. There is no way to win at sea against experts. Only Wrymvr has survived the depths.)
“Have there been attempts to create water-capable Antinium?”
Klbkch knew the answer even as the Twisted Queen lowered her one free mandible.
“Mine have all. Failed. However the. Other Queens may have attempted it. If. So. They failed likewise.”
The Slayer nodded. He stalked back and forth.
“Perhaps, then, we must either hire a [Pirate] of Rasea’s caliber—or threaten them—or obtain these scrolls. Greater Teleportation.”
They’d never been able to find them, despite finally learning of a relic with that grade of magic. Wrymvr echoed Klbkch’s frustration.
(You will be alone. Magic cannot steal me.)
“Xrn and I could move faster. But we would need at least…five. Or three, if we sent just me.”
(Xrn is stronger. We would send her if we had three.)
Klbkch smacked Wrymvr in one of his glowing eyes. It hurt Klbkch’s hand; the eyes were shielded.
(You have picked up odd habits, Klbkchhezeim.)
“I learned it from Relc.”
“What is. A Relc?”
 
—-
 
A similar conversation was happening elsewhere. In other Hives, that was. Xrn was excited. She had a longer view than Klbkch and Wrymvr.
“I will try a Tier 4 spell next.”
“Prognugator Xrn. I do not feel safe!”
“Just stand there! You are perfectly warded! You should survive even if your Skill fails!”
Xrn happily called out. Pawn shook as he raised his staff. His miracle created a barrier in the air.
“Skills. The Antinium will not lose so easily next time.”
They were stress-testing his Skills. The [Holy Barrier] made Xrn very happy. She lifted her staff.
“Ready? I will use a standard spell. One, two…”
“Prognugator Xrn, I am very—”
“[Siege Fireball]!”
She was an optimist. Pawn’s barrier actually held. But it winked out a moment after the blast and the fire raining down still made Pawn run screaming in terror. In fairness—she had been throwing spells straight at him for the last five minutes.
 
—-
 
Other Queens were less sanguine about the whole ‘extremely powerful Human [King] and Minotaur army’ thing. The Grand Queen had called one of her conferences to debate the issue. The Free Queen, Flying Queen and Silent Queen were all invited to discuss the issue.
For once, the Armored Queen had declined. She sat, largest of the Queens, painfully recumbent with Anand and a number of the Painted Antinium. Of course, she had seen the battle; so had Anand.
He was still vibrating with the battle. He wanted those siege weapons. He wanted Skills like those! He wanted a boat with the same level of reinforcement as Miss Erin’s inn! It was almost like the image Belgrade had drawn up, of putting the inn on wheels and using it as a mobile fortress.
But he was aware of the danger. These were the enemy’s weapons, and the Antinium Queens beheld the army the House of Minos could send against them and were rightly wary. Like the King of Destruction, much of their army was low-level fighters, overwhelming in number, but helpless against enemies like Mars or high-level veterans.
In this case, the sight had sent all the Antinium into heavy-planning modalities. Except for the Armored Queen. She was with the Painted Antinium. Anand kept glancing up at her and since she was kind—he had ranked her #1 on the kindness factor among the other Queens, with the Twisted Queen receiving #6—he dared to ask a question.
“Should you not be in conversation with the Grand Queen, Armored Queen?”
“The discussion is pointless, Strategist Anand. I am familiar with such meetings. They are unproductive. The enemy has shown their strength. This is more valuable.”
The Armored Queen watched as her Workers scurried around one of the Painted Antinium. Goat, one of the Soldiers, was holding out his arms.
He was being fitted with armor. Of course, he was the same size as all the others, but this was a custom-job. The best steel for the Painted Soldiers; more imperfect iron or even wood, stone, and other suits went to more expendable Armored Antinium.
The Grand Queen still reserved her enchanted pieces for her Prognugators, but Anand was touched at the gesture.
“Is it suitable? Does it clash with…the nature of this Soldier’s paint?”
The Armored Queen was pleased as Goat flexed his armored body and hopped up and down. The other Painted Antinium clustered around him, patting at the armor, visibly impressed. Anand studied Goat’s reaction.
“If Goat has permission to paint the armor, I believe he will be quite pleased. Is that not so, Goat?”
The Soldier looked up and he radiated approval with his four thumbs-up. He could do another goat! It was like a second shell! The Armored Queen nodded.
“This is well. I will issue you your own armor. Chainmail, I think. Enchanted. Assets of your nature must be protected, Anand.”
“Thank you, my Queen!”
The [Strategist] was touched by the gesture. The Armored Queen nodded. She had a collection of enchanted gear, traded for with the other Hives. It was either bought from [Merchants] daring to trade with Antinium—and there were some!—or taken from enemies killed in combat.
“Klbkchhezeim has furnished you with some gear. However, this should aid your survivability. It is regrettable there is only one Xrn. Her enchantments would double the Armored Antinium’s strength. But the Grand Queen used her for her project.”
The Armored Queen lamented as Anand tried on some chainmail. It only marginally increased his weight and he was quite pleased by it. He nodded a few times.
“I quite admired the Armored Antinium’s production, my Queen. An army of Armored Antinium is a significant battle threat.”
“It has been a long labor. Creation of steel is…difficult. Many failures were born. However, we have created steel. Would that my Prognugators had your innovation.”
The Armored Queen bent. She did not lower her voice. Anand saw the other Armored Prognugators staring at him. Not…enviously. Just with a keen understanding that they lacked what he had. He felt badly, for some reason.
But then, Anand consoled himself that Klbkch was proud of him. He stood taller. It had been some good days. Despite all the hurtful things some Drakes had said about his memorial. The Queens had been upset too.
Still—if the [Strategist]’s triumphs had pleased her, the Armored Queen now sat bitterly. She rubbed her palps together, her voice low.
“Manufacturing. Armor has been made. But what use is a superior force that cannot strike against the enemy? The sea is an impossible barricade. It will allow for reinforcements to arrive continuously and the enemy remains unassailable.”
It was a problem. Anand nodded a few times. He’d read the book on the Antinium Wars by Krsysl Wordsmith and other commentaries as well.
“The sea is a significant weakness, my Queen. Have you attempted to circumnavigate the issue?”
“Yes. Many attempts were made by every Hive. We have all failed. A Shaper Queen might have been able to create an Antinium—I recall ones who were able to survive and operate in water, but we kept few of them. There was no need.”
“Really, Armored Queen?”
The huge Queen nodded.
“It is a lack of Skill in the current Queens, not an insurmountable barrier. But it is beyond our skill levels. It is possible, but it is like placing hopes in the Flying Queen creating actual flight-capable Antinium.”
“Ah. So the only method is ships.”
“Yes. And ships…we are not a water-based species. We seized the fleet from Rhir because we knew they had them. But how will we return to Rhir or fight at sea?”
The Armored Queen struck the ground in ponderous fury. Her Prognugators tried to soothe her helpless fury. Anand on the other hand just thought about it.
“Well, we could teleport over the sea. Miss Erin’s door lacks the range, but perhaps there are more powerful teleportation objects.”
The Armored Queen looked up. Anand spoke as if he were an eager student and she, the [Teacher] who had assigned him the question with extra credit, rather than an issue haunting their entire species.
“Teleportation will not carry armies.”
“I see, I see. Well then, flight carries the same issue, but there are flying carpets. And Bird may one day gain a Skill that allows him to fly. But in regards to vast transport, it does seem like the ocean must be crossed. Perhaps freezing the water with ice magic like Miss Ceria? But boats are the most expedient answer.”
“We have no boats.”
The Armored Queen’s voice was a touch…petulant. She did not like Anand’s optimism. She had borne this weight for decades! She almost wanted his soul to be crushed like hers.
Anand looked around. And then he clasped two hands together.
