“Well then. Let’s make some.”
“What?”
The [Strategist] gave the Armored Queen a blank look.
“You have created steel, my Queen. Why not create a ship?”
She opened and closed her mandibles.
“The Hivelands are not near any open body of water. The Drakes destroyed all the lakes and rivers to drown us. There is a coast to the west, but it was retaken by Drake cities after the peace.”
“But there is water?”
Even Antinium needed it. The Armored Queen hesitated.
“Groundwater, yes.”
“Excellent, excellent. And you can fill up a bag of holding with water. I once heard Pisces tell Miss Erin that he once stole water out of a well doing that. And we have wood. And metal. Surely your forges can make nails? Or Miss Erin’s screwies?”
“This is all possible, Strategist Anand. But how would we make ships? We are on land.”
The Armored Queen was bewildered. Anand just smiled up at her.
“Experiment, my Queen. Would you like me to explain my idea? I wouldn’t even need much. Just a thousand Workers and perhaps a hundred Soldiers for a day and some of your Hive’s space as well as the use of two forges and your lumber reserves. Er…that is a lot, actually.”
He hesitated. But this was the difference between Klbkch and the Armored Queen. She regarded Anand, then leaned down and spoke with her huge mandibles.
“Granted.”
 
—-
 
Klbkch was going over one of the hypothetical plans the Twisted Queen and Wrymvr had come up with. It was beyond audacious.
He liked it. But the fact remained that the issue was always the sea. He was going down the list of options—all of which led to a conflict the Antinium did not necessarily want yet—
When he heard the news.
(Your [Strategist] is causing a commotion, Klbkchhezeim. The other Queens are in uproar.)
The Twisted Queen had picked up on the other Queens talking. Klbkch groaned. He strode up from the Hive, already gnashing his mandibles.
“What is Anand doing?”
Klbkch didn’t bother checking with the mirror. He just ran from the Twisted Hive to the other Hives. He could cover the vast distance quickly and besides, the Antinium had dug almost the entire area of the Hivelands. That they had not expanded further was due to subterranean threats and their treaties.
[Recaptured Sublimity].
Klbkch slowed down from the blur that had shot across the dry ground five minutes later. Wrymvr caught up and landed with a screech in front of Klbkch.
(Get on. You are slow.)
Klbkch leapt onto his back and hung on as Wrymvr took off.
(If I had my own body, you’d never have caught me.)
(I didn’t die.)
Klbkch tried to stab Wrymvr in one of his wings. The huge Antinium spun upside down and Klbkch had to hang on or drop.
They landed at one of the entrances to the Armored Hive thirty minutes later. Klbkch jumped down and Wrymvr landed with another screech.
Armored Antinium scurried around in a panic as two of the Centenium strode down the vast tunnels. Klbkch was ready to apologize, scold Anand, or…
His mind went blank as, finally, he and Wrymvr emerged in a low, deep underground level of the Armored Hive and he saw what Anand had wrought.
“It is madness! Madness! Tell him to stop! He will drown us all!”
“It will not work. Surely. This is not a replication. Is it? There is a difference in salinity content among—”
“Strategist Anand. What are you doing?”
The Antinium looked up. He stood at the other end of the…underground basin. Klbkch would have run over to him. But a vast pool of death lay in the way.
Water. The [Strategist] had tapped one of the groundwater aquifers. Now—he had created a huge, hollow area with a very deep area. A…makeshift sea.
The Antinium around him were clearly terrified. And the [Strategist] himself was trembling. But he had a rope tied around his waist—multiple ropes in fact, held by teams of Painted Antinium ready to drag him back if he fell in. Now, he spoke to the irate Queens.
“My Queens. This is an experiment. I have permission of the Armored Queen. Watch.”
He had worked on this while Klbkch and Wrymvr made their way here. Now—the [Strategist] pushed something out onto the vast reservoir of dark water.
It was too small for Klbkch to see at first. And true—it was no saltwater ocean, but some of the Antinium began fanning the water to simulate waves.
And now—came the tiny object, bobbing, splashed a bit by the water. But failing to sink. Klbkch and Wrymvr saw it floating across Anand’s testing ground.
“This will be the first of many. We will attempt larger versions. But this falls in line with the Armored Antinium’s methods, Armored Queen. It can be done. We just need to practice. See?”
Anand pointed. The Armored Queen had dragged herself down to see this. She ignored the pain in her torn abdomen and saw what Klbkch did.
A little, bobbing ship, carved out of wood. It had some terrified black dots on it.
Actual ants. The ship touched Klbkch’s side of the reservoir as the fanning stopped. He looked down at the ship. He picked it up. An ant ran up his arm and he flicked it off, absently. Water dripped from the boat.
Klbkch stared at Anand. The [Strategist] waved at him. Did I do good? Klbkch looked up at Wrymvr. The Centenium regarded the boat.
(Too small for me.)
“For now.”
Only an Antinium capable of individual thought could make new things like this. And no Queen would have the time or insanity to try it, not after they had seen their species die at sea. But Anand? He excitedly hopped up and down and nearly fell into the drink. Klbkch saw the Painted Antinium haul him back frantically.
He might dare it. Klbkch looked at Anand. He looked at the boat in his hand. Slowly, conscious that Xrn was probably watching through the mirror, he held up a hand.
He gave Anand a slow thumbs-up.
“Very…well done, Anand. Continue with this project. Please.”
Anand beamed like the sun. Klbkch took the boat to stare at it with Wrymvr. This…changed things. Meanwhile, Anand happily had two of the Armored Antinium’s Prognugators and crews of Workers help him with his first prototypes. The other Queens announced they were sending their Prognugators, at least one per Hive, for this project.
Boats. Ships. It was, when you got down to it, a bit of sticky stuff, some cloth, wood, and metal to make a floating thing. Anand had books. He had a place to experiment. He also had all of Liscor to draw upon; he could probably ask Belgrade to buy one of the spring fishing-boats and send it here. Anand was confident. Klbkch had told him it was a good idea.
How hard could it be?
