A chance. Saliss of Lights had promised her a chance and she was needed for the Summer Solstice. There was too much yet to do.
Second—this.
“So…this is Earth.”
She wandered over to the orb of clay and bent down, then looked at the world map.
“It’s blue and green?”
“That’s what it looks like.”
Maviola gave Erin a long stare. The young woman nibbled on a carrot stick.
“You couldn’t possibly know that, Erin.”
“Can too. We have pictures.”
“Of what?”
“Earth.”
“What?”
It was impossible for Maviola to wrap her mind around. Not only did the orb mystify her, but the fact that Earth could be rendered into a picture?
“If that’s land—it is covered in grass? How do you know it’s green? Why aren’t your skins all green. Is the soil green?”
“No! It’s like—from above, all the stuff looks green. I mean, the picture is more real. Hey Kevin! Kevin, stop playing Halo with Numbtongue! Show Maviola the picture of Earth!”
Erin broke up the video-gaming and demanded a picture of Earth. Maviola El saw a rotating orb. She made a sound, as a composite Earth, brought to life from software and images taken from afar appeared on screen.
“Oh.”
That was all she said. Selys stared at the image. She put a claw to her head.
“What…what am I looking at, Erin? Is this it? This?”
She stared at the knowledge-board.
 
Earth.
 
Below it were bits and pieces. The young people hadn’t laid it out perfectly; they’d tried, but none of them were prepared to organize all the understanding and history of Earth. Especially not to outsiders.
 
Science/Math—
E = mc2. ‘E’ stands for energy. ‘m’ is mass. ‘c’ is the speed of light.
Gravity is AROUND 10 meters per second.
            –You’re an idiot. It’s 9.8, and meters per second per second. Rose.
The Human body has 206 bones.
Titanium.
Speed is relative.
            –That’s what the formula says. Kevin.
 
And so on. It was infighting, arguments about what people remembered correctly, crossing’s out, revisions…there was another section simply titled ‘Religion’. Selys read from the list.
It was dawning on her, slowly. An inescapable realization. Selys put her head in her claws. Mrsha was looking at sketches Imani and Galina had done of famous images from home.
Maviola El looked at Palt. His eyes were glittering. It was larger than she had imagined.
She had seen it in Erin’s memories. Knowledge of who Erin was, her past. But the entirety of it…
At the end of her lifespan, the old woman looked up and felt like a child finally realizing there was something beyond the clouds. Beyond the sky.
She didn’t want to die.
“I thought—I—this is a joke, right? I thought Erin was just from one of the paradises. A—she was actually the daughter of someone rich. This—why is it round?”
“Ah, that’s because of gravity. You see, gravity works like…”
Troy began to helpfully explain. He had practice. Selys stared at him as he tried to show her how tiny she was compared to the model of Earth. Less than a speck of dust.
She began to hyperventilate. Erin edged over.
“Selys? You okay?”
She had expected her friend to react strongly. But—Erin had assumed some of her friends knew. Now though, Selys began to giggle. Then laugh hysterically. She threw up her claws and screamed.
“Aaaaaaaah!”
Then she ran for the door. Erin followed her.
“Selys! Wait!”
Maviola felt like a bit of hysterical laughter was called for herself. She looked down at Mrsha. The little Gnoll girl was so calm. Children could accept this more easily—or perhaps she didn’t understand, fully.
Palt had been told before. He was just watching Troy and Leon working with Galina and Joseph on a periodic table, arguing about what went where. They were more motivated by Erin than Magnolia to do this. This was a legacy of their knowledge. Home.
Numbtongue? The Hobgoblin had already known. And besides—he was a Goblin. Able to adapt, fully willing to believe that there were things he hadn’t been told.
Lyonette du Marquin walked over.
“Maviola? Are you…alright? Do you want to sit down?”
“I may need to. But I will kindly refuse.”
She was not going to faint or run screaming. Maviola locked her knees and took a few breaths. Then she looked at Lyonette.
“What else is there to see? Something…else?”
The [Princess]’ eyes flickered. She pointed to the third room.
“Come with me. This room is for…ideas. The big ones. It’s the one you should see.”
She led Maviola past the room with science, history, across from the other room with maps, globes, some of Kevin’s blueprints. One held concrete information, the other, physical representations.
The last was simply pictures. Well-drawn, by those with talent or crude, some of the pictures Erin used to teach Mrsha with. A few were copied from electronic devices, hand-traced. The last few—rendered in astonishing detail. Maviola recognized a [Mage]’s ability to illustrate a scene from memory. Palt had copied a few scenes the others had shown him.
What she saw here was Earth’s achievements. Not the knowledge that made up their world, but the end result. The things that were so commonplace to Erin and the others.
A plane flew in blue skies, surrounded by poofy clouds over the land. Erin had made a little model out of clay.
An elevator, like the ones of Pallass, had been drawn up by Leon and Troy, who had asked the others for help figuring out how the entire system worked.
A car, driving. Outrunning a horse and horse-drawn buggy with speeds it could reach listed.
A depiction of how the internet worked—next to a crude battery. ‘Doesn’t work like that’ had been scrawled on the side by Leon.
Helicopters, surgical tools, microscopes, computers, Maviola walked across the wall. Then she stopped where Lyonette was.
She looked up at a diagram labeled ‘Tank’. Next to an illustration of a ‘Gun’. She tried to understand it. Then—Erin had drawn this. It looked like a mushroom. Or a cloud. Maviola read the little illustration.
“Ah.”
She tried to imagine something like that. What grade of spell? Tier…Tier 8? Tier 7…a few Tier 7…
“A crossbow that can shoot further, faster, without needing to reload. It can hurl bits of metal through armor, hundreds of ‘shots’ per second. The big ones can apparently destroy castle walls in a single shot. That thing? It can fly and shoot those things. So fast it breaks the air or something.”
Lyonette whispered as she looked up at a fighter jet. Maviola El nodded solemnly. At last—she understood.
So this was another world. She abruptly sat down.
“I…I could use that chair, Lyonette.”
 
—-
 
Erin got Selys back after five minutes. Which was a good thing; she had created her secret rooms to educate her friends, contain knowledge. But it did have one weakness, and Maviola had realized it after she grew lightheaded—not just because of the realization of Earth.
There was no air if the [Garden of Sanctuary] wasn’t open.
Everyone gasped for air as Erin led Selys back in. The [Innkeeper] realized she’d been keeping the door under her control.
“Ooh. Um. Maybe we need a window or two, Lyonette?”
“I think so. Or just some vents. I’ll ask Belgrade to adjust the rooms later. We could have a door…just locked. Maybe a secret one?”
“That’d be great.”
Leon kicked Troy covertly. Maviola’s eyes flickered left, but she was distracted. Mrsha led Ekirra out of the secret rooms; he was still licking his milkshake cup, oblivious.
But there it was. Selys was still breathing hard.
“I’m sorry, Selys. I thought you knew almost all of it. I think…some of the others do. The Halfseekers know everything but what Earth is…and the Horns do—or Pisces and Ceria do. Especially Pisces. Can’t trust that invisible dude. And then there’s Eldavin…Krshia…Klbkch? I have no idea if Relc knows. Olesm knows something, but he’s not allowed in here, Maviola.”
“Understood.”
The [Lady] looked at Erin. Selys was gulping for air.
“I’m going to throw up. I’m—I’m—”
She looked around, eyes wide. Imani saw and came over to Selys. She held the Drake’s clawed hand gently.
“I think she’s having a panic attack. Palt?”
“[Calm]. Good idea, Imani.”
The [Illusionist] trotted over. Erin smiled briefly.
“…And Wistram knows. Montressa and Bezale. And…there are more of us.”
“More of you? Where?”
“Baleros. Geneva.”
“Oh.”
There was another map of this world with a few tentative pins. Like all lost peoples, the Earthers were trying to find each other. One pin in Wistram labeled ‘Blackmage and Others’. Another in Terandria. The Singer. A pin for ‘Geneva and Friends’. One in Chandrar labeled ‘Rémi Canada’. There were a few more pins, from Rose’s memory of the text chat.
Ryoka in Reizmelt. Erin stared at the map. She had one pin she could add. But the [Emperor] was a secret for now. Palt knew about Geneva and the others already.
Selys was calming down. Mrsha climbed into her lap and gave her a hug. Not everything from Earth was huge. Erin had had the right idea, only she’d executed too much of it at once. Mrsha showed Selys a toy.
“What’s this?”
It was a hand copter. A little helicopter’s blades attached to a wooden pole. The kind you spun with friction and watched sail away. Kevin had thought it up and somehow gotten Pelt to help make one during one of their collaboration sessions.
Ekirra was playing with one and Bird was chasing after it, screaming about flying in the Garden. Selys saw Mrsha spin it and stared as it took off. Kevin looked proud as the Gnoll leapt off to chase after her new favorite toy.
“Oh!”
She calmed down a bit more. Maviola was calmer, too. She took it all in. It would take her more processing. But right now—one question weighed large on her mind.
“Why now? Why today?”
She looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] sat next to Maviola.
“Well, Selys knew something. And so do a lot of people. I thought it’d be good to tell them at last.”
“Today?”
Maviola raised an eyebrow. Erin stared ahead as she swung her legs on a bench.
“Okay, maybe it had something to do with that [King] and the war we just saw. I get…nervous. When I see big armies and people killing each other.”
Her hand clenched reflexively. Maviola looked at the [Innkeeper], who had fought in a battle. Seen more combat than many [Soldiers] her age.
“I can well understand that. But telling me? Telling your friends? What is the purpose, Erin?”
The young woman looked up.
“It’s one of those things. Dangerous things. Ryoka might kill me for this. But…you should know. I thought guns and stuff were really bad. But after I saw that I realized: this inn can’t stop an army. I thought it could, this time. But a real army? The walls would fall down, even after all the hard work Lyonette’s put into them.”
“Mm. But that’s true of any wall. First Landing was nearly broken by the Goblin King. There is no wall that cannot be broken. Even the Blighted King knows this.”
Maviola had seen her sieges. She understood the fear. Erin nodded.
“That’s why you probably stop the army before it gets there. I…made this room for people I can trust. Right now, that’s Krshia, when she can get here, you, Selys. Pawn. Belgrade, Bird, Numbtongue…”
She hesitated over a finger or two. Then closed her hand.
“There are others. Like Saliss. Or…Klbkch. I’d like to show them this room. But—you saw the scary room.”
“I did. Thank you for trusting me.”
“Well, we did share magical fire and stuff. I think that’s a good reason to trust each other.”
Erin smiled. Maviola laughed. Then she looked around.
“Ah.”
It did make sense. There sat Selys. Still shaking a bit with comprehension. But as much an aunt to Mrsha as anyone. Her grandmother was Tekshia Shivertail. Selys herself was rich. A fine ally.
Numbtongue? The Hobgoblin had depth. The curious Bird, Pawn, Palt…
Fine protectors and allies, all. Maviola nodded approvingly. If anyone, she stood out. Erin looked sideways at the fiery [Lady] and then came out with it.
“So…is there anyone else like you? That I could even think of showing this room to?”
“Me? What do you mean by that?”
Maviola tilted her head, eyes thoughtful. Erin hesitated. She bit her tongue and spoke carefully.
“A…someone who tries to help other people?”
“You mean, like you. Not like me.”
The [Innkeeper] raised one eyebrow at Maviola. She got a serious look in return.
“Erin Solstice. This isn’t who Maviola El was in many stages of her life. If we had met and I knew your secret forty years ago—I would have used it to make my family stronger. Like Saliss of Lights or Klbkch the Slayer might do. Or anyone else.”
The [Lady] wanted to impress the danger onto Erin. She saw Erin meet her gaze and realize—she didn’t need to.
“I know that. But I know you now. I wouldn’t have risked it otherwise.”
“Well said.”
Maviola sighed. Then she thought of Erin’s question.
“People like me? Allies you could trust to be…? There are a few. A while ago—I’d have been surer and given you a decent list. With this Circle of Thorns business…and this world has shifted.”
“What’s the Circle of Thorns?”
The [Lady Firestarter]’s eyes went wide. She turned to Erin.
“Oh. You have no idea. Magnolia…they nearly killed her.”
“Magnolia?”
It took the time for Selys to stand up, shakily wander into the ‘scary room’, and go back to sit down for Maviola to explain. Numbtongue was playing on the laptop as Mrsha begged for a chance. She kept shaking his arm to throw off his aim and the Hobgoblin was, for once, vexed with her as he swatted at the Gnoll.
“No way. There are people like that out there?”
Erin’s expression was taut. Maviola nodded.
“It’s an old group. But they’ve grown like a weed. It makes…me giving you names harder. And I don’t know the children as well as I knew their parents. For instance, oh, thirty years back I’d have said House Byres would always be your ally. But Yitton is not his father or mother. He’s a bit more hidebound. His offspring are very decent sorts. Yet House Byres isn’t as powerful as it was. But a list…”
She had to think. Maviola El closed her eyes.
“I’ll have to write another letter. Keep it somewhere safe. And if ever you need it—House El will honor it.”
“Thank you.”
That was what Erin wanted. Maviola nodded.
“You can’t trust all of my family. Fulviolo was a good man—my brother. I think Deilan—the new patriarch—has some of his spirit. But he is leader first, good man second. That is how it is with most of the Five Families. But good folk…if you are in fear of your life, go to Tyrion Veltras.”
“Him? But—”
Maviola raised a hand, cutting Erin off.
