“That fool would put himself between death to do the ‘right thing’ as he sees it. What that ‘right thing’ is, though…if you fear for your life, Erin Solstice. And he will use your knowledge like a weapon. It’s all he knows. Now, if it’s less than that…go to Soloun Veltras. A relative of the main family. He’s a recluse—but your little [Druid] is the sort he hangs out with. Another trustworthy name? Hm. Of the Five Families—there’s a good Wellfar in Hetessana. You may hear about her failed romances, but she is still kindly. Lonely, but…”
Erin had a piece of paper. She wrote down the names and locations of the people Maviola told her about. And Selys slowly looked around at the other Earthers. Rose came to sit by her, and Imani stood with Palt, ready to swoop in, talking about home.
Perhaps it was a little thing. But if you looked at Erin Solstice—the fact that she had decided to do this of her own volition was the extraordinary bit. She looked north, writing down names of powerful people. She had seen the King of Destruction. Her reaction was not to go to war, but to safeguard. Yet, she did react.
 
—-
 
It was a smaller Drake city, bordering one of the Gnoll plains whose walls were tall. And the defenders were actually relatively experienced, like Liscor’s Watch.
They had a [Fort General], who shouted down to the milling shapes below. They were out of bow and spell-range. He sneered down at them as his tail lashed.
“You savages! We’ve thrown back your tribes year after year! You still want to fight? We made peace with your tribe three years back! Do contracts mean nothing to you?”
He heard growling from beyond. And the Chieftain of the Woven Bladegrass tribe, new, younger, howled her answer back.
“You do not tell us when to make peace, Drake! The tribes are gathering!”
And they would make a gift worthy of it. The Woven Bladegrass tribe had watched the war in Chandrar. The [Fort General] was inhaling to reply. Then he saw a group of thirty charging the walls.
“You barbarians! Fill them with arrows!”
The [Archers] loosed one volley, then two. But the huge figures—not one fell. The [Fort General] heard howling. His eyes focused on their armor and he swore.
“Keep them from the walls! Keep them—”
He should have been watching the Gnoll [Warriors]. It was still a lucky shot. But the javelin flew hundreds of feet, struck the Drake, and carried him backwards. The Drakes along the wall felt the Skills boosting them vanish.
 
—-
 
Little events like that. It was like…brushfire. Sparks, given life by a larger battle. What it was, was people turning to one another and saying ‘did you see that?’
An ant could live happily forever, unless it learned of the mountain. Of course—Az’kerash had long known of the heights of the mountains. Even as an Archmage of Wistram, he had beheld greater foes. Heights even he and his friend has failed to reach.
“Of mortal men, he might be one of the most dangerous. Of mortal men. The Deaths of Rhir are greater threats. Yet that mortal man…Shivertail was one such.”
And how did you defeat foes like that? To the [Necromancer], it was only by patience. He paused a moment, waiting for a reply. But both of his Chosen had nothing to say. Bea and Ijvani were still…as he had made them.
His new Chosen might exceed them since he would give them the desire to learn and understand. He hoped they could learn from the curious Toren. Az’kerash sighed.
His other guest did not respond. The Necromancer watched her.
“Have you challenged such before, Witch Belavierr?”
Only then did she look up from her sewing. Az’kerash saw her knitting death magic. It was another great work. Collaboration between the two. She spoke, briefly.
“Yes.”
Then she went back to her work. Az’kerash sat there, parts of him mentally counting the declarations of war.
The Woven Bladegrass tribe has attacked…sacked the city of Lequiss. War with Ailendamus—unprovoked attacks on vessels friendly to Pheislant, Calanfer…
Belavierr was a poor conversationalist. And despite his…situation, Az’kerash had been a remarkable conversationalist. Immortality and isolation had helped him forget. But the man had remembered himself so he was a bit disappointed. His apprentice, perhaps…
“Have you any thoughts at all, Belavierr?”
She raised her hatted head and stared ahead blankly. Her fingers never stopped dancing, creating a web of magic and thread that even Az’kerash could not entangle.
“I know which creation I would like.”
That surprised him. The Necromancer hesitated and cast his eyes over his Chosen. They shifted.
“Speak, then, Belavierr. As our agreement goes. We may…negotiate.”
She looked at him and he was reminded of pacts with [Witches]. Belavierr smiled.
“I will tell you what I want when the moment is right. You ask of slaying great [Kings] and foes, [Necromancer]?”
“I do.”
The two looked at each other. Belavierr’s smile grew as the rings in her eyes seemed to expand, revealing another depth, another layer.
“Wait. Wait to strike.”
There was another meaning behind her words. He considered the meaning grimly. Then rose to attend to other business, elsewhere. His Chosen followed him and Belavierr was left alone to work.
The problem with finding his heart…was that it beat so loudly he could not pass the years away.
 
—-
 
A similar sentiment was espoused by Archmage Nailihuaile in a public debate with Archmage Feor. It had been called in a semi-public setting and the two Archmages spoke as Wistram’s [Mages] listened in.
It was the talk of the academy. Feor had not accused Archmage Nailihuaile of…anything in particular. Certainly not hiring Rasea Zecrew to attack the King of Destruction.
This debate was simply over Wistram’s unity. And unity being the theme—he had the opportunity to censor the Archmage. And she the opportunity to defend herself.
The academy listened as Feor made his case. The half-Elf concluded with a ringing refutation of…disunity.
“The academy is made up of countless individuals, Archmage Nailihuaile. But when the world hears the name ‘Wistram’, they know we act in unity. Without haste or infighting. Just as no linked spell can be performed alone, the Academy must be in unity.”
He stared down at the shorter Lamia as his supporters and the listeners murmured agreement. Some were palpably nervous.
Archmage Naili was not. And when she drew herself up, she smiled with a predator’s grin.
“Archmage Feor. I appreciate your candor. But if I might rebut one point: if we’re talking about unity, I quite agree that a united front is necessary. However—I can’t think of anything I’ve done to ruin the unity of the academy.”
Scandalous! The murmur ran through the auditorium before Feor spoke. He looked at the Lamia.
“Truly, Archmage?”
“Not at all.”
She met his eyes. Then the Lamia smiled brightly, and gave an almost childish laugh.
“Oh, wait. Do you mean that little incident? I wouldn’t call that—dissidence, Feor. I really wouldn’t.”
“What, then?”
The half-Elf was ready to pounce. But he should have been watching Naili closer. Because the Lamia was coiled up and anyone who knew serpents knew she was ready to strike. And now she did.
“Feor. Let’s talk about something other than ‘unity’. Let’s talk about—enemies. Let me tell you about how I grew up. I grew up as a little Lizardgirl in a swamp-village. Not rich, not with mentors or help. I had no idea how to cast magic. I had to buy my first spellbook with the money I earned.”
She gave a pointed look at Feor, who came from a half-Elf village, and Viltach in the audience. The Human man, a son of a noble family, scowled at her.
A susurration ran through the audience.
“Is this necessary, Archmage? We are all aware—”
Feor sighed, but Naili cut him off.
“The point was, Feor, I used to earn money trapping young Hydras. That was how I became a Lamia. I hunted them with traps and fire, then magic. And I learned something, before I came to Wistram. Enemies. When you have an enemy, if it’s an animal, a monster, or someone else—you don’t wait for them to regenerate. You don’t wait for them to grow, or attack first. You attack your enemy when they’re weak. When they’re sleeping, bleeding, off-balance. And you go for the kill.”
Her serpentine eyes narrowed and she stood taller. The audience murmured and Feor realized some of Wistram’s more militant [Mages] or the ones opposed to the King of Destruction were looking her way.
“That does not excuse your actions, Archmagus.”
“But it is not disloyal to Wistram, Feor. Which is why we’re debating. Unless…there’s another reason you’d like to call me to order?”
Naili fluttered her eyes at him and the half-Elf glared at her. She knew exactly what she was doing. The Star Lamia went on.
“As far as I’m concerned, Wistram is united in its opposition to…enemies. And I capitalized on information to aid the academy at no cost to ourselves! We know exactly where the enemy is. We know what they’re doing. Wistram need not go to war. But when they show a weak spot—strike. Strike again! Or do we wait and let the ‘hydra’ grow another head, like last time?”
Silence—then applause. Feor grimly considered his next point. Wistram was famous for being opposed, not actively engaged in conflicts. He longed to ask her: if this is how she viewed fighting the King of Destruction, striking him with Wistram’s coverage and influence…did she think fighting the Antinium, Rhir, would work in this way?
But he couldn’t bring that up in this public forum. And Naili’s scales were glowing. She was riding a wave of support. After all—she had helped defeat the King of Destruction. It was a secret only to idiots. And now they’d seen him bleed, Wistram Academy was wondering how many more knives they could bring to bear.
Feor should have been more concerned for his own reputation than Naili’s. The King of Destruction had risen to power while he was Archmage—and then Wistram had done nothing at all.
The tide was turning.
 
—-
 
War and strategy. That was most of what the battle produced. In a few—preparation, safeguarding. Because what you saw depended on whom you were.
For some—it was not the humbling of the King of Destruction, the opportunity, or even the might of other nations that stood out. But the sacrifice.
The honor. Integrity.
A good death.
Watch Captain Zevara stormed back into her office so fast the desk-sergeant didn’t see her face. Which was well. The Watch Captain was not supposed to have red eyes. She was furious—but not at herself. At a fool, rather.
He sat in his cell. They had different viewpoints, that was all. And they had cut each other with arguments, both equally right and wrong. She cared more for his life than he did.
“Somehow, she still thinks I’m innocent. But you understand, don’t you?”
Calruz spoke to Haldagaz. The male rat nibbled on his fingernails. Rhata was more understanding. She perched on his knee, as she liked to do, standing up on two legs, even. She’d do that unless he was doing pushups or gone on one of his monster-slaying tasks.
He was grateful to Zevara. But she was wrong.
“The only thing wrong with me—is me. And the longer I sit here, the longer we are all trapped. Look at you two. You deserve better.”
If the Children of the Grain Sack could have answered the one-armed Minotaur, perhaps, perhaps they might have said he was what had kept them from death. They might have said that to them, this cell with food and a kind hand was all they needed.
But rats were not Minotaurs. And he had seen General Ozem and the House of Minos stand and fight. And die, for that word.
“Honor.”
Zevara didn’t understand. She thought—had said in fury—that Minotaurs clung to the word like antiquated [Knights] of old. That it was something killing them, not worth dying for.
“It’s not that, Rhata. Honor is an ideal. Something to pursue. It is not worth dying for. It is worth living by. Ozem, the King of Minotaurs, looked at the King of Destruction and saw the death he brings. For that, they fought against him. Even died. Perhaps—perhaps Ozem was less than altruistic. He was one of our kind who lived for battle. But he found a way to channel his life to a deed that was done in service of the world. All of that is what we summarize by a single word. ‘Honor’. Valor.”
The rat nibbled at his fur, licking at the salt of his sweat. Calruz petted her head. She nuzzled his hand. The words came more easily now that he wasn’t arguing.
Like always, they came better after the hot words had been exchanged. He could finally explain when it was too late.
“I do not want to die. No—that isn’t true. I feel…I feel as though I have not been punished. I have committed great crimes. And imprisonment? It does not match my crime. Perhaps if I was a Drake or Gnoll, I could accept it. But I was raised by the House of Minos’ rules. I have asked to be punished as we sentence each other. I know it is an irony to ask that. But…”
He looked around and shook his head.
“Perhaps this is the greater punishment.”
Rhata squeaked.
“Except for you and Haldagaz. Greater and lesser, Rhata.”
Calruz amended his statement. He sat there.
“But I wish to perform a deed like that. I could enter the heart of the dungeon. Fight to my last against…anything. I would walk the Bloodfields until my death and delay the growth of that blight another second. Another inch. But let me die like that. Don’t let me—drag her down with me.”
He sat there, head bowed. Rhata crawled up his arm and sat on his shoulder. She pooped on his fur. It could have been a sign of solidarity.
After a while, Calruz received another visitor. She stood in front of his cell. He looked up at her.
“I regret showing it to you, Calruz of Hammerad. I did not mean to torture you with that knowledge.”
Beza looked past Calruz. He rose, and looked at her.
“It was neither torture nor injustice, Bezale of Maweil. It was an honor to see.”
“Yes.”
The two stood there, Bezale awkwardly. She always remembered her first conversation with him. But now…
“I spoke with the Watch Captain. She will not let me do as General Ozem did with the criminals of Minos.”
“She said the same thing to me.”
“Ah.”
Calruz hadn’t been aware Bezale had petitioned Zevara. Perhaps that was why she had snapped at him so quickly when he’d brought it up. They stood there.
“I…”
Beza didn’t know what to say. She had tested the Minotaur and he had no magic in him that would have made him insane. But somehow—she was beginning to doubt that his dishonor had come from himself alone. She was starting to believe the Drake.
