Thereafter. These were the headlines spoken and written in large font across the world.
From Wistram News Network and their subsidiary, the Pallassian Times, the Liscorian Gazette, Chandrar International, the Terandrian Tribunal—
That last one was very interesting. Now there were three international newspapers in circulation. The headline and bylines from Chandrar International, as written by the Editor-in-Chief, Rémi Canada, read as follows:
Clash at Medain. 
Reim’s armies in retreat; 5 warships return to the House of Minos; [Pirate Captain] Rasea Zecrew sails under Savere’s flag; 17 nations and counting declare war on the King of Destruction; King of Duels captured.
It was the kind of title that had multiple subheadings and required the entire newspaper (aside from the business, magical news, and funnies sections) to explain fully.
Interestingly, as the internal sales figures per-newspaper, per new reader went, Chandrar International happened to have the weakest initial sales within the first five hours of printing. The Terandrian Tribunal, and the Pallassian Times were both more well-known and circulated.
But by the end of the day, people were requesting Rémi Canada’s newspaper from Runner’s Guilds, who were printing and providing copies as part of their service. The reasons cited by customers were the layout of the [Journalist]’s newspaper, more impartial reporting, attention to detail, and the fame of the Editor-in-Chief himself.
And, lest it be unremarked upon, the income of that many sales of newspapers across the world was no small thing. The larger two continental newspapers, already with competition in Liscor in Izril’s case, had large backers. But Rémi’s newspaper had already paid for itself and the equipment and salaries of its employees by the time the day ended.
Of course—the war of media was not the most important thing happening, except to the organizations involved. There was, after all—
A war. Multiple ones. Seventeen nations had declared when Rémi finalized the newspaper. Twenty by the time he began the second day’s first draft.
 
“Yet, as any keen observer will note, a state of war has existed within Chandrar already. The declarations by nations such as Nerrhavia’s Fallen cannot surprise anyone, least of all the [King] of Reim himself. It is a sign that each nation believes Reim’s aura of invincibility has finally faded. 
Time will reveal whether this is correct. What is true is that the [Army of the King] has been used and for the first time, Reim’s armies have tasted a true defeat at the hands of the House of Minos and one [Pirate Captain]’s intervention…a timely, perhaps incredibly coordinated series of events.”
 
They weren’t the most scorching of words. Rather, Rémi had laid out the battle piece by piece without the victorious tones of the other two newspapers. Impartial, reasoned—it was why his newspaper was doing better.
Teresa Atwood wouldn’t have minded it, even though she was on the losing side. But the fact that someone was reading it over her shoulder was sending chills up her spine.
The King of Destruction waited for Teres to turn the page. She didn’t want to.
“Go on, Teres. It’s certainly the most objective take so far. Or are you still reading?”
Flos Reimarch was calmer today. Scarce hours had passed and dawn had just turned into morning. The King of Destruction had stopped raging.
Now, he sat, weary in his saddle, as his army rode from Medain’s borders. They had not halted to rest beyond healing injuries even though they had just fought the battle that the newspapers were reporting on.
They had too far to go to rest. Nerrhavia’s Fallen, the Claiven Earth, Medain, and nations as distant as Savere and A’ctelios had declared war. But—some like A’ctelios had already declared war.
The difference was that they were marching. Reim had its spies and informants, and Orthenon had reported that A’ctelios had sent its war band from the Carven City; Nerrhavia’s Fallen was mobilizing armies in the plural…
“…‘a moment to test the legend of the King of Destruction.’ Well written, that fellow. Another of your Earth-folk.”
“I think so, your Majesty.”
Teres was nervous. Flos just nodded.
“It will be defense, now. As he says. The last time so many nations declared war on me was when I had unified most of Chandrar. Then—it was multiple continents. The Walled Cities, Balerosian companies, half of Terandria…well, they had tried to stymie me before but with less unity. A time to test the legend indeed.”
Teres just nodded. She was nervous. Flos was too calm, now. He looked to the side.
His army was silent on the march. Last time, after Jecrass, he had invigorated them with a speech. Today though, it seemed as though Flos had no bright spot to find.
They had been defeated. By a [Pirate], by the armies of Minos…and the great Skill of the King of Destruction had been wasted, in a sense. Oh, General Ozem and his armies were dead or fleeing back across the sea. But Rasea Zecrew had killed Ulyse, stopped Reim’s army from seizing Medain and the King of Duels.
“Your Majesty…”
“You only call me ‘your Majesty’ when you want something or you’re nervous of me, Teres. You needn’t be. I have been humbled. But I know where to direct my wrath.”
Teres saw Flos’ head turn towards her. She nodded tightly.
“Then—what happens next?”
“A few things. While we ride, a few things. It’s been long enough. Let’s check on Orthenon.”
The two turned slightly back. The [Steward] was sitting in one of the wagons. No horse for him; he could ride, but the [Healer] and [Necromancer] had been in agreement. He needed to keep his hand as steady as possible.
“Will your fingers keep their strength and dexterity, my steward?”
“I think so, your Majesty. They’re already rejoined. [Death Keeper]?”
The Rustängmarder’s [Necromancer] and specialist bowed as he sat with the [Steward].
“The tissue has not rotted. The bones have not been destroyed. I will check the muscle again—but it is not my specialty. The [Healer] has done all she can.”
“Do so, then. Orthenon, I have need of you.”
The [Steward] nodded and held out his arm. Teres watched uneasily as the [Death Keeper] ran his hands along the place where two of Orthenon’s fingers had been severed by Rasea. The Rustängmarder’s [Necromancer] had reattached it. It was one of the reasons their mercenary company was so dangerous; they could reattach limbs with death magic.
“Be careful. If you feel any pain or stiffness, this may require an expert beyond either of us.”
That was all he said to Orthenon. The [Steward] nodded and stood.
“Your will, my [King]?”
The [Steward] was easier to read than the King of Destruction at the moment. He was angry. Teres saw it in his expressionless face. Knowing Orthenon—he might have felt responsible for failing to stop Rasea, or predict her attack.
The King of Destruction nodded.
“With me. Mars.”
He didn’t have to raise his voice for the Illusionist to appear. She wore the defeat differently than Orthenon. Her eyes were a bit red. Tears of frustration. She’d shed them for failing to stop Ozem and failing to kill or capture the High King.
Flos regarded both of them levelly and nodded.
“We ride ahead.”
They moved forwards a bit. No one protested. Ytol was managing the army’s retreat; he had already sent [Riders] ahead to link up with the rest of the army and split. They had to defend the parts of Belchan they’d taken, Hellios, Germina, Reim…
Too many spots. And Medain was hostile too; the High King had declared war as soon as he’d retreated to his capital. No one had attacked the army yet; wounded or not, they had just fought an intense battle and leveled. And Mars and Orthenon were here, along with Zamea and the battered elites.
Ulyse was dead. Two half-Giants had fallen. Zamea’s leg was broken; she was audibly cursing as she hobbled to keep up with the army. The Rustängmarder, Flos’ vanguard and hammer, were down to twelve.
Disaster. Flos himself did not belabor the point.
“Mars, open your personal armory. Any weapon you can do without—place it with Ytol. We need the Sorcelled Blades. Every officer and magical blade we can spare will go to that unit.”
“Yes, sire.”
Mars nodded. Orthenon looked at Flos.
“Where will they fight?”
“With you. I’ll have you lead just them, Orthenon. We’ll need the cavalry in other spots; you’ll take that unit and move from battlefield to battlefield. Don’t lose a single one. Attack, keep moving and keep the enemy guessing. You’ll need anti-divination spells. Take one of Parasol Stroll’s [Mages].”
“About that, sire. With Ulyse gone…who leads them? Mirin? She’s with Trey. And Esiela is under blood-oath. But can she be trusted?”
Mars looked concerned. Flos glanced backwards.
“Place her with me. The Nomads of the Sky I will give to Ytol. He will move to Reim to reinforce Venith and Maresar at once. You’ll stay in the north, Mars. Hold back the Claiven Earth and Medain. I cannot trust anyone else to fight the adventurers and [Archers].”
They’d kill half-Giants, who were too large targets. Mars just nodded.
“Very well. And yourself, your Majesty?”
The King of Destruction looked around.
“I…will stay in the north with Ytol. We will need to fight here. Once we reach Jecrass’ lands, we will split, Ytol and I. Before that—I will lead our armies on Jecrass’ capital and take it.”
The others stirred. Teres’ mouth fell open.
“You still want to fight?”
Flos looked at her.
“I swore to avenge the Gnolls. That [Prime Minister], Lyfelt, still lives. Since Raelt of Jecrass is no longer free, I will offer his daughter one chance to fulfill his terms. Otherwise—I will finish the war in Jecrass if I can. Fall back otherwise and continue fighting. Either way—I complete my vow.”
“But we’re at war with every other nation in Chandrar around us! You want to fight Jecrass? They’ll be at war with Medain!”
It made sense not to fight the one nation they could probably make peace with. The King of Destruction had a different opinion, though.
“I swore a mighty oath, Teres. I swore it by the dead, who had come for my protection. I did not make war on Belchan and then Jecrass solely for politics. Lyfelt will die. And if the Gnoll tribes demand it—I will fulfill my promise for a thousand heads for every one that was slain. I made them a promise.”
He had already killed so many of Belchan’s people. And he’d just fought the Minotaurs a day ago in the bloodiest engagement Teres had ever seen. Flos Reimarch met her gaze, and turned his head.
“Since High King Perric decided to declare war before we’d left his borders, we’ll strike him. Mars—Orthenon—the border city ahead of us. Trevlt? Take it.”
The King’s Steward and the Illusionist looked up. They nodded, almost relaxing.
“Don’t kill civilians. Rout the defenders; the Nomads will help sack the city with two thousand horse. Go.”
“Your will, your Majesty!”
Mars’ eyes glittered. Orthenon bowed, a thin, bitter smile on his face. Teres opened and closed her mouth. She saw them turn, riding north towards a city on the horizon.
“Destroy…?”
“It won’t have more than a dozen Level 30 individuals. If it has someone unexpected, they’ll fall back. Mars could—and has—taken a city herself. They can’t hurt her. And Orthenon is too intelligent to put himself in jeopardy. Moreover—it will relieve their failures.”
The King of Destruction looked ahead. He dismissed the city as if it were already burning.
“Come, Teres. We have to ride faster if we’re yet to assault Jecrass before they have time to spirit that damned [Prime Minister] away. Enough moping.”
He rode faster. Teres shouted after his back.
“Haven’t you had enough?”
Flos of Reim looked at her. He cast a glance back towards the battlefield, and shook his head.
“What should I do now? Give up? Sue for peace with my enemies baying for my blood? Teresa. It is time to turn the borders to blood and fire. And when I reach the House of Minos and Savere—I will repay yesterday a thousand times over.”
Such different worlds. Teres slowed down as she saw that difference more plainly, at last. He had seen greater battles, bloodier, more devastating. The events of yesterday had affected the King of Destruction least. But everyone else had watched and seen.
Their reactions were more telling.
 
—-
 
The King of Destruction’s war with the House of Minos was revealing on several levels. Firstly—if you were in the Titan’s class, it was, as he pointed out, an example of levels versus numbers.
“The Minotaurs just gave the King of Destruction his first real defeat. They did it with an incredibly small force, but high-leveled veterans and incredibly powerful siege weapons. It proves that the King of Destruction’s army is still fundamentally flawed. He has some of his old vassals but his army is full of holes. Miss Angelica, one flaw. Five seconds to respond.”
He pointed. The [Princess] gulped and blurted the first thing that came to mind.
“[Mages]?”
The Titan nodded and she relaxed.
“Good. No [Mages]. He has a few; not enough to shield his army, let alone Amerys of the Seven. Another flaw. You.”
A student flinched.
“Uh—uh—uh—”
“People die when a [Strategist] takes too long, Mister Iril! You! Flaw!”
“High-level [Archers[?”
“Good! We didn’t see those. These are the easy ones. Next?”
“Um—Garuda? Takhatres of the Seven was fighting the Empress…”
“Yes. The Minotaurs would have never tried that with an army of Garuda in the skies. They’d have destroyed the artillery. But General Ozem would have never landed if he’d thought there was even a whiff of Garuda in the air. This is what I keep telling you all: pick your battles. And make sure the enemy can’t!”
The Titan was expounding on the battle and aftermath with unusual vigor, even for him. He was…restless. They called him Professor, here. But one look at him reminded his students that Niers Astoragon was first a [Strategist]. Like the King of Destruction—he saw battle and it lit something up in him.
Synergy. At least, between those two. A…sympathetic reaction across the world. The consequence of the live coverage via scrying spells. When people watched—what had occurred in that one place in Chandrar suddenly affected events the world over.
For some—it was a conversation topic, a lesson, a moment’s entertainment. But the effect was more dramatic in other places.
 
—-
 
“Incredible. The Order of Seasons might well crusade to Chandrar. The Grandmaster might have ordered us already if it weren’t for the situation with Ailendamus.”
Talia exhaled slowly and the [Knights] around her began murmuring. Rabbiteater just shook his head.
