Behind the scenes. Unimportant. Ailendamus’ declaration of war was so sudden that Wistram News Network was still covering two issues after the battle.
“So—so you’re saying your attack on the King of Destruction was purely your decision, Captain Rasea Zecrew?”
The very nervous Wistram [Mage] had been hauled up in a skiff. And it was surprising—but totally in the nature of her character that Rasea Zecrew had instantly agreed to an interview.
“That’s right. It was my idea! If there’s a foe for the Illuminary to fight, why not go after the King of Destruction himself? All my idea.”
She winked into the camera. The Drake [Mage] opened and closed his mouth a few times.
“And uh—you’re not worried about reprisals? For your ship or Savere? You are related to the Siren. And the King of Destruction is known for his long memory.”
“If he can catch the Illuminary, he can object to my face! As for my sister—she can take care of herself! I’m a [Pirate]; my business is loot and glory! And that’s why—I’m saying if there’s any brave soul out there, seek us out! The Illuminary is always looking for new crew!”
Rasea laughed. Her glowing eye flashed again.
She kept striking poses, using a crate to plant her foot and brandish her sword. The [Mage] swished his tail.
“But Captain Rasea, it seems as though your attack was quite premeditated. Will you swear by truth spell—hey! Get your claws off the scrying mirror. Hey. Hey—”
Something was thrust in front of the [Mage]. It was—a flier. Or perhaps a poster, the same as the ones the crew and friends of the Illuminary were putting up in ports.
 
Looking for mayhem? Treasure? Glorious death? Join Rasea Zecrew and the legendary crew of the Illuminary*! 
*Applicants must be at least Level 30 or higher. Survival not guaranteed.
 
It had a stylized image of Rasea with her sword, smiling winsomely at the viewer. The audience heard the [Mage] arguing with the [Pirates], who were thrusting the poster at the viewer. There was a shout.
“And we’re better than those snotty Bloodtear Pirates or the Underseas Crews! Join us and—”
The image cut out. One of the Drakes in the broadcasting studio coughed. Sir Relz cleared his throat.
“Well—I think that’s all we’ll get from Captain Rasea. Enigmatic motives…we certainly don’t endorse that poster. [Pirates], eh, er, Miss Drassi?”
“Absolutely, Sir Relz. Absolutely.”
The other Drake was threatening Noass and Sir Relz’s duo. People writing in found Drassi and the other Drakes more entertaining than both of the [Commentators]. Speaking of which…Sir Relz looked at Drassi.
“I think since we’ve lost our ah, [Mage] with Captain Rasea—I hope the fellow is alright—we should move to a complaint lodged against our broadcast yesterday. Miss Drassi? I will see what this news from Terandria is—”
He stood up. The view panned to Drassi. She cleared her throat.
“Right. Hi, everyone! This is Drassi from Liscor, your favorite female [Reporter]! Because I’m the only one regularly employed. So…listen. I try to say things like I see them. And yesterday, during our coverage of the huge war with the King of Destruction, I made some comments about the kidnapping of Princess Jecaina of Jecrass and Medain.”
The view flashed to a few scenes in the corner of the screen, reminding readers of the events. It had been one comment among many. The clip was helpfully replayed for the audience as Drassi scowled at the kidnapping in progress.
 
“That’s right. Here’s what we know. This rat—”
“High King Perric.”
“Yeah. This rat-king kidnaps the [King] of Jecrass’ daughter. And now Raelt is in hot pursuit.”
 
In the present, Drassi cleared her throat and sat up.
“Medain’s launched a formal complaint with Wistram News Network over my language.”
Oh yes. Among all of what had happened, High King Perric had, in his wisdom, found the time to object to that singular moment.
A lesser ruler might not have cared. A weaker [King] might have ignored the slight, or dismissed it. But a [High King] demanded an apology. That was what set apart the men from the children.
Drassi sat in front of the scrying mirror and folded her claws as she looked sincerely into the camera.
“I’d just like to address the audience now. Firstly—I’d like to apologize to Medain and the [High King] Perric and you viewers out there. I used inappropriate language in the heat of the moment. Upon reflection…”
She took a deep breath. Her eyes were glittering, and you might be able to mistake it for tears of remorse if you didn’t see her violently lashing tail under the desk. But Wistram had been adamant. Drassi saw Noass glaring at her from the side. She took another breath.
“…Upon reflection, my phrasing and…and conduct was unprofessional. I apologize for that. I should have said ‘that rat bastard is kidnapping a [Princess], not rat-king’.”
Noass’ face froze. Drassi leaned forwards. He tried to cut the feed, but was stopped by the production crew who were getting a sense for good drama. Drassi leaned forwards.
“I’m supposed to apologize to this [High King]? Why? Listen—they told me I have to say sorry so we don’t ‘offend Medain’. Offend them for what? Speaking the truth? That’s why I got my position! I’m going to put my tail on the line when I say this: kidnapping is bad. I know that’s a hard position to take, but someone’s got to say it. Medain kidnapped Jecrass’ [Princess]. Everything else aside—that was a pretty rat-bastard move, right? Am I going to apologize for it? No! And if this [High King] objects—”
Noass dove onto the screen and tried to shove Drassi off. A pushing war ensued and two assistants appeared on screen and finally dragged both off. Furious arguments could be heard in the background until the view cut to Ailendamus’ ruler, King Itorin II, who was sitting while one of his subjects read a formal declaration of war.
“The news gets weirder and weirder every day, I swear.”
Erin Solstice looked away from the scrying orb at last. She wondered if this meant Drassi wasn’t going to make the night-shift. She didn’t even know why Drassi worked two jobs—the [Gossip] claimed it was to keep abreast of the fun stuff.
The Wandering Inn had a TV installed. It was functionally one of those diners that always had a television with a sports game. Which Erin found ironic, because it already had the Players of Celum. She looked around at the rapt audience now watching the war in Ailendamus.
It made Erin’s stomach hurt a bit. Well, she and everyone else had watched the battle with the King of Destruction. And while it hadn’t made Erin want to grab a hammer and hit someone…it had affected her as well.
“So this is how art gets replaced with television, huh? Not on my watch! Palt—we’re moving the mirror! Turn off the spell!”
The huge, six-foot mirror turned blank. It wasn’t perfect glass; it would have been really expensive if Erin had bought one of those. The glass was warped in places and had bubbles from the cooling process. But it was still good enough to turn into a scrying mirror.
A temporary one. Erin had a small, permanently-enchanted mirror, but even with Wistram making more, they cost too much! So Palt, being Palt, had come up with a great suggestion.
Enchant a mirror with the [Scrying] spell. Oh, it would wear off, but if you had, say, an [Illusionist] around, you had a free feature-size broadcast!
Boos came from around the common room as the mirror went dark. Erin saw someone raise a fist and shake it at her threateningly. She glared at Mrsha.
“It’s not off! Someone help me take it to the rec-room. No—no, wait! One of the spares! We’ll have that be the TV room. And we’ll put in like…couches. Blankets! Popcorn half-off! But not here! The Players of Celum are putting on a show!”
She pointed at the stage. Temile waved at her, mouthing a ‘thank you’; he had indeed been competing with the scrying mirror these last few days.
And in fact, Erin didn’t have to lift the mirror down from the wall. Ishkr was already standing on a table. He nodded to the staff.
“You three, help me carry this.”
“Thanks, Ishkr.”
Erin gave the Gnoll a thumbs-up. He nodded to her as they carried the mirror past. Erin had a prescient thought and looked around.
“No running around near the mirror!”
Mrsha stopped mid-run after Ekirra. The two Gnolls watched the mirror go past and Erin folded her arms.
“Someone looks like she has a lot of energy!”
The little Gnoll nodded rapidly. She hadn’t been allowed to watch the gory broadcast in its entirety, but she’d caught the mood of the room. Erin’s heart was still pounding.
Minotaurs. [Pirates]. She…took a breath.
“Okay. Mrsha? Why don’t you go into the Garden and…”
She whispered into the Gnoll’s ear. Mrsha’s eyes turned round. She looked up at Erin.
Really?
She held up a card. Erin nodded.
“They’re nearly ready. You can go…and so can Ekirra, I guess.”
He wasn’t going to figure out what it was. And his parents or others would just assume it was Erin being…Erin. The [Innkeeper] nodded.
Synchronicity. It had been a simple idea. She’d gotten it while watching the King of Destruction’s battle. She wasn’t the only one who’d been—inspired.
As Erin walked towards the Garden of Sanctuary, she saw Embria and some of 4th Company sitting together.
“Hey…Embria. What’s up?”
“Miss Solstice.”
The Drake hesitated, but ducked her head. Some of her command were sitting around. They looked just as amped by the scene as she was.
“…oh sure, destructive, but you try that on Pallass’ walls against emplaced siege weapons and see what happens. What stood out to me was that damn ship. All the Skills and enchantments on it? How do you fight that?”
“Lightbridge and fight on the deck. Duh. You tell me what you can’t solve with lightbridge—oh, hello, Miss Solstice.”
The [Soldiers] looked at Erin. She waved at Embria.
“Uh…just saying hi. You all good? Want some more food?”
“We could use a few drinks—”
A Gnoll elbowed one of the Drakes in the side.
“Stow it, Lieutenant. We’re patrolling tomorrow, remember?”
“Oh, right.”
“We’re fine, Miss Erin. Thank you.”
Erin nodded. Cool, cool. She kept the smile on her face. Embria was perfectly normal with her, even if the two weren’t exactly bloviating all the time. But there was some awkwardness, still.
“Uh huh. Great, great. Um…any word from Relc yet?”
The young Drake hesitated.
“Not…yet. But he’s probably still travelling. Without Skills or a dedicated…”
“Ah. Cool. Well, I haven’t heard anything. Just let me know. And let Ishkr know if you want anything! Play tonight! Uh…”
Erin backed up. She looked around. Not many people were in the inn.
Well, that wasn’t right. Not many people she counted as friends or acquaintances were in the inn. There were plenty of guests…
But the other Earthers, Selys, some of the Antinium, and now Maviola were in Area 51. That was what Erin was calling it.
Or maybe ‘the safe zone’. Or—or—she ran out of cool names for it. It wasn’t a Skill. It was just an idea she’d had.
Something big. Erin walked into the Garden of Sanctuary, leaving only a few of her ‘special’ guests in the common room. Few people even looked twice; they knew they weren’t allowed into the [Garden]. Lyonette had considered paid tours, but Erin had shot it down. A few watched Erin, though.
A pair of gentlemen with hats. Three of the food-spies. And…Ferris.
The Gnoll had a thought. And it was this.
“Is it actually her?”
He didn’t vocalize that. Not entirely. But the [Infiltrator] was coming to another conclusion after time at The Wandering Inn.
He had been sent to obtain Erin Solstice. A task he had not realized would be so arduous. She was as stubborn as a rock. Or a Dragon. And unfortunately, she was so well-connected that spiriting her away was an impossible venture.
No, despite Rafaema’s growing impatience, Ferris had seen no way. But he was beginning to think his failure was a good thing. Because—Ferris now believed Erin Solstice was not the mastermind behind The Wandering Inn and the events in Liscor.
His eyes turned past her, towards someone who was busily signing for packages.
“…Cleared to go through Invrisil. And you—Silveran—please put up a sign on that room? The one with the mirror? Um, ‘Viewing Room’. Yes, write that there and put it up. Thank you.”
She turned to a timid Worker. A Worker Antinium with silver antennae—hence the nickname, Silveran. An employee of the inn.
Ferris’ eyes almost narrowed, but he kept his face blank and friendly. Look at her. There…
Was a [Princess].
It was beyond obvious to an expert like Ferris. Her demeanor, accent, and the fact that she lacked an anti-appraisal ring all told him that. [Princess].
In fact, the 6th Princess of Calanfer. Right here. Lyonette kept staring at the news about Ailendamus. She’d hidden her reaction well. But he’d seen the worry and fear on her face as it broke.
She was behind The Wandering Inn. Erin? She was a mascot.
It all made sense to Ferris. Think of it. What had he seen Erin do? A number of insane things. But she didn’t run her inn. Lyonette? She’d negotiated with him on behalf of his company. She was the one who organized everything.
The power behind the throne. No, the power of the throne. Aha! The Gnoll was changing targets.
And to be fair, it was an obvious conclusion. The amazing part was that the Gnoll wasn’t completely right, and instead, half-wrong.
He followed Lyonette as the [Princess] looked around, realized she was free for half a second, and hurried after Erin into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Alas, Ferris had tried to enter a dozen different ways and the Skill had foiled him. It was a top-grade Skill. And if Ferris had been even better at his job, or more specialized in a different class, he would have noticed something else.
But he didn’t.
 
—-
 
Inside the [Garden of Sanctuary], Lyonette du Marquin found Numbtongue and Bird and Mrsha.
“Where’s Erin?”
“In her secret spot.”
Numbtongue answered shortly. He was practicing with his sword. Lyonette was now a regular disciple of Zevara’s, and she recognized good swordsmanship when she saw it.
He was performing a complex set of maneuvers, cutting the grass with tight, elegant swings. Nothing big and fancy; that was what an amateur did and it got you killed.
Numbtongue was also smiling. It might have been him—or the ghost who was delighting over his blade. Lyonette didn’t know about that of course. Nor did she see Reiss grumpily sitting on the grass, watching.
“You’re in a good mood. I’m going after Erin. You don’t want to come?”
“No. Too much repeating. Will go later. More fun, here.”
