Silverite looked like a woman on the edge of falling apart. She had already laughed at Justine’s proclamations earlier, and then she stormed off. And now she was talking flippantly of Shades. She had never done that before. Erick felt a spike of worry in his gut.

Silverite noticed, and read him like a book. She said, “Oh! Don’t worry about me. I’m fine. It’s just! Every time it’s difficult, you know? This time more than most.”

“I don’t know, exactly, but I’ll take your word for it.”

Silverite smiled, and returned a little to her usual solid self. She did not speak. She obviously did not want to talk about what Erick came here to talk about, regarding necromancy, curses, and Soul Magic. So she went silent.

Erick changed topics, slightly, asking “Have you ever heard of Melemizargo’s Heart before?”

“If you’re thinking Melemizargo’s Heart, is a weakness, it is not. That name is more flash than substance; most people call it the Well.”

“Oh! That thing they pull people out of.” Erick said, “I had not made that connection, yet.”

“It goes by many names. ‘Melemizargo’s Heart’ is one of the more popular. It is not his actual heart, nor does it have any connection to him at all. We’ve— assorted people from Spur, Killzone, me personally, and a few others— We’ve destroyed the Well before, but it always comes back, because it is the end point of a vast magic; it is not the center that it appears to be.” Silverite sighed, then she said, “Since you’re getting into necromancy, I might as well tell you: The Well is a dark mirror that does some arcane thing to every person who has ever touched a shadow in the world…” Silverite paused. She said, “I don’t know if shadelings are real people, or not, but we have known a few important facts about them for a long time. One of the major facts is that every soul that does not go to a god, or to the End, has a chance of being reborn as a shadeling. Another great fact is that I hate necromancy and all of its assorted evils, and sticky questions.”

Erick was blown away. Shadelings were truly a ‘resurrection magic’ problem? Like with Messalina’s [Resurrection] magic? But… No. The Well sounded slightly different. Shadelings were dark reflections? But maybe there was something there as to why the resurrected, like Savral, had problems coming back from the end?

Did Messalina get her magic from Melemizargo?

Erick rapidly asked, “Did Messalina get her magic from Melemizargo?”

“No.” Silverite frowned. “She did not.” Silverite asked, “Do you really want to learn Soul Magic?”

Erick could not ignore the sticky implications Silverite just laid out there. Her reluctance to speak further of Messalina seemed wrong, too, somehow. But eventually, Erick brushed over it, knowing that he would pick the topic up at some other time. He said, “Yes. I want to know more about Soul Magic.”

“Why do you want to learn Soul Magic?”

Erick explained, “It always struck me as… Even if I got strong enough to kill a Shade, they could just run from the fight. It is wrong that Shades can run from a fight, when the people they fight had no choice. So I want to be able to Curse any potential Shade with a— I don’t know. A [Curse of Potential Collapse], so they could not run away. But I’ve also been informed that Shades could likely throw off curses, and that I have no idea what a curse actually is. So… That’s why I want to know about Curse and Soul Magic.” He added, “And now we’ve got Stat fruits that need to get made but stripped of their Shadeling Curse, so that Candlepoint can exist without being plundered and pillaged by the nations of the world as soon as the Shades aren’t there to protect them.”

“When the Shades aren’t there?” Silverite asked, “Why do you think they would abandon the city, even if Bulgan was defeated?”

“You misunderstand.” Erick, hard toned and white eyed, said, “The Shades all need to die, Silverite. That’s the goal. If the shadelings are truly just another people being mind and soul controlled, then they need to be freed, and their evil masters need to be put to the sword. Every. Last. One.”

Silverite regarded Erick for a long moment.

Erick stared back.

Silverite said, “Speak to Apogee about the curse you’re looking for. He managed to make one that affects all forms of Spatial Magic. And you’re right; it is useful against Shades. You’re also right about not being nearly strong enough to kill one, or even seriously threaten any of them. But that Curse would help.” She added, “And you don’t need to learn Soul Magic. It changes people when they’re able to toy with the inner workings of their own body; when they see ‘imperfections’ in others that ‘need’ to be ‘healed’. I’m not sure if you would be that kind of person, but it is unnecessary for what is to come. I advise you to not pursue this line of thought, for your own good.

“But besides that: I heard what Justine said to you, and I highly doubt that what Melemizargo pulled off with these new Stats is doable through mortal means. What has to happen, is those Stat Fruit trees need to be stolen from Ar’Kendrithyst, and then they need to be stripped of their Shadeling Curse by consummate professionals. They should not be remade, for the process likely involves the sundered souls of hundreds of individuals.”

“… Okay.” Erick nodded. “That works, too. How are we going to do that?”

“I gotta be honest with you, Erick.” Silverite said, “It likely won’t involve you, at all. You’re much better as a deterrent against widespread danger, than walking into the shadows. It takes a certain skill set to fight a Shade, and you are not there. We’ll get Killzone and the Army on tree relocation as soon as we get more information from Justine on possible areas.”

Erick frowned a little, as he said, “Ah.”
