She shepherded them back to their seats and tried not to look at Goblin nether regions as their loincloths shifted in unfortunate ways. There was a reason pants were invented.
“Go ahead and eat as much as you want.”
Again, the Goblins glanced nervously at the Antinium, but now that the initial scare was over, the fresh food called to them. There was a moment’s hesitation, then Rags grabbed a piece of sausage, and the Goblins began gobbling all the food on the table with their hands.
She winced at the mess, but at least they were occupied. Erin edged back to Klbkch, who was still waiting with his group of Antinium.
“Hi, Klbkch. Sorry about the confusion. I had a few visitors pop by unexpectedly.”
“There is no problem, Miss Solstice. I have brought others of my kind as you requested.”
Klbkch nodded to Erin and gestured to the silent Antinium behind him. Erin eyed her new guests somewhat apprehensively.
They were like Klbkch and not like him at the same time. They were like each other though. Erin couldn’t tell one from the other, and all twelve of these other Antinium stood and moved like one unit.
What made her stare was that they were identical to Klbkch. They had the same brown carapace and waving antennae. Four arms, beetle shell—but you could say that of Humans.
What was meant by identical was exactly the same. Unlike a Human, who had a world of variation in hair and lips, even of the same color, the Antinium were carbon copies of one another.
Only Klbkch stood out because of his swords at his waist and armor and belt. The other Workers silently lined up, standing in two neat rows. And they also seemed disinclined to talk. Each one of the Antinium stared at Klbkch rather than look at Erin.
“Are they—are they your friends? Or other guardsmen?”
Klbkch shook his head.
“I am afraid you are under a misapprehension. These are Workers, Miss Solstice. They are not fellow guardsmen—rather, they perform tasks within the Antinium section of the city. I took them because you wished for more customers, but I have not interacted with them before.”
“Oh. So they’re not your friends?”
Klbkch opened and closed his mandibles a few times. He turned around and stared at the Workers before turning to Erin. He clacked his mandibles a few times, and then, to her astonishment, made a laughing sound.
“Ha. Hahahaha. That is a good joke, Miss Erin. No, these are Workers. They will behave themselves under my supervision.”
She was so surprised that she made no response, which Klbkch took as encouragement. He turned towards the standing group of Worker Antinium and pointed to a few of the tables.
“You have entered an inn. The polite protocol is to introduce oneself and then take a seat. I will handle your greetings. Move to those tables.”
They obediently walked over to each table. At first, they all crowded around one, but Klbkch impatiently directed them so the Antinium stood four to a table.
“Sit!”
Klbkch snapped at the other Antinium. They instantly sat in the chairs. Erin’s smile slipped even further as Klbkch began ordering them about with curt, clipped commands.
He treated the other Antinium like—well, like sheep. Or…like children. Idiotic children you couldn’t trust to pick up a fork without stabbing themselves in the eye. Yes, that was it.
Erin watched Klbkch out of the corner of her eyes as he lectured the other ‘Workers.’ He was telling them how to use a spoon. And how to drink from a cup. And how to request another bowl of flies.
Flies. They stared at the black insects, and even the Goblins looked confused, if not horrified by the loaded bowls. Black insects, dead and staring and icky, but Erin brought them out. 
“Um, thanks, Klbkch. Did you want me to get the food now? I’ve got the Acid Flies of course, but I also have pasta—”
Erin’s eyes widened.
“Oh no! The pasta!”
The Goblins and Antinium watched as Erin dashed into the kitchen to salvage the over-boiled noodles. She came out a few minutes later holding plates of pasta with chopped bits of sausage and onion, which she placed in front of the Goblins.
“Use forks. Got it? Your friend here knows how to use forks.”
Erin pointed at the silverware and then started bringing out bowl after bowl of the Acid Flies she’d prepared. She set them down in front of the Antinium Workers awkwardly. They moved out of her way, but didn’t say anything.
That was, until Klbkch snapped at them, and then all twelve murmured ‘thank you’ every time Erin brought out a plate and cups.
They could speak! Their voices sounded like Klbkch’s—but flat. Lacking intonation or emotion. And that was the only thing they ever said. They moved when spoken to and did whatever Klbkch said—beyond that, they just waited, as if they were robots expecting input. Yet they were people, right? 
So was this an awkward moment? Yes. Erin was redefining the word for herself at the moment.
However, she placed all the bowls in front of the twelve Workers, and the Antinium finally began to eat on Klbkch’s command. At least there they appeared to be somewhat enthusiastic, because they began gobbling the Acid Flies down with commendable speed, shoveling them past their mandibles with a spoon and crunching the insects up. But for that, they ate in silence, which was also unnerving. At least they were eating.
Erin breathed a sigh of relief. And the door to the inn swung open.
A familiar Drake poked his head into the room. He immediately launched into what sounded like a prepared speech as he awkwardly held a chess set in front of him.
“Good evening, Miss Erin Solstice! I hope you don’t mind me dropping by, but I was wondering if you’d like to play a game of ch—”
Olesm paused and stared around the silent room. His jaw dropped as he saw the Goblins. When he saw Klbkch and the other Antinium, it dropped further. He slowly put one clawed hand on the door.
“…Is this a bad time?”
 
——
 
Erin had gone to funerals. Well, she’d attended a funeral. And while they were solemn, sad occasions, she could rightly say that she’d visited funerals that were noisier than her inn at the moment.
At least funerals had coughing people, the occasional sniffling, fidgeting children, and crying babies. In the Wandering Inn, all Erin could hear was the mastication of Goblins as they gobbled their food or the quiet cracking as the Antinium chewed down their Acid Flies and clicked their mandibles together.
Chomp. Chomp. Click. Chomp.
Erin stared from the Antinium to the Goblins with a desperately cheerful smile plastered on her face. Neither side looked at the other directly, but she had the distinct impression they were silently sizing each other up. The Goblins to run away, the Antinium…well, they were just looking.
The atmosphere was so tense you could—well, Erin was pretty sure pulling a knife out would be a disaster. The Goblins were nervously eying the Antinium, and the Antinium were frighteningly silent and uniform. They ate and moved in almost perfect synchronization.
Erin circulated the room, pitcher of fruit juice in hand. She filled cups, took away plates and refilled them with food, and instructed Goblins not to pick their noses. It felt like being a waitress for an entire restaurant by herself, but Erin was up to the challenge. At least, she hoped she was.
She wasn’t taking orders or cleaning up plates yet. All she was really doing was making sure there was food in front of her guests. The Goblins were easy. They ate anything she put in front of them. They were also terrified of Klbkch, the Antinium, Olesm, and Erin.
Only the one with ragged clothing, the tiny one, seemed brave enough to inspect the soap after Erin made them wash their hands. She kept peering around, surreptitiously, then springing to attention and pretending to be eating. Then Erin would catch her peeking at the menu and moving her lips, as if trying to read it.
But the Workers? They were hard. Erin had to make sure none of them had empty bowls or cups or they’d just stop eating. They didn’t even ask for refills by themselves.
In a lull between serving, Erin stopped in front of Klbkch and Olesm’s table. The two were talking quietly together, which made them exceptionally noisy in the dead silence.
“How’re you two boys doing?”
Both Olesm and Klbkch looked at each other to make sure they were the ones Erin was talking to. Olesm gave her a weak smile.
“I’m quite well, Miss Solstice. Or—may I call you Erin?”
“Please. I’m getting sick of being called Miss Solstice. I feel like my mom.”
“My deepest apologies. I was not aware this was an insult to your culture.”
Klbkch bowed his head, which made Erin feel guilty. She just meant her mom…
Her mom. Erin’s heart and mind twinged, and she changed the subject fast.
“Are you two enjoying your meal? Anything I can get you?”
“Another glass of the blue juice perhaps?”
Olesm raised his glass, and Erin topped it off. He smiled at her.
“It is quite tasty.”
“Thanks.”
They both paused awkwardly. They were just as bad as the Goblins and Workers! Olesm glanced around the inn and fidgeted.
“Do you—do you always serve Goblins in your inn? I saw the sign, but I must admit, this is the first time I’ve ever seen a Goblin not trying to stab someone or running away. They’re monsters, you know.”
He tried to whisper it, but in the silent inn, his voice carried. As one, the Goblins stopped eating and stared over at Olesm. He flinched. Yet he gave Erin a look as if she had just invited hyenas into her inn. She gave him a level stare and decided to start with the basics.
“Um, no. They’re new here too.”
“Oh, I see.”
More silence. Erin glanced down at the table. The Drake Tactician had brought along his chess board, and although he’d set it aside for the food, she saw him glancing at it now and then. To break the ice, and because she thought she might die of awkwardness, Erin did the only thing that came to mind. The most obvious thing—at least, to her.
“How about a game of chess? Anyone want to play?”
Klbkch and Olesm looked up.
“Oh, I would love to play—”
Olesm caught himself. He glanced around guiltily at the other diners.
“But I wouldn’t want to take you away from your work. Perhaps another time.”
He looked so downcast that Erin wanted to pat him on the head. She thought for a second and then smiled.
“Oh, don’t worry. We can still make it work. I’ll play you and serve food.”
Both Klbkch and Olesm eyed her incredulously. Erin grinned.
“I don’t suppose either of you are familiar with chess notation?”
 
——
 
Two minutes later, the most interesting thing was happening. Workers and Goblins watched as Erin stood with her back to the chess board. It was all set up.
Both the littlest Goblin and the Worker who swept were here. It was pure coincidence that Klbkch had ordered the same group of Workers who had dug out the door to come to the inn—or perhaps he had simply found it easiest to take them out since they had no assignments yet.
As for the littlest Goblin, she’d brought a bunch of other Goblins to show them that the one who had killed the Chieftain was not…not…
She had brought them here to see. Many hated the Human. But she fed them. She was…more than the death of the Chieftain and two Goblins, and because the littlest Goblin said it, some listened.
Not all. Even the littlest Goblin didn’t know if the Human was good—she hung out with the Ant monsters! The most terrifying deaths who came from below if you went to the wrong places. And she kept calling the littlest Goblin a stupid name.
‘Rags.’ What did that mean? Yet the littlest Goblin watched avidly because she was as curious as the listening Workers. The Workers did not understand this inn. The rules were unknown to them and Klbkch kept correcting them. They were terrified of doing something wrong and becoming Aberrations, but now they heard something fascinating. Something…with clear rules that made sense.
Intriguing. The [Innkeeper] was speaking to Olesm, who was fiddling with the chess board, and she was giving instructions to him and Klbkch, but also the inn at large.
“Okay, so you’ve moved your pawn up two spots. That’s E4, so just tell me you’re moving a pawn to E4, got it? And when I want to move, I’ll let you know by saying, oh, pawn to D5.”
Olesm nodded and glanced down at the chess board. He carefully moved the black pawn up two spots and looked up at Erin. She nodded.
“Got it?”
“I believe so, Erin.”
“Right. Let’s play!”
Erin spun away from Olesm and grabbed a cup and filled it. Across the room, Klbkch and Olesm bent over the chess board and conferred. Olesm moved a piece.
“Pawn, ah, Pawn to F3, Erin.”
“Got it! Knight to C6!”
Erin concentrated on the game as she walked around the inn. She wasn’t conscious of how the Goblins slowed in their eating and the Antinium Workers paused from their meal to follow her around the room. Erin’s thoughts focused, and as she mechanically took plates and filled them with food, her mind focused on only one thing.
The game. Some called golf the greatest game ever played. They might be right. But Erin loved chess.
She could even play it in her head.
 
——
 
“Bishop to D6.”
“Hm. In that case, I’ll move…um, I believe that’s Pawn to D4.”
“Queen to H4! Check!”
Erin said it instantly and grinned to herself. She heard Olesm groan in dismay.
“Ah. Then—then Pawn to G3?”
Again, Erin replied almost before he’d finished speaking.
“Bishop takes Pawn at G3!”
“Pawn takes Bishop at G3.”
“And I’ll take your Rook at H1.”
Erin grinned to herself as Olesm hissed in distress. In her mind’s eye, she saw her queen piece sitting in the corner of Olesm’s side of the board, nestling right up against all of his lovely, undefended pieces.
The game continued, but only as mop-up. Erin happily munched away at Olesm’s pieces with her queen. He eventually managed to take hers out with his own, but only after he’d lost another knight and a bishop. By then, Erin had more pieces than he did on the board and in better positions, too.
“I concede.”
Olesm tipped over his king and stared despondently at the board. Erin paused serving sliced up sausage to the Goblins long enough to see Klbkch pat Olesm on the shoulder consolingly.
“It was a good game.”
The Drake shook his head.
“You do me too much credit. I made several errors that cost me many pieces. But I believe you had me from the start. Without looking at the board once! Would you do the kindness of showing me where I made mistakes?”
