He seemed shaken, but Erin was delighted to play the game. Much less in her head! She felt like a kid again, and she used to do this all the time in the school bus or when she was bored. These days, you could do everything on a phone, but…she beamed happily, as only someone who loved the game could.
“Of course.”
Erin walked over to the table. She rearranged the board until it was back to normal and then moved Olesm’s pawn up two spaces.
“You started out with a classic: the King’s Pawn Opening. That was a good move.”
Olesm looked blankly down at the board.
“I just moved my pawn to E4. Was that truly a noteworthy move to have a strategy named after it?”
Erin nodded happily.
“Oh, it’s a classic. Did you know almost a quarter of all chess games start with it? It’s great for taking the center spaces, but unfortunately for you, I love playing against that move.”
Klbkch raised one hand.
“Do you mean to say that there are established counters to this opening? And that this move is a chronicled…strategy? I had not heard of that.”
Neither had Olesm, but Erin was too enthusiastic to notice Klbkch’s cautionary tone or Olesm’s confounded one. She nodded and pushed a black pawn forwards.
“Oh, there are lots of good strategies. I countered with an old favorite—the Sicilian Defense. It’s great against the King’s Pawn, but you made a mistake when you moved that pawn up to F3. It doesn’t open up your side for many pieces to get out, and you really want a knight to put pressure on my side of the board. Of course, you could try to take my pawn, but that leaves your center open. Most players try to push forwards aggressively, but that’s why the Sicilian Defense works so well since it means you have to lose a pawn if you want to push into the other side.”
Erin paused and looked around the inn. Olesm was wearing a half-glazed, half-delighted expression on his face. The Goblins and all the Antinium, including Klbkch, were staring at her, open-mouthed.
“Uh, sorry. I tend to lecture when I get too into chess.”
“No—don’t worry in the slightest, Miss Erin.”
Olesm shook his head and smiled at her. His eyes were alive with interest, and she noticed his tail wagging like a dog’s on the ground.
“You have such a deep understanding of this game! How is it that you know so much about chess? I only heard about it when someone told me the Titan was playing it a few years ago, yet you say there are strategies already in place?”
“Yes?”
Erin crossed her fingers as Olesm shook his head. Klbkch clacked his mandibles.
“…I believe there are players of this game on every continent, Olesm. We appear to be in the presence of a master.”
“Indeed, indeed! I suppose it’s arrogance to think that I knew everything. Why, they might be doing this in a Walled City like Pallass…and you’re kind enough to keep me from looking like some back-country rube. Thank you, Miss Solstice.” 
Erin nodded at Klbkch in relief, and he twitched a mandible at her. She really hoped she wouldn’t have to explain being from another world. Erin glanced at Klbkch and wondered if she should play him next. Then she looked at Olesm and Klbkch together and had an idea.
She grinned wickedly.
“Yeah, I love playing chess. In fact, I’ll play both of you at the same time, if you want. We have two boards, after all.”
Olesm and Klbkch shared a glance. Both frowned slightly. Well, Olesm frowned and Erin had the distinct impression that Klbkch was frowning.
“Aren’t you taking us a bit too lightly, Erin?”
She blinked innocently at Olesm.
“Me? Of course not. But I bet I can play both of you while serving drinks and food and win against at least one. Want to test my theory?”
They did. Erin grinned to herself as both Olesm and Klbkch set up their pieces on opposite sides of the room. Each player stared intently at their board. She could practically feel the intensity coming off of each. It reminded her of the adults she used to play as a kid. No one liked being trash-talked by a middle schooler. It was hard for her to keep a straight face.
Klbkch moved first. Erin stared at his board and then decided to move a piece on Olesm’s board while she thought. She circulated the room, filling up the glasses with what little fruit juice she had left. When Olesm made his move, Erin decided to hit Klbkch with a knight. And then she went back into the kitchen for more pasta. Those Goblins could eat.
The games continued as Erin filled up bowls with the dead flies and handed them out to the Workers. They happily chomped down the flies, but she had the distinct impression they were watching as she travelled back and forth between Klbkch and Olesm’s boards.
Occasionally, Erin would wait while one of the other two players moved a piece, but when she did move from board to board, she attacked fast, seemingly without pausing to think. She could see Klbkch and Olesm watching her as much as the board, but she effortlessly continued playing both players while serving her guests.
Her audience watched the dual games intently. Erin kept an eye on them as well and saw both Rags and the Antinium Workers staring hard at Klbkch and Olesm’s pieces. The Goblin’s eyes narrowed, and the Antinium appeared confused. Erin smiled to herself, but kept sweeping around the room, refilling cups and swiftly moving pieces on each board.
Eventually, the game ended with a win for Klbkch and a loss for Olesm.
“Congratulations, Klbkch. And to you, Erin.”
“Indeed. I am quite impressed by your ability.”
Erin smiled at both players and tried not to laugh.
“Yeah, it was a good game. Too bad I wasn’t playing either of you.”
“What?”
She pointed down to the chess board in front of Olesm. His King was cornered by a queen and a bishop.
“Notice anything similar about Klbkch’s board, Olesm?”
He looked over. On Klbkch’s side, he’d cornered Erin’s king with a bishop and a queen. In the exact same spots as the pieces on Olesm’s board.
“What is this?”
“I played you two against each other. It’s the oldest trick in the book—I once heard of a guy who tried it against two Grandmasters and failed. I always wanted to do it just once.”
Erin smiled as Klbkch and Olesm exclaimed and then raised her hands as they immediately demanded another match. She was setting up the boards for a real dual game when something happened.
One of the Workers stood up.
Instantly, Klbkch stopped setting up his pieces and let one of his hands fall down to his side. Erin saw he was holding his sword hilt as he stood up.
“What are you doing, Worker?”
Klbkch’s voice was cold and hostile. The Worker froze in pure terror, or so it seemed—then meekly bowed to him. And then? He opened his mandibles and spoke.
“This one would watch, Prognugator.”
His statement confounded Erin, who hadn’t thought the Workers had any desires, and Klbkch himself. The [Guardsman] replied slowly.
“…Watch?”
Klbkch glanced down at the board and then back to the Worker. He seemed uncertain.
“It is impolite to intrude or impede the innkeeper’s path.”
Erin hastily interposed herself between Klbkch and the meek Worker who was already retreating back to his seat. She beckoned him over.
“It doesn’t bother me, Klbkch. Let him watch. An audience for a chess game is great.”
Klbkch hesitated.
“I would not wish to impose on your hospitality or patience—”
“Impose away, by all means!”
Erin rode over his protests and pulled up another chair. She steered the Worker over to the chair without touching him and made him sit down. Then she noticed the other Workers and Goblins were staring at the chess boards too.
“Come on over if you want to watch, all of you.”
Instantly, there was a crowd surrounding both chess boards. Olesm and Klbkch blinked at the spectators, but Erin smiled happily.
“Okay, now let’s do this so it’ll be fun for me and you. I’ll play you both, but we only get five—okay, ten seconds for each move.”
“Is this another way of playing chess?”
“It’s how some games are played, yeah. This style is called Lightning Chess, but in tournaments, you can have anywhere from an hour’s time in total to think of all your moves to only three minutes. If we had a clock we could—never mind, I’ll explain it as we play, okay?”
Klbkch and Olesm nodded. Erin took a chair and placed it between both tables so she could reach both chess boards.
“I’ll have to sit down for this. I’m no Grandmaster.”
 
——
 
The first two rounds of games, Erin won handily. But in the third game, Olesm scored a draw. Klbkch nodded as he saw the blue Drake raise his claws and open his mouth with joy.
“Congratulations, Olesm.”
Erin covered a yawn and massaged at her back. She gave the elated Drake a weary smile.
“Yeah, that was a great game!”
“Why, thank you.”
Olesm’s scales turned a light shade of red as he shook Klbkch’s hand. His tail thrashed around wildly on the floor, but Klbkch and Erin pretended not to notice.
“I must say, it’s quite amazing—I feel relieved to have finally tied a match against you, Erin. I was beginning to think it was impossible.”
She blushed and waved a hand at him. It felt extremely embarrassing to be treated like some kind of chess genius, especially since she knew she wasn’t. Erin was about to suggest a rematch with different rules when she looked over at the watching Worker Antinium.
“Do you want to play?”
The Antinium she was addressing sat up in his seat and bowed to her. Quickly, Klbkch sat up, but the Worker spoke before he did.
“This Worker would not presume to…play.”
Erin frowned. Did that mean he wanted to play but he was afraid to?
“Why not give it a shot? I’ll teach you how to play, and we can always make more chess boards. All we need is a few pieces of paper and a pen.”
She went into the kitchen and pulled out a few pieces of paper and a quill and ink. It had made her feel like a wizard when she’d first bought the quill, and then she’d wished for a computer and a printer five seconds after she’d had to actually dip the quill every few words when she wrote.
As her guests watched, Erin drew a rough chess board on a piece of parchment and then tore up other pieces. She carefully drew symbols on them to show which were pawns and which were other pieces and put the makeshift chess board on the table. She put two of the Antinium Workers in chairs facing each other across the board.
It was the most low-key chess board Erin had ever seen, but the Antinium stared at the scraps of paper with total concentration.
“Okay, so how much did you guys see when I played chess with Klbkch and Olesm? Do you know how to set up the board?”
Instantly, both Antinium moved. Erin recoiled for a second, but they merely rearranged the pieces on the chess board with mechanical precision. In seconds, each side was set up. Erin blinked at them.
“Good. Good. And, uh, show me how this piece moves?”
Obediently, the Antinium Worker moved the piece forwards.
“And can you move it from left to right?”
“This one does not believe so.”
Klbkch hovered over the board. As always, he had few features Erin could read, but he appeared distressed for some reason.
“Address her by her title.”
The Antinium instantly bowed his head at Erin.
“Apologies, Innkeeper Solstice. This one does not believe the pawn piece moves left and right.”
Erin gave Klbkch a half annoyed glance, but turned back to the Worker.
“Right, that’s true! Very good. And show me how it takes a piece?”
He showed her.
“Good. But did you know there’s one more move the pawn can do?”
Instantly, the other Antinium and the Goblins watching the game were filled with attention. They stared as Erin showed them how to take a piece en passant and explained the unique rules around that action. The Antinium she was coaching immediately bowed its head to her.
“This one was unaware of this fact. This one apologizes to Innkeeper Solstice for its failure.”
“What? Don’t apologize. Not many players know about that move. How could you? Now, let’s have you play a game with your friend.”
Erin stepped back as the two Antinium Workers stared at each other in silence. For a moment, she was afraid they’d do nothing, but then the first Worker moved his pawn up to E5. After a moment, the other Workers replied with the Sicilian Defense, and then the game was on.
Piece after piece moved with minimal pausing in between. At first, Erin was afraid they were recreating her games with Klbkch and Olesm, but the two players were playing their own game. It took her a while to realize they were still playing by Lightning rules. Once she’d explained they could take their time, the game slowed.
Erin stared at the two Workers playing each other in complete silence and then looked around at her audience.
“Anyone else want to play?”
 
——
 
Silence. It was the sound of funerals and churches, except that it wasn’t. Rather, it was the sound you thought should be in such places, but really was more like an ideal goal than the truth.
It was the sound of chess tournaments, though. Erin circulated the inn, filling plates with dead flies and pouring water (she’d run out of blue juice), and felt like she was home as she listened to the click of chess pieces moving, or, more often, the shuffling of dry paper.
“Oh. How’s the game going? Anyone want more flies? How about pasta? A cup of jui—water?”
Erin passed by each board and watched as Antinium and even Goblins played each other. There were eight boards set up, and the players rotated with each other once someone lost.
Her natural instincts as a chess player warred with her desire to give the new players advice. She compromised by letting Olesm and Klbkch offer commentary and then dissected games after they’d been played out by recreating them and pointing out good or bad moves.
The Antinium Workers watched Erin’s every move and listened to her words with frightening attention. She’d heard the word ‘rapt’ used to describe people, but never had she met a group so completely focused as the Workers. It was frankly unnerving, but her love of explaining chess moves and strategies more than made up for the awkwardness.
That was one thing. But what really amazed Erin and even Olesm and Klbkch were the Goblins. They were playing chess.
Okay, not well and not quickly, but the Goblins were sitting down and giving each other spirited, if not particularly well thought out games. The exception was the smallest Goblin, Rags, who had actually beaten two of the Antinium Workers back-to-back.
Erin stopped in front of one of the real chess boards as Rags slid into the seat opposite. It was technically Klbkch’s turn to play, but the Goblin stared at her. It was an obvious challenge.
“I’ll play you, if you want. You’re white, so go ahead.”
