Rags eyed Erin defiantly and moved her knight first. Erin hid a smile.
“Oh, the Baltic Opening, huh? Well…”
She moved a pawn two squares up directly in front of the knight. It was her favorite way to deal with that opening move. Rags frowned and then moved another piece. And then another. For a while, the Goblin looked like a strange, green kid playing chess. That was until she opened her mouth and Erin saw the sharp teeth. But Rags still looked a lot less threatening than before.
Erin crushed her while she served the last of her pasta to the Goblins and had a bite to eat herself.
 
——
 
The Goblin challenged her three more times while Erin played Olesm and then two of the Workers. Each time, Rags handily lost, but Erin was impressed by the way the small Goblin was willing to try new strategies. She said so.
“You guys could learn a lot from her. Most of these moves are actually established patterns. Okay, moving the rook right away wasn’t a good choice, but you’re better than most beginners.”
She smiled at Rags. The Goblin fidgeted in her chair and looked away.
Klbkch nodded, and Olesm expressed an interest in playing the Goblin. Erin looked over at the Workers. They were eying her surreptitiously. She had the impression they wanted to play her too.
She clapped her hands together and smiled.
“Now then. Anyone else want to play another game?”
 
——
 
“And that’s checkmate.”
Olesm looked up from his king and shook his head despairingly.
“Another fine game, Erin. I wasn’t aware of your trap until you moved your bishop up.”
Erin yawned and grinned sleepily at him. Around her, the Goblins sat or lay on the tables, sleepily watching the game.
“You keep giving away too many pawns. They’re more valuable than you think.”
Olesm bowed his head and nearly toppled over. He jerked upright and nodded at her.
“I shall keep it in mind, Erin.”
She nodded and yawned again.
“Anyone want to play another game? Klbkch?”
The ant man shook his head. He glanced towards the door and at the Workers still playing chess. They were still intensely staring at the paper chess boards without any sign of fatigue.
“It is late. I am afraid we must take our leave, Miss—Erin. If I may address you in that way.”
Erin blinked at Klbkch and then looked out the window.
“Oh, of course you can call me that, Klbkch. And wow, it is late!”
She stood up. Immediately, the Workers stopped playing chess and stood too. They bowed to her.
“Allow me to thank you and pay you in their place, Erin.”
Klbkch handed her a bag of silver and gold coins. Erin blinked down at it.
“Oh. That’s a lot.”
“It is only fair payment for what we have consumed. And, might I trouble you to ask for a container of Acid Flies? I wish to bring some back to Liscor.”
“What? Oh, sure. I’ve actually got a huge glass jar. Do you want it?”
“Please.”
Erin ended up giving Klbkch a huge jar full of Acid Flies for a gold coin. She felt guilty about it, but the Antinium insisted it was a fair price. He left with Olesm and the Workers in tow, and Erin saw the Goblins off as they slowly streamed out of her inn.
“Come again! I’ll feed you lot another meal if you come by. You don’t need to pay—you paid me enough this time. Okay?”
The Goblins grunted or waved their hands awkwardly at her. They filed out of the inn, patting their stomachs happily.
The paper chess board and pieces were in a big pile. The Goblins seemed less keen on them—perhaps because they thought this inn was their chess spot to play in safety. Klbkch had told Erin giving the Workers the game was not a good idea. So she silently waited until he was talking with Olesm by the door and handed a Worker the entire stack. The Worker promptly hid the papers behind its back and shuffled towards the door with the others.
The last Goblin, Rags, paused as she walked by Erin. The small Goblin held her hands tightly at her side.
“Hey.”
Erin tapped Rags on the head. She held out her hand. Silently, the small Goblin handed her the pawn back as the other Goblins glared at her.
“No stealing. Besides, a chess board isn’t complete without all the pieces.”
Rag’s eyes lit up. Erin narrowed hers.
“That doesn’t mean you can steal them either. If you want to play a game, come back any time. Okay?”
For a while, the little Goblin hesitated and then nodded. Erin smiled.
“Have a good night.”
She closed the door. Then she bolted it and made sure all the windows were fastened tight. She didn’t mind the small Goblin, but she was damned if she was going to let it walk off with her chess set.
 
——
 
“Um, Senior Guardsman Klbkch? May I have a word?”
Klbkch paused as he walked swiftly back to Liscor. He was setting a fast pace, and Olesm was struggling to keep up.
“My apologies, Olesm Swifttail. I had forgotten you were with us.”
“No, it’s nothing.”
Olesm gasped and wheezed as Klbkch slowed. The Workers behind him silently adjusted their pace to give the two room.
“I just wanted to talk to you—if I may.”
“Certainly. May I ask if you are addressing your comment to the liaison of the Antinium or Senior Guardsmen Klbkch?”
“Both, I believe. Um, how shall I put this?”
Olesm paused as the two strode through the night. Klbkch waited patiently until the Drake began.
“As the [Tactician] who liaisons with the Council and other guilds and the guard, I am privy to some confidential information. I am, uh, aware of the situation with the Workers within the Antinium. R-regarding Aberrations and how they appear.”
“Indeed?”
Klbkch’s voice was flat. He was normally quite friendly, but this statement instantly put him on guard and small wonder. The Watch and the Council were there to check the Hive as a threat.
Olesm glanced nervously behind him at the Workers. They silently stared back at him.
“Will—will this be a problem, do you think?”
Klbkch hesitated. He looked back, and the Workers instantly looked down at the ground.
“We shall see. They will be observed as usual, and I will personally supervise them.”
“Ah, good, good. I wouldn’t ask, but I know that these kinds of things have, uh, dire consequences. This isn’t to say that I’m against taking a few Workers out under supervision, but the Watch Captain and Council—”
Klbkch turned and faced Olesm. The [Tactician] stopped nervously, but Klbkch merely bowed respectfully.
“I understand your concerns. If it helps, I will address this topic in my monthly report to inform you of any significant changes. I shall note our conversation and these instances most rigorously in my report to Captain Zevara.”
Olesm sighed in relief.
“Thank you. Yes, that’s perfect! Just so we have a written record.”
They went on, and Klbkch resumed their conversation in a more casual manner, to Olesm’s relief.
“I trust you have enjoyed yourself tonight?”
“Oh, yes. Very. Erin—that is, Miss Erin Solstice is quite a remarkable Human, isn’t she?”
“Indeed.”
“Quite remarkable.”
“Her mastery of the game of chess may be unmatched within the continent.”
“Absolutely.”
“Indeed.”
A moment of painful silence. Then Klbkch’s head rotated slowly, and he said something completely unexpected.
“…Would you like to play a game after this, by any chance?”
Klbkch glanced at the Drake, and Olesm hesitated. Senior Guardsman Klbkch was a known figure in Liscor who had won his approval over a long time, but Olesm knew his past, and he knew more about the dangers of the Antinium than most as Liscor’s [Tactician]. Yet right at this moment—he thought he had never known Klbkch more.
The two losers of endless bouts with Erin looked at each other, and Olesm managed a smile and a nod.
“It would be my pleasure.”
 
——
 
The Workers were left at the gates of Liscor to find their way to the Hive, which they did, unnoticed by all but a few citizens who avoided them. The Goblins who had gone with the littlest Goblin to the inn crept back to their cave and did not tell the others why they weren’t that hungry and where they’d been.
But the one thing Olesm and Klbkch didn’t realize was this. While they sat and had a genteel game of chess at Olesm’s office, trying out new moves and what Erin had taught them, it failed to occur to them that they were not the only people who had learned something from Erin.
The Workers had a bundle of paper slips. While they were supposed to be asleep, one slowly, slowly let a chess board fall to the floor of the Hive. Then, as many Workers watched, another slowly placed down the chess ‘pieces’, the squares of paper, just like they’d been shown.
After all—this made sense to them. It was just numbers and patterns, and the [Innkeeper] had played with them.
The Goblins did not have any paper chess boards, because it would invariably be used as toilet paper or kindling for a fire. But the littlest Goblin was busy arranging some grass and sticks into an odd formation, and the rest of her tribe ignored her. She was always weird, and they didn’t see why she was thinking and placing them in odd positions on the ground.
Klbkch and Olesm retired after a few games, and Olesm levelled up that night, much to his delight. But that was nothing to the voice which spoke to the many confused and frightened Antinium who panicked because they were going to get in trouble. It said the exact same thing to the littlest Goblin and a few others, who sat up in confusion and awe.
The voice said:
 
[Tactician Class Obtained!]
[Tactician Level 2!]
[Skill – Risk Calculation obtained!]
[Skill – Group: Erratic Maneuvering obtained!]
 
Or some variation of that in level and Skills. Yet the [Innkeeper] flopped into her makeshift bed in the kitchen and closed her eyes and slept.
Erin heard nothing at all.
