The Hive was always dark. Always secluded from the light of the surface above. Even in the grandest chamber, where the two spoke—it was so dim as to disconcert every species but theirs.
Neither one minded. They had lived underground for ages before ever bothering to reach the surface. In the subterranean passages and the criss-crossing tunnels of the Hive of the Antinium in Liscor, two beings spoke.
One of them was female. The other was male. Klbkch. The female shifted, and in the darkness, her deep voice rumbled through the air.
“Do I understand you correctly, Klbkch? Do you truly believe sending Workers above is wise? If they become Aberration all together, Liscor’s Council will not remain silent. Have you confidence in this venture?”
Her voice was deep, and she spoke with more than mundane words. She was tired, so tired that even as she reclined, supine, her voice wearied, she seemed ready to fall asleep. Yet there was a core of will that never left her.
Sometimes, he thought she was the stronger of the two of them, for all she did not leave this place and labored endlessly. But then—
He was older. Older and wearier by far. Klbkch shook his head. He patiently tried to explain the necessity to her, and he could not articulate it even to himself.
“No, my Queen. I merely request that a few of the Workers—perhaps ten or twenty—may be allowed to leave the city in my care. They would visit a local inn for several hours before returning.”
“Interesting. So you have faith this venture may be rewarded?”
The word rolled outwards, rich, darkly velvet with hidden connotation and meaning. The Queen paused, and Klbkch hesitated.
“I regret that this is not my initiative, my Queen. She—the innkeeper of which I spoke—she requested it of me. I am merely representing our Hive in a unique opportunity. Not necessarily one I have faith in for the success we hope for.”
“Ah. I see.”
Surprise flicked through the female’s deep voice as it echoed in the cavernous chamber. Surprise and regret. But then she latched onto something else that was fascinating.
“This Human did? What species would desire the presence of Workers if not to work?”
That was what made Klbkch so interested himself. He lifted an antenna, like one lifted a finger.
“She did not ask for the Workers specifically. Rather, she was inclined to sell foodstuffs to our people. Acid Flies. She wishes to earn money by gaining our business.”
“And this Human is genuine? She does not fear the Antinium?”
“To the best of my knowledge and ability, I believe her so. Nor does she fear us, my Queen. It is as if she has no past with nor knowledge of the Black Tide.”
Again, surprise was the primary emotion in the female’s voice.
“And you think her worth spending your time and the Hive’s effort upon, even risking an Aberration.”
Klbkch hesitated. He bowed his head in the direction of the female.
“Her name is Erin Solstice, my Queen. And I believe—yes, I believe the experience may help further our plan in some small way. At the very least, it would help increase her trust of our kind. A rare opportunity.”
“And why should I entertain her request?”
Now she sounded petty. Tired and petty, for she saw no value in this. And he could not fault her, but Klbkch spread his hands outward. They were humanoid hands, at least in that they resembled them more than an insect’s feelers. The same could not be said of the appendages of the Queen.
“My Queen, do we no longer seek to improve relations with other species? Is this not why Liscor’s Hive was founded at such great effort? Drakes are one species; Humans would be a rare boon, even if she was but one representative predisposed to look kindly on us.”
The female moved in the darkness. Her voice changed, hissing softly in regret and frustration. She clicked in her distress.
“The plan has not changed, Klbkch. But we have. And not in the ways that we desire. I am weary, and you—ten years. No; the change comes from the others. The Grand Queen speaks. The other Queens once again question our lack of success.”
Klbkch looked up. His hands moved unconsciously to the twin swords at his waist. Not that he would bear blades against them. It was a sign of his emotions, a rare display.
“…Are any of their objections backed by orders? Have Xrn or Wrymvr made any objections of their own known?”
She waved a languid feeler at him.
“Not as such. Calm yourself, my Prognugator. My authority is undiminished, such as it is. And yet. The Queens move, Klbkch. They are waiting for an opening, and they would sacrifice us if they saw a chance to strike.”
The male Antinium looked up sharply. The antennae on his head twitched.
“Is that the position of the Grand Queen? If I may offer my counsel, that would be…unwise. The Hives are not ready.”
She nodded in the blackness.
“Yes. But they grow impatient with time. The Grand Queen speaks more than she acts. However, she is correct. We cannot continue this endeavor for nothing to show for it. Ten years. They speak of recalling us, idly for now. But they do speak. That is why I will allow this risk. Take twelve Workers. Let them visit this Solstice child. It may harm, but we have been a decade of failure.”
Her head bowed. Klbkch knelt on one segmented knee.
“Thank you, my Queen. I will not betray your trust in me.”
A great sigh echoed through the room, shifting Klbkch’s antennae as the air moved.
“Of that, I have no doubt. But I need more than your loyalty. Klbkchhezeim of the Centenium. I must have success. Can you promise me that?”
Her voice was so longing. Despair rang in every tone. Ten years, and ten years of failure for the Free Antinium and their Hive, despite their lofty boasts when they left. Klbkch felt it too. He was still as he knelt before her. Then Klbkch looked up and shook his head slowly.
“I cannot. But I will try.”
“Very well. Try, then.”
Klbkch nodded. He stood and began to stride out of the room with quick, light movements.
“Klbkch.”
He turned. In the darkness, a large feeler pointed at him, and a titanic shape moved. A weary voice spoke.
“Something must be done in the next few years. Some—tangible success. Or I will accede to the will of the others and pursue another project in the Hivelands.”
For a second, Klbkch froze. If she said that, she who had opposed the other five to do this? She who believed in everything? He looked at the Queen and bowed his head. 
She was giving up, and he could not blame her.
“I will ensure that all goes well, my Queen. Erin Solstice is not hostile to our kind. I believe she will be a positive influence for them.”
“Then go. But there is one more thing I ask of you.”
“Yes, my Queen?”
The weary head rose, and the exhausted Antinium latched onto something Klbkch had mentioned. A loud clack as she moved her mandibles.
“Ahem. These flies…how do they taste?”
“I shall bring you a sample, my Queen.”
“Good.”
 
——
 
Erin was making a list.
“Okay, do I have everything? Let’s go over it again. Larder? Stocked. Check! Silverware? Lots of it, even if it’s not silver. Check!”
She turned and bustled over to another table.
“Blue fruit juice? Check. Four full pitchers and a basket of blue fruits.”
She’d stripped several trees in preparation for tonight. At this point, she’d eaten nearly half of the fruit in the orchard. Sooner or later, she’d run out of blue fruit, which might be a problem. How long did it take for the trees to grow new fruit? Maybe Pisces would know.
“Acid Flies? Check. Dead? Double check.”
It was almost sad how easily she caught them in her floating jar traps. Almost. Erin made sure they’d all exploded before she rolled them onto the grass. She thought the flat fish in the water were helping—they kept bumping into the jars, trying to eat the flies. She supposed that they might one day break the thick glass.
“Great. Bathe upstream from the glass jars from now on.”
She should also probably put warning signs up. Whom they might be warning, Erin had no idea. A certain Human necromancer stayed well away from the glass jars, and she wasn’t sure if Goblins could read. Either way, her list continued.
“Pasta? Wait, I don’t need any pasta.”
Unless Relc dropped by. But from what the Drake told her, he didn’t like Antinium besides Klbkch, so that was an outside chance. Erin put a pot on the stove anyways. She could always eat it.
The lovely thing about being near a city was that you didn’t have to make your own pasta. Instead, you could just buy it from an odd Gnoll-lady who knew exactly when you were on your period. In other words, there were advantages and disadvantages to living near a city.
“Okay. That’s about it. I’ve got bread in case Pisces comes by, and I even have cheese. Lovely, smelly cheese. Possibly from cows. And I just bet Klbkch is lactose intolerant too.”
Her larder was fully stocked, her plates and cups were clean, and she’d even gotten out the chess board and set it up. She thought Klbkch might be up for a game or two—that was, if she wasn’t busy feeding flies to her customers.
For a moment, Erin had to put her head against a wall and wonder how she’d gotten to this point in her life. A girl from Michigan should not think it was normal to sell dead fly torsos to walking ant-people for silver coins. She was also probably ripping them off, but Klbkch seemed willing to pay whatever it took for the flies. He’d eaten six bowls before he’d walked out.
Now all Erin had to do was wait until Klbkch came by with his promised friends. He said they’d come by as soon as they finished with their work. Were they all guardsmen? Erin had forgotten to ask.
Someone knocked on the inn’s door. Erin turned and opened the door with a big smile.
“Hi Klb—oh.”
The group of Goblins all took a nervous step back as Erin stared down at them. The eight—no, nine of them clustered together and shoved at their leader, a small Goblin wearing rags. Erin remembered.
“It’s—it’s you. Do you, um, want something?”
The ragged Goblin awkwardly thrust out a hand at Erin. She blinked down at the pile of dirty copper and silver coins in the small palm.
“Oh. Oh! You want to eat, right?”
The Goblin nodded stiffly. Erin opened the door and gestured inside.
“Right then, come in.”
The ragged Goblin hesitated. It thrust the coins at her once more. 
Erin recognized the raggedy Goblin as the one she’d met first, and the others were new—maybe two were of the original four she’d found?
But this Goblin, the small one, Erin knew. So she smiled.
“Hey, Rags. How’s it going?”
That was her nickname for the Goblin who had the most tattered clothing. Her companions fidgeted behind Rags and glanced around. They seemed nervous, as if not certain this was wise, but Erin went on, voice calm.
“Do you want something in particular?”
The Goblin stared at Erin’s menu and then shook her head urgently. She thrust the coins forwards, and Erin let her pour them into her palms. Once again, another day of silence, so Erin filled it.
“How about I take the money, and I’ll feed you until it runs out, okay?”
Again, Erin received a blank look, but Rags seemed relieved when she took the money. Erin gingerly put the filthy pile of coins on the inn’s bar counter and wished she had hot water to go with the soap.
“Okay. Right. This isn’t the best time, but why don’t you have a seat over here with your friends?”
The Goblins meekly wandered over to the table Erin was pointing at and sat down. She hesitated. What next?
“Right, food.”
All nine heads shot up, and the Goblins stared at Erin. The ones she’d fed before were already drooling onto the table. It was the little Goblin, the Rags one, who watched Erin sharply as she hurried around.
“Give me five—ten minutes, and I’ll have all you can eat. I just need to put on another pot. And make some soup. But I’ve got bread!”
Erin turned. Okay, she’d stuff their faces quickly. She dashed into the kitchen and reemerged with a loaf of fresh bread she’d bought and some cheese and sausage. The Goblins stared hungrily as Erin began dumping plates in front of them. They flinched back from her, though, and when she handed them a fork, they ducked down as if they thought she were going to stab them with it.
“You can eat this while I get more food, okay?”
The Goblins stared at the food. Rags cautiously reached for the bread, and Erin grabbed her hand. All the Goblins flinched as one, and Rags recoiled, eyes wide, but Erin was staring at the filthy claws.
“Oh, er. Sorry about that. I’ll slice it up for you. I have water and soap. Here—”
Confused, the Goblins watched Erin dart into the kitchen again. They eyed the wonderful-smelling bread, meat, and strange yellow thing, and wondered if they could eat it. Then they looked up and screamed as Erin walked back into the room with a kitchen knife and a bucket.
“Oh no, don’t run! I’m not going to hurt you!”
Erin waved her hands frantically and nearly poked herself with the knife. The Goblins halted in their mad rush out the door. Erin put the bucket on another table and took a bar of soap and the dustrag out of her pocket.
“I’m just going to cut this food for you. See? And this is to wash your hands. Wash your hands. Because they’re gross.”
She slowly and carefully went over to the food and sliced it up into smaller pieces. Erin smiled at the Goblins as they suspiciously moved back to the table. Rags was eying Erin with deep, deep distrust for the knife. But she was also eying the water and soap with clear confusion. Erin stepped back.
“And now I’ll put the knife away. No more pointy thing. You don’t have to worry; you’ll be safe here. Okay? But wash your hands. It’s unhygienic.”
She gave them another reassuring smile. That was the precise moment when Klbkch entered the inn, followed closely by a group of Antinium. Erin’s smile froze on her lips.
Klbkch froze too, and the other tall, identical brown and black insects behind him instantly halted in their tracks. The Goblins were petrified in their seats, but half immediately began edging towards the nearest window.
Erin waved frantically at Klbkch. Then she turned towards the Goblins and gave them another reassuring smile.
“Don’t worry! Don’t worry. These people aren’t here to hurt you. They’re guests. They’re going to eat too, understand?”
They hesitated, but Rags seemed to be made of sterner stuff than her larger comrades. She returned to her seat. And it was a she, Erin was sure of it. The other Goblins—all but one of whom were boys—didn’t wear anything on their upper torso. They barely wore anything to cover their privates.
