Tabitha hums thoughtfully after hearing Aaliyah’s explanation. “You’re right to be cautious, but remember this: like a sword, your bracelet is a tool. It is neither good nor evil; the only thing that matters is how you use it.”

Yeah, Aaliyah wasn’t 100% sure that applied to this situation. Until she was absolutely sure there wasn’t an eldritch monster or a slain god hidden inside, Aaliyah was going to treat the bracelet like it had a will of its own. But she understood where Tabitha was coming from. “I’ll keep that in mind.” That was the best she could do.

After that, the two sat in silence for a minute, using the time to come to terms with their victory, but as much as both would love to pass out then and there, they couldn’t.

“So, if neither of us has a plan, what should we do now?" Aaliyah asked, struggling to keep her eyes open.

“I suppose we take it one step at a time,” Tabitha answered matter-of-factly. “I suggest we start by distributing our free stat points to expedite our recovery. Just because the winged serpent is dead doesn't mean we're out of the magic-dense region yet.”

“I can get behind that," Aaliyah quickly agreed and pulled up the first half of her status page again. She could feel the potion's effects fading fast and knew she was moments away from blacking out. But immediately after distributing most of her points, Aaliyah felt a second rush of energy hit her. It was like drinking a dozen cups of coffee without any nasty side effects.

LV: 92 Experience: 1,995,780/ 2,417,735

Health: 2,459.73/3,000

Stamina 191.83/2,000

Mana: 282.46/1,300

Vitality: 300.00

Endurance: 100.48

Strength: 200.00

Dexterity: 200.00

Senses: 62.81

Mind: 65.73

Magic: 130.00

Clarity: 79.40

Status Points: 8

It was a good thing she distributed her points as she did. Other than rounding out her stats to nice, even numbers, she had to face the backlash now that the potion's effects were no longer boosting Aaliayh's mana regain. Her mana regain was reduced to almost nothing, or it would have been if Aaliyah hadn’t put another 15 points into her Magic stat.

Her mana pool was still circling the drain, but at least it was recovering a teeny bit faster than if she hadn’t.

Next to Aaliyah, Tabitha went through a similar metamorphosis. Her posture straightened, she stopped breathing heavily, and her skin started to glow with increased Vitality.

“Still think our leveling is unnatural?” Aaliyah wagged her eyebrows.

“Yes,” Tabitha didn’t think twice before answering. “However, I’ll admit I can see the benefits,” she noted while flexing her hands testily.

“Does that mean we should start processing the winged serpent?” Aaliyah had to force herself to smile. While she no longer felt like a zombie and could move around, she wasn't ready to dive into the colossal task of butchering the 300-foot beast.

Tabitha noticed her student’s apprehension, glanced up at the sky, and nodded in understanding. “No, I think that can wait until tomorrow. It's midday; even if we rushed, we couldn't process half of the snake before sunset. We should take this time to search around the perimeter of the winged serpent’s territory for any threats and to see if we can find anything to eat.”

Aaliyah liked the sound of that. She was starving and was a little concerned about how delicious the snake's head was starting to look. All that meat just waiting to be cooked over an open fire—she didn't care that it was likely to kill her; her stomach demanded nourishment.

“Yeah, let’s do that before my stomach makes me do something stupid.”

“Stupider than usual?” Tabitha joked in a monotone voice.

“I’m going to say yes,” Aaliyah smiled brightly. She was tired, but not too tired to joke back and forth with Tabitha, which felt like a massive weight off her shoulders after their nerve-racking time underground. Aaliyah felt like she could be her usual, goofy self again, so she kept smiling.

Aaliyah smiled the whole time she and Tabitha scavenged for food. She smiled even wider while she cooked the large mushrooms they found at the base of one of the massive trees. Her smile didn’t fade, even as she beifly had to crawl back into the ruins to retrieve their stuff and set up camp for the night next to the corpse of their vanquished foe.

She smiled up at the stars as the sun vanished overhead and fell asleep with a massive grin on her face, as Tabitha was kind enough to take the first watch.

For the first time in over a week, Aaliyah slept without dreaming of dying against the winged serpent. They had a long walk ahead of them to leave The Endless Forest, but at least now they could see the light at the end of the tunnel.
