"Hatched?" Uva asked, and another disconcerting notion passed through her. This made her think of her own goddess, the Composer, and of the corpse she was born from.

"Oh, very apt of you to notice," Hymn said, smiling at her. A cold bomb detonated inside Uva. She realized he could hear her thoughts somehow. "The world is rhyme-happy. The System and integration are inspired by a great many things. But if you have looked into environments, ecosystems, and more, you would understand that ultimately, on a grand scale, that which consumes and deals with scarcity tends to resemble each other, even if the minutiae are separate."

Tentatively, Uva extended a tendril of thought to him. A tendril infused with Divinity and hidden from the Eldest. "I have a strategy. I was trying to—"

Hymn raised a finger. "You were delving into the minds of the Fingerlings to get a better grasp of eldritch cognition and thought processes, and you were planning to confuse the Eldest's offspring, the one that is seeded and hatching from your insides, by melding its thoughts with another Eldritch being, correct? You are to muddy and damage its psyche, just like your stillness allows you to damage the metaphysical forms of the Indexes, Pinkies, and Recollectors."

Uva was at an utter loss for words. The other Seeker had guessed her strategy at a glance.

"You are not the first to come up with this method. It is a brave and bold one, requiring one to be quite the unshakable, adaptable, and meticulous Psychomancer. However, despite my flowery praise, let me skip to the end for you. It fails, and then you probably die while the Eldest hatches free from your ruined, mangled body, wearing the best parts of your soul as if a cape of glistening gems. A very tragic result, but expected for a plan that was ultimately futile from conception."

"So, how do I break free? How do I save myself?" Uva asked. "How did you save yourself?"

He eyed her with his violet gaze. The Divination skill in him burned bright. "You don't happen to have any Diviner skills, do you?"

"No," Uva replied quietly.

"Well, that makes things harder, but I suspect you're a better Psychomancer than I was when I first escaped the Eldest's clutches. Unfortunately, it will require you to do something excessively dangerous."

"I have something of a terminal condition right now," Uva said dryly. "I'm willing to try practically anything."

"That's a good attitude to have. It might lead you to your ultimate destruction, but then again, we do live under a condition of strife, so what's the difference?" He paused for a moment and hummed to himself. "Your research into the minds of the Stranger’s offspring isn't wasted. It's going to be a critical part of your salvation. You are going to use them to access the Stranger again. And you're going to let the Stranger infest you. You will let him try to seize your vessel and your skills from you."

And suddenly, Uva found her trust extremely scarce again. "Explain, and explain in detail."
