“I’d prefer if he gave up something important,” the illusionary Lord Eldraki said. “Like his free will.”

Lord Dakka said, “I’m fine with him becoming a weapon.”

Lady Aelorika and Lady Seraphaka said, “Vetoed.”

A moment of disturbed silence spread throughout the chambers and everyone ducked as a wave of pressure emanated from the Infinite Fractal Fairy.

Blood shuddered and rippled.

And then the fifth fae clapped—

- - - -

—Erick stood upon a vast land of sands and broken reality.

“Ah,” Erick said, still a dragon. “Okay.”

The sky was the Margleknot sky of lands and places, but more violent, and deeper. It was a fractal crash of world-sized continents edged to continents, rivers flowing through the sky, and lands crashing into lands. Everything from the Fae Enclave spire in the center to the silver cylinder that pierced it was still there. But there were explosions upon that land in the vast, vast distance. Fires raged over there. Holes in reality killed things over there. Armies crashed against kaijus or against other armies. All of those problems were so very distant, but they were there. Erick saw them with his dragon eyes, enhanced with Perception.

Aside from all the facts he had just learned, and a bunch of stuff he only barely understood at all and didn’t really remember all that well...

“Yup,” Erick said, “This is Layer 1. As expected.”

And then a mountain-sized desert worm ripped through the ground at Erick’s feet.

Erick tried to kill it with an instant-cast reson-infused [Fireball], turning the desert to glass along with the sudden appearance of all those lamprey teeth. But the miniature sun went down the worm’s spinning-jaw hole, and was consumed.

Erick rapidly retreated to the air and the worm gave chase. Through the air. Like it was ground.

Erick was impressed

Impressed enough to use a reson-empowered [Luminous Beam].

For several seconds Erick became a quasar, his [Lodestar] aura surrounding him like he was a sun, spitting out a beam of particles that moved at most of the speed of light. What could only be accurately described as several thousand nuclear blasts, all in a chain, detonated deep within the mountain-sized maw of the monster, out the side of its head, spilling nuclear fire everywhere, as it re-impacted the worm’s body, filling the world with even more nuclear fire, until the beam drilled back into the monster’s flesh and then deep into the ground. The world rumbled below.

Erick felt a tingle of that nuclear fire on his scales and in his eyes, but the worm probably felt a lot worse.

It cried out—

It flickered, reversing time and crawling back into its hole, completely uninjured, as Erick’s Beam ended.

Erick hung there in the sky for a moment, evaluating.

“… Yup. Layer 1 is indeed dangerous.” Erick called out, “Portal back to my home please, Yggdrasil!”

No answer.

Erick nodded. “Also as expected.”

Erick hung out in the air and peered around. He started flying… Hmm. That way. Toward that giant pillar of grey light in the distance. That seemed like as good of a destination as any, and his Lightning Path agreed with him. His Lightning Path also pointed in about ten thousand other directions, too, but Erick picked the one headed toward the grey pillar, because he felt like it. And also because that pillar was the sign of the Wraithborne Tower.

Erick’s Lightning Path adjusted to pointing forward.

He flew.

And he thought.

- - - -

Erick flew for a while, his wings wide, as he spared half of his senses looking inward, looking at his body, at how resons flowed into his Soul, Body, and Mind, and strengthened everything that was there. He grew slightly, as seconds ticked on. Maybe only a centimeter longer every passing second, but seconds piled up fast, and Erick’s draconic growth was still happening even after an hour.

After one hour of flight across what felt like an endless desert, with wars happening in every distance, Erick imagined himself to be maybe 35-ish meters longer and 50ish wider. What was he now? Maybe 250 meters long? 425 wide? No clue. Dragons got stronger as they got bigger, though, and Erick was certainly getting bigger.

Another hour or so of flight, based on the ticks of his Status at least, saw Erick gain another 35-ish meters to the length of his overall body and some more to his wings, not to mention another 15-ish points to his Body and Mind stats.

Erick Flatt, [60-ish] [Current Year: 1453 (Veird, layer 789), ??? (Margleknot)] [CURRENT REALITY=Layer 0, Margleknot]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 31%, 30%, 30%

Reson allocation rate: 9%

Soul: 69.24m per day / 801.41 per second , [Darkness Level = 4.72x Ascension baseline]

Body: 445

Mind: 535

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+721, -3] Basic upkeep

Mp: 5.96m/∞, ↑ [+248, -1] Basic upkeep

Hp: 4.82m/∞, ↑ [+240, -1] Basic upkeep

Pp: 4.62m/∞, ↑ [+240, -1] Basic upkeep

Resons: 1.12m [+72.12 = +8.01]

… His Margleknot Layer hadn’t updated to Layer 1?

Well that was actually part of a bigger problem. He couldn’t solve that right now.

Erick also didn’t want to have to purposefully shrink himself down all the time, and he could probably solve that one right now. It was time to install some sort of size selector option and just be that size.

Erick flew down to the ground, his talons crushing into the sands… And the sands flexed underneath him. Erick scowled at that and launched back into the air just in time for another worm kaiju to try and eat him. This one was a bit smaller than the other one, or maybe Erick was that much bigger. Probably the latter, actually. The worm didn’t seem like the same worm as before, but maybe it was?

Doubtful.

Erick started with a reson-empowered [Luminous Beam], showering the monster’s insides with a spear of quasar-powered particle-beam cannon. The monster then ripped backward through time, even as nuclear fire continued to incinerate its insides and pierce through its body, its Domain doing nothing to stop the physical attack. Erick wasn’t quite sure how to stop the worm from retreating, since it wasn’t a normal [Return], or anything like that. The worm was simply reversing course… Which was a whole new way to use Time Magic, actually.

Erick let that problem pass him by, for now. As long as he remained in the sky, the worm couldn’t get him.

He flew higher and conjured a large platform to rest upon as he considered the magics he had thought to make.

And then he threw up a [Hasted Shelter] around himself and a layer of [Stopped Time] around that. Not much could get through that, so Erick took a moment to look inside and craft a new function in his Status. A simple size lock. Such a spell was not, truly speaking, ‘easy’ at all. This was because Erick’s dragon body grew because of a whole bunch of interlocking factors, prime among them being Dragon Essence interacting with Benevolence and resons and the fact that growing big was very much what dragons did to gain more power, but growing big was also caused by extra power manifesting in the real world.

So when Erick was manually morphing himself down, he was doing a whole bunch of things, all at once…

Ah.

That’s how he would solve this.

Erick came back to himself to make sure there weren’t any sky worms, and then he split his focus, glancing inside as he manually morphed smaller, and then smaller, and smaller, and eventually he ended up somewhere near his original size of 50 meters long, and a bunch more tail. Or something like that. He watched what happened to his Everything as he did that, and then he made a tuner out of Benevolence that did what he was manually doing.

He checked the tuner, and saw that it was… probably going to work.

And then he let go.

Amazingly enough, Erick didn’t balloon up to giant size again.

Erick smiled. This was great. He wasn’t automatically cultivating when he was a smaller dragon, too, which is what he was truly trying to solve for. Erick wasn’t sure it was even possible for him to automatically cultivate into a fae, but he didn’t want to risk it, anyway.

And this new size-selector option was actually quite fun. Erick made himself as small as a Familiar, standing like a cat-sized black dragon in the center of a very, very large floating platform spell, and then he dialed himself all the way back to his biggest version, growing large enough to butt up against the [Stopped Time] around the platform.

Erick adjusted himself back down to what he assumed was a normal size… And then he went a bit smaller. No need to go scaring people by being a giant black dragon, spitting lightning and relativistic fire everywhere. That was probably scary enough for anyone watching out there… if there were such people.

Erick regarded the other missing part of his Status.

“No idea how to make a Layer-finder.” Erick pondered. “… Probably have to directly connect to Yggdrasil in some way because Margleknot is not actually central to the universe at all. It’s relatively located here at Layer 1, and also 0. There are no actual numbers inside base reality.”

The Infinite Fractal Fairy was only here at Margleknot because Margleknot called them here through Balance, which was conducive toward… everything? Erick wasn’t sure about that.

Erick wondered at where the other universal cities were located. Something like Layer 10,000? Or as far away as Layer Trillion, or something like that? Who knew.

Someone knew. Erick did not.

Probably closer to layer 10 trillion, or whatever.

Erick checked his Status once more and saw that nothing was increasing all on its own anymore. He was safe from accidental fae ascension, and so Erick erased the spells he had placed around himself and once again dropped into normal time. He flew toward the pillar in the distance, feeling the desert air on his body, and the hot light of the invisible suns overhead.

Smaller dragons flew slower, which would probably add some time to his journey, but Erick fixed that by transforming into lightning and zapping forward.

He zapped forward for several hours, regaining millions of Mana, Health, Psyche, and resons, moving at 80% of the speed of light. He was still nowhere near the edge of the desert, or any closer at all to the spire on the horizon. He purposefully did not move at the speed of light, though, because that would likely cost him months of time as it had when Solomon had put him on FENRIR, or when he had escaped into space far beyond Nothanganathor’s domain. That was Erick’s working theory for how he had lost that time, anyway. Or maybe something else had happened. It didn’t really make sense for him to have been moved a few solar minutes in distance, and yet lose months of time.

Things got weird around relativistic speeds, though, like the particles of a [Luminous Beam] each setting off nuclear bombs when impacting anything at all.
