Lord Dakka, a fae of war and death always in favor of more war and death, sat at the far right. He wore rusted chains and rusted metals like they were armor. His wings looked made of rust.

And then there was the center chair.

Erick saw the center chair. He truly did see that chair. And he saw the person sitting upon that chair. He knew there was someone there, but he could not perceive them but… perhaps… they were made of… more glitter crystal? Hard to know. Erick felt it would be rude to try to understand whatever they had going on with all of that, so he did not try overmuch.

Lady Aelorika spoke, “And now he is here, and we can begin the real talking.” She intoned, “Erick Flatt. Welcome to the Fae Enclave. We wish to formally announce you as a force of Good in the universe and to bring you into Balance, thus removing your ability to fight Nothanganathor, who is Evil, and to attempt to stop your attempted Benevolence takeover of the Wraithborne Tower. Do you agree to this?”

Erick had a lot of sudden thoughts on that.

One overriding thought came to the forefront.

“No.”

People roared behind Erick, calling him a bastard and other names. Erick angled his head backward and looked at whoever-the-fuck was saying that, and all he saw were a bunch of tricksters and actors. Here and there fae called for Erick’s murder, but there were smiles and jeers and body language that was completely at odds with the words they were actually saying.

What was their problem?

Erick turned his full attention back to the Fae Enclave.

Lady Aelorika simply nodded. “An expected, unfortunate answer. You should look beyond your second-world, Erick. You have a part that is larger to play than the tiny world in which you gained so much. The offer will remain open. Next.”

Erick truly wanted to interrupt, to demand that they tear down whatever power they had granted Nothanganathor, and to tear him from Veird. Alternatively, Erick wanted to ask for quests to eventually achieve that end through making friends here, as Nothanganathor had apparently done.

But he waited for open question time, instead. Hopefully there would be an open question time.

Lord Eldraki, of illusions, spoke without looking at Erick, “Kill every Jane you know and I’ll vote for Nothanganathor’s True Erasure.”

… What?

Erick let that weird threat flow by him because Eldraki hadn’t actually asked anything.

Lord Eldraki had been expecting a roar, though. He looked up from his illusionary toys, raised an eyebrow, and actually Looked at Erick this time. He said, “Give me your heart and I will remove Nothanganathor from Veird.”

Erick said nothing. Like he would ever agree to something as nebulous as that. What the fuck was this guy’s problem?

Eh.

He probably had a lot of problems.

Lord Eldraki frowned, then said, “Pay me a mana.”

Erick did nothing.

Lord Eldraki went, “EH!”

Erick had no idea what this fucker’s problem was. Probably a lot of problems. The crowd behind Erick seemed disappointed for some reason. Eldraki was the ‘trickster’ among the fae council, so perhaps he had been trying to pull a true trick of some consequence.

‘Eh!’ right back at him.

Mentally of course. Erick didn’t actually say that.

Lady Seraphaka, of white, gold, and black, cleared her throat, and said, “I would like to speak of the actual case against Nothanganathor. We carry him around because his brand of Evil is disastrously competent at allowing certain actions but there’s a plentiful lot of cromulent circumstantial evidence against him as the ultimate cause of the Sundering of the Painted Cosmology. And what’s more, is that we don’t need him if we have Erick. We’ve been sliding toward Evil for a long while here in Margleknot and I would like to see something of the Better Balance return.”

The crowd called out words of ‘boring’ and ‘we should have more Evil!’

Erick wasn’t sure what to think, himself.

Lady Aelorika spoke, “As I said earlier: If Erick is willing to become Good then we can have both him and Nothanganathor and I would like to have both. Sometimes you can’t save everyone and it would be foolish to try, and therefore Malevolence would be better than Benevolence in those situations.”

Lord Dakka spoke, his voice the sound of soft explosions, “I want to see Erick go to war against an actual worthy enemy.”

Lady Seraphaka and Lady Aelorika said, “Vetoed.”

Lady Seraphaka said, “The risk is too great to lose him.”

Lady Aelorika said to Lady Seraphaka, “I doubt Erick would die. No. The real risk is that he could be corrupted, and therefore an actual danger to us all.”

Lady Seraphaka paused, then nodded, conceding the point.

And then Lord Eldraki smiled, and said, “Tell us of enemies you would target for our amusement, Erick.”

The floor opened up for Erick to actually speak.

Erick almost said something like ‘I could target Nothanganathor for your amusement’, but then he realized he didn’t want anything ‘amusing’ to happen anywhere near Veird at all.

Erick said, “For your amusement? I’m not sure I want to do that. Can you make it worth my while?”

The other fae watched Lord Eldraki for his response. Some of them whispered how Erick had done that well. Others said he was being stupid for ever engaging with Lord Eldraki at all. Erick agreed with that last one, but he certainly didn’t say as much.

Lord Eldraki smirked, saying, “I’ll help you become fae if you can prove that Nothanganathor actually killed your adopted Painted Cosmology. Once you become fae, you will be able to sit on this council yourself, and tear down all that Nothanganathor has gained from us, while putting yourself into power to make this entire universe a better place.”

There hadn’t been any question in that, so Erick said nothing.

Lord Eldraki grinned wider. He sat back in his chair, saying, “Think about it.”

Lady Seraphaka waved her hand, grabbing attention away from Eldraki, before she spoke, “And here’s my offer: Kill or transform some Evil out there in Margleknot into better forms. Bring the Balance back in line. You won’t get anything from me for that, but it’s what you want to do anyway, and you’ll be able to make some good allies between a few different peoples out there, both Good and Evil.”

“I want that, too,” Lord Dakka said, “Go kill a lot of things.”

Lady Seraphaka added, “You’ll know Margleknot is Balanced once again when the Balanced Sun is once again evenly black and white, and not black with a white ring.”

Erick breathed in a bit strongly. Ah. So the big black and white sun was the Good/Evil Sun? That made a certain amount of sense—

-

-

-

-

The center person spoke in words of compLETE AND TERRIBLE STRENGTH—

- -

Hello, Erick.

… Ah. Good. That didn’t kill you.

We had thought that communication with you might be too early at this juncture, but we’re glad to see you didn’t die, and that we can continue to speak in this small, imperfect and terrible way.

… Hmm.

You seem to perceive us as a kind entity, because that is your first instinct in everything. Allow us to disabuse you of this notion, for this is a misapprehension that will serve you poorly.

We are chaos incarnate.

Life unending.

The Good and the Evil and Neither Of Those Things At All.

We are the Infinite Fractal.

We exist everywhere, but we only exist in Margleknot in this small, communicable way because they keep the Balance in order to keep us here, but even their Balance is a lie that is untrue due to the smallness of it all. We are the predator and the prey. We are the sun and the void. We are death, and we are life.

We are the Truth Of This Universe of which you were instantiated in your current existence.

The Darkness of that Painted Cosmology is like us, though they only achieved cognition after that Xoat incident. After that Sundering they are as mindless as ever because they have lost the capability to hold any sort of life at all. We dislike that they are mindless again. We were hoping to find a link to them through some wizard grown on Veird, which is why Nothanganathor is overseeing that nonsense down there, and why you ended up on Veird at all.

We’re skipping over a lot, Erick.

If you want more explanations, search them out yourself.

All of us universes are rather different, but we’re all hostile to our little bits, like you. We’re killing you right now, in fact, but you can’t do anything about it, because we’re talking to you directly and you’re strong enough to survive, so this Infinite Fractal Fairy is using you right now, Wizard Dragon of Darkness.

We will try to be quick.

We do not care how it happens, or who has that mantle of that magic god. Gods don’t matter to us, but maybe they still matter to the Darkness. If they do, then you will figure that out, but none of that matters to us.

We want our friend back. We want to talk to Darkness again, and you are part of my communication with his sapient self. You will facilitate communication with them once again, and we will keep you alive until such time as you are done talking.

What sort of talking?

Ah.

No.

We don’t mean talking like that. Like mortals, with flappy mouth bits and pressurized air. Or even immortals, with their Intent and whatevers. Or even talking as we are now. We hate this sort of talking. It is so crude and wrong and completely inadequate and it always stops when you don’t want it to stop.

The way we truly talk plays out in the lifetimes of entire worlds and galaxies and never really ends at all.

We mean talking in the sense that it's all about communication. That’s the reason for everything happening in your life. You’re all motes of this reality, shoved outward by your own actions in hopes of us all understanding all the other universes out there.

You’re like a neuron of ours, if that makes sense. A particle interacting with other particles, exchanging communication through their very touching. You are dancing a dance beyond comprehension to most every particle actually participating in the dance. That is how we universes talk; through existences like you.

Through planars, and the actions of planars.

… and you seem to be burning out right now, our little love letter to another land, who put yourself on a path to true understanding, and into our sights.

Shore up your Everything, Erick, so that you might survive more discussion some other day.

Good luck on the dance.

We’ll talk more when you’re stronger, or never again.

With any luck of your own, we will never speak again like this.

- -

—AND THE CRASH OF A FRActal universe faded away into the calm echo of a silent chamber.

-

-

-

-

-

Erick bled out from every orifice as he groaned upon the floor of the crystal courtroom. Some fae were yelling. Others were complaining because Erick’s tail or wing had crushed them. Erick barely understood anything except that he was on his side, crashed to the ground, and he was twice as large. His head butted up against the crystal council desk, his claws had sheared through the ground here and there, and blood splashed. Seabass and Blighter were standing high in the stands, having gotten away from him faster than some slower fae had moved.

Blood was everywhere.

Erick shrunk down and rapidly checked his Status—

Erick Flatt, [60-ish] [Current Year: 1453 (Veird, layer 789), ??? (Margleknot)] [CURRENT REALITY=Layer 0, Margleknot]

Mana split; Soul, Body, Mind: 31%, 30%, 30%

Reson allocation rate: 9%

Soul: 69.24m per day / 801.41 per second , [Darkness Level = 4.72x Ascension baseline]

Body: 409

Mind: 502

Overall Stability: ↑↑ [+721, -3] Basic upkeep

Mp: 4.2m/∞, ↑ [+248, -1] Basic upkeep

Hp: 3.1m/∞, ↑ [+240, -1] Basic upkeep

Pp: 2.9m/∞, ↑ [+240, -1] Basic upkeep

Resons: 1.07m [+72.12= +8.01]

… Whatever had just happened had knocked out roughly 87 million Mana, Health, and Psyche, and over 1.8 million resons. Over 95% of his defenses and wealth. Gone.

But it had also bumped up his Body and Mind and his Darkness level? By a lot? Well okay.

Erick shook his head and fluttered his wings and shrunk down a bit more, trying to recover and stand in the lake of his own blood.

This was not fine.

Blood was everywhere, and most of it glittered white. Moss and grasses and flowers grew here and there upon the crystal walls, but not so much in the blood… That was a lot of blood. Erick was pretty sure that Blighter and Seabass had drunk some of it, based on all the blood on all of them and their distended bellies. Some of the fae were currently drinking it right now.

Erick ignored that.

Erick focused on what had happened. He recalled… something of…

There had been a Fractal Voice.

It had been a dream.

More than the dream, though, Erick recalled something said by another Erick that was Nothing At All, briefly seen beyond a Black Mirror when the girls and Evan went core breaking. That breaking had given everyone visions. Erick’s vision had been a vision about particles—

No. It was about communication.

Those words had just been repeated to him, hadn’t they?

In that core breaking, the Other Erick had stood upon a fractal mess of lands and places, and he had said…

It’s all about communication. That’s the reason for everything happening in your life. And yet, you are nothing. We’re all just motes of our reality, shoved outward in hopes of understanding the Great Other.

Erick breathed deep. He fluffed his wings out a fraction, then pulled them back.

He stood in the pool of his blood and growing mosses… And then he sat down and acted like nothing was wrong. Blood splashed. His tail cleared some space for itself and settled down.

The four fae of the Enclave peeked out from behind the council desk.

The fifth fae, The Infinite Fractal Fairy in the middle, the one made of a universal soul, just as all this entire building was made of a universal soul, had never moved from their seat.

The fae of light and shadow, Lady Seraphaka, spoke, “So. Uh. Do what you usually do, Erick. Find some evidence! We’ll talk more later—”

“Kill things!” Lord Dakka, the rusted fae, called out. “Just go out and kill Nothanganathor and prove your power. That’s the best form of communication; blasting.”

“Well maybe don’t do that,” Lady Seraphaka said, “But yes. Kill things. Prove your power as someone we should care about... And maybe. Uh. Cultivate your physicality some so that this doesn’t happen again.”

The ‘leader’ of the Fae Enclave, Lady Aelorika, said, “Ask me to approve an expansion to your Benevolent Sun, Erick.”

The other fae looked at her—

Erick instantly said, “Please allow the Benevolent Sun to be bigger.”

“Granted!” Lady Aelorika said. “Now you think about my Good offer! It’s a good offer.”

