Slowly Matt answered. “A question. It's sometimes hard to be so introspective. I think of myself as a defensive person a lot. I take the hits, but that's not all I do. I also dish it out. Okay, a purely defensive style might feel nice, but it's not going to fit me. I need something more reactive.”

Max grinned. “Is that so, now? What a concept. Are you saying you can’t just be entirely passive while someone else pushes you around?”

Matt just rolled his eyes. “Okay, you were right. I can’t just satisfy myself with a mental defense strategy.”

“Good. You’re aware of it now. That will make it easier when you ignore that discomfort and are passive anyway”

“What? Why? Didn’t we just discuss that I prefer to punch back?”

“Yes. Unfortunately, no matter what you may prefer, unless you’re willing to become a full psion attacking back will just leave you open while achieving nothing. At least against the kind of people confident enough to attack the mind of a Chosen.” Max brandished her rapier again. “I still think you will learn best by doing. First thing with mental combat is about being able to harden and control your mind. It's a lot like mana manipulation, so you are either going to be really good at this, or really bad.”

As she said that, she lunged forward and Matt felt an accompanying mental pressure try to dig into his brain. Instinctively, Matt relied on his mental shields and threw up a barrier, which was exactly what Max had warned against, and he felt it as she infiltrated the defense in an instant, leaving his mind very vulnerable to rooting around in.

Despite knowing she wouldn’t do anything untoward, he was relieved when she withdrew immediately.

“Not bad, not bad at all. Well, okay, it was really bad, but only in the same sense you’d call my large-scale mana control bad. People like you and I don’t get to be judged by normal standards. Related, it’s quite interesting to see what an upgraded [Sharp Mind] does when fed with that much mana. That is sure to take a lot of people off guard. Still suffers from being one of the more commonly known mental defense skills out there though. Couple of tips for you to improve what you have now…” Max resumed her dueling while giving Matt advice on how to improve his mental shield, punctuating or illustrating her pointers with actual strikes, parries, and ripostes.

In the flow of the familiar and the unfamiliar, Matt felt out what he did and didn’t like. Similar to his physical fighting style, Matt had a tendency to go on the offensive when attacked. An overwhelmed— and preferably dead— opponent couldn’t learn any of his secrets after all. Unfortunately, Max made a point of showing why that’s a bad idea. Every time he tried, she deftly deflected him and used the opening to strike back twice as hard. It did not help that he wasn’t able to leverage his endless mana into his mental efforts.

At least not directly.

He did pick up a trick of flooding his body with mana, which acted like static for his mental defenses. It didn’t necessarily make it harder to infiltrate, as Max described it, but it was different enough that it would cause most mind mages to fumble if they were unprepared for it.

He was completely incapable of telling how he was doing, but Max said he was improving at keeping her out and sensing when she got in, just not to a degree that properly mattered.

“You know, in a real battle, I’d just [Mana Beam] anyone who got into my mind,” he noted as they reset for what felt like the thousandth time.

“Assuming you notice,” Max steadily replied. “Assuming you figure out who’s doing it. Assuming you’re in a battle. And assuming they aren’t able to use an existing connection to deliver a little jolt to your mind, slip in another mental skill while they’ve already bypassed your defenses to block off the skill or make you fire it in a different direction than you wanted. That said, it's a valid point for you, even if not an end point you should find acceptable. You do have one hell of a punch with high mana spells.”

During a moment of downtime between attempts, Max surprised Matt by offering a skill that might help. "If privacy is truly your highest priority, gamble with Sien for the [Sacred Sanctity of the Inner World] technique guide. It's a rather nifty mod that lets you turn a copy of [Encryption] inward onto your own mind. It's not foolproof, but it slows even me down."

The lessons were taxing to his Domain, but with each day, Matt felt he was getting better as he learned the newish discipline.

They spent a full five months of such sparring until Max felt he was sufficiently advanced to proceed with the next lesson.

Matt was profoundly uncomfortable, but Max wanted him to attack her mind a few times just to understand what the other side was doing when they attacked him.

After he hesitated for a third time, Max reached out and shook him. “Matt, relax. You aren’t going to hurt me. You can’t hurt me. This is my specialty, and I have twelve Tiers on you. Just follow the mental bridge I’m making, and you can get a sense of what’s going on.”

Against his better instincts, Matt carefully entered her mind with his Domain.

Once inside, he found himself in a blank space with just a projection of Max. Nothing else, no memories or thoughts or… anything, really.

“A blank mind space,” Max confirmed. “This is what I eventually want you to work up to if you really want to keep people out of your memories. It's a useful first layer. Better still if you can do this.”

The blank space transformed into a jumbled mess of colors and senses as fragments of memories floated by in kaleidoscopes of sensations that even watching from a distance made Matt queasy.

“What did you do?”

“I flooded my outer shell with random thoughts and images. Some advanced mind mages will use movies, or books they read, but I like to just let my minds wander and to send in a tiny fragment of their thoughts into here. It's quite hard to make sense of anything, and fewer still can pierce this layer of defense. You have Folded Reflection lives, which I can confirm from experience make for fantastic distractions. People will see how real they are and think they are in your mind and getting what they want...”

It was a little too close for Matt’s comfort, but he liked the general idea.

“Wait, you said minds?”

Max turned to him as her memories and thoughts faded into nothingness once again. “Haven’t you put it together yet?”

Like she was pulling a curtain down with a forceful yank, Max destroyed the empty space they were in.

Matt locked up as he realized what he was looking at.

Max hadn’t just split her mind into two or three, but rather thousands, possibly tens of thousands, if the minds that looked like clusters of grapes were nested minds like he thought they were.

His mouth went dry as he retreated back into the safety of his own mind. “That… Was not what I expected. How are you sane?”

Max looked at him with a slightly manic grin. “Who said I am?”

Matt didn’t take it as a joke and just nodded, which caused Max to glare at him. “Oi! I’m a Chosen, Matt. Don’t insult me like that. I’m sane because I’m the fucking best.”

Instead of arguing, Matt spoke his mind. “I can see how Charl got caught off guard after seeing that.”

Max barked a laugh. “Sure did. And even more when I used the connection he made to hit back a thousand times harder. That said, I did beef up my mental repertoire quite a bit after that incident.”

After that, they took a break, and at Matt’s request, they wandered the floor-wide city with Max acting as a tour guide for the Corporations culture.

Matt was caught off guard at the amount of people he saw that were unawakened. Even if he knew the Corporations didn’t do universal awakening, it was strange seeing adults unawakened coming from the Empire, where everyone was awakened at young adulthood.

Max, being Max, noticed. “Strange seeing unawakened?”

“Yeah, but it’s not my place to judge.”

Max shrugged. “Judge if you want. There is no universal answer.”

“But your poorest people are almost universally unawakened. How is that beneficial for anyone?”

Max shook her head. “You are conflating correlation and causation. The poorest are unawakened, but that's because they are the ones who never bothered to save enough to get awakened, or took a job that had it as part of the contract. I won’t call them unmotivated as a collective, but it's not that hard to buy an awakening. Most delving teams up to Tier 5 will sell the first kill in a rift for basically free. There are even Tier 2 and 3 teams who buy extra lower-Tier rift slots for the sole purpose of awakening hundreds of people per rift. Or at least dozens if it's a Tier 1 slot. Anyone who doesn’t work hard enough to afford that is going to end up poor. It's not that they are unawakened, it's that they are unmotivated. Or, in some cases, uninterested. There are several subcultures that, at risk of oversimplifying, dislike cultivation, thinking that it makes them less human, their struggles less real. I don’t agree, I’d argue cultivation makes us more human, but you of all people should be able to understand the desire to choose your own destiny.”

Matt gestured to the side. “What about those that have family issues? Generational poverty and the like.”

“Generational poverty is a bit of a dark joke here, used as a punchline for people who like to blame others for their problems. If an entire family is poor, it’s because that family’s ethics and priorities push them that way. There’s always demand for jobs. Always. And if you don’t qualify for one, well, there are lots of corporations who provide free training of all sorts, giving those who need it a way to make themselves valuable. There are millions of scholarships, and many, many places will sponsor entire neighborhoods and provide them with free food, shelter, and healthcare as a means of early recruitment and generating positive associations with the public. If someone still falls through all those cracks, it’s generally because they’d never amount to anything and just… well, exist until they die, with a proportional impact on society.”

Matt disagreed. “That’s nice in theory, and possibly true in practice in a lot of places. But no society is perfect. One of the core tenets of feudalism is that the liege protects the vassal. That didn’t stop the Junipers from letting us get slaughtered. I don’t believe for a moment there aren’t people who fell through the cracks despite your peoples best efforts. In an imperfect realm it's better to ensure a baseline level rather than just assume only the slackers are suffering.”

Max didn’t refute him directly. “And then everyone else has to pay for them. Why should they be forced to do so?”

They went back and forth a few times until Matt partly gave up given that neither had the power to reshape society.

At least not yet.

“I just can’t get around the idea that some people don’t even deserve to cross the starting line. It feels wrong and unnecessarily cruel. One day I hope someone has enough power to force a change.”

Max gestured around them. “It doesn’t feel that wrong. You believe heavily in the ability that power can come from anywhere if you just grasp it. So do we. We just… let people amount to whatever they want. In fact, I’d argue the Empire and Corporations fall fairly close to the same line in that respect.”

Seeing Matt’s confusion, Max explained. “It's an idea that gained some popularity a few thousand years ago. Basically, it was a group of people trying to quantify the Great Powers’ outlooks to find out if any of them were superior and the like. It was mainly a failure but they raised a few thought provoking ideas.”

Checking the thought piece paper she sent him, Matt scanned it.

As she said, the paper broke down the Great Powers' understanding of potential and was prompted by the societal shifts that happened after Agatha took the crown for herself, and further refined in Georgios reign when the Monster Collective was split off from the Federation.

According to the paper, the Empire, the Sects, and the Corporations all believed in ‘universal potential’, though they then broke them down into distinct variations.

For the Empire, it was that anyone could be great, just so long as they are given a chance and that the higher the starting point, the better the odds. On the other hand, the Sects believed that greatness could come from anywhere and would make itself known despite different starting points, so social inequalities were a good thing rather than a negative to be corrected. Finally, the paper stated the Corporations’ take on universal potential was that greatness was something you can earn through the accumulation of wealth, which facilitated cultivation.

Matt wasn’t sure he agreed with the abstracts, but he couldn’t say they were wrong either. He also wasn’t sure he liked being lumped in with the Corporations, let alone the Sects. Both were far more cutthroat for lower Tiers than the Empire, but he also had enough self-awareness that he was far from unbiased and had taken a very unconventional route to where he was today.

Not that he liked the other classifications, even if he once more found himself unable to disagree.

