The abstract stated the Clans and the Monster Collective, being the two bloodline-based Great Powers, believed in ‘innate potential’. The Clans' take on it was that greatness came from your ancestors and was built off their efforts, with the implication that it was one's duty to raise the bar for future generations. Inversely, the Monster Collective believed that greatness came from one's birthright but was excavated from within and entirely up to the individual on how far they went.

The two bloodline-based Great Powers having opposite interpretations of their bloodline-based powers was interesting, and Matt let himself read some of the deeper analysis but didn’t get too sucked in.

Instead, he went to the third general category of ‘awakened potential’ where the Guilds and the Federation were lumped together.

The Guilds believed that greatness was thrust upon a person and it was up to them to answer the call, which wasn’t a new idea for Matt given what he knew of their Ascender program. On the other hand, the Federation believed that greatness is something you Awaken, meaning one's Talent was the most important determining factor of one's life and would both set the floor and ceiling of one's potential.

Once more, he couldn’t argue the writers were wrong, but it didn’t feel right lumping the Guilds, a place that seemed like a genuinely good place to live, with the restrictiveness of the Federation. But once more, Matt had to catch himself.

Max wasn’t wrong when she said there was no singular answer to what was right. Culture and customs played a large role in what one believed and what they would find acceptable let alone desirable.

Lastly, in its own category, was the Republic, which the paper writers had reportedly struggled to quantify in the other three categories and had so instead given them their own.

‘Chosen potential’ felt a little ostentatious but he couldn’t come up with a better descriptor for the belief that greatness came from everyone else.

Despite the paper writers not liking their designation, Matt actually agreed with their interpretation of the Republic the most. It just seemed to fit, with them being the only Great Power that allowed their citizens so much influence in the government, for good and ill.

Seeing he had finished, Max spoke. “I actually liked the distinctions. They are true to the first degree. Anyone can become strong in our three Great Powers. Here in the Corporations, anyone who can gather money has proven their worth. They either produce it themselves, as the crafters and delvers do. Or they’re the movers who make everything flow. The merchants and traders. A lower-Tier person might be better than a higher-Tier one and they can show that by accumulating more wealth and then advancing in Tier. In the Sects, it's more direct and about combat power but the ideas are the same. Prove you are better and you elevate your status. Even in the Empire, people rise up based on what they can do, as after your Awakenings, you are mostly left to your own devices and it's up to the person to climb over their peers. Your planets are full of indolents, just like you see here, but you also have people like yourself claw their way to the top out of such faceless masses.”

Matt hummed as he said, “It sort of reminds me of the difference in general Domain effects.”

Max punched her hand. “Yes! It's so strange that Domains can have such differences, but it's so interesting. I’ve talked to some of the old timers and these distinctions didn’t really exist before the Shattering, and there have been subtle shifts in the case of the Empire-standard telekinesis gathering the ability to mess with space to an easier degree. But it's far more distinct in the Monster Collective and their split from the Federation.”

Matt gestured and a half dozen stones off the side of the street rose into the air and danced in a complicated weave that would have even earned Luna’s approval.

Max raised her hand, but while she was able to raise a handful of stones with her Domain, there were noticeably more jitters and jumps in her manipulation.

Unsaid because they had been doing it for months, her mental interfaces via Domain were effortless in comparison to Matt, who felt like he was wielding a club with oven mitts taped over his hands.

Instead, Matt wondered what their peoples' Domains said about them and their outlooks on the Realm around them.

Was the Empire able to use telekinesis with their Domains because of how they saw themselves or the Realm, or was it like potion colors and the like where it seemed to change based on public perception? Or was it just as simple as the expectations of society ensuring most people learned the skills first?

That didn’t feel right, but it seemed to be what most of the ‘experts’ believed. Matt personally thought it was deeper than that but had no proof or evidence to support his thoughts.

Their talk continued as they spent a while more exploring the city. Matt had to agree that while there were unawakened, it seemed like most anyone who wanted it could manage to get themselves awakened, even if Matt still disagreed it was a step that added any value.

If nothing else, it was just inefficient when compared to the Empire, where a single monster could awaken dozens of people.

Once they returned to practice, they started to work on Matt’s Domain-based psionics, hoping to use that as an easier way to teach the mental defense lessons.

It wasn’t a panacea that instantly made everything easier, but it helped, and Matt was able to further refine his internal mental defenses. He learned how to not only make his outer shield better, but how to put up a layer of murkiness that someone would have to pierce if they wanted to dig into his thoughts or his memories.

Seeing how easily he created that, Max hoped he could turn that into more advanced defenses, but whatever made it easy for Matt to cloud his outer thoughts, didn’t go further than that. They spent months going over mental strengthening and manipulation exercises, followed by rounds of sparring.

Matt still had a long way to go, but by the end of the three years of training, he was much more confident he would know if someone was trying to root around in his mind. Combined with his army-issued gear and all of its innate defenses, Matt felt quite a bit more secure for when they started fighting up Tiers or in more social battlefields.

He just needed to find something to tempt Sien into a bet with.

From there, they spent his remaining time working on the skills Matt would need going forward to reach his desired outcome of an impenetrable mental fortress that also had the internal awareness to know if it was breached or if anything was affecting him.

Despite his long return trip, he was quite happy with the time spent, as the training with Max was a thousand times more efficient than doing so with anyone else, but he was ultimately more happy to return home than anything else.
