“Damn,” Rhys muttered. He waved his hand. It was fine. There’d always be trash later. He didn’t need to waste his precious town time on trash.

They wandered the town. Bast stared at the shops with big, sparkly eyes. They sold high-end potions, rare herbs, and special magical components, as well as mages’ robes, gear, accessories, weapons, and everything in between. All the items were brand new, practically sparkling, and beautiful to behold. He walked from display to display, taking it all in, all but dragging his jaw on the floor.

Rhys, on the other hand, watched the passersby. The mages walked by in clumps, color-coded by school, while the adventurers walked alone. The martials walked in groups for the most part, though a few roamed without friends. No… there were a few lone mages, as well, but they always looked scruffier than the mages organized by color. The color-grouped mages walked with straight backs and quiet dignity, while one of the lone mages staggered along in broad daylight, a gourd slung over his hand. He took a long swig from the gourd and sighed happily.

Rhys snorted under his breath. That man was enjoying not being bound by any rules. He was divided. Did he want to go to a school, enjoy a school’s resources, but be restrained by their rules? Or would he rather wander alone, unsupported?

“Rhys, look.” Bast nudged him.

Rhys turned. “What?”

Bast pointed at one of the displays, where a few herbs were displayed in delicate formation. “Those… didn’t Straw tell us to eat them whenever we find them?”

“What, the ones that gave us the runs for three weeks straight?” Rhys asked.

“They’re poison,” Bast said.

“Sure explains a lot,” Rhys replied. Such as his poison resist skill. He’d thought it was just happenstance, but if Straw had deliberately told them to eat poison, it made sense they’d pick up that skill.

“Cheap way for us to pick up the Poison Resist skill,” Bast commented.

Rhys checked the price of the herbs. His brows flew up. Fifty gold an herb? For a poison that gave people the runs? “The hell? Damn, no kidding. We should pick some of those things to sell.”

“Even if we did, wouldn’t Straw just make us eat them again?” Bast replied.

“He sure would,” Rhys agreed. Sighing, he banished that dream for a later date. Now that he knew how much those herbs sold for, he could always pick them and sell them later. He pointed ahead of them. “Down there, there’s cheaper-looking shops. I think I can afford some robes down there.”

Bast nodded. He cast a look at the fine robes shop off the central square, then shook his head and followed Rhys.

“You’ve got a taste for the finer things in life,” Rhys commented, noticing his gaze.

“Can you blame me? I grew up in a brothel, surrounded by the finest of silks and the gauziest of laces. Even my dad dressed in layers of brocade when he came to visit. I thought the whole world dressed like that,” Bast said with a shrug.

“Orphanage must’ve been a hell of a downgrade.”

“Mmm. I don’t miss it. I got hit a lot. And there’s not a whole lot for a kid to do.”

“No, there wouldn’t be.”

They walked on in silence. Rhys tried to enter the cheap robes shop, only for the owner to push him back outside gently, then lock the door. He made a face at Bast. “There’s gotta be a cheaper shop.”

Bast nodded.

A second robes shop simply locked their doors when the two ragged youths approached. At last, Rhys spotted a second-hand robes shop. He gestured for Bast to stand back, then walked by, pretending to have no interest in the shop. At the very last second, he spun on his toe and slipped inside.

The shop clerk’s head popped off her head. She stood behind the desk, tension clear in her body.

The hell happened to these people? Why are they all so scared of two scruffy kids? Even if he and Bast tried to rob the shop, how far would they get? They were at Tier 1, the lowest tier of magehood. From here, he could sense that the shopkeep of this shop was at least a tier above him, and she was the weakest of all the shopowners. Before she could kick him out, he grabbed two sets of adult-sized robes and threw them on the counter.

“How much?” he asked.

She glanced at him nervously. “T-two gold.”

“Look at these! They’re ragged, and the knee needs a patch on these trousers. One gold,” Rhys insisted, pointing at a very small scrape on the knee.

“One gold,” she agreed quickly.

Rhys smiled and passed the coin over. Internally, he narrowed his eyes. Now he was convinced. Something was wrong. And from the distracted way Straw was behaving, the man knew it, too.

He left without another word and rejoined Bast outside. Handing him the clothes, he shook his head at him. “Something’s wrong.”

“Yeah?” Bast asked, instantly on edge.

“Act normal. I don’t know what’s going on, I just know it’s not right. That shopkeeper looked ready to flee her shop at the sight of me, and she was a whole tier higher. They aren’t just afraid we’ll steal. They’re afraid of us,” Rhys confided in him.

“What? Why?” Bast asked.

“No idea. Let’s get the hell out of here before we find out.” Rhys passed him the new robes and nodded toward a dark alley. They slipped inside. On the other side, they emerged in new robes. Rhys had let down his ponytail, and Bast wore his old robes tied into a headscarf. Rhys nodded toward the back of the town. There was a second exit that way. They could escape before things went bad.

“What about Straw?”

“He’s a grown man. He can find us,” Rhys replied.

Bast nodded.

They walked on. The exit loomed, and Rhys sped up. He glanced to his side. “Bast, come on—”

Bast had fallen back. He stared at a job board in silence, his eyes almost as big as when he’d been staring at the shops earlier.

“What?” Rhys asked. He jogged to Bast’s side.

Jobs, requests, and notices were posted on the board, layered over one another until the paper was inches deep. From lost dogs to monster conquest requests to wanted posters, they were all posted on the board. And Bast stared at one of the wanted posters.

Straw’s face was printed clearly on the poster. His sky blue eyes gazed out from under that familiar straw hat. Below it, Rhys and Bast’s faces gazed out at them. Compared to Straw, their faces were roughly sketched and a little more round-cheeked than they were today, but it was still clearly the two of them.

Beneath it, bold text proclaimed:

EXTREME DANGER

The Remnant Weapon known as Strawman has been sighted in this area. Flee if you see him or his disciples. The Strawman wields immense curse power, and his disciples likely share the same power. Avoid at all costs!

“What the fuck,” Rhys muttered. Weapon? Straw? He could be a little distant at times, and sometimes he acted strange when they caught him off-guard, but something like ‘curse power,’ applied to their teacher, sounded insane.

“Damn, why didn’t he teach us that?” Bast asked.

“Right? I wish,” Rhys muttered. He nudged Bast and nodded toward the exit.

Bast nodded. He followed Rhys toward the rear gate.

A hand grasped Rhys’ shoulder. He jerked to a halt. Bast stopped as well, looking over his shoulder without fully turning. Rhys peeked back. Uh oh.
