“What you write often contorts the base material, but sometimes it’s salvageable.” He shrugged. “I don’t expect many non-cubes. The job ends after a thousand mana, but if you do more then I’ll pay more, in thousand mana increments.”

It was then that Erick realized he might have a problem.

Mend 5, instant, touch, 10 mana

Touch a non-magical complicated medium sized object and restore it to its prime.

Exp: 80/800

Non-magical.

[Mend] had leveled to 5 earlier in the day, but Erick still couldn’t do magical items.

Erick said, “I don’t have a [Mend] that can do magical items. Is this a problem?”

Ulrick frowned, but then shrugged again. “Not really. What’s your [Mend] at, if you don’t mind?”

“5, leveled earlier today, too.”

“You don’t get magical mending till 10.” He frowned, saying, “I had hoped that the mender they’d send would be 10, but I get what I pay for. Do what you can.”

As Ulrick moved to a wooden desk in the back of the room, Erick went to work. He activated [Meditation], picked up a piece of scrap, and cast [Mend]. Then he did it again. And again. And again.

Cube.

Cube. Cube.

Cube. Cube. Cube.

Cube. Cube. Cube. Cube. Cube.

Cube…

Erick turned trash into workable scrap, many, many times.

- - - -

Erick had to stop. He was low on mana, even with [Meditation] active and Clarity dropping [Mend] from 10 MP to 8 MP, then 7 MP near the end of his first iteration. Clarity 5 should have made [Mend] 7.5 mana, but there were no half-MP costs and the Script rounded up; either 1 MP was the lowest discrete particle of MP, or that’s how the Script chose to enact magic in the world. Erick bet the second one was the correct answer.

But hey! [Mend] leveled. Though nothing had changed this level, so he didn’t even notice when it happened. [Mend] outside of odd levels did not change. What would happen at level 9?

Mend 6, instant, touch, 10 mana

Touch a non-magical complicated medium sized object and restore it to its prime.

Exp: 30/1300

[Meditation] leveled, too, before this last job, actually.

Meditation 8

You are at Rest while Meditating.

Normal movement, moderate actions. May attack or defend. Damage done or taken breaks Rest.

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Exp: 976/3400

[Meditation] felt close to natural, now. Mend felt better, too, but there was still no variation from creating a cube. Though he had only gone through 600ish mana, it spent pretty damn fast once he got going.

He needed another twenty minutes to get going again. He looked over at Ulrick. The tealscale dragonkin had been turning metal cubes into magical items in the back of the workshop for the last thirty minutes.

When the man leaned back in his chair to stare at the ceiling, Erick saw his chance.

He asked, “Ulrick?”

Ulrick turned. “Done already?”

“Not yet. At 600ish, but I’m going to 2000, and then I’m going to stop. I wanted to know if I could watch you while you work, for a bit. I’m Resting right now and I’ve never seen enchanting before.”

Ulrick looked at him for a moment. “Sure. I can show you twice.” Ulrick pointed to a spot on the floor three feet away from him. “Stand there. Don’t talk. Don’t move. I’ll tell you when you can move again; only then you may ask your questions.”

Erick quickly complied.

Ulrick picked a metal cube from a nearby bin and placed it on the table in front of him, in the center of an array of 5 rads worth 3G apiece. He didn’t seem to care about picking a specific cube; he grabbed the one nearest to his hand. With the metal cube in front of him, in the center of the array, and Ulrick sitting still in his seat, the flow of mana around him changed. Erick could see that change with his [Meditation] active, but he didn’t understand the change.

Ulrick stared at the cube, dancing his gloved fingers in the space around the metal. All at once the rads vanished and the cube deformed like a gelatin splashing. The liquid metal folded into itself, stretching into a wand.

Ulrick began to whisper words in a language Erick had never heard before.

“A bit of here, a bit of there, a bit of all of everywhere, close your eyes and you will see, all the places you can be. A bit of here, a bit of there, a bit of all of everywhere, close your eyes and just you think, all the places you can [Blink].”

Ulrick leaned back, letting the magic settle.

The wand glittered then cracked in half. The two split halves twisted around each other.

Ulrick sighed. He tossed the wrecked wand into a nearby trash bin. He opened a small box kept on the far side of the table and pulled out 5 more 3G rads, and placed them on the enchanting array. Another metal cube was placed in the center of the array. The flow of mana changed, and Ulrick began enchanting again.

“A bit of here, a bit of there, a bit of all of everywhere, close your eyes and you will see, all the places you can be. A bit of here, a bit of there, a bit of all of everywhere, close your eyes and just you think, all the places you can [Blink].”

This time the metal stabilized in the air, arcs of teal cascading around the metal form from hilt to tip. The wand slowly fell to the table’s surface, but Ulrick was still focused. Nothing was happening. The ambient mana looked stable. But…

After a minute, Ulrick leaned back, sighing, smiling. He turned to Erick. “Worked that time.” He picked up the wand. “[Blink] wand. One charge, but it can hold 50, which is as good as you can get without spending thousands on better metals.” He set it aside. “I’ll leave the charging for later. Any questions?”

“How do you learn Ancient Script? Was that rhyming and then casting the spell at the end? Is all enchanting like that? What’s with all the little rads?”

Ulrick laughed a little. “You truly haven’t seen this before, have you?” Ulrick stood, then walked the other way, toward the filing cabinets. “I’ll just...” He pulled one out, then shoved it closed. He opened another, but that one wasn’t it either. “Where is...” He looked up, then down. He opened one more— “Ah ha! Found it.” He pulled out a text book. He handed it to Erick. It was a textbook on Ecks to Ancient Script, along with the common laws surrounding the practice, as enforced by the Mage Guild. “Bring it back whenever. It’s an old textbook, but it’s still good.” He looked around. “You won’t be able to finish this all today, anyway. Just get as far as you can.”

While Erick began leafing through the textbook, Ulrick went back to work enchanting metal cubes into… flip flip flip… According to the textbook… Ah!

… 500 gold hunks of metal, according to the textbook’s pricing formula.

Well. Not exactly. A single wand of Blink, fully charged, cost 500 gold, like Erick had theorized. But with a bit more reading, the truth behind that cost was a lot more complicated than the spell MP x 20. Items with only one charge —freshly made magic items— were 1/10th the fully charged price, with partial charges costing—

“So? [Mend]?” Ulrick said, smiling at him.

Erick was back to mostly full MP. He put the book into the shoulderbag Jane had bought him.

Cube.

Cube. Cube.

Cube. Cube. Cube.

Cube. Cube.

Cube…

He hit 1000 mana spent on [Mend], and kept going. He Rested a bit, watched Ulrick make two more [Blink] wands, then went back to [Mend]. Before he hit 2000 mana spent, [Mend] leveled again. It wasn’t much more useful to Erick, but it was nice to see progress.

Mend 7, instant, touch, 10 mana

Touch a non-magical uncomplicated large object and restore it to its prime.

Exp: 10/2100

Because of Clarity, he was only spending 7 mana per 10 [Mend] experience gained. It felt nice to go further on the same tank of gas, but also like he was cheating experience. It wasn’t a real problem, though. Erick would hit his experience cap whenever his skills stopped leveling, and that would be that. He didn’t want to get into any monster fights ever again.

He wasn’t sure of the math, but Jane had been sure that he could expect to get to level 14 or 15 without killing monsters, if he spent the rest of his points on base stats. If he bought skills that gave experience, he could go a bit further, but not much.

And another thing! Clarity made getting to 2000 actual mana spent take quite a lot longer! Thankfully he hadn’t put [Mend] as a favored spell, or this job would be impossible.

Or just take a whole lot longer.

Ulrick was walking through the room when Erick finally finished.

“Done!”

“2000 mana?”

“Yup! Maybe a little more.”

Erick wobbled to his feet and pulled the work order out his shoulderbag. Steadying himself on the nearest bin of cubes, he handed the work order to Ulrick, who instead of signing it, pulled a clear stone from his pocket.

“Have you spent at least 2000 mana mending this trash into cubes, and not one of them turned into an item?”

Erick said, “Yes. I have spent over 2000 mana mending stuff into cubes, and not one of them turned into anything other than a cube.”

Green glow.

Ulrick put the stone away and took the paper, signing it big and bold, and twice. He handed the paper back to Erick, as he looked around. Over five trash bins had turned into a little over three cube bins. A far cry from the whole back room. But still, progress.

He said, “You’ve saved me quite a lot of mana and exhaustion. Too bad you already have a teacher or I’d want to swipe you up myself.”

Erick smiled, folding the paper and putting it into his bag. “Al’s a good guy but there’s not much to do after the attack, so it’s odd jobs for now. If this job is still on the board tomorrow, I might come back.”

Ulrick smiled. “You do that.”

Before he ushered himself out of Ulrick’s shoppe, Erick realized he had a question. “Say, Ulrick. I noticed no stat boosting items out there. Are those not worth making? You seem pretty high end, but I just don’t know. Al said I should look into some basic boosting items sooner or later, is why I’m asking.”

Ulrick took a moment to answer. At first he looked maybe-angry, but that quickly changed into gruff determination. “I’ve got an established customer base and I like what I do. There’s money to be made in items like mine and people don’t expect them to last forever. But all those plus Strength and plus Willpower belts and crowns? They always break at the worst possible time, because they always break when they’re stressed.” He waggled his gloved claw. “Mark me, don’t go buying some plus 30 Willpower crown and expect it to last more than 3 or 4 mana pools.” He paused. He relented. “A plus 30 Strength belt, though? That’s useful. For one battle. Maybe two. Enough to save your life, I admit. But no matter what, if you get into basic enchanting, someone is going to die because the item you sold them gave them too much unearned confidence. You don’t want those bodies on your conscience. Enchanting might make you a lot of gold, if you’re good, but that’s not what real enchanting is about. Real enchanting is about saving lives on battlefields you’ll never see.”

Erick thought about that for a moment. It was good advice.

A chime rang from the front room. A voice called, “Hello? Ulrick?”

Erick took that as his cue to leave. He went out into the front room first, then bowed out of the shoppe, saying, “Thanks for the advice, Ulrick.”

Ulrick waved him off, already talking to a pair of dragonkin customers.

Erick turned in his three jobs to the Mage’s Guild; direct deposit, all three. The first two for 4 silver and 5 silver respectively, and the last one for 10 gold, twice. Enchanting gigs were nice, though Erick could already see why they paid out so well, and why the jobs weren’t snatched off of the MCL board as soon as they appeared. It was exhausting work! But he already knew he would go back tomorrow. 10 gold was 10 gold, and 10 gold twice over was even better.

That would happen tomorrow, though; today was done, even if the sun was still in the sky. Erick went to the Sewerhouse and [Blink]ed to the top floor’s landing. Dinner would come around soon enough, but until then, sleep! He glanced at his status before he crashed on the living room couch. One day soon he could ignore the passive skills, but for now, it was nice to see the numbers go up.

Oh. He had gained a base level, too, and… Ouch. Look at that level requirement. At 14400 exp to next level, Erick might already be staring at the mountain.

Erick Flatt

Human, age 48

Level 11, Class: None

Exp: 610/14400

Class: -/-

Points: 7

HP

90/90

150 per day

MP

576/576

576 per day

Strength

9

+0

[9]

Vitality

15

+0

[15]

Willpower

20

+0

[20]

Focus

20

+0

[20]

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Concentration 9

Multiply your base MP regen by 2.88

Requirements: 20 Focus

Exp: 2363/5500

Discipline 9

Multiply your base MP by 2.88

Requirements: 20 Willpower

Exp: 1094/5500

Clarity 7

Reduces spell costs by 35%

Exp: 1470/2100

Mana Shaping 5

Alter spell AOE in better, subtle ways, 10 MP + spellcost

Alter spell AOE in better, moderate ways, 30 MP + spellcost

Aurify Unlocked

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Exp: 140/800

Aurify 1

Transform an AOE spell into a semi-permanent effect surrounding yourself, based upon the parameters of the Aurified spell. Increase an instantaneous spell to a 1 second duration in order to create an aura.

Able to support 1 aura at a time.

Exp: 0/10000

Mana Altering 1

Bludgeoning, Slashing, or Piercing Damage

Exp: 0/100

Meditation 8

You are at Rest while Meditating.

Normal movement, moderate actions. May attack or defend. Damage done or taken breaks Rest.

Requirements: 10 Willpower

Exp: 2689/3400

Cleanse 5, instant, short range, 10 mana.

Purge an area equal to the level of the spell in meters of all Toxins, Disease, Filth, and Corruption.

