“How so? You’ve done great, and I’m being serious here. Both Yggdrasil and Nature’s Attendant like you and seem to have a lot of belief in your future potential. Enough for it to play a factor in them wanting to make a public declaration of friendship. Moreover, an undeniable bond has now been created between our two factions due to you and Artemis. When factoring in that the Pantheon of Life is recognized as a superior faction to the Order of the Malefic Viper, this is an impressive accomplishment, and if you had completed it less accidentally, I reckon the rewards would have been even better.”

“This still feels like some kind of scam,” Jake insisted, feeling like those were four of his most unearned levels ever.

“Think of it as you may,” Villy didn’t bother arguing. “A joint declaration of friendship will be announced, but don’t worry, it won’t contain anything related to you and Artemis. We’ll keep that under wraps for now, and it’s something you two can share on your own timeline and terms.”

“Probably for the best,” Jake sighed. “And thanks. I could see it lead to a lot of annoying situations if everyone knew.”

“Hey, we both know you’re gonna let it slip at inopportune times, leading to hilarity. I wouldn’t rob myself of that experience,” Villy teased him. “Seeing as you’re done with your mission, I would suggest returning to the Order of the Malefic Viper once you’ve received your new bow and wrapped up all your other projects. Once Palate is fixed, I also have the present from Yip waiting for you. Unless you planned on moving to the Pantheon of Life to spend time with your girl and have become the kind of person that neglects all his other friends just because he got into a relationship, that is.”

“Eh, a lot of the stuff I’m doing. I may as well be doing back at the Order,” Jake shrugged. “So, sure, it shouldn’t end up taking that much longer. But as you said, I do have quite a few things I want to get done before leaving.”

“No rush, no rush,” the Viper said casually. “You enjoy yourself now. I’ll get back to more important matters.”

“Didn’t you already tell me the primary function of that clone is to stalk me?” Jake accurately pointed out.

“Exactly, and when you’re talking to me, you’re not doing anything fun for me to observe,” Villy said, as if his statement made perfect sense. “See ya!”

Before Jake could say anything more, the telepathic link was cut off.

Alone once more – if one ignored the fact that Villy was still observing him – Jake sat back on the couch and let out a loud sigh. His head was spinning with complicated things he hated that he even had to think about. Luckily, he’d just been given something excellent to distract himself and force him to think about something else.

It had come a bit earlier than Jake would have liked, as he’d wanted to make some more progress in his alchemy, but delaying it also didn’t seem like a smart thing. Ultimately, Jake reckoned he had enough Records even without fixing Palate, as he hoped and expected to get something good.

Opening the system menu, Jake saw the message staring back at him as it was time for the final skill selection of C-grade.

Heretic-Chosen Alchemist of the Malefic Viper profession skills available
