Four hours.

For four hours, Rain had trained like a maniac. He’d probably done more pushups, situps, and squats than he’d ever done in his whole life, just in that short span. Only now, lying flat on his back and feeling like he was going to die, would he admit that he might have gotten a bit carried away.

He had started out feeling strong. Too strong. It was Stamina that was doing it. Yes, his body was stronger due to Strength, and theoretically tougher thanks to Endurance, but that wasn’t enough to explain how easy everything had been. It was the buffer provided by Stamina that let him just keep going and going, like the rabbit from the battery commercials.

When he started, he’d had around four hundred stamina. The pushups had been trivial thanks to his boosted Strength, and they had stayed trivial. Normally, each one would have been a little harder than the last as his muscles got worn out. However, that didn’t start happening until his stamina dipped below two hundred or so. Back in the realm of humans, things had begun feeling a bit more familiar. He’d started having to switch exercises every so often to give his muscles a rest.

Still, he hadn’t stopped.

Purify had let him keep going. He knew that the whole lactic acid thing was a myth and that it had nothing to do with muscle soreness, but it made sense to him that there would be waste products of some kind. The fact was that Purify worked, and it hardly mattered why. It hadn’t erased his fatigue, far from it, but it had helped with the pain.

And there had definitely been pain. As he kept going, his health had actually started to drop. He’d almost stopped when he saw that, but a glance at his Strength tolerance had convinced him to continue. The first two hundred stamina that he’d spent had only gotten him a single point of tolerance. The next hundred had gotten him two points, corresponding to the increase in difficulty. The final hundred stamina to get down to zero had netted him three, confirming that how hard you were pushing yourself mattered more than the actual stamina expenditure.

Getting to zero stamina had been one of the hardest things that he’d ever done. He’d had to slow down, waiting longer and longer between each set of exercises to give his body time to recover. It wasn’t like all those times when he’d slowly drained his stamina over the course of a day. The fatigue had felt like a physical thing, sitting atop his back as he forced his body to keep going. Low stamina made every movement more tiring, and his muscles had been screaming for rest. The desire to just give up had been overwhelming. He wouldn’t stop, though. Couldn’t stop. He was tired of being weak.

All in all, the first round of training had taken a little over an hour and cost him four hundred points of stamina and sixteen points of health. It had earned him six points of Strength tolerance, two points of Endurance tolerance, and one point of general stat buff tolerance.

Amazing progress. Better than he’d hoped.

He’d paused then, to recover and to think. There had been no response to his calls for help. Plan A was a failure. Detection showed that the tunnels leading to the surface were blocked, though he couldn’t get much detail on the nature of the blockages. There was stone everywhere; searching for stone at a high resolution was overwhelming.

Plan B was likewise a failure, in that it didn’t exist. He’d yet to think of anything better than his current course of action.

So, after he’d eaten a pair of ration bars to toughen up his jaw, he’d chugged a stamina potion and kept going.

The potion had brought him back up to three hundred stamina but had done nothing for his tired body. The ring had solved that little issue. He’d lowered his Endurance deliberately, sacrificing ten stamina at a time. To his delight, it had worked precisely as he’d expected it to. Each puff of overstamina had made him feel just a little stronger. He’d sacrificed the full hundred, ending up sore, but no longer tired. Then, he’d reset the ring and continued.

Getting back to zero had been an excruciatingly slow process. It took him almost twice as long this time. By the end of it, he’d lost another forty health, but improved his Strength tolerance by another six points, Endurance tolerance by three, and general stat buff tolerance by two. He’d kept adjusting the ring as he went, adding points to both stats as they increased; however, he’d decided not to remove the points from Clarity to compensate. That was where he had made his first mistake.

It had seemed like a good idea at the time. At that point, his total buff had been sitting at 168, 33 points past his general tolerance. He’d started to feel the warmth in his bones that signaled he was pushing too hard, but he had refused to relent. ‘Pain is weakness leaving the body,’ and ‘the burn says it’s working’ and all that. Compared to the complaints of his muscles, the slight warmth had been nothing, barely an inconvenience. His tolerance had never improved quickly, and he’d figured that the reason was that he hadn’t been pushing himself hard enough.

Two more ration bars and another Stamina potion had met their fates.

The potion had worked, just as it had before, and so had the trick with the ring. The tiredness once more vanished; however, the pain had been even greater this time, forcing him to slow down further still. As he’d continued training, it had grown worse and worse, as did the fire within his bones. The gains, however, had been extraordinary, so he’d pushed through it, earning seven more points of Strength tolerance, four points of Endurance, and three of general. No matter how much his body had complained, he’d refused to stop.

In retrospect, that might have been unwise.

Rain was currently lying on the floor, struggling to breathe. His heart was beating like a bird’s, and his lungs were burning as he fought to keep himself from hyperventilating. He barely had the presence of mind to stop himself from just tearing the ring from his finger completely. Instead, he was forcing himself to slowly decrease the buff to Strength, ten points at a time.

With each decrease, he felt a little better, the fire within his bones retreating to be replaced by a deep, lingering ache. His tortured muscles started feeling better, too, thanks to overhealth from excess HP. By the time he removed the last point of Strength, the sense of his imminent demise had faded, replaced with anger at his own stupidity. He tried to sit up and failed utterly. His body instead did a pathetic sort-of twitch. It didn’t look like he’d be moving for a while.

He sighed, closing his eyes.

Damn it. I pulled a Val.

“Dominus, the barrier remains unbroken,” said Princeps-Magus Markus, commander of the first artillery contingent.

“Yes, I can see that. Your point?” the dominus said, a note of danger in his voice.

The princeps raised his head, looking at his scowling superior. “Requesting permission to intensify the barrage.”

“Denied. Continue the rotations.”

Markus looked back at his own artillery contingent. They were not due for another salvo for an hour under the current schedule. He shook his head, then glared at the dominus, his annoyance boiling over into anger. “Dominus, this is ridiculous! We can—”

“Enough!” screamed the dominus. “Leave me!”

“Perhaps if you would explain why…”

“Idiot!” the dominus roared. “If I need to explain it to you, perhaps you are undeserving of your rank. Fine! It is not like I can request a replacement; thus, I must enlighten you.” He shook his head, continuing in a condescending tone. “What happens if the DKE sends a Citizen our way and the artillery is all out of mana? The archers out of stamina? The enhancers, spent? Will the infantry protect us on their own, once the barriers fail?”

Markus shook his head. What happened to his confidence? He ordered Lightbreaker to lower the veil when we attacked, as was proper. But now he’s had him put it back up while we sit here and bide our time… “Dominus, if you allow me and the other princeps to attack with full force, I am confident we can break through quickly. We would be able to bring in reinforcements from—”

“Quiet,” said the dominus, his tone cold. Markus closed his mouth. When Dominus Bekerim stopped yelling, that was when the real danger began. “I said no. Your detachment will assist Princeps-Praesidium Gavek with the fortifications for the rest of the day. You will explain to your mages why they are lifting rocks while their fellows bring down the barrier for the glory of the empire. Now, go.”

The princeps controlled his expression, slamming a fist to his chest. “Adamant Unbending.”

“Adamant Unbending,” Dominus Bekerim replied formally, then turned away to stare once more at the barrier.

The princeps forced himself to walk calmly back to his contingent. It was utterly ridiculous that the Adamant Army had been stalled like this, their surprise attack ruined. The dominus was hesitating. He was making them look weak. Weakness was unacceptable.

Princeps-Magus Markus was eagerly awaiting the assembly of the mindcaster. Once the bulky contraption was operational, the dominus would be forced to report his failure to the potentate. Then, they would have a new dominus. Then, the real assault could begin.

Richmond Rain Stroudwater

CLASS

LVL

CAP

Dynamo

18

18

EXP

NEXT

TOTAL

14,749

22,750

336,832

Vitals

CUR

MAX

RGN

HP

200

200

380/d

SP

126

920

450/d

MP

4,827

5,662

1.3/s

Dark Revenant’s Armor

CUR

MAX

RGN

DUR

9,722

1,309

0

SAT

0

13,202

-92/s

CHG

0

14,209

0

Attributes

124/139

EFF

TOTAL

BASE

BUFF

SYN

STR

2.4

10

10

0/37

24%

RCV

7.38

38

10

28/8

41%

END

7.8

46

10

36/16

30%

VGR

10.4

45

10

35/16

40%

FCS

10

10

10

0/49

100%

CLR

225

225

200

25/61

100%

Resistances

0/?

FLAT

PERCENT

HEAT

4.6

0%

COLD

4.6

0%

LIGHT

4.6

0%

DARK

4.6

0%

FORCE

4.6

0%

ARCANE

4.6

0%

CHEMICAL

4.6

0%

MENTAL

4.6

0%

Rain rubbed at his eyes and sighed at the weakness that he still felt in his arms. The floating blue menu was all that he could see, lying in darkness as he was. It had been about an hour since he’d collapsed, and he’d used the time to remodel his menus, rather than risk injuring himself further by attempting to sit up.

Starting from the top, he’d managed to add two new fields, namely his level cap and his total experience. The cap was straightforward, but total experience was another story. After a bit of head-scratching, he’d realized that the system was including all of the experience that he’d spent unlocking skill trees. He’d confirmed it by unlocking the last eight remaining trees of the second tier. His current experience had dropped, but the total hadn’t changed.

Unlocking the skill trees had been a calculated risk. From past experience, he was 99% sure that the different categories of soulstrain were independent. Working up the nerve to act on that theory had been the hard part. In the end, he hadn’t felt the slightest strain, even after unlocking all eight trees in a row. He drew the line at trying for a tier-three, however. That was just asking for trouble. He’d do it eventually, but giving himself a few minutes to rest seemed like a good idea.

He’d tried to add pending experience to the display as well, but that had been a failure. No matter how hard he had struggled to define what he wanted, the system had outright refused to acknowledge him. He’d lost a full fifteen minutes on the project before he’d given up. The system was infuriatingly arbitrary about some things.

Moving on, he’d consolidated his vital statistics, even adding the state of his armor. It had been surprisingly easy to pull in the information from his inventory window. Oddly, the hardest part had been getting his current health, mana, and stamina to display on the window. Sometimes, the system seemed like it was just being difficult out of spite.

Lastly, he’d condensed his adaptation panel so it would fit, then added his resistances as an afterthought. The only stats that were missing from his new display were his perception and movement speed, but those seldom changed. He could always just check his old window if he wanted to see them. Honestly, this new one was busy enough as it was.

In any event, he could now see his general condition at a glance, which was a definite improvement over the three different windows he’d had to check before. Reconfiguring the windows had been easy, for the most part. Now, it was time for something hard: sitting up.

Okay, here we go.

Slowly, Rain raised himself up onto his elbows, then pushed himself up until he was sitting. Wow, not as bad as I expected. There’s no pain, just weakness. Stamina soulstrain? He took a deep breath, filling his lungs to the max, then let the air out slowly. There was no sign of the burning pain that had gripped them as he struggled for air. The ache in his bones had faded away as well.

Well then. That which does not kill you makes you stronger.

Strength Tolerance: 18 -> 37

Recovery Tolerance: 8 -> 8

Endurance Tolerance: 7 -> 16

Vigor Tolerance: 15 -> 16

General Tolerance: 133 -> 139

Strength and Endurance gained a lot, which makes sense. Recovery got nothing, and Vigor only got one point, which means that potion-and-ring shenanigans are a no-go as far as the secondary stats are concerned. It must only count natural regeneration. Damn. Still, with this kind of progress, people must do stuff like this for training all the time. Even if it doesn’t work for the recovery stats, the results don’t lie. I thought I was going to need five days to do all this, but here I am doing it in one.

Not feeling up to the task of standing quite yet, Rain crawled over to his pack and retrieved a ration bar. The rock-hard ‘food’ resisted his attempts to bite into it, and his jaw felt too tired to manage the pressure required to break it. He chuckled to himself. So I starve to death because my food is too hard? I think not.

He opened the settings for the ring and hesitantly started adding points into Strength. This time, he took points out of Clarity to compensate, not wanting to strain his general tolerance in the slightest. He tried taking another bite of the ration with 20 points invested. This time, he managed to crack off a piece and quickly shuffled it into his cheek to soften.

Much better.

Soulstrain was the strangest thing. The categories were indeed separate. If there was a ‘general soulstrain,’ he wasn’t sure he’d ever pushed himself hard enough to feel it.

