A black veil hung around the passage, obscuring her perception. She sent a spear of mana but it did not seem to do anything. A thrown piece of rock did no better.

“It seeks life,” Irao eventually whispered. “Observe.”

The Hadal stepped forward before Viv could utter a warning. The cloud exploded, seeking life voraciously. Viv thought the assassin was done for this time, but he reappeared next to her as if he had never left. Perhaps he had not. Viv had bigger issues, because the flow of black mana crashed against her shield until it blotted the way, a thick wall of void, impenetrable. Impossibly, it started to eat at her own defenses. She charged the shield with the meaning of annihilation and still the trap ate at it.

It was her annihilation against the necrarch’s. It was winning.

“Aegis!”

The shield changed, turning into a hive structure of pentagons.

“It’s still pushing, I may need —”

Solar stepped forward and drew his blade. He thrusted.

All air left Viv’s lungs. Reality was drawn forward, filling the void left by the strike.

The last rays of the sunset shone on the tunnel, dispersing dregs of darkness.

“Could have opened with that,” Viv mumbled.

“It’s actually quite tiring to pierce a hole through a mountain,” Solar drily said. “I am counting on you for the magical aspect of things. Such strikes would be better used against the necrarch.”

“Sorry,” Viv replied, chastised.

//Your Grace, this was a good opportunity to understand what we are facing.

//I am convinced that you can come up with good countermeasures.

Is there a way to redirect the spell instead of stopping it?” Sidjin asked.

Viv knew he had probably come up with his own defense. She appreciated the small attention.

“Yes, I just have to make a half sphere and let the attack glance over it, and over us. It —”

Everyone but Sidjin turned around, suddenly alerted.

//Mana saturation increasing.

“In the tunnel, now,” Sidjin said.

The rest of the party followed him up the step. On a hunch, Viv added a sound barrier to the latticed defenses the two caster set in front of them.

A deep scream fell on them and bounced. This time, the casters’ adapted defenses fended off the most damaging effect. All that was left was an unsettling, muffled hiss.

This guy sure likes screaming, Viv thought.

“It’s behind us,” Irao said.

//Yes.

//We know this.

//We need to lure it once into a chokehold for assessment and to wound it.

Irao nodded. Viv got the impression he was merely informing them, not trying to give orders. In any case, they moved up the stairs and into a large room with actual windows and several paths branching out. They also found the first trace of the invaders beyond the battle damage. Someone had scrawled runes under the various directions, translating them for its new occupants.

//Those are ancient alphabets used during the first Harrakan era.

//Traces can still be found in royal tombs and the oldest temples.

//I can decipher it.

//With any chance, I will be able to translate the unknown glyphs.

//The ancient translations mean: study rooms, living quarters, armory, and garden of fertility.

“Should we explore?”

//Yes.

//But first, create a fallback position here.

Sidjin and Viv moved with practiced ease, finishing the defensive structure in record time.

//Let us move on.

The complex turned out to be massive. The living quarters must have been able to host at least five hundred people and that was not even counting the barracks downstairs. Most rooms were small cells or packed dormitories with stone slabs jutting out of the wall to serve as bed. Only half of them still held strong. The arrangement seemed Spartan to Viv. The ancient humans probably had bigger concerns than comfort. They also found two more traps, which Viv managed to deflect without much issue this time. On the other hand, there were no artifacts to be found. The complex had been looted clean and whatever had been left was now merely more than dust and debris.

Solfis guided them towards the armory next, though Viv didn’t expect it to have anything considering how thoroughly sacked the rest of the place was. A narrow tunnel led towards the interior of the mountain. There were two heavy doors made of giant slabs of black rock blocking their way.

//Higher mana concentration detected.

“There are things inside. Undead,” Irao said. “They are bound.”

The Hadal’s words left the others confused.

“What do you mean, bound?” Sidjin asked.

“Chains.”

//We must dispose of as many threats as we can.

//Deny resources to the necrarch.

Solfis moved in, followed by the rest of the party. The golem then stood vigil by the door while Viv increased her light’s intensity, focusing on the back. The armory was a large, rectangular room and it was completely empty save for the far wall where three deformed creatures awaited, their massive, white bodies covered in cruel metal links covered in spikes. Dull red sigils shone on their surface. Viv recognized the red glare of necrarchs, but the things were smaller. They did, however, have that slightly humanoid head with an elongated jaw riddled with sharp fangs. Irao had told the truth. Those were prisoners.

[Nascent necrarch: Extremely dangerous, a creature on the verge of becoming the most dangerous natural undead in existence. Close quarter expert. Ignores damage.]

The chains pulsed once, the dull red turning the color of lava. One of the necrarchs growled.

“It’s draining them,” Viv realized with horror. “It’s taking their power.”.

Her attention turned to Sidjin who was frantically building a fallback shield array.

“Sidjin?”

“It won’t let us get to its pantry.”

//Mana density increasing.

“It’s coming,” Irao whispered.

Mother, stay behind Arthur!

With a clink that sounded like a death knell, the chains around the nascent necrarchs unlocked, and fell to the ground.
