“I will avert my eyes, Viviane,” Solar assured her.

Viv had to keep the light on to see what she was doing while everyone changed into black-leather covered armor and helmet. Sidjin looked like the dark heir to an evil empire in his, while Solar wore full plate and would have scared off a Nazgul. Viv’s own armor was the same leather she had worn when attacking the assassin’s guild, modified for insulation. Irao did not change outfit. As for Solfis, the golem stayed put since he was already bone naked.

Arthur stayed put because she was scale-naked, then spent the time complaining.

Boat is moving too much.

Why do you need so many layers?

Grow scales already.

Stupid not gold metal skin things.

“Wait, you’re not supposed to be part of this operation,” Viv said.

//I did not plan for Arthur to join us.

What are you going to do, stop me?

This is a good hunt.

I will protect you.

“But the necrarch can’t even be eaten!” Viv told her.

There is more than food in this world.

Arthur turned her head haughtily.

There is gold, also.

In the necrarch’s den.

“Maybe.”

//If she stays by your side, she might help with casting.

//However, the necrarch will kill her in close quarter combat.

//She must remain at the back.

I stay with mother.

No burning our friends.

Smart dragon.

Very strategic.

Deadlier than compound interests.

“I should not have taught you that, dammit. Fine. No direct fighting. We stay under the shield and throw spells.”

Arthur nodded and the trip resumed. Solfis placed himself at the tip, his unblinking gaze watching the tunnel. Viv tried to remind herself she was protected by some of the deadliest fighters on the continent but it did little to dispel the cold chill clawing at her torso. The party remained silent until the time the skiff reached the underground pier where Viv had made her escape.

It was lighter here. The long-abandoned base of ancient humanity remained, dusty and bare. They moored the ship at the lone pier and filed out in silence. Solfis and Irao took position near the wide passage leading to the entrance while Solar covered a tunnel leading farther into the complex. Viv, Sidjin, and Arthur remained in a central position, vigilant. Viv heard words at the edge of her perception, hisses floating in the wind.

No, not the wind. Mana.

“It knows we’re here,” she whispered.

///It has a domain.

//Let us go before it decides to attack us while we are not ready.

The party walked to the main cave, the vast expanse where Viv had found the god statues. She noticed that the corpses of the lizards she had slain were gone, though she was not sure what to think of it. They moved in formation and quickly, with the melee combatants at the back. Outside the lone mountain, the sun was setting. The path down was covered in fallen, rotting leaves and broken branches. The air was heavy with the smell of nature and the dizzying effect of the unending forest’s domain. Viv did not stop until they were at an ancient campsite, the remains of old menhirs still clear after centuries of wind and rain. Viv and Sidjin did not wait. The mage cleared a perfect circle of stone in a breath and removed all detritus with a wave of his hand. Viv was carving runes and circles before the dust had even settled. Above them, dark clouds hung low, pushed north by a cold wind. The valley waited, silent.

Suddenly, Solar turned and drew his sword. Viv glanced at it. The blade was dull gray, yet strangely hard to look at. It was also huge. Solfis stood as well.

She redoubled her effort. Something was coming. There was a stampede rushing towards the mouth of the cavern.

Viv looked up from her writing. Above her, the twisting path led up to the maw of the mountain, its stalactites like so many teeth ready to fall and mangle, and something was coming from it. A lot of something. A first dark shape flew out, the another, then an army. The sky was dark and the ground was squirming with undead bodies, a veritable tide of dry flesh and old, creaking bones. The sun shone on dry pelt, exposed, dry tendons. Shriveled organs. Viv powered the outer circle to activate the first layer of the shield, but Sidjin rerouted the mana to deeper parts.

“Focus,” Sidjin ordered in a tense voice.

“But…”

Solar swung.

Viv felt him move though she was not looking and no mana surge warned her that it would come. She felt him swing in the same way one can feel heat, standing on a window overlooking a nuclear reactor. Solar struck and he split the sky in two.

There was a massive boom, and the setting sun returned through the gash, bloodying the severed cloud. Daylight returned, if briefly. The mountain shone red under its glare.

“Holy shit.”

“Focus, love.”

“Sorry.”

The stampede had stopped, shredded to bits, or so it seemed, but Viv felt the cave entrance vomit a tide of black mana, more mana than she had ever felt since the heart of the deadlands. The amount of power the necrarch could conjure was simply staggering. In an instant, the blasphemous horde reformed and resumed its assault. Viv heard a sybillant threat in the tide of power, then what sounded like a hissing laugh. She traced the glyphs faster, her hand assured.

//We need a way to keep them down.

“Squee.”

//If you please.

Then the undead were on them, around them, over them. Feathers and bits fell all around as the melee fighters took down the lesser threats faster than they would come, for now. Viv saw blue eyes, a sign of necromantic direct control, not on one being but on all of them. The fallen mocked her as they reformed to their original, rotten forms.

Heat came. Arthur vaporized an entire flank. The stench was horrible. Viv was still writing, inscribing every symbol with care. Not looking up. Something almost got to her but Irao stabbed it and when it fell, it did not step back up. What he slew stayed dead. The necrarch whispered through its puppets, uncaring. Viv knew why. This was not an assault. This was not even a probing force. The necrarch was keeping them busy until nightfall.

Then it would come.

But Viv would be ready. With a last flourish, the shield locked in position and the next corpse that tried to penetrate was pushed back. It was, Viv noted, a merl corpse, its prehensile feet turned into bone claws.

Viv was in business.

“I’ll challenge his control.”

//Acknowledged.

Sidjin turned the edge of the shield into a mincer, blending the beasts as they approached and tying them up. The mana the necrarch was expending boggled Viv’s mind, and she judged she could not win a contest of will with it. She would have a better chance swimming up a waterfall.

[Powered revenants: undead remains animated by a powerful necromancer, Very dangerous, instant regeneration, ignores damage.]

As expected, the necrarch puppetted them with its will. Just staring into those blue flames let her feel the touch of its malevolent mind. Viv picked a large bear Solfis was dismembering and cast.

“Yoink.”

Viv hit a wall, a solid mass of energy so dense it felt solid to her soul. Rather than mushing herself against it, she claimed a small part, and drained. As soon as the energy was hers, she absorbed it and grabbed some more. She felt full in a bare second and poured the excess energy into their shield, overcharging it.

Inside of the mountain, a creature shrieked in outrage.

Viv gasped. The scream carried such hatred that she lost control of the spell, and the necrarch seized it. The tendril remained and Viv felt its grasp climb up towards her.

She cut her spell and the bear gave her a lipless, putrefied smirk. So Viv cast again.

“Mass Yoink.”

Viv’s questing tendrils grabbed one creature after the other, plundering what she could before breaking the connection. The necrarch screamed again. This time, it was personal.

The powerful sound shook her. It spoke of so much time spent in the darkness, growing more vicious and more cunning. It told a tale of many hunts, always ending cruelly, always in blood and death, in cracked bones and pulled limbs because the necrarch, at the heart of it, was craving without satisfaction. It had been robbed of the peace of death and all that was left was vengeance and fury. Before that, Viv was nothing. A child. A speck of dust.

Except, that was not quite true.

The wave of intimidation smashed against the tiny mustard seed of Viv’s soul, and found the trace of past deeds. Viv was still a small pebble in the grand scheme of things but she had achieved much with the tools at her disposal and the world, and her soul remembered. Leadership shielded her and reminded her that those around her had come to gravitate around her orbit. It was her hunt, her squad. Draconic intimidation rose and spoke of cold rage preceding fiery violence. The wave waxed. The wave waned. Viv’s soul was left behind, a fluttering white orb, unscathed.

Soul Master: Beginner 3

Draconic Intimidation: Expert 2

“Ok, first of all, GO FUCK YOURSELF.”

Viv cast a sound spell to dull the screams around her and resumed casting. In front of her, a blur showed the various combatants at work. Solar moved in liquid lunges that pulverized creatures in their path, the trail of devastation continuing far beyond the reach of his blade. Solfis was a nightmare of claws that moved minimally and stayed by her side. Each of its movements was performed with lethal precision. As for Irao, he went after the more vicious and problematic specimens, leaving behind corpses with no signs of damage and yet, they would never rise again. Sidjin shredded the chaff and burned the remains together with an opportunistic, flame-spitting Arthur. Already, a pyre was lit at the back of the formation and it was growing taller with every new kill. The necrarch’s forces were melting like snow under the sun.

And just as the attack had started, it stopped. All the revenants fell at the same time, their black mana reclaimed.

The battle stopped abruptly.

It had been the most intense and exhilarating fight in Viv’s existence. She had never seen such a display of deadly prowess.

The fighters gathered in a circle, everyone making sure they were unharmed. No one had taken even a scratch.

“Damn that was cool. What now?” Viv asked.

//We proceed as planned.

//We dispose of the bodies.

//Then we go after it.

***

The party destroyed the corpses to the last one with rigorous attention to detail. Nothing larger than a bird wing was left behind, the rest burnt with standard and dragon fire. Only when the fall back position was fully secured did they move in. Viv thought Solfis might call for a stop, but the golem did not want to give up the initiative.

//Necrarchs are cunning, but mostly they are tireless.

//The longer this goes and the longer you meatbags will weaken.

//We will take small breaks after the necrarch retreats to regenerate.

He seemed confident.

Viv followed her defenders into the main cavern. It was dark, empty, and foreboding. The old god statues stood a silent vigil as they had the last time she was here. Without prompt, Viv set up a charging station for Solfis while Sidjin made another, more basic fallback position. The cave continued deeper into the mountains, but Viv knew there must also be a path up. The lone mountain had a secondary opening much higher up, she remembered, far above the forest level.

//There does not seem to be a chokepoint ahead.

//We will head right and await its first attack.

The party moved, with Solar leading the way and Solfis closing the march. Viv could no longer see Irao but she suspected he would make himself seen when it mattered. They returned to the pier first, then up a short flight of stairs through the door she had previously ignored. It led into a large room with a stone counter. Powdery wood and pottery fragments littered the ground. Viv called some light again.

//Looks like a storage space.

More doors led into an enclosed room with stone beds and tables. Private quarters. They found a lobby of sorts, with a cold hearth over red stone. Viv stepped on it and realized it was not red stone. A muffled sound of pain carried through her soul, bypassing her ears entirely.

//Careful, Your Grace.

“The hell is that?”

[Grave of the faithful: a powerful curse was uttered here by a dying folk. Its strength has faded over the eons but the flaking blood remains.]

“Is that…”

The ground was covered in so many rust-colored spots that only a true massacre could have left such a mark. Viv wanted to believe it was a side-effect of the curse, but she did not believe it. Now that her attention was drawn to violence, she noticed the damage more. Some of it had not been inflicted by time.

“Spear strikes,” Solar whispered, most of his attention remaining on a passage. “Powerful wielder to shear stone like that.”

The more the party explored, and the clearer it was that the lone mountain had not been abandoned peacefully. Unfortunately, there was little way for Viv to understand what had happened since most of the evidence had disintegrated. Solfis, however, took note of every piece of writing it could find. There were runes left, engraved in stone next to tunnels or above rooms.

The group found that the inside of the mountain had been hollowed out. The ground floor mostly hid warehouses and barracks with the occasional socializing or living quarters, even a bath. They ignored the passage leading deeper and decided to climb up first.

“Hold on,” VIv said, facing the stairs.

//Detecting hostile construct.

“I feel it as well. It’s… subtle.”

“Too subtle for me,” Sidjin said.

“It’s intuitive. Here.”

Viv set up a barrier including one for sound, then it was all about interfacing.

“Just need to trigger it remotely.”

