Viv watched the bewildered Harrakans exit her portal, spreading out on the open meadow and marveling at the wonders of magic she had just unveiled for them. Ten days of harrowing trek across the Deadshield spared. Ten days of terrifying encounters with monsters and beastling tides, with the forest’s disquieting effect bypassed with the facility of a high speed train ride minus the time. They ambled out, blocking the way of those behind. Viv could still see the green on gray background of the deadland behind the portal’s aperture. Mostly, she wished they’d hurry the fuck up because keeping that thing on was hard.

“Move, move!” Ban bellowed, and the selected merchants sheepishly dragged their cornudon-drawn carriages across the plain. The wooly beast didn’t seem too bothered by the change of scenery, the most enterprising already grazing on unchewed grass.

Maybe they were simply too dumb to care.

Over the next minute, Harrak’s first grand caravan trailed through the opening at a brisk pace. Its members had been selected among volunteers and path traders whose lives had taken a turn for the worse, forcing them to become refugees. Now, they had a second chance and many were eager to make a killing on the markets of Reixa and other Enorian cities. The only downside was that they would miss the harvest festival with their families. It was a huge deal Viv could sympathize with, as it seemed to be the local equivalent of Christmas or Eid or Hanukkah or the Spring Festival: a family celebration meant to gather relatives. It was too easy for her to forget that the Enorian people had vibrant traditions and a long history of their own when she still considered herself an outsider.

“Your Grace,” Ban said, his face twisted in a scowl.

The old soldier looked even grimmer and crustier than before, his muscles corded like steel wire under the heaviest armor the Yries had ever produced. He was also well on the fourth step, which made him one of the deadlier fighters of humanity.

[Tip of the Spear: commander of the first regiment, first company of the Harrakan heavy infantry, the heiress’ guard. Expert close quarter combatant, unbreakable, tenacious, adaptative fighter, fast learner, loyal, undead slayer, man killer.]

A long, braided white beard fell from his helmet down to his navel and white, embroidered pennants flew from his black steel armor, decorating an otherwise plain armor. He looked much more respectable now than he used to, back when he had been a retired veteran. The fact that his entire gear had been enchanted to the gills by the smiths of Neriad helped with that as well, Viv suspected.

“Ban,” Viv greeted in return.

The old man had kept the Harrakan military in top shape through exacting training and even increased its numbers, though it had been a force without purpose, with no clear threats aimed at the nascent kingdom. Now, though, he would see action again.

“I believe you should let us come with you, as a honor guard.”

Viv shook her head. Ban had let his disapproval known but had not voiced it until now.

“The heavies have plenty of strength but black mana resistance is not one of them. Trust me, it would be a waste to have you die against the necrarch. You are much better used escorting our very first caravan since the independence.”

“You said the roads are much safer now…”

“For Enorians, yes.”

It was time for a quick lesson in basic politics. Fortunately, there were similarities between Earth and Nyil mythologies.

“Look Ban, you know how Maranor stands for justice here, yes? And her weapon is a sword, not a shield? How many law bringers pick a sword as their symbol?”

“Hmmm.”

“Justice is not about protecting people because it’s almost impossible to achieve. Would be nice though. Justice is about righting the wrongs after they have occurred. The Enorians will protect their own and punish marauding groups of bandits swiftly now that the war is over. If the victim happens to be foreigners, however…”

Understanding pierced through Ban’s mind and his eyes widened. He was not born yesterday.

“If the foreigners come from a separatist city that humiliated their army twice…” the old man continued.

“Then perhaps the local nobles will not look too hard into any mass disappearance. The local traders may bemoan the loss of opportunity but most citizens might enjoy seeing us taken down a peg. Reminded of our place in the food chain, as it were. Now, if it were just a couple of caravan guards, the opportunist would probably take their chance. If, however, the caravan is defended by elite infantry and crossbowmen…”

“Then they will know that we will draw more blood that they can afford to shed.”

“It’s also about sending a message,” Viv continued. “They might still see us as lucky bastards saved by the deadshield woods. You are to prove them wrong.”

“We will be seen, Your Grace. They will know the Harrakan Heavy infantry has returned from the grave of history. We will be the tip of the spear.”

“Thank you Ban, but most importantly… get my people home.”

“By your will. After that, I shall cleanse our new territory of undead presence.”

“Please do so. I want us to take Shinur’s Gate upon my return. No more delays.”

“Understood.”

The old man saluted then left to direct people. Viv considered herself lucky to have dedicated people on her side. Her father had mentioned it several times. It was better to lead a team of competent people than be competent yourself. With this, she started to close her portal now that everyone had been through. To her surprise, someone else was waiting for her to be done.

It was the town’s apothecary. Viv did not interact much with him on account of his dull and dour personality. He was good at his job and so Viv let him be, a favor he had been returning so far.

“Yes?” Viv asked.

“I should have asked before. I have an idea. I think it can work, but I will need three gold talents.”

Viv blinked.

“Why don’t you start from the beginning?”

“You have a population control problem.”

The dry delivery left Viv nonplussed. She had not expected this sort of insight from a medieval shopkeeper, which proved once again that she should check her arrogance.

“I… suppose we do?”

“You do. The refugees who just came here know they should wait before expanding the family, at least until their farms and businesses are up and running. The female soldiers must be able to decide not to be with child just before a major operation. People need to be able to plan. I saw you had a ring. Rings are expensive. Potions are not.”

“I’m listening.”

The man stepped closer.

“Do you know of the Golden Order?”

“Yeah, I studied them. They are a knightly order made of women dedicated to Enttiku, the goddess of death. Stationed on the Glastian wall right now.”

“Those women have sex and they regulate the births by using a combination of two potions, one that stops the moon cycle and another that makes them bleed. Now, the bleeding potion’s main ingredient is called the Heart Grass and it grows freely everywhere, but the cycle one is more important, because the bleeding potion only works for a little while after the pregnancy has started. Once the bun is in the oven, pardon my Baranese, it is too late for the ‘oops draught’. Now, I know the apothecaries in Reixa have seeds and sprouts of the Moon Disc flower. I need the money to purchase them.”

“You need gold talents for that?” Viv exclaimed.

The apothecary shook his head.

“I am not buying a sample, I am buying patches, which will have to be replaced. Half of the money is for bribes to get the flower to begin with. Have you forgotten Enorian customs, ‘goodmother’? Enorian women are tasked with populating the kingdom. The potions I intend to brew are not conducive to that. There is a chance they are even illegal.”

“Fine.”

Viv had to get her bag from her horse’s saddles and take out the coins. By then, the caravan was ready to head east to the large town of Reixa while they would be heading north through a camouflaged portal. Besides Viv and the necrarch raiding crew, there were also the Hallurian twins.

The trip north consisted of Viv achieving a feat of magic the likes of which no one had ever succeeded at her level while the others leaned around, munching on snacks and sipping tea. She would then spend twenty minutes on the other side of the portal nursing a headache and then do it again. One star rating. At least it was fast. They were in view of Losserec-on-the-Lake on the morning of the next day.

They left Tarana and Rakan on a ship heading back to Helock, then bought their own bark since no fisherman was willing to rent to what was very clearly a hunting group. It got to show the trust of people in humans versus monsters contests. Viv didn’t blame them. She did, however, blame the man she bought the ship from for extorting her.

“This is a great little vessel! Do you know how many such vessels can fit both your standards and a crew that size? No? Only old Jekk can sell you such a gem. No one complains about Jekk’s product! I am fully supported by the shipwright guild!”

But Viv did complain. At least, she didn’t have to row. Solar grabbed the paddles and went to work, not even bothering with the tiny sails.

“Do we not use the second pair? We have two pairs,” she said.

“Only if you want to slow us down and get sore arms as well,” Solar patiently explained.

Viv grumbled that she had been performing the physical training Solfis had given her to help with meditative trance and she was fit and had finely toned biceps thank you very much. Alas, her protests fell on deaf ears. Only Sidjin sympathized. After a fashion.

“It is unseemly for mages to perform physical labor when warriors are present and better suited. Such is tradition.”

“Yeah yeah.”

“It is also tradition for women to let the men carry them.”

“Fine.”

Mother must let the lower specimens serve her.

Must not upset the pecking order!

Unnatural.

Can only row if I am the passenger.

Arthur huffed and took to the air.

Viv’s attempt at equality being completely ignored, the vessel made its way very quickly along the shore. No one was familiar with the local place, but it was clear Solar had some experience steering a ship. He led them effortlessly between small islands. They met another fishing ship a little after noon as the last village had faded behind them.

“Be careful around those parts,” a kind man warned them. “They found cannibals here earlier this year.”

“We’ll keep our weapons ready,” Sidjin assured them.

The fisherman looked at Viv and shook his head in disapproval. Enoria was still really firm on women not going on adventures, Viv thought, even the ex-rebel countryside.

She wondered how the witches she had met here were faring.

The group made a few jokes about Viv keeping an eye out for cannibals until she threatened to cook them. The ship kept going for a while, following the distant shape of Arthur as she flew overhead. The dragonette started cycling not long after.

The shore was wild here, and covered in trees. The edge of the northern deadshield woods hugged the lake on its entire western flank. Viv could already feel a hint of saturated brown mana and that strange, quiet atmosphere she associated with the confusing forest. Arthur landed near a brook and Viv recognized the dark tunnel she had followed out of the lone mountain. The cave looked normal enough from outside, but she knew the passage inside would be smooth and artificial.

“It’s here. I recognize it.”

Mother came out from here.

Wet! Cold! No fish.

Arthur snorted with disdain.

“Alright. We go through, leave the mountain, set up a camp and go back in. Everyone still agrees?” Solar asked.

//Yes.

No one felt the need to speak after Solfis. The group carried the bark up the slope and into the tunnel. Viv got her socks wet and complained, but as soon as everyone was on board, Sidjin used a blue spell to dry clothes.

“I knew I was keeping you around for something,” Viv confessed amorously.

“I feel valued,” Sidjin deadpanned.

Solar chuckled, and some of the mounting tension was dispelled.

The tunnel proved too narrow to use the paddles so Sidjin resorted to ferrying them forward by pushing the ground away, using the paddle as a stick. It worked well enough.

Viv lost her time perception as the darkness descended. She cast her spell in silence, summoning a pale blue light to guide their way forward. The memory of her terror gripped her chest and clawed at her throat. She had felt her heart stopped, felt herself die. She shook her head.

Sidjin took her hand in his and massaged the knuckles. He was very warm and smelled of sunshine and soap.

“Thanks,” she whispered.

Sidjin was about to reply, but his face turned into an expression of wonder. They had reached the mushroom cave. The dense lattice of stalagmites and stalactites covered in fluorescent growth let them pass in blissful silence.

Then the darkness returned, yet it did not feel as oppressive as before. Until Solfis spoke.

//Black mana concentration is increasing slowly but noticeably.

Viv had not realized. Black mana was present in every dark place, and at night. Now that Solfis mentioned it, however, she noticed as well. The mana here had a taste. It was not just the standard background of the absence of light.

“Are we already in its territory?”

//Age of the necrarch revised to: ancient.

//Expect higher spell usage.

//Adjusting general strategy.

//Your Grace, we will have to depend on you for black mana countermeasures.

//You will have to fight with us.

“I already knew I’d be around keeping Sidjin safe. It’s fine.”

//Acknowledged.

//Everyone please change into insulated gear now.

“Errrr.”

