Tenebrae paused. He lied right to Erick’s face, “No. But I call it the Green Labyrinth.”

“Thanks for that, Tenebrae.” Erick spoke with his most sincere, thankful voice, “I appreciate your help with this.”

“You better appreciate it.” Tenebrae said, “The Green Labyrinth pops up in unlikely places all the time, spewing out excess monsters every so often. Most people come across these side entrances and think them young Twisted Visions. Most people never find the true entrance. Only I know where the true entrance is, and that’s where we have to go if you want to look at a [Gate] or a Gate.”

Erick had several thoughts.

Chief among them were, in no particular order:

He needed to talk to someone else about this ‘Green Labyrinth’. If it was as odd of a Vision as Tenebrae said it was, then Syllea would know where it was and what it contained, for sure. Teressa might, too, if only through hearsay and stories, but she would be Erick’s second choice for information. He could also go back to Nosier and ask him for his opinion on why others had not thought to excavate Gates from the Green Labyrinth, or, why others had failed to excavate from the Green Labyrinth.

And why couldn’t he just kill the Labyrinth with a particularly violent set of murderous magics? Erick needed to talk to Arbor Rottundra about that. Him and his Chieftain were all for melting the entire Forest away. Surely such a plan would account for something as dangerous as this ‘Green Labyrinth’.

And finally, did he want Jane involved with this?

Once his daughter found out about such an enticing location… Could he even forbid her from coming? Like. Sure. He could try. He would fail. If it weren’t for the Feast Barrier, she would have followed him into Ar’Kendrithyst. But looking at it from a different way, should he try to dissuade her? Visions weren’t Shades. Visions were hordes of monsters and dangerous ecology. Without the use of his many stronger magics, Jane would likely be stronger than him in such a place, what with her martial bent and all that. She could even cast all of her necessary spells before she went inside. Erick could not.

Tenebrae leaned on the table, eyeing Erick, and said, “And if you go talking to others about this I’m calling the whole thing off. You can run to the Headmaster and force a compromise, but I’ll take my hits and you won’t get shit. I’m not giving up the Green Labyrinth to anyone. You hear me?”

Erick heard the man, but mostly, he considered Redarrow’s warning.

Was he more comfortable with risking Tenebrae’s life, or the life of everyone else?

And also, looking back on it, a lot of Tenebrae’s words seemed contradictory. If all Twisted Visions were pseudo-spaces, didn’t that mean that they were all partially [Gate] capable? How old was this ‘Green Labyrinth’, if it had managed to find a whole stash of discarded Gates? Surely such a stash had to have been impossible to have gone unfound for very long, unless this monster was really, really old.

Erick was sure that he could pick apart what he had been told, to figure out the lies and more, but then Tenebrae would renege on his bargain of trade, and Erick would be risking the lives of his daughter and his people.

Erick said, “I will be researching Visions more.” The man across the table almost exploded, but Erick spoke louder, saying, “I will not tell others why! But I will be researching them for my own needs. If anyone asks, it will be a part of learning what might boil out of the Forest when we set to destroying the whole thing.” He glared at Tenebrae, adding, “If you don’t want to risk such an information leak, start explaining why you have been lying throughout this whole conversation.”

Tenebrae stared.

Erick waited.

Eventually, Tenbrae said, “I’m casting a [Privacy Ward], and then I’ll speak.”

Erick nodded. “Sure.”

A foggy haze, like grey dust, enveloped the world beyond their table, swirling with hidden sights, as Tenebrae’s eyes glittered grey. Ophiel turned blind; gently squawking in disturbed flute sounds. Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye vanished. Poi vanished beyond the grey cloud. It was just Tenebrae and Erick, sitting across from each other. Erick’s mana sense and [True Sight] failed him, as they touched upon that grey expanse. He patted Ophiel, trying to calm the little guy down. It worked, if only a little.

Tenebrae said, “Dragons live inside that Vision. They have for the last ten centuries. The Headmaster has tried a thousand times to get at them, but he has failed a thousand times over. I will not allow you to be the vehicle in which these people are finally murdered.”

Ah. So Erick could have gone to the Headmaster. Probably Syllea, too.

Good thing he was avoiding the first and the second was avoiding him.

Erick said, “I will not cause harm where there is no need to harm.”

“That’s not good enough. I need your word that you won’t start shit.” Tenebrae said, “The only reason I am even considering helping you is that you’re on your Worldly Path, and I either have to help you and mitigate your disaster, or let you find your own way forward, killing everything that crosses you. And these people will cross you, and it won’t be on purpose. Do I have your word?”

“Maybe you didn’t understand me, Tenebrae.” Erick said, “I won’t start shit where shit does not need to be started. My record should speak for itself, but allow me to say that nothing I have done has ever been intentionally harmful to people that did not deserve such harm. Or would you say that the Shades did not need to die? That I should not have liberated those shadelings from Treehome’s commune? That the murderers of Treehome deserved to remain at large? That Melemizargo deserved to remain insane, and for this world to not understand the basic building blocks of existence itself?”

“Ha!” Tenebrae laughed. “Tell me, oh great arbiter of what is right and good!” Tenebrae snarled, demanding, “How do you plan on helping the dragons overcome their Blood Curse? Can you actually fix that, or will the dragons you see become like that Carmine Changeling Vine, who was only trying to reproduce?”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “Ah. Yeah. If the Dragons are like that, then I’m murdering them, for sure.”

Tenebrae smiled. “Then run along now and murder the Headmaster. We can rejoin this Forest Hunt after you do that.”

“I’m not sure what you think those words accomplish, but I do know that they have exposed your dumbassery. Like? Do you want the Headmaster dead? Go do it yourself. I’m not involving myself in your suicide mission. Should I warn him that you’re coming? Meh. He probably doesn’t need me to do that, does he.”

Tenebrae flinched back, saying, “That’s not what I meant. I meant that—”

“I know what you meant. All dragons are Cursed to kill each other, no matter what sort of damage that will cause. The Headmaster is out in the open, therefore he’s automatically challenging all dragons the world over. There’s probably something in your words about— some tangled thoughts about how, since I have been allied with the Headmaster, that these dragons will seek to harm me or dominate me in some way, as a way to dominate the Headmaster. What you meant was for me to have empathy for killers who can’t help themselves. And I do. Believe me, I do. I couldn’t even kill a monster without puking when I first came to this world, and though a lot of that is gone, the base remains.” Erick said, “So I ask you! Why don’t you go ask Melemizargo to lift his Dragon Curse? Or was it cast by the Headmaster’s brother, Idyrvamikor? In which case, find yourself a Wizard. I hear stories about them all the time, so they must exist. Or, was Idyrvamikor’s story, which I heard from the Shades, just propaganda? There are just too many things I don’t know about dragons to make a judgment call, Tenebrae. But what I do know is that I know nothing, and therefore I would like to know more.” He added, “But to make myself clearer: monsters deserve to die. So! Are dragons monsters?”

Tenebrae sat there, his face a mask.

Erick waited. He almost took a sandwich, but he did not.

Tenebrae asked, “Do you know any Wizards?”

“Nope. Do you? I’d like to know what makes them so deadly, if you got any ideas.”

“… Nope.” Tenebrae lied, “I don’t know any Wizards.” Tenebrae turned to truth, saying, “But there’ve been a few Wizards to venture through the Forest now and then. I never met one the Headmaster didn’t kill as soon as the world found out about them, but over the many centuries, those few Forest Wizards have lifted the Curse from a few dragons. We might even get to meet one of those Cleansed Dragons. So meet back here when you’re done with your daughter and your other guard, and we can visit them. Once you meet and understand them, maybe you can help me look for more Wizards who can do more than spot-treat Idyrvamikor’s Legacy.” He breathed deep, and with a maybe-genuine smile, said, “Glad to know your measure, Erick. Don’t speak of this conversation to outsiders.” He stood and waved a hand at the grey swirls beyond their table. Erick stood, as well. The clouds began to dissipate. Tenebrae said, “Glad no one had to get hurt, today.”

The cloud cleared.

A pair of Rockys removed a collar from Poi’s neck and let him go.

Erick was suddenly, deeply furious, but he had expected some sort of treachery, and Poi was safe. Poi was safe. Bloody around the neck, but safe. With a stern face, the sapphire man unruffled his uniform and stood tall. Ophiel’s eyes returned to him, he was alone, and Erick sensed his solitary nature as a second moment passed. All of the other Ophiel were gone. Erick had been locked out of sensing through them while he was inside that grey, sandy fog, but he had assumed it was just like the Feast Barrier; no [Telepathy]. That had happened, for sure, which exposed another problem of Erick’s [Sealed Privacy Ward], but the problem was deeper than a [Telepathy] block; his Ophiel had been [Dispel]ed. Tenebrae, or, more likely, the Rockys, had [Dispel]ed every Ophiel aside from the one on Erick’s shoulder.

Yggdrasil’s [Scry] eye came back.

Tenebrae stared at Erick, as though challenging him.

Erick almost punched the man. He refrained. He said, “I am glad that Poi is merely bleeding from wounds on his neck, instead of bleeding out. Do I need to make threats regarding what could have happened if you had done more?”

“I’ll ignore everything you say if you pose an actual threat. Until that time, I see no reason not to work together.” Tenebrae said, “But you mistake yourself, Erick. You are merely picking up the scraps that I have left behind, because I am the one in power in this place, in this bargain of trade. If I find you have run off and mouthed off to the unworthy, then… Well. I hope you have the sense to not come back here. You have been warned.”

Erick buried his overwhelming anger as deep as it could go. “I will be back soon enough. Please don’t run off.”

“I would never!” Tenebrae said, mockingly and with a smirk. “See you soon.”

- - - -

Once he was several mountains distant, Erick roared out something unintelligible. His voice bounced across the valley, echoing. Birds flew. Monsters stirred. They’d be gone before the monsters actually showed. Erick calmed. He turned to Poi.

Erick asked, “Are you okay? Did they do anything to you besides that collar?”

“I’m fine. Thank you for your concern,” Poi said, pretending to be calm. “And since I deem it necessary, I will answer your other questions that you didn’t ask: I couldn’t get a read on the Rockys because they’re a hive mind. Impossible to break through. We’ve had our eyes on that man for a long time because he fucks around with Mind Magic. His former [Familiar]s are just one of many such issues.”

“I remember. He intercepted a [Telepathy] to Rats, back with the Daydropper stuff. Pretended to be Killzone to find our location. Did anything happen there?”

“He was censured as much as we could for that action, which, as you have already guessed, was for us to do nothing at all.” Poi calmed by the second as he spoke, “Archmage Tenebrae is protected by too many powerful forces. He regularly helps people lost in the mountains, or at least his Rockys do. He murders any major monster asked of him and if enough gold is raised to pay his fee. He has accords with Treehome and Oceanside and every other nation in the world. He’s—” Poi touched his neck. “He’s not a nice man, but he is a good man. Vaguely. We have left him alone for the good of the world.”

Every word sent Erick’s heart to thrumming hard, and angry. He asked, “Has he disappeared people before? Were you in actual danger back there?”

“I don’t know. Maybe. And yes, I was in danger. Right before you went into that [Privacy Ward], he gave his commands to his Rockys. Until he popped that [Privacy Ward] and gave his Rockys the all-clear, I could have died. We both could have. Tenebrae… I barely got a read on him at all. I know I said this back when we met him at Oceanside, but it bears repeating: I cannot protect you from other archmages, Erick. I cannot protect you from Tenebrae.” Poi asked, “Do you want to continue this path?”

“I have to. Do you want to go back to Spur, too? You can.”

Poi smiled, a sad thing, as he said, “No. I cannot do that. I will stay, of course. You couldn’t chase me off with a [Fireball].”

Erick joked, “What about a [Luminous Beam].”

“That would do it.”

