The Reaper Qi that just flared up had taken advantage of me, causing weakness in the sea serpent!

Now it was wanting to take away my kill by being more aggressive. What gall! That Peng Long guy was really vicious, giving the serpent hope that he could live, but then the Qi would flare up again at times.

Truly a vicious technique performed by a vicious man.

However, that mattered little. I didn’t want to get my kill stolen, though, so I had to take some drastic measures. So far, I’d used everything I had that could potentially damage it, but anything else would take me a long time to put into practice and take the kill for myself.

The Reaper Qi was ticking down on it at the moment as well, though, so while it was helpful, I didn’t want it to deal the final blow.

Looking through my skills, I found it hard to get anything that might help.

My choices were limited, and while I couldn’t tell how much health the sea serpent had left, I could easily see that it was weakening by the second.

The Qi would kill it before I could!

Something like that was purely unacceptable. There had to be something I could do… Something that would deal massive amounts of damage in a short time.

Grrr…

I had a limited number of Skill Points left, and I hadn’t even played with my skills yet! I wanted to keep the points so I could merge what I had into something better and clean up the list, but now…

Helpless, I could only sigh and call upon System again.

System, do you have any ideas on how I could deal a lot of damage to someone like this?

[Oh, so you finally remembered I exist?]

What? What are you talking about?

[Hmph, you only call upon me when you need me!]

What does this have to do with the current situation? Aren’t you supposed to help me?

[You only want me for my information!]

System!!!!

[Alright. There are a few things you could do to secure the kill, though I’m surprised you got yourself into this situation.]

Are you really?

[On second thought, you’re right. I have to admit I wasn’t expecting this sort of development.]

Me neither. So, can you help?

[Of course! You already have most of the tools you need at your disposal, actually. You’re just missing one thing.]

Which is…?

[Well, you’d gotten close to the answer earlier. However, you didn’t use your imagination enough. When using Flaminb Rebirth, you could have used other skills in combination. When the fire exploded out, instead of basic flames you could have had… the dragons.]

The dragons?

I imagined dozens upon dozens of flame dragons flying about in the guy’s mouth, hitting and bouncing against every corner and scorching everything in their path.

I would have slapped my face if I could.

Of course! But isn’t that a little too resource-intensive?

[Only as resource intensive as you want it to be. At the moment, Flaming Rebirth is on cooldown, though.]

Right… But I can do something else now that I think about it.

I had several skills that could probably work well together and deal immense amounts of damage.

Pyro Breath and Dragon Flames could probably unleash some devastating blows, and if I were to pair them with Lightning Dragon and Precise Flame Control, then that would probably be another way for me to deal massive damage.

Elemental Wave was also a favorite of mine, and in retrospect it could have been used in tandem with Flaming Rebirth, but it still wasn’t too late.

With a new plan hatching, I took a few minutes to give it a proper gander and decided on a scope of action.

Although instead of separately using the two elemental dragons, I’d decided to put the latest Bloodline Skill I’d gotten to good use and create some sort of abomination.

Last time I’d used it, they only dealt burning damage and inflicted paralysis on the target, but maybe there was some other way to use it I wasn’t yet aware of.

Feeling for how long the sea serpent had left, I’d noticed that the Reaper Qi had stopped flaring as viciously, but it was still ticking.

I had to hurry.

Raising my wing, I summoned a flame made out of equal parts Phoenix Fire and Nirvanic Flames. To it, I tried adding lightning.

At first, the new element only wrapped around the flame, but they were still separate. There wasn’t much else to them, and the attack would act as it did previously.

But that wasn’t what I wanted.

What I needed out of it was for the two to combine and form something new.

Closing my eyes and trying to remember any instance of when I’d done that before, my memories came up blank.

I’d never had more than one element, and never needed to combine them. As such, I had no prior experience with something like this.

None of the people I knew focused on more than one element either, so I had to figure it out on my own.

Thankfully, I now had System!

Any idea on how to combine the two?

[Focus really hard.]

I rolled my eyes. Be serious.

[Alright. The key is to not see them as two separate elements.]

What… what do you mean?

[I can’t say more.]

Of course you can’t.

I sighed, but I didn’t find its words entirely wrong. However, fire and lightning were different elements; what else could it be meaning…

And then it struck me. I’d remembered what I’d done during the fight against that woman from the fire sect, whatever it was called.

I told her that fire and lightning were not that different.

They were both Yang, both of the same type of element. Even if they weren’t the same, they still held the property of Yang.

Able to give and take life, able to refine and destroy.

Both elements were in harmony with each other, but the amount of Yin within was too little.

Gears turned in my head as I’d tried to simulate what would happen if I were to combine the two elements, and the results weren’t great.

However, there was only one way to be completely sure.

With my new understanding, my wings did their best at forming a spherical shape. There, I’d dragged both elements and swirled them together, forcing them to mix.

Slowly but surely, the two different elements exchanged energy and started to fuse, becoming one.

The fire turned darker, the lightning brighter, and the two shades together became a sort of blinding white flame that crackled with sharp power.

However, before I could fuse them fully, what I’d expected to happen happened.

Their destructive energy increased multiplicatively, while their restoring properties did the same, but were still far too small to be able to balance the new mixture.

Unable to stay stable, it threatened to explode in my wings, which wasn’t optimal.

Without a hint of hesitation, I turned around and threw the failed experiment down the sea serpent’s throat.

The resulting explosion created a blinding flash of light that forced me to turn away, and some of its stomach acid fluxed up temporarily.

That part was disgusting…

But seeing as my theory was right, I was a little disappointed.

I couldn’t only mix two Yang elements, as the Yin would be disproportionate. Even if it was a sum instead of a multiplication.

Two and two is four while one and one is two. On paper, that would sound balanced, but most of the time, the Yin within Yang wasn’t a one, but more like a point five.

As a result, while Yang was two and Yin was point five in a single element, once a multiplication or sum happened, then the balance broke.

To balance two powerful Yangs, I needed an equally powerful Yin…

And it just so happened that I had three elements!

Water was the ultimate Yin, and the perfect balance.

However, my control over it was lacking… And Yo Na still owed me my Water Crystals! Damn it, I should have collected them when I’d left.

But… it should still do the trick.

Summoning the three elements, I measured out exactly how much of each I needed to make a good combination.

One part lightning and one part water was a must, but I’d also realised that my fires were vastly different.

Phoenix Fire was a more gentle type of flame, seeking to not only destroy but also create. Nirvanic Flames, on the other hand, despite their name, would mostly just destroy. Burning away everything with unextinguishable violence.

That was how I’d nurtured them… They could have been less aggressive, but now it was too late. While they weren’t as strong as they were in my previous life, they were still part of the strongest fire, and once they ranked up and evolved, I didn’t doubt I could re-shape them.

But for the moment… One part Nirvanic Flames and two parts Phoenix Fire seemed like the most sensible combination.

With those three elements between my wings, I began the process of combining them.

Based on my mental simulations, there should not have been any problems, but it was better to be safe, and I took it slowly.The Reaper Qi kept eating away at the sea serpent, and by now it had dug into the scales and flesh, almost reaching bone.

The giant, deep wounds created by the scythe showed how effective the attack was; the area where the qi was spread grew larger by the second.

The ship was also getting away. They’d stopped temporarily, probably to fix it, so I wasn’t that far away yet; however, it was a race against time now as well.

With that in mind, I swirled the elements together, activating Elemental Mixture to its limits.

The colors became deeper now, darker. Instead of the white blinding shade from before, the flames and lightning were a sort of dark blue to light blue color, but they changed drastically depending on which element was dominating.

Soon, though, the shade settled to a dark, almost black color with flashes of white. The Yin and Yang mixed almost perfectly, which was something to behold.

In that moment, when the elements came to perfect harmony and the Yin and Yang were complete, a notification appeared in front of me.

[Skill: Elemental Mixture has reached the [Beginner] Rank!]

[Mixed Element Acquired: Four Calamity Lotus Flame]

With that rank up, I could feel the process becoming far easier than before. It wasn’t long before I held a beautifully colored flame that crackled with lightning.

The dance of black and white between the two elements was beautiful, and water was nowhere to be seen. I knew it was there, keeping the tight and fragile balance.

Moving it around, I could tell that this was far more potent than the old regular flames and lightning.

However, the cost was…

[Qi: 10679/17139]

Immense.

I didn’t think it was possible for a skill to cost so much, but almost six thousand Qi vanished from my pool in an instant.

All to create the thing between my feathers.

Raising my wing, I called upon Elemental Mixture and created another one. That time, it didn’t even take one thousand Qi to create, but the cost was still substantial.

Nevertheless, my experiment was a success, and I was excited to implement it into the combo I’d envisioned.

Time was running short on both fronts, and I still had to absorb the core and butcher the thing to grab as much meat as I could before needing to go off chasing after an aircraft.

Waving my wing, I combined both already conjured flames together and, using Precise Flame Control and both Lightning Dragon and Dragon Flames, I’d created something that could truly rival the heavens.

Before me stood a giant coiling dragon made out of a black flame, white lightning dancing and swirling around it.

Its eyes shone with a vicious light, and its maw opened into a roar that shook the interior of the sea serpent’s body.