Ren held up a hand in a clear stop gesture. “Please, let me finish.” He said. “It was my own fault for thinking that after someone comes into my life and then confesses to me how they feel, that their lives should revolve around me and the things that happen to me.”

“But...”

“That goes for everyone else here, too. I don't expect to be the only thing in your lives.” Ren said and looked at everyone. “That would be really selfish on my part, and I'm sorry if I gave anyone that impression.” He stepped close to Gloria; but, didn't touch her because he was wet from being in the hot tub. “I'm sorry for acting like a child, and for throwing a tantrum when you wouldn't pay attention to me.” He smiled. “I won't even use the excuse that I had the Angered condition, mainly because I don't want it to be an excuse or an explanation for my behavior.”

No one said anything, and Ren sighed.

“I was actually angry at myself for letting you get hurt, when I could have easily done something about it.”

“You did do something about it.” Gloria said. “You destroyed that fighting school.”

“Despite enjoying that, that was after the fact. I meant that I have enchantments that would have let you benefit from wearing heavy armor without actually wearing any.” Ren said. “I should have messaged you right away and given it to you.”

“I don't think I would have taken it, even if you had offered it.” Gloria admitted, because her arguments had been co-opted by Ren and it made her lose her self-righteous anger. “I... I don't know why I'm having a hard time with... with whatever this is between us.”

“That.” Ren said and pointed at her. “That right there is why.”

“What?”

“Even though you've told me how you felt, you can't decide what it is we have.” Ren said. “Doubt and fear cloud your mind. It affects your decisions, and you can't think clearly.”

Gloria looked at him with wide eyes, and he smiled reassuringly.

“The simple solution is to not think about it.” Ren said. “We can have a proper discussion about everything later.” He picked up the present bag Gloria had given him. “Why don't you grab a bathing suit from one of the change rooms and have some fun in the pool.” He opened the bag and pulled out a plush bright blue blanket. “Oh, wow! Look at that color!” He said and rubbed it on his face, the only part of his body that was dry. “This feels so nice!”

“It was just something I picked up at the last minute.” Gloria said.

“Thank you so much!” Ren said and put it back in the bag. “Hurry up and get changed, so I can give you a hug.” He said and put the bag down beside the hot tub. “I'm still wet and I can't hug you like this.”

“But...”

“I'll help you pick out something.” Stella said and took Gloria by the elbow to guide her over to the change rooms. Everyone drifted back to their previous groupings and conversations, and Ren carefully climbed back into the hot tub.

“That was really nice of you.” Lisa said and sat down next to him again.

“So was you standing up for me like that.” Ren said and kissed her cheek. “Thank you.”

“I wanted to punch her right in the face after what she called you.” Lisa said, and Ren touched her cheek to turn her face to his.

“Thank you for not doing that.” Ren said and tenderly kissed her on the lips. “I would greatly prefer that she have all of her teeth the next time she smiles.”

Lisa chuckled and sat back against the side of the hot tub, and Ren put his arm back around her. She snuggled in close and put her hand on his chest.

“So, even after that, I guess it's still a good day?” Lisa asked.

“The day is only going to get better.” Ren said and smiled. “We're watching the show in the theatre after supper, and it's going to be nice and dark in there.”

Lisa smiled, too. She couldn't wait to spend some more quality time in the dark with Ren.
