Erick looked at his chest, trying to understand how all those bones and muscles fit together. This was easy enough, even with all those massive muscles allowing for his second pair of ‘arms’ that were his wings. It was like he had pecs on pecs on shoulders, which was kinda funny—

His stomach rumbled, both like a minor disturbance, but also like a minor avalanche, if Erick was to consider his human-sized senses. Less focusing on form; more focusing on needs.

Yes.

Erick looked at his ‘prey’, hovering inside of his lightgrip like a fish-shaped ruby with a tiny dot of dark at its head where Erick had killed the thing. He leaned in and gave it a sniff—

A sudden well of wetness filled his mouth and he almost snapped up the fish that instant, but he controlled himself…

The scarlet king, which had looked huge when Erick was human-sized, at being about a meter long, now looked like it could barely serve as an appetizer, for Erick was ravenously hungry—

Ah. Yeah. He was hungry. Very hungry, and almost willing to eat that fish long before he was ready to eat that fish. He recognized that now.

A little worrying, that. He wanted to eat that fish quite a lot. But instead, he opened his mouth and had a look at himself through his mana sense. His mouth was filled with glowing white teeth and his gullet was a white hole. All of his interior looked white and glowing, though he only guessed it was white, for it was hard to tell color through mana sense.

Looking at his mouth again…

It didn’t look like he could really chew or taste his food; not with fangs and no molars, and with a tongue that was basically a tendril of taste receptors the size of one of his larger fangs…

Wait a second.

Erick looked inside of himself again.

No vocal cords?

So how was he able to speak?

Erick said, “Testing. Testing.”

His insides just vibrated that way, eh? Based on his desires?

“Testing, testing. I am the very model of a modern major general. I don’t believe in animals, or vegetables, or minerals.”

Did the original lyrics go like that? Erick had no idea. He had heard Jane say something like that when she was a kid, and it had stuck with him all these years later.

And yes; his insides did just vibrate that way allowing him to talk.

—He wasn’t breathing? Oh. Yeah. He wasn’t breathing.

Erick purposefully breathed in and out—

A small burst of streaming clouds and lightning flashed out like a burp from a demigod, before Erick realized what he had done and shut his mouth. Glowing white mist continued out of his nostrils like steam from a kettle, flickering with sparks all the while.

Erick focused on what had just happened.

A few more tests later revealed that he did not actually need to breathe at all, or at least not while he was running his [Perfected Benevolence]. Erick held onto one of Yggdrasil’s bigger branches, securing himself to a solid surface so he wouldn’t fall when he turned off his aura. And then he did so. With his lightning turned off, he did have to breathe, and it sounded rather menacing.

Ophiel instantly tried to replicate that sound.

Three Ophiel working together were able to get the deep bass and the rumbling drums worked out enough to approximate Erick’s natural breathing sounds. Kinda cute, in a horrifying sort of way.

But back to his breathing. With his aura, he didn’t really need to ‘breathe’. Like with Jane’s shadow spider form that could not exist on its own without using its aura to breathe, Erick’s dragon form’s ‘breathing’ was best done through a constant, low level Elemental Body. That low level functionality got turned up really high for dragons, though.

When Erick purposefully breathed in and then out while running his aura, a massive cloud bank of bright white Benevolence billowed outward across Yggdrasil’s branches, leaving patches of greenery wherever it landed. Mostly just more moss, up here at the top of Yggdrasil, but a few flowers and ferns, too—

Yggdrasil giggled like a child, telling him that it tickled, and then to do it again. Erick happily obliged, sending Yggdrasil into a ticklish fit as sparking light caused vines and greenery to grow everywhere, and the happy laughs of a child sent rainbows scattering across Yggdrasil’s crown. And then he said that was enough, so Erick stopped, smiling wide—

Oh. That’s a menacing smile.

Yggdrasil turned his attention back to Treehome.

Erick turned his attention back to what he came here for.

Time for breakfast. Erick looked back to his scarlet king, waiting to be eaten. His mouth salivated again, his tongue licking out, tasting the air— which was apparently something he could do now. Dragons were part snake. So that was fun. The air tasted delicious.

At least his dripping saliva didn’t cause more random growth wherever it touched Yggdrasil’s bark. That would have boded badly for the rest of what his body could do. Erick imagined pissing out flowers. Uncomfortable, for sure.

Hopefully this dragon form didn’t need to go to the bathroom more than once a week, too, but Erick supposed he would get used to that eventually, if he had to. Humans could adapt to a lot, and… Well. He had already adapted rather far from ‘human’.

… Erick looked at the other parts of his draconic body that he had been ignoring. He would get to that part of himself too, eventually, but not today.

Erick had an Ophiel cast another small [Prismatic Ward] around the still-floating scarlet king, and then Erick copied it. Just like when metals were [Duplicate]ed inside [Prismatic Ward], becoming magical metals, copying meat and vegetables and other things had the same effects on those other things.

One magical meat fish became two magical meat fish.

Erick floated the second one up to himself. He opened his mouth.

He took a tiny nibble—

“OH GODS IT’S SO GOOD!”

Erick rapidly copied all the fish he wanted, eating all he could, the fatty, thick meat seeming to dissolve in his mouth like bits of cream, but sprinkled all throughout with flakes of crispy skin and bones as easily broken as the surface of a crème brule. He tasted it all the way down his throat, too, so that was an experience. The fish skulls were actually the best part; like finding a bit of carrot in a soup of deliciousness.

Erick finally felt full after around a hundred fish. Maybe a bit more. He wasn’t quite sure.

But he was sure that he loved every second of that experience, and now his stomach was finally full. That was the best part of all this. Being a full dragon. Wow. It kinda reminded Erick of being a kid at Thanksgiving and being allowed to eat everything he wanted to, and then feeling like everything would be alright, right before he slipped into a wonderful food coma.

No food coma today, though.

Erick kept himself awake.

The sun hovered right above the eastern horizon. Erick had taken only about half an hour to do all this. Next time, he would put himself in a time bubble too and truly take his time.

Cleaning up was easy, since there was no cleanup necessary at all. Putting himself back into his human body did take some doing, though, now that he wasn’t some sort of starving dragon; he was full and happy and his body did not like being crushed back into its tiny little Erick-shaped box. The horns were especially annoying this time.

But it had been worth it.

When Erick got back home he went to Poi, to tell him how it was. He didn’t need to, though. Poi saw it on Erick’s face, and smiled wide.

“That’s amazing, Erick,” Poi grinned, lost in a shared moment. “That’s good.”

Erick smiled. “That was so good.”

Teressa, who was at the breakfast nook along with Poi and Kiri, asked, “What’s good?”

Erick told them.

Teressa and Kiri didn’t seem to get what was so special about it all, but that was fine. They were happy that Erick was happy.

Kiri did seem to get this look in her eyes that she was playing off her nonchalance, though. She was intrigued about the idea of becoming a dragon herself. Erick decided that he would probably deny her if she ever truly asked, but that was probably his own reluctance talking. Maybe in fifty years, or something.

It was probably a good idea to not transform any people into Benevolence dragons if he could help it, but that ship had sailed. At least two other dragons in today’s meetings were getting the Benevolence treatment. Erick had decided that much already.

- - - -

In a very large room in the middle of nowhere, and also partially in Fairy thanks to [Fairy Stronghold], Erick waited. The room was nothing special; basically a hundred meter cube with the walls made of glass and the floor made of solid stone. The sun shone brightly outside those windows, illuminating the vast desert of the Crystal Forest.

This part of the Crystal Forest was filled with dunes and not much else. Even the crystal mimics in this land were few and far between. There was a flight of sand rays nestling out there under the deeper dunes, but unless something startled them, then they were going to stay there. A few flying fish above the dunes were the only thing that was even really noticeable out there—

Poi’s voice came to Erick, ‘He’s ready.’

Erick acknowledged Poi and then gazed out through Ophiel, looking to the appointed spot. On a random dune also in the middle of nowhere, stood Al. The sewermaster of Spur looked the same as he always did, but with an air of pure nerves surrounding him and wearing plain clothes that were obvious conjurings. He was prepared to lose them to violence, or otherwise. His eyes glanced left and right. He breathed shallowly. His fists clenched.

And then Ophiel appeared in front of him, and Al froze.

Al thawed quick enough, forcing himself to calm. He nodded.

Ophiel chirped and then fluttered onto Al’s shoulder, outside of Erick’s control and way before he could actually stop the little guy and make it even more awkward. Al just looked at Ophiel, raising an eyebrow.

… Erick had Ophiel open a [Gate] into this space.

Suddenly, a circle of lightning held between Erick and Al, and both of them were prepared for the worst. Erick had been around other dragons since his own transformation, with Burhendurur and Volaro, but this was the first time he was meeting a dragon who held the Curse.

Neither of them flinched at the sight of each other, though, so that was good. Erick didn’t expect to flinch, and neither did Al, for they had coordinated what was going to happen here a day ago. If anything was going to happen, it would have happened then—

Erick was delaying. He stepped back, saying, “Come on in, Al.”

Al was delaying too, it seemed, for he did not come in right away. He was scared.

Erick let him take his time.

The sun beat down. The northern winds blew a bit of sand into the [Fairy Stronghold]. And Al closed his eyes for a long moment. And then he opened his eyes, and they were full black. He sighed, and changed. Not physically. Not in body. But in countenance and everything else.

He strode forward, his long orcol legs easily bringing him inside the room, where he towered over Erick by a full meter. He did not loom, though. He just towered, for that was his nature.

Erick closed the portal.

They were alone in the middle of a hundred meter cube of [Fairy Stronghold], with the desert on display everywhere around them.

Erick asked, “This will work, but if you are nervous, we can do this another time?”

“A dragon does not ‘get nervous’, Erick. They either do, or they do not.” Al said, “And I am prepared. I would like to confirm you are an actual dragon, though, and to know what I am in for, as every dragon is different. May I see your [Dragon Body] now?”

They had already agreed to this exchange on Al’s request, and Erick agreed because he didn’t know much about the mechanics of dragons, so he was glad to finally see someone else’s dragon box. Erick had contemplated asking Volaro and Burhendurur, but that had seemed wrong. Al’s was much more palatable.

But Al was nervous.

So Erick tried a joke to defuse the situation, “You show me yours and I’ll show you mine.”

Al was not here for jokes. He pulled out his blue box instantly.

Dragon Body, Permanently Active, 0 mana

<absolute damage reduction 50>, <increased range>, <increased mana>, <increased health>, <increased control and power of all stone-based spellwork>

Assume a draconic form based on your nature, at will, gaining <massively increased range>. <half damage taken>

Assume a new Familiar Form of any type you have experience with, at will.

Immortal.

Different from Erick’s, for sure.

Huh.

Erick handed his own over, saying, “I guess all dragons are products of their own accretion?”

Greater Dragon Body, Permanently Active, 0 mana

<absolute damage reduction 500>, <double range>, <double duration>, <massively increased healing effectiveness>

Assume a greater draconic form based on your nature, at will, gaining <massively increased range>.

Assume a new Familiar Form of any type you have experience with, at will.

Immortal.

Al looked at the box and sighed. “You even have [Greater Dragon Body].” Al took the box and visibly broke it, to show that he was not saving it into his own Status. Al had been very clear about that requirement to this exchange; it was a cultural thing, a show of respect, and acknowledgment that nothing said in this exchange of information could be handed over to another. Of course, someone could just lie, and verbally hand off this very personal information anyway, but that was dishonorable and not lightly done. Immortals had long memories, after all. “I assume the smaller version that I would actually get is different?”

Erick handed over the box for his normal [Dragon Body], though he had to go looking through his notifications to find it. “250 absolute damage reduction instead of 500.” As he visibly broke the box Al gave him, he asked, “Do you think the others will react oddly when I pull out the Greater version? I wasn’t sure about that. You’re actually my test case for all of this, Al, because I’m pretty sure I know how you’re taking this.”

Al narrowed his eyes a little bit on Erick as he glanced at the new blue box. “I don’t think you know how I’m taking this at all, but whatever guesses you have inside your head are likely near enough the mark to count as true.” He broke the blue box, then said, “If I were you I would have already demanded every [Dragon Body] box from every dragon you have working for you. It’s rude, but you are in power there, and they are not your equals at all.”

Erick felt a small sadness in his heart. “Does that mean you don’t want to come work for me after this?”

