“No.” Al said, “Silverite has treated me too well for me to abandon her like that. Savral is in Spur. Spur is my home. I’m not moving if I don’t have to. Are you demanding I move to Candlepoint to fulfill this Benevolencing?”

“… I will not demand this of you, Al—”

He paused.

Erick said, “Actually. I do demand that you not be a stranger. Visit the Gate District when you want. Shop at Candlepoint. Eat at the atrium in the House and enjoy food from all over the world, cooked by 7, 8, 9, and even one 10 star Cook. Come on by sometime and tell me what it means to be a dragon. Go places and do things, for you will have a full life available to you now. You will never have to worry about meeting another dragon and having a fight after today, okay? You can live again. Maybe for the first time in your life.”

Al almost objected when Erick started, but he listened, and he relaxed. He gulped as emotions ran through his chest and changed all of him, again. He still stood strong, but instead of acting like a solid stone to weather the storm, he read more like a man on the edge of a cliff.

A man who could fly, if he wanted to.

With softer eyes, Al nodded. His voice broke as he said, “I can do— I can do that.”

Erick smiled brightly. “So? Do you need to be naked for this? A dragon? I’m not reciprocating and turning into a dragon by the way; that’s way too odd for me right now.”

Al chuckled, then laughed loud. He breathed deep, and said, “I’m going to be a dragon.”

Erick felt he might have blinked, and maybe he did. For in that moment the world changed, filling with black and a bit of shattered black magic that fell to the ground, dissipating in sparkles. Those sparkles had been Al’s clothes.

Like a wall of scales encircling all of Erick, about ten meters out in every direction, lay Al, the dragon. He was a 40 meter long serpent, twisted around on himself, with his head and front body looking down at Erick, from about five meters away.

Erick looked up. “Hello, Al.”

With the same voice as always, but a bit deeper, Al said, “Alenzikaron, if you wish to know my full, real name. The last name of ‘Noraki’ is a part of ‘Al’s’ identity, but you can still call me ‘Al’ if you desire.”

Erick smiled wide. “It’s good to finally meet you, Alenzikaron.”

Al smiled a little, and Erick found he was not scared at all.

Alenzikaron said, “It would be good to meet with your real form later. Perhaps you can think up your real name by then? It is okay to take your time with that sort of thing, for it took me forty years to figure out ‘Alenzikaron’ and… Ah. Bollocks. I am stalling.” With full-black eyes and curving back horns, and a mouth that held white teeth, but which still looked rather normal with common-sized fangs and red gums, Al leaned down a bit, asking, “Do you think my coloring will change?”

There was real concern in that question.

Erick tried not to laugh at the incongruity of this giant being asking about something as simple as color, but then again, Erick was rather concerned over his own dragon color… Could he just change it? Yes, through illusions, but then [True Sight] could see him for what he was, and that wasn’t a real solution at all. But he hadn’t even considered changing his colors from Melemizargo’s colors until now, and yet, he found the prospect rather…

Unwelcome.

Erick liked his coloring.

Odd.

Erick could even justify why his coloring was already perfect. Benevolence tangled black, and Erick was black, because he was a tangle of Benevolence. That his eyes and other parts of him were white, were just because they were representative of the sparks of his Benevolence. His entire body naturally sparked and glowed white when he was a dragon, too, so that all made a whole lot of sense to him.

Huh.

With empathy, Erick said, “Maybe you’ll turn grey or silver, or maybe full white. I am sorry to say that I doubt you will remain black. Whenever anyone is [Reincarnation]’d their magic lightens. What I will be doing today is not a [Reincarnation], but it’s… It changes the very nature of your soul. The alignment, mostly. That shift will change your color, and you’re the first recipient. I cannot tell you how you will end up. Not exactly.”

Al pulled back in subtle worry. Then he said, “I can change my color back eventually… Probably.” And then he looked to Erick. “Your Benevolence [Dragon Body] is barebones, Erick. A high absolute damage reduction is nice, but a constant [Defend] effect, like what I have, would do you well; those two forms of spellwork are beautiful together. You need to accrete properly. Not just accept what was made of you.”

“I already have Constitution and that’s 95% damage reduction.” Erick said, “Anything below 20,000 damage won’t leave a scratch.”

“… Right. You are crazy. I forgot that for half a second. Absolute damage reduction is best for you.” Alenzikaron reared back, breathed deep, and then settled back down, laying his head down on the ground before Erick. “I am ready.” He closed his eyes.

Erick approached.

Warm breath blew out from Alenzikaron’s nostrils, as his whiskers twitched and his eyes moved under his eyelids. And then he felt Erick get near, and he forced his whiskers to the ground, and his eyes to stillness. His breath evened.

Erick touched his nose.

Alenzikaron’s black scales were hard and dry, but smooth like obsidian stone. All of him looked like that. He’d never look like that again, though. Erick knew that Al would change, and Al was lying to himself thinking he could ever change back. But Al knew that already, so Erick said nothing. Everything that had needed to be said had already been said...

“This might hurt,” Erick said.

“I know,” Alenzikaron answered.

Erick cast.

White lightning danced out from Erick like the ripping of a world, tearing into Al, ripping away scales like the prying of gems from a statue. Al did not move. He did not scream.

Erick jumped away, worried about everything.

And then Al lifted his head, and lightning continued to rip him apart, prying off scales and scattering dark red blood to the ground. The spell rapidly broke through all of Alenzikaron’s body, and he became a coiled conflagration of white lightning, ripping and tearing at all of him. His breath came out like sand, and then as white sparks. He grumbled, muttering about how it was slightly worse than he thought it would be, but that he could handle it. That calmed Erick a fraction, but not really at all—

Lightning blew out a four meter section of Alenzikaron’s side, scattering gore across the ground, splashing blood on Erick.

Al roared at that, but still, he endured.

Only ten seconds had passed and Erick was near his panicking limit, preparing himself to sing to the mana and take direct control of Alenzikaron’s transformation—

But then Alenzikaron’s wound healed in a flashing instant.

Silver scales replaced black. Al sighed in partial relief, and then he grunted again as his body was remade from the inside out, grunting about how the worst of it was over, and that he saw the problem. All his old body was the problem; it wasn’t him anymore. He was trapped and he needed to transform.

“I could use some proper healing magic help, Erick,” Al managed to grunt, at three minutes into his ordeal. “Any at all. My [Dragon Body] is already changed to yours.”

Erick obliged, having his Ophiel flood the mostly-black, partially silver dragon with Healing spells. Everywhere Ophiel touched with [Greater Treat Wounds] caused an eruption of black scales and muscle and gore that rapidly transformed into healed flesh and silver scales.

Erick watched as the room filled with the death of a black dragon.

And a pure silver dragon rose in its wake.

Ten minutes after starting the process, Alenzikaron stood up from the remains of his former body and floated in the air on flickers of Benevolence lightning. His eyes were black and silver.

He looked beautiful.

Alenzikaron looked at himself a bit, too, and he seemed okay with all of that.

And Erick said, “Well holy fucks and shits. I was not expecting that. You good, Alenzikaron?”

Alenzikaron smiled. “Yes… Yes, Erick. I am good. I feel…” He looked up at the endless sky above the room. “I feel I need to go for a fly. I haven’t done that in… Since I was a very stupid kid who didn’t realize what chaos he was going to cause. Maybe I will refrain from that.”

Erick joked, “Just don’t go taking over any cities out there, okay? We Benevolence dragons need to be better than that.”

It was not much of a joke, for that was exactly what Erick did not want to happen.

Alenzikaron looked back to Erick, saying, “I know. I would never besmirch this honor…” He paused, and then he flickered.

He was once again Al, the orcol, but this time he was standing on a pile of his own former self, and he was very nude. He didn’t seem to mind.

Neither did Erick, really.

Al said, “I’m going to go back to Spur and I would like to visit later, if that is alright? When you’re done with the day’s events? Or maybe tomorrow if you’re too busy today.”

Erick smiled. “I’d like that.” And then he added, “But. Uh. Yeah. I might be too busy today.”

Al gestured at his corpse, saying, “This thing is good for enchanting with, if you want it. I’m done with it, though.”

Erick laughed loudly. “That’s weird, Al!”

“What! Not that weird at all.” Al toed at a large patch of black scales, sending the top one tumbling down into blood. “I’ve used some of my own scales for enchanting sometimes myself. But! It’s your call. I’m done with them. I thought for a second that I would want to keep it, when I knew what was happening but… It’s useful, and yet I do not want it. So. See you later.” And then he put on some conjured clothes and blipped away in a flash of silver light.

Erick continued to smile a little.

And then he frowned, looking down at himself.

“Stop that,” Erick said to himself, “That’s nothing to get excited over. He’s just… Coming over eventually.” Erick looked over at the mess all around him. “And that’s certainly not exciting, right?” His temporary problem went down again, and Erick felt relief at that. “Good. I’m not turning into some sort of weirdo. Good.”

Erick began cleaning up the mess, but funnily enough, [Cleanse] left behind every single one of Al’s scales and every single one of his discarded bones, and horns, and fangs. They were highly useful items, according to the Script. So Erick pushed all of those into a pile, and then he [Gate]d them to his warehouse back on Yggdrasil, slotting them into a large bin the size of a dumpster. That bin went into a corner of the warehouse, surrounded by a quick [Preservation Ward], and there it sat. Erick had no idea what to do with them, but for some reason keeping them around did seem like a good idea.

And then he swept the manasphere of the room in the desert with a [Sealed Privacy Ward], destroying all [Witness]able history in the space. There were several more of these [Fairy Stronghold] setups located around the Crystal Forest, so Erick could do this same procedure for at least one more dragon, and maybe more, but he would not be using this one again. He canceled the [Fairy Stronghold], falling back into real space, but not onto the ground. Floating in his sunform, it was time to move on.

There were dangers to avert.

- - - -

The meeting with Zenipeq was the only meeting, aside from Al, which had a good chance to produce another Benevolence dragon. Erick had spoken with Zolan at length about what to expect and who Zenipeq was, which made Erick more and more secure in his decision, and Zolan increasingly worried about Erick’s responses to the dangers of this world.

In Erick’s office, Zolan tried to get him to change his mind again.

“King Flatt. Erick,” Zolan said, because Erick had told him to call him by his first name a week ago, though the man had yet to use Erick’s first name all that much, and only when they were alone. “Necromancy destroys every soul it touches. It is only by pure force of will and highly nuanced magics that fail all the time that these liches retain any semblance of propriety or morals at all.”

Erick said, “Yes. I understand that. But Zolan. You said yourself that Frostflower is about the only decent Fractured Citadel, and that they are a bulwark against the expansion of Death Throne, and a place for mortals to sometimes rest. On the whole, the Fractured Citadels only ever expand or contract against the forces of the oozes of Quintlan, and against each other. They almost never send anyone outside their borders to any other lands, and they only ever fight defensive wars, which they win, all the time. They could flood the world with undeath, but they haven’t, and yes, that’s because of all the other forces out here that also only fight defensive wars. But if Frostflower loses their main source of power, they will be subsumed by all the other Fractured Citadels. That’s a lot of dead mortals.”

“I also said that mortals are considered trash over there! The ones who displease their masters are turned into golems, or turned into magic items. Zenipeq is a tyrant dragolich who is completely closed off to negotiations with the rest of the world.”

“Okay well.” Erick said his final thoughts on the subject, “I mostly know what a Benevolencing will do to a dragon. Therefore, I will do this Benevolencing to Zenipeq and all the world would be better for it. So let’s talk more about what we want to happen afterward; what sort of concessions and openness we want from Frostflower, or whatever. If this doesn’t work, I want it to be on her, Zolan. Not because of us. That’s not the kind of nation I want to be.”

Zolan breathed out, his eyes flickering back and forth in thought. He looked up for a while. Then he looked at Erick, and said, “Okay. For a start, we need to demand that they cease the production of magical items out of criminals, and that they adopt Common International Law, at least. The Fractured Citadels have never gone that far in joining the rest of civilization, and maybe if they do… I hope this works, Erick, because I really don’t think it will.”

Erick smiled softly, and said, “So Common International Law, and the cessation of criminal souls into items. Both are good. What else?”

Zolan began with, “We’ll have to throw out a few Platforms we’re willing to abandon, like...”
