“Um... pretty good, actually.” Dennis said. “You need to be able to cast things precisely.”

“Then you'll put this to good use.” Ren said and gave it to him.

“How does it work?” Dennis asked.

“Just touch one of the images and add a little Mana, and it materializes the throwing weapon you touch.”

“Why aren't you wearing it?” Dennis asked and put the robe on.

“I can't use standard weapons.” Ren said, and that shocked them.

“How the hell did you survive so long?” Chris asked.

“I made a non-standard weapon, of course.” Ren said and grinned.

“What a great solution.” Dennis said. “Thanks for all of this equipment.”

Ren took out a Bracelet of Unbelievable Magic that gave the wearer 10,200 Mana and 1,020 Mana Regeneration, and held it out to him. “You'll need this, too.”

Dennis' mouth fell open at the golden bracelet, and he took it from Ren like it was the Holy Grail.

“You don't have to treat it tenderly. It's pretty tough.” Ren said and took out a Bracelet of Magical Balance, which gave +75 to all the base stats and another Mana boost. “This takes up your other wrist slot, but it's worth it.”

Dennis equipped both and couldn't believe his eyes when he read the popups. “It... it's not possible!”

Ren chuckled. “Not only is it possible, I have more.” He said and took out 5 more Bracelets of Magical Balance and gave one to each of the other guys.

“Yeah, we definitely made a huge mistake doing that task for Lord Grasham.” Chris said.

“I'm a little surprised you gained so much Infamy for that; but, I'm not going to complain about it.” Ren said. I have more important things to complain about. He thought, then used his Master Tailor Sewing Needle to repair their clothing, and used his blacksmith hammer to repair anything they needed repairing. He also gave the set of lockpicks to the Rogue. When all was said and done, the group of Adventurers were as decked out as they could be.

“I think that's it.” Ren said, and then smiled. “Except for two more things.”

Ren activated his Craft Wondrous Item ability and made them an Instant Tower with beds included, set the password for them, and put them all as the owners.

“You saw how this works.” Ren said and gave the 2 inch wide cube to Chris. “Put it down in a space wide enough for it and activate it.” He said. “You can set a spawn point inside for your group, so when you're going to start a mission, pop this thing out as a base in case you die. You'll respawn inside and be safe, because no one but you can enter... unless you bring them inside with you.”

Chris shook his head in disbelief. “Who are you?” He asked. “Why are you giving us so much stuff?”

“I promised myself that if I did this, I would make sure whoever took me up on the offer would have access to some of my best stuff.” Ren said and took out the Wand of Transport. “Like this.” He said and cast a Phantom Steed for each of them. “They are loyal to you, and will take you anywhere you need to go.” He cast Permanent Widen Effect on them, then made the steeds permanent, too. “They don't need to be fed or watered, so as long as you don't lose them, they will always be by your side.”

The Adventurers looked at their black steeds with smoky grey manes, and couldn't believe their eyes.

“Well, what are you waiting for?” Ren asked. “Climb on and go start doing your quests.”

“You're unbelievable.” Chris said as he climbed up onto his steed.

“I could make a joke about that, but I'll let it slide this time.” Ren said and watched them all mount their new steeds. “Now go and have fun, and don't worry about doing my quest right away. I'll be busy with something else for a while.”

Chris and the members of his party nodded, exchanged contact info with Ren, and then left at a full trot.

“Everyone, let's go to the breach in the county wall.” Ren said and climbed into Princess. “I've got to fix it first.”

“Then what are you going to do?” Xuunah asked.

Ren smiled crookedly. “We're going to pay Lord Grasham back for what happened today.”
