My attention is far more interested in the man beside him. From afar, he looked to be the younger of the two, with short brown hair and a calm visage of a young man. He has a larger frame than average, and is close to two meters tall, giving off a potent vitality. There is no actual qi infused aura at all permeating off of him, making these instinctual readings confusing.

His system scan tells me the truth.

[Automatic Inspect Function Activated…][Mu Zhiheng] [Age: 132][2nd Level Foundation Establishment][Water, Earth, Wood Spiritual Roots][6th Grade][Acquired Verdant Wood Physique][Initial Stage - Spirit Grade][No Innate Physique][Mu Shulan’s Uncle. He has mastered his family's acquired physique to its pinnacle; all scriptures past the initial stage of the spirit grade have been lost to time, passed down by hand from their great ancestor’s innate physique over ten generations ago.]

The line moves forward, and a few minutes later I’m standing in front of the two men.

I place my invitation slip before them, and Wang Ruze takes it, as it is branded with the Wang family insignia.

His face wrinkles into a smile. “Ah, Li Hao, I was told a young guest from the Azure Cloud Sect would be coming to be one of Wang Ming’s honorary guests.”

Mu Zhiheng’s eyebrows raise, and I sense a tiny twisting sensation in his calm, light green-tinted soul.

Though, it is far more difficult to see than the Wang family qi refiner that stows my invitation away.

I politely bow and present two mid-grade storage rings.

“Just 333 spirit stones each. There is nothing else in these rings. It is all I can give as a humble display of thankfulness for Wang Ming’s kindness in helping me secure a position in the sect, and for Mu Shulan, as she helped me sell a few items in the Red Pine Market.”

The two men crack the imprints on the inconspicuous rings, and their pupils both constrict in unison.

They turn their heads toward each other briefly, then trade the rings to each other to peak inside the others. Each ring holds 333 spirit stones as I said, but there is a small brown pill in each with golden vine patterns wrapping around them.

From the bewilderment growing on both of their faces, it's clear neither of them have ever seen such a pill, but the amount of space these items take up within these rings cannot be faked. Each pill carries more weight in these spatial items than so-called perfect grade weapons they have certainly handled in the past.

These older men have very stable control over their emotions. After just a second, their faces calm and stop shifting, but I can still sense the subtle fluctuation in their souls.

Behind me, there are mostly initial-stage qi refining clans, without the perception to catch on to what’s happening at all.

I smile again and speak in a lower tone. “Please, just the spirit stones. I wish to show my sincerity, but without the extra unnecessary attention.”

The sound of spirit stones dropping onto the counter follows, and my name shows up around the center of the gifting leaderboard with over a hundred names.

Mu Zhiheng keeps a straight face and thanks me as though I’m any other clan walking in, but Wang Ruze can’t hold back a growing smile. “My little nephew sure knows how to make connections in the sect.”

He hands me a small piece of white jade and points behind him. “You’ll be seated in the honorary guest area, off to the side of the main stage. This jade will warm up the closer you are to your seat. It will be right beside the rest of the Wang family. You can’t miss it. Once my duties here are done, I’ll be seated right next to you.”
