Clan Star Song’s mountain mansion was a beauty of light and color; an oasis in the darkening night. Soft songs made of plucked strings and gentle voices drifted out from inside the palatial estate of towers and sky bridges and houses. The scents of spicy, savory, and sweet foods, touched upon the air, giving hints of what was to come.

Ezekiel Phoenix, Julia, Tiffany, and Paul, each wearing their best, and only, spider silk robes, followed Xue Star Song and Sikali Star Song under a wide, white stone arch, into Clan Star Song’s domain. It was not a Domain, though; Ezekiel was pretty sure. His mana sense and the Sights of his Odin were pushed to the limit in an effort to see all of everything that was to come. He saw a lot, but nothing too concerning.

[True Sight] informed him that much of the colors he was seeing were actually physically present; the walls were not light-painted with wardlights, like in most places that tried to be grand. This place actually was grand, with physical paint layered upon wood, real paper in the lanterns hanging here and there, and stones that were allowed to be stones. The only wardlights present were those scattered in the boughs of trees, or upon light posts, or in other locations where a wardlight was supposed to be cast.

For all the complicated architecture of Star Song’s mountain mansion, it was not complicated in a haphazard way. The building seemed planned out perfectly.

Ezekiel imagined that newcomers to the Clan likely had a hell of a time getting a house here… or maybe that wasn’t a problem, actually? Maybe this was just an ancestral home. Yeah. That seemed right. Maybe only the Patriarch or Matriarch was allowed to actually live here? Hmm. No. That seemed too simple, too.

They walked along a curving stone path into a cleft in the mountain, which seemed like a great location to ambush someone. But… There weren’t many magics active in the air. Ezekiel rapidly decided that this made sense since all magics degraded over time—

Most magics did. Permanent lightwards and his own [Prismatic Ward] and [Kaleidoscopic Radiance] were all permanent. But as for magics other people cast? Aside from lightwards, of course. Those magics were generally impermanent, with a duration that lasted weeks for lesser magics, and hours for stronger ones. The only spell that was the exception to the rule was [Force Trap], and even that one was not permanent. [Force Trap] was one of the spells that were widely banned by law in most places, but still, you’d expect to see those kinds of spells in a place like—

Right over there, by that sky bridge leading between those two towers. A Trap spell of some sort; [Wood Trap]? Maybe. Maybe not.

There’s another, over on that doorknob. Oh. There’s actually quite a lot on more than a few doorknobs… None anywhere nearby; none on the path they were taking to get to the gathering.

And besides that, people were always the largest threat to one’s safety.

There were quite a few people ahead.

Ezekiel got his head in the game.

Current threats? None active, or visible.

Active magics? None nearby that weren’t already attached to a person. None which seemed too strong; but the strength of a spell was not always perfectly indicative of effect.

Current emotions on faces? Happy. Calculating. Open hatred. Hidden hatred. More calculating looks, more false faces. The whole human and otherwise experience was on display in the party, just ahead, but none of that was directed toward Ezekiel, though a few people had their eyes turned toward the entrance, waiting for him. They knew he was arriving soon, but they didn’t seem to be waiting as a part of an ambush. They were waiting in order to see.

Ezekiel tried to relax, a little. He was going into a large communal event that would have a large effect on the rest of his time in this part of the world. This was why he chose to come to this event in the first place; make a good impression, find a few facts out about the Highlands, find some interesting or useful magics. That sort of thing.

But that stone pagoda in front of Clan Star Song had thrown him for a deep loop. His mind was filled with dragons and Paths and consequences and the fact that someone here was likely a dragon and wasn’t that kinda fucked up? He had heard expressions about dragons many times while he had been out and about in the city, mostly from the commoners who had seen him out on the street and then told their kids ‘not to wake the dragon’, after, or even before, they pulled those same kids out of his line of sight.

Ahhh.

Get your head in the game, Ezekiel.

It had been less than ten seconds since they had left the white road, outside of Star Song’s manor. They were now in an inner courtyard with little ornamentation, except for open windows above on every side, and a skinny, tall tree growing up from the middle, toward the open sky beyond. Past the tree lay an opened set of double doors. Light and song spilled out from the gathering inside.

Ezekiel followed Xue and Sikali forward, around the courtyard, and then waited just a moment for the other two to go ahead, first.

Xue and Sikali entered the gathering arm in arm. They bowed toward the people beyond, and then they both stepped to the left, their voices raised in unison, “Scion Ezekiel Phoenix, and entourage.”

Ezekiel stepped forward, into the space made for him.

He was atop a short staircase. The land beyond was a space of barely-raised platforms, five meters by five meters across, each separated by a meter-wide divide. Tables, shaped like rings with a small section cut out of them, each sat one to a platform. Not every table was the same size, but each held between ten to fifteen people. Servants moved in the meter-wide lower lands between each raised platform, rushing into the gap of each table when necessary to refill dishes and drinks and to take the dirty plates away. According to what Ezekiel was seeing and hearing, the gathering was still in the middle of its first course.

The people at the tables sat upon drum-like chairs with cushions on the top and nothing in the way of back support. The food they ate looked delicious, and yet Ezekiel doubted he would be able to enjoy it. From what he was already hearing, this was a party of plotting and schemes. He didn’t appreciate those. He much preferred party sort of parties, or at least one with less hidden hostility between guests.

Oh well. Maybe next time.

This was probably just how they did it among the nobility of the Highlands. There were a lot of cultural norms happening here that Ezekiel had never been exposed to before tonight. He could keep up, mostly, for he had surely gone to events where everyone hated each other, but he didn’t think anyone back home had ever murdered over the events of a night like this—

No. Wait. There was Rebecca and her husband. She cheated on him and then murdered him—

Ezekiel discarded that chain of thought and focused on the world before him. Barely a second had passed since his introduction.

Xue and Sikali bowed once more to Ezekiel, then they walked down the side of the staircase.

A man at a nearby table stood. He was one of the people who were waiting for Ezekiel to come into the gathering. He was also one of the people who were there when Tadashi was transferred to Elder Doniro, but he had left the second it became apparent that Ezekiel had completed the Quest, and gotten his five points.

The man wore a turquoise robe and spoke loudly, his voice quieting the people around him, “Begone, outsider! You stole our Quest, but you will not steal our hospitality.”

A hush fell over the room. Eyes turned to Ezekiel. This was a test, of course.

“I won’t fall for that sort of ploy a second time.” Ezekiel asked, “Are you some member of a High Clan, too?”

The man scoffed, “You are right to be wary! But we need not concern the High Clans to deal with the likes of—”

“Ah! Then you admit you’re not important.” Ezekiel promptly ignored the man and stepped down the stairs, asking one of the servants who failed to run away fast enough, “Is there a specific spot where I should sit? I’d like to see Tadashi, as well.”

The servant quickly made himself as small as possible, saying, “A thousand apologies, but this one knows nothing,” as he backed away, getting the hell out of there.

Ezekiel couldn’t blame the man.

Turquoise man’s face was a shade of pink, but it went red as he was ignored. A few laughs tittered out of some of the other people at the gathering, but not all. The people at the highest platform far to the left of the room, just looked on, impassively. Five people sat on one side of a linear table, up there on that platform, watching everyone. Each of them wore fabric crowns, but the crown of the person in the middle was the largest.

From left to right, was Elder Doniro, then some other guy, then a man who Ezekiel guessed was the Patriarch of Star Song according to his hat, then Elder Arilitilo, then another woman. To the left of that top platform was a medium-height platform, with a single smaller table, large enough for a single person.

It was Tadashi’s table, for sure, but he wasn’t there. A focused expansion of Ezekiel’s mana sense uncovered a blank spot a good ten meters beyond the gathering room, almost seventy meters to the left, deep into the mansion mountain. The blank spot was sitting at a different table in a small room, already eating. It was probably Tadashi.

They’d likely bring him out anyway when they decided to give their announcements.

But what to do until then? Just sit down… somewhere? Yes. But where? There was a hint here, somewhere. He just had to… understand it...

Barely a second had passed since he shut down the Turquoise Man. That dude was still trying to understand exactly how much he had been insulted.

Soon enough, multiple seconds passed. Ezekiel listened.

One group of small voices were saying one thing, about how Ezekiel should just take his seat at their table, which was in the middle of the room. This was a safe enough choice. Another was saying a different thing, about how Ezekiel’s guest of honor space was up by the Elders, at the small table.

Which meant that they were aware he was listening to them, and at least some of the people here were trying to trick him into making a mistake.

Was it a concerted effort? Or—

No. It was just a few people trying to be dicks. Some of the whispered suggestions seemed honest.

Whelp! There was only one way to win this type of game.

… Two ways, really. He could not play. He could turn around and walk away. That was always an option. Running away would always be an option, too.

The other option would be to navigate the issues before him and thread the needle between ruination and success. But what did success look like, here?

Success looked like a nice dinner and meeting new people and ensuring that Tadashi was okay.

So, to that end, Ezekiel paused and allowed the Turquoise Man to finally catch himself and say something.

“You overstep yourself, clansman!” The yelling man said, “Leave now, before I—”

Ezekiel turned his glare to the unknown pissant, and said, “I can handle a little impoliteness, but the Scion of your High Clan Devouring Nightmare acknowledged me, therefore: Are you insulting your betters, as well as me, clansman? You have woefully failed this encounter by taking that route.”

A few titters of laughter touched upon the air. Many were amused. Only a few were not.

The singers in the corner had ceased their singing while this minor drama played out before them, but the zither players strummed their instruments in quiet tempo, adding even more drama to the air.

This was just a play for all of them, wasn’t it?

Not the worst vice to have; picking on the new guy. But the game was over. If insulting the Scion of Devouring Nightmare the other day had cut that encounter to the quick, then invoking that High Clan here and now would surely have done so tonight, as well.

Ezekiel’s gambit had worked.

Three people stood up around the room. One was Caina, the purple-armored dark-skinned woman who Ezekiel had sparred with; she was at one of the three tables nearest the tallest platform, with the elders. The second person was some man in pink flowing robes near the entrance, at the table opposite the Turquoise Man. The last person to stand was Xue, who was at a table to the far left.

Caina stared at the turquoise man.

The turquoise man seemed to reconsider himself. He glared at nothing in particular, then turned contrite. He angled away, saying, “Then by a High Clan’s will, I suppose you are allowed to be here.” He sat back down at his seat and had a nervous server refill his cup.

Ezekiel ignored the man, then said to the room, “Thank you for the invitation, Clan Star Song. After my duel with Caina, I asked if there was to be drink and feasting and talk of nothing important. I am glad to have received your invitation to participate in such. And what a joyous occasion, as well. If that blank spot over that way is Tadashi, then I am glad to see he is at least doing well enough to eat.” He gave a small bow, then walked toward Xue.

Xue snapped a finger at some servants who moved quickly to make room.

Ezekiel walked past the pink man, giving a small nod of thanks, to which the pink man nodded back, then sat back down and resumed talking with his people.

Ezekiel was almost to his spot, but fate had different ideas.

Caina spoke up, diverting attention to her, “Scion Phoenix. Please come sit with us. Your people may sit wherever there is room, at a different table.”

