“This harkens back to your stance that the law should be balanced, Scion Ezekiel, but the law can never, and will never, be balanced.” Ored said, “When small magics are involved, we can [Witness] the crime unfold and judge accordingly. Only the nobility would ever need to decide the fate of their own, and only because when larger magics are used do they mar the readability of the manasphere. Commoners rarely need more than the Judge and the Executioner. And if they do, then they get them.”

The blue woman, Scion Gerella of White Wood, the Clan which built much of Eralis, said, “Commoners could get them, but judges and juries cost money, which most people do not have.”

The blue man, Scion Yaro of Red Ledger, the Clan which maintained the health of much of Eralis and the surrounding lands, said, “And I suppose you’d want to raise taxes on them all to do this?”

Gerella said, “No. Riri said it best: We must incentivize more people to go out and fight on the front lines. If your Health Clinics charged less, if the commoners were able to be actual warriors, then many of the problems of money would vanish from our society.”

Ezekiel commented, “There would need to be courthouses for any true shift in the Law to take place. I have not noticed any in the Highlands, but from what I am gathering, there are none?”

“We haven’t built courthouses in centuries,” Gerella said. “Even though our population is still ever-growing.”

Riri said, “Something will need to change in the coming decades with the population continuing to grow like this.”

Ezekiel said, “It is a good problem to have, though; Growth.”

“Aye.” Yaro lifted up his drink, which had been filled four times by Ezekiel’s count, saying, “Now that the shadow actors are gone—”

He got a few quick stares at that. Yaro startled. He set his drink down, then mumbled a nothing-apology.

Ezekiel guessed that Yaro was about to mention the Shades, but whatever the case, it seemed that people didn’t like speaking about Dark matters around a dinner table. Or, perhaps, anywhere.

That seemed rather short-sighted to Ezekiel. How could anyone form a plan against the largest problems in the world if they were not willing to talk about the—

Oh.

Right.

Normally, and for much of Veird’s history, no one could do anything against the Shades. So it was best not to talk of them, at all. Ezekiel could understand that much.

Caina got the conversation back on track, saying, “The Clans oversee their own lands and do their own judging. To that end, we have bureaucracy in place, but we mainly rely on the honor of our leaders and on our subordinates to make the correct choices in their Enforcing of the Law.” Like it was a horrible fact, she stoically stated, “And the bureaucracy grows.”

Ezekiel found he appreciated Caina’s honor, and the woman herself, but she had quite a few quirks to her that made her seem simple. She did not like paperwork, for one. She preferred everyone to be honorable and to just go about living her life—

“Ever and ever deeper,” Yaro said.

Scion Yaro, though, was a hothead and kinda lazy, it seemed. Of course, Ezekiel could have been wrong. They were at a party, after all. It wasn’t the best place to judge a guy.

“I’m more concerned over the gold woes.” Ored said, “We already mint our coins with less gold than can be found in other coins in the world. This problem is going to come to a head, soon, and result in widespread deflation. Maybe in ten years. Maybe twenty.”

Ored, though! Ored was clearly positioning himself to be the power-behind-the-throne, to his sister, Scion Caina. He seemed competent, which was probably a good thing.

Riri said, “We have certain plans for that eventual deflation.”

Loremaster Riri Star Song seemed like a scheming sort of person, but that was not bad. There was a lot of mystery to the woman, though, and that was slightly worrying.

“Do those plans involve some sort of fiat currency?” Ezekiel asked, “I’ve been interested in getting away from the gold standard, but I’m not sure how to do it.”

There were a few concerned looks around the table, but there were just as many interested faces.

Ored asked, “How would you prevent copyists from copying a fiat-currency that is not a physical, true object?”

Ezekiel, excited, said, “There’s a spell called [Object Reading]. It’s a lesser variation of [Witness], but I’m pretty sure it’s Mind Mage only, so the Mind Mages would have to be involved. But the currency itself could just be paper, or whatever. I admit, I only have the beginning of an idea, but we get truthstones from the Mind Mages, anyways, so basing another part of our judicial systems on them doesn’t seem like that bad of an idea.”

Caina finished off her latest cup of rice wine while Ezekiel spoke. She set the glass down for a server to refill it, and said, “Dislike. Pick another.”

“Why the complete dislike?” Riri asked. “As Scion Phoenix has said: it is the barest start of an idea.”

Yaro said, “It’s not the worst fiat currency idea I ever heard. But not only do you propose to put more Mind Magic into our systems, but a non-metal currency? This is not a good idea.” He looked over to Gerella, saying, “Clan White Wood tried that two hundred and forty years ago with wood and almost crashed our entire economy.”

Gerella frowned, and almost said something antagonistic, for sure, but she did not. Ezekiel didn’t know much about Gerella, but she seemed to like most of his own ideas and she wasn’t antagonistic when she didn’t have to be, and that was worth a few points.

“Oh! I have a better idea.” Ezekiel said, “Cloth currency. Not paper currency. Make the fiat currency out of some rare, specially bred spider. Then you have some potion that will react with that spider thread, and none other, briefly turning the cloth currency darker, or something.”

Riri’s eyes arched.

Her eyes would arch, wouldn’t they. Ezekiel knew Riri had something to do with spiders, but he wasn’t quite sure. No one seemed to bring up spider silk at the table, either; not even when they were talking of products. Spider silk was a large product of Eralis, though.

Which was why Ezekiel brought up spider silk in the first place. Might as well shake the tree and see if any spiders fall out!

Yaro laughed. “Reactive spider silk has more thought put into it than White Wood did!”

“Wood chips might be fine, too.” Ezekiel said, “The problem is that you need something that cannot be reproduced through simple spells already out there, and wood and silk can both fulfill that need if you [Grow] or [Husbandry] a specific plant or animal.” He had another half-thought, and added, “Wait. Never mind on the wood. I’m sure there are special [Grow] spells that can revive dead wood, though I know not a single one.”

Gerella lost a lot of her frown as she spoke up, “You cannot revive dead wood, if you know how to properly kill the wood in the first place. All this ‘wood-chip’ idea needs is some Decay-based alchemical baths to bleach the wood first to solve that grafting concern.”

Caina hummed a bit, and sipped her refilled wine.

“Good to know.” Ezekiel continued, “But as for cloth versus wood; there is the matter of space concerns. Cloth can be stacked like paper. Wood is bulky. Metal is already too heavy and the gold standard will lead to problems, eventually. This is why I like the idea of slips of cloth that can be used as a fiat currency. Or, I suppose, slips of thin paper made from special trees.”

Caina said, “Gold has multitudes of problems; I agree. But we need not abandon it yet. We are simply in the cycle where the problem is coming at us, yet again.”

“The Headmaster will likely get us out of the problem, just as he always has,” Gerella said.

Yaro said, “I loathe that solution.”

“On this, we can agree,” Gerella said.

Riri said, “We’re still paying off his last loan, and you know it didn’t cost him anything.”

Caina frowned. “[Duplicate].”

There were a lot of silent nods around the table. Silence descended, briefly.

Ored said, “I would still rather have some metal as our currency. You can’t burn metal, and if damaged, you can just Shape it back into coins.”

Riri instantly said, “But silk can be mass produced, and simple alchemical tests can prove the veracity of—”

Combative Yaro laughed, saying, “You just want your—”

Riri glared at the man, like she was dishing death and Yaro was eating his fill.

Yaro shut up.

Riri continued, “As I was saying. Simple alchemical tests can prove...”

The conversation continued. Ezekiel had long ago recognized a pattern. Normally, the Scions would speak, putting their thoughts out there, and then the people who were not Scions would speak, pulling apart ideas and arguments. Once or twice, a proxy war was started among the lesser clansmen, as they spoke on rougher topics that the Scions themselves would not touch, but at any moment a Scion could pull the conversation back to them, and restart the cycle back from the top.

The only one who seemed exempt from this cultural system was Loremaster Riri Star Song, who spoke at all levels of the topics happening around her. Ezekiel suspected that Riri’s ability to do this was due to the fact that the whole feast and conversation was taking place in Clan Star Song’s headquarters. As for interrupting Riri, though? No one had done that except for Yaro, and three times now. She was getting rather annoyed at the man.

Ezekiel was having fun, though. He did not expect polite and deep conversation when he came here. He expected bloodshed.

Eventually, Ezekiel heard the names of most everyone at that table, and the names of those around the rest of the large room. He learned a lot about the general ideology of the Highlands, and eventually, the conversation turned back to hospitality rights.

He would need to get Clan Star Song a gift, but that didn’t need to happen tonight, or even tomorrow. Giving a gift too soon would be seen as thoughtless, but too late would be seen as rude. What was ‘too late’? That was a whole new discussion. The general consensus was anywhere between two days after the event, and a week. By that point Ezekiel was up to five dishes cleared away, but some people were up to ten or twelve.

He glanced over to Julia, Tiffany, and Paul, occasionally. They were being tested in their own ways, but nothing too serious. Paul seemed to be nailing his interrogation, which Ezekiel expected. The man was giving nothing away and yet remaining amicable at the same time. Ezekiel was giving a lot away, but it was only philosophy, and it seemed important to give away his own philosophy since everyone else was doing the same, and they were all Scions. Tiffany was telling campfire stories and her audience was, if not enthralled, then at least doing a good job at pretending. She appeared to be a big hit.

Julia was currently in a game of knife stab—

The table of Scions noticed Ezekiel’s reaction, which was utter surprise, disgust, and worry. Several of them instantly wondered what part of what had been said was wrong. But...

Ezekiel slowly, so slowly, turned away from his table and affixed his gaze at his daughter, across the room. She had a knife in her hand. The guy sitting beside her had a knife in his hand. Both were smiling. Steel flashed. A knife jutted out from the man’s chest, buried hilt-deep, maybe all the way to his heart. The knife in Julia’s chest—

The knife did not enter her chest. The length of steel plonked off of her spider-thread robes; deflected due to the natural strength of the fiber and the tightness of the weave. They had worked on that weave for a while to get it tight enough to do exactly what it had just done; deflect a blade on its own. Part of Ezekiel was glad that it had worked. The other part...

Julia pulled the knife from the guy’s chest and the guy laughed, holding his suddenly sucking chest wound. She tapped him with a glowing hand, as she said, “It’s good thread, ri—”

Julia probably felt her father’s eyes (or the eyes of everyone in the room) boring into her skull, for she looked to her left. She locked eyes with Ezekiel, all the way on the other side of the room. His eyes narrowed; hers went wide. She put down the bloody knife and cast a [Cleanse] over the man she had just stabbed and the knife, then she shrugged. The formerly-stabbed man laughed all that much more, followed rapidly by their entire table, and some of the rest of the room.

A sudden influx of whispered questions followed the laughter, all of them variations of ‘What happened?’

Ezekiel breathed again.

He turned back toward his own table and sipped more of his rice wine. It was a good vintage; strong. It took his mind off of—

Riri said, “That is some fine spider silk your daughter makes, but the weave itself is as good as some Force constructs. What pattern did you use?”

“The thread and the weaving pattern is my daughter’s.” Ezekiel said, rolling with the situation. “She’s looking for a Nacreous Weaver if anyone knows where I could find one.”

Riri said, “Physical strength is more important than spellcrafting or colors, and that’s all that Nacreous Weavers can do. Your daughter’s silk does fine with black, though, and that is more than enough variety.”

Happy to move the conversation away from the faux pas that had just been committed, and the blood that had been spilled—

Seriously! What the fuck, Julia!

