Circumvent all of this nonsense happening around him and invent proper chelation therapy himself, and then give out that magic to everyone, everywhere. There would still be a war, and it might be worse, or, it could be better. Maybe there wouldn’t be a war due to mutually assured destruction?

… He wasn’t fond of that option, but only because he couldn’t see it not ending in war.

Every option ended in war.

Except the fourth option.

He could kill everyone here and thus prevent a future genocide.

… He cycled back to option 3. No one deserved to lose out on magic. No one deser—

Some people totally deserved to lose out on magic. The Shades did, for sure. There were others out there as well… probably.

Tadashi did not deserve to lose out on magic, though! Ezekiel relaxed. There was at least one person—

What if Tadashi practiced his proto-chelation therapy on orphaned children? What if there were piles of dead kids out there, all victims to twisted science? He had to know.

Ezekiel found himself standing. His voice threatened to bubble out of him, uncontrollable, interrupting the lesser clansmen currently talking to Tadashi. There was no need to interrupt, though. As soon as he stood, the room fell to silence. All eyes turned his way. More than a few people were nervous beyond belief as they gazed upon Ezekiel, and Ezekiel found it good; they should be scared of him, if all they cared for was more war.

The Elders simply watched, impassive, and yet anything but.

Ezekiel mentally acknowledged the people around him, physically ignored the fear he could practically taste in the air, coming off of a great many people, and spoke, “Alchemist Tadashi.”

Tadashi had already turned his way. His eyes were not full of fear, but instead, full of hope. “Scion Phoenix. Thank you for attending this gathering.”

“I thank Clan Star Song for the invitation.” Scion Ezekiel acknowledged the Elders, then asked Tadashi, “From what I have heard, I understand Particle Magic can be rather deadly. How skilled are you in this new field of magic? Has anyone died from your treatments, yet?”

Tadashi instantly said, “We have lost thousands of rats, so far, and we will likely lose a lot more. There have been no sapient deaths, and we will keep it that way. This application of Particle Magic is very new. I caution anyone from raising their hopes too far. The product works, but not well. We will get there, but it will take time.”

Ezekiel felt a weight fall from his shoulders; it showed, for sure. They weren’t testing on people, or at least Tadashi didn’t know that they were testing on people. Ezekiel asked, “How skilled are you in Particle Magic? How do you know your treatment actually works? That it actually removes antirhine?”

Tadashi paused. He glanced toward Patriarch Zalindi, who gave a tiny nod. Tadashi turned back, and said, “I will tell you how I made this discovery. I won’t go into detail. Inside the potion house, we have antirhine pellets that we use in order to de-magic certain plants. One of these pellets got into a solution of an experiment. This was unintended, but I wouldn’t find out until the next day. Usually, when antirhine is broken down inside a liquid that can actually dissolve the antirhine, the antirhine remains, creating a diffuse solution that needs to be carefully controlled so that it doesn’t infect the environment. It is quite easy to make toxic antirhine Elixirs in this way, but the antirhine in this solution just vanished. The anti-magic effect was gone.” He said, “That was three weeks ago. Now, we’re here.”

“You destroyed it?!” came the voice of a disbelieving man a table over.

A woman instantly joined in on that chain of thought, saying, “If you destroyed it, why would it take years to cure the Elixir!”

Ezekiel’s voice rose above the sudden influx of other speakers, “He did not destroy the antirhine. He just sequestered it. It was still in the solution.”

Silence fell.

Ezekiel added, “Unless you just melted it and it turned to air and floated away, but I highly doubt that.”

Ezekiel got a few stares. The Elders looked impassive, but they were interested. Too interested, perhaps.

Tadashi eyed Ezekiel, one eyebrow going high as he said, “It did not float away. Upon burning the solution under controlled, physical circumstances, the antirhine reappeared in the smoke and then precipitated out of the next solution. When the mice urinated we found—”

Patriarch Zalindi tapped a single finger against the table in front of him, once. Tadashi fell silent. Zalindi asked, “Scion Phoenix. How did you know that the antirhine was not destroyed?”

Ezekiel considered not answering, but that was the coward’s route. He said, “Because particles cannot be created or destroyed, only moved around and changed. Mana is the same way.”

Tadashi exclaimed, “So you do know about particles! I thought—”

Zalindi side-eyed Tadashi as he tapped his finger upon his table, twice in rapid succession. The alchemist shut up, then sat down. It seemed that the time for questions was over. Ezekiel bowed to the Patriarch, then also sat down. The Scions and otherwise at his table were either eyeing him, or trying to not eye him.

Zalindi stood, and in a calm voice, declared, “The presentation of our new magics has concluded. Alchemist Tadashi will be here to speak of logistics, but we should all talk amongst ourselves regarding these new developments, and how we might best achieve mutual aid for mutual benefit. The members of Clan Star Song who are seated at the heads of your tables are empowered to speak openly of logistics, but in the case they are not, or if the situation demands it, they might send you off for an individual meeting with one of us. Tomorrow, more individual meetings will commence, for this is not the work of one night, or one month, or one year. This is the beginning of a bright new chapter in the Songli Highlands, and it will take all of us in order to make it happen.” He sat down.

Talk erupted around the room of crippled Elders who could be brought back from ignominy, of uncles and aunts who would be allowed back into the main house, of—

Ezekiel turned back to his silent table. They were all looking at him. According to Odin’s few extra eyes, which he rid himself of as soon as Ezekiel noticed, half of the other nearby tables were looking his way, too. He asked the Scions and otherwise, “Yes? What.”

Caina, sitting next to him, spoke first. “Who are you?”

“That’s a rude question.” Ezekiel said, “Next.”

Before his sister could get mad, Ored spoke, “What my sister means to ask, is: Are you a threat?”

“It certainly seems like I was put here in order to make a decision, doesn’t it,” Ezekiel openly wondered. “Does a war deserve to be started, because of a new magic, because it would be best for all? Or does a war deserve to die in its crib because it is war.”

For a moment, no one said anything.

Yaro said, “With all the respect due to a fellow Scion, but also a foreigner, the Highlands deserve everything we carve out of the barbarian lands. If whatever shithole you crawled out of decided to start something with us then you’d be put to the sword, too, and that would be counted as the ‘best for all’.”

“Here is what I am currently thinking, and it ties into what you’re saying, at its core.” Ezekiel said, “The Shades instigate war in Nelboor; this is known, though many don’t wish to speak openly of this fact. One Shade in particular, by the name of Torika, was responsible for infiltrating clans and armies and driving them to war, and then killing her own ‘side’ once her side won.

“She was killed last Shadow’s Feast.

“So keep that in mind as you talk of war. Ask yourself, are you perhaps fighting at the behest of shadows when you kill a roaming warband, who is also unknowingly fighting for shadows? Or, is that part of Nelboor done? I don’t know, and neither do you. Not right now. Maybe not for a long time. But either way, the scars of those shadows remain, and you should check yourself to see where your impetus to war originates. Will there be a war that does not need to happen, just because the Highlands believes that there needs to be a preemptive war, because that is how it has always been, when one side rapidly gains unexpected power? Or is this to be a war of conquest, simply because the only options are conquest or surrender? Are all of the warlords out there truly so evil that they cannot be brought into the fold, or are your own desires for conquest creating enemies where there are none?

“Just look at me. I have heard of the good works of the Singers, and I come to you as a potential ally. Before tonight, I would have been happy to be a part of Eralis.

“But you gain one potential, landscape-defining advantage, and your first action is to consider going to war? That seems shameful, and goes against the successes you have already achieved.” He added, “Some of the warlords might need to be eradicated, for sure. I acknowledge that. But Tadashi’s invention is not ready —thank the gods— so you will have time to reflect on what actually, truly, needs to happen in this part of the world.” He added, “Make better choices.”

People recoiled as he spoke of Shadows and Shades, but they did not run. They listened. Some people turned against Ezekiel as he went on, their faces turning hard. Others got terrified looks in their eyes. Others spoke over him, but only telepathically, and to each other; no one dared to openly interrupt him.

He wasn’t quite sure why people were suddenly gaining fearful looks in their eyes, but he had a few good guesses.

Gerella and Yaro sent out some telepathic messages. When they got their replies, Gerella sat fractionally straighter, her face becoming full of hope. Yaro seemed chastised, and then he went hard, determined to weather the storm facing him. Riri was speaking telepathically to a few people, though her face remained impassive the whole time as she focused entirely on Ezekiel.

Something hard solidified in Caina’s visage as she received her own telepathic messages.

When Ezekiel finished, there was a brief silence.

And then Caina spoke to the group, “The fallout of Archmage Flatt’s creation of Particle Magic and his trip through Ar’Kendrithyst, and all the rest, will be hundreds of years in the unfolding. Alchemist Tadashi’s treatment will take a year to perfect, and then a year to implement upon a person. We have time enough to answer the concerns raised by Scion Ezekiel, and time enough to evaluate the necessity of war. War might not happen, now that the true antagonists behind many of them are gone.” She said to Ezekiel, “But war is always a possibility when the landscape changes. Once it leaks that we can bring our loved ones back from ignominy, and once our loved ones regain the ability to eradicate those who forced them into that ignominy, they will want to rid the Highlands of those who oppose our prosperity.” She said, “The warlords to the north. The pirates to the south. The scattered Hunters of the plains. The nation of Terror Peak across the Tribulation Mountains. These are enemies we have always had, for they have always wanted our prosperity. That desire only grows worse as our prosperity flourishes, and now will be no different, except now we can end them.”

People nodded along as Caina spoke.

Ezekiel conceded, “That is a valid point. Sometimes, some powers deserve to be Ended, even if it would bring pain to many. I said this much already, and I fully believe it, too.”

He could have said more, but he had said more than enough.

Caina regarded Ezekiel, then turned back to the table.

Someone else spoke of something that was not a true concern, and then another voice countered that first one. Conversations multiplied.

Ezekiel tried his ice cream. It was a good berry flavor, even when mostly melted. The cake was fluffy and perfect and tasted of some sort of lime. He smiled. They needed more citrus flavors; they needed to trade with Candlepoint.

He participated in the conversations when they turned to him, but he was mostly thinking to himself. His answers were less than satisfactory, and mostly deflective; he knew this, everyone else was beginning to understand this, too. He had said his piece. Time would tell what would come of the Highlands, going forward.

And his mind was on other things, anyway. Like: How had Melemizargo blipped them into the air, well over a year ago, when car batteries surely contain more than enough lead to disrupt such a spell? How had they gotten to Veird in the first place, if lead was disrupting the journey?

Did he have a bit of lead poisoning, himself, from living most of his life on Earth? Did Jane?

On my gods. Jane once told him that she had been shot with a bullet! Could she—

Could lead poisoning be holding Jane back from her magic?

And besides that, Jane had always been an angry child, and lead led to aggressive tendencies, and—

Let’s just not think about that right now.

Or! Or maybe...

Or… Had the lead not come with them to Veird? Is that why the car died? Was the lead from the car’s batteries left behind on that highway, all those months ago? Were a few plates of lead, wet with acid, sitting on the road, all that was there to signal that they had left Earth behind…

No. That lead came with them— NO. The headlights died well before Melemizargo showed. The car was fully dead by the time they were blipped into the sky.

There was lead inside laptops, too, wasn’t there—

No. Not that much, if any. Cars had lead batteries. Laptops had lithium ion batteries. Not much lead in a smartphone or laptop, either. The only lead in there would be in the solder, but—

