There was lead in traditional solder, which would have been the only instance of lead in their various electronic devices… maybe. But these days the manufacturers used lead-free solder in electronic devices. There might have been some lead solder in the car’s electronics, though? Ezekiel racked his brain, trying to remember what lead might have come with them to Vei—

The conversation came back to him with a pointed question from Yaro.

The Scion of Red Ledger asked, “Do you have a problem with how we run our city and our nation, Scion Phoenix?”

Ezekiel instantly said, “I apologize. The evening has left me stressed in uncommon ways. I have been rude, I am sure. Please forgive me.”

Yaro frowned, seemingly unhappy that Ezekiel had folded so easily; or at least that’s what it looked like he was thinking. A few others around the table seemed to regard Ezekiel with less importance after he was willing to debase himself with a simple apology, but that was fine.

The smart ones, Ored, Riri, and Gerella, seemed to get something else from Ezekiel’s apology. They saw Ezekiel’s full pull back for what it was; a deflection that worked. Ezekiel knew he had gone too far in claiming that he was ‘put here for a decision’ along with all the rest of what he had said. Even Caina seemed to recognize Ezekiel's words as the same sort of drawback that he had done to bring their own duel to a draw, days ago.

Yaro was not content with a draw.

Yaro said, “Tell us what you appreciate about Eralis.”

It was a command, and not a question.

And yet, Ezekiel answered, “I truly enjoyed the Void Temple and meeting the Singers. The restaurants of Darzallia were a surprise with their variety and good prices. The book sellers had a fantastic selection. And this here? Tonight has been wonderful. Meeting you all has been a treat. And yet... There has been stress, yes, from this most recent development. If you didn’t know already, they don’t use the Elixir where I’m from, so not only have I learned of that awful reality, I have learned of how it affects everyone here, and how it affects the whole of this land. I truly believe a cure is a good thing in the long run, but I fear for the short term, as well. We don’t fight people where I’m from. We fight monsters. We don’t like war.”

If nothing else came of this whole shit storm tonight…

Ezekiel made the quick decision that he didn’t want the Elixir ever used on him. So in that way, a cure was necessary.

He decided to help Tadashi learn more about chelation therapy. He’d have to remember more about that science himself, though. Or! Or maybe he could just slip Tadashi an Intelligence ring— Nope. Enchanted items would fail in his presence. Ah. There goes that easy solution.

… How did chelation therapy work? It was a...

… There was a girl at the office that spoke of it… a few years ago? Yeah. A few years ago. She was an anti-vaxer and she spoke of chelation like claws wrapping around individual particles of metals contained in the vaccines… Okay. So. Maybe she wasn’t the most reliable person to think about when he was trying to think of chelation, but…

Had he ever read anything else on the subject?

Nothing that he could remember at the moment. He was, admittedly, a bit backed up with seeing and understanding all the rest of what was happening around him.

Scion Gerella White Wood spoke, “The perspective of an outsider is appreciated, but even with your objections to war, you must see how it would behoove us all to gain the ability to rid our society of the Elixir.”

“I fully agree.” Ezekiel happily said, “It took me a minute to get there, but I agree to that.”

There were a few nervous laughs and a few polite chuckles.

The conversation continued, without Ezekiel.

Eventually, Riri lifted her voice into a lull, saying, “Scion Ezekiel. Elder Arilitilo and Patriarch Zalindi wish to speak to you, if you are willing. Tadashi as well.”

Ezekiel took the offered out and made this the end of his evening, saying, “I thank Clan Star Song for their hospitality, and I would love to speak to your Elders in private.” He turned to the Scion’s table, adding, “I have enjoyed meeting you all. Farewell.”

There were a few nods from the Scions, and a few deeper bows from the rest.

Ezekiel followed a servant to the Elder’s table and then to the left; the Elders were all gone from their seats, their places cleared. Around the room, other empty spots at various tables were like unwelcome silences in a song.

Julia, Paul, and Tiffany joined Ezekiel before he entered a hallway, to head deeper into Clan Star Song’s headquarters, to where danger and opportunity waited in unequal measure.
