Without missing a beat, Ezekiel turned to Paul, and Paul nodded, then he turned to Xue and gave a small shrug. Xue seemed to understand. The party split. Ezekiel went to Caina’s table, while Paul, Tiffany, and Julia, each found their own spots to be. Paul went to Xue and Sikali. Tiffany went to the pink man. Julia went to an open space at another table, beside Xue’s.

This was probably fine.

Singers resumed their soft songs. Zithers had never stopped playing. The Elders never lifted a finger or said a word. Ezekiel soon found himself to Scion Caina’s left, around a large table of white cloth and many small foods. Servers instantly moved a drum-like seat out from under the table for him to sit upon, which he did, and then they served him drink and food, all before he sat down.

Caina hadn’t sat down yet, either. She said, “You almost committed me to another duel of honor against that clansman down there, Scion Phoenix.”

Ezekiel smiled, saying, “I’m sure you would have won.”

“This is so. But I do not like the games that some people like to play around here, and you were playing a game with that man’s life as the stakes. He was only doing his task to ensure you belonged. There was no need to include High Clan Devouring Nightmare in that game.”

Ezekiel took his seat, and Caina took hers.

Ezekiel said, “I’m flattered that you thought my life wasn’t in any danger at all. I hardly know anything about anyone here, so I had to pick the most solid option in my arsenal against any future intrigue.”

“You are under hospitality rules. If anyone broke them, they would be retaliated against in kind.” Caina looked at him. “This goes for you, as well.”

“What are your hospitality rules, here? We have our own, but I am unsure if we have the same ones.”

By Ezekiel’s current understanding, Caina was a mechanical woman, in nature. Very by-the-books and no-nonsense. Duty and honor. But at Ezekiel’s question, Caina’s face scrunched a little, in annoyance.

Ezekiel said, “Apologies if it is an annoying question.”

Another person at the table spoke up. She was a pale woman in bare-shoulder red robes, with her blonde hair twisted into a bun and held in place with long, black needles. Her tan horns swept backward atop her hair, almost curling like a goat’s before they abruptly ended. She said, “Scion Small Scare is hesitant to answer about hospitality rites because anyone can claim broken rites if they have enough power.”

Caina strangled off a sigh.

A man of dark features, on Caina’s right, and with a distinct resemblance to Caina, said, “This is like saying the sun is warm. Rules have always been this way. Power enables one to empower or ignore the law at their leisure.”

Caina did not like her… brother’s (?) words, but she fully strangled off her response. A few people around the table just went along with the man; nodding, or lamenting. Some smiled, for they were the ones in power, and they enjoyed it.

Just who had Ezekiel sat down with?

Eh. He knew who he sat down with. This was fine.

Ezekiel could not help himself, as he said, “Power is the worst rule of law to follow. It would be much better if laws were enforced for the betterment of all, and the people who enforced them had the honor to not break them.”

The table watched Ezekiel.

But it was Caina who spoke first, as her personality seemed to come back together and focus hard on Ezekiel. She asked, “And how would you enable such a working of the law?”

“There’s no big secret to it. The only option we have is to struggle.” Ezekiel said, “Constant, never-ending, vigilant struggle. This begins by finding the right people to work with while shoving away those who fail to meet your criteria, or finding out why they have failed to enact your will, and then fixing the problems you find. But also, you have to be loose enough to let the small things go. Not too loose, however, that you let the small things pile up into large things. There’s also the matter of reevaluating yourself every so often, to ensure that the choices you are making are the correct ones. It’s a struggle.”

Ezekiel was quite proud of his answer, but he was aware that others did not share his opinion. He saw it in their faces, all around the table. Most just looked to Ezekiel as he spoke, trying to evaluate him and coming up short; Caina was one of those people.

The red woman smiled as she spoke up, “We all know it’s a struggle, but what is the best way to struggle? What is the goal?”

Ezekiel thought the answer obvious, but apparently, it wasn’t. He said, “To ensure the law holds two tenets above the rest: to judge with compassion, and to treat everyone the same.”

A blue-robed man across the circular space burst out in a laugh. A few others smirked.

The man on Caina’s right, who was most definitely her brother, said, “But the problem of unexpected power remains. There are always hidden masters who come in and disrupt the whole, for they would never allow themselves to be treated the same as a commoner. And they shouldn’t, either, for without power, there is nothing. It is only when eccentricity eclipses usefulness that anything like ‘the law’ should become involved.”

Caina agreed, saying, “If you have no power, then you have nothing. Thus, the Void Song, to deny power to the masses. Thus, the laws which put the power of the Clans above the power of the clanless, which allow us to execute those who would disrupt the balance. To put our lives on the same level as those beneath us is to risk everything, and it cannot be done.”

Ezekiel said, “In principle, I agree. The people in power must have the power to remain in power, but this question of ‘how to run a country’ is an old question that can never truly be answered. It can only be struggled with. But when the smaller people are empowered to prosper, they will, and then you get inventions and new magics and so much more opportunity than you would have had otherwise.”

He got a nice round of grins or other agreements, for that.

Ezekiel knew he wasn’t saying anything too radical, and the city of Eralis was stable and prosperous, therefore they could afford to indulge in talks of philosophy like this. In truth, all of this conversation was a simple test in order to gauge Ezekiel’s ability to engage with them and to see where he stood in the philosophy of governance. It was another truth, after all, that every single Scion at this table would eventually become the next head of their clan, and the philosophy of governance was something that they all partook of, at least in passing.

“Wise words, from our Scion guest.” The red-robed woman raised her glass, declaring Ezekiel’s words acceptable. And then she went off onto a different tangent, swishing her glass as she said, “I know I wouldn’t have this fine vintage here in my hand without empowering a small family of farmers we took into Star Song’s holdings two decades ago.”

A blue-robed woman said, “Empowering commoners is a great way to find new talent. Just this year, Clan White Wood took in a whole village of people running away from the northern warlords. They’re already producing some of the finest Lightwood we’ve seen in an age.”

Polite boasting of recent acquisitions began and rapidly proceeded through the whole of the table. They had used his talk of governing in order to show how well they governed, which… He could have expected that. Sure.

… This was actually going really well, actually, if that’s the direction they took his philosophy.

Some people gave their opinions on the politics that had already been laid out there by Ezekiel, but most were just trying to sell to each other.

And then a pink robe man who was not important at all decided to return to deep politics. “All this talk of empowering commoners only reminds me of the rebellions we have faced because of our leniency. If we were to try commoners in the same small courts as the nobility, then our nobility would riot the very next day, and they would be right to do so! We make this country able to exist, therefore we should be treated better than those who choose to live under our aegis.”

Pink robe was a proxy for someone else at the table, but Ezekiel wasn’t quite sure who.

The table went silent, as people turned Ezekiel's way.

Ezekiel asked, “You’ve all suffered rebellions before? I wouldn’t have thought so based on what I’ve seen. Why were there rebellions?”

Pink robe said, “We don’t allow those who have prospered from the protection of Songli to leave the aegis of Songli. There’s always one of the exterior cities from our main three trying to break off from our control, and they have no right. We don’t allow bandit states to exist.”

Ezekiel said, “I don’t know all about all that, but it sounds more like a Clan problem than a commoner problem.”

Caina frowned at pink robe, as she said, “This is a true enough summation, Scion Ezekiel.”

“Ah! Well, see there?” Ezekiel asked, “How many commoner revolts have you had?”

“Zero,” said the red robed woman, to the table. “We have never had a single instance of commoner revolt.”

Pink robe said, “Because it is our privilege to dispose of commoners without the necessary step of including the law. There have been no commoner revolts because they are ended before they could begin.”

Ezekiel felt a terrible chill run up his spine. He wanted to sigh, but he did nothing.

Many people at the table also did nothing.

Caina spoke, “I feel I have made an error. Earlier, I said that to put the nobility on the same level as the commoners was to incite war. I still believe this is true, but if there have truly never been commoner revolts, and all our problems have only ever come from each other, then perhaps the honorable thing to do would be to subject everyone to the same laws. If one makes a law that one would not follow themselves, then it is, by its very nature, unjust.”

Caina’s brother said, “Now, sister. That is taking an axiom too far. For instance: We wouldn’t want commoners buying land next door from us, would we? The point of having a separate district is so that we can connect with others on our same level. If a commoner moved in then what would they give us but eyesores?”

The red woman said, “Ah! But Ored! If they can afford the land here, then they can afford to be a Clan, can they not?”

“Loremaster Riri.” Ored frowned, then said, “Clans have military power and are the basis in which the Highlands supports itself and its people. Merchants do not belong here. There are many Clans which are less rich than others, but who support us in ways no merchant ever could. Why, a merchant would flee at the first sign of damaged products! But a poor Clan of the Highlands is still a Clan that would go to war for the lives of everyone. The day we allow money to rule the roost is the day we fall to pieces.” He looked to Ezekiel, saying, “Apologies, Scion Phoenix, but I disagree most ardently with your supposition about equanimity in the law. Our law works, and it works well.”

Caina looked at no one, as she said, “Maybe… I was too hasty.”

Ezekiel smiled, adopting an easier affection, and said, “I did not expect to have a conversation on law and country-running, but this has been quite fun and informative. Just so you know: Equanimity is the least of the laws which I would wish to struggle to implement. Perhaps, even more than that one, would be the ability for every citizen, no matter who they are, to be allowed to voice their opinions about the government, and not have those words silenced.” He threw in, “And way stations of [Greater Treat Wounds] on every corner!”

A few more laughs came almost as quickly as a few polite outbursts.

“Are you trying to foment rebellion?”

“Shortest lived Clan; that’s what your tombstone would read.”

“You cannot be serious about [Greater Treat Wounds] on every corner.” A miffed man in blue said, “The core prices alone would be astronomical!”

Ezekiel latched onto that last one, saying, “Okay okay. You’re right. Just free clinics. No one need pay for healing at all.”

The blue man frowned.

But Riri took Ezekiel’s concession and ran with it, speaking to the group, “If less people were afraid of the health costs of injuring themselves on the front lines, then maybe we would get more people willing to be on those front lines.”

Ored countered, “Our Highland-Sponsored Health Clinics have very reasonable rates—”

“But they don’t need to have any rates at all,” said a woman in blue across the table. “The gods gave us power to push back the Darkness, and it is our duty to use those tools to do so, and this includes helping each other regain lost health.”

The blue man, who now looked personally offended, spoke up, “That’s easy to say when the quality of your dinner wouldn’t diminish if we lowered our rates.”

The blue woman countered, “Then we can simply raise taxes across the board.”

There were several outcries at that.

By their pointed words over taxes, Ezekiel came to know that the Clans were taxed at least as much as the commoner. Nice to know!

Discussion continued.

Ezekiel happily ate his rice and fried fish while people talked about taxes all around him. Soon enough, other foods were presented to him as they were presented to everyone else at the round table. He chimed in with his own observations and ideas when warranted or when the conversation drifted his direction. When the situation called for it, he fully countered the more awful ideas, like the idea of having judge, jury, and executioner, all be the same person, for ease of enforcing the law. Even Enforcers were apparently just executioners. Juries barely existed at all, and when they did...

