He was widely regarded as one of, if not the, most effective combatants in the House of Blood, a House widely recognized for their nurturing and promotion of those most competent in each given area.

The midnight black hue-man regarded her from across the sparring ring, his face impassive, his stance solid. “Are you ready?”

She almost made a comment about him watching her in previous clashes to see her weaknesses, but they’d fought before in brief matches, so that wouldn’t make sense. Those had been brief and mainly focused on showing what sort of things he took for granted rather than true fights, but it still counted. Even so, this felt different. “Yes. You?”

He gave a simple nod in response, and the fight began.

Immediately, the light coming from around the rink attenuated.

He hadn’t done that before, and it caught her off guard.

It wasn’t really that everything became dim—though it did—it was that the light that got to her was oddly spread out, as if it were being slowed down. Something in the back of her mind said that couldn’t be it, though, because the colors were still correct.

Regardless, her body was amazing in many regards, one of them being her always-active magic sight.

By the light of what she could see, Eskau Pallaun stood perfectly still even while his magic moved toward her left. She held her features impassive, and didn’t let him know that she could perceive him, even going so far as to carefully look around as if she couldn’t.

When he charged forward, she waited ‘til the last second to spin left and counter him… only to have him slam into her from behind, taking her to the ground.

He tried to bring his protian weapon to bear, but she had enough control and wit to negate that. Unfortunately, it didn’t splash to the ground or lock up his arm. Still, he grunted when he couldn’t form it into a weapon.

A small smile pulled at her lips. My victory, if a small one.

After a moment’s pause he punched her.

Lea was so startled that she froze up. He’d punched her. This was meant to be a weapons’ spar… or was it?

He hit her again, and she did not like that.

Her mind and body refocused, and bucked and twisted, many of her joints moving in entirely non-biological ways. The result was closer to flowing water than any normal technique, and the Eskau was entirely unable to counter it.

Still, he was on his feet and blocking when her training sword came in, cracking against his forearm.

They went back and forth like that for a couple more exchanges before he pulled back, exiting her aura and forming a spear from his weapon. When he re-closed with her, the weapon locked into that shape, but she couldn’t disrupt it.

In an exchange of weapons, she was utterly outclassed, and soon she was forced to surrender.

The light returned to normal, and she could suddenly hear the other two clapping and cheering at the display.

Lea gave a hesitant bow, which Eskau Pallaun returned. “If I may ask, what rank of legionnaire do you believe you are mimicking?”

She gave a rueful smile. “I’d love to say ‘commander’, but I think it is more accurate to say sergeant, maybe lieutenant.”

He gave a thoughtful nod before bowing again. “Understood, and thank you, Lea. While the results of this field are similar to what you effected in the sanctum, the manner is entirely different. I will need several more bouts before I am confident in facing an officer of the Legion.”

Lea nodded. “I too have much to learn it seems.”

The man grinned. “I am happy to teach even as I learn.”
