“Alas, poor Serondes. He was arrogant, he was stubborn, he was foolhardy, he was a womanizer, and I was planning to have a ‘but’ in here, yet all I seem to be able to recall were his so-called ‘bad’ qualities. Still, he was endearing in his own way, and I suppose I’ll miss him!” The man lifted his own crystalline mug, clearly expecting her to mirror that.

“I can smell how bad this one is.” Ranthia protested.

“It might smell bad but that is… er…” The elf attempted a sleight-of-hand bit of trickery to swap the mug for another, but between his inebriation and Ranthia’s perception, he wasn’t entirely successful.

At least the new mug smelled… less awful?

“It tastes much better than it smells, I assure you! This might be one of my finest experiments!” He boasted.

Ranthia inwardly shrugged and chose to trust in her vitality.

“To your comrade then. May the gods grant him a better life once Samsara is done with him!” Ranthia toasted, while she roughly bumped her mug against the elf’s.

Then, she took a confident drink. And honestly? It wasn’t half bad.

The next morning’s Sentinel meeting was also cancelled, as was the day after that. But after three days of almost nonstop partying (she was… definitely starting to feel partied out), Ranthia finally heard the other Sentinels chattering before she even turned the corner.

“Hey, Night! Did yer assistant—that cute little number, Jaclyn—give you my message? I never managed to catch you in your office.” Beast’s boisterous voice carried more than a little.

…Ranthia somehow struggled to imagine Night just sitting in an office doing scrollwork.

“Unfortunately, no, I have not. I have only just returned in time for the meeting. Sentinel Sage and Sentinel Gravity will provide the reports that I would normally address, but I have yet to find an opportunity to check for missives. Is the matter something urgent that you would prefer to discuss in private, or is it something that should be addressed once the meeting has begun?” Night’s tone suggested that he was at ease and unworried. But was that truly the case?

“Nah, nuthin’ like that. I was just hoping that with the shimagu crushed like the slugs they are, I can finally head to Nolgrod—er, the ‘colony expansion region.’ The oafs on the senate really need to get around to ratifying a better name for it. Anyhow, like we discussed when I first joined up, I wanna head there and take my pack. At the rate my sister’s shitting out little nibblers, I’ll have a whole clan of kin out there, and the region still isn’t safe.” Beast’s words brought Ranthia to a standstill.

This was it! It was information that she needed, delivered without anyone even knowing she was there!

“Ah, yes, I have not forgotten that we spoke of your plans nine years ago. Unfortunately, at this time, I cannot mark my approval for the transfer of any of the War Sentinels that we possess. As you are well aware, the threat that the shimagu pose is not yet concluded, and it is my understanding that the Coalition has grown less cohesive in the wake of the conclusion of the clash with the shimagu’s standing army.

“At this time, we still have an enemy that can regroup and rebuild, and they remain positioned at our borders. The elves have decreed the war to be done, but Ranger Command and the Legion generals do not agree. If we lose our powerful allies, we will need every Sentinel we can gather to see the threat finished before the shimagu can regroup or new twins can emerge.”

With a single jumble of excess words, Night managed to crush multiple hopes Ranthia had carried in her heart. The shimagu hadn’t brokered peace with Remus or the Coalition and there was no hope that she would be allowed to just retire. Even if Night truly was on her side and agreed that she’d done all that could be asked of her, there was no way he could assist her with her retirement—not after he said all of that.

Ranthia swallowed her frustration and steeled her nerves. She no longer had any idea what her plans were—or even what she was hoping to get out of the meeting. And yet, she needed to pretend everything was normal. It wasn’t. Nothing was normal about any of what was happening, but she could endure a single meeting. She would learn what she could, and then she’d find her plan.

Her mind was resolute.

Her heart was trying to beat its way out of her breast.

“Is something amiss, Sentinel Grace?” Night’s gaze turned on her the very instant she entered the room.

He knows! For an instant, her façade of bravery threatened to crumble, but Ranthia threw her will against the cracks.

[*ding!* [Adamantium Will] has reached level 10!]

Don’t lie.

“Oh, er, not really. …Just when I came back here after I finished hunting for shimagu, there weren’t any orders. So, once I classed up, I kind of… slacked off for the last few days.” Ranthia spoke as Sentinel Grace once had, with a hesitant grin on her face.

It was the clearest lesson that she had learned through her prior interactions with the vampire. He was somehow able to see through her lies, yet when she spoke using a partial truth… well, at the very least, he never called her out over the deception. She chose to have faith in that.

“Mm, I see. That is far from ideal, but I suppose that there was no harm done. After all, the first failure rests on my shoulders. I should have provided you with adequate directions for where to go to check for orders, so you could have received a strike team assignment. That said, I suppose it has been some time since your last official break. Just this once, we shall set aside any ramifications over your ‘slacking off.’ I trust that this will not become a habitual problem.” A slight inclination of Night’s head concluded the topic.

Sentinel Gravity seemed to be the only one missing, and Ranthia didn’t miss that Sentinel Solace had claimed the chair next to Ranthia’s ‘usual’ seat—as if something she had only used a handful of times could be described as ‘usual.’ Ranthia didn’t even bother to weigh the pros and cons, she walked over and sat down next to the woman.

Solace kept her expression neutral, but Ranthia didn’t miss the sparkling joy that lit up the [Healer]’s eyes. Still, she (surprisingly) remained silent, so Ranthia started to inwardly pray to Xaoc. She chose to believe that He could make greater use of her mana than she ever could in that room, but there were selfish components as well—the connection to Him soothed and stilled her mind.

[*ding!* [Dedication to Xaoc] has leveled from 6 to level 19!]

Ranthia hadn’t exactly kept track of how long she’d been praying, but she was pleased with the results. That was the fun of new Skills, the numbers just shot up so easily compared to what she was growing accustomed to!

Sentinel Gravity was muttering dark curses about scouts that considered rendezvous locations to be mere suggestions the entire time she stomped her way over to the table next to Night’s chair. There, she carelessly dumped the pile of scrolls she held in her arms onto the table—with one bouncing off and landing in the vampire’s hand—before she stomped her way to her own chair and unceremoniously dropped into it. She never even made a token effort to greet anyone, instead she seethed.

Night held up a finger to request a moment of patience, then began to read the scrolls at high speed. For all that Ranthia feared the man, it truly was fascinating to watch him at work. He was fast, but he was also deliberate and careful. When he finished with each scroll, he neatly rerolled it and formed three separate, stable stacks as he perused them. During the process he paused twice, with a thoughtful expression, though neither lasted particularly long. And within a minute or two, he finished his work.

Then, the meeting got underway.

Sentinel Sage started things off with a situational recap. Every whit of evidence agreed that all known shimagu twins—and all but two of the faux-twins—had been “eliminated from the war.” Their estimations about the shimagu army were rougher—ranging from eighty to ninety-eight percent—but exact numbers aside, the consensus was “that the vast majority of their forces have been depleted.”

None of that was surprising, but Ranthia’s dark mood soured further while she listened to the man dance around the fact that they had killed all of those people. They hadn’t been removed or eliminated from combat, they hadn’t been depleted—very nearly each and every one of them, parasite and host both, had been killed. The only exceptions were (…hopefully) the prisoners that they took and the hosts that had been freed by Sentinel Solace.

From there, Sage’s summary pivoted into new information. While Ranthia had been preoccupied with her performative partying (oops), the 39th Legion and several Sentinels had seized the three remaining shimagu bases—though from what he described, they were little more than poorly fortified campsites.

“Which means the shimagu are officially down to their final five cities. They have no military installations left, if you don’t count the city walls.” Sage beamed happily as he delivered the final news, before unrolling a large map with… well, what passed for a flourish with his dexterity.

The map showed one bigger city, barely much larger than Spearpoint, surrounded by four smaller ones. Actual cities, populated by civilians and filled with shops and homes, arranged into meandering streets.

Those five cities weren’t enough to be considered a nation—gods, there wasn’t even any farmland present on the map to feed the population. How many cities have fallen or been burnt? Just how much had the selfishness of those in power cost the shimagu?

Ranthia found herself fretting about how few of their people might still remain.

“Thank you, Sage. I shall take over from here. The reports that Sentinel Gravity graciously recovered for us were from the Legion scouts that had been tasked with investigating the cities and monitoring the movements of those within. With these reports, we are now confident that two of the cities, namely the smaller pair that are closest to Spearpoint as the crow flies, have been abandoned. The shimagu have concentrated their defenses on the central city, while the remaining two lesser cities are held by those that the shimagu have likely judged to be hindrances during a battle. We cannot discount the possibility that these reports may prove to be misleading, but the population density estimates that the scouts provided have me inclined to operate under the assumption that their conclusions are accurate.

“As you are all aware, the elves have determined that the war is finished. However, the situation is somewhat worse than we had expected. Those that oversaw the elves have ordered each and every one of their people to withdraw to Coalition City, and they will depart just before noon. With their sudden withdrawal, our dwarven allies have become hesitant and I expect numerous [Leaders] among them to make the decision to sit back and see what happens.”

Night paused to allow them to absorb the information. It was a lot, and it probably should have raised quite a few questions—but Ranthia was distracted by her own impatience. It wasn’t really essential to her plans, but she was eager to hear what demands the Legions—or the Senate, or whatever—would make of the shimagu as part of the initial attempts to broker a lasting peace! Sure, the process would probably be handled by the Legions, rather than any Sentinel, though Ranthia fully expected Night to brief them about the next steps.

“Sentinels Grace, Sage, and Gravity. I will task the three of you with spearheading the operation against the central city. The Legions have proven to be ill-suited to combat within the confines of cities and, as such, I expect they will only assign a single Legion to secure the streets while you, along with a few chosen members from their ranks, will be tasked with clearing the buildings. Be wary of traps; the shimagu have managed unexpectedly impressive feats with their stolen understanding of both inscriptions and enchantments.” Instead, Night gave out orders.

And Ranthia’s stomach dropped, as the truth of the world became clear.

“Sentinel Silence, you will join Sentinel Solace’s team. The two of you will strike the lesser cities. This is somewhat obvious, but I would suggest relying on her visibility while you sweep buildings and quietly handle any traps or powerful shimagu that might be able to threaten her. Solace’s team have proven themselves more than capable of keeping her safe, so I would rather see you focus on your own expertise. Sentinel Talon will provide assistance as he is able.

“Pierce and I will remain on standby at waypoints 2 and 8, respectively. If either team runs into unexpected difficulties, signal Sentinel Gravity or Sentinel Talon to seek out whichever of us will be of greater value to resolve the specific situation.

“With our allies withdrawing, the weight of seeing the war done has fallen on Remus. Do not falter, do not hesitate. This is the moment that each of you has been preparing for since you assumed your seat as a War Sentinel. We cannot allow an enemy that has proven themselves so deadly and so committed to our undoing to linger. They will rebuild and they will come again. History has proven this time and time again. The Legions are a blunt instrument, but here we must be thorough and precise.

“The threat must be extinguished.”

While every other Sentinel nodded with varying degrees of enthusiasm, Ranthia fought to keep the panic—no, the outrage—that roared within her heart, mind, and stomach from reaching her face. She had hated them once, but her [Mind Healer] had helped her to let go of her fury. The shimagu were just victims of those in power indoctrinating them to live a certain (horrible) way. Without her anger, she’d fought to break their military might—to force them to heel. She took lives so that a lasting peace could be established.

But peace had never even been an option.
