The human crossed his arms. “Let me finish the rest of the inspection.”

Tallheart shook his head. “No.” Gently, he flexed his hands. They were already beginning to cramp after being free of his gauntlets for this long. “Excuse me.”

“I’m not—“ Ellis began stubbornly, but Tallheart spoke over him.

“Have you progressed with your skills enough to rival your namesake?” He tilted his head, leaning forward to stare into the human’s eyes. “Have you perhaps mastered the rune for titanium and not told me?”

“No, but I don’t need to master the rune to tell if there’s a great big hole in the side of the ship,” Ellis said, not backing down. “There’s no need to snap at me, grumpy.”

“I am not grumpy,” Tallheart grumped, straightening. “This task is mine, and I will see it done.”

Ellis gave him a look. “At least take a break before you get back to it. The ship’s not going to sink if you lie down for an hour. If it was leaking anywhere, someone would have come running to get us by now.”

“I do not want to lie down,” Tallheart said. He rumbled a warning deep in his chest. “Move.”

Ellis’s mouth made a hard line, and Tallheart prepared to simply walk through him. Before that became necessary, the human stepped out of the way, switching off the flashlighter with a mechanical click. “Fine, be that way, but I’m keeping the flashlighter.”

Tallheart merely walked past him, flexing his hands again. He had allowed the man to hold the light in hopes that he might learn something, not because he actually needed help. He had his enchanted glasses if sight in darkness was required. He heard Ellis sigh behind him, but he put the human out of his mind. No one but Rain seemed to appreciate the urgency of their departure, and Rain was busy. As captain, he spent most of his time making sure everyone got a chance to share their opinions. On everything.

Human herding.

Tallheart rolled his eyes as he climbed the stairs to the next deck. He did not envy Rain the task.

Emerging from the stairwell, Tallheart was forced to hunch again so his antlers did not scrape the ceiling or tangle in the titanium ribbing. Only the command deck had sufficient headroom, and barely at that. This had been a crew deck. The Adamants hadn’t bothered to install proper beds, furniture, or even walls. It was open but for the supports, allowing him to see from bow to stern. Various Ascension members milled about, stringing light bulbs from the ribbing, stowing supplies, and chivying slimes out of their way as needed. He, too, found that his path was blocked, a Greater Crystal Slime sitting atop the seam precisely in his way.

In no mood to walk around, he extended a finger, then sharply prodded the creature. It did not react other than to suck the rest of his hand in through its membrane. Tallheart frowned, then pulled. The slime let him go easily enough, jiggling in indifference.

It did not, however, move.

Tallheart narrowed his eyes.

Fortunately for the slime, Kettel came walking by at that moment. “Hang on, I got ye,” the flame-haired teen said, grinning at Tallheart over the crate of junk he was carrying. Without stopping, he loudly hocked up a glob of phlegm and spat near his feet. Before it even hit the floor, the Greater Crystal Slime pounced like a jungle cat, quivering with gelatinous fury.

Kettel laughed, then swore as the slime rolled right over the glob of phlegm, leaving spotless decking in its wake. Kettel cursed again, scrambling away as the monster chased after him. “I forgot tha’ the big’uns get mad!”

Shaking his head at teenage foolishness, Tallheart resumed following the seam to the outer hull, finding that it was holding together well enough. The other side, however, turned out to need some adjustment. When he finished with that, he clenched and unclenched his fists, the stiffness continuing to build. He did not replace his gauntlets, however, heading instead for the stairs. The next deck was functionally identical. He checked it in the same way, though paying attention to the ceiling this time, given that it was the underside of the exterior deck. Finally finished, he untied his gauntlets and slipped them back on.

It will hold. It must hold.

His neck aching almost as badly as his hands, Tallheart made again for the stairs, climbing up past coming-and-going humans and out into daylight. He breathed deeply of the ocean breeze, bending his neck from side to side and flexing his hands until his knuckles cracked and popped. Gradually, the discomfort began to fade. He had been working to improve his synchronization, but it was a slow, painful process.

Yet another thing I do not have time for.

Tallheart sighed, then looked sternward, to where he had last seen Clubbs. Instead of a sterncastle, the Fist of Progress had an open wooden platform, held aloft by thick wooden beams sunken into sockets in the deck. The platform had clearly served to elevate the Adamants’ mages above the spell-disrupting influence of their craft, allowing them to strike without the metal disrupting their aim. A few splintered planks on that platform were the only evidence of damage to the ship other than that caused by Velika. The splinters had been the Darkmane’s doing, as Tallheart understood it. During the battle, the old pirate had managed to blast a few Adamants from the platform with high-pressure water before the Adamants had killed her in retaliation. The Empire did not take kindly to having its barriers pierced.

Tallheart’s jaw tightened, not seeing Ascension’s much-less-capable Hydromancer where he had left him. The man had probably gone below to begin draining the water with Internal Reservoir. There was no sense going to find him. Once he returned to dump the water overboard, Tallheart would stop him and tell him to be more cautious in chipping away the ice this time. Likewise, Tallheart would need to ensure that Mahria remained nearby to put it back in case of another issue. Her magic was superior to Rain’s when it came to overcoming the hull’s influence in a focused area, especially with the staff he had made her.

Not seeing either of the mages he wanted atop the platform, Tallheart looked toward the bow, and his jaw tightened further until it creaked. Mahria was there, as he’d hoped, but she was standing beside her father. The former Guildleader’s ostentatious blue armor was brilliant compared to the waves.

With effort, Tallheart forced himself to relax. The pair were looking out at the horizon to the north, watching the receding sail of one of the merchant vessels. That ship, Tallheart knew, was packed with humans fleeing their broken city for the so-called safety of the DKE. Humans that would talk. As they always did. If Citizen Barstone did not already know of Ascension, he soon would, and shortly thereafter, the entirety of the DKE would know as well. They would know of the Adamant Empire’s vessel, now in their possession. They would know about titanium, aluminum, electricity, radio...

...

They would know about him.

Tallheart sighed deeply. There was one silver lining to the ship’s departure, at least. Onboard were Jamus’s ex, her new husband, and most of the other useless Vestvallan nobles. The confrontation between Karilla and Jamus when she had learned her children intended to stay with Ascension had been marvelous. Tallheart was proud that he was no longer the only member of Ascension to have yeeted someone into the sea.

Good riddance.

Tallheart’s eyes flicked back to Halgrave, and once more, his mood darkened. The nobles would talk, as would all the others. Whether they told the truth or lies, it scarcely mattered. The world was coming for Ascension, and they were not ready. Even if they escaped the Empire, there would be no escaping this fact.

Turning away, Tallheart walked to the starboard rail to look at the city while he waited for Clubbs, though his thoughts were still on Halgrave. So far, the former Guildleader had respected Ascension’s secrets and had not tried to assert dominance over anyone save his daughter. But he could. He could demand to be allowed belowdecks. He could demand to know the secrets of the ship, of the generators, of Ascension’s equipment. Tallheart had not missed the man looking, his eyes lingering on enchanted rings, on aluminum swords, on armor... Rain’s. Ameliah’s. His own.

If Halgrave decided to take from Ascension, no one would be able to stop him. No one, save the other goldplate. The one hiding in the city. The one that would kill everyone here in a second if she thought they would betray her to the DKE.

Tallheart’s neck was aching again, and not because of the memory of low ceilings.

“Woof.”

Startled, Tallheart looked to the side to see a smiling canine face staring up at him from within a frizzy cloud of fur. The moment their eyes met, the well-named dog nosed forward, pressing his head into Tallheart’s hand.

Tallheart retracted his arm with a rumble, but the animal only became more insistent. He had to grip the railing with his other hand to avoid being knocked over. His boots had begun to slip against the smooth decking. The traction problem was another issue he hadn’t yet had time to solve.

“Stop this,” Tallheart said tiredly as the uncommonly-large dog continued to press against his legs. “I do not have any food.”

Cloud chuffed as if insulted. He pressed harder still, then wagged his tail once.

“Did Meloni put you up to this?” Tallheart asked, looking around. No one was watching that he saw.

Cloud just blinked at him with too-intelligent eyes. His tail wagged again, and he seemed to take on a pleading expression.

“You are not fooling anyone,” Tallheart said.

Again, a single wag, almost lost beneath the cloud of fur.

“Fine,” Tallheart said with a sigh, laying his hand atop the dog’s head and scratching him behind the ears.

Cloud chuffed again, the restrained tail-wagging exploding into full-body wiggle. Again, Tallheart had to clutch the railing to avoid being knocked over. As he kept scratching, the dog eventually calmed, and Tallheart loosened his grip on the railing and closed his eyes. He took a deep breath then let it out slowly.

He knew he was afraid. Knew that fear and worry was driving him to act even more foolishly than the most foolish of humans. He could not help it. This was not how he and Lilly had operated. Not out in the open. There was no choice, however. There was no choice unless he wanted to run again. To hide. To be alone.

That, he would not do.

He stopped scratching.

If the world came for him—for any of them—he would stand his ground. He would fight for all he was worth.

And with that, he knew what they would rename the ship. Temerity.

Tallheart rumbled to himself in satisfaction, opening his eyes again and looking out at the waves. If discovery was inevitable, there was no gain from worry. They would be bold.

“Woof!”

The corner of Tallheart’s mouth twitched. He looked down, then resumed scratching. “Yes, yes.”

Rain smiled, pulling his head back from peeking out of the hatch.

“Is it working?” Ellis whispered.

Rain turned, seeing the man anxiously watching from further down the stairs. It was quite cramped back there, actually, what with Ameliah, Jamus, Meloni, Staavo, and Kettel all crammed in the stairwell behind the apprentice blacksmith. Rain chuckled, then gave them a thumbs up. “Like a charm.”
