Tallheart stood in icy, shin-deep water in the lowest deck of the Adamant Empire vessel. The only light came from the flashlighter Ellis was holding, pointed at the hull where Tallheart was working. A metal grating beneath his feet gave him a secure surface to stand upon, rather than forcing him to wedge himself against the tapering hull. Thick bulkheads spanned the width of the ship to fore and aft, making this into an enclosed space, accessible only through tunnel-like doors set into them. Both were open at the moment. Through the door to the stern, he could hear the echoing murmur of conversation between Rain and Staavo, who were discussing how best to propel the ship in the absence of its journey core.

This room had housed it, once. The likely-boulder-sized crystal had shattered into thousands of shards, doubtless torn apart by its own internal energies when it had been bisected. Rain and Ameliah had collected the inert fragments, but there would be no putting it back together. Fusing the hull back into one piece was simple by comparison, but only by comparison.

“There,” Tallheart said, lowering his bare hands. His gauntlets hung at his waist where he had tied them, having needed direct contact with the metal. An ugly seam ran through it, visible even to the naked eye, circling all the way around the compartment. Tallheart took a step back to get a better look at it, straightening as much as he could, which was not much. It went without saying that the Adamants had not designed their vessel with cervidians in mind.

“Will it hold this time?” Ellis asked. His voice was tight, likely from the frigid water. He swept the flashlighter’s beam up the wall, inspecting the damage for himself.

“I do not know,” Tallheart replied, shaking his head slowly. This was the second time his weld had broken open. The second time they had tried to free the ship from its icy scaffold, only to halt in a panic.

The problem was the metal.

The ship was not adamant.

It was something else. Something Tallheart would have had no name for if not for Rain.

Titanium.

“You don’t have to keep beating yourself up about it,” Ellis said, interrupting Tallheart’s thoughts. There was the beginning of a shiver in the human’s voice from the cold. He reached out, running his hand across the metal. “You’ll figure out the rune eventually, and then you can fix the enchantments. It’ll be like it was never broken.”

Tallheart shook his head slowly. “Eventually is not good enough.”

Titanium was unprecedented.

That was the word.

It was not deepened, yet it rivaled steel in mundane strength while weighing significantly less. Rain had told him of the metal before, of course, as well as many others. Aluminum was a good example. There, Rain had known where it could be found as ore and how it was refined, if only in the most general sense. He had not known these things for titanium. He called it a ‘brain hole,’ an inexplicable gap in his experience that no amount of overmana could fill. That he was nevertheless correct about the metal’s properties was only mildly surprising. Even after the incident with the headlight fluid, Tallheart had learned not to doubt Rain’s otherworldly knowledge. No, the true revelation was titanium’s affinity for strengthening enchantments. It was exceptional. Beyond steel. Something he had thought impossible.

An echoing shout made Tallheart glance toward the stern. It appeared that Rain and Staavo’s argument was becoming heated.

“Whose idea do you think is better?” Ellis asked, seeing where Tallheart was looking.

“Rain’s,” Tallheart said immediately, turning toward the bow and beginning to trudge through the frigid, knee-deep water. Beyond the bulkhead was a set of stairs that would take him up to the next level.

“Really?” Ellis asked, moving after him. “How is a tiny metal fan going to move this enormous thing? I also don’t like the idea of there needing to be a hole through the hull. Isn’t that what you literally just finished fixing?”

Tallheart snorted, carefully negotiating his antlers through the door. “Enormous, piston-driven oars would be better? I should not need to tell you how ridiculous that idea is.”

“Nothing seems ridiculous to me these days,” Ellis said, a tiny shiver in his voice telling Tallheart that the cold was getting to him.

Tallheart rumbled noncommittally, not remotely in the mood for conversation.

Reaching the stairwell, he began to climb slowly, tracing a bare hand along the wall. Even here, on an interior piece of plating, he could feel strange and unfamiliar runes inlaid just below the surface. The shapes of Durability and Hardness were easy to pick out, even twisted as they were to suit titanium’s alien intrinsic rune. They, however, were the exception rather than the rule. It was unsettling, not knowing what all of the runes did, but he did not have the time to tear them all out and replace them with his own. Nor did he have the expertise. The linking runes, for example, he could identify by their placement, but how they functioned was a mystery. The Adamants’ mana-distribution network was astonishing. It was far more efficient at storing energy and transmitting it over long distances than anything he had ever seen.

Another impossibility.

To distract himself as he climbed, Tallheart focused on identifying each hull-plate by the number he had assigned its maker.

Five. Three. Three. Five. One.

Before it had been broken, the ship would have appeared as one seamless whole, at least to someone without his skills. The truth was that it had been built in pieces. Each plate was distinguishable by variations in the runes, just as one might identify a scribe by their handwriting. The variations were tiny, but to Tallheart, they were as good as a signature. The smiths who had made this ship had been working as one, with one goal, with a level of precision that was unheard of on this scale. The design was rigid. Angular. It spoke of brutal order. Of uniformity, enforced by uncompromising power.

It spoke of the Empire itself.

If they are now able to create something such as this...

What else have they made while I have been hiding?

Tallheart rumbled unhappily, taking his hand away from the wall. Sensing the runes was not making him feel better. It was far from the distraction he had wanted.

He emerged from the stairwell into a heavily-fortified chamber, mercifully with a higher ceiling that did not force him to bend his neck. The flat deck plating had been dry, but the water dripping from his armor made his footing precarious with the gentle swaying of the ship. The room was lit by a pair of oil lanterns. Evertorches would have lasted scarcely longer than mundane ones with this much metal around. The imperials had used inscribed crystal plates for light, integrated right into the ship’s mana-distribution network. Such things were fragile, however. None had survived, destroyed either by the shock of the impact, feedback reverberating through the sliced mana network, or simply by the inrushing water.

The fist-sized gem before him, though, had survived, resting at waist height atop a heavily-inscribed titanium altar.

There had been four gems like this originally, spaced evenly along the ship. Only two remained intact, this one and the one at the stern. The two amidships had shattered, much like the journey core. Like its surviving twin, the gem before him was purple, perfectly smooth and spherical, resting in its socket. The gem did not glow on its own, but the polished surface shimmered in the light of oil lamps. As Tallheart approached, he saw his own reflection looking back at him.

As far as anyone had been able to determine, these gems were responsible for the veil that shielded the vessel from Divination. None of the runes he had seen in the hull could have achieved that effect. He did not need to understand them fully to know, as they lacked the required power. The mysterious gem before him, though, apparently blazed to Mana Sight.

Tallheart rumbled, staring at his reflection and seeing nothing more. The gem was not metal. His skills were useless here.

Another mystery that will take us too long to solve.

One theory was that the gems were some type of Crysts above even GranCrysts. The other was that they were the crystalline cores of lairs, somehow removed intact, refined, and twisted into adopting the ship as their new domain. The second theory had come from Rain, as if there could have been any doubt given its sheer ridiculousness. And yet, Tallheart was again inclined not to doubt him. His Detection and Ruce’s Eavesdrop reacted to the ship’s hull exactly as they would to a lair’s envelope. From within the vessel, such magic worked normally, but from without, it registered only the continuation of the surroundings. It was as if the vessel had been edited out of reality, replaced by a near-perfect patch of water, ice, and air.

“Tallheart?” Ellis asked. There was concern in the human’s voice. “You didn’t sleep again last night, did you? Are you okay?”

“I am fine,” Tallheart said, realizing that he had been pondering his reflection in the gem for some time. He turned, leaving the room and entering a hallway that passed through a series of bunkrooms that must have belonged to combat party leaders and other minor officers. The rooms were unlit at the moment, but he knew them to be small and cramped, containing little more than waterlogged bedding and the odd personal possession. The bodies, of course, had been removed. Like enchanted crystal, humans were fragile. Those who had been near the center of the ship had not fared well, awakened or not. Protected by magic, or not.

“You’re pushing yourself too hard,” Ellis said without prompting, still trailing after him with the flashlighter. “I know everyone else is too busy to notice, but I haven’t seen you sit still for more than thirty minutes in the past two days. Not since Halgrave got here. You didn’t even come to the planning meeting yesterday. Don’t you care where we’re going?”

Tallheart ignored the human. There was nothing to say. Nothing to decide. Ascension would leave. Wherever they went, it would be better than here. Whenever they left, it would not be soon enough.

Ellis sighed as they entered another gem compartment, sweeping the flashlighter’s beam around at the piles of equipment. The gem altar was empty, of course, but the room had been put to use storing the weapons and armor that Rain and Ameliah had recovered from the seafloor, as well as that which had been stripped from the bodies. There was quite a bit of it, even knowing that much more had made its way to the vaults of the Barge King. Unlike the ship, however, the equipment’s quality was more in line with Tallheart’s expectations.

Unimpressive.

The Adamant Empire did not waste GranTel outfitting their common soldiers. The entire philosophy of the Empire centered on creating strength from weakness through hyperspecialization. The average soldier was mid-bronze, with mass-produced weapons and armor to match. Through their formations, the Adamants boosted themselves to fight on par with silvers, even golds, but this understandably took a toll. When a soldier’s equipment inevitably failed from the strain, it would simply be replaced. The same was true of the soldier.

The items were generally enchanted, though. And unbound, obviously, given the manner of their use.

Tallheart was of two minds on what to do with it all. Part of him wanted to throw the lot into his smelter. There would be significant value in the materials and great satisfaction in the act. Another part of him acknowledged that every weapon in the hands of an Ascension member was another weapon turned against the Empire and the other evils of the world. Though shoddy and tainted by its origin, this gear would help end the aspirants’ incessant begging. As if he had time to make customized gear for everyone that asked. Or the inclination.

Leaving the makeshift armory, Tallheart walked through another section of bunks before entering the command room, what Rain called the ‘bridge.’ Situated directly above the room that had held the now-broken journey core, this compartment, too, had been bisected in the attack. Tallheart only glanced at the ugly seam briefly to verify that it had not split anywhere before heading for a side door. He was concerned with the integrity of the ship’s skin, more so than its interior spaces. Ellis followed in judgmental silence, bringing the light.

The Cento’s suite of private chambers occupied the entire space between the command hub and outer hull on the port side. The main room had been taken over to serve as Ascension’s new council chamber, and Tallheart had to move aside a stuffed armchair to access the weld. The metal was dry, which was a good sign. This level was still below the waterline, so if there had been a leak, it had been a small one. Pressing his hands against the hull to either side of the split, he closed his eyes, checking the bond more thoroughly with his skills. He hadn’t tried to reconnect the two halves of the Adamants’ mana network. Fusing the unfamiliar metal itself was challenge enough. He could hardly heat the entire ship, then place it upon an anvil to hammer it together with brute force. He also got the sense that such a technique would have ended poorly, even had he been trying to mend nothing more than a kitchen knife. As wondrous as titanium was, what little he had gleaned of its rune had already told him it would be fiendishly challenging to work. It did not help that the alloy the Adamants had used was only ninety percent pure.

When Tallheart finished his inspection, finding that here at least, the bond had held, he passed back through the command area. There were two suites on the starboard side, not one, each doubtless having belonged to one of the Sereni. Each suite had a large main room, much the same as the Cento’s quarters, but with fewer side rooms. A hallway ran between the suites. The one on the left had been allocated to Rain and Ameliah to double as lodging and the captain’s private office. The suite on the right, meanwhile, was to be Ascension’s new workshop. Tallheart had claimed one of the side rooms there as his own private quarters, but he did not enter now. The cut ran along the hallway between the two suites, and that was what he was interested in. Not rest. And so, he passed the door, laying his hands again against the wall.

When he finished and turned away, he was only mildly surprised to find that Ellis had opened the door to the workshop and was standing beside it, blocking the hallway back to the bridge. Tallheart frowned and began walking toward him, but was forced to stop when Ellis failed to move.

