Ren tried to open his eyes, and all he could see was the underside of a grub. He wasn't sure how long he'd been asleep; but it must have been a while. When he moved the grub on his face away, he saw that he was covered nearly head-to-toe in the small Brain Arthropod Grubs. One was digging at the side of his head, and Ren pushed it away. The grub was covered in blood, so he felt his ear, then sighed. It was in tatters, and his hand was covered in blood. Ren took out a piece of cloth and held it to his ear, and was really glad that the fist-sized grubs couldn't fit inside his ear like they so desperately wanted.

Ren sat up and looked around as the grubs squealed at him for disturbing them. The giants didn't react to his movements at all, and were gathered in the center of the pit. He thought that behavior was a little odd, considering how hard they had been chasing him, and then he remembered the sack of grubs with the pheromones sprinkled on it. That must be what they are all standing around, so Ren pushed the other grubs off and stood up. He felt woozy and fell to his knees.

“Ren!” Teepo said as he flew over to him. “Hurry! Princess is hurt!”

Ren nodded and tried to stand again, with the same result. Crawling it is. He thought and started to move in the direction Teepo flew off to. The giant that had dragged them down was nowhere to be found, but Ren did find Princess.

“Oh, no!” Ren said when he saw what she looked like. He ignored his own condition and half-ran, half-stumbled over to her and knelt beside her. The rope the sack of grubs had been tied to, had wrapped around one of her back legs somehow during the fall. Unfortunately, the giants really wanted that sack, and had taken it in the most brutal way possible. Her back leg was now pointing nearly straight out to the side.

“I'm so sorry, Princess.” Ren said, tears in his eyes.

“I saw what happened.” Teepo said. “The giant stepped on her other back leg, and pulled the sack away.”

Ren looked at her other leg, and got angry. “Godsdammed giants!” He said as he took out one of the venom-covered mandibles he had looted from one of the large brain arthropod grubs, and rubbed it across both legs. Princess sighed in relief, and Ren pat her neck.

“It's okay.” Ren said. “I'll get a healer here as soon as possible.”

Princess huffed, and he scratched her chin as he concentrated on the Commander.

“I need a healer in the pit trap.” Ren said. Teepo, where are we?

“North side, just under the overhang.”

“I'm on the north side, just under the overhang. My mount's legs are broken. I need a healer right now.”

“I'm sorry, Ren.” The Commander said. “But I won't send a healer out there with over 75 giants in there, with more coming every few minutes.”

“Don't worry about them.” Ren said as he stood up. He still felt woozy, but he ignored it as he concentrated on his Fear Aura. A sharp pain lanced through his brain, and he rubbed the venom-covered mandible over his head. The numbness venom didn't get rid of the pain completely; but, it did lessen the feeling some, and he smiled. “There won't be any awake in about two minutes.”

“How can you be so sure about that?” The Commander asked.

“I don't have to chase them down, or set them up to use my Fear Aura and Screaming Terror trick. They're all right here in front of me.” Ren took out his hammerpick and enchanted it with Screaming Terror as he walked towards the center. “And in the pit, I don't have to be careful of collateral damage to the Garrison.”

“What do you mean?”

“I mean...” Ren said as he put on the helm he almost never wore, and took out the golden shield that he'd taken so long ago from the temple where he'd found the last piece of meteoric ore, and enchanted it with Screaming Terror as well. He formed a Connection between it and the hammerpick, and smiled. “...these grubs are going to find out what it means to hurt one of my friends!”

Ren made a Connection between the hammerpick and the Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak, and activated both Screaming Terror enchantments. Both the hammerpick and the shield glowed as the enchantments were amplified and funneled through his Fear Aura.

Stat Change!

Aura (Dire Wolf Hooded Cloak) Level 4 (Expert 0%)

Fear Level 3 (Expert 0%)

Pain lanced through Ren's brain again; but, he smiled as the entire pit was filled with screams of pain from the giants.

“That's right, you little pieces of garbage!” Ren said, and felt his blood boil. “It's time for you to pay!”

Notice!

You have unlocked a hidden Honorary Dwarf ability: Controlled Berserk Rage

This skill allows you to make continuous attacks by using your Stamina Bar as a timer, as if you were running.

Warning: This ability causes severe exhaustion after every use.

“RaahhhHH!!!” Ren yelled as he started to swing the hammerpick at all the grubs, both large and small, that fell to the ground from the ears and mouths of the giants as the overwhelming fear he continued to generate forced the grubs to try and flee. If he paced himself, just like when he ran, he could keep doing this for as long as it would take.
