Done with the armor set, and occasionally doing repairs, Veron focused on other ideas. Losing his main weapon in a fight was a problem and without the quick thinking of molding the remains of his shield into a spike, he wouldn't have been able to kill the bear.

He tried a few things but finally decided on stone knives and holsters all added and integrated into his armor. Two each near his thighs and another two near his chest. Like that, he could reach three knives with each hand, likely even if he was pinned down.

He trained with them too but with Ivera gone most of the time, he mainly focused on building muscle memory to reach the knives. He adjusted their location a few times but could tell already that he was getting faster with unsheathing them.

Next to that, he thought of other things he could use as an adventurer, things he could make from stone. He made a canteen with a screw cap. It was quite heavy but serviceable. He tried making a pack but it always came out clunky, too heavy, and simply impractical. So in the end, he tried to challenge himself by making increasingly intricate arrows for Ian.

They were difficult to balance and with how thin he made them, he had to push their density to the limit. Even then, most of the early versions simply shattered when Ian shot them at a target. He went back to the basics and used his connection to find the best quality rocks around. The difference was immediate, the first arrow cutting deep into a tree with a thunk, neither off target nor shattering.

Ian cheered and Veron smiled but he was distracted. Something felt different. He felt the ground below him and focused on it. “Oh.”

“What is it?” Ian asked.

Veron grabbed a piece of rock and looked at it intently. He focused on it and built a connection. Slowly, he closed his eyes and tried to understand what had changed. Everything felt farther reaching, his connection deeper, more meaningful. He knew that he could make an even better arrow, the point even finer, the shaft more dense. But something else felt more pressing, more interesting, and different.

He focused on that feeling and opened his eyes. Slowly, the piece of rock started hovering. And then it fell back into his hand.

Elemental Path [Weak]- Harmony of Earth [Novice I]- Harmony of Wind [Faint III]- Hidden Harmony [Faint I]
