“If I were to bind you to my personal service for the next few years, we could make it above-board. You’d live here on campus, except when you were System-called for higher priority jobs. Interested?”

“No. I want to go back home.” He couldn’t even imagine what it would be like to live here for years.

“Good. I’m not certain I actually have enough strings left to pull to get permission for that. And even if I did, there are old familiar faces I’d rather see than yours. You’re wonderful of course, but I have the feeling you would stress me out over the long term.”

Alden didn’t see how he’d been particularly stressful for Joe. If anything, it was the other way around.

“Then how—?”

“When is your curfew tonight?”

Alden swiped through his interface to check that particular timer. “It’s just under six hours from now.”

“Then I can give you the next twenty minutes. A quick lesson. Don’t bother with taking off your shoes; I want you ready to go as soon as we’re done.”

“But I haven’t agreed. And we haven’t signed a contract yet…or done whatever it is we do?”

“You will agree after you realize what a wonderful professor I am. Do you see that pointy gray rock on the shelf over there? Target me and go pick it up.”

Well…it was all right, wasn’t it? He could always take one free lesson and then reject the offer.

Alden stood up and headed over to the shelves by Joe’s desk. They looked  like they belonged in a natural history museum. They were full of shells, bones, fossils and several unnameable items. The “pointy gray rock” looked less like a rock and more like a softball-sized carving of a sea urchin.

“Grab it by the top point,” Joe suggested as Alden reached for it.

Alden did. He felt his skill activate and started walking. The rock was easy to carry.

“Lesson Two,” said Joe. “I don’t think you actually have to walk. If you’re ever at a loss for horizontal space, you can probably just jump up and down.”

“What happened to Lesson One?” Alden asked. But then he allowed what Joe had said to distract him. Up and down were directions. So traveling in them could count as carrying?

He tried it, hopping in place. The preservation effect didn’t deactivate.

But then he realized what he was doing and grimaced. “I’ll be a laughingstock if I do this regularly.”

“Really?”

“Rabbit. Hopping. It’s just…ugh.” He resumed his pacing like normal.

“What does the System call the skill in your language, by the way?” the professor asked, dipping his pen in a dark violet inkwell. “I didn’t bother to look it up.”

“Let Me Take Your Luggage,” said Alden.

Joe snorted. “Heavens, what a travesty. If we ever do make a longterm arrangement with each other, I might tell you what its actual name is.”

“What do you mean?” Alden asked.

“The answer to that won’t be on the table today. Read the skill description to me?”

“While you are carrying a tangible item that has been entrusted to you by your target, the item will be preserved,” Alden said from memory. “Cessation of carriage—”

“That’s enough. Tangible—does the word mean touchable? Or feel-able? Perceivable? I’m not asking for an official definition in English. I wonder how you, personally, define it?”

Joe continued to draw on the paper in front of him.

“Oh…” said Alden. “I guess I’ve been thinking of it as anything that exists in the physical world. Non-conceptual stuff? Real stuff.”

“Interesting. Are emotions real?”

“Well, yes. But not in a tangible, carry-able way. They’re emotions. I can’t pick up somebody’s love or their hatred as, like, a separate thing from their body. Obviously.”

“Obviously,” Joe repeated in a neutral tone. “But you can carry magic.”

Alden frowned. “Well, it exists in physical reality, doesn’t it? It’s not like an emotion. I don’t think so anyway. I can feel it when I get scanned after a teleport. And now that I have the heightened Sympathy stat it’s even clearer. And enchanted items can be carried around.”

“Yes, you’ve been carrying such items all day long, haven’t you? And you preserved most of them very nicely.” Joe looked up from his page and raised an eyebrow. “Lesson Three—you collapsed after carrying the bowl because you were actually holding something much more complex than you realized. You believe magic to be within your skill’s purview, therefore you pick up magic associated with the item you’re entrusted with. And you must bear the weight of it, too.”

“So I couldn’t carry it for long because it was more magical than the other projects?”

“That’s not quite right…” Joe hesitated. “The concept may be hard for you to grasp.”

“I’m sure I can handle it.”

“We’ll see,” Joe muttered. “The bowl was made of living wood that is beloved by its mother tree. The tree has a natural right to remain connected to the bowl, like an organically occurring contract between the two. Your skill preserved the bowl and its portion of the magic, but having one part of the ‘contract’ out of temporal synch with the other would have put the stability of the connection between the tree and its wood at risk eventually. The tree objected. You struggled because the tree’s dominion over the bowl was more profound than your own. You rapidly became exhausted, and your own authority was suppressed.”

Alden stopped pacing to stare at the professor. “I lost a magic fight with a tree?”

“Watch your feet,” Joe said.

Alden looked down just in time to see the rock he was holding by a single spike fall to pieces. A dozen other sharp spikes rained down as he jumped out of the way.

“It’s not a rock!”

“It’s a puzzle made of stone,” said Joe. “I’ve observed that you have no trouble carrying containers full of things because you’re able to perceive them as a single item. Amusingly, you seem to have decided that stacks of things can also be an item. I noticed when you disposed of a couple of the projects. You’re a charmingly optimistic person, Alden. But for some reason, you were being ever so careful to grab stacks by the bottommost piece. You do realize that if your power freezes a stack in place instantaneously, it doesn’t matter if you pick it up from above or below, don’t you?”

“…I just hadn’t gotten around to thinking about it. I’ve only been an Avowed for a day.”

“Well, do try to think as much as possible from now on. And more importantly, be careful how you think. Lesson Four will be our last for today.”

“I have some questions about my fight with the tree!” Alden protested.

Joe couldn’t just tell him that a random plant somewhere had more profound “dominion” over magic than him and not explain what any of that meant.

“You’ll have to sleep on them. Lesson Four is this: your perception of how your skill should work shapes what you can do almost as much as the skill itself does. If you perceive a stack is a single item, then it will be. If your understanding of magic is that it exists on the same plane as us, then maybe you can pick it up. By your age, your perception of the world has been molded by a thousand circumstances beyond your control—from the events of your life, to the way the human brain works, to your native language. To the extent that you are able, use what you have to your advantage and try to break free of your limitations.”

“Wait…are stacks not supposed to count?” Alden thought it made sense that they did, since a container full of stuff wasn’t really that different from a stack. And containers worked. Were containers not supposed to count either?

Joe was using both hands to fan that design he’d just finished inking onto his page.

“Supposed to?” he said. “What an interesting question. How about I answer it for you tomorrow? For now, think about your other lessons. Particularly the last one. For example, if a stack is an item for the purpose of your skill, why not a couple?”

“A couple?”

“Maybe that wasn’t quite the right word. As I said, perception is important. Why not a pair? You often think of certain things as being a natural part of a set, don’t you? Why would a bunch of random objects piled on top of each other be one item, but a pair of matching gloves separated by a millimeter be two?”

Alden frowned. He understood what Joe meant. But at the same time… “Because they are separate?”

A pizza was an item. But if you took all the toppings off and spread them around the room then it was multiple items. Right?

“Perception is difficult to control. And even when you manage it, there’s something of a negotiation with reality involved. You’d think people with delusions of grandeur would have an advantage, but they tend to overextend and become unable to exercise sufficient authority. Where would you like your first tattoo?”

Alden had just picked up the last piece of the spiky stone puzzle, and at those words, he almost dropped it. “I have to get a tattoo if I agree to the private contract?”

Wasn’t it just a short while ago, when he’d been shopping the Wardrobe with Boe and Jeremy, that he’d promised himself he would always stick with human tattoo artists?

Did I freaking jinx myself somehow?

“I have to get one, too, you know. And it’s a nice one,” said Joe. “I drew it myself.”

He held up the page he’d been working on. It was a thin sheet of paper about the size of a postcard, and on it, a very Artonan-looking design shone in violet ink. It looked like a sideways question mark with two dots under the curve and a straight line beneath it. There was also a random set of concentric triangles off to the left.

Alden stared at it grimly.

It was hard to be a good judge, but if he added up everything Joe had told him in the last ten minutes, he thought the information was probably worth a lot more than it seemed at first glance. The professor hadn’t outright given Alden the secrets of the universe, but everything except for the advice about hopping up and down had contained just enough surprises and depth for him to be fairly confident that unpacking the “lessons” really would grant him a lot of insight into magic in general and his skill in particular.

“Is this place you want to send me insanely dangerous?” he asked flatly. “You said the people who bought your old lab had given up on doing more research there because of the location.”

“I don’t think anything bad will happen,” Joe said. “If you died, I would be in a bit of trouble.”

“But there is a non-zero chance of me dying?”

“That’s true no matter where you are. The lab is located on Moon Thegund. Do you know it?”

Alden shook his head.

“It’s one of the moons of Kimnor, in the same solar system as our mother planet. Half of it is in a magically stabilized zone. The other half is quite…wild. There are high levels of chaos, and the System there is a more primitive version that’s been poorly repaired a number of times.”

“There are shitty Systems?”

That wasn’t something you heard about in school.

“A few. There’s no point in replacing the one on Moon Thegund until the chaos problem is resolved; it would only create more degradations.”

“Chaos equals demons right?”

“Yes, but it’s not as if the moon is rife with them. The population is regularly culled. And there are reasonably accurate forecasts—rather like weather reports—about approaching outbreaks. The number of such outbreaks are increasing, but the chances of one happening right on top of my old lab at precisely the moment you’ll be there are slim.”

“This still sounds like a job for someone like Sophie. I guess you need my skill to preserve whatever I’m taking from the lab in transit?”

Joe leaned back in his chair. “Actually, I want your skill mostly because I believe it will allow you to protect a non-wizard from the hazards of a magically violent teleport.”

“I’m picking up a person?”

“Yes. A few of them. I hope.” Joe’s tone was still light, but his expression was uncharacteristically dark. “I worked on Moon Thegund for around sixteen years and acquired a number of local assistants during that time. Now that I am no longer there to maintain the protections around the laboratory compound, they should be evacuated sooner rather than later. However, because the System is primitive, the teleportation is of an older, less gentle variety. It’s too dangerous for average people. My assistants should travel by ship. But there aren’t many to be had, and mysteriously their requests for evacuation have been given the lowest priority level, so they’ve been waiting for months.”

Alden dropped the sharp puzzle pieces on top of his desk. “Jeez, why didn’t you just say it was a rescue mission to begin with? That sounds much more worthwhile than helping you steal science experiments from your lab.”

“Does it?” Joe asked, raising a brow. “‘Rescue mission’ implies you will be going to a place so terrible other people need to be rescued from it. I was easing you into the idea. Also…you’ll still be stealing science experiments. They’ll just be tucked into the pockets of whoever you’re carrying, since you have that conveniently broad definition of items.”

Alden had still been wondering if he should refuse, but finding out he would  actually be helping somebody tipped him over the edge.

“So, what exactly does the tattoo do to me? In detail. And what else will you be teaching me? And what—?”

“I can’t answer an infinite number of questions simultaneously, you know.”
