So that’s not going to happen, he decided as he hopped off the cart in front of a round, domed building. It was windowless and made of shiny black stone. No new, dangerous jobs today.

He put his coat back on and headed for the door.

It was made of the same black stone as the rest of the building, and it was so seamless it would almost have disappeared if not for the large, Artonan symbol for 7 carved into it. It opened for him automatically, and to his surprise, blessedly cool air rushed out.

Air conditioning. Finally.

He stepped through and found himself in a curved hallway. Directly in front of him was a transparent door that led to a decontamination area. Beyond that, a metal staircase led down to the laboratory that seemed to make up the entire center of the building. To Alden’s right and left, locked supply cases lined the walls, and as he made his way around the perimeter circle, he found that the back third of it was a large office area

The professor was there, sitting at a desk surrounded by rolling smart boards. Most of the furniture in the office faced a giant interior window that looked down on the lab. Joe was examining a holographic projection of something that looked like a bird’s nest made out of stars, but he swiped it away and leaped up as Alden entered the space.

“Alden, dear!” he said. “You are delightfully prompt. How are you feeling after that overexertion earlier?”

“Fine. Normal. I’m sorry I conked out like that. I didn’t ruin the students’ projects, did I?”

Joe waved a hand. “No, no. I told Jel-nor and Weya that their intended uses for your skill would likely overtax you before we began, so they were forewarned. The nature of their projects was different from the others. I actually might not mind having them as students.”

“That’s good…” Alden would rather have been warned a little more thoroughly himself before he got turned into an apathetic lump.

“Come see the lab!” Joe bounded toward the window.

He spent the next fifteen minutes pointing at various pieces of equipment and describing what they did in loving detail. Alden only understood about a third of what he said, even though Joe was speaking mostly English, but he nodded and smiled politely.

I seriously hope he doesn’t want me to do anything with that aquarium full of venomous eels.

According to the professor, Hot Lab 7 was currently dedicated to researching ways to “reduce the overshred effects caused by magical ammunition.”

“Interesting?” Alden wasn’t sure what overshred was, but it was probably a bad thing, right?

“Boring,” Joe sighed. “So boring. In my old lab, I was doing cutting edge work on containing demonic energies for certain wealthy benefactors. But now I’m stuck here with a university budget again. You know I haven’t taught in three decades?”

He gave Alden a pitiful look. “You take one grand senator’s wife as your lover, and the next thing you know, the authorities are suddenly offended by all the creative little things you’ve done. Even though the week before they were shaking your hand under the table for it!”

“Uh…” said Alden.

“I still think it was an overreaction. But here we are. More importantly, here you are!” Joe beamed at Alden and rubbed his hands together. “How do you feel about running a few personal errands for me?”

Yep. Sophie was right. “Personal? You mean doing things for a private contract instead of through System quests?”

Completely unconcerned by the suspicion in Alden’s voice, Joe wandered over to the office’s small kitchen area and poured himself a cup of wevvi from a dispenser.

“Yes. Not only a private contract, but a secret private contract. Doesn’t that sound exciting? There would be official quests, too, to make sure I was the only one who could monopolize your time in the evenings.”

“Why does it need to be secret?”

“Because I want you to do something illegal,” Joe said lightly.

Well, that’s not going to happen. “Unless it’s the Artonan equivalent of a minor traffic violation, then I think I’m going to have to pass.”

“Traffic violation…ah, I see. Your vehicles on Earth are still mostly non-autonomous. Why haven’t you all gotten on top of that, by the way? I know we gave you the technology for it years ago. To answer your question, it is a fairly minor crime; if we’re caught, I expect it to add around a decade to my sentence at this charming institution. At most.”

The professor pulled something that looked like a brownie out of a pocket and dipped it into the wevvi.  “As for you, you can’t be punished for anything you do if it’s to satisfy the terms of a magical contract with me. Whether it’s a private one or not.”

“Even if I know in advance that what you’re asking me to do will be against the law?” Alden didn’t try to hide his skepticism.

Joe shrugged. “You can look it up. And I don’t mind explaining it, though I hope you won’t waste our limited time by taking offense. You see, we Artonans generally consider Avowed to be either children in need of instruction, beasts of burden, gifts from the holy universe, or existential threats to our species.”

Alden blinked.

“I’ll leave it up to you to figure out how that combination of philosophies led to the creation of our culture and relationships with other planets. But I’m sure you understand that children, heavenly blessings, and Ryeh-b’ts can’t be blamed for the actions of nasty wizards who trick them into committing crimes.”

Alden was too surprised to be offended. He felt like he’d just learned more about the Triplanets in a few sentences than he had in weeks of study at the consulate.

“Um…which are you?” he asked hesitantly. He wasn’t sure which answer he was hoping for.

“Definitely the fourth,” said Joe, polishing off his soggy brownie and licking crumbs from his fingers. “But don’t worry. I’m of the opinion that existential threats are how a species evolves into something greater. And I think anything cataclysmic will happen long after we’re both dead, so there’s no reason to let it interfere with our business. Take a seat.”

The professor pointed at a pair of poofy, legless chairs that had a clear view of the lab below them. Alden sat in one, and Joe took the other.

The Artonan steepled his fingers over his chest and sighed. “First, I should warn you that I’m poor. In wizard terms, that is. The conditions of my punishment limit the types of assignment I can issue through the spell you call the System, and since nobody can actually interfere with my individual agreements, they have instead made it difficult for me to summon and pay my old friends.”

“I’m getting five hundred Argold for the lab assistant quest tonight,” Alden pointed out.

“Yes. It’s the maximum I’m allowed to offer per day through my university account. I can personally tip you quite heavily on top of it, if that’s what you want. I can spend as much money on my assistants as I like. The problem is that non-System teleportation is hard to come by. And even if I could manage to summon them, most of my friends—” he gestured at the tattoos on his face “—are not contracted to work for something as easily obtained as Argold.”

Oh, thought Alden, staring at the tattoos. “You usually contract for talents and foundation points?”

Joe gave him a funny smile. “Among other things. Even private contractees can usually be paid with the help the System; however, the privileges I once had to grant spell impressions or foundational improvements through it have been rescinded. And though I’m theoretically powerful enough to do it without its assistance…the process is complex. I’d probably kill quite a few people before I mastered the art.”

“I’d rather not volunteer for that then. Thanks.”

“Understandable. Let me tell you what I want before you reject me. I need you to teleport somewhere, enter a laboratory, and use your skill to pick up some things for me. It’s simple.”

“I doesn’t sound simple.” It sounded like a good way to get fed to some other Artonan’s pet eels. “You want me to rob another scientist?”

“No. Though if you’re willing to…?”

Alden shook his head firmly.

Joe smiled at him. “The lab is mine. Or it was. It was confiscated from me, and sold to the some of the very people who were backing my research. I’m sure they originally intended to find someone else to run my experiments, but given the lab’s location, that has proven difficult. It’s been several lunar months, and I’ve come to the conclusion that they are abandoning it altogether.”

“So you want me to steal from a bunch of shady rich people?”

“They stole from me first.”

“That sounds incredibly dangerous,” Alden protested. “What if you’re wrong, and the lab isn’t abandoned. What if it’s surrounded by armed guards? Or it’s booby trapped?”

“It is booby trapped. By me. But I have a number of monitoring spells that are still running, so I’m aware of its current state. The only security you will have to deal with is my own, and I will give you the means to do that easily.”

“Professor, thank you for the opportunity. But I don’t think I want to do something like—”

“I’m fairly sure you don’t want money. You didn’t seem interested when I offered to tip you,” said Joe. “What if I gave you an upgraded version of the lab coat? I could double the bonuses on it, increase the protective effect. Maybe even make it magically resistant.”

Alden frowned. That would make the coat more like proper armor. But it still wasn’t something he wanted to risk trouble for. He couldn’t even be sure what an ideal armor set looked like for him until he’d dug deeper into potential uses for his skill and trait.

He opened his mouth to reject it, but Joe held up a hand. “No, no. Let me think. I’m very good at this usually.”

For a couple of minutes, he contemplated Alden in silence.

Alden stared through the window at the lab, trying not to feel awkward about being so closely examined.

“You know,” Joe said eventually, “I’ve been planning to bribe you all day, but I don’t have a good frame of reference for your type. You’re about twenty years younger and two ranks weaker than the least talented of my other private contractees. And besides that you’re so very…”

“Very what?” Alden asked.

“Let’s just say I prefer to shake dirtier hands.”

“You don’t even know me. Also, that’s a weird way of putting it.”

“I’ve watched you fling yourself at potentially deadly materials all day. One comes to conclusions. For example, would I be able to pay you off with a nice bioweapon? Or maybe a serum that would allow you to alter the memories of non-Avowed humans? I have both prepared.”

“What the heck?” said Alden, leaning farther away from the professor. “No. What would I do with those?”

And why did he have them prepared?

“See what I mean? Most of the humans I deal with would know exactly what to do with them.”

“Are your human contractees all supervillains?”

“A couple. Probably. I find the hero/villain dynamic on Earth fascinating. I could talk about the absurdity of it for hours, but I’m more interested in why you haven’t made a serious effort to refuse negotiations. It implies that you’re not completely opposed to working for me, even if you did sound very judgmental just now.”

That worried Alden a little. Was it wrong to be willing to consider stealing stuff from a lab on behalf of the person who it sort-of belonged to? It seemed to be in a pretty gray area…assuming Joe was telling the whole truth. Sleeping with a senator’s wife wasn’t the greatest, but did he deserve to have all of his property and research confiscated?

He probably did. But maybe the senator was just a jerk?

“Stop that,” said Joe.

“I’m just sitting here.”

“No, you’re not. You’re having some kind of youthful moral conundrum. You’re looking guilty. We can’t have that. What if I teach you some things about your skill?”

Alden froze.

Joe noticed. “Hmmm?” he said, smiling slightly. “Yes. We could do that. I could take…oh, I don’t know…let’s say around twenty years worth of self-experimentation off your plate?”

It had never occurred to Alden that Joe might offer anything directly skill-related. The only way he could get anything on that front was supposed to be through naturally leveling the skill. And wasn’t teaching him about it the same as offering to help him level it?

“I…need a minute to think,” he said.

“Of course.” Joe stood up from his chair. “I’ll be at my desk. Happy to answer any questions you might have. You know how I love teaching.”

Alden was already busy re-reading the Rabbit class description. Specifically the part about getting rewards other than money.

[Summoners will not offer access to skills or spell impressions in exchange for your regular services. Summoners may still offer foundation points, tools, or spell instruction for extraordinary service.

New skills and spell impressions are only available upon leveling of starter skills or upon long-term personal assignment to approved parties.]

Spell instruction was listed. For extraordinary service. Just like he remembered.

Skill instruction wasn’t mentioned at all.

Getting an Artonan to teach you any magic beyond a basic word chain was hard. They didn’t even teach most of their own species, after all. And the System had deliberately refused to translate the professor’s lessons in the lab today.

Alden had been annoyed but not surprised.

He glanced over at the desk. Joe seemed to be rapidly sketching something with a long, thin dip pen.

“Is it…okay for you to teach me about my skill?”

