Obolis opened his status, "Is there anyone, in particular, you'd prefer? I'd rather you not take Alastair or Victoria, but I'll do it if I must."

I grabbed my chin, "I'd like...Hm." I peered up. My eyes widened as the answer came to me, "Yeah, I'll take Ophelia."

Obolis scoffed, "Ophelia? You know she wishes to be a tailor more than a magician, don't you?"

"Eh, she's a lot like Florence. Undervalued and in the wrong place."

Obolis opened his status, and he smirked, "If you wish to turn another situation around, then be my guest. Speaking of which, when do you want the skeptiles sent over?"

"In six months."

Obolis rolled his shoulders, "That's acceptable. I'll have it handled forthrightly. Would you like to hear my offers for further work?"

I tilted my head, "You still want me to handle tasks for you?"

Obolis rolled a hand, "Yes. It's as you've said. I took advantage of you, but that doesn't mean the only deals I want are lopsided. Honest dealings are fine when forced. Since you've done so, I'll still tell you the tasks I require solving."

Obolis shrugged, "And aside from that, you rid Svia of Plazia in record time. Regardless of your method, the reality came about. If you handled other tasks of such magnitude so quickly, I'd have nothing to complain about. I'd give you awards like this current one."

I peered at the horizon, Earth seeming small to me, "For now, I'm focused on establishing my planets."

Obolis scoffed, "As if you'll gain anything from them. This place will be akin to a wildlife sanctuary by the time you finish muddling it with various races."

I gave him a thin smile, "Oh, we'll see about that."

Obolis's eyes tightened, "Then do as you wish." Obolis pulled out a spatial ring, one of many hidden on his person. He frowned while handling a few transferences between them, moving the required furnaces and credits. He sent a few messages while tossing the ring at me, and I caught it. Obolis turned towards the portal.

He murmured, "Well, It's been a pleasure up till this point. Now it's more of a necessity, but perhaps it's better that way long term. Regardless, goodbye, Harbinger. May you be well."

He stepped out of the warp, the ripple clashing shut. As the Emperor left an immense silence behind him, I raised a fist. I swung it in celebration before doing a little dance. This was the first deal I made on the galactic scene where I wasn't swindled. It wasn't exactly the best position to be in, but at least I progressed.

Taking a breath, I let out all the tension from the talk before pulling up the ring. I pulled out the furnaces, marveling at the supreme sigils in each of them. Weeks ago, I owned one of them. Now, I commanded dozens of them. The credits let me hire and train people for my imperial expansion, and Ophelia was pivotal for improving the golems moving forward.

I contemplated other avenues of improvement. I'd have golems continue scouring the trenches of Blegara for the omega strain. Finishing the city establishing might take a while, but it put Earth in an impervious position. Even a Spatial Fortress would struggle taking Earth if cities and golems covered it so densely.

Taking two more furnaces in hand, I fed the hungry incantations with my flesh. They gave me energy in return, and I gazed at my work. For hundreds of miles, rising pillars from my cities shot out and up. I had made excellent progress so far, but it would take years to cover Earth with these cities.

I stared down, wondering at different ways to amplify my efficiency. One method kept shouting out at me - Time magic. That could turn years into months or even weeks. While I parsed through some of Plazia's runes, they still left me confused in different places. However, other avenues of approaching this problem crept up. One of them was Amara, as she worked with Schema's system before.

She may do so again. It was about time I had a talk with our eldritch Builder.
