Ilea summoned herself a bottle of ale while she leaned back and waited, glancing over to see Catelyn yawn. A testing facility in Kohr. I guess it would allow for pretty much all kinds of experiments. Can’t really wreck that place more than it already is.

“Will I have to move the source?” Ilea asked the Meadow.

“Once contained, anyone who can move objects will be able to do so. It requires a reasonable amount of mana but both Vor Elenthir and Scipio could accomplish the task. If the vote comes to favor this outcome, we would of course appreciate your help with transporting both people and materials,” the Meadow sent.

Ilea smiled. “Guess I would be replacing the gates to move an expedition rather than the entire trade network of several countries.”

“Indeed. But let us wait and see what the Accords decide on.”

Ilea finished her ale as she waited, both Aki’s machines and various groups talking and arguing with each other until finally some semblance of order returned to the crowd.

She would’ve expected the vote to be divisive but considering the direct involvement of the two present Ascended in the defeat of Ravana and the Architect, coupled with both Aki and the Meadow clearly leaning towards the move of the Source to Kohr, she didn’t think it would be close.

And it wasn’t.

“The votes are counted and will be documented and confirmed. The proposition to move and study the Source of Niraela in Kohr is accepted, which includes the formation of an outpost of the Accords in the realm of the Navuun,” the Meadow informed. “Applications to join this expedition are open as of now, we will inform you of the risks and conditions.”

Ilea finished her ale. “First outpost of the Accords in another realm,” she murmured.

“Everything is moving too fast for me at this point,” Catelyn said. “But I’m glad that thing will be as far away as possible from Hallowfort.”

“I’ll get some work after all,” Ilea said and stretched.

“There is something else we wish to discuss with you,” the Meadow sent to her.

“Sure, I’m here,” Ilea said.

“Your cosmic healing. We have finished another set of tests with the copy you have provided and we now deem it safe to use your healing on all beings,” the Meadow sent.

“Not just some work, I guess,” Ilea said. “So how good is it?”

“Please keep this to yourself for the time being. Your healing now affects not just ailments of body and mind but heals subjects in ways guided by their very essence, to use the cosmic energies to heal even old scars and trauma. It has the power to reverse even aging, though not in subjects whose essence does not guide your healing in such a way. The effects are quite far-reaching but as far as healing goes, it is the most complex application I have seen. You could enable people to have another chance.”

Ilea breathed in deep. She had already heard most of those possibilities in their last talk but to have it all confirmed. It made her feel a little strange.

Summoning the Primordial Flame to burn the very souls of her enemies was one thing but reversing aging? Healing people in a way their soul yearns for?

“What is it?” the Meadow asked.

“Just,” Ilea started. “Kind of feels like too much power for little ole me,” she said and scratched the back of her head.

“You don’t hav-”

“I’ll use it,” Ilea said. “Feels like a lot of responsibility, to have this kind of power but yeah, the potential is crazy.” She nodded. “Let Aki know I’m game to start whenever. I assume this will take some time.”

“I will inform him,” the Meadow sent. “Thank you, Ilea.”

“Thanks for all the testing,” Ilea said and cracked her knuckles. She felt like her vacation was now officially over. “Oh, and Meadow. If Claire hasn’t heard about this yet, if she wants to, I could now have a look at Leia.”
