Cale wouldn't have said he was calm, really. Tired would be more apt of a description. Akkau's rage had been far more violent before he eventually calmed, and Cale saw the complexity of emotion in the dragon's eyes, though he said nothing about it. He knew the regret of leaving too many things unsaid.

"I don't exactly have anyone to take my anger out on at the moment," Cale said. "Serof's as much a victim of all this as anyone else is, and with everything he's told us, we're going to be able to weed out any Red Hunter sympathizers in the academy faster than ever. Both ours and the Haelforge academy, in fact."

"That is... surprisingly pragmatic." Akkau watched Sternkessel pacing along the walls of the Inverted Spires for a moment, his hands balling into fists before he forced himself to relax. "I would not have expected that from you."

"It's not really a good thing," Cale said mildly.

"Is it not?"

"Not for the Red Hunters, at least. But then we were already going to target their plans, so this doesn't change that much."

"Somehow, I do not entirely believe you."

Cale shrugged and kept his voice light. "For now, the best thing we can do is go back to classes as normal," he said. "According to Serof, we'll have our own Observers keeping an eye on the academy. We can't let on that we're giving him refuge. It'll take time for our messages to reach Thystrahl and for their mages to verify everything we're saying, and we need to make our own preparations if we want to help Serof free his people without just killing everyone in the Hive."

"And you wish for me to handle that side of things while you... attend your classes, develop more baking spells, and sneak out for a purpose you refuse to disclose at night?" Akkau folded his arms across his chest.

Cale glanced up at him. "Has anyone ever told you it's very distracting that you don't wear a shirt? Why are you always going around open-robed like that?"

Akkau stared at him for a moment.

"Sorry. Coping mechanism." Cale didn't sound all that apologetic. "But yes. Just trust me. I know what I'm doing."

Akkau let out an aggrieved sigh. "You ask for a lot," he muttered. "For me to do nothing while my—while Sternkessel is forced to live in this state. I saw that moment he chose to be more than what he was. To this day, it remains one of my greatest inspirations. To have that choice stripped away from him—"

His magic flared around him again, bright with anger. Cale didn't flinch.

"Cyte told you what I am, didn't it?" he said. "I had no idea voidcytes could do that."

"It was only able to do that because of Vekorax's curse," Akkau muttered. "What does that have to do with all this?"

"I am the last of my kind, and he is the first of another," Cale said. "And he is the first to remember. The only one to remember, before you, and you might not remember once Vekorax is dealt with. So trust me. There's very little I wouldn't burn to ash to bring him back."

Akkau was silent for a long moment. "I do not know if you meant that to be reassuring or terrifying," he said. "But I find myself strangely reassured, nonetheless."

"You should get that checked out," Cale told him.

Akkau snorted. "...You're certain whatever plan you have is going to work?"

"I'm certain I'll find a way to make it work," Cale said simply.

Really, there was quite a lot he could learn in his upcoming classes that would help. Baking magic aside—not that he would ever really put that aside—he was pretty excited for what was coming up next.

Alchemy 101.

Cale couldn't think of a better class with which to experiment with his newfound base ingredient.
