“I need to check in with Weldin,” Malika said. “Will you two be alright getting back on your own if I go on ahead?”

“Sure,” Ali answered, glancing at Calen first to confirm.

“Thanks for the shirt,” Malika said, smiling at Lydia, and then she shot off, ignoring the mundane limitations of mere streets as she sprinted through the air. In seconds, she had vanished from sight.

“It’s a pretty day outside,” Lydia said, a little bit of a wistful note creeping into her tone as she glanced up at the sunshine.

“It is,” Ali agreed. “Thanks again for these beautiful…” Ali’s voice cut off with a yelp as a dark shadow flickered across the edges of her mana sight. Long-forgotten nightmares of bloodthirsty kobold rogues leaping from shadows burst into her mind. With the speed borne of instinctual terror, she slammed her mind into her Blood Shaman escort, shoving her sideways, and snapped up the strongest barrier she could muster.

A deafening crack echoed from the stone-faced buildings on either side of the street. A cloud of razor-sharp golden splinters exploded in Ali’s face as a gout of warm blood splashed against her cheeks. She blinked, clearing her vision. What… what the…

The first thing she saw was the Blood Shaman dangling limply from the business end of a two-meter-long silvery spear, her reservation already snapped. The Shaman had perished instantly. Lydia lay groaning on the path outside her front door, blood running freely from a shallow wound on her chest, a little left of center.

“Tsk.”

The soft tongue click of annoyance snapped against her awareness like a jolt of electricity. Behind the spear stood the powerful figure of a man, clad head-to-toe in midnight-black leather. Dark shadowy enchantments enveloped his frame, obscuring its edges like the Dark Shades that infested the Infinite Maze.

“Mori…” Lydia croaked from where she’d been flung.

“Mom!” Calen screamed, the raw anguish in his voice galvanizing Ali to action.

Kieran Mori!

Ali snapped up several barriers and glared at the infamous leader of the Town Watch from behind their dubious safety. She had seen him once before. Deep in the Ruins of Dal’mohra when he had unleashed this very same Sudden Death attack to obliterate the skeletal remains of Armand and tossed her and Mato down the shaft, before selling Calen and Malika to the Kel’darran slavers. What had suddenly provoked him to action, Ali couldn’t fathom, but without her shaman, her barrier, and an enormous helping of luck, Lydia would be the one dangling dead from his spear right now.

He hopped backward on nimble feet, ripping his spear from the corpse of her Blood Shaman at the precise instant that an incandescent arrow seared through the space he had been occupying.

“So, you can see mana. Unfortunate,” Kieran growled. Before her very eyes, the wisps of his mana faded from Ali’s mana sight and then he vanished entirely. “It won’t happen again,” he said, his voice suddenly seeming disembodied and coming from everywhere all at once.

He’s… gone?

Ali summoned more barriers, but she felt the certainty of his spear Ambush aimed directly at her heart from every shadow.

----------

https://www.patreon.com/DungeonOfKnowledgehttps://www.scribblehub.com/series/1135403/dungeon-of-knowledgehttps://www.royalroad.com/fiction/80744/dungeon-of-knowledge-raid-combat-litrpg
