The rest node held them. The pool's glow from below, steady and patient. The amber System-light above. The sound of water moving through limestone, constant and quiet, the sound that had been there the whole time and had stopped being audible because it was always there, like a thing you carried so long you forgot it was separate from you.

```stat-screen
[SKILL UPDATE]
Anchor (Harmony -- Steadfast)
User: Adaeze "Dayo" Okonkwo

Status: Partial conscious direction enabled.
Note:  First deliberate activation toward
       a single target. Passive field remains
       operational. Directed mode available
       for future use.
```

```stat-screen
[PARTY RECORD — UPDATED]
Harmonize (Harmony -- Trueweave)
Activation: Deliberate (first attempt)
Duration:   4 seconds
Participants: Solenne Achebe-Park (Trueweave)
            + Adaeze Okonkwo (Steadfast)
Result:     Partial synchronization achieved.
            Aspect contact confirmed.
Combat Application: None (test activation)
XP Award:   None
System Note: Recorded.
```

Nadia waited. She waited longer than Solenne expected — long enough that the silence had settled into something solid, something with weight, something the party was holding together the way you hold a breath you have not decided to release.

Then: "I'm going to need someone to rank that on a weirdness scale of one to Tower appearing in Millennium Park."

Dayo did not look away from Solenne. "Four," she said.

Solenne, who was still standing in the alcove with the residual warmth of someone else's structural caring dissolving slowly from her perception, said: "Eight."

The numbers were not helpful. They were not meant to be helpful. They were a way of acknowledging that something had happened — that the two of them had just shared a contact that neither of them had language for, and that the numbers, arbitrary and mismatched, were at least a bridge between the silence and whatever came next.

"Those numbers are bad and I am keeping them anyway," Nadia said.

---

Footsteps in the corridor.

Not the party's footsteps. Not the quiet, practiced movement of people who had been climbing together for eight months and had learned to move through Tower architecture as a unit. These were different — heavier, more deliberate, carrying the particular cadence of boots designed for efficiency rather than stealth. Three sets. Evenly spaced. Moving at a pace that said *we know where we're going and we're not concerned about what's between us and there*.

Tomás had his bow in his hands before the first shadow appeared at the alcove's entrance. Not drawn. Just present. A statement of readiness that was also a statement of information: *I knew they were coming before you did. I'm not alarmed. But I'm ready*.

Three people entered the rest node.

The first was a man. Tall, broad-shouldered, wearing plate armor that was better than Dayo's — not dramatically, not insultingly, but in the specific ways that a Level 16 Warrior's gear was better than a Level 11 Vanguard's. The plate was dark gray, well-maintained, carrying the scuffs and repairs of sustained use. He moved with the contained authority of someone who had walked into a hundred shared spaces and knew exactly how to occupy them: enough presence to establish himself, not enough to threaten. His eyes moved through the room in a sweep that lasted two seconds and covered everything — the party's positions, their gear, their levels (readable through the System's party-proximity display), the Field Forge, the pool, the exits.

Behind him, a woman. Shorter, compact, with the kind of focused stillness that Solenne recognized immediately because she saw a version of it in Vesper every day: the stillness of a crafter who was always evaluating materials. She wore lighter armor — an Artificer's kit, modified for field use, every piece of it carrying the particular sheen of self-enhanced gear. Her eyes found the Field Forge and stopped.

The third was a shadow that leaned against the wall.

That was not precisely fair. The third person was a slight figure in dark layered armor who entered the alcove, assessed it in a single glance, found the wall farthest from the party, and leaned against it with the practiced economy of someone who had been the designated watcher for a long time and had no interest in small talk. Solenne's Arcane Analysis fed her a level number — 14 — and a class — Rogue — and nothing else, because the Rogue's passive concealment was good enough to blur the details.

The man in plate smiled. It was a good smile — professional, warm without being personal, the smile of someone who was genuinely comfortable meeting strangers and had no interest in pretending otherwise.

"Brennan Cole," he said. His voice carried the easy register of someone introducing himself for the hundredth time. "Apex Syndicate, Team Ironwall. This is Prita" — a gesture to the Artificer — "and Hex." The shadow against the wall did not move.

Solenne stood. She did it without ceremony, staff in hand, the annotated strips catching the amber light. "Solenne Achebe-Park. Independent."

"I know." Brennan's eyes had already done the assessment — she could see it in the way they moved from her to the party and back. Not hostile. Calculating. The specific calculation of a team lead processing another team's composition. "You cleared Floor 7 ahead of us. Which is —" He paused. Not for effect. For honesty. "Unexpected. Given your party's levels."

It was not an insult. It was an observation delivered by someone who was good enough at this to know the difference, and to trust that she was good enough to hear it.

"We had good route data," Solenne said. Which was true. And not the whole truth.

Brennan nodded. He accepted the incomplete answer with the grace of someone who gave incomplete answers regularly and understood the protocol. "We're running ahead of schedule. Plan to be at the Floor 9 rest node within two days. Wanted to rest here before the Floor 8 boss." He looked at the alcove — at the pool, at the carved limestone, at the shelf where Nadia was sitting with her legs dangling and an expression of polite evaluation. "Plenty of room."

It was not a question. Rest nodes were shared spaces — the System's architecture did not allow parties to claim them exclusively. But the way he said it was a courtesy, an acknowledgment that his team was entering occupied space and that the occupants had a right to be consulted.

"Plenty of room," Solenne agreed.

---

Brennan settled his team with the practiced economy of someone who had done this on fifty rest nodes. Hex remained against the far wall. Brennan took a position near the corridor entrance — sightlines, Solenne noted. The same instinct as Tomás, expressed with less subtlety and more confidence.

Prita went to the Field Forge.

She did not touch it. She did not ask. She stood two meters from Vesper's crafting station and looked at it with an expression that Solenne recognized because she had seen it on the faces of academics encountering a paper that challenged their methodology: professional interest layered over something more complicated.

"What Tier are you operating at?" Prita said. Her voice was precise, accented — South Asian, Solenne thought, though the specifics were not available to her — and carried the particular cadence of someone asking a question they already knew the answer to but wanted to hear spoken.

Vesper looked up from the sorting tray. She looked at Prita. She looked at Prita's gear — the self-enhanced Artificer's kit, the modifications that spoke of a crafting philosophy Vesper could read the way Tomás read terrain. And Solenne saw something happen in Vesper's expression that was very small and very precise: recognition.

"Tier II," Vesper said. "Field conditions."

"Your binding compound ratios are unusual."

"I adjust for ambient Mana density. Floor 8 runs high."

Prita nodded. The nod carried assessment. She looked at the armored wrap — the prototype for Dayo's forearm, sitting on the shelf where Dayo had placed it — and her eyes stayed on it for a moment longer than the rest of the inventory. "Custom defensive piece?"

"Prototype. Not inscribed."

"The layering is good."

It was a compliment. It was delivered with the clean efficiency of a professional evaluating another professional's work and finding it competent. Vesper heard it. Solenne saw her hear it — saw the way the acknowledgment landed, and saw, underneath, something Vesper could not yet name. Because Prita's work — the self-enhanced kit, the gear modifications, the precision of the assessment — had a quality Vesper could see clearly. A quality of craft that stopped at the edge of the object. The material was perfect. The engineering was excellent. The gear was outstanding.

And it did not care about the person who would use it.

Not uncaring. Not cruel. Just — bounded. Prita's craft went to the object's edge and stopped there, and the object was complete, and the person was someone else's problem. Vesper's work kept going. Past the object. Into the person who would wear it, use it, bleed around its edges. The armored wrap was not just five points of Physical Defense — it was Dayo's forearm, the exact spot where the hooks went through, the design gap that hurt someone Vesper knew. The wrap was shaped by that knowing.

Vesper could not explain this. Not to Prita, not to herself, not yet. She filed it in the place she filed things she needed to sit with — the same place her two unfinished projects lived, and the question of what inscriptions she wanted to become.

"Thanks," Vesper said.

The conversation ended. It had lasted forty seconds. It had planted something that would take considerably longer to grow.

---

Brennan crossed the alcove to where Solenne was standing. He moved casually, but Solenne recognized the intentionality underneath — the way a professional team lead created opportunities for private conversation within a shared space. He stood close enough for low voices, far enough that it did not feel like crowding.

"Unusual composition," he said. His tone was conversational. His eyes were not. "Vanguard, Warden, Artificer, Pathfinder, Jester, Arcanist. Full Complement passive, I assume?"

"Since Floor 3."

He nodded. "We run three. Warrior, Artificer, Rogue. Apex standard configuration for advanced scouting. We make up the class gaps with gear and consumables." He said this without defensiveness — a professional explaining his methodology. "Your configuration — six archetypes, full Complement — that's a Compact recommendation setup. Not an Apex one."

"We're not Compact," Solenne said.

"I noticed." He was looking at her staff — at the annotated strips, the handwritten formulas, the copper wire wrapped around the grip. His assessment was brief and thorough and Solenne could feel it evaluating not the staff's stats but its implications: a focus that had been modified by someone who understood things about Mana interaction that most Level 10 Arcanists did not. "Independent teams with six-archetype composition tend to either fall apart on Floor 5 or do something interesting. You're past Floor 5."

"We are."

He smiled again — the professional smile, the warm one. "If you need anything from us on Floor 8, the offer's open. Apex resources. No strings." He paused. "Well. Some strings. But the polite kind. The ones you can see."

It was a joke. It was also honest. Solenne appreciated both qualities.

"Thank you," she said. "We'll keep it in mind."

Brennan nodded and returned to his position near the corridor entrance. He did not look at the party again with the assessing eyes. He looked at them the way you look at people who are sharing a space with you and are not a problem.

But Solenne saw, in the brief crossing of his glance with Dayo's — Dayo who was sitting against the wall with the armored wrap beside her and the tally marks on her bracer and the quiet that had not fully lifted since the Harmonize contact — she saw him process the party's levels against his own team's. Brennan 16, Prita 15, Hex 14. Solenne's party averaged ten to eleven. The gap was real. It was notable. It was the kind of gap that made a professional team lead categorize another team as not-yet-relevant, file them under *unusual but probably temporary*, and move on.

He would revise this assessment.

The revision would take longer than either of them expected.

---

The rest node settled into shared quiet. Two teams, nine people, amber light and the glow from below and the constant quiet sound of water moving through limestone. Hex had not spoken. Hex had not moved from the far wall. Solenne's Arcane Analysis returned the same baseline data each time she checked: Level 14, Rogue, concealment passive active, nothing else readable. This was either very good concealment or a deliberate choice to present as unreadable. Probably both.

Solenne sat on the limestone shelf. She opened her notebook. She wrote:

*Team Ironwall. Brennan Cole Lv16 Warrior (Apex Syndicate). Prita Acharya Lv15 Artificer. Hex Lv14 Rogue. Arrived at rest node after party. Behind us on floor. NOT the advance climber.*

She underlined the last sentence. The advance climber was still ahead of them. Still unknown. Still leaving evidence — the reset trap, the dust disturbance, the thirty-six to forty-eight hours of lead time — and still not identifiable. Team Ironwall was behind the party, not ahead. Whatever they were doing on this floor, they had not been the ones who sprung the trap in the hidden room on Floor 7.

Three threads. The Quest. The sealed doors. The advance climber. They still did not converge. Solenne turned them over and they did not converge. She was becoming less afraid of this. Not comfortable with it — she did not think she would ever be comfortable with not having the answer — but less afraid. Something had shifted in the alcove, during those four seconds of contact, something she did not yet have words for. The Steadfast Aspect had not given her answers. It had given her something closer to the feeling of standing inside a structure that was built to last, and the structure was not hers, and that was the point.

She looked across the alcove. Dayo was sitting where she had been sitting, back against the wall, the prototype wrap beside her. She had not spoken since ranking the Harmonize contact a four on the weirdness scale. She was not asleep. She was not working. She was sitting in the particular quality of quiet that meant Dayo was feeling something she did not yet know how to make physical — something that had no route, no play to run, no opposing defender to put her body against. Someone had stood inside her loyalty and felt it as architecture and she did not know what to do with that.

