“What’ll we do with it all, captain?” a third voice asked. “That tidal gem is as big as a fist, but the rest…I don’t know what half of it even is.”

“It’ll all sell for good coin,” a new voice added. This one was deeper than the rest. Older. “The Shroud pays well, so long as we can get this back into the city.”

The Shroud. It wasn’t the first time Harker had heard the name. So they’re an organization. Was Miriam a member? Is that why she had Shadow’s Essence? The vial still sat in his pack, ready to be used. A plan started to form in Harker’s mind.

“Pity about the merchant’s lady though!”

“It’s what you get for runnin’. I warned her, didn’t I? Not my fault she got a bolt through the heart.”

“The merchant ain’t lookin’ too good either. Think that gut’s gone rotten?”

Likely an infection, unless they’re using poisoned weaponry. Doesn’t sound like it, else they’d be more sure. Harker ran through a list of what reagents he’d collected. If pressed, he could concoct something to counteract an infection—so long as it hadn’t progressed too far.

“Do I look like a healer? The coin-pincher is useless anyway.”

“But the combination—”

“You think he’s gonna tell us? After what you did?” Someone spat. “Nah. We’ll just break open the damn thing and take what’s ours.”

“Damn right!”

Five voices joined in a ragged cheer, wooden mugs clunking against one another. Harker pulled back, his reservoir twinging in pain. It was less than half full, but that wasn’t the cause. A sharp sensation scratched at his tributary down his right arm, and his palm ached fiercely.

Depths. Not now! The raw Sea was wearing at him faster than ever. He suppressed a wince and looked to the girl.

Adhira was standing close, eyes bright and face flushed. It was almost intimate…if it weren’t for the toothy grimace and axe in her hands. “They hurt someone?”

Harker nodded. "They're around a fire,” Harker started, voice lost in the drunken bandit’s revelry. “If you can put up a wall—"

“No. We act!” Adhira growled, before she leapt into the cavern with an echoing bellow.
