Given no choice, he decided to investigate. Walking past the thorn spitter for a few meters, Thane frowned further. He could feel it, the heavy weight of something in the air, eating away at everything.

Is this corruption? Thane wondered. Walking around some more, he grew even more concerned. It wasn't unique to one area. As he completed a circuit of his home, he saw all manner of trees and plants in varying states of decay, along with a few rotting carcasses of birds and other animals. It covered the whole northern side, and worst of all, it was on the move.

Returning to the thorn spitter from only half an hour prior, he noticed its condition had worsened further, as had the foliage around it. "To reduce a Soul Fire Realm spiritual plant to such a state in only half an hour is far too unusual," he glanced back at his home and noted the tips of the foliage covering his doorway were now showing signs of decay. "I need to move out of here earlier than expected."

Knowing he would need all the money he could to survive in Floridawn during the incoming Beast Tide, he dropped to one knee. His Star Core roared to life, and he expended a few months of Qi to flood the area with nature Qi. "That should buy me some time—" his eyes widened as he felt his Qi being swallowed up by the unknown force. "Not enough, apparently."

Quickly retrieving a shovel from his spatial ring, he began to dig up the thorn spitter. While decayed, if nurtured carefully, it could recover and be sold for a considerable amount. Soul Fire Realm plants, especially ones that could kill monsters, would sell at a high price given the incoming Beast Tide. There was no way he would leave it here to rot.

Moving quickly, he uprooted the thorn spitter, and then his shovel struck something hard. Looking down into the deep hole, he expected to find a random rock but was surprised to see an unusual tree root. It faded in and out of reality slightly, as if it were ethereal, and it was covered in spikes. Trying to hit it with his shovel, he was further surprised to find he couldn't get through it despite his Star Core Realm cultivation.

"Just what is this strange root?" Thane jumped down into the hole and instantly regretted it. That slight burning sensation he had gotten when rubbing his finger along the leaf magnified across his whole body. His Star Core flared to life as dark green soul flames flared to protect him. "Is this root the source of the rotting?"

Jumping out of the hole, he ran around trying to find the origin of the root but came up empty. The land it covered was simply too vast for it to belong to a typical tree. Even those ancient spirit trees weren't this big... only the World Tree covered this kind of area.

"Is something up with the World Tree?" he mused. Either way, he had to get out of here, as he didn't have the cultivation level to resist this corruption.

A plan formed in his mind. Once he had saved all of his plants, he would rush inland. If the corruption continued forward and into Floridawn, perhaps the Flower Accord would forgive his exile in exchange for his discovery here, especially considering a decade had passed.

"I hope for Floridawn's sake that only my home crumbles," Thane said as he sprang into action. Considering Floridawn was a city interwoven with nature, an unstoppable wave of corruption like this would cripple the city.
