The reason for that was simple: for the most part, humans lacked the same leveling capacity. That made sense. Most people didn't thrive in this kind of environment. Most people just wanted to do enough to get by, and that wasn't enough for Schema. The AI lived out the virtue of kill or be killed.

Inspecting from afar, I found the average level in Gale City was around six to seven hundred. It was about three hundred levels below your average member of Brownsville. That was impressive, but they weren't keeping up with the eldritch below. Instead, they stayed hidden above the ground in the skyscrapers.

The bridges let them exchange resources, from lumber fueling fires to the meat of hunted animals. They cooked and ate eldritch, something I found dangerous considering how viral those monsters could be. Some farmed along the rooftops, having taken soil from the ground up to the top of the buildings.

They kept guards along the rooftops that defended their crops from flying eldritch. It meant their diets weren't awful, and they weren't wallowing in absolute poverty by any means. At the same time, damn, they were definitely struggling compared with our guild.

I...I guess I hadn't been a usual person in a long time, even from the very get-go of the culling. I got out of BloodHollow over-leveled and armed with a massive advantage in the form of my armor. Other people weren't that lucky, well, if you could call my experience in BloodHollow lucky.

In a way, it was, though. I got ahead of the experience curve. Being overleveled let me explore and fight often without much fear of dying. These people were struggling just to hold on. They were in a rat race of sorts where they never had enough to start thinking long-term. This meant they were forced into short term decision making, preventing them from ever really getting ahead. It hurt seeing this, and it made Schema's world look like a real dystopia.

Imagining this kind of suffering across thousands of worlds...maybe the Adair Family was aiming for something different. They still needed to be put down, but this put their actions into perspective. It also showcased a need for military might. The eldritch required systematic eradication. Otherwise, people would be forced into this kind of life, one where they didn't know if they'd have a tomorrow to wake up to.

It wasn't all doom and gloom at least. Some places handled themselves well with just a bit of assistance. Along lake Mead, South of Mt. Verner, a lake town did pretty well. It was located on an old port city, Fairmount, built around the waterside lifestyle there. The Steel Legion landed here, just as they had in Springfield.

Because of that, the population was armed and organized. The Steel Legion was mainly the neutral guild Schema used for modernizing new worlds. Using that new tech and policies, Fairmount did well for themselves, the population rivaling Mt. Verner.

They kept several boats roaming the lake's edge to monitor any eldritch spawning in hidden coves. The city itself needed little protection, having been built along a cliffside. With only one face of the town needing protection, this gave them a lot of leeway. The power armor didn't hurt them in that regard either.

Fairmount seemed self-sufficient for the most part, getting most of their food from the lake. They also took in refugees, something I hadn't expected. After skulking around the town's edges, I discovered the Steel Legion enforced the whole accepting new member's policy.

Several of the bars and hangouts didn't accept anyone but natives. It showed a general disdain for newcomers. It was better than Brownsville, but not by much. Either way, having one out of the three towns be halfway decent was pretty good. If this was how the rest of the world was doing, then it wasn't all bad.

Having seen my fill of sights, I flew back towards Mt. Verner while lost in thought. After weighing my options, I decided to give most of these towns offers to join my guild. Even if they weren't the best fighters, they could provide extra resources overtime. We would protect them in exchange. It would be like a representative government.

Schema helped us there with his handy guild functions. I could keep the taxes relatively low, and it wasn't like I cared much for the money. Either way, it seemed like a good deal for most of these cities. Having resolved that, I headed back towards my room as the sun rose. Walking in with the sunrise, Althea's eyes cracked open, finding me.

After having a quick breakfast with just eggs and bacon, we parted ways with a kiss and hug. She backlogged a few missions for our evening together, and I needed to organize a few meetups. With that in mind, I called Chrona having her answer with a big yawn,

"Ah, Daniel, it is good to see you well. What are you calling for?"

I peered at her silver skin, the moisture levels maintained by mana laden mist surrounding her,

"I need you to talk with Torix about your mana. Considering his specialties, I think he'd be great at learning primordial mana. It would be great for his summoning too."

Chrona murmured, "Hmmm, the walking skeleton? Ever since he shifted bodies, he has shown far greater confidence than before...Yes, I believe he would learn quickly. I am available most days during most times, so I shall work with him. As you command, Daniel."

"Alright then, cool. Let me know how it goes after a few sessions."

"I will. Is there anything else you need?"

I shook my head, giving her a thumbs-up right after,

"Nope. Thanks and keep kicking ass."

Chrona frowned, "It is you who is performing the kicking of the asses. I am merely waiting for a crisis to show my skills."

I crossed my arms, "Guarding Elderfire could save countless people."

Chrona sighed, "I understand. It is simply difficult to wait, that is all. I will stay here and serve your commands heed, for they are the lifeblood of my people. Goodbye, and may the stars shine upon you."

"Er, may the stars shine on you too."

Chrona chuckled as she closed the call. Right as I finished it, I walked into Torix's lair. Centered here, Spear, Torix, and several scientists looked ready for war. The scientists carried lead suits over themselves, keeping out anything trying to get in. Spear even wore protective gear over his exposed skin.

Beside them, dozens of different instruments measured air pressure, temperature, levels of radiation, and a dozen other metrics I didn't know about. Torix advised the group on handling several of the magically inclined devices, his tone sharp,

"And if any of you drop one of the resonators, I shall simply mirror the condition of the device onto you. Understood?"

They each gave a heavy nod, their nervousness oozing through their plastic facemasks. I paced up, a behemoth among them. The disparate sizes of Torix, Spear, and I created a split in the room. It was like two worlds colliding, each of us living different lives. That was good because we needed what these guys were good at.

After a few greetings from each scientist, I learned their names and occupations. Rob, Scotty, and Amanda, they worked in the eldritch research center that Amara oversaw. Though nervous, they carried a general air of professionalism no different than a surgeon. Either way, they looked like good people.

Torix turned to them,

"This is a life or death discovery. We know nothing about what this section of Lehesion will do. Perhaps it will cling and crush one of you. It may release a biohazard that requires each of you to remain in quarantine for months. Perhaps it shall do worse. Are each of you prepared for those realities?"

They replied in unison, "Sir, yes, sir."

"Excellent." Torix turned towards me,

"Are you prepared for the discoveries we shall unfold?"

I clanked my teeth a few times before taking a deep breath,

"Always."
