Erick felt his heart swell and his face heat up at the casual mention of vulnerability and love. And then he returned to the conversation, saying, “I won’t be able to protect you when I’m not there.”

“With any luck I’ll be inside the dungeon by then, and so whatever Everbless tries won’t truly affect me at all.” Quilatalap said, “But if I die and need to be transported back to the Pit, I’d ask you for a [Gate].”

“And you will have it.”

Quilatalap smiled softly again, then said, “Thank you. I’m going to undo this anti-intervention. When I ask you about it, tell me not to look at the Gold Taker until we’re introduced properly, since I’m sure that will have to happen eventually. At that time I can fake learning some Sight spells to be able to see him all the time.”

“… Okay.”

Quilatalap looked up, retreating into his soul for a moment. A minute passed in silence, and then—

He blinked for a moment. And then he looked at Erick. And all around. And then back to Erick. “Uhh. Why are we— Oh.” Something else caught his attention. He looked inward again, speaking as his eyes looked elsewhere, “I have a note here saying not to remove this ensorcellement.” He frowned. “Ah. Fuck.” He came back. “That’s gonna be like having an itch I cannot scratch… [Witness] is working, but there are holes in my sight… My sight is being eaten by… Something.” He looked inward momentarily, then came back. “Ah. Shit. Fine. Tell me what I can know, Erick.”

“… Don’t look at the Gold Taker until it is introduced to you. Fake learning how to see it after the fact. Shouldn’t be hard once you talk to Aroido and learn more about the dungeons.”

Quilatalap stared for a moment. “That’s it? I can do that.”

Erick frowned. “I’m not sure I like being the only one who knows this secret.”

Quilatalap smiled. “You get used to it.” More cheerfully, he said, “Come on! Let’s get back to the Maryols.”

… And so they did.

- - - -

“Moooooom!”

As always, mother took a moment to appear upon the crashing waves and lightning sky. With eyes of storms, she asked, “What is it, my wonderful child?” her voice soft as a gentle wind.

“Another one I couldn’t touch! I poked in the eye! He felt that!”

Mom turned her Sight upon the world as she sought to See what her only child had seen. She came back and the winds fluxed for a moment. Her gentleness returned. “It’s just another one with over-protective spellwork. You must have taught him well in the dungeon! You’re so smart, yes you are.”

Everbless felt a thrill of joy. “He was in dungeons! I’m good teacher!”

“But in order to teach, there must be rules, and that means you must obey them as well. You poked that man outside of the rules, Everbless. You poked him at a party.”

Everbless felt the world crash at her words. The sky began to drizzle. “I’m sorry!”

“There there, little one!” Mom hugged Everbless, saying, “A little rule breaking is fine, but don’t make a habit of it. Leave the little dungeon masters alone, okay?”

“They’ll change my dungeons!”

“Maybe it’s time for them to change? That Vanya looks competent. You might like what she comes up with. Give her a chance, okay? For me?”

“… I have to?”

“Yes you do.”

“Oookaaaaaayyy.”
