Soltic listened to Vanya, but he also paid special attention to the thing floating behind Aroido, and how Aroido’s once-dutiful stride across the lawn had turned into something less sure; more cautious. That was because the thing hovering behind him was freaking out. It had seen when Soltic had seen it, and now, tentacles came out, and so did eyes.

And then the thing fled, vanishing entirely as it disappeared into the wind. Aroido resumed walking as though nothing had happened, though everyone had seen the unnatural pause in his stride. No one except for Soltic and Vanya had seen the creature, and—

Vanya said to Erick, “Reverse it again. Tell me what you saw afterward.”

Quilatalap could sense when Time Magic was used around him, though he had no idea the reasons for that use unless he had been brought into the fold in that use. He could even reverse time himself, a little, but Erick was just so, so much better at it.

[Return].

This time Soltic walked over to Vanya, sending to her, ‘Do not be alarmed, but I had to reverse time twice now. Don’t look at the tentacle thing. Don’t acknowledge it at all. The first time it tried to kill you for talking about being a dungeon master. The second time it ran off terrified that we both had seen it. I can reverse smaller times again, but the first one took a lot out of me. We’re here at this juncture now.’

‘Understood,’ Vanya sent, as she continued to talk to Faar and Jarod, betraying nothing untoward at all, as she casually ignored Soltic’s physical presence.

Both Faar and Jarod ignored his presence, too, though Faar had a flicker of concern pass across his unassuming face as he glanced at Soltic. He was worried about why Vanya’s boyfriend appeared when the Tidewalker came out. When Vanya was done saying her current words, and as Ariodo was walking down the garden path toward them, Faar said, “Another person to speak on your capabilities will be good, but this [Telepathy] during a polite conversation is a bad look.”

Vanya said, “Apologies, Lord Faar.”

Aroido walked across the lawn, his passenger following along dutifully as though it was his [Familiar]. But it wasn’t… Probably. Erick couldn’t quite put his finger on it, but he knew that the tentacle thing was something other, and that Ariodo suffered its presence because of some unknown necessity. Duty, perhaps, but to whom? There was really only one answer there; duty to the Regency.

If it weren’t for how the tentacle-thing acted when it saw Vanya, and then how it acted when it saw that two people could see it, then Soltic would have dismissed his concerns over the thing like he had dismissed all the bigger versions of it, hovering above the monster road and the Pit, where people called it the Gold Taker, and yet… it oversaw all of… The dungeons.

… Wait.

Was it Everbless?

He was too young to be making [Familiar]s though, wasn’t he? Well. No. Maybe not.

Ah.

Shit.

This could get bad.

‘I think the tentacle thing is Everbless,’ Soltic sent to Vanya.

Before Faar got upset at the overt [Telepathy], before Jarod joined him, Vanya easily whispered to him, “Now now, Soltic. We've had enough of that—” Her words cut off, and then she cut off the [Telepathy] connection from her end, severing the connection like she had given Soltic a small slap across the face.

It was the right thing for her to do, socially, and Soltic accepted the reprimand with dignity.

For Lord Faar put on a gentle smile, as he extended a hand out and open, to greet Lord Tidewalker, “Welcome back to the party, Aroido.”

Aroido steeled himself, “Yes yes. Lovely party. Please get on with the sales pitch for the dungeon idea. Miss Vanya Silver, if I have been informed correctly? Get on with it.”

Vanya took center stage as she did a small curtsy. “Greetings, Lord Tidewalker. I’m a dungeon master from near Geode Bluite, with a few dungeons to my name, and a few more out in the depths. My partner Soltic Cross and I were journeying to Candlepoint and maybe Dungeon Island to see about getting into the Grand Dungeon creation business on the Surface, where all the real action is, but I had a dream of storms, and so we sojourned here, to see about plying our trade at Storm’s Edge. I am fully capable of working with the needs of a large city and the assorted people therein to bring prosperity and true magics to a great many people. My initial idea is to start with the seven dungeons you already have and join them together, reusing most of the resources I have been able to see there as a public delver. The octopus and the coral wyrm are wonderful, and the current public areas will work well for a first floor. From there, I would create a False Society in the center dungeon with six Primary Element dungeons all around the central one. Delvers would come in from the outside to farm the dungeons, and trade with the people of the False Society, while the people of the False Society work from the inside outward to become real people, and to bring their gold, knowledge, and themselves, out into the real world.”

The tentacle thing had been surreptitiously gazing around until Aroido had said ‘dungeon idea’, and then it focused; It opened its central eye and stared down at the petite woman standing before Aroido, its tentacles whipping around for a moment before it settled down, and listened.

It poked at her with a tentacle.

The tentacle passed right through Vanya’s head, twisted around a bit, and then pulled back. There was no blood. No gore. Nothing happened. Vanya did not flinch at all as she spoke her speech. The tentacle was completely ethereal and intangible, so it didn’t do anything, but it was still a violent-seeming action.

Soltic managed to delay his own flinching for a moment after the poking, so that he could play off his flinch as a worry over Vanya’s words, when she spoke of the ‘dream of storms’ part. Aroido’s eyes turned to him when he flinched, but then went right back to staring down Vanya, trying to judge her on every word spoken. Soltic would have been able to gauge whatever was happening there if he had had some more time to see and think—

But then the tentacle thing poked him next, going for his heart.

And Erick flexed a Force spell on his chest. It was instinctive. It was maybe the wrong move. But it had been done, and Erick had done it, and now they were here.

The tentacle deflected.

Like a completely weightless thing, the invisible, intangible thing had struck Soltic’s chest, and the strike went wide, like a stream of mana hitting lead. Soltic had not expected that, but he betrayed nothing on his face, or in the steady beat of his heart.

He had gotten used to controlling his physiological reactions these days; he was very good at that when he wasn’t surprised too badly.

While Vanya continued to speak, the tentacle thing jerked back, surprised at Soltic’s power, and then it paused. It focused a hundred eyes on Soltic. It grew in size and concern behind Aroido, thicker tentacles spilling out into the empty air. Soltic didn’t even look at it— Ah. He could play off the deflection as a permanent spell reacting to the attack, couldn’t he? Soltic felt secure in that idea, for there has been no Force at all behind the tentacle’s touch—

The tentacle-thing poked at Soltic’s chest with a wrist-thick spike.

Soltic reinforced his ethereal Force.

The tentacle was like an improbable object meeting a Juggernaut who had decided to stand Unwavering. The tentacle-creature ended up moving backward instead. It did not like this. Like a monster roaring in rage, but on a muted television, out came more tentacles, writhing and whipping, while Aroido, Faar, and Jarod remained completely unaware of the tentacle-thing and Soltic’s interaction.

Aroido gauged Vanya’s speech, then asked, “You would attempt a False Society? Here? You would have us all fall to a ‘slave revolt’, then, and they would be right to revolt.”

“They would not be slaves,” Vanya instantly said, her expression turning harder. “I would not let them be treated as slaves, either.”

“Hmm!” Aroido said, “Easily said by some untested dungeon maker from some simple part of the world where the Geodes solve all your greater problems for you.”

“If that is what you think the Geodes do, then perhaps you know nothing about them, as well.”

Aroido smirked, his combative stance and tone vanishing as he said, “Who doesn’t love a stormy woman—”

Meanwhile, Soltic had just deflected twenty tentacle stabs, each of those stabs going wide after hitting, each of them passing through the other people near Soltic without so much as ruffling hair. Soltic’s mana wasn’t draining that hard, either; ethereal, intangible Force was rather easy to protect against once you—

A tentacle went for his left eye, filling Soltic’s vision with a heat-mirage weapon of slender destruction. He flinched at that attack. He couldn’t help it—

He rubbed that eye, and played off the flinch as something must have gotten in there, or something. The tentacle thing seemed to find great joy in this, for it puffed up and spun around and flexed happily, just like how Yggdrasil sometimes acted out with his [Scry] eyes, but without the tentacles…

And now that the tentacle thing was doing that, there was absolutely no doubt in Soltic’s mind that the tentacle thing was Everbless.

“—So I’ll tell you what.” Aroido said, “You’ve been Called, according to Jarod and Faar over here, and that is the only reason I entertained this conversation at all, but since you speak well enough I suppose I should fully entertain these ideas of yours. Come to the Castle tomorrow, Miss Silver. Mid afternoon, Dungeon Office; you’ll find it well enough. Bring every idea you have, as well as copies of your previous dungeon work, as well as locations. We’ll be checking on those dungeons to make sure you are who you say you are, and if everything goes well, I suspect you’ll get a chance to show your stuff. We’ll go from there, if we get there.” He didn’t bother with Vanya a second longer, as he turned toward Lord Faar and Jarod, saying, “It is getting late, and I must be off. Good night, good sirs.”

Faar and Jarod saw the man off, walking back through the house at Aroido’s side, talking of this and that.

And for a moment, Vanya just stood there, looking appropriately happy at the turn of events.

The tentacle thing had stopped its assault for a while as Aroido spoke of Vanya being ‘Called’, and now it simply looked at Soltic and Vanya, as though it wanted to stick around and investigate. But it couldn’t. The thing— Everbless, for sure. Everbless bounced and fidgeted in the air, his tentacles buzzing outward in clear distress as he turned back and forth, flicking his sight from Soltic to Aroido and back, before turning back to Aroido and hurrying to catch up with the rapidly disappearing man, and the accompanying fellow lords.

Vanya played the part of a happy girlfriend and Soltic played his part, too, as she pulled him down for a quick kiss, and he lifted her up into the air, for a longer one; a celebration of getting their foot in the door on this whole Grand-Dungeon-thing. In the moment, it was only partially an act; Erick was truly happy for Quilatalap, and Quilatalap was truly happy that he would finally get to work on a False Society dungeon. He hadn’t gotten the chance to do that at Candlepoint, or anywhere else, actually.

No wonder he was thrilled about this opportunity.

It wasn’t thirty seconds past the good news when Glariol and Nero came over, and began speaking about dungeon creation with Vanya. From there, Vanya went over to the other noble families, in order to speak with them about her ideas.

Soltic got to hang back and drink wine at the bar with Terop.

As he refilled Soltic’s glass, Terop said, “That’s about as good of a first impression as you can make with Aroido.”

Soltic smiled. “Was it?”

“Oh yes. He’s hooked. He wants to know more. Congratulations on your move to Storm’s Edge.”

Soltic chuckled a little. “I guess so, eh?”

“You two should get married, otherwise, if this thing works out, she’s going to get taken from you.”

Soltic’s grin faltered. “I’ve asked already. She’s said no; Not yet.”

“Prosperity can open new doors. Maybe you should try again?”

Soltic paused in thought. “Maybe.” And then he looked to Terop. “You’re a pretty good guy, aren’t you.”

Terop was briefly embarrassed, and then he got over that, and said, “I’ve been trying this [Benevolent Sight] some here and there.”

“Oh? Uh… How is that working out for you?”

“Pretty great, actually. Have you tried it?”

“… No comment.”

Terop chuckled. “Very well.”

The party lasted another half hour, but people started leaving as soon as Aroido departed. Soon, it was just Vanya, the Maryols, the Stormsons, and a few others, and then, it was just Vanya, Jarod, and Faar.

As the clock struck some time after midnight, Faar said, “I do declare that we have a few clashing ideas of what a Grand Dungeon should be, primarily in the nature of the Second Script imposed in the place, but that is something that we’ve been arguing over every chance we get. We’ll continue to argue over that many times over. Perhaps, you might consider a multi-Script dungeon? If that is possible?”

Vanya was rather solid as she said, “Impossible. Dungeons need singular focuses. Getting the seven different cores to play well with each other will require a shared system, just so that they don’t try to overwrite each other all the time.”

Faar sighed, and gave a polite smile. “Then the argument shall continue. Till another day, then. It was lovely meeting you, Miss Silver.”

“Thank you for your time, Lord Stormson.”

The night sky was dark and full of stars, and the land was cool and breezy, as Vanya and Jarod walked ahead of Soltic, through the gate that joined the Maryol estate to the Stormson estate. They made it past the gate before Jarod allowed himself a relieved, happy, near-joyous chuckle.

Jarod whispered, “That went so perfectly well! You’ve a good head about you, Vanya. Now we can only hope your dungeons stand up to scrutiny.”

Vanya grinned as she said, “Used to be you could tell people that you’ve done things in the Underworld and it’d take 3 weeks for anyone to find out otherwise.”

“Thank the Wizard for the Gate Network,” Jarod said, chuckling. He added, “You two simply must stay the night. I insist! We’ve got good guest rooms, so will you?”

Vanya looked to Soltic. Soltic gave her a small look back.

Vanya said, “Soltic and I need to discuss something in private. If we can do that in your house, then we agree.”

