“Of course! I have the latest Privacys installed by vetted Lighter’s Guild members.” With a hint of playful sarcasm, Jarod added, “I even promise I won’t spy on you, if you can promise the same.”

“I promise,” Vanya easily said.

Soltic just grinned a little, not saying anything at all.

- - - -

The guest rooms of House Maryol were rather wonderful things, with all the modern amenities made possible with the Node Network of Storm’s Edge.

Soltic stepped out of the [Cleanse]ing shower, which was a spellwork that produced hot, cleaning waters, and stepped into a drying platform that triggered under the application of his weight. Wind blew upward, rapidly drying him off, before a small scent of flowers applied itself to his body. When Soltic put on his gifted bathrobe, it was the softest, driest, cleanest thing, kept that way by a constantly-[Renew]ed enchantment on the upper back, which got charged by placing it onto hanger, and then placing the hanger onto any of the hooks in the bathroom, or in the closet. There were a lot of self-pressing clothes and self-cleaning clothes like that in any modern noble’s wardrobe.

These days, if a seamstress couldn’t keep up with the [Renew] revolution, then they were relegated to grunt work.

Vanya had opted not to take a shower. Instead, she [Cleanse]d herself, saying that was enough, and told Soltic that they would talk later; she had to work on some diagrams. And so, that was what she was doing now. With her back hunched, Vanya looked down upon a carefully-crafted lightward that detailed a rough draft of her proposed Grand Dungeon; six color-coded Primary Elemental areas all around a central, grey-white False Society area. She moved parts around with a bit of power, and added things here and there, while removing other things that seemed problematic, though their reasons for being ‘problematic’ escaped Soltic. He was focused on other things.

Soltic asked, “Ready for that talk?”

Without looking up, Vanya said, “Sure.” Then she sent, ‘You needed to use a [Return]?’

Soltic gave her a rough breakdown of the event.

Vanya had turned away from her work to look at Soltic as he spoke, her face growing a little more concerned as the story went on. When he was done, she sent, ‘I don’t think the tentacle thing is Everbless. It’s probably the [Familiar] of someone in the Regency. Maybe the Archmage of the Regent, Lady Wiloza Tidewalker. Maybe someone else. The Regent himself? Or maybe Aroido is a lot better at magic than either of us have given him credit for.’

‘… For the sake of argument, I’ll accept that those might be answers. But I have circumstantial evidence that I’m correct.’ Soltic sent, ‘The timeline of when the dungeons really took off and when Everbless gained his sapience match; all that happened a few years ago. Before that the dungeons were breaking all the time. And Everbless is directly involved in guiding the winds and the mana into the dungeons. It makes sense that he’s the tentacle thing hanging over the Pits, too; the Gold Taker.’

Vanya furrowed her brow. ‘… I don’t see it.’

‘Okay. Well—’ Soltic changed the subject. ‘What did it do when it touched you?’

Vanya paused again, and then her eyes went distant. She came back just as fast, confused. ‘… What were we talking about?’

For a moment, Erick wasn’t sure he had heard Quilatalap correctly.

And then Erick’s heart pounded hard. ‘You’re joking with me, right?’

Quilatalap’s tone turned serious. ‘No. I’m not joking at all. What just happened?’

‘We were talking about the tentacle thing over Aroido’s shoulder tonight, and how I think it’s Everbless, and then I asked if it did anything when it touched you. And then you spaced out.’

Quilatalap furrowed his brows again. ‘I need you to say that a few times, repeatedly, as I do something. I think I have been infected with…’ Vanya looked at Soltic. “What were we talking about?”

Erick remained calm, as he sent, ‘The tentacle thing, the mini-Gold-Taker above Aroido’s shoulder, touched you earlier tonight. I believe it might be Everbless, and it infected you with something. I am going to repeat this a few times until you tell me to stop. The tentacle thing, the mini-Gold-Taker above Aroido’s shoulder, touched you earlier tonight. I believe it might be Everbless, and it infected you with something...’

Quilatalap’s eyes narrowed, his breath hitched, worry appeared, and then vanished into an abyss of thoughtlessness. And then Erick repeated his words, and Quilatalap experienced the same set of reactions. As he repeated his words, he now realized that Quilatalap’s earlier hesitation to speak on this subject was due to whatever Everbless had infected him with. Why would Everbless infect ‘Vanya’ with this sort of thoughtlessness, though?

There was one obvious reason. Erick didn’t want to confront that reason, he had to. Everbless didn’t like people messing with his dungeons, so he had infected Vanya with this small curse, or whatever it was. He had almost infected Soltic with it, too, but Erick had deflected those curses, or whatever it was. It certainly didn’t seem like any curse Erick had ever seen before; those things were usually a lot more noticeable in the soul.

And Quilatalap’s soul ate curses for snacks! Literally ate them.

There was only one real conclusion to come to.

Everbless was doing something bad in those dungeons.

And something was preventing Quilatalap from purging—

Quilatalap tipped over, his heart stopping, his eyes rolling back in his head as all electrical activity in his brain ceased. He would have crashed to the ground but Erick was already [Return]ing. He wasn’t going to take a chance on anyone seeing Vanya dead for any length of time, and especially not the Maryols. The Privacy in this room was pretty good, but it was flawed in ways that allowed the Lord and Lady to look in on their guests if they wanted.

And they probably would do exactly that.

Erick sighed as he once again stood a few meters behind Quilatalap, freshly showered, his heart beating hard, as he watched Quilatlap work on her diagrams. He whispered, “Fuck.”

Vanya turned around and looked up at him. She smiled as she dragged her gaze up and down his body— And then she frowned a little, as though she was looking at a slice of cake she could not eat. “You look really fun right now, but I’ve got to work on this project. Was there something you wanted to talk about?”

“Yes. It’s very important, but confronting it right now is bad for this situation here. Do you want to let it rest for tomorrow?” Erick sent, ‘You are ensorcelled.’

Quilatalap’s eyes went wide.

Over a decade ago, Erick had left Quilatalap in a bad Fairy situation, at the Shadow’s Feast where the dungeons and Teleport Exodus were announced to the world. The two of them had spoken at length about that time, after the fact; a few times in couple’s therapy, a few times on their own. They had come to some conclusions. If Mind Magic, or anything like it, was ensorcelling one of them ever again, they would have a small discussion, if possible, to decide what could be done. If the ensorcelling left one or the other of them without their faculties, then the other one would do anything they could to break that magic, as soon as possible, and to damn the consequences.

There had been little need to enact that plan since then, but it had happened a few times. Each time was either no big deal, or a very big deal, with vast, vast consequences.

Quilatalap asked, “Are we in active danger?”

“I don’t believe so.”

“Are you compromised?”

“… Ah.” Erick realized that maybe, if he had been in full control of his faculties, that he would have recognized the link between the tentacle thing and Everbless a lot sooner than now. Or at least he wouldn’t have been so dismissive of the idea before tonight. “Not sure, but probably not anymore. Maybe a little?”

Quilatalap looked around, at the house, at his lightwards, at Erick.

“Gods,” Quilatalap said, “This is so rude of us to leave like this, but… I’m glad I gave them that excuse to leave earlier.”

Erick smiled.

They got their clothes back on and left, with Vanya making excuses to the butler they found on their way out, and saying that they might be back later tonight, if they could. That was fine with the butler. They would have someone ready to let them in at the gate to the noble district, when they returned.

- - - -

In a Privacy, Soltic and Vanya vanished through a [Gate], and ended up inside a remote mountain in Continental Nergal. It was about the most secure of Quilatalap’s strongholds in the entire world, because it was only accessible through [Gate], now that [Teleport] no longer worked. Just because it was kilometers under the Surface was no reason for it to look like anything less than a 10-Star hotel, though.

Carpets, drapes, illusionary walls that looked like windows to every part of the mountains. Nice furniture. Nice everything. This was a place of relaxation, with food stocks to last through armageddon, but there was no time for relaxing right now. Erick was pretty sure they were not facing a world-ending problem right now, but his mind usually went to worst-case scenarios these days. When those scenarios turned out to be less than horrible, he was always pleasantly surprised.

Quilatalap transformed back into himself and rapidly demanded Erick tell him what was happening.

Erick obliged.

It took Quilatalap two hours and three deaths to rid himself of his mental block, and when he did, he hadn’t rid himself of it at all.

“What do you mean you can’t get rid of it?” Erick asked, furious at Sininindi, or Everbless, or whichever one was responsible for this. Or maybe neither of them were responsible for this, but Erick didn’t see this sort of magic being anything less than divine in nature.

Quilatalap said, “It’s a meme, trapped in my soul, for now. I’ve faked its connections and worked around it. You probably have one in you, too, but I assume that the seal you have for Yggdrasil is also working on Everbless’s power a fraction, or something like that. Hard to know for certain in this situation.”

Erick had a swirl of emotions. He blurted out, “Is this why everyone says Everbless is a great kid? Because they literally cannot see the bad things he is doing?”

“Well… hard to say right now. On the surface this is probably true, but I find it hard to imagine Yggdrasil ever doing bad things when he was young; he came from you, after all. Both of them have come from you.”

“We’re not getting into the Nature versus Nurture debate, and to tell you the truth, Yggdrasil had some weird impetuses as a baby. I was actively transforming the world when he was a baby and Yggdrasil wanted to be a part of that. Who knows what kind of setting Sininindi is raising Everbless in!”

Quilatalap sat up a bit straighter. “Ah. Well… I’m rather sure that Everbless is a good kid, just like Yggdrasil. Sininindi is a fine goddess, too—”

“How can you say that? She did this to you—”

“Erick,” Quilatalap said, in the nicest, most serious tone he could pull off, “You have no idea what an evil god looks like, and I pray that when you do, you can survive that encounter. Sininindi is on the side of the Pantheon. She is a good goddess. She veers toward absolute freedom and the wild abandon of oceanic nature in all its glory, and yes, that is dangerous, but it’s not evil.”

“… Ah. Well. Sure? Sure.”

Quilatalap relaxed, smiling softly as he said, “And the thing I circumvented in my soul is— Well. I’ve done that before. It’s the Silences in the Script. Hard to get around without a teacher there to show you how, or if you’ve done it a hundred times already, or if you know the information before it was Silenced by the Script. This one was easier to get around than most, which means it’s not a true Silence.”

… If this was a Silencing, that meant this was done by Rozeta.

That meant that this was a conspiracy.

“… Is that… Better? Or worse? That this is condoned by Rozeta—This is ridiculous—” Erick scowled as he looked to the air. “Rozeta! What the fuck?”

A blue box appeared.

Don’t let Sininindi know that you know about the intervention (that she requested and got approved for) for that intervention is the only thing allowing Everbless to grow up outside of the spotlight, which is a good thing. Honestly, you should tell Quilatalap to allow the intervention to work on him; it’ll make it much easier for Vanya to be a part of the team down there.

Everbless is a good kid, so don’t go thinking he’s doing awful things just because it looks like he could be doing awful things. Personally, I think he could use some Wizardly guidance, since, you know, you’re already down there and all that.

Sininindi would take an impossible amount of convincing to let that meeting happen, though. If she finds out that you know about the intervention then she’ll get mad and you won’t be able to tell her anything, so I suggest you don’t let that happen.

Good luck!

“… Okay??” Erick said, in a way that was not agreeable at all. And then he thought for a moment, and said, more calmly, “Okay.” He decided, “I’m going to think on this for a while.” He asked Quilatalap, “Do you feel like making yourself ignorant of this situation again? Rozeta suggested that you do, for Sininindi got that intervention done herself. I am unconvinced that you should return to ignorance, but I trust you to make the correct decision, whichever one it might be.”

Quilatalap frowned a little as he thought. “I know I’ll mess up eventually, knowing that the Gold Taker is Everbless… She called it an ‘intervention’?”

“Yes. That’s the word. ‘Intervention’.”

“That explains why this anti-meme was easier to circumvent than most.”

“It killed you, though?!”

“That had to have been one of my many failsafe spellworks, triggering on someone trying to mess with my soul in an unapproved way. Other people trying to enact the same anti-memetic magics upon their own soul would likely fall into a temporary coma.”

“… Okay. Well. Everbless actively tried to kill you, too? I saw him do that the first time.”

“I’ve no idea what caused that, since it happened in a time that did not happen. If I were to guess, I would guess… Maybe he got caught up on my soul teeth? And he reacted? I know I make myself a lot more vulnerable when you’re at my side, because I know I’ll be okay, but if you weren’t there in the first version, I might have had an instinctive reaction.”

