Jake saw that next to Nature’s Attendant, two small sprouts had already appeared, and even from a distance, he felt a distinct aura from each of them. One of them was teeming with overpowering life energy and, despite being nothing more than a sprout, looked as if even a hurricane caused by Stormild herself couldn’t make it bend.

Meanwhile, the other gave off a far different kind of aura. This one was more aloof, yet aggressive. As if it refused to even acknowledge that the small sprout next to it was in any way comparable to it. Seeing the two of them side by side, he didn’t doubt that, had they been actual children, they would already be fighting.

“What are your initial thoughts?” Nature’s Attendant spoke, having noticed what Jake was looking at.

“They... don’t seem to get along,” Jake commented in an unsure voice.

“Heh,” Nature’s Attendant chuckled. “You’re completely right. One is like an immovable object, unbending and uncompromising. Meanwhile, the other is aggressive, wanting to move forward like an unstoppable force. Two opposites, for sure.”

Jake nodded, already realizing the source of the two sprouts. One was created using Jake’s old bow, while the other had come from Yggdrasil. It was incredibly subtle, but Jake still detected the auras of their origins, and he genuinely wondered how the god wanted to combine these.

Well... it turns out he wasn’t. Jake was supposed to be the one to do that.

“They will certainly need a guiding hand. But I will not be the one to do that, only their true owner can have that job,” Nature’s Attendant smiled. “Both of them are like children who constantly want to compete, so they need a firm parent whom both respect. A parent that, be it an immovable object or an unstoppable force, can take on either, or better yet, both at the same time.”

“What do you need me to do?” Jake asked as he walked closer.

“Be that parent to them,” the god smiled. “Parenting can be either difficult or easy, and luckily for you, I believe all that’s required of you in this case is your mere presence. Your job here is simple: merely infuse your energy into the soil that both plants occupy. Let them feel your presence. Soak in your mana. Place your hand on the circle.”

As he said this, a magic circle appeared, covering the entire clearing and even the surrounding fields of flowers.

Jake nodded as he knelt down and placed a hand on the ground, right in the center of the circle that Nature’s Attendant had pointed out. Right as he did so, he felt a connection to the land itself, and within it, two energy signatures. They were not sentient, but more like pure instinct.

The moment they noticed Jake, he felt the aggression from one and an indomitable will from the other, which only made him smile as he infused his energy. At first, neither sprout seemed receptive, at least not until Jake also unleashed his aura upon the clearing. Both seemed frightened for a moment, just long enough for both to let down their guard and take in a sliver of his energy.

Having gotten a taste of Jake’s energy, both sprouts had a complete reversal in their attitudes as both began craving it. Jake obliged as he infused more and more energy into the formation, the two small sprouts eating it up like there was no tomorrow. Soon, over a minute had passed, and Jake just kept pumping in resources, draining all his pools at once, even his health pool.

Yet the two sprouts, each no larger than a finger, just kept chugging away. Both grew a little from this massive infusion of energy, but sadly for them, their drinking fountain had a limit.

Nature’s Attendant waved his hand as the formation disappeared, severing Jake’s connection to the two sprouts. Breathing heavily, Jake looked up at the god.

“I... think they... wanted more?” he said through labored breathing.

“All things in moderation. I think they’ve had quite enough for today and need a bit to digest it all,” the old man chuckled. “Besides, I also think you need a moment to rest.”

“I’m... no... I’m not fine,” Jake said as he tried to stand up and instead began falling over, only to be caught by Artemis.

Feeling delirious and tired, Jake looked at Artemis. “I’m gonna take a little nap, okay?”

“Sweet dreams,” she smiled and shook her head as Jake gave her a big smile before he allowed his consciousness to slip and passed out from sheer exhaustion, having once more experienced what it felt like to have his resource pools down to single digits.
