Exp: 0/100

He said, “I needed the other shaping spells, anyway. I’ll look into [Banish Shadows] later.”

Kiri offered, “You could also work on your mana sense? You likely already have a high affinity for this skill, but I do not, so I cannot help you with this. A high mana sense would allow you to see the world sort of how Jane sees it, as a spider.” She looked to Jane, adding, “If I’m correctly understanding what you said you could see?”

“You are—” Jane paused. Her face flushed red. She said, “If I had transformed… If I had been a spider at any point in time during that entire Feeding Frenzy, I probably would have seen those hunters.”

Erick instantly said, “It’s okay, Jane.”

“It’s not okay, Dad.” Jane said, “It’s… It’s not okay.”

Kiri did not look to Jane, but she went quiet.

Erick frowned, as he wrote ‘Mana Sense’ on the board. Ramizi had told him about Mana Sense before, but he had just not pursued that option. Now, he would.

Poi spoke up with, “There’s also…” He hesitated. Then he said, “There’s also a mind sense you could work on. Increasing your mental capacities should increase your ability to resist things like a Dream Worm, or other mind control in the future. A good enough mind sense and you could have seen those guys, too.” Poi admitted, “I should have seen those hunters, as well, but I was too focused on the wyrms. I apologize, sir.”

Erick just smiled small, and said, “Don’t worry about it, Poi. It’s okay.”

Jane shared a silent look with Poi, as Erick wrote ‘Mind Sense’ on the board, and then a large question mark.

Jane asked, “[Telepathy] transformed into some sort of detecting spell, and Aurify, for a [Mind Sense]?”

Poi said, “It’s not a spell you can buy or achieve. This is also a topic for another time. I merely brought up the possibility.”

“Okay.” Erick said, “Let’s talk about that [Ward] wyrm, then. I felt useless. It was sheer dumb luck that lightning struck that monster at all.”

“I could teach you about more fire magic.” Kiri said, “[Death Spiral Fire] really is a ‘one spell, one kill’ kind of magic, and now that you have [Fireshape], you likely have all of the necessary pieces. It would have worked through all of those [Ward]s, though the [Cold Ward]s would have smothered some of the spell as long as the monster was inside one.”

Erick wrote on the board, ‘[Death Spiral Fire]’ and ‘Fire Magic’.

He turned to the group, and asked, “Here’s another topic: What am I actually expected to defend against? What necessary spells and such do you think I need for the good of Spur?”

Poi instantly said, “The murder of monsters such as the Toxic Hydra. The deployment of [Stillness], in the event of a sonic attack, such as [Pulse Wave], which is the most common form of attack and taunt from the Shades. The defense of yourself, firstly, and Spur, secondly. Everything else beyond this is welcome, but not expected. Though with as much as you are doing for the farms, if you fail to keep up this responsibility you have assumed you would likely be punished by thousands of people, and not just Silverite.”

Erick laughed. He could already imagine Valok punching him if he ever stopped raining.

Rats said, “You’re already doing a great job, sir.”

Jane smiled, softly, as Kiri and Poi looked on, at Erick.

“I need better goals than this.” Erick said, “I’ve already been told in very explicit terms that there will be no more overt plotting to kill Shades, even if a Kill and Exterminate Quest is involved.”

Erick was still totally plotting to Kill All Shades, though. It would just take a while.

Kiri gave him a sideways glance, then said, “Well...”

“Learn [Comet Swarm], Dad.”

Rats laughed. “Yes! [Comet Swarm]. What is it? A lot of [Stoneshape] and [Force Crash]. Or maybe [Force Bomb]?”

Teressa chuckled, a sleepy sound, saying, “No no. Just need to learn [Reflection], and pump it up high enough to reflect every enemy spell.”

Poi said, “Do you want the most chaotic battlefield ever? Because this is how you make everything into a crater.”

“A spell to nullify all enemy magic!” Rats offered.

Erick laughed. “I already did that. It got taken away.”

“Oh right.” Rats smiled. “I knew that, already.”

Kiri blanched. “Fuck! You did?”

Erick said, “Super long range, too. [Zone of Peace]. It’s Koyabez’s spell, now.”

“We need to get ourselves a priest of Koyabez, then,” Rats said.

Erick acted all affronted. “Am I not good enough for you?”

Rats smirked, saying, “Not if you can’t nullify every hostile magic ever. What kinda bargain bin archmage shit is this?”

Erick laughed. Jane smiled, while Teressa and Poi grinned, and the color returned to Kiri’s face.

Erick said, “New goal, then. This [Prismatic Ward]. I’m going to get that— What does it do, anyway?”

Kiri practically bubbled, saying, “Not just an empty shell of a [Solid Ward], but an absolutely solid area of [Solid Ward]. No movement for anyone who is not approved. Six times defense for every single point of mana you spend. You have to dispel it six times for it to go away.” She added, reverent, “And holy shit, if you can get that Variable cost for Variable area, too? Unprecedented defense.”

Erick’s eyes went wide. “That’s amazing.”

Jane said, “That’s some good shit.”

“Oh my, yes.” Kiri said, “There are so many top tier spells that… that you might be able to make, sir. A [Gate] network. A [Prismatic Ward]. [Death Spiral Fire]. You don’t really need to make [Iceberg], because you already have [Call Lightning] and enough Ophiel to drop a tsunami onto a city and then ice it over with [Wintry Sea], but— There’s just something interesting about flash-freezing that much space without the wind up.” She added, “[Grand Telekinesis]. It’s some form of [Telekinesis] along with every shaping spell, I think. I could be wrong about that, but that’s the theory on how a Shade’s [Grand Telekinesis] works.”

Erick wrote Kiri’s spells onto the chalkboard, glad again for his decision to go for all the shaping spells.

Poi said, “There are some very good high tier spells that don’t require combining to get. But they do require an extra twenty points to buy up to them.”

Kiri frowned, saying, “Like what!”

“Like [City Shape].” Poi said, “Create a city out of a prepared area, rerouting water from the Underworld and changing the surface to support what buildings would come next. It’s what made Spur, so long ago.”

Kiri frowned, then said, “That barely qualifies as a good use of magic, and only because it can reroute the Underworld, though any good Stone Mage can do the same.” She added, "It would just take a while."

Poi continued, “[Cleanse The Land]. It’s just [Cleanse] on a massive scale, but a hundred kilometers is still a hundred kilometers, and without this spell, the Wasteland Kingdoms would fall to Toxic monsters over the course of a month. [Scan] is great, despite its detractors. You can search for a lot, but not everything. And don’t forget [Weaken Monsters]. Every monster in a hundred kilometers suffers from reduced levels.”

Erick almost asked after that last one, but—

“That last one is poison.” Kiri said, “Surely you can’t actually recommend these spells?”

Poi countered, “They are options. [Weaken Monsters] is actually a good way to become recognized as an archmage—”

“A shitty pretend archmage that does more harm than good!” Kiri looked to Erick. “Every spell he just mentioned costs at least a dozen points, at least. You also have to buy every single previous spell for the higher one to appear, and that leaves you with practically nothing left.” She looked to Poi. “[Weaken Monsters] is especially heinous. It makes people think that monsters are easy to kill, and when the spell ends, the monsters go berserk!”

Poi said, “That’s why they don’t ever let it lapse in the Greensoil Republic.”

Kiri gritted her teeth, saying, “Now, that, is untrue.”

“What?” Erick asked.

Kiri clarified, “[Weaken Monsters] lasts a month. But monsters roam. So the edges of the Greensoil Republic are always under attack by berserk monsters with almost double their usual level.”

Poi frowned. He added, “High tier damaging spells are useless. But the high tier utility spells do have their uses. Some of them, anyway.”

Rats added, “Casting [Weaken Monsters] in the Crystal Forest is a crime.”

Poi relented. “It’s also a crime in the Wasteland Kingdoms. But the point still stands.”

While Kiri glared at Poi, Erick wrote the spells on the board behind him. [City Shape] got a star by it; Erick was interested in that one. When he was through scratching chalk on the blackboard, he turned back to the group. A tension still held in the air. Everyone but Teressa looked affected; her eyes were half lidded. A bit of drool hung at the corners of her mouth. She must have dozed off in the last few seconds.

Kiri tried to vanish the tension, by saying, “There’s also whatever spell Tenebrae used to float that mountain. That’d be a good one to have.”

Poi’s frown vanished.

Jane asked, “You want to make a floating castle? We could hunt down a cloud giant’s cloud castle. They’re invisible, but they’re up there, out there in the Crystal Forest.”

Erick turned to Jane. “Tenebrae didn’t make that stone fortress himself?”

Kiri said, “Now hold on. He might have.” Kiri’s eyes sparkled. “We could research floating castles.”

Rats said, “It was just a matter of time.” He added, “I knew you would get a floating castle! I knew it. I want a room with a good view, please.”

Erick laughed.

Kiri ignored Rats, saying, “[Force Platform] as a base spell, for sure.”

“Oh right. Where was that second letter from the Headmaster?” Erick asked, “The one with the list of required spells for enrollment?”

Teressa stood up, yawning, saying, “I’ll go get it.”

Erick looked to the tall orcol, smiling, saying, “Thank you.”

Teressa walked out of the room.

“As another topic:” Erick said, “I want something that will renew my spells, so that I don’t have to re-cast them all the time. Does such a thing exist?”

Kiri practically squeaked with anticipation, as she asked, “You want to make an artifact?”

Jane countered, “There has to be some word misuse or mistranslation here. Artifact? Doesn’t that mean some special item that won’t decay, like normal magical items decay? I thought those didn’t exist.” She said, "That's not what he is talking about."

"No no." Erick said, "Go ahead, Kiri."

“Uh." Kiri said, "Technically, artifacts don’t exist. But they do. It’s like you told me that one time. Purple exists, but it also doesn’t.” Kiri paused. She said, “When it comes down to it: The thing that makes an artifact an artifact is that it requires zero upkeep. You start off with a large enough grand rad in the center of the item, and it continually casts whatever magic you want it to cast, using the array you’ve set up, without eating away at the grand-rad in the center faster than the grand-rad can renew itself from the manasphere.” She elaborated, “Like… the easiest ‘artifacts’ to make —and probably not what you’re going for— are Grand [Prestidigitation] stoves. Go to any noble’s house in the Greensoil Republic, and you’ll find kitchens with specialized grand-rad stoves that never need to be refilled with 10 mana rads, like the ones you have downstairs in this house.”

“Ah.” Jane said, “They’re artifacts, but like… Not really. They decay constantly. But they’re also constantly renewing.”

“People still call them artifacts, though,” Kiri said.

Erick said, “That’s not exactly… I want something that will renew the spells I have active without needing me to constantly recast them.” Erick clarified, “Preferably a spell itself, so that I only need to cast it once and everything else renews.” He added, “I guess I could try to make it myself. I’d call it [Renew].”

“Doesn’t exist,” Rats said.

Poi agreed, “Doesn’t exist, as far as I know.”

Kiri said, “Maybe… some other application of grand-rads could do this? I’m not sure.”

Erick turned around and put it on the board: ‘Learn how to make artifacts work for active spells’ and ‘[Renew]’

Erick said, “You use rads to make magical items. I bet someone else has already figured out how to make this process work for active spells.”

Kiri said, “Maybe.” She added, “But, I believe, the process of anointing runes to create or deny spell effects in an area is the solution to this problem you are trying to solve.”

Erick hummed and shook his head. “No?”

Rats said, “Invent this [Renew] spell.”

Teressa walked back into the room carrying the Headmaster’s second letter packet, saying, “I caught about half of that.” She handed the packet to Erick, asking, “Why do you want this spell anyway?”

Erick took the pages, saying, “So I can cast one spell and renew everything around me. Durations, damage absorptions, all that stuff. Or. Rather. Cast one aura, and gradually renew all the ongoing magic around me. And not just me.” He looked around the room. “A [Renew] spell would allow Spur to get some archmage defenses, and then have normal people [Renew] them as needed. No need for the vulnerable archmage to stick around. This would also lead to a lot fewer points of weakness in a potential defense.”

Poi stood straighter, uttering, “Oh.”

Kiri said, “Ambitious.”

Teressa said, “I like it.”

Rats nodded.

Jane said, “Maybe… find out how grand-rads renew items, and see about duplicating that process with your own spell?”

