Kiri said, “There’s an idea, but I highly doubt that would work.”

“It’s an avenue of research, though,” Erick concluded, as he wrote Jane’s suggestion on the board.

No one else spoke; they were all deep in thought, looking over Erick’s blackboard. So, Erick read from the packet, and immediately felt that same rush of inadequacy from last night, when he first read the first parts of this very same packet. He needed a lot more spells in order to begin to be a proper mage, to protect this place he called home and himself, and to break into the higher tiers of normal magic.

As Erick read the list a few times, he realized, that he loved this. Making magic. Protecting people. Guarding himself from the threats of the world, as well as guarding others. Poi’s instant description of Erick’s duties and responsibilities was spot on. These spells, and a trip to Oceanside, would help Erick to remain faithful in the duties he had chosen to accept as part of the Social Contract of living on Veird.

Erick took his chalk and began writing down every Script spell the packet recommended, that he did not already have:

[Force Crash], [Force Wave], [Force Wall], [Force Bomb], [Force Platform], [Prestidigitation], [Adjust Scent], [Husbandry], [Detect Magic], [Identify], [Alter Size], [Alter Friction], [Fabricate], [Envelop Item], [Control Item], [Find Target], [Rebound], [Interception], and [Polymorph].

Jane asked him, at the end, “That’s a lot of spells.”

“Yup.” Erick said, “I don’t have enough points.”

Kiri looked at the list, saying, “You really don’t have any of those?” She instantly added, “You lied to me about that tracking decay force beam, when we were first sparring!”

Erick snickered. “Yup.”

Jane smiled wide, as she said, “[Polymorph] doesn’t require points.”

“It’s the only one!” Erick said, as he looked over the list. “Oh, hey. I’ve been meaning to ask. How do those little truthstones work?”

Poi read the blackboard, as he said, “[Truthsense]. It’s mind magic; it’s not in the normal Script. Most mind magic isn’t.”

“Ah. Not gonna get that one, then.” Erick nodded, then turned and added more words to the list.

‘One of the [Body] spells. [Air Body]?’

‘Savral’s [Interception Bolts].’

‘More particle magic. A [Solid Ward] of particle magic? A particle magic [Renew]?’

Erick asked, “Anyone else have any goals they’d like to accomplish while we’re at Oceanside?”

Poi smiled, while Teressa yawned happily and Rats just grinned.

Kiri said, “I would like to accompany you throughout your whole Oceanside trip, sir.”

“You don’t have to follow me around.” Erick said, “I’m sure they’ll let you go to whatever classes you want.”

“I would prefer to be by your side.”

“… Pick out some classes, then, and I’ll go to them, too.”

Kiri smiled softly, saying, “Very well.”

Jane said, “I’m going back to the Firemaw Mountain. But I’ll message you whenever.”

Erick said, “I expect you to get Polymage soon, Jane.”

“Just gotta kill some monsters, first!” Jane flashed her teeth, adding, “And then eat them.”

Erick exaggerated a shiver. Jane smiled.

Poi said, “I’ll be accompanying you wherever you go, too, of course.”

Erick nodded. “Thank you, Poi.”

Rats said, “I’ll find something to do when I’m not watching you. They have to have a hospital there, so I might look into that. Make some progress on my [Greater Treat Wounds] quest.”

“Sounds good,” Erick said, then, “Teressa?”

Teressa said, “Don’t worry about me. I’ll find something. That island is supposed to be really peaceful, but I doubt it.”

“Okay then.” Erick asked, “Ah. That reminds me. How are everyone’s rings holding up?” A flash of tiny panic came and went. “I haven’t made the rest of the rings for Liquid.”

Teressa smiled, saying, “My rings are still at 25 each. More than good enough.”

Rats said, “Mine too. They’re fine.”

Poi said, “Killzone is thrilled with the rings. Liquid is actually slightly scared, according to the captain.”

Everyone in the room turned toward Poi.

Poi continued, “Your rings should have failed by now. They’ve been worked hard. But they’re not failing. The vast majority of them have stabilized around plus 20 of a Stat.” He smirked. “You're speaking of learning how to create artifacts and this [Renew] spell, while you’ve already made something worthy of being called an artifact.” He stressed, “A real artifact, too. Not a kitchen stove artifact.”

Jane laughed, while Kiri paled again.

Erick simply said, “Huh.” He looked at his own All Stat rings. They hadn’t changed, either. He dropped his hands to his side, ignoring the world-altering repercussions on his fingers, and said, “So. Anyone want new rings? Kiri? Do you have any, yet?”

Kiri looked to the rings on Erick’s fingers, and then on Poi’s and Teressa’s. She said, “Willpower and Focus would be great.” She tentatively added, “If they don’t break, might as well go big with the good Stats?”

Erick said, “I’ll get them to you by tonight. I’ll also finish Liquid’s final order of 50 in a few days.” He thought for a second. He added, “And I’ll send 50 to Cyril and Yetta, too. See if that will get them to talk to me about that rain they asked for.”

Poi nodded. “Very good, sir.”

And with that, the meeting wound down. Teressa and Rats scampered off back to their own beds, while Jane went to buy and gather supplies for her trips, and Kiri went off to gather resources for her stay at Oceanside. Poi and Erick were soon alone in the classroom.

Erick’s blackboard was full of writing, while all the others stood completely empty.

Erick wasn’t quite sure where he was going with this meeting, when he started, but looking over his board and reading what he had written down… The brainstorming helped him, at least. There was still something else that needed to be done, though. Now that Erick was alone with Poi, this was as good a time as any.

Erick looked to Poi, and said, “So! If Silverite hasn’t filled you in already: Here’s a possible problem you might have with me and what I want to do with my life here in Spur.”

Poi stood a bit straighter, his eyes darting to meet Erick’s, but quickly moving back to stare at the blackboard.

Erick casually said, “I want to kill all the Shades. It’s going to happen. They’re going to die. Not sure how. Not sure when. But I’ll figure it out, and then I’ll do it. When I decide to kill them all, they won’t be able to do a damn thing to stop it, either. So don’t worry about me going off half-cocked.”

He added, “And then I’ll kill every wyrm, or stop them from spawning. I’ll murder the Cinnabar Hand, too, and any organization like them. Melemizargo is an unsolvable problem, but I’m not really looking to solve that one. These are my long term greater goals. They won’t happen until I’m absolutely sure I can pull them off, without a retaliation.”

He continued, just as matter-of-fact as he had started, “Whatever horrors there are in your world, that need to die, they will die. These are just the ones I know about, right now. These are the ones I am preparing for.” Looking at Poi, Erick asked, “I also hope to live a nice, quiet life here in Spur, probably working on the farm and killing whatever threats Mog deems necessary. How do you feel about this?”

Poi stared at the blackboard, his eyes unmoving, his breath steady. His face was unreadable, but his eyes glistened in the distorted light from the windows. And then he smiled; tiny, almost not there at all. He said, “Every day, I feel even more assured that I made the correct choice to volunteer to be your bodyguard.”

This moment was, perhaps, the only time Erick had ever seen the man without tendrils of thought radiating from his bluescaled head.

Poi almost said something, but he stopped himself. A moment passed.

Poi said, “This is what I want, too. Thank you for sharing this with me. This means… This means a lot.”

Erick looked at the man, and said, “Whenever you feel comfortable enough to tell me who your enemies are, we can see about bringing them to justice, too.”

Poi glanced from the blackboard to Erick. After a short moment of looking at each other, Poi gave a tiny, silent nod.

Erick left it at that.
