Harker watched the panacea do its work. The Last Grace rolled through her bloodstream, bringing with it his Water and leaving behind pristine flesh. The infection vanished, dissolving into light. Like a bubble popping, a dizzying lack of pressure accosted Harker’s senses and Lydia’s flesh rippled inward. All at once, the inflammation vanished and the dark veins of poison were broken apart. The bitter taste of them was supplanted by the rush of a metallic tang—coppery blood flowed through newly healthy flesh as muscle, bone, and fat knit back together.

It was done.

Denar leaned in, breath held. “Is she—?”

“Both lungs are working and her pulse has risen to a steady level.” Harker fell back, massaging his palms. “We’ll need to keep an eye on her but…she’s gonna survive.”

Denar tackled him, arms squeezing at Harker’s shoulders. “You brilliant boy!”

Harker could do little else except endure it as the old merchant shuddered, sobbing quietly into his shoulder. “It’s, ah, she’s gonna be fine. Impurities might build up and cause minor aches for a while until she passes them naturally.”

Slowly, Denar mastered himself. “That…that’s just fine, my boy. Aches and pains are the way of the elderly. We’re used to ‘em.”

“Make sure to drink a lot of liquid—preferrably fresh water. It’ll help clear blockages in her system.”

Harker was happy he hadn’t had to push more of the Sea through her—and that Last Grace had absorbed so much of what he’d offered. If the full effect of the untempered Sea had settled into the old woman, her joints might well have locked up entirely. Salt and silt were no laughing matter, especially for the Untalented.

Denar himself was far easier to deal with—his arm was broken in two places and Harker set it with a couple of firm adjustments. It was far simpler lining up the bones when he could all but see through his patient’s skin. He crafted a makeshift splint from nearby debris and strapped it tight with bandages before tying the lot of it against Denar’s chest.

“Keep that immobilized and don’t strain yourself.” He handed the merchant some willowbark from his pack. “Chew this. It’ll help take the edge off.”

Denar did just that, grimacing as he chewed the bitter bark. “I don’t suppose we can give me a dose of Last Grace too, eh?”

Harker frowned, but Denar chuckled. “Only kidding, lad. I see the storm for what it is; I'll not risk drowning twice in one day.”

“Smart man.” Harker patted the vial, ensuring the seal was once again keeping it shut. “Here. This is yours.”

“No. Keep it.” Denar shook his head. “The moment I opened it I knew I wouldn’t be able to sell it—alchemists are picky to a fault.”

“This is too much,” Harker pushed the vial toward the man. “I can’t accept it.”

“Consider it a reward. Besides, I can’t make use of it myself, but a clever boy like you… Well, you’ve already proven yourself to me.”

Harker curled his fingers around the vial. “I—Thank you, Denar.”

“No, thank you. Lydia is alive.” Denar laughed, and for the first time his voice was light. “She’s alive, lad. That’s worth all the gold in my coffers.”

Adhira stomped through the room, her gait strange as she picked her way through the crates. “Harker…”

“Oh good, you’re here.” Harker carefully put the Last Grace into his Seed Quiver. “Did you get the bandit leader?”

“No…”

“Really?” The old bandit’s Talent had been a strange one. Catching someone like that in the woods must have been a terror. Harker wiped his hands on his trousers. “These two need rest, but I can go out with you. Finding him isn’t—” Harker stopped, noticing how pale she looked.

“Adhira?”

Some sort of pale liquid poured across the armor at her hip. Harker shot to his feet.

“I may…” she shook her head, eyes unsteady. “I may have taken more than a scratch.”

She collapsed.
