“Hey, that’s Fissival. Fissival is totally Creler eggs, Rox. Oteslia’s okay. I’d know about them doing anything bad.”
“Just because your mother’s the First Gardener, Cire? Hah! They’re all evil. You don’t know. You’re a Drake.”
“Hey now. Don’t bring us down, dude. Let’s not monk about on boring stuff.”
That had to be an actor. Raef rolled his eyes as a Gnoll cut in, fur dyed strategically, ushering them to another bar. On the way, Raef leaned over to Lyonette.
“What do you think about the Meeting of Tribes thing, Lyonette?”
“Me? Oh…it’s terrible. One supposes they have their reasons, though. Cire! I believe you wouldn’t do anything that terrible. You do know a lot about Oteslia, don’t you?”
Raef frowned as Lyonette went over to console Cire, who cheered up.
“That’s right, Lionette! I do! And if I’d heard about that gemstone or whatever, I would have had someone go dig it up.”
“You can do that?”
“I mean, probably, yeah. I could probably get the Pegasus Fliers to do that.”
Rafaema frowned at Cire, who was bragging too hard. And at Lyonette, who was clearly interested in Cire. Genuinely?
She hadn’t drunk much. Rafaema glanced around, then, as they headed to the next bar, suggested a round.
“Let’s all take a shot to Fissival sticking its fat tail into an ant hive!”
The others cheered at that, and Rafaema saw Lyonette protest. Cire, laughing, offered her a shot and she sipped at it, then reluctantly took it down.
“So, Lionette, where are you fr—”
Raef headed over to Lyonette, as the others began to dance or drink or grab snacks and bother the other clientele. It was turning into a damned party and Cire knew everyone. But this time Onieva got in the way.
“You’re looking a bit unsteady. You can say no, you know? Come on. Do you know how to dance?”
The [Princess] shook her head, eyes determinedly clear.
“I can. And I’m having fun, Onieva, thank you. I’m actually a quite decent dancer.”
Onieva raised a single brow, mockingly.
“Saliss told me all about your ballroom dancing. But that’s not dancing. Come on. Mirn, get over here and let’s have fun!”
“Dead gods, Onieva…”
Again, Lyonette was spirited away and Rafaema cursed. A party? Why had she thought that was a good idea? It was, in fact, the worst way to get Lyonette to spill anything. Even if she was drunk…
“Hey, Raef. Stop getting in my way! Those two crabs are bad enough, but I’m trying to impress Lionette!”
“Shut up, Cire.”
Raef glowered, watching Onieva and Mirn actually join in quite proficiently. At least they were acting their age, or not hiding it, rather. The other actors hiding their true ages and pretending to enjoy shaking it out in the bar, or laughing?
She hated it. He had to see it. Rafaema’s lip curled. Cire was already away, catching up with some friends.
He did see it. Or else why did he always gravitate towards the genuinely younger crowd, letting his group follow him around? It might be unconscious, but it was there. Raef leaned back, plotting her next move.
Two more pubs they hit, and each time Mirn calmly advised Lyonette to take a glass of something else because she was overdoing it, or Onieva took over the event. She was here to have fun—and apparently get in Rafaema’s way. However, the Dragon noticed something interesting as Mirn yanked Onieva aside after she headed to the restroom. They whispered for a second and Rafaema glanced up from watching Cire and Lyonette flirt.
“…and what’s eight times sixty three?”
“Dead gods, Mirn. I don’t…five hundred and four, okay? Who wrote that crap?”
“Saliss did.”
“Well, I hate him. What else?”
“What’s the key component of healing potions?”
“Eir gel. Basic faculties are all here! No side effects, okay?”
Mirn nodded. Rafaema glanced over. Onieva knew Saliss of Lights? Right, she was his cousin. Interesting, though. And interesting how she was as intoxicated as Cire and Rafaema.
Which was to say, not at all. Lyonette, even Mirn and the other actors were all feeling it, but Onieva had an inexhaustible amount of energy. Maybe she was a [Social Drunkard], or some class that turned this kind of thing into power? It fit the socialite. Rafaema nodded to herself…right up until the street fight.
“What? Someone’s doing what?”
A Drake was talking to Cire, plucking at the young man’s arm.
“In broad daylight! I mean…whatever, Cire. We were just walking along and they told us to clear the street.”
“And did you?”
“Do we look like Lizards? ‘Course not! We were about to really get into it, y’know, but they said we’d settle this tonight. There’s eleven of us and thirteen of them. Come on, can you bring some of your group?”
Cire hesitated as Rafaema and some of his minders’ heads turned. He was bright-eyed with excitement, but he did waver.
“I dunno, Lotse. I’m showing this Human around—Lionette—”
“She can watch! Come on, Cire.”
The Drake girl was definitely not an actor, and she and some Drakes were asking him to…Rafaema scooted over.
“What’s this, Cire?”
“Someone tried to bully friends of mine. I dunno, Lotse, I’ve got a reputation to worry about…”
“That’s right. Cire, we’re here to have fun. Let’s uh—let’s go get some snacks. On me!”
A Gnoll emphasized the words, glancing around for backup, but Lotse grabbed Cire’s arm as the Drake began to backpeddle.
“Cire! We’re begging you. Are we friends or not?”
The Earth Dragon’s eyes turned back. His expression cleared—then took on an obstinate cast that Rafaema didn’t like.
“Of course we are. I’ll come with you.”
“No, Cire—”
The Gnoll grabbed for Cire, but the Earth Dragon prised off the paws with casual strength.
“I’ll just duck out for a second. Come on, Lotse. Twelve against thirteen’s fine. We’ll just…”
He glanced at ‘Raef’, but the Dragon just folded her arms.
“You want backup?”
“If you want to come, Raef? What, you too good for it?”
Rafaema ignored the goading words. She had trained with a sword and she doubted Cire was trained in anything except how to hit a toilet bowl when sick. She had killed someone, just this week.
“I’m not fighting your battles. Nor should you.”
She emphasized the words. Cire just made a face at her.
“They’re my friends, Rafae—I mean, Raef. You never leave your friends when they need you. Come on, Lotse. She’s Creler-brained.”
“Who?”
The Drake blinked at Raef. Cire hurried her off.
“He. Whatever.”
Rafaema was going to kick him again for being so stupid. She sat there, growling, and glanced at Lyonette who was free. The Gnoll actor was sounding a quiet alarm and four of the others hurried out of the bar, cursing. Rafaema had a clear shot at Lyonette. She stood there, cursing—then went after Cire.
Not for his safety, but for anyone he tangled with.
…Maybe for his safety. He was a Dragon, but he was still…
 
——
 
It was a fast fight, so Rafaema arrived when it was one minute into it, and thus almost a third over. She watched, coming to a halt in the shadows as a smaller crowd watched two dozen mostly-Drakes brawling.
Clubs, fists, nothing edged. It was a street fight between two groups who didn’t have anything more than pride on the line.
But pride…well. Rafaema watched the melee. It was a bad one. No formations, no tactics other than ‘hit anyone who’s not my buddy’. The thing was that Cirediel was in there.
And he changed things. He was young, yes. Transformed by magic, yes. But he was still a Dragon.
He had little training, too. Even so, Rafaema watched someone throw a hook at him as Lotse tackled a Gnoll and they went down, throwing punches. She probably had [Street Fighter] as a class, because she hit the Gnoll in the jaw with a vicious elbow. Cire?
The Drake throwing the punch had a good one. He’d probably brawled enough. Cire? Cire blinked, reflexively put up his hands to shield his face, and backed up.
In short, everything you didn’t do in a brawl. And yet—Rafaema saw his eyes open, and he blocked the punch. He returned with a big, telegraphed swing. The Drake saw the motion, but it still laid him flat.
Cire was too quick. Too strong. And while you could equalize it, like the Drake with [Lesser Dexterity] or something that swore and punched Cire in the back for downing his buddy—Cire just turned and tried to uppercut him.
Tough. Rafaema watched someone glance a club off of Cire’s shoulder and wince at the unexpectedly jarring impact. It was still fairly even—until another haymaker from Cire tossed someone else clean out of the fight and into tomorrow. Then it got nasty.
“They’re using potions or artifacts or something! They brought a leveller!”
Someone clearly thought Cire had levels above his age, which was actually fair. Lotse’s jeer and her friends were cut off as a furious Drake tore a dagger out of his belt.
Cire froze, eyes on the sharp blade. Instantly, the other unarmed brawlers moved back. Rafaema tensed. What was Cire going to do? If he breathed acid, or panicked…
He jumped up and began to fly back.
“This guy’s berserking! Lotse, Auhousa, get back!”
He grabbed at his friends as the Drake charged, scattering the others. Cire threw out a wing as he changed directions for Lotse. So the Drake went for him, dagger out.
It might snap on his scales. Unless it’s enchanted. Rafaema saw the entire moment. Either way—she had her sword hilt in her hands. Step in, slash. Don’t kill him. She’d have to cut off his…hand?
She leapt forwards, and the [Knife Fighter] charged at Cire. Right into a broomstick.
The thing about broomsticks was that they were not designed as weapons. Too light, no edges—quarterstaffs were heavy and hurt, and were a decent weapon.
Then again, so was a broomstick if it hit your neck right as someone swung it. Not a killing blow, but it laid out the poor Drake. As did a foot, kicking him in the chest.
Rafaema slowed. Cire recoiled, and the Pegasus Riders shooting down from the skies roared.
“Oteslia’s Watch! Break it up! You’re all under arrest!”
“Creler eggs! It’s the boots! Run!”
Lotse and the others ran. But the lone Drake with an actual knife didn’t get away; an old Gnoll had come out of his shuttered shop-home with a few others and were beating Cire’s assailants with weapons. Well, in one case a Gnoll looked at a Drake with a kitchen knife in her claw and ran for it.
“You alright there?”
Cire was still frozen, staring at the downed Drake. The old Gnoll panted as he leaned on his broom. He had greying fur, and Oteslia’s Watch swept down around him, chasing the others. They saw Cire was safe, and Rafaema saw the plain relief in their eyes.
“I’m fine. Thanks uh, Mister. That was totally Archmage of you. I would have probably taken him out, but I didn’t want to hurt him.”
Cire nodded at the dagger. Plain steel. He would have been fine. Rafaema sheathed her sword, sighing. But then the old Gnoll smiled.
“I’m sure you would have been, Cire. But you never learn. You keep closing your eyes. Sixty years and you never fixed it. You should, or it’ll stick.”
Cirediel stopped, walking towards a severe [Pegasus Rider]. Rafaema’s head turned. The Earth Dragon’s eyes opened wide. He looked at the old Gnoll, and the [Shopkeeper] grinned.
Just a shopkeeper. Just one of the many citizens of Oteslia, who probably knew Cire as one of the many kids running around. As he had always done. As he had…
Oh no.
“Uh. Do I know you, old guy?”
Cire tried to chuckle. But something surfaced in his eyes. The Gnoll glanced at him.
“It’s me. I’m sure you’ve forgotten, but I’m Eshell. We used to hang out sixty years ago. I was…”
“…a [Shopkeeper’s Apprentice]. You worked at the place we got our sweets. At—”
Cire stared at the shop the Gnoll had come out of. Sign faded. Rafaema didn’t read it, but the Earth Dragon recoiled.
“We stopped going there—but you were—”
Eshell looked at Cire. The Earth Dragon backed up.
“That’s a bad joke. Eshell left Oteslia. It’s been only…”
His eyes flickered. The Gnoll glanced at the Pegasus Rider, who had noticed Cire’s behavior, dismounted, and was striding over.
“There’s never a chance to talk to you, Cire. But I just wanted to say hello. Don’t worry. I’d never say a thing. It’s just…good to see you. I doubt you’d want to talk, but I have a family now. Well, grandchildren. Your age. Maybe you’ll meet them.”
“I—I—”
Cirediel backed up from the Gnoll. The [Shopkeeper] looked at him.
“Cire?”
The Pegasus Rider swore. Cire looked at his old friend, whom he had forgotten about. Purposefully, Rafaema had no doubt. In the shadows, she watched as he backed away from Eshell without a word. He ran, leaping into the air. So fast, flying away from the truth.
No, she didn’t prefer Cire’s life at all. Or how Oteslia did things.
 
——
 
Back at the bar, Cire returned with an explosion of laughter, seizing two drinks, and towing Lyonette to dance with him as if nothing had happened. That something had was obvious. That he would not talk about it? Doubly so.
Rafaema returned too, a bit too dispirited to interrogate Lyonette, if she even could. She decided she’d just prevail on her as Wall Lady Rafaema. She didn’t want to talk to Cire, even if he wanted to. She was about to tell him she was off, and walking across the bar when someone beat her to it.
“Excuse me.”
A Drake tapped Lyonette on the shoulder as she did a quick-step with Cire. He turned.
“Hey, guy. I’m dancing with Lionette.”
“Sorry.”
And with that, the Drake produced something. He had a coat on, and was not one of the younger partying people. He held it up and Lyonette turned.
“I’m sorry, I’m—”
She blinked at the Faerie Flower. The Drake smiled.
“It’s not good to hoard, Miss. You know what happens to hoarders?”
He was already stabbing. Lyonette tried to back up and bumped into Cire. The Drake snarled—stabbed her with his empty claw, and blinked at it.
“What the f—”
Rafaema’s head spun. Who the heck was that? A Drake adjusted his cap, and a Gnoll with a top hat stepped through the doorway.
“Backup! She’s got a bodyguard! Get me—”
The Drake reached for another blade, and two more figures rose. Someone tried to come through the doorway and disappeared into a casual backhand from the Gnoll with the top hat. Lyonette reached for the sword she didn’t have. Rafaema spun, drawing her own sword…
—And saw one of the two figures was down. Mirn stood over a Drake, rubbing his fists. The other was lying on the floor too. How the—?
