Nalthaliarstrelous himself sat with Shassa, the [Spiderweb Druid], far enough away that the nest in her staff didn’t bother him. He was rubbing at the head of a creature, trimming very gently the horns of a Corusdeer, young, not yet adult, who had an overgrowth of the horn.
“A child. She has the class, but children have many classes.”
“Do you discount her as one of us for age?”
That came from a Gnoll making a cairn of stones. In their inner sanctum in Oteslia, Lyonette had been surprised to see hundreds of [Druids], some on patrol for cruelty. Others growing food or plants. Some tending to animals.
They were not all alike. If Nalthaliarstrelous represented their most warlike aspect, some of these [Druids] were clearly peaceful, like Shassa had been. Others walked hand-in-hand with the politics of Oteslia.
They knew who she was. She gulped.
“My…identity is known to you, [Druids] of Oteslia?”
There was no point in denying the truth. Nor would it have been wise. Nalthaliarstrelous snorted.
“Even if you dyed your hair, Lionette Solstice, it would have been obvious. You hide your class, and name, but not nature. Your aura reeks of Terandria.”
The [Princess] colored; she had considered it was difficult to conceal her identity, but it was another thing to be so casually revealed. The leader of the [Druids] was not the Rhino Beastkin, but a Drake, fairly fittingly.
She sat on a hovering basket of soil in the air, a levitating plant growing up there, roots reaching down to basins of water placed to feed them. A naturally levitating plant? She pruned it carefully, flicking bugs down for a giant mouse-thing to eat. It reminded Lyonette of Apista, because the rodent—fully six times larger than your standard rat—was too intelligent. It was in the eyes.
“Your identity is known to us, Lyonette du Marquin. Rest assured, we will not reveal it. We are not part of Oteslia’s plans. However, the concerns of [Druids] still exist. You would have us do what?”
“Send [Druids]. Or just one to find my daughter. Bring her here. I know it is in your power.”
Lyonette looked directly at Nalthaliarstrelous when she said that. The [Druid] snorted.
“And kill those who pursue her.”
“She is a child.”
“Yes. And we are no enemies of the Tribes.”
“Then you’d let her die? She’s done nothing wrong!”
Lyonette saw Nalthal’s eyes flash, and movement flickered around the Circle. It was the Drowned Man under the waterfall who spoke, his voice like Seborn’s.
“We make no war on Roshal. Injustice exists and we choose our battles. If you asked us ten thousand years ago, when there were many times our number, you would have a different answer, Princess Marquin. From other circles, different as well.”
“This one asks for what gain do we move, when you might well find your aid in similar allies.”
Shassa spoke nervously, glancing at Nalthal. Lyonette looked at him too, and thought of her second meeting of that day, with Magnolia Reinhart. The Human [Druid] scowled at Shassa. He must have told them a lot. But he was clearly not happy with the decision. Proof positive: him kicking Shassa in the stomach.
However, the Circle was a vote, or so it seemed. Lyonette tried again.
“If you would intercede, just to help her…?”
“Miss Marquin. What could you offer us? Everything is a trade, and we do not forswear our pacts. Let us say we gave you our aid. Perhaps you resolve everything peacefully, in safety. In the worst case? We defend our sister, child or not. We might die like mayflies, but we will honor our words. For what would we weigh the lives of many [Druids] and our kin here with a single one of us?”
Another nod, from a Gnoll.
“If it seems callous, simply count how many lives are weighed on either choice, Lyonette of Calanfer. Betimes that is simply what we must do. Or did you not see the grim necessity wrought at Liscor by Druid Nathale…Nathelire…Druid Nalthal?”
She had come to a too-practical group. Lyonette bit her lip.
“If you know I am a [Princess] of Calanfer—then would you accept a promise on behalf of the kingdom?”
She was willing to sign a lot she had no right to. But the [Druids] just snorted.
“Were you [Queen], we would consider it. Yet Calanfer lost its forests and sanctuaries. Lost it and clung to their Eternal Throne. Calanfer has little good will with us, Lyonette du Marquin. The actions of your predecessors have done much to harm us.”
“Not me.”
The [Princess] defended herself. To that, Nalthal laughed nastily. He flicked a shaving of Corusdeer antler at her.
“Of course not. But we remember. That is how it works. No aid will come from us. Begone and waste neither’s time.”
His eyes lingered on her.
“Go. Sometimes you must do what is necessary yourself. Seize it, [Princess] of Calanfer. You cannot ask others to fight your wars forever.”
 
——
 
Of course, he was right. Lyonette laid out her second case to Magnolia Reinhart after they finally got to the heart of the discussion. She had no idea why Magnolia had segued into Grand Magus Eldavin.
She was sweating as she tried to sip from her tea. The first part of their conversation had gone well, but Lyonette was keenly aware she was outmatched, if Magnolia Reinhart’s aura didn’t prove that itself.
In Skill, experience, aura…Magnolia Reinhart was renowned as the bloodless warlady of the north. The Deadly Flower. Well, she was bloody enough in the past, but her ability to make deals was the stuff they told stories about.
Curiously, she had not swept Oteslia with backdeals, threats, or grand, covetous deals as of yet. If anything, Lyonette had considered her presence in Oteslia as inoffensive as possible, especially at the ball she’d attended.
“I would only need a small favor, Lady Reinhart. I would, of course, repay it many times over.”
“Indeed, Miss Lyonette? Or is it Lionette? Do forgive me, I forgot to clarify which it was. We must keep up appearances. Although…I would have personally changed more than a single letter on my passport.”
“…Lyonette will do, Lady Reinhart.”
The [Lady] smiled as Lyonette flushed. The [Princess] resolved not to let it shake her. She met Magnolia’s gaze.
“You know my daughter is in grave danger. From the Plain’s Eye tribe and others. I do not think you are heartless, Lady Reinhart. The [Druids] are—out of necessity, they claim. But you could give me a small escort. A few favors. All I would need is…”
She hesitated. Lady Reinhart helpfully filled the gap.
“My carriage. Which I presume you would ride out of Oteslia, with, perhaps, Reynold driving it? Two [Maids]? I can well imagine it might break Zeres’ cordon. You do know Liscor’s army has joined them? Well, even combined, if Reynold got up to speed, they could not catch him.”
Lyonette nodded slowly.
“…And once I had my daughter, I could bring her to safety.”
“Indeed. Along the way, would you, by any chance, out of, oh, necessity, be forced to run over any Gnolls of the largest tribe in the world with my rather famous and noticeable coach? Or kill Drakes if any got in your way?”
The [Princess] did not respond. Magnolia Reinhart pretended to pluck lint off her dress. Ressa produced a duster and flicked it over her arm. The [Lady] gave her [Maid] a long look. Ressa smiled politely.
“…In my hour of delicate negotiations, Miss Lyonette, bloodshed is not desirable.”
“But—”
Magnolia lifted a finger.
“I told you, Miss Mrsha departed the city she was last in, in the company of Sellme, if what the Gnolls hunting her are shouting can be believed. I am not sure this is for the best, although it makes tracking her harder than this other white Gnoll. He moved objectionably fast.”
Lyonette sat up. Magnolia went on, scowling.
“If that child is as bright as I am led to believe, she will slip away if her captors are that. If not? If the chance arises in any city they are in, my people will try to escort her to safety. But they do not know where she is. We believe she is in a number of cities near the one she fled from, but the hunters are searching every person on the road.”
“Then you do have people looking for her.”
Lyonette whispered. Magnolia Reinhart glanced up.
“My dear. If this was the north, they would have already delivered her to you and I would be claiming my ransom in…what would I ask for, Ressa?”
“Probably cake and ice cream.”
“Ah, that would be like me. But I do not have as…many…agents in the south. I am not inclined to lend you my carriage unless the need arises.”
“Thank you. Thank you.”
Lyonette whispered. The lack of resistance was like a balm on a burn. But Magnolia Reinhart waved it away.
“Miss Marquin, it is I who must thank you for being rather charming. At the ball, you know? Being a gracious visitor with a number of Drakes who have every reason to dislike you is rather difficult and I am not exerting my, ah, more pressing charms. Shall we talk about what you might do for me, in the interim you are here, under this lovely siege? Very refreshing. No boulders crashing down around us, no arrows, no rationing as of yet…I quite think we should copy it in the north.”
The young woman hesitated.
“Naturally, Lady Reinhart. But if Mrsha is found…”
“I assure you, Miss Marquin. If you have the opportunity, rush—with considerable decorum, foresight, and caution—to her. However, I have a little soiree planned for tomorrow. Soirée. Dreadful word. I’d rather it was a dish. Raspberry or something. That’s what it sounds like.”
“Are you hungry, milady?”
Ressa bent down. Magnolia paused.
“…I do believe I am, Ressa.”
“Ah, then I shall fetch a delicious sampler of sweets fit for a pig.”
“Thank you, Ressa. Are you hinting at anything?”
“Not at all. Your Highness, will you take anything?”
“Er…perhaps something savory?”
“Very good, your Highness.”
The two watched Ressa go. Magnolia murmured to Lyonette.
“You know, she only tends to act like this to prove a point, when she thinks I will be embarrassed. I would prefer it if you would be your charming self tomorrow. I plan to finally make a concerted appeal to the gathered individuals here. Some cannot arrive due to this dratted siege…well. It is time.”
Lyonette’s ears perked up. Time for what? She sipped at her tea cautiously as she was served a kind of delicate brie, crackers, fruits, and Magnolia stared down at an entire cake. Lyonette was impressed. It would have gone for several gold in The Wandering Inn, even without her markup. There was so much frosting as Ressa cut a slice that she wondered if there was more actual cake or frosting in it.
“Ressa. You offend me.”
“I am so sorry, Milady…”
Magnolia stopped Ressa as she went to take the rest of the cake away.
“You slice the entire cake if it’s meant to be eaten, Ressa. Lyonette, will you take a slice? No?”
She delicately put a fork into the first bite of pure frosting as Lyonette and Ressa exchanged a glance.
“…You were about to unveil your project, Lady Reinhart? Is that not…well, peace between Drakes and Humans?”
Lyonette prompted after a few seconds of horrified staring. The thing wasn’t that Magnolia ate like a pig. In fact, her manners were better than most. She sipped her tea, ate with a very small fork…it was just that she didn’t stop. Lyonette felt her teeth melting and heart beginning to stop just watching her and jerked her eyes away.
“Indeed. I have yet to offer the many exquisite gifts I so tempted the Drakes with. For that matter, we have yet to come to any accord on peace. I did ask them what they envisioned. The idea of mutual cooperation…rather like talking to a bunch of angry bricks in a wall. So it is my turn to make an offer, and I have one. It only remains to be seen whether they will listen at all. Hence, your involvement.”
Lyonette nodded. She had observed how much dislike Magnolia Reinhart generated by being…Magnolia Reinhart. Which was not surprising, given her family’s history.
“Of course I will attend, Lady Reinhart. However—with deepest apologies, I am sure you can accept some reservations? I would not want to be privy to anything untoward.”
Magnolia laughed drily.
“A Calanferian [Princess] to the core. You will not take it on trust?”
“I would prefer to know what you plan to offer Oteslia, or the Drakes at large, yes, Lady Reinhart.”
The woman pursed her lips, but to Lyonette’s deepest surprise, she nodded.
“Very well. Ressa, fetch some of the materials.”
“You’ll tell me?”
This was not Magnolia Reinhart’s modus operandi at all. Nor was it wise in any game to show anyone the cards you wanted to hold onto; knowledge was power, even if it was only time to prepare and think. Yet, Magnolia Reinhart met Lyonette’s gaze calmly.
“I cannot have secrets. Not for this. It must be a plan without frill or duplicity. Do you see why I struggle so, Lyonette? This is what I intend…”
She outlined her plan. Lyonette’s head shot up. She leaned forwards and said—
 
——
 
But of course, her daughter mattered more. Lyonette was already flustered when she went to meet with Wall Lord Ilvriss.
Who also knew who she was. At this point, the [Princess] felt like she should wear her tiara just to present herself properly.
“Miss Marquin. I apologize for the awkward situation. Alchemist Saliss. Greetings.”
It was actually one of the few times the two had met. Lyonette forgot they were not actual contemporaries, for all that Pallass had been open to Liscor for a while. Saliss walked butt-naked into Ilvriss’ temporary estates.
“Wall Lord. I hope you don’t mind, but I dressed up for the occasion. Is that Shriekblade lying in a pool of her vomit? Classic Tessa.”
Ilvriss had been prepared, but no one was prepared for Saliss. He actually did a double-take, snapped his gaze up from Saliss’ bare…bareness. Even Lyonette looked askance at the [Alchemist]. What did he…?
Both Human and Drake looked down and their eyes tracked a miniature version of a tuxedo or similar dress.
…Attached to Saliss’ tail. Ilvriss closed his eyes. Then he turned to Lyonette.
“This way, Lyonette. I presume we shouldn’t stand on formalities?”
She smiled at him, genuinely, for the first time that day.
“Of course not…Ilvriss. If that’s acceptable?”
“I would rather imagine that lies up to you, Lyonette. Thank you. I have to apologize again—one of my employees, the Named Adventurer Shriekblade, is ill, so this serves a dual purpose.”
