The first Drake attacked, oblivious, having finally gotten another dagger out. He snarled, looked over, saw all of his buddies were gone, and the female Drake with pink and cobalt scales leaping over the Drake she’d taken out in a flash. She had a bottle of Firebreath whiskey in her claws. Rafaema ran after her. She was going to get h—
The funny thing about wine bottles was that they were actually harder to smash than they looked. Rafaema saw it thunk into the Drake’s hand, face, eye—and didn’t break. Parts of him did. Onieva kicked his legs down and went to stomp, but by that point he was so far out that she didn’t bother completing the motion.
Five attackers, all taken out in moments. Rafaema saw Cire’s head spinning left and right, comically, just as much as Lyonette’s. The Lightning Dragon only wished she could claim credit for anything.
Who…? She looked at Mirn, dusting his claws off, Onieva, who tossed the bottle down and put her claws on her hips, exasperated, and the two hatted figures…who were already gone.
Who were they?
 
——
 
“Just one time. Just one night without someone trying to kill me, thank you.”
“It reminds me of home.”
The party was over, obviously. Cire’s brawl was one thing, but an actual murder attempt? The Watch had arrived with amazing speed, no less than Oteslia’s Pegasus Riders, which was very suspicious.
As suspicious as Cire’s ‘friends’, who all had drawn some actual artifacts the instant he was in danger. Mind you, they’d still been slower than Mirn and Onieva, but that wasn’t fair.
A Sentry and Architect were always ready for danger. They speculated on the whys and wherefores as they went. However, the two Gentlemen Callers had assured them they’d get Lyonette home safely.
“How are you feeling? Good? Any side effects? You took out those two as fast as I’ve ever seen you.”
“Mirn, stop worrying. I am fine. In fact, I’m amazing!”
Onieva did a happy cartwheel and Mirn tried to smile.
“I just wonder when it will wear off. You’re taking a huge risk, you know.”
“Yes, yes.”
The Drake kept on cartwheeling with amazing grace, especially since she had to account for a moving tail, and then stopped. She turned.
“Mirn. Those Faerie Flowers are going to change everything. Once Saliss gets ahold of them…it could be everyone.”
“I know. I know, just don’t get ahead of yourself. Come on, if you have to celebrate and still be up…here.”
He stopped, and checked a note he carried. Carefully, Mirn walked over to a door set among countless other doors in a residential street, and knocked twice.
“Excuse me. I’m looking for a cow?”
Without a word, the door opened. Onieva mouthed silently.
“Why a cow?”
The Gnoll sitting inside the doorway grinned.
“It’s a good password, though, isn’t it?”
“No. It’s really not. Hello, Onieva and Mirn.”
The Sentry’s eyes widened.
“I’ve heard of you. The Mirn and Onieva?”
“Keep it secret. What the hell are you doing, talking before the door’s closed?”
Mirn scowled. Abashed, the Sentry closed the door, and locked it. Mirn checked the door, looked around the Turnscale bar, as they were known, and saw this one was big. Big, populated, and, to his eyes, established.
Some of the bars like the ones he had to run had a lifespan of days or months at most. They were literally abandoned buildings or rented. This one? It had custom sofas in circular patterns, a magical ‘curtain’ to separate one section, and areas for relaxation, consultation…Onieva blinked.
“Is that a smoking section?”
“Like it? I’m Esse. It’s got magical containment so you can have a puffer and not disturb everyone else.”
“Dead gods. I’ve got some. This place is…”
The Sentry smiled proudly as Mirn and Onieva looked around. The two chorused almost at the same time.
“Unsecured.”
Esse looked puzzled. Mirn pointed at the door.
“This isn’t reinforced enough. You’ve got a decent lock, but I could blow this thing down with a single spell. Where’s your magical shielding?”
“This is too crowded.”
Onieva agreed with a frown. There had to be three hundred people in here at once! Which, of course, was a given due to Oteslia’s massive population—millions meant that any Turnscale population could easily fill a bar like this and every inch of it several times over. However, allowing so many was a risk.
“How are you going to evacuate them if it goes bad? What about a raid?”
Mirn glanced at the other Sentry. Esse blinked, then grinned.
“Oh, a raid? We haven’t had one of those—not a raid—for a decade! Trust me, we’ll hear it coming.”
“That’s what they all say, before everyone gets caught and exiled. And you’re using a week-old password with the cow thing.”
The Gnoll’s smile vanished as she realized this wasn’t a joke or light commentary, Mirn was serious. The [Protector] glared at Esse.
“Magical shielding? How long has this bar been open? You know you should rotate every two years at most. What about screening?”
“Listen, you just walked in here and you have a problem? Take it up with our Architects. I’m just the Sentry for this bar.”
“This bar? You have more?”
Onieva and Mirn chorused, outraged. Esse frowned at them, and glanced around for someone more senior.
“I don’t know what Pallass is like. I hear horror stories, but please, Architect, Sentry—relax. Oteslia’s more like the other cities.”
“Other cities…I’ve never seen this. Not in the other Walled Cities.”
Mirn shook his head. Onieva just frowned around. Then frowned deeper as someone knocked on the door. Reflexively, she and Mirn backed away as Esse casually adjusted the spyhole. He should have motioned them back; there should be a checkpoint area to shield the interior from view and buy a second, or at least a spell trap waiting to hit anyone coming through.
What was wrong with them?
The two settled down at an actual bar with a variety of drinks and food. Rude opening aside, they were still Mirn and Onieva, and some recognized them once they introduced themselves.
“It’s not Esse’s fault. Let me get you to an Architect. Oteslia’s not as hostile as many places.”
“How is that possible? Even if it’s the First Gardener, the entire city?”
“They just don’t enforce it. Thank the [Druids].”
Mirn frowned, until he realized the Drake explaining things was being literal.
“You mean…?”
“Thank the [Druids]. I think they tend to lean on our side. None of them ever come in here, but between you and me…if they were searching for us, they’d probably find us. No one can hide anything underground with them around.”
Mirn shuddered at the very idea. Onieva just frowned. Mirn turned to her.
“You haven’t seen this before?”
“I didn’t go here before, not often. I just met with Architects. If I did go out, it was just anywhere I felt like.”
“Fair enough.”
The [Protector] grimaced. Onieva was a rare case in that when she went out, there was almost no way to trace her back to Saliss. In a sense, she was freer than anyone here…so long as she was Onieva.
“Anyways, I’m just glad no one got hurt and this potion is working so well. No side effects?”
Onieva yawned, smiling.
“None. Tell Saliss it’s the best thing ever and to make more.”
“I will. Say, is this place in need of funding? We can provide a few services. Mostly protective, but financials…and alchemical.”
One of the Drakes leaned forwards, interested.
“We’re set for the first two, but what do you mean, ‘alchemical’?”
The two were explaining what they could add for anyone in need, when Onieva’s head turned. She kept a claw on her cup, but frowned.
“That piece of Ancestor crap.”
Mirn froze. He kept smiling, but didn’t turn his head.
“Onieva?”
“You know that thing about saying shit and having it proven, Mirn? There’s a tail.”
The others gathered around Onieva turned pale. The Drake woman leaned back casually, and her head turned. Mirn didn’t look around.
“Who? And how sure are you?”
Onieva’s mouth moved.
“…Could be a coincidence. But it’s one hell of a one if so. Eyes at eight o’clock. Lone, fur.”
Mirn waited a beat as Onieva pretended to flirt with the Drake on her left, then he turned to go get a drink. On the way to the bar, he glanced at the bartender.
“Sober up. You’re drunk.”
The Drake nearly dropped the mug she was passing to Mirn. She glanced under the counter.
“You sure?”
“Wait on it.”
Mirn turned and finally spotted who Onieva had picked up. He walked back.
“Shit.”
“Did someone follow you? Is it Pallass?”
One of the others squeaked. Mirn and Onieva exchanged a glance.
“Doubt it. But we were just in their company. It could be they’re fine.”
“Maybe it is! Don’t scare us!”
Onieva shook her head. She stared, turning in her seat on the pretext of waving at Esse. Of course, the figure pretended to be in his cups, but it was definitely Raef. The Gnoll, one of Cire’s friends. Onieva’s eyes narrowed.
“…Something’s off about him. Mirn, do you see it?”
“Nothing I’ve got is alarming me besides the face. Onieva, what is it?”
The [Alchemist]’s eyes stared across the room at Raef for a long moment. Her tail began to thrash, slowly, as she turned back to Mirn. She gave him a needle-toothed smile and murmured.
“…That’s an illusion.”
 
——
 
Of course, Rafaema knew this existed. Not all of Manus’ High Command even admitted this place existed. Discussing it with her? Not a chance.
Yet she had, like Cire, had many instructors over the years. Some had taken risks. Some had, because they were them, told her, shown her things she never forgot.
Lead us. But what did that mean? It was a question Rafaema always asked.
“How will I lead my people?”
How could she reconcile this to…she sat in a Turnscale bar, having used the password she’d collected to get in. It was a relief it worked, but she’d shadowed Onieva and Mirn here.
Shadowed, in a way only she could. They might have noticed a tail, someone who had to follow them on foot. They had no scent Rafaema could take up, even if she could smell like a Gnoll.
Nor could someone hanging high, just below the cloud layer expect to see them.
Unless they were Rafaema.
This was certainly more of a lively place than the ones in Manus, the few she’d been to. But then, Manus knew almost everything. It had informants among all groups, and if it didn’t crack down often, it was because it was concerned with greater matters.
“Hello there, are you new or waiting for someone?”
They were too friendly here. Raef smiled at a Gnoll who’d come over.
“I’m just uh, looking around. I’ve been to places like this before. I’m just…I’m trying to understand?”
“Of course. Listen, if you want to talk to anyone, my name is…”
That was a good excuse to keep mostly unobserved. Rafaema glanced at Onieva and Mirn. She knew she might be spotted, but if she was, she’d explain she was one of them and find out more.
It certainly went to telling her why they were so good at fighting. So, Saliss of Lights’ cousin was one of them? That was important intelligence. Did they know something about Lyonette? Could she prevail on being a Turnscale to get their aid?
She was so busy trying to work this out she didn’t notice the population of the bar decreasing for the first few minutes. Then she noticed people heading out.
“Looks like a big party’s going on! Anyone with us?”
An excited Drake ran over, shouting the reason why they were all leaving. Rafaema’s eyebrows rose. This was casual. She wavered, but Onieva and Mirn were staying put. Even so, she had to probably introduce herself or…
She was headed for the bar when it struck her that too many people were leaving, all at once. Quickly, not like people making up their minds. But Onieva sat, with her curious coloration.
Her curious mismatched eyes. How she’d made Rafaema start, when she first saw them. Cire too, but she wasn’t…one of them. They’d be able to tell. But if she knew Lyonette—was it connected?
Rafaema approached the bar, but the [Bartender] had hurried into the back. She glanced around, and her heartbeat picked up. From three hundred people, the room was emptying fast. And she wasn’t stupid. But then Mirn glanced over.
“Hey there. You’re one of us, aren’t you? Cire’s friend?”
Raef hesitated as he put a tankard on the bar. He adjusted his belt.
“That’s right. I’m new to Oteslia.”
“You don’t say? So are we. Always good to meet someone like us. You know the rules, I hope?”
“Of course. Not a word to anyone. I don’t tell lies.”
They probably had truth stones. Rafaema calmly took a chair two seats over. Oh, dead gods. Had she gotten herself into…?
“I’m telling the truth.”
“I know that, dear. Mirn. Sentry. You know Onieva?”
Someone waved. The female Drake who was so casual, leaning with both arms back on the bar’s counter.
“Hello! Raef, right?”
“Yep.”
“A secret’s a secret. Everyone has to keep them. I know you’re new, a citizen, not anyone else, so it’s fine, you knowing and nothing else. It’s a Sentry’s job to sort out protection and whatnot. Especially if someone does come after us.”
“I wouldn’t tell anyone. It’s just chance, us meeting like this. Sorry if I’m…”
Rafaema looked around and her throat went dry. Esse, the Sentry, was calmly locking the door. As one did, when not letting anyone in. But…they were the last person in the bar besides them. Evacuated, in less than ten minutes.
Shoddy. You should all be out the door in less than one minute. A wakeup call.
“We believe you, Raef. Onieva, don’t scare him. It’s just…there are rules. Call it paranoia, but anyone who seems odd who isn’t known? Concerning.”
Mirn winked. Raef swallowed. Sword on hip. Activate teleport scroll or alarm and Makhir can be here like lightning. But he and Ferris don’t know I’m here. I gave them the slip!
“What have I done besides show up?”
“Nothing. That’s fair. Like I said, we have to be paranoid. So we’re not accusing you of anything. If you belong, you belong. But the ring needs to come off.”
Rafaema jerked. How did they…? No one should be able to tell. No one except—
Onieva’s eyes glittered as she glanced at Rafaema. The Lightning Dragon looked down at her ring. Had she adjusted it and made it more noticeable? Fool. Fool—
The air began to ionize in her lungs. She spoke, calmly as she could, in a whisper. They didn’t know her.
“I’m sorry, but I really won’t tell anyone.”
“I’m sure. But you cannot walk in here in disguise.”
“…Isn’t that the point?”
Mirn blinked. Then he threw back his head and laughed. He swung himself out of the bar and Rafaema twisted, hand on her sword hilt. But the Drake looked at Onieva and shrugged.
