“He’s got us there. Onieva, maybe we’re being too overprotective?”
“Psht. Maybe we are, but that’s our job, Mirn.”
Onieva swept her neck spines back. Mirn hesitated.
“…Let me talk to the bartender. One sec. Onieva, come with me. Raef? One minute, I promise.”
He headed towards the back door. Onieva followed. Rafaema hesitated.
I’m in a trap. I have to go, now. She stood up, wavered, as she heard the back door shut. Not that way. So she strode over to the front door. She didn’t have the key, but she could unlock it from the front! She fumbled with the locks, listening for anyone coming through.
They’re the most dangerous if they think I’m after them. I just have to risk it. I—
They were her people too, weren’t they? But they didn’t know her. She didn’t want to have to kill them, or call down Manus and Oteslia’s wrath on them. Rafaema was still a Dragon. Like Cire, but with training. If she had to—
She tore the door open, teleport scroll in her claw, wings opening wide to shoot into the sky, at a speed that would take even them by surprise. She would have leapt forwards, but for the fact the door was blocked.
“Hi there. My name’s Onieva.”
A Drake with pink and cobalt scales smiled at her. Her mismatched eyes gleamed under moonlight. And the glowing bottle she held.
Rafaema recoiled with a cry of surprise. Her sword rang as she dropped the scroll, but Onieva just waited for the Drake’s impulsive lunge. Then she slammed the door in Rafaema’s face.
The Dragon collided with the door in a whumph as it slammed shut. She caught herself, whirling—were they going to attack? Wh—
Then she saw the bottle, stuck to the door with a bit of something tacky. The glowing bottle that had been in Onieva’s claws. Rafaem—
 
——
 
The door wasn’t up to Mirn’s quality, but it still reflected the burst of force without more than a quiet burp. Onieva threw the door open, and strode in.
Mirn’s club was in her claws. He had a backup, and could have helped, but she was the highest-levelled person here.
The ‘Gnoll’ was lying on the ground, his shape flickering slightly from the impact that had sent him hurling across the room. Onieva charged as ‘Raef’ tried to get up.
He was tough. Mirn watched from the back door, ready to move in to help. Esse was watching for an incoming raid, but if there was one, they didn’t see it. Tough, fast, and strong. Whomever this stranger was—a female Drake?—she was also very good with her sword. Someone had trained her well.
Mirn watched as Onieva began to kick the stuffing out of her opponent. Oh, but it was ugly.
The first thing the Oldblood Drake tried to do was breathe something. She opened her mouth, roaring, swinging her sword, and aimed at Onieva. In response, the [Alchemist] threw a small vial into Raef’s mouth and a smoke bomb blew out of every orifice. Raef was blinded, and whatever she was trying to spit was gone completely.
She still swung madly, and quickly too. Was that [Enhanced Agility] or [Greater Agility]? What level was she? Onieva circled around the smoking figure and lashed out. A nasty blow that rewarded her with a cry. She circled as the figure spun.
[Enhanced Toughness] too. Mirn couldn’t imagine Onieva taking it easy. Not in a fight. Not here. Nor did she. She calmly walked around the slashing Raef, took her legs out, and backed away as the figure thrashed. Raef was almost back on her feet when the Sticky Web jar exploded all over her. Then Onieva picked up a chair and began bashing her on the ground with it.
In another time, Saliss could have ended the fight in seconds with a spray of acid or another potion. But Onieva had to improvise. Which meant she ‘only’ had some low-grade potions anyone could afford, or you could attribute to her being a relative of Saliss in the worst case.
She ‘only’ had that. Chaldion’s heir.
Rafaema should have stopped moving, because the sturdy chair had already broken from the impacts. Onieva glanced at the handles as it broke off, and backed up. The female Drake tore out of the sticky webs, roaring, spitting electricity.
“Ancestors. What is she? A mini-[Juggernaut]? Some kind of [Indomitable]? [Berserker]?”
Mirn muttered. Onieva backed up as the sword hunted for her again. A lunge—Mirn would have been sweating if he was tangling with whoever this was.
Onieva? She dropped Raef as the sword missed her. Did not dodge away, but dodged into her, took her down, pinned her, and began to choke her.
Mirn had experienced that move first-hand. Short of a Skill, a [Warrior] had no way to free themselves and it had to be terrifying. The Drake couldn’t breathe electricity, only thrash, and Onieva had the perfect posture to lock her joints down with minimal effort.
…Even so. She was having trouble. Raef was so strong even Onieva was being thrown, using all of her weight and force to keep a stranglehold over the throat. Who was this? But the movements were slowing down. No matter what you were, you needed to breathe.
A minute. Then two minutes.
“Rhir’s hells.”
The furious Drake was still fighting. Her illusion spell was almost completely off. Mirn was checking her face, frowning. He blinked as Esse grabbed his arm.
“Mirn! That’s—”
“I see it. Shit. Onieva! On—”
 
——
 
She was going to die. To a single Drake! Here! Rafaema couldn’t breathe. Two minutes had passed, but she couldn’t breathe and the other Drake was on top of her.
She’d tried to cast magic, but Onieva had just avoided the spell, then webbed her claw down. The Lighting Dragon felt something rising inside of her. Not here! Not this way! Not—
The arm released from her throat. She gasped, and lay there. She began to rise, but someone was still on her in a joint-lock. Two voices were speaking.
“Leave her. A Wall Lady disappears, and there will be hell to pay.”
“Mirn. She’s seen us.”
“Well, if she reveals anything, Esse, you, and I are compromised. That’s a given. This place has to be abandoned anyways. She knows what will happen. But Onieva, I am telling you, as Sentry. Leave. Her.”
“I’m an Architect, Mirn. You don’t give me orders about threats.”
“I give it to you about citizens and people I protect. [Protector]. Leave her.”
Dead silence. Then Onieva suddenly began to laugh.
“Really? Fine. We know who she is. Alright…”
Then they picked her up. When Rafaema came too, she was lying on the street, in an alleyway two streets over from the repopulating bar. Only when she got back to her place, where Hunt Commander Makhir and Ferris arrived after searching all night and stopped, ready to berate her, did Rafaema realize the final insult.
Someone had written ‘idiot’ across her face in ink.
 
——
 
Onieva relaxed, in the awe of the others who’d seen her. She was the best of them. Mirn could not imagine anyone who could beat her.
“Want to speculate what that was?”
Esse had left them be with food and drinks. And, Mirn suspected, gratitude for not killing Rafaema.
It could still go bad, and the two Pallass-residents were ready for all of it. Sometimes, though…well. Everything was a risk.
“Nah. I’m tired. I think…no? It’s not wearing off. Mirn…it’s not wearing off and it’s been hours. It’s as good as the other version! Better!”
Onieva pinched herself, and was delighted. Amid it all, danger, annoying kids, and the rest, her delight remained and Mirn was happy for her.
“That’s wonderful. What do you think Saliss will do? Can he share it around? Maybe we can provide it for the others, if only my bar. What do you think?”
Onieva’s lips moved. She frowned.
“…That would be wonderful. We still have to figure out side effects, but we’ll have to see what Saliss thinks when he’s up.”
Mirn was nodding, tired, but elated, when something stopped him. He looked over at Onieva.
“…Or you could tell me now. Unless you’re not thinking about it.”
The Drake snorted.
“Why? I can’t read minds. Ask Saliss.”
Slowly, Mirn sat up at the bar. There was a difference between being playful, or being…Onieva…and ignorance. And this was different from how she’d ever talked.
“Right, Onieva. But I am saying that you would know what Saliss is thinking.”
“Why?”
The [Protector] felt his stomach knot. Onieva looked at him. She lost her smile; she was not a fool, after all.
“Mirn? Something wrong?”
“Do you…not remember? What’s your class, Onieva?”
“[Alchemist], of course. And don’t ask me my level. Some things are secret, even to you.”
“Just like Saliss?”
“We are cousins. But he’s the Named Adventurer. I’ve never wanted to…Mirn? What’s wrong?”
The [Protector] sat there. Wondering if he should tell her. Wondering what he should say. Would Saliss…?
“What’s the catch?”
He understood it, now.
 
——
 
Lyonette had a hangover the day after the outing. She discovered how much it hurt for nearly an hour of lying in bed.
When she finally arose, Saliss was lounging in the dining room, heckling Xif.
Xif had his head in his paws, but he looked more rested than Saliss or Lyonette. Onieva was nowhere to be seen, but Mirn was with them. Lyonette paused.
“Good…”
Her voice caused her so much pain that she stopped. Saliss glanced up, and tossed something at her. It bounced off Lyonette’s head and she glared at him.
“That’s a vial, dummy. You catch them and drink them or it looks as stupid as…that.”
“What is it?”
Lyonette whispered. Her throat was sore, she felt exhausted and grumpy, and the naked Drake was not who she wanted to see right now. Saliss raised his brows.
“A Hangover Potion. But if you don’t want it…”
The [Princess] scrambled so fast to down the orange-flavored vial of actually tasty liquid for once that Mirn snorted. He nodded at her as she came downstairs, headache and fog already clearing.
“Where’s Onieva? I have to thank her, and you, Mirn, for last night. And the Gentlemen Callers…?”
“Gone. They’re looking into the people who tried to kill you. They said they finally have a lead since some were actually taken alive. Onieva’s resting.”
Saliss replied in a matter-of-fact tone.
“Is she here?”
“Nope. She’s private and she partied harder than you. You’ll see her around.”
Lyonette could believe Onieva needed a rest, hangover cure or not. She’d seen how much the Drake drank. Cire, Onieva—they were excellent customers, in a sense, for The Wandering Inn.
“Well, thank you, Mirn.”
“No problem. Saliss and I can keep you company without them.”
“Really? You’re not busy, Saliss? I thought you were working on the potion with the flowers all night.”
“Nope. I took a break too.”
“I trust it was somewhat fun? I had…a somewhat enjoyable experience.”
The Named Adventurer paused for an infinitesimal moment Lyonette missed as she stared at a bought breakfast; no one cooked here, not Mirn or the two [Alchemists].
“I’m told other people had a fun night. Onieva can have all the fun she wants. Saliss gets the jobs. Saliss is the responsible one, and can you believe that?”
“It boggles the mind.”
Mirn whispered. Saliss shrugged.
“Everyone needs Saliss. My cousin’s even more worthless than I am, if you can believe that.”
“No. She’s not.”
Lyonette glanced up from a sandwich as the two Drakes locked gazes. Saliss obviously didn’t like Mirn; maybe it was a history? She knew that.
“I can’t believe you figured it out. We’ve…have we wasted the potential of the flowers?”
Xif’s first remark made Lyonette sit up. Saliss turned back to Xif, and a huge, happy smile crossed his features.
“Xif, my friend…absolutely, yes. I figured it out and you didn’t. And all your hard work has, in fact, been negative work. I figured it out and you—”
He got up and began to dance, chortling at the Gnoll [Alchemist]. Lyonette stared at them blankly.
 
——
 
They caught her up on the unique properties of the Faerie Flowers later. Lyonette shook her head.
“You mean, by trying to find out their properties…”
“We have now created nearly a thousand bad combinations with them. Which means anything based off of those formulas is probably gone too. As it stands, we have a flower that’s a powerful fertilizer, sleeping agent, painkiller, drink additive…now we have to figure out what can be made that’s not ruined by Xif’s hard work.”
For all that, Saliss didn’t appear as annoyed as Lyonette expected him to be. If anything, he was more focused and less annoying than usual. He turned to Lyonette.
“What’s the first thing to do? I promised Wilovan and Ratici I’d stay with you.”
“Well, looking into the killers after me would be my first step—”
“—And they’re doing it. I’d advise you not to get in their way.”
Lyonette bit her lip, but she accepted that with a curt nod.
“Then, Mrsha. I have a number of people to petition.”
“Alright, then.”
 
——
 
That was how Lyonette found herself sitting and sipping tea with Magnolia Reinhart.
Why she paid a visit to Wall Lord Ilvriss, who had also requested to meet Saliss of Lights on behalf of the sickly, shivering, shaking Shriekblade.
And the reason why the [Druids] of Oteslia heard her, in their Circle. From Nalthaliarstrelous to Shassa, because she knew Mrsha, and Drakes and Gnolls she had never met. Even a Beastkin.
All to answer the one question that mattered. Not who was after her, not even, at this moment, how to cure Erin Solstice. Her only question:
“How can I save my daughter?”
There was so much power here, represented in individual people and groups. The only problem was that Oteslia was under siege.
And that Lyonette had nothing to offer them. Oh, she had many things, but very little herself. Very little tangibly.
They knew it, too. They knew her. That was what shocked Lyonette.
“A [Princess] of Calanfer begs our help for one of our kin.”
The first [Druid] spoke from where he sat, a single eye fixing on her, his large eyes gleaming behind brown, leathery skin. Lyonette had expected grey, if at all. She did not know the [Druids]’ number included those from Baleros, the rare Beastkin tribes.
Nor had she ever met one of them like this. Hawk was ordinary, a Rabbit Beastkin compared to…
At first she had thought he was almost like stone, so unmoving and still. Yet stone did not have horns; a pair, one larger, one smaller. What was so strange was that despite being Beastkin, adopting more humanoid characteristics, he could walk on all fours or upright.
Rhinoceros Beastkin. The others sat in silence, letting each speak. One sat in the midst of an actual stream of water, a waterfall in miniature, which somehow gave Lyonette the impression the Drowned Man was not being struck by the water, but enveloped in it.
