It was now time to ask questions, even if the answers were undesirable. Simple questions with answers like barbs, if you asked them right.
If you got truthful answers. Each one of them knew all the little lies, half-truths, omissions you could get. They also knew how to cut to the heart of truth and yank it out if they had to.
Did they want to?
 
——
 
Wall Lord Ilvriss of Salazsar had learned you could not buy truth. You could buy words, you could buy the answers you wanted, and have them shouted loudly, but truth? The closest you could get to that were experts. A kind of loyalty.
“Who can we trust?”
He murmured to himself. His audience of five, including himself, sat, thinking hard. More than that? Ilvriss was getting answers—in part to that question. Answers he…didn’t think he wanted.
Xesci, the [Courtesan of Change], was the kind of person who had all the answers by her very nature. She did not—usually—give them out since there was such a thing as confidentiality and client privilege, especially in her line of work. These circumstances dictated otherwise.
“I’m not a truth teller. So I can’t tell you for certain, that just because I sense a…a love, or certain things, that they’re not agents of the Necromancer.”
She prefaced herself again. Nerul, Ilvriss’ uncle and [Diplomat] at the top of his class, wiped at his brow, slightly. He was sweating from a ‘quick jaunt’ that had him climbing all the way down to the gates of Oteslia and back up to their higher mansion. He could have hired a sedan chair or the like, but that was too noticeable. He replied to Xesci.
“That’s where we come in. Captain Osthia and I do the back-check. Income, suspicious visits, and so on. We have the diadem of whatever-the-hell for a final check. But we do need impressions, Miss Xesci. So…what have you learned?”
Again, the Courtesan pulled a face. At last, Ilvriss stirred. The last member of their group did not. She was shaking slightly, curled up in a corner of the room. Shriekblade, or Tessa, depending on how she was feeling, was not in a good way of late.
“I know you have reservations, Miss Xesci. But I swear on Salazsar’s walls, it will not leave this room.”
“Even as fantastic gossip material. My promise as well, on my tail.”
Nerul added. Ilvriss glared at his uncle, but a [Diplomat] knew his targets, and Xesci smiled a bit, surprising Ilvriss.
“Fair enough, Wall Lord Nerul. Then…I don’t think your sister is an agent. Nor your mother, Wall Lord. Nor Magnolia Reinhart, the First Gardener, your Miss Marquin—especially not her—or anyone on your Priority One list. Actually, my impression is that Magnolia Reinhart and Miss Marquin, and your sister…definitely not. I can’t prove it, but that’s my instinct.”
“Go on.”
Ilvriss relaxed. He relaxed, and he didn’t know how tense he’d gotten. Nerul clapped his claws together.
“What a relief. Start with my dear niece, who I would be very upset to learn was an undead puppet or conspirator. She does have absences and secrets…”
“So does any Walled Drake. Why are you certain my mother and sister are safe, Miss Xesci? Can you elaborate?”
They had to look into such things. Again, the [Courtesan] eyed Ilvriss.
“There are some answers, Wall Lord, that…you might not want to receive.”
The purple-scaled Wall Lord blinked a few times. Nerul bit his lip and his tail curled up, but Ilvriss wasn’t quite sure what Xesci meant. He got sure in moments.
“I can see which face or likeness I would ah, take, if I were to work for a certain client. You know that. Well…I have met those who have no face, or who are just—odd. That’s a big hint. However, both of your family members have distinct people in mind—a range. Everyone does.”
Ilvriss nodded, trying to block out Xesci’s own analysis of his childhood crushes, loves…Nerul leaned forwards.
“Just out of curiosity, who’s mine?”
Xesci glanced at him. Ilvriss groaned.
“Uncle…”
“I want to hear it.”
Captain Osthia Blackwing muttered, then coughed as everyone looked at her. The Pallassian [Wing Captain], presumed dead and under the name of Captain Shieldscale, saw Nerul smile.
Ilvriss had asked Xesci already, so he knew her answer.
“Charming women, Wall Lord Nerul. I could choose from nearly forty faces.”
“Ah, how appropriate. No one person?”
“A few. But that would be, ah, exoticism. I think. People you’ve met but never interacted with.”
“And you know this because…?”
“I would have to improvise them naked. And I recognize a number of influential faces, even without being an expert on regional leaders.”
Nerul started laughing. Ilvriss covered his eyes with one claw.
“Can we return to my sister?”
“Absolutely, Wall Lord. It’s simple. I ah, saw a number of faces in her mind’s eye, but one of the reasons I think she can’t be an agent is simply that she…that is to say, some of my co-workers do know she’s engaged their services. Privately.”
Ilvriss’ face went blank. Xesci went on, as Captain Osthia glanced at Ilvriss and Nerul sat up, eying his nephew.
“It would be good cover, but I somehow doubt a true puppet would maintain that kind of intimate…”
“You happen to know these fellow workers? I have never heard of Navine ever visiting a brothel or…it would be all over Salazsar!”
Ilvriss protested. He was already uncomfortable with Xesci’s power in some ways. This? This had gone off the uncomfort waterfall and he was fighting discomfort sharks in the water.
Xesci was an expert of intimacy, and she winced. She had a very bland face on; the schemer she had been when she first met with Ilvriss. It helped her detach, and she claimed it made her smarter, if ruthless. There was still enough of her to look awkward on his behalf.
“I’m sorry, Wall Lord. But I did see a number of figures, so it indicates she could only be a double-agent.”
“Which we can investigate. So that’s instinct and knowledge for you. Anything we should know?”
“Uncle.”
“No, he has a point. Wall Lord, I know this is difficult, but anything relevant, Xesci…?”
Osthia gave Ilvriss a pleading look. He had to stand up and walk over their private, secured rooms to pour himself a drink. Not wine; he had meetings to go to later and he was off the stuff. But he wondered if you could do something similar—just to drown out sensation. Distilled plum and lemon juice, no sugar, maybe. He’d ask for some made up.
“No one I know. Rather handsome Gnolls, Drakes, even a Human—that would be my co-worker. And uh—two female Drakes.”
The spray out of Ilvriss’ nose-holes and mouth made Tessa roll out of the way reflexively. He turned, coughing.
“What?”
“Ah. Uncomfortable secrets. Don’t let’s get on the Turnscale wagon, nephew. We have bigger fish to kick.”
Nerul wagged a claw. Ilvriss shook his head.
“I’m not about t—I just—Navine?”
“I told you there were answers you didn’t want to hear, Wall Lord. Your mother…”
Xesci looked even more uncomfortable. This time Nerul and Ilvriss traded a look.
“Er, Miss Xesci. For my nephew’s sake, if it’s a matter of delicate…”
“No! Not in that way.”
Ilvriss breathed again. Xesci paused.
“She just doesn’t have Wall Lord Zail in her mind. Someone else. A Drake. Multiple ages. Perhaps deceased? A lover? Er…”
She watched as Ilvriss slowly rubbed at his eyes.
“…We’re going to have to look into this, aren’t we?”
“I’ll handle it. Just give me a description, or better yet—pose with the face so I can do a rough check. I’ll do it later.”
Nerul murmured. Ilvriss sat back down, heavily. After that opening salvo into finding allies and uncovering Az’kerash’s minions, he thought nothing would surprise him.
…Right up until Xesci told him why she was almost convinced Lyonette was genuinely non-Az’kerash.
“A what?”
Captain Osthia shouted. Xesci lifted a claw.
“Two things. It is not strong. Not in an…intimate way. First loves. I would be hesitant to look like that. It makes it too much like cheating on someone…with a copy of them. But she does like this…Antinium. A Worker, I think?”
“An Antinium.”
Ilvriss was least-surprised of all of them. Which still meant shocked. Xesci gave him a helpless nod.
“It is surprising, but this is personal, something unconscious, Wall Lord. It’s the fourth Antinium I’ve seen.”
“Fourth?”
“Well, hers was the most accurate, I believe. The others were…I would call it a very specific desire.”
“For what? Insects?”
“Or being frightened. Someone’s deepest fantasy can be a terrifying, albeit safe, encounter with something…not quite like a person? I’ve seen Goblins, Golems, even a Creler, the King of Destruction—fame is popular—two of the four I saw were actually of the one they call the ‘Small Queen’, Xrn, and the askers were both male.”
“Please stop talking.”
Ilvriss felt like he was going to die. He shifted focus.
“…I doubt there’s much chance Navine or Lyonette could be puppets with that kind of imaginative backstory. Can we go to the Gardener?”
“Of course, Wall Lord. You’ll be glad to understand her desires are standard.”
“Wonderful.”
“A bit colorful in one of the images I could have chosen as a fantasy. She apparently met a rather splendid Minotaur, in a bath-house or something, because I—”
“Next.”
“Ah. Magnolia Reinhart, then. She’s harder to read, as [Ladies] are, but her maid, butler, and so on all had people in their desires. It’s…complicated.”
“How so?”
Ilvriss just wanted to know if they were monsters in disguise. Xesci hesitated.
“The [Butler] loves someone who’s dead. I can tell. They tend to be idealized. Captured in a particular pose or dress. The maid—”
“Ressa. Former Assassin’s Guild.”
“—She’s simpler. A number, including Lady Reinhart herself. I’m not sure if that’s love or desire. However, Lady Reinhart?”
“Yes?”
“…I could do someone attractive to her, certainly. But the face of the real person she wants is—impossible. I’d fail. I could become him…but I’d still be wrong. And I don’t know why.”
The [Courtesan] frowned. Professional pride appearing for the first time. She was reluctant to divulge these deep, intimate secrets, but she did. Ilvriss sat up.
“Please, explain. Could that mean…?”
“Oh, no. I know who she loves. It would be that fellow—I saw him in the scrying orb. Grand Magus Eldavin.”
“Really. That explains a lot. If I could use this, Salazsar would be able to confirm a number of intelligence hypotheses that—sorry, sorry. Secret.”
Nerul sat back as Xesci gave him a look. Ilvriss frowned.
“That’s not too unusual.”
Xesci nodded patiently.
“Yes, Wall Lord. But I have an instinct beyond mere Skill, because I am good at my job. If I presented myself to her, I feel as though I would still fail to capture…something. Something is wrong with that image, yet it is right. Does that make sense?”
“No.”
“It doesn’t to me, either. She’s…a challenge. Although I’m not likely to find out why.”
“Well. It seems as though they’re at least not undead puppets. Have you found anyone who matches that?”
Xesci hesitated.
“One. But it could just be a lack of loves or someone who really doesn’t care. Not high-ranking, but I will pass you the name…”
Nerul rubbed his claws together, nodding. Ilvriss leaned back in his chair to process what he really didn’t want to think about in some cases. He only looked up when Nerul spoke.
“Hm, Uncle?”
“I said, which one do we reach out to first, nephew? I’d put money on Reinhart. Risky, given who she is, but you said she intimated she was an ally.”
The Wall Lord hesitated.
“…We need to run more checks on movements, connections—”
“On Reinhart? Hah. Tell you what, I’ll do my best work, get Blackwing to help me, and pull in all of Salazsar’s intelligence. We’ll come back to you in a year with squat. The First Gardener’s probably just as bad. A Calanferian [Princess]? We’ll only trace her back to Izril, not before.”
“True. But we can’t make a mistake.”
Nerul fixed Ilvriss with a keen, perceptive eye.
“Nephew. You already took a chance with the three of us.”
He gestured at Shriekblade, himself, and Xesci.
“It’s time to take action. We need allies. It could go bad, but now is not the time to sit. Not now. Not with the Gnolls boiling mad and threatening a war we can’t sustain. For the Antinium or the Necromancer. Someone needs to be caught up.”
Ilvriss knew he was right. He rubbed at his face, then nodded. And then looked at Nerul.
They’d all heard the news, even under siege in Oteslia. It was complicating an already complicated affair with Magnolia Reinhart, and his own mission. Ilvriss met Nerul’s eyes directly.
“Tell me something. Did you know about this, Uncle?”
Nerul gave him a clear look which could have held a million lies. Yet he did shake his head.
“No, Ilvriss. I didn’t have a clue. Nor would anyone with half a brain have told me, given my job. Mind you, I might have found out…but I didn’t know. The question is: did anyone in Salazsar? Did you?”
Ilvriss saw Osthia’s gaze swing back to him. She had no knowledge. He frowned.
“No. But then, even for a Wall Lord, I’m younger. I wonder if my father would have access to that kind of information? He would be the only one in the family. But we do know Fissival’s always loved magicore.”
“Along with any number of magical items. Well, it’s a mess. And I can’t envy whomever’s sent to calm the Gnolls down, if anyone. Bloody idiots might just escalate and that will not go well. There’s little respect for [Diplomats] among High Commands.”
Nerul grumbled. Ilvriss raised his brows.
“Do you actually think you could do something, Uncle? What about the siege?”
“The army outside? Of course! Mind you, Zeres’ Admiralty is smart. They’d run if I walked at them. They know a shark in the waters. Let’s stay focused. Allies and Necromancers. Where do we start first?”
Ilvriss thought about it. He glanced left, and smelled and saw Tessa lean over and vomit onto the carpet. She collapsed into the puddle and lay there, curled up. In the silence, Ilvriss gestured.
“Probably with her.”
 
——
 
“Why is she sick?”
Wall Lord Ilvriss asked that question to three [Healers], all of whom had no idea. Well—one never got a chance to investigate Shriekblade. She came round, slashed with her claws across the poor Gnoll’s face, and sent the [Healer] screaming for…a [Healer].
“Adventurer Tessa. You will collect yourself.”
Ilvriss snapped, as Osthia wrestled Tessa back to their coach. The scarred Drake turned her head and gave him a stare like a wall had sprouted eyes.
“I’m Shriekblade.”
“Shriekblade, then. What is wrong?”
