“Please come in, Blighter and Seabass,” Erick said, holding open the front door of his house in Margleknot. “I imagine there is lots to be said, like, for instance, if you’re still my lawyers or not.”

Blighter and Seabass were both vampire-like elven beings from Wraithborne. They were also the best lawyers around. The last time Erick had seen them was at the Fae Enclave meeting, where Erick had been blipped to Layer 1, to the Endless desert of the time worm and Da’luwe. Right before that Erick had been struck by the Fractal Fairy, spilling blood everywhere in that multi-million point damaging ‘message’ from the Fairy to Erick. Erick had remembered all of that conversation and the surrounding moments of time since then.

He also remembered that Blighter and Seabass had both gorged themselves on all the blood Erick had spilled from his dragon body.

Erick added, “You certainly look healthy and happy, so I assume things are good?”

Blighter and Seabass both bowed, and then they walked into the house, Blighter saying, “Things are going wonderfully except for your case against Nothanganathor. I have spoken with Emperor Morbion himself, and he wishes you to know that there are no hard feelings over Da’luwe. That land is doing remarkably better by every possible measurement since your intervention, and Morbion wishes it to be known that perhaps they had gotten lax with how they ran things in their prison.” He added, “On a more personal note, I am grateful for the blood you shared with us at the Enclave meeting. Seabass is as well. Your blood since the Enclave meeting has erased my natural bloodlust ever since I had so much of it.”

Erick smiled. “I hope you kept some around.” Erick gestured to the side room where he had placed tea, coffee, and cookies.

“It was a madhouse to gather as much as anyone could. I believe that Lady Seraphaka found one of your larger scales in that skirmish and has made quite a lot of jewelry out of it. There was a minor war over three of your other scales, and most of that war is still happening. That particular conflict could flare to another war, just as easily as it could snuff out.” Blighter entered the side room. After Erick sat down, Blighter followed, putting his briefcase on the part of the table without the refreshments. He began taking out papers, saying, “The tale of Da’luwe and the time worm is still being debated in the Enclave, which is sort of like a minor war, but that is just the prelude to actual war. I have the full transcript here, along with personal notes.”

When Blighter took the notes out of his obscuring briefcase Erick read it in a flashing instant. He hummed in thought when Blighter actually finished laying the notes down, because he had to let Blighter finish speaking before speaking himself, of course; it was only polite.

Erick summarized, “So the lines are still Lady Seraphaka and Lady Aelorika against Lord Dakka and Lord Eldraki. The Fractal Fairy isn’t involved.” Erick frowned. “I would have thought Lord Dakka would have appreciated that I killed everyone and resurrected them into different forms, but he wanted actual blood and shit and rusted metal and torn lives… Hm.”

Blighter nodded.

Erick thought.

Blighter waited.

Erick sighed a little, then blinked, and asked Blighter and Seabass, “Do you want some fresh blood?”

Blighter’s eyes went wide. “… Your offer is duly appreciated, but I must decline.”

Seabass silently said the same thing by bowing a little.

Erick said, “Then coffee, tea, and cookies it is.”

Erick dished out some refreshments. He ate his cookie and sipped his coffee as he thought about the minutes Blighter had brought him. Blighter and Seabass politely ate and drank and waited.

Eventually, Erick set down his drink and said, “So I have to go to more war, since I’m certainly not trading anything to Lord Eldraki. I had assumed this was to be the outcome, but to see it so clearly stated is certainly a bit of a shock. Anyway! To start, I’m going to be building a branch of House Benevolence. Wraithborne has old liches you want [Reincarnation]ed, yes? I’ll make use of them, transforming them to Benevolence like I did for Eldawae. They can go on their way from there, or they can be a part of the Margleknot extension of House Benevolence, if they desire. I’ll also be raiding the Waiting Room for people. I already have a god helping me with that. With such a coalition I am going to go to war against the Slaver’s Den and erase that Evil from existence. You may warn key people about that if you wish. Or you may fortify the Slaver’s Den with the Evil people you don’t like. All are acceptable options for me.”

Blighter, ever the well-put-together lawyer, and probably prepared for something similar to the various news that Erick had given him, easily said, “I will carry news of these plans to Emperor Morbion and let you know his direct thoughts, but based on previous conversations with him I can tell you a few different things. Emperor Morbion would appreciate a few liches of ours turned into new existences. We have three names for you right now; Kakalakot of the Slavehold, Odarimisu of the Depths, and Witch Aragathara. I have their information here.” He handed over some paperwork, then continued, “Our Emperor appreciates being notified of your plans to invade one of our allies, and he expects at least a week to return his own decisions to you about your plans.

“He would have an answer within ten minutes, but he would like some time to enact his own counter plans in a way that will not run completely counter to your own given plans. We are allies for now, and Emperor Morbion would like to remain as such.”

“I accept this time table,” Erick said, putting the dossiers for the three liches of Wraithborne aside. “I am not going to war with Wraithborne, for I hope to completely turn Wraithborne to Benevolence eventually, and I am comfortable with working with former Evils who are no longer evil. Please tell him that Benevolence is a fantastic path to power, but that it requires the user to support themselves on the backs of well-made civilizations. Both of those seem like things Morbion is interested in.”

Blighter asked, “Would you allow us to know what sort of House you wish to build?”

“I’m sure you have my dossier, which includes all of House Benevolence’s construction, just like I have Wraithborne’s dossier on their construction with your primes and officers.” Erick said, “I’ll do something like the Overseer system I already have, but I’ll go simple, for now. An Overseer of Enforcement, one of Governance, and one more of Magic. I’ll find three friends or three people who can work well together, and then turn the whole thing over to them, alongside a good portion of the reson generation from my Benevolent Sun. That thing is making close to a trillion resons per day, for me, and so a portion of that given to my House up here will be more than enough to set them up for success.” He added, “Other than that, I expect to descend upon Slaver’s Den like a vengeful god, turning millions of them into new people and sending the rest to the Waiting Room. I’ll effectively ‘reincarnate’ the entire continent that belongs to Slaver’s Den into something better.” Erick asked, “Would you allow me to know what sort of counter plans Morbion will try?”

Blighter said, “Margleknot has been unbalanced toward Evil for a long while and so the loss of a few hundred million Evil actors is likely a good thing for us all, including, technically, Wraithborne. Therefore, your desired action against Slaver’s Den is likely going to be subtly empowered by the Balance, but your desired course of action is still in gross violation of several Great Contracts Wraithborne has with Slaver’s Den, who is a staunch ally. Therefore, at the base level, Wraithborne will have to provide assistance to Slaver’s Den in the form of information and physical assistance. When the assassins come for you, please know that it is nothing personal, and if those assassins could be let off with a stern warning and a simple kill instead of a twisting, such an action would be in accordance with the un-written allyship between Wraithborne and yourself.”

Erick said, “I’ll think about it.” He continued, “About this coming minor war: I was under the impression that murder is fine as long as soul twisting was not done, but that Wraithborne engages in twistings all the time with their contracts. Do you foresee there being a problem with me using grand soul magics upon people here in Layer 0?”

“As far as our Witches and Soul Mages have been able to discover, your ‘soul twistings’ are more ‘untwisting’ than anything, but we would still call them ‘soul twistings’ in a court of law, and the law would still agree. But no one is going to push the issue unless it has to be pushed.”

“That is what I assumed.” Erick continued, “So the Fae Enclave would not be involved with this?”

Erick already knew the answer to that question. But he wanted to know what Blighter would say.

Blighter easily said, “Balancing Wars are common on Layer 0. All people who die who are not soul-mutilated go to the Waiting Room, after all. Simple murder is also rather common. Continual murder is considered gauche. Going to War generally requires a notice of intent handed over to the Fae Enclave, though. It is considered polite.”

Erick nodded. “That’s what I’ve already heard. Can you assist with writing up that notice?”

Blighter flipped through some small parts of his briefcase and brought out a piece of paper with writing on it, saying, “Absolutely. Here is a basic form of Intent to War. The exact wording can be changed, of course.”

Erick glanced it over. The notice was a simple set of fill-in-the-blanks for one paragraph, some bullet points of articles which could be crossed out, or not, and a final empty part.

Erick said, “There will be no soul sundering, so you can cross off that threat. Soul twisting is still going to happen, and in a mass way, but if you could change that to ‘untwisting’, that would be acceptable. I’m starting this war with them for the purposes of freeing the universe of their slavery systems and taking their land. The people who I affect will be cast out from Margleknot. The people who I kill will go into the Waiting Room. I am willing to accept nothing less than their complete surrender, at which point they will be rapidly reincarnation’d into new lives. If they choose to remain here, then they can attempt to reintegrate, and I will accept them back. Otherwise, I can send them off into the rest of the universe to start their lives over elsewhere.” Erick looked it over again as Blighter wrote and then rewrote, using some small magics to rearrange wordings and already-typed parts of the declaration. Erick hummed when Blighter finished, then said, “Yes. That’s good.”

“Do you desire to have this filed now, or 10 days from now?”

“I’d hear Morbion’s decisions before you file it.” Erick stood. “And that’s all my business for today… Unless there’s more news?”

Blighter rose, bowed, then began putting his papers away as he said, “That’s everything on my end. I wish you luck in the Waiting Room. That place is a cacophony.”

Erick saw them out the door and off the property.

And then he called up Shadow through a messenger star.

- - - -

Shadow walked cautiously up the moss-laden root that was Erick’s front driveway.

She looked… Not terrified. But rather… embarrassed?

Erick called out to her, “What’s wrong?”

Shadow said, “Margleknot is here, Erick. Like here, here.” She walked a little faster, and this time in the air so that she didn’t walk on Margleknot’s root, or even on the plants on his root. “He doesn’t like people living on him. I’m surprised… That he went for this.”

This was her first trip to his house, wasn’t it?

Erick raised an eyebrow. “Didn’t we go over what my house looked like before? When I said I couldn’t receive the Waiting Room people here?”

“Seeing this place is different than hearing about it.”

Erick frowned at her. “Put your feet on the ground and walk like a normal person.”

Shadow… put her feet on the ground and walked like a fae creature, stepping weightlessly on the grasses and mosses and not bending a single bit of greenery out of place.

“Close enough.” Erick stepped inside his house, “Come on in!”

Shadow rapidly moved inside the house, opting to not spend a moment more atop the grasses and mosses outside. “So why am I here?”

“To talk about the glitter crystal that makes up the Fae Enclave, and which appears inside of a spell of mine that I got from Veird.” Erick held up a hand and conjured an image of the glittering, fractal crystal at the heart of his [Telepathy] spell. “This stuff. I believe it to be the Mark of the Fractal Universe, sort of how the Darkness is the Mark of the Painted Cosmology, but I’m not sure.”

Shadow had been steeling herself as Erick spoke—

But when Erick finished, Yggdrasil stepped into the room. “Hello, Father. Let us talk of this topic, all together.”

Shadow instantly said, “I’m going first! That is indeed the Mark of the ‘Fractal Universe’, which is a fine enough name, I suppose, and most people can’t see it at all or even know that it exists. I think the one you have in you is all fucked up, though, because it should be a source of resons like how the Mark of the Dark is a source of mana.” And then she said to Yggdrasil, “Apologies for stepping on your roots.”

“Don’t worry about it.” Yggdrasil said, “And yes. That is the Mark of the Fractal Universe. The Mark is not freely given, and not even given at all if this universe can help it. Melemizargo stole a Mark, put it in a person that they used to make children of which he only shielded in the first generation, and then let the Mind Mages perish or prosper until the Mark stabilized inside of them, granting them the abilities they have in the present day. That was not his original intention. He was trying to make people who had the ability to speak True Conversation without dying… though I’m rather certain that even he didn’t realize what he was truly doing.”

Shadow raised eyebrows when Yggdrasil spoke of True Conversation.

Erick asked, “Is that what I experienced with the Fractal Fairy?”

