“I don’t care! Get me and sis out of here and we’ll take your Contracts! You seem better than the other shits around here and…” She looked at her sister, still translucent in her arms. She frowned. “Sis ain’t gonna last another attack. She’s already withdrawn and we got 8 years left on our time.”

Erick said, “Very well.” He held out a hand. “Sister first, and then you.”

The woman said, “Yeah yeah yeah.” And then she turned back into a translucent small doll of herself. She fell to the ground. Her sister fell to the ground next to her.

… Erick shrugged, and then picked up the sister.

‘Zero magic’ was ‘available’ inside the Dead Waiting Room. Erick couldn’t mana sense and he couldn’t use his aura and he couldn’t expel or shape mana at all. The only real ‘magic’ available inside the Dead Waiting Room was frameshifting and resonwork, and none of that was how one resurrected people down here. All that stuff was useful for travel, though.

Sort of how the entire Fractal Universe was based on Infinity and Resons, so too was the Waiting Room. Adding to that, the Waiting Room was made of the same glitter-crystal that made up the Fae Enclave and the Fractal Fairy.

There was a deep mystery there that Erick would have to find out about later, in private conversations with Shadow or Yggdrasil… Probably Yggdrasil.

So for now, Erick got to work.

All sorts of resurrecting, reincarnations, and other rescuing magics, did not happen here, in the Dead Waiting Room itself. For all of that, there was the Negotiator in Wraithborne’s case, or in Erick’s case there was the Translator pinned to his chest.

Erick held the sister in one hand and then pressed his other hand to the Translator, briefly opening up—

- -

Erick was half awake, one hand to his chest, one hand holding the air. He sat on his butt on the stone platform he had come in on, and he held a translucent ghost in his hand, and yet they weren’t in his hand at all.

Erick was in the Living Waiting Room. Shadow was reading a book behind him. Cascadio’s golden warmth was all around, while the god himself was in the corner of Erick’s eyes, tapping ‘yes’ on a floating question that asked ‘do you want to pay 1000 resons to move this soul to the front of the line?’

The soul in Erick’s hand turned more solid. More there.

She was a centaur-like person, but with the bottom half of a lizard and the top half of a goblin.

Erick cast a [Reincarnation] on the goblin-centaur girl. He worked fast and half-awake, but he had been doing this for a very long time and he still did good work while under the effects of this ‘astral projection’ spellwork. A fractal splash appeared around the person’s soul in his hands and Erick selected the Path that made this girl a human woman who was smart and witty and who loved her family and her community. It was pretty much herself, but human.

And then she vanished in a flash of golden fire, taken away to Cascadio’s Cavalcade.

Shadow asked, “Which one was that? I didn’t recognize her.”

“Just someone I rescued from slavers.” Erick said, “Here comes more.”

Erick focused on his connection to the Translator—

- -

Erick stood upon a crystal bridge of not-Ar’Kendrithyst.

He picked up the other goblin-centaur girl and—

- -

Erick saw Cascadio say ‘yes’ to the payment again, and he felt the ghost in his hand turn more real.

Erick cast his spells. This woman was just like her sister, but according to her fractal splash she was a lot more prone to violence in defense of her home. That was fine. Erick let her keep that personal future. There would be a great need for a lot of violent people like her soon enough.

Erick smiled a little as the resurrected, reincarnated, new-human vanished in a flicker of Cascadio’s golden flames, off to the Cavalcade where Cascadio’s priests were present, waiting for new arrivals.

Shadow was waiting for a bit more of an answer.

Erick said, “They were simply opportunistic rescues. I have no idea who they are.”

Shadow stood, saying, “I’d go see them anyway.” She said to the air, “Margleknot. Transport to Cascadio’s Cavalcade Benevolence Meeting Center.” A golden and green portal opened, and Shadow stepped through. “I’ll be back later.”

The portal closed.

Cascadio said, “Rescue all the people you want, Erick. I can already tell those two are going to be fantastic additions to the future.”

Erick smiled a little, and then he dove back—

- -

Into his ghost self.

Erick continued to smile as he gazed around at the red and purple crystal spires…

And then he looked at the people trying to walk around who only managed to walk into invisible walls.

“… I could change this frameshift, but… No. I’m keeping this frameshift,” Erick said. And then he cupped his hands to his mouth, and called out, “Anyone want to remove all of their Wraithborne Contracts and join a war against some slavers?”

His voice echoed out across the cavernous air, through the light and the dark and the crystal.

Some people stopped walking this way or that and they looked around.

Erick heard four people call out a variation of, ‘Yes!’

He learned a few things about the Dead Waiting Room getting to those four people.

Erick tried to fly, using some resonwork to bring his dragon wings into existence. This did not work as expected.

Erick leapt off the side of a bridge, bringing into existence and spreading a pair of several-meter-wide wings to catch nonexistent air —and only realizing in that moment that there was no air in the Dead Waiting Room— and then he plummeted straight down, like feathers dropped in a zero-air environment. Or perhaps a certain animated coyote. Erick hadn’t really noticed the lack of air until he tried to reconcile what he was catching his nonexistent wings upon, in order to move.

So that was on him.

He managed to get back to solid ground with some force/counterforce reaction through billowing out his dragon breath and aiming the other direction. But it was only when he was back on solid ground that he realized that he shouldn’t have been able to do a force/counterforce reaction, because there were no particles or normal physical interaction in this place.

And indeed, the next time he tried to use his dragon breath to move, he did not move at all.

At least he wasn’t dying of not-breathing the non-existent air; Erick had erased that vulnerability from himself a while ago.

Erick tried a different approach to moving through the Waiting Room.

He blinked, willed himself toward the nearest person who had called out his name, and then he took a step—

Erick moved.

He opened his eyes and he was standing beside the first person who had called out, which was amazing. Erick had taken a long shot in seeing if the same ‘focus on a person and move to them’ of the Black Crystal District and the Celestial Observatory would work, and it had, wonderfully.

And now he was here, standing in front of a person who was a tangle of hooks and barbs and grabbing hands and black smiles. It was a trap. The trap reached for Erick and Erick blasted it apart with dragon breath. He might not have his [Luminous Beam], but he certainly still had his normal dragon body. No one could take that from him; he challenged them to try!

… And that was probably the normal sort of dragon arrogance speaking.

And yet again, it wasn’t arrogant if it worked. Arrogance was very useful for making magic, when magic was a matter of force of presence.

One simply had to show who was in charge around here!

And this time, Erick spread his wings and he flew, because dammit! His wings and flight did work exactly as they should work, even if there was no air present at all. It was, perhaps, easier to fly without air getting in the way. The lack of air certainly made hovering easier. Heck! He didn’t even need his wings to fly, did he?

And so, Erick floated down to the next person, wingless and comfortable in his jeans and a teeshirt, saying to the woman who had called out, “Hello. You want a way out of here?”

The woman spun around, half startled— She calmed. “Ah. Yeah. You’ll do. Can you actually remove Contracts?”

“Yup. I’ll send you out there looking human and female, since that’s what you look like to me right now. I can do more work later once you’re out and alive. You can be whatever species or person you want. The god Cascadio will be overseeing you while I work down here for a while to bring others back.” Erick asked, “That okay?”

“I gotta work for you for the time you’re shaving off, yeah? That’s 6 years.”

She seemed like she was lying about… A lot. But that was fine.

Erick said, “Sure.” And then he held out his hand.

The woman smirked and took his hand.

- -

Erick held the ghost of a vile thing of teeth and Evil and crawling death in his hands. It was fine.

Cascadio remarked. “Oh. That’s one of your targets. Vieltresia the Demon Summoner. She’s been locked down by Contracts for 1,700 years.”

“… Huh.” Erick [Reincarnation]ed her back to a person, changing her fate from one of clawing Evil to one of brilliant Benevolence. She instantly went to Cascadio’s Cavalcade. “I don’t think she believed I could do that at all.”

Cascadio said, “Looked like she tried to interrupt your Soul Magic to do… something. Whatever it was she tried to do, she failed.”

“I have a feeling I’m going to run into a lot of people who are going to try that.”

“News doesn’t happen in the Dead Waiting Room, with no one knowing who you are… Yeah. Everyone is going to try something against you.”

Erick nodded.

He closed his eyes—

- -

And floated down to the next person who had called out.

This man was another trap. He turned into a mouth and tried to eat Erick, but Erick simply crushed him down into a quiet doll… which was something he could do? Sure. And then he went back out—

- -

And saw the ghost of a twisted maw in his hands.

“… What is it?”

“A person so far gone they have become a monster.”

Erick quelled the monster and made them into a person again. They didn’t have many futures to choose from, but they had a good accountant future, so that’s what they got. For now.

And then Erick went back—

- -

The fourth person to call out to Erick to request a way out turned out to be a child who had no idea how she had gotten there. Erick wasn’t sure, either, but he sent her on to Cascadio’s Cavalcade anyway.

And then he focused on the first names on his list.

Magic wasn't available down here, and magic-like effects were pretty unreliable, but Erick’s Lightning Path and Cascadio’s Guiding Light did a wonderful job of pointing directions in lieu of any real coordination of the land.

Erick picked one beam of Light pointing down from the sunny sky overhead and one thread of Lightning in his own Sight and closed his eyes. He followed the Paths and—

- -

Erick stepped into a dark part of the Dead Waiting Room version of Ar’Kendrithyst.

A woman stood there, serene and beatific. She smiled. “Hello. I’m Holy Mother Caa, and it appears that Good is finally swinging back against Evil. I heard your call earlier. I am thrilled.” She closed her eyes. “I am ready.”

… Erick opted to leave out a great lot of detail and allow her to believe what she wanted to believe in the moment, and simply ask her, “Any requests for your new, general future? We can change your fated future and your species back to whatever you actually are with a second one of these magics, but for now, I’m just gathering people in Cascadio’s Cavalcade, and for now, you’ll be a human woman.”

Holy Mother Caa paused a little. She opened her eyes again. … She closed her eyes, and said, “I’m fine with an interim body and whatever future you wish to bestow. I will be able to fix all of those myself once I am not weighed down by Wraithborne…” She paused, and then she seemed to glow as she grinned. “You could give me a general future of Motherhood.”

Erick took Holy Mother Caa into his hands and untwisted her horribly mangled soul back into something that might actually survive more than 1 second out there in the real world.

She had been a river, if Erick was reading that right.

Or maybe a big fish. Erick wasn’t sure. For now, she was a human woman who would eventually have lots of lovely children from lots of different fathers of all sorts of species.

It had been a weird [Reincarnation] for Erick, too.

He moved on.
