That didn’t work, actually.

Right. Nothing worked like it should here. Not exactly.

The only magic that worked here was resonwork and frameshifting-soulwork. That was one of the reasons that Wraithborne was so good at this place; at this land of Soul Magic.

Gods helped people return to life from the Waiting Room in more or less even amounts on the Good-Evil spectrum, and there were lots of organizations on all sides of Margleknot that worked this land to find people, but the fact was that the number of Soul Mages on the side of Good did not add up to a tenth as many soul mages on the side of Evil. It was for that reason that Evil would always rise above Good when it came to truly understanding the soul, and working the Dead Waiting room. This was because Evil did not care about the souls of others as anything other than a thing to be used. As long as a victim didn’t get soul-sundered, a Soul Mage could fuck as many people up as they wanted to acquire proficiency at Soul Magic. Good people had standards of care.

That was why Cascadio had asked Erick to consider expanding his soul-rescue plan many times larger than his initial 120-ish soul goal—

Erick put that stuff out of his mind. He was busy. He had goals. It was time to get to those goals.

The first step was frameshifting himself out of this personal space. To do that, Erick imagined himself as here, in the Dead Waiting Room. Not inside a memory of his own making.

Erick stared into the land around him, and then he slowly closed his eyes, not all the way at all, but merely mostly, manifesting the shift—

Flames rolled in from every horizon, like the rising of a great, burning sun.

And then the flames were there, and they were warm.

Through barely-closed eyelids, cacophonous existence assaulted Erick from every side and every sense. It was loud with ten billion voices screaming, talking, laughing, shouting, roaring, whispering, saying unkind things and saying brilliant loving things all at once. Erick cracked open his eyes and saw the madhouse colors of the Dead Waiting Room. He felt the ripping finger touches of others on every exposed part of his flesh. He felt the heat of Cascadio all around him, keeping him himself. And then Erick closed his eyes fully.

He pulled in the fire. He pulled in the light.

He shifted his sense of the world around him, attempting to experience the Dead Waiting Room as a single sort of existence, instead of ten trillion ways to live all at once. A single form of existence would have to cover a lot of ground in order to make sense of all of this, though.

Erick imagined Ar’Kendrithyst, with its tall towers and dead souls and bright sun overhead and red/purple shadows and Dark—

The madhouse shifted.

Soft breezes touched his skin, and everything was still.

He opened his eyes to a much calmer land.

Erick stood a few kilometers below the sky of Ar’Kendrithyst. Everything up there was bright yellow and gold sun, which was not technically correct, for that was Cascadio, looking down at Erick and guiding/anchoring him to his true self out there. Erick’s body was also on golden, yellow fire. That fire did not burn, but it did illuminate. The sun pinned to Erick’s chest beat in time to his own heart, each pulse brightening the land around him, solidifying crystal into something solid, turning distance into something intelligible, keeping him here, in this moment.

The sun above was the Guide. Erick could return whenever he wanted. The Guide would also illuminate the way toward the goal, with the goal being the souls on Erick’s list. Cascadio had that list, and all Erick had to do was concentrate on that assistance, and the nearest person on that list would be… somewhere down a road, or something. Erick didn’t really know.

The fire surrounding Erick was the Shield. It would take damage before he did. In an unsure way, Erick expected all damage beyond this sunshield would inflict ‘False Damage’ worth 20 to 30 times more damage against his real body. Since Erick had a billion Health, Mana, and Psyche, this was not a big deal. Other people were a lot more vulnerable to damage down here, though.

The little beating pin on Erick’s chest was the Translator itself. It would keep Erick stable and hold onto his current greater frameshift for him, allowing him to use smaller shifts when needed. The translator was perhaps the most important part of Erick’s current kit, for many reasons.

And those were Cascadio’s forms of assistance in finding Erick’s targets.

Erick’s targets lay all around.

He looked out and saw a madhouse of a different sort. A trillion souls milled about and lived in an endless towering, bridged city, of many reds and purples, that expanded out from here to far, far out of view. Erick looked down off the edge of the bridge underfoot and saw much, much further down than he should have been able to see. But then again this was a soul space, so yeah, Erick could see whatever he expected to see with his current frameshift. He couldn’t exactly look through walls, though, or look behind himself, or do a bunch of stuff he was normally able to do —not to mention magic was wholly different in here— but this frame of reference would work well enough, for now. Probably for the rest of the trip, too. And nearby walls were translucent enough to see through, to see threats hiding on the other sides of corners, so this was fine.

What was… possibly fine, but wholly weird, was that every single person out there was wearing simple Earth clothes. Jeans. Teeshirts. Belts, shoes. Dresses sometimes, but mostly not. It appeared that Erick had frameshifted every other person out there into human-shaped, which was wholly inaccurate, but that was Erick’s problem; not their problems.

Erick looked down at his own jeans-and-a-teeshirt and decided that was fine, as well. He hadn’t really worn jeans and a teeshirt in a long time… but this was fine?

Erick wondered about magic. The only magic possible here was pure resonwork, and Erick hadn’t done much of that. He was pretty sure he could, though.

Erick moved a hand through the air, focusing on who he was and what he knew he could do…

A ripple of power flickered across the air, like a wavy talon slash. That had probably taken a few resons out of his wallet, but he had millions of resons and his body was still generating resons, so he was fine in that way. It was still a freaky way to do magic, though. Pure intent. Pure focus. That specific frameshift was easy, though. All he was ‘doing’ was ‘using his real dragon body’ to do some stuff while in his human shape.

It was a pretty pure expression of magic, and Erick kinda liked it, but it was prone to a whole lot of personal failure.

Magic in the Dead Living Room was perhaps the most reson-based magic in existence, here in this Fractal Universe. Erick would not be casting any [Luminous Beam]s in here for multiple reasons, from particles not existing to mana not being here either, but Erick was still a big damn dragon, and that much of himself was easy to bring into this place. That was a personal failing, though.

He probably could do a [Luminous Beam] if he wanted, but to do so would probably break Erick’s mental idea of ‘what is magic’, and he didn’t want to go down that road.

This was fine.

Now to start rescuing people.

Where to start first—

Erick gazed around and spotted a pair of older women walking to the sides, carrying some groceries from this place to that place. As Erick looked, he saw the groceries were little people wrapped in swaddling and sleeping or struggling to free themselves. Some had decided to give up the ghost and retreat into their soul spaces. Those ones looked translucent.

Ah.

Erick knew what this was from his conversations about this place with Cascadio and Shadow.

Erick interrupted the women’s talk, asking, “Pardon me? Are those people you’ve overpowered and are taking somewhere?”

The two women, who were now twins and young with swords in their hands and tiny people in baskets on their back, spoke in unison, “What’s it to you?” And then, “Go find your own catches.”

“Just tell me what you’re doing with them and this can either go well or poorly for you.”

The twins laughed together. “Another one for the pot!”

And then they reached out with their hands which were big enough to grab Erick’s entire body—

And Erick lifted a hand, two fingers out, and drew two talons the size of his real form’s talons through the women’s entire beings. The women splashed into broken spellwork and blood and then they crashed away into every direction, soaking into the lands. That blood, bone, and flesh began to melt and evaporate, vanishing within two seconds.

Whoever they had been, they were now disrupted. They’d need to enter the Dead Waiting Room again, but first they’d need to nurse their killer headache/soulaches.

Their cargo spilled onto the ground, the swaddling unraveling. Some souls popped into being right away, eagerly freeing themselves. Some remained translucent and trapped. Erick manually bent down and freed one of them while one frantic woman rapidly searched the pile of people for a specific person. She grabbed her person, yelling in delight, and then unwrapped them. The wrapped person did not pop into being, but that was good enough for the concerned woman, for now.

Two people raced away.

Erick ignored the runners, asking the rest, “What happened?”

“Slave traders!” said one man, even as he raced away, calling back “Appreciate the rescue! I’m not sticking around unknown people!”

There was a dispersal.

A lot of the others raced away, saying similar things. Most of them just ran and ran, down bridges, past people who saw them but whom they could not see in turn. It was like they were running blind. One pair of people down there saw a racing man and they asked their companion, ‘What’s their problem?’ while the other replied, ‘They can’t see past themselves, honey. Don’t mind them.’ And the people ran on. One guy stopped at a crossroads with everywhere in the world to go, but then he started crying, saying something about how there was no way forward, and so he turned around and tried another path. Not 20 seconds later that same guy got stuck in the middle of an open bridge in bright daylight, saying, ‘shit! Another dead end! I can’t see anything in this dark!’ And then he turned around.

There was no dark. There were options to go everywhere.

The guy lacked a proper framing device, so… Yeah.

Erick watched as the guy raced back up to Erick, only to spot Erick and scream, before racing back away. Other people had remained with Erick, though. They saw the screaming man run and ‘hide’, squatting down in the middle of an open road, before he realized that might not be the best option. He turned and ran away again.

Erick frowned a little.

Perhaps, if it was just that one guy acting like that, then Erick would go and rescue him, but that guy was just one of thousands all acting like they were walking in their own personal world. And they probably were.

The woman who had frantically rescued her sleeping friend, who was still sleeping and translucent, was now smiling, watching the scared guy run and stop on empty streets. “Anorath’s Balls, that guy has a water’s chance in lava.”

Erick had realized that a bit ago, too. Erick asked, “Is everyone in the Dead Waiting Room like that?” Erick had seen a lot in the few minutes since he had landed here. He gazed around, saying, “I see a whole lot of people stopping at open roads and turning around, actually. It’s because they can’t envision some place freer than where they are, isn’t it. And yet, with a proper framing device, this place truly is like being a fourth dimensional being looking down at a three dimensional space.”

The woman scoffed. “Don’t know what that doggie-doo is about, matey. Alls I know is this is great fun watching idiots.”

Erick asked the woman, “Are you in my frameshift now?”

“What’s that?” The woman shook her head. “I ain’t got no idea what you’re talking about, matey.”

“You’re seeing crystal towers and bridges and people getting stuck in open areas, like I am?”

“Oh that!” The woman said, “Mostly, yeah. I’m stealing your Sight for my own. Don’t like it? Bugger off then. Big Sights always end up populated. Don’t like it? Then don’t be so clever with your Sights!”

Erick smiled a little at that.

A pair of rescued men had also remained nearby with Erick and the woman. They were watching the world, too.

One of them asked, “Are you a soul mage? Kind rescuer, sir?”

“Not by trade, but by necessity, yes,” Erick said. “Who are you? You need rescuing? I can remove Wraithborne Contracts and give you new bodies, but I ask that you agree to work for the House I am building for however long you have remaining on your Waiting Room time. It’s a House closer toward Good, but not actually Good.” He looked at the older gentleman. “You would have younger bodies, of your own design. Temporary bodies right now, though.”

The woman rolled her eyes. “Sounds like a soul mage to me.”

“Not a full one, I admit,” Erick said, “For instance, you look human to me right now. Everyone here is human to me right now. That’s probably not what you actually are.”

The two men looked at themselves, their eyebrows going up.

“Human?” said one guy, sounding weirdly happy.

“Ugh,” decided the other guy. “Human.”

The woman laughed. She stood up and poked at herself. “I’m a pinky pinker to you?” She grabbed her boobs through her white shirt. “What does this look like when I’m doing this?”

“… Boob grabbing through a teeshirt.”

The woman laughed loudly and happily, rolling on the floor and crying a little, hugging her sister (?) to her chest (definitely not a chest.).

One of the men softly asked the other, “What’s a teeshirt?”

The other guy said, “Tunic.”

The first guy nodded.

Erick smiled, adding, “Anyway! Any of you want to be reincarnated as a human, or a different species?”

“Immortal void flier!” said the laughing woman. “Give me big wings, too!”

The two men walked away fast, both of them muttering ‘no thanks’.

Erick turned to the woman. “Maybe I can do that afterward, but I’ve just now firmly decided that I’m not giving anyone options of species, but I am giving options of sex.” Erick added, “Species changes can happen later— Actually. Let me start over. I prepared for this: I’m—”

