Yggdrasil said, “No. True Conversation is communication across Layers, usually toward oneself in different realities. This is how the Mark of this universe ‘makes resons’; by allowing one to self-actualize through viewed goals. Melemizargo mutated the Mark into a communicator of mind-to-mind in a single slice of infinity.” He said, “What you experienced with the Fractal Fairy was… Another thing I want to talk to you about, and Shadow should remain as well, because that’s somewhat related to True Conversation, but… Not.”

Shadow waited.

Erick waited as well.

Yggdrasil said, “I’m basically a paladin of the Fractal. Shadow is a paladin of the Darkness. Using ‘paladin’ like that is kinda like considering a toothpick a valid weapon all your life and then suddenly finding out someone that has invented a nuclear bomb. So while the term is correct, it is also incorrect.”

Erick said, “I assume that the Dark and the Fractal empower you to do their bidding?”

“Yup,” Shadow said. “And occasionally we speak for our universes, when they desire to talk. Usually they do not. We can survive those conversations though. You almost didn’t survive a single utterance.”

“… It felt like a full letter?”

Yggdrasil said, “It was a single utterance.” He continued, “Anyway. If you want to repair the Mark of the Fractal then you can. This will allow you to speak with other versions of yourself no matter where you are in the universe. Or, you can wait till you get back to Veird and break open [Telepathy] and learn Mind Mage Magic. They’re two different paths. You can only pick one…” He almost said more, but he stopped.

Shadow said, “He wants you to become a Paladin of the Fractal.”

Yggdrasil sighed. “And she wants you for the Dark.”

Erick said, “Well I’m certainly not picking any right now. But… That’s a big offer?” Erick thought about it for a second, then said, “Not right now. Probably not ever. I don’t really like accepting power from those so far above me.”

Yggdrasil smiled a little with relief.

Shadow said, “That’s what I figured, too. Anyway! Mind Magic seems fun, and I’m glad to get that tiny conversation about all the Really Big Stuff that doesn’t even matter. So? Are we doing the Waiting Room thing now? I would like to get this show on the road.”

Erick smirked. “Yeah. I want to build House Benevolence, too.” He asked Yggdrasil, “Will the Fae Enclave have a problem with me destroying the Slaver’s Den?”

Yggdrasil smiled. “Nope.”

Erick realized something. “Ah… You would have asked this of me if it didn’t happen some other way.”

Yggdrasil grinned wider. “I’m sure I don’t know what you mean, father. I’m not some mastermind planner at all.”

Erick laughed once.

And then Yggdrasil stepped backward and vanished.

Shadow smiled wide, saying, “Let’s go raise an army!”

Erick messaged Cascadio.

- - - -

Erick wore a burnished-gold pendant on a gold-thread necklace, empowered with the Light of Cascadio, as he stepped through the swirling gold-and-green portal. Shadow followed at his side, his companion for the day, or however long this took. Might take a few days, might only take an hour. Shadow might leave after only ten minutes and then come back later.

The Waiting Room was supposed to be rather safe, but only because it was rather strict in its rules, and almost no one spent time here unless they were working.

As they stepped onto the platform beyond, they were greeted by words in the air.

Welcome to the Living Waiting Room.

Violence of any sort is not tolerated at all and will result in an automatic stasis lock and expulsion from the Living Waiting Room and a lockout of 10 years, at a minimum. Most sentences are 100 years or more.

Our automated systems have marked you as <Ascended> and <Fae>, which means that our systems cannot do much to you directly and so we will have to send people after you. Should we need to, we will send people after you, and also Margleknot’s transportation network will not work for you for 1,000 years. Please respect the Living Waiting Room, so that we may respect each other in polite turn.

And that right there, the threat of Margleknot’s gates not working for a person, was more than enough for most people to avoid this land completely.

Shadow said, “I got expelled from here once. I won’t be doing that again. And this place moves around, too, so the only real way to get here is with Margleknot’s help. Otherwise you have to find it first, and that’s the real pain.”

Erick stared out across the land, feeling a strange pang of homesickness yet again.

The Waiting Room looked like Ar’Kendrithyst, or Stratagold, or Bluite, or any of the Geodes of Veird, where the wrought lived and grew. Mostly, it looked like Ar’Kendrithyst from before Last Shadow’s Feast, before Erick broke the Shades and Anhelia started taking over the place. Shadows and more swirled inside the crystals.

It was crystal towers. A lot of them. All orderly and organized, like rows of 250-meter-wide octagonal crystal trees that had been planted in some sort of monoculture farming pattern. They were rainbows. They were clear. They were red, purple, and black. And then they were blue and gold, or white and yellow, or orange and blue. Purple and pink. White and black. The colors changed on whims, or maybe in some unknown order. The only constant of the Waiting Room was the churn of glitter and shadow inside of every single crystal spire, and the indistinct glow of white light beyond the crystals, far, far away, past an unknown distance of air and magic in every single direction with any sort of clear line of sight at all.

From Erick and Shadow’s private entrance platform, Erick gazed out across that unknown distance, down an aisle of empty air in four directions. The crystal towers stood in orderly rows. Here and there among the towers were crossbeams of further crystal. Light and dark and magic and souls flowed through those crossbeams.

It was so much like Ar’Kendrithyst in the beginning of Erick’s time on Veird, that it really took him a moment to see the parallels. Here was a land of many, many souls, all mashed together in a cacophony known as the Dead Waiting Room, just beyond this Living space. It was apparently intelligible once you were inside, but from out here, all Erick saw was a susurrus of souls.

It was like the trillions of souls that Melemizargo had rescued from the Old Cosmology and which he kept locked in the spires of Ar’Kendrithyst for so long, hoping to one day bring them back to life. The Shades had used those souls to make shadelings all the time, or to allow for shadelings to naturally arise on their own, as they pulled themselves out of that susurrus. Here, though, there was no automatic pulling. Everyone was locked to Death until their resurrection cost was finally funded, either through personal expenditure, or through the common cause payment which took 10-ish years to happen, on average.

After Erick had evicted the Shades from Ar’Kendrithyst, those souls of the Painted Cosmology had decayed and changed into the soul slime which Jane had then killed, which had then become the first dungeon slime.

Those souls were the souls that were used in the NPC program inside every dungeon core on Veird. Or at least pieces of them were.

Erick stared out at the glittering shadows of the dead of Margleknot, and thought this whole system was like how Ar’Kendrithyst was supposed to work, and yet did not, because of Nothanganathor. Those uncountable dead of the Old Cosmology were too lost to be helped through normal methodology anymore. When Melemizargo had created the dungeon slime, had he been trying to help the Old Cosmology dead? In a way he didn’t really know how? Highly likely.

This system here was in perfect working order, and Ar’Kendrithyst was… not.

Erick stared for a long moment.

And then he looked around.

Erick looked over the edge of the platform—

A warning appeared.

There is no place in the Living Waiting Room that is more or less conducive to resurrections than anywhere else. Please do not leave your private platform. Leaving your private platform is a minor violation. Three minor violations and you will be removed and your access to the Living Waiting Room will be revoked for 1 year.

Erick complained at the words, “I’m just looking over the edge.”

The message went away.

Erick looked down. All he saw was more light and air down there. “How big is this place?”

“As big as it needs to be,” Shadow said. “According to rumor, anyway.”

Erick came back to the center of the floating platform, asking, “I was meaning to ask you: Cascadio treated you with deference. Like you were older than him? But stars are like 4 billion years old when life starts to develop around their planets, right? Is he 4 billion years old, or… What was going on there?”

Shadow smiled a little. “I don’t know how old I am, Erick. What a weird question. I’m as old as I need to be. Cascadio probably kept track of his actual age, though. It’s probably something like 3 or 4 billion, yes. Whatever his people say he is, usually.”

Erick shook his head a little. “Sometimes these numbers are just ridiculous.”

“I agree. That’s why I don’t think about them.”

“And that’s not even accounting for time travel. I’m pretty sure I’m at least 60, but I might be 64.”

“So young!” Shadow said, laughing. Still smiling, she asked, “Who are you going to search for first?”

“The potential administrators. Lanzoil, Querkooda, and Ta’Kamoil.” Erick said, “But whoever I find first is probably coming out of there first. Are you going to wait by my side? You don’t have to. I could use you in the staging area, talking with the people as they come out.”

Shadow shrugged, and then she moved her hand through the air like she was picking up something that wasn’t there, and then she did exactly that. With a mug of beer in her hand, she sat down on a chair that also simply appeared, saying, “I’m pretty sure that assassins are going to try and get you here.”

Cascadio stepped out of the air, saying, “I’m sure they will try.” The big bear of a dark-skinned god stood level with Erick… And then he realized he was standing level with Erick, and he smiled. “You got taller!”

“This is my normal height when not going incognito,” Erick said, “Anyway. Welcome, Cascadio.”

Shadow waved her beer mug as she grabbed a book out of the air and started reading, saying, “I might move back and forth between here and the resurrection island. For now, I am here.”

Erick nodded, then asked Cascadio, “The prep space?”

“All ready and waiting. I am here, and I am there. If you bring back some of my unreachable flock first, then that would be good for those who follow. I’m sure that they will have interacted with some of those on your list in the many thousands of years they’ve been trapped by Wraithborne Contract.” Cascadio said, “I fully expect some of those interactions to have been positive.”

“I can do that, too.” Erick asked, “Who first?”

“Emberpeace, Hypenade, Lurros Chet Tri, Hangu Aldu, or Withershin Shine.” Cascadio said, “Any of them would have tried to build something Good if they could have.”

Erick nodded. “I’ll see what I can do… But honestly, I’m going after whoever is closest, first.”

Cascadio smiled like the rise of dawn, turning to golden flame that enveloped Erick with the warmth of a new day, and a Path toward the future. His voice echoed, “Then we dive into Death, young, powerful Ascended, in order to bring forth life.”

Erick breathed out—

And then he floated outside of his body. It had happened so fast that he had not been fully prepared for it. He looked at himself, and he looked down at himself.

A golden light enveloped him; a warmth of person and purpose.

A golden light enveloped his body, which was still him.

Erick adjusted his senses back to his body—

And Erick was in his body again, looking up at a ghostly version of himself floating in the air in front of him.

Erick said, “Ah. It’s a [Familiar] spell? Or more like an [Avatar]?”

Cascadio’s voice spoke all around Erick, but also through the pendant on Erick’s chest, “Similar. But not at all. The only way to enter the Dead Waiting Room is to be brought there by a god, or be rendered dead in some other way. This is less of a projection of life, and more of a projection of death. Most people are highly vulnerable as a ghost, but that’s ‘most people’. You, specifically, should only take... twenty times more damage? I am estimating, here. You are very powerfully built, Ascended Flatt.”

Erick chuckled and returned his senses to his ghost—

And spoke from the air like a soft whisper of a life gone by, “You’re powerfully built yourself.”

Cascadio laughed joyfully, and then he calmed. His voice turned whispery, “Shadow will hear everything said, except for this, and what you don’t want me to tell her. She is still a fine ally to have when paths align, but she is crafty and not-Good.”

Erick smiled at the care in the god’s voice. He quietly said to Cascadio, “I know. Your concern is charming and heard loud and clear. Thank you.”

Cascadio nodded without nodding at all.

And Erick floated forward, toward the nearest crystal, toward the rainbow surface filled with glitter and shadow and—

- - - -

Erick slapped down onto broken asphalt in a dim city.

A light flickered overhead. Wetness soaked into his jeans… He was wearing jeans? And a teeshirt. The light overhead was a streetlamp. The dim city was an Earth city and the sky was so very familiar with stars that Erick hadn’t seen in an age. Erick rapidly realized a few things. His Status worked fine. His Lightning Path was still there, arcing into a distance. He was alive and intact and inside the Dead Waiting Room, and yet not. He was also inside of his own memories, in the first room of the Dead Waiting room; his own room.

That sky up there was the North American sky over Michigan in Autumn, and this city around Erick was an amalgamation of a few different places. There was Erick’s childhood home. Over there were the dormitories where he had stayed at college. Over there was the orange stone house from Spur.

The sky was not actually a fully North American sky, either, with the Big Dipper and Orion. It had those stars, but it also had the Bucket and the Spearing Lion of Veird’s night sky.

It was an amalgamation of places. It was Erick’s ‘safe space’ that he could retreat to if the normal cacophony of the Dead Waiting Room got to him. Everyone who entered this place got one of these safe zones. Except, they weren’t really safe zones.

Erick extended his mana senses outward—

