“Miss Marina… I’m sorry, but we should get going now.” Melvin said. “Otherwise–”

Sitting next to the pile of debris, she looked up with glaring eyes. “You can leave if you want to, but I’m staying.”

“It’s already been hours, Miss Marina. That lady is powerful, but it’s still an ant army we’re talking about—”

“Shut up!” She spat. “Hecate will make it. She is the strongest. Nothing can take her away from me, nothing…” She buried her face in her arms as tears flowed down her cheek. “She promised…”

The rubble behind Marina collapsed inward.

“And because I promised, I shall also deliver.” A voice rang from the other side.

“Hecate!” Marina jumped. “Are you alright? Are you hurt? Are you still being chased?”

“Yes, yes, and no,” Hecate replied. “But right now, I need to blast open the entrance, and I need you to make sure no one is near.”

“Of course!” She turned around to the group of Bee-ple. “Alright, everyone, I need you all to take a step back.”

The Bee-ple did as instructed, retreating away from the cave entrance.

Marina looked back at the crevice. “It’s done!”

“Good girl, now I need you to take a step back as well.”

“O-okay.” Marina nodded, taking a few strides back alongside the wall.

A large shockwave blasted outwards, sending countless pebbles flying into the air. Momentarily, a white-haired figure stumbled her way outside amidst the settling dust. Her tattered white dress was dyed to a dark red by her own blood, and her flawless skin was covered in countless punctures and scratches. She took two more steps before falling chest-first onto the ground.

“Hecate!” Marina rushed forward. “No, Hecate, please!” Picking Hecate up by the waist, Marina turned her to her side. “Say something, please, don’t just leave me like this!”

“I can’t leave even if I wanted to, my dear.” Hecate chuckled.

“You—You motherfucker!” Marina wiped her tears in frustration. “I legit thought you were going to die!”

“Death has had a good run trying to take me away, but I persisted and stood victorious every time.” Hecate boasted. “I was not dying, not even close.”

“But look at the wounds on your body.” Marina pointed to the bloody holes.

“Tis nothing but a scratch, my dear.” Hecate waved. “Though in the meantime, I would need you to carry me.”

“Uhh, can you even get on my back right now?”

“I doubt I can move my body even an inch, not with half of my bones shattered,” Hecate said with a smile. “You will have to carry me in your arms, my dear.”

“I don’t know how you’re finding this funny!” Marina scolded. “Does this not hurt at all?”

“Of course, it does. But I have grown accustomed to pain such as this. I almost can’t feel them anymore.” Hecate said. “Pick me up from the ground now, will you?”

“Yes, yes.” Wrapping her arm below Hecate’s waist, Marina lifted her from the ground. Weirdly enough, an invisible force seemed to be placed on top of Hecate’s body. “Why are you so heavy?” Marina grunted

“What a rude thing to say.” Hecate glanced away dramatically. “I have been controlling my diet since my teenage years. I could not be heavy.”

Marina tried to take a few steps forward. “I know you’re not heavy in that sense, but there is something that is pushing you downward.”

“Oh, it’s my Authority. I apologize in advance.”

“Miss Marina,” Melvin approached. “I can help you carry the lady—”

“No need.” She refuted. “How many of the Bee-ple are from your village?”

“Oh, it is just my son and me,” Melvin replied. “Some of them have already decided to walk back to where they were from.”

“Good,” She let out a sigh of relief. “If there is nothing else, then let us start heading back too.”

After accepting the gratitude and waving goodbye to the escapees who were left, Marina retraced her steps to the route where she had come from. Entering the dense woods once again, she allowed Melvin to take the lead.

“Were you jealous, my dear?” Hecate asked, rubbing the side of her face against Marina’s arm.

Marina tilted her head. “Of…?”

“Letting someone else carry me?”

“Can you turn off your Authority to make this easier?” Marina redirected.

“What a brash way to change the topic.” Hecate shook her head. “But no, I am of the minority of Authority Bearers who cannot.”

“And why is that?”

Leaning closer, Hecate whispered. “Authorities are physical objects. What I am experiencing right now is due to the lack of Abyssal Energy, which disables my control over my Authority. Typically speaking, that can be alleviated by sealing your Authority into a storage satchel, but unfortunately, my Authority is contained within my body.”

“What a pain…” With each step, Marina felt her body filling with more exhaustion. “How do you still have the energy to yap this whole way?”

“Because I always remind myself to save some stamina to tease you, hehe.”

“Stop talking now, or I will throw you off right here.” Marina blushed. Genuinely, how can someone be this obnoxious!

Suddenly, the weight upon Marina’s arms lessened.

“Thank god you got lighter.” She gasped as if a ton of bricks were lifted from her.

“Indeed, you may set me down now, my dear.”

Marina paused. “But your bones are still…”

“It is of no worries,” Hecate swung her legs to a standing position. “I can manage.”

“Why do I feel like you were just acting this whole time?” Marina stared suspiciously.

“Oh no, my dear, all of my injuries are real. Why would I put on an act just for you to hold me in your arms?” Glancing at the father and son in front of her, “Mr. Apis, I presume?” She called.

“Yes, and you’re Miss… Hecate?”

“Well, yes, that is my name.” She smiled, resting her hand on her chest. “I am curious if the two of you can fly.”

“Of course we can!” Miles replied as he flapped his delicate wings.

“That is great to hear.” A pair of wings, constructed of bare, white bones, sprouted from Hecate’s back. “Let us take a faster route home then.”

Both of the Alpis nodded in unison.

Scooping Marina off the ground, Hecate held her tightly. “Well, my dear, I suppose it’s your turn to enjoy the scenery now.”

*****

High in the air, Hecate glided freely through the clouds, controlling her speed to about half, so as not to lose the two Bee-ple behind her. It was late in the afternoon. Despite their silly banter, Hecate’s exhaustion was made apparent by the corner of her eyes, which struggled to stay open.

Marina wished she could have done more, but in the end, she was just a bystander watching from afar.

“Mr. Melvin.” Hecate slowed next to him. “Do you happen to know what those ants were plotting under these lands?”

“Miles and I weren’t in for very long, but according to those who were there before us, the ants were apparently digging for something?” Melvin pondered. “But that was all they knew.”

“Maybe they are digging for more salt to season their food with.” Marina joked.

“You’re a funny one, Miss Marina,” Melvin giggled. “But no, ants are not like us at all. They would eat just about anything.”

“Mmm… Digging…” Hecate repeated. “How interesting…”

Marina opened one eye. “You look like you have an idea?”

“No, my dear, my mind is currently emptier than a blank parchment.” Hecate shook her head. “Perhaps, I might have something after a nap and some food.”

“Yeah, that sounds pretty good right now. I need one too.” Closing her eyes, Marina prepared herself for the higher velocity of the landing maneuver.

Diving from the sky, Hecate waved goodbye to the Alpis family before aiming straight for Mellie’s hut. With a powerful swing of her wings, she landed flawlessly once again.

“I think Mellie should still be at home.” Marina walked to knock on the door. “Mellie, we’re back!”

“Coming, Miss Marina!” Mellie said from the other side before footsteps approached. “How was everything?” She opened the door. “Miss Hecate! What happened to you? And Miss Marina, you’re covered in dust!”

“Long story short, we had to escape a collapsing cave.” Marina stepped in alongside Hecate. “It was kind of wild.”

“Do you need me to attend to your wounds?” Mellie closed the door behind them.

“Thank you, Mellie, but no need for such a tedious task.” Hecate went straight for the attic ladders. “I just need some rest.”

“I need some too.” Marina hurried after Hecate. “I will be down to cook dinner in a little bit.”

“Sounds good, Miss Marina. That is of no problem at all…” Mellie stood by herself for a moment before returning to her lab.

In the attic, Marina hopped onto the bed after throwing her cloak into a chair, too tired to do anything else. And Hecate, who was even lazier, decided to lie down in the white bedsheets with some of her wounds still dripping blood.

“Umm… my dear,” Hecate rolled to face Marina, “May I… have some…”

“Will it help you recover faster?”

“It very much would, yes.”

“Fine…” Marina lowered her shirt to reveal the skin around her neck. “Just don’t get ahead of yourself…”

“...”