Within moments Odin had scouted the whole hideout with several different Sights. Everyone was dead, except for one person; an absolutely emaciated man with pale pink skin and tiny nubs for horns. He was in a hut near the bottom of the stacked houses, slumped against a wall, ass to the ground. He looked barely able to move, as if he was drugged, or poisoned, or something. As soon as Odin went to touch him, to [Teleport Other] him directly to Julia—

Odin vanished. Popped. Not even [Dispel]ed; just pure negation. He was alive, though!

Ezekiel came back to himself, saying, “Coast is clear. We’re going in. No traps found. I found Tadashi.”

With a lightstep, the four of them stepped right into the hideout. A third scan with [True Sight] and the mana sense of all his nearby Odin reconfirmed what he had seen before. The hideout was empty, except for the man in the hut over there. Ezekiel rushed that way—

Tiffany rushed ahead of Ezekiel, glaring at him like he was putting himself in too much danger—

‘Which you are.’ Paul sent, ‘Antirhine is deadly. Let us do our jobs, please.’

… Ezekiel followed Tiffany. In seconds, the two of them stood in the room with Tadashi. Tiffany had to crouch down a little, but she was in there, with her eyes fixed on the alchemist. She sighed, and shook her head.

The man looked worse in person. They had him in a loincloth, and nothing else. He didn’t even have a bed; likely, because everyone around here used conjured beds, and this man could not. Another quick scan with various Sight spells returned a whole mess of oddness. To [True Sight], the man was exactly as he appeared to be; this much was not that odd. [Blood Sight] and [Soul Sight] returned nothing, though; Ezekiel could not see the man’s life or his soul. Mana sense gave him a better idea of what was going on, but an even greater oddity occurred. Ezekiel could not see inside of the man, at all.

Stepping a few seconds back in time revealed nothing; the mana where Tadashi had been was just static to the manasphere.

Mana still flowed into him like it normally did, but there was no way to see that mana when it was inside of Tadashi, or when it was within half a meter of the man, either. And when the mana left him, it left without a single impression of the man. Mana always filled with random noise after passing through a person or important object; this is what a person saw when they used Meditation and they viewed the manasphere, seeing false eyes and false monsters and visions. This truth was apparently not true when mana traveled through those who were afflicted with Antirhine.

If it wasn’t for the obvious truth of his living nature, Ezekiel would have thought the man was dead. But even dead objects, like rocks and water, filled the manasphere with some small impressions.

Solid antirhine reflected all mana and stripped all magic from mana, but the Elixir seemed to work in a more diffuse manner. Less lead for more effect.

Tadashi raised his tired eyes toward Tiffany. He spoke in Inferni. “Weird death vision. I didn’t ever pray to Aloethag, did I?”

Tiffany tried to be nice as she smiled and responded in Inferni, “She only answers prayers of Rage, and you don’t look very angry, Tadashi.”

Tadashi laughed, but momentary joy turned to what Ezekiel now recognized as existence-deep sorrow. Tears began to roll down the man’s face. He slumped to the ground, pressing his nose to the floor.

Ezekiel couldn’t not go to him, so he went—

Tiffany whipped a hand out and prevented the contact, speaking in Ecks, “Not within a meter, sir.”

“It’ll be okay, Tadashi,” Ezekiel said, in Ecks, unable to keep the lie out of his voice.

Tadashi’s sobs turned quieter.

“We will get you home,” Ezekiel said, and this much was true. “I simply haven’t figured out that process, yet.”

Tadashi chuckled, darkly, directly against the stone floor of his room. He spoke in Ecks, saying, “I haven’t either! This antirhine aura is extraordinarily destabilizing. I could make it for a while through the mists, though; the gluttons don’t like me. But the other monsters...ha.”

“How far does it…” Julia stepped closer, reaching a hand out. Her dark blue [Personal Ward] and her gauntlet began to unravel well before she touched the crying man, but she did get within half a meter. She retreated, shaking her hand out. She reformed the gauntlet with an expression of her [Mutable Aegis]. “That’s going to be tough.”

Paul suggested, “Enough [Force Platform]s and a center of dirt. Keep him in the center.”

“I thought about it, and it would work, but such a working would be a huge target, and too slow,” Ezekiel said.

“It would.” Paul said, “But you could defend that much space.”

“Maybe. But. The other option is:” He looked to his daughter. “Julia? You have a Primal Frost Owl? She’s really big?”

“Oh yeah.” Julia said, “I can carry Tadashi; no problem.” She asked him, “He’ll be far enough away from my wings that I can still use internal magics, but external magics will not work. Need some mundane straps, though. [Fabricate] together some of the bandit leathers out there?”

Ezekiel nodded.

Julia asked Tadashi, “Do you want a ride on my back, or in my talons? How much Health do you have—” She kept most of her joy out of her voice, but not all of it, as she asked, “How much damage do you think you can sustain on a wild ride through the Tribulation skies? I’ve never gone up against a Thunder Bird, but I’m willing to try!”

Tadashi’s face was still pressed against the stone floor. But at Julia’s words, he rolled a little, and eyed her. “Are you some... adventurer?”

Ezekiel said, “That is my daughter and she was, but she is currently in line to the throne of Clan Phoenix. I would ask you to appreciate being rescued enough to overlook certain possible issues.”

“I don’t have problems with adventure... ers?” He rolled over, fully eyeing Julia, and then Ezekiel. “Your… Daughter? This is a very weird death vision.”

“She is my true born daughter, and you are not dying, but you are certainly weakened. Are you hungry? We could get you something to eat, before we leave? I see fruit trees out there and they’re not on fire anymore.”

“I’m just gonna carry you in my talons. Can you survive a [Super Quick Flight]?”

Tadashi grumbled, “In the thin chance that this is not a hallucination, my answer is that I probably cannot survive a [Super Quick—”

A crumbling, breaking sound echoed outside, in the bandit’s hideout. Tiffany raised her head, bumping the ceiling. As Julia raced outside, Ezekiel was already looking, through Odin.

He watched as some burning blocks of something fell from the gap in the overhead cliffs, and the various [Ward]s that had stretched across the entrance gorge, suddenly broke. What was that all about?

Odd.

Ezekiel had an Odin fly into the smoking pile of whatever, and turn on his [Cleanse Aura].

[Cleanse] didn’t get rid of it. Odder yet! It wasn’t poison? Or anything? Maybe it was magic?

Ezekiel tried a [Grand Dispel] for a thousand of his own mana, even though it didn’t look like a magic. Nothing happened.

And then the scent reached Ezekiel. Flowers, growth, rain, and green. It was a good smell. Odd smell, sure, but really nice. Like some high-class incense that—

A mist stone glutton stepped up from the ground and tackled the scent bomb like a cat going after catnip, spreading the burning, smelling herbs like a bath bomb going off in a pool. The glutton continued to tackle the burning herbs, spreading them fast, and far.

And then a second and third glutton appeared out of the stone and batted the burning herbs everywhere they could, before a fourth one appeared and started rolling in the mess.

In the very next second, four more gluttons poured out of the walls of the bandit hideout.

The herbs had been burning for less than ten seconds.

“Oh. Shit,” Paul said, taking the words out from Ezekiel’s mouth, though he had not even seen the problem yet.

Ezekiel teased, “You read my mind.”

Ezekiel had an Odin cast himself into a full-strength [Prismatic Ward] into the stone hut, into the ground below and around Tadashi, but he avoided the man himself with a three-meter wide scoop taken out of the large-sized dense air. With a flicker of mana sense, he saw that gluttons were already racing underneath the stone below, but those gluttons deflected off of the density Ezekiel had erected in this space.

For his next trick, a sunform Odin grabbed much of the burning grasses with a thousand flicks of a thousand light tendrils. He flew upward, carrying the burning package toward the hole made by the cliffs above, just in time for that same Odin to catch even more bundles of flaming herbs that were on their way down.

The gluttons below tried to follow the burning scent up, turning to mist, but there was no mist to ride in here so they raced along the stone walls of the hideout, up, up, racing across roofs and walls, and then clinging to the cliffs above.

And then Ezekiel had to rethink about the fact that there was no mist in the hideout, as a thick fog rolled down the tunnel leading to the valley, carrying a wave of gluttons on its forefront. The bandits must have destroyed the [Firelight Curtain].

This area was rapidly becoming much more dangerous than it needed to be.

The Odin carrying the burning herbs crested the cliffs, and entered into the full sun. People stood on those cliffs, wielding even more bundles of herbs ready to fall into the space below. The Red Man smiled as he saw the bird-shaped Odin, carrying his flaming gifts back to him.

Odin threw the package directly at him with the full force of a sunform-empowered slap, and burning herbs went everywhere, again. But that Odin vanished. Ezekiel didn’t even see how it happened.

With the Odin inside the hideout, he saw all of those burning herbs fall back down into the soupy air, full of gluttons.

A different Odin tried to catch the falling package, but he failed as soon as he got near the burning herbs at all. He winked out of existence.

The grinding noise of the monsters turned worse. It became a constant avalanche.

Julia cast a [Stoneshape] closing off the entrance to their small hut, saying, “It’s flaming antirhine!”

Yes. He already knew that. But—

They needed another way out, and fast, but not through the hideout. Ezekiel did not trust any of his magic in the face of Antirhine. From what he was seeing, through the Odin outside which were far away from the smoke, the new brand of smoke was having some strange effects on the gluttons, too.

They did not float through the mist in the air, nor did they rise from the ground around the burning lead and herb debris. But they did swarm in from outside, like a feeding frenzy of sharks moving in for the kill. Some did come right out of the ground near the burning herbs, and instead of themselves breaking to the loss of magic, they broke the stone they stepped out of, leaving great divots in the bandit’s hideout. And then they piled onto each other, rushing for the burning lead, scrambling and breaking whatever they could to get nearer to the herbs.

They raced across the roof off the hut, their scrambling claws scraping against the edge of the [Prismatic Ward], chipping the stone in their passing. In every direction, they scraped against that dense air.

Okay. So. Let’s get out of here, right now.

He had a spell for this, though it would be tricky, what with all the monsters already inside all the stone all around them.

Stone Travel, instant, medium range, 50 MP + Variable

A large area of stone stabilizes around you, then quickly moves at your discretion across or through other stone. Lasts 1 hour.

Using it normally would not help Tadashi, but he could create a tunnel.

Maybe.

Ezekiel turned to the right, to the wall that the building shared with the mountain, where gluttons crashed against the [Prismatic Ward], and where they would have crashed through, if not for that spell.

Tadashi started to giggle like a broken man. Maybe he was. He said, “Thanks for the rescue! But I’ve been dead ever since they Elixir’d me! Sorry you didn’t get your points! How much was I worth, anyway?”

“Five points,” Ezekiel said, “And we’re getting you out.”

Tadashi laughed. “Five points! I’ll have to work forever to make that up to them!”

Ezekiel smiled, saying, “I promised my retainers points, and they’re going to get them! Don’t go crazy on me yet, Tadashi.”

“They’ll swarm for hours.” Tadashi almost reached for the dense air around him, but he stopped. He started to laugh, his eyes going wide. “I could kill us all by touching your Solid Ward.”

“Just yourself,” Ezekiel said, “We can get out of this with a [Teleport]. Don’t fuck yourself over, okay?”

Tadashi crashed to the ground, again, his face against the stone while gluttons crashed against every single wall of the hut. The roof was starting to break. That would be bad. Antirhine would get in.

Tiffany said, “Waiting it out isn’t a viable option. We have to move through that mountain wall—”

A corner of the building broke off as a glutton raced across that stone, exposing the dense air inside to the lead air outside. Dense air began to become normal air.

Juila plugged up the hole with a rapid [Stoneshape], taking stone from the floor of the hut and exposing the gluttons racing below. As soon as her magic touched the lead air, controlled stone became solid stone. It stuck in the hole, anyway.

Ezekiel turned toward the mountain.

