He pierced the wall with [Stoneshape], flowed a sunform Odin into the space he had just cast, then had that Odin cast [Stone Travel] in the center of a dozen flowing gluttons. He had measured the distance correctly. The platform took hold, expanding a bubble out of the stone around it which ended right at the back edge of the house, opening a hole into the glutton-filled space beyond.

Odin was made of light, so he was not bothered by the gluttons. He still whined in flutes, though. He did not like being crashed through. And he was being crashed through.

A veritable ocean of gluttons, likely attracted from every single nearby valley, was trying to get into the hideout. This small part right here was just the smallest bit of that ocean.

The noise was incredible. Ear splitting. Ezekiel could barely think, and yet he did.

Odin rode the [Stone Travel] directly out, and then he went up at a 30 degree angle, up and out, to the north west. The platform’s travel created a perfectly smooth tunnel in the stone, doing here what it had done way back when Ezekiel helped his people to escape a Hunter ambush, while they were out hunting wyrms. [Stone Travel] was such a useful spell.

With any luck, there wouldn’t be any horrible monsters in these surface mountains? You know, except the gluttons, of which there were tens of thousands.

With another cast, Ezekiel threw a thousand mana [Hermetic Shredder] into the space, into the crashing glutton horde, twisting the spell forward like sprayed spiderwebs, absolutely coating the walls and ceiling of the tunnel with the spell. With his modifiers, a thousand mana became 19,000 strings of molecular wire, each of which would deal 19,000 damage before breaking. The spell reached far forward, but the tunnel would be kilometers long; he would need to do this a few times.

The effect of the spell was rather spectacular, though.

Gluttons turned to stone cubes as they raced through the cutting space.

No time to admire his spellwork.

The house crumbled around them. Julia patched holes as best she could. Tadashi stared into the dark tunnel and at the crumbling house as though seeing his death lurch closer with every passing second.

Tiffany just waited for Ezekiel.

Ezekiel caught their attention, yelling to overcome the avalanche of noise, “Here’s how it’s going: Julia? You have a carrying form, Yeah?”

“On it!” Julia turned to shadows, except for her clothes. And then her shadow form expanded. She returned to the physical world as a unicorn, all sparkling white and with a spiraling horn made of rainbows. She crowded the small room even more than Tiffany did. Julia asked Tadashi in a hoarse voice, “I hope you know how to ride.”

“Don’t get on yet, but after we’re in the tunnel.” Ezekiel said, “It’s too cramped in here and you’ll break the [Ward].”

Tadashi seemed to regain a lot of himself in that moment. He said, “Yes. I can do this.” He reached for her, but stopped and pulled his hand back before he neared the Solid Ward all around him. “I am not as strong as I used to be.”

Tiffany said, “I can help keep him on there.”

“Good. I need you on threat-finding, too. And you, too, Paul.”

Paul nodded.

Ezekiel turned to the new hole in the mountain. The Shredder had done a great job. The gluttons did not enter the space, and those that did, died fast. Now that there was nothing there but dead stone, Ezekiel had another Odin cast another [Prismatic Ward] into the edges of the tunnel, but he kept the center clear. He dismissed the [Hermetic Shredder]. A [Stoneshape] shoved the dead Mist Stone gluttons back into the mountain, clearing the way forward.

Ezekiel pointed to the hole in the mountain, saying, “Odin just popped out the other side. It’s not safe, but it’s safe enough. I’ll [Ward] the tunnels as we go. Julia, keep Tadashi in the center of the space. When we get to the other side, we will have a new plan, I am sure. Let’s go.”

They went.

Behind them, the house collapsed, as too many gluttons broke the walls in their frenzy to get to the smoke.

Tiffany helped Tadashi onto Julia’s back. She was a large unicorn; almost fit for an orcol to ride. The alchemist looked almost like a toddler on her back. Julia’s white fur turned black in large patches around wherever he touched.

And then they started running. Julia with Tadashi on her back, in the center, while Tiffany was at Julia’s side, and Ezekiel and Paul were in the back. The path carved by the [Stone Travel] was large-size and flat on the bottom, while the roof was arched tall. They did not have to run in a single file, but they did have to run; there was no telling how long such a tunnel would last, especially with gluttons seeming to pour into the previous bandit hideout from absolutely everywhere.

The lead smoke broke that first [Prismatic Ward], completely, before the smoke started to flow into the tunnel. Ezekiel nipped that potential problem in the bud with a quick [Stoneshape], collapsing the tunnel behind them.

With a small breather, Ezekiel attempted another [Stone Travel], right underneath the five of them.

It failed. The magic just didn’t happen with Tadashi there, in the center, even if he was a good two meters off of the actual stone platform.

The second cast of [Stone Travel] was done through another Odin, floating far ahead of the party, moving forward before everyone else, just to keep the ceiling intact; the first tunnel had already collapsed in its first thirty seconds of existence.

Ezekiel did not panic, but he wanted to.

Tadashi panicked, but no one blamed him.

Moving forward was a quick process but still done with methodical precision since gluttons were still absolutely everywhere.

The first step was a [Hermetic Shredder] that went up for 500 mana, which was more than enough to coat the ceiling and the walls for a large space forward, while leaving a path in the center clear of danger. Gluttons slammed into the shredders, thus enabling the second step, which was the casting of [Prismatic Ward] formed in a similar manner. And then they moved forward, their feet finding purchase on the fresh grey-blue gravel that layered the tunnel’s bottom, the sunform Odin on the [Stone Travel] platform lighting the way.

The tenth time this process repeated, they were finally in a space without so many gluttons. They slowed down. Ezekiel relaxed.

And then the mountain cracked a little bit above them, sending a minor rush of dirt and stone down onto the path ahead, even though the second [Stone Travel] was reopening the tunnel right in front of them. It seemed that stone, just shoved to the side, did not make for good walls, even though it was countless tons and tons of stone and it was impacted deep into the mountain all around them and—

Ezekiel dropped that useless train of thought.

They picked up the pace, racing forward, feet and hooves crunching on gravel as they flew through the darkness, the path illuminated by Julia’s bright horn and several bird-like sunform Odin. Odins moved fast to support the ceiling when it started to break here and there, but they did not stay still for long.

The party exited the tunnel into the midday sun, below a cliff, right as the tunnel began to fully collapse, showering them with dirt and debris. A sunform Odin parried a boulder, knocking it away, as the mountain settled into a new position behind them, while in the front…

The myriad peaks of the Tribulation mountains dominated the horizon, like jade-green islands jutting up from seas of white blue mist. The bright sun shone down from above, bringing a small warmth to the otherwise chilly air.
