“I don't want it to get hurt.” Ren said. “It's bound to be killed at some point.” He said and sighed. “Please don't condemn it to death.”

Lylyth felt his sadness at the thought, and it touched her heart. She gasped, because having someone worry about that hadn't happened before. She held the tarantula in her hand and took several deep breaths.

He really is concerned about the spider's welfare. Lylyth thought. He's truly worthy of the gift. “Do not concern yourself over that.” She said and handed Ren the spider. When he cupped it in his hands, the spider started to glow. He felt a sharp pain on the back of his right hand where the mark was, then the spider stopped glowing.

“There.” Lylyth said, and took the spider from him. Her familiar came back down the wall from wherever it had come from, and crawled over to them. She put the spider she held down on the floor, then her familiar lifted a leg and stepped on it.

“No!” Ren said, and felt a sharp pain on the back of his hand. When he turned his hand over, there was the spider. “What the?!?”

“That was delicious, even though it was barely a taste.” Lylyth said and grinned at him.

“What happened?” Ren asked. “Did... did it die?”

“No.” Lylyth said. “It's now joined to your mark, and is as much a part of you as your hand.”

“WHAAAATTTT?”

Lylyth laughed as she fed on his shock and wonder. “Why does Elerlyth ever let you leave her sight?” She reached over and picked up the spider with her hand. “Any time it would be killed, it is recalled to the anchor.” She said, and clapped her hands together. Ren caught his breath, then felt a sharp pain on the back of his hand.

“Your mark is the anchor?” He asked as she looked at the spider that was on his hand again.

“Any dark elves that see it, will know you have my favor.” She said, and opened her hands to show Ren that there was no squished spider. “If they hurt you, they will suffer.”

“Do you mean they will suffer right away, or that if you find out about it, you'll make them suffer?”

“If I find out about it.” Lylyth said, a little surprised at the question.

“Okay.” Ren said. “I don't want to meet any dark elves and make a claim that they'd be hurt right away if anything happened to me, if it wasn't true.”

“If you tell me about it, they will be hurt.”

“Understood.” Ren said and held the tarantula up. “What can this little guy do?”

“Anything a normal spider can do.” Lylyth said. “Or it can do nothing.”

“What about food?”

“It can fend for itself.”

“How?” Ren asked. “I'm not questioning you, Your Highness. I'm just curious.”

“I know you are.” Lylyth said, because she could feel it. With her mark on him, she could taste more of his emotions. It still wasn't as good as skin contact, but it could be used from anywhere. “Every once and a while, it will find suitable prey and eat it.”

“Can I give it normal food, or if it's a liquid diet, can I feed it drops of Health potion?”

“I think I better take you home before you start to annoy me.” Lylyth laughed. “You cannot be this amusing all of the time.”

Ren smiled. “You're right. I can be morose sometimes.”

Lylyth felt his amusement, and stood up from her kneeling position. “I look forward to that.” She said, and held out her hand.

“You aren't going to inject me, are you?” Ren asked her, and she grinned at him.

“I'm not going to catch you like that, am I?”

“That depends.” Ren said and took her hand. “If a physical relationship between us won't work, what's the point of injecting me?”

“To make you feel Fear, obviously.” Lylyth said and started walking towards the wall of spiders.

“It's never worked before.” Ren said as the spiders parted to let them through. “I had a really high dose, too.”

“It still didn't make you afraid.” Lylyth said.

“No.” He said. “I'm not sure why.”

“Now I'm going to wonder if a pure dose would work on you.”

“I hope you can keep on wondering.” Ren said as they came to the spot where the portal had been. “I don't want to go through that again.”

“Did it bother you that much?”

“I've always hated throwing up.” Ren said. “I never usually have a lot to eat; so, when it comes back up...”

Lylyth felt how he felt about that, and smiled as she waved her arm to create a portal.

“Be well, Ren.” She said, and Teepo dissolved into the ring.

Ren shifted his grip on her hand, and kissed her fingers. “Goodbye, Your Highness.” He said, let her hand go, and stepped through the portal.
