The sun wasn’t as bright today, wasn’t glaring down on him quite as hard, and as he looked out into the crowds, Markus began to notice just how varied the onlookers were. He couldn’t make out direct features from here, but it was easy to see that the average audience of this arena, while mostly humanoid, was just as varied and strange as any creature that worked in Drathok’s employ. He was starting to think that humans didn’t exist here at all, but he spotted a couple of creatures that he figured might be close enough to human that he’d count them. He wasn’t sure, it was hard to tell. They looked… smaller than him.

Dwarves? Hobbits? Gnomes? Something else entirely?

Eventually, his eyes found the booths. Ornate and gilded, these specially constructed areas housed only the most esteemed of patrons, gods of Firrelia, and there were a fucking lot of them. Far more than Markus had met. So many that he began to wonder whether some followed the same virtues as others, or no virtue at all.

Perhaps not all of them were gods. Perhaps some were merely entourage, or maybe some of these seats were reserved for the rich, or royalty. It was hard to say…

But some of these creatures he could definitely make out as gods. It wasn’t an [Identify] skill or anything like that which tipped him off, but moreso it was a question of demeanour. He’d been around enough gods by now that he’d seen how they liked to carry themselves, and beyond that, they had a rather distinctive look.

Beauty. Almost human, but something else entirely, with a level of attractiveness to them that seemed almost unnatural. It seemed to be the defining principal of godhood, and Markus had yet to meet a single god here that wouldn’t be a supermodel or sex symbol back on Earth, Maxen included, despite his unconventional look.

Speaking of Maxen…

He’d noticed him in the crowd almost immediately, but it was only when someone beside him moved to the side that he realised who the god was talking and laughing with…

That was Maesha! He was friends with that bitch?

Markus sighed. Suppose he shouldn’t have been too shocked. Maxen was a ‘neutral party’, right? Should go to show that he couldn’t trust him. Probably was friends with all the gods that frequented this place, the fucker. He felt a little ashamed that he’d accepted any help from him, even if it was apparently ‘unconditional’. He’d trusted that those stones he’d given him had been a real gift, too, that they wouldn’t blow up and kill him or something.

Sure, he’d been in an impossible situation, and he’d only swallowed one because he figured he’d die otherwise, and he had confirmed since that they were regular Essence Stones, but still…

Markus needed to be more wary. There was still so much he didn’t know, and the chances that he’d make a fatal mistake if he were too trusting was looming over him constantly.

By that same token, he couldn’t progress via inactivity. He had to take some risks if he wanted to get anywhere, but he knew he should focus on things that felt like sure bets, positions where he felt he had leverage. The alternative was…

The gates opened. Markus left the arena without looking back.

Fuck them all. Hope they enjoyed the show, hope they were fucking devastated when I didn’t finish that monster off. Hope they all beg for refunds and drive Drathok crazy.

Speaking of Drathok, he was waiting right at the other side of the corridor, wearing his characteristic smile.

Markus sighed.

“Hello, Markus Brown. The fight wasn’t too difficult, I hope?”

His voice sounded hoarse. And was he… paler than usual? His face looked like it’d been dusted in white.

“It was alright,” Markus said, walking straight past him.

“Good to hear!” Drathok followed, his stride long and powerful, easily keeping pace with Markus. “Now, listen to me.” He lowered his tone, voice sincere. “I’ve come here to inform you that you won’t be sold to any gods from here on.”

Markus stopped dead, his air of indifference immediately fading. “Wait, what? Why?”

“Two reasons. One, it’s come to my attention that some of the gods wishing to purchase you were attempting to do so for nefarious means, ones that I absolutely cannot condone under any circumstance.”

Well, that smelled like bullshit. What the fuck was so problematic that the universal kidnapper, slaver demon grandiose couldn’t abide by it?

“And the second reason?”

Drathok cleared his throat. “A generous donation made by one god to ensure that you wouldn’t be sold to any other god. I’m effectively treating this as a purchase, as that was the condition of the arrangement.”

A donation… Markus’ blood ran cold. “Don’t tell me it was Randall…”

Drathok clicked his cane against the stone below. “I’m afraid I’m not at liberty to say. As for where this leaves you…”

“Wait, hold on,” Markus said, cutting off Drathok. “Are you saying I’m stuck here because fucking Randall paid for me to be?”

Drathok tutted. “Again, I’m not at liberty to say more on the transaction. It was made in confidence. As for where this leaves you—”

“Because you know that he fucking hates me, don’t you? That he’s gonna use this as a chance to fuck with me nonstop?”

“Stop interrupting me.”

Markus looked up to find Drathok had managed to burn through some of the white dusting on his face, his whole body heated.

“Whoa, hold on. Do you have a black eye?”

That got Markus smacked. Hard enough that his jaw rattled. He thanked his lucky stars that Drathok wasn’t wearing his pimp rings.

“Do you wish for our relationship to sour?” Drathok asked, turning away as Markus fought dizziness, masking his face as he spoke. “You have seven fights left here. After those, assuming you’ve survived, you may go free. I’ve already been paid for you, but I see no reason we can’t maintain an amicable relationship from here, assuming you keep earning me money and don’t overstep your boundaries from here on out.”

“Hold on…” Markus spat blood on the floor, righting himself, staring at Drathok. “You’re saying that I don’t have to worry about making a deal anymore? That you just want me to fight my fights and get out of here?”

“Precisely that, yes.”

Markus slowed his tone, slowed his brain, really tried to take this in. “And you’re not gonna try to make my life a living hell or force me into a tighter contract or any other rat shit like that?”

“You’ve been bought out,” Drathok said, his tone light, his cadance soft. “I have no means to do those things to you anymore. I can’t extend a contract I do not own. But the terms haven’t changed. All that remains is that you fulfill the terms of your previous contract.”

A pause. Markus took a moment to try and think, and then was immediately blindsided once more.

“I apologise for striking you. It was a moment of weakness on my part.” He turned to Markus.

He smiled.

“Let us try to be friends from here.”

What?

“Right…” Markus wasn’t sure if he’d been hit so hard upside the head that he’d landed in another dimension, or if Drathok had been slipped a bag of crazy pills. Either way didn’t bode well. Either way, this was fucking uncanny, and Markus was only just beginning to get used to the usual standard of crazy.

“You’d like a reward for your fight, I expect? I’ll have Lexi bring it to you. Anything particular you’d like?”

“I…” Markus didn’t know what to say, what to think. This was fucking insane. He wasn’t sure if he was meant to argue this, or if he even had any choice in the matter. He almost wanted Drathok to threaten him some more, at least that made fucking sense to him. How was he supposed to fight back against an enemy that wouldn’t even attack him?

“Well? I’ll simply have her drop off a bag of silver if you don’t pick something. It’s no issue.”

“I…” Markus decided to shelve his fifty rising concerns. If there was one thing he knew, one thing he understood in this weird and fucked up situation, it was what he’d been planning to ask for.

“I want another bed,” Markus stated, his voice solid.

“...is there something wrong with the last double emperor four post royal deluxe we rewarded you with?”

“It’s not for me. It’s for next door.”

***

Markus had a million, trillion thoughts running through his brain at lightspeed. No deals? Just get through the rest of the contract and he was free? There had to be a trick to it. It was almost certainly too good to be true.

“Heavens, you reek. I can smell you from here,” came a voice from Markus’ cell as soon as he rounded the corner, an increasingly familiar one, knocking him out of his thoughts.

“So… How was your fight? Drathok say anything interesting?”

Hey, what the fuck happened to ‘no more gods’?

“What the hell are you doing here?” Markus asked, pointing a finger.

“Why don’t you come in and find out?”

The Serena sitting in his cell, stroking his Ember, was very much a god, and was very much overdue another appearance.
