Gurndim filled out the form and handed it to Ren. “Just sign there, and there, and initial here.” He said and pointed to 3 different spots. Ren didn't sign it right away, though. He stood there and read it all first. He wanted to make sure that he wasn't signing up for anything he didn't want to sign up for. It took a while, and Gurndim started to get impatient. Ren finished it, signed the 2 spots, and then initialed the last. He handed it back to Gurndim who checked Ren's signatures and initials, then nodded.

“Payment, please.”

“Do you want the hundred coins, or will a platinum coin do?” Ren asked.

Gurndim's mouth dropped open and Ren smiled as he handed over a platinum coin.

Notice!

You have paid your fine in full before the deadline. As this has never happened before, word will spread quickly about your accomplishment.

Influence: +50

Fame: +100

Ren turned around and saw that Nathalia had the exact same expression on her face. He led her from the room and glanced back. Gurndim still sat there with his mouth open, staring at the coin in his hand. Ren smiled and shut the door.

“That went better than I expected.” Ren said.

“R-R-Ren!” Nathalia stammered.

“What?”

“You... you..... you paid your fine!” She exclaimed and then covered her mouth.

Ren chuckled. “Come on. Let's go outside to talk.”

Nathalia nodded and they went outside. Once they were far enough away from prying ears, Ren turned to her.

“Of course I paid the fine.” Ren said.

“No one does that!” Nathalia said. “Everyone works it off. No one actually pays it!”

Ren grinned. “Sorry, but I'm going to be too busy to worry about working off a fine that was completely outrageous.”

“But... but you paid it! If you thought it was outrageous... then why would you do that?” Nathalia said.

“Think about it.” Ren said. “What better way was there to get rid of me, than to send me off to work in the mines for 6 months?”

Nathalia stared at Ren in surprise.

“I know it seems a little selfish of me to think someone would want me out of the way; but, I literally just got here. No one knows I'm here... except for everyone on the ship.”

Nathalia's eyes widened. “Then that means...”

Ren nodded. “After everything that happened on the ship, someone still holds a grudge against me.”
