Drown in your defeat. Learn to savor the taste. Let your limitations hurt you. Let yourself rage against your failure.

Or, you can turn away. It won’t fix anything, but there is a mercy to getting struck down from behind. Warriors hate to admit it, but there is a blissful ignorance in not knowing what kills you. Not knowing the reason you failed. We do it as children. We close our eyes and pretend the problem isn’t there. Because it is comforting. Because knowing that we are not enough scars us in a place that some would rather die than face.

And I suggest that you do die if you cannot face your heart with honesty. It is a mercy. Death is merely silence. Life will teach you greater depths of pain. And to sink into yourself and never rise again while challenging the Delve of a Legendary Skill is something most warriors would imagine to be a nightmare.

But most warriors are fated to feed the mud and soil. Most warriors never truly grow to become the adult that can face their problem with open eyes. They remain a child in pain. A child in the end.

You cannot be a child if you wish to be a Legend. Not in this world. Not against your sins.

You can doubt yourself. You can believe that you are weak. You can even fear. But these are just feelings. Sensations. What will save you is courage, and beyond it, understanding. Understanding, but not acceptance.

We all have limits. And we are to know and loathe them.

We all have flaws. And we are to rise above them.

Thus, if you stand on the precipice and find yourself uncertain if you might surface from the Delve, ask yourself this:

“Can I face the ruins of my self? Can I face my greatest shame, and find a way to stand beyond it? Can I survive the darkness of my heart?”

I cannot give you an answer. But those of you who understand already know. And those who are uncertain should wait until they do.

You must be paradoxically merciless and kind to yourself in different ways. There is a madness in courting the System’s power, but it takes a sane mind to master the insanity needed to prevail. Be both. Be everything. Be more.

Drown. But do not die. Drown, and learn to live with the suffocation.

-Legend: Reforged from Ruin, Written by Semper Paragon Caine Hauser of the Descenders Union

166 (I) Prison

A mountain’s weight in pressure crashed down on Shiv as he was teleported. He tried to swing his left fist at the walls of Dimensionality washing down around him, but his gauntlet was still broken, and his hand passed through the mana as if it was a flowing current. His own Portomancy was feeble and new. If Shiv had to guess, he wouldn’t even be capable of teleporting a pebble right now, and considering he was probably trapped in a Legendary spatial magic skill…

Not felling good. His insides boiled with rage and frustration. He had been busy trying to bring the Tarrasque down. The damned Avatars and Ascendants had been absent for most of the fight, and even when Shiv figured out how to weaken the world-ending monster with his Drain Vitality Skill, they held back. What was the point of being a divinely empowered warrior beyond the limits of a Legendary Pathbearer if you were too scared to put your life on the line? Cowardly shi—

Psycho-Cartography: Complain less. Focus your mind. You’re drifting all over the place. We need to get back to Blackedge and finish off the Tarrasque. We can’t leave Adam, Uva, and everyone else on their own. Complaining serves no purpose. Accept. Adapt. Deal with it. This is no different from hunting lesser vampires as a Pathless. Solve the problem. Get the meal done.

Surprise pierced through Shiv as his own Psychology Skill intervened to re-center his mind. But it was what he needed. Why did he expect anything to be reasonable? Why did he expect things to be fair in any capacity? The System didn’t care, and neither did the Avatars or Ascendants. But Shiv did, and so he was going to need to deal with it.

Everything is shit until you finally get it right for the first felling time, Shiv thought, thinking back to what Georges taught him. Fix all your main fucking problems. Then focus on being great.

And that’s what Shiv did. He was being flung across time and space—could barely move with how much displaced pressure was crushing him. He didn’t have any means of disrupting the magic; his Portomancy was too feeble to contend with the spell. But that didn’t mean he was out of options.

In fact, Shiv had options available to him and only him.

He knew that because he could still see a sheen of vitality lining the world around him. Immediately, he started draining lifeforce from Integration itself. A warning popped up before his eyes. He ignored it with a smirk.

Warning: Ambient Mana Threshold is being destabilized. Continual destabilization will increase the chances of a Dimensional anomaly.

“Dimensional anomaly might just be what I want,” Shiv muttered. His Vitae strands tore into the flesh of existence and began to draw in surges of vitality. He was a glowing shape of white and red within a cascading sea of static darkness. That didn’t last. As he drained more, a rupture formed, and a claw of curling fire exploded against him. Shiv clenched his teeth as the hairs on his skin were singed. The temperature only climbed higher as the rupture was opened even wider.

For the first time, Shiv took a moment to gaze into the magical wounds he was inflicting the world, and his eyes widened. Within the rupture, he could feel mana of all varieties clash and intermingle. So many fields were oscillating and clashing together, and as Shiv thinned the barriers of existence, the strongest fields broke free. Such was why the heat was getting so intense so fast. And why there were other types of mana following it.

A solid fork of crystallized lightning nearly took Shiv’s head clean off. He tilted his neck and blocked the blow with his arm. It still scored a deep scratch along his shoulder, and his wound bled openly—

For about a second. Then, he felt that familiar sensation of cancer spreading through his cells. A faint pulse of unstable Biomancy was hidden among all the other magical fields, and Shiv just snorted as he understood his impending death.

Magic was bullshit, but wondrous bullshit. Shiv loved every little thing it did to him or anyone else.

Dodge 21 > 22

As he took in another dose of vitality, the rupture before him burst open fully, and it was only the use of Outside Context Problem that saved Shiv’s life. The flames that came for him were alive. A winged creature made from a white-hot blaze tore across the space where Shiv just existed, but cocked its head back in confusion as it realized he was gone.

Meanwhile, within the confines of his own Vitae, Shiv observed a fast-moving hawk-like creature and guessed that it was a phoenix or something. It was slightly larger than he was at his baseline state, but it radiated with such potent Pyromancy and Shiv suspected that it wouldn’t face much difficulty if it wanted to turn him to ash. It flapped its wings, and the Dimensionality mana combusted. Its fire was more than physical, it was something that consumed the magical as well. Holes were burned into the dense, static mana that held Shiv, and through the gap, Shiv looked beyond the veil of dimensions for the first time.

And that proved to be a mistake. Shiv tried to pull his gaze away, but it was too late. His sanity was ripped open. It felt like someone had dragged a hook blade across his consciousness. Shiv gasped as he gripped his head and looked away. The effects of looking through the gap were so bad that his Outside Context Problem Skill collapsed as well. Once more, he returned to reality—and immediately died as he was vaporized by a passive wave of force and fire that exploded out of the phoenix.

Another downside to Pillar—it needs to be focused on to reach its true effectiveness.

His wounded Pyromancy field was mutilated further, and the thick weave of Vitae that emerged from Shiv’s parting ash came out writhing.

Pyromancy 15 > 19

Gravitic Wrestler 178 > 186

Pillar of Orichalcum 225 > 226

Outside Context Problem 82 > 85

Vitality Drain 85 > 89

The additional level applied to Shiv’s Pillar was the only reason he didn’t immediately turn to dust before the phoenix. That, and the sudden dimensional storm that exploded out from the rupture. A dense flood of Dimensional mana clashed with the existential magic already encompassing Shiv. Space didn’t so much tear as it did burst like a bubble. Shiv flinched, expecting chaos and madness to assail him.

Instead, he found himself crashing against the ground. A ground made from a reddish-gold substance—the very same hue as his pillar. The Deathless shook as he took in his surroundings, and he found himself in a ten-meter-long cylinder. The walls were lined with spell patterns, and Shiv offered the world a silent sigh as he realized he was in a teleportation anchor again. One that already had an occupant.

A huge, muscular wolf-man hybrid lifted its head and stared at Shiv. The lupine creature was chained to the walls by reddish gold bindings as well, and by this point, Shiv was reasonably sure the material composing this cage was Orichalcum. The wolf-man sniffed the air briefly and finally cocked its head. “Not food.”

The Deathless has been spotted. The one to extinguish his Vitae will gain the Quest rewards.

The wolf-man’s bright-blue eyes widened. “Huh. Well, that’s something else. Wait. Are you the Deathless?”

Shiv wanted to reply, but his Psychomancy was in tatters, and he didn’t have a mouth. He slowly held up two tendrils of Vitae to show he didn’t mean any harm. Before he could ask the wolf man where he was, a loud siren pulsed through the room, and there came a booming voice that shook this anchor-prison.

“ATTENTION ALL WARDENS! CELLS NADIR-00344 AND 00551 HAVE BEEN COMPROMISED! THE CAUSE IS LIKELY A DIMENSIONAL ANOMALY. REQUESTING PYROMANCER/MAGE-HUNTER CONTAINMENT TEAMS RESPOND AND HEAD TO 00551 IMMEDIATELY. RESPONSE TEAM ZERO, YOU HAVE BEEN ACTIVATED. THE THREAT IN 00344 IS LISTED AS PRIORITY ZENITH BY LEGEND-COUNCILWOMAN VERONICA CHANDLER. ALL NON-MARTIAL PATHBEARERS ARE TO TRIGGER MAGICAL COUNTERMEASURES AND EVACUATE FROM THE VICINITY OF 00551. A LEGENDARY-TIER PHOENIX HAS BREACHED CONTAINMENT.”

The telepathic broadcast hit Shiv like a concussive blast to the skull, and by the time it was done, his mind was ringing.

Well, I guess that explains where the flaming bird went. Shiv winced. He thought about the phoenix causing more damage or hurting people. He didn’t want that. But like always, unexpected shit happened when he used his skills. The System was probably mocking him deliberately by this point—escalating the collateral damage he inflicted whenever it could.

“What are you?” the wolf-man asked. Its voice was low and inquisitive, and Shiv found it just an inch away from his body. Shiv tried to reply, but quickly realized he couldn't reliably do that without resurrecting first. He tentatively reached out and started sapping from vitality from reality—doing it to the wolf-man was too risky and hostile.

The wolf-man watched Shiv as he slowly drank in lifeforce from the world. A new rupture began to form where Shiv did so, so he crawled to the other side of the cell and repeated his action. Even with him being careful, the three small ruptures began to bleed liquid-infused diamonds into the cell. The wolf-man looked on with narrowed eyes, but he did nothing to stop Shiv. There was some slack to his chains, so he could have definitely tried attacking the Deathless, but he held himself back—waited to see what might happen.

As Shiv took in a final rush of vitality, he resurrected and emerged from his Vitae a whole person once more.

The wolf-man’s eyes widened at the Deathless’s metamorphosis and let out a sniffle. “Well. The System’s ugly hand is heavy on you, my new cellmate. That, or I’m hallucinating things again from loneliness. Are you real? Are the notifications I’m getting true?”

“I hope so,” Shiv grunted. He looked up and saw a small transparent porthole lining the ceiling high above. “Been through too much shit to discover I’m just made up.”

The wolf-man let out a quiet laugh. “Well. You might have landed in more trouble than one can overcome. You’re in the Well, now. So if this is a teleportation mishap, you have my condolences, but I fear you won’t be leaving this place ever again.”

Shiv ignored the wolf and shot up toward the ceiling. He slammed fist-first against the glass blocking the exit and winced as the blow he delivered was reflected into his knuckles. Instead of slamming more strikes against the anchor prison, he tried to glance out from the cell to get a better understanding of just where avatars had teleported. As soon as he looked up, a mechanical something fell over the porthole, blocking Shiv’s line of sight. A moment later, Shiv found himself staring up at a heavily armored automaton holding a studded mace.

It looked down at Shiv with a single glowing eye and waved at someone unseen. “He is here. I have located him.”

“But it doesn’t sound like you came here by accident,” the wolf-man continued, looking up at Shiv. “It sounds like you were sent here on purpose. So. What did you do?”

Shiv pressed a hand against the glass and tried to rip it out using his gravitic field. The insides of the cell groaned. The wolf-man’s Orichalcum chains rattled slightly, but Shiv realized he was an insect trying to uproot a tower. This prison was Orichalcum, which meant that its Toughness could be adjusted, that it couldn’t be moved unless you were stronger than it was durable. On top of that, it had a force-reflection enchantment as well.

He wasn’t going to be breaking out of here through brute force.

