Shiv frowned. I need a moment. I need to think.

With that thought, he manifested his temporal shell to buy himself some more time. The world went still. A dense layer of golden mana flared around his body. But before he could do anything, the insides of the cell flashed with Chronomancy as well, and promptly unleashed a discharge of concentrated Magical Resistance at Shiv.

It would have ripped through his temporal shell in an instant if he hadn’t gone out of context. The Magical Resistance consumed the insides of the cell in a swirl of prismatic colors, and the wolf-man let out a cry of misery as he was brutally affected. Shiv winced in shame. Right. He wasn’t the only one in here.

While the discharge died down, Shiv focused on coming up with a plan to escape. He wasn’t going to break out directly. So, that left him with a few other options. The most direct one was seeing if he could out-tough the cell with his own Pillar of Orichalcum Skill. Maybe Shiv could push through this prison with his pillar after enough time, but that came with several problems. The first was how it would leave him vulnerable to the magic infused within this chamber. He had no means of defending himself while the pillar was active. If he activated his pillar, he would also end up crushing the wolf-man.

That wasn’t something Shiv could accept. He didn’t want to hurt anyone without a proper reason.

Direct as using his pillar to grind against the cell might be, it was simply impractical and risky.

So what else did he have? Shiv looked at his skills, trying to find a solution. He wasn’t going to cook his way out of here. His Creeping Void would just flood the cell in darkness. It wouldn’t help him get out.

But that led him down a path toward new possibilities: deception.

He still had a few corpses left in his cape. And then there was the cape itself—it was a minor dimension; a hideout. He could use that. He just needed to get the people up top to open the cell. Then, he would go out of context and freeze time again to escape.

As the first fingers of coldness brushed against Shiv’s soul, he acted. He pulled a body out from his cape before unequipping the cape from himself and wrapping it around the body. He dove into the cape right after, and pulled himself toward the Forest of Alloy. As he tumbled into the pocket dimension, Shiv released both his Outside Context Problem and Strider Skills.

The corpse fell, and Shiv felt gravity lurch up around him. For the first time, Shiv realized just how uncomfortable it was for the people inside the cape. Everything was moving constantly, and as his decoy corpse impacted the ground, the dimension went still, causing Shiv to bounce off an iron tree.

A brief moment of silence followed, and then there came sniffling. The wolf-man let out a sigh from the outside. “Well. Serves me right for wanting to have a conversation after eighty years in solitary. Of course he died immediately. Why wouldn’t that happen.”

Deception 23 > 25

The sheer sour misery in the wolf-man’s voice made Shiv feel a bit bad, but the deception was necessary if he wanted to escape. The Deathless waited at the edge of the pocket dimension with bated breath. He listened carefully. Soon, with luck, the Pathbearers of this place would come down to retrieve his body. The moment they descended to make sure, he would move and make his escape.

Shiv counted the seconds. He could hear the jingling of chains outside, could smell something foul seeping into his nostrils. “Gods, is that the wolf-man? Do they not let him bathe?” Shiv gagged.

“No, Insul. I’m afraid that’s me.” Shiv spun on his heels and found himself surprised. Propped against a large tree made from bundled wires and branches of plastic was Bonk. His legs were pointing in the wrong direction, and one of his arms was missing. He had a tourniquet tied over the stump, and a half-broken club lay across his lap. He grinned happily at Shiv and waved with his remaining arm.

“Bonk,” Shiv said. “How the hells did you get in my cape.”

The Deathless has been spotted. The one to extinguish his Vitae will gain the Quest rewards.

Bonk looked at a notification for a beat but went back to ignoring it just a moment later. Shiv was still suspicious, but the orc was in no condition to fight. Or so he seemed.

“Well. It all started when we got swallowed by the Tarrasque. It clamped down on my legs, and then I got struck by a piece of hull. That didn’t knock me out, but slamming head-first into the roof of the Tarrasque’s mouth and then getting blasted by a psionic attack did the trick.” The orc chuckled, and wheezed in pain. “I suspect I must’ve been launched into your cape at some point while unconscious. How fortunate.”

Shiv wasn’t sure if he believed the orc's story, but a feeling of relief radiated from him. He wasn’t alone here—even if his only ally was a badly wounded orc, it was better than being completely isolated.

“So,” Bonk said. “What is the situation?”

Shiv was about to reply when there came a sound from the outside.

“I didn’t kill him,” the wolf-man said calmly. “He was alive a moment ago, but he suddenly ended up dead right after. I think he’s a Chronomancer. The cell had to discharge its Resistance into me for a reason. Unless you all are trying to torture me for fun again. I think he struck the ceiling with his head and died. That’s my best guess.”

“I’ll tell you in a minute,” Shiv said to Bonk. “Right after I get back.”

“Get back?” the orc asked.

Shiv sank into his Vitae and froze time in the same instant. He launched himself out from his cape right after and re-entered the cell.

The first thing he did after re-entering the cell was pull the cape off his decoy corpse. The next was launching himself upward, upward toward the previously sealed porthole. Shiv knew it was open now, considering the automaton Pathbearer he'd seen earlier had half of its body within the anchor prison. Unfortunately for Shiv, the automaton was big, and thus blocked the way. Unfortunately for the automaton, Shiv wasn't going to stop. He had no intention of rotting inside a prison cell at the whims of the Ascendants.

He impacted the automaton's body in a rush of speed.

Even so, Shiv refrained from hitting the automaton overly hard. It was just a common guard as far as he knew, and guards didn't deserve to die. Not like orcs, not like the Inquisition. Shiv was going to pull his punches here as much as he could. Escape was still his top priority, but that didn't mean he was going to grease his way with the blood and oil of the innocent.

He thought back to all the slaves that died in Theborn, at all the casualties in Blackedge.

Too much. It’s always too much.

Another blast of Magical Resistance churned the inside the prison cell just as Shiv shot free. He flung the automaton aside and made sure the mechanical Pathbearer suffered only a dent to its midsection and nothing more. As the Deathless looked around, he found himself in a wide and alloyed valley. Tall Orichalcum walls flanked him on both sides, and Shiv guessed he had no more than 20 meters of width to work with. What's more, there were dozens of cells lodged in the ground ahead and behind him. They all looked just like the one he'd escaped from, and when gazed down on from above, he saw shuddering layers of near-transparent force serving as lids for each of the prison-anchors.

A rush of color danced in his peripheral vision. As his head snapped to the right, he saw that there were spell patterns spilling down from the valley walls. Dense waves of mana poured along their edges, appearing almost like liquid.

Just what the hell is this place? Shiv thought.
