Chapter 476

Stepping through a [Portal] to the suite they were using as a base after his final interview, Matt arrived to find several of his co-conspirators lounging around the common area. Not that they weren’t working, rather, they were busy communicating with one of the many concerned parties after his latest round of interviews.

They’d planned for three, but they’d gathered more steam than expected, and they were hoping to use that to break the unified wall arrayed before them. But they needed at least one of the aura businesses to reach out to them first. Or, that was what they wanted and were aiming for, and maybe somewhat arrogantly, was the outcome they had planned on. They’d known from minute one that their media blitz would have repercussions, but even Matt had a flood of messages from ‘concerned parties’.

A Liz, the fourth one he felt in the suite, slipped in behind him and started massaging his head and shoulders.

“Why don’t you sit down and let me put something together for you?”

Not needing to be told twice, Matt let himself be led to the row of bar-stools, where he slumped as Liz started mixing him a drink.

Once he mustered enough energy, he asked, “How are things on this side?”

“Right about where we expected, honestly.”

Matt was surprised to hear that and looked up to see if Liz was messing with him, but she was serious, which took a small weight off his shoulders as it implied their plan was working.

The messages he'd been receiving had fallen into three broad categories: the lower Tiers who agreed with him but had little individual power, the uninvolved but powerful people who wanted to insert themselves, and the people who felt threatened and lashed out at him.

Matt tried to remind himself that they were the vocal minority, but the angry and negative messages had begun to wear on him well before the final interview.

Seeing the tall glass of liquor with hardly a splash of mixer, he tried not to smile but couldn’t help it. Taking a sip, he tried his best to not react as the Tier 35 alcohol burned everything it touched, but he knew he failed as Liz grinned at him.

“You know, it's actually not bad. Very strong, but I liked the flavor.” Taking another sip, he massaged his temple. “Have we reached any of our next steps’ criteria?”

Liz nodded, but it was her smile that allowed him to relax even before she spoke. “With the general reaction to your press tour being right about where we expected, we are fielding a ton of requests to meet with people. Once we go through them all, we will need to start rubbing shoulders.”

They’d come to the Capital not only because it was both the heart of the Empire, and any news would spread best through its web of influence, but also because people were already congregating in anticipation for the higher Tiers' return from deep chaotic space. That didn’t magically mean everyone they wanted or needed to talk to was at the Capital, but it meant there were enough to get started.

He must have made a face because Liz shook her head as she stepped in two directions at once, splitting herself another time.

The Liz that went to the fridge called out over her shoulder. “You did the interviews, and now you need a break. We can handle the next bit without you, so don’t be so stubborn."

Matt tried to protest but he was thoroughly outnumbered. She was also right in that he did need to remember that the other nobles were perfectly competent, and he didn’t need to burn himself out trying to keep his finger in every pot.

They had their plan, and he needed to follow it as much as everyone else.

As a quickly thrown together wrap was slid over to him, Matt took his food to one of the tables and watched the Empire, or more specifically the Capital, around them.

Already in one of the largest buildings, his view let him see wide swaths of the ecumenopolis, but he also knew most of the imagery was technically false. Without the illusionary formations that made the largest buildings transparent, most wouldn’t even be able to see the sky.

As he sipped and snacked, Matt deliberately tried not to think about anything too hard, just letting his gaze linger over the people who could and were flying and simply enjoying the patterns they painted.

When he’d finished both the food and the drink, he threw himself into his own messages, sorting everything out.

Splitting his mind three ways, he blitzed his way through them. Out of necessity, those who were nice got quick replies, while the other two categories got most of his attention.

No matter how much Matt wanted to disregard everyone who offered their help at ‘mediating’, he couldn’t. Not only would that toss out the treasure with the trash, but it would be rude to those who were making their offers in good faith.

Quickly sorting out anyone he felt was acting in bad faith, Matt spent quite a bit more time going through everyone else until he had a small list of people he felt might actually be useful.

At the same time, his other mind went through everyone who felt threatened by his interviews and looked for information that might change anything they’d already gathered.

As one of his minds became free, Matt inspected the nobles still going through their own work. Most were like him, sorting through messages, but he saw Sciath silently talking with someone through her [AI].

For all that he had problems with hereditary nobility and the choices they generally made, Sciath was one of the few he actually liked. Not only did she seem to genuinely care about the people who found their Domains unsuitable post Tier 15, but she was one of the closest aligned to him in both stance and the reasoning behind her position.

As they got reliable leads, they started to split up as small groups or individuals went to try and wine and dine various figures.

Matt spent two weeks meeting with barons and viscounts, lower Tier CEOs, small guild leaders, and even small business owners who were in any way involved in the aura potion distribution chain. Most of them had little to add to the discussion, only wanting to complain at him, but some raised good points, which was why he’d sat through the bad ones.

As he listened to different people sharing similar idiotic ideas, Matt started daydreaming about how the Cabal might have orchestrated the entire aura bottleneck problem. Or maybe taken advantage of it. At least he wanted to believe that was the reason to explain why so many people seemed to have the same idiotic stream of logic.

“Ascender Titan, you must see how this new structure you propose will reduce our profit margins to a razor's edge. Lower Tier resources have always been a fierce market, we all understood that when we invested our paltry fortunes into the endeavor. But without the contracts to protect ourselves, we won’t be able to compete anymore. Labor costs are rising across the board, even as prices are falling. The only aura potions that still have a good markup are the very ones under contract.”

Matt resisted the urge to sigh or otherwise lash out. He’d already answered that question a thousand and one times in the recent weeks. He knew for a fact there were recordings of him answering it, but somehow it felt like everyone wanted him to explain personally.

He was going to go through his spiel when Liz smoothly interjected, “Mr. Zakaria, are you interested in the math or the emotions? I’m sure you’ve seen the math, even if current aura production quadrupled overnight, you still wouldn’t have significant competition in your own market, let alone the Imperial one. There are simply too many Tier 4’s who need the potions, and the lower Tiers are advancing every day. As for rising costs, come now, we both know costs are dropping, not rising.”

The ZakariaCorp CEO opened his mouth to reply, but no sound came out before he looked pleadingly at Liz, “But what if you're wrong? Things are good right now, so why do we need to change anything?”

Matt had to admit the man was being honest, and Liz was almost as taken aback as he was, though she recovered faster. “Therein lies the rub, Mr. Zakaria. The public interest is at risk.” When Mr. Zakaria looked like he wanted to interrupt, Liz’s understanding smile turned sharp. “That is not up for dispute, Mr. Zakaria. You may delude yourself privately, but the numbers are clear; there is a problem, and it's growing worse, not better. You own two moons in the Varad system and produce roughly two-thirds of its aura; the remaining third comes from smaller groups who have converted their own private rifts into aura ones. Though they mainly rely on the free aura types Titan’s Torch has published. Is that your concern? Your competition pivoting to the rarer variants? That’s a risk we can admit. However, even you are limited by your existing contracts to… what, a dozen rifts of each type? Wouldn’t you make more if you could not only make more copies of what you already have, but also have more and rarer aura types to sell? If you can explain to us exactly where your problem lies, we can do something, but if it’s only feelings, I’m sorry to say we can’t help."

Zakaria shook his head, denying the accusation, but there was no life behind the action. “Theoretically, yes, prices are lowering, but the change is so minuscule that the notion is practically untrue. It's hard enough to staff our rifts now, let alone expand or replace our existing rifts with new ones that might be harder to run. Even with the current programs to bring people in from the higher Tier worlds, there just aren’t enough people who want to delve that often with the necessary restrictions and additional complications that come with harvesting aura. As for our competition pivoting? That wouldn’t be ideal, but we could survive. It's just that with such massive changes, who can predict what will happen? If you are wrong, we could lose everything. I’m not saying we shouldn’t change things that are problematic, Ascender Legion, but what reassurances can you give us that we won’t be ruined by these changes? What about…”

Matt let his mind wander as Zakaria continued to complain. While his candor had been mildly interesting, what he wanted wasn’t too different from what the other, less influential and smaller aura producers wanted. His initial instinct was to ignore their worries, but even he could admit there were real risks in what they were trying to do.

Based on their own duchy, their proposed changes would be a net positive for pretty much everyone involved, but the individuals still felt like they were at risk. If the only ones worried were the aura research institutions, Matt and the other nobles could gather enough money to cover any pitfalls that might occur during a transition to the new laws, but the concerned parties were far more numerous than that.

While he’d expected it, they hadn’t only fielded concerns from the aura producers and researchers. Basically, anyone involved with aura in any way, shape, or form had some level of concern, and there was no pleasing them all.

Their very next stop was to a group of companies that directly made and/or designed the aura potions recipes. They weren’t the largest groups in their fields, but were numerous enough to still be influential when gathered. Their concerns weren’t the same as the aura producers, and Matt forced himself to keep an open mind and listen to what they were asking.

He wasn’t so much looking for a specific idea, almost everything mentioned to them was a direct conflict to their goals, but rather for the commonalities in all of their complaints and suggestions. After leaving their last meeting, he and Liz walked to a subway that would take them home instead of magically returning, both needing the time away from the nagging.

Walking among the mortals, using their masks to blend in, he privately asked, “What do you think about a potential loan program? We’d need Royal intervention, given the scale, but low cost loans for anyone negatively impacted might help sway some of the fence sitters.”

“Harder than you might be thinking if we need to ask the imperial government. If Manny was here maybe, but without him…”

Liz’s words trailed off, and Matt winced but couldn't argue. While he’d returned to his regular mana stone production since he’d returned and solved his own problems, he wasn’t able to solve the Empire’s. Frederic and the other Royals were ecstatic, as his mana let them pad their numbers in emergencies, but he hadn’t really made a dent, given the relative scales involved.

At Tier 30, Matt only made 1.3 billion mana every second, but even that was far from enough to fix the economic shortfall alone.

At Frederic’s request, he’d even spent a decade of subjective time inside a cleared-out Tier 45 rift to abuse the time dilation and create more mana shortly after Tiering up. He hadn’t like agreeing any more than Allie wanted to be at everyone's beck and call to teleport, but he’d still done his part as he’d needed the time to shore up his mana control.

However, that was why bringing up an Imperial-backed loan wasn’t his smartest idea.

“I’m just too used to Manny being here to fix problems, but that's why we need to do this ourselves.” Letting himself smile, he added, “You know, when I was growing up, I was always annoyed when older and higher Tier people treated me like a kid. But now that I’m both old and higher Tier, I miss being a kid who didn’t have to worry about things. Responsibility sucks.”

Liz didn’t try to make him feel better, agreeing wholeheartedly. “Yeah, let's ditch it all. Get Allie to teleport us back to deep chaotic space and just leave it all behind.”

