“I've honestly thought about it. Sadly, there is no way I could do it. I’d get bored without life and civilization within a decade.”

Liz thought about it for a moment before disagreeing, “I think you’d make it at least a century before that happens, but I think you'd go stir crazy very fast once it started.”

Matt vehemently denied the assertion. “Not a chance. I’d run out of something in the first month, or not have brought it along in the first place. Hmm. Maybe that is the solution?”

Liz raised an eyebrow, silently asking him for clarification. “Stuffing everyone we don’t like in deep chaotic space? I’m tempted to, but it wouldn’t be nice to pollute nature like that. And really, if we want to kill them all, it's easier to just stuff them into local rifts instead of making Allie travel.”

Unable to resist, he smiled back at her. “As tempting as that is, no, sadly not the context I meant it in. I was more so thinking about how to increase demand faster than what we’ve already been doing. Aura potions production is far from satisfying the demands of our population. Combined with aura enchanting increasing the demand for raw aura, it should be rising, but we’ve heard several groups complain about not having enough people. So how can they not have enough people?”

Finding a breakdown of one of the companies by position and estimated Tier, he shared it with Liz so she knew what he was referencing. “Looking deeper, they aren't exactly wrong. As much as I wanted to blame them, I’m not sure it's fair. My initial thought was to try and get more young people from the capital worlds, which I do agree works, but I actually think that's the wrong maneuver. In fact, I think we should look into bringing in more average delvers. The ones who only want to delve once every two weeks. Why can’t they help? I and most others have been ignoring them as a source of delvers because of the rapid pace aura farming has encouraged, but most isn't all.”

As they reached their building, Matt opened a [Portal] from the lobby to the front of their suite, skipping the line at the elevators that their and the nobles’ retainers had caused in the hotel they’d based their operations out of. With so many of them, it was easier and less offensive to rent a space rather than bring foreign dukes into their families' private homes.

As he was doing that, Liz took his idea and ran with it. “Stop treating the aura farming as if it's a race and needs to be done all in-house? Honestly, I like the idea. It would help, a lot maybe, but will they agree? Currently, the delvers are employees, but if we push for them to sell slots in the traditional way, they will balk unless we allow them to claim any of the aura the same as they do with their employees. But that would force them to drop the price of the slot, and as we’ve seen, they won’t like the sound of that suggestion.”

Ingrid looked up as they entered the suite, catching the tail end of their conversation. “We debated alternative aura gathering methods, but we concluded that selling aura rift slots was a dead end outside of highly populated systems. We concluded it was impractical as anything but a sub-reform. When we took into consideration the pushback such a request would generate, we dropped it altogether."

Matt was going to drop it, but floated the angle he had originally been aiming for. “Ahh but that’s my point. I’m not suggesting we go that far, why don't we offer it as a way to… pad their worker numbers, so to speak. They sell the rift slot like any other, and in exchange, they get right of first refusal for aura pulled out of those rifts, set at the same number they pay their own employees at. If the delvers want to take the aura, they can pay the normal price, minus their own cut, but combined with the first refusal, it will even help drive prices lower if people have alternative sources to sell aura, should the producers try to fudge the payment numbers. So long as every slot is sold, all you really need is one squad as a replacement or backup in case someone's late to their delve. Am I missing a downside here?”

Ingrid looked between Liz and Matt before shrugging. “I think the idea could help, but I’m not sure it's enough on its own.”

Liz opened her mouth to speak when they all got a message from Heracleonas, “Anyone not at the suite, return there. I was able to wrangle us a meeting with nine aura research CEOs. They said they were willing to talk, but wouldn’t be more specific than that.”

Matt wasn’t quite as hopeful as the others were, but he joined them as everyone tapped into their sources, trying to gather any and all information before the meeting. They needed to be prepared and not fumble their chance at success by being under informed.

The first and most obvious information was the corporations’ size and their patented recipes. The nine who came to them weren’t quite the bottom of the barrel, but they were on the smaller size when compared to the average entities, let alone the larger ones.

Seeing that many of the companies willing to meet were either operated by the lead researcher who developed the original patent, or someone adjacent to them like a family member, things started to make more sense.

As such, Matt wasn’t too surprised when, after the obligatory pleasantries, Sopio, the wife of her company's lead researcher, cut right to the point, which he appreciated.

“Ascender Titan, we were hoping you could add some protections for us smaller aura research institutes in your proposal. After your recent… announcement, several of the larger factions have reached out, looking to pull us into conglomerates or other subordinate relationships. Now that it has begun, we are afraid that if your proposal doesn't go through, we’ll inevitably be squeezed out as the largest companies' umbrellas grow larger through research or acquisition."

He, along with the other nobles, acted surprised, but it was an act. They’d long expected and hoped the larger companies would make such a move in response to their own announcement. By disturbing the equilibrium, they enabled their opposition to speed up their timeline.

Which had driven people to them in order to survive.

Exactly as they’d hoped.

Matt smiled politely as he said, “Once we push through the reform, I doubt there will be as much pressure for outward acquisition from the larger groups, which will give you some measure of relief. When I said we were trying to be as fair as possible while solving the Concept bottleneck, I meant it. To that end, do you have any reasonable changes to suggest?”

The various leaders looked surprised, and it took a few silent seconds for someone to work up the courage. But when the first representative spoke up without being reprimanded, the atmosphere lightened considerably. These people would hopefully be the crack they’d use to dismantle the alliance arrayed against them, and as such, they needed to wine and dine them properly, which meant not snapping at guests’ bad suggestions.

Matt felt a lot of it was mindless chatter, but he enjoyed having a front row view as Liz slowly loosened them up, before starting to tease more important information out of the aura companies willing to talk without the wall of being political opponents.

After looking over their newest proposal to allow aura rifts to act like normal, purchable rifts, every one of them had comments. Several of them were even good.

“Ascender Titan, I think this is a good proposal and will help. Though, I might suggest a few tweaks since you asked. Setting the rift prices automatically based on the local average is good in theory, but unnecessary. It will feel like an overreach, and anyone who doesn't put it there or below that line themselves isn't the target audience of such a measure. Removing that stipulation, or possibly altering it so it's a simple but high maximum based on the same criteria, might be something to consider.”

Matt’s initial reaction was to disagree, but the more he considered it, the more he agreed with the underlying logic.

Seeing Liz’s nod, he looked to the nobles.

Peter and Boutaje both had flat expressions that said they didn’t share that sentiment, but they did indicate the proposal was within acceptable ranges.

Without a unanimous decision, Matt didn’t want to overcommit. Some things were very hard to un-say, if it could be done at all. “I think you raised a very valid point and one that I agree with after some reflection. We’ll look at it seriously. Anyone else?”

Seeing the first idea received so well, the others were more willing to speak up, but most of the ideas were bad. It wasn’t until Phoebe Cooke, one of the purely business-oriented leaders, spoke up that Matt found himself reconsidering his earlier plans.

“Ascender Titan, in your original proposal you offered an extension of the current patent protections from ten thousand to fifteen thousand years. If it's not too presumptuous, might I suggest extending it further? Until, say, twenty thousand years. That keeps even yet unreleased patents within Emperor Emmanuel's reign, meaning he can oversee anyone who disagrees with giving up such long-standing patents, which is always a concern given the timeframes. With a precedent firmly established, any Tier 50 should have no issues reckoning any aura recipes that are discovered after the next few thousand years. Yes, it will double the length of the normal protections, but I believe that such a concession will sway many. Even the Talented aperology firms find themselves deep in debt or burning through capital to fuel their research. Allowing us to keep a hold of our profits for longer, and therefore ensure better theoretical returns, will soften the sting. It turns the patents into even longer-term investments, and what immortal doesn't like one of those?” Ending with a smile, Phoebe met his gaze before looking away after a moment.

Normally, the Empire didn’t allow for such long-term patents, given how they could stifle an industry, but if there were no exclusivity clauses, that wouldn’t be too much of an issue.

At least…

Seeing a potential issue, Matt countered, “I’m willing to discuss something of the sort, but it could only be for the profit, not the technology itself. That would have to end at the normal timeframe to allow derivatives aura to be developed outside your own factions, as originally intended within the patent system.”

That caused a small murmur to pass through everyone, nobles included, but rather than partial pushback, he received universal acceptance of his addition, making things easy.

Matt was fairly sure at least two of the nobles had already gotten some of their people to start hashing out the exact wording they might want to use.

Phoebe looked thrilled. “I can only speak for myself, not any of the other groups such as the alchemists, but I find that makes the entire proposal far more palatable from a commercial aperology perspective.”

Hearing that, Matt took a metaphorical step back, deliberately dropping a few levels of his formality, trying to capitalize on the positive atmosphere.

As he was approached by three of the more prickly leaders, Matt put on his best smile and played his part.

It took time, but he assured them there wouldn't be any last-minute changes or referendum. When returning to Liz’s circle, he arrived just in time to hear her ask, “Sopio, you must know we did our own research after you made contact, and rumors are your husband figured out a new aura recipe. Any burning desire to brag a little?”

Sopio looked half as proud as the phoenix sitting on Liz’s shoulder as she asked, “May I return the question by asking what exactly you heard?”

Liz played her part, letting Sopio have a stage to perform on for everyone around them. “Our people have heard quite a few rumors circling around the notion that you guys have developed a new rift recipe, and most speculate it's a new sub-category of water aura.”

Sopio looked relieved and far more proud as she smiled and took a sip of her drink, making them and everyone else wait.

“Sorry, I had to calm my nerves. I’m a bit jumpy, but yes, we are proud to add a third distinct recipe for both the rift and potion. Water-force might not be the most sought-after specification, but we are confident in its base popularity. I submitted our patents soon after I arrived. We couldn’t be more pleased."

Matt clapped quietly along with everyone else.

While most others were either jealous of her success or happy for her, he was more impressed with her husband, Sergei. It seemed like he’d been able to leverage his otherwise unhelpful aperology Talent into creating several subtypes. It was doubly impressive when he considered that she said recipe, not rift. While copying a rift was possible, it was currently only being done for the most valuable aura rifts, given the inherent requirements involved a specialized higher Tier. More than a few Talented aperologists who thought they’d score easy victories discovering aura recipes had instead found out that while one-off rifts were within their Talent’s power most of the time, translating that into something repeatable was far more difficult.

As the conversation drifted on to the next topic, Matt grabbed two drinks from a passing waiter and sauntered up to Liz, who stepped off to the side to snack. “Drink?”

Plucking one from his hand, she sighed, “Thanks, honey.”

Leaning in closer, she whispered while shielding them from idle ears, “I think this went well. Very well. So well that we are going to have to do it a few dozen more times.”

