She couldn’t really describe it any other way. Regardless, she was mostly used to it by this point, and so it was only a mild distraction and wouldn’t inhibit her combat ability in the slightest.

“Yes, mom.”

Tala nodded again and smiled. “You’ll do well.”

Lea didn’t stay longer, but she felt the smile grow across her face as she used the momentum she’d been building to blast downward at an angle toward the pressed beast-kin and hue-folk.

She marveled at how much more she’d been able to store now that she was Fused. That very thought caused her joy to mount higher.

She was Fused body, spirit, and soul.

Her sword was already in her hand, and she’d aimed well.

Her landing cratered the cobbles below her, even as two legionnaires fell behind her, cleaved in two by her angled arrival and well-aimed sword.

Unfortunately, the sergeant had twisted out of the way, only taking a glancing cut to a deflecting hand.

Lea’s sword rang like a chime, the impossibly thin blade trembling at the strain of the hit, not that there was any danger of it breaking. Its creator had bound its form into the very nature of reality. No amount of anti-magic nor mundane forces would ever threaten its integrity.

Rust, most magic couldn’t so much as dull the tip, regardless of advancement or power level.

She loved her sword, hers by right, earned and claimed through combat.

The sergeant struck toward her back, the officer seemingly able to shape his anti-magical power as it extended to surround her, condensing and trying to keep her suppressed.

She spun, deflecting his strike and cutting into his black-metal spear-shaft, getting more than half-way through before the angle changed enough to force her to scoop the blade back out, sending the chunk flying free.

Her eyes pulsed with blood-red glee, and the sergeant stumbled, his follow-up attack faltering.

Behind him, the mix of house and city guards had engaged the two remaining basic legionnaires, pressing them hard, but the sergeant seemed not to care. “What are you?”

Lea blessed the stars for that set-up. She’d been preparing for this for years, even if she feared she’d never be worthy, let alone have the opportunity, to say it. “What you could have been but fell short. Your failure cannot be borne, and so I am also your death.”

And to her surprise, Existence itself thrummed through her soul at the words.
