It is important to note, dear petitioner, that the Sovereign Cities are not sovereign at all. They like this name because it suits their egos to call themselves powers unto themselves, able to do whatever they wish. In truth, the powers of the region are hateful, awful, and cruel, and the people who live there are a product of their governance, and themselves.

To put it bluntly, the Sovereign Cities are the true arseholes of Glaquin.

The Wasteland Kingdoms is separated from itself by [Teleport] distances and toxic monsters, while a ruling council decides matters of war and policy, and a lower council decides on trade. They were once a thriving world power, but when toxic ideology took hold and ruined everything, a few hard working young whippersnappers and their level headed patrons reigned in their self destruction. If it weren’t for the few people in charge able to hold together the greater whole of their people, the Wasteland certainly would have become another region like the Sovereign Cities. Some say the Greensoil Republic was responsible for the Wasteland, some say that the Sovereign Cities were the true culprits, but I don’t know the truth. I don’t truck with rumor.

As for the Greensoil Republic, it took ‘em centuries and they’re still working on it, but those humans managed to carve out a semblance of order from without and within, mostly through horrific acts of violence committed against each other, hand in glove with powerful trade agreements. To this day, the Republic spans one of the largest tamed stretches of land on Veird, and the Viridian King works hard to keep it that way. Some say his Green Circle kills all dissidents; but you didn’t hear that rumor from me.

The cities of the Crystal Forest are each jewels in the sand, too far from one another to truly impinge upon each other’s brilliance. Besides, there’s monsters outside the walls, dammit! There’s better things to do than get up in each other’s pockets all the damn time. But not all is well in that wild land. I hear Ar’Kendrithyst is gearing up for something big, so you best watch out if you plan on traveling the Crystal Forest. And then there’s the tiff brewing between Portal and Spur. I hear it’s over the price of grain and the abundance of Spur’s new cropland, so try to steer clear of that, too, if you can help it.

The Wasteland, the Republic, and the cities of the Crystal Forest. These are the major players of Glaquin, and in each one, the rule of Polite Society reigns, and there are enough thriving bookmakers and authors to pump out enough dogma and propaganda to keep their governments intact; if you believe in that sort of thing, anyway. Stories of heartbreak and death, of journeys and destinations, of tragedy and comedy. And of course, the backstabbing and the murder and the toppling of opposing kingdoms. That last one is a popular trope in both the Wasteland and the Republic, but not so much in the Crystal Forest.

But in the Sovereign Cities, there are barely any stories at all. Sure, they have the Script, but only for those lucky enough to escape the grasp of their armies, but furthermore: who owns a book? Certainly not Anna-down-the-way. She prefers to seduce her neighbor Tommy into her bed, and then to wring him for blackmail because Tommy is a married man, whose wife is looking for the littlest excuse to legally murder him. Adultery is as good a legal reason as any, in that lawless place.

Those damn little Sovereign city states are all cesspools of violence, hatred, and killing, where the land is tame enough that the only monsters running around are slimes, the occasional ooze, and your fellow man. Though those occasional oozes do manage to kill a few hundred people every now and then, the constant wars of the region do more damage than that. I have a question for you: Which is worse? An ooze or a greedy king! It’s a question that’s floated around for centuries and will likely float around for a lot more.

There, in the Sovereign Cities, is where you will find the brigands of the world. The harlots and the cheats. The dirty and the pitiful. I’m sure if you look hard enough, you might see a young man or woman who’ll become a hero or something, but there’s a mighty higher chance those bright blue eyes or comely backsides or frontsides are just that; a front. You better keep your own watchful eyes on those that speak too-good-to-be-true stories, or ask for just a bit of trust, or to come heal their ailing grandma just two doors down, or to help rescue their cat stuck up a tree. They’ll kill you just as soon as pick your pocket. Oh! And the pickpockets! And the urchins! Don’t forget those little devils. You take your eyes off of them once and a whole herd of em’ll pour out of the shanties and murder you for your gold.

It has been postulated by men and women and otherwise, each of them much more learned than I, that the Sovereign Cities can afford to act this way because they only have the one border against the one real enemy, and Killtree takes care of them. The rest of the Cities don’t do shit against what should be a common foe.

Make no mistake, dear petitioner. For all the wars and all the killing, there’s only one real enemy: The Forest. And not that ‘Crystal Forest’ nonsense. I mean a real forest, with real trees. Yeah. You know what I’m talking about. Unicorns and wyrms. Moon reachers and shroomspawn. Dragons living out in the open, hunting wolves and deer larger than houses.

In the border villages, nearer to that dark land, they speak of the Forest with reverence and hatred in equal measure. In the southern cities, far from the front line, they speak of the Forest with disdain and dismissal, because didn’t you hear about what North Curio is doing with their wheat prices? Will South Curio rein them in, or will there be another Grain War? Those arseholes will go to war over practically any little thing.

They’re just going to war to kill the common folk, you know. Everyone with even a lick of sense knows this, but the kids still sign up for whichever force is recruiting, hoping for three square meals a day and the shield of a fellow warrior guarding their blind spot, and a chance to be allowed to Matriculate into the Script. Can’t really blame the kids. They raise ‘em in ignorance over there. Try to keep the people dumb and docile. Book burning is a valued pastime in those places. And don’t you dare speak against the people in charge while you’re over there, or you’re likely to be found dead in your bed from ‘natural causes’.

Anyway. Back to the exposition you paid for.

North Curio hates South Curio. The going rumor for the last two hundred years is that North wishes to be the only ‘Curio’, and for there to be no distinction at all because South Curio should be a smoldering firepit, not a thriving city. South Curio hates North Curio, because they want to pick a different name, but because of some old laws, they can’t change their name unless North Curio changes their name, first.

Pearl, nary two [Teleport]s south of the Curios, wishes the Curios would just kill each other already. No one likes those blasted northerners. And they both keep raising the price of wheat! Burn them both and let the slimes take over for all anyone cares; that’s Pearl’s stance.

Charme is of much the same mind as Pearl, but rather than burning both Curios to the ground, they want to burn everything to the ground, including Pearl. Some would say that Charme even wants to burn itself to the ground, too. Pearl and both Curios are mostly indifferent to Charme, because Charme can’t get its bumbling royalty to make up its mind regarding any outside matters. The land of five hundred princes, they call it. If you ever meet a Prince of Charme on the street, run the other way if you value your life. Those people’re just as likely to conscript you into some unwinnable war as they are to shank you and take your gold like some common highwayman. Between you and me, it’s hard to see the difference. A robbery is death by one or two cuts, right there and then, while the army is death by one or two cuts somewhere in the next two months, at the hand of some other poor arsehole standing in the same boots as you, but holding onto a different flag.

And then we’re back to Killtree. For all the ‘good’ they do ‘defending’ the ‘land’ from the Forest, that place is a pile of shit. Full of adventurers looking to die, but with a higher level and in more exotic ways than the rest of us. Best to stay away from that sort of place.

Ah, but yeah. The Forest. Killtree is the only place that puts any resources to fighting the Forest; they’re the northernmost Sovereign City, so that makes sense. But they’re just doing it for their own good, don’t you know? All they care about is money, too. Grand rads, wyrm kills, unicorn season, experience farms, bordellos and houses of ill repute. That’s what they’re about.

… What do you mean bordello and houses of ill repute are the same? No, they’re not. Bordellos are classy places… Or was it the other way around? Whatever. They got holes where you can stick your stick, or get stuck, or just do some heavy grinding if that’s your thing. I ain’t judging.

Black markets are just markets over there.

Be careful of the meat you buy. That’s all I’m saying on that.

I will say one good thing about that place: They have a hard-on for killing doppelgangers like you would not believe. There’s no laws against killing people suspected of not being who they look like. This, as you can imagine, leads to a lot of problems. But at least there’s no Cinnabar Hand over there.

Killtree is still a shithole, though. Best not go there if you can help it.

Ah! One more good thing: At least they’re mostly human over there in the Sovereign Cities. Can’t say that about the rest of the lands of Glaquin.

The Knowledge mage leaned back in his chair. He was an ancient human man, with white hair and piercing, dark eyes. He asked, “That enough of an overview for you?”

Jane stood up from her chair, saying, “Yup. That’s about what I’ve already heard. Thanks for the trouble.”

The Knowledge Mage asked, “You sure you ain’t wantin’ something more specific?”

Jane smiled, then said, “Then you could sell that to someone else.”

“Bah!” He pointed to the door. “Go on then. Go commit murder in the Cities and get yourself a fresh Familiar Form. Not like they can stop ya. I’ll just let you know, though, that the Cinnabar Hand does not recruit people like you, and they do not operate out of the Sovereign Cities. That’s not rumor. That’s fact.”

Jane frowned at the man. She said, “I know you’re baiting me into revealing something, but implying murder? Really? That’s just shameful.”

“Ah! So you’re going after something a bit more—”

Jane walked out of the room, saying, “Bye.”

Light chuckling laughter followed Jane out of the Knowledge Mage’s office.

- - - -

The Knowledge Mage had been right. Killtree was a shithole, but it was still Jane’s destination.

Mud layered Jane’s boots while a dreary sky held above, sprinkling a light rain across the land. If the road under Jane’s feet had ever been solid, it hadn’t been solid in Jane’s lifetime. She walked to the side of a practical river of mud, splattering dirt with every step, while cow-drawn carts and people plodded along, scattering brown puddles as they went, each to their own destinations. The unclean scent of mostly humanity struggled against the rain, fighting to make itself known. Jane breathed easy right now, but she knew that she would be choking if the downpour wasn’t keeping the scent down.

Almost all the buildings around her were wooden shacks, but to call them ‘buildings’ was rather charitable. The planks forming the walls were only half there, with inch-thick gaps separating each plank from the next. The roofs were marginally better. From what Jane had seen on her trip into town, the roofs were generally made of wood and thatch. From what Jane had seen of the people, with their torn clothes and dirty faces, if water poured though a rotted roof, she doubted they cared.

Like. The Script was right fucking there. How the hell could people live like this when [Stoneshape] was a single point away? Ugh! It almost drove Jane insane, but she let it go. She tried not to think too hard about whatever governmental fuckery was going on around here. Registrars for the Script were illegal around here; they got chased out unless they got a local patron, while that patron only allowed people to Matriculate if those people joined their army for a period of however many years. Jane wasn’t sure on that part. She doubted that it was a set number of years, at all.

Some people obviously did have access to [Stoneshape], though.

Grey stone buildings held prominent positions in the city, but they were few and far between. Much more common were squat stone guard towers here and there; like mushrooms growing in a mishmash of wooden shacks.

What was really strange about the whole experience of coming to Killtree, and what still threw Jane for a loop, was that there was no city wall. Jane had walked past shacks, and guard towers, and farmland under heavy guard to get to here, but she had never seen a wall, at all.

A child ran past, barely touching Jane.

The child got three meters ahead before she slowed down. She turned, and with a dirty face and matted hair, she yelled, “Whatsa poor prick like you who don’t got no gold! Piss off, wanker!”

