The girl ran off, splattering mud as she stomped away, no doubt to try her pickpocketing against someone else. Jane had prepared for thieves; except for her badge and a few coins hidden in her boots, all of her stuff was in a safe location, back in the mountains that she crossed to get to the Sovereign Cities.

But something had still led that little thief to believe that Jane was rich. Was it her clothes? Couldn’t be. Jane wore brown leathers and tan cloth, with a brown leather cloak to ward off the rain, like almost everyone else around her. No [Conjure Armor] today. She had even left her rings behind. Jane missed the extra Stats, but she certainly did not need artifacts of that quality on her person, as she traveled this awful land. Besides, she would likely need to resort to [Fire Body] and her flame ooze sooner or later.

Jane looked around. No one else on the streets wore anything nicer than dirty linen or marred leathers.

Oh. Shit. Duh. Jane was looking around, exactly like a tourist would. She quickly resumed her forward journey, acting like she belonged, not really looking at anything in particular—

That failed thief wasn’t the only one who had spotted Jane.

To the side of the road, above the mud and atop a short tower of stone, a pair of Killtree guards, wearing full [Conjure Armor], one red, the other maroon, stared down at Jane. Red tapped Maroon on the shoulder, saying something quiet. Jane averted her eyes from everyone and especially from the guards. She walked forward, under the watch of their guard tower.

The guards called to her. “Oy!”

Jane kept walking.

“Oy! Outsider girl! You don’t stop this’ll go bad for you.”

Jane paused, reluctantly.

“Yeah. You hear us.”

The air and rain shifted in front of Jane. A blip of red resolved into Red. A blip of dark red resolved into Maroon. Both of them were the cleanest people Jane had seen since her arrival in town. Red was a dude not much older than Jane. Maroon could have been Red’s brother.

Red asked, “Who are you, what do you want with Killtree?”

Maroon held out a truthstone. The stone glowed faintly green under the rain.

Jane looked at the stone, then at the men. She said, “To kill monsters. I’m here for the unicorn hunt.”

Maroon held the bright green stone up, then hummed.

Red glanced from the stone to Jane, saying, “Good answer. Do you think you can kill one, or should we run you out of town now?”

“I am a hundred percent positive I would be a boon to any Hunt.”

The stone continued to glow bright green, as rain fell all around.

Red frowned.

Maroon tucked the stone away, saying, “You know where to go?”

“Yup.”

“Good.” Maroon said, “Get there fast.”

Maroon [Blink]ed back up to the guard tower.

Red took one more look at Jane, and said, “Those nightmares are dangerous, you know.”

“They’re not the only ones,” Jane deferred.

Red smirked, then nodded. He blipped away, back up to his tower. He called down to Jane, “You be careful out there, adventurer. If the unicorns don’t get you, other people will. The Hunt draws all kinds.”

Jane nodded at the guards, and walked forward.

Rain fell. Mud splashed. People went where they needed to go. Carts and cows plodded by, each carrying their goods to wherever they needed to be. And Jane continued on her way. She took a right at an intersection, and spotted the Guildhouse.

The Guildhouse of Killtree was a collection of large stone buildings with a low stone wall surrounding the whole estate. The central structure was largest of the buildings, and twice the height of the stone towers all around the shanties of Killtree. That large building must have been the main guildhouse, for a central pair of double doors stood open. Sunlight shone out of those double doors, into the rain, setting the weather to glittering like suspended diamonds. Jane stepped toward—

Two people in the meager crowd stepped lightly behind Jane. One lifted a dagger to her back, the other stabbed sideways across her neck. Both weapons skittered across dark blue energy, doing little actual damage. Both attackers cursed, loud and quick, as Jane responded to their attack. A dark blue dagger plunged deep into the stomach of the first man. Another dark blue dagger went through the neck of the second. They gurgled, and died.

Jane had [Hunter’s Instinct] running ever since she left the guards, with [Invisible Rejuvenation] ticking off occasionally to keep her HP high. She had seen her attackers well before they attacked. She had seen their dirty metal knives, and the absolute desperation in their faces. She didn’t want to kill them, but they had honestly tried to kill her first. Whatever their reason for their actions they got exactly what they deserved. If Jane had just let them off with a warning they would have gone on to kill someone else.

It was an awful calculus, but the math did not lie.

A few onlookers lifted their heads to see her kill her attackers, but no one said anything. Some walked faster. Some didn’t seem to care at all. One man on the other side of the street even laughed as half a dozen children poured out of a nearby alleyway, rushing for the bodies Jane had dropped. One of the kids was the girl from before; the attempted pickpocket. She flashed Jane a wicked smile as she began pulling off the boots from Jane’s first attacker.

Jane’s eyes went wide at the girl.

The girl must have recognized that Jane was deciding what to do with her, because she instantly dropped the man’s leg, leaving the half-removed boot behind as she ran back into the alleyway, vanishing into the shadows of the shanties. Jane could easily track her… but... should she?

Had that girl just played Jane into killing for her?

While a rare moment of indecision struck Jane to her very core, and her conjured daggers dissipated from the bodies, the remaining kids stripped the fresh corpses of any and all goods. They rapidly left nothing behind but pale remains, face down in the mud. Jane backed away from the dead. She controlled her breathing as she turned toward the guildhouse. She walked on, hopefully leaving behind whatever had just happened.

Jane felt the eyes of people watching her as she walked toward the stone guildhouse, but nothing happened as she stepped past the low stone wall and onto the stone tiles of guildhouse property. No environmental [Ward] hung in the air around this place. It did smell a bit nicer than the rest of the city, though. Like rain and stone, instead of mud and mold and unkempt hair.

She walked forward, into the light pouring out of the open double doors, into a stone tavern that smelled of spice and ale. Voices carried all around her. People in armor, both real and conjured, sat around talking to each other, discussing hunts and battlefield tactics. Jane stepped to the side as a pair of women in armor walked past her, flipping their hooded cloaks over their heads as they stepped out into the rain.

Jane tried to ignore what had happened in the muddy streets as she went to find the counter and the quest board.

- - - -

A man named Rohn, decked out in full, off-white [Conjure Armor], stood at the head of a classroom. A large blackboard filled the wall behind him while a secretary stood by, ready to change the image on the blackboard at Rohn’s discretion. Currently, half of the blackboard was a map of the lands north of Killtree, while the other half was filled with the image of a cut-off collar. It was a plain band of iron to be worn like a crown. The secretary held an actual cut-off collar in her hands, right now, holding it up for all to see.

Jane was one out of two dozen new-to-the-area adventurers, sitting on wooden benches in that classroom, listening to the man talk about unicorns. Almost everyone in the room was human. Jane sat mostly alone, but some stragglers for the required lecture had taken up spots close to her; a fidgety looking human man, and the only incani in the room. She was a laid back woman with big black horns and dark purple skin. The incani yawned, as Rohn talked. It was not her first yawn since entering the room.

Rohn took the iron band cut-off collar from his secretary, saying, “We’ve already gone over the map, but now we’ll go over this. This is rather standard fare for a unicorn hunt, as I have been explaining. This is how you put it on.” He put the collar on his head, like a crown. “Very simple stuff!” He added, “If you don’t wear a collar, you—”

The incani woman raised her hand.

Rohn looked to her, his eyes full of annoyance. He sighed out, “What?”

“Why’s it called a collar when it goes on yer head?”

Rohn frowned at her. “Because it collars a part of you. It is not an enhancing effect.”

“Right right.” The woman smirked, saying, “Thanks.”

Rohn sighed, then took off the collar, and said, “I’ve lists of people who sell these, or you can buy one from the Guild. They’re a hundred gold apiece—”

Several people in the classroom mumbled complaints.

“— and they’ll serve you well. But they won’t block everything.” He handed the collar to his secretary. “Which is why you must venture in groups to hunt unicorns. Unicorns are Light Essence monsters of the highest order. Their most pervasive effect is an aura that makes the world look pretty. Nothing is able to block this effect, for it is not mind magic, but a trick of the light. If the mangled faces of your ugly partners start to look pretty, you better have a blocking effect in place, because if you don’t, you’re gonna start frolicking in the streets and getting frisky in ways you never thought possible.

“But if your partners have their blocking measures in place, what they’re going to see is your dumb ass playing around with knives and your own beautiful innards.” Rohn stressed, “Maybe, if you’ve been a decent enough partner, your teammates will see fit to wrestle you down and slam a cut-off collar on your head.” He added, “Maybe.”

Rohn looked around the room, saying, “Chances are, of the twenty five people sitting here, three of you might make it back. If you manage to kill a unicorn you’ll be hailed a hero, and then be expected to go right back out, only to face slightly better odds. If you manage to make it all the way through a season you can call yourself a veteran unicorn hunter. In such an unlikely event, you’ll have won yourself a nobility from the King.”

“Fuck your nobility,” said a guy on the other side of the room. “I just want to get paid.”

A small chorus of agreement spread, but was quickly stifled by a heavy hatred, spreading in the room like an invisible miasma. Jane watched as half of the room looked at the other half, some with expressions of disbelief, others with open, silent hatred.

Rohn frowned deeply. He steadied himself and purposefully did not look at the guy who spoke up, as he spoke to everyone, “I can look around this room and tell that most of you are not from here. This is your only warning. Disrespect your betters at your peril. Our King and Queen and entire Court keep this land free so that you can do as you please.” He stared at the offender, and said, “Speak that way again and I will do as I please, and take your head.”

The man in the audience said nothing.

Rohn said, “Good.” He added, “You can listen to your betters. This bodes well for your chances out there and in Killtree.” He gestured toward his secretary. The woman shifted the blackboard to the next image, this time done in colored chalk. Rohn gestured toward the drawing, saying, “This is the classical, undamaged form of a unicorn.”

The unicorn was a thick, white horse. More a clydesdale than an arabian, the monster was layered with enough muscle to shame a bodybuilder. Its mane flowed long, fluffy, and prismatic, like a rainbow cloud. Similar clouds of fur trailed away from its hooves and tail. Its singular horn was a half-twisted, perfect spike of rainbow radiance the size of its long head, while its eyes were pools of black.

Rohn said, “The average unicorn stands at three meters tall, from ground to back, meaning five meters from floor to tip of the horn. We’ve seen unicorns twice that size. We’ve seen runts half that size. The largest ones have an aura that covers dozens of kilometers. We send our Elites after those, so if you see one larger than six meters tall, run and report; this is your job in that specific situation.” He added, “Otherwise you’re expected to kill the beast and bring the corpse in for proper identification.”

He gestured toward his secretary. She changed the blackboard.

The drawing of a unicorn transformed into a nightmare. The singular horn was joined by a ring of lesser horns surrounding its entire head, like a ring of rainbow light. Its entire body turned dark, like night. The largest change was to its face. The mouth was a maw like a lamprey’s, circular and lined with teeth and tentacles.

Rohn said, “This is the tame version of a damaged unicorn. It gets much worse than this if any of your people are missing their mental protection. I’ve seen damaged unicorns made of teeth or eyes, or worse. Some of you might think that this means you should go alone. This would be a mistake. You will undoubtedly find other people who have made this mistake and subsequently become thralls to the unicorn.

