Jane followed through the shadows.

Jane and Bett quickly went through the town, looking for certain things; books, ledgers, personal effects.

Jane checked through a few basements until she found one of the larger stashes of bodies. She went to investigate. White lace-like growths tangled the bodies together, but they had certainly been piled down here, and elsewhere. With gentle shadows, Jane felt into those piles of bodies, searching for effects and other clues. The bodies were thrown down here wearing all their clothes. Some of them still had items in their pockets. Shroomspawn gathered and play-acted as humans using objects left out in the open, but they did not really care for the hidden things.

Jane gathered several possible clues among the corpses, including their causes of death. No arms smashed, no skulls bashed in, though there were many holes and gouges among the bones. These people died to some sort of cutting magics, before being dumped into their own basements.

If the shroomspawn had done this, there would be broken bones.

She checked several other basements, gathering more clues that she held in her shadows while she moved. She made two trips back to the hill outside of town to deposit those items on to a stone table, under a [Weather Ward] with Scallion and Marric. By her third pass the pile was large enough to need its own [Weather Ward]. By her third trip, water slime Bett waited on the ground nearby, outside of the [Weather Ward]s, seeming to enjoy the rain.

Jane said, “I think we got most of it.”

Marric said, “Time to clear the town.” He looked up at the darkened sky. “Sunset in an hour.”

Bett said, “Looks to me like someone killed the town and planted the shroomspawn.”

Scallion said, “If any of us were in with the locals I think we could get a story out of this from the town down the way, but we’re not, and I don’t want to be.”

“I saw one pair of shrooms mimic the same motions five times.” Bett said, “Creepy fuckers!”

Jane said, “Enough investigation. Time to burn it down.”

A round of agreements followed.

- - - -

In the town square of a dead stone town, where mushrooms lived and everything else rotted, a juvenile Bleeding Veil grew, like a tall, white egg. He grew fat and huge under the near-constant rain, and he was almost ready to hatch. At nearly four stories large, the Veil was the largest growth in this part of the Forest. It couldn’t move, not yet, but it was protected by hundreds of smaller red and blue caps, and even smaller still white caps, who had yet to mature into a battle form, or step out of the white roots surrounding their King. The adult red and blue caps tended to the immature ones by choosing one among five nearby whitecap growths, and plucking out four of them, killing the unborn shroomspawn but leaving one with more than enough room to grow.

The red and bluecaps were busy all the time. When they weren’t on duty to their King and their kind, the red caps and blue caps moved around their conquered stone kingdom, mocking those who came before. They exchanged pieces of stone for bits of trash. They greeted each other as they passed in the streets. They killed each other for sport, or as their King decided. They practiced making noises at each other. When they had played enough or if they played too hard, they moved to the edge of the King’s domain, laying down their lives, becoming part of the real kingdom; an extension to the ever expanding root system that gave birth to them all.

But something was wrong, in this wet, rotting paradise.

The shadow of the nascent King flexed. Fire fountained up from the ground; a miniature volcano that immediately set the fetal whitecaps aflame. Adult red and bluecaps raced to the fire, trying to smother the attack. They merely raced into the furnace, and the furnace grew. Fire spread.

The cradle of the nascent King flickered white as the fire tried to eat the egg. The cradle did not catch; the King survived. The fire surrounded the egg, trying to kill the kingdom before it could truly flourish, but the fire could not catch, for an entire city protected that singular, white egg.

On the very edge of the town, where the white mycelium of the Bleeding Veil ended, the tips of growth caught fire. Rain smothered the flames, but heat still spread. Steam rose, as three more outsiders began their attack.

A creature of wind and water held in the sky. Purple stretched above the city in bubbles and sheets. Rain had protected the town from the fire, and the land was soaked to the basements and beyond, but now, the rain did not fall. It did not smother. It was only a matter of time before the city caught flame.

The King ordered a counterattack.

Blackcaps peered out from their hiding places all around town. They cast at the sky, ripping apart the spells layered by the creature of wind and water. Rain fell again, doing much to extinguish the fires growing around the King.

Flashes of teal struck the blackcaps from out of nowhere. Minds shattered. Spells slipped out of control. Blackcaps fell to the mud as their caps split in half to fall from their decaying heads.

The nascent King rumbled, trying to move in his throne; in his prison. His four story body wriggled as fire raced around his exterior, spreading itself among those without his defenses.

Layers of purple covered the sky again, blocking the rain.

The King noticed another problem.

A bumbling roil of water crashed through a stone street, pulling more water as it rolled through the streets, drying out the city as it passed. Blue caps shot beams of light into the roil but none struck the rapidly moving slime controlling it all. It hid well, somewhere inside the frothing wave.

All the while, loud, human noises filled the sky, as people yelled at each other from across the town.

The fire around the King switched tactics. It left the King, and went elsewhere. Bluecaps and redcaps poured out of nearby buildings, trying to smother the flames with their own damp bodies. It worked, mostly.

Across town, behind the roiling wave, fires stretched up to above the buildings as dried out land and mushrooms caught flame. The living fire and the living water ensured the flame remained, and grew.

Fire spread. Shroomspawn died. The rain did not save them, for whenever a blackcap tried to rip the covering spells apart, a teal spike of warping light ripped them apart from the inside.

The nascent King watched as its nascent kingdom perished in living fire. Burning death spread first among the outskirts, then among the shroomspawn. The would-be monarch watched, helpless, as the fire came for him. He was too young to fight back. He hadn’t eaten enough meat, or been given enough time to mature, and now, he never would.

- - - -

Jane, Scallion, Bett, and Marric, each of them back to their normal forms, stood on the hill.

Stonebrook was an inferno protected from the rain. Scallion’s [Ward]s failed here and there from the intense heat rolling up. A little rain fell into the town, but not enough. The monsters burned. The town would soon be cleaned by fire.

“We’re going to have to put the town in the ground tomorrow.” Scallion said, “I didn’t expect the fire to grow so large. Or for that plan to work out so well.”

Jane said, “[Water Body] was useful. Dried out everything.”

Bett said, “Took me a year to get. How long did it take for you to get [Fire Body]?”

Jane said, “I was kinda lucky. Firemaw Mountain is rather large, but there was no one else there.”

“No one was there because even the ash catches people on fire,” Marric said.

“I could handle that.”

Marric said, “Sure, with [Greater Treat Wounds]. But do you actually have that?”

Jane frowned at him, then glowed her hand with the spell, asking, “Anyone got a wound?”

Marric said, “I got a—”

Jane tapped the orcol on the arm.

Marric smiled, saying, “Yup. That’s [Greater Treat Wounds], alright.”

“There’s a string of volcanoes down in the archipelago with lots of flame slimes everywhere.” Bett said, “I considered [Fire Body], but that place is too popular. People trawl those gentle calderas all the time.”

Scallion asked, “Do you two want to join Bett and I for dinner? I usually cook for two, but I can cook for four just as easy.” He looked up at Marric, and corrected himself, “For six.”

“I’d love that.” Jane smiled wide, saying, “Have you tried those potatoes that came out of Spur?”

Scallion instantly said, “Those potatoes are so boring. Corn is where it’s at.”

Jane frowned. “Corn! That boring old thing?”

Marric asked, “How is corn boring? Potatoes are boring. They’re practically just roots.”

“That’s what makes them so good!” Jane said, “You can put anything on them and it works.”

Bett gestured to the stone table in front of them, full of the stuff taken from the town. “What are we doing with these?”

Marric said, “I’ve looked a few of the more obvious ones over with [Object Reading]. Like that shield with the un-rusted holes in it, and that book with the knife-like marks. These people were attacked by humans, then stacked into their homes and basements like trash. I don’t know how the shroomspawn started, and I don’t have [Witness], so if you want to continue this investigation we need to start talking to the neighbors down the way.” He added, “The ones who would have died if that Bleeding Veil had bloomed.”

Scallion said, “I don’t want to do any of that. I want to kill unicorns.”

Bett said, “I vote for unicorns, too.” She added, “It seems that we work well together, though we had to change plans halfway through when Jane couldn’t burn the Veil by herself.” She looked to Jane, saying, “I didn’t know their defenses were that high, either.”

“I knew...” Jane said, “But I didn’t know, you know.”

Scallion said, “This just means that we might need to adjust in the middle of a unicorn fight, and we’ll only be able to adjust once. Everything I’ve read says that unicorns and their thralls are smart enough to call out false orders. Once they hear a voice, they can mimic it.”

Marric said, “Yeah. I’ve heard that, too.”

Bett said, “We’ll figure it out.”

Scallion said, “Anyone need assistance to get back to base? I got mana left over.”

“I’m good,” Marric said. “Scion of Focus. Don’t worry about me running out of mana for most situations.”

“I can get there myself.” Jane said.

“Okay then,” Scallion said.

Bett reached a hand to Scallion, saying, “Take me home, Scallion.”

As the horizon burned and the sun set under rain, Scallion took Bett’s hand. In a blip of purple, both of them left the field. Marric nodded to Jane, then vanished in a blip of teal. Jane took one last look at the burning stone city, then stared down at the table full of items they had scavenged from the bodies underground. With a push of her hands, she [Stoneshape]ed the items down into the ground, into a water-tight casket. With another push, she pulled dirt laden with grass over the unmarked item hoard.

Jane stared across the horizon, at the burning stone city. As mushrooms caught flame and turned to ash on a rainy breeze, Jane gave a silent prayer for the dead. She stared at the scene for a long minute.

She departed the field in a blip of dark blue.

- - - -

Scallion cooked a nice dinner of various meats and well caramelized vegetables inside flaky pastry crusts. There was a conversation; it was mostly forgettable until Jane started cleaning up, while Bett, Scallion, and Marric sat by the window, smoking bluegrass.

Jane asked, “You guys really don’t want to figure out what happened to Stonebrook?”

“Absolutely not,” Scallion said. “These people deserve every painful thing that happened to them.”

Jane went stock still for a hot moment. She controlled her anger to a low simmer.

Bett went, “Mmm,” as she blew a stream of blue smoke out of the window, into the night.

Marric said, “They did not deserve that, Scallion. That was murder by their own people.”

“Okay okay,” Scallion said. “Maybe not. I don’t know.”

Jane resumed putting away the dishes, saying, “I put the stuff recovered from the city in a box under the ground on the hill we were at. We can go back tomorrow and figure out what really happened, if you want.”

Marric said, “I think we’ve done enough.”

“We could do more.” Jane shoved a plate into the cabinet, then turned to Marric, asking, “Don’t you want to figure out what happened?”

“We know what happened.” Marric said, “Other people came in and killed everyone, then stacked the bodies in the basements.”

“That is not the whole story.”

Scallion spoke up, “There’s nothing more to figure out, Jane. I might not have [Object Reading], but I saw what was in that pile.” He said, “There was jewelry, and rings, and nice buttons, and wealthy things. Lace on a dress. Embossing on a book. Gold engraving on that busted shield.” He said, “Stonebrook tried to rise up from those around them, and were put down for their actions. Either by Killtree, who seems to hate building with architecture that lasts, or by a neighbor out of jealousy. It might have been an action of war from one of the other Sovereign Cities. It might have been a confluence of complicated events, of which we will never know. We do know that they were robbed, though. Completely and utterly. Neither of you two found any gold or rads.

“And it doesn’t really matter what happened, because we’re not going to do a thing about it, because the only way to change this sort of thing around here is to kill everyone who has any power at all...” His voice trailed away for a second. “It gets more complicated from there.”

