“He knows about this stuff, you know?” Bett’s eyes turned soft as she looked at Scallion, saying, “We’re trying to make our own town in archipelago Nergal, and you gotta know this stuff if you want to make it work.”

“Thank you, Bett.” Scallion took a puff of his pipe, before saying, “And yeah. It’s complicated. The biggest problem in the Sovereign Cities is that the populace either believes what the people in power tell them, or, when they do choose to go to the registrar and join the Script, they’re instantly indoctrinated into the Army, which is even more indoctrination into the toxic thinking coming from their rulers. The Sovereign Cities are an impossible, generational problem. I don’t even want to try solving it, and it’s not our place to solve. It’d be like spitting into the wind.”

Bett said, “And you can’t just kill the people in charge. If that worked, then the Sovereign Cities would have been solved a long time ago.”

Jane said, “That’s… really depressing.”

Marric said, “I’m not sure if you should even turn in the quest.”

“Ehh! No need to go that far.” Bett paused. She said, “Or... maybe... I don’t know. A few 'incompletes' won't hurt anyone's record and there wasn't a reward listed anyway.” She added, “Scallion and I don’t need any theoretical money.”

Scallion said, “There’s something rotten in this whole region of the world, and it’s obviously the people who live here.” He added, “I don’t want to get involved.”

"I could use some real money." Marric said, “But if we’re going to be sticking around long enough to kill multiple unicorns, then we don’t need to piss off the people in charge. I still think someone planted that town so that they could kill the shrooms it spawned.” He added, “I didn’t get any levels from it, and I doubt any of you did either. But those were some level 40 monsters.”

Scallion said, “I could easily see some noble killing an illegal town and then planting shroomspawn in the bodies, to then go in with a newly raised army to get some levels on them.” He added, “But yea. We got what we wanted out of it. We’re going to work well together.”

Jane said nothing. Scallion was at least right about one thing: They did work well together.

Bett said, “You were pretty good out there, Jane. Great pyrokinesis.” She turned to Marric, saying, “You killed those blackcaps pretty fast, too.”

“I think this is going to work out,” Marric said. “I’m much more comfortable about sticking around for multiple unicorns than I was before.”

“For sure,” Bett said.

Scallion said, “I agree.”

Jane finished putting away the plates and the utensils and the pots and pans, and said, “I don’t really need the money, but I would at least like to do right by the dead. Whatever happened, a lot of people died. The bodies need to be truly destroyed, or else they’re just going to rise as undead.”

Scallion said, “Ah. Well. We can certainly do that.” He added, “Sorry if I sounded… flippant. I guess I was taking it a bit far. We can go back tomorrow and perform a Final Farewell. I have [Cleansing Flame].”

Bett smoked her pipe, nodding as she looked away, into the night.

Jane said, “Thank you. That would be enough.”

- - - -

The next morning, a [Scry] to Stonebrook revealed the presence of an army camped out in the gutted remains of the city. Mages were already taking down the stone buildings and exhuming the bodies. Jane didn’t get much more information about what they were doing than that. None of her [Scry] eyes lasted more than a second; the occupying army popped them as quick as Jane could cast the spell. None of the other three adventurers got much further than Jane.

It was quickly decided that none of them would ever go back to Stonebrook.

Jane couldn’t shake the feeling that a great wrong had been committed.

- - - -

A unicorn posting went up in the guild’s job board at noon. The monster attacked a settlement far to the north, but someone had managed to get a message out before they fell under the beast’s sway.

Five teams, each of them staying in town, near the guildhouse, instantly deployed from Killtree. Two teams murdered each other in the streets of the muddy city. Two teams [Teleport]ed directly into the field. The unicorn ripped apart both. The last team cleaned up the efforts of the teams that [Teleport]ed directly into the fight, killing dominated adventurers along with a good hundred assorted monsters and villagers. And then they killed the unicorn.

By the time dinner rolled around, and the victorious team returned, the story was already all over the guildhouse.

Jane, Marric, Bett, and Scallion, sat at a corner table in the bar of the guildhouse, playing Wizard’s Towers like they had all morning long, watching the boards for another unicorn quest. Since the major fuckup at noon, all four of them were now acutely aware of just how dangerous a unicorn hunt actually was, and exactly how non-caring the city of Killtree could be. Their group decision to hang back and let the first unicorn of the season go to someone else was already turning out to be a good idea.

And all around, rumors spread. People spoke of adventurer bodies found in the mud in the streets of Killtree, and of the northern village the Unicorn had brought under its power. The winning team that cleaned up the whole mess also had a lot to say. Right now, the leader of the victorious team held the prismatic unicorn horn aloft like it was a meter-long trophy, as he boasted of their accomplishments, while a teammate of the leader bought out all the beer in the guild.

They did not buy the guild a round of beer; they bought it out, to deny others a drink.

Guildmaster Rohn stepped in at that point in time, saying that they could buy an hour of denial for a thousand gold. They bought four hours.

Their leader roared for anyone with ears to hear, how they had won, and how they had killed those that came before. The Healer man from the other day was on the unicorn’s side. The victorious team had to search for the Healer, because the unicorn would sometimes run away, wounded, only to come back fully [Heal]ed. They found the dominated Healer tied up with vinespawn, missing all his limbs and fingers except for one arm and one finger; just enough to administer his magic. They ‘righteously’ killed that ‘monster lover’. It ‘served him right’ for falling under the unicorn’s sway.

Jane almost puked. She almost killed the boaster herself. She almost did a lot of things that would have been very bad, but she did not. She stayed the course. Killtree was not her problem to solve.

Marric had already linked them all into a [Telepathy] network. As Jane shared her revulsion and utter disgust at every other person in the room, Scallion mirrored her sentiments, happy to convert her to his side.

That was their inner, teammate-only dialogue. Outwardly, they all cheered when the atmosphere of the room demanded a cheer. They all gave the barest amount of praise for the ‘unicorn slayers’, as they were now calling themselves. They all watched from the sidelines, as Guildmaster Rohn oversaw everyone.

Rohn might have also been giving the bare minimum of support to the new ‘unicorn slayers’. But that was just a guess. That morning, when she turned in the quest as incomplete, saying, under green truthstone, that an army came in and was cleaning up the place, Guildmaster Rohn had given her a strange, weird look. It was not a look of surprise, as though saying ‘you couldn’t kill some shroomspawn?’ But a knowing look; one that spoke unknown volumes.

The problem, was that Jane had no idea what that look actually meant.

- - - -

The next three days passed without a unicorn sighting, and then two unicorns appeared on the same day. Four teams dispatched for the first sighting, while Jane and her people remained in the guildhouse. They weren’t about to rush out the gate and get ambushed from behind. It turned out to be a good tactic; they were the only people still in the guildhouse for the second sighting.

As Rohn handed them the details of the sighting and the official documents for the transport of unicorn flesh across Killtree soil, he said, “This one is larger than most. If you can’t do this quest either, I suggest you pull out sooner rather than later.”

Jane took the paperwork, saying, “Thank you, Guildmaster.”

- - - -

All four of them sat in their base ten minutes after getting the target identification from Rohn.

Jane sent a [Scry] orb flying fast across the land, traveling north from Killtree, then east. From far away, she saw a gentle white glow, diffuse across the muddy land like a white fog kilometers across. It was the light shifting aura of the unicorn. The monster was somewhere inside that obscuring haze.

Jane came back to herself, saying, “Found it.”

Marric came to, saying, “Me too.”

Bett sat up from her chair, asking, “Jane on the monster, the rest support? According to Rohn the unicorn will go after her.”

Scallion stood up from his chair. Bett stepped to his side.

Jane stood up from her chair to walk outside, saying. “I’ll shift. You all can follow Marric if you want to land somewhere slightly safer. Try not to get near me. I’ll be throwing out a lot of flame.”

Scallion said, “That’s the plan.”

- - - -

Jane blipped onto a field of red flowers, her orange body expanding outward as she tried to find shadows to slip into, but there were none. There also weren’t flowers three seconds ago. The white fog surrounding the unicorn’s domain had shifted, surrounding Jane in an illusion. As Jane looked around, with infrared sight and full surrounding vision, she was both impressed, and worried. To all of her visual senses, the flowers looked real. They caught on the sunlight like rubies after a rain.

But they did not burn, and Jane was a living flame. The very air scorched and flickered with distortion, but the flowers remained whole and unharmed. If Jane had a sense of smell, she might have smelled something burning, but she did not. Or maybe flame oozes did, but they always put out so much of their own heat that taking anything in as subtle as a scent just did not work. [Scent Tracker] and [Hunter’s Instinct] didn’t seem to—

Jane [Blink]ed right, ten meters. She didn’t see anything coming. She didn’t sense anything arriving. Or targeting her, or anything like that. But she did realize that the flowers around her were very pretty, and her mind, even as an ooze, was still subject to standard, non-magical mesmerism. Pretty things still looked pretty.

Jane landed on red flowers that sparkled in the sunlight, exactly how they sparkled before. They might have been arranged exactly the same as they had been before Jane switched locations.

Jane raced forward—

She rolled over something that caught fire in flailing streams. Battle sounded from somewhere close. A fire blazed nearby. Jane saw a flickering heat on the air, briefly, and the heat wasn’t from her.

But oozes did not just hunt by sight alone. They were immaculate ambush predators, where every step and touch and vibration in the ground told them exactly where their prey was hiding. Like in her spider form, Jane felt the land, listening for stomping and running. She spread out like a loose pancake, searching for—

Someone was fighting nearby. A lot of someones.

The image of flowers around Jane broke into motes of light. The battlefield was revealed. A plant horror of a hundred green tentacles raced to get away from Jane; it was already on fire. Its movements only served to spread that fire to other vine monsters.

Scallion flew high in the sky; a being of water and air and gravity. He cast layers of purple light across the ground, one after another, some wide, some tall, some pointed in directions other than straight up. Vine monsters, already on fire, struggled to hold onto the ground as their bodies stretched upward. People covered in blood and intestines, like warpaint and flower necklaces, tangled into the sky, holding onto each other with knives.

Bursts of dark light dispelled purple wards, crashing people to the ground. The people recovered like perfect acrobats, barely having to touch the ground to find footing. They raced forward, toward some unknown goal, only for teal spikes of magic to rip into their minds—

The red flowers returned all around Jane, perfect and glittering, as before.

The air shifted. The center of Jane’s orange body splashed in every direction as dark blue light flashed around her self, absorbing and negating most of the damage. Her gooey constitution negated the rest. A hoof print, a meter across, lay in the center of the stomp. The unicorn had turned Jane from a pancake into a donut. Jane reacted, [Hunter’s Instincts] already flaring.

She slipped back together, unnaturally quick for an ooze. The hoof had already moved on, but Jane lifted upward. She touched something solid, and something furry. She should have been able to catch it, but as her flaming body touched some unknown thing, she tried to dig in, to flare hotter, but she only slipped away. She still managed to burn something.

A roar, loud and breaking, rippled across the land.

