Jane wanted to argue for Killtree, but Scallion was right. He would do well to not be so open about it, though.

Marric said, “Shroomspawn… I don’t know.” He turned to look at Scallion, saying, “And you need to cut that shit out. You let it out here, and you might accidentally let it out there, in the field, where people could hear.”

Bett said, “Scallion just hasn’t had anyone else to complain to in a week.”

“I can keep it in my robes.” Scallion desperately asked, “But please, just tell me that you see what I see.”

Jane said, “I see it.”

“Thank you!” Scallion said, smiling brightly. “Yes! Good! I’m not crazy.”

Marric put Jane’s quest information back down on the table. “This is a fine quest. I was hoping to avoid shroomspawn, but it’s fine.”

Bett asked, “What’s the problem with shroomspawn?”

Marric said, “They’re just… disgusting. Emotionally awful, you know.”

Bett burst into laughter.

Marric said, “Jane’ll probably end up doing most of the work. This quest reads like everyone is already dead, and we just have to burn the town to the ground.” He added, “[Stoneshape] it to the ground, too.”

“Something like that,” Jane said.

Scallion said, “So what happens when we discover that the town is full of dissidents, and this quest is just Killtree wanting us to kill their people for them?”

Jane said, “Then we walk away, and I report the quest as incomplete.”

Scallion asked, “And what happens if that becomes a problem?”

“We might have gotten off on the wrong foot.” Jane said, “I’m here for a unicorn; not to make friends with authoritarian governments. We don’t actually need the guild here to help us find the unicorns. It just makes it easier.”

Scallion smiled small, then nodded.

Marric said, “I would like to have a working relationship with Killtree’s guild, if at all possible. But if this quest is a front for state sanctioned murder, we can leave them behind.”

“Guildmaster Rohn ain’t that bad.” Bett said, “Everyone else I could do without.”

Jane asked, “So? Are we doing this?”

Scallion said, “Best to figure out what everyone can do. We still have hours till nightfall. I vote we go.” He added, “I’m arcanaeum trained from Peak Island University, with a Class and Stat-ed for Willpower.”

Bett got up from her chair, saying, “Polymage, Balance. I’ve got [Air Body], [Water Body], and [Stone Body]. Working on [Lightwalk]. If this works out well, I might want to stick around for a while and get [Lightwalk] out of multiple unicorn kills.”

Marric said, “If we need to work out some complicated system regarding the bodies, we can.” He said, “I’ve been given all unicorn season to secure a kill, but if we’re doing multiple kills, I want horns.” He added, “But that’s getting ahead of ourselves. I have some confidence in this group since I’m the only one I need to protect, but unicorns are not easy.” He looked around the room. “What are the worse mind monsters you’ve ever killed?”

Jane said, “You didn’t say anything about yourself.”

Marric said, “And neither did you.”

Jane said, “Flame ooze, army experience up to team leader. With all the non-brainy minds in the group, we won’t be able to communicate with [Telepathy], but I can speak with [Prestidigitation]. I assume Bett and Scallion have some other workaround—”

Bett said, “[Prestidigitation] speech works well enough.”

“I can still talk with [Air Body] active,” Scallion said.

Jane nodded, saying, “I have some medical knowledge with a focus on humans, but I looked up everyone else and my skills should be good enough to remove possible parasites from Marric and Bett, if needed. You already know of [Greater Treat Wounds]. I also have [Hunter’s Instincts] and [Shadowalk]. Scion of Balance. No class yet. Working on Polymage.”

Bett asked, “How many forms do you have?”

Jane said, “The only one I’m going to use around other people is Flame Ooze.”

Bett smirked, then said, “Fine for now, but this might need to change later.”

Marric answered, “Full Mind Mage spell capability, but no Class yet. Scion of Focus.”

“Great!” Scallion said, “And just so we’re all clear. No one needs [Teleport] assistance, right?”

“Nope.” “No need.” “Not for a long time.”

Jane said, “I already scouted the quest location. If you all want to give me a [Scry] eye I can [Teleport] there now, and you can catch up.”

Scallion asked, “You don’t want to see your room, first? Put up your clothes? Get back in [Conjure Armor]?”

“… Probably a good idea,” Jane said, looking over everyone else in their own armors.

Scallion smiled, saying, “Come with me.”

Jane followed the man up a wide staircase to the side of the room, up to the second floor, where three rooms had been crafted down a short hallway. Two of the rooms already had wooden doors over their entrances, but the third’s entrance was completely open. Wardlights inside the third room illuminated the grey granite of the mountain, and nothing else.

Scallion said, “I left it blank. And I’ll leave you to it.”

Jane said, “Thanks.”

Scallion walked out of the room and back down the staircase. Jane looked around the room. It was basically a stone box. It would serve. Jane conjured a small dresser, a door over the entrance, and then switched into her dark blue [Conjure Armor]. She walked back downstairs, ready for battle.

Marric said, “No one answered: What are the worst mind monsters you’ve killed? I’ve hunted Puppetminds before.”

Bett said, “Sirens. Scallion and I.”

Jane said, “Moon reachers, as I said earlier.”

“I remembered the reachers.” Marric nodded, saying, “Sounds good.” He asked, “Then we ready? I’m ready. Not for a full night, but for a while, sure.”

Jane said, “Same.”

Scallion said, “Us, too.”

Bett and Scallion summoned purple [Scry] orbs. Marric summoned a teal orb. The orbs moved to Jane’s shoulders, to sit just above her dark blue armor. Jane nodded, then blipped away in a shattering of dark blue light.

- - - -

Stone houses dotted the prairie like slate grey building blocks tumbled from a child’s toy box. The city was an ode to failed greatness, where nature had come back to break stone and hard angles down to rubble and mounds. Nature was winning. The entire city was crusted in mushrooms.

All across the jumble of grey buildings, white mushroom stalks and webs of mycelium sprouted and stretched. As rain fell, water rolled off of larger umbrella mushrooms, collecting into rivulets. Bulbs of soft white flesh spurted spores under the pressure of raindrops, sending nascent copies of themselves into the air, and into the water. Water flowed away from the town. It collected in pools, where mushrooms grew on the banks.

Some of the mushrooms were not like the rest. Some of those mushrooms were walking around, like they were people.

Shroomspawn were a completely monsterized species, though when viewed from afar, they would sometimes appear to act like people, or in this case, like humans. This was a human town, after all. Specifically, this was a human town, in Killtree land, and the shroomspawn acted accordingly.

Scallion spoke at Jane’s side. “That bluecap just [Force Beam]’d that redcap. Did you see that?”

“I saw.” Marric said, “And now that bluecap and five tiny white caps are eating the redcap.”

“Vicious fuckers.” Scallion said, “And I don’t mean the shroomspawn.”

Bett said, “Where’s the ‘brook’ in the town’s name, though?”

Jane said, “No idea.”

The four of them stood on a hill a kilometer away from the former town of ‘Stonebrook’, still trying to decide the best way to attack. While Scallion used some nuanced part of his [Water Body] skill and water held over his eyes like half a face mask, Bett and Marric seemed to be using [Ultrasight], like Jane, to scout the town. Jane still hadn’t transformed to a flame ooze yet, but she had donned a blue raincoat. The rain had moved on from Killtree to here, it seemed.

Jane looked up. She said, “Rain’s gonna make burning the place awful hard.”

Marric said, “We could set up [Weather Ward]s and come back tomorrow. This rain isn’t going to stop any time soon.” He asked, “How does a flame ooze do in the rain?”

“Not well, but well enough.” Jane said, “The problem will be keeping the town on fire long enough to kill everything living there.”

Scallion dismissed the water over his eyes. He said, “I’ll do the [Weather Ward]ing.”

Marric said, “As soon as they see an outsider they’re going to start shooting.”

“Ha!” Scallion said, “What else is new?”

Marric said, “I just meant that they’re all going to respond as one.”

Scallion said, “Now that would be new.”

Jane pointed to the left side of the stone block city, at a dome barely visible beyond a four story building. “See that? It’s a juvenile Bleeding Veil. It’s days away from releasing its first toxic clouds, killing absolutely everything in ten kilometers. The nearest other town is five kilometers away.” She said, “The ecosystem here is strong. It won’t be a pushover, but it needs to be done. A coordinated attack should not deter us, or else there’s no help for us against the unicorns.”

Marric said, “I bet they’re just leaving it so it can become a worse problem, so the people in charge can gain more levels killing the Bleeding Veil. Or whatever their goal is.”

“Yup!” Scallion said.

Bett said, “Probably.”

“Does anyone have an objection to killing and leveling this town?” Jane asked.

“No.” Marric said, “I just want everyone to be aware that this is going to draw some ire from someone up the chain.”

Scallion smiled wickedly, instantly saying, “Let’s kill it.”

“I agree,” Bett said.

Marric nodded.

Jane said, “Then I’m going in.”

Jane walked down the grassy hill, getting far enough away from Bett, Scallion, and Marric to not accidentally burn them. When she stood thirty meters from them, she dropped her conjured armor and shifted, all at once. Flesh and bone turned into orange goo and radiant fire. The wet grass around her instantly sizzled, flash frying as rain came down and turned to mist before it could touch her new form. Jane’s vision swept out to full, as she felt the tremors of the land underneath.

The majority of the mushroom town in front of her was not the fruiting bodies on the surface, but in fact the network of roots and otherwise that grew under the land. Jane was almost a kilometer away from the town, but still, she felt as something down there moved.

As fog rolled out from her glowing slime body, Jane wrapped herself in darkness, cutting her flame and her light from touching the world. She slipped through the shadows under the grass and the clouds, hidden by cold cover, rapidly arriving in the outskirts of the town formerly known as Stonebrook.

Jane’s shadows spread, unseen among the town. She almost started the attack but she paused when she saw the shroomspawn up close. Not-people walked around in pairs or separately, but if you ignored their broad hats and their papery skin, they looked like almost anyone else in any human town. They had normal, human-sized legs. Normal, human sized arms, and torsos. The smaller ones were squat and childlike, and if they didn’t move it would be easy to mistake them for meter-tall mushrooms in a forest, but the large ones looked like people. They even wore clothes made of fibrous layers. Their hats were their mushroom caps, of course, but as Jane watched, one of the adults removed their hat when greeting another adult shroomspawn in the doorway of a house.

If Jane hadn’t checked out this place with her shadow spider before talking to her team, if she hadn’t seen the rads running throughout the entire town, or the hundreds of human, dog, cat, and livestock bodies and skeletons feeding the mycelium in the basement of every stone structure, she would have hesitated. But she had done her research. She had read about the horror that one shroomspawn colony could do, when left to grow unimpeded. There was a story to this town, of how it got here, but that wasn’t important right…

Jane hesitated.

She went back to her group. They still stood upon the hill.

Scallion jumped at her appearance, flashing out a force bolt that slammed into Jane’s goo, but did practically nothing. He instantly realized what he had done, saying, “Sorry! Sorry!”

With a bit of [Prestidigitation], Jane created a facsimile of a voice. “I want to investigate the town before we burn it down.” It was a scratchy, indeterminate voice, but it would serve.

Marric said, “I think it’s a good idea. We don’t know what we’re really stepping into, here.”

Bett said, “Sure. I can help.” She instantly turned to water. A bumbly, beach-ball sized goo ball slipped out of Bett’s clothes. Her water slime core was an orb of dark blue inside of her blue-white body. A scratchy voice, different from Jane’s said, “Books and personal effects, and anything else that looks good.”

Marric said, “If this was perpetrated by someone I doubt they left much behind.”

Scallion said, “If the bodies were all murdered then that should tell us enough.”

Marric countered, “No it wouldn’t. Obviously someone killed this town, but—”

Bett said, “Ugh! Too much debating without any facts.” The dark blue core of her body turned toward Jane. She said, “Scallion’s been looking for someone else to talk to ever since we got here, and Marric seems happy to oblige. Let’s go.” Bett flowed into the water on the ground, her slime body becoming little more than a raised spot in the mud and the wash. She zipped toward Stonebrook.

