Something cold slashed through Jane’s body. But Jane melted around whatever it was. She caught something, this time, but she already felt herself slipping. The only way she was able to hold on at all, was because she conformed her body to the shape of the object she had grabbed; a twisting spike. For the briefest of ethereal moments, Jane hung in the middle of the air, melting into that spike, frying nearby meat. She couldn’t smell it, but she could hear it. That characteristic sizzle of fat. The flower illusions around Jane shattered. The land around her, and the monster attacking her, appeared.

Jane hung on a prismatic horn, ten meters from the ground. Pure hate radiated from the pure black eyes of a unicorn, not a body length away. Its face was a scar of burned and blackened flesh, its mane a prismatic fire, and also on fire.

The unicorn moved backward, and Jane did not. The entire exchange only lasted a fraction of a second. Jane dropped from the unicorn’s horn—

Jane [Blink]ed to where the monster might have been. She impacted something, she couldn’t tell. The flowers surrounded her again.

The flowers vanished. Jane was on the monster’s neck. She wrapped around—

The unicorn moved, and Jane did not. Jane [Blink]ed again, hopefully in the direction of the unicorn, her oozy body blipping across the battlefield in a splash of dark blue. She found nothing. She landed in a field of red flowers.

Jane’s mind raced. Since no retreat had been called, and since the unicorn focused on her, like they thought it would, and the illusion remained completely intact around her… There were two possibilities. Either the fight was still going, or the unicorn had won and Jane was about to die to some coordinated attack.

Jane felt the ground, trying to make sense of anything she could.

She dodged at the last second. A double stomp smashed right where she would have been. She [Blink]ed upward, stretching out, aiming for the general area of the unicorn. She found the beast, like a hidden part of the world, but she could not hold on. She slipped off. She burned multiple meters of unicorn flesh as she went, but she could not find purchase on the beast.

The illusion shattered. The unicorn stood revealed, again, and maybe for the first time.

It was ten meters tall, tall as a house, with a ring of horns around its head. Where fur remained on its body, it was as black as night, but Jane had burned a vast portion of the monster, revealing bloody skin and already scarring flesh. Its mane was burned down to a stiff shock of hair, like a zebra’s, but its tail and the fluff around its meter-wide hooves were like dark clouds. The worst part was the face. The unicorn’s maw was a tentacled, dark thing; an opening to a lightless abyss. Its main horn was somehow fully intact. Jane had clung to that twisted spike of prismatic light and burned with a fire hotter than lava, but still, the horn remained pristine.

And the monster stood there. And Jane stared. It had revealed itself for five seconds already. This was bad. Something was very wrong. Why was Jane still looking at the beast? Shouldn’t she be attacking—

A beam of hissing water sliced across the battlefield, cutting across the unicorn’s neck. Blood erupted from the wound, dark red. The unicorn flinched backward.

Jane could move again. She instantly [Blink]ed onto the beast’s back, turning herself into a blanket of living fire, burning downward with all the power of her [Fire Body]. The unicorn screamed and bucked. The unicorn was two meters away, and Jane was not, but she [Blink]ed right back onto the monster. The beast moved without Jane, again. She [Blink]ed back onto his back. She couldn’t hold on at all, but she could get back on the monster.

The unicorn began to run, heedless of all other concern. It raced across the land, quicker than [Blink]. If the unicorn was a normal creature, Jane’s fire would have clung and burned and Jane could have easily caught with [Fire Body], but the unicorn even outran the burning of its own flesh. Fire trailed in the air like sparklers for the briefest of moments, before it fell to the churned ground.

But the unicorn wasn’t able to control the light around it anymore; not with the surety it had before, anyway. Shadows clung to the monster’s underside. Jane wrapped shadow around herself and sank into the grass at her feet. She reappeared around the unicorn’s legs, wrapping herself upward, burning anything she could possibly burn.

Occasional jets of high pressure water carved across the unicorn, missing Jane but striking monster flesh; Jane was only a few meters wide at most, but the unicorn was ten meters tall, not counting its horns. Frankly, Jane would have been surprised if one of Bett’s water cutters managed to clip her.

One perfect water beam lanced across the unicorn’s left eye, half-blinding the monster, causing it to leap right, digging up the ground as it tried to flee. Jane fell to the ground, but she caught back up, quick enough.

Jane and the unicorn left the battlefield and its hundred corpses far behind. Shadow chased the light, burning bright with every radiant touch.

Something snapped in the monster, a leg or its back, Jane couldn’t tell. The unicorn crashed to the ground. Jane found her opening. She burrowed through its neck. In one horrific second, she severed its head from its body. Blood pumped from the neck in great crimson splashes. The body bucked and kicked with broken legs. A beam of water ripped across the unicorn’s underside. Intestines spilled around its twitching legs.

In its own shit and covered in char, the unicorn died.

You have slain Unicorn A!

46% participation.

+1,038,916,595,098 exp

Jane retreated from the corpse. She pulled her fire close. She wasn’t sure it was all over, even with the Participation box appearing in the corner of her all-encompassing vision, so she remained a flame ooze, but she got far enough away from the body so she didn’t fry the monster.

Under an afternoon sky, she waited for her team. She went over her other Participation boxes. Humans, vinespawn, two orcols, one incani. There were even a few shroomspawn in that horde Jane barely saw. Jane froze, as much as a pile of living fire could freeze, as she saw boxes for moon reachers A, B, and C.

A ball of blue and white goo showed up first. Bett bumbled across the scorched land, avoiding the unicorn corpse to get closer to Jane, but not too close. Jane held her fire back, but she was still radiant.

Bett spoke with [Prestidigitation], saying, “Intellectually, you know oozes are big bad monsters, but that was something else. Not having a vulnerable core does a lot for survivability.”

Jane asked, “Is everyone okay?”

“Scallion and Marric are fine. We all held back while it was going after you—”

The air blipped teal. Marric and Scallion appeared next to Bett’s bubbling slime body. Marric’s left hand was gone, his forearm wrapped in a second application of his teal [Conjure Armor], while his right hand held Scallion upright. Scallion hobbled on his only remaining leg, his purple armor in tatters, while a teal covering wrapped around his pelvis. Blood covered both of them, marring their armor. Jane cursed. She had considered getting [Conjure Force Elemental] just so she could heal at range in situations like this, but she hated the idea of summoning anything to do her bidding.

Bett loudly burbled, then raced over to Scallion, saying, “Holy fucking shitballs! What got him!”

Marric waved her off with his missing hand. “He’s fine, Bett. For now.”

“What got him!” Bett burbled next to Scallion’s remaining leg, saying, “Oh gods, I thought we were good. Fucking—”

“I’m fine! Really. I am, Bett. What’s the problem? Why are you still a slime?” Scallion winced. He stressed, “You don’t have to be an ooze either, right now, Jane. The fight is over.”

“Is it, though?” Jane said, “I saw moon reachers in my notifications.”

Scallion asked, “What’s a reacher?”

“Shit,” Bett said. She shed her bubbly body and came back together as dark purple incani with big black horns, for the briefest of moments. Purple leather armor wrapped around her as she held onto Scallion. “You’re going to be okay.” She conjured a seat and took Scallion from Marric. She sat him down in the seat, saying, “It’s okay.”

Marric stood back from Scallion and Bett, saying, “They half-touched him. Pulled him out of the sky by pulling off his armor, which was not transformed into air and water by his skills. Hence why he’s not in shock right now.”

Scallion sat in his chair then looked down at his remaining leg. His eyes went wide as he looked down at his pelvis. “My magic color isn’t teal.”

“I fixed you up.” Marric looked to Jane, saying, “It’s over. But Scallion is going to go into shock, hard. And soon.”

The briefest, most horrific feeling of ‘It’s not over yet’ washed over Jane. She oozed away from her teammates, just a little bit, as she tried to make sense of her gut instinct telling her to run away and never show her face ever again.

Marric noticed. He said, “Jane. It’s okay. It’s over. It really is. But if you need some time to come to grips with this, then tell me now so I can get Scallion to a healer.”

Jane held herself tight. She could not breathe, but she could relax her body. She oozed outward. Then she said, “Just… One minute.” She added, “Illusions are… rather powerful.”

“I understand.” Marric said, “But there are wounds that need tending, and—”

Jane looked over at the unicorn corpse. She stared across the prairie, and saw nothing in any direction, besides her wounded teammates. She also saw her own oozy body. She was wounded, too. Half of her goo was gone while her fire was considerably less. Luckily, oozes had no cores; she wasn’t critically wounded. She flickered with a dark blue casting of [Greater Treat Wounds]. Her body flexed outward as goo expanded and flickered from orange to yellow.

Her mind cleared. The battle was over, and here she was, worried about more attackers, instead of worrying about her teammates, one of whom was less a hand, and another who was still bleeding from his missing leg. Jane flowed upward, into the shape of her human body, as she transformed back to her most Familiar Form. Back to being human, Jane wrapped herself up in dark blue armor as she controlled the lingering heat and the fire all around her into something more manageable. The grass where she had been was ash, the ground was glassy. Jane stepped out of that cooling crater, quick walking toward Scallion.

Marric smiled as Jane leaned down to the injured man. As Jane touched Scallion’s chest with a glowing hand, the teal wrap around his pelvis disintegrated. Torn meat and body parts filled out. A femur began to regrow, followed by tendrils of muscle, arteries, and veins. Scallion’s eyes went wide as other body parts regrew, plopping out of the remnants of his armor. His face flushed red as he looked away.

Bett burst out in a laugh to hide the pain. She said, “Don’t be embarrassed, dummy.”

Jane smiled.

Scallion looked away, staunchly declaring, “I have nothing to be embarrassed about.”

Marric said, “I’ve seen bigger.”

Jane laughed, as Scallion’s face turned beet red and his mouth crushed into a straight, uncomfortable line.

Bett touched his shoulder, saying, “It’s plenty big enough for me.”
