Erick smiled. The beast was intelligent, just as Eldawae had said. That was one point in Eldawae’s favor. Not lying was always good for a point.

Erick let loose a ‘[Quake]’ of its own, shaking the entire sky and a lot of the world beyond with [Physical Domain].

“I can talk louder.”

The flesh of the time worm and the grassy, lake-filled ground, and all the sky and the rain itself, pulsed away from Erick as he filled the world with his own declaration of presence. And then he spoke softer,

“Or we can talk like normal people.”

The time worm glared at Erick. It stopped moving.

It turned its lamprey-like, mountain-wide face at Erick. Or rather, its tiny eyes all around that maw. The maw closed a little and the creature looked at Erick, moving higher in the sky to look at him from his own level.

“WHAT?”

“Do you like my rain I made?” Erick hovered, easily sweeping a wing outward, gesturing at the sky. “I made this rain. Do you like it?”

The mountain-sized creature closed its lips a little. Perhaps it was a ‘brow furrowing’ gesture? Erick wasn’t quite sure. The thing opened its mouth a little more, though the mouth had never been closed completely at all.

“FINE.”

And then it turned around and went back to the ground and ate some more lakes.

Erick flew overhead, getting closer, asking, “If I put some people here, would you eat them?”

“YES. MEAT MEAT.”

Erick did not sigh, but he wanted to. He gestured back to Da'luwe, saying, “That’s the way to the city. Meat there.”

Erick had no idea what he expected the thing to do. Perhaps it didn’t know where the city was? Therefore, pointing it out would show it the way. If the worm turned around and went for Da'luwe then Erick would kill it. Or maybe the beast wouldn’t care, and then Erick wasn’t sure what he was going to do next.

The worm surprised him.

“DEAD MEAT NOT MEAT.”

“There’s meat there. Lots of meat.”

“NOPE. NO MEAT AT GREY LIGHT.” The worm stopped. It looked at Erick specifically. “I KNOW MEAT MEATS.”

“How?”

“BOUNCY BOUNCY. BIG FLAP FLAPS. SHAKY SHAKY IS MEAT MEAT. HARD FIND MEAT MEAT IN WATER WATER BUT WATER WONDERFUL. I DRINK DRINK.”

Erick flew forward, ahead of the beast, and then he grabbed a whole bunch of water in a sphere around him and said, “Water here. Hold open.”

And then he used [Duplicate Aura].

Water exploded out of him, gushing in every possible direction like he was the center point of a release of an ocean. The time worm squealed loud enough to shake the sky as it opened wide below Erick, and then wider. It tried to swallow him, but Erick increased the [Duplication Aura] and the time worm simply could not drink that fast. It certainly tried, though. Erick held out some solid aura above him gradually increasing the flow pointing downward instead of having it flow everywhere. The time worm could not keep up, but it tried. It faltered, falling down in the air—

It stuck itself there in the sky, using some sort of odd Force magic, holding itself open.

Erick wondered who would give out first.

The worm’s eyes rolled back all along the rim of its maw. It seemed really happy. Erick watched with all of his senses…

And it was dying.

The time worm’s soul was gradually fading in strength, like the soul of anyone who was near the end of their life and about to exit their mortal coil. Erick almost felt bad about that, but the worm was happy. That much was obvious to anyone. So Erick kept the water flowing.

Five hours later the time worm died by fractions. Here and there the eyes rolled back and did not roll ever again, as the soul around those eyes dissipated into the rest of the universe, like cotton candy disappearing into water. Those parts of the creature turned solid, like something freezing in the air, locking it into place. Gradually, and then rapidly here and there, the time worm died, half of its soul evaporating into nothing and the rest of it following in the next ten minutes.

Erick kept the water going for a little while longer.

He kept going after the entire ‘hose’ of the worm’s body filled up and water poured out of the top, unable to get anywhere else inside because the worm was full. Holes popped here and there all along the time worm’s body, water pouring out of those holes—

Suddenly the monster’s maw broke away, crashing to the ground, turning to meat itself as its freezing-in-death magic began to fade.

Erick turned off the water.

The worm crashed to the ground, dead and gone. Its body began to crust over in the [Terraforming] rain, lightning striking here and there, erupting the body into glowing mushrooms that grew too tall by far. Erick sighed as the creature’s corpse littered the land.

Growing to full size to allow him to use all his senses to search the body, Erick flew low and slow back the way he had come, toward Da’luwe, sensing the worm’s body for survivors. If the thing came back every 50 to 100 years, then it had a life cycle of some sort.

Or maybe it was Da’luwe’s weapon, to keep the hordes of civilization at bay, and it resurrected it every so often as needed.

Probably.

Erick searched for eggs for 2 days, or something like that. He even spent some time with [Cascade Imaging] to try and find eggs, and then he spent some time working on [Cascade Imaging] itself, to figure out how the spell worked inside of him and also in the world out here. [Cascade Imaging] was a huge spell inside his soul. One of his most complex, but also one of his most simple Particle spells.

Complex in effect. Simple in execution.

Erick either supplied something physical to search for similar things, or he supplied an idea, which was tougher to match for. There weren’t any real adjustments he could make to the spell because of that, too. Sure, he could probably hook it up to his little Mark of the Fractal Universe, and go off of some sort of ‘universal-consciousness-aided’ search, but that seemed ill-advised for reasons that Erick couldn’t quite articulate to himself at the moment. Mostly, he had no idea what would happen if he tried that.

So he left [Cascade Imaging] as is.

And he didn’t find any eggs, or worms that would become big, or anything like that. He spent a full day trying to dig the entire time worm out of the ground, like a cable, but it snapped somewhere far, far below the ground. The entire thing was already disintegrating from being dead, too, and the parts further underground were somehow almost exactly the same as the stone all around it.

The part of the worm up top was meat, and then meat/ground after several hundred kilometers of twisted worm, going all up and down and all around in the stormlands, and now it was simply ground/ground but with slightly odd-colored parts. It was also mostly washed away.

Hard to find anything in this mess.

Erick called it quits and took to the sky of the stormlands, where mushrooms grew tall on the various remains of the time worm, and tiny, pastel light frogs hopped and chirped and ate mushrooms and plants and made a lot more little frog tadpoles in the watery land.

There were several tens of giant lakes now, too.

And the rain kept on, keeping on.

Erick flew toward the grey pillar in the far horizon, far beyond the edge of the stormlands.

- - - -

A few days later, from high, high in the sky, Erick spotted Da’luwe’s obsidian illusion wall like a line of black dots on the horizon. Those dots rapidly resolved into 100 meter tall obsidian knives, each several tens of meters away from each other. Erick didn’t have to wonder if they saw him because the illusions covering the top of the large space beyond flickered. A large hole opened up in the roof defenses, showing the greening land beyond. It was a lot greener than how Erick had left it, and the hole in the roof was Large enough for Erick to fly on through as a large dragon.

So that’s what he did.

The roof of the land was only a hundred-ish meters from the sandy surface where he had been let in, so Erick had to duck to get all the way inside the space. Ducking wasn’t becoming of a dragon, though, so Erick transformed back into his human shape with black horns. His sunglow and nightglow robes reformed from their holding positions on his horns, onto his body, and soon Erick was flying with clothes fit for his power directly to his very first Benevolence tower…

Which was a smoking ruin.

“Not an auspicious start.”

Erick zapped across the land, rapidly checking the other towers he had made. 7 of the 9 were broken, everything stolen out of them, the spellworks that could be removed had been removed, the [Terraforming] storms simply erased. Even the duplicator stations had been taken, but those were surely non-functional without the node network to power them. The node networks were simply gone, as though they never existed.

In the 2 remaining towers, though, everything was working as intended, but only because some standing armies guarded those towers.

One of those armies looked strong and getting stronger, with wraiths in ethereal chains bound to spires around the tower, protecting it from all oncomers, while giant flesh golems protected it further. Inside that wraithbound benevolence tower (ah! That’s where ‘Wraithborne Tower’ comes from. The ghosts! Duh) everything was exactly as Erick had made it. Benevolence slimes grew and prospered. Trees and duplicators made resources of all kinds, from Benevolence to matter.

The other tower had been taken over by the inmates of Da’luwe. People lived inside half of it, cutting down trees as those trees grew to build houses outside the central place, and to burn for firewood. They took the water and made fields of plants out of it. There were four more duplicators outside of the tower itself, but someone had jury-rigged some sort of metal spellwork to attach those duplicators to the node network of the tower. Those captured and relocated duplicators now made gold and jewels and weapons, and everyone living in the shantytown that spread all throughout the second tower’s land looked to be having a… a life. Not a great life, but they looked more lively than before.

There were 20,000 people here, easily.

Some of them saw Erick and they waved. Some bowed. Some prostrated. One guy carved his chest with a knife, saying something about pledging his undying life to Erick, if only Erick would ask for it. He used a lot more colorful language than that, but Erick didn’t feel like hearing all those particular words—

And there was purple-robe. The very first guy Erick had seen inside this land. He was an elven-sort, and he stepped out of a covered staircase onto a platform atop a building, saying, “Greetings, to Ascended Flatt!”

Erick landed next to the guy. From the words he was picking up all around him, he learned this guy was named Nilton. “So. Nilton. Care to give your side of the story why 7 of my towers are down, and why you have some extra copy machines that were obviously looted from the destroyed towers?”

Nilton had an odd look about him when Erick asked that question.

A lot of things had probably happened in the last, what, 15 days?

Instead of being cowed at all, Nilton had a fire in his eyes as he said, “The nobles stole from all of us! They took your bounty and your power, but we were able to save this one! We guard this one with our lives, and the wraiths cannot have it! But we are not as strong as you. Could you expand this one some? Your people need the strength to come, and we cannot defend so many locations against the predations of the Chancellor and his soul shackles!”

Ah.

So Nilton was a con artist.

Welp!

This wasn’t the first time Erick had been taken in by a guy asking for nice things. It would not be the last. As long as he tried to help people, some would take advantage. He certainly wouldn’t stop helping people because of one bad experience, though.

Oh well.

Erick flew away without another word.

He went to the center city.

- - - -

Erick sat down at a nice table with Chancellor Eldawae as some ghosts served chilled wine and little cakes and expensive meats. It was all rather delicious, and Eldawae was not using his other, more intimidating body. He was wearing a simple elven-looking man today, and he enjoyed the treats alongside Erick. Normally, Erick would try to get down to business, but Eldawae had respectfully asked for Erick to sit down and have a little snack before they got down to it. Erick agreed.

And so, he was here, under the center dome, spying and eating, because Eldawae had plotted this well.

Stacks and stacks of information about all of Da’luwe sat on a table just to the side of the eating table. The table of paperwork contained a whole bunch of log books and histories and timetables and everything anyone running this city would ever want to know about this city, from reson production/consumption, to how they handled inmates, laws, and otherwise. There were even dossiers on all the infamous inmates out there.

Erick had joked when he saw the pile, “You’re the ruler here, but the Tower is the bigger ruler. Should I be seeing these books?”

“What books? All I see is some stuff I have to get through today, and you’re also here at the same time. Don’t go spying now please, Ascended Flatt, though there’s nothing I could do if you did. Now tell me: Have you ever had tri-berry tarts? Those are these ones right here. They’re actually a single berry, but everyone tastes them as the perfect combination of whatever three berries they love the most.”

The tri-berry tarts were a delicious combination of strawberry, purpleberry, and blackberry. Ophiel would have loved them.

Erick was mostly focused on the paperwork.

He finished off the paperwork long before they were anywhere near the end of the food. It was all rather grim.

Erick thought. It could all be propaganda, of course, but some of those books were old. Or they had been thrown in a time chamber for a really high time-dilation coefficient. Erick didn’t believe they were magic’d into existence, though.

Soon enough, Erick finished off half of the plates before him, while Eldawae finished off the other half.

When there was only one tri-berry tart left, Erick got down to business, saying, “This has been a wonderful meal. I apologize that my towers got taken down that easily. I do wonder at how much of that was purposeful negligence on your part, though, or active destruction on someone else’s part. Obviously, the inmates have destroyed a lot of all that out there, for there’s something like half a million of them to the 50,000 in this city. I’m surprised that the true power only exists in a handful of people though, and not in these 50,000 people here.”

