Mana sensing was what people with mana did. And yet, not everyone had mana, and not all manas were sensible in the same ways. There was a lot of mana in Margleknot, though, so everyone could look around with mana if they had some sort of capability in that way. And yet, mana sensing in Margleknot was iffy. Spotty. Not very sure. That’s what Erick felt in those oddities in the air when he mana sensed and felt other powers inside the air that were not the mana of the Painted Cosmology, or similarly comprehensible powers.

Even with all the varied manas out there: Anyone could mana sense and become one with the mana and sense the world through the mana. And through that sensing, they could make miracles.

Or at least sensing the world was the first step toward changing the world.

And so: What was telepathy, except for mind sensing?

Sensing was just the first part, though.

Through sensing came interaction, either on others, with others, or on one-self.

Erick reconsidered his goal of changing [Telepathy] to remove the backlash, and his history with Mind Magic.

He could probably break open the crystal that was [Telepathy] and integrate the Mark of the Fractal Universe into his very soul, ‘awakening the mind slime’, as it were.

He did not want to do this. He liked that people could express who they were without him knowing they were lying, or the fractions by which they were lying. Erick certainly didn’t need to know that this person or that person were thinking about horrific acts left and right, while in reality all they ever did were good things—

The fae mind controlled people all the time.

“Well that makes a whole lot of sense now, too, since they’re empowered by this universe and its mental magics.”

Erick thought for a minute more.

The next revelation came soon enough.

“Ah. You can probably use the mind slime to interact with other realities of the Fractal Universe in a more direct, concentrated way, than Wizardry. That’s probably what this Fractal Mark is meant for. Communication across the— Hmm. Actually. No. Probably not. Maybe that’s what Melemizargo meant it for; for universal communication.” Erick said, “But anyone who actually managed that would have run into Nothanganathor and been killed. Therefore, the only thing that this bit of the Fractal can do is exactly what Poi has been able to do… Or actually... A whole lot less, probably.”

… Hmm.

Well.

Poi can contact people without them being able to say ‘no thanks’.

Could Erick change this spell in that way? To force a mental connection?

Yes.

That was his goal.

Envisioning the whole thing, Erick saw himself being able to contact another peacefully...

Which would require a bit of mental translations, actually, because speaking the same language was a big deal.

… Or could he just do some sort of ‘pure thought’ sort of thing, that would not allow others to lie in the [Telepathy] connection?

… Hmm. This was a big change, actually. Lotta moving parts that would open Erick up to attack because true interaction could allow for the passage of memetic threats, and people surely had a lot of those out here…

Hmm.

“… I’ll just see if I can remove the backlash part, or mitigate it somehow.”

Erick dove into himself once again and found the [Telepathy] crystal looking like a spot of glitter-crystal that was also made of tendrils inside a Benevolence crystal shell with a whole bunch of unknown little bits to them. Erick focused, and everything else vanished off to the sides. All that remained was [Telepathy], coming into superb focus.

The little bits and bobs connected to Erick’s Body and Mind most of all, like overlapping pieces of puzzles that would allow his physical mind to interact with his mental self.

This was unnecessary, from what Erick was seeing. Through some more frameshifting, Erick saw that the tendrils of the glitter-crystal were wholly attached to his Mind. He didn’t need the Body connection at all…

Did he?

Erick came halfway out of himself and summoned a spell he hadn’t used in a long time.

[Imaginary Work Animal].

A large toad appeared and then it started singing which was about the easiest thing for Erick to imagine an animal capable of doing, and Erick liked the sound of frogs in a rainstorm. Even though the rainstorm was far below, the big frog sang anyway. It sounded pretty great.

The animal was a normal animal of its type —giant rain frog— and therefore it had a rudimentary mind.

Erick poked at it with [Telepathy] as he watched the spell work inside of his soul.

A tendril connected to the frog and the frog sent an inquisitive question back up the way, almost as though it was asking ‘what’s up?’.

Inside Erick’s soul the spell functioned ‘normally’. Or at least Erick supposed it did. Erick sent out a tendril of thought, and a bit of some odd tendril came into Erick, allowed inside by his own [Telepathy] extension. The frog’s return signal brushed through the part of [Telepathy] that touched Erick’s Body, which acted as something of a check. Then the frog’s signal passed the Body check, and went into Erick’s physical body, whereupon Erick understood that the creature was asking ‘what’s up?’.

Erick guessed a few things about what was happening there, but he chose not to explore those guesses too deeply at this moment.

All Erick really understood was that he needed to keep the Body check in order to understand the frog. Perhaps a more trained Mind Mage would not need to use the Body to understand anything, but Erick seemed like he needed that right now.

Erick braced himself and sent a [Telepathy] questing down below the clouds, to the time worm far below—

The return signal was a reverse river that crashed into the pipe that was Erick’s tendril outlet, to strike the Body check, and then crash outward, like a river hitting a dam, harming everything in that crash of a return signal.

Erick sighed out blood, dripping red onto the platform underfoot.

The only thing Erick understood at this particular moment was that he had no idea how to fix this problem at all.

The Body check was used to check the incoming signal for ‘no’, and also used to send the signal to Erick to allow for that connection, and thus connecting Erick’s physical mind to the other physical mind at the other end of the spellwork.

Perhaps the ‘physical mind to physical mind’ was itself a check, in that ‘connecting to a non-physical mind’ usually simply killed a person. Erick could easily see that connecting to an eldritch mind could go very, very bad.

And so, changing any part of that stuff right there would allow for anyone to directly attack his mental resources, and possibly break the [Telepathy] crystal itself…

… Hmm.

“The only thing I actually understand is that this [Telepathy] spell is a work of curated art, specifically created in this way to both make it a strong spell, and to disallow anyone messing with it… I guess this is why they didn’t want anyone taking more than one or two Mind spells in most places back on Veird, either. If I had a few tens of Mind Magic spells to poke around with, I could figure out how they all worked and do some reverse engineering.”

Even on Veird, though, no one had access to their soul like Erick had access to his soul right now; the Script obscured the soul. But, Erick supposed, multiple layers of obfuscation were simply good security practices.

This particular [Telepathy] crystal was likely the public result of generations of iterative changes, too.

All the initial glitter-crystal-empowered people on Veird were likely long dead.

… This [Telepathy] crystal probably had a bunch of safeguards to disrupt the power within if anyone ever fucked around with it too much. Erick had likely removed those safeguards, though, when he removed the Malevolence inside.

Once again, Erick considered simply breaking the crystal. Could he break this thing open and ‘awaken his mind slime’ instantly?

Maybe!

Erick didn’t want that, though.

So thinking in another direction…

Erick dove into himself, and checked out how the damage from the [Telepathy] crystal was processed. He might not be able to muck around with the crystal itself, but he could certainly change some wires on the back end—

Ah ha!

There they were. The False Damage threads of the [Telepathy] crystal. They attached directly to his body, bypassing much of his Health barrier—

Oh.

Erick saw how the Fae of the Fae Enclave had been able to muck around with him mentally. The entire [Telepathy] crystal had some lines going directly into his Mind, Body, and Soul, bypassing, in small ways, all of his various pools of power.

Well that was an easy fix.

Erick switched out all the transfer lines of influence onto their correct paths; into his millions upon millions of Mana, Health, and Psyche. With a final ‘Yes’ to the changes, they took hold.

Erick sighed as he came back to himself.

With a quick [Telepathy] toward the time worm far below, Erick felt a return stroke against his Psyche and Body. No False Damage equivalents happened at all. No bleeding. No headache. Just a wash of power against Erick that drained a few 10,000 Health and Mind in the return ‘no’…

Oh!

Erick could probably shunt that power directly against anyone who said ‘no’ to him.

He could make the ‘return the False Damage’ go right along his initial questing tendril…

“… Nah. That seems… wrong. Very wrong.”

An idea to keep in his back pocket, though.

Actually.

Erick could copy spells inside of his body and use the second one just fine. He had done that with [Reson Gathering] to make [Reson Wallet]…

But that had been done using mana. This [Telepathy] crystal was not wholly mana. This was Fractal power, or something like that. Erick had no real idea how to copy this spell, or he would have done that and made [Offensive Telepathy].

All of that was something to keep in mind for the future.

For now, Erick dismissed the little singing frog—

He couldn’t dismiss the frog that easily. Right. He forgot he couldn’t do that.

Erick looked down at the little frog, chirping along, doing what Erick had created it to do. The ‘little frog’ was about 3 meters tall and so it made a lot of noise. It seemed really happy, too. Erick found that he truly did not want to kill it.

… Welp. Here’s another experiment, then.

Erick whispered to the frog, lacing his voice with resons, saying, “You get to be a whole bunch of genetically diverse and compatible vegetarian frogs to inhabit all these stormlands. Live well in the lightning, little terraforming frogs.”

Benevolence crackled from Erick’s draconic lips to the frog’s body, breaking it into ten thousand smaller frogs in every possible color of glowing pastel that all rolled away from the main body, all of them singing and chirping and spreading.

Erick dismissed the platform underfoot. The frogs fell alongside Erick, all of them chirping and spreading and trying to fly, but finding themselves unable. They were just frogs, after all. With a flicker of power Erick cast bubbling spellwork across the entire pastel release. Colorful frogs in little bubbles, two or three or four a pop, filled the sky, falling down like illuminated balloons. They’d spread far and wide in all the many, many new marshes down there, scattering on the wind in their little bubble parachutes. When they hit the ground the bubbles would pop.

And Erick fell through storm clouds, leading the way for the frogs to swirl down behind him.

Erick hadn’t gotten far with the [Telepathy] work, but he did learn something deep, and the spell didn’t hurt now when he aimed it at an unwilling target. That was good enough for now.

It would be great for poking at the mind of someone to get their attention.

It was good enough for what he planned to do next.

- - - -

Erick floated a few kilometers above the devouring maw of the time worm.

And he poked it with [Telepathy].

The poking did nothing that Erick could see. He got the return signal, of course. That knocked out a few 10,000 in mostly Health and Psyche. It didn’t do much else. And so, Erick poked. He poked—

The worm eyed him strongly, and then kept worming through the various lakes of the new stormlands.

Poke.

Poke. Poke.

Poke. Poke. Poke.

… Poke.

pokepokepokepokepokepokepoke—

A return signal blasted into Erick’s mind, flowing alongside his outpouring rivers of Psyche and Health and a bit of his Mana, too, sounding like rage and hate and nothing intelligible at all. Far below, the time worm eyed Erick with a bunch of its surface eyes. It continued on into the next lake directly ahead, most of it looking at Erick, but when Erick didn’t do anything else the creature fully focused on the water ahead. It swallowed that lake and then the next.

Erick telepathically poked the worm some more. A lot, really. Well beyond what could possibly be considered good manners for any normal sort of interaction at all. If Erick had left the channels open for [Telepathy] to throw False Damage directly at him then Erick would have fallen out of the sky for the pain, but this sort of return ‘no’ only cost a few hundred thousand Mana, Health, and Psyche so far.

Eventually the worm stopped eating water and went after Erick, flowing into the sky like the sky was sand and easily able to support its weight.

Erick allowed the monster to get close, to try and eat him, and then Erick sent a telepathic ‘No’, of his own. That sort of call for ‘no’ went uncared for. The worm wanted to eat him now.

And so came the [Luminous Beam]s.

Nuclear fire exploded along the entire length of Erick’s strongest spell as the spell and all the coincidental damage ripped down the mouth of the monster and out the sides. The time worm instantly realized it was way over its head and retreated, reversing its personal time, even as Erick followed the beast with his nuclear beam. Erick cut off the spell before the monster reached the ground.

And the time worm seemed to consider something.

Erick watched. He poked it with a few more telepathic touches.

This time the time worm ignored him completely as it went about eating the next lake in sight.

Erick poked it some more.

pokepokepokepokepokepokepoke—

“NO TALK MEAT! NO TALK. GO AWAY!”

So the time worm could talk.

It had also thrown some sort of world-shaking [World Quake] at Erick, using some sort of innate power over all the world around it that it seemed to have. [Quake] was a rather versatile spell and Erick doubted the time worm had that spell for so very many different reasons, but what the monster had done was very similar to [Sky Quake] and other variants of that particular high-tier Thunder Magic.

