The 50,000 in the city only existed because of horrific reasons, as far as Erick could tell. Not ‘horrific’ as in mutative, corruptive. But rather from a sapient-rights perspective. From what he was reading, Eldawae was a good caretaker from a monetary perspective, but awful in every other way possible.

Sometimes inmates had children so that they could pay off their debt faster, dumping the child in the center city so that they could grow up raised by undead who didn’t care for them at all. Most of the kids born here ended up awful people themselves, and thus inmates after they committed this or that crime.

Eldawae nodded, then began, “There are 475,000 inmates here at Da’luwe at the moment. 135,000 of them are alive in the traditional sense. For the most part, all they have to do is live here to serve out their time and then they can die and end up in the Waiting Room, and then leave Layer 1. It is a harsh existence that doesn’t teach anyone how to be a better person, and we really don’t care if they are better people at all, because they are all dropped here because they are terrible, and if you spend long enough trying to fix that, only to reach some great new milestone that is torn down by the next tyrant to fall into your lap, you’d stop trying, too. Or maybe you wouldn’t. Probably not, really. You’re young.

“And because you’re young, you tried to put more Good into this land and none of it was cared for by these people. We protected one tower from those people out there, though. That one tower is now supplying everyone here in the city with so much more than we have ever had before. That is why we were able to have this little feast; all because of you. As for all the rest of the towers, number 2 through 9, all we did was give them to the inmates.” Eldawae said, “What happened to those towers is exactly what the inmates made happen to them.”

Erick had already seen a lot of that out there, but it was still disheartening. He sighed. “I know you’re Evil, but why not try to eke out better margins? You could eat like this all the time. You could have a positive reson flow, instead of having to take from the Tower—” Erick realized what he was saying even as he said it. “Ah. If you’re not dependent on the Tower then you’re a threat. Right.”

Eldawae smiled slightly. And then he outright lied, saying, “I don’t know what you mean, Ascended Flatt. We’re doing the best we can here.”

Erick Looked at Eldawae.

Eldawae shrugged. “Would you like to discuss Da’luwe making a portal to Layer 0 now?”

“How about you keep the two towers I made, and you ensure that the inmate tower doesn’t fall apart. They’re using it way too hard and I saw caravans trailing across the land out there, toward the inmate tower. Their population is going to boom and then bust hard.”

“Easily done. It shall be so.”

Erick moved on. “That one guy. Nilton. The one in charge of the inmate town. So he’s a professional con man?”

“Oh yes. That Nilton fellow is one of the worst forms of Evil in the Tower or any other Evil organization. He’s the destructive type. I let him do what he wants and he gets himself and several people killed every few years, but he always has plans to come back from the dead through the sacrifice of others. I’m amazed that people believe anything he says at all, but his Truth is rather insidious in that it only affects him, making him the perfect speaker to anyone who would listen, for one cannot normally and easily detect those sorts of internal magics. You did wise up rather fast in that second interaction, though.”

Erick frowned at that, but it was a fair assessment of what had happened. “If I’m ‘spying’ on your information right: Now that Nilton is not indebted he’s allowed to act as a normal citizen of the Tower out there. I see what is written there, but… He could come in here, to the main city, couldn’t he? Why doesn’t he?”

“He is a tyrant fallen from grace, guilty of soul sundering 16,756 people in order to pay his gambling debts. Of course he wants power. It’s the only way he gets to get his kingdom back. If he can convince enough people to support him then he’s going to buy his way back into a portal to go to Layer 0, which is a mere 1,000,000 resons. Your support of him at the beginning of your time in Da’luwe granted him 300,000 resons of that particular price tag.” Eldawae asked, “Would you like to buy passage back to Layer 0 now? Once payment is accepted, all it takes is a day of preparation and we can have that formation ready to go.”

“Later. I’m going to fuck Nilton up, first. I just need to decide how.”

“Be my guest. When you grow tired of dispensing the justice they all deserve, then you can simply leave them to make their own abyss. That’s what I do.” Eldawae asked, “Will you be staying with us for a rest? Or will you head right back out?”

Erick stood, saying, “I appreciate the repast. It has been very enlightening. I would like to know if the worm is a weapon of Da’luwe, though. You hinted as much, but I would like to know.”

“When the time worm comes back it comes back completely devoid of all intelligence and filled with the unending desire to eat. And so, we graft souls onto it in order to awaken an intelligence within the beast so that the beast can understand certain things, like friend or foe or ‘not worth eating’. It’s not a weapon we control, but it is one we influence so that it cannot be used against us.” Eldawae said, “The time worm has been here in the Endless long before I was mortal born and it will be here long after I finally fall to some nefarious or Good plot— Ah. I was born 17,000 years ago. Most people who live here know that, but you might not. I expect to live about that much longer, but ideally forever.”

“… Want to be a Benevolence Dragon?”

Eldawae grinned. “Not for myself, but I do have some brilliant young persons who could benefit from immortality and power, who have not been able to grasp at power themselves and who are unwilling to dive into Evil to do so. It is a common arrangement inside the Tower for the Talented among us to support the growth of those mortals who are less than capable of being threats to our power.

“I have a city administrator, born of the inmates, who would make a wonderful dragon. There are a few different guards who have been begging me to let them stop the rampaging of the inmates, but I won’t let them go out there and get themselves killed. Those few people are mostly former inmates. And then we have several bound revenants who saw what could have been of this land they love, and who are disheartened by the backslide to anarchy and predation. I wager their feelings on how this whole Benevolence tower event has happened are a lot stronger than yours.”

Erick skipped over how Eldawae had insinuated that he was merely Talented, and not an actual Power. Perhaps it was a simple act of humbleness, but the man was very much not a simple ‘Talented’ on the scale of ‘Fae’, ‘Power’, ‘Ascended’, ‘Talented’, and ‘Mortal’. He was Ascended, at least. Perhaps he was simply being humble, though, in order to hide his true thoughts from whatever spying magics lay all around this grand hall.

Morbion and the Wraithborne Tower were certainly watching this, if not right now, then when Erick left, for Eldawae was a low man on the Tower and he certainly reported to those above him. Eldawae’s goals were to be here, in his city, undisturbed and relatively happy.

Erick’s goals were bigger than Da’luwe.

Erick said, “If I support those people, they would be capable of becoming a threat to you and yours.”

“Doubtful.”

“… I would meet them without the overview of any others.”

“Of course.”
