Rain smiled, unable to contain his excitement. For the first time since he’d arrived, he had time to breathe. Time to do whatever he wanted—though he wasn’t about to abandon his responsibilities to Ascension. His skills were languishing, it was true, and he wasn’t that close to evolving his class, but that was simply because he was focused on hammering the tallest nail. The real limiter on his advancement wasn’t his ability to max out his system abilities, but rather his confidence that his soul would be able to withstand the transformation. He was making steady progress, but the road ahead was long. Hundreds of anchor stations needed to be built, hundreds more cables needed to be run, thousands of experiments needed to be performed…

Rain chuckled to himself. Okay, not thousands. Still, I’d better get back to it. I can’t hide out here all day, as much as I might want to.

Dusting himself off with a quick puff of Purify, he turned north and began to jog at a leisurely pace. As he increased his speed, he started whistling a happy tune, which quickly turned into singing.

“Jog jog jog, I hate jogging, this is my jogging song…”

He chuckled again, his body feeling light and free. Powerful. “Time to change the lyrics, I think.”

Tallheart sat with his eyes closed atop the wall surrounding Ascension’s camp, his legs crossed and his cloak draped over his shoulders. Outwardly, he appeared calm, even asleep, but in his vision, he was breathing heavily, his muscles trembling with exertion and his back slicked with sweat. He was unaware of the discomfort, just as he was unaware of the small form stealthily creeping toward him along the battlements.

The work was everything.

With a pair of tongs, Tallheart removed the glowing metal from the forge and placed it on the anvil before bringing his hammer down with a resounding clang. He was standing in darkness, with only the smoldering coals and the cherry-red glow of the metal for illumination. He wore no armor, but rather a plain white shirt of coarse linen beneath a time-worn and cracked smith’s apron. His shirtsleeves were rolled up, his muscles bulging powerfully.

It was a rune he was forging, the adamant bar he’d started with now twisted back upon itself. Already, it was beginning to match the shape in his mind.

Focus.

The hammer rose. The hammer fell.

Each strike landed with devastating force, bending the metal according to his will. He used no skills from the system, only his own, earned through long years of practice. Each strike was flawless, landing in perfect time with the drum-like rhythm of his heart.

Adjusting the tongs, Tallheart positioned the piece over the anvil’s horn without breaking his rhythm, bending the metal along the curve. Returning it to the flat, he struck decisively to refine the shape, flakes of scale spraying against his apron and prickling at his forearms. The adamant resisted, but he didn’t frown, having expected as much. More heat would be needed.

He returned the piece to the forge, then snatched another, bringing it to the anvil in one smooth motion. This one would be Strength, brutal in form. Focus was brutal too, but its brutality was a thing of cold determination and unflinching will. Strength was different. Strength was rage and heat. Strength was power.

The hammer rose. The hammer fell.

Tallheart’s strikes became even more forceful, yet somehow more controlled as he forced the adamant against its nature. Forced it to bend.

So consumed was he by the work that he didn’t notice how the light from the forge seemed to spread, revealing more of his surroundings. He was in a workshop. The same workshop where as a child, he’d spent hour after hour watching his uncle toil in the heat. It was his uncle’s apron he was wearing, his uncle’s tools grasped in his hands, forged from memory, not steel.

Tallheart didn’t notice the cool wind that was suddenly sweeping in from the door behind him. He didn’t notice the sound of the soft footsteps. Not until it was too late.

Something struck the back of his head, making him jerk his hand in surprise. His hammer missed its target, hitting the anvil with such force that the iron shattered, cleaving along some invisible fault and sending a large piece tumbling to the floor. Tallheart’s nostrils flared as he suddenly became aware of the scent hanging in the air, the tang of flux mixing with smoke from the fire. It wasn’t enough to distract him from the rune before him, glowing as it cooled. It was complete. Perfect, yet terrible. Harsh. Uncompromising.

Strength.

Something struck the back of his head again.

Tallheart whirled, and his eyes went wide. There was a woman standing there. A cervidian woman with antlers just as broad as his, her fingers still extended from flicking him. Smiling a familiar, secret smile, she retracted her hand, then ran it through her hair.

“Hey,” she said, laughter in her voice. “I said stop, you dummy. Couldn’t you tell that you’d already gotten in?”

Hammer and tongs fell numbly from Tallheart’s fingers, a single word forming on his lips.

“Lilly.”

Lilly’s smile widened as the light from the door behind her began to dim, color and detail draining from the workshop around her. Tallheart reached out as the darkness grew, his fingers reaching for her face.

“Oops. Looks like I broke your focus.” Lilly laughed, the bright sound stabbing like a dagger through Tallheart’s chest. “I’ll see you again soon, my heart,” she said as her antlers began to burn, evaporating away into scarlet embers. Not just her antlers. Her whole body, leaving only her face. Lilly smiled wider, and then she was gone.

“Lilly!” Tallheart cried out, his hand closing on empty air as his eyes opened. Immediately, he became aware of a great weight atop his head, and in his surprise, he allowed his neck to bend forward. The moment he did, there was a startled squawk, then a high-pitched scream as a blurred form fell past his vision, plummeting over the edge of the battlements. Tallheart’s hand shot out, catching Ava by the ankle and bringing her to a sharp halt.

“Ava!” someone shouted from far off to Tallheart’s left as he struggled with his disorientation. Carefully, he stood, lifting the flailing human child, then depositing her safely on the battlements beside him.

“Ow!” Ava said, landing with a bump and reaching down to rub at her ankle.

Tallheart looked down at the little girl, controlling his expression as he bent, bringing his eyes down to her level. “Are you injured?”

Ava looked up, then beamed at him. “No! I’m tough!”

Rumbling deeply to himself, Tallheart shook his head slowly, rising again and turning to see Mlem sprinting along the battlements toward them. The mustachioed human slid to a stop, then bent, scooping Ava up into his arms. He hugged her to his chest for a moment, then held her out in front of him, her feet kicking futilely in the air as she squirmed.

“Ava, what were you thinking?!” Mlem demanded. “Cervidians aren’t trees to be climbed! What did you think would happen when he woke!? He could have hurt you!”

“I was just playing…” Ava said, ceasing her struggles and looking away. “Tallheart’s nice. He wouldn’t hurt me.”

Tallheart frowned, focusing on Ava even as he grappled with what he’d just experienced. “You are correct, but so is your father. I would not harm you deliberately, but my strength makes me dangerous.”

“I’m sorry about this, Tallheart,” Mlem said with a sigh, setting Ava down, then placing one hand on her head and ruffling her hair. “Children, you know.”

“Hmm,” Tallheart rumbled, crossing his arms as Mlem bent to scold Ava in a quiet voice. He put the merchant and his daughter out of his mind, his thoughts already returning to his vision. It was clear what had happened. It had not been a dream. It had been far too real. He had gained access to his soul.

He rumbled deeply.

It wasn’t anything like what Rain had described, but then, Rain was human.

He rumbled again.

None of them knew what they were doing. They were in the dark, just as he and Lilly had been when they had first been forced out into the world. They would have to learn as they went.

A small tug on one of his fingers made Tallheart look down to see Ava staring up at him, her father hovering hesitantly behind her. Tallheart blinked, suddenly aware that he’d been thinking for much longer than it had seemed.

“What are you thinking about?” Ava asked innocently.

Mlem poked the back of her head sharply. “I said apologize, not bother him with questions. You know he doesn’t like those.”

“It is fine,” Tallheart said, frowning as Ava rubbed at the back of her head. He rumbled deep in his chest, tilting his head to look down at her. “I was remembering someone important to me.”

“Oh, okay,” Ava said, nodding to herself. “I do that too with my mom. I never met her though, so I have to make the memories up. Dad says her name was Talani and she was the prettiest woman in the whole wide world. Was Lilly pretty?”

“How—“ Tallheart said, eyes widening as he looked to Mlem for an explanation.

“You shouted it. Just before she fell,” Mlem said awkwardly, looking away and smoothing his mustache.

“I only fell because he moved,” Ava said defensively.

Tallheart closed his mouth and nodded slowly, becoming increasingly aware of the weight of hundreds of eyes on them. Human eyes. They were standing atop the battlements in broad daylight, and the work below had stopped with everyone goggled up at the commotion. He was not one to break under pressure, but he felt the walls closing in on him under the weight of that gaze. Suddenly, he felt as if the floor had dropped out from beneath him. Against his will, his heart rate began to increase, cold sweat breaking out across his skin beneath his armor. He clenched his fists, fighting against the sudden terror and the memory that came, unbidden to his mind. The memory of the dragon.

No. I am past this. I survived Rain’s trip to the depths. I did not break then. I will not break now.

Oblivious to Tallheart’s distress, Mlem sighed, then spoke in a wistful tone. “I dream of my Talani too, sometimes. Even after all these years. Some days, when I wake, I half expect to see her there beside me.”

Tallheart raised a hand to Mlem, palm forward to ward him off. It was too much. “Sorry. I need to be alone.” He looked down at the watching crowd, then along the battlements, searching for a path to escape. Like he’d escaped from the dragon. When he’d left the love of his life to die.

“Ah,” Mlem said, his voice fading to a distant buzz. “I understand. Sorry again for Ava, and, well… I’ll be around if you ever…you know. Want to talk. Everyone’s lost someone, you know? I know that I’m human and we barely know each other, but…” He trailed off, then clicked his tongue. “I’m overstepping.” With a sigh, he lowered his voice to whisper. “Come along, Ava. We should go.”

“But I want to know if she was pretty!” Ava protested loudly, tugging at her father’s hand as he began to drag her away.

Something about Ava’s innocent curiosity pierced through the agony gripping Tallheart’s chest, giving him a moment of clarity. Just like that, the memory broke and began to fade, retreating as rapidly as it had come. Its echoes would linger, he knew, but the danger was past.

Tallheart took a deep breath, then shook his head slowly before meeting Ava’s gaze. “She was.”

“I knew it!” the little girl said, tugging happily on her father’s arm.

Tallheart stared blankly at the pair of humans, the girl’s eyes filled with fantasy, the man’s with pity. He could still feel the weight of other eyes as well, but it was nothing he could not bear. He was not alone.

Silently, he nodded to Ava and Mlem, then turned and walked toward the stairs.
