Back at the Gray’s house, Irylax reclined on the couch, munching on a loaf of bread and leisurely flipping through the pages of a romance novel that she had bought from a bookshop down the street. Anyone who saw her would have assumed she was lazy, unmotivated, and had not a care in the world beyond the words she read and what would happen on the next page. In a sense it was true. At least about one part of her mind.

Within her soul realm, it was a different story. While a small piece of her mind was focused on the book and the flavor of the bread, another was dreamwalking, watching her apprentice run through the drills she had been assigned. Irylax had been watching her performance in the wimpy spawn zone below the city, of course, and was disappointed. Trembling in fear before a mere Tier 3 Rock Crawler? That was unacceptable. Sophie was a dragon’s disciple now, and she could not be disgracing her master like that. And she would have to learn quickly as well…

While that part of her mind analyzed Sophie’s weaknesses and thought of future lesson plans, a dozen more nearby were dreamwalking in other regions. One watched over her lair in the north, keeping tabs on the kobolds as they repaired and refurbished it. Another monitored the hidden temple of the dragon god, watching for signs of unusual activity. More still traveled the world, watching interesting events unfold, and making mental notes of important people and places.

While those avatars observed the world, another meditated in a simple, enclosed garden. Floating around her scaly form, orbs of elemental mana hovered, constantly shifting in size, density, velocity, and volatility. Of course, none of it was actual mana, as it was all within her soul realm, but she had achieved such a mastery over her own soul that she could give the aether the properties of mana, practicing her mana control without ever touching the outside world.

Another part of her mind was in human form, holding a sword before a replica of a straw dummy. It went through a series of motions, all slow, but purposeful, focusing on precision down to the smallest muscle, controlling everything as perfectly as possible.

At the edge of her soul, in a void that seemed bottomless, three more avatars hovered around a complex web of aether that radiated an aura so sinister it would make even gods tremble. Each of them had their front claws outstretched, manipulating miniscule threads within the web, and a fourth avatar hovered above, watching closely and occasionally calling out instructions to the other three.

Similar scenes played out in various locations within her soul, dozens of avatars hard at work, dreamwalking, training, fortifying her soul defenses, and researching aetheric attacks that could even harm gods.

At the center of her soul, with nothing but empty space for a mile around, a single avatar floated. It was the most important one. The original. The “true” Irylax. This avatar held dominion over all the others, and kept tabs on their work, making sure that none went astray. Anyone who knew anything about soul constructs would assume that this was the most important role in her soul. After all, living soul constructs were among the riskiest things in existence, especially when they were copies of the original.

Irylax, however, had mastered the art of creating copies. It hadn’t been easy, and nearly went horribly wrong, but she was careful, and had plenty of failsafes, and was able to make use of Oberon’s aether to activate them and purge the defective constructs, returning clarity to her mind and soul. Now, watching over the others was only a secondary task. The true role of this lone avatar was far more important than oversight.

It was stifling the seed of divinity that was attempting to bloom inside her.

Most did not even know that such a thing existed, and those that did would never have any reason to prevent it from taking effect. After all, who would turn down the opportunity to be a god?

Unfortunately, Irylax had no choice. The moment she stepped into the divine realm, she would become a target, and she wasn’t powerful enough to handle that. Yet. But she was getting close.

What she had shown Titania was much, much less than she was capable of. Much less than the quarter she told Titania she could do, as well. That spar had been more of a proof of concept than a full test. And she was glad that she had only gone as far as she did. Based on how much damage she had done to Titania with just her proof of concept, she most certainly would have killed her friend if she had gone much further.

The most important thing she had gained from that spar, however, was not the proof that her abilities would work. It was the experience of interacting directly with divine aether. Divine aether was innately different from ordinary aether. It was purer, more potent, and had qualitative changes unique to each deity. Titania’s aether was light and playful, giving anyone who felt it the impression that it was whimsical and harmless. That was an insidious deception, of course, but it suited the goddess of the fey well.

That particular aspect of her aether was interesting, but useless to Irylax. The other divine aspects, though… Currently, she was using what she had learned to modify both her defenses to better defend against divine enemies, and modifying her own offensive constructs to better handle her own divine aether once she finally ascended.

In her current state, even if she wasn’t holding back, she would never be able to achieve her goals. Her goal—her father—was simply too powerful. Even amongst the gods, he was a singular existence. If she herself ascended, though, replacing her mortal aether with divine aether… Then, she might stand a chance.

Soon… she thought, as she gazed into the divinity seed clashing against its restraints. I won’t be able to hold it back much longer…
