Not that it mattered, as even without the poison, the Protean Arrow, coupled with everything else, had been more than enough for Jake’s very first “fight” in B-grade to end exactly how one would expect, given he hadn’t even faced a mid-tier B-grade or a powerful variant.

You have slain [Arachnec Deathstalker – lvl 388] – Bonus experience earned for killing an enemy above your level

Whatever remained of the B-grade faded away into miasma that seeped into the ground, expanding the domain of death further. Even in death, these Arachnecs were a scourge, it seemed.

Through a Pulse, he also saw several other Arachnec in the distance react to the death of their kin, meaning they had either detected the energy from Jake’s attack or noticed that one of their own had been slain. None of them moved towards Jake and the others, though, so they evidently didn’t care that much that one of them had died for good.

Looking toward the Shaman, Jake shrugged. “You’re right, Deathstalkers are pretty squishy.”

The Shaman just stared back at Jake, and he saw the four other Venusians around him now visibly on guard, all three warriors clenching their weapons tightly. It wasn’t hard to see why.

So far, they had likely operated under the assumption that, as a low-level B-grade, Jake wouldn’t be a threat to the five of them if he decided to do a one-eighty and turn hostile. Now, that assumption had definitely been challenged, as Jake had given them a glimpse of what he was capable of.

Fortunately, the Shaman still seemed somewhat relaxed, looking more impressed than anything as he switched between staring at Jake and the crater with only a few scattered bones of the Deathstalker remaining.

“That... did not proceed as I’d expected,” the Shaman muttered aloud as he focused on Jake. “While the very thought frightens me, do tell: are all humans as powerful as you? Or are you a special variant?”

“Something like the latter,” Jake clarified, finding it a little funny to be referred to as a variant. Then again, enlightened races weren’t a thing in this world, so it wasn’t surprising.

“Truly, I have been enlightened today,” the Shaman slowly nodded as he seemed to consider if he even wanted to before asking another question. “I find myself hesitant to even ask, but did that attack you just unleashed take a huge toll on you, or...?”

Jake smiled as he looked towards the field of death spreading into the horizon. “How about we look for another Arachnec and find out?”
