I have to see this for myself. Ren stored the All-Seeing Mirror and looked around the barrier he had made for himself. The tunnel she was in was still cloaked in shadows, and for some reason, he felt a vibration in his Aura where the creature was.

WHHHHHOOOOO... YOOOOOUUUUU...

“GAH!” Ren grabbed the sides of his head as the mental voice screamed in his head. He bent over in severe pain and lost 10% of his Health.

GAAAAHHHHH... ODDDDDDD... NAAAAAAAMMMMMEEEEEE...

“GAH ISN'T MY NAME!” Ren yelled. He had lost another 10% of his Health. “S-S-STOP TALKING!”

YOOOOOUUUUU... DAAARRRRREEEE...

“YOU'RE KILLING ME!” Ren yelled at her. He had lost another 10% and was down to only 70% Health left. A loud woman's laugh filled the cavern.

SOOOOO... WEEEEEEEAAAAAAK...

The shadows that hid it from view dissipated, and it slithered out of the tunnel. All the succubi gasped as they finally saw the creature Ren would be facing. Ren felt their shock and peeked out to see the creature firsthand. He used Vision of Impurity and saw all the cracks and splits in the armor pieces, and he knew they wouldn't protect her at all in a fight.

Identify.

Marilith (Level 189)

This female snake-like creature is one of the most fearsome single opponents anyone can face. It's multiple arms can attack without pause in a relentless flurry. It's tail can grab and crush those unlucky enough to be caught with it, or it can lash out and strike opponents like a whip.

Damage Resistances: Elemental - Ice, Fire, and Lightning; Physical - Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing from both magical and non-magical attacks.

Immunities: Poison, Acid

Inherent Abilities: True Sight (can see as if daytime in any conditions, and can Spot anything within it's sight, hidden or not), Multi-attack, Multi-weapon Fighting, Telepathy (Range: 100 feet), Damage Reduction, Spell Resistance, Natural Armor.

Permanent Conditions: Corrupted, Combative (loves fighting)

Ren dismissed the popup after quickly reading it, and watched the Marilith as it looked at each and every spot that the succubi were, and then it stopped when it looked right at him.

Oh, crap. Ren thought, and then the creature crossed all 6 of it's swords in front of itself. Ren was about to wonder what she was doing when he felt a buildup of Mana. A huge portal opened in front of her, and a 15 foot tall demon stepped out of it. It kind of looked like a giant pig that was standing up on it's hind legs. It had a pig snout and large tusks, a big pot belly, and pig ears; but, it also had large clawed hands, a longer tail, and feathered wings. Before Ren could use Identify on it, it was engulfed in 20 fireballs, then 20 more, and 20 more. A loud pig squeal filled the cavern, and so did the most wonderful smell Ren had ever encountered.

“BACON!” Ren yelled and activated his Controlled Berserk Rage as he jumped as high as he could over the barrier he had made for himself, equipped his hammerpick and changed the enchantment to Fire in mid-air, then brought it down onto the flame-covered head of the demonic pig beast. It didn't die from the blow, even though there was a sickening bone crunch; but, it did become stunned as Ren landed in front of it and the Fire enchantment on the hammerpick increased the flames tenfold.

Without considering the consequences of what he was doing, Ren turned the hammerpick around to use the plow end, and swung the hammerpick up to split the beast's belly. Blood and viscera poured out of it and covered him from head to foot, and he laughed because he was so close to the wonderful bacon smell and the disembowelment was successful.

Notice!

You have been corrupted! You have absorbed Boar Demon blood directly from the source through your skin. It's effects vary by those infected, and by the amount of blood absorbed.

Current Corruption Level: 41%

Warning: When Corruption reaches 100%, you will become deathly ill and die.

Please note: Corruption resets upon death.

Oops. Ren chuckled. I forgot about the corruption. He dismissed the popup and stepped to the side as the demonic pig beast fell to it's knees, then dropped dead to the cavern floor.

Notice!

You have killed the rare Boar Demon.

Rewards: 35,000 XP

Hidden Quest Update!

You have found another rare creature! A SPECIAL bonus awaits those that can find all the rare creatures in the game. Number found: 2/100

Rewards: 3,000 XP

Ren used the plow end of the hammerpick to carve off a big chunk of skin and fat off of the well-cooked creature's still smouldering back. He stored his helm and climbed up onto the creature's back to sit down, used the Energize wand on himself so he wouldn't collapse from his Controlled Berserk Rage, then took a big bite out of the piece of meat.

“Oohhhh, that's so good!” Ren moaned as he chewed, then took another bite. He felt shock and surprise from all around him; but at the moment, he didn't care. He was too busy enjoying himself to worry about anything else. He heard a slithering sound close by and looked up at the Marilith demon.

“I'm sorry! Where are my manners?” Ren used the plow end of the hammerpick to cut off a much bigger piece and held it out to her. “Would you like some?”
