Which explains why he’s planted right between me and the Emperor’s Natal Throne, where the current Emperor’s soul watches everything unfold with a look of awe and hope etched across his youthful features. Though he looks like he’s in his early forties out in reality, he seems even younger than his brother ZhenWu here in his Natal Palace, and maybe a year or two older than the lovely Miss Rou, who I doubt is much older than I am. It seems that whatever mind-mojo the first Emperor uses to enslave the souls of his meat puppets takes a long time to kick in, or maybe Ying Zheng needs the host’s soul in good working order before moving out and into the next Emperor.

This year should be the thirty-ninth year of the current Emperor’s rule, with eleven more to go before the next Emperor takes over. That’s how it works here in the Azure Sea, which is odd considering I now know it was all put together by an eternal, body-snatching monster. Why switch bodies every fifty years? Seems inconvenient and needlessly risky to fight a host soul for control every five decades, especially when there are better options available. I mean, taking over a half-beast every five centuries seems much easier, or Ying Zheng could bring his host up to Divinity and have an even longer lifespan, or so I would assume. All this means that there has to be a reason why he switches every fifty years, and I doubt it’s something silly like placating the five Supreme Families to ensure a different bloodline takes the throne every half-century.

Maybe he switches every fifty years because he has to? When he mentioned his predecessor, who was supposedly ZhenWu and the current Emperor’s father, Ying Zheng spoke of a story told upon his deathbed. Seems odd considering how young the former Emperor’s sons all appear to be, so is it possible that Ying Zheng’s body-snatching shenanigans uses up the host body’s Life Force at an accelerated rate? Dunno. Maybe. Maybe not. I don’t know enough to say, but despite studying the souls out in the Void and captured within my Natal Sea for what feels like a fair amount of time, I’m unable to tell how Ying Zheng is controlling them, and thus unable to come up with a method to free them. The current Emperor is the only one who is chained and forced to kneel, but also the only one capable of expressing emotion, so full of bitter anger and despondent hope as he watches everything unfold around him. As for the rest, they might as well be automatons, though I note down a few similarities I previously didn’t register. The powerful souls I’ve already fought are the exception to the rule, as most faces in the crowd are full of youth and vigour, which lends credence to my theory of the body-snatcher requiring vast amounts of Life Force to sustain himself. Why else would the Emperors all take the throne when they’re still so young? Granted, ‘young’ could still mean they’re in their forties like ZhenWu and look barely old enough to have kids.

Seriously. How does he have a twenty-something year old daughter already? He looks about the age where he should be wrangling rug-rats and maybe even changing diapers for his kids, as opposed to butting heads over who they’re gonna marry.

Another point of interest is the fact that the handful of older faces among the crowd appear to be on the weaker end of the spectrum. No idea why, though I suppose sharing your body with an ancient soul would do wonders for progressing along your path, like a friendly old ghost grandpa who wants to take over your body and bang your giant harem of wives. Ugh. That’s like the worst form of NTR ever, getting cucked by your own body being controlled by someone else, though I don’t suppose the… host has much time to…

A familiar face leaps out at me from the crowd, and though I recognize him at first glance, I can’t believe what I am seeing. “Err… Seneschal?” I ask, moving to the edge of my Manifested Natal Palace to get a closer look, and on the way over, I dredge up his name from the back of my mind. “Solitary Sword Zhang Jun Bao? What are you doing here?”

The old Seneschal looks the same as he did in life, save for his fancy new threads which would’ve been unsuitable for a mere servant, yet they look right at home on his lithe frame, lending him an air of heroic bearing. The sword in his hand is the one I saw him use to cut down a Half-Step Divinity Wraith in a single pass and send five more fleeing for the hills, though that seems much less impressive now that I know my old boss was in cahoots with Zhen Shi all this time and allowed himself to be injured. No matter how many times I call out his name and title however, the Seneschal offers no response whatsoever, and I heave a sigh at having lost this exemplary Warrior, a stand-out talent of his generation who might even have been a Divinity, or close to it. “Did Liang Wu Di sacrifice you too?” I ask, if only to hear my thoughts out loud. “I thought better of him, thought that he respected you as a man and maybe even saw you as a father, but it seems I was wrong.”

Or was I? A glimmer of something flashes in the Seneschal’s dead eyes, briefly and only for an instant, but I know I saw it before it disappeared. Before I can figure out what to try next however, an intrusion worms its way into my consciousness and Natal Palace both. A moment of panic threatens to unmake me before I’m hit by a familiar torrent of joy and love which eases away all my fears and worries as I turn to greet Buddy in my Natal Sea. “Good boy!” Lifting my doggo into my arms to hug him close, I give him a kiss on the head and ask, “How’d you get in here?” No idea why I’m even bothering, as Buddy doesn’t understand English and I don’t speak dog, but he’s just happy to hear my voice again. That being said, a brilliant idea comes to mind while greeting my dog with cuddles, and I descend down to the surface of the sea to try and make it happen.

Putting my dog aside on a floating raft which I Materialize out of thin air, I cup his chin and look him in the eyes, or I try to as he avoids my gaze because he’s a sweet, docile doggo. “Alright Buddy,” I say, rubbing his cheeks with my thumbs so he knows I still love him. “You want a treat?” His ears perk up at the sound of his favourite word as I point at the souls caught in the waters below and ignore the churning in my gut. “There you go! Go get ‘em!”

Buddy’s disappointment is immeasurable and his day is ruined as he looks at the four souls, then back at me, his eyes filled with chagrin and confusion because he doesn’t see any treats. I suppose these souls are too Balanced for his tastes, or rather for Blobby’s tastes, so there goes my plan of having my dog Devour the Eternal Emperor’s soul army. Materializing a grilled steak for him to chow down on, I stifle my sigh and try a different tack once Buddy finishes his snack. Knowing there’s no way he will ever understand my words, I conjure up an image of the Emperor standing in the palm of my hand, but not the Eternal Emperor currently doing battle against Zhen Shi. The image in my hand depicts the Emperor in reality, Ying Zheng’s meat puppet standing on the sands of the Western Province, right down to his armour and hair. “See this guy?” I ask, showing Buddy the picture and praying he understands even though I know this is the longest of long shots. “I need you to go back out to reality and bite his fucking dick off.”

God, I feel like a horrible pet parent even asking my dog to do this, and I really shouldn’t use such harsh language in front of him, but I’m desperate and this is the only chance I can see. If Buddy kills the current Emperor, then his Domain will disperse and his soul will do whatever souls do whenever their latest life comes to an end, and then Ying Zheng, Zhen Shi, and all these creepy enslaved souls will be left exposed to the Void. Even though it doesn’t seem all that different from the inside of an empty Natal Palace, I’ve stepped outside into the grand vastness of the desolate Void and it is not a pleasant experience, I’ll tell you what. More importantly, I suspect that if the current Emperor dies and his Domain disappears, then Ying Zheng will no long be able to hold me here, meaning I can just go back to my body and make sure the current Emperor is dead as a doornail.

As for what happens to Ying Zheng, Zhen Shi, and the rest of these souls? Who fucking cares. Sure most of these souls are victims of the first Emperor, but let’s be real. Where there is life, there is hope, but these guys are all long dead, except the current Emperor who hopefully soon will be.

I spend a good amount of time and effort trying to convey my intentions to Buddy, but my sweet dog is dumber than a bag of bricks. Even with the ability to conjure up life-like illusions to show him every step of the process, I’m not sure he understands that the small, brown-furred, floppy-eared dog he sees savagely tearing into the Emperor’s nether regions time and time again is supposed to represent him. God, I bet if Mama Bun were here, she’d figure it out in an instant, and she might well already be working on the Emperor’s ankles even as we speak. Pong Pong most definitely would get it, but my efforts to contact him don’t even make it out into the Void, stopped by the same almost solid barrier keeping me from leaving the current Emperor’s Natal Palace. Then again, I suppose Buddy probably couldn’t get out anyways, so after trying for far too long and wasting who knows how much time in reality, I give up and pat my sad dog on the head, who is only sad because he thinks I’m mad since he doesn’t understand what I’m trying to tell him. “…Good dog,” I conclude, unable to think of anything else to say, and he perks right up and jumps into my arms for a hug.

“How intriguing.” The cold, passionless statement shakes me out of my thoughts as I turn to see the Eternal Emperor standing next to the fat grandpa, just outside the borders of my Materialized Natal Palace. Hands folded behind his back and head held so high his nose is pointing at the sky, the body-snatching monstrosity looks none the worse for wear after his tussle with Zhen Shi, who is nowhere to be found within the Emperor’s Natal Palace. Taking in the sights of my Natal Palace, the Eternal Emperor shows the tiniest hint of interest, not exactly excited by what he sees, but intrigued none the less. “The impossible made possible once again, with the same child at the crux of so many miracles.” Fixing his predatory gaze upon me, his eyes glow with a bleak heat that sends a chill down my spine, for I now understand what it is he wants from me.

“Not since the founding of the Empire has this Sovereign seen so promising a subject,” the monster continues, stepping forward past the boundary and into my Natal Palace, and even though I take this opportunity to hit him with a blast from a water cannon, he doesn’t even notice the impact. “Your boundless potential is merely the appetizer, but this Sovereign is surprised to see that the Laws of your Natal Palace are so complete.” Conjuring up a barrage of water, munitions, Sword Force, and anything else I can think of, all my efforts are for naught as he reaches out to take me in hand while his lips twitch in the barest hint of a smile. “Yes, you will make a fine host for this Sovereign, and perhaps even the final host once your secrets of Life Energy are laid bare.”

I continue to fight the good fight, but nothing seems to faze him, and though I refuse to give in to despair, I fear that there is nothing I can do stop the Eternal Emperor from hijacking my body. His outstretched hand grows larger and larger until it blocks out all light, and I grab Buddy close and clutch him tight, praying for a miracle to come save me.

Because by god I’m gonna need it.

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2

Chapter Meme 3
