Or it would, if not for the actions of another old timer from a bygone era, this one dressed in elaborate, flowing robes so overly embellished that even Luo-Luo would balk at wearing them, all while playing a jade flute whose piercing notes drill deep down into my very soul. As if a regular flute wasn’t bad enough, the wrinkled Flautist’s blaring trills set my gorge to rising and my nerves aflame, but it’s not half as bad as the Warrior’s Spear Intent. The real issue is how the blaring melody speaks to me, reminding me of all the pain and suffering I’ve experienced today and all the fatigue I’ve built up along the way. I’ve been through enough, and now there’s this, which is everything I’ve already gone through and more, so why even continue to fight? I’m out of my depth and all on my own, while my enemies have numbers enough to block out the sun, a veritable horde of powerful souls moving into position to strike me down before I can even cross swords with the Emperor himself, so I might as well just give up and die.

So in other words, business as usual.

Life is suffering, with mine more unfortunate than most, and it’ll take more than a shitty song to bring me low. The Flautist stands just outside the boundaries of my Natal Palace, and I discover that even though I can move freely within the Materialized area, the boundaries do not move with me. Expanding the Natal Palace might work, but between Meng Sha, Shi Bei, and everything else I’ve been up to today, I’ve pretty much reached my limits, whether they be physical, mental, or spiritual. That being said, just because my new foe is standing outside my Domain doesn’t mean nothing inside can reach him, so I decide to fight fire with fire and Manifest a set of industrial sized concert speakers upon a raft pointed directly at him. Leaping onto the floating surface, I grab the mic and yell, “Learn to play a real musical instrument, you hack!” The feedback sets my ears to ringing, but does little to interrupt the Flautist’s shrill, warbling blasts of noise until I Will the speakers to erupt in the distinctive melodic chords of the one, the only, Epic Sax Guy.

So taken aback by the dulcet tones and my hypnotic hip movements, the Flautist forgets himself for a moment and stops playing, his wrinkled, neutral expression growing even more slack, but soon he mechanically resumes his trilling, discordant warbling, and I sense a different purpose behind it. He’s changing up the pattern and rhythm in an effort to counteract Epic Sax Guy, to break through the music and attack me once more. If Luo-Luo were here, I’m sure she could come up with some musical theory to explain it and somehow counteract the Flautist, but I lack the musical skills and background to know what to do. A good thing this isn’t battle of the bands then, for I am not limited to music alone. Summoning Peace to hand, I wind up and deliver a massive, underhand throw which leaves my arm outstretched. The Flautist swerves to avoid my blade, but I Guide the projectile true to plunge deep into my aged opponent’s chest. Rather than Sword Force however, I have a different purpose in mind as my fingers close around the solid cord of Manifested Domain connecting Peace to my wrist.

“Get over here!”

The guttural declaration erupts from my throat as I pull hard on the cord, but it is not my voice which we hear as the Manifested meme drags the Flautist to stand before me. The follow-up is so natural and instinctive I don’t even need to think as I execute a flawless uppercut that sends the retired musician high into the air and off my raft before sinking into the Natal Sea below. A pulsating current of water sends him careening down to join the Warrior beneath the waves, a battle well fought if I do say so myself, but before I can even figuratively pat myself on the back, I am beset on both sides by two more formidable foes. A billowing ball of flame crashes into my raft as I leap into the skies to avoid the explosion, only to discover a sharp pain emanating from my neck due to the short sword jammed into it. Frightening as it might be to find twelve inches of shoddily-forged, sharpened metal embedded in my throat, I am not here in the flesh, so without a Weapon Force to empower the blow, this is merely an inconvenience at best.

The sword belongs to a slim, svelte Warrior clad in all black silks that contrasts sharply with his grey and white hair, and I instantly nickname him the Ninja. The fireball came from some asshole in a hide cape, one just as old as the others and wearing a crude crown of animal horn and holding a sceptre shaped from what appears to be a human leg bone. Old Asian Joffery will be his name, one which fits all too well because this asshole has the most punchable face I have ever seen in this life and the last. The arrogance is just baked right into the creases of his skin, and combined with his high, jutting cheekbones and the set of his thin, bloodless lips make him so instantly hateful and deplorable that I loathe even the idea of learning his real name. That being said, Joffery’s ability to conjure fire is nothing to sneeze at as his next fireball erupts mid-air to cover the sea in flames. Cloud-Stepping away from the elderly Ninja to buy myself a moment to breathe, I come to a crashing halt and look down to find a barbed leather bull-whip holding me in place, because apparently this Ninja Grandpa works part-time as a dom on weekends, which is an image I will never get out of my head.

The fiery inferno consumes me and I learn first-hand that these flames can indeed hurt me, even worse than the Warrior’s Spear Intent as they draw the air out of my lungs and render me incapable of screaming. Again, I know I have no lungs or air to breathe, but the pain is no less real as I instinctively dive towards the waters only to crash into a sea of flames. A brief struggle sees me through to the other side and the cooling currents underneath, but the damage has already been done. Though still wholly intact, I feel as if my body is covered in horrific burns and melting fat, without the added benefit of melted nerves to end the sensation of pain. What’s more, my throat feels as if I drank a bottle of acid and I’m slowly coming apart from inside, the work of the Ninja’s poison which he no doubt slathered across his dagger. No, not poison, but some Chi working that resembles it. Again, I reiterate to myself that I am not here in the flesh, but spirit, a simple fact that is all too easy to forget as I shake off the pain and go after my ancient opponents who are desperately making a beeline towards the boundaries of my Natal Palace.

Because they set foot within my Domain expecting the Flautist’s music to keep me under control, but I threw off his musical enchantment before they even arrived. While both the ninja and Asian Joffery are capable of injuring me, they know they have no chance of winning now that I am of sound mind and spirit, for here in my Natal Palace, my Authority reigns supreme. An effort of Will closes off my Natal Palace from the Void, and a second extinguishes the flames blanketing the sea, for here in my Natal Palace, Asian Joffery has no Authority to wield the Energy of the Heavens. Unable to leave, he turns to fight alongside the Ninja who disappears from sight, but I could find him even with both eyes closed because I hold the home-ground advantage. Rather than try and kill them, I opt to capture them alongside their friends, because to be honest, the only way I know how to hurt them is with sword force. A wave of water rises up to drag them both under the sea, binding them in swirling currents before carrying them over to their other two companions who even now continue to struggle to break free.

It almost feels unfair, bullying these heavy hitters like this, but that’s what happens when you intrude upon someone else’s Natal Palace. So long as my throne remains in my possession, I hold all the cards here where I stand. That being said, I’ve only Materialized a portion of my Natal Palace, this deep-water section of the sea, so I’m not sure how anyone could gain access to my condo and Throne which have not been wholly Materialized. Then again, considering they both ran towards shore where my condo is located, maybe I’m wrong and I’m risking everything by Materializing my Natal Palace and not occupying the Throne, like the first Emperor over there whose ass is plastered to his seat even in the midst of his struggle with Zhen Shi. Now that I have some time to breathe, I notice I haven’t missed much of their battle, which is less kung-fu magic and more staring deeply into each other’s eyes while grimacing something fierce, though I imagine they’re locked in a bitter battle of Wills taking place within their… minds? Souls? Whatever. This is the stuff of nightmares, in my opinion, sharing an intimate, soulful connection with myself, and the fact that one is a hairless twin of the other really makes it that much more unsettling.

Much as I would love to leave this place and go back to my body, my efforts bear no fruit and I remain trapped within the current Emperor’s Domain. My next thought is to dismiss my Materialized Natal Palace and interfere with the battle of Wills between the first Emperor and Zhen Shi, but the four seniors trapped under the sea are merely a drop in the bucket compared to the vast army of Natal Souls trapped within the first Emperor’s Natal Palace. No, not the first Emperor, but the current Emperor’s Natal Palace, or rather the person everyone thinks is the current Emperor who is actually chained up and kneeling at the first Emperor’s feet. ZhenWu’s brother, or maybe half-brother, and Xing Ao Tian’s too, and it’s possible the other representatives were also half-siblings given how the first Emperor mentioned something about uniting brothers against him. After playing back the conversation once more, I realize it really was a rebellion, because ZhenWu might well have realized that the current Emperor was not actually his older brother, which is why he was so desperate to unite the outer provinces behind him. He needed them and the Five Supreme Families in order to have enough leverage to negotiate with the first Emperor, which was enough to convince the body-snatching Ying Zheng to part ways amicably.

And the scariest thing? Even with the Five Supreme Families and the outer provinces more or less united against him, Ying Zheng wasn’t afraid of losing a fight. No, he backed down because he was worried there’d be nothing left to rule in the aftermath of their showdown.

All the more reason for me to get gone, but I find myself surrounded by a veritable army of Souls on all sides, tens of thousands if not hundreds of thousands spread throughout the Void to encircle my Materialized Natal Palace. Every last one of them wears the same dead-eyed expression, as if they’re unaware of their surroundings and merely going through the motions, but their actions show signs of deliberation. They’ve learned from the old Flautist’s mistake and stand well clear of the boundaries of my Manifested Natal Palace to avoid being dragged in by my sword. It comes as something of a relief to see that a number of them are even gathered where my Natal Throne should be, but have yet to take control of my Domain. I suspect it’s because they have to ‘come in’ to my Natal Palace first before being able to vie for control of my Throne, though I might well be wrong. Much as I’d love to eliminate the risk and dismiss my Materialized Natal Palace, I’m fairly certain I would be ripped to shreds and burnt to a crisp by the four imprisoned elders still struggling to break free of my Natal Sea, to say nothing of the army of Souls all around me.

God, if what Zhen Shi said was true, each one of these souls was taken from a prospective Emperor of the Azure Sea. It would appear the Eternal Emperor has a penchant for keeping the souls of his puppets and lining them up like they’re in attendance for court, a sick, twisted play which began with the founding of the Empire and has continued to this day.

Why keep the souls though? Isn’t that a risk, given how any random soul could break free and claim the current host’s Natal Throne for themselves? Maybe the Eternal Emperor does it to stroke his ego, or maybe he’s sentimental about the bodies he collects, or maybe it’s a power play like what Zhen Shi likes to do. Regardless of the why, knowing this is an army of full-blown actual souls makes it all the more unnerving, especially in light of the ancient, rotund scholar standing who appears to lead them. I call him a scholar because of the style of robes, a wide-sleeved, full body cloak that goes down to his ankles and is held in place by a sash that wraps multiple times around his portly belly, complete with a hat that is more rectangular than round. It’s a style still seen in the Empire today amongst the noble elite, though his are fashioned from coarse hemp rather than light cotton or noble silk. Contrary to his coarse fabrics however, his white hair is meticulously groomed, and though wrinkled as the rest of the seniors I’ve fought, it appears as if this old man took better care of his skin, as his creases are not as deep or weathered. Much like the four imprisoned in my Natal Sea, there are no distinctive markings or sigils embroidered upon this portly fellow’s clothes, but I sense a threat emanating from him that dwarfs the danger I feel from any three souls residing in the Emperor’s Natal Palace, including the ones I’ve already fought who, as far as I can tell, might well have been the strongest of the bunch aside from fat grandpa over there.

