“Time’s ticking, lad,” Husolt said, and for a moment, Sarnai worried that the Divine Blacksmith didn’t intend to let his daughter marry a cripple. Failure was no problem, so long as the father of the bride was amenable to the union (or the mother, as was the case with poor Alsantset), but Husolt was a stubborn one and Akanai did so love to spoil her husband...

“Be back before you know it.” Instead of running for the stairs, Rain reached underneath his cloak and fumbled about before pulling out a rope and grappling hook. Seeing Sarnai’s surprise, he grinned and said, “Charok warned me to be prepared, and you can hide a surprisingly large bag under this silly cloak. Only thing it’s good for. Be right back.”

Then, without checking the grappling hook to make sure it was secure, Sarnai’s son leapt off the roof and plummeted towards the ground.

It felt like an eternity before the rope drew taut, but it couldn’t have been more than a second because Sarnai was already looking over the edge and ready to throw herself down after him if need be. Five stories was not an insurmountable height to jump from, especially not for a Peak Expert like Sarnai, but even a young man of BoShui's calibre would injure himself falling from this high up. Rain had gone over the edge without blinking, and was now shimmying his way down the rope with such speed and skill she had to wonder where he learned it. Shooting an accusatory gaze at her husband, he responded with a convincing shrug of ignorance, but it was their daughter who supplied an answer. “The obstacle course,” Alsantset said, beaming at her little brother’s unexpected prowess. “He must have been running it with his animals for fun and picked up a few tricks.”

By now, Rain’s feet had already reached the ground, and he shook the grappling hook free with a flick of his wrist. Stopping just long enough to catch it, he set off for the gates at a steady pace, shouting, “Make way please. Imperial Scion coming through. Meep Meep.” What those sounds meant, Sarnai couldn’t say, but the crowd cleared out of his way with utmost haste, most likely because of his striking Imperial armour. There was almost no suspense as they watched him jog across the plaza, but instead of heading up the stairs, he stopped at the base of the wall and raised his hands to his mouth, no doubt shouting something to Tenjin up top.

Whatever it was, it set Husolt to laughing. “Good lad there,” he chortled, making sure not to look at Sarnai or her husband. “He’s extorting Tenjin, saying he’ll spread all of the poor boy’s dirty secrets if he don’t throw the token down. Now he’s asking me what to do. Care to weigh in on what I should say?”

“What dirty secrets?” her idiot husband asked, and Sarnai shot him a dark look telling him to keep quiet. What secrets indeed, as if any of them knew, but as far as she could tell, Tenjin didn’t have any such secret and Rain was threatening to spread unfounded rumours. A dirty trick, one he learned in all his political dealings, but he had to use the tools at his disposal for the task at hand.

To this end, Sarnai shrugged and said, “It is up to you, Father-in-Law. A man must take responsibility for his own decisions after all.” A not so subtle reminder that if Rain were to fail this task and be refused Sumila’s hand in marriage, then the responsibility would fall squarely on Husolt’s shoulders.

And Sarnai would be sure to collect this debt from his hide.

The smile faded from Husolt’s face, and he spent a good half minute clearing his throat. By then, Rain was already making his way back over with plenty of time to spare. Already, Sarnai could imagine what the rumour-mongers would say, about how Fire-Bird Tenjin had a shameful secret known only by Falling Rain, but ultimately it would lead to nothing. Anyone who’d seen them together would know they were as close as brothers, and it was only Tenjin’s refusal for a more prominent rank or title that kept him where he was. Unlike Sarnai’s dog-brained husband, Tenjin wanted to settle down with his beloved to start a family, and it was Tursinai’s love of adventure that brought them out here, rather than his own personal quest for glory. A commendable outlook and a respectable young man, so Sarnai would make sure to scold her son for teasing Tenjin so.

Having returned to the rooftop via the stairs, Rain grinned as he handed the wooden token to Husolt with both hands, and miraculously even refrained from making taunts, though this might have been because he was already out of breath. Next came a complex blacksmith’s puzzle which he solved with ease, then Husolt made him demonstrate his skills with a crossbow and throwing knife, which were... passable. Lastly, Husolt posed the boy a riddle involving a life and death situation in which he was forced to pick and choose which of his pets to save and which he would let die. Unfortunately, Rain was physically incapable of making a decision and asked so many questions Husolt eventually just refused to answer, at which point the boy finally answered, ‘whoever’s closest’, because that gave him the best odds of saving as many of his beloved pets as he could.

“All right lad, all right,” Husolt grumbled, holding his hands up to stem the tide of follow up questions. “I give up. You passed. It was a hypothetical situation. No need to keep dwelling on it anymore.” Shaking his head, he sighed and put both hands on the boy’s shoulders. The difference in size was staggering to behold, for Rain was not a large man and Husolt made most Martial Warriors appear downright dainty, but the boy held up well under the pressure. “I already told you what would happen if you ever made my girl cry, and yer a better Son-in-Law than most. I gave you my blessing when the two of you were betrothed, and you still have my blessing today on the day you wed. You just take good care of her, you hear? You make sure she remembers to visit. You know how she is, always focused on her next project or milestone or whatnot. She’s a strong girl, but she needs a strong person to support her, because she’s always pushin’ her limits, and she’ll push yours too.”

By now, the massive warrior was crying like a child, and Rain pushed in to hug him tight. “Don’t worry, Grandpa. I won’t let you down.”

“Bah, what grandpa? It’s Father-in-Law now, or will be soon enough.” Though Rain and Husolt shared a silly smile at the absurdity of their family situation, Sarnai felt a headache coming on. Seniority was important in a family, but she could not accept her son becoming her Brother-in-Law, nor did she know how to behave around her Sister-in-Law turned Daughter-in-Law.

All matters for another day, for now it was finally time for the marriage ceremony, or so Sarnai thought. “I got one last test for you, lad,” Husolt said, wiping his tears and limbering up with his staff. “Yer Pa kept jawin’ on about how you got some real impressive moves, and I want to see them fer meself. Come, show this here grand-daddy what you got.”

This time, it was not just Sarnai glaring daggers at her dog-brained husband, as Rain and Alsantset added their glares as well. It was almost enough to make her pity the poor fool, until she remembered that he’d brought this upon himself.

Muttering a curse underneath her breath, Sarnai crossed her arms and audibly growled as her son and her father-in-law took up arms and beat each other like cretins. All she wanted was the ceremony to go well without incident. After that, the banquet could end in disaster and she still wouldn’t bat an eye, but stubborn Husolt just refused to let things happen in a timely manner. Not for the first time, Sarnai reflected on how bittersweet her husband’s recent adoption had become, and dreaded what life with her new in-laws might become...

Chapter Meme
