A much needed blessing, considering they were holding the banquet outside, because unlike Central’s Citadel, the Northern architects had not thought to include any massive banquet halls when planning the fortifications. “Come now,” Sarnai said, helping the woman straighten up despite her quiet protests and quietly linking their arms. “How many times must I tell you this? We of the People have no need for curtsies or honorifics among friends. To you, I am merely Sarnai, and my son is just Rain.” At most, Eun could use their titles, such as Speaker Sarnai or Minister of Finance Falling Rain, but the woman was a stickler for formality. It would not do, for as far as Sarnai could tell, Eun was the closest thing Du Min Gyu had to a wife, and as such, it would not do to treat her as a common maid, no matter what she might insist.

Most importantly, Sarnai would have never completed the banquet preparations without Eun’s vital help and knowledge, which meant she would forever and always have Sarnai’s gratitude and friendship.

There was precious little time for niceties, so they set about dressing the rabbits, bears, and wildcats in their darling embroidered shirts. The bears and wildcats also had matching hats, and even the Laughing Birds had silken bows to wear around their necks, with the chicks looking especially darling as they nestled happily in Aurie’s fur as he trotted around the courtyard. Since Rain’s other girls would have no part in the ceremony itself, Mei Lin and Yan were both still fast asleep, as was Zheng Luo over in the manor, but the twin handmaidens Sorya and Anrhi were here to lend a hand, giggling away while trying to get the bears to sit still. Now those two were good girls, and Sarnai almost thought to have Rain marry them, but she dropped the idea when she realized Zheng Luo would undoubtedly react poorly to having her handmaidens ‘elevated’ to equals.

Then again, the dramas were always rife with illegitimate children born from illicit affairs between noblemen and their maids, so perhaps Zheng Luo had already prepared for this eventuality. The girl lived and breathed politics, so it wouldn’t come as a surprise if it came to light that she picked two fetching demi-humans so there would be no dispute regarding lines of succession and whatnot. Unfortunately, no one had seen fit to tell her that the People placed almost no emphasis on bloodlines, though if she couldn’t see this after living in their household for over a year, then the girl was not as smart as Sarnai had hoped.

Even with so many hands to help, they still almost fell behind schedule. Once the animals were all wearing their darling shirts, vests, hats, bows, and flowered circlets, Sarnai changed into her dress, gushed over Tali and Tate in their darling outfits, loaded everyone into the carriage, and set off for Akanai’s courtyard. The marriage ceremony was supposed to be a private affair taking place at the bride’s family home, but unfortunately, the Chief Provost’s quarters were stationed on the fifth floor of her building, which she shared with dozens, if not hundred of other inhabitants, most of whom would not take kindly to being asked to vacate their own rooms. The courtyard was another matter however, as it was normally packed with training Sentinels, but today, it sat empty and unused save for a scattering of close friends and subordinates here by invitation. Huushal was the first one Sarnai saw upon stepping out of the carriage, which was something of a surprise given his recent difficulties with Balance. Still, it was heartening to see him standing there with her competent young Disciple Rustram and the rest of Rain’s close friends like Tong Da Fung, Situ Jia Zian, Han BoShui, Tam Taewoong, and Yo Sung-Hoon.

Of course, those were only the most familiar faces, and Sarnai stopped to thank each one while gifting them with a generous red pocket as thanks for their help. Comically large and the size of a standard document, the red pockets contained a hundred-gold card and one of Rain’s newfangled War Bonds inside, albeit one that had yet to be paid for and stamped. It was a promise to sell the first twenty or so War Bonds to his friends, which in Sarnai’s mind, felt more than a little duplicitous, promising vast returns on an investment that might very well fall flat. Besides, where were Huushal, Bulat, Jorani, or even Rustram supposed to find the nine-thousand and some odd gold to purchase one?

She would have argued the inclusion of the War Bonds if she’d known beforehand, but Rain insisted he would handle the red pockets himself and left them with Li Song last night. The ‘valuable’ documents were likely a last minute inclusion as well, since they had only just arrived two days ago, five-hundred official documents all stamped and sealed by the Prime Minister and the Chief Justicar of Fraud, but still missing the Master of Coin’s seal which had yet to arrive. Rain pushed too hard with his War Bond venture, as he was wont to do when he had too much faith in something he believed would succeed without fail. As such, he took no precautions before charging headlong into the fray, but while Sarnai barely understood the math or logic behind his efforts, she knew that no matter how fool-proof or profitable his scheme might appear, it could still be easily ruined by petty backbiting and political manoeuvrings for no reason besides spite.

Besides, even putting the War Bonds aside, a hundred gold was far too generous for what was essentially token guard duty. Unlike with Alsantset, Mila had no spurned suitor who might fight his way through the guards in order to object to the ceremony. A good thing too, because Sarnai would have killed Gerel if not for Mentor’s intervention, and she would not be so merciful again.

Not that she expected an intruder, since Mila, Husolt, and Akanai were all famously short-tempered...

With the red pockets handed out, Sarnai took her daughter aside to wait for her son’s arrival, while Li Song brought the animals upstairs to join her family. And not a moment too soon either, as Baatar and Rain appeared in the distance carrying the bundled remains of a butchered hog between them, while the Guardian Turtle followed after them wearing a lovely crown of flowers she’d picked up somewhere along the way. The Death corps were there as well, but they stopped and took positions all around the courtyard while Rain rode in to greet his friends and family. Surprisingly enough, Sarnai’s son was not covered in blood as expected, and had even done a passable job keeping his boots clean, though Mafu’s silken shirt was now a lost cause, covered in bloody paw prints as it was...

Resisting the urge to scowl at the fat beast, Sarnai watched her son go through with the formalities of thanking his ceremonial guards, and once the niceties were over and done with, the family headed inside with the slaughtered offerings and moved upstairs to appeal to their future in-laws. Even Tali and Tate did their part, looking oh so serious as they held a tray of ribs each in their darling little arms, so darling and adorable Sarnai could barely keep from pinching their cheeks. Oh Mother Above, she would be in her nineties when it came time for them to marry, possibly even older if they should dilly-dally before settling on a suitable partner. Sweet Tate was a serious and dutiful boy, so she wouldn’t have to worry about him, but Tali was such a flighty and capricious little girl, who knew what the future had in store for her?

Taking a deep breath to keep her emotions from getting the better of her, Sarnai clutched her husband’s arm while they made their way up the stairs. “No need to fret, mother,” Alsantset Sent, and Sarnai looked back to see her girl hide her mischievous smile. “All that is left are the games of strength and skill. I am sure Grandpa Husolt will not make things too hard on his grandson, unlike certain other hot-blooded fathers out there.”

There was a hint of reproach in the girl’s tone, no doubt because she was still peeved at the monumental tasks her father set for Charok, all of which the poor boy subsequently failed. The games were an old tradition originally meant as an excuse to showcase the potential groom’s talents so that the bride’s family would feel reassured, but over time, the games developed into a means for disapproving fathers to humiliate their prospective son-in-laws and shame them into going home unwed. It hadn’t worked on Charok, and little Rain was all but shameless, yet still Sarnai was worried Husolt would go too far and their happy little family would end up divided.

“You say this because you do not know your grandfather well enough,” Sarnai Sent, turning away so the girl wouldn’t see her expression. “You know him as a man who spends his days puttering around the forge and his nights getting drunk and playing chess, but you forget he stood and fought alongside your grandmother for longer than you and I have lived. You remember little Rain’s first trip to Shen Huo? Where your grandfather slaughtered a young Warrant Officer for threatening little Sumila? Do you recall how it ended?”

“Grandpa killed the Warrant Officer and subdued his bodyguards before showing the City Guards his writ.”

“And why do you think they let him go?”

“Because they recognized his name?”

“Pei. Shen Huo is not like the village, where we tell tales of the Chief Provost and her glorious past deeds. The nobles arrayed against the Magistrate had forgotten Akanai’s name, so what chance was there of mere City guards remembering Husolt’s? No, your grandfather bears a special writ which states that under no circumstances are the City Guards to engage him in any form of hostilities, and it was given to him for good reason. He is not a reasonable man when his ire is raised, and doubly so when his precious daughter is involved, so I doubt little Rain will pass even a single test. If you thought your father overbearing, you should compare notes with little Sumila, and I guarantee you will not emerge the victor.”

Sarnai could almost see the blood draining from her daughter’s face, because even though the girl hid it well, Alsantset was likely more worried about this wedding than anyone else, Rain included. She loved the boy fiercely like her own, and in truth had been more of a mother to him than Sarnai had in those early years. Oh what a fool she’d been, thinking herself clever for staying away from the ‘dangerous foundling’ and worrying how her poor daughter would be devastated when she had to put him down. That mindset hadn’t lasted for more than a year, but Sarnai still kept her distance from Rain for far too long after, and it was a mistake she would regret until her dying day.

Especially if Husolt accidentally injured her boy today. The bumbling fool did not know his own strength, and poor Rain was as fragile as Sarnai’s prized teacups, which she’d long since forbidden the bumbling blacksmith from touching...

As per tradition, Husolt stood outside to greet them, standing in front of a large red knot hanging over residence doors. “Who comes?” he called, his expression as serious as the grave, almost serious enough to offset the gaggle of onlookers poking their heads out from their doors.

“Falling Rain of the People.” Bowing his head while presenting the platter in his hands, bearing the hog’s head, heart, and liver, Rain said, “Here to present this offering to your home, and prove myself a worthy husband.”

“I’ll be the judge of that, lad.” Immediately deviating from the script, Husolt scowled and waved the offerings aside. “Leave the hog at the door and follow me,” he said, lumbering off towards the roof stairs. “Let’s see if you got what it takes.”

Up on the roof, Sarnai shooed her family out of the way and clung to her husband’s arm tight, though she wasn’t sure if it was for comfort or to keep him from shaming their son by trying to help him in the games. Thankfully, Rain didn’t seem nervous at all, even though Sarnai knew he’d barely been able to sleep, because she too hadn’t slept and heard him pacing about his room and talking to his fat rabbit all night. There was no sign of that nervous, sleepless boy now, standing there with a big smile on his face while the Laughing Birds crowded around him to inspect his resplendent golden armour. “Stop,” he laughed, shooing the well-dressed birds away, though he was careful to move slowly so not to accidentally injure the fledglings. “This armour is mine, and you can’t have it. Shoo.”

Eventually, Rain distracted the birds with a few handfuls of dried meat, and luckily none of them thought to leave a disgusting gift on his armour. None too pleased by the delay, Husolt grunted and pointed west at the gate across the plaza, which was currently bustling with traffic moving in and out of the Citadel. “I left Tenjin by the gates over there, on top of the wall. He’s got a token for you. Go get it without any help, and bring it back in five minutes or we’re done here.”

Bristling at the onerous task, Sarnai opened her mouth to protest, but Rain had already set off. No, he only walked to the edge of the wall and glanced at the gate. “Over there? Doesn’t seem too bad.” Except it was, because he would have to run down the stairs, across the plaza, up the stairs, and back again, all of which would be easy enough if Rain were still a Martial Warrior, but as he was, he could barely climb one set of stairs without breaking into a sweat, not to mention the bustling crowds in the way.

