A less generous woman might curse her son for giving her less than a week to plan the grandest wedding banquet the outer provinces had ever seen, but Sarnai was nothing if not forgiving.

Credit where credit was due, she couldn’t have done it alone. Zheng Luo was instrumental as always, not just for her diplomatic managerial style and insight into Imperial Clan traditions, but also for her commendable work ethic and uncanny ability to keep noble fools in line without threatening bodily harm. The girl still had expensive tastes and would no doubt eventually drag Sarnai’s poor son into crippling poverty, but aside from her repeated and almost insulting offers to help pay for Rain and Mila’s wedding banquet, Zheng Luo was shaping up to be Sarnai’s favourite daughter-in-law.

Granted, her opposition was hardly impressive. Mei Lin and Yan were both useless when it came to household matters, and sweet Li Song was oblivious as ever to her own personal feelings, so none of them were any help in the planning process. Then there was the star of today’s ceremony, lovely Sumila herself, who had all but disappeared for the last week to solidify her Natal Palace Formation and offered no input on the wedding banquet at all. If she offered so much as a single complaint later today, then Mother save her from Sarnai’s wrath...

Her poor son had an eye for beauty, but not so much for practicality. No matter. Her dog-brained husband would look after their boy even after she was gone, else she would leave the Mother’s warm embrace to haunt him in the afterlife.

After many long days and sleepless nights, Sarnai finally felt she had everything ready for the wedding ceremony and banquet, but then everything went to shit in the early hours of the big day. “You corpulent, thrice-cursed glutton of a fool,” Sarnai muttered, straining to button the too-small silk shirt in the light of the rising sun. “Three days. This outfit was tailored three days ago, and we left two fingers of space for you to grow. How does it not fit?”

Though her anger was evident, the ravenous fatty was unrepentant as he squirmed within her grasp, but a sharp look and a soft growl from her lips was enough to put Mafu in his place. Frozen with fear, he let loose with a piteous squeak which had Aurie plodding over in curious concern, and Sarnai’s poor heart could not take it. Throwing her hands in the air with an exasperated snarl, she pursed her lips and glowered as Mafu slunk away, his half-buttoned, red-silk shirt flapping in the gentle breeze. The buttons along the chest and belly were done up, but his neck, the most visible area, was proving to be a problem. “Come,” she snapped, pointing at her feet, and the docile wagon quin cautiously meandered into range for her to rub his chin and inspect the buttons. Zheng Luo’s design, with the buttons underneath the lapel to hide them, a mark of Rain’s preference for understated simplicity. Better if she’d chosen to be more ostentatious, with hook-and-eye buttons or knotted fastenings so there would be more room to work with, but who could have expected the world’s fattest quin would get noticeably fatter in a mere four days?

“Peace, my rose.” Striding up from behind, Sarnai’s fool husband wrapped his arms around her waist and gently tried to carry her away, but more fool him. A sharp elbow to the sternum set him right, and she went back to fiddling with the beast’s shirt-collar and smoothing his neck fat in a futile attempt to make Mafu skinnier. “If the shirt does not fit,” her husband said, rubbing his chest where she struck him, “Then the boy will ride without it. No one will care if his quin is not decorated.”

“I care,” she snapped, though she couldn’t help herself from kissing his chin as he embraced her once more, a silent apology for her rough handling. “Go get his other quin. The shirt is too big for Zabu, but a handful of well-placed pins will make it work.”

For once, her husband did not jump to obey, and she did not much like his defiance. “Did the boy not insist on riding Mafu to the ceremony? Symbolic he said, as quins mate for life, and Mafu is courting little sister Sumila’s quin Atir. Leave the poor beast be, my love. No matter how many times you smooth his fur, he will not magically slim down.” While her husband gently pulled her away, she stubbornly clung on to the shirt collar until Mafu tried to pull back as well, at which point she had to let go or else the fabric would tear. “This is not like you, my beautiful rose,” her husband said, pulling her close to nuzzle her neck. “Do you not have more pressing concerns besides the quin’s clothing? Like making sure our son is awake and dressed in time for the hunt?”

“He’s already awake,” she snapped. “You can hear him stomping about his room, same as I. As for the hunt? Pei. The hunt is a farce.” Grumbling as she sank into his embrace, she watched fat Mafu squirm and shake in an effort to slip out of his clothes, because he was smart enough to know he would get in trouble for ripping them. Tossing him some smoked meat as an apology, she sighed and said, “To hunt any game larger than a rabbit, the boy would have to ride at least three days out, if not more. Instead, I had to buy a hog and keep it penned up outside the walls, else he’d never make it back in time to have it cooked for dinner.”

“And this upsets you?”

“Of course it does. The rumour-mongers take every opportunity they can to whisper of Falling Rain’s infirmity, and this mockery of a hunt will do him no favours.”

“The hunt is an old tradition of the People, my love. I doubt anyone will even notice, except to comment on how the boy slaughters the pig himself. Cleaning and dressing an animal is hardly behaviour befitting an Imperial Scion.”

“Let them talk then.” Huffing in indignation, Sarnai clenched her fist under her husband’s nose, daring him to say differently. “All customs and traditions are ridiculous, but if he must go through with them, then I will not have him abandoning all our traditions in favour of Imperial ones.”

“And no one is saying he should,” her dog-brained husband said, as if he hadn’t just implied as much. “But my love, the quin’s clothing is unimportant. The farce of the hunt is a regrettable necessity. The rumour-mongers will whisper no matter what we do. You know this as well as I do, so I must ask, why are you so concerned?”

“Because,” she grumbled, glaring daggers at the fat quin, “There is so much more that could still go wrong, that this over-fed furred sock feels like an omen of sorts.” It was such a minor problem, but she was almost beset with tears as she turned to her husband. “These are silly traditions, but they are the traditions of the People, and he has so few ties to us as it stands. He never speaks of it, but the near exile wounded him gravely, a wound he has yet to recover from. That is why I insisted he have this traditional wedding ceremony, to remind him and everyone else that his is still one of the People, but now everyone will look down on him for riding an unadorned quin to claim his bride, like a shoddy hunter who can only afford the bare necessities.”

“Hardly,” her husband chuckled, gently turning her aside just in time to see their son’s bedroom door swing open. “No one would ever dare think the Minister of Finance strapped for coin, not dressed as he is.”

Striding out from his room with a bright smile on his handsome face, their son cut an elegant and extravagant figure in his dazzling gold-plated armour. “Good morning Mom and Dad.” Stopping in front of them with his fists on his hips, he struck a heroic pose with a far-off gaze, turning this way, then that to show off the full effect of his shimmering armour. “How do I look?”

“Like a handsome Imperial Hero.” Sarnai meant it too, but her heart ached at how well his unfamiliar trappings drove her earlier point home. The boy looked like an Imperial born, and not just because of his engraved, golden armour, with pauldrons shaped like dragons and billowing clouds etched into his belt, or the Liang family name emblazoned on his chest, a poignant reminder of his backer. There was also the red-silk trappings he wore underneath, a stately, over-embroidered nobleman’s long-shirt instead of the plain, hip-length shirts he usually favoured, as well as a ruby-studded golden, dragon-horned circlet he wore in place of a helm. True, this was a wedding and he should dress up, but add in his slicked back hair, lightly powdered face, heavy ornamented bracers, and light, decorative cloak, and all this meant his amber eyes were the only visible mark of his heritage as one of the People.

A truth which stung more than it should, considering it was an unprecedented honour for her son to have been raised to Imperial Office and Clan, but it still hurt nonetheless.

Ignorant of her inner thoughts, Rain grinned and gingerly made his way over for a hug. “Thanks Mom, but I’d feel better if all mothers weren’t contractually obligated to call their sons handsome.” The hug lasted longer than she expected, so she stole in to kiss his cheeks and grinned as he scrunched his nose in mock revulsion. “Noooo,” he wailed, struggling to break free. “Moooommm, you’re ruining my make-up!”

This brought a laugh to all their lips, and for a moment, everything was perfect, until gluttonous Mafu made his way over with a chittering squeak and pushed his fat head in between them, only too happy to be included in their group hug. “Disgraceful quin,” Sarnai said, rubbing the beast’s chin and shaking her head as his eyes closed in delight. “Come, let us get him out of his shirt so you can ride out for your hunt.”

“Why? He looks so cute in his outfit.” Fumbling with the buttons for a bit, Rain gently pressed his knee into Mafu’s belly, slowly increasing the pressure until the quin was forced to exhale. When her son’s hands came away, the shirt was buttoned up and the quin lowered his head to rub his cheeks in frustration, mournfully squeaking in abject defeat. “Yes Mafu, I know you don’t like the clothes,” Rain said, crooning as he hugged the creature tight. “But too bad. This is my wedding, so you’re gonna dress up and look darling, just like all the other floofs. Quit being a baby, it’s not even tight. You can swim and eat once the banquet gets underway.”

Elbowing her chortling husband in the sternum, Sarnai shot him a glare that said in no uncertain terms what would happen if he ever told anyone she’d been outsmarted by a wagon quin. After smoothing out the wrinkles in Mafu’s collar, she took her son’s hands and looked him in the eyes, while her husband stood beside her with his arm around her waist. “Son,” she began, unsure how to voice her fear and concern without coming off as a worrywart, “Your father and I want you to know that although you are not our son by blood, and we have done little to shape you into the man you are today, we love you as much as any parent can love their child. More even. It brings us great joy and great sorrow to see you set off on this journey to start a household of your own, but unlike the Martial Path, this is not a journey you tread alone, for we will be there to support you every step of the way.” The boy’s eyes were wet with emotion, as were Sarnai’s, and they both took a moment to wipe away the tears and smile. “Just remember,” she continued, clutching his hands ever so tightly, “No matter what might happen, you are, and always will be, the beloved son of Baatar and Sarnai.”

The boy said nothing as he embraced them both tightly, but his tears were message enough.

Once their tears were dry, she shooed them out and watched them ride off for the hunt, father and son leading a thousand marching Death Corps guards as if so many boots wouldn’t scare off all the game for kilometres around, to say nothing of the gargantuan Ping Ping thundering along behind them. Her husband was right to be dismissive of her concerns, because even though the hunt was tradition, it stemmed back to a time when whatever the groom caught would be needed to feed all their dinner guests. Here in the Northern Citadel, this would have been an impossible feat, because even if they weren’t in the heart of civilization, there were over two-thousand guests coming to tonight’s festivities, and there was still plenty for Sarnai to do in the interim.

Like catch Mama Bun and bring her back inside before she got lost again. Poor, stupid thing, she just wanted to stay close to Rain and be coddled and loved, but she would have to settle for Sarnai’s affections instead. Rocking the growling rabbit back and forth, she led Aurie over to Taduk’s manor where sweet Li Song sat ready and waiting to help dress all the animals for the coming ceremony. Princess was already ambling about in her lovely little outfit, a frilly, flowered dress decorated with far too much embroidery, but Sarnai didn’t have the heart to say it and simply complimented the sweet girl on her hard work. Li Song had embroidered the outfit herself, having spent all her free time these last months learning from matron Eun, a formidable woman whom Sarnai had come to adore. Greeting her with a curtsy, Eun beamed and said, “Good morning Lady Sarnai. A fine day for a wedding, with clear skies and not a cloud in sight. The Mother Herself has blessed young master Rain’s wedding, that She has.”

