“What the fuck?” Jessica sputtered. “That's bullshit. That's absolute bullshit! This is like… months of effort for me. Months! That's not fair. It's just not.”

But Shiv wasn't buying it. There was a certain inflection in her voice that told him she was distracted by something else. "Hey, how many levels did you gain?"

The Giantsbane stiffened and didn't reply for a moment. "I mean… a few. Look, you're kind of raw and not that skilled, but I'm still wrestling with a big godsdamn monster. Even kicking your ass isn't a walk in the park. You have any idea how sore my wrist feels from hitting you? My shoulders are screaming at me. And my back—”

"Yeah, so you're really favored now too," Shiv cut her off. "This is good for both of us. If we keep going—"

"No, no, no." Jessica shook her head. "Stop." She sounded deathly serious now, without any hint of jest whatsoever. "It's important for you to think about what you did wrong. If I'm going to teach you how to fight properly, then there is a word you must remember. It's as important as the other words like training, sparring, and combat experience."

"And what's that?" Shiv asked, actually interested in finding out.

"It's called recovery, and it's the best thing you can do for your mind and body after a particularly strenuous session of getting the shit kicked out of you or kicking the shit out of someone. There is something you can learn from fighting anyone: how they react, how you react. How often do you think back on your fights in detail? How often do you try to remember every single detail, how you approached the fight, how you started it, what caused you to get hit, all that stuff?"

Shiv thought back to his many fights. He recalled Andra, the Recollector, the Court Leviathan, Sullain, but realized most of his memories were chaotic, a blur of details. He had fought a lot of people but hadn't focused a great deal on the after-action.

Jessica read the answer from the frown growing on his face. "Yeah, so you haven't done a lot of recovery. Or any."

"In my defense, the System doesn't want me to," Shiv replied.

"You know, for most people, I'd say that's a bullshit excuse, but you might be the first person who's being honest when they say that. But with everyone here, and you finally in this gate, the System's gonna be hard-pressed to force you into a fight every single day. But you've got options, assuming you're actually determined to turtle. With all those orcs you've got, you can outsource the vampire fight to them. At least for now.”

Shiv didn't look convinced, so Jessica pointed at her face. “Look at me. You don't need to keep getting beat to shit every single time. You don't need to throw yourself into every fight. You have an opportunity right now to breathe and consolidate. But that doesn't mean you take a break. That means you shift to doing other things that build on your ability to fight. Like remembering what you did wrong in a fight. What you could do better next time. How you can improve your tertiary skills to expand your primary ones. Fuck, the only way I managed to figure out how to pull off an actual quick draw was by learning to use chopsticks."

"I know how to use chopsticks," Shiv said proudly. "Georges has had everyone learn. Said it's important to learn the cultures and traditions behind every dish you're making."

"Yeah, and he was right. Because this is the stuff that makes someone a complete person. Alright, listen." Jessica cleared her throat awkwardly. "Don't let this go to your head, but you're meant for this."

"Meant for what?" Shiv asked.

"Fighting, being a Pathbearer, all that. You're meant for it. You love it. Or at least, it doesn't exhaust you the same way it does everyone else. You don't seem to get tired. You don't ever stop. You don't even really want to do anything else when you're knee-deep in the fight. But the System is making you into more of a monster, a combat monster that's determined to break and fight internally at the cost of everything else. And ironically, that's making you a worse warrior. A monster is always going to get cut down by a true warrior, because a monster’s instincts become predictable, and its skills get too limited."
