Genzo had warned me that if the Umarii found me, they would try to kidnap me and force me to be their soldier. That I wouldn’t have a choice. That they would rather see me dead than outside of their control. Because I’m a transmigrator.

I crawled along the rooftops, stalking them from above. Luke sniffed around the dead skeletons, tail wagging and head pivoting left and right.

Did he remember my smell? Did he know I was here?

But what of the Umarii?

My fists clenched as the Umarii patted Luke’s head. He was treating Luke as a servant, as a pet. And what made me angrier than anything was how happily Luke seemed to accept it.

But I supposed I couldn’t blame my brother. Who knows what he’d been put through since we parted ways? Who knows what kind of manipulation that Umarii used on him?

Separated from his pack, likely completely reliant on that Umarii for food and resources, what could Luke do but learn to obey? He maybe have even been punished for disobedience. Conditioned to do as this other creature commands.

That’s okay, I thought. I’ll free him, and I’ll get him back to behaving like a proud Hell Hound. We are our father’s children. We are not meant to be owned by anyone! We are not property, we are Hell Hounds!

I was sure, once Luke was broken of this creature’s command, he would remember who he was and know that he was not something to be tamed and domesticated.

I thought of the Domesticated Drakewolves that belonged to the bandits, of the metal collars around their necks. While those collars did have a defensive purpose, it was also a mark of their position as property, of being owned. Luckily, I saw no such thing around Luke’s neck. If there were, I wasn’t sure I’d be able to hold myself back as much as I currently was.

“What do you think, boy?” the Umarii asked in a low voice. Luke whined softly, lifting his nose from the ground. Then, the Umarii started scanning the rooftops, and I sank back into hiding, letting Veil of Shadows and Camouflage conceal me in the shadows. But my blue eyes remained, peering out from the darkness, watching them.

“Come on, let’s go,” the Umarii said after a moment, and continued leading the way. Luke fell into step beside him but was still sniffing at the ground.

I followed, being extra careful with my footsteps. I didn’t need a stupid mistake revealing me now of all times. This Umarii would be smarter than skeletons, and not simple overlook a pebble falling above for no reason. And currently I had no idea how to go about defeating him.

I would need Luke’s help… That was the only way we stood a chance. But how to coordinate with him? He might not even recognize me anymore.

Would Pack Bond work? I’d have to give it a try.

I focused on my brother and tried to reach out to him the same way I would with Lily and Grick.

“Luke, can you hear me?”

“Luke? It’s your sister!”

He didn’t seem to react, then I remembered the clear way to test it, and attempted to check his stats.

[invalid target for Pack Bond]

Damn it! My own brother isn’t considered a part of my pack? What is this crap!

I supposed it made sense. Even before we were separated, Luke and I didn’t necessarily hunt together directly, and the system seems to care about fighting more than anything. Grick only joined after helping us with several fights. But I’m sure that could change very quickly.

Still, I couldn’t make a move until I was sure Luke would recognize who I was.

Oh, I could only imagine the cruel fate in which my own brother leads to my capture. I know he would feel guilty about it. Though, they could never make me obey the way they seemed to have conditioned him to.

Surely, if I were captured by the Umarii, they would use some kind of restraints to keep me in line. The way red masks would shock their Direwings and anything else they tried to tame but wouldn’t comply. With me, the Umarii wouldn’t have the benefit of working on me while I was a scared and lonely pup and conditioning me to their abuse. And all of that, of course, is if they didn’t simply see me as untamable and decide to outright kill me.

I did wonder how Luke ended up with them in the first place. Supposedly Umarii and the Bloody Peaks Tribe were enemies, so it was odd. But whatever the case, Luke could tell me about it later.

But how do I take this guy out?

Whisperfang Juvenile was one choice, though it would take time. Using Soul Rend, I could farm up plenty of bonuses until our levels were more evenly matched, then try to take him down. I don’t think I could harvest fourteen whole levels worth of bonus stats—that’d be kind of insane—but I could definitely even the odds, especially with Luke’s help.

Another choice would be Juvenile Arcane Nightstalker. If a regular Pentaclysm to Fox’s face could put her down, I imagined an overdrive times two into the Umarii’s back would be more than enough. The only problem was, I’d only have one shot at it. It took some time for the attack to charge up, and it only shot in a straight line. If he dodged, I’d miss my one chance. Also, I’d have to worry about Luke getting caught in the blast as well, and my brother was sticking way too close to this bastard right now.

I carefully climbed down to a lower roof they passed by. Whatever plan I went with, I needed Luke on board.

Luke seemed to have lost my trail, which made sense since I’ve spent so much time up high. He stopped and looked back at the Umarii, letting out a low whine.

“Lost it, huh boy?” the Umarii asked him as he kneeled down to examine the bones. “What the hell would be in here hunting things like this?” He seemed to consider something, then nodded. “Come on, let’s keep looking around.”

I continued to stalk them from above until they turned a corner to see a group of three regular skeletons moseying around. I took a position under a window frame in a collapsed wall, and peeked out enough to check the skeletons’ levels, finding they were all around level 16.

Luke looked at the Umarii, who said, “Stay, boy.” Luke sat on his haunches, and then the Umarii suddenly jumped up, clearing his own head high from a simple jump alone but then grabbing a jutting stone and swinging himself to the roof in one move. I instantly ducked down, glad he came up on the opposite side, but I had to be careful. His being able to move like that made him even more of a threat; I wouldn’t even be able to escape via rooftop if I were caught.

There is no way jumping like that was natural; he had to have a skill. That one move proved he was even better at parkour than me.

I watched as he crept across the rooftop. He didn’t seem to have actual stealth abilities as I did, however, though I imagined at night he’d hardly need it for how dark his skin was. His purple eyes stood out pretty clearly though, I was just glad my own stealth abilities seemed to conceal my pearly blues enough.

I watched as Luke peeked around the corner below, tail wagging in anticipation. What did he seem so happy about? But this would be a perfect chance to try to get Luke’s attention… If Luke understood I was his sister.

Do I take Hell Hound form and jump down there? That would be the best way to approach, but even then, wasn’t it too risky while that high-level Umarii was so close?

But before I could make a decision, the Umarii jumped, letting out a loud whistle and drawing his sword while he was mid-fall. As soon as Luke heard the whistle, he bounded around the corner.

I blinked, watching as every skeleton turned toward the whistle. Not one of them was looking at Luke anymore. Had the Umarii done that on purpose?

The Umarii attacked one skeleton, hacking its skull off easily, just as Luke grabbed another.

Then I watched as my brother jumped really high in the air, taking the skeleton with him, and then at the apex of his ascent he twisted his body and threw the skeleton back down. It slammed into another skeleton, causing them both to collapse in a scatter of bones, instantly littering the alleyway.

Woah! That’s my brother! I couldn’t help thinking excitedly. My skeletal tail wagged behind me despite myself.

Then, looking down at my skeletal hand and the two skeletons he’d just demolished, I cringed.

{Veilform}. Human.

My flesh reverse peeled once again until I had clawed human hands again. Getting slammed to the ground by my little brother the second he sees me is not how I wanted this reunion to go. Though my bones wouldn’t scatter like those other guys.

I watched as the Umarii praised Luke and patted his head, and they kept going.

The two of them had dispatched that skeleton group so quickly. Not only that, technically those skeletons were about the same level as Luke, yet he killed them even more efficiently than I could take two skeletons out. The Umarii only killed the first and let Luke take care of the other two, and they coordinated together so well.

As I followed, I replayed it in my head. That whistle purposely distracted the skeletons, letting Luke get his attack in safely. I’d have to commend the strategy if it were not for the fact he was using my brother as a tool. I bet he’d just as easily expect Luke to sit and offer his paw when ordered as he would obey battle commands!

No, this could not go on!

But as I followed, I couldn’t help noticing how close Luke stuck to the Umarii’s side, how he was constantly looking up to him, waiting for direction, how his tail wagged behind him as they went. How attentive he was to every move and word from the Umarii. How he seemed to crave the Umarii’s praise.

Did Luke actually like him?

No! It wasn’t right! Luke just didn’t know any better! I would save him, I would stop this from going on!

I followed them deeper and deeper into the city. The Umarii always leading half a step ahead, always looking around corners cautiously. Whenever a group of skeletons were there, he’d act first.

One time, there was only a single skeleton, and the Umarii simply said, “get ’em,” in a low growl, and Luke instantly pounced. He didn’t do the jump and slam thing this time, instead charging and bursting right through, sending bones scattering. The skull went rolling, screeching, and bounced off a wall. Luke’s tail wagged as he chased after it, scooped it up in his jaws, and bit down, exploding it into fragments.

He then looked back to the Umarii, tail wagging and tongue lulling.

I mean… Luke really was pretty strong, even for level 16. He’d always been a bit of a brute like that though. Any problem that could be solved head-first with physical force was a kind of problem Luke was good at handling. He’d always been that way.

I followed. Next they came across a Skeleton Brute dragging its axe. I checked the level to see it was 22.

The Umarii took care of it himself this time, coming at it head-on, then thrusting his palm forward with that force push that sent it stumbling backward as it tried to heft its axe up. The Umarii then finished it easily with his sword, first with an overhead swing that hacked off its arm, then a violent forward stab to the skull.

It seemed whenever he wasn’t confident Luke could win without getting hurt, he would handle things himself, but otherwise he had Luke do most of the work, merely providing distraction of evening the number. To help Luke level up? That would make sense.

Of course, he only wanted his Hell Hound slave to be effective, and that meant higher levels! Luke clearly thought it was all a game and didn’t realize how he was being used and simply cultivated into being a better tool for this Umarii!

I bristled at the thought.

Then, I saw something creeping up on an opposite roof. It jumped agilely from one to another, cloak trailing behind it. It was another Skeleton Lady! Err, a Skeleton Night Sentinel, rather.

It crouched above them, stalking them, just as I was. Luckily, it made its move for the Umarii and not my brother or I’d be tempted to shout a warning.

Then, when she saw her opening, she jumped down, landing on the Umarii’s back and stabbing a dagger into his chest.

Ha! Take that! I couldn’t help thinking as the Umarii cried out in pain.

“Ah! Damn it!” the Umarii yelled, twisting and grabbing her arm, then throwing her over his shoulder.

She hit the ground rather hard, but rolled back to her feet and retreated a step, taking a defensive stance. However, the Umarii seemed only moderately fazed by the stab, and now both he and Luke were running at her.

She seemed to decide she’d picked a bad fight. She turned and hopped up to a rooftop, the Umarii doing so as well, once again displaying his unnatural jumping ability.

He managed to grab her leg before she made it very far, and he yanked her back, throwing her to the ground.

She hit hard, and before she could recover, Luke pounced.

His jaws gnashed, tearing at her, ripping off an arm. But she managed to stab him with her other dagger despite being trapped under his massive paws as he ripped and tore, dismantling her one bone at a time, crushing her ribs in a spray of fragments that he tossed away. He hardly seemed phased by the stab. Then the Umarii jumped down and swiftly stabbed her through the skull, causing her remaining bones to disintegrate beneath Luke.

The Umarii instantly started checking Luke’s wound.

“You alright, boy?” Luke gave him an affirmative huff, allowing himself to be investigated. When the Umarii determined the wounds were not serious, he said, “Good boy,” patted his head, and then started checking his own chest. “Fucking got me pretty good,” he muttered, lifting his bloody fingers away from his chest. “It’s alright though.”

A small part of me wished Earth logic applied here. Where I came from, that umarii’s wound would be a fatal stabbing!  Surely would have solved a few problems for me. Luke, meanwhile, was so thick that those daggers would amount to little more than flesh wounds. Serious, but still healable without this world’s healing perks.

But as a few loose pebbles tumbled behind me, I realized I had different problems of my own. I was so focused on them I didn’t think to watch my own back!

I turned just in time to see a new Night Sentry descending on me. I rolled to my back and kicked my feet up. I managed to stop what would have been a way worse strike, grabbing her wrists. I rolled with her and kicked her away, pushing her off the rooftop and to the city streets below.

Normally, I’d call that a victory, but for one problem.

The Umarii was already on the move, going for the skeleton first, and as she shrieked below, I heard the scream die off before I even got back to my feet.

I looked down, locking eyes with the Umarii. My stealth had broken. Instantly, I turned and ran.

“Hey!” he yelled after me.

I jumped to another roof and looked over my shoulder just in time to see him leap up from below, catch the edge of the roof with one hand swinging himself up without even slowing down.

I ran harder. That damn skeleton completely screwed me! With our difference in levels, I at least wanted to be the one to get the drop on him! There is simply no way I was winning a fair fight!

I jumped another gap, and heard Luke bark from below.

I looked down, seeing Luke barreling through the streets alongside me. A skeleton got in his way, and he crashed through it, hardly even slowing.

Damn it! How do I let him know who I am? Do I give myself to Luke, hoping up close he catches my scent and realizes who I am?

I’d at least have to turn back into a Hell Hound, but I couldn’t scale buildings the same way, and the Umarii would catch me instantly.

I looked back, my cloak flowing behind me and the Umarii steadily gaining on me. This guy was really fast!

Time to get tricky.

I slid behind a broken chimney and used {Veil of Shadows}, just as I heard the Umarii’s footsteps land on the roof behind me.

I kept my movements quick but precise as I moved around the chimney in a circle, peeking out just enough for one eye to see.

He had slowed, taking one slow step after another.

His eyes then darted over to the chimney, and I instantly ducked away, putting my back against the wall.

Damn it, where do I escape to now?

Maybe that open window across the street? I could probably jump across and hopefully lose him by going through the building.

Below, Luke barked over and over again, pacing back and forth on the street below.

“I know you’re there,” the Umarii said.

Damn it! I thought, realizing Luke was alerting him to what building I was on.

He was too close, running would do no good at this point. I’d be caught. I needed to cripple him.

I reached up for the top of the chimney and flipped myself over it, drawing a dagger mid-motion and attacking from above. Between the unexpected angle and Veil of Shadows concealing me, the Umarii seemed caught off guard.

My dagger came down first, aiming for his shoulder.

He jerked suddenly and lifted his sword, blocking my blade with a loud clang that sent a shock up my arm.

I landed in a crouch behind him and immediately swiped for his legs, but he hopped back, clearing the attack easily.

But that was it for defense from him. He came forward, and I tried to slip around his blade, but the difference in our skill immediately became clear.

He feinted and pivoted, then I felt the blunt end of his sword strike me under the wrist, and my dagger fell from my hand.

I tried to swipe with the other, but he caught my wrist one-handed.

I snarled at him instinctively and went for a {crippling bite}!

He didn’t see it coming, and I got my teeth right where I wanted on his own wrist and started twisting and pulling, trying to either break his wrist or wrench my own hand free from his grip.

But then, the world was spinning as an arm wrapped around my neck. He had me in a headlock and was throwing me over his shoulder. Before I could even think about how to defend myself, my back slammed hard into the ground.

I tried to roll, and scramble back to my feet, but he grabbed me from behind and tackled me into the ground. He grabbed my arm, pulling it behind my back, and splayed my other arm out in front of me, pinning me.

“Get off of me!” I snarled, trying to break free from his grip. Below, Luke was still barking with excitement, the excitement of a hunt.

“What the hell are… you…” His words trailed off. “Level 22… But you aren't human.”

It seemed he Analyzed me, but I supposed Veilfang also concealed my true species.

I struggled and tried to kick back at him, but he twisted my arm, shooting pain through my shoulder that made me cry out. I felt like he was about to snap my arm out of its socket, so I had no choice but to do what he wanted and loosen up. But I still growled, looking back through the corner of my eye and showing a fang through the side of my mouth.

“What are you?” he said more assertively this time.

“Screw you. Let me go!” I snarled.

He then suddenly yanked me up to my feet, forcing my other hand behind my back and subduing both with one arm. Then, I felt a blade against my throat, pressing hard enough to make it clear I couldn’t escape, but just soft enough not to cut me.

“You have a tail and ears…” he said, “I know you’re not human, but that’s what Analyze says.” He twisted my arm again, shooting pain through my shoulder, and pressed the blade harder. “Answer me! What are you!”

“Hell Hound!” I cried out.

“What?” Then he chuckled softly. “Ah, I see. Maybe I've been looking for you, then. I’m bringing you down. Don’t fight me. I have to see something."

I was yanked as I was pulled with him, my feet falling into step despite me not wanting to comply. Then we were falling, he pulled me right off the building. I tried once more to twist away, but he tightened his grip and landed on the street below with me still tightly in his grip.

He whistled, and Luke came barreling around the next corner, hackles raised, fangs bared, snarling, and charging in to strike. For a moment I imagined the absolute worst outcome of this reunion.

“Luke no!” I cried out. But that’s not what stopped him.

“Luke! Hold!” the Umarii commanded. And Luke skidded to a stop, snapping at the air right in front of my face.

I stared into the eyes of my brother. I could feel his hot breath on my face as he continued to snarl threateningly; I could practically feel his anticipation, waiting to be given the order to strike.

But then, he sniffed, and the tension in his curled lips slackened slightly. He looked at me in a different way as he sniffed cautiously.

Suddenly, he lunged, massive paws hitting my chest, but it wasn't an attack.

The Umarii let me go, letting Luke pin me to the ground. But he didn’t bite. I felt a warm tongue slide across my cheek again and again.

Without thinking, without even a single thought of escape, I wrapped my arms around him and let him lick my face, burying myself in his fur. He wasn’t this fluffy before, and his muscles felt so strong under my arms. My brother really had changed!

But as I inhaled deeply through my nose, I realized my fear of forgetting his scent was wrong. He really did still smell like my brother! He smelled like home.

I let out a sound somewhere between laughter and crying as I held him tight. Behind me, my own tail was wagging as well.