“Thanks, Ratchet. How much do I owe you for mine?”

“53 gold, 8 silver.”

Jane handed over her Mage Guild badge, saying “I’m Jane Flatt”, as Ratchet quickly swiped it over a truthstone. The stone glittered green, and Ratchet quickly wrote out a bill of sale, copying Jane’s guild number onto the bill. When she finished, she handed the bill over to Jane to sign, which she did. Then Ratchet handed over an ingredients list of the spices used and their individual prices. Jane briefly read over it, then said, “Looks great. Thank you.” She put the stone containers at the bottom of her shoulderbag.

“You be good, now!”

Jane smiled. “I try to be.”

Her next stop was only five minutes down the road: A popular eatery that had only grown as Erick’s rain brought more and more food and people back to Spur. They served meat, cheese, and bread, and their name, in big bold lightwards hanging outside of their two story restaurant and sandwich shop, was exactly that: ‘Meat! Bread! Cheese!’.

It might not have been the most healthy thing on Veird, but by god, the food was delicious. Meats sliced and grilled, or deep fried, or full steaks. There were just so many ways to put meat, and cheese, and bread together, but Jane already knew what she wanted. She bought two cheesesteak sandwiches, special ordered, then had them wrapped in butcher’s paper and stuffed in to her shoulderbag. Four silver for two massive sub sandwiches was a rather decent price, too. Then, she went to the farms.

The farms were lush and green, as platinum rain fell all around, but not on the main path; someone had put up [Weather Ward]s all along the two kilometer road to the center of the farms. Strolling through the dry path, watching the rain fall all around her, was nice, at first. But her sandwiches were getting cold. She turned on [Swift Movement], and began moving three steps for every one she took.

She felt someone staring at her well before she got to the temple. She slowed. She looked around with Meditation. There were a few eyes, so she popped them, slapping them with Willpower, shattering them like they were crystal spheres. None of them were the typical light-in-darkness of a Shade, but still, having [Scry] eyes watching her was freaky.

Killzone popped onto the road in front of her.

She stopped. “Captain Killzone.”

Killzone smiled, and spoke with a twang in his voice, “Welcome back to the defense of your father, Jane. Nothing much happened while you were away.” He added, “Thankfully.”

Anger bubbled. She kept it under control. “I’ve been defending him since I was 10.”

Killzone paused, then glared.

Jane paused. She asked, “Was that supposed to be a report? Or were you deriding me for a failure?”

Did he think Jane wasn’t good enough? She was the one who figured out someone had tampered with their food. She didn’t know it was parasites, and she didn’t capture the guy, but she kept her eyes wide open all the time.

Killzone spoke hard, “You need to lose that attitude or keep it under control when you’re speaking to me. I do not speak in riddles; I do not speak in code. If I was deriding you for a failure, I would tell you. Do you understand?”

“Not at all!” Jane said, “Please tell me what part of this interaction I have fucked up, because it certainly sounded like you getting mad at me for taking a break.”

Killzone paused. He said, “Don’t push back so hard, Jane. I have been thinking about giving you permission to enter the Dead City, but I can’t let you in there if I think you’re gonna fly off the handle when someone says the wrong thing.” Killzone relaxed into a twang, “Heck. I even started off talking like this, tryn’ ta build a rapport.”

So, aside from Killzone’s belief that talking in a twang was anything more than something a psychopath would do, and there was a lot of everything wrong with what he said, for once, there was too much good for Jane to focus on, she chose to focus on the good.

Jane felt butterflies rumble in her stomach. He was thinking of letting her into the city? What changed?

“What changed?”

“I want you to join Spur’s Army.”

That… was an idea.

Jane waited for more than that.

Killzone said, “Bulgan is almost the lowest man on the pile, right now. I want the rumors of you as the newest member of Spur’s Army to drive his value even further into the ground. This is your opportunity to get into the city, and I have to offer it to you, because if I don’t, they’ll think I’m weak; unable to capitalize on a situation.” Killzone asked, “Do you want to become a member of the Army? You can explore the Dead City and get paid to kill monsters. You’ll be level 45 in under a week. More, if you push.”

Jane said, “Why do I have to be a part of the Army, and what does that mean?”

“Because if you’re not, then you’re on your own in there." Killzone explained, “Our duties include keeping our territory safe, and rescuing adventurers, but we cannot give the adventurers we rescue more than the barest support. But if you’re in the Army, you can tell any Shade you meet —and you will meet more than a few— that they can take up any complaints they have with you, with me. And as far as what that means? It means you’re going to kill a lot of monsters, 12 hours a day, five days out of every ten, with a group I place you with. You might even go on rescue missions.”

“… What about Tania?”

“She’s telling people that she sent her worst spiders after you, which might be true. So if she went after you, she would prove herself a liar.” Killzone said, “Though they all lie all the time, so take that as you want. I put the odds at 20% that if she were in a room with you, she’d kill you. If she saw you on the streets, though? She’d 100% pursue, if only for a conversation. Those odds are only slightly higher than normal. If you react fast enough, you might be able to [Shadowalk] away—” He paused. He asked, “What shadow skill were you able to get from the spider?”

“[Shadowblend].”

“Eat a thousand more shadow essences as a spider and you’ll upgrade that to [Shadowalk].” He continued, “You’ll need it: conventional [Teleport] is blocked in there as soon as you come under the attention of a Shade. This is one of the most dangerous aspects of Ar’Kendrithyst.” He finished with a twang, “That there’s the spiel. What happens next is up to you. Talk to Liquid in the Courthouse if you wish to get the ball rolling.”

Jane looked over to the temple, still at least a kilometer away.

Killzone almost turned away, probably to [Teleport] back to Forward Base.

Jane said, “Absolutely yes. I agree. Don’t tell Erick.”

Killzone laughed. “Oh. No. That’s not going to happen. If you being in the Army is going to be a problem, then… No offense, but I’d much rather have him, than you, no matter how good Mog and others say you are.”

Jane almost glared, but she stopped herself. “Sorry, sir. I meant…” She said, “I’m going to tell him; no one else should. Right after lunch… Er—” She looked across the green, rainy fields. Thousands of people were harvesting and moving produce as fast as it came out of the ground. She didn’t want to interrupt this massive undertaking, and her father certainly wouldn’t want an interruption, either. Telling him now would not be fair; he’d want to blow up at her and she wanted to talk him down, in private. “I’ll tell him tomorrow, after he’s slept.”

Killzone eyed her for a few seconds. He said, “Carry on, almost-soldier.”

She bowed to Killzone. “Thank you, Captain.”

He vanished in a blip of black.

Jane controlled her gleeful outburst into a simple, quiet, “yeeessss,” then went on to the temple.

- - - -

Jane stepped up the temple steps, out of the [Weather Ward] tunnels people had built along the road, into the open aired holy space dedicated to Atunir, Goddess of Field and Fertility. Her father was sitting back in a cushioned chair, reading by lightward. Poi and Rats were nearby; Poi standing his usual guard, Rats walking around the Ring of Gods looking happy in the rain. Poi noticed Jane well before she got anywhere near the temple; he nodded at her as she crested the temple steps.

“Hey, Dad! I got lunch!”

Erick’s face brightened as he turned to see Jane. “Welcome back! Eat any nice monsters lately?”

Jane went to the table near him and moved the chessboard aside, saying, “Ugh. No. I was trying to make a Handy Aura of my own, but failure! Again. I might just have to eat a bird and get proficient with [Airshape]. But which bird? There are dozens of options. I’ll probably go with some magical bird, like a firebird.” She set out the sub sandwiches, then set out the spices she got from Ratchet. “This one is yours. I told you about Ratchet, right?”

Erick walked to the table. “She’s the spice woman, right?”

“Right!”

“Still haven’t seen her in person, though I’ve heard stories.”

“She made up some spice blends, and one of these she made for you, free of charge.” Jane sat down, checking the spices. That one smelled like citrus and pepper. Probably not hers. She stuck her pinky into the white, black, and green powder and tasted it. Oh… Really good. But not for her. This other one though— OH YEAH. Eyes already tearing up. This one was hers. She kept that one then slid the other to her father, next to his sandwich. “You should like this. It’s mild but flavorful.”

Poi frowned behind her father. Erick didn’t see Poi’s frown, but Jane certainly did. She grabbed back Erick’s spices before he could try some, and showed it to Poi. Erick turned, then frowned himself.

Jane asked, “Want to try it?”

“Thank you.” Poi dipped one claw ever so slightly into the salty mixture. He tasted it. “Good.”

Poi moved away from the table.

Erick smiled, then unwrapped his sandwich. He smiled wider. “I love this place!” He picked out a mushroom. “And you even got them to add mushrooms!” He ate the shroom.

But Jane was still thinking about Poi’s reaction. Guards are weird. Spices trigger a response, but the food doesn’t? Maybe wet things were okay; the really bad parasites were dried, apparently.

… But that still didn’t make much sense.

So she asked, “Why the response against spices, but not against the sandwiches?”

Poi said, “I enjoy Ratchet’s spices, but they’re always so expensive. Importing from Nergal is a chore.”

He smirked.

That bastard tricked her into thinking that there was a security risk, just to get some spices!

Erick activated his own Handy Aura, slicing off half of his sandwich, then pushing it toward Poi, along with the spices. “Here! Have some. I can’t eat all this anyway.”

“Gladly, sir.” Poi took the portion then liberally applied the spices, setting the stone container back in front of Erick. “Thank you.” He stepped away and ate his portion.

Jane looked over and saw Rats trying not to look their way. She sighed, then called out, “Want some of this, Rats? I can’t eat it all, either.” She telekinetically sliced off half of her sub, too.

Rats scrambled up and gratefully accepted his portion. He eyed the stone containers of spice.

Jane pushed both of them forward. “This one is spicy. The other is mild.”

Rats quickly picked the spicy one. With one quick pinch, he sprinkled some flaming red salt and stuff onto his portion, then licked his fingers. He shivered. His eyes watered. His red scales turned redder.

He squeaked, “Other one, please.”

Erick pushed his spice toward Rats, who gratefully accepted.

Jane smiled, picking out a pinch of red for herself and testing it out.

It was okay. Good. Spicy, for sure. Not as hot as she expected. Not as hot as she wanted. She put a lot on her sub sandwich, and as she kept adding more, Rats’ and Poi’s eyes went wider and wider. Erick just smiled as he ate his own, much more temperate sub.

When they wanted water, they drank platinum rain from cups Erick had made.

It was actually quite a delicious drink, for being nothing but water and ‘light’.

- - - -

She played chess with her father for three hours, then Silverite came to the temple, and Jane went home to prepare some coffee-tea. She harvested leaves from the plant with [Telekinesis] then went to the kitchen and heated up a heavy wok in a [Temperature Ward]. When the wok was hot, she took it out of the [Ward], dumped the leaves inside, and constantly tossed them. She stopped when the leaves were browned and dry, with a little bit of caramelization from their high sugar content. Then she crumbled them up, wrapped them in a fine cloth she had bought to use as a filter, then put them in a specialized stone jar that would also act as the brewing pot.

Jane stopped on the way back to the temple to buy dinner, but by the time she got to the temple with more subs, she saw that other people also had the same idea. Silverite had gone back to town, but Al and Savral had showed with two big iron pots of not-curry and not-rice. Valok and Apogough came a bit later. Krakina showed up later still, but only stayed for five minutes, talking quietly with Erick before going back to town. Krakina was spooked.

Judging from her hushed tones and the odd looks from everyone else, she was spooked by Erick.

Jane wasn’t sure she read that right, so she pulled Savral aside when she could. “What’s up with Krakina?”

Savral turned away from Erick, saying, “WeatherWitches have a supernatural sense for danger, but sometimes they get stuck when they get tripped too hard. I heard from Ikawa that Krakina thinks the storm has passed, but also that her grandmother is usually more sure about these things.” He looked out at the rain. “Her uncertainty is probably related to the unnatural weather. Her predictions have been somewhat… off, lately.”

While she had him here…

Ah. No. I shouldn’t do that. Not here.

… She would not talk to Savral about Killzone’s offer.

“Okay. Thanks, Savral.”

He looked at her for a moment. Then nodded, and went back to the small party.

Night time approached and everyone had coffee. Erick tried making the coffee out of the leaves Jane had prepared; but he didn’t manage to do it right. Jane was quickly tasked with going back home and grabbing a cutting, so Erick could stick it in the ground near the temple and let it [Grow] more coffee-tea, so he could continue to experiment.

Jane went, cut some branches from the bush, and rushed on back.

