With the preliminary study of her body done, she abandoned the [Scry], and prepared for the combat portion of her experimentation.

Flex. Then—

Hop!

Jane-spider launched fifteen feet into the air.

She laughed, and her crackling, spider-voice carried on the wind.

The world seemed to unveil itself as she reached the ultimate height of her jump. She saw so, so much, her eight eyes picking up so many details that her human eyes would have missed completely. Her [Detect Magic] effect, or whatever it was, picked up on every Crystal Mimic for miles; they were little beacons to her spider sight. It was beautiful; it was surprising.

Jane was still working out exactly what abilities she had.

Except for one.

Shadowblend, close range, 1 to 10 MP per second

Become one with the shadows.

[Shadowblend] was the only skill that translated into her normal self, and, like all monster skills, only had one rank, and almost no description. Normally, [Shadowblend] would have been considered a failure; people want [Shadowalk]. But Killzone seemed to imply that she could upgrade [Shadowblend] to [Shadowalk] if she ate enough shadow essences as a spider.

How many essences to [Shadowalk] if you started off with the body of a shadowol—

Too much thinking. Get your head in the game, Jane. You’re here for a reason.

[Conjure Armor].

Brilliant blue cloth armor folded around her black chitin, enveloping her body. She gathered up her clothes and wrapped them in a bundle of normal silk, pulled from her spinnerets. With a bit of sticky silk to attach the clothes-sack to her abdomen, she was almost ready.

[Conjure Weapon].

A pair of foot long blue blades attached themselves to her raised forward legs, like spikes at the end of spikes. She attacked the air with them, testing balance.

Jab! Jab! Jab!

Balance felt good. Weight was great. Weapons seemed quick, and sure. They felt like punching daggers, but made her long legs look like spears. They were probably the correct choice of weapon. She would find out soon enough. This was her first time experimenting with her spider-self in a combat setting.

She turned to the crystal mimic, still fifty feet away, still playing the part of an agave, but Jane saw through the lie. It was so easy! With her spider eyes, she saw the magics in the monster’s body; the location of the rad at the mimic’s heart, and the streamers of magic that flowed in veins through the rest of the crystal form. She wouldn’t even need to [Scry] between mimics; she could just jump and spot the next nearest one.

Shadow spiders seemed the perfect ambush predator, especially if this [Detect Magic] ability translated to people using ongoing magical effects.

Too bad Jane was more the direct-type.

She tore across the sands of the Crystal Forest, rushing with six main legs, preparing two forward punching daggers to tear deep into the mimic. Tap tap tap. The mimic noticed. Tap tap tap. Jane ran faster; the mimic started to move. Taptaptaptaptaptap—

Leap!

[Invisible Shard Aura]!

A hundred blades of invisible force swung around Jane, sweeping in from the right like the start of a concentrated, glass-filled tornado. Jane’s six back legs found perfect footholds on the edge of the agave’s sharp spines, then grabbed hold with all of her Strength score behind them. The monster thrashed, but couldn’t attack, not through Jane’s superior, 6 legged leverage. Jane’s forward spear-knives slipped deep into the monster’s center, directly left and right of the central rad, ripping through magical and mundane arteries. Her shard aura shredded the monster, as she held there, digging deep gouges into crystal flesh, spilling clear goop across the sands.

The monster flailed. It didn’t matter.

Twenty damage here, forty damage there; the monster tried to stab, but couldn’t land a direct blow, Jane’s grips and Strength keeping its most dangerous spines in check, her invisible storm of blades constantly slicing deep into faux crystal flesh, clipping off 50 HP, five times a second.

Bigger monsters suffered more with AoE auras, and Jane's aura covered the whole body of the mimic.

The monster thrashed. One spider-foot slipped, a hundred damage cut into her [Ward] as her leg skidded along the sharp edge. More heavy damage came as Jane lost her footing. She leapt away before the mimic could land a critical blow, [Strike]ing her own two swords wide as she left, ripping through the central stalk, almost splitting it in half. The monster screamed, shrill, then quieter.

The mimic tried to run, tried to fight, but it just bled out, too much damage done near its central mass for it to survive. Jane watched as it died. A message popped up out of the corner of her vision.

You have slain Crystal Mimic A!

95% participation!

+20,693,935 exp

The whole fight took about ten seconds.

Good experience, but the kill was kind of sloppy. Dad was right about at least one thing: no need to inflict excess suffering, especially on a pest species. This mimic had suffered too much. Jane could definitely do better. She harvested the rad from the mimic, and slipped it into a silk pouch. By the time she made her way to the next mimic, her mana and her personal [Ward] were both back up to full.

She killed Mimic B much quicker. The key was [Strike]ing multiple times in quick succession, which was easily accomplished with two quick thrusting forelegs. Everything else was the same, from holding down the counter attack, to attacking around the central rad.

Mimic C went even faster. She used [Silent Movement X], this time.

The remaining mimics never knew what killed them.

- - - -

Jane finished off mimic #22 with perfectly practiced silent ease, when the notification came. She leveled.

Jane Flatt

Human, age: 22

Level 34, Class: None

Exp: 13,255,031/922,746,500

Class: -/-

Points: 4

HP

1500/1500

1500 per day

MP

1800/1800

1500 per day

Strength

25

+0

25

Vitality

25

+0

25

Willpower

30

+0

30

Focus

25

+0

25

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

Favored Spell waiting!

She bought [Prestidigitation] and [Telepathy].

Prestidigitation 1, 1 hour, short range, 10 MP

Create minor magical effects that last for 5 minutes per spell level.

Exp: 0/100

Telepathy 1, self, super long range, 1 MP per minute + Variable

Communicate with the minds of people you know. 1 connection available per level. Unwanted connections are harmful to caster.

Exp: 0/100

A few hours had passed since she started killing mimics, but she was done, for now. If she really needed to, she could probably push to level 35. Maybe 36, if she really had to, but that would take hundreds of mimics.

… She could do that.

But did she need to? No. She planned on getting into the Dead City today. Even though her Mana Exhaustion limit was something like 15000, she had already gone through a few thousand by now. Who knew how much she would need to keep in reserve once she got inside the walls?

She dispelled her weapons and her armor.

[Polymorph].

Jane slipped out of her spider self, back into human form. The spider silk bag that had been wrapped around her abdomen now hung loose around her legs. She felt her skin as she extracted herself from the silk net. Yup. All normal skin. She felt her scalp, and slipped her fingers through smooth, human hair that barely touched her shoulders. Two eyes, no fangs. Just to be sure nothing was off, she looked at herself with [Scry].

Yup. All normal.

There had not been a single instance where she had retained other-animals body parts after she had transformed back, but still… She was a little paranoid. Transforming into that not-bear abomination had really freaked her out.

She ripped open the silk bag and put on her clothes, then placed the sack of rads into her shoulderbag, leaving the rest of the spider silk behind, to dry out in the midday sun. It was good to be human again, so she took off on a light jog toward Spur. Jane reveled in the feel of blood pumping through her body, savoring the desert air. Her hair hit her in the face, though. She slowed. She took a hair clip from her bag, and put her hair up in a bun at the back of her head. She had had short hair, but every time she came back to her own body, her hair was shoulder length, again.

When she had enough of a jog, she stopped to stare at the sky.

In a blip of blue, Jane moved a thousand kilometers closer to Spur, then in another blip, she was one kilometer from the eastern gates. Here and there in a wide open part of the Crystal Forest around her, other people were either blipping in, or blipping out, in teams or singular. There weren’t any roads to Spur; [Teleport] was the only way to travel. If you weren’t in the Wayfarer’s Guild, the Guard tended to frown upon people ‘porting into the city proper.

She said hello to the guards at the gates; they said ‘hello’ back. They knew her well.

- - - -

Jane turned in her mimic kill quest by verifying the truth of her actions over a glowing green stone.

“They caught the hunters,” said Paril, the tealscale receptionist, writing down Jane’s actions in her ledger. “It’s so weird, too!”

“Who were they?”

“The guy who came in lied to Guildmaster Mog. He was the hunter, trying to cover his ass.” Paril handed over 15 gold—

Jane put her hand up. “Ah. Direct deposit, actually. Sorry about that. What about this liar, now?”

“Sure thing, hon.” Paril took the gold back. “This guy thought he could pull one over on us! Anywho, he’s sitting in jail now, but he’s headed for execution unless a [Witness] reveals something we don’t already know. The nerve of some people. Are you going out again?”

“Not for any quests, no.” Jane smiled. “I like talking to you, Paril, but I won’t be able to talk for a while. I’m joining Spur’s Army, if I can get through the prerequisites.”

Paril paused. She frowned. “Jane. You’re reckless. Don’t get your father mad. He’s liable to blow a hole in that wall if you die, and then we’re all screwed.”

“I have [Shadowblend] and I’ve read about how the city works.” Jane smirked. “I’m glad to know where your concern actually lies, though.”

“Adventurers got to look out for themselves, then everyone else. I used to be out there with all of you, till I saw one too many people lie down and never get back up. Don’t let that happen to you, you hear?”

“I won’t let that happen to me.” Jane waved, walking away, saying, “See you later, Paril.”

“Bye, Jane! I mean it! Be careful in there.”

- - - -

Jane laid an updated application on the receptionist’s desk. In a few minutes, she was called in to see Liquid. The grey metal wrought was not very gleeful, this time.

This time, Jane had added [Telepathy] and [Prestidigitation] in the ‘extra competencies section’, along with 2 extra points to spend, and her ability to wade into a pack of monsters with an AOE damage aura, as well as [Shadowblend]. The application made no hint that any of that was needed. All the application expected of the applicant was at least 600 HP, 600 MP, the ability to kill shadowolves, a 1 month commitment to start, and a letter of recommendation or a contact in the Army. Jane had no letter, but she listed her contact as ‘Killzone’.

Liquid sighed. She picked up a different rubber stamp, and said, “Approved,” as she stamped the word across the application. Liquid looked straight at Jane, saying, “This is not a game. You should have taken the failed application and stuck to the world outside the Dead City. People like you die all the time in there.”

“No offense meant, ma’am, but you’ve never seen anyone like me.”

“I am two hundred and eighty years old. I have seen every single type of person there ever was, or ever will be.” Liquid frowned. “And I have loved every single one of them like they were family. 90% of them died in the first year. I keep telling myself to stop caring for the new kids, but I can’t help it. So if you could, be more of a bitch so I can write you off early.”

“Then maybe we should kill all the Shades, ma’am, and take back the city.”

Liquid full stopped. She began to chuckle, breaking into a full laugh. Then she sighed, and said, “If you can do it without inciting Great Purge… More power to us all.” She frowned. “You have been accepted into Spur’s Army. Your contract is renewed monthly at the discretion of me, up to the first year, where you can then sign on for a longer contract and be awarded better duties. As a new recruit, your main duties will be monster killing, and whatever the officers on location demand of you…”

Jane listened. She knew everything Liquid was saying before she signed up, but it was Liquid’s prerogative to make sure Jane knew what she was getting into. Jane wasn’t ready to commit years to Ar’Kendrithyst, but after a few months, who knew? Maybe she would. From what she had read and heard around the Guild and around town, the Army and the Guard were two of the best jobs around, and in the Army, Jane could expect to help a lot of people, and gain a lot of levels.

The Army hadn’t been Jane’s initial choice, but the soldier life might actually be better than the life of a solo adventurer.

Liquid handed Jane some more papers, saying, “Even if you haven’t listened to everything I’ve said—”

Okay. Maybe Jane should listen a bit more.

“—Hold this in your heart: Spur’s Army is not traditional. We are an army of irregulars, since transient adventurers do become soldiers of Spur for short periods of time. Our two main goals are to secure our territory, and rescue adventuring teams from themselves, UNLESS they are under direct attack from a Shade. In the case of a Shade, if the team can make it back to Forward Base on their own, they’re safe. We WILL NOT rescue people from Shades outside of our territory. You can let people try to rescue their own members, but be aware that letting anyone fight a Shade will only end in them dying, too. Even if an unfortunate soul is just one step outside the boundary, we will not rescue them from a Shade. Do you need me to repeat any of that? Have I made myself clear?”

“As air.” Jane gathered the papers. They were directions to Forward Camp, a map of the camp and the surrounding area, processing papers for the person on duty there, and a map of Ar’Kendrithyst. Jane flipped through the main map; it was several pages long and about as detailed as any other map she had been able to find. A top layer, three middle layers, three bottom layers, most of them with great big blank spots. A lot of blank spots, actually. “What’s with the blank spots?”

