“Killzone is waiting for you.” Liquid put her right fist over where her heart would have been, if she were an actual dragonkin and not a grey metal wrought. “Dismissed. May the Relevant Entities of the Script look kindly upon your soul.”

Jane stood, put her fist over her heart, and walked out of Liquid’s office.

- - - -

First, Jane went to her dad.

He was in the garden, making not-lemon trees. Greyscale spice lady Ratchet was there, talking with him about the citrus he was [Grow]ing, as they cut into the sunshine yellow fruits for a taste.

“Oh! So sour!” Ratchet said, her mouth scrunching. “I like it!”

“This one’s the winner!” Erick saw Jane. “Jane! Welcome back.”

“I got approved for the Army. I’m going there right now.”

While Erick’s face suddenly dropped, Jane turned on [Telepathy], and spoke to him in her mind.

‘I also got this, so I’ll ‘call’ you whenever.’

Erick smiled wide, rushing to hug Jane, flooding the feeler of her own mana that linked her to him, projecting his voice into her mind, ‘Ah haha! Good! Yes! Call me and talk to me!’

They embraced, then Jane pulled away, thinking,‘You can probably ask Poi if you want to talk to me, you know. Otherwise I’ll call you every… Every other day. I’m going to be very busy.’

‘Yes yes! You will. I’ll be busy—’

“What’s all this quietness!” Ratchet asked, “Am I losing my best customer to the Army?”

Jane smiled. “Yes, Ms Ratchet. Going there right now; just had to say good bye to Dad, but also ‘I’ll talk to you tonight’.” She turned to Erick. “I love you, Dad. I’m not going very far, but you should not come. I don’t want you in the Dead City, okay?”

“You’re worried about me?” Erick said, “I’m worried about you!”

“I’ll be fine. Don’t go inventing any more world altering spells, though, please.”

Teressa was guarding Erick right now; from her position several feet away and without a helmet on, she was faintly smiling.

“I’ll try not to, but who knows what the future holds?” Erick smiled, a tear quickly falling, then brushed away by the back of his hand. “I love you, Jane. Call me when you get settled.”

“I will.” Jane pulled her shoulderbag around to her front, then pulled out the spidersilk wrapped rads she had harvested from the mimics. “And these are for you.”

Erick stepped away from the silk bag. “Please don’t tell me that’s an egg sack.”

Jane burst out laughing. “No! It’s rads from mimics!” She shoved them at her father. “Take them!”

Erick reluctantly held the spider silk bag. Then he set it down on the ground.

He said, “When I get grandchildren, they better be humanoid.”

Jane laughed again. “I love you, Dad.”

“I love you, too, Jane.” He wiped a tear away. His voice choked, “Ca— Call me later. Okay?”

“I will.”

Jane stepped away, waved, then blipped into the desert north east of Ar’Kendrithyst.

She stared at the sky.

Then she had a little cry.

When she was done, she looked up at the Dead City. She frowned. Her [Teleport] was supposed to get her a little closer than this.

Were the Shades already looking at her?

They might be.

They were. Definitely. One of them was, at least; probably that one.

Probably.

She gazed at the massive, towering walls, then looked right. Spur was somewhere far off in the distance, maybe 40 kilometers in that direction. She turned back toward the wall, to look up, and up. And up. The Dead City was at least two miles away. She could walk… but she had the mana. And she had to make sure of what she was seeing.

[Teleport].

She blipped three feet to the left, not gaining any forward distance. She knew she hadn't gone far because she looked to the right, and saw her footprints in the sand.

Yup. That Shade was here, watching her, preventing her [Teleport].

Jane started walking.

The walls got much, much bigger than she ever thought they could be.

It was early afternoon by the time Jane saw the first overt evidence of the magic of the Dead City. The sun was just over the walls; its shadow in front of Jane a clearly marked line of darkness. The shadow flexed as it crept forward, keeping pace with the sun’s travel across the sky.

Jane smiled and stepped through the dark line. Cold crept up her jeans as the sun vanished. She sighed. It was a refreshing cold. Bracing. Invigorating. Not nearly as deadly as she expected. The line of shadow wasn’t the Shade watching, it was just a well known effect of the Dead City. The Shade was somewhere else.

Soon, Jane saw the Crack in the Wall and the flapping blue flag; she was right on course. As she neared, the walls seemed to loom directly overhead, and the sheer magnitude of it all finally began to feel real.

Jane shook a little, and whether that was from excitement, or fear, she couldn’t tell.

Probably a bit of both.

The Crack beckoned; a massive rent a third of the height of the wall, wide enough for ten people to run side by side. A giant solid blue flag on a hundred foot pole, right in the middle of the Crack, flapped on a strong breeze streaming out from inside the city. As Jane neared, the flapping of the flag and the wind were the only sounds for miles around. The Crack was dark black just inside the edge of the wall, which showed the wall’s browns and whites as nothing more than a thin, foot-wide veneer. Jane walked past the flag, into the Crack. The walls did not feel oppressive from this angle, because, as she walked further, darkness gave way to brilliant crystal light.

She easily passed a hundred feet of dark stone wall, and now, the walls were not black at all.

Deep reds, smokey grey glows, shimmering violets; The wall was not a wall of stone, stacked and manufactured by long dead artisans, but rather, it was grown. And here, Jane was seeing for the first time, exactly what the Dead City truly was.

Ar’Kendrithyst was a geode.

Kendrithyst was both the name of the original city, and the name for the red-violet-smokey crystal that filled the interior.

Jane walked down the sands that had filled in the Crack, into the wind pouring from the interior of the Dead City. She smelled nothing. The air was moist, but not full of life. The light of the afternoon sun bounced in the walls all around her, shimmering smoke and red and purple inside the solid, cracked crystal city wall. The path ahead of her was flat, and clear, with shimmering kendrithyst lights playing across brown sands. There were no obstructions; this path was routinely cleared, but not by the Army.

“HellooOOooooOO! New SoOOldier!”

Jane paused. She had been expecting this.

A very old woman appeared on the sands in the middle of the path. She was a human, wearing rather boring clothes; tunic, pants, no shoes. But the staff in her hands was kendrithyst crystal, and her eyes were black with white irises. She was Fallopolis, Fall of the Metropolis, the only Shade everyone knew was absolutely crazy. All the Shades enjoyed tormenting new people, so the Crack had never been sealed, but Fallopolis actively and openly worked against the other Shades.

That’s what people said, anyway. Mostly, Fallopolis just kept the Crack open, and generally ensured people made it to Forward Base.

Generally.

Jane waited for the Shade to say something else; she wasn’t about to hang herself with her own words, at least not right now.

Fallopolis had paused, too.

Five seconds passed.

“OH oh OH!” Fallopolis spoke with a wide, happy grin, “It’s yoOOu! You’re on your own, girly. Better run! They’re coming for yoOOu!” She instantly vanished.

The barking of shadowolves crowded the Crack.

Jane ran forward. She had one brief moment to enjoy the view, so she took it.

Ar’Kendrithyst truly was a jewel. The afternoon sun spilled across a landscape of crystal towers and countless bridges, all made of shimmering reds and dozens of violets and smokey quartz of all kinds. There was no horizon, no end to the magnificent crystal city, and all of it glowed brilliant in the sunlight.

Ahead of Jane, the sands of the Crystal Forest spilled directly onto a dark red crystal road.

To her left and her right, were about a hundred wolves on either side, running through the crystal buildings, for shadow played with light everywhere in Ar’Kendrithyst, and if you had the ability, you could walk through the kendrithyst itself.

Jane activated [Swift Movement] without a conscious thought; the skill was so ingrained that she used it almost unconsciously. The next skill did take conscious thought, though.

[Radiant Shard Aura].

Pure radiance flowed from Jane as she raced directly ahead, Forward Base was a good two kilometers away at the end of the red crystal bridge. Nearby wolves cried out in pain; the light blinding to everyone but her. As she left the sands and touched down on the road, her radiance crashed through the road, blinding a hundred more wolves who had been waiting for her. Some of them failed to lift through the road and attack. Others fell from their perch, howling as they fell down, down, into the city, dozens of feet if they were lucky, thousands if they were not.

Jane raced forward, quickly leaving the ambush behind. Her aura scraped and crashed against the crystal road, but whatever kendrithyst was, it was far, far stronger than a tier 2 [Force Shrapnel] aura.

A giant hand appeared in front of Jane; grasping, reaching.

[Shadowblend].

If the wolves could do it, so could she. Jane turned off her aura and melded into the crystal bridge.

This was the easiest [Shadowblend] Jane had ever done. She stayed inside the bridge until she passed the giant—

Until she passed two giants!

She popped up onto the bridge, racing forward, Forward Base was still far, but she could still see what awaited her. Soldiers stood behind barricades at the end of the bridge. Killzone stood behind the soldiers.

Jane [Shadowblend]ed back into the bridge as a third giant tried to slap her into paste with a ten foot wide hand. He slapped the bridge instead, and the bridge cracked. Jane was already past the impact. She slipped onto the surface, out of shadow, as the bridge behind her began to break. Three hundred wolves had been chasing her, but now they weren’t. They scrambled to—

Killzone spoke to her mind, ‘Run faster.’

Jane ignored whatever was going on behind her and ran.

She ran straight ahead for two minutes, [Swift Movement] active the whole time.

She crossed the finish line to zero applause.

… She hadn’t been expecting applause. But she was expecting something. Anything, really.

A nearby orcol with a bit stronger bearing than everyone else, said, “Welcome to Hell Month, rookie. I’m Sargent Nanark. You are the lowest woman on the team, right now.” He pointed back the way Jane had come. “For your first mission, kill your welcoming committee. Giants require concentrated head shots and Decay magic.”

Jane turned around.

Firstly, she noticed how magnificent everything was. Spur-sized towers of crystal, smaller towers of crystal; red, violet, and smokey white, all glittering in the sun. Bridges of crystal ran throughout the whole tangled mess.

Then she looked at the giants. Three of them, each five hundred feet tall, climbing around the city like they were toddlers on a jungle gym. Hundreds of shadowolves followed their own paths through the kendrithyst.

A redscale soldier next to Jane asked, “You don’t also have [Withering], do you?”

“Afraid not!”

“Figured.” Redscale readied a staff. “They wouldn’t let you in here if you did.”

Sargent Nanark stepped to Jane’s side. “Do you have [Force Beam]? Some other long range attack?”

“No sir, but I do have 2 points to spend and 1800 mana. Scion of Balance as well.”

Nanark schooled away a quick smile. “Buy [Force Beam]. Decay it, if you can. Giants constantly heal themselves. Aim for the heads.”

Giants roared as they crashed forward. Shadowolves echoed that roar with a shrill, cascade of anger, as they poured up from the darker depths, up through kendrithyst towers, onto the only bridge leading to Forward Base. Wolves raced around giant feet, rushing forward, slobbering for an easy meal.

Force Beam 1, instant, medium range, 25 mana

A piercing, slicing beam of hardened mana that deals 25 + ½ WIL damage for 1 second

Purchase [Force Beam] for 1 point? Yes/No

Yes.

[Force Beam].

Jane’s new [Force Beam] skill was one of twenty different beams and several different varieties that erupted from Forward Base to strike the first giant. Redscale next to Jane released one of thirty fireballs that exploded the horde. Dozens of specialized [Ward]s clipped into the bridge. Wolves who were trying to pass through the red crystal struck the [Ward Wall] and went tumbling down into kendrithyst depths.

One giant went down. A hundred wolves perished. The second and third giant died much faster, once the rhythm of Forward Base swung into high gear. Jane cast [Force Beam] enough to get up to level 5, sweeping the enemy lines with destructive force, activating the spell as fast as she could, enough to have multiples going at the same time. With Chain, from Mana Altering 9, and Decay, from Mana Altering 8, [Force Beam] cost almost 40 mana a shot, but one beam hit dozens of wolves, though the damage dropped off significantly past the first impact. That was okay, though. Jane saw why Nanark recommended Decay; the wolves couldn’t meld with the kendrithyst crystal bridge while Decay was active, either because they physically couldn’t, or because the pain of Decay destroyed their ability to [Shadowblend]. Decay also prevented healing, but she didn’t get much of a chance to observe that with the giants; they died too fast.

Jane would need to test Decay on herself to make sure she was understanding what she was seeing.

And with that bit of introspection, she looked around the courtyard; Jane was the only one going all out, firing four beams at once into the rushing horde.

This kind of attack was common. Jane needed to pull back a bit. Conserve her mana. With [Force Beam 5] lasting 5 seconds, it was already pretty efficient, but 40 mana a pop added up rather fast.

Jane eased her counter attack, making sure to keep her mana high with Meditation and only attack when the wolves got within 50 feet. Half an hour later, the final wolves chose to break from the assault rather than die to the defenders of Forward Base.

Jane was pumped. She almost smiled at her soldier neighbor, but refrained, when no one else seemed to be smiling.

Nanark spoke to her mind, ‘Inside, rookie.’

Jane turned, blood still pumping hard. Everyone except for Redscale and a few other defenders were going back inside Forward Base. She couldn’t even see Nanark, or Killzone. What she could see was Forward Base.

