Like few other buildings in sight, Forward Base was very opaque, and very, very large. Easily two or maybe even three normal city blocks in diameter. From this angle, Forward Base was deep purple. Almost black. The exterior had spell slits and a few platforms for shooters, but aside from the courtyard grounds where Jane and others had repelled the assault, which was itself only about forty square feet and sandy, Forward Base was extremely plain. Like a tower in the middle of a field, with zero ornamentation, Forward Base was definitely a military structure.

‘Inside, rookie. Now,’ Killzone said.

Jane obeyed. She rushed across the small exterior grounds, toward a darkened door.

No. Not a door. A [Ward], solid black.

She frowned. She knew a little bit of what to expect from Forward Base and the monster response to someone entering from the Crack, but she was very much at the end of expectations. She did not expect a solid black [Ward], or the actual base to be occluded from sight. She poked her left hand into the [Ward], and when it came back fine, she walked through.

Jane entered into a room of bright sunlight and happy voices, of comfortable furniture and people talking and someone slinging beer behind a counter while a fountain bubbled in the center. Killzone stood right in front of her, wearing his usual solid-black orcol body, and a small smile.

“Welcome to Forward Base, rookie.” Killzone handed her a beer. “Welcome to the Army.”

Jane refrained from laughing for joy, but she did take the beer and a hearty gulp of the gold, cold brew.

A cheer rolled up from the rest of the people in the room.

“Welcome!”

“She shot good!”

“[Shadowblend], too! Welcome aboard.”

“Bulgan is going to show, though.”

Forward Base rocked with the sudden words, “FUCK BULGAN!”

Jane toasted to that, saying, “Fuck Bulgan!”

“FUCK BULGAN!”

Jane was too giddy to put anger into her cheer, but when all the people of Forward Base said those words a second time, she felt their animosity. She understood their hatred. If Bulgan showed, these people were all prepared to kill him, no matter what it cost.

Joy at arrival turned to shared anger, and she remembered, again, one of the main reasons she joined the Army.

She was here to kill Bulgan.

- - - -

Outside, at the edge of the receiving courtyard, Redscale complained to his neighbor, ‘I want beer.’

Crimsonscale said, ‘We’ll get drunk soon enough. Long as nothing else happens.’

Redscale practically shouted, ‘You just had to jinx it, didn’t you! Idiot rookie.’

Crimsonscale spat back, ‘I’ve been here for two years! Superstitious veteran.’
