Light orbs hovered all across the farm by the time Jane returned. The farmers still wanted to work, even at night, but they were moving much slower than they were this morning. But by the temple, the lights were brilliant, and pointed in every direction. The temple light illuminated the night for miles. Everyone was drinking Erick’s coffee. They were all laughing with each other, too. Jane didn’t want to interrupt, so she just went around back and stuck the clippings in the ground near the back of the temple.

The clippings immediately started growing, vining up the back of the statue of Atunir, twisting up a few feet, then directly horizontally out, like green clouds forming in the sky, with flat bottoms and a tiered structure. That was unexpected. This was not supposed to happen. The clippings came from a bush not...

Not whatever this was.

Jane called out, “Hey, Dad! Come look at the coffee you made.”

At Jane’s words, Erick poked his head out to see what was up, then he went back inside to rush down the stairs, into the platinum rain, around to the back of the temple. Al, Savral, Poi, and the rest, all came with him. Erick walked over to Jane, followed closely by Poi.

He looked at the twisting, [Grow]ing coffee-tea-tree, and said, “Pretty.”

Four cuttings had spread roots and grown up into a single tree, which spread out from the back of the temple like someone was making art out of the plant. Green leaves suddenly shifted to glowing platinum, like someone switching on a fiber optic light inside of the tree.

Jane had a good idea of who that ‘someone’ could be. She was witnessing the touch of a god on Veird. Something stirred inside of her, like a flame flickering to life, like her eyes opening for the first time. A presence seemed to stand above them all, like a weight descending to lift them up.

Erick had a completely different reaction.

Erick laughed, smiling, saying, “I bet this coffee tastes delicious!”

Valok and Apogough were feeling the same sense of wonder Jane was feeling. Their eyes were closed, they were praying. Al, Savral, and Rats joined them. Poi kept his eyes wide open though; constantly scanning his surroundings.

Jane turned back to the platinum plant. Platinum leaves on rich brown trunks and branches towered up the back of Atunir’s statue, covering almost all of the west end of the small temple, looking like a multi-tiered thunderhead frozen in time, in miniature.

Erick said, “It’s like, a perfect bonsai tree. But normal size. It’s a normal tree, ha!” He activated his Handy Aura and quickly took off a thousand individual leaves. They began growing back almost instantly. “Nice.”

Valok almost exploded at him, but Jane casually stepped between him and Erick. Valok stamped his anger down, not saying a word. Jane casually stepped back to where she had been.

Al and Savral struggled not to laugh.

Apogough said, “Uh! Erick!”

Erick turned, several invisible arm fulls of platinum leaves hovering in the air beside him. “What?”

Valok went blank, like the sacrilege was too much to comprehend anymore.

Apogough said, “She… Atunir obviously claimed the tree for… For her holy self.”

“Phshh! That’s crazy! The leaves are already coming back, and I made this coffee myself. But I must admit, I am very eager to taste what she has added to the brew.”

Apogough reluctantly said, “Oh…. Okay.”

Erick turned to Jane. “How do you make it so good?”

“I’ll show you!” Jane, had attached the heavy wok with a string to her shoulderbag. She tapped the heavy metal now, saying, “We can keep this one here; I can get a new one for home.”

Erick smiled wide. “Sounds good to me.”

Thirty minutes later, Jane had prepared the platinum leaves exactly how she would have prepared normal leaves, but the leaves didn’t turn brown like normal. They certainly dried out and there were bits of caramelization here and there, but the prepared leaves did not look like tea leaves.

Everyone was watching her the whole time, except for Poi; he was still looking outward.

Jane was glad for taking that two week long tea ceremony and coffee creation class.

Jane powdered the leaves and placed them in a very fine tea cloth in a strainer above a large stone pot. She began slowly pouring another pot of boiling platinum rainwater, first in the center of the leaves, in the center of the strainer, then slowly circling the pour against the leaves, then up the cloth. She went slow the whole time; gradually, methodically.

When she was done, she had a very large pot of densely-opaque platinum ‘coffee’.

She poured the first cup, then went over to the statue of Atunir and placed it among the bounty.

The cup and liquid inside turned solid, affixing itself to the statue, like it had always been there. Apogough and Valok sighed in relief. Jane started handing out other cups. They all got theirs, and then Jane poured hers, but everyone looked reluctant to actually drink it.

So, Jane went first.

It tasted like the best coffee she had ever had; medium bold, smooth, caramel and vanilla, with hints of cream and a lot of ‘light’, with only the barest bitterness.

Erick tasted his next. He smiled. “Delicious. Like espresso and cream.”

Around the group the tasting went. Everyone described something a little bit different.

Al said, “That’s divine food, for you.”

Nothing happened for the rest of the night. Some people drifted away, some came back. Valok, Apogough, and Krakina, went away for the rest of the long night.

Divine coffee certainly kept Jane, Erick, Poi and Rats all awake, though. She expected to flag somewhere around hour 20, but she kept going strong, and so did everyone else. They played board games, and told stories.

When the sun arose on the other side of Spur, they were at hour 23, out of 24.

Valok, Apogough, and Krakina, showed at 30 minutes till the end, at a prepared field next to the temple. Krakina was silent, but she was present. That mattered a lot, to Jane. Looking over at her father standing at the end of the prepared field, she saw that Krakina’s presence meant a lot to him, too.

When sunlight finally spilled over the walls of Spur and struck the empty fields, tiny green shoots lifted from the ground, twining around trellises, growing across holes in the lattice work, then budding with platinum flowers. The flowers wilted, and groups of bean pods appeared. Inch long things at first, the pods quickly grew to a seven inches long and thick as an orcol’s finger. The trellises were absolutely packed with beans.

Apogough and Valok each picked one, while Krakina looked over Valok’s shoulder.

Erick picked one, then opened it in front of Jane. They looked like kidney beans, but bright white with little silver striations; the color of Erick’s magic and [Exalted Storm Aura] mixed together. Jane threw a very small [Cleanse] at the beans in Erick’s hands. Nothing happened.

“Looks safe enough,” she said.

Apogough, Valock, and Krakina were already eating some. They chewed, silently, thoughtfully. Erick popped one into his mouth. He chewed. He offered the beans to Jane as he popped another one into his mouth. She took one and ate it. She chewed. Some people spit out the beans, then tried another. Everyone was chewing, tasting.

Judging.

She finished eating the bean. She said, “Tastes like beans.”

Erick smiled. “Yup. Tastes like beans.”

“Success!” Jane smiled. “Great job, Dad.”

Erick shouted, “Success!”

Al and Savral shouted over their own open bean pods, “WooooOOO!”

Valok did not shout, but Apogough did. Krakina did a small cheer, but Jane could tell she was still scared. Their shouts started a chain of cheers from the farmers.

Erick shut off the rain.

The skies cleared on another wonderful day.

Jane groaned, “I am fucking tired.”

“Gods above! Me too.” Erick said, “Let’s go home.”

Jane giggled. “What the heck? ‘Gods above’?”

“I like the local curses.”

Jane laughed.

They both said quick goodbyes, left the board games and the coffee stuff at the temple, and went straight home.

“Yo,” said Killzone, outside and beside their front door. “Howdy.”

“What’s wrong?” Erick asked.

“Nothin~” Killzone smiled. “But you and those three—” He gestured to Poi, Rats, and Teressa. “Y’all ‘ave been up for a whole darn day! I’ll take over while everyone sleeps.”

Teressa mellowed immediately, saying, “Thank all the gods and demons. I am shit-tired. Good night, everyone.” And then she walked inside, toward her room.

Jane giggled. That was the most Teressa had said all day long.

Then Jane realized she had giggled. Oh. She was getting loopy.

Rats quickly followed Teressa, saying, “Thank you, Captain.”

“Shucks. Ain’t no big deal!” Killzone smiled wide, his utterly black skin, teeth, eyes, and everything, still a bit disconcerting, but his voice was so nice. “Y’all sleep well.”

Erick went in, saying ‘Thanks’, followed by Poi, saying nothing. Jane lingered, just a little.

Jane said, “After we sleep, I’ll tell him. Thank you, for this.”

Killzone grinned, speaking softly, “You and your father are the best recruits I’ve ever had. I expect good things, Jane.”

Jane grinned. “I expect to hit level 60 by next month.”

Killzone tried to hide his joy, but he couldn’t. He just nodded, and took a further step from the front door.

Jane walked in, went to the bathroom, popped out a [Cleanse], then went to bed. [Cleanse] was wonderful; washing machine, toilet paper, shampoo and conditioner, toothbrush and shaver —if you used it right— [Cleanse] really was one of the best spells ever. That, and [Ward]. The damage mitigation alone—

Ah. She had forgotten to renew the house’s [Temperature Ward].

Jane opened her eyes. She flooded the house with a Shaped X [Air Conditioning Ward], which was like a [Temperature Ward], but not; kinda like how the chickens around Spur were not actual chickens.

And now she was thinking strange thoughts.

She relaxed into the cooler air, letting out a sigh of contentment as she closed her eyes and snuggled into her comforter. She adjusted her pillow for maximum goodness.

… Her words were slipping.

… And so was she.

- - - -

Jane woke at sunset. She made dinner.

As she was cooking, everyone else woke up. Jane verbally said ‘later’ to Killzone, with a promise to meet tomorrow. Teressa, Poi, and Rats, probably all had their own words to say to the solid-black wrought orcol, but they kept them telepathic, if Jane was correctly judging the little silent looks between them all. While she grilled five steaks and scrambled a dozen eggs, Killzone left, right before Erick came downstairs.

When Erick saw her there, waiting for him at the table, steaks and eggs and salad already set up on his plate, he paused. With the most resigned, deadpan voice, he asked, “What’s happening.”

Jane began, “I’ve been invited to join the Army because Bulgan is the lowest man on the totem pole and me being there, flaunting him, will keep him down at the bottom, and not a threat to Spur. Or anyone else that he wasn’t already a threat to.” She paused. When Erick didn’t immediately interrupt, Jane continued, “I’m going to accept. [Teleport] is blocked if a Shade so much as looks at you, but as soon as I eat enough shadow essences, I’ll be able to [Shadowalk], both as a spider, and as a person. That skill still works in my human body.” She added, “That’s one of the main reasons the Mage Trio were willing to pay 10000 gold on the corpse.”

Erick gazed at her, saying nothing.

She waited.

Erick remained quiet. He stood there at the entrance to the kitchen dining room, thinking.

He sighed.

“Good.” Erick sat down at the table, in front of his plate. “I approve. Be sure to run away as fast as you can if you ever see a Shade. They don’t look like those big monsters we saw yesterday… Ah… No two days ago.” Erick stared at her, saying, “They look like they looked in life, but with all the powers of those giant forms.”

“Um. Yeah? Okay?” Jane was flummoxed. Her words didn’t work right. Erick was supposed to yell and scream. Not… Accept what Jane was saying. But. She could take the win. “Well. Sure. Uh.” She started digging in to her own plate of steak and eggs and salad. She stopped. She turned to Erick. “It’s called [Avatar of Melemizargo]. I’ve read up on the place and the various known dangers… rather extensively. Both first hand accounts and accredited treatises. I’ve done a lot of research before I decided to pursue this option. Ar’Kendrithyst is home to some of the highest level monsters on the continent… unless I were to go mucking around in the forests nine thousand kilometers up north. But the rogue dragons up there are much more dangerous than giants and… And other things… in the Dead City.” She quickly added, “And unless I attack the wrong things, I might not ever see a Shade. There’s only 38 known and another 2 suspected Shades, in nearly a million cubic kilometers of dense cityscape. Stay away from the Spire and the Gardens, and the territories, and you… you should be safe.”

Erick nodded, saying, “I approve, Jane. You’re smart, you’re good. Just promise me that you’ll always escape instead of fight, if you look overwhelmed.”

“… I promise to help my teams and myself survive to the best of my ability.”

“… I guess that’s as good as I’m going to get.” Erick sighed. “I’d love to tell you not to go searching for so much danger, but that’s impossible. We’re in danger all the time; but you’re aware of it, and you’re proactive. I approve.”

Jane had dished out dinner, and now sat down at her seat, unsure of everything.

As Erick cut in to his steak, Jane still didn’t know what was going on. She expected a massive fight. She glanced over to Teressa and Poi and Rats, who were divvying up the other steaks Jane had cooked; they had been expecting a massive fight, too.

What was going on, here?

She asked, “What’s going on here, Dad? I expected a fight.”

“You’ve been right about a lot of things. And I had like… four days to think about this, I think? Time was funny during a godly intercession I had with Rozeta. She introduced me to the souls of the people I killed, and there was some closure, and then I spent a lot of time thinking.” He shrugged. “These are my conclusions.”

Rats almost dropped the food, but Teressa and Poi were right there to stop a problem before it happened. A plate still clattered, though. Jane turned away from the drama in the kitchen to focus on her father. He pointedly looked away from Rats, too.

Jane said, “Okay. That’s… Good? Good conclusions.”

