Ren ran his hands over her restored legs, and felt all the little scratches and pokes. “Not yet you aren't.” He took out a fireball wand, drained the charges, and filled it with Major Healing. He used it on her several times to fix all the things wrong with her, and smiled at her when she was all better.

“Now you are.” He said, then rolled her over. She gave that little surprised yip, and as he pleased her again, he let out everything that he'd held in the entire time they had been together.

“OH GOD!” Elerlyth screamed, as he fed her ability with all of the frustration that he'd built up about not being able to finish, and his mischievousness that he had hidden it from her completely. She gripped his hair and stared at him in the eyes as he finally went, then she went again, and she drank it all down. They rode that feeling for several minutes, and stared at each other as they both calmed down. She pulled his face close and kissed him, then let his hair go. He laid down beside her, and she held onto him as he turned to face her.

“You bastard.” Elerlyth said, and laughed. “How did you do that?”

“Do what?” Ren asked with a crooked smile, knowing exactly what she meant.

“How could you give me everything you had, let me feed on it all, and still have hidden something from me?”

“Practice.” Ren said. “With all of the times we've been together like this, I've learned how to... compartmentalize?”

Elerlyth nodded.

“I've learned to only share the feelings that I want to share, and not overwhelm anyone.”

“Your House Neram pendant.”

It was Ren's turn to nod his head. “I didn't want all of my feelings to be felt.” He said. “Unlike you, no one else can tell what and why I'm feeling things.”

Elerlyth cupped the side of his face and sighed. “What in the world am I going to do with you?”

“For now you can sleep.” Ren said. “I've got to log out for breakfast and therapy.”

“Oh, right!” Elerlyth said. “We've also got that meeting at lunch.”

He nodded. “Now that you're all better, I think you should stay here for a few days.”

“I... don't think that's a good idea.”

“If whoever you met followed you, you'll be safer in here than anywhere else.”

Elerlyth opened her mouth to argue, and Ren kissed her.

“Please.” He pleaded.

Elerlyth sighed. “You know why I didn't want to log in to see you?”

Ren shook his head.

“It was because... because I... I told you that I loved you.”

Ren smiled, and Elerlyth felt the warm fuzzy feelings he felt, and he fed them to her.

“Ren, you know that I... that...”

Ren cupped the side of her face. “Yes, I know you said it only because you were thanking me for the wands.” He let her face go. “It's still nice to have a beautiful woman say those words, no matter the reason.”

“Yeah, that's why I didn't want to see you for a while.” Elerlyth said. “I knew you would take it the wrong way.”

Ren laughed. “But, I didn't take it the wrong way.”

“You just said...”

“Did I confess that I loved you, too?” Ren asked her.

Elerlyth shook her head, and he thought she looked a little disappointed. “No.”

“There you go.” Ren said and lay on his back. “Now, if you'd said that you loved me while we were having sex...” He grinned. “...that I would have taken the 'wrong' way.”

Elerlyth lightly punched him in the side.

“I thought I told you to stop hitting me like a girl.” Ren said and laughed as she hauled off and punched him several times in the side and chest; he blocked some of them, and let others through.

“It's... not... funny!” Elerlyth said, and her fist glowed for a moment. Ren saw it and reacted immediately; he caught the wrist without touching her glowing fist.

“What's that?” Ren asked.

Elerlyth looked at her fist, her eyes widened slightly, and then the fist stopped glowing. “It's nothing.”

“If I didn't know any better, I'd say that was a penetration spell.”

Elerlyth's face flushed to a darker color.

“You were actually trying to hurt me.” Ren said, surprised. “I was just joking around.”

“You... you made me angry.” She said and her face flushed even darker.

“I'm sorry.” He said.

“Ren...”

“I won't joke around with you like that anymore.” Ren said, and moved over on the bed.

“Ren, I...”

“If you're genuinely angry that I didn't say that I loved you back, even though you said you didn't mean it...” He sighed and shook his head.

“Logout.”

*

“I'm sorry!” Elerlyth said as Ren's body phased out.

“I don't think he heard you.” Anabelle said from the bedroom doorway.

“What would you know about it?” Elerlyth asked.

“More than you, apparently.” Anabelle said, and laughed. “He's right, though. You might not have meant it; but, you're mad that he ignored it and didn't say it back.”

“No, I'm not!” Elerlyth said, heatedly.

“You keep telling yourself that, honey.” Anabelle said as she turned around to go back to the bed in the living room. “You might convince yourself eventually.”

********

Ren woke up in the real world to a familiar face. “Hi, Denise.”

“Hi, Ren.” She said as she took the VR headset from him and put it on the rollaway table. “I'm sorry I didn't make it in to watch the show last night.”

“That's okay.” Ren said. “I didn't know there was going to be so many people there to see it.”

“I heard.” Denise chuckled. “Even that tall redhead managed to make it.”

Ren smiled. “Elise was the only one who actually asked to come and watch it with me.”

“'Elise', huh?” She laughed. “Not 'Ms. Stanford'?”

He grinned and pointed to his cheek.

“Oh, you cheeky devil!”

“That now has a new meaning.” Ren laughed as he slid out of bed and walked to the bathroom. “What's for breakfast?”

“Eggs, toast, and juice.”

Ren shut the bathroom door and looked at himself in the mirror. He turned his head to the side and saw the perfect imprint of a set of red lips on his cheek. He smiled, used the bathroom, and cleaned himself up. He came out a couple of minutes later.

“I didn't hear bacon in that description.”

“Candy bar and soda.”

“Damn, I forgot about that.” Ren said and went to the dresser. “It was good, though.” He said and took out his workout outfit. “Yes! No long sleeves!”

“The therapist said she was giving the television star a break.” Denise smiled. “Only a light workout today.”

“Sweet!” Ren said and changed right there. His arm worked better today, so he didn't even need help with the t-shirt. He sat on the bed and checked his laptop while he waited for breakfast. On a whim, he took a picture of himself using the laptop's camera, with his head turned slightly to the side. The lip imprint Elise had left on his face was clearly visible, so he saved it and checked his emails. He groaned as he had several hundred of them from... well, everyone. He browsed through them and saw a lot were probing emails, checking to see if it actually was him. Ren deleted most of those, and left the rest for later. He didn't feel like looking through them all right now.

*

Gloria logged out and sighed. She got up off of her recliner and hopped in the shower.

It doesn't matter that he didn't tell me that he loves me. She thought as she scrubbed herself clean. I'm not mad at him for that! I'm not! She got out of the shower and dried herself off, then started to gather the things she needed to mod the VR headsets. Gloria sighed again. Dammit, I am mad that he didn't.

*

Ren ate a quick breakfast, went to therapy, and took a shower. His arm wasn't as sore as it had been; but, he didn't want to waste any more time than he had to, so he asked Denise for her help. She scrubbed his back, and helped dry him off.

“Thanks.” Ren said. “That would have taken twice as long if I had to do it myself.”

“More hands makes the work go faster.” Denise said and helped Ren put on his green set of pajamas.

“More experienced hands, you mean.” Ren said and smiled. “Just having extra hands isn't always a good thing.”

“That would depend on what you're doing.” Denise said as she buttoned his shirt top, then blushed a little as she realized what she was doing and what she said. Ren was tempted to tease her a little, but changed his mind. When the moment passed, she smiled at him and he went back to bed. Denise helped him put on the VR headset and he settled down into the bed.

“See you at lunch.” Ren said.

“Flow Login Start.”

********
