“Are you kidding? This... this is unbelievable! You took what was essentially spider droppings and made something so... so... beautiful... that I'm dumbfounded as to what to say!”

Sally blushed so hard this time that it filled her face and reached her ears, and Ren thought she might even pass out. Ren hugged her and let her catch her breath. After a few moments he felt she had composed herself and he let her go. She looked almost back to normal. Her ears were still a little red, though.

“Thank you, Ren. No one has paid me a compliment like that in years.”

Ren smiled and hugged the bolt of cloth like it was a big teddy bear. Not that he'd ever had a teddy bear of his own, but he'd seen them on tv enough that he knew how to hold them properly. Sally grinned at him and stood.

“Ren, I have another idea...” Sally said as she looked down at him with a twinkle in her eye.

“If it's as good as the last one, I'm all for it!” Ren said, enthusiastically.

Sally took his free hand and led him out to the main shop to her big project desk. She looked around for a few minutes and he watched her patiently. She checked shelves and drawers until she found what she was looking for.

“I've had these things for ages, and never knew what I could do with them... but now I know.” She pulled out a set of plans and passed them to Ren. “I believe that these belong to you, now.”

Ren looked them over, a light engulfed them, and they disappeared.

New Recipe!Elven High Court Uniform
This recipe will let you make a set of Elven High Court clothing
Nobles of Elven houses have worn such clothes for centuries

Items Available:
High Elf Full Coat (Elegant), High Elf Tunic Shirt (Elegant), High Elf Pants (Elegant),
High Elf Belt/Sash (Elegant), High Elf Knee High Boots (Elegant)

Ren almost cried when he read the recipe. It was the perfect thing for a formal gathering. He looked at Sally with tears floating in the corners of his eyes.

“You deserve it, Ren.” Sally said. Then she shook the bolt of fabric that he held in his hand. “...and I think I know just the fabric to make it from, don't you?”
