“Don’t worry about me. But please tell me you’re not going to do something crazy. I can’t handle anything crazy.”
“Don’t worry! This is fun and good stuff. Besides—if I did do something crazy, could you even stop me?”
Yvlon paused.
“Yes.”
Erin hesitated.
“Right. You probably could. Well, this isn’t that crazy. Come on!”
 
——
 
When Erin got back to the inn, she found Mrsha and Lyonette had returned. Only, they didn’t have any new balls. And neither of them were smiling. Mrsha sat by herself, rolling something back and forth.
Her ball. Her worn, scratched little ball. Erin paused, looking questioningly at Lyonette. She and Yvlon were empty-handed, but Erin had spent a good deal of coin, and she hoped to have things to carry soon enough.
“Did Mrsha not want anything?”
Lyonette was sitting at a table, watching Mrsha with concern in her eyes. She shook her head. Apista was in her lap, and Lyonette was running her finger down the bee’s back.
“She started crying after you left and she had to decide on a new ball. She wanted her old one. I think it was too soon to bring her into the city, Erin.”
A bit of reproach entered Lyonette’s tone. Erin’s heart sank. She looked at Mrsha. The Gnoll was sniffing her ball, holding it. Not really playing. Erin nodded slowly.
“Yeah. That was my mistake. Uh—is everyone doing good?”
She looked around. The Halfseekers and Horns were still in her inn. Both had stuffed themselves. They weren’t saying too much. Ceria sat at a table with Pisces and Ksmvr. She had emptied two mugs. She wasn’t exactly looking happy either. She kept looking at Mrsha.
The optimistic mood of the morning had somehow gone wrong. Lyonette glanced at the adventurers and shrugged. Erin saw Seborn talking with Moore and Jelaqua. She wandered over and heard his slightly echoey voice.
“—It’s negotiations at this point. We could try for that armor, Jelaqua. But we owe Selys Shivertail a cut of whatever we get.”
“I know, I know. But if we get the armor, we can compensate her. And we do have a strong claim. Hell, maybe we could persuade Ilvriss or the Flamewardens to help us out if I agree to cancel my contract with Selys. But having a magical artifact like that we could own—oh, hey Erin.”
Jelaqua looked up. Moore sat up with a groan. He had a hand over his stomach where he’d been cut last night. The wound had healed, but the half-Giant still seemed tender. Or he’d stuffed himself. The mountain of dishes suggested that might be the case.
“Hey guys. I wanted to say thanks again for all you did. Really.”
Jelaqua raised one eyebrow.
“For what? Saving our hides? You gave us a victory. We had no way to beat the Raskghar. And you—”
Mrsha started and looked up from her ball. Jelaqua broke off guiltily.
“Sorry. What I meant was that we owe you, Erin.”
“Thanks. But you were fighting. I…well, I know you’re probably busy doing adventurer stuff, but I was hoping I could ask for a small favor.”
The Halfseekers looked at each other. Jelaqua shrugged.
“We’re only discussing business. It’s not like we can do anything now—it’ll be a week at least before we get to the actual dividing of loot, I bet. Gotta make sure we all get what we want.”
“Awesome. Then can I ask for you to help me deliver something? I need a few strong hands. Not you, Moore. I know you’re recovering—”
The half-Giant sat up. He smiled tiredly at Erin.
“I’m fine, Miss Erin. And if it’s lifting you need, I think I’m your half-Giant.”
He tried to rise, but Jelaqua and Seborn held him down.
“Relax, Moore. We have this.”
“But I—”
“No, no. Sit. Please. Let me get you a drink. You saved Mrsha. I owe you so much—Lyonette! Can we get the big mug for Moore? Fill it with something nice! Wine or ale? Something stronger?”
The half-Giant wavered, then collapsed back into his seat. Fatigue, that was it. He just looked tired.
“I suppose I could do with an ale. From Celum? Do you have any local brands?”
“I’ll check. Now, I just need four people, probably. I could do it with two, but—”
“Seborn and I are good. Who are the other two? Yvlon and Ksmvr?”
“I was thinking of making Pisces do it—”
“Hah!”
Erin turned and grinned at Pisces. The [Necromancer] had helped himself to a drink of his own. He sat next to Ceria.
“I will conjure you a skeleton to do the work if you desire, Erin. But you won’t get me to move for love or money. Threats of violence may suffice.”
Erin rolled her eyes.
“I don’t need skeletons, thanks. They’ll cause a panic. But just give me one second, and I’ll get everything in place. It’s for Mrsha, see.”
Both Mrsha and Lyonette looked up. Lyonette frowned.
“Erin. Mrsha needs some time by herself. I don’t think an outing is right. Not at all.”
She stared hard at Erin, and the young woman felt a bit of pressure on her shoulders. She blinked. Lyonette’s gaze felt heavy. And then Erin realized. She was using her aura! She met Lyonette’s gaze. Neither young woman raised their tone for fear of scaring Mrsha, but Erin silently pushed back until the pressure had left her shoulders. Jelaqua and Seborn looked from Lyonette to Erin in silence.
“It’ll be fine, Lyonette. It’s just a little outing.”
“No. Not another one! She just needs to stay here!”
Lyonette raised her voice. Mrsha looked up again. Erin sighed. She walked forwards, giving Mrsha a reassuring look. She turned away and whispered to Lyonette.
“I know. Lyonette, I know you’re worried about Mrsha. But believe me. I know what I’m doing. She doesn’t have to go anywhere right now. Neither do you. Just wait.”
She met Lyonette’s eyes, trying to be reassuring. The [Princess] glared—then saw Erin was serious. She looked at Mrsha and sighed.
“Okay. But nothing crazy, okay?”
“Why does everyone think I can only do crazy? This is just…okay, it’s a bit weird. But just a bit! Ksmvr, Yvlon, can I get you to lift?”
“I am quite proficient at lifting.”
Ksmvr stood up at once. Yvlon nodded.
“Just show us what you need, Erin.”
“Okay. We’ll be back in a few minutes! Don’t worry! It’ll be worth it!”
Ceria, Pisces, Lyonette, and Mrsha watched as the four adventurers plus Erin walked over to her door. Erin didn’t change the mana stone. She opened the door and walked through. The people in the inn heard Erin speaking to Octavia and then the [Alchemist] raise her voice.
“What? But Erin! I thought we were partners! This is really—did someone make you an offer? Hold on! Don’t touch it! We can deal! We can make—”
The door closed. The people in the inn looked at each other. Lyonette went over and gave Mrsha another hug. The Gnoll looked up at her. Lyonette tried to give her a reassuring smile.
“I’m sure it’s just Erin being Erin. She said she wasn’t doing anything crazy.”
She didn’t sound too convinced. But for some reason, that uncertainty made Mrsha feel better. She stared out the rainy window and bounced her ball. All was the same. All was different. She wished she could play, but she was a bit—tired. A bit empty.
So was Ceria. The half-Elf sat at her table. She knew Pisces was watching her, which was why he’d volunteered to stay. That and he loathed physical exertion. She looked into her mug. She’d told her teammates everything. Nearly everything. But she couldn’t tell them what it had been like. The pain, Calruz’s madness. It felt like a nightmare she hadn’t woken up from. She was free of the dungeon now. The Raskghar were dead or fled. But it felt—
It felt like she’d brought the dungeon with her. And Ceria was unhappy. So she and Mrsha sat, a bit lost, as the rain poured down. Part of them was still in that camp. Part of them still thought this was a dream. It was unreal, too wonderful, too much after their torment. It was a figment of their imagination, an illusion.
A fantasy.
 
——
 
“Erin, please! Please! How long have we known each other? Months? It feels like years! You can’t just throw me under the wagon like this! I have relatives! I’m an up-and-coming [Alchemist]! I can’t handle rejection!”
Octavia clung to Erin’s waist, despite Erin’s best efforts to get her to let go. The young woman waved her arms as Yvlon, Ksmvr, Jelaqua, and Seborn lifted the magic door in Octavia’s shop up. It wasn’t heavy for the four of them so much as cumbersome. They began to angle it out the door.
“Erin! You’re breaking my heart here! What will it take? Gold? Potions? Be reasonable! This is business!”
“Octavia, let go! I told you I’m not stealing your door!”
“What am I seeing then? Don’t lie to me, Erin! We’ve invested too much in this relationship to lie to each other!”
“What relationship? Octavia, let go! It’s just temporary! I said it’s just for today, okay?”
“Oh. Well, in that case, why didn’t you say so?”
The Stitch-Girl let go. Erin stumbled back as Seborn held the door open for the door to go through. Erin turned and glared.
“I did say so!”
The [Alchemist] had the grace to blush. She fiddled with her braids and tugged at the stitches at her neck.
“Sorry, I didn’t hear that. I panicked a bit. Your magic door gets me a lot of business, you know.”
“Well, it’ll keep giving you business! Now can I go?”
Octavia was standing in front of the door. She started.
“What? Sure, sure. But you are coming back, right? With the door? Promise?”
“Yes. Please move.”
The Stitch-Girl did. Erin hurried out of her shop. The adventurers were waiting for her. Jelaqua raised an amused eyebrow.
“Well, that’s one obstacle down. Where are we taking it?”
“Out of the city! North!”
“Gotcha. One, two, three, up—”
The adventurers easily lifted the door. They began walking down the street. Erin followed them. After a few paces, she turned.
“Why are you following me, Octavia?”
The [Alchemist] shrugged.
“No reason. I just…want to see where the door’s going. Is that a crime?”
Erin glared at Octavia.
“Just don’t get in the way!”
“Who, me? I would never. I’m on your side, Erin! Always have been. From the day we met, I thought that we would be the best of friends. Say, where’s this door going? I could sell you some stamina potions if it’s a long haul. Not that it’s going to be that long, right? Because the door is coming back—”
Erin sighed and tried to block out Octavia’s voice. She looked ahead. Celum was busy, and it was coming to midmorning. The people on the streets turned in surprise when they saw the four adventurers walking down the street with a door held between them. There were shouts of surprise. And a few screams.
Of the four adventurers, Yvlon was probably the most normal. But the other three were Jelaqua, a Selphid, Seborn, one of the rare Drowned Men, and Ksmvr, who was an Antinium. He’d been in Celum and other Human cities before, but there were plenty of people who were still shocked to see him.
“Antinium!”
“Dead gods!”
“Wait—there’s two of them! One of them’s half-Antinium!”
The people backed away in horror. Jelaqua, holding her end of the door with Seborn, began laughing so hard she nearly dropped it. Seborn growled. The adventurers made their way down the street until they ran into an obstacle.
“Excuse me! Excuse me, what is this?”
A Human [Guardsman] strode up to the group, looking afraid and indignant. He pointed a shaking finger at Ksmvr. He hadn’t heard of the Horns of Hammerad or fear was overriding common sense.
“Antinium are not allowed in the city! And you can’t bring a door down the street! You’re holding up traffic!”
There were indeed several wagons waiting for the adventurers. Jelaqua raised one eyebrow.
“Sorry, but this thing’s too bulky for the side of the street, Mister Guardsman. And Ksmvr’s a friend of ours.”
The Human purpled with fury.
“A friend? He’s an Ant! They don’t have friends! Move this thing out of the way! Who are you? Some kind of upstart Drake? This is a Human city! Who are you? An adventurer? I’ll report you to the guild! And what’s wrong with him? Is he sick? If he is, he’s a danger to everyone on this street!”
He pointed at Seborn. The Drowned Man had had enough. He let go of his side of the door and glared at the [Guardsman].
“I’m a Drowned Man. My name is Seborn. I’m a Gold-rank adventurer. And this is Jelaqua, also Gold-rank. She’s a Selphid.”
The [Guardsman] gulped. He looked at Jelaqua, who gave him a toothy grin.
“Rookie mistake. It’s the skin. Want me to open up my chest? Oh, wait. There’s kids watching.”
“Uh—I—Gold-rank?”
“That’s right.”
The officer of the Watch looked around. He realized that everyone was waiting for him to make a move. He looked at the wagons waiting impatiently behind the Gold-ranks, at the adventurers, and made a judgment call.
“Terribly sorry, sir. I don’t know what came over me. You lot! Back up! Gold-ranks coming through on business! Give them some room! Do you need a wagon by any chance?”
“No. Move.”
Seborn grabbed the door and stomped forwards. The watchman stepped back, face beet red. Erin smothered a grin as she walked with the others. Jelaqua couldn’t stop laughing as they proceeded down the street. She grew more somber as they left the poor [Guardsman] behind.
“That happens a lot, actually. More often in Human lands than Drake ones, if you’ll believe that.”
“Really? Are Drakes less racist than Humans?”
Erin looked curiously at Jelaqua. The Selphid shook her head ruefully.
“Nah. It’s just that in the Drake cities, all the Watch knows your face so there’s no ‘incidents’. Helps a bit, but it raises other problems. Alright, through the gates?”
They’d come to the northern gates. Octavia looked at Erin, and she nodded.
“Through the gates!”
The [Guardsmen] on duty were wiser than their colleague. They stood aside and just watched as the adventurers left the city. Erin took the lead, then. She pointed, and the procession brought the door north of the city. It was about a ten minute walk.
There was nothing too special about the place the adventurers set the door down. Yvlon glanced about. The area just north of Celum was grassy, and there was a stand of trees to the left. But it was just a wild meadow Erin had chosen, really. Nothing too special about it at all. It was nice and open, a ways away from the road, but she couldn’t see why they were here.
“You sure this is what you want, Erin? There’s not even a wall to lean this thing up against!”
Jelaqua looked dubiously at Erin. The young woman smiled.
“No, it’s perfect. Plus, the door doesn’t need a wall. We can make one. All we need is a door frame and a bit of wood for the backboard…darn, I should have gotten that first.”
