Lyonette blinked and bit her lip. But Mrsha’s tail began to wag as she looked around the shop. Lined up on the shelves were a child’s fantasy. At least, any child who loved to play catch. There were balls of every size and shape and consistency. Little ones that could be hidden, large ones you could kick about, even metal ones with shiny surfaces. Mrsha looked at the adults again and then wandered down the aisles. She soon lost herself between the shelves.
“I had no idea there was an entire shop for this stuff.”
Erin whispered to Lyonette. The young woman nodded.
“Krshia told me about it. Apparently, Gnolls don’t have many toys when they move about in their tribes. Games of catch are very important. And balls are…well, they’re fun.”
“Yeah. I just never heard of personal, custom throwing balls. I mean, we had dogs at home, but—”
The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] raised one eyebrow, and Erin turned red.
“Sorry! I didn’t mean—”
He shook his head and smiled.
“Dogs are dogs, yes? They are simple. But a Gnoll finds more joy than a dog can. They fetch. We throw. But one as young as the Mrsha child would find enjoyment in both, I think. Do you have any preference? I find that children are usually unable to choose from my selection.”
Erin stared down the rows of colorful balls. She was at a loss too. This was no supermarket selection with a bunch of generic, identical toys. Each object in the shop was hand-made and high quality. She hesitated, trying to imagine what Mrsha would like. If they found her old ball—
“What about a big bouncy ball? Do you have anything made of rub—of plas—something that bounces?”
“Hmm. I have a few. Let me bring them out.”
The Gnoll slipped out from behind his counter. He came back with a selection of balls, mostly leather, some wrapped in hide, and placed them on the counter. Erin bounced a few, but they were hardly as bouncy as a basketball.
“Got anything with more bounce? Like, one I could throw on the ground and bounce off the ceiling?”
The Gnoll frowned.
“You have high standards. Yes, I’ve seen such balls before. Magic ones, enchanted by [Mages]. Very prized among Gnoll children.”
“Uh—well, are they that rare?”
The Gnoll nodded with the air of someone who had specialized in the nuance of ball manufacture all his life.
“I regret that I do not have any such objects in stock. Magic is costly. I regret that I do not have any specialty goods—you would have to place an order, yes? But this is a good one for catching and throwing. And these are good for chewing.”
He held up a ball wrapped in animal hide and a set of smaller balls that smelled a bit like animal to Erin. She prodded the leather-wrapped ball and then the chewable ones.
“Hey, these are squishy!”
“Yes. Not good for throwing. But very young children chew on these.”
Lyonette frowned.
“What if they eat them by mistake?”
The older Gnoll smiled. He was probably the oldest Gnoll Erin had met, older than Elirr and Krshia. His fur was grey with black splotches.
“It is no danger. They are edible and not harmful. And it is a lesson for children if they are swallowed. Because the toy is then gone. Unless it passes out of them in the same piece, which is not always pleasant, yes?”
Erin laughed. The Gnoll took the chewing toys away.
“But I think young Mrsha is too old for such things. I have other balls. Such as this one, which is very frictionless. And tough. Note the covering.”
The ball he showed Erin had a delicate wyvern-hide skin, which Mrsha sniffed with great interest. She touched the smooth surface.
“Ooh. Fancy. And you can see the scales!”
“Laminated. It is very tough, though. Not malleable. While these are cheaper.”
The Gnoll flicked the throwing ball. Erin studied it. She could see tiny stitches holding the hide wrap in place. And when she felt it, the ball had some give, but only a little. It was definitely familiar. She frowned at the Gnoll, struck by a thought.
“Hey. This looks a lot like a…what’s this made of?”
He hesitated.
“That is a trade secret. But I suppose for this one—I could tell you. It is cork, yes? Hard, but malleable. Not cheap around Liscor, but good for throwing.”
Erin’s brows shot together. She eyed the ball and looked around. Mrsha was still wavering, caught by a huge, hollow ball and a small one that glittered, enchanted by a minor spell of some kind. Erin looked at the ball and tossed it up and down.
“Hmm. Hmm. Hey Mrsha, get the ball you want. I’ll take five—no, give me eight of these. Not the expensive ones, but good, quality ones.”
“Of course!”
The Gnoll beamed, happy to make a sale. Lyonette eyed Erin.
“Are those all for Mrsha? And can we afford all of them?”
Erin dug around in her money pouch for a few gold coins. She shrugged.
“I earned a lot of money from the plays. And I get some of the bounty money for the Gnolls. And I can even put in a claim for some of the magical items!”
“Really? How does that even work? I know there was Ilvriss’ bounty, but who gets to say who gets what?”
Erin paused.
“I have no idea. Hey, can I get these in a bag? Lyonette, I just had a great idea. You stay here and get Mrsha whatever she wants. Or two of what she wants. Here.”
She dug three gold coins out and handed them to Lyonette. The Gnoll [Shopkeeper]’s tail wagged in delight as Lyonette stared at the gold coins.
“Erin—!”
“Come back to the inn when you’re ready! I’ll be in Celum if you need me!”
Erin raced out of the shop. By the time she got back to the Wandering Inn, the Halfseekers were awake. They were eating ravenously and in good spirits without reserve. Jelaqua was thumping Moore on the back as Erin came in.
“Eat up! Don’t be shy, you great big oaf. Erin doesn’t care if you eat all her eggs! And you need your strength after you nearly got gutted by those damn Raskghar. Anyone want the sausages? Then take the platter, Moore! I told you—oh, hey Erin.”
“Jelaqua! Moore! Seborn!”
Erin beamed. The Horns of Hammerad and Halfseekers both turned. They stared as she emptied the hide-wrapped balls onto the table. Jelaqua pointed.
“What’s that? Toys for Mrsha?”
“Nope! Toys for me! Oh, and eat everything you want, Moore. Hey, I’m going into Celum now. Can one of you change the door back to Liscor and check for me in like…thirty minutes?”
The Horns nodded. Ceria was sitting with the others. She looked relaxed, but tired. Erin strode over to the door and blinked as Yvlon stood up. The woman scratched at her arms. She was wearing her gauntlets and vambraces for some reason, despite not having bothered to put on her breastplate or any other part of her armor.
“I’ll go with you. I could use some sunlight.”
“Sure, thanks! I could use a pair of hands. Remember, let Mrsha and Lyonette through! I’ll be back soon! Oh, hey Octavia.”
The [Alchemist] looked up as Erin and Yvlon came through. She waved.
“Hey, everyone’s alive over there, right? I didn’t get to ask—”
“They’re all good!”
The Stitch-Girl sighed in relief. Erin spent a few seconds with Octavia and then walked out of the shop. Yvlon nodded to the [Alchemist] and walked with Erin down the street.
It was different in Celum. Sunlight shone down from above, disconcerting after the pouring rain Erin had just been walking through. She felt her hair and clothes begin to dry. After a second, she turned and looked at Yvlon.
“So, how’s Ceria doing?”
Yvlon looked up at the bright sky. People were passing by on the street. Humans, giving Yvlon an odd look now and then. People who had no idea of what had happened. Erin felt like a stranger with Humans all around her. After a moment, Yvlon shrugged.
“I don’t know. I think she’s okay. She told us what happened.”
“And?”
The woman let out a long breath.
“I…I’m surprised she can recall it. Calruz, the Raskghar—there was something truly awful down there, Erin. The ritual, Calruz—I don’t know how Ceria will handle it. I’m surprised she let him live after all that happened. And Mrsha…”
“That bad?”
“She was there for all of it. She looked okay to me, but I’d stick with her. Those Raskghar were monsters.”
Erin nodded seriously.
“Well, Lyonette is with her. And I’ll find tons of fun stuff for her to do. I just had an idea in that vein, which is why we’re out here. Hey, you know Celum, right? Can you help me find a shop?”
“Really? Well, why am I surprised? What are you looking for?”
“A [Carpenter]. Know any good ones?”
“Hm. Well, the Runner’s Guild would know the best ones in the city. Why not make a stop there?”
“Good idea.”
They turned left down a street. Yvlon and Erin walked along in silence. Erin glanced at Yvlon. She hadn’t spoken too often with the woman, but they knew each other.
“Yvlon?”
“Yes?”
“How bad was it? I can ask Ceria, but—”
The woman looked away. Her face was shadowed when she spoke.
“Bad enough that I had to leave. It was that or ask Ceria why she didn’t kill Calruz. She let him live. But the things he did, the horrors he let the Raskghar commit—that was not the Calruz I knew. And there was something else. Ceria saw the heart of the dungeon. And what lurks in there—you don’t need to hear about it.”
Erin shivered.
“Maybe I do. But not today.”
Yvlon nodded.
“Not today. I’m just grateful that she’s back. And so is Mrsha. Thank you for doing this.”
“Hey, it was just—”
“No. It was more than that.”
The woman met Erin’s eyes. Erin hesitated, then nodded silently. That was all they said for a while. They visited the Runner’s Guild, got directions from the [Receptionist], and were walking down the street when Erin thought of something else to ask.
“So…about the treasure. Loot. Whatever. How’s that going to work?”
Yvlon blinked. Then she smiled.
“Right. I nearly forgot! Ilvriss did offer a huge bounty on the Gnolls. What was it, a thousand gold pieces per prisoner saved? And didn’t he double that? Plus, we recovered a bunch of artifacts from the Raskghar who were carrying them. At least twenty, I think. I didn’t see all of them, but everyone wants one.”
“I bet. So how’s it going to work?”
“I think it’s a lottery. Part of what Ilvriss and Liscor’s Council will do is assign merit based on who contributed what. The Gold-rank teams get most credit for all the fighting they did, obviously. But the [Soldiers], the Watch, Ilvriss himself, everyone gets credit. So do you. A lot of it, I should imagine.”
“Mhm. I guess.”
“So we’ll all be eligible for some share. But what Ilvriss is going to do is pay the whole sum for all the prisoners rescued into a pool. And the artifacts go into the pool as well. Then we make bids on what we want. You can just ask for gold—or try and claim an artifact. If multiple groups claim the same thing, I think there’s a random lottery. Or you might get it if you did the most and you don’t want anything else. It’s complicated. Dungeon raids usually end up with a lot of fighting over who gets what anyways.”
“Wow. So could I get a magic sword if I wanted it?”
Yvlon grinned ruefully.
“You could try. But I’ll bet all the Gold-ranks will get the artifacts. I’ll be pleased just to get some gold for our team. We could use it. And the levels we gained already were treasure enough. We—oh, here we are.”
She stopped. Erin stared at the carpenter’s shop and then pushed her way in. The shop was run by a master and his apprentices. Erin edged past the apprentice who came to ask her what she wanted and strode up to the [Carpenter]. She smiled at him as he looked up with a scowl.
“Hey, I’m Erin. Erin Solstice. You’re a [Carpenter], right? Can I ask how fast you can carpenter?”
“What?”
He looked irritated. The man had gnarled hands and grey hair. He glared at his apprentice and Erin, but she was undeterred.
“I have an order I’d like to make. Something custom.”
“I’m busy. If you have an order—”
Erin slapped a gold coin on the table the man was working at. He blinked at the gold piece. He opened his mouth, and Erin dumped a handful on the table. Yvlon’s eyebrows shot up. The [Carpenter] wavered. He glanced at Erin and tried to adopt a much more helpful attitude.
“Uh, how can I help you, Miss?”
“I want you to carve something. It has to be solid. One block of wood. And it can’t break. It’s not hard to make, but it needs to be good. It’ll look like this—hey, can I borrow that piece of charcoal? Thanks.”
Erin snatched the [Carpenter]’s drawing stick up and began to sketch on his piece of parchment. He blinked at her and then frowned at what she was drawing. He began nodding as she described what she wanted.
“That’s all? And you don’t want anything done with it? A wrap? Hah, that’s simple. Well, if it’s not engraving…I can get you a rough outline within the hour, no problem. Smoothing the surface takes a bit of work, but that’s an easy design. You’re lucky you came to me! My competitors can’t do quick work, whereas my Skills are far superior.”
He puffed out his chest a bit. Erin raised one eyebrow.
“Really? Well, can you give me a list of your competitors? I’m gonna get them to make some too. Unless you can make me…six within two hours? I need an oversized version too. Oh, and one with a custom grip. I’ll pay extra to get it done quick and good.”
The [Carpenter]’s jaw dropped. He stared at Yvlon, who gave him a curious, embarrassed, amused look. He looked at Erin. She smiled at him.
“Did I mention that I know Gold-rank adventurers? Say, do you happen to sell arrow shafts? Because one of my best clients is a guy called Halrac…”
A few minutes later, Erin walked out of the [Carpenter]’s shop, whistling. She looked at Yvlon.
“Okay, we’ll go to one other [Carpenter] shop. The guy had a lot of apprentices, so I think he can fulfill the order. Plus, he looked like he was going to work really hard.”
Yvlon looked back into the shop, which was a flurry of activity.
“I can imagine. Especially with what you paid him! What was that thing for, anyways?”
Erin raised her eyebrows mysteriously.
“You’ll see. Now I need to visit a tanner. Or a leatherworker.”
“We can ask about them at the next carpenter’s shop if you want. They tend to know other people in related businesses. But can I ask why?”
A wide smile was Yvlon’s only answer.
“Don’t worry, you’ll see what I’ve got ready in about two hours. Less, if I get everything ready. Hey, do you know where I can buy sausages? And I need more flour to make dough. Uh…how strong are your arms? I might need you to carry stuff.”
Yvlon flexed her arms as Erin eyed them with sudden concern. The [Warrior] smiled. Her arms looked bigger for some reason. Had she been working out?
