“There’s no rule—other than that if you try, the test doesn’t end until you’re dead or the Golems are destroyed. We could attack them in the hallways if we weren’t afraid of all the Golems joining in. And every mage in Wistram could take on the challenge if they wanted to.”
“They why don’t they? Why only you five? If you got five more mages, surely—”
“They won’t try. They’re afraid of dying. Cowards.”
Illphres said it shortly. She shot a flurry of [Glacial Spears] out, shattering a dozen targets at once.
“They are afraid, and content to live like they have. Not us, though. All of us—the Isolationists who aren’t afraid to risk our lives and Ophelia and Qum—we see that mages cannot live like this. We want to grow, not die old at this level. We want to be true mages.”
“True mages.”
The word floated in the air between them. Ceria stared across the ocean and tried to imagine what lay beyond the door. But she couldn’t imagine the door itself.
“I’ve never seen the Golems. You said there are four of them, not counting Cognita?”
Illphres turned.
“Would you like to see?”
 
——
 
The door was stone. Not just any stone, but obsidian, shining and dark as night. Ceria could see it was warded as well. Across the room, it shone with a thousand sigils and runes, twining together to form the most powerful ward she could imagine.
She only dared look at the door from afar at the other end of the massive room, hundreds of feet wide and nearly forty feet high. That was because the guardians stood at the other end.
Three Golems. Ceria only saw three, but each one made her heart quake in her chest. Illphres stood next to her, which was the only reason Ceria didn’t run.
One was a Golem made of magma. It burned as the molten rock flowed around it, onto the floor, and back up, covering its body. It was fire incarnate, a core of something so bright it shone through the melting stone glowing at its heart.
The second was a creature of metal, something that looked like no species Ceria could ever dream of. Two thin, curved legs made it stand twenty feet tall. Each leg was incredibly thin and seemed to taper off into an edge like a blade. A narrow, metal body was its torso, roughly the same size as a normal Human’s, twenty feet up. It had two arms curved like the legs, half as long, and as sharp as scythes.
It had no face, and the way it stood so still made Ceria uneasy.
The third Golem was a simple one to understand, but no less frightening for it. It was a giant armored Golem, like one of the suits of armor but scaled up on a massive level. This Golem was a colossus, and it held a sword in one hand that was twice as tall as Ceria was and a shield of equal size and weight. It crouched, staring across the room at Ceria.
Only three Golems. Ceria didn’t see the fourth. The Golem made of shadows stood next to her, noxious breath wafting over her as its jaws hovered close to her head.
The room stank, despite being clean. It smelled to Ceria of death, or perhaps it was her own fear she smelled. She saw Illphres was gazing at the Golems and shuddered.
When they left the room and the doors closed behind them, Ceria had to sit down in the empty corridor. Her legs had completely given out.
“Terrified?”
“Y—”
Ceria couldn’t even form the words to say ‘yes’. Illphres nodded.
“Each Golem in there is a masterpiece. A nightmare. Only a true mage could create one of them, let alone four.”
“Four? I saw—”
Ceria closed her mouth as she remembered. She hadn’t noticed it, not at all, but one of the Golems had been standing right next to her. A thing of shadows and flesh and—
She threw up. Illphres stood next to Ceria dispassionately, but she did magic away the vomit when Ceria was done.
“You noticed it? Good. It took Bastam three tries to figure it out. It looks like a Shadow Golem—I’m not even sure if you could make such a thing to begin with, but it’s really a Flesh Golem. It’s only enchanted to be covered in shadows and mess with the mind.”
“Dead gods. It was right next to me and I—I—”
“Remember them. They’re the enemy. But also remember, Cognita will be there as well. And of the five, she’s the most dangerous.”
“Cognita?”
Ceria couldn’t imagine Cognita stacking up to the Golems she’d seen in that room, for all she was terrifying in her own right. Illphres nodded.
“Don’t underestimate her. Truestone Constructs are the pinnacle of Golem creation for a reason. I have no idea what she can do, but I think she’ll be the most dangerous. But the others will be just as deadly. At least the armored knight Golem seems easy.”
“Easy? That thing was as big as a house!”
“It’s not one of the original guardian Golems. I know because records show the original one was destroyed. That’s a replacement, one of the Golems that normally defends Wistram. It may look dangerous, but it’s not nearly as bad as the others. I could take that one out by myself with no problem.”
Ceria stared at Illphres, but she knew the other woman was serious. That was the difference between her and her master.
“You’re really going to do this?”
“I’ve prepared for this day for over a decade. I gave my life to magic, and I will give my life to this battle if I must. But I believe we will win.”
Illphres smiled then. She looked at Ceria, and the mask of ice betrayed her true feelings. Her cold eyes burned with life.
“This is what we will challenge, Ceria. Don’t you see? This is what it means to be a true mage.”
Ceria saw, but she was still afraid. Illphres helped her up. The woman’s hand was surprisingly small on Ceria’s arm.
“I gave up everything for magic, Ceria. Everything. You saw my face. I’ve made mistakes, hurt myself, but always, always, I strived to reach higher. This is the ceiling I have come against. This is what I must overcome. And I will do it. And when I do, this academy will change. We will change it.”
The half-Elf looked up into the Human woman’s face. She knew, she remembered the fearsome enemies that stood in that room, waiting for their challengers. But she looked into Illphres’ eyes and believed.
“How can I help?”
 
——
 
“Cast the spell, Ceria!”
Jurix screamed at Ceria as spells flashed around her in the largest of the practice rooms. She raised the wand he’d given her and gritted her teeth.
“[Fireball]!”
It was a spell she could only cast with a wand, not being wholly proficient at it. It streaked across the room at Illphres. The woman turned, raising her hands.
Ceria didn’t hear the word, but the fireball exploded, and when she could see, Ceria saw a huge wall of ice. Not just a wall—
A fortress. Illphres stood atop it, throwing magic down at the other mages around her as they besieged her. She raised walls of ice, froze the ground—
It was a battle between the best of mages. And it was only a practice session. Ceria watched as the other four mages slowly wore Illphres down, but it was hard, even for them. At the end she raised her hands in surrender and panting, they walked back towards Ceria to review.
“Those walls you make really are hard to crack, Illphres. I believe we might be able to lock down all the other Golems with it, save for the magma one.”
“And Cognita. She can shatter my ice.”
Illphres was sweating. She nodded at Ceria as the half-Elf passed her a flask of water. Ceria had food and drinks for the other mages, and they thanked her as they kept talking.
“You’re sure?”
“Ceria saw her smash through my barrier. It may be I can freeze her if I don’t give her room to move her arms—I can cast thicker ice walls than the one she broke—but I won’t bet on it.”
“Even so, if we can count on your abilities…”
Afterwards, Ceria talked with Illphres. The woman smiled as Ceria gushed over what she’d seen.
“It was incredible! You held them off, four other mages! Are you higher level? What was that spell?”
“[Fortress of the Ice Queen]. It has other names—it’s a famous spell. I’ll use it right off in our battle to shield the others.”
“Do you—do you think it’ll stop them?”
“Maybe. Maybe not. I’ll improvise. It doesn’t matter. We don’t stick to one plan. We’re all experienced mages and we’ll find a way to beat them one by one.”
“I can’t believe how powerful you are. Why aren’t you an Archmage yourself?”
“Don’t want to be.”
Illphres shrugged as Ceria gaped.
“I might be able to, but that’s politics and I told you, I don’t care. Amerys—she’s famous for fighting on battlefields, but I think she’s only got eight levels or so on me. Maybe six.”
“Six?”
“Enough. If it came down to a duel between us she’d win.”
That wasn’t what Ceria wanted to hear. Illphres just smacked her on the back of the head.
“Don’t look like that. It’s about our combat styles.”
“What do you mean? You two are friends, right? Why won’t she help you fight? I’m sure she’d love a chance to battle such powerful enemies.”
Illphres snorted and nearly laughed outright.
“Us? Friends? What gave you that idea? I can’t stand her.”
“But you train all the time! Every morning I see you two—”
“We’re competing. And yes, we sometimes train together. That’s because we’re a good match. She’s lightning and air and I’m ice and water. She prefers rapid all-out assaults and I use traps and fight drawn out battles. She doesn’t think and I plan every move.”
“Oh.”
“And she won’t join us. I asked.”
“Why not?”
“She’s waiting for her King.”
That was all Illphres said. She and Ceria sat in silence, staring at the melting ice. After a moment, Illphres spoke again.
“If I had a minute to prepare, or if it was a double battle—”
“Yes?”
“I’d win. I’m one of the best mages at fighting defensively. You saw my barriers. That will be my role in the battle. So long as I live, I will protect my teammates.”
So long as I live. Ceria shuddered at the words. They were a frank statement about what might happen. But she didn’t want to think of it.
 
——
 
To distract herself, Ceria went to Pisces more than once over the months that followed. Sometimes she came away happy, relieved that he hadn’t changed. Other times she stormed out of his room after a fight, or left wondering how the earnest young man she’d known had disappeared and been replaced by this thing. But it all came together a month before Illphres and the others planned to challenge the Golems, as Ceria let her anger explode at Pisces.
He was busy showing her the newest spells he’d learned. Ceria tried to focus; she knew Pisces had a terrible time obtaining new spellbooks or learning from anyone. But as her attention wavered from the brilliant [Flame Rapier] spell he had mastered, she stared at something covered with cloth in the corner of the room.
Pisces, engrossed in fencing with the flaming blade, whirled as he heard Ceria shout in surprise. She was backing away from the thing in the corner, the cloth in her hands.
“Ceria!”
She pointed, finger shaking.
“Is that—”
It was a deformed thing, barely recognizable. It was humanoid—barely. It had been made of wet clay that had dried and sculpted to look like a Human, but the sculptor, Pisces, was untrained and so the body was lumpy and the arms deformed. It had two stumps for legs.
“Ah, I see you’ve found my latest work. I was going to show you, but—”
“Pisces! What is it?”
He looked surprised at Ceria’s reaction.
“A Golem. One of my own creations. Don’t be alarmed; it’s barely functional. Worthless, really. Can’t you tell? I admit, the workmanship might be a tad shoddy, but—”
“Get rid of it!”
Ceria backed away from the clay thing. Pisces frowned at her.
“What? Don’t be alarmed, Ceria, it’s not animated!”
She rounded on him furiously.
“What are you doing, making a Golem? Aren’t there enough around here?”
He took a step back and stammered as Ceria shouted at him.
“Well, I was taught.”
“By who?”
“Cognita.”
The word doused the flames of Ceria’s anger in a second. She felt a chill in her stomach and stepped back from Pisces.
“Explain.”
“Well I—I’ve been talking with her, Ceria. You see, Cognita’s one of the only people—beings—in this academy who will give me the time of day. She’s quite brilliant, you know. She’s seen more magic than anyone in Wistram, and she taught me so many things about Golems and mage craft. She taught me how to make this Golem. Did you know that she thinks I have real aptitude? She even—”
“Don’t talk to her! Don’t go near her!”
“What? Why?”
“She’s the enemy!”
Ceria shouted at Pisces. He didn’t understand, and she couldn’t explain. She stomped over to his Golem and punched it. The brittle clay broke under her fist and Pisces shouted.
“What are you doing? Do you know how hard I worked to—”
“Why are you doing this?”
Ceria turned to Pisces. She thrust a finger in his chest, making him stumble back. His face was red with anger, but she was even more furious.
“First necromancy, now—this? Why can’t you practice normal magic? Why can’t you just be a normal mage? Everyone would accept you then! Why don’t you get a normal master and stop—”
“Don’t you think I’ve tried?”
Pisces shoved Ceria’s hand away. She blinked. His eyes were wide and bloodshot. Pisces nearly shouted, his voice cracking with passion.
“I’ve gone to every mage—every one I know or thought would consider having me as an apprentice. I’ve asked—none of them were willing to teach me even when I told them I’d swear off necromancy as long as I studied under them! No one will teach me, and I’m not going to afford the fees for next year! Don’t you understand!?”
After his outburst there was silence. Ceria stared at Pisces and slowly sank back into his chair. He couldn’t look at her.
“Necromancy? That’s just raising the dead. Some might object, but it’s no curse. But the fools who claim to be mages here treat it as such. Thus, I suppose the curse is indeed real—though by the prejudices and limited understanding of others.”
“You’re going to leave?”
He looked at her, on the brink of tears.
“I have to. I have no coin, no one to speak for me. The only hope I have is a master, but who would take me as their apprentice?”
Ceria’s mind raced. The words came out before she could think about it.
“Illphres. My master. She might.”
Pisces stared at her, but then shook his head, closing his eyes.
“She will say no. I know Illphres—she would never agree.”
“I could ask—”
“She’ll say no.”
Pisces turned away. He walked back over to the broken Golem and stared at it.
“Leave me, Springwalker. I am—busy. I have work to do, especially if this year is to be my last.”
