“Not that it matters. Why, pray tell, have you sought me out?”
“I didn’t. I was just walking and saw a debate was going on.”
“I see.”
The two stared at each other. Ceria shifted from foot to foot as Pisces stared over her shoulder. It was…so hard to see him like this. At last, Ceria sighed.
“I talked to Mons a while ago. She says she studies with you.”
“Mons? Ah—she does. She hires me on occasion to provide her with instruction.”
“That’s good. For you, I mean.”
“Yes, it does…help.”
More silence. After a moment, Pisces cleared his throat.
“You know, I am studying combat magic in my spare time.”
“Really? I thought you gave up dueling.”
“Ah, yes, well, I cannot seem to find a match. I have no desire to duel practiced mages and I seem to be boycotted by all other students—but I am attempting to refine what spells I know. Mons claims to have benefitted greatly from practicing with me.”
Ceria tried to smile, but all she did was lift the corners of her mouth.
“That’s great, Pisces.”
“Indeed. You are—you would be welcome to join us if you had the time. I realize you may be somewhat preoccupied with your classes, but…”
Part of her wanted to say yes, but she couldn’t. Slowly, Ceria shook her head.
“I don’t think we’re friends anymore, Pisces.”
He looked her in the eyes then. She saw hurt and pain in his, but Pisces didn’t say what was clearly on the tip of his tongue. He was about to, but bit back the words. Then his eyes focused on Ceria’s again.
“In that case, are we enemies?”
He stared at her, searching for something, eyes gaunt and bloodshot, his robes dirty. Ceria felt a pang in her heart and glared at him.
“Don’t be stupid.”
She whirled and walked angrily away. But Ceria knew Pisces was smiling, just a tiny bit, behind her. She murmured under her breath.
“We couldn’t be enemies.”
 
——
 
Four days later, Ceria found herself sitting at a table with Illphres and four other mages. She was nervous, terrified out of her mind, and nearly knocked over her drink twice when she reached for it.
Illphres glared at her.
“Stop fidgeting.”
“I don’t see how she could, with you glaring at her so, Illphres.”
A tall Dullahan seated next to Ceria said that. His name was Jurix, and he was a powerful mage specializing in combat magic and physical reinforcement magic. Sitting across from Ceria, a Drake named Bastam winked at her reassuringly. Ophelia, the Stitch-woman, smiled at Ceria, and the last mage, another Dullahan named Qum, nodded impassively at her.
That made Ceria feel a bit better, but she was still on pins and needles in the presence of so many important mages. She was sitting in the banquet hall, but at one of the tables usually claimed by older mages. It was made of some kind of expensive wood and the chairs were clearly expensive, if a bit worn, but Ceria would have preferred cushions.
And yet, it suited these mages well, because these five were all individuals who commanded quite a bit of influence and power of their own within Wistram. Each one was old; Ophelia, the youngest, was in her early thirties and Bastam, the oldest, was in his sixties, although he didn’t look it.
Any one of them—including Illphres—could cause an upset if they threw their influence into a political fight. Three of them were Isolationists—Bastam, Jurix, and Illphres, while Qum was undeclared and Ophelia was a Centrist. That was surprising in itself, given the Isolationist and the Centrist’s longstanding rivalry, but apparently they had an understanding.
This was Illphres’ group of allies, and Ceria felt out of place and very small sitting with them. But she was here for a reason.
“This is my new apprentice. Ceria. She’s annoying, but she’ll help get the equipment we need.”
That was Illphres’ way of introducing Ceria to the group. Jurix laughed as the others greeted Ceria. He put his head on the table to reach over and shake Ceria’s hand—she remembered to stare at his head while she shook, rather than at the empty space where his head should have been on a normal body.
“I’ve seen you about, and of course I saw you fighting those pirates a year ago, Ceria. If you managed to convince Illphres of all people to take you on as an apprentice, I have no doubt you’re a capable individual able to do pretty much anything.”
Ceria blushed bright red, but Ophelia looked at Illphres with concern.
“Just so long as you’re not planning on making her our sixth. That’s not your intention, surely?”
Illphres passed her hand over her mouth to smile wryly.
“Hardly. I didn’t want an apprentice and I still don’t. But she insisted.”
“Good. No offense Ceria, but I don’t want you getting killed for nothing.”
Ophelia nodded at Ceria and, confused, the half-Elf nodded back. She hesitated, but then cleared her throat.
“Um, what is this about? I know Illphres said she needed the rings enchanted against ice magic—I have them right here, they’re about Tier 4 enchantments which is the best I could get—but what is it for?”
The mages stared at the rings Ceria put on the table, courtesy of Calvaron and a very large amount of gold, and then at Illphres. After a moment Bastam burst out angrily.
“Ancestors, Illphres! You didn’t tell her what we’re going to do?”
Illphres shrugged, smiling wickedly. She seemed to enjoy the others’ consternation.
“Should I have? Teaching her is all I have to do. Why bother telling her something that she can’t change?”
The others groaned and covered their faces, but none of them looked surprised. They too were used to Illphres’ way of doing things. Ceria looked from face to face, wondering what was going on.
“Okay, I’ll tell her. Unless you object?”
The others shook their heads and Jurix turned to Ceria. She heard Ophelia casting a ward against eavesdropping as Jurix put his head on his shoulders and smiled at her. Then he turned and pointed. Ceria followed his finger and saw a Golem, one of the most primitive types, a crude man made of brown stone slowly wheeling out more food on a table.
He put each dish slowly and carefully on a table as students flowed past him, some taking food right off the plate as he paused so as not to bump any of them. He was just one of the many Golems in Wistram, practically the scenery that Ceria had gotten used to.
“See that Golem, Ceria? Well, he’s our enemy. Him and every Golem in Wistram. At the end of the year, Illphres, Bastam, Ophelia, Qum and I are going to challenge Cognita. We’re going to destroy her and open the doors to the rest of Wistram.”
He grinned at her. Ceria turned to Illphres and stared into her master’s eyes. The ice mage smiled deeply at Ceria. Ceria blinked, looked at the Golem serving food, and then flipped the table.
“What!?”
 
——
 
Golems. They were a rarity in most parts of the world—unless you lived in a desert or if it snowed. Then they were more common, but you’d still only see the weakest, most primitive of Golems. Sand Golems, Snow Golems and so on were functions of nature, of excess mana and intention.
But Golems, the kind that were manufactured and sculpted or built and brought to life with magic, those were different. They were expensive, hideously so, to make, and only a powerful mage could create one.
Well, Ceria supposed even she could make a primitive, small one with work. But to create it would take months of study, and it would be hardly useful. She couldn’t imagine the effort needed to create a more advanced Golem.
The half-Elf walked through the halls of Wistram, distracted, hurrying past students without a word. Now that she looked, there were Golems all over Wistram. Okay, not many, not compared to the students, but too many.
A Golem passed her with a basket of laundry in his hands. He was a crude stone one, capable of following basic orders. She stared at him and shuddered as he passed. Okay, he was a simple one, but her idea of ‘simple’ had been skewed by living here.
A simple Golem? He was capable of obeying most instructions quite well! He could fetch and carry and fight or lift extremely heavy objects if need be. Forget simple, he was worth thousands of gold coins by himself, possibly ten thousand coins alone! An undying, tireless servant capable of killing lesser warriors with a body made of rock? He was powerful, not simple.
And he was the least of the Golems walking through Wistram. Ceria shuddered as she saw a suit of armor, gleaming and polished, meekly carrying a stack of books while he passed her by. He was a Golem built for war. His steel body was far more agile than the stone Golems and he had a sword and shield. If he used it—
But of course, he wouldn’t. Right? The Golems of Wistram had been made to protect and serve by Archmage Zelkyr. And enforce his will. But they were a valuable asset to the academy. They did chores, defended the isle against attack—
And kept the highest parts of the castle under lock and key. Ceria knew that—she’d known it since her first year. But she’d given little thought to it since then.
Wistram’s highest corridors and rooms were out of bounds. So what? There was plenty to do below it.
Only—there wasn’t. Wistram was only a quarter, or less of what it was. The true magics and real spells that would turn good mages into great ones were all above, locked behind a door guarded by Golems. That was what the five mages had told Ceria as she’d sat in the banquet hall in disbelief.
“You see, Ceria, there is a limit to the heights mages can reach here. Level 50, let alone Level 60, is the utmost limit we can strive towards. People like Archmage Feor or Amerys—they’re the top. And yet, it didn’t use to be this way. Once, we had real [Archmages].”
“Once we were true mages.”
Jurix and Illphres’ voice rang through Ceria’s ears. It wasn’t hard to understand what they were saying.
Cognita, the Golems of Wistram, they protected the academy. But they also held all mages within hostage. No one could reach beyond a certain level, not without more spells to study. Oh, a mage could study by themselves, but that meant their growth stagnated. In this place they had countless centuries—millennia of experience to draw upon, but it was all out of reach.
Guarded. By Cognita and four other Golems. Sentries, designed to be a test for mages to challenge. All those who had tried before had died, but once again mages had gathered. Five of the most powerful mages of Wistram had come together to challenge the Golem’s authority. And they would win or die.
It was too much for Ceria to take in. This was why Illphres needed the rings protecting against ice. She was going to fight alongside the others, and they needed protection from her deadly attacks.
Ceria had seen Illphres fight. She could freeze the air, raise huge structures of ice or hurl massive pillars of it at her enemies. She was going to use that magic to fight Cognita.
It was unthinkable to Ceria. She couldn’t believe—well, she could believe Illphres would keep it a secret. But the rest?
It was too much for her. That was how Ceria found herself at Pisces’ door, pounding on it and demanding to be let in. It took a while and she heard him bumping around inside, but eventually he opened it, glaring.
“Who in the name of—Ceria?”
He let her in, looking bewildered. Ceria stepped into Pisces’ room and found chaos. Dirt, mess, fragments of parchment and bits of food—that was the least of it. Ceria saw a pile of bones in the corner and nearly backed out of the room in horror.
“Is that—dead gods, Pisces!”
“It’s just mouse bones! Please, Ceria! I’ll—let me just clean this up!”
Pisces waved his hands at her, desperately shifting things about with gusts of wind and levitating them into corners or into his dresser. Ceria looked away from the pile of bones, shuddering, and didn’t ask where Pisces had put them when he told her she could come back in.
“I’m—sorry. I just—I need to practice, you understand, and I—”
“You’re not plundering the catacombs?”
Ceria eyed Pisces. She knew that quite a few mages were buried underneath the academy, even if she’d never dared go exploring for the crypts where their remains—if there were any—were interred. Pisces shook his head.
“I fear that would be…well, let’s just say I doubt others would take kindly to the knowledge that I were robbing graves.”
“Yeah, they wouldn’t. But rat bones?”
“Mice.”
“Is there a difference?”
Pisces shrugged. He fidgeted on his bed as he faced her—he seemed barely able to believe she was here, talking to him.
Ceria had no idea why she was talking to Pisces either. She was so shaken by what she’d just learned she had to speak to someone. And she had unconsciously come here. Now that she was actually facing Pisces, though, she didn’t know what to say.
“Well. It’s been a while since I last came here.”
“Yes. It has.”
Pisces cleared his throat awkwardly.
“You look well.”
“You look—awful, frankly.”
He blinked, and then smiled at that. Ceria grinned shakily at him. Pisces looked around his dingy room.
“Yes, well, my circumstances have changed quite a lot since—before. My fortunes have fallen, so to speak.”
“Tell me about it.”
He sniffed.
“I hardly think you can make the same comparison, given—”
“No, I mean, tell me about it.”
He paused. Ceria looked at him.
“Tell me, Pisces. Tell me everything. And tell me why. And maybe—”
She didn’t say the rest. But slowly, Pisces relaxed his hunched posture. He straightened his back, and looked at Ceria like he used to.
“Well, if you insist…”
 
——
 
“Will you challenge them all at once?”
“We have to. The Golems fight together. Cognita will be there—and four others.”
Ceria stood with Illphres by the ocean, aiming at targets as the sun came up. Across the rocks, Bastam, Jurix, Ophelia and Qum were all doing the same.
She was a part of their group now. Not the same—she was the only apprentice and student among them—but they had no other confidants, no other apprentices to tell. Ceria knew, and this secret was one she’d never reveal.
“It might not matter if you do. But others would try and stop us or get in the way, or make it political. We’re doing this to end politics and factions once and for all.”
Illphres aimed at a target, an ice pillar three hundred meters away, the ice tinted red, and shattered it with a single spear of ice. Ceria nodded as she took aim at her own target.
“But I mean, why five of you? Is it because there will be five Golems, including Cognita? Is there a rule of some kind?”
“Rule? No.”
Illphres snorted as she raised more targets out of the sea.
