Once again, she surprised Ryoka by offering her a bowl of sugar herself. Ryoka passed it up—then saw to her mild horror Magnolia repeating the same trick as she had over the ice cream.
Namely—she took the lid off the bowl, and ignoring the spoon, poured a fourth of it into her cup. Ressa’s face was blank as Ryoka saw Magnolia stir.
“You, uh—like sugar a lot, don’t you?”
“It is one of life’s pleasures. Now, a snack. Ressa! How about some baked Yellats? Are you a fan of them, Miss Griffin?”
“I’ve never had any.”
“Really? They are a quite common food across Chandrar, the desert continent, you know. Some people consider them as plebian as potatoes, but I find them delightfully good in any number of dishes. Spicy, too. Ah, here we are.”
Ryoka was served some hot, steaming root or starch vegetables. They were almost as orange as carrots, but more resembled broccoli. They had the texture of sweet potatoes, but they were indeed spicy!
Magnolia nibbled on one as Ryoka found they were good enough to eat. Ressa walked off as Yvony came back, and the butler hovered around with a tray as Magnolia kept speaking.
“I must say, I have been absolutely dying to know what it is that makes you run, Miss Ryoka. If I may confess—I’m not asking you solely out of pure interest as well. I have a teensy bet going on with some other ladies in my gossip circle about it. I told them I had heard of a City Runner running barefoot, and they all assured me none of them had heard of anything like it! They live all abouts, you see. North, northeast, northwest—Celum is too far south for most of the nobility to live.”
Ryoka paused. She was used to attention for running barefoot, but this was the first time she’d ever been bet on.
“Really? It’s that fascinating to you? Um, Lady Magnolia?”
The [Lady] covered her mouth with a hand as she laughed.
“Why, haven’t you realized what a splash you’ve made? A young woman becomes the fastest local Runner practically overnight? Yet alone running barefoot? People are wondering why you run barefoot. Is it part of a special class? Or is it a secret?”
“No secret.”
Magnolia waited, but the young woman sitting across from her said nothing more. She cleared her throat politely.
“Then—would you mind telling me? I would simply love to know.”
Lady Magnolia leaned forwards over her tea eagerly. Even the maids were quietly listening as they bustled around the drawing room performing menial and unneeded tasks.
Ryoka shrugged.
“I just like running barefoot. I hate shoes.”
Her audience blinked at her. Ryoka shrugged. There wasn’t much more to say. She eyed the maids as they shifted and exchanged glances behind their mistress’ back. Idly, Ryoka wondered how much gossiping they did when they were done with work.
Silence followed Ryoka’s answer, which was then broken by laughter. Lady Magnolia chuckled and then laughed quietly. It wasn’t boisterous or uncontrolled; like everything else about her, it was polite and refined. But it was genuine.
“You, my dear Ryoka Griffin, are the most delightful young lady I have ever met! You give away nothing.”
She lifted her cup, and a waiting maid filled it with the dark brown tea that Ryoka was trying not to ingest.
“Ah, well. A simple answer, but not from a simple person. I suppose our little gossip circle will have to annul the bet. How interesting. But then, to be fair, I’m told half-Elves do eschew shoes all the time. Did you learn that from them?”
“Nope. I’m not—acquainted with half-Elves that much. It’s just a hobby. It’s good for your feet. Sort of.”
Ryoka was proud of her reply. She knew that half-Elves existed, but she had only seen one while delivering all those potions to the adventurers. She did want to meet them, and Magnolia shook her head.
“Well, I cannot imagine how you don’t poke holes in your feet like that. And you are so fit! Did you ever think of joining a [Knight] order?” 
“I’m not big on law enforcement.”
Truer words had never been spoken. Magnolia laughed at that uproariously and shook her head.
“Then have you run like that all your life?”
“All the time.”
“Indoors and outdoors?”
“Yep.”
Magnolia Reinhart put her chin in her hand. Ryoka hoped at this point the [Lady] would leave her alone. She had been the most uncooperative, inhospitable guest she could imagine, and anyone else would have surely thrown her out on her head. But Magnolia either wanted ice cream that badly or something else was going on.
The latter turned out to be true, because the [Lady]’s eyes lit up and she clapped her hands together with a sigh.
“Fascinating. You know, I’m completely stumped. Ressa, do you have a guess?”
She turned, and Ryoka jumped as she saw Ressa appear with the tea kettle in hand. The [Maid] had entered the room, and she bowed.
“I’m out. Either she was lying—and I had a truth spell on her the entire time—or it’s somewhere you missed, like a paradise nation.”
Hm? What did that mean? Ryoka felt a moment of uncertainty as Magnolia nodded.
“Not Izril, Baleros, Chandrar, Terandria—well, maybe the Kingdom of Keys or somewhere new like…? Taimaguros? But she would know [Knights]. Wistram’s rare children know magic, and no one would be allowed to run around barefoot in Drath, the likeliest option, because of how rude that would be. Nor on Rhir for safety. And Izril? I am stumped.”
Ryoka Griffin’s blank look began to turn more and more alarmed as Magnolia began reciting names. Names which Ryoka Griffin vaguely recognized as every major landmass in the entire world. Magnolia Reinhart beamed at Ryoka, and Ressa stared at the now-nervous City Runner.
“For all the money, then, Miss Griffin. Do the seas carry you home? A [Storm Sailor] or one of the Drowned Folk might walk a deck barefoot.”
Ryoka Griffin hesitated. And she opened her mouth to say something, before she realized—
Did that woman, Ressa, say truth spells? She had no idea what the Drowned Folk were, but if she said yes, she lied. If she said no…
Magnolia Reinhart kept that gaze on Ryoka, and that distant look in her eyes—was suddenly gone. Then, two green irises stared at Ryoka, and the young woman felt like she was engulfed in a forest of green. A watchful forest, and Magnolia was suddenly there, and the young woman saw the real [Lady].
The Deadly Flower Blooming in the North smiled and chuckled as someone knocked on the door. The [Mage] had come.
“Just a joke, Miss Griffin. I know you didn’t come from a ship. Or else someone would have known you from a port city. Well, I am stumped, and I thought I was playing the guessing-game well. That should be our [Mage]. Now for ice cream!”
She shot to her feet and headed to the door with alacrity. Ryoka, though, stopped a moment and glanced at Ressa. The [Maid] smiled at her, and Ryoka had to ask a question.
“Is…I heard she’s the hero of some kind of war.”
The [Maid]’s smile vanished in a second. She gave Ryoka a long, long look, and the City Runner realized she might have made another mistake. But Ressa just dipped her head.
“The Antinium Wars? Those are ancient history. She was no hero, the kind you’ll see in statues. But she was.”
Ryoka expected Ressa to follow that up with, ‘so show some respect,’ but the [Maid] just held out a hand.
“May I take your cup, Miss?”
 
——
 
Ice cream. It tasted sweet, was hopefully cold and, apparently, was about as addictive as hardcore drugs to those who’d never had it before.
She hadn’t been too sure about her recipe, but at Lady Magnolia’s insistence, Ryoka had filled a huge pot with custard. After the mage had arrived and the ice cream had been successfully churned into the frozen treat with a few hiccups, Lady Magnolia, her maids, and even the mage had joined Ryoka in eating the ice cream.
As a result, the big pot was now empty, and Ryoka’s stomach was not happy with her. The mage had left just half an hour ago, clutching at his stomach and head. He still had a blissful smile on his face, though.
To Ryoka’s surprise, the mage had been quite interested in making ice cream. Perhaps that was just his personality, but it was also probably due to Magnolia’s infectious enthusiasm. She’d had a maid taking notes of Ryoka’s every action as she’d figured out how to mix the ice cream properly.
Well, that was fine in the end because it meant that Ryoka didn’t have to explain how to make the ice cream twice. And now that the ice cream was eaten, Ryoka could finally leave. She was at the final stage of that process—trying to shake off Lady Magnolia at the door.
The [Lady] did not bring up Ryoka’s point of origin again, and Ryoka could almost believe that Magnolia was just a kindly [Lady] trying to noblesse oblige to the max.
“I still can’t believe you won’t take at least some token for teaching me this delightful recipe. Won’t you take some of it with you? To the Runner’s Guild at least. You could let them all share it. Or some gold coins? I do intend to replicate the recipe, and that will put my supplier out. Oh, and Ressa? Make a note for the [Farmers] in First Landing to grow some vanilla. Bully them gently into it. With love and kisses from me, or they’ll miss the profits in a year.”
Ryoka shrugged and tried to back out the door as Lady Magnolia fussed around her. The almost-lethal amounts of sugar the older woman had imbibed didn’t seem to be slowing her down like it had the other maids and Ryoka. Even Ressa, the faithful head maid, looked slightly ill after coming down from the sugar high and realizing how much she’d eaten, but Magnolia was as energetic and bright as ever.
“I don’t want any ice cream, thanks. The other Runners—I’m not that chummy with them. They can eat cake. And it was just ice cream. I don’t feel right about taking the gold.”
Plus, if Persua learned how much money Magnolia was offering her, she’d never stop complaining.
With a sigh, Lady Magnolia gave up on the issue, much to Ryoka’s relief.
“If you’re sure. I suppose there’s no harm in it if it won’t aggravate things. I do know the Runners compete. How about a little gift, though? Say, a bag of holding?”
Ryoka hesitated as the maid named Ressa coughed and muttered about the expense. Did she say a bag of holding? As in—the magical object that would hold things? That was tempting. But again, Ryoka looked at Magnolia’s dancing green eyes and remembered that intent look.
“…No. I’m fine, thanks.”
Lady Magnolia sighed, but she made no further arguments, much to Ryoka and her head maid’s relief. Ryoka finished stretching out the leg that had fallen asleep and then moved to open the door. Ressa intercepted her and held the door open politely. Her hands were gloved. Apparently, that made a big difference to what she could touch and Ryoka couldn’t.
Time to run. But Ryoka turned at the door and nodded to Lady Magnolia.
“Thanks.”
“On the contrary, it is I who should thank you, Miss Ryoka. But if I might have one last question before you go?”
Ryoka reluctantly paused at the door as Ressa closed it in her face. She turned slightly and glanced at Magnolia.
“Do you, in fact, come from any place in this world?”
Silence. Ryoka’s face didn’t change, but Magnolia smiled. She looked straight at Ryoka Griffin and then nodded to Ressa. The door swung open, and Ryoka stumbled a bit as she trotted out the door. But now she was looking back over her shoulder.
“I—”
“I hope you will accept more requests from me in the future. I would so love to chat.”
The [Lady] twinkled merrily. She looked Ryoka in the eye, and the Runner inhaled. Then Ryoka was gone before Magnolia finished speaking.
 
——
 
“You scared her off. I thought you were trying to be subtle.”
Ressa closed the door as Lady Magnolia watched Ryoka Griffin running for the hills. The [Lady] turned as she dropped the smile, but she still looked amused. Then she put a hand over her chest and pretended to swoon.
Her maid let her bounce off a wall and onto the carpet. Magnolia glared up at Ressa as Yvony and her staff dashed over to help her up.
“…I think I’m going to have a heart-attack. Thank you for catching me incidentally, Ressa.”
“Self-inflicted injuries are not my job. You don’t think she’s actually from somewhere else, do you?”
Ressa scoffed, and Magnolia sat up.
“She didn’t answer, but the look in her eyes—that was a joke, Ressa. That was supposed to be a joke. I really thought I’d hear she was from some provincial place.”
“And you just let her run off, never to return. You didn’t even put a tracking spell on the bag of holding.”
Magnolia stood back up and brushed at her skirts.
“She’ll be back. Or we will find her, but I would hope she returns of her own volition, Ressa. A young woman as vivaciously intelligent as that will, even if she has all the manners and social graces of a rabid Eater Goat. If only to make excuses. I hope she’s no runaway [Princess] or daughter of someone important. We have enough of those already.”
She gazed out the window and saw Ryoka Griffin was already turning down the street. Magnolia shook her head as Ressa glanced out the window.
“My, but she is quick. Oh, and Ressa? One more thing. Get in touch with the old man.”
“…Which old man is it? The pervert or the lazy one?”
Magnolia scowled.
“The one we like. Wake him up if you can. Tell him I need a favor. Tell him to look into…er…how do you spell ‘Ryoka Griffin’?”
“I believe the Runner’s Guild has her name written down.”
“Right. Yes. Use that.”
 
——
 
I have to slow down after I get a few streets away from Magnolia’s house. I put my hand on my stomach and try not to throw up.
“Woog.”
Ice cream is not good for my body, especially if I have to run. I feel like I’ve got a rock in my stomach. And yet, it might have been worth it. If only it hadn’t been vanilla,* life might have been perfect.
 
*If I have to eat ice cream, it’s got to be mint chocolate chip. Vanilla is just vanilla. But I love mint. And peppermint. And spearmint. I…really wish I had some gum.
 
As I slowly walk and then transition back into a slow jog, I think about Magnolia or as I now know her, the scariest person I’ve met in this world. Apparently, someone with her class can practically read minds, or at least tell how I’m feeling. That is not a comforting thought.
Jeez. She nearly figured out where I came from in a few minutes. What a terrifyingly scary lady.
It might be wrong to think, but when I first met her, I thought she was just another plump social butterfly without a thought in the world. But…that’s what she wants people to assume about her. The real Magnolia is sharp and intelligent. Remember that next time you visit her.
