…Which won’t be for a while. I know there’s going to be hell to pay if Persua has her way, and besides, now I have a good reason not to visit Magnolia in the future.
“Right. No Magnolia deliveries for a while.”
But with that said, I will be doing research on her. War hero? I’ll just bet Garia knows something about her—how Magnolia got her wealth, if she was married, etc. Know your enemy, right? Well, Magnolia isn’t my enemy, and I’d like to keep her that way.
Does she really think I’m from another world? No—no, I should have played it off. Stupid Ryoka! The last thing I need is to cause a stir. What are the dangers of talking about Earth? Gee, let me make a list. But I can pretend I was just surprised. I just need to go back once I’m ready, which means I need intelligence.
It’s too bad there are no libraries around. That’s medieval times for you, but at least I have a resource in a local—Garia.
…Garia. Her name triggers a thought in my mind as I run down another street. It’s getting empty this late in the day, but I see another Street Runner disappear the instant I turn down the street. Garia. Oh. Oh yeah.
Tomorrow, I have to do that delivery with Garia. That will be a pain. Not just because we’ve got to carry fifty pounds on our backs, but because she’s going to talk to me the entire time. Which is fine. It’s a normal, Human thing to do. It’s just a pain in the ass.
Well, I promised, so that’s that. Forget about it, but don’t actually forget about it. At least I won’t have to stick around the Runner’s Guild too long waiting for another job.
I wonder whether there will be any consequences for making ice cream. What a ridiculous thought but…let’s explore that. Hm.
It probably wasn’t a good idea to share the recipe, but it made Magnolia happy, and I guess that’s better than her being upset. But what does it mean to spread that kind of information?
Well…if I had to guess, it would mean that the poor person who invented ice cream isn’t going to be as rich as she or he hopes. But it also might mean a revolution of sorts within the city. Ice cream is exceptionally possible, and thanks to magic, easy to make even in this day and age.
Does that mean I might soon see it on the streets? But no—unless you have a mage on standby, ice cream isn’t easy to keep. I guess the nobility will enjoy it for the most part until someone revolutionizes the ice box or fridge. That’s the way it goes, right? Trickle-down, just like how the ice cream cone melts.
I get that far in my reasoning when I notice the other runners. 
As I’m jogging down one of Celum’s streets, I notice a few people keeping pace. I’m not going full-tilt with pedestrians, and so I see a lanky stride and turn my head. I blink as a familiar face appears.
Claudeil. He looks busy, running ahead of me; I’m catching up to him. What’s he doing here? He must have gone to Celum with Persua. Hah! I bet she dragged them both here, hoping I failed.
Well, he’s ignoring me, so I ignore him. I’m already looking for somewhere to turn when I frown and realize I’m hearing pounding shoes on the paving stones to my left. I turn my head, and there’s someone else.
Toriska. She comes out of a side-alley, and I blink. Her pace is slower, but every eight steps she blurs ahead a bit. It’s some kind of Skill that makes up for her shit running form, but she’s here too. She gives me one bored look and then glances away as she heads down the street.
The same way as Claudeil. I feel a tingle on my neck and start to slow, but then I see something behind me. More Runners.
They appear from behind me and from other streets in a huge crowd. Ten—no, twenty Street Runners appear out of nowhere and surround me. It’s so sudden that I don’t think of running away before they’re all around me. I drift left—and half a dozen Street Runners from the guild I was at plus Claudeil and Toriska are elbow-to-elbow with me.
What the hell is going on? Suddenly, I’m running in a crowd, and they’re jostling and forcing me to run at their speed. I recognize a few of them from the guild, but why are they here? Well, whatever they’re doing, it’s aimed at me. I try to push out of the crowd, but they’re packed too tightly.
“Get away.”
I growl, and they ignore me. Well, of course they do. I try to shove my way left, but when I do, they bunch up and ram into me. Hard.
“You annoying—”
I throw an elbow, and Claudeil swears as I hit him in the ribs. He’s a big guy, though, and shoves me back. I make a fist. 
Okay, no more nice girl, not that there ever was one to begin with. I stop suddenly and trip up two of the runners behind me. It turns out to be a mistake, because they trip and fall, and their shoes kick into my feet and ankles as they go down.
“Damn it.”
Gyaaaaaaah! That really hurt! But now I’m free. I really want to check my feet and see if their stupid shoes ripped any skin, but something’s up. I turn and run left even as the pack of Street Runners turns to follow me.
“Don’t let her get away!”
That’s Toriska’s voice. I’ll get her and Claudeil! Although he does have a club and Toriska has a knife. Wait—where’s Persua? But before I can think of that, someone cannonballs into me, and I go stumbling left—then a bunch of hands drag me sideways.
They shove me left, onto a smaller street. At this point, I’m really starting to get annoyed. And slightly—worried. I could get nastier, but if it comes down to a fight against this many people, they’d kick the crap out of me. No, screw it. I can lose these idiots the instant I get out of the city gates. I’ll go to Remendia, and if more of them show up there, I’ll talk to the City Watch. Or the Runner’s Guild.
All I have to do is break free of the group. And that’s easy and hard at the same time. The easy part is grabbing one Runner by the shoulder and shoving her hard so she smacks into a wall. The hard part’s going to be when they start trying to hit me.
But they don’t. All at once, the pack of Street Runners in front of me breaks up. I run forwards, towards the mouth of the alleyway before Claudeil and Toriska can catch up. Another three steps and I’ll be in the clear. Why the hell would they—
I see it too late. A foot’s there to trip me up, and though I try to jump over it, it catches me, and down I go. I stumble forwards and hit the street so hard I think I split my lip.
Ow. All the air goes out of me. My teeth explode into pain. I look up—and someone’s staring down at me.
Persua.
I don’t have the time to speak before she leaps back. The other runners are already retreating as she backs up. 
I’m going to kill her. I push myself up, then blink down.
“What the—?”
My feet are—sticky. There’s something on them. It looks like a spiderweb? Thick and—and then as I’m trying to tug my legs, I realize I hear something. I hear and feel something.
Rumbling. I feel it in the ground and look up too late. A heavy cart pulled by a large mule thunders at me down the small street.
Oh. Of course.
I roll and see a familiar sallow face grinning at me as the other Runners disappear into alleys. Get up. Get up!
The cart barrels down towards me as I scramble to my feet, despite the webs gluing my feet together. I dodge left, but then something slams into me. It feels like I just hit a patch of solid air. Magic. Down I go, winded.
I look up and see the massive wheels crunching down the road towards me. So quick. And I’m lying right in its way.
Oh. Yeah. I’d almost forgotten what I hate about the world. Sometimes I forget, but I’m always reminded in time. What I hate about the world is—
People.
For once I’m too slow.
Crunch.
