"Not sure if 'invested' is the word I would use,” Shiv said. “Sometimes, I feel like one of those big whirlpools in the water that sucks everything toward it. And the more I fight, the more I survive, the more people I suck down and destroy, the larger this whirlpool gets."

The Town Lord gave a very Adam-like scoff. “I know the feeling all too well.”

With those words spoken, an awkward lull entered their conversation. Shiv suddenly found his mind blank. He didn't know what else to tell Roland. And it seemed true the other way around as well. They stared at each other for a moment. And once more, Shiv felt his own itch. That faint urge to see if he could slam a fist into the Town Lord's jaw and get away with it was an enticing thought. Even now. But he resisted it. If he was going to bloody Roland Arrow—no, when he bloodied Roland Arrow—it would be in a proper battle. He would shame Roland in a true martial confrontation, not some bullshit ambush in a bathroom while Roland was weak—while Roland was grieving. While Shiv's own mind was a mess of sorrow and pitch-black anguish. It wouldn't feel right anyway. And Shiv was tired of doing things wrong. Tired of the entire world being determined to do things wrong.

The Town Lord's eyes widened, the left corner of his lip twitched upward, and a faint curve formed as if he was struggling not to laugh for some reason.

"Are you struggling? Are you trying to stop yourself from punching me?"

Shiv once again noted that Adam was truly Roland's son. If anything, the Town Lord was even more perceptive than Adam.

"Oh, yeah." Shiv coughed. "Don't mind you knowing, but I'm embarrassed about how transparent my thoughts were. Stopped myself. Didn't think it was right. Like I told you earlier, I want to beat your ass properly."

That proved to be too much for Roland. The Town Lord cracked up, nearly doubling over with laughter. He pressed against one of the nearby stalls and began wheezing, then coughing, as he battled to regain his composure. "I suppose I should thank you for being decent." He licked his lips. "When I get well, I will find you. And I promise to do everything I can to see this enmity put behind us, if you swear to do the same."

The Town Lord held out his shaking right hand for Shiv to take. The Deathless still had half a mind to spite Roland and spit on the hand, but he swallowed that petulant desire and took the man's hand, even though he shook it a little bit harder than he should have. Also, it was a good way to get a measure of how tough Roland was at baseline.

Right now, Shiv was pretty sure he could pull the Town Lord in half if he managed to surprise him. That was enough to brighten Shiv’s mood, just a little.

Roland winced slightly as he rubbed his right shoulder after Shiv released him. An imprint of Shiv’s crushing grip remained on the Town Lord’s pale wrist as well. “Starhawk’s bloody aim, boy, what have you been eating? I know you’ve grown to the size of a small building, but that felt like getting my hand crushed by a damned tsunami.”

“Legendary Physicality,” Shiv grunted. “Among other things. I wasn’t really trying to hurt you.”

“How merciful. You 'not trying' still nearly tore my shoulder out of its socket.” Roland shook his head. “Monstrous.”

Shiv squinted at Roland. “You having second thoughts about our scuffle?”

The Town Lord’s expression hardened immediately. “Please, boy, I’ve killed bigger monsters than you.”

“Good,” Shiv sneered. “Just making sure that your belly isn’t turning yellow is all.”

Those words made Roland wince and flinch at once. Shiv tilted his head as he tried to gauge if the Town Lord was still weak—but the response was one of pain. Roland looked like he suffered a physical blow, and that made Shiv guess he was psychologically harmed.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: He sees the echo of your father in you. It’s the most likely possibility. The words you just said to him might be the same words your father said to him at some point, or very similar. Ask him about it. Twist the knife a bit to be sure. It’s something else we might be able to use in our inevitable brawl.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: 136 > 138

“Hey, Roland?” Shiv began. “You seeing my father in me right now? Haunted by some ghosts of your past?”

The Town Lord paled and went stiff. “How did you—”

“Wasn’t a hard guess.” Shiv smirked. “You’re just like Adam too, you know that? You guys are pretty easy to see through as well. Anyway. Thanks for keeping Georges' stuff safe, and… fuck you with a lower case ‘f.’ You go get some rest and take care of yourself. Get better fast. I’ll deal with the other stuff at Piety in the meantime. You just focus on your health.”

With that, Shiv clapped Roland on the left shoulder, shook him there for good measure, and strode out of the latrine after putting all of Georges' effects into his cape.

It took considerable effort on Shiv’s part not to grin when he saw half of Roland turning to glass.

Sticks and Stones: 64 > 65

Maybe the coming fight wasn’t going to be so impossible after all.

Roland was dangerous, but there was something weak and brittle inside him. And Shiv liked breaking weak and brittle things—regardless if they were physically or psychologically vulnerable.

***
