That made Eskau Meallain laugh in turn. “A prison on the move, all subject to her whims. That sounds positively mythic.”

Tala sighed. “Let’s not be over dramatic.”

Ron seemed to have collected himself, as he added in, “Well, at least we can have the prisoners train the guards. We could stand to learn from anyone willing to teach.”

The elf nodded once, emphatically. “That’s a good attitude to have. Eskau Tala, will I be granted any power to call my own, with which to teach? I’ve been forbidden from drawing on my weapon, and I assume you will maintain that restriction… Or should I continue to husband the crumbs I scraped together more than a month ago?”

Before Tala could answer, Ron cut in. “You’ve been holding that power for a month? With no refill?”

Eskau Meallain scoffed, shaking her head. “Oh, dear child, I’ve held Hallowed level power for centuries after scraping it together from the dregs of the southlands. If I were to have this hold’s power at my disposal, I could crush any save the Sovereigns themselves, and even they would hesitate to test me.” She gave Tala an almost hungry look. “This place is a resource that could topple worlds.”

Tala sighed, closing her eyes and hoping for strength to bear the woman’s antics. “So, we won’t be doing that.” Still, she didn’t want to hamper the woman’s ability to teach. “I will allow you to draw in power anytime you are below Mature in density within your flesh. If you are controlling power outside of yourself, it will be considered as if it were compacted and within you. You won’t be allowed to gain authority over a large area of ‘low density’ power before pulling it all in and achieving a higher level.”

Her prisoner only gave a slight grimace. “Very well. I will operate under those restrictions. It is good to know that you have such fine control in your hold and the power within it.”

Tala gave a half smile. “So long as you don’t forget that, we should all get along swimmingly.”

“Oh, I won’t forget, Eskau. I won’t.” She gave Tala a meaningful smile before turning back to Ron. “Now, lead me to your people. I have to forge fighters out of brawlers, and I only have your silly human lifespans in which to do so.”

Ron winced, holding up a finger in clarification, seeming reluctant to do so, but also unwilling to let the misunderstanding remain. “Actually, we believe that we should be incredibly long lived, now.”

That caught the elf by surprise, and she looked to Tala. “Truly?”

Tala shrugged. “It seems so.”

The smile that spread across those elven lips was practically malicious with glee and anticipation. “Well, then. Maybe we will be able to make meaningful progress after all.”

Tala felt a headache coming on, and Ron seemed to feel the same way. After saying goodbye to Lyn, he led the elf away, only sending a single pleading glance back their way before the two were out of sight.

Lyn sighed. “If she breaks him, I’m going to be irritated with you.”

Tala barked a laugh at that. “Well, we’ll just have to keep a close enough eye to ensure that she doesn’t.”

Lyn nodded once, emphatically. “That we will.”
