"When you capture the Shadow, I need you to do something. Scan their body for any foreign entities lodged inside. If they have something, it might allow the Inquisition to track them. I'm absolutely certain each of the Inquisitors is being watched or listed through some Divination mechanism. You did a good job removing the false tooth from this one. However, it wasn't a suicide capsule as you had thought. More of a tracking enchantment."

"No shit? Didn't even consider it might be a tracker. I only remembered to check because I tussled with an Aviary Owl who had a mouth full of cute tricks once, so a lot of this stuff isn't that surprising to me anymore."

Irons grabbed Shiv by the shoulder and squeezed. "Good. Keep that paranoia high. From now on, you're the one who conducts all interrogations. You will be our front-facing operative, our main force, and our disposable chaff all in one. Additionally, we never communicate directly in this form again."

"What do you mean?" Shiv asked, not quite getting it.

"I'm reducing risk mainly for myself, but also to make sure that neither of us can be traced back to the other in case something goes awry. You are now the rook, I am the player, and when we need to talk, you will do so in the guise of Marcus Unblood. You will come to my Tactical Strategy class once the break ends. We will play chess half an hour before class begins to surreptitiously review our after-action—"

"Irons, I don't mean to interrupt your speech here, but I don't really know that word. Syrup…"

"In secret. That’s what it means."

"Oh, got it. Yeah, I think we can work with that. Actually, I find it pretty nice. You do this before? Seem pretty experienced with this whole spying thing."

"No, I'm simply applying my military intelligence gathering knowledge to a very foreign, very strange state of affairs. I don't walk the Path of the Investigator, and I am definitely unprepared to face the people that puppeteer the secret police of my own nation." Irons tilted his head slightly, as if it was no big deal after all. "To say that I'm not at substantial risk would be utterly lying. But I suppose a part of me is looking forward to this. I want to find out what happened to Melissa. Whatever her fate is, I want there to be a conclusion. Closure. She deserved better from me, from this nation. But in a more personal way, I suppose that in this is a… purpose that I've been missing."

Shiv smiled. "Got it, Captain. And honestly, she still might be around. Think we might actually find her again. Maybe even her sister. I don't know why Daughter needs so many orphan girls, and frankly, I don't care. I don't care what she wants, and I don't care what her mother wants. I'm gonna help you find Melissa, I'm gonna shit in the Ascendants’ breakfast, and I'm going to have fun doing it. And you can show me the right way."

A series of awkward twitches worked their way through Irons's face as he retracted his arm. He seemed caught between a smile and a grimace. "You're just born meant for this life, aren't you? None of this bothers you at all."

"I think that makes the two of us."

"No, I have simply deadened my nerves. I have trained myself to accept death. But you are beyond that, and you are still here regardless. I remind you again: you’re raw. But you are willing. And you want to do the right thing, even if it comes with a cost. That is something. I cannot tell you to be proud of such a thing. Oftentimes, I find myself paying far too much for what I gained in return, with my only excuse being the protection of my own honor. But I think there are enough monsters in this world, and not nearly enough proper warriors."

Shiv realized how, in the Captain's words, there was an echo of Jessica's. She had spoken about how an individual would always make a victim of a monster that held a corresponding Tier. There was something about predictability. There was something about mastery. There was something about choice. A man could do more than believe. A man could dream and become. A monster just acted.

"Alright then, I'm going back to the orphanage after this," Shiv said. "I see what the Inquisition sends after me. And—"

“Shiv,” Uva’s voice suddenly interrupted him, speaking directly to his Severed Shadow that was currently located in Gate Piety. Despite being a dimension away, he heard her as if she were right next to him. Which she was, in a way. “The Slipgate frequency has been adjusted. The way to the Fairwoods is clear. Are we done with matters in the capital for now?”

“Almost,” Shiv said. “I'm just going to play bait one more time. And after that we'll go on vacation.”

“I'm not sure if I would call this a vacation,” Uva deadpanned.

“Oh, come on, Sister Uva. Where's your sense of adventure? Only risk is that we die a little. Personally, that never killed me for good. Can’t say the same thing about some of the new friends I’m going to make soon. Be with you guys right after. Just one good time after another…”

“Shiv, has anyone told you you look particularly shark-like when you smile?” Irons said, drawing Shiv's attention back to his physical body.

“I do?”

“Yes. I recommend that you smile more, especially when you ask people questions.”

Shiv's grin grew ever-wider. The joy of one could be the fear of all others. Life can be pretty fun when you're not being hounded every other second.
