This is Hero-Shadow Malcolm Turner of Shadow Group Pedigglio. T-the rest of my team is dead. I can hear—

[Sounds of Screaming—Identified as Master-Shadow Grace DeNiorr]

Oh, Ascendants, fuck, fuck, fuck… It's coming, it's coming. I don't have long, I don't have long at all.

Nexus, listen to me. We have an outsider threat in the capital. There is a Legend-Skinwalker loose in the city. It’s the Deathless—he’s changed. We think he's taken on some kind of Blessing that stems from an Outsider god. We found him at Gathering Pool Black 13, stalking one of our recruitment officers. I think he managed to get the information from Master-Inquisitor Hastings. But—

[Sounds of walls breaking]

…I'm out of time. We managed to ambush him. There was someone else with him, but before we could get to the other one, I took his head off. I took his head off three times! He didn't see me the first two. He couldn't! But he didn't die! His head just grew back! He didn't die! S-suspicions are that he possesses an Eldritch Physiology Skill. All subsequent Shadow groups are to have Heroic Pyromancer or Masters with Counter-Recursive Skills along with them.

He's coming. He's coming. Longinus, grant me strength. He can't die, but I can… I can flee beyond his grasp. I can deny him anything he wishes to…

Take care of my daughter.

[Sounds of Hero-Shadow Malcolm Turner slicing his own flesh; low breathing detected in the background]

Well, look at you trying to get away from me through suicide. Cute strategy, but that cut's not deep enough, friend. Not deep enough to finish you at all.

—Last Messages from Shadow Group Pediggilo, Republic Inquisition

311

To Break a Curse [VIII]

Master-Inquisitor Hastings did considerably less screaming when Captain Irons applied his touch. Shiv should have listened from the next room over, trying to hear what was being exchanged between the two during their hushed susurrations. Though Shiv wasn't overjoyed about working with the criminal underworld, he couldn't deny they had some uses.

Black sites and safe houses, for one. Places where someone could bring a captured Inquisitor and put them to the question.

Shiv had been a little bit rough with his Inquisitors. Mostly a factor of blowing off some frustration. He'd been slamming his head against the steel wall that was the Outside for a considerable number of deaths. Now he was hunting soft prey again, and the whiplash he felt was awesome. It was like spending years wrestling with a giant before running through a field of insects and enjoying the happy little pops beneath one’s feet. An ego massage was nice after a few hundred hopeless ass-beatings.

But it was also kind of… bullying. That was one bad part about the whole thing. There was no struggle, no challenge. He didn't even gain any levels from observing, stalking, and then ambushing those Inquisitors. He wasn't doing anything new, he wasn't dying, he wasn't even being hurt at all. Relaxing as this is, I don't want to make a habit of it. There's nothing to be gained from this aside from doing the right thing. I should just deal with them and move on. They're not even food. No sense in playing with them.

The rusted steel door leading into the interrogation cell creaked behind him, and out emerged Irons. His body was clean, but there was a scent about him. Shiv's Atlas revealed specks of blood still clinging to the Captain's body. He had indeed applied force to the Inquisitor before cleaning himself somehow. Shiv also noticed how quiet the Inquisitor was. He looked past the gap and saw Hastings limp in his chair, his head dangling at an awkward angle. His vitality had almost faded already. This man was dead.

Shiv eyed Irons. "Good talk?"

The Captain didn't say anything at first. He rolled his shoulders and spent a few moments ruminating on the enormity of what he'd just done. Stoic though he was, his emotional core was clouded with miasmic fluctuations. He was a citizen of the Republic. More than that, he was a Pathbearer serving in the Republic's forces. And now he had taken the life of an agent of his nation's secret police. He was likely going through the same thing Adam had: doubt and inner conflict. Witnessing the acts committed by the Inquisition and the Ascendants gnawed at one's morality, but that didn't wash away a lifetime of faith and belief.

Sage of the Enkindled Heart: And so it is to be pain. For among the great gulfs between man and monster is the capacity to believe.

"You alright?" Shiv asked, trying to show some concern for Irons. The man needed a display of humanity right now. Reassurance.

Irons blinked and looked up to meet Shiv’s eyes. He cut a robust figure, with broad shoulders and a powerful physique hardened by combat. Clad in his armor, he resembled a steel-plated bull more than a man, capable of barreling through bulwarks with the barest ease. Before his opposite, however, he was but a calf. Shiv had about a full head of height on the two-meter-tall Irons, and his arms made the latter’s look like twigs rather than the alloyed columns they actually were.

"You said you spent some time watching them," Irons said. "How long?"

"Couple hours. We managed to smuggle ourselves back through the gateway at the center of campus. After that, I placed one body in the bed of my dorm room before going out on patrol."

In the back of his mind, Shiv could still feel that body, but it was sedated in mind and flesh. The main struggle he faced was cognitive and sensory overload. Thankfully, he knew an extremely competent Psychomancer. Thanks to Uva's help, he had now had a series of dormant bodies seeded all across Integrated Earth. The first among which was wearing his Mask of Stolen Paths, allowing “Marcus Unblood” to exist separately from Shiv.

Back at Gate Piety, his Severed Shadow waited for Merrielmel to finalize the adjustments needed to tune the Slipgate into linking to the Fairwoods. When the Enchanter was done, Shiv would resurrect another body, and from there begin his journey into mystery…

It really felt like Integration was opening up around him, like he was taking his first steps to truly come to know the world around him. However, he couldn't shake the feeling that someone was poking at his throat somewhere. Probably just paranoia, Shiv decided.

***

For three days and three nights, Magnolia waited. She tried to let go. She tried to overcome her hatred.

But she couldn't. It burned inside her veins like a foul poison she couldn't get out. She didn't have enough blood to bleed it out. She didn't have enough strength to resist. She succumbed to hate, to grief, and settled for the only thing she knew how to do.

Magnolia broke. The good in her was never strong. And it ultimately died on the side of that frigid mountain. Now she was going to do a vile deed that would see her finished. The Inquisition would come for her after this. There would be no escape. But at least there would be an end. There would be some kind of balancing, even though she knew it wasn't right, even though she knew it wasn't what her daughter wanted. Even though, even though, even though…

But ever weak were the hearts of man.

So for three days and three nights, she suffered.

She watched the accursed dorm where the boy was hiding from afar. She studied his windows to see if there was any light, to detect if there was any sign of life. She tried to find his scent but couldn't. The room smelled barren. The only hint that he was there was the faint taste of bad water. And then there was something else, a foreign odor that she didn't truly know, one that reeked of blood, bone, and something infinitely stranger. She suspected that might be a member of the Inquisition, currently watching over the boy. Then her suspicions evolved. She wondered if they had claimed Marcus before her, that she wouldn't even get this final, if bleak, satisfaction.

Then one day, out of nowhere, the taste of the boy returned to his dorm. The smell struck her like a physical blow; it laid her low spiritually and left her indecisive. She thought of her daughter, of her face, of that final argument they had had trying to cross the border into the heartland of the Republic. She thought of all her mistakes and the new one she was about to make.

And she failed regardless. She slipped through the dorm like an unseen breeze. The towering ogre in the kitchen continued to hack away at radishes and potatoes, humming a happy tune to himself, utterly oblivious to the murder that was going to take place so close to him. Magnolia popped the door handle leading into the boy's room in tune with the ogre's descending axe. Such that when she slipped in like a ghost, she knew that there was no one capable of stopping her from finishing this devious deed.

The final few steps were the hardest. She skulked along the wall, heading toward her target. Seeking the boy who'd bled her heart. When she came to a stop, she loomed over him, staring at his unmoving form in that bed. Scowling at his ruined physique. At his cursed nature.

She found herself shaken. He seemed ever more the innocent child. But he knew as well as she did what he had taken from her. He knew the enormity of his sin as she bore the weight of hers.

Slowly, desperately, hopelessly, she pulled her right axe free from her hip and raised it high. This wouldn't make anything better. It would do nothing to honor the dead. It would serve no purpose in her heart. But she had to. It was who she was. The wolf needed to lash back. It needed to bleed someone. Because nothing in existence could make this right.

A plea for forgiveness nearly escaped her, was almost cast toward the Ascendants' ears. But she didn't want to take the slightest chance. She was too ashamed that her daughter might hear her, might condemn her from beyond the veil within the embrace of their gods.

Her axe fell, her heart lifted. All was now in the hands of the System. Magnolia closed her eyes and released a ragged exhale. For the first time in weeks, she felt—

She felt her axe shatter and explode against Marcus's neck. She felt a shard of metal punch into her throat as others struck her body, and a waterfall of her lifeblood gushed free thereafter.

Magnolia's eyes snapped open in horrified surprise. Marcus was utterly unblemished. There wasn't even a faint mark on his neck, nor a hint of broken skin. She, meanwhile, gurgled as she tried to cover her wound. A flood of her blood splattered all over Marcus, but through it all, he remained blissfully asleep, his face at peace even as his nose and mouth were drenched in hot crimson.

Clutching her ruined throat, Magnolia stumbled, tripped over her own legs, crashed her head against the wall, bled all over said wall, and then managed to get back up again thanks to her Master-Tier Physicality, before she hastily and most clumsily fled out from the dorm to heal herself before it was too late.

Not a few meters away, the ogre continued to hack away joyfully for a few seconds. And then he smelled blood. And then he turned to seek out said blood. And then he discovered the horrendous sight leading him to Marcus Unblood's room, where the boy lay peacefully at rest, coated in a dense layer of visceral red.

***

"Just think of it as me having multiple bodies at the same time. Like a lich with a Dichotomous Soul. With a bit of Psychomancy, my dormant bodies can be woken back up. If I need to just reach them, I can use them as sorts of teleportation anchors. Since they're all technically bound to my personal history, I can just throw myself back in time and arrive where the other bodies are. In fact, I can jump back into my dorm right now because the body of Marcus Unblood and my current body are technically the same thing."

Shiv wasn't sure how competent his explanation sounded. Irons still looked incredibly confused, but he didn't seem willing to prod Shiv any further. They had other things to worry about.

Also weird that I can taste blood for some reason, Shiv thought to himself. He was pretty sure that none of his bodies had been injured, so he ignored that and went back to going over the orphanage situation with Irons.

"Anyway, as I was saying before we got sidetracked, I picked a random black orphanage to keep an eye on, right? Avoided being noticed by anyone thanks to my Severed Shadow and Non-Sequitur. Spent a few hours there just kinda watching the matrons and the kids, which frankly was kinda creepy, but that was mostly fine since I used my Bifurcated Processing to help me stay focused while my physical body continued to help around at the Gate."

Irons grunted. “And how did you end up capturing multiple Master-Inquisitors?”

"Well, just before the light of dawn came up and I was about to leave, guess who showed up? Hastings and a couple of other Inquisitors. Or maybe they were interrogators. I don't really know the ranks. I just killed the bastards accidentally. They're a lot more fragile than I remember. So, I caught them speaking with this extremely suspicious matron who took a bunch of kids and led them outside while it was dark. Went down an alleyway, and I followed them along the sides of a rooftop. They ended up doing some kind of weird examination for the kids or casting Divination spells on them and stuff. I was going to ask Adam to come have a listen so that we could actually find out what they were saying, but then one of the kids tried to get away, and the interrogator ended up drawing steel. I should've…" Shiv coughed, slightly embarrassed. "Didn't really think about what I was doing after that."

