A growing look of horror built behind Irons's eyes. His face quivered. That was the closest he came to revealing his true feelings. However, Shiv could see his heart absolutely go still. The core wasn't so clear anymore. Instead, it was like a dense block of ice—the kind of weight one would develop if they dreaded to ask an unfortunate question. "You engaged the Inquisitors… with the children present."

"Well, yeah. There were like eight of them. Eight kids, I mean. Inquisitors didn't see me coming at all. I stopped time and tore through two of them before I realized that I wanted to keep a hostage. Then I was trying to focus on knocking them out. Apparently, though, one of them had a pretty powerful set of temporal wards. I mean Heroic-Tier. I would have kept that for myself, given it to Adam or something, but I ended up breaking that when I hit the guy in the chest. I gave him a little tap so that he wouldn't die. His armor kind of caved in, and I thought he was fine for a while, but most of his organs came out of the faceplate when I tried to see if he was still conscious, so… Yeah.” Shiv sucked in an awkward breath. “Messed up thing was how the matron tried to get in the fight too. She pulled out two daggers and used some kind of fused Reflexes skill on me. She zipped directly into me and then, uh, kind of splattered."

"Splattered," Irons muttered, seeming almost shell-shocked.

"It was really unnecessary, right? There was nothing she could do to me. Her knives weren't even titanium. They were like, I don't know, Adept-Tier stuff. Her Toughness wasn't any better. So it was like… like a sack of meat slamming into a wall. I ended up coated with all her stuff. Kinda got some on the kids too. That wasn't great."

"Some on the kids…" Irons whispered, repeating Shiv’s words beat for beat.

"Yeah, pretty gross, I know. Anyway, four of the Inquisitors were dead by that point, and then there was Hastings. He was trying to get away. He held out this weird device that was like beaming Divination mana up into the sky. Thought he was calling for help, so I decided to rip off his arms and legs and then choke him out. Then I threw him in my cape, and then I went to find you after making sure that no one followed me. By that, I mean that I went Non-Sequitur, destroyed the physical body I used to do all of that, and then resurrected a new one. And that's the one you're currently speaking to. I think that's everything…"

"Stop, stop, stop." Irons's face was dead serious as he stared at Shiv. "What happened to the children? Shiv, what did you do with the orphans?"

"Huh? The orphans? Oh, I didn't leave them behind if that's what you're asking. I mean, I already killed a bunch of people in front of them. That was kind of traumatizing. Could have done better. But I cleaned them up a bit with Hydromancy and brought them back to the Gate. Made them some quick scrambled eggs. I guess they're citizens of Gate Piety now."

Shiv smiled proudly. He hadn't waited to take in their reactions, so he was looking forward to finding out how they'd liked the eggs.

Captain Harry Irons’ mouth fell open.

***

"So, hi, kids! How you guys liking your, uh, scrambled eggs?" Ikki aimed her strongest, brightest, pearliest smile at her audience.

Eight traumatized faces stared back at her. Each of them looked on the verge of crying once more. One of them was still sniffling. All of them had been dried up and given new outfits to wear thanks to one of the ex-slave citizens of Piety who had a Knitting skill. Of course, they were also in their current state because of Shiv’s gentle ways.

So far, none of the children had touched their food, and Ikki's smile almost twitched as she realized her hope in thinking she could motivate these weird surface children to recover from newly bestowed horrors in the next few hours or even days felt like hubris. But she wasn't one to accept defeat. With a button-eyed Weaveress puppet on her left hand and a vampire puppet on her right, she prepared to show them a popular children's fable back at Weave.

"Alright, maybe the eggs are… still too hot for you guys. So, how about some entertainment before you start digging in?" Ikki made her puppets dance a little on the table, and one of the smaller girls, looking no older than eight, flinched at the sight of the Weaveress. Come to think of it, that same girl had burst into tears and screamed when she accidentally walked into Still Water on the way to the cafeteria. But that was probably because Still Water specifically was incredibly scary.

Like, normally, no one would be afraid of spiders, right? Ikki thought to herself. Spiders are the best!

"Alright, guys." Ikki cleared her throat. "Time for me to start the story of the noble Weaveresses and the bad and evil vampire who was used as a replaceable egg incubator…"

***

Unbeknownst to Ikki, Adam was also monitoring the situation through his new Second-Person Perspective skill. He stared at the scene with his jaw hanging wide open and cold sweat running down his back. He knew things would be bad when he'd heard that Shiv had brought eight children into his Gate.

He just wasn't prepared for how bad they could get. He almost started sobbing as Ikki started smashing the vampire puppet against the table repeatedly. “Shiv… Ikki… Come on…”

***

"You gave the orphans to the gigantic spiderfolk who use their victims as a means of reproduction." Irons’s expression was beyond sour as he summed things up.

"I technically left them to Adam, since he's the Gate Lord. Besides, the Weaveresses are usually pretty great people.” Shiv scoffed lightly as he remembered his days living in Weave. He missed being there, now that he thought about it. “I definitely had better experiences with them than the average Republic citizen. There's some kind of weird racial purity thing going on there and also some kind of gender issue between the spiders, but overall they're great."

The Captain swallowed before asking a subsequent question: "Do they actually implant people with their eggs?"

Shiv considered how to phrase his reply without making it seem like slander. "Well, sort of, but they don't do it to everyone, just people who volunteer, people who are old and sick or something. Or really bad people like criminals and vampires and stuff. But the vampires do way worse things all the time, so yeah, they kind of have it coming."

Shiv smiled and nodded approvingly at the thought of vampires being used as egg incubators.

The silence that ensued was crushing. Irons’ head lowered like his neck was attached to rusted gears. His movements became stiff and filled with frustration. The first hints of anger flickered out from his emotional core. "Shiv, if anything happens to those children, I want you to know that I will personally hold you responsible, and I will find a way to kill you for good if the worst comes to pass."

Shiv grunted at Irons. "You really don't need to worry, but you know what, fair enough. You get anything useful out of Hastings, by the way?"

"I confirmed a few suspicions. Melissa said that the orphanages were going through orphans at an alarming rate. That her sister shouldn't have been considered one of the offerings. At least not as things were before. According to Hastings, they were bringing the children to a church dedicated to Daughter."

"Fucking figures," Shiv spat. "Did he tell you what they're actually doing with the kids there? Because when I tried to squeeze him, he just kept saying he was tasked with dropping them off. I wanted my, uh, friend to take a peek into his mind, but she might be busy right now dealing with some of my bodies."

"He knows little," Irons confirmed. "Though he might be a Master, he's nowhere near the top of this conspiracy. What he has revealed is that the children are taken down into the bowels of the church, and from there, he claims a ritual is performed, and none of them are seen again. He personally suspects that they are expended to feed the Ascendant's power. But that is his personal theory, and rumor-mongering runs rampant among even the Inquisitors. If we want to know for certain, I think we will need someone with more insight—someone who sees behind the veil."

Shiv nodded as he listened. "Okay, so I go and snatch up a Hero Inquisitor, or find one of their Legends. Guess I can give one of these churches a visit, see if I can smash my way down."

Irons regarded Shiv as if he were looking at a particularly dangerous but incredibly stupid animal. "Clumsy, brutal, and not particularly effective. Furthermore, you likely risk the lives of the orphans if you take a forceful approach. Put some more thought into what you're doing. You're a Legend, son. Your strength is to be honored by skill, wisdom, and discipline. Not debased by savagery and incompetence."

Shiv barely stopped himself from folding his arms. He didn't want to appear too defensive. Instead, he leaned against the cool concrete wall and held his hands out expectantly. "Alright, tell me why this won't work. I can throw myself at them straight until I get results. These bodies I have are expendable, and I think I'll be able to terrify or kill enough of the Inquisitors that we'll find something out or break something essential."

"Do you know where they're holding the children? How many children there are? Do you know what condition they're in? Do you know if any Avatars of the Ascendants are there? Do you know how many enemies you face?" Irons fired out his questions in a rapid chain, and Shiv frowned as he realized all of them shared a common answer.

"No," he answered begrudgingly. "But I can figure it out."

"Do you know where Melissa is? Do you think she would be spared additional torture and torment if they can trace her back to you or I? And if what you and Adam claimed before is true, do you think you can avoid facing Melissa's sister, young Heather, if Daughter decides to take on a particularly cruel Avatar as a psychological weapon?"

Shiv winced. The answer remained the same. "Yeah, no."

"That cannot be our answer. We cannot say no to these things. I wanted your aid because the task before me is enormous. Because I am a Master out of my depth but not my experience. You, meanwhile, are power unleashed, but also power untempered. I could never have kidnapped an Inquisitor so easily, not without substantial struggle or risk to my personal safety. But if we do as you plan, I suspect that we will see many dead orphans and get no closer to discovering where Melissa is being held, if she's still alive at all, and uncovering whatever conspiracy is unfolding across the Capital. Are you willing to accept that, Shiv? Are you willing to accept the death of children as collateral damage?"

With those words, memories returned to the forefront of Shiv's mind, unbidden, horrible memories. 811’s serene and later ecstatic smile as he crushed a little boy's skull in his fist in an alleyway, as he blasted apart a small automaton in a dirty, rundown house, of countless more he butchered and splattered in their chaotic brawl across Gate Theborn—a brawl that had only happened because of Shiv's carelessness and been made all the worse by his rawness.

These memories were the entire reason he possessed Leviathan of the Shapeless Tides instead of Nexus of Implacable Destruction to begin with. Because he wanted to be more than a destroyer. Because he didn't want to see another person die due to his inability to control himself.

"I guess two of us make a whole Pathbearer in this situation," Shiv muttered, his mood darkened considerably.

Irons grunted. "That is one way to see it. You are raw and willing, and you were also wise to call upon me. Though I think it unwise of you to simply throw yourself at our enemies, there is much we can do with the expendable bodies you now possess, if they indeed work as you have described. We're not going to be reckless, but we can take risks."

The Captain fell silent, and his eyes grew distant. He was planning—trying to conceive of a golden path through this mess, one that would see the most lives spared. "We need more information before we do anything else. With Adam occupied and neither of us being Investigators, I don't think we have the option to be meticulous or circumspect in our methods of intelligence gathering. But the entire world is already hunting you. And you've managed to secure living Inquisitors once already. They will be sending reinforcements, High-Tier Assassins or Shadows, to investigate and surveil the orphanage you were at."

Shiv spent a moment connecting the dots, and when he did, his mouth fell open slightly. "Holy shit, you want me to do a double abduction? That's absolutely nasty. You actually think they'll fall for that?"

"I am certain of it. We don't understand the entirety of their schemes, but they also don't know your new capabilities. If you can take one of their Investigators or Shadows alive, one that is a Hero at least, then maybe they might know something more. Or maybe we can use them to infiltrate the churches. You need to take more precautions, but in general, you should continue applying your methods from earlier. Locate high-value targets, eliminate all others, bring them to a safe and secure location, and then dispose of the body that performed the deed. This will confuse their Diviners as well. We'll learn and confirm what information we can through these means. And from that I will expand our strategies and tactics; I'll compose new dedicated operations for you to undertake. Starting with this one. We are to face the darkness of the Republic, so bring me one of the Inquisitorial Shadows."

"Got it. I'm gonna go get posted at the orphanage or somewhere nearby. Maybe somewhere noticeable too. I'll pretend to hide but do a bad job at it." Shiv chuckled grimly to himself. "They're never going to see this shit coming."

