"That makes a lot of sense. Etorhma seems like someone who was rocking the boat and scared of the consequences. If you're the source of that, then you might be able to give us some info on them. Hell, we might be able to trigger whatever it was that Etorhma was trying to stop."

Althea frowned.

"Why would we do that?"

I shrugged.

"Spite. A desire to watch the world burn. Maybe out of boredom?"

She hit my shoulder playfully while I smiled. She peered off.

"Before my alterations, Yawm's experiments were more calculated and safe. After that, he sped everything up. There was this urgency he had all of a sudden. He ended up going through most of us pretty quick once he finished whatever he was doing with me."

I winced.

"Like putting meat through a grinder, but remember, a good guy when you look deep down."

She smirked.

"Ok, jerk."

I smiled.

"Alright, sorry. Yawm just gets under my skin."

Althea furrowed her brow.

"He literally cut under mine, so I got you beat there."

Torix cupped a chin.

"Previous dealings aside, do you have any idea what Etorhma was afraid didn't want you to do?"

Althea let out a sigh.

"Hm. Er, you both know I kind of...Like, ignore matter. I can pierce anything, and I'm able to phase out of this reality. Etorhma's Tears are why I'm able to do that. It's where those skills originate."

I turned a palm to her.

"You think there's a link there that exposes why Etorhma was nervous?" She wrung her hands.

"Hah. You know, like, maybe? I think that could let us know more about this accord thing, too. They might've wanted to stay within the laws of our universe or something. It could also be that I am partly an Old One, and they don't like it when we borrow their power so directly."

Torix's eyes flared bright.

"The more we understand Etorhma's conditions of fear, the more we can have the Old Ones at our beckoning and call as well. At the minimum, it gives us leverage against Etorhma."

Althea smiled.

"If you put it like that, uh, sure."

I rubbed my temples as I tried to flex my weakest muscle - my brain.

"Ah man, I've been trying to pin them against each other, and this could be a great way to slow them down even more. Ah man, great ideas, Althea."

Her smile beamed out.

"You too. And ugh, I don't mind the two-rune look. It's nice."

I raised my brow.

"Sexy, you mean?"

Her eyes narrowed.

"Maybe."

Torix waved an arm.

"Enough of your flirtatious musing. Ugh, to be prisoners of your flesh. I pity you both. I'm glad I abandoned that so very long time ago."

Althea rolled her eyes.

"What? How is Daniel a prisoner and you're not? You're made of Daniel."

Torix's eyes flared green.

"Semantics. Now, let's go and finish uncovering the secrets of the Shattered Spires, shall we?"

I smiled.

"Let's."
