Ali fell silent for a while, considering the tradeoffs. My racial Aptitude reducing my health is really problematic, she reflected, realizing now why so few Fae had chosen combat classes, even given their powerful magical talents. The risks are all too real.

Eventually, hoping that she was being smart, she decided on six points for vitality, splitting the remainder between Intelligence and Wisdom. I do get fifty percent more damage per point of intelligence, she thought, reasoning that the flip side of her racial aptitude somewhat mitigated the cost of spending fewer points on intelligence.

Seeing that Malika had settled into her Meditation, and not wanting to disturb her, Ali got up and headed to the edge of her moss patch, intending to work on expanding it a little bit. For a few minutes, she busied herself deconstructing a pile of bones and dead wood, enjoying the sense of her mana flowing through her body, and the idea that she was slowly cleaning up the space. When she was done, she filled the newly vacated area with fresh moss and then moved off to start a new section nearby.

Right beside her, she found her first rat, still strung up and bound by the roots she had so desperately grown to defend herself. She walked over to inspect it, and suddenly wrinkled her nose in disgust as the reek of death and decay assaulted her nostrils. A mass of something white and crawly writhed within its open mouth, and somehow the black fungi had already begun colonizing its back, sprouting up out of the fur.

That fight had been terrifying, in a way that had left a lasting impression on her. She remembered her helplessness, the blood pouring from her wounds, and her rage at the unfairness of the world.

You’re not so scary anymore, are you? she thought, considering how she had spent the entire morning hunting rats just like this one, on purpose, taking on three or sometimes even four at a time. That’s the power of a class and combat skills, she thought. She had always known having a class would make an enormous difference, but it was something else to experience it so directly. Don’t forget, there are far more dangerous monsters than rats out there.

At least this was something she could clean up. Stretching out her hand, Ali channeled her Deconstruction magic and the sight of such a terrifying foe dissolving into golden motes of mana was profoundly satisfying. Like she was simultaneously deconstructing her trauma and fear. Proof that she had stood her ground and grown from the experience. As soon as the corpse disappeared, Ali felt the familiar pressure behind her eyes.

Imprint: Sewer Rat completed.

Sewer Rat? I did not want that! Ali’s Grimoire popped into existence, opening itself to the first empty chapter automatically. What happens if they’re all full? She had noticed that it seemed to grow an extra chapter every time the skill level increased, but it seemed plausible that she might run out of chapters if she wasn’t careful. For now, though, she had space, so she committed the knowledge to the pages of her Grimoire, once again watching the light show of the inscription with rapt fascination.

She was just about to try the new imprint when she suddenly stopped cold as she considered what it actually was.

“Malika,” she called out, “I got a new imprint, but it’s for the Sewer Rat. I want to try creating one, but I’m not sure if it will attack us. What do you think?”

Malika sprang to her feet. “You should totally try it,” she said. “One rat should be easy for us to handle now, even if it’s hostile.”

Confirming that Malika was ready, Ali sent her mana into the imprint. The light and runes were bigger than when she created moss, and eventually, it all coalesced into the familiar shape of a rat. Ali felt a pull from where she normally felt her mana draining when she used skills connecting to the rat.

Your reserved mana has increased by +15.Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 5.

In front of her stood a huge grayish rat, just like every Sewer Rat they had fought, though a little cleaner and less smelly on account of having been freshly created. It shuffled about and sniffed the air, gazing around. It looked at Ali for a moment, and then stared at Malika, sniffing at her, too. Their tense standoff continued for a while before the rat lost interest and resumed its shuffling about.

Sewer Rat – level 2

“It doesn’t look hostile,” Malika said.

Ali was shocked to see Malika poking the creature, but the rat had no overt reaction to Malika trying to annoy it.

Is it waiting for something? Ali considered the situation.

“Can you make it do anything?” Malika asked, clearly coming to the same conclusion.

“I’m not sure…” Ali said. Turning to the rat she commanded, “Sit!” The rat looked up at the sound of her voice, but quickly lost interest and continued meandering about.

“It probably it doesn’t understand Common,” Malika mused, then added a smirk that made Ali flush.

She tried again in each of the languages she knew, but the results were the same. She puzzled over the problem for a few moments before an idea occurred to her. Mustering her will, she visualized her intention – in much the same way as she focused on a target for Arcane Bolt, but an action instead of a thing – and sent it out along the mana connection she had felt when she had created the creature.

“Sit!”

It promptly sat.

“Oh wow, that’s cool!” Malika exclaimed.

“I didn’t expect that to work,” Ali said, rather surprised. “It seems to respond to mental intention and mana, somehow.”

“What else can you get it to do?” Malika asked excitedly.

What followed was a series of rat gymnastics and track events as they experimented with various ideas. The rat could follow surprisingly sophisticated commands such as “Follow Malika”, or “Run to that rock and come back.” Ali quickly learned that the vocalization of the command was not even necessary, just her intent.

“I got some strange notification about reserved mana,” Ali said, eventually tiring of coming up with crazy ideas for the rat to do and instead recalling the unusual message she had received when she created the rat.

Pulling up her status, she showed Malika her mana pool.

Mana: 385/400 (15 Reserved)

“I have a few skills that do that, too,” Malika said. “You have four hundred mana, but fifteen is set aside for the skill.”

“Ah, I see. What happens if I take the mana back?” Ali asked.

“For me, that just turns off my skill,” Malika answered.

Ali reached for the place where she felt the mana connection and pulled. Suddenly, her mana snapped back to normal, and the rat instantly screeched and attacked Malika.

“Sorry!” Ali yelped. Desperately, she tried to shove the mana back but quickly discovered that it was futile. The unreasonably erratic and frenzied rat tried to maul Malika, but she simply blocked and dodged most of the attacks, returning powerful, magic-enhanced punches.

In the end, Ali was forced to fire her Arcane Bolts at the rogue rat, and soon enough, the creature died.

Your group has defeated Sewer Rat – level 2.

Ali apologized again, but Malika just seemed amused.

“I guess your mana is what controls the creature,” she said. “It seemed crazed when you let it go.”

Ali deconstructed the corpse, recovering quite a bit less mana than the creature had cost to create.

“I think you’re a summoner, Ali,” Malika said.

Summoner. Her mind was suddenly filled with memories of her father and his creatures of Nature magic.

“My dad was a kind of summoner too.” Although Ali’s little rat was nothing compared to the seven- or eight-ton elementals of wood her father could make. “Do you think we can try using it to fight something?” She had no idea if this would work or was even smart. But her father had used creatures for battle, and there was a little spark of hope within her that she might be like him someday.

“That’s a great idea, Ali,” Malika answered, “I think I saw some spiders over by the edge of the cavern. We could go try it on those.”

A little surprised by Malika’s enthusiasm for her experiment, especially after she had just created a monster that turned on them, Ali channeled her mana into the imprint once more.

Your reserved mana has increased by +8.Sewer Rat – level 1

The level-one monster is quite a bit cheaper. Ali observed that other than the level difference, the rat behaved in much the same fashion, and it was easy to get it to follow them as Malika searched for a suitable fight.

Eventually, Malika found them a spider.

Giant Spider – level 2

The spider had a bulbous round body, spindly legs, and a sleek shiny black carapace. Its hissing screeches set her teeth to clenching and her skin crawling.

Malika immediately rushed forward and punched it, and Ali tried to get her rat to attack the spider, too. It took only a few tries to realize that she could target the spider mentally, the same as when she used her Arcane Bolt spell. When she did that and visualized attacking, the rat immediately sprang into action. Ali studied it as her rat hissed and bit the spider’s legs while Malika punched it from the front.

Malika wasn’t struggling, so Ali decided to experiment further. Formulating her intent carefully, she sent the instruction to ‘defend Malika’. Obviously, she had to use the image of Malika rather than her name, but the rat immediately interposed itself between Malika and the spider. Quickly, Ali rescinded the order and returned it to attacking normally.

Potentially useful, but not when Malika is tanking. Or, maybe to give her a break?

The battle drew out far longer than normal because Ali was not using her Arcane Bolt magic, but she learned she could position the rat to flank the spider opposite Malika, and she could even pick targets, such as attacking the left back leg, or the abdomen.

Your group has defeated Giant Spider – level 2.

“I learned a lot,” Ali told Malika after the battle while she deconstructed the spider. Malika had to Meditate for longer because the battle had taken more of her resources to keep going. But as Ali explained what she had tried, Malika encouraged her to experiment more.

“The more you know, the stronger you can get,” Malika said. Ali found that this resonated well with her.

“I want to try targeting with my Arcane Bolt and commanding the rat simultaneously next time,” Ali said.

“Well, I’m ready,” Malika responded. “Let’s find another one.”

“You like this far too much.”

“I like staying alive.”

For an hour, they fought spiders while Ali fine-tuned her new ability. Her role in the battles had just gotten a lot more complex. However, the fights became a lot more reliable and quicker as soon as she figured out how to control her rat and shoot at the same time. And Ali was thoroughly enjoying learning.

“Why don’t you make a second one?” Malika suggested while they sat between fights.

“Controlling two might be a challenge,” Ali said thoughtfully. But in her heart, she welcomed it. It was really a matter of focus and concentration, one of the few things in this new world that Ali felt she had a good handle on.

Channeling her magic once more while Malika meditated, Ali created a second rat.

Your reserved mana has increased by +15.Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 6.Sewer Rat – level 2

Checking her status quickly, Ali confirmed she was now reserving twenty-three mana for her two summoned rats. She tried a few test commands to get familiar with using two creatures.

They took down the first lone spider so fast that Malika began attacking groups instead of waiting for spiders that were wandering on their own.

It was an explosion of chaos. With multiple enemies, two rats, and her own spells to contend with, Ali was nearly overwhelmed. But then she figured some things out. For one, she could hold a single target in her mind and send the same command to both rats simultaneously. And she could leave the rats with fairly simple commands, such as ‘attack that spider’ and they would figure it out on their own. It seemed their combat instincts remained intact, even though they were freshly summoned monsters.

And then she figured out she could share the target for the rats and her Arcane Bolt, and that made a whole lot of things easier.

But it wasn’t just Ali experimenting. Malika had decided she should learn to heal the rats mid-combat, and that greatly extended their life and usefulness.

Ali was getting a headache and mental fatigue after several hours of killing spiders while controlling her creatures, so when her notification chimes eventually went off, she suggested they stop for the day. Just like her, Malika had reached level four, but she waited till they returned to the shrine area to read the notifications.

Your group has defeated Giant Spider – level 1.... Your group has defeated Giant Spider – level 3. Grove Warden has reached level 4.+10 attribute points.Arcane Bolt has reached level 5.Barrier has reached level 5.Grimoire of Summoning has reached level 7.Imprint: Giant Spider completed.

I guess that was predictable. Ick.

She added the Giant Spider imprint to her next open chapter, grimacing a little as she did. Ali wasn’t particularly fond of spiders at the best of times – and these were bigger than she was, with ugly snapping mandibles. At least they’re not venomous. But she wasn’t going to ignore a new imprint, either. Especially now that she knew she was a summoner, adding another creature, even a spider, to her Grimoire was far too good of an opportunity to squander due to squeamishness.

Ali followed the same plan as before, dividing her attribute points between vitality, wisdom, and intelligence. The extra intelligence might even help me direct my monsters simultaneously. When she reviewed her status, she noticed that, curiously, the reserved mana had dropped from twenty-three to twenty-two when she had leveled up. She quickly pulled up the skill description, confirming that there was indeed a small discount for the reserve cost each time she leveled – something she hadn’t understood and therefore forgot when she had first gained the skill.

This time, Malika chose to sleep first. Ali gave her two rats the command to guard them and then opened her Grimoire and began to study the complex formation of delicate runes inscribed in it. With her newfound proficiency in runic magic due to Runic Script, she even managed to puzzle out several new runes she had never seen before. But she was still far from understanding the whole structure of the magic. Especially given how tiny the runes were, and the sheer, dizzying variety of them covering the pages – aside from which, at least half of them appeared to be in some language she didn’t even understand. Yet.

