Aliandra

After breakfast, Ali followed Malika out into the darkness as they searched for monsters to test themselves against. The transition as she stepped out of her mossy domain around the shrine and into the larger cavern was jarring, going from invigorating and vibrant to death and decay in the space of just a couple of steps. Ali shivered involuntarily and summoned a small barrier for light, trying not to breathe quite so deeply through her nose.

As her magic skill leveled up and she invested more in her intelligence attribute, she sensed her control and proficiency with her barriers improving dramatically. It was just yesterday that she required intense focus to place the barrier, and little to no control over how it appeared. Now she could summon the constructs easily, placing them one at a time for illumination, and with just a little more attention she could even limit the size of the barrier substantially to conserve her mana.

It seemed that her and Malika’s efforts yesterday had eliminated most of the nearby monsters and so it took a fair while to walk to an unexplored area. Either the monsters had territories, or they simply hadn’t noticed the gaps yet.

She took the opportunity to really look around at what had become of her home. Many of the ancient oaks still stood, trunks wider around than houses – but they were blackened and dead, slowly succumbing to decay and the predations of the ever-present mushrooms and fungi. It was still astounding to her that they had survived intact for so many long centuries. The terrain too, had changed – transformed beyond recognition. What had once been gentle forested hills with beautiful streams and trees, filled with birds and wildlife, was now muddy moss, boulders, decaying wood, and scattered bones. As they moved further and further from the shrine, the pretty glowing mushrooms grew progressively scarcer, replaced by pitch-black fungi that infested the dead wood and bones. The reek of decay and rot quickly became cloying. The piles of bones grew progressively more common and stacked up higher and higher till they appeared at a distance like dunes or drifts of gruesome, horrifying snow. It seemed as if the shrine itself had been standing as a beacon, the last bastion holding back the darkness and decay as the ages ravaged her father’s old domain.

The air hung heavy with an oppressive stillness, broken only by the distant howls and screeches of the monsters that lurked in the foreboding gloom steeped in the ancient lingering remnants of the Blind Lich’s touch. That skin-crawling chill of his mana seemed to emanate from the very ground, just like the prickling premonitions she had felt on that awful day on the way to meet Maeria, turning the once-vibrant Grove into a crypt.

Nevyn Eld. She could only imagine what he must have done to turn the thriving city of Dal’mohra, and the verdant life of her father’s forest, into this.

“Over there,” Malika whispered, halting their advance.

Up ahead, rooting around among the bones and dead trees, she saw three Sewer Rats. Despite all the practice from yesterday, Ali couldn’t quite quell the anxiety that rose within her. This would be the first time they were going to try to tackle a group together – at least on purpose.

Sewer Rat – level 2-3 x3.

She called out the levels for Malika’s benefit.

“Ok,” Malika said. “You can use your roots on the level two rat. I will tank the others while you shoot from the back and act as lookout.”

“What is ‘tank’?” Ali didn’t understand the unfamiliar term. She still struggled occasionally with her new proficiency in the common language of this time, but Malika’s usage hinted at a more specific meaning – something that eluded her.

“I keep forgetting you didn’t have any combat experience or training growing up,” Malika said. “Tank is adventurer jargon for getting hit – or being the person who puts themselves in front of the monster to get hit. I will go over and annoy the rats, so they hit me instead of you, that way you are free to shoot and control the other rat.”

“That sounds unfair,” Ali frowned. “I will fight too – I even put points into vitality like you suggested. I don’t want you to have to do all the hard work because I’m weaker.”

Is she looking down on me because I’m not as tough as she is? It didn’t help that Ali didn’t think she was all that tough herself, and Malika certainly had experience with a rather rougher life.

Malika stopped and turned to face her, a serious expression appearing on her face. “I already know you’re brave,” she replied. “But think about what each of us is good at. I have more than twice your health, I have an armor and a dodge skill, a heal, and I can only attack from close up. Your arcane magic can dish out some serious damage, but you can’t use it if you’re being eaten by a rat. I’m not trying to be condescending; I really think this is how to get the most out of both of our classes.”

“Oh, I didn’t think of it like that,” Ali said, a little chagrined at her snap judgment. She had often enjoyed optimization problems and when Malika put it like that, it really did make sense. “So, you’re trying to get the most out of us specializing?”

“Yes, exactly,” she said smiling. “You provide control, lookout, and damage. I’m the tank and healer. It’s called teamwork.”

Smiling uncertainly at the obvious attempt at a joke, Ali asked, “Is that always going to be my role?”

“No, it will change depending on who is in our group, and what we are fighting,” Malika answered. “Though, you’re unlikely to ever be the tank.”

Tiny tank! Tada! Surely, she could be the best tank under one meter. She was certainly cuter than any Gnome warrior she had seen.

Malika paused for a moment and then added, “Just remember, I’m doing this by what I was taught. I am just as inexperienced as you. If you think of a better idea, then we can definitely try it.”

“Ok I’m ready,” Ali said. She liked Malika’s honest and open manner and having her share her thinking and admit her own inexperience made Ali feel a lot better. Also, having names for the roles made it sound very official. While she knew it was a trivial thing, Ali liked the sound of her roles.

“Ok, begin with the roots,” Malika said. “I’ll attack as soon as they notice us.”

Shifting forward until she was close enough to use her spell, Ali cast her Grasping Roots on the weakest rat. It was like dumping a stink bomb into a crowded café. As soon as the roots erupted from the ground trapping the rat, chaos erupted with screeches, hisses, and the mad scramble of sharp claws. The two free rats turned toward her and charged in a blur of scraggly fur and bared teeth. Fear surged through her at the sight of the monstrous rats bearing down on her with clear killing intent in their black eyes. She gritted her teeth and stood her ground through pure willpower, using a little mana to create a Barrier in front of herself just in case.

I’m still not over that first rat. Malika, where are you?

As if summoned by her terrified plea, Malika dashed in from the side, intercepting both rats. Her magic flickered, bright blue-white coronas of energy that flashed with every impact as she danced among the monsters, delivering kicks and punches with grace and precision.

Reminding herself of Malika’s careful plan, Ali held her position with a calmness she felt in no bone of her body, waiting until both rats were fully focused on her friend. It was far harder than she had thought. Gleaming claws slashed at Malika’s ribs. Yellowed teeth snapped at her face, as a snarling brawl erupted. Through it all, Ali had to stand there and watch the blood fly.

Come to think of it, perhaps tanking isn’t my thing…

“Ok, now!” Malika yelled.

Ali picked the closer rat and fired. Her arcane bolts arced over her barrier and lanced into the rat’s back and shoulders, landing with a sequence of quick thumps eliciting pained screeches and leaving thin wisps of smoke rising from the points of impact.

Ali took her roles seriously.

Trusting the bolts to do their work, she made sure to scan the surroundings for any extra monsters that may have heard the ruckus, and then she double-checked her root magic just in case. Her attention swapped back to the battle, and she immediately saw why Malika had assigned her the lookout role. Malika was dodging and weaving around the rats so much that it was unlikely she had any decent awareness of the surrounding area.

She sent another volley of bolts at the rat before she recast her root magic, keeping the frustrated third rat well out of the way. Ali’s heart raced. When they had been discussing the strategy, her three roles seemed easy. Almost trivial. Now, in the face of three furious, snarling monsters, their success depended on her doing her part and she found it to be infinitely more challenging. She scanned the area again, and finding nothing, fired another volley of bolts. Much to Ali’s surprise, the rat slumped to the ground in a heap.

“Good job!” Malika shouted, a little breathless from dodging.

So quick? She took a second to scan the battlefield, taking stock of the fight so far. To her surprise, she realized she had been able to maintain her arcane bolts, even while taking on all her other tasks simultaneously. Malika was right, the extra points in my intelligence attribute definitely improved my control.

Malika’s magic flashed as she healed herself, and then a kick lashed out with enough power to send the other rat sprawling. Ali immediately responded, adding her arcane magic to the fight, making sure to maintain her vigilance on the surroundings and refresh her roots.

It’s working.

And she hadn’t even needed her Barrier magic yet. Everything seemed to be going according to the plan. Even though her heart was racing, it didn’t seem to be out of fear – not anymore. Am I excited? Even though she wouldn’t describe her feelings as happy, Ali decided she could begin to understand the term ‘thrill of battle’.

The second rat died to a brutal glowing kick to the side of the head and three of Ali’s golden bolts slamming into its back. At once, Malika charged over to the rat Ali had been keeping trapped for the entire fight. With a withering flurry of punches and kicks, and Ali’s gracefully arcing arcane magic, the final rat collapsed, and the battle was suddenly over as silence descended once more. Ali remembered to scan the area again before she ran over to check on Malika. While her clothes were mostly in tatters, she didn’t have a scratch on her.

“Are you ok?” Ali asked, a little breathless.

“I healed myself, Ali,” she said.

“Oh, of course. It went well, don’t you think?” Ali asked. It had felt like it went well, but she wasn’t exactly certain when it came to combat.

“Yes,” Malika said, “that was perfect. No surprises and everything went well. Let’s regenerate our mana and then go find some more rats.”

Ali quickly deconstructed all three rats and waited while Malika restored her stamina and mana using Meditation.

For the remainder of the morning – at least, Ali chose to think of it as morning – they hunted rats. The unrelenting darkness down in the cavern was beginning to mess with her sense of time, but Ali was filled with a sense of purpose as she rapidly grew in her understanding of combat as a mage.

Not all the fights went quite as smoothly as the first. Occasionally, her roots would break earlier than expected and she would have to react with her Barrier to regain control. Once, an extra rat had tried to ambush Ali from behind and it had been only Malika’s timely warning that allowed her to save it with a Barrier. It had been chaos for a while, but she had managed to cast a second Grasping Roots, barely managing to hang on to both spells, but as soon as Malika had managed to secure three of the rats, things had stabilized.

Tank sounds so weird as a verb, Ali thought, but she was making an effort to adopt the proper terms, and she understood the intent of the word clearly now after having seen Malika take the role time and again.

As they headed back to the shrine, Ali reflected on her upbeat mood. She hadn’t expected combat to require such specialization and teamwork, but in hindsight, and with the experience she had gained, it made a lot more sense. With a teammate like Malika helping her with strategy, fighting felt much less crazy and uncontrolled – and when things did go poorly, Ali was becoming much more adept at reacting to the ever-changing situations with effective responses.

Ali paused as she entered her little patch of moss around the shrine, stopping to take a deep breath and savor the sudden feeling of vitality and energy she sensed from her domain. She and Malika had been fighting all morning, with little downtime, but somehow, she wasn’t nearly as tired as she expected. I’m not getting injured as much anymore, she reasoned. And I feel a lot less stressed.

Sitting down on the moss near Malika, Ali scanned through the notifications from their morning of rat hunting.

Your group has defeated Sewer Rat – level 2-3 x8.Grove Warden has reached level 3.+10 attribute points.Grasping Roots has reached level 4.Arcane Bolt has reached level 4.Barrier has reached level 4.

It seemed crazy that they had defeated so many rats. Even though it had taken at least three or four hours, it was still more than she ever imagined she could survive.

“I got to level three!” she exclaimed.

“Congratulations,” Malika smiled. “I just got it on the last fight, too. That’s decent progress, Ali.”

“What should I do with my points? More vitality? The intelligence has been helping a lot, and I hardly got hit today.”

“There were a few close calls,” Malika said thoughtfully. “Like when we got that add.”

Add? It took Ali a second before she recalled that Malika liked using the term ‘add’ as a shorthand reference for ‘additional monster’. More adventurer jargon. When they had inadvertently attracted an extra Sewer Rat mid-combat, things had become unstable really quickly. She had been quick enough to save the situation with a Barrier before Malika could grab the attention of the rat, but it could have so easily gotten so much worse. Just a small lapse in focus caused by pain or fear could have caused the entire fight to spiral into disaster.

“That’s true,” Ali replied.

“It’s a balancing act that only you can decide. Intelligence makes your spells hit harder, making the fights shorter and safer, so it’s valuable, too. But my dad always told me, this is not the legends or the stories where the gods can reach down and give you a second chance. If you must misjudge your vitality, you would much rather have too much than too little.”

