Two days before Christmas, Ryoka stared up at a Frost Faerie and wondered how it had come to this.
“Come on, Ivolethe. Please?”
 
“Nae. I won’t do it!”
 
Ivolethe folded her arms and glared at Ryoka and Laken. The Frost Faerie hovered outside of the Runner’s Guild as Laken and Ryoka stood and argued with her. Durene and Gamel and Reynold were all standing a bit back, watching the young man and woman argue with what was, to them, a fuzzy patch of air.
“I’ll make you the Archduchess of Presents. How about that?”
 
“Not if ye made me a Großfürstin! I won’t act like an Ellylldan—like some common pixie! I refuse to guide Ryoka to your worthless little village!”
 
Ivolethe sneered at Laken and flicked snow at his face. He recoiled as Ryoka tried another tact. They’d been arguing with Ivolethe for fifteen minutes, but the Frost Faerie hadn’t budged.
“Come on, Ivolethe. We need your help. You’re the only one who could navigate through this snow.”
She gestured at the thick, falling snow around them. It was already piling up on the ground, and it made looking down the street a chore. Travelling outside would mean getting lost and freezing to death—for everyone but Ivolethe.
 
“Nae. Not even for friendship, Ryoka. My pride will not allow it.”
 
“Please, Ivolethe? Think of the children.”
The Frost Faerie paused. It was a low blow, but Ryoka saw it connect and pressed her advantage.
“They’re all by themselves in Laken’s village—probably hungry and cold. Think about that, Ivolethe. If I don’t bring food and supplies to them, they might freeze to death!”
 
“I’m thinking. So what?”
 
“You’d be doing a good thing. And you’d be a hero. I bet they’ll put up a statue to you, right, Laken?”
She nudged the blind man. He rubbed at his side and nodded.
“Oh, absolutely. I’ll put up a statue to you, Ivolethe. I swear it.”
The faerie wavered.
 
“Well…perhaps. But does it have to be red?”
 
Ryoka traded a glance with Laken. He didn’t trade one back.
“It would uh, be easier to see.”
He spread his hands and smiled up towards Ivolethe.
“Red is a very traditional color for Christmas, Ivolethe. And Rudolph’s nose was red. If you changed the color you…erm, you’d be doing the same thing as him. He was a hero, you know. Very famous.”
 
“Really?”
 
The Frost Faerie swooped down, intrigued. Laken nodded.
“Oh yes. Rudolph is…a, uh, legend where we come from. A folk hero, you could say. Beloved by all. Children everywhere in our world know his story.”
Ryoka held her breath. Ivolethe flew back upwards and muttered to herself. She looked down at Ryoka and sighed.
 
“A statue, ye say?”
 
Laken nodded.
“I swear it.”
Ivolethe sighed. She looked down at the two Humans and nodded slowly.
 
 “Well then. What shade must I be? Red of blood? Red of desert sand? Red of setting suns?”
 
Ryoka could have cheered. She smiled at Ivolethe and held her hands up towards the faerie.
“Bright red. Crimson, in fact. Like a flare—like this. See?”
Ryoka held up her hands and concentrated. The [Flare] spell burst into life between her hands, a brilliant searing red light that made Gamel and Durene cover their faces. Laken didn’t flinch.
 
“I see. Let me try.”
 
Ivolethe frowned at the brilliant red light and closed her eyes. She gritted her tiny teeth and then the blue aura surrounding her began to shift. The color blue deepened, and then turned purple—then a deep red, and then the same shade of brilliant red as the light in Ryoka’s hand.
“Dead gods!”
“By the Five Families…”
Reynold, Durene, and Gamel reacted as the nimbus of light around Ivolethe changed. The faerie, her body of blue crystal ice now lit by a red glow which turned her entire form light pink, stared at Ryoka with a sour expression on her face.
 
“It is done. Let us be off, Ryoka Griffin. I dislike this immensely, but I will help.”
 
“Thank you, Ivolethe.”
The faerie stared at Laken, and then away. The [Emperor] turned to Ryoka as she bent to make sure the laces of her shoes were tied firmly.
“I can’t thank you enough for this.”
“Thank me after I’m done. It’s a long run, but I’ll try to be back tomorrow—or failing that, the day after that. I want to get back and then have Reynold bring me to Liscor. Hopefully I can make it in time for Christmas. If I can’t, well, this is more important.”
Laken reached out and Ryoka offered him a palm to grip.
“You’re a good person, Ryoka Griffin.”
“So you say. Myself, I’m not convinced.”
He grinned and stepped back. Ryoka was doing a second check.
“You have everything you need? Stamina potions?”
“At my belt, courtesy of the Runner’s Guild. Good thing these ones don’t freeze solid. Octavia’s are sort of crap.”
“And you have the second bag of holding?”
“Here as well.”
Ryoka patted the bag hanging at her side. It felt incongruous at her waist—far too light for what she knew it contained. Food for the village, extra blankets, tools they needed—and presents! And yet the bag felt like it only held five pounds of weight.
Magic.
She was ready to go. Ryoka stepped towards Ivolethe.
“Ready?”
The faerie didn’t answer her. Ryoka frowned.
“Ivolethe?”
The Frost Faerie was gazing towards the sky. She uttered an oath—it sounded like it was in Celtic—and sprang up into the air. Ryoka had no idea why—until she saw the other blue shapes flying down towards her. She groaned.
“Oh no.”
Laken turned.
“What is it?”
“Company. More Frost Faeries.”
“And that’s a bad thing?”
Ryoka didn’t answer. She heard the tiny, crystal voices ringing through the air as the faeries flew down, circling Ivolethe’s lone red glow and laughing.
 
“Sister, sister! What is this you do?”
“She’s changed her color! What rot! What foolishness!”
“Shut up! I do this for friendship and goodwill! Mock me not, fools!”
 
Ivolethe roared at her sisters, flying angrily at them as they laughed and flew about her. Ryoka saw the faeries hitting each other and felt a shock—the Frost Faeries played rough! They didn’t just pull at hair—Ivolethe bit one of her sisters in the arm and was mobbed by two of the others in return.
“Hey, stop, stop!”
Ryoka’s voice stilled the fighting above her for a second. Frost Faeries abandoned their squabble for an easier target. They flew around Ryoka, pointing and jeering.
 
“Look, the boring one speaks!”
“So slow, so uninteresting! But she is with the ruler! Tell us, stupid one. Why is our sister red?”
 
“She’s helping me deliver aid to a village. She’s going to be…a hero.”
The faeries scoffed and laughed, but Ryoka knew them. She raised her hands.
“You may not believe me, but Ivolethe is fulfilling a legend. She’s going to make children happy. You see, there’s a story about a reindeer called Rudolph—”
She got only halfway into her explanation before the faeries swirled around her, laughing with delight.
 
“A guide? What fun! We shall go too!”
“Yes, let us guide the silly Human!”
 
Laken blinked, and Ryoka hesitated. He sidled over to her and whispered as they laughed and flew up and around them.
“They’re not like Ivolethe at all.”
“Some of them aren’t. I think these ones are…younger? Ivolethe’s old, but some of the other faeries seem pretty gung-ho about anything that seems interesting.”
“Is that a good thing or a bad thing?”
Ryoka scowled.
“I don’t know. But it’s better to have them on your side than against you.”
“I agree with that.”
A change in the light above caught Ryoka’s attention. All of the faeries were copying Ivolethe, changing their colors. But they weren’t all turning red. No, some of them were turning green, others blue or purple—in no time at all, a storm of colors flew about in the air.
“I can’t believe it.”
Reynold was gaping and Durene and Gamel were staring upwards like children seeing fireworks or stars for the first time. Ryoka stared too.
Faeries, dancing in the night sky in every color imaginable. She felt something stir in her heart, but quashed it. She had a job to do.
She cleared her throat, and the faeries stopped flying about. Ryoka felt some semblance of ceremony was needed here, so she stood straight and pointed west, towards where Riverfarm lay.
“Is everyone ready? We’re going to Riverfarm, Laken’s village. You know the way?”
Ivolethe flew down and the faeries lined up behind her. She scowled.
 
“Aye, these fools know. We go, then?”
 
Ryoka nodded. She took a breath, and felt just a hint of Christmas spirit in her. Maybe that was what prompted her to say what she did next.
“Alright then. On Ivolethe, on Blue Faerie, on Green Faerie, and Cinnabar Faerie! On Puce Faerie, on Indigo Faerie, on Yellow Faerie and—you know what? Let’s just go.”
The faeries laughed and flew ahead. Ryoka ran after them, cursing as her shoes slipped a bit on the snow.
“Good luck!”
Laken shouted after her. He couldn’t see Ryoka leave, but he heard her footfalls die away quickly in the snow.
“She’s gone, right, Durene?”
“Yes, Laken. Did you see—I mean, those Winter Sprites! I’ve never seen—uh—”
“You’ll have to tell me how amazing it was.”
Laken smiled as he held out a hand and Durene took it. He carefully felt around at the rucksack he was carrying.
“I hope Ryoka gets to Riverfarm all right. But I won’t worry about it. For now, let’s get inside, have something hot to drink, and rest. But before all that—Durene, this is for you.”
“For me?”
The half-Troll blinked as Laken pulled something out of the rucksack. He’d had to buy it when she wasn’t around with Gamel’s help, but the indrawn breath he heard from her was worth it.
“It’s a present. For you. Merry Christmas, Durene. I don’t know what I’d do or where I’d be without you.”
He held out the clumsily-wrapped box, and felt two large hands take it from him.
“I—I don’t know—this is for Christmas, right? But how did you—Laken.”
“It’s for you. Open it.”
“I’ve never gotten a present before. Ever.”
Something constricted in Laken’s chest. He reached out and touched Durene’s hand.
“Well, today you did.”
He smiled. Durene stared down at the small box. Her hands trembled. She began to cry.
In the city of Invrisil, a blind man reached out and hugged a half-Troll girl as the snow began to fall harder outside. At the same time, a young woman ran out of the gates, following a red light that flew ahead of her. A stream of bright lights of every color flew around her, the only clear light in the darkness.
 
—-
 
“So, the presents will go here. If you’ve got them, put them here.”
Erin was busy in her inn the day before Christmas. She’d made a list, distributed it, and been happily surprised to find that most of her present-givers had already picked appropriate presents for the people she’d assigned them to.
Technically, they weren’t supposed to show her the presents, but Erin had forgotten to mention that presents were wrapped. A quick trip to Krshia solved that, and soon piles of bulky presents were occupying one corner of the inn.
It was a complex system Erin had devised, but in theory it meant that everyone who would be attending her party tomorrow would get two Christmas gifts. Assuming everyone bought presents, that was. Erin was worried she’d forgotten to include someone, but she thought she’d accounted for all who would be present.
And though they had only a day to get last-minute presents, Erin didn’t think that would be an issue. There was Christmas spirit in the air. Everyone she knew, from both Celum and Liscor, had heard about the holiday tradition by now. And most were quite eager to try it.
There was just something about giving and receiving gifts that appealed to people. Of course, the receiving mattered to some more than others.
Twice, Erin had to pull Mrsha away from her gift. The Gnoll was sniffing it and wagging her tail, and Erin was sure Mrsha could tell what was inside. But Mrsha was a kid, so excitement was understandable.
On the other hand, when it came to people like Relc, it was a bit more objectionable. The Drake had come to the inn early to drink and eat, and he’d stared at the pile of presents avidly. Now he crept about the presents, turning them over and growing increasingly frustrated.
“Hey! Where’s mine?”
Relc pawed through the presents, looking for ones with his name on it. He found none, to his increasing displeasure.
“Your Secret Santa might not have brought it yet. You’ll get two, Relc, so don’t worry.”
“Yeah?”
“Yeah! Don’t worry—Santa makes sure everyone gets a gift. Good kids, and bad ones. Although, the bad ones just get coal…”
“Right, I forgot. Santa, yeah. Where’s that guy?”
Relc scratched his head. Erin hadn’t talked to him as long as the others. She feared he might have gotten the wrong idea about Santa Claus—in that Relc hadn’t figured out yet that Santa wasn’t real. Still, she had more important things to do.
Some of the Gold-rank adventurers loitering about the inn watched as Erin climbed onto a chair and hung a large sprig in one corner of the room. They weren’t inclined to risk their necks in the dungeon around Christmas, so they had plenty of time to spare.
“What’s that?”
Revi wrinkled her nose as Erin nudged the collections of leaves and berries ever so slightly to the right. Erin turned and smiled wickedly.
“Mistletoe! Haven’t you heard about that?”
Sensing something else interesting, more people drew over to look doubtfully up at the somewhat dead leaves and white berries. Erin had been surprised to see they were white. She’d always thought of them as red. But this was the mistletoe Krshia had given her.
“What’s that supposed to do? Are we supposed to jump up and eat those berries? They look poisonous to me.”
Ceria wrinkled her nose as she stared at the berries. Erin laughed and shook her head.
“No! You kiss if you’re under it! Any people who stand under mistletoe have to kiss. It’s a Christmas tradition!”
Not one she’d practiced at home or ever in her world, actually, but Erin thought it was a fun idea.
The change that came over the people standing before her was immediate, though. Ceria and Yvlon hurried out of the mistletoe’s radius as if they were on fire. The others stared at each other.
“Well, that sounds like fun! Hey Typhenous!”
The [Mage] was too slow. Jelaqua Ivirith caught him and kissed him on the lips. He shuddered.
“Agh!”
“Sorry. Dead skin and all that. But that’s the tradition. Hey, Seborn, Moore. Want to try?”
The other two Halfseekers shook their head. They’d stayed away from the mistletoe and weren’t approaching.
