Halrac and Ulrien stared up at the mistletoe. They stared at each other. Ulrien coughed.
“Um, Miss Erin. Is there any hex or curse that activates if two people don’t kiss under the mistletoe?”
“No. It’s just fun.”
“Good.”
Halrac stomped quickly out of range. Ulrien followed suit.
“Well, I don’t see what the problem is. It’s just a kiss.”
Revi strolled over to the mistletoe, not standing quite beneath it as she looked around challengingly. She smiled mockingly at Typhenous who was taking a drink after being kissed by Jelaqua.
“A kissing game sounds fun. It reminds me of when I was younger. We’d swap mouths and kiss each other at parties.”
She tapped the stitch marks around her lips. Erin paused.
“Wow. Okay. Um, this is really just more of a tradition.”
“Why have a place to kiss if you won’t do it? Who’s good at kissing?”
“I’ll try.”
Pisces stepped forwards, to everyone’s great surprise. Revi looked him up and down, but then she smirked.
“Why not?”
Erin opened her mouth, raised her hand, and then waved it about, but she couldn’t stop what happened next. Pisces and Revi stepped beneath the mistletoe…and kissed.
It wasn’t long. There weren’t any sucking sounds or visibly tongue-in-cheek moments. But when it was done, Pisces stepped away looking slightly smug. And Revi—
Blushed.
Everyone in the room stared at her. Pisces sauntered back towards the other Horns of Hammerad and winked at Ksmvr. Erin heard the Antinium whispering to Pisces.
“I do not understand what happened. Comrade Pisces, please explain kissing—”
“Had your fun?”
Halrac asked Revi in an acidic tone as she stepped away from the mistletoe. Revi fanned at her face, glancing at Pisces.
“Well, that was surprising. He’s…not bad.”
“Not bad?”
Relc stared at Pisces. He laughed.
“You can’t be good or bad at kissing!”
“That shows what you know.”
Revi stared archly at him. Relc paused.
“Wait, you can be good at kissing?”
Revi, Typhenous, Ulrien, and Seborn nodded. Revi wandered back over to the mistletoe, and this time Jelaqua went with her. Other people from both genders drifted over.
Erin watched with part horror, part fascination. This wasn’t how mistletoe was supposed to be used, surely! But it seemed like there was actual skill at kissing being measured. Some were better than others. And apparently…Pisces was one of the best.
“You know, back home I was told that anyone who could tie a cherry stem into a knot with their tongue was a really good kisser.”
Erin mentioned that as she brought out some dried cherries she’d bought with that very fact in mind. Revi took a break from testing one of the [Actors] from Celum who’d come in for breakfast, and took a stem. She and quite a few people popped the cherries into their mouths and chewed thoughtfully.
Erin glanced around the room as she circulated with ‘testing cherries’. Now that she looked…she had a good distribution of races and genders today. People had come from both Liscor and through the door in Celum. There were Drakes, Gnolls, and a lot of Humans, male and female. She glanced at the mistletoe, where a few red-faced people and more with smiles on their faces were grouped. She had a bad feeling she knew what was coming next.
“Peh!”
Ceria spat out a completely un-knotted cherry stem into the palm of her hand and scowled.
“Not for me.”
“Hrm.”
Revi had bent her stem, but not managed to tie it into a knot. Neither had most of the people in the room. Jelaqua had, but Seborn called foul because she’d done it with her Selphid parts, not her actual tongue. But then Pisces pulled out a cherry stem with a knot tied right in the center.
Everyone stared at him. Jasi came over and stood beneath the mistletoe. She waved a claw at Pisces. She shrugged at Erin as the [Innkeeper] gave her a betrayed look.
“This is so wrong.”
She muttered as she saw Pisces become a target for kisses from the opposite gender. Ceria, standing next to her, shook her head.
“You put the mistletoe up, Erin. What did you think was going to happen?”
“Not this! I mean, why’s Pisces getting all the kisses?”
The half-Elf shrugged, staring at Pisces and not looking at Erin.
“He’s…not bad at kissing. That’s why. It’s fun to kiss him. He certainly got enough practice back in Wistram.”
Erin stared at Ceria. She opened her mouth, and then turned away.
“I don’t want to know! Gah! Mistletoe failure!”
The entertainment for the day continued as Erin served food to her guests. Word spread fast, and within a few hours more people came from both Celum and Liscor—ostensibly to eat and get out of the cold, but mainly to try the kissing game, which was what the mistletoe had become.
 
—-
 
Relc had lingered hopefully around the mistletoe for quite some time until he realized everyone was avoiding him. He stomped off, grumbling about stupid Humans, half-Elves, String People, and Drakes. He left some coins on his table and left the inn, feeling unhappy and out of sorts. No matter how long he’d waited, no one had brought a gift with his name on it. But Erin had said he’d get a gift! Two!
On the way back towards Liscor, Relc met Klbkch. The Antinium was hurrying up the hill and glancing over his shoulder. He seemed to be worried he’d be spotted.
“Yo, Klb. What’s the hurry?”
“I am attempting to avoid meeting my fellow Antinium from the Hive. If you are asked, you did not see me.”
Relc nodded in an understanding way. He didn’t understand much about Klbkch’s Hive or the relationship the Antinium had with the others—they all looked pretty much the same to Relc—but the Drake did understand not wanting to be spotted by angry people who had business with him.
“There’s no point in going to the inn. Erin’s hung a bunch of mistletoe up.”
“Indeed?”
Klbkch stared at Relc. The Drake nodded grumpily.
“Yup. That means if you stand beneath it, you have to kiss. Only, no one wants to kiss me.”
“Is Erin participating in this ritual?”
“Nope. But I’ve got bad news for you, Klb old buddy. Remember when Erin told us about the Secret Santa thing? With the presents?”
“Yes. I have obtained mine, although I have not placed them in her inn.”
“Well, you might want to hold off for a second. I checked and I didn’t find any presents for me. Not one. And I’m supposed to be getting two! And—get this—I didn’t find any for you, either.”
Klbkch paused.
“That is odd. Perhaps the gifts have not been placed yet.”
“Maybe.”
Relc shrugged moodily. He stared back at the inn, and lowered his voice as he confided in his partner.
“I’m worried we might not get any. Well, I know I’ll get some because everyone loves me. But you might not. Since you’re an Ant. Y’know?”
“This is a distinct possibility. The Secret Santas may object to my identity.”
“Yeah. So…I was thinking, why don’t we do a few good deeds today? I figure, if we show how Christmas-y we are, people will probably get us gifts anyways. Plus, don’t we get more presents if we’re good? That Santa guy brings them, right?”
Klbkch hesitated. He seemed to think as he crossed his arms.
“I did recall Bird mentioning something to that effect. But he was…vague. Is that what Erin said?”
“Yeah! Look, you weren’t here, but I heard her telling that thief-girl all about it. Good deeds means you get presents. So why don’t we do some?”
“I take it you have an idea in mind?”
“I might.”
Relc grinned as he rubbed at his chin. His dour mood had been replaced by a fun idea.
“Okay, here’s what I was thinking…I’ll run into the city and buy some stuff. You just need to find me a bag, a red suit, and uh, a beard. Make it white.”
“Very well. Let us proceed with your idea.”
The two [Guardsmen] headed back towards Liscor. That was fortunate for Klbkch, because an irate Antinium with blue shell missed him as she strode towards the inn.
Xrn opened the door and saw Revi step away as Typhenous hopefully tried for a kiss under the mistletoe. The Antinium watched with fascination, her ire with the elusive Klbkch forgotten as she witnessed several kisses…and those who didn’t get to kiss at all.
“Ew! Typhenous, no! Your breath smells horrible!”
The old [Mage] was crestfallen. He eyed Pisces as the younger man went back for round two with Revi. When Pisces was done, Typhenous caught the younger man.
“How is your breath not objectionable, young Pisces?”
Pisces paused. He took something out of a pocket and handed it to Typhenous. The mage stared down at the bit of green in his wrinkled palm. Pisces winked and whispered.
“Mint leaves.”
The old man stared at the leaves and then popped them into his mouth and chewed determinedly. The people who’d heard Pisces immediately left the inn to get some fresheners for their mouths.
Erin threw her hands up in the air.
“It’s not supposed to be a competition!”
She stomped over to the door to Octavia’s shop as Wesle hurried through it. Erin was going to close it, but Octavia called out.
“Erin! Erin! Get in here—I have something to show you!”
Erin paused at the doorway. She looked back at the kissing games, once again featuring Pisces as a main attraction and decided Octavia beat her inn. She walked through the door. What she and the occupied people of the inn didn’t notice was Mrsha, bored with the proceedings, slipping into Octavia’s shop as well.
“What have you got, Octavia?”
“Behold!”
The [Alchemist] was waving a bundle of what looked like twigs to Mrsha in front of Erin’s face. The Gnoll squinted and sniffed quietly as she hid in Octavia’s shop. She knew she wasn’t supposed to be here, but there were so many fascinating smells here! And Octavia had something strange in her hands.
They looked like small sticks, but with a bulb of…well, something strange on the ends. Erin had recognized them, though.
“Matches! No way! That’s it, exactly! Do they work?”
Octavia beamed, nodding and making her dreadlocks swing as she held one up to the light so Erin could see.
“It’s my newest creation. It’s not stable—I could do more with it, but you see, I’ve found a way to blend just a tiny bit of Corusdeer horn with sulfur and—look!”
She swiped the match down the side of the sandpaper box. Erin and Mrsha both gasped as the head of the match suddenly burst into flame. The Gnoll stared avidly at the flame on the end of the stick. How had Octavia done that? She’d simply moved the match…and there was fire! Was it magic? The Gnoll cub desperately wanted to try to do the same.
“You did it! That’s incredible! How’d you do it in one day?”
“Well, when you’re a talented [Alchemist]—I uh, might have made a few dozen prototypes. And stayed up all night. But once I realized how the general idea worked, it just came to me!”
Octavia’s eyes were more than a bit red and she was swaying slightly on her feet. She put the box of matches on her counter as she explained more about how she’d made them to Erin.
Mrsha crept towards the counter. She hesitated—Erin and Octavia were right next to her. But Erin was pointing back towards the open door to her inn and loudly complaining about Pisces kissing all the girls—and them enjoying it!
Octavia looked over, and Mrsha stood up. She snatched the box of matches and scampered away, silent as a moth in the moonlight.
“I’ll give you a box. I can make a lot more—and if I perfect the formula, I’ll be selling them for silver coins!”
“Not bronze?”
“I’m not giving my product away for nothing, Erin! But…let’s just say I’ll be making a bundle if I get this business off the ground. And I have you to thank for it!”
“Cool! How much is my cut?”
The [Alchemist]’s eyes widened. She began to splutter, before she saw Erin’s teasing grin. Still, that was an important point. Octavia took a breath and then she saw the door to her shop open, and a small bundle of white fur scamper out.
 
—-
 
Mrsha held one of the new matchsticks up in the cold morning air as she proceeded down the streets of Celum. Quite a few people were staring at her—Gnolls weren’t common at all in this city. Mrsha ignored them, and stopped by a street crossing.
How had Octavia done it? She’d just struck the match—pulled it fast against the side of the sandpaper. Like—
Mrsha slowly grated the matchstick against the sandpaper. It didn’t work. But then she moved her paw faster and the head flared and burst into flame!
Mrsha instantly dropped the matchstick in alarm. It went out as it landed in some snow. She peered at the stick, heart beating fast.
Fire! She’d made fire!
It was an instinctual thing, for Gnolls to love fire. Like Humans and Drakes, it was that which had helped them separate themselves from the part that was simply wild. It had brought order and light into the night, shown them that they didn’t have to hide in the darkness.
And Mrsha had made it. Without a flint and rocks. Without the need for dry tinder and time. She’d made fire.
And it had gone out. Mrsha rooted around in the snow, and found the matchstick again. She tried to reignite the head, but it was burnt out.
So they only worked once. But that was okay—the box Mrsha had taken had plenty of matches. She drew another, and lit it.
The small flicker of light on the cold winter day was insignificant. Small. It was something that would have passed unnoticed in Erin and Ryoka’s world—well, excluding the present. Any child doing that on a street now would probably cause a bomb scare. But in general, the match was an antiquated, ordinary thing. Who would pay attention to Mrsha and her box of matches in the cold?
Everyone, that’s who. A woman passing on the street stared as Mrsha lit the second match and held it up in the wind. She blinked at the Gnoll. She suspected magic, but the way Mrsha blew out the flame and then lit another match informed her that it was not magic. She stopped and spoke to the Gnoll.
“How did you do that?”
Mrsha looked up in alarm. She understood the woman, but the first thing in her mind was guilt. Did she know Mrsha had taken the box without asking? Mrsha scampered away.
“Hey, wait!”
Mrsha ran back towards the shop. Then she saw who was striding down the street and ran back. Octavia caught sight of Mrsha and shouted.
“There you are! Wait you little minx!”
There was a certain tone adults could use that told children the consequences of not obeying would be far worse than if they did. Mrsha halted reluctantly. She hid the match box behind her as Octavia strode over.
“I saw that! You’re…Mrsha, right? Well, that box belongs to me. You can’t just go around taking things—even if Erin does take care of you! Give it back!”
