Stopping in his tracks, Vichear turned and shrugged before Sending, “I’m gonna go form my Natal Soul and Palace. Don’t worry, I’ll keep Rain boyo’s secret. My guess is his family already knows, hard to hide something like this from the ones you love. If anyone asks, you came up with the idea all on your own, got it?”

“Wait, just like that? Aren’t you worried?”

Another shrug followed by a Sending. “Why does it matter? Worrying does no good, either something happens or it doesn’t. The beggar lived for decades before he finally snapped and was even functional for most of em by all accounts. Ain’t guaranteed Rain boyo or the rest of us go the same way, just something to watch out for. Besides, it’s well worth the risk if I can become an expert, ain’t no two ways about it.” Looking upbeat and carefree, Vichear strolled away humming a merry tune, hoping to soon join the Empire’s Roster of Experts.

Dumbfounded and confused, Dastan sank to the ground and reached for Balance. Entering his Natal Palace, he found his Natal Soul reclining on a luxurious divan and feasting on all manner of exotic luxuries with childish delight. Noticing his arrival, it opened its mouth in silent delight before soaring over to tug on Dastan’s moustache. ‘Welcome back,’ it seemed to say, its emotions mentally transmitted to Dastan. Conjuring a tiny axe, it waved it about in adorable pantomime of Dastan’s practice, eager to have someone to play with.

Was this Natal Soul an extension of Dastan’s will or was it its own person? It was so tiny, barely larger than Dastan’s palm and unable to speak, but it learned so quickly. When it was first formed, all it did was wander aimlessly through the Palace, but soon it began fashioning all manner of things from the real world, from beds and luxuries to the obstacle course from the training grounds, all perfectly sized for its deformed body. Hard to imagine this joyful, indulgent creature taking over Dastan’s life, or even becoming bloodthirsty and savage like the boss’s combat persona.

Wait...

What if the ‘real’ Rain had already been displaced and the Rain they knew and adored was the Natal Soul, with his original self coming out in times of battle? What if, in the process of being Tainted or becoming Defiled, the real Rain retreated into himself and the Natal Soul took over?

...

Dastan’s head spun wondering ‘what if’ repeatedly until he threw his arms up in surrender. Agonizing over unimportant details was beyond silly. Opening his eyes, Dastan lifted Ulfsaar onto the patiently waiting Charger, ignoring the twinge of pain from his freshly healed ribs. A marvellous thing this Panacea, it was a little known secret it also had been discovered by the boss. If Rain could come up with one miracle technique, then why not a second? That’s all this was, a new discovery, and all these unfounded fears were just Dastan making mountains out of molehills.

What mattered was this: Falling Rain was a good man and Dastan would follow him into the Father’s Maw if need be. No, not merely follow, Dastan would lead the charge, slaughtering all who stood in his path.

For Dastan had faith the Mother’s Chosen Son wouldn’t steer him wrong.

Chapter Meme
