“It's limited to 20 feet, because my character has a grandmother that's half-elf.”

“You can set things like that?” Ren asked.

“Let me guess.” Jennifer said and pulled on the whip. Ren didn't move, and neither did his hand; so, she walked forward instead and gathered the whip in her hands. “You had someone else create your character.”

Ren nodded. “I had someone assist me when I first started playing.”

“Please tell me you didn't stick with the standard skill set.” Jennifer said, and when she stood in front of him, he let the end of the whip go. She tossed the bundle across the room and it landed on the hook she had taken it from.

“I'm a special class.” Ren said. “I don't have a standard skill set at all.”

Jennifer smiled. “Is that why you're so... scrumptious?”

“Scrumptious?” Ren said and chuckled. “I'm not sure what you mean.”

“Since I won the competition, all I can think about is how good you'll look on my bed.” Jennifer whispered. “Your arms and legs are shackled, and I'm straddling your naked body while I whip your chest and pleasure myself.”

“Is that really what the 'first dance' is?” Ren asked.

“Yes.” Jennifer said and pulled her hand back to slap him.

“Careful.” Ren said. “You'll hurt yourself if you do that.”

Jennifer swung as hard as she could, and Ren didn't try to stop her or avoid the hit. Her palm struck the cheek of his face and the sound of the slap reverberated off the bedroom's walls. Jennifer gasped and grabbed her hand, and Ren had heard at least one broken bone.

“You... your head didn't move.”

“I have Rock Steady, Unstoppable, and Improved Toughness (3).” Ren said and held a hand out to her. “I've also spent a lot of time in an extreme high pressure environment.”

Jennifer placed her hurt hand in his, and he examined it.

“Two broken fingers.” Ren said and took out a Major Healing wand to heal her.

“Th-thank you.” Jennifer said. “So, you won't let me do what I want?”

“Is that what you want? Just something to ride and hurt while you enjoy yourself?” Ren asked, and felt that she really wanted it.

“It... it's my fantasy.” Jennifer said. “No one I've been with can take it. They'll let me hit them lightly once or twice, then they take over and we just have sex.” She said sadly. “Even Billy can't do it. I love him so much, and yet... he can't give me what I want. What I need.” She pleaded and put her hands on the sides of his face. “Ren, you... you can take it. You've proven that you don't have to; but, I want you to.”

Ren could feel her desperation and unfulfilled need and absorbed some of it. He also felt that she had hidden her desire for it for far too long.

“If I agree to this, it's a one-time thing only.” Ren said. “I'm not going to follow up with this, and nothing will ever happen between us again.”

“I promise!” Jennifer said. “If I intended to do this with you again, we'd be upstairs in my apartment and not here at work.”

“All right.” Ren said, and his ability leveled up as Jennifer let an enormous amount of repressed desire flood into him. She moved her hands down his armor bodysuit and took one of his hands with both of hers, then walked backwards as she led him over to the bed.

“I'm going to have so much fun!” Jennifer said, and Ren absorbed some of her happiness.
