Back home, Daly would have been enjoying his summer break. He’d be flying back, looking forwards to being home. Of course, he’d be looking for a job, but he’d be glad to be home. He’d even like to see his sister. Addy’d been fighting with his parents often, and she was a pain to be around when she was in a mood. But he would have liked to see her.
Funny. It had been months since Daly had thought of Addy. Or his family. It was as if he’d forgotten—
Daly opened his eyes as someone dropped something hard on the ground that clattered. He jerked, sprang to his feet, and whirled.
“Oh my god!”
Lights. Motion. In Daly’s blurred vision, they resolved themselves into a girl, barely fifteen. She was staring at him, holding her hands up. Crouching. Her brown skin was dead white, her mouth was open. He stared at her.
And then he realized he was holding his axe. He’d ripped it from the sheath, and it was drawn back, ready to strike. Daly lowered it. The Indian girl backed away.
“Sorry. I heard—”
“Sorry! I’m so sorry!”
She backed away. And then fled. Daly hesitated. Then he saw the other figures around him. The other Bushrangers were frozen as well. Like Daly, they’d all woken at the sudden sound.
Half were holding weapons. Siri had a long dagger out; Dawson had snagged the mace. They looked at each other and slowly relaxed.
“Fuck me.”
Dawson lowered his mace. Embarrassed, Daly returned the axe to his side. He heard a laugh from one of the others.
“Not a fun way to wake up. Who was that? We scared her.”
Siri carefully inserted her dagger into its leather sheath. Daly shook his head. He’d recognized the face, but the name escaped him.
“One of the Indian girls. Don’t know who. Hold on. I’ll make sure she’s okay.”
Carefully, he stepped out of the room and looked down the wood hallway. The floorboards were well-worn and creaked as he headed down the stairs. There was a commotion downstairs, and Daly could hear other people moving about.
The two apartments that the United Nations company was renting was home to at least thirty souls at all times. When the Bushrangers, Luan, and Ken and Geneva’s team were back, it was over forty. Not much space for so many people in truth. People had to sleep together in the rooms, and personal space was limited.
However, given that a lot of people worked during the day, it was less cramped in the mornings. Everyone with a day job was already at work—as [Laborers], [Scribes], [Builders], and so on. Someone, Andel, had even found his way onto the fishing ships that operated out of the harbor.
The city of Talenqual was large enough to employ all of the Humans looking for a job. If it wasn’t a capital city, it was at least big enough to have a spot on any continental map. It was a port city, a necessity given Luan’s line of work, and it was relatively peaceful as the company which claimed the city—the Featherfolk Brigade—wasn’t engaged in any major conflicts. Neither did Talenqual have any vastly rich resources which might tempt other people into fighting for them. It was just a decent place to live in.
Quiet. Except for right now. Guiltily, Daly descended the stairs. He heard a female voice and a few others, reassuring her.
“Excuse me. Morning, everyone.”
Daly poked his head into the living room that was the United Nations company headquarters. It was, in fact, two living rooms as the apartments had a connecting door which was permanently open. The young man saw the girl he’d scared, along with Kirana and Paige. All three looked up, and Daly stopped.
“Hey there. Uh—sorry about that. We heard a noise. She must have dropped something and—”
“We know. It’s fine.”
Paige looked at him. She was patting the younger girl, who was wiping her eyes. Daly’s heart sank, but Kirana said something to the girl. Sharply, in another language. Hindi? One of the languages of her nation. The girl gulped and looked at Daly.
“She dropped pieces of wood. She did not mean to wake you.”
“I’m sorry.”
The younger girl gulped. Daly gave her a reassuring smile.
“We should be apologizing. We just heard something and—you know, we’re adventurers. Really sorry, uh—”
“Priya.”
“Priya. Of course. I’m very sorry.”
Daly nodded at her. Priya sniffed. She looked at Kirana, and the older girl nodded.
“It’s fine.”
And that apparently ended that. Kirana got up, Priya hesitated, and then went past Daly. He coughed as she headed back upstairs, and he looked at Paige.
“It was just—”
“I get it. It’s not the first time. Andel nearly stabbed Dion by accident the other day. I’ve banned weapons in the house, but you lot are a special case.”
“Right.”
The Bushrangers were the only active fighters among the group. Six of them, all adventurers. Of course, the other Earthworlders owned weapons—especially those that had survived their stint as mercenaries—but Daly could see how dangerous that was. He scratched his head, feeling the adrenaline leaving him. He blinked and looked around.
“It’s late out. What time is it?”
“Late morning. We were going to let you sleep.”
Daly rubbed at his face.
“Kind of you. We needed it. We—aw, fuck. The computer—”
He’d forgotten to turn it off! It must have burned through all the battery. Paige shook her head.
“Don’t worry about it. Kirana saw you were all asleep and turned off the laptop.”
“That’s a relief.”
Daly sighed.
“We’ve got to get ahold of a spellbook or find someone who can teach us [Repair]. Paying for it is not worth the expense each week.”
“It’s what keeps half of us sane. So I’m including it as a reasonable price. But I am searching for someone who can teach us—none of the [Mages] want to give up our daily contribution. And we don’t have anyone who’s high enough level yet, besides.”
Paige scowled as she sat down at the table. She was working on something. Another design, from the looks of it. She had a piece of charcoal and parchment she was sketching on. She glared at the document, probably thinking of the amount of money they paid to get [Mages] to recharge their electronics each week, and then glanced up.
“You didn’t brush your teeth last night, did you?”
“We did not.”
Guiltily, Daly realized they hadn’t done anything like that for the last two days. He felt at his teeth. Furry. He winced. Paige just shook her head.
“Head upstairs. Kirana made some new toothpaste.”
“Really? Alright then. Be down in half a sec.”
He headed upstairs. True enough, Kirana was waiting for him. Priya was nowhere in sight. Kirana offered Daly something. He blinked down at a minty-smelling wooden tub.
“Here. We made toothpaste. Better than last time.”
She smiled as Daly accepted the thick, whitish-yellow paste and sniffed at it. The unmistakable mint smell intensified.
“This smells a lot better than the salt stuff we were using before. What’s in this, mint?”
“Mint. Oil. Salt—it’s better. You have toothbrushes?”
“Yep, I think we’re set. Thanks a lot, Kirana.”
She nodded. Daly made his way into the room and looked about.
“Hey, you lot—”
“We’re changing.”
He saw a curtain drawn across half the room. The two other guys were on the other side, not bothering to change clothes from last night. Daly shrugged. He pointed at the tub.
“We’ve got some toothpaste.”
The others looked up. Dawson slapped his forehead in disgust.
“Fuck. I knew I forgot something! It’s been days since I brushed my teeth. Give it here!”
He fished for his belt pouch as Daly set the toothpaste tube on a table instead. He had a toothbrush in his pack as opposed to his belt pouch, and he had to wait for the girls to dress before he could retrieve it. Then he and the others gathered around the toothpaste, filled their brushes—half modern plastic, the other half wood, made of some stubbly brush—and began to brush their teeth.
It was odd. But there was something so satisfying about an activity as mundane as brushing their teeth. Especially because this toothpaste tasted halfway like something you could buy at home. Nothing Daly would have bought if he had an option—the bits of mint that had been crushed and mixed in with the gel did little to counteract the salty, astringent flavor—but it felt like proper toothpaste. Daly fished out a canteen, gargled, and then realized he had to spit.
So did the other Bushrangers. They fought silently to be the first to the loo—in this case, a smelly pair of toilets located at the back of the apartment. There they spat into it, holding their breath and washing their mouths out.
“That’s good toothpaste! My mouth actually feels fresh.”
Siri exclaimed after they’d returned to the room. Daly nodded, running his tongue over his gums. He hoped they wouldn’t start bleeding. The last thing he needed was to lose a tooth or get a cavity in this world.
“And that toilet’s disgusting. Did you smell that? I’d almost rather go in the bush.”
Another girl complained. Daly grimaced. It was true. The toilet wasn’t one of the fancy, flushing toilets he’d taken for granted back at home. It was an outhouse design—that meant wood panel with a hole you could do your business through. And what was, uh, excreted didn’t go anywhere. It sat at the bottom of a combined container for both apartments.
“It needs emptying.”
“Not it.”
Half of the Bushrangers instantly touched their noses. Daly didn’t.
“It’s not our job. We pay someone to take it out. [Nightman], the class is called. They take the stuff, use it in the fields.”
“Not [Nightwoman]?”
“You want the job, Siri? Because I hear it pays well. It’s a shite job, though.”
“Hah.”
Siri punched Dawson. The others groaned, imagining that line of work. They’d all had to work hard—well, Siri and Tofte had joined them after the Bushrangers had been formed—but there were some lines they weren’t willing to cross. Daly grimaced.
“It’s what people did for ages in the past. I guess no one’s invented sewers?”
“Oh, they have, mate. I was talking with a Lizardguy the other day. He says there are sewers in some cities. Lots of ‘em in other continents like Izril and Terandria, apparently. But they don’t bother with them here.”
“Probably because something’d breed in them if they did. Imagine taking a job there?”
Daly could all too well. He shook his head.
“You’re putting me off my food, you lot are. Let’s have brekky and then get to work.”
“Another job?”
His team looked at him, not so much with resistance as a kind of weariness. Daly felt it himself. They’d just been on the job. But if there was more money to be made—they could always use it.
“If we see a good contract. I’ll head down to the guild myself. You lot take the day off until then.”
“Right.”
With that, they headed downstairs. They found another surprise waiting for them. Food, again courtesy of Kirana and two of the other girls who stayed about the house. Daly smiled as Siri and the others found Priya and apologized again.
“Rice and lentils and—what’s the bread stuff? That’s new?”
“It’s called poori. It’s a popular breakfast at home.”
Kirana explained as she filled bowls with rice and poured lentils over the top. She also had several sticks of corn, which had been baked until the sides were turning a bit black. Those were good, so Daly snagged one and tore into it at the table with the others. He was ravenous, and the food really was good.
“This is so good. I miss this every time we’re out. And you made these poori really well, Kirana.”
The young woman smiled. She was the [Cook] in charge of feeding everyone and the second manager of the home front besides Paige. In truth, she’d pretty much taken over the household affairs to let the Australian girl work on more designs, and she and several of the girls from India—another addition to the company about two months back—had really improved the living situation. Especially because it turned out that Baleros’ markets sold a lot of ingredients that they were quite familiar with from their country.
The foods of Baleros were plentiful and a mix of exotic and familiar. Daly had been surprised to see staple foods like corn and rice being served alongside plants he’d never seen before. Blue tubers, spicy red things called Yellats, and so on. But Baleros was known for growing a lot of produce, and there was meat to be had as well. Obviously, that was more expensive, so the breakfast was all-vegetarian. But spicy, filling, and just the thing for hungry adventurers.
Paige kept working at another table as the Bushrangers ate their fill. She had some of the money out in neat rows and was doing calculations. She looked up as Daly was going back for his last helping.
“Kirana, here’s the money for this week’s budget. Try not to buy too many spices. I know it’s important, but that and oil take up a lot of our budget.”
She handed Kirana four gold coins and three silver ones. The girl nodded. Daly’s insides twisted a bit—feeding the company for one week cost two-thirds of what they’d been paid to take out those damn Stelbore. True, it was a lot of mouths, but Paige was already separating more gold coins out from their limited stash.
“And here’s the month’s rent. Daly, can you take this over to Miss Hastel on the way out?”
“Definitely. I’ll pop by the Adventurer’s Guild as well.”
Paige paused.
“Already? You just got back from your last job. You could take a break.”
Daly shrugged uncomfortably.
“We’re not that tired.”
He looked around for confirmation. The other Bushrangers nodded or murmured agreement. But their postures told Daly they could use a break. He felt it too.
It was hard being an adventurer. Not as hard as being a soldier in a company and fighting huge battles, but in other ways just as bad. They’d spent a day and a half scoping out their target and barely speaking in the jungle with things biting them, alert for every second. One time, they’d spent nearly a week tracking monsters down, sleeping in primitive mosquito nets while it poured rain and mud down on them.
But what else could they do? It was all about money. Paige hesitated.
“Maybe you should take a day off. We’re set with coin, especially if Luan comes back. Or Ken and Geneva. They’re set to come back today or tomorrow, you know. They sent a [Message].”
That relaxed Daly a bit. He hesitated.
“If there’s nothing really good…”
Paige nodded. Siri looked up.
“Anything you need us to do while we’re here?”
She looked at Kirana and the others. Kirana shook her head.
“It’s your day off. Enjoy yourselves.”
That just made it harder for Daly to commit to taking a request. He sighed. But they had a point, and the idea was tempting. If he saw something really good at the Adventurer’s Guild…
