“No. It’s—I did sleep, but then I woke up. I couldn’t get back. All of this—it’s too much to believe.”
The kiwi uttered a short laugh. It was more like a bark of sound. Daly nodded.
“It’s tough. But believe me, it’s real. If pinching could wake me up—it’s all real.”
“I know. There’s no way I’m dreaming. But I want to be. You know?”
Blake ran a hand through his hair. He fell silent. Daly waited.
“About when we came here. What I said—we got jumped on the first day, you know? Not by bandits or—[Bandits]. By other people. From home.”
“Really?”
Daly didn’t move. Blake looked up.
“Yeah. I don’t know who they were. They just came out of nowhere. This guy ran up—they’d smelled us cooking that fish. They told us to hand it over. One of the Italians said no. They started shoving each other and then—they just attacked us.”
“What nationality were they?”
The other young man looked up. Daly elaborated.
“If you meet them, or if we run across them, it’d be good to know. We can’t take people like that into the company—”
Blake uttered a strangled laugh.
“No fear of that. Like I said, after that day—there were four of us. We ran. I don’t know what the hell those others were—they were like monsters. They didn’t look as if they’d been here for just a day. Completely psycho. And they had Centaurs with them. They were [Bandits], I guess.”
“How many Centaurs?”
“Just two. They were really young.”
“Outcasts. Centaurs expel troublemakers. Most die or form into groups like that.”
“I guess they do. But they didn’t follow us. So we ran. Eventually, we got to this—this village. Headed straight down a road and found them. They were—Dullahans.”
“Really?”
Daly frowned. Then why were they alone? His hand twitched. Blake nodded. He was caught up in his story.
“They scared us so bad. We were running, and then this head hidden in a tree trunk spoke to us and the bodies appeared out of nowhere. We thought we were dead. But they saw the blood and cleaned us up and even healed us. And when we told them what had happened—”
His voice broke. Daly waited, hearing Blake gulp.
“They were appalled. You know? Just horrified. They patched us up, and their head person—their [Village Leader]—told me that justice would be served. The next day, a group of them in armor set out. They came back four days later with the heads of everyone in the bandit group.”
“That’s how Dullahans do it. They take heads. On Dullahans, it works. They take the heads and the bodies try to get to them. Or die.”
Blake uttered what sounded like a prayer in the darkness.
“Yeah, well, these were Humans. And the Centaurs. The Dullahans told us justice was done. Two days after that, they kicked us out when they realized we couldn’t do anything. Herded us out and told us they’d cut off our heads if we came back without money to pay for lodging.”
He looked up. Daly paused. Then he nodded.
“That’s Dullahans for you. I don’t want to say it, but you got lucky. Not that lucky—Lizardfolk would have been nicer. But you could have run into Centaurs. They might’ve killed you then and there if they thought you were lying, or just left you to die.”
“Really?”
The tone in Blake’s voice was flat. Daly nodded. He pointed up.
“You know Kirana? Priya? The Indian girls who help keep the place running? They were the last group we found. Just girls. I think they were this group we met the first night we were here. But—the rest of them were dead. They took to stealing. Got caught in a Centaur town. Guess what they did?”
Blake didn’t say a word. He didn’t need to. Daly nodded.
“You know why Kirana and the other girls survived? Centaurs don’t kill women unless it’s in a battle. Even bandits.”
“Does that make them better than Dullahans?”
“I think they can be right bastards. Some of them. But that’s their way. They think females shouldn’t be treated like men. Or they respect the only gender that can give birth. They revere mothers and are really protective of children. Especially because childbirth’s trickier for them. That’s how Ken sees it.”
“Ken. You speak about him like he’s your leader. Him and—Geneva?”
“And Luan. They pulled us out of the fire. We were in a company. Mercenaries. We would have all been slaughtered in this war—but Ken helped stop the fighting. So yeah, I look up to him. All of us do. Him and Geneva and Luan—they keep us together. Because they’ve got actual talent. Ken’s a diplomat. Luan’s an actual athlete. And Geneva…”
The two sat in silence for a while. Blake looked up at last.
“Thanks for getting us. We would have stayed there until someone ran us off.”
“It’s what we do. We have to stick together.”
Daly nodded. He looked at Blake.
“Get some sleep if you can. You’ll have a full day of it tomorrow.”
“I will. Thank you. Again. Thank you.”
Blake stood up. He headed up the stairs, looking calmer. Or so Daly thought.
But was it just an act? Did someone wake up and just happen to go to the door?
People from Earth. Just because they’re all from our home doesn’t mean they’re all trustworthy. Some nights, Daly still wondered what had happened to Caroline. Was it just an accident? What if Pihava or Bault talked?
Stupid. Wasn’t their knowledge from Earth useful? And there were other things to consider. Not everyone could work together. There’d been one fight about one of the boys wanting to set up a place to pray and squabbles over sleeping arrangements. Friction.
Together but not together. It might get better when Ken and Geneva returned. It usually did. But in his heart, Daly struggled.
He had to believe Blake was on the up and up. He had to believe things would work out. He’d watch Blake. He had to. He had to be the one who made the hard decisions. But he couldn’t turn into the monster. His finger twitched and twitched. Daly tried to make it stop.
Baleros was war. It wasn’t hell, although it felt like it sometimes. There was so much beauty here you could forget the blood and death. And then a day would come along and rip the illusion wide open. But it wasn’t an evil place.
Daly had fought. He still fought, every day in fact. And he’d learned something on nights like this. It wasn’t monsters or even other people you were fighting. What you were really fighting was yourself. And whether you turned into a monster or didn’t was the real battle.
Slowly, Daly reached into his belt pouch and pulled something out. A padded case, made of wood. He fumbled with it and then removed the little toothpick-sized quarrel from the crossbow in his lap. He stowed the miniature crossbow and carefully uncocked it before packing it into the case Paige had made for him.
Some nights, it felt like all he’d done since coming here was learn how to kill things in different ways. With that thought in his head, Daly just pushed back the table and lay down on the floor. He fell asleep slowly as an ant crawled across his arm.
And the next day, Geneva came back.
