Dawson settled back in the wagon. Daly nodded. He stared over the side of the wagon. Baleros wasn’t all jungle and forest. Like the Americas that Baleros vaguely resembled on the maps, parts were extraordinarily clear and flat. The Centaurs made their homes there. Lizardfolk loved the marshes and swamps. They had settled the port cities while Dullahans claimed the cold north by and large. Other species like Selphids and Gazers inhabited the deeper jungles.
Right now, the wagon was driving through rice fields. The Lizardfolk had created vast paddy fields which, filled from Baleros’ spring rains, were busy growing large quantities of crops. They also had the byproduct of attracting bugs and insects. And frogs and other amphibians too, all of which Lizardfolk loved to eat.
“I hope it won’t rain. I’ve had enough of sitting in the jungle with rain drowning us. And I don’t know how they’ll do in the rain.”
Dawson remarked, nodding to the Centaurs. The male Centaur snorted.
“We have Skills, idiot.”
“Oh. Sorry.”
Apparently, the Centaurs could still hear the Humans in the back. Daly scooted forwards. The female Centaur half-turned to look at him.
“Mind me asking how bad the rain gets? This is our first time in Baleros. We had a few nasty close calls with the rain flooding streams on the job.”
“When you were adventuring?”
Daly nodded.
“How bad’s it get? We’ve seen some of the big storms. Does it get worse?”
The Centaurs looked at each other. They spoke at the same time.
“You’ve barely seen the rainy season. You want monsoons? We’ve got monsoons this far south.”
“Miserable weather. Hate it. I can barely walk, and there’s mud everywhere. Worst time to work. You might break a foreleg.”
“The only species who love this weather are Lizardfolk. The freaks love dancing about in the rain.”
They groused happily to Daly and the others about the weather. The male Centaur, whose name was Bault, pointed at the sky.
“Don’t worry about rain today. You think we don’t check the weather on long runs? Our weather mages aren’t perfect, but they usually know what’s happening. Unless a company decides to mess with the weather or start burning something.”
“That happen often?”
“The smoke interferes with the clouds. Sometimes it can change what’s predicted. Otherwise—well, there’s no perfect spell for detecting the weather. Some Skills can tell when it’s about to change, but not predict, right? I suppose a [Diviner] could do better, but we don’t have one.”
“Gotcha.”
The female Centaur, Pihava, glanced at Daly.
“So you’re the Bushrangers. I heard you were all [Rogues]. Practically invisible on the job.”
Daly smiled. They were well-known! Maybe it wasn’t just them being Humans.
“I wish. We’re just good at hiding. The idiot in the back’s Dawson, and that’s Siri.”
“Charmed.”
“Our idiot leader’s Daly. Hey, that village we’re headed to was attacked by Spear Spiders, right? What the hell’s a Spear Spider?”
Pihava shrugged. It was quite convenient for her to be able to run and turn sideways to talk. Although she kept looking forward to check the road.
“They’re one breed of Baleros’ resident spiders. There are all types. You’ve heard of Shield Spiders? No? Well, I’d prefer those, honestly. Spearwalker Spiders are tall. Some can grow up to twelve feet high—”
“Siri?”
“Three and a half meters.”
“Fuck. You serious?”
“All legs. They’re tall ones. You know those spiders that have small bodies but really tall legs? That’s a Spear Spider. Only, their legs can impale people. And they have this trick they use to modulate how long their legs are. They’re fast, dangerous—”
“But fragile. I hear adventurers just blast them in their bodies with magic or swing a warhammer and take them apart.”
Bault looked back at Daly. The young man looked at his crossbow.
“Think they’re immune to poison? Because we don’t go for heavy armored foes. We’re skirmishers.”
“Tell you what. If we run into them—and they should be gone, or I’m kicking every head in at the Runner’s Guild—I’ll let you shoot as many crossbow bolts to find out as you want.”
Daly grinned.
“Fair. Say, how many close calls have you had on the road?”
“Well, Pihava’s new, so personally—”
The conversation went on for about twenty minutes and then lapsed into silence. Daly sat in the back of the wagon and closed his eyes. He could still use a rest. Or rather, his mind told his body to grab the break while it could. It was comfortable in the back of the wagon, and the air cooled him down as it blew past his head. Daly closed his eyes.
Were they really from Earth? If they were…
He drifted off like that. It felt like only a minute before Siri was shaking him. Daly jerked, but remembered enough not to grab at his axe. He sat up and saw they’d arrived.
The village that had been abandoned still bore marks of battle. Brick houses partially caved in, roofs with holes in them—possibly from the Spear Spider legs. Some had been torched, perhaps to ward the monsters off, or maybe by accidental fire. But the rest were intact.
The village was actually on top of a hill. A nice, defensible spot with even a low mud brick wall, crumbling in places. But it hadn’t saved the place. Now, the Centaurs paused below the hill. Bault gestured up at it, sweating.
“We can pull you up the hill. But between you and me, that’ll cost you.”
“No need. We’ll make the trek. You guys wait here and rest a spell.”
Daly hopped out of the wagon. Pihava nodded.
“If you hear us shouting, get down here quick. If we see anything, we’re taking off.”
There were no signs of monsters, but Daly nodded.
“That’s fair. We won’t be long. Siri—”
He looked around. She was already taking point. As the [Scout] of the group, she was quietest, thanks to her Skills. Not that the road up to the village was covered by forest. Still, Daly and Dawson gave her a lead and then followed. Their crossbows were on their backs in case they were being watched, but they were drawn, ready to be loaded and fired.
Daly’s skin crawled as he walked up towards the village. He could see several quite intact buildings. And he had a definite sense he was being watched. He looked at Dawson.
“How should we handle it? Call out first?”
He saw Dawson roll his shoulders.
“Up to you. I wish Ken was back here.”
“You think we’d send him up first? What if they were [Bandits]?”
“He’d probably charm them into giving us a hot meal. Why don’t we just march up, shout ‘anyone from Earth? If not, fuck off!’ And then—”
There was a shout from above. Daly and Dawson looked up. Siri had frozen. Someone had shouted and thrown something down at them. A heavy stone. It crashed and rolled down the slope. Instantly, Daly reached for the crossbow and hesitated. He looked for cover—there wasn’t any but the sides of the hill.
“Stay back! This is our place!”
Someone shouted from above. Daly couldn’t see who it was—but the gates of the village had been barricaded with boards of wood. It looked like someone had tried to repair parts of the wall. He saw a flicker of movement, and then another stone flew over the wall. Siri jumped back, but it landed well clear of her and rolled down the hill.
Daly glanced over his shoulder. Their Centaur guides were staring up at them. He waved at them and then looked at Dawson.
“That sounds like a Human.”
“Yeah, not friendly. Hey! We’re Humans! We want to talk! Are you from Earth?”
Dawson bellowed up at the walls. Daly heard a sound, muffled, and then cut off. There was a pause. And then—
“Go away! We have weapons!”
Daly exchanged a glance. The voice was loud, female, and panicked. The first voice had been male. He called up towards the village.
“We’re from Earth! Are you? Do you know—”
He got no further. Someone threw a rock.
“Leave! We won’t be tricked again! If you come any closer, we’ll kill you!”
More stones flew. These ones landed uncomfortably close, so the adventurers backed up. Shielding his face and watching for missiles, Daly hurried down the hill. There he looked at Siri and Dawson.
“They’re from Earth. I’ll bet anything.”
“But they’re fucking agro. Why the hell’s that?”
Dawson grimaced. Siri frowned.
“Did you hear what they said? ‘We won’t be tricked again’. Again. You think they ran into other people from our world?”
“If they did, it didn’t go well for them.”
Daly grunted. He eyed the village. Stones and shouting. He’d bet there were only a handful in the village. It would be easy enough to circle the hill and sneak up it, maybe with a distraction. Siri caught Daly’s eye.
“They’re terrified. You can hear it in their voices. We should do this peacefully.”
Dawson growled.
“How? If they’re pelting us with stones—”
The other two waited as Daly paced back and forth, looking up at the village. Their leader exhaled as he came to a decision.
“No, Siri’s right. We scare them and they’ll run. Someone’s already made them afraid—even of folks from home. We need to coax them to come out. We’ve gotta do this Ken-style. Hold on. Give me a moment to think.”
Dawson groaned.
“Ken-style? First you said Earth-style, now this. You’re a good leader, but you’re shit with words, Daly.”
“Shut up. Let me try again.”
Daly climbed up the hill. He was greeted by a flurry of stones.
“Go away!”
“We just want to talk! Can I talk to one of you? I said we’re from Earth! We’re like you lot! We want to help!”
“Get lost! We see your crossbow!”
Fuck. It had been a bad idea to take it after all. Daly paused.
“I’ll leave my weapons behind! Look, just say if you’re from Earth or not! Are you Americans? Can you tell me what an iPhone is?”
Hesitation. And then dead silence. The stones stopped flying, but Daly wasn’t about to get anywhere closer and risk them panicking. He walked down the hill, back to the others. Daly exhaled.
“Why won’t they say if they’re from Earth?”
Dawson spat on the ground.
“Afraid. Fucking hell. What did the other group do to them?”
“Maybe they were attacked.”
There was a dark look in Siri’s eye. Daly and Dawson looked at her. She and Tofte had shown up on their doorstep a while back and never told the whole story of how they’d survived until now. But they’d arrived with combat classes and experience in fighting. Geneva had determined Siri and Tofte had had a traumatic event in the recent past. But since they could still fight and function, Daly had recruited them into the Bushrangers.
Daly paced back and forth for a while, trying to figure out what to do next. What would Ken do? It was a serious question. Without Ken’s primer on how to interact with Baleros’ races, Daly often would have been lost. And it was Ken’s philosophy, as well as Geneva’s, that had shaped how the United Nations company worked. Daly frowned, bit his lip, and then he had it.
“Well—what if we lure them out?”
“With what, nali-sticks?”
“No. Hey Dawson, did you at least bring your iPhone and the speaker?”
Dawson patted his belt. He was wearing the iconic adventurer’s belt, complete with pouches stuffed full of an adventurer’s gear.
“Never leave without it. Why?”
“I want you to set it up. Turn those speakers up to max blast. It’d better be charged.”
“It is! I haven’t wasted the battery. Not since last time.”
Dawson grimaced. He fished out a tangled mess of cord and then a portable speaker. And then his iPhone. Daly had lost his. Or it had been stolen, back when he’d been in Gravetender’s Fist. Dawson frowned at Daly.
“You want to scare them with the distraction audio?”
Three of the Bushrangers were armed with smartphones as part of their gear. They had a recording to go with the portable speakers they carried. Using it would set off a timed cacophony to distract a monster or person. Daly shook his head.
“No way. Just play them a song.”
“A song?”
Confusion flashed across Dawson’s face for just a second. Siri blinked, then smiled. She nodded. Dawson’s eyes lit up as well after a second. He lifted the speaker, turned it on, and then aimed it at the village. He thumbed through the music, and Daly waited impatiently.
“Come on. It just has to be something they recognize.”
“Don’t rush me. There’s a right song for every moment, Daly. I just have to—here it is!”
Triumphantly, Dawson pressed the button. Instantly, a song blared from the speakers. Quietly at first and then with increasing volume as Dawson adjusted the speaker’s volume to max. The song was iconic—at least, to Daly. Siri frowned for a moment before recognizing it.
The two Centaurs looked up in surprise as the first drums and then a flute began playing. The background buzz of the insects in the jungle grew silent for a moment as a bass began to echo up the hill.
Daly groaned. He shot Dawson a look. The Australian patriot grinned. Daly didn’t even need to hear the lyrics. He knew them practically by heart.
Down Under, by Men at Work. There was some logic to it—if there was one song a foreigner might associate with Australia, it was probably that one. And it was unmistakably from Earth. Still, Dawson had such a big shit-eating grin on his face that Daly wanted to smack the smartphone out of his hands.
But it worked. No sooner had the song ended than Daly saw movement at the top of the hill. Someone peeked over the walls. Daly waited, holding his breath. Then he saw a figure descend the hill.
“Crossbows down.”
The three Bushrangers dropped their weapons and slowly walked up the hill. Dawson began playing Great Southern Land until Daly smacked him on the shoulder.
The person descending the slope was a young man, dressed in a tight-fitting sports shirt with a logo on the breast. The shirt was dirty, as were the sports pants he wore. He looked thin. Worn at. But his eyes were fixed on Dawson’s iPhone. He opened his mouth, hesitated, and then raised a hand.
“You’re really from Earth?”
Daly halted a few feet away. The young man’s accent was familiar. He couldn’t be…? The Australian gave him a smile.
“That’s right. We’re from Australia. We heard there were people here that might be from Earth. We came to check it out. We want to help.”
“Help? How?”
Siri jumped in.
“We’ve got an apartment in a city near here. We’ve got food, money—we’re a company.”
“Food and money? You mean, you live here? You can live here?”
The other Earthworlder looked stunned, confused. Daly’s heart skipped a beat.
“That’s right. We’ve got jobs. We’ve banded together, all of us from Earth that we could find. Are you—how’ve you survived?”
