Bault snorted. But the Centaurs relaxed ever-so-slightly. And they kept moving, fast enough to be back in Talenqual much faster than they’d spent going. They made their way through the gates as the Bushrangers did their best to keep the other Earthworlders from freaking out at the sight of all the Lizardfolk, Dullahans, and Centaurs. It seemed the Centaurs bothered them the most—the Dullahans made them nervous, but not in the same way. The Lizardfolk were just…strange.
“Here’s our stop. It’s not much, but it’s filled with people from Earth. Go on, Siri will lead you inside. Dawson? Do a runner and tell everyone what’s up.”
“You got it.”
Dawson and Siri hopped out. Daly jogged around the wagon as they helped Blake and the others to the ground. He looked up at the Centaurs, who were panting.
“You two did a fantastic job. I’ll say as much next time I’m in the Runner’s Guild. Here.”
He reached into his belt pouch and offered both Centaurs a gold coin. They eyed it appreciatively. It was a generous tip, but they’d run fast and far and Daly was paying for the insult and goodwill.
“It was nothing. Like we said, we’ll spread the word. Call on us.”
“Absolutely.”
Daly promised and meant it. The Centaurs took off, dragging the wagon back towards the Runner’s Guild, done for the day. It was early evening now, and Daly headed straight into the apartments. He heard a commotion, then opened the door and saw Kirana hugging Nicoletta, and more of the Earthworlders in the United Nations company surrounded the overwhelmed group.
“Hey! Come on! Clear a space! Let me introduce them!”
Daly raised his voice. He gestured to the group and spoke to Blake.
“This here’s the headquarters of our group of refugees from Earth. Let me introduce you. Take a seat here—hey, they’re thirsty and hungry. Do we have food…?”
One of the Indian girls, Priya, rushed into the kitchen and came out with food. The still-hungry Italians and Blake set to as Daly pointed around the room.
“Let’s see. This is Kirana, Priya, um—”
“Amoli.”
Daly turned red as it transpired that he didn’t know all the names. They introduced themselves, talking in slow English while the others volunteered their names. Daly heard a clatter down the stairs and looked up. Paige stopped on the stairs, staring.
“Hey, Paige! You’ll never guess who dropped in! Someone from fucking New Zealand of all the luck!”
The Australian girl stared at Blake and then descended slowly. The first thing she did was give him a hug, which made Daly embarrassed for the ribbing. He coughed.
“Paige is the one who holds down the fort while we’re all away. You could say she’s the boss around here.”
Paige gave Daly a look, and he went on.
“But our real leaders are all out. There’s about forty of us—but we have two guys and a girl who are pretty much running the show. Ken, Luan, and Geneva. And Aiko?”
“Are they adventurers? Like you?”
Blake pointed at Daly’s axe. Daly shook his head, grinning ruefully.
“Better. Ken’s a [Negotiator]. You got classes, so you know what I mean. He and Aiko—she’s Japanese too—they’re always with Geneva. He talks to people, gets them to let her work in peace. Aiko’s Geneva’s number one assistant.”
Besides Okasha. And no one was allowed to know about her. Then Daly realized he hadn’t said what Geneva did.
“Geneva’s a [Doctor].”
The word made all of the new Earthworlders look up. Diana urgently tugged on Nicoletta’s arm. She’d been swaying in the wagon, and Lorenzo had been helping her move about. Nicoletta looked up.
“Is she here? Diana is sick.”
Half of the people at the table drew back. Nicoletta waved a hand.
“No, no. It’s—”
She looked at Blake. He looked grave.
“Diabetes. She’s out of insulin, and we—”
“Kirana! Grab us that kit!”
He jumped as both Paige and Daly turned and shouted. Kirana was already grabbing for a bottle. She pressed it on Diana, and they rushed to explain what it was. The girl took a sip of the stamina potion after staring at it for a second. Then she gasped, and color flooded into her face. Daly took off and left the apartment to run and find the other person with diabetes—Filip, of Poland. He was working as a [Scribe], but he repeated Geneva’s instructions, and Daly came back, huffing and puffing, to find that Paige had already found the hand-written instructions.
They were explaining more about Baleros and this world to the Italians, filling in the gaps that they’d guessed at. It turned out that the announcements in their head were a universal language, so the [Scavenger], [Survivalist], and [Skulker] classes they’d received were all familiar to them.
“We’re all working to survive here. The other species are different—but they are people. You can work and earn money, like everywhere. That’s why so many are out right now. Working. Ken and Geneva and Aiko will be back tomorrow morning.”
“And she is a [Doctor]?”
“That’s right. She doesn’t have her tools, but she studied medicine, and she’s the best we’ve got. Her and Luan are the oldest. He’s a Runner.”
Then they had to explain what Runners were. And adventurers again. Daly corrected himself as he sat at the table, drinking some of the sugar water that came from boiling water with nali­-sticks.
“City Runner. Well, I say ‘Runner’, but he only operates on the water. He’s a kayak—sorry, a rower. Nothing to do with kayaks. And he’s an Olympian, a professional athlete.”
“He never actually competed.”
Paige demurred. Daly snorted.
“But he’s on the South African team.”
“An athlete? He must be insane on the water.”
Blake looked up. Daly grinned.
“Fast as fuck. When he gets back, you’ve got to watch him zip around. He can move faster in that canoe than I can run. Way faster with Skills.”
It was scary, really. But hearing about Luan was reassuring, as if someone who would have gone to the summer Olympics conveyed more safety. The Italians were relaxing by the time Nicoletta asked about the name.
“Why United Nations company?”
They’d understood that, but not the reason the Earthworlders had rallied around the name. Daly gave them a wry smile.
“It’s a symbol of home. Yeah, it’s a bit stupid, but a lot of people know the name, right? And it wasn’t us that picked it. Ken came up with it. He’s an idealist. And between you and me, I don’t think he knows quite what the UN did back at home.”
“It’s a good name, though. Really. It stands for something.”
Blake hurried to reassure the others. He looked up and groaned.
“I feel full. Excuse me, do you have a bathroom? And—a bath?”
“We’re hauling water for you right now. This way.”
Daly led Blake upstairs. Paige caught him on the way down.
“Good work.”
He nodded at her, smiling. Then he felt at his belt pouch and frowned.
“Paige, we’re down two gold, nine silver, and two coppers. I’m nearly out of money.”
“Got it. But we brought back four of our own.”
“True.”
Paige glanced over her shoulders. Daly heard an exclamation at the door. More of the company was returning from work.
“Damn, there’s going to be a crowd. I should get them upstairs and find them a room—and a bath—before everyone pours in. They need sleep, not more introductions.”
“I’ll head them off.”
“While you’re at it, can you get some xelca meat? Kirana forgot to buy some.”
“Aw—fine.”
Daly went downstairs. There were more Earthworlders outside. Anders, wet from his work in the harbor, Filip, young men and women from a number of countries. Most were Australian, though. Daly raised his voice.
“Hey, listen up you lot! We just got four more friends from home!”
There was a cheer. Daly shouted over it.
“Right, but before you come crowding inside, wait! They’re tired, exhausted—half starved—and they’ve had enough excitement. Paige is getting them upstairs, so don’t crowd them. Kirana’s got food going, so we’ll cycle you in and out—half of you’ll have to eat on the steps. And would someone buy some xelca meat? I’ve got money—”
“Did someone say xelca meat? My cousin sells it!”
A Lizardman poked his head out of the house across the street. Daly wavered. That was Talenqual for you. No privacy.
“Uh, yeah. Can we get—fuck. I don’t know, six pounds?”
“Sure!”
“Hey, what’s xelca meat anyways? No one’ll give me a straight answer when I ask.”
One of the Australians called out suspiciously. Daly heard a laugh from the Lizardman, who grinned and crawled out the shutter without answering. They also liked playing pranks. Daly shook his head.
“Thing to remember with Lizardfolk and their food? You don’t ask. It’s probably a toad or fish. Probably. And it’s good when it’s hot, edible when it’s not.”
The Lizardman turned as he walked down the street.
“Ooh. That’s catchy! I’m going to use that. Good when it’s hot, edible when it’s…”
He disappeared. The other Earthworlders looked at each other in amusement. Then they began to ask questions, giving time for Paige to do her job. By the time the Lizardman came back with a wrapped package of xelca meat in the long strips they were sold in, Kirana was ready to cook it. The Earthworlders went into the apartments, eating buffet-style, grabbing bowls and filling them before eating outside or shoulder-to-shoulder in the living room.
Halfway through the meal, Paige came down to announce everyone was asleep. Like Daly, she was immediately barraged by questions. A girl from Poland stood up.
“Are they okay?”
“Fine. Geneva can check, but they’re just hungry. Nothing else. No one crowd them now. We’re putting them up in a room by themselves. So it’ll be a bit cramped.”
“What’s new?”
Someone groaned. Paige folded her arms.
“We’re working on leasing another house. Our neighbors are open to the idea—especially with all us noisy Humans tramping about. We just need Luan to get back with a hefty coin purse. Or someone to lose a limb and call in our [Doctor].”
“Here’s hoping!”
There was a quiet laugh. Paige fielded a few more questions, then headed back to her work room. And the others ate, talked or complained about their day, but all too soon went to sleep.
They’d worked full jobs. And so they filled the upper floors of the apartment, sleeping in the crammed rooms as Daly and the Bushrangers stayed awake. They hadn’t had that active a day. So they sat together in the dining room of the second apartment with the door closed and talked quietly.
“Looks like we’ve got four new mouths to feed.”
“We’ll manage. We just need to take another big contract. And they’ll work as soon as they’ve got their legs under them.”
“What if they don’t? Like the group we had to kick out?”
“We deal with it then.”
Daly sighed. He leaned back in his chair. Then he looked at the kitchen. Kirana was still hard at work, preparing breakfast this time. He could smell it, and his full stomach decided to rumble anyways.
“You know, half of the newcomers think we’re prepared for this.”
“What?”
The other Bushrangers looked up as Dawson relaxed. He waved his hand.
“This. I was talking to Jeraldo? Think his name was Jeraldo. He and some of the others—you know, the ones who came after us—they think we’re used to this because we come from the great Down Under. Like we’re used to punching kangaroos and fighting off snakes.”
“Fuck off with that.”
One of the other Bushrangers exclaimed, kneading her fingers together angrily. Daly kept his mouth shut.
“Why, because Australia’s got bugs and spiders? Doesn’t mean we’re all experts. Let’s see. Fuck that and that and that. What the hell is that thing?”
She pointed to a few bugs crawling across the floor. They looked like ants—but not ants from Earth. One was blue. Glowing. Daly grimaced. They must have been attracted to the food. Kirana kept a clean place, but Miss Hastel’s apartments weren’t exactly airtight, and bugs were a given in Baleros. No one worried unless it was an infestation.
“It’s a vote of confidence. Who else is going out and actually taking on monsters? Us. And the Swedes.”
He nodded at Siri and Tofte. The Norwegian man looked up.
“Some want to. But not when they know what it’s like.”
The others nodded. Once you’d actually come face-to-face with a monster—even a zombie, you learned how real it was. Hell, even a zombie…Daly remembered having to slowly hack at the zombie’s head just to bring it down. And the smell, the feel of metal hitting bone…
In the silence, Daly looked around.
“We’re not all experts who live out in the bush. That’s true enough. But someone’s got to do this job. Push comes to shove, we’re our company’s first response.”
“And we volunteered. We didn’t have to.”
Daly nodded as he glanced at Dawson.
“Anyone tells you how we should wander off and kill a Spear Spider with a boomerang, you just tell them we’re not used to this. If they want to join up, they can. But it’s not a fun job. I’m proud of you all for stepping up.”
There was a moment of silence. Then Dawson offered a tired smile.
“Love you too, Daly. No homo.”
“Aw, you idiot…”
The group broke up. Daly sighed as they trooped up the stairs—to share a room this time. He stayed up, wondering if he could nap in the living room or if the ants would start crawling in his ears.
Eventually, Kirana finished her work and turned out the light in the kitchen. She headed upstairs, missing Daly. He was sitting so still he was invisible. And he had a Skill.
[Faint Presence]. An [Axe Warrior], a [Carpenter], and a [Rogue]. Apparently he might become a [Ranger] if he kept at it. Daly sighed. And then he heard a faint sound.
Someone was coming down the stairs. Daly looked up, about to call out. And then he saw Blake. Daly froze. His hand reached for his side. And then he reconsidered. He reached for something else instead. Blake walked down the stairs, barely making a sound. Quiet, slowly. He looked around the room and then crept for the door.
“Going somewhere?”
Blake spun. He saw Daly, sitting in the shadows, one hand resting on the table. The other was in his lap. Daly pointed.
“I’m not the suspicious sort. But we had one incident where a bloke tried to rob us and then do a runner.”
“I wasn’t. I was just—I needed to step outside. Be alone.”
Blake gulped. Daly eyed him, then shook his head.
“Outside? You’ll just run into Lizardfolk. And there’s no alone when you’re with even one of them. Have a seat. Here’s the best you’ll get, probably.”
He pulled up a chair. Blake hesitated and then sat across from him. He stared at Daly.
“I wasn’t going to take anything.”
“I believe you. What’s wrong? Can’t sleep?”
