“We—we’ve been scavenging. Eating what we could forage. Hiding from—everything. We thought you were bandits like the last—”
The stranger shuddered. He looked at Daly. And then part of him seemed to unwind.
“Can we go with you?”
Daly smiled.
“We wouldn’t be here otherwise. Come on. Tell ya mates to come out. We’ll get you back to civilization.”
“Oh my god. Oh my god.”
The young man fell to his knees. At first, Daly thought it was an overreaction. Until he saw the tears. The young man shuddered, and he looked up at them like—like—
Dawson turned away. Daly knelt at the same time as Siri. They helped the stranger up.
“Easy. What’s your name?”
“Blake. I’m Blake. We’ve been starving up there. And when the lizard-things appeared last night, we thought—this isn’t a dream, right?”
A grimy hand clutched at Daly’s arm. He nodded.
“It’s not.”
That was enough. Blake took a shuddering breath. He slowly rose. Daly held him until he was sure he was steady. He was thin. The sports shirt didn’t fit him that well.
“Where’re you from, Blake?”
Blake started. He looked up. Then he suddenly grinned. Daly thought he knew why. Blake wiped at his eyes, and then grimaced. Or tried to. He looked at Daly and Dawson. And then he coughed.
“Well, goddamnit, it had to be a bunch of Aussies, didn’t it? Of course you lot’d survive over here.”
Dawson looked over, and his face lit up with delight.
“You’re a kiwi?”
“New Zealand. Yeah.”
“Ayyy! How’d you lot survive out here? I don’t see a herd of sheep—”
Siri punched Dawson gently in the shoulder. But Blake was laughing. He turned and looked back up towards the village walls. Daly could sense they were still being watched.
“Those your friends watching us? You mind waving to tell them we’re friendly? The last thing we want is an arrow through the throat.”
“They don’t have weapons. We were going to run if you got closer. Hey! It’s fine!”
Blake turned and waved his hands. He began walking back up the hill and then turned.
“You’ll stay here?”
“Right here. Go on.”
The Bushrangers settled back as Dawson complained to Siri.
“Aw, come on. It’s great! We just take the piss—”
“Maybe don’t make that the first thing you do?”
The two began arguing over the right timing to tell jokes and be serious while Daly tried to relax. They had time—it took nearly ten minutes for Blake to come back. When he did, it was by himself. The others came over the walls very gingerly and gave Daly the impression they were ready to bolt. Like Blake, they wore colorful clothing that no [Tailor] of this world could have come up with. Even the dyes of Baleros couldn’t quite match the artificial colors of Earth.
“It’s safe! See? They’re Australian. Australian.”
“I’m Swedish.”
Siri raised a hand. The words seemed to reassure the others. They gingerly followed Blake down the hill, staring at the Centaurs with clear fear. There was one more guy and two girls, all of them younger than Blake. They stared at the Bushrangers, reluctant to go further, but Blake waved them on, shouting a word that Daly didn’t know.
“Is that Italian?”
Siri looked up curiously. Blake turned and nodded. He walked back and ushered the three forwards once more. He turned and spoke to the Australians and Swedish girl.
“They’re Italian. They were on a tour or something—only one of them can speak English well—and they just appeared here. This is Lorenzo, Diana, and Nicoletta—”
“Nicoletta.”
The last girl introduced herself. She was around Blake’s age, possibly not even twenty yet. No—definitely around nineteen, the both of them. Daly hesitated. Now what was the best move?
Siri made it for him. She reached out and offered a hand.
“Siri. It’s nice to meet you.”
“Salve. My name is Nicoletta. I’m from Italy. You’re—from Earth?”
She spoke in halting English, partially fragmented. Lorenzo and Diana watched her, and Daly saw their eyes flickering from him to Dawson.
They didn’t understand English. Well, no wonder they’d had a terrible time of it. Daly hesitated, then he offered his hand. Lorenzo was the first to shake it. The Italians shook hands and repeated the same question, even if it was condensed to one word.
“Earth? Earth?”
And Daly nodded. He repeated himself.
“Earth. Australians. Friends.”
The relief in their eyes was palpable. Daly looked at Blake. The New Zealander was eying him and then the Centaurs.
“Are those—”
“Centaurs. Yeah. They’re pulling our wagon. We should pile in—this place isn’t entirely safe.”
“It’s not. There were these little spiders in one of the houses—wait, you said go with them? In the wagon?”
Blake looked uncertain. Nicoletta, who was whispering to the others, translated, and they drew back. Daly hesitated.
“They’re friendly. They’re Centaurs. You know—”
He had no idea how common Centaurs were in Italian folklore, but popular culture was popular culture. That didn’t seem to be the problem though. Nicoletta shuddered and backed up. Blake hesitated.
“We met Centaurs that—is that why you’re armed?”
“No. To fight monsters. We’re adventurers.”
“Adventurers?”
Every second seemed to be confusing the Earthworlders more and more. Daly hesitated. They had a lot to explain, but right now wasn’t the time. Pihava was pawing the ground with one hoof, clearly impatient. Nicoletta turned to Daly as he was trying to figure out how to reassure them.
“You’re—from Earth? You know how to get back?”
He met her eyes. They were desperate. Afraid. She looked at him with wild hope. As one lost, frightened person did to another. But—Daly wondered if that was how he’d looked at first. Afraid. Terrified, in fact. But with a core of something in her eyes. Determination. The will to survive. Slowly, he shook his head.
“No. We don’t. We’re lost. Like you. But now—”
He reached out. Nicoletta took his hand. Daly spoke quietly.
“We’ve got you. We’ll protect you. We’re not alone. We are part of the United Nations company.”
Nicoletta jumped when she heard the words. Blake opened his mouth, his eyes wide. Daly looked at them. He pointed down the hill.
“Come with us. You’re safe now.”
And he knew that was the right thing to say.
 
——
 
“Another world.”
That was all Blake said when they were loaded on the wagon and driving away from the village. It had taken time, twenty minutes in fact, to get the others to approach the Centaurs and into the wagon. But now they were driving back down the way they’d come. Pihava and Bault were pulling the wagon quickly despite the new passengers. Once in a while, they’d glance backwards to stare at the Humans. When they did, the Italians and Blake would flinch.
They’d had a nightmarish time of it. Blake explained in a shuddering voice as they drove. He couldn’t take his eyes off the Centaur until Siri fished out some travel rations and handed them around. The hard, dry meat was salty, a miserable meal. But the other Earthworlders tore into it ravenously. Daly brought out his water and found they were dehydrated as well.
“We didn’t know where to get safe water. There was a stream—but we’ve barely been able to start a fire. We couldn’t find firewood, and none of us had anything useful on us—and there are things out there. In the jungle.”
Blake shuddered as he wiped his mouth. His hand was shaking as he reached for more travel jerky and crammed it into his mouth. Daly squatted next to him, too restless to sit properly on the moving wagon.
“Tell me about it.”
He saw the Earthworlders look around at each other. Daly understood the feeling. How could you explain the shock of it? The sense of being in another world, the confirmation of that reality? But they weren’t describing anything unknown to the others. Blake spoke, coughing on another mouthful of water.
“The first day—I thought I was losing my mind. I was playing rugby with some friends. I went to grab the ball and I landed…”
In another world. In the water, in fact. Blake was so shocked that he just stood there in the waist-deep pool. That was, until something started biting him. He looked down, felt a searing pain, and then ran for the shore. In that time, he picked up three leeches and the fish took two more bites out of his legs. He still had scars. And when he ran into the group of Italians, they nearly attacked him, bleeding and terrified as he was.
Nicoletta, Lorenzo, and Diana had all been riding a crowded bus when they’d passed through a tunnel and found themselves standing in the middle of a forest. It hadn’t just been three of them. There had been eight. Plus a pair of two confused people. From…
“We think they were from Venezuela. I think that’s what they were saying. But they were speaking Spanish, and none of us…”
The initial confusion of what had happened led to an immediate need to get their bearing. To survive. And at first, they’d managed it. A pocket lighter, meant for cigarettes, some branches—they’d even gone back to the pool and collected some water to boil. They’d gotten that far. But after that—
“The first night, they got us.”
That was all Blake said. He turned dead white and couldn’t go on. Neither could Nicoletta. Daly didn’t press them.
Something had happened. After that, the four survivors had fled. They’d hidden from civilization, foraged, kept away from the roads and all species they’d encountered, and eventually ended up at the village. That’s where they’d stayed until Daly and the others had found them.
“How long was it?”
“Three weeks?”
Daly exchanged a glance with Dawson and Siri. Three weeks? Blake wasn’t sure, but even if he was off by a few days, the timing didn’t match up with anyone else. Were people still coming over from Earth? It was a question for later, though. Because Blake and the others had thousands of their own.
“This is another world, isn’t it?”
“Yep.”
“And those are—”
“Centaurs, mate. Centaurs. They live on this continent. We’re on Baleros. It’s inhabited by Centaurs, Lizardfolk, Dullahans…”
Blake stared at Daly as if the Australian were mad. Daly had to admit it was a far-fetched tale. But the only way he could put it was like that.
“This is a fantasy world, Blake. Right out of a story. There’s magic and shit and monsters too.”
“Magic? Now you’re kidding me—”
Siri had to cast a [Light] spell to show them. When she did that, Lorenzo nearly scrambled out of the wagon. Daly gave them the quick rundown, pausing to let Nicoletta translate—or try.
“Everyone here speaks English. Just English. I don’t know why, but it’s universal.”
“That’s not right.”
Blake frowned. Daly shrugged. It was convenient—until you remembered that Ken, Kirana, and everyone else who came from a country that didn’t have English as a native language was screwed. It was probably why they’d found so few people who didn’t speak English alive.
“We’ll give you the full story later. The important thing to remember is that you’re safe. We call ourselves the United Nations company. To let everyone know we’re from Earth. And there are more of us. You’ll get food and we’ll give you a checkup back at base.”
“Safety.”
Blake breathed the words. Dawson grinned.
“What, you think we’d abandon someone from Earth? We’ve got you. Aussies and kiwis got to stick together, right?”
“Your countries are right next to each other, right?”
Siri looked at Daly for confirmation. He nodded.
“We’re close by. But totally different. You know, Australia and New Zealand have different cultures, so we make fun of each other. We have different words, different accents—”
“Ours are better.”
Blake grinned faintly as the two gently ribbed him. Siri looked between the three.
“You both sound pretty much the same to me.”
Daly, Dawson, and Blake all glared at Siri. She shrugged completely unapologetically. She looked over at Nicoletta.
“More food?”
The girl nodded. Siri fished out a nali-stick and showed them how to eat it. Blake sat back as she offered him a piece. He chewed, and his eyes opened wide.
“Sweet!”
“It’s sugarcane. Or something like it.”
“God, I’m so hungry. And this is so—”
Blake started choking up. Dawson looked the other way, but Daly grabbed Blake’s shoulder.
“Don’t worry. Just relax.”
The younger man nodded. It was at this point that Bault looked backwards. He cleared his throat.
“Sorry, we can’t help but overhear some of that. Are these Humans—friends?”
Daly looked up. He cursed as he realized the Centaurs had probably heard the stuff about this being another world. Or not—they’d been talking quietly up till now. Either way, he could only roll with it.
“That’s right. They’re from the same place. Civilians. Not warriors. They landed in the jungle. Blake here landed knee-deep in a pool with a piranha and leeches or something.”
“That’s awful.”
Pihava looked over her shoulder and gave Blake a sympathetic glance. He tensed up and then slowly waved a hand. The Centauress looked at Daly.
“Is that why your company put out a bounty for any strange Humans?”
Daly nodded.
“We don’t know what hit us. Teleportation spell, maybe. We’re looking for anyone else who’s out of place.”
The two Centaurs exchanged a long glance. Bault coughed.
“I didn’t know that. I just heard there was a bounty. Tell you what, if we hear of anything, we’ll bring news of it your way, okay? Free of charge.”
“And you can hire us. Ask by name. We know all the roads around here.”
Pihava tossed her head and gave them a nod. Daly smiled.
“That’s very kind of you. But if you could keep what you heard a secret, that’d do us even more of a favor.”
“Of course. But we will tell everyone at the Guild you’re looking. Dead gods, a teleportation spell? You should get the Adventurer’s Guild to put out an all-alert.”
Daly blinked.
“You think they would?”
“Of course! If there are Humans wandering around with no idea of the dangers—these ones are lucky to have survived this long! We’ll get you back to the city. Come on, Bault.”
The wagon noticeably picked up in speed. The Earthworlders stared at the Centaurs’ backs. Lorenzo whispered something to Nicoletta. She spoke up.
“They’re nice? Not…monsters?”
Both Centaurs stiffened. Daly bit his tongue. Pihava looked back with a glare that made Nicoletta flinch.
“We’re not monsters.”
Daly held up a hand and waved it.
“They’ve never seen Centaurs before. Not Lizardfolk or Dullahans either. Just Humans. They’re far from home.”
“Terandrians.”
