“Right. I’ll nip down there, but you all take a break. Which reminds me—here.”
He fished at his belt pouch and handed around some of the money he’d kept. Two silver coins to each. The Bushrangers brightened.
“Spending money? We must be doing well.”
“Don’t spread it. But you’ve earned a break.”
Daly met Paige’s eyes questioningly, and she nodded. Some of the other Indian girls looked jealous. Money had been the subject of a lot of arguments in the company until it was decided that everyone could take a few coins from their job—the rest would go to Paige so she could spend it on necessities and what the company deemed vital. Again though, the Bushrangers were an exception to that rule in some regards.
“I’m off, then. Paige, about the crossbows—”
“I’ll get the steel I ordered in a few days. But it won’t be ready for trials for a week.”
Daly grimaced.
“Alright, then. We’ve got poison, still. And it’s damn effective. Killed the Stelbore right off. I’ll see you in a bit.”
“I’ll join you in visiting Miss Hastel.”
Siri offered. Daly nodded. The two of them strode out of the apartments as the other four Bushrangers broke up.
“What’ll Dawson and the others do for the day, do you think?”
Daly looked at Siri as he opened the door and the humidity and sun swept over him. He blinked as he saw several Lizardfolk walking down the street, a Dullahan, and then a Centaur trotting by, pulling a cart. This was home, alright. Siri shrugged. Walking down the long steps, designed to let a Centaur climb them, she looked around the city.
“Probably use the computers, if Paige lets them. Otherwise? Books. Maybe go out and buy something, get a few drinks. Check the markets. We could really use some magical artifacts, you know.”
“I know. But affording even potions is all we can do.”
Daly sighed. He walked into Talenqual and looked around. The buildings stretched out ahead of them. Few were more than three stories tall, if that. Most were made of either wood or the mud brick the Lizardfolk loved to use. For all that, the city felt vibrant. Alive. A few larger structures near the center of the city stood out, having been made of quarried stone or even reinforced with magic. Beyond the city lay the sea, a glittering sight, filled with boats from the harbor. And in Talenqual walked the citizens of Baleros.
Dullahans in armor. Wood or metal, often decorated or inlaid with fancy decorations if they were rich civilians, or functional iron or steel if they were warriors. Poor Dullahans wore crude, painted wood, but all of them were unmistakably Dullahan—some carried their heads in baskets or slings, allowing them to rotate them in every direction while their bodies walked. Colorful mist or fog ran from the place where their heads should have been.
Centaurs trotted past them, tall half-equine, half-human people. They were far larger than any other species and moved briskly. Many of the workers pulled carts or other vehicles behind them, and Daly and Siri kept out of their way. The flow of traffic in Talenqual was such that the Centaurs tended to move in the center lanes, which allowed the slower foot traffic to move on either side of the street—unless you wanted to cross the road. Daly saw a scaly body dart across the road and a Centaur slow and stamp impatiently to let the pedestrian cross.
A Lizardgirl. She ran across the street, laughing and waving at the Centaur. More than Centaurs or Dullahans, it was Lizardfolk who dominated the streets in numbers. Talenqual was a Lizardfolk city after all, and the scaly, friendly people of Baleros moved about in groups, chattering, talking, always on the hunt for something interesting. They had neck frills and colorful, patterned scales that made them stand out. It was rare to see a Lizardfolk not smiling or chatting. Rarer still was seeing one of the evolved forms a Lizardfolk could eventually turn into, a Naga, Lamia, or other rare serpentine variant.
“Hey! It’s you! Buddy!”
Not fifteen steps out their door, Daly and Siri were accosted by a smiling Lizardman, or perhaps a Lizardboy. He was carrying a glittering bottle filled with what looked like a powerful potion in one claw—it shone with four different colors, black, blue, yellow, and flashes of orange as it sloshed about in the jar. He came up to Daly, grinning widely.
“I got that potion you wanted. Really top-grade stuff, right? It was hard getting my claws on it, but for you—”
He got no further as he tried to slide closer. Daly held up a hand.
“Piss off, mate. We’re not tourists. We’ve been here before. United Nations company. We don’t want colored water.”
“Aw.”
The Lizardman deflated at once. He tucked the bottle away and scowled for a second. A few Lizardfolk who’d heard Daly laughed at him.
“You Humans are hard to tell apart! You’re all one color.”
He turned away. Daly called out after him.
“Who actually buys that stuff?”
“Idiots! Wish me luck!”
The Lizardman turned and waved. Siri shook her head.
“There’s hawkers in every world. Has anyone in our group ever fallen for that?”
“Dawson.”
A delighted look crossed Siri’s face.
“He did? He never said!”
Daly nodded, although it was harder to smile at the memory.
“First day we came to a big city. Paid eight silver coins for some alchemy-colored water.”
“Oh.”
“Yep. Luan and Paige nearly throttled him. I’ve never got bit, but you should be careful. The bad scammers are like that, but the good ones have Skills. I nearly found myself buying an amulet from a bloke I could have sworn I was best friends with.”
“Scary. And there’s [Thieves] with Skills too. [Merchants]…it’s a wonder we’re not robbed blind every time we go out.”
“That’s why Paige controls our money. You can’t overspend on what you don’t have. Speaking of which—you really want to say hi to Miss Hastel?”
Siri fidgeted.
“I…I’d like to see her.”
Or her husband. But Daly made no comment. The address of Miss Hastel, their [Landlady], was only a block away. She owned several properties on the street, and she’d naturally chosen the loveliest home for herself. The front of her neat apartment wasn’t mud brick but stone—far more impervious to bugs or rot in Baleros’ heat. Daly knocked once, and after a minute, heard faint noises.
Hoofbeats. Four of them. And then the door opened, and Daly felt a gust of cool air. Miss Hastel, a Centaur with tan fur and dark black spots around her flanks, looked down. Her upper half was dark-skinned, a contrast to her lighter pattern. And she had blonde hair. Dyed, apparently.
She was also heavily, noticeably pregnant. A large bulge in the center of her lower half weighed her down, but it had been covered by a quilt-like covering over her lower torso. Clothing for the lower half was optional for Centaurs, but this was clearly a decorative, expensive dress, bright blue and white. Miss Hastel blinked at the two Humans for a second, and then she focused on Daly’s face.
“Oh, it’s you. Mister Daly and…a friend? Come in.”
She smiled, lifting a hand and gesturing them inside. Daly and Siri obeyed with alacrity, because the inside of Miss Hastel’s house was pleasantly cool. Magically so, in fact. Daly only paused to scrape his boots of the dirt and whatever muck was on them on the rug. Siri did likewise, and they walked into Miss Hastel’s apartment.
“Please, have a seat. Anywhere you’d like.”
Miss Hastel waved her hand around the spacious and quite tall apartment that was her home. A Centaur’s house was noticeably different from the Lizardfolk dwellings. For instance, while the United Nations company had rented an apartment for Lizardfolk, or perhaps Dullahans, and gotten a building with two floors with multiple smaller rooms for a number of people, Miss Hastel’s building was one floor and spacious.
Centaurs did not like cramped spaces. Nor did they enjoy climbing stairs. So Miss Hastel had an open kitchen, a very spacious living room, and even a door-less bedroom only partially concealed by a wall. Daly looked around, thinking that the room looked like something he might see back home—with a few differences.
The first, obviously, was the lack of large windows. Even Miss Hastel couldn’t afford more than two small glass ones. The second was that her couches and chairs were quite limited in number. Centaurs couldn’t sit on most chairs, so she had rugs and pillows instead.
“Would you like anything to eat?”
“We’re fine, thank you. We won’t take up too much of your time.”
Out of deference to her, Daly and Siri sat on the ground, and Miss Hastel sat on a large pillow, cushioning her belly, with her hooves facing the Humans, though Daly suspected she’d be more comfortable lying flat out. But Miss Hastel was a Centaur and thus she was infallibly courteous to her guests. And that also dictated how Daly and Siri behaved.
“A lovely home, Miss Hastel. Thank you for inviting us in.”
Daly nodded to the apartment. The Centauress smiled.
“Thank you. And thank you for coming. I’d be out and about, but as you can see, I am indisposed.”
She indicated her stomach. Daly nodded politely.
Ken’s Centaur Rule #12, or something. Centaurs value tradition, ceremony. You have to make small talk. It’s one of the reasons why they hate Dullahans being blunt and to-the-point and Lizardfolk indiscretion. Exceptions exist, but err on the side of caution.
“I assume you’ve come about the monthly rent? Or is there another issue with the walls?”
Miss Hastel broached the subject at last. Daly smiled.
“No problem with the walls. Paige is grateful for how fast you got the [Alchemist] to whip up that pesticide. We’ve come about the rent. This is next month’s payment, if you’ll accept it?”
“Of course.”
Different though they might be, the allure of gold was a fairly universal attraction. Miss Hastel’s eyes lit up at the sight of the gold and silver. She let Daly place it on a small foot table in front of them.
“A proper payment. And ahead of time too. The members of your company are excellent tenants, Mister Daly, Miss Siri.”
“We try to be.”
Siri smiled. She looked at Miss Hastel’s stomach. Daly saw her open her mouth, and then he heard a slam. Someone had thrown open the door, and a loud, exuberant voice bellowed into the room.
“Hello! I’m back!”
Daly jerked. His hand went to his side, but this time, another hand caught it. Siri stopped Daly from reaching for his axe. He relaxed at once, and she let go. Miss Hastel hadn’t noticed. She’d jumped and was glaring towards the door. Daly turned and saw Miss Hastel’s husband…or partner, or…
Cat?
He was certainly a cat. If you took a look at the ancient Egyptian drawings of cat-gods and compared it to the Beastkin that strode into the apartment, you’d find a lot of differences. This was a proper cat-man, not just a cat’s head on a Human body. He was shorter than Daly, but slimmer, and he had Humanoid fingers. Beyond that though? All cat. His tail wagged as he grinned at Miss Hastel, did a double-take, and spotted the Humans.
“Oh! It’s the Humans! I didn’t know you had guests.”
“Rital!”
The Centaur woman looked completely embarrassed at his entry. Rital looked completely unabashed. He spotted the gold coins and grinned.
“Ooh! Paying rent? You Humans are so prompt! And easy to deal with! Not like Lizardfolk or Dullahans. Or Centaurs. They’re all awful. Actually, what am I saying? Humans can get pretty bad too.”
Daly grinned. Rital was as energetic as Miss Hastel was stately, for all that both of them were probably a decade older than he and Siri. The Centauress cleared her throat meaningfully.
“I think you mean to say that Mister Daly and Miss Siri are excellent residents.”
The Cat-tribe Beastkin nodded cheerfully.
“So long as they keep paying. Otherwise, we’ve got a problem. Hey, pal. If you don’t keep paying her on time, I’ll get upset, you get me?”
He glared at Daly, narrowing his eyes. He pounded one furry fist into his palm. Daly tried not to laugh. And the sparkle in Rital’s eyes told Daly that he was having fun too.
“Perfectly clear, mate. Message received.”
“Aw, don’t worry! I’m just kidding. Or am I?”
Rital’s antics brought a laugh out of Daly. Miss Hastel, on the other hand, looked like she wanted to kick Rital. She stood up slowly and glared at her partner.
“I think Mister Daly and Miss Siri have more important business to attend to. Thank you for coming, you two.”
“Yep! Keep bringing us money! Hasty’s not able to get around that far. What with the kitt—er, foal on the way…”
The Cat-man bounded over lightly and put an arm around Hastel. His long, feline tail curled up around her. Siri sighed quietly so that only Daly noticed.
Miss Hastel went crimson. She looked mortified as she ushered the Humans to the door.
“Please excuse Rital. He’s always so…”
“We’re not bothered. He’s a breath of fresh air, that one.”
Daly reassured the female Centaur. She caught her breath and then smiled at last.
“To you, maybe. But to other Centaurs…”
She held open the door. Daly walked out regretfully—Miss Hastel’s apartment was cool and lacking humidity, probably thanks to magic. What he wouldn’t have paid for air conditioning at home. Siri paused by the door.
“Miss Hastel, when are you expecting your child?”
The Centauress’ eyes lit up. She paused by the door, and Daly stood back and watched as Rital made faces, trying to get him and Siri to laugh. That was, until a hoof shot backwards and nearly hit him in the groin.
“Any day now. I have the best [Midwife] on call.”
“It’s your first birth?”
“My very first. But I’m not worried. Rital will be there—outside, naturally, where he can’t cause trouble. And my [Midwife] is the best in the city. A Centaur, of course. After the birth, I’d welcome visitors.”
“We’ll be sure to be there. I’m sure everyone from the company will want to come over—”
Daly cleared his throat.
“Some of us will certainly stop by. Good day, Miss Hastel.”
He dragged Siri backwards. The Centauress bade them farewell, and Rital waved at them before the door closed. The two Humans stood on the doorstep. They very clearly heard Miss Hastel’s voice for a second.
“What have I told you about being rude to—”
“Aw, come on. They liked it. Humans love—”
The Humans in question backed away. They walked a bit away from the apartment, then Daly looked at Siri, a bit vexed. He crossed his arms.
“You know we’ll have to give gifts to the baby.”
Siri was unabashed.
“We’d have to do that anyways. Ken would insist on it. I didn’t know [Midwife] was a class.”
Daly grunted, imagining the cost of a present for Miss Hastel’s baby.
“It’s a variant of [Healer]. Anyways, you got your fill?”
“I did.”
