Siri smiled a bit wistfully. She glanced back towards the door. Paying Miss Hastel hadn’t been what she’d come here to do. She’d only come to see Rital.
It wasn’t that she was interested in Rital in any kind of romantic way. If she was, Daly would have stopped Siri from jeopardizing their relationship with their landlady at all costs. No, it was just that Siri loved seeing a full-sized Cat from the Cat-tribe of the Beastkin. Rital was the only Cat Beastkin in the city. Beastkin were rare, even on their home continent of Baleros. And Siri loved cats. And Rital was more cat than even regular cats. Then Siri frowned.
“I don’t know how Hastel gets along with Rital. He’s the exact opposite of what most Centaurs are like. I’d expect him to be a Lizardfolk’s partner, but not her.”
Daly shrugged. He led the way down the street.
“All sorts of weird couples find love. You know that.”
“But how did he get her—”
“He didn’t. She was in a relationship, and the stallion—male Centaur—ran off.”
“Oh. And Rital stuck with her?”
“Apparently they were already close friends. I guess they got closer. Some cats are loyal like that.”
“They are.”
Siri glanced wistfully back at the house. Daly sighed.
“Please don’t try and scratch his ears or something. Because I think Miss Hastel’d kick us all out if you did.”
“I would never. But that doesn’t mean I can’t look.”
Siri glared at Daly. Then she sighed.
“I’m going back to the apartments. You’re going to the Adventurer’s Guild?”
“I’ll only take a request if it pays really well.”
“I’ll hold you to it. Later.”
Siri trotted back down the street. Daly watched her go. Then he looked around. Lizardfolk, Centaurs, a scowling Dullahan—he was alone. And for some reason, that felt fitting.
Daly walked forwards and melded with the crowd. He stood out. He was an oddity, a Human, one of the rarer species on Baleros. But he wasn’t a foreigner or a tourist. In some ways, after several months here, he’d gotten to know Baleros.
Daly watched his belt pouch as he walked, careful of [Pickpockets]. He effortlessly fended off [Hawkers] and other street vendors and ambled towards the port. The city of Talenqual had grown up around the docks, so most of the more established structures and richer districts were located closer to the spot. Not too close though; the smell of fish and the commerce of the docks wasn’t appealing to most.
“Nali-stick! Want a nali-stick?”
“Xelca meat, fresh!”
“Looking for someone willing to haul cargo off the ships! Fifteen pairs of hands wanted! No Centaurs!”
“Hey, has anyone seen the shop where they sell that new board game? Not the chess one—”
Daly heard competing voices shouting for attention as he walked. He glanced at one of the shouters. A little Lizardgirl, her scales a dusky pink and yellow, was waving a basket of white, fibrous sticks. He paused in front of her and fished for a copper coin.
“Give me a stick.”
He offered her the coin. The Lizardgirl inspected it, fished in her basket, and held one up.
“Nali-stick! Here you go, Mister Daly!”
She knew him! The adventurer grinned.
“Have we met?”
The nali-stick seller looked scornful. She shook her head, the red frills around her neck opening slightly.
“Everyone knows the Human team that came here! You’re the Captain, right? Want more sticks for your team? I’ll give you one for free if you buy five!”
“No thanks. I’m good with one.”
Daly stuck the end of the white stick in his mouth and tore a piece off. It came away—the nali-stick was made up of many fibers—and he chewed hard. For a second, he only tasted the tough fiber and then a wave of sweetness flooded his mouth. Daly grinned, and the Lizardgirl laughed as she saw his eyes light up.
Of the exports Baleros was known for, sugar was one of its chief moneymakers. It came from sugarcane, which grew on the continent above all else. The famed plant yielded sugar that the world so badly craved. However, nali-sticks were concentrated versions of the tall-growing plant. Unlike sugarcane, they were much thinner, but held just as much sweet in their thin stalks. As such, they were highly prized as snacks, and it was a cheap buy in markets where the stuff grew plentifully.
“Want another stick, Mister? Or you want to buy information? Looking to raid a dungeon?”
Daly glanced back down at the little Lizardgirl.
“I could be. Why, you know about some super-secret dungeon full of treasure? Because I’ll treat you to a nali-stick if you do.”
Indignant, the little Lizardgirl pushed her basket up one arm and glared at Daly.
“For information about a dungeon? You should pay me silver!”
The Australian adventurer grinned.
“I would. If I thought the information you were selling was good.”
“I’ll swear on a [Detect Lies] spell that—”
“—I’m sure you would. But that’s not the point, is it? If you’re selling information, how do I know you didn’t get it from someone else?”
Daly cut the little Lizardgirl off. She hesitated. He went on.
“And if you know about a special lair that’s popped up, I’ll bet everyone in the city knows about it. Especially at the Adventurer’s Guild, hmm? A new dungeon’s popped up and it’s all the rage? Is that the information you were going to sell me?”
She squirmed, a child caught out in a lie. Daly grinned.
“Well, now I have two reasons to go to the Guild.”
“Aw. But I still told you! Don’t I get anything?”
“Tell you what. I’ll buy another nali-stick.”
“Five silver!”
He handed her a copper coin. The Lizardgirl eyed it, then shrugged and handed him another stick. Daly laughed, and they parted ways.
Two sticks’ worth of sugar put the pep in Daly’s step. He double-timed it to the Guild and found it was abuzz with activity. Adventurers were pouring out the doors, and half of them were armed. It looked like the Lizardgirl was telling the truth. One of the teams fighting to be out first was arguing with another group.
“We have first rights! If the coach comes, we requested it. Stand down!”
A Dullahan in iron armor swung a fist, and an angry Lizardman backed up. Daly recognized her as she whirled. Her small team was keeping everyone else back. She eyed him and then blinked.
“Ah. Captain Daly. Are you going after this new dungeon?”
Daly looked at the Dullahans. They were the ones from last night. He paused.
“The Rustless Guard, right? Captain Eldima?”
She nodded.
“Our team just heard about it. I don’t know if you’ve heard the news?”
“New dungeon? Popped outta nowhere?”
He didn’t even have to know the details to guess. Baleros, like all the continents of this world, was ancient. Dungeons long buried often appeared as geography changed naturally or artificially. Eldima nodded.
“The rainfall cleared an entrance. It’s three miles south of here. Very close. We intend to inspect it first. And your team?”
Daly eyed the Dullahan, thought about the odds of taking on an unknown lair faster than the other teams—if they could even get there before the others, that was—and shook his head.
“My team deserves a rest. It’s all yours, and the best of luck to you if you can get there first.”
The Dullahans relaxed. Eldima offered Daly a rare smile.
“We will take that luck. We are ready to go and only await—here it is.”
Daly heard clattering hooves. Shod. A pair of Centaurs raced down the street, then another pair. Both were pulling carriages. They stopped, and the Rustless Guard piled into the carriages. The other adventuring teams roared, and some raced down the street, looking for another carriage. Daly waved up to Eldima as she scrambled into the coach last of all.
“Fame and fortune to you.”
Eldima turned her head and nodded down to him.
“It surely awaits.”
And then they were gone.
“Huh. I wonder if they’ll find anything.”
It was a tossup, really. A new dungeon could hold nothing—having already been plundered in ages past—a massive fortune, or have simply become the lair of some monster. But it was exciting. On another day, Daly would have cursed not having heard about the dungeon ahead of time. Today? He was relieved for the excuse not to visit it.
The Adventurer’s Guild was practically empty as Daly strode in. All the teams were converging on the dungeon, and wouldn’t it be a right mess when they got there? The desk was staffed by a Dullahan, or rather, her head. Her body was hard at work mopping the floor.
“Any contracts worth looking at?”
Daly addressed the head. The [Receptionist] paused.
“Nothing I can think of. The dungeon’s the rage, but every Silver-rank team and Gold-rank team’s headed for it. You can check the board, if you’d like.”
“Will do. Thanks.”
Daly checked the board. He spotted a few contracts—taking out some large rodents annoying one of the [Farmers], hunting down some birds for a [Fletcher], a lucrative job escorting a trading ship—nothing that the Bushrangers were interested in.
“A day off it is.”
Daly found there was a smile on his face. He walked back out of the Adventurer’s Guild. He could tell the others. Take a longer nap, maybe consult with Paige. But—that was work, wasn’t it? What if he just played a game on one of the laptops—assuming they had juice—or went and grabbed a quick drink? He could do that. Or he could head into the main city and—
“Mister Daly! Mister Daly!”
The adventurer’s head turned. He saw a little Lizardgirl race up to him. The same girl he’d spoken to not half a minute ago. She even had the basket of nali-sticks on her arm. Some bounced out and fell to the ground, and other children pounced on the snacks. The Lizardgirl didn’t notice. She waved at Daly and stopped in front of him, panting.
“Mister Daly! I have something else to tell you! You’re giving a bounty on information, right? I remember you said!”
She looked up at him, her eyes imploring this to be so. Daly hesitated.
“A bounty?”
“Yeah! On news about strange Humans! Well, I forgot, but I heard there were some Humans who were spotted in an abandoned village! They were really weird! They have weird clothing, and they were in trouble because they weren’t supposed to be there!”
Daly froze. Strange Humans? Weird clothing? His contented mood vanished.
“Strange clothing? Did they have anything else off about them?”
The Lizardgirl thought, panting.
“They—they had strange lights. Not magical ones, but bright. One of the [Builders] sent to check out the village said they scared him and the others off! With these bright artifacts! But no magic. I can show you the person who saw them, if you want. They’re going to chase the Humans off soon!”
Squatters with bright, non-magical lights. Daly could only imagine one scenario that fit that. He looked at the Lizardgirl, heart racing, then fumbled at his belt pouch.
“Tell me more, kid. And bring me to the person who said they met the Humans. If you do—”
He flashed the Lizardgirl a silver coin. Her jaw opened with delight. She dragged at his hand, and Daly looked about. More Lizardchildren were about. He pointed at one.
“You, run to find Siri, Paige, or someone from my company at their apartments. You know the ones? Miss Hastel’s buildings, down on Texal Street. Tell them to ready up the Bushrangers. We might have a mission.”
 
——
 
It was only three of them who took the Centaur-driven transport out of the city. It wasn’t so much a carriage as a wagon designed to carry more bodies. Daly had no idea how many Humans there were, so he hoped the wagon was enough. And the information seemed good. Daly had met the Lizardman [Builder] who’d been sent to begin reclaiming a village that had been abandoned due to a Spear Spider infestation.
The worry Daly had was whether this was just a waste of time and money. But he’d paid for the Centaur-wagon, and Paige had agreed it was important. So Daly took Dawson and Siri with him to the village.
“You’re sure we’re not going to run into monsters on the way? Because we’re not being paid to outrun monsters.”
One of the Centaurs pulling the wagon looked at Daly as he climbed on board. He was one of a pair—the other Centauress was chewing on a nali-stick. She glanced back at him as well. Daly shook his head.
“No fighting or monsters, mates. The village is supposed to be abandoned. We’re only going to check on the Humans living there. Swear it on the adventurer’s code of honor.”
“You don’t have one.”
“Well then, I swear by my good looks.”
Daly grinned. The Centaurs exchanged a glance. The Centauress snorted.
“Let’s just go. The Spear Spiders hit that place last month. If we’re just going there, it’s fine.”
The wagon jolted into motion as the Centaurs grunted and began to pull it forwards. Daly, sitting in the back next to Siri across from Dawson, felt a bit of air begin to blow past his face. He stared ahead as the wagon drove through the city.
It was only midday. But they’d be travelling for a good hour. Siri and Dawson sat in the back, staring at the city as the Centaurs slowly navigated towards the gates. When they left the city, they were still initially slow until they won clear of the foot traffic flowing in and out. Then they picked up speed.
In Baleros, transportation from city-to-city and within the cities had another facet in the form of Centaur-pulled carriages, rickshaws, and so on. They provided a cheap, easy means of transport and had literally outrun the competition in the Runner’s Guilds. The only exceptions were those who could navigate the unpaved areas or waters, like Luan.
The sight of the two Centaurs trotting ahead while their upper bodies remained still was interesting. To pass the time, the Centaurs were chatting quietly. The female Centaur was even cutting some nali, extracting the sweet core for her friend. In the back, the adventurers sat together, talking over the rush of the wind and the sound of the Centaurs’ hooves.
“Shit. I didn’t bring my poison with me, Daly. It’s in my pack. I grabbed my crossbow, but…”
Dawson groused. Siri shot him a reproving glance. She had her gear, pack included.
“Do you have enough quarrels?”
“Yeah! But the poison—no.”
“We’re not here for a fight. If it comes to that, we’ll lend you our share.”
Daly reassured his friend. Nevertheless, he checked that he had his sealed jar of poison on him as well. He had brought his crossbow, as had the other two. They were armed for a fight. Just in case.
“Think they’re really from Earth?”
“It sounded like they had a flashlight or some kind of electronics. And who else would hide in an abandoned village? Bandits would have attacked.”
“Guess we’ll see.”
