I love the smell of napalm in the morning.

Okay, technically, it’s not napalm, and technically, it’s evening, and technically, I’m breathing through my mouth to avoid the nauseating stench of burning flesh, but the sentiment remains the same.

This. Is. Awesome!

Over two kilometres away, the conflagration burns bright enough to illuminate Sinuji like midday, a massive funeral pyre custom-made for the million-strong Army of Defiled engulfed within. As the scorching heat permeates through my thick, winter cloak and sets my skin to sweating, I do my best to peer into the flames and witness Not-Gen’s death-throes, but the dazzling incandescence is too much for my mortal eyes to handle. Then again, it doesn’t look like others are doing any better, with soldier and slave alike shielding their eyes from the destructive brilliance of Hongji’s explosive welcome.

It’s a breath-taking sight, a grand spectacle of epic proportions which this world has never seen, a fiery inferno wrought of oil and Chi to devastate the Enemy’s forces. While I take pride in being the one to first suggest this, Hongji wasn’t kidding when he said I was thinking too small, though he over-exaggerated when he said he’d craft a blaze visible from Nan Ping. Then again, I’ll allow it for the sake of well-deserved dramatic effect. It’s safe to say that Chen Hongji has made history here today in Sinuji, killing a million Defiled warriors despite being absent from the fort itself. My only complaint is that the deafening crackle of flames drowns out the screams of the Defiled, but it’s a small price to pay for this scale of massed destruction.

I gotta say, even though all of this could’ve kept me from being crippled and broken the last time an Enemy army descended upon Sinuji, having seen the results firsthand, I’m glad the good Colonel exercised restraint and didn’t blow his fiery load on Gen’s last pitiful entourage of three-hundred thousand. We dealt a grievous blow to the Enemy here, with one million Defiled reduced to cinders and ash, including at least fifty Demons and the eight-hundred year old body-snatching boogeyman who led them, not to mention the hundred-and-fifty thousand so-called Chosen of Heaven with their costly Runic Armour and prized Spiritual Weapons. I suspect Zhen Shi’s true body is still alive and well somewhere in the Western Province, but he’ll need a new meat-puppet to play with since this one will soon be ashes in the wind.

The Emissary of Earth and Flame, done in by copious amounts of oil and elbow grease. Poetic, in a way, or maybe ironic. Either way, I’m happier than Pong Pong in a pool filled with shrimp and thoroughly enjoying the light show.

Honestly, I have no idea how Hongji set this up. For the sake of secrecy, only the highest echelons of command were privy to the details, and the work was undoubtedly carried out by Oath-sworn slaves. My best guess is that Hongji dug a network of tunnels underneath the open fields, or maybe even used the tunnels dug by the Enemy’s mole-rat Demons against them. With those in place, then it becomes a simple matter of flooding the tunnels with pitch and oil, letting the gasses build up to explosive proportions, collapsing the tunnel entrance to create an appropriate firebreak, then setting the whole thing off in an explosion of scorching hot death via a Chi-fuelled fire-bird from Tenjin.

If only I knew how to take all this destruction and bottle it up into one, tiny, metallic, self-propelling cylinder...

A shame only a handful of people know they have Hongji to thank for all of this, though I’ve no doubt the Empire will praise his name for decades, if not centuries to come once news of his brilliance emerges. I wasn’t privy to the planning process since it was all kept strictly to a need to know basis, and even Watanabe wasn’t informed of these preparations, or so I inferred from his panicked attempts to get himself out of Sinuji ahead of the Defiled Horde’s arrival. All the cloak and dagger was absolutely worth it though, because if Zhen Shi even had an inkling of the warm welcome we had waiting for him, he would’ve never brought such a tempting target to roast on the fields of Sinuji. Nian Zu only informed me of Hongji’s painstaking preparations a few days ago when the Defiled Horde was first spotted, and I’ve been understandably giddy ever since. It’s been hard keeping this all to myself, especially with my friends and family beside themselves with worry. I almost let the cat out of the bag more than once while entertaining the long stream of concerned visitors earlier today, but at least now I know I can count on Tam Taewoong and the three most prominent Healers in Sinuji.

That said, the reaction from the Imperial soldiers is nothing like I’d expected, with none of the cheers or celebrations I’d envisioned these past few hours while anxiously awaiting the light show. Shocked silence I can understand, but as I tear my eyes away from the Defiled corpse-fire, I find the surrounding soldiers staring at me in unchecked horror rather than abject glee. No, they’re not staring at me, but at Tenjin beside me, who has yet to notice as he takes in his handiwork with pride and satisfaction.

Masahige is first to regain his voice, his subdued question barely audible above the roaring inferno. “How could you?” he asks, his eyes wide with alarm and disbelief. “You’ve killed us all...”

“...What in the fuck are you babbling about?” More than a little miffed, I jerk a thumb towards the fire and say, “Last I checked, it wasn’t our asses burning out there, and with the giant stone-studded dirt field between us, there’s no way the flames will spread this far.” It’s not like I was expecting any thanks, but what’s with the accusations?

Cringing as he tries to look at Tenjin and fails, Masahige sobs, “A Divinity has acted and broken the treaty. We’re doomed, all of us doomed.”

...Say what now?

Oh, he thinks Tenjin is a Divinity who wiped out the Defiled with Heavenly Energy. Laughable as it might be, I can see how one might come to such an erroneous conclusion, but as I open my mouth to clear up the misunderstanding, the earth lets loose with a thunderous roar and shudders with violent fury. Crashing headlong into Kuang Biao’s steely armour, I clutch his arm for support and look up just in time to see five earthen pillars rising up from amidst the flames. Already towering above the incandescent blaze, the pillars continue to sprout into the night sky like ponderous mountains growing in front of my eyes, their massive, streaming forms shuddering beneath their own substantial weight. One moment, it seems as if the mountains will grow unto infinity and crush Sinuji beneath their ponderous mass, but the next, they burst apart in suffocating shower of dirt and debris. The earthen downpour obscures the night skies for all of a second before landing atop the fiery conflagration with a resounding crash, setting the ground to trembling once more as it belches clouds of cinders, smoke, and soil in every direction as far as the eye can see. My heart freezes in my chest and I join the other defenders of Sinuji in holding my breath, silently hoping my eyes deceive me and things are not as they seem. One minute, then two, then a third passes without development, and for the briefest of moments, I think everything is going to be okay, but then the dust clears and all of Sinuji gasps as our fears are made true.

The Defiled army still stands. Not uninjured and not whole, but as the bodies dig their way out of the dirt and set to helping the other survivors, it’s easy to see there’s still a hell of a lot more Defiled than there are Imperials in Sinuji.

...

That’s fucking cheating!

Seriously, this is bullshit. We lit the biggest bonfire this world has ever seen, and some crazed motherfucker piloting a meat suit puts it all out with a wave of his fucking hand. It’s only been four months since I last saw Not-Gen, but Zhen Shi has already figured out how to put the little bastard’s other Blessing to good use. How is this even remotely fair? Gen gets three functional Elements to work with, Earth, Fire, and Metal, while I’m here stuck with Water. He throws fireballs, crafts awesome metallic claw-hands, and now raises mountains, while the best I can do is hydrate turtles with bathwater. Hey, who knows, maybe if I complain enough, I’ll eventually Awaken to the Blessing of Salt. Fuck you, Mother in Heaven, you’re a real bitch.

Opening my mouth to voice my objection in a less childish and sacrilegious manner, I’m once again interrupted but this time by Kuang Biao himself. “Keep quiet and out of sight,” he Sends, positioning himself in front of me while simultaneously urging me back. “You’ve pissed them off enough. No need to open your mouth and make yourself a target. Even I can’t protect you from a Divinity.”

He makes a good point. Shrinking back as best I can, I amble about with my walker in search of a safer place to watch the drama unfold, but considering what I just witnessed, I doubt anywhere in Sinuji could still be considered safe. How the fuck are we supposed to fight against someone like Zhen Shi while he puppets a twenty something year old Gen?

...

Wait...

I think all the shock has made me stupid.

“What Divinity?” I ask, peering out at the field through the crook of Kuang Biao’s arm. So what if it makes me look scared? Anyone in their right mind would be.

“The one who just put out the fire.” The added ‘idiot’ is implied, because I’m pretty sure Death Corps aren’t allowed to disparage their masters, but Kuang Biao continues Sending and adds, “And what did I say about keeping quiet? Now handle the coward behind us before he incites massed panic.”

Reluctantly tearing my eyes away from the Defiled, I turn to see Masahige clutching his head with a crazed look in his eyes. “I told you,” he whimpers, rocking back and forth on his heels. “Told you, you’ve doomed us all. The treaty is broken and now we’re all dead. We’re all going to -”

Considering he could literally break me like a twig, I discard my first thought which is to slap Masahige across the face and instead direct Green One to do it with a nod. The impact startles the lieutenant out of his stupor, and his instincts kick in as he snarls and moves to fight back, but my Death Corps guards swarm him from all sides and promptly manhandle him into submission. “Get a hold of yourself soldier,” I snap, trying not to laugh at the sight of him being held up by the scruff of his neck. Truth is, it’s not really all that funny and mostly sad, but terror does strange things to a man’s mind. “You are an Imperial Warrior, one trained to defend the Empire against the Defiled.” Pointing at the Enemy army as they stagger back into formation amidst the smoke and embers, I state, “There stands the Defiled.” Holy shit there are a lot of them. At least half survived, maybe more. Fuck my life. Pointing at Masahige’s feet, I add, “And this here? This is Imperial land. We are the first line of defence, and behind us is everyone we love and cherish. Our mothers and fathers, sisters and brothers, our friends and countrymen, all of whom will die if the Enemy has their way. Stay on task and let Divinities worry about Divinities, just like you let our Experts deal with their Demons. Your job is to fight the Defiled, so until the Mother sees fit to claim your eternal soul, you will stand here and defend this ground until your dying breath. Do you understand, soldier?!”

Luckily for me, Masahige’s training kicks in and the ingrained discipline overpowers his fear. “Yes, Great One,” he yells, forgetting he technically outranks me. “This one will stand, and this one will fight!” Though tinged with hysteria, Masahige’s shout ripples down the line as it’s echoed by many a stalwart soldier, and soon enough, a cheer rings out and is picked up by thousands of Imperial throats, a wordless howl of defiance in the face of the Enemy’s overwhelming display of power. Many of the soldiers around me shower Tenjin with reverent gazes, their eyes filled with adoration for this supposed Divinity standing in their midst, and I thank the Heavens I didn’t disabuse them of the notion earlier. Discomforted by their veneration, Tenjin does his best not to squirm or make eye contact while Tursinai clutches her belly and buries her face in Song’s shoulder to keep from ruining things with her uproarious laughter.

Not gonna lie, I really wish I were as ignorant as the soldiers around me, because I’d be a lot less terrified standing beside a Divinity. Guess I should’ve brought Jorani up to the wall. At least then I could stand behind him and feel safe knowing GangShu would keep both of us alive.

Now?

Now... there’s nothing I can do except leave it all up to fate.

And fate, as history has proven, is a real ass-hole.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

