Upon their arrival in Sinuji, Goujian’s chest had swelled with pride and reverence as he gazed upon the fort walls and the frightened defenders manning them. Soldiers of the Dog Emperor one and all, they quailed in terror at the sight of the all-powerful host gathered before them, and as well they should. Even without the Transcendents and Defiled auxiliaries, the hundred-and fifty thousand Chosen of Heaven were enough to trample the fort beneath their boots, but such precious lives could not be squandered out of hand. The sons and daughters of Heaven standing with him were a rare and limited breed, those few who had seen through the lies of the Empire and broken free of their constraints to accept the hidden Truth, and while more were coming to the Light each passing day, it would still take years, if not decades, to gather an army strong enough to sweep through the Empire unchecked.

Even this million-strong mixed force wasn’t enough to topple the Dog Emperor from his jade throne, but it was a start, for soon, the good citizens of the Empire would come flocking to their cause. Today in Sinuji marked the first time the Chosen of Heaven arrived not as rebels, traitors, or deranged madmen, but as revolutionists here to liberate the Empire from the clutches of a corrupt regime and lay the foundation for a newer, better Azure Empire, one in which the Truth would be disseminated to all instead of known only to a select few. For too long, the Imperial Clan guarded the Truth like jealous misers and concealed the secrets of Heaven for fear of being ousted from power, but in doing so, they upset the natural order of the world itself. New waves overtake the old, such was Heaven’s Will, but the Imperial Clan defied fate for millennia through their wicked and tyrannical ways. Having invoked Heaven’s Wrath, a reckoning had now arrived in the form of an all-powerful Army of Chosen, an unstoppable force led by the Divine Son of Heaven himself.

Such were Goujian’s thoughts as he watched young Emperor Gen greet his wayward subjects and share his vision of the future, right up until that laughable little fire-bird transformed the world into one of heat and agony.

Everything went white as the liquid in his eyes vaporized to nothingness, and then there was darkness. Opening his mouth to scream, no sound emerged as he violently heaved instead, the heat wrenching the air out of his lungs and leaving his tongue and throat scalded and useless. Then, the agony rescinded as his nerves were seared away into nothingness, flesh and bone replaced by blackened char, and only then did he finally have the presence of mind to deploy his Domain. It’d only been a fraction of a second, the blink of an eye if that, but trapped within this fiery conflagration, this minuscule delay was enough to spell the difference between Life and Death.

Heavens... Why have you forsaken your children? Your Chosen?

Darkness ensued, for a moment, a second, an eternity, Goujian knew not, but all too soon, the agony returned in full force. Wracked with pain and coughs, he struggled and flailed about until Vyakhya’s soothing voice sounded in his mind. “Be still, child. Seek calm and embrace the agony. You are the master of your mind and body, and pain merely a function to warn you of injury. Do not allow it to consume you, to control you. Let the pain melt into your mind and fade into the background as you focus on calm, much like you would parse through the sounds of a noisy crowd to hear a single voice.”

Though he continued coughing up dirt and burned flesh, Goujian followed the instructions like a drowning man grasps to whatever might buoy him. How long it took, he could not say, but when he came to his senses, the pain was merely an afterthought and his terrified panic had been replaced with grim determination. A quick scan of his body uncovered a most disheartening tally of injuries, for he was more burnt corpse than living man, unable to see, hear, smell, taste, or feel anything at all. A mere husk was all that was left of the once-imposing Confessor, and were it not for Vyakhya’s adept ministrations, even what little remained would have been lost to this world. “Leave me be,” Goujian Sent, after taking far too long to latch onto the correct signature. “I’ll live.” Just barely, and recovery would be a long and arduous journey. “Don’t waste your strength on me and save as many others as you can.”

It was only logical. Runic armour, Spiritual Weapons, rations, and supplies, all could easily be replaced with a mere turn of a hand, but the Chosen were a valuable resource which was difficult to replace. So long as they still drew breath, recovery was only a matter of time, and every last life was precious. A hundred and fifty thousand of his comrades had gathered with him to take the fight to the Empire, but how many still remained? A tenth? A twentieth? A mere handful?

While mourning the loss of his precious comrades, his focus slipped for only an instant, but even that much was enough to bring the agony back in full force without Vyakhya there to aid him. How easy it would be to give in to his despair and move on from these ruined remains, but Goujian was never one to surrender. His entire life had been an uphill struggle, from his humble beginnings mired in poverty, through his tumultuous rise as the Confessor, all the way to now with his desperate efforts to abolish a corrupt government and install young Gen upon a new throne. Nothing had ever been easy, but he had endured and persevered through it all, just as he would stand firm in the face of this most recent tribulation.

The Chosen of Heaven had been dealt a grievous blow today, but they were not yet defeated.

“How can you be sure?” Goujian asked himself, his voice echoing inside the void. “You know nothing of what happened and barely still draw breath. Does young Gen still live? What of your Disciple, Yuanyin? Disappointed you might be, but you still love the boy like a son, the last son you have left. Yield to fate. Such is life.”

Yes... Such is life, trials and tribulations without end. He barely survived this one, if this ruined form could be considered survival. Even with the Heavens to guide him, how many years or decades before he recovered to full strength? Assuming he ever recovered at all. The fire had ruined him, left him blind, deaf, and helpless in a cruel, savage world, and young Gen was not a man ruled by sentiment. Would he keep a useless old fool alive? Most certainly not.

Despair threatened to overwhelm him as the darkness closed in, and in his agony, Goujian heard the faintest of whispers.

“Surrender.”

A simple statement, but one filled with possibility and temptation, the sweet relief of salvation and the quiet promise of oblivion. Yes... perhaps it was time to surrender to fate. Goujian had persevered through the worst of it, had done his best to rid the world of corruption, and towards the end, he’d even seen through the lies to find the Truth. This was more than most could claim, and it would have to be enough. There was no hope, not for him, and thus, no reason for resistance. Lungs labouring for effort, he drew in a single breath and readied himself to submit, because the trials and tribulations of Heaven were too much for this mortal man to bear.

“I...”

Chapter Meme 1

Chapter Meme 2
