Some did. Fetohep was reminded of the family of Khelt, who had left and contracted the Yellow Rivers disease. He turned to one of the servants.
“The family of six—have they recovered from the disease?”
“Yes, Majesty. Shall they present themselves to you?”
“Good. And no.”
The servant bowed and Fetohep thought no more of it. He knew the family; they were not unique. The father had dreamed of adventure and lands beyond Khelt and thus left, despite knowing he might not return. The mother and children had followed.
They had begged his forgiveness and aid less than three years later. Fetohep would not have taken them in, save for the fact that the children, all four of them, had not been old enough to choose.
Thus, he had paid for [Pirates] to raid the ships bearing the cure and deliver it to Khelt for one family. The rest he had kept in case the disease came across the borders, although he had locked them down the instant he had heard of it.
All for six of Khelt’s own. Which was right and proper.
As he walked the streets, Fetohep reflected that this had shaped Khelt. Many of the people were heavier than any other nation. After all; they could eat however much they wanted.
Food was free. No one looked ill, or tired. There were no laws about when they must work, and no corporations.
Housing was free. If they craved drink; wine, bourbon, even that horrible Firebreath Whiskey?
…Not free. Those had to be paid for. Khelt did have an economy, insofar as the actually valuable goods needed some exchange of goods or coin. However, you could receive food from Khelt’s fields, meat from the flocks, and you would never starve. Your home would always have bedding and water and light and basic furniture. Just nothing else unless you worked for it.
Previous rulers had done this because they had observed the one true weakness of Khelt. And that was that without anything to do, many would find a passion, or enjoy themselves.
Some would turn to corruption. Hedonism being the first step. But then darker desires and activities would begin to appear. It was one of the reasons Khelt kept no slaves. It was a poor thing and bred poor practices.
Fetohep observed some of his citizens playing a game as he walked the streets. He stopped—pointed it out to the hundreds of people following him just to see why he was walking—and asked.
“What is that game?”
“Your Majesty?”
One of the servants chosen for the day was patently confused. She looked at the two running about, grunting and smacking a rubber ball across the ground.
“I have seen every game played by Khelt’s people. This is new.”
Khelt had every game in the world that was socially acceptable to play in public. People loved such games. Chess had caught on like fire here. Indeed; there were eight such courts here alone and it seemed like the trend.
“Your Majesty, this is tennis.”
“Tennis? Has another game appeared?”
Fetohep was familiar with football, baseball—he had commissioned Khelt’s own [Carpenters] and [Leatherworkers] and so on to replicate the games and had seen children and adults playing them. One of his people looked at him.
“Your Majesty recalls Teresa Atwood’s visit?”
She knew the name of his guest. All of Khelt’s capital probably did. Trey and Teres, as two visitors of Fetohep themselves, were famous. Fetohep’s head turned.
“Of course. Did she bring this game here?”
“She explained the rules. We thought it was your Majesty’s will—”
The woman paled. Fetohep lifted a hand.
“It is well. Teresa Atwood has done me a service, it seems.”
“Then your Majesty approves of the game?”
Mindful of the gleaming eyes, Fetohep nodded slightly. And he knew that this game would dominate his nation for the next month. Even more so when he spoke.
“Find the two best players of the game. No, sixteen. I shall observe them play.”
So he did. The people rushed to watch as eight games took place. Fetohep learned the rules, watched the matches of quite good Skill! In fact, a number of his people had even picked up the class!
Delightful. He would have smiled if he had the flesh. Fetohep immersed himself in the games.
…But only for a while. He looked around at his contented people. And his eyes and artifact counted less than a dozen among the thousands over Level 20 in any one class. They were low-level in many things, but the ones who dedicated themselves were few and far between.
“Ah.”
He watched two games, then left his people to it. Fetohep walked through his city and was reminded why he did this so seldom.
It had not changed overly much in six hundred years. The football pitches did, the baseball, tennis courts, and the plays. But the people did not. They were happy. Thusly—they bored him.
 
—-
 
The second day, the dawn of Lailight Scintillation saw a quite ordinary man standing in line for a local [Patisserie]’s shop. He stood there every day, and bought a fresh pastry, bagel, croissant—especially the special of the day or anything new.
The owner of the bakery was talented. They had made their shop from nothing and experimented constantly. Some days they tried to bake shellfish into dough with explosive diarrhea threatening anyone who ate it. Other times they made fine little cakes, or carved bits of baked bread into playable chess pieces that tasted delightful, or made their batters out of interesting or magical flavors.
It was a gamble eating from the shop, but a delightful one. And recently their baking soda breads had doubled the already fluffy Skill-based breads that came from there. The Drake man, who had been born in Roshal, had begun attracting even more business.
And thus, tragedy had struck. A competing [Baker], angry at the man’s success, had paid an [Assassin] to slaughter him in the night. As dawn rose, his bloody corpse had been found in the shop.
The quite ordinary man had left as people wept and wailed and Roshal’s own security—the private army really—investigated. Of course, the assassination was obvious, but no one blamed the [Assassin]. The offending baker was fined heavily, but the matter was closed.
That was Roshal’s way. And naught more would have come of it save for the lack of interesting breads.
However, later that day the ordinary man showed up at the competing baker’s store. He was accompanied by the Emir Yazdil’s personal guards and security. He revealed, to the now terribly worried [Baker], that he was a servant of the Emir and hired to pick up a baked good each and every day. Thusly, since the [Patisserie] was dead, the Emir was furious.
The [Baker] pleaded that he had not known this. If he had, he would have thought twice! And this was true, and reasonable. The ordinary man even nodded sympathetically.
The unfortunate [Baker] took nine hours to die, and only stopped screaming at the end of it as he was dragged around Roshal by horses until bloodied rope and his leg was all that was left. Even the citizens of Lailight Scintillation, so full of wonders and treachery, stopped in admiration and horror of the Emir’s wrath.
Nervously, the [Assassin]’s Guildmaster himself dined with the Emir that night, along with several other [Emirs] and [Merchants], at a dinner where the Emir’s fury was still quite visible.
“Emir Yazdil, should a man question who they slay in this city? Or would it be better to mark such people as the Emir enjoys, to prevent danger to those who would act this way?”
The Guildmaster inquired at length. The Emir pursed his lips sourly.
“I enjoyed my baker’s goods because he was not famous, Guildmaster Veer. If I was his patron, he might have lost the daring that made him so special, and his foods both delight and treachery on the bowels.”
His serpentine tail twitched and it was said even the Guildmaster flinched, for the Naga was twined like a venomous snake, ready to pounce. Presently, one of the others raised his voice.
“Then, Emir, how are we to be assured that the next person we have assassinated is not beloved of yours?”
To that, the Emir was reported to have looked at the offending guest until the fellow removed himself. He remarked in icy tones to the other guests.
“To kill someone is to invite danger, to both [Assassin] and client. That only seems fair. As to whom I would object to outside my personal servants and guards? Do not kill that which is special. A great [Baker] died today, and he is gone now and will never return. Men and women may copy him, but what is original is special because it is original. That is what matters.”
He left his guests shortly thereafter, and from then on, it was said the Guild of Assassins would take requests to kill [Laborers], [Merchants], [Soldiers], even [Slave Masters], but they would hesitate to kill [Artists] and artisans. Because it might be someone the Emir prized above all. And the Naga’s wrath was as infamous as his generosity.
 
—-
 
On his third day of boredom, Fetohep engaged in one of the pursuits that did lead him to contact with the outside world, even before now.
Headhunting.
“As you desire such things, [Carver] Inaceran, they shall be provided. Your mansion made of aught but wood I shall provide, or have my [Architects] construct. There is precious little wood in Khelt grown wildly, but the Forest of Nemask I shall allow you to use, and plant a grove of no less than four thousand trees to begin with. More, should the need arise.”
“And…you do not require me to make you anything?”
The voice was suspicious. Highly so. Fetohep suppressed his impatience.
“Only to teach those who ask you. Four apprentices per year.”
“Which you will pay me four thousand gold pieces to do, in addition to everything else.”
Patent incredulity. The nervous half-Elf woman stared at the ruler of Khelt. Fetohep knew it was unsettling for someone from Terandria. He wished she were of the Claiven Earth—the half-Elves of Chandrar to the north. If she was, she would know he was serious.
Actually, that wasn’t a half-bad idea.
“Inquire of your kin of the Claiven Earth, [Carver] Inaceren. They will reassure you if you doubt my sincerity. There are two hundred half-Elves living in my domain. If you will it, you may speak with them.”
“I would never…doubt your words, your Majesty.”
The woman hesitated. Fetohep graciously ignored the lie, and the woman seemed more reassured as he arranged a meeting with one of his other half-Elven subjects. He cut the [Scrying] spell.
Headhunting. Fetohep reflected that if the [Master Carver] came here, he would have to create an entire forest and have the undead servants water it and perhaps even dig an aquifer and replenish it regularly. Let alone build her a home for her family. The money was no object, really.
But he would do it. Because half-Elves lived for a long time and were thus an investment. Also because Khelt needed experts.
The people of Khelt sometimes became masters of their own. But seldom. Most flitted from new thing to new thing. Great warriors, great crafters—they had few of. But Fetohep enticed experts from around the world to come here. They were the rare immigrants who earned a place in Khelt that they might inspire and teach other generations.
“When my time comes, will I find my successor?”
Fetohep mused. It was one of the few fears he had. When his time came, and it might be soon, he would have a century, perhaps more, to find his successor. He, like the rulers before him, would scour the nation to find one of Khelt with the will to replace him.
Not the classes. Not the levels—although that was generally a requirement. Since Fetohep was a Revenant, rarest of the undead, who kept his Skills in life as well as his will.
Other nations abhorred him because such undead could become the most dangerous monsters in existence. But Fetohep was not murderous—save when he was angered. He had been spared the undead’s drive to destroy because of Khelt’s sacred, secret rituals.
Six hundred years ago, he had been made Khelt’s King by their former ruler. As he thought of her, Fetohep’s golden gaze dimmed.
“Glorious Queen Xierca.”
He stood in her shadow still. She had searched for nigh on two hundred years, fading, her body giving out despite her best efforts. She had ruled for thirteen hundred years.
“She brought me broken and fading, from a far-flung battlefield. She left my comrades behind and wept as she told me my fate. She apologized for failing to save them. To me. ‘For it is a terrible burden to face alone.’”
The ruler sat on his throne and recalled her face. Ah, yes.
She had had companions, hadn’t she? He recalled…six. Six Revenants, like her. He would have had his friends, but they had all perished in battle. Xierca had told him she had planned on taking them all when he was older, past his prime.
But tragedy had claimed them. Now, he sat alone. It had not bothered him until now. Fetohep’s gaze dimmed. Golden light flickered in his eye sockets.
Boredom and now, nostalgic sadness. And yet something was wrong. His fingers flexed on his throne. And after a while—he stood.
 
—-
 
The third legend of Emir Yazdil came as he was entertaining a Terandrian [Lord] on a floating palace at sea. The Human man had invited Lord Alchremm of Taimaguros to Roshal, that they might discuss the possibility of dedicated trade.
It was well-known that Lord Alchremm owned a mithril-mine in Taimaguros, and that the Emir and Roshal were greatly desirous of the precious metal. A private trade contract would enrich Lord Alchremm and Roshal, but the [Lord] had refused to sell.
He made his objections known at volume and length to the Emir and his company, some of whom were his rivals, others his friends.
“I do not treat with [Slavers]. I have come, Emir Yazdil, to see the depravities of Roshal for myself and whilst your hospitality has been gracious, I cannot help but see the collars on the necks of [Slaves]. I find such customs barbaric and reprehensible, and speak my mind to you, sir, because good conscience cannot lead me any other way.”
The boorish remarks to Roshal’s finest were of Terandrian arrogance, but the Emir Yazdil never failed to smile as eyes flashed and daggers were plucked by his fellows. Calmly, he waved at his bodyguard to calm the other [Emirs] and bade the Terandrian Lord sit and discuss the matter over wine. This is what he said:
“Lord Alchremm, I understand your objections about [Slaves]. You object to the idea of one person owning another, is this so?”
“It is, and no argument will convince me otherwise. Terandria owns no slaves—or Taimaguros does not! And we will not consort with those who do.”
According to rumor, the Emir thought a moment and then raised a finger.
“This is true. However, Lord Alchremm, is it not true that a class of common folk exists in Taimaguros and Terandria? The class is known as [Peasant] or [Serf], and are beholden to their [Lord] or [King].”
