Sun rose the next morning. The Emir Darsul waited to hear the wail from Yazdil’s palace, the myth of how he had been robbed blind. He heard no such things. And he found the Djinni in the same room which he had bound her to her task, her back to him.
“Is the Emir Yazdil without coin or treasure?”
The Emir Darsul demanded. The Djinni shook her head.
“He is not, master. Nor was I able to do battle in his palace, or destroy his artifacts.”
The Emir was furious.
“I gave you orders, servant! How can you disobey?”
For it was curious and frightening. Djinni could not disobey direct orders. If they could, they would surely slay their masters and escape. But all those imprisoned were totally subservient.
What had the Emir done? For answer, the Djinni turned.
“I searched all night, master, but could not find the Emir’s palace. I return to you in failure.”
And the Emir Darsul saw she wore a blindfold on her face. A magical one, that could not be removed or broken despite his servants trying all. He demanded to know how it had come to her.
“I put it on, master.”
Then, the Emir Darsul knew he had been defeated in the night, and the Emir Yazdil had ensured the mighty spirit could not fulfill her task. He had somehow suborned Darsul’s great weapon against him!
The Emir’s wrath knew no end and he punished the spirit until he fell to worrying. It was said that no matter how much the Djinni screamed, she still smiled afterwards, and the Emir Darsul retreated to his inner sanctums before long, fearing the worst. He armed every trap, put every hired [Guard] and [Mercenary] on high alert and opened his treasuries and armed himself with the best artifacts he had, and commanded the blind Djinni to defend him to the death.
In this, he was somewhat wise, but he had still erred in his misguided attempt to kill the Emir Yazdil.
 
—-
 
On the last day in the week, Fetohep of Khelt just thought about history. He read a [Message] he had hand-transcribed and thought.
In the past, Khelt had ruled more than this land. It had been empire. Its legions had even assailed other nations and it had possessed more than one Revenant. Eternal, renewable armies without fear or need of rest.
Yet Khelt had eventually collapsed, as empires did. It had barely survived the retaliation that had come, and thereafter never expanded this small amount of land.
These were the lessons of old. And Fetohep had been content to make his entire existence one of benign continuance. His people would live and die without doing much, and was that not well?
They were happy. That was what it meant to rule.
Still. Were they a great people? One to be proud of? The question bothered Fetohep, for surely it did not matter. He belonged to them.
Chained to your throne. His eyes flashed in the dark room.
“Great Fetohep of Khelt. Your kingdom remains a polished gemstone among Chandrar’s sands, built upon great deeds and foresight. I have admired your rule, and that of Khelt’s since I was a boy, and write to you now in hopes that you will heed my message. For we share common cause.”
The ruler intoned slowly. It was a brief [Message]. One with both dignity and brevity, and no sender nor point of origin. Fetohep read on.
“I have revealed the secrets of undeath, and walked far down my path. Now, I have learned a great truth of creation. One that I would share with Khelt, if we could find common ground. My admiration for you, Wise Fetohep, knows few bounds, but we have never met, only conversed from afar once before. I write to you in confidence, hoping you will repay my trust. If we could be allies: perhaps.”
The last word was underlined. And there the [Message] ended. It said nothing. And it said much.
Fetohep had received it quite some time ago. At the time he had made his conclusions and quietly dismissed it. Now, he revisited it.
The clues were all there.
I have admired your rule. We share common cause. We have never met, only conversed from afar.
Well, the big part was the hint about ‘undeath’. But even without it, he would have known who wrote this. Few outside of Khelt would admire this nation.
“So.”
Fetohep could have sold this information, armed someone with it. But why? To do so was to make a powerful enemy, and erode trust in Khelt, which was safe because of its neutrality. Moreover—Fetohep remembered. He did not begrudge the Necromancer his fury, even if the target had long since been erased from Terandria.
What bothered him was the last part.
“I have learned a great truth of creation. Which one?”
There were a number Fetohep could think of. He was undead. And wary of [Necromancers], but he understood death magic, even if he had not been a [Mage] in life.
Think of that. Think of Khelt’s legions with a…secret of undeath at their disposal. Think of what Khelt could be.
The King of Destruction had roused his people. Set a fire in their hearts. Call him a fool, a boy-[King] who did not consider the consequences of what he did, who brought only slaughter. He still inspired.
Think of ambition. Fetohep’s eyes glinted golden. If Khelt were larger? If it had access to lush lands? Was that not worthy of legacy?
Still, this was one person who would invite calamity and the enmity of the world. Fetohep’s fingers tapped on his throne. Presently, he put the [Message] aside, hid it away.
“Scrying mirror. Wistram News.”
He sat on his throne. Watching, taking note of the world.
Unable to sit still.
 
—-
 
The last legend of the Emir was this. On the day after the Emir Darsul attempted his attack on the Emir, the Naga dined and ate in good company, and never uttered a word about last night’s events, though he did invite the Guildmaster of Assassins to take tea with him, and then toured the marketplace in good spirits.
All waited for his response, perhaps his soldiers, or some comment at least to Emir Darsul.
None came. Night fell, and the Emir Darsul waited in fear, perhaps hoping Yazdil would be amenable to gifts or other tokens come morning.
At midnight, the Emir Yazdil called to his servant Iert. He gave the Gnoll one instruction, and his great servant left Yazdil’s palace. (Of course, no one was there to hear the command, or even know it was given, but the truth of what came after is obvious in hindsight).
The Gnoll moved unseen through Roshal, and came to Darsul’s own palace. He slipped past the watchful sentries, moved unseen through magical enchantments, and scaled the very tower in which Darsul hid without leaving footprint or mark.
Then, Iert slipped past the blind Djinni, and Darsul’s bodyguards, led by a great [Mercenary Captain]. He entered the room where Darsul slept, guarded by magical protections and, well…
They said the next day the [Mercenary Captain] checked on the Emir Darsul and then fled screaming, with all of the Emir’s household. For there was not enough of Darsul in one spot to fill a teacup. The Emir’s palace dissolved into chaos overnight, his holdings becoming Yazdil’s by coincidence, as the Emir had the documents and paperwork and forms.
So this is why the Emir’s enemies do not ever hint that they hold a grudge. Because the Naga is calm, watchful, and lets many offenses slide. But when he strikes, his fangs always hit home.
 
—-
 
That was the legend that came through Roshal that week. Of seven tales of Emir Yazdil, each one explaining who he was, and what it was to cross him. On the seventh day, Roshal woke to news of Darsul’s death.
People congregated, as they did, [Emirs] and [Slave Owners] and citizens alike, [Slaves] as well. They talked—and the only people who really did business were the [Storytellers].
The old woman took a long sip of a sweet, alcoholic drink at this point and the crowd listening to the Seven Tales of Emir Yazdil leaned in. She was a Stitchwoman and her thread was old, but her throat produced a beautiful voice.
“So, now you all have heard the seven tales of the Emir this week. And they are great—but each week does the Emir Yazdil act thusly! The Emir Darsul should have paid more attention; in his arrogance he crossed the Naga. And few live to do so, as you know.”
“Storyteller! Storyteller, did the Emir’s Gnoll tear apart Darsul?”
“It is not for us to know. Only what remained. And it is true, as I have said!”
The old woman calmly replied. She had a storyteller’s grace, which seemed to make her more knowing than others. A hand was raised in the back.
“It is true. But—point of fact, old lady? I didn’t run screaming per se. I raised the alarm! And I never saw the Gnoll get past me.”
The [Mercenary Captain] was in the audience, along with a number of servants. The old woman huffed.
“I am telling the story as I saw it. Or did you not come racing into the marketplace, hands covered in blood, wailing that a ghost had slipped past you?”
Everyone turned to the [Mercenary Captain] as he turned bright red.
“No one crosses the Naga.”
Another [Slave Mistress] murmured. All agreed about that. This tale just added to the Emir Yazdil’s fearsome reputation, all the more because it was clearly true.
Clearly. In the crowd, a hooded figure reached into a bag and munched on breakfast. It was normally a really stupid idea to wear a hood in a crowd since it made you stand out.
But this was Lailight Scintillation, and sometimes—often—people came here to do business and did not want to stand out, so enchanted hoods were actually common, to hide people’s identities.
Iert wanted to point out a salient fact. Which was that his name was Iertalinam, and Iert was the Emir Yazdil’s nickname. But he was content to let the [Storyteller] earn her fee. She knew how to make money; people were already tossing coins for her to embellish Yazdil’s reputation some more and tell other tales of his exploits.
Stories. Oh, how they got things wrong. A surprising number of things true, and yet—things wrong. It was good though; the Naga liked having stories about him. Iert memorized this one; he’d probably have to tell it later.
“What are you eating?”
Someone whispered to him. The Gnoll’s fur rose, but he calmly offered the bag sideways.
“A filled pastry.”
“What’s the filling?”
“Blackberry jam.”
“Hm.”
It was possible the disguised female Djinni had not eaten actual food for centuries; certainly, Darsul had not fed her. But still, she picked at the pastry before nibbling it.
“Return to the palace by nightfall. Cause no trouble.”
“As agreed.”
She looked at him. She looked like a female Drake, scales vermillion. But he was not fooled. The Gnoll walked away as the crowd broke up. And he returned to the palace of Emir Yazdil.
Stories. They would have people believe that Iert had flipped over the wall after scaling it with his bare paws, stealthily avoided all of Darsul’s security, cunningly tricked Djinni and the [Mercenary Captain]—perhaps with a little rock, then slipping past them while they looked away for a second—before slaughtering the Emir as he slept.
The truth was always less interesting. Not less impressive, but less interesting. Iert had slipped into Darsul’s palace. He had maneuvered through corridor after corridor—but he hadn’t bothered with entering Darsul’s abode and trying to bypass the rather impressive defenses there.
He’d simply found something else, which Darsul in his panic had forgotten to secure. A single servant in the rush to fortify everyone, and a ‘defeated’ spirit.
The Djinni did not live in a lamp, although that sometimes happened. Each container was different. For instance—you could get flutes, lanterns, whatever was their prison. Sometimes it was a boring sphere. The object didn’t matter, the powerful relic-class magic did.
This was a bowl. A nice bowl, which, if you looked into the center, made you feel as though it had no bottom. You could grow dizzy, staring into…
It was her cage. The female Djinni, who had been blindfolded, had wisely removed herself from the area until he could take command of it. She was still bound to kill him, and even a blindfolded Djinni was good at that.
She had slipped into Darsul’s rooms unseen. It was the most efficient and besides—it had been one of her stipulations that she had agreed to with Yazdil. The Naga was happy to let her do it, and Iert too. Someone had to, and blood in your fur was impossible to get out on first wash.
It was also a mistake to say that Darsul had been an easy opponent. Iert entered the palace, walking past the security he had trained himself. He trotted to the vault and placed the bowl there, for the Emir to use later. The Djinni had been a considerable threat, and one that could well have caused chaos and too much damage even if they killed her.
Here was the part the story didn’t tell you. During the meeting with Emir Darsul and his harem, they didn’t say Iert took the time to communicate with the Djinni on display. They didn’t know that during the hunt with the Grand Elephant, one of Darsul’s servants was paid very handsomely and given instructions for later that week.
Knowing that would make people less afraid of the Naga. Because they would see how his plan worked, understand how he thought. Better to keep it as stories.
The Gnoll walked up through the palace, past the many [Slaves] in the Emir’s employ. And he was one of them. Even if the stories had been mostly true about his response to Darsul.
But here is what they also didn’t say. As the Gnoll entered the Emir Yazdil’s personal chambers, he found the Naga.
The Naga, who was sometimes a Human man, sometimes a…Naga. At the moment, he was a Human man. Slightly dark of skin, rather thin, his hair in this form a light blonde, generally styled—
Slitted pupils for eyes.
His hands were like a [Scribe]’s or [Scholar]’s but he wasn’t frail, just thoughtful. He was exceedingly charming if he cared to be, and athletic. He liked to practice such things—at least, the athleticism. Although he was hardly a [Warrior], so he had nearly been trampled by the elephant. His artifacts might have saved him if Iert hadn’t, but the Gnoll did not take risks.
At this moment however, the great Emir of Roshal, [Slave Lord], the Naga…was bound, gagged, and naked, tied up in the center of his quarters. And lest someone think this was an extremely kinky hobby or shared moment, no one was around, and a blindfold covered the Emir’s face.
Coincidentally, a Dagger of Wounding sat on the low-set table in front of the Emir. Also, a Scroll of Teleportation, and the Emir’s personal key to his vaults and palace. The Emir wiggled as the door opened, but was quite helpless.
The Gnoll paused in the doorway. His eyes fixed on the dagger—and the Emir, who was divested of his artifacts. The scroll, the key—the Emir lay, helpless, trying to move.
